o

fc

Sword OF DAMOCLES

BY

THEODORE A. Sharp.

— O'er thine and o'er my head
Hangs the keen sabre by a single thread."

The Corsair.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

Cotton :
CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 193, PICCADILLY.

1880.
[All rights reserved']

st. John's square.

MY WIFE AND BROTHER,
® bis Sfnrg

IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.

Denton Park, Suffolk,
Christmas, 1879.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/swordofdamocles01thar

Primate.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Geumpt " Gentle 1

CHAPTER II.
Smouldering Fires 7

CHAPTER III.
A Flame-up 13

^hc Store.

CHAPTER IV.
The finest Estate in England " 24

CHAPTER V.
Crutch Hut 34

Chapter VI.

PAGE

Five Hundred Head before Luncheon . . . .46

CHAPTER VII.

A Charge of "Number Six " 06

CHAPTER VIII.
"Ill News travels apace" 72

CHAPTER IX.
The Keeper's Lodge 82

CHAPTER X.

The Shadow of the Sword 92

CHAPTER XI.

Bringing in the New Year 101

CHAPTER XII.
The Monarch of the Glen " 114

CHAPTER XIII.
Cupid's Slaves 1*25

CHAPTER XIV.
Extraordinary Run with Lord Bucknam's Staghounds " 144

CHAPTER XV.
The Yellow Fiend " 160

CHAPTER XVI.

PAGE

The Haunted Room at Baeringteee 172

CHAPTER XVII.
What was seen in the Haunted Room 193

CHAPTER XVIII.
The Village Scandal 213

CHAPTER XIX,
A Plot to checkmate Cupid 231

CHAPTER XX.
Under the Peepul-thee 247

CHAPTER XXI.
Reduced to the Ranks 264

CHAPTER XXII.
A Woman with a Story 275

Prelimttmrg.

CHAPTER I.

I am misant/irojjos, and hate mankind."

Shakspeare.

u Halloa ! little carroty wigs ! where are you off to ? "

The above queer salutation, delivered in a some what
sharp manner, was familiar enough to those to whom it
was addressed. The little Grayles, when out for their
morning airing in Barringtree Park, invariably encountered
their great uncle, Mr. Andrew Grayle, and that gentleman
as invariably gave them the same greeting — if it can be
so called — half hearty, half sarcastic in its tone.

The small party, thus arrested in its constitutional
ramble, would have appeared rather picturesque and
interesting to any one but Mr. .Grayle, who viewed it
apparently with but sinister looks of disapproval. A
comely, dark-eyed nursemaid was leading by the head a
venerable donkey, on whose back was slung a pair of
basket-panniers ; seated in these, on either side, were a
vol. i. b

little girl and boy, aged respectively five and six — two
pretty children, with laughing blue eyes and rich auburn
hair of a decided tint, which earned from their cynical
relative the epithet "carroty." These formed a very
interesting trio, I had almost said quartette, but of
course old " Ned," the donkey, though an ancient
retainer in the family, could hardly be bracketed with his
biped companions. Yet, in Mr. Grayle's eyes, the trio
appeared to find the least favour ; Ned, it would seem,
obtaining his first consideration.

"Well, nurse, and how's the dickey this morning?"
he inquired abruptly, giving a by no means gentle tug atone
of the animal's ears.

Very well, sir, thank you," answered Eliza, with a
smirk, as if taking the inquiry to herself, and ready for a
flirtation even with such an unpromising individual as
Grumpy " Grayle ; for such, owing to his morose disposition,
was the universal nickname of this eccentric
man.

Urnph ! and you, you red-headed little brats ? " he
added, with a grunt, and poking at the children with a
studded stick he carried in his hand.

Twite well, thank you, Uncle Andy," replied they in
chorus.

Then off you go again ! " exclaimed the playful Mr.
Grumpy, administering to poor Ned a vicious whack
over the quarters with his stick, which that respectable
donkey indignantly resented by a kick that nearly sent
little Hector and Agnes flying out of the panniers, eliciting
hearty laughter from the children and a frightened
scream from the nurse. Turning with a saucy rebuke on
her tongue, Eliza saw Mr. Grayle hobbling away out of
earshot, as fast as his gouty feet would carry him. Meanwhile
the donkey, roused out of its accustomed lethargy,

trotted off in an opposite direction, and threatened to jog
its two precious burdens into one unrecognizable jelly
before the nurse could stop him.

"Wretched little devils!" growled Grumpy, as he
looked after them disappearing across the park ; " how
could they ever grow up or come to any good with such a
grandfather to look after 'em. Bah ! " and viciously
digging up a thistle or two with his spud, he went on his
way mumbling and ruminating to himself in his usual
misanthropic fashion.

Andrew Grayle had well earned his sobriquet of
Grumpy ; he was, as he himself was wont to express ita
man who had been " soured from his birth up," or, ashe
might have explained further, a man who had been
soured at his birth; but thereon hangs the key to his
idiosyncrasy, to obtain which we must go back some fifty
odd years.

The night of the 10th of May, 179—, was one of
considerable excitement and bustle in the old Hall at
Barringtree; but Squire Grayle, Grumpy's father, appeared
to be the least disturbed member of his household, and
awaited in his sanctum with comparative composure the
issue of a certain great event which was pending.
Regarding that issue he was not kept long in suspense ;
and having been married eight years without an heir to
the family estates — three daughters having come into the
world one after another with ' provoking monotony — it
may be imagined he was well satisfied with the sequel.

I congratulate you, my dear sir ; I congratulate you
with all my heart," exclaimed the doctor, as he entered
the study, complacently washing his hands with invisible
materials ; " two fine little babies as ever you saw."

Babies ? " quoth the Squire, in astonishment.

Ay, babies, my dear sir — twins ! " returned the

b 2

physician, with a merry twinkle in his eye, adding
emphatically, " and both boys ! "

Bless my soul ! you don't say so. And which is the
elder ? M

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed the doctor, in reply ; <c we've
sorted them, my dear sir, with due regard to primogeniture''


Thus it was that Andrew Grayle just missed inheriting
the splendid Barringtree estates by one hour and five
minutes ! As a child he was always of an odd disposition,
but not till he reached a discriminating age did he realize
the narrow escape he had had of being heir to one of the
finest properties in the south-east of England ; and until
later, when the elder twin actually inherited, at the death
of their father, he merely cherished a latent feeling of
jealousy towards his more fortunate brother.

Percy Grayle had ever looked upon Andrew as "a queer
sort of fellow with a tile off," and on that account had
tolerated his disagreeable character with good-humoured
leniency. But he little knew how the "queer sort of
fellow's " unhealthy brooding were gradually ripening
into downright hatred, nor how bitterly Andrew cursed
his bad luck in having come into the world just an hour
and five minutes too late.

The position was undoubtedly a tantalizing one ; but
had Grumpy been anything of a philosopher, he might
have consoled himself with the reflection that the silver
spoon does not always bring syrup to the lips, and often,
indeed, only stirs up the bitter cup to overflowing. His
ill-regulated mind, however, would only allow him to
regard the situation with feelings of morbid discontent,
and his brother with suppressed rancour, as though the
latter were responsible for his seniority.

But soon after the Squire's death, which occurred when

the twins were about eight-and-twenty, a certain circumstance
tended mollify Andre w's implacability , and caused
him to repress, for the time, all outward show of enmity.

Percy Grayle, being in the Guards, and devoted to his
profession, was not disposed to relinquish it at present,
even in favour of a squirehood ; so, instead of taking up
his proper position iu the county, and living on his estate,
he preferred to give up, as a temporary measure, the
management of the latter to Andrew. This was, no
doubt, an injudicious step, which he had some cause
afterwards to regret ; but the arrangement was highly
approved of by Grumpy, who took every advantage of it,
and soon set about managing the property with a vengeance.
His reign, however, did not last very long ; for
what with cutting down some of the finest trees in the
park, which he called ' ' thinning the timber;" slaughtering
most of the bucks, and not a few does, which he called
thinning the deer' killing down nearly every head of
game on the place, which recalled "thinning the preserves;"
turning out tenants, pulling down cottages, and indulging
in such a general process of thinning altogether, it became
evident that the property would soon be in a somewhat
attenuated condition if this was not put a stop to, so that
the elder brother felt bound to take possession with as
little delay as possible — and having promised Andrew
that he would not do so while an officer and a bachelor,
sold out and married in self-defence.

It is needless to say that Grumpy Grayle's nose was
very much put out of joint by this; nevertheless, he yielded
up the reins of government with tolerable grace — though
he certainly could not render a good account of his stewardship
— and retired to live in a little cottage he had
built for himself, with his brother's permission, just
without the precincts of the park.

In due course of time Mrs. Grayle presented her husband
with a son and heir, which little event effectually
demolished the last faint hope Grumpy entertained of
ever succeeding to the estates ; and though it was fated
that George, the heir, should be the only child, he speedily
put further obstacles in the way of his uncle's wildest
aspirations by following in the footsteps of his father,
and marrying at an early age. The issue of that marriage
was a son and daughter — Hector and Agnes — the little
children who were introduced in the donkey panniers at
the opening page.

SMOULDERING FIRES.

Sour discontent, that quarrels with our fate,
May give fresh smart, but not the old abate ;
The uneasy passion's disingenuous wit,
The ill reveals, but hides the benefit."

Sir It. Blackmore.

Grumpy Grayle's unnatural antipathy to his brother,
though temporarily quelled during his brief career of
manager, revived with twofold bitterness shortly after the
Squire took up his proper position at Barringtree ; and he
became so outrageously objectionable altogether, that an
open breach soon took place between them. He domineered
over the bailiff, gamekeepers, and other retainers
on the estate, to a degree that caused frequent complaints
to be made to their master. He pragmatically
contradicted his brother's orders, often substituting
directions of his own, and disapproved of every step taken
by the Squire in the interests of the property, abusing
him besides surreptitiously to all the tenants and farmers
around who would listen to him. In short, having once
held authority, he had no notion of relinquishing it in a
hurry, and he made himself such a monstrous nuisance
that Percy Grayle, who for a time was very forbearing,
lost all patience at last, and forbade him not only, to
intrude himself at the Hall, but even to enter the park-gates.

Sorry lie was that lie could not forbid him the
estate as well ; but having, in a weak moment, given him
two or three acres to build upon, which Grumpy had
availed himself of in the erection of " Crutch Hut' as he
called his cottage, the Squire felt that he could not very
well eject him, even with legal measures ; nor, for the
matter of that, could he keep him out of the park, without
directing violence to be used, for Grumpy persisted in
trespassing in spite of orders, and his brother was fain to
submit to it to avoid disgraceful esclandre.

War to the knife being thus declared, the worst traits
in Andrew's character were aroused; and, brooding grimly
over his fancied grievances, he longed to wreak a summary
vengeance on his brother.

When George was born the rejoicing at Barringtree
were universal (except in the case of our amiable friend) ;
for not only were Percy aud his wife delighted at having
a son and heir, but the tenants themselves augured well
from the event, since — the Squire not being of a very
strong constitution — it removed any remote chance that
might arise of Grumpy Grayle ever becoming their landlord.


The news spread from cottage to cottage like wildfire ;
the church bells rang out, and many a pewter pot was
emptied to the health of the infant heir. Years rolled on,
and George Grayle grew from long clothes to jackets,
passing in due course from the school-room to Eton, and
from Eton to Cambridge. No brothers nor sisters
having followed his birth, the lad found his childhood dull
and gloomy in the ancestral hall, and scarcely looked forward
with pleasure to the holidays, when he would lose
the companionship of his school-mates. He only rendered
his home tolerable by associating with the grooms, stable-boys,
and such like about the place, much to his father's

disgust, who was shocked to see him display such low
tastes.

Foolish man ! he failed to observe that the fault lay at
his own door, in making no effort to provide his son with
companions of the same age and station.

There are many cases like George Grayle's, where a
lad, without brothers or sisters, is left to his own resources
for amusement — to seek where he may those youthful
associates so essential to childhood, and which, if thoughtlessly
denied him, leave the boy but a poor and stupid
creature at best. Les premiers jours du printemps out
moins de grace que la vertu naissante d'un jeune homme,
and it is during the spring-time of a boy's life that the
budding character, as yet unformed, should be carefully
watched and cultivated, or it will yield no good fruit.

Notwithstanding his father's disapproval, no stringent
measures were taken to prevent George Grayle from
choosing the companions alluded to, and sure enough
perpetual intimacy with them operated on the boy's disposition
hereafter. He laboured, moreover, under another
disadvantage in inheriting his mother's qualities
rather than his father's ; for the Squire had married in
haste, and was now repenting at leisure ; Mrs. Rayless
will be subsequently seen, being a woman of no very
elevated tastes nor amiable character. She was, indeed,
a lady with an antagonistic turn of mind ; and besides
quarrelling perpetually with her husband and others,
helped to sow dissension between father and son, and did
more than her share, besides, in perpetuating the feud
between the Squire and his brother.

In addition to the above drawbacks, there was a more
serious one still to the healthy development of George's
mind, caused by the close friendship which he had formed
with his eccentric uncle. That old reprobate had won

his nephew's heart by various little acts of kindness, and
George used to look forward with pleasure to their
clandestine meetings in the park — clandestine, since
Percy had forbidden his son to hold any intercourse whatever
with Grumpy. Strict obedience, however, was never
sufficiently enforced; and the Squire, though fond of
the boy, was of too phlegmatic a character to take much
trouble in looking after him— so the mandate was disregarded.
As George grew older, he took a great delight
in his visits to Crutch Hut and its wonderful museum
(his uncle had a mania for collecting curiosities), and the
intimacy increased day by day, artfully encouraged by
Grumpy, who at length succeeded in alienating the lad
from his father so far as to make him look upon his
parent in the light of a cruel tyrant, and his uncle as an
oppressed martyr. This little southron of revenge was
very sweet to the martyr himself, but by no means
sufficient to satisfy him, and he contemplated further
and deeper mischief in his wicked old brain.

George was about eighteen when he went to Cambridge,
where he remained for two or three terms without
distinguishing himself, except by riotous living — and in
that he certainly excelled — running up big bills in all
directions, and leading such a dissolute life altogether as
ended at length in his being sent down for good. This
was a great sorrow to his father, who began to despair of
him already as an incorrigible ne'er-do-weel ; while the
venomous-minded Andrew rejoiced in secret at the son
and heir's disgrace.

A year or two after this, it happened that Sir Francis
and Lady Mount joy, of Merry dale Hall, in the neighbourhood,
proposed to get up some private theatricals at their
house, and George, being accounted a capital amateur,
was asked to take a part. He had, in fact, devoted more

time to Lacy's acting editions than classic lore or modern
sciences when at Cambridge, and had fairly earned there
a histrionic reputation, if he took no higher honours.

Now it chanced that in these theatricals at Merrydale
Hall, George was cast to play the lover to a Miss Gertrude
Tewkesley — a fair and beautiful girl of good birth though
no fortune; and, as often happens in private theatricals,
this led to a little romance between them on their own
account, when Gertrude fell in love with George in real
earnest, in return for the stage devotion he had bestowed
upon her. An engagement followed, which was approved
by their respective parents ; for though Mr. Tewkesley,
albeit of good family, was only a clergyman with a
small living in a neighbouring county, and could give no
dowry to his daughter, Percy Grayle hoped that his son's
alliance with a young lady of gentle birth would serve
both to refine and reform his character. Villus argentum
est auro virtutis aiirum, was an argument he would not
dispute with Horace; and knowing Gertrude to be a girl
of high principles and good moral training, he did not
doubt she would make an excellent wife, so was content
to accept virtue in lieu of a marriage settlement.

The wedding was fixed, and after their honeymoon,
George and his wife took up their abode permanently at
the Hall. Most fatal of all fatal mistakes ; but since it
was his father's wish, and George was utterly dependent
on him for an income, they had no alternative. In such
a house of discord, with such a husband and such a
mother-in-law, poor Gertrude's chance of happiness
seemed remote indeed. And so it proved ; but the
Squire was too obstinate or too selfish at first to see the
error he had committed in obliging them to live under the
paternal roof — selfish, since he had conceived a strong
affection for his daughter-in-law, and desired some congenial

spirit in the house as a set-off to his uncongenial
wife and unfilial son.

Nearly fourteen months passed,, though not too smoothly
for the younger Mrs. Grayle, and on New Year's Day
Hector was born. On this occasion, as was customary at
Barringtree, the gloomy old Hall consented to shake off
its dismal blues for the nonce, and bell-ringing and beer-drinking
in the village, and high jinks and festivities in
the servants' hall, became the order of the day. But only
for the day — the grey old mansion seemed quite ashamed
of its jollity next morning, and appeared to shroud itself
in a darker cloak of gloom than ever.

CHAPTER III.

A FLARE UP.

How irksome is this music to my heart !
When such strings jar, what hope of harmony?"

Shakspeare.

The birth of a son was indeed a solace to Gertrude in her
young married life, which, it is needless to say, was far
from a happy one. George, still under the secret influence
of his uncle, seemed in no way improved by his marriage,
and did his utmost, by many acts of unkindness and
neglect, to throw to the four winds that inestimable
treasure, the love of a good wife. And Gertrude, with
little Hector at her bosom, for a time actually allowed the
strong current of her great love to take a new channel,
though she remained as loyal as ever at heart to her
unworthy spouse. Of course the Squire noticed this
unhappy state of things, and was pained beyond measure
to see such an affection as Gertrude's trodden underfoot
by an unappreciative husband — crushed out of her, as it
were, by cold neglect and indifference.

For a long time he abstained from remonstrating with
his son, thinking it unadvisable to interfere between man
and wife ; but as matters became worse, he was resolved
at length to speak out.

One morning George found himself tete-astute with his
father at breakfast, the ladies having failed, at present,

to put in an appearance. The meal passed off in ominous
silence, for father and son had long since ceased to
find pleasure iu each other's company ; and George, feeling
a presentiment that the Squire was preparing for an
attack, thought to shirk it by beating a retreat ; so, hastily
gulping down his tea, he rose abruptly from the table.

George," cried his father, calling him back as he
reached the door, " I desire to speak with you for a few
minutes on — on an important subject."

Certainly, sir," replied George, with a forced air of
insolence ; though this failed to cover the sheepishness
with which he complied.

If you can spare me so much of your valuable time,"
added his parent, a little sarcastically.

I'm not aware that I value my time very highly. It
hangs heavy enough on my hands, goodness knows."

Sit down again, then."

George did so.

I think," resumed the Squire, after a short pause, " I
had better divide what I have to say under three heads."

Why not give it us all in a lump, sir ? — save a lot of
trouble."

George ! " pompously exclaimed Mr. Grayle, " this
is no matter to be treated lightly. I don't often interfere
with you, you'll allow ; but on this occasion I not only
demand your attention, sir, but your respect." This was
said in a tone that put a stop to further flippancy for the
moment. " As I observed, I will divide my subject into
three parts — matters have gone quite long enough without
my interference. Firstly, with regard to your wife
the sweetest and most amiable woman that ever
breathed — "

I don't want to be told all that," interrupted George,
sulkily.

u But you shall be told of it' cried his father, waxing-angry,
as he thought of the neglected Gertrude ; u you
don't appear to realize the fact yourself, so you must be
reminded of it."

Very well, father ; grant her all the virtues."

u Which she has, sir ; and how do you value such a
treasure ? I say what return do you make her for all
the love and devotion she squanders on you ? None but
cruel coldness and contempt, simply because she has no
money to give you — though you knew that well enough
when you married her. But worse than this ; I could
forgive you the mere coldness, were your treatment
sometimes not both harsh and brutal."

How, father ? "

I've heard you use language to her that I wouldn't
use to a dog — "

"Well, and I've heard you come it pretty strong, too,
when you've been riled with the mater' retorted the
dutiful son ; " and, after all, I only let out a bit when
Gertrude riles me. Come, come, sir, what's the use of
these mutual recriminations ? I let you and your wife
alone — you let me and mine."

Preposterous ! 'pon my soul ! " exclaimed Mr.
Grayle, rising and pacing the room angrily. " Now I'll
tell you what it is, George ; unless you change your
tactics altogether, and at once, we can't live under the
same roof any longer, that's all about it."

"Very well, sir, as you please. But to drop the wife
subject, as the first head, what's the second ? Let's have
the second head."

u I have not yet done with the first, but we'll dismiss
it for the present," said the Squire, reseating himself,
and taking up from the breakfast-table two or three ugly-looking
letters, which had arrived that morning. u The

next subject I wish to speak about is with regard to all
these bills — these unpardonably extravagant items that I
find here, and which you direct to be sent to me.

Really, my dear father, I can't argue these matters'
remarked George coolly, at the same time pounding
and smashing away at an eggshell to ease his irritation ;
l( they're all necessaries."

Necessaries be d d, sir ! "

Exactly so — then suppose we get on to the third
head of your discourse. Fin anxious to hear the third
head."

No doubt you are. In my opinion the third head is
responsible for the other two."

"Now you're getting beyond me, sir; I don't quite
understand."

I will soon explain myself. I refer to your uncle.
Of course I'm aware that for a long time past you have
kept up constant and intimate communication with him,
although you knew it was strictly against my wishes — in
fact, my commands ; yet you have wilfully disobeyed
me, and carried on a deception unworthy of a gentleman
and my son."

Not at all ; I left you to find out by degrees — "

That you preferred your uncle to your father— excellent
! but I tell you once again I forbid you to have
anything to do with my brother ; his influence over you
is obvious enough as it is."

u Really I don't see why I should be at loggerheads
with poor uncle Andrew, merely because you are. He's
a jolly old fellow, and very kind to me ; besides, my dear
father, you must excuse me, I never make other people's
quarrels my own."

Here a dangerous pause ensued, during which he eyed
his father, half anxiously, half defiantly.

George ! " exclaimed the Squire at last, turning very
pale, and starting up again from his chair," do you mean
this ? "

"1 do," observed George, carelessly.

Then, by heaven ! I wash my hands of you. Do you
hear me ? I wash my hands of you entirely."

I hear you, sir."

Go to your uncle, you ungrateful dog ! Let him take
care of you for the future; I won't."

Very well, sir," said George, also rising.

You'll reap your reward for this, I can tell you,"
continued Mr. Grayle, in excited tones. " Your undutiful
ingratitude, your disobedience and base conduct to me as
your father, and your brutality to your wife, will bring
you to utter and irretrievable ruin, and serve you right —
to the gallows, I shouldn't wonder."

Very likely," remarked the son, imperturbable,
though you may hear I've cheated them."

How do you mean, sir ? "

By blowing out my brains, perhaps."

Indeed ! " returned his parent, with cutting sarcasm,
"then I hope you'll make a good shot, for they're a
precious small target."

That I can't help," retorted George, adding, sotto voce,
I suppose I inherit them ; " here he moved towards the
door, turning back as he reached it, and saying, " You'll be
sorry for this, I believe, by-and-by, father ; but I shall
take you at your word. I'm quite unhappy enough
to go to the devil my own way, and I will. Goodbye,
sir," he continued, holding out his hand. " Oh, very
well, if you won't, then — " for the Squire had turned to
the window, and was whistling a popular polka, very
much out of tune.

In Mr. Grayle's inmost heart he was half regretting
vol. 1. c

his impulsiveness, but was far too proud to recall the
scapegrace; on the other hand, the son was equally
proud, and would sooner have died than have given
in. He hesitated for an instant; and then the door
closed, separating the two, and fixing a wider gulf
between them than at the time they anticipated, or even
dreamt of.

Half angry with himself, and indignant at the unnatural
conduct of his father, as he considered it, George snatched
up his hat and hurried from the Hall, determined to do
something desperate, he scarce knew what ; meantime he
found himself instinctively making his way to Crutch Hut,
to consult that very doubtful oracle, his uncle.

Halloa, boy ! " cried the oracle, as George made his
appeal ance, in an excited state, " what's the matter now ?
Another shindy at the Hall, eh ? jolly house to live in,
that."

It is, and no mistake," replied George, throwing himself
into an armchair opposite. " It is a jolly house to
live in, uncle ; so jolly that I mean to cut the whole concern."


Ah ! " exclaimed Grumpy, becoming interested ; " and
how are you going to do that r "

Oh, anyhow — hire a crossing — hook it to sea — enlist,
or something; I don't care what."

But, bless my soul ! " quoth the uncle, throwing up
his hands in feigned astonishment ; " I thought you were
such a happy married man, with a brand-new baby and
all the rest of it."

"None of your chaff, Uncle Andrew; you know I hate
the whole business. Gertrude's a good girl enough, I
daresay — too good for a fellow like me, perhaps ; but what
with my mother's meddling, and now the guv'nor's, and
being without money and all that, we're always having

rows. And then they take her part, and— oh, well, never
mind, I won't bother you about it all. Fm a miserable
dog, and I mean to have done with it."

"I don't wonder, I'm sure," observed his worthy
relative, egging him on ; " young blood won't stand being
sat upon, will it ? I admire your spirit. And so," he
added, after a short pause, watching him with a wicked
twinkle in his little black eyes, " you're really going to
make a bolt of it ? "

"I am. I must now — the guv'nor as good as told me
this morning to go to the devil, and so I came to you — I
mean — "

"Never mind, pray don't mention it," exclaimed
Grumpy, laughing good-humouredly at the faux pas;
the devil's never so black as he's painted, and I've no
doubt your father has painted me black enough."

That he has," cried George, " and it's chiefly through
my being so chummy with you that we had the row."

Ah, indeed ! exactly ; charming fellow my brother !
And so you look to me for protection, eh ? "

That's what the guv'nor told me to do — but 1 don't
wish to bother anybody; all I want is a start."

And you shall have it, my boy," said Andrew Grayle,
with good-natured emphasis, adding to himself, "the
sooner we get him out of the way the better ;" then aloud,
" and what would you call a start ? a fiver ? a tenner ? two
tenners ? come — " and the generous uncle immediately
hobbled across to his escritoire.

Um, I can't do much with twenty pounds, uncle,"
remarked George, dubiously.

Not much ! " cried Grumpy, in a falsetto key (a voice
he always adopted when surprised or excited), and turning
up his eyebrows with an astonished look ; . tC not much !
why, think of the heaps of young men who have gone up

c 2

to town with half-a- crown, and turned out Lord Mayors
afterwards. Think of the young chap who left his home
in a pair of patched breeches, and came back a millionaire
rolling in riches — there ! there's a bit of my own poetry
for you, and a couple of beautiful new tenners to boot''
handing them to him.

"Put another to these, Uncle Andrew," pleaded his
nephew, examining the clean crisp notes, "and I'm off."

"Another fiver, then, for it's all I've got," rejoined his
uncle, snatching it out and locking up the secretaire with
a bang, as if afraid of George giving him the lie by examining
the interior. "And now, boy," continued he,
dropping his keys into his pocket, and hobbling back,
"what are you going to do, eh?"

Oh, I shall just run up to town and try my luck there,
or go abroad — "

"Better go abroad at once. London has been done to
death with fortune-hunters."

Well, I shall see ; at any-rate I'll write and tell you
my plans — only keep them to yourself."

Of course, of course."

"And I say, uncle, I wish you'd just break it to
Gertrude — say good-bye for me, and all that sort of
thing."

"Not if I know it, my boy, thank you," replied
Grumpy, promptly ; " she'd blame me as sure as eggs, and
I don't fancy a scene with an injured female."

Yery well, then ; I shall have to write it, for I haven't
the face to meet her myself. Bat, after all, she's much
better without me, and she's got the guv'nor, and the
mother, and the baby, and another coming" — (Uncle
Andrew pricked up his ears anxiously), " so she won't
take any harm. I don't mean to see any of them before
I go. I shall just square old Stephens, and get him to

put me some tidings together, and then ' away as they
say in the play."

Well, good luck to you, my boy ! " exclaimed Grumpy,
slapping him on the back in a hearty manner ; and after
a little further discussion, and some advice gratis. George
took leave of his worthy uncle, and before the day was
out had put many miles between himself and Barringtree.


Naturally there was a scene at the Hall when Gertrude
and Mrs. Grayle learnt from the Squire under what circumstances
George had disappeared. But Mr. Grayle
consoled Gertrude with the assurance that her worthless
husband would return soon enough when he had had a
dose of shifting for himself, and hoped that, when he
did come back, he might do so a wiser and a better
man.

It is unnecessary to follow up at present the career of
the prodigal heir-apparent, beyond remarking that the
twenty-five pounds given him by his uncle, and a few
sovereigns of his own, were very soon spent in London,
and twice he wrote to Grumpy Grayle for money. The
first time his uncle sent him another five-pound note,
accompanied by a letter abusing all the Hall people in the
most outrageous terms, and poisoning George's mind
against them still further, ultimately urging him at once
to work his passage across to New York or Melbourne,
where he was certain to find a fortune awaiting him.
The second time he forwarded him a post-office order fora
guinea, and, rather tired of these importunities, wound
up another vituperative letter in the following characteristic
way : —

I can't do more than the enclosed, my dear boy ;
recollect that Fm only a younger son, with a wretchedly

small portion " (here Uncle Andrew's brow contracted
at the thought as he wrote) ; " so you must really shift
for yourself, or get my amiable brother to help you, as is
his duty. You know you can't bleed a post, and I'm
very like a post at present ; and the servant tells me
there's another waiting outside ; so no more, in haste,
from

Yours imperiously,

Uncle Andrew."

To this letter he received no reply, nor did he ever
hear from his grateful nephew again.

u Ah ! " often soliloquized Grumpy, " bad lot, very ;
just like his father. A good riddance anyhow, and I
don't expect we shall see much more of Mm. He's
pretty sure to commit suicide if he stays in London ; he's
very likely to get drowned if he goes to sea, shot if he
goes as a soldier, or scalped if he goes as a trapper ; and
he'll probably drink himself to death whatever he goes
as ; so we're certain to get rid of him somehow." And,
summing up in this convenient fashion, Andrew Grayle
once more took a peep into the future of the Barring-tree
property.

Umph ! my sweet brother has about as much constitution
as a cockchafer ; lungs weak, heart weak, blood at
a standstill ; while I'm as robust as a bull, with a circulation
as brisk as a whirlpool, and brisker. Then there's
that puling, hectic-looking baby — he can't live ; and
damme ! " he almost shouted, slapping his short, thick
thigh, " old Grumpy, as they call me, will be master here
yet ! By the way, though, George said something about
another coming. Well, well, if there is, let's hope it will
be a daughter ; we shall see."

And they did see ; and this time the church bells did

not ring, though Grumpy Grayle very nearly ordered
them to do so on his own account, and out of the joyousness
of his heart, for it was a daughter. So the monomaniac
breathed again.

M\\t Stern.

CHAPTER IV.

Property communicates a charm to whatever is the object of it.
It endears to the child its plaything, to the peasant his cottage,
to the landholder his estate." — Paley.

To depart from these snatch periods, and come to
my story proper, I must ask the reader to take a long
jump with me — a skip of fifteen years ; that is, fifteen
years from the first incident introduced in Chapter L,
where Grumpy Grayle met the donkey party in the
park.

It was a glorious morning towards the end of October —
such a morning as makes the heart of man joyous, and
raises one's spirits to an undignified degree of hilarity —
when Hector Grayle, now developing into a fine young
man, in spite of his uncle's prophecy, emerged from
the tableland of Barriugtree Hall, with a gun on his
shoulder and a couple of retrieve bounding round
him with delight, one of the under-keepers following in
the rear.

Steady, boys ! heel, Pilot ! ° called their master, as
the exuberance of the dogs' spirits ran away with them
towards some tempting-looking coverts while crossing
the park.

I wonder where that fellow Clem can have got to'
Hector muttered to himself; " most unpunctual beggar ;
and I hate waiting on a day like this. Perhaps I shall
find him at the Lodge'

And away he hurried in the direction of the entrance
gates on the further side of the park, whistling merrily
as he went.

On reaching the High Lodge — so called from its situation
on a slight eminence, and in contradistinction
from the Low Lodge on the opposite side — Hector
knocked at the door, which was opened by the keeper's
wife.

Good morning, Mrs. Rolfe," said he ; u I just called
to ask if Mr. Mountjoy had passed through here ? "

No, sir," replied the woman ; " we haven't opened the
gates yet to any one to-day."

-Well, he is sure to come this way from Merrydale ;
so I'd better wait for him," observed Hector, adding to
the under keeper, " Phillips, tell the beaters to meet us
here."

Won't you please to step in, sir," said Mrs. Wolfe,
opening the door wider, " and sit down for a bit ? "

Complying with the invitation, the young man disappeared
into the cottage, and while he waits for his
friend, let us take a brief glimpse of the park and distant
Hall ; especially as the best view is to be obtained here
from the upper gates, and the day is simply perfection for
showing it off to advantage ,

In point of size Barringtree Park could scarcely compare
with many nobler country-seats in England, having

an area of something less than a thousand acres ; but with
its splendid timber, well-kept woods, undulating surface,
and ornamental water, it made up in quality what it
lacked in quantity. Such was the arrangement of the
trees and plantations, aided by art as well as nature, that,
taken almost from any point of view, the park itself looked
larger than it actually was, and the numberless vistas, so
skilfully planned, gave evidence of the artistic care
bestowed on their planting. Certainly Grumpy Grayle's
depredations during his short but mischievous reign had
left an ugly gap here and there ; but as this was several
years ago, the hand of time had, in a measure, counteracted
the hand of the spoiler.

One of the most prominent features in the park, and
which had stood for generations, was the splendid avenue
of limes leading from the upper entrance-gates to the
Hall, some three-quarters of a mile in length, enclosing
a carriage-drive, on each side of which was a broad grass
ride, designated by Hector and Agnes as the " straight
run in," and which was the scene of many a race home
between their rival ponies. At this time of year the
avenue was especially an ornament, and the rich autumnal
tints added immensely to the dignity and beauty of the
old lime-trees ; in every part of the park, as far as the
eye could reach, a heterogeneous mass of colour presented
itself in exquisite confusion, lent by the fading glory of
the moribund foliage on wood and " spinney"" On the
left-hand side of the avenue, as you looked towards the
Hall from the High Lodge, was a handsome piece of
water stretching up to the grounds of the mansion, the
lawn sloping down to meet it. Near this point stood a
picturesque boat-house, canopied by a fine old weeping
willow, which seemed to lean over it with maternal
affection.

Various water-birds of all climes and colours fraternized
on the lake, and, keeping aloof from this mixed
society, sailed a few majestic swans, which appeared to
resent the presence of these interlopers on their watery-domain,
for until lately they had enjoyed the monopoly
of it.

On the further side of the lake from the Hall, two or
three little creeks, fringed by overhanging shrubbery,
intercepted the regularity of its bank; the dark evergreens,
reflected in the limpid water, bending over this
perpetual looking-glass, and nodding to themselves, as if
with gratified vanity, when stirred by the breeze. A walk
of some length wound its way along this bank, shaded by
a thick wood which skirted the lake for a considerable
distance ; other paths branched out into the depths of the
covert ; the main walk being connected with the grounds
of the Hall by an ornamental bridge that stretched across
the water at a conveniently narrow point.

Amongst other beauties, the lake could boast one or
two little wooded islands, lying at some distance from
each other ; and though these were artificial, they were
none the less picturesque, and afforded an excellent
place of refuge for the wild fowl during the breeding
season.

The Hall itself hardly did justice to the beauties
with which it was surrounded, being a gloomy-looking,
square-shaped edifice, rather of the barrack type of architecture
peculiar to the Georgian era. The old Elizabethan
mansion, which was reported to have been very handsome
and worthy of any estate, had been nearly all burnt down
a century and a half ago, and little was left of its beauty .
save tradition. The exterior of the old part that remained
had quite lost its original character, having been pulled
about from time to time to make it uniform with the new,

and the present house had few characteristics worthy of
mention beyond innumerable windows and chimney-stacks.
One redeeming point, however, existed in a handsome,
Doric-pillared portico, which had been erected within the
last eighty years by Hector's great-grandfather, but it
must be owned that this portico appeared a little out of
place ; howbeit, since it relieved the monotony of the rest
of the structure, even the most hypercritical might have
accepted it en masse as an improvement.

But if the Manor-house gives little scope for description,
the grounds in which it stands amply compensate for any
deficiency ; and it would have gladdened the heart of a
landscape gardener to have viewed the taste and judgment
evinced in the laying out of the flower-beds, ferries,
lawns, shrubberies, and conservatories; which, however,
must be left to the imagination, since it would occupy too
much space to describe the whole in detail. A cordon,
in the shape of a lofty iron fence, surmounted with festooned
chains, ran round these grounds, separating them
from the park, and preventing the intrusion of the too
active fallow-deer, since the marvellous agility of these
graces ul creatures needed a formidable barrier to keep
them at bay. A large herd of them had for generations
been kept at Barringtree, and becoming tame in their
nature, made that part of the park, close under this fence,
their favourite browsing-ground. The old bucks, as
watched from the Hall windows, might often be seen
tossing their stately heads with wistful looks thrown
towards the choice shrubs and plants within the enclosure,
as though they longed to make a raid upon the sacred
precincts of the garden.

For the rest, the property of Barringtree, always quoted
by Grumpy Grayle, though hyperbolically of course, as
the finest estate in England' may be briefly described

as extending over an area of fifteen thousand acres of
good productive soil — yielding from nine to ten coomb
an acre — splendidly farmed, with plenty of woods for preserving
game, and large open fields — forming a healthy
contrast to these wretchedly cramped plots of land in
some parts of the country, which look like Lilliputian
attempts at agriculture.

u Here he is at last ! " exclaimed Hector, who, after
waiting nearly half an hour in the keeper's lodge, heard
at length the sound of wheels approaching. Not that he
was much to be pitied for the delay, seeing how pleasantly
he had passed the time, cosily seated by a log-fire, and
enjoying the tete-astute society of one of the prettiest
girls to be found in any part of the county.

Mrs. Wolfe, an ever-busy housewife, had betaken herself
to the back premises soon after Hector's arrival,
and thus left him to be entertained by her daughter
alone.

Now Lizzie Wolfe was without doubt a beauty of no
ordinary type ; and Hector thought, as he scanned her
lovely face with respectful admiration, that old Gideon
Rolfe and his wife might well be proud of their only
child.

Perfectly unaffected in her manner, and withal never
forgetting the difference in their stations, Lizzie chatted
away to him with a natural ease that well became her.
She was just on the verge of womanhood — not yet having
attained her nineteenth year — and her figure, of medium
height, clad in a close-fitting, home spun dress, was the
perfection of grace and symmetry. It is impossible to
give a correct impression of such a face as Lizzie Wolfe's
by a mere pen-and-ink description ; she must be seen to
be appreciated, as the showman would say of his show ;

but since that is out of the question, it falls to my province
to endeavour to paint her portrait, however feebly.
Imagine, then, a delicately-formed oval face, with very
dark brown hair rippling in natural waves over a rather
low forehead, and neatly gathered in thick braided folds
at the back of a well-shaped head. Imagine a pair of
eyebrows which, in their pencilling, might have been
painted by some too precise an artist, and beneath these
a pair of dancing, merry eyes of a greyish blue colour,
which were now and again hidden by the long drooping
eyelashes. Imagine a straight, thoroughbred little nose
(that would have defied the chisel of the finest sculptor
to excel), and a prettily curved mouth, which, though the
least thing large, lent expression rather than detracted
from the tout-ensemble, and disclosed, when smiling, a
good set of small white teeth ; add to this a piquant chin,
and lastly, imagine the entire picture delicately tinted by
nature, revealing a fresh transparent complexion, and
you have as truthful a likeness of Lizzie Wolfe as it is in
my power to give you.

It should be explained that Gideon Rolfe and his wife
were not old retainers at Barringtree, Wolfe, until the
last three years, having held the office of head gamekeeper
to an old county family in Sussex. But the
sudden break up of that establishment had thrown him
out of place; and Squire Grayle, hearing of his good
character and excellent qualifications from the family
itself, with whom he happened to be acquainted, had
offered him the same post at Barringtree. Hence it
happened that the lovely Lizzie was an innovation in the
neighbourhood, and her great beauty and superior appearance
speedily attracted considerable notice; for, as she
grew older, she improved in looks, so that her comeliness

soon became quite a byword amongst the good folks
thereabouts.

The contrast between Hector Grayle and the gamekeeper's
daughter, thus seated together by the fire, was
rather striking j Hector's colouring being fair by comparison,
and more after the Saxon type, with auburn hair,
deep blue eyes, and a complexion which was almost too
pink and white for a man. Being only in his twenty-first
year, however, the pink-and-whiteness was more the
colour of a youthful skin than that arising from a
delicate constitution. A tall, handsome young fellow,
something over six feet in height, with regular features
and a good figure, Hector Grayle was a splendid specimen
of the flower of England's youth. Such a fair
exterior, moreover, was by no means belied by his
inward character, which, upright, noble, and generous
as it was, caused him to be idolized by his own
family, and loved and respected by every one who knew
him.

Well, old man ! " cried he, as Clement Mountjoy
drove up in his dogcart ; " you're a nice sort of fellow to
keep one waiting like this."

Very sorry, Hec, upon my word," replied Clement
throwing the reins to his groom, and diving into the back
of the cart for his gun-case ; a I couldn't get off before —
everything seemed to conspire against it at the last
moment."

Well, better late than never," rejoined the other, as
Clement dismounted; " come along. Here, Phillips will
take this for you," he added, handing a cartridge-bag to
the keeper. " What a glorious day ! We're only just
going to walk up one or two fields of mustard, you know
and some outlying mangoes on the other side, but we
shall get some sport."

Bather," observed Clement,, smiling ; " I know those
same mangoes and mustard-fields. There's shooting
enough for a dozen guns."

I believe there is, and we shall pick up something on
the way," replied his companion, as they walked along
briskly towards the quarter indicated, followed by Phillips,
two or three beaters, and the dogs. " Other fellows
couldn't come to day, so I thought you and I would have
a bit of fun by ourselves. Look out ! " Bang ! bang !
and on to the game-stick Phillips placed the first brace of
partridges, the result of a right and left from his young
master's gun. " I say, Clem, we're going to begin the
coverts in a few days," added Hector, lC when I hope Sir
Francis will be able to get over."

I hope he will ; but, poor old boy ! he's such an awful
martyr to gout, you know. However, you may depend
upon it he will if he can."

As the two young men walked side by side the
difference between them was very marked, even to the
most casual observer. While Hector Grayle's aristocratic
bearing, and distingue appearance were so conspicuous,
his friend was exactly the reverse, and one would scarcely
have taken him for a sprig of the nobility at a first glance.
Ungainly in his figure, uncouth in his dress (invariably
several seasons behind the fashion) Clement Mountjoy was
somewhat an oddity to look at ; but notwithstanding that
his face was rather plain, it wore a good-natured, kindly
expression, and this gave an index to his general character,
which abounded in good qualities. In short,
taking him altogether, Clement was, as Hector always
pronounced him, " one of the best fellows that ever
breathed."

The two friends and their small retinue now disappear
over the brow of a neighbouring hill, so we will wish

them good day and good sport, which, by the way, they
decidedly had, if one may judge from the entry in the
gamebook afterwards; inasmuch as Barringtree might,
for its splendid shooting at any rate, almost endorse
Grumpy Grayle's quotation, and claim to be one of the
finest estates in England.

vol. 1.

CHAPTER V.

CRUTCH HUT.

I have no wife nor children, good or bad, to provide for ; a mere
spectator of other men's fortunes and adventures, and how they play
their parts." — Burton.

Something like
That voice, methinks, I should have somewhere heard."

Dry den.

Crutch Hut — so called by its factitious owner on account
of his having superintended its building while obliged to
hobble about on one leg and a crutch, from the effects of
premature gout — was a queer little crib, which looked
something like a cross between a mammoth bee-hive
and a miniature villa, if such can be imagined, and contained
a very limited number of apartments, few of them
big enough to swing a cat in.

The furniture of the sitting-rooms — there were two —
was incongruous in the extreme; and Mr. Andrew
Grayle's sanctum was as different from the other as a
lady's boudoir is from a room in a little lodging-house ; indeed,
the latter more resembled "a furnished apartment tolet"
than anything else. The proprietor had considerable
taste for the antique, and distributed round this sanctum
were carved bookshelves and cabinets of the most fantastic
patterns, which he had collected by degrees from different
curiosity-shops in his wanderings. These cabinets, &c,

were filled with old books, old china, old bronzes, and
various articles of vertu, for Grumpy possessed a hoard of
valuable rarities, and was very proud of his collection,
though he enjoyed it much as a miser does his wealth,
since Crutch Hut was nearly destitute of visitors.

This limited apartment — which did duty for museum,
picture-gallery, library, dining-room, and smoking-room —
its owner had overcrowded with furniture, and made it
appear rather like a second-hand warehouse in Tottenham
Court Road ; but throughout there prevailed the same
taste for quaint antique carvings, though their beauty
was rather lost in the general chaos.

Andrew Grayle never went into society now by any
chance, and, as I have said, scarcely ever had a visitor to
his house ; but of late years he had become rather tired of
his own company, and on a few occasions he did attempt
a little entertainment at the Hut ; but then it was only
with the tenants and such-like, and as a rule, in the old-fashioned
tea and crumpet style, which he much preferred.
But what was done at Crutch Hut was always well done, for
Grumpy was somewhat of a sybarite — or, as he remarked
jocularly, very much given to home comforts, though
until he set up shop for himself home comforts had not
been very much given to him — and occasionally the so-called
modest tea resolved itself into an elaborate kind of
supper, as in the present instance.

Except for the crowded state of the room, everything
was very cheery and comfortable ; not only the edibles,
but the appurtenances (more than half the battle) — bright
lamp, bright silver, bright table-cloth, bright fire, bright
everything ; and it was wonderful how well the Hut did
do things, considering the limited staff of domestics,
which consisted of an old housekeeper and a maid of all
work. The former was a faithful servant who had lived

D 2

at the Hall, and been in the family almost as long as her
master, to whom she was devoted, having followed him
when he transferred his abode to Crutch Hut. Leaving the
rough work to her subordinate, Mrs. Cole cooked his meals,
superintended his wardrobe — what there was of it — kept
his accounts, and established herself generally as his sole
confidential adviser — a good sort of creature altogether,
but becoming a little querulous and arbitrary from long
service and old age. Mary, the under-servant, had rather
a rough time of it both with Mrs. Cole and her master,
who were regular slave-drivers ; but being a girl out of
the village, and an unsophisticated creature with no ideas
beyond the local grocer's shop and post-office, her
ambition did not soar very high, and never suggested
that she might possibly better herself if she tried.
Grumpy bullied this girl fearfully when in a bad temper,
though he would chuck her familiarly under the chin and
call her " Polly " when in a good humour, declaring that
if she hadn't green eyes, a flat nose, and red hair (his
particular aversion), she wouldn't be bad-looking; all
which doubtful compliments Polly accepted gratefully
enough, glad even of such left-handed ones, so long as
master wasn't in one of his sulks." An ancient black
cat — in the chronic condition of being curled up by the
fireplace — a couple of noisy canaries, and a savage
mongrel, chained up outside, completed the establishment.
Nor was there any chance of its being increased, since its
owner had settled down into a confirmed old bachelor,
wedded to celibacy, his curiosity-shop, and that one other
idea — succession to the property. Fifteen years had not
made much difference in Grumpy, beyond a little
increased rotundity and a few extra grey hairs, and he
still believed he would outlive every one, for he never had
an ache or pain, except an occasional twinge of gout, which

being hereditary, he was rather proud of than otherwise.
All the same his monomania had cooled down a little since
Hector had persisted in growing up contrary to prophecy.

Wretched weed, though ! regular lamp-post ! "
muttered the old fool; "never can come to anything.
Umph ! George gone — vanished — dead by now, for a
thousand — the Squire, pooh ! case of creaky gates, but
must come off the hinges soon," and so on. Nevertheless,
these cogitations were not quite so perpetual, nor
carried on with such confident emphasis as heretofore.

"Now then, Polly, look alive'' cried Grumpy, "put
that lobster mayonnaise on the sideboard, and go and
draw some of the old ale. I say, what are you doing
there, Mrs. Cole?"

"Only trying to make a bit of room, sir," replied the
housekeeper. " Here, Mary, lend a hand here first," and
they proceeded to wheel a superfluous cabinet, elaborately
carved, through the door towards the drawing-room.

"Look here, I won't have that moved — " began
Grumpy.

Nonsense, sir," quietly returned Mrs. Cole ; " when
you do have a bit of company you must give 'em room
to stir, and you're so crammed full of these gin-cracks
a body can't turn." So she carried her point, as she
generally did.

fl Not much to be found fault with at the Hut, I take
it," muttered Grumpy, proudly surveying the apartment
" everything in its way perfect."

Well, I think every think in one's way's a nuisance,"
said Mrs. v Cole, half catching his remark, as she and Mary
wheeled out the cabinet. " There ! that's better, I'm
sure," she exclaimed, returning ; " and now, sir, don't the
table look beautiful ? "

Splendiferous ! " acquiesced her master.

"Do you get into the drawing-room, then, to receive
your guests, sir — "

Oh, bosh ! bosh ! old Sam Sickles and his wife aren't
particular."

"But you ought to be, sir. Never do things higher
bigger " (whatever she meant) ; " go and receive 5 em like
a gentleman."

But they've not come yet," expostulated Grumpy,
and I hate sticking in that beastly room."

They'll be here directly, sir ; you'd better go," urged
Mrs. Cole, with calm authority ; and the obedient master
stumped off, leaving his housekeeper to complete her
arrangements in the parlour.

The state apartment," as Grumpy humorously
termed the uncomfortable little drawing-room on the
opposite side of the passage, was as scantily furnished as
his sanctum was overcrowded. Since it was seldom used,
he had contented himself with ordering for its equipment,
from a wholesale firm, the inevitable bright green suite,
commonly seen in lodging-houses and small cockney
villas, consisting of six articles of torture, yclept chairs,
another article falsely aspiring to the name of sofa, and
two monstrosities with arms which you could see grossly
belied their appellation of easy before you tried them.
But our friend thought them quite good enough for his
visitors, when he had any. The first-mentioned articles
were the most untempting looking things imaginable, with
great overstuffed seats, that appeared as if they had been
starved, and then suddenly given a heavy meal of wool
and horsehair, which had distended them out "of all proportion,
reminding one of a greedy puppy after a gigantic
gorge ; and when you sat down on them, their skeleton
backs stuck spitefully into your spine, as though resenting
the liberty.

The brown holland coverings, which always draped this
unique furniture, had been taken off for once in a way,
and each article had budded forth into its normal state of
verdant, since guests were expected at Crutch Hut that
evening.

Shortly afterwards, the aristocratic company, as
Grumpy ironically called it, arrived. Curious articles all.
Item first — Mr. Samuel Sickles, a jolly old-fashioned
Suffolk farmer, round as a tub, with a rubicund countenance,
like a setting full moon ; blue swallow-tailed coat,
brass buttons, gaiters, knee-breeches, and all complete,
and glorying in a brogue that you might have cut with
a knife. Item second — Mrs. Samuel Sickles, a prototype
of her husband as to face and expression — grown so
by marriage perhaps — dressed in pea-green silk, with
black mittens, a false front bound with velvet, and a
huge glass brooch at her throat, like a little horse-pond ;
the same dialect, too, also contracted by marriage, no
doubt, for she was not Suffolk born. Item third — Mrs.
Corcoran, Sam Sickles' sister, a widow, and a very
severe-looking female indeed, with black points, dressed
to match ; not the least like her brother — in fact, a sort of
modern Medea in appearance — age, the shady side of
sixty or thereabouts, but not looking so much, though
the raven hair was streaked here and there with silver
threads. Item fourth and last — Mr. Simon Sickles, only
son of his father and mother ; a mild yahoo, with straight
hair, well plastered down each side of a face, which, shining
inanely with soap and simplicity, four kicks in a mud wall
would have grossly flattered; — and dressed in humble
imitation of the prevailing fashion, by way of contrast to
his father's antediluvian get up — an imitation which his
manners and colloquial vernacular rendered the more
ridiculous. In short, taking them altogether, it was evident

that Grumpy Grayle delighted in curiosities, animate
as well as inanimate ; but he had not bargained for the
two last-mentioned guests ; these, it appeared, had been
brought by Mr. Sickles as substitutes for somebody
else.

"Good evenun', Mister Grayle" (he pronounced it Gride),
said the old farmer, as he entered, " I hope we ain't after
our time. You'll expense me a bring' my sister and
my body, 'cos ould Master Tunnup, he couldn't come, he
have got the rewmattucks so wonderful bad, and my gal
she won't able 'cos — "

"Don't mention it, don't mention it," cried his host,
cutting him short, and welcoming the substitutes with a
good grace, "very glad to see you all, I'm sure."

Presently, taking the word of command from Mrs. Cole,
Gruoipy proceeded to transfer his guests from the comfortless
drawing-room to the sanctum sanatorium, where they
quickly ensconced themselves round the hospitable supper-table,
which groaned with good things.

Mr. Samuel Sickles' face beamed again as he took in
the tempting viands with eyes and nose on entering the
room — Mrs. Samuel Sickles' face following suit with a
modified beam — while Mr. Simon Sickles' face literally
shone with unctuous delight as they took their seats;
and on commencing operations, the yahoo, bewildered
and uncertain for a moment what to begin upon,
suddenly went at it with a vengeance, as if his body
were a sack, and he had to fill it against time.

They're a going to shoot some o' the woods tomorrow,
I hear, Mr. Grile," observed Sickles senior, as soon as a
square foot of brawn would allow him to speak.

Are they ? " grunted Grumpy churlishly, filling Mrs.
Corcoran' s glass as she sat on his left. " Umph ! hope
they mayn't shoot each other then, that's all."

They da saye there' a wonderful sight 0' people asked
to stye at the Hall for the shooting," resumed the farmer;
u leastways gentlemen."

M I essay," growled the host, in an undertone. " I
know I'm not."

Don't you shoot yourself, Mr. Grayle ? " inquired
Mrs. Corcoran.

u If I didn't somebody else might for me," smiled
Grumpy, intending to make a joke. " No, ma'am, I don't
care for these days of battues and freeholders. Who's
staying at the house ? do you know, Sickles ? "

Nit rightly, Mr. Grile ; though ould Rolfe did tell
me. Some from Lun'nun, I believe, a Careen somewhat or
other, and two or three more — a coming', that is, if they
saint come."

At this moment the loud barking of the mongrel outside
interrupted the conversation, and then a carriage
was heard to stop at the door.

Halloa ! who can that be ? " exclaimed the host,
looking round the table. "I don't expect any one
else."

Somebody lost their wye, I reckon," ventured Simon,
as he finished his third plateful. " That's as dark out tonight
as the inside of my westcut pocket."

Go and see who it is, Mrs. Cole," said her master,
still wondering.

On the front door being opened by the housekeeper, a
rude November gust nearly blew out the lamp in the
little entrance passage.

Can you put us on the road for Barringtree Hall,
please ? " called a voice from the Cimmerian darkness.
This driver's a new man; his lamps have gone out, and
the night's as black as pitch."

As the voice reached the little dining-room Mrs. Corcoran

pricked up her ears for a moment, for it seemed as
if the tones were familiar to her, though she dismissed
the idea as improbable immediately afterwards, or only
looked upon it as a coincidence.

I'll put him right, Mr. Gril'e, don't you trouble,"
said the yahoo, lurching out to the front door. " Look
here, mister ! " he cried, addressing himself indefinitely
to the driver or his fare, " yow can't du wrong if ye fuller
this here road strike as ever yow can goo, till yow git to
the park wall ; keep up to the left along that till ye found
some grit iron gates, go threw them up the vernon, and
there ye are."

Meanwhile the cabman had availed himself of Mrs.
Cole's offer, and had relit his lamps ; so the benighted
fly started once more on its way.

Now even a cormorant can't go on for ever ; the most
voracious appetite in the world must be appeased at last
by a surfeit of good things ; and Mr. Sickles and his son
began at last to . feel every button of their waistcoats on
double duty, and could do no more than toy with some
of the substantial delicacies yet untried, seeming as if
they would say, (< Oh, I only wish you had come a little
earlier." Grumpy Grayle, noticing this, began to rally
them, for he was no niggard host, and liked to see justice
done to his table ; but since he could only elicit a chorus
of " No more for me, thank yer, Mr. Grile, I ha' done
be-ewtiffle, thank yer," he gave it up as a bad job.

Corcoran ! " exclaimed he presently, and pursing up
his mouth reflectively ; " Corcoran ! that's not a common
name, ma'am," he added, turning to its owner ; " I've
heard it before — can't think where."

My husband was an Irishman, Mr. Grayle," remarked
Mrs. Corcoran. " Its a hard story for a body to tell, but
he was suspected and tried for an Agrarian outrage

some years ago, which broke his heart, poor man, for he
died soon afterwards. Perhaps that's what you were
thinking of."

Xo — no, that isn't it. It's a Mrs. Corcoran I'm
thinking of, not a Mr. Corcoran."

Oh, indeed, sir. Well, I'm the only Mrs. Corcoran I
know of in our county."

u What county ? this county, do you mean ? "

"No, Mr. Grayle ; I was born here, it's true, but Kent
is my county now, and has been for years."

Ah, that's it ! " cried Grumpy, suddenly inspired.
That must be it; Kent, of course. Do you remember
the name of Pullerton ? "

To be sure I do."

And you remember the Pullerton Trust ? "

To be sure I do," she repeated, thinking how curious
it was that that very subject had been running in her
head a minute before.

"The Pullerton Trust ! that's what I was thinking of.
I was one of the trustees, you know."

So I understood at the time, sir."

"But how were you connected with that, Mrs. Corcoran ?
I forget."

Well," replied the woman, hesitating a little, and
dropping her dark eyes as Grumpy peered inquisitively
into her face; " if you remember I gave evidence at the
coroner's inquest."

"Exactly — exactly, of course you did," cut in her
host, as the recollection flashed across him. " Um — ah !
sad case, very. Railway accident or something, wasn't
it ? It all comes back to me now. Absolute reversion
of 40,000/. to the brother. Well, well, a fat sorrow's
better than a lean one, and no doubt the brother found
it so."

Half-brothers' observed Mrs. Corcoran, correcting
him."

Half-brother, was it ? Oh, well, as I was saying, no
doubt the half-brother found it so ; 40,000L isn't to be
sneezed at."

No, indeed ; and he'd know how to spend it well,
bless his heart ! "

u Oh, you think so ? Well, of course I can't say anything
about that. I was very glad to be released from
the Trust, that's all I know. Hate responsibility, and I.
never would have undertaken it only old Mrs. Pullerton's
husband was a great friend of mine. But what has
become of this Mr. — Mr. What's-his-name ? It's a good
many years ago now, and ' I've never seen nor heard of
him since."

"You mean Mr. Denby," said Mrs. Corcoran. "I've
not seen him very lately either. He seems almost to
have forgotten his old nurse now," she added, as if to
herself; " but he's going on prosperous enough, I believe
any way I hope so."

' A favourite of yours, it appears ? " remarked the host ;
then aside, "got a largess out of that affair, I'll be
bound."

He ought to be, Mr. Grayle ; I dandled him when he
was a mite of a baby. Ah, he's an officer now — a casting.
Perhaps you didn't hear, though, he came into another
bit o' money afterwards from some distant relation — "

How should I ? I know nothing about the man,"
interrupted Grumpy.

Whose name he tacks on to his own," continued she.
But there, he wants all he can get, I'll be bound ; for
they say he does go the pace. Bless him ! a real gentleman,
every inch of him ! Let him spend the money, if he
likes : it's his own, and why shouldn't he enjoy it ? "



"Very true, very true; why shouldn't he? Life's
short enough, in all conscience. My motto is, live while
you may, you can take naught away. Though, deuce
knows, I've little enough to live on, and shall leave little
enough behind me when I go."

During this abstract conversation Simon Sickles and
his parents had listened in open-mouthed vacancy, thoroughly
mystified, and feeling very much "out of it;"
but they were soon set going again when their host proposed
a little smoke— with the permission of the ladies —
and some hot punch to wind up the evening with.

Then such a brew did he and Mrs. Cole mix for them
as warmed, with a generous glow, the cockles of their
hearts, and effectually kept out the cold night air when
they returned home in the pony-chaise an hour or two
afterwards.

CHAPTER VI.

FIVE HUNDRED HEAD BEFORE LUNCHEON.

'Twas of old by God decreed
That birds for man's support may bleed."

Man.

The following morning a large party assembled for breakfast
at Barringtree Hall, consisting chiefly of gentlemen
invited to shoot. Three or four had run down from town
overnight, including Colonels G-askill and Freshman of
the Guards, and Captain Heffernan of the Line, all keen
sportsmen and crack shots. Sir Francis Mountjoy was
there too — the gout having given him leave of absence for
the day — and although he was an infirm old "fogey,"
something over seventy, the respite seemed to have temporarily
rejuvenated him, for he had already discussed a
cutlet and a devilled kidney with the healthy appetite of
an undergraduate.

Dear Sir Francis," exclaimed Lady Mountjoy from
the other side of the table — a vivacious woman, thirty
years younger than her husband — " it delights me to see
you really enjoy your breakfast ; I wish you could shoot
every day."

So do I, my lady," mumbled Sir Francis, as he
munched his toast ; " but we old birds are horribly
handicapped with gout and anno domini."

Lady Mountjoy smiled at him lovingly, all eyes and
teeth — very fine ones they were, too — and she had a
habit of flashing them all at once at any one when she
spoke, by way of showing them off at the slightest provocation.
Decidedly a handsome woman, a juvenile forty,
painfully energetic in every movement, and, as she made
the most commonplace observation, bright flashes of
lightning jumped out of her great black eyes, while her
remarks and ideas seemed all zigzag like the flight of a
snipe, if I may so describe them, first in one direction,
then in another ; her conversation being as harum sarum
as her character. Lady Mountjoy was an enterprising
person who had done a little bit of everything in her
time, especially in the way of sport, from salmon-fishing
in the Shannon down to ferreting rabbits on the Suffolk
warrens.

a Are you going to have a shot to-day, Lady Mount-joy
? " inquired the Eev. Arthur Tewkesley, Gertrude
Grayle's brother, who was sitting next to her.

I think I shall' flashed her ladyship, " if the gentlemen
won't mind my going with the guns."

Mr. Tewkesley thought they probably might, but did
not choose to say so. He was one of those who considered,
and very rightly too, that a lady is decidedly out
of place in the shooting-field — except, of course, at luncheon
by the covert-side — and he invariably discouraged
his sister and Agnes Grayle from setting the example.

You see, I am got up for the occasion' continued
Lady Mountjoy, with a perfect battery of electric sparks,
and displaying a sporting-looking jacket she wore; "but
I believe Hector does not like ladies shooting, so I daresay
I shall only look on after all. Tell me' she exclaimed,
flying off at a tangent, "who is that very good-looking
man opposite ? "

c< Do you mean next to the Squire ? "

No ; he's not good-looking. That's Gussy Skill,
the ugliest man in the guards. I mean on the other side
of your sister."

' Oh ! I see ; that's a Captain Heffernan, of the — ar —
something foot. I forget his regiment at this moment."

Particularly handsome ; don't you consider him ? "

Well, yes, I suppose he is ; the ladies all think so, I
believe."

And they're the best judges, Mr. Tewkesley. You
men never admire each other, I notice."

"No, I suppose we don't — not enthusiastically, at
least. However, he seems an uncommonly nice fellow,
and appears to have made great friends with the Squire
and Gertrude when they were in town."

Oh, indeed ! perhaps he admires Agnes ? "

That I can't say."

Ci Eligible ? " and the eyes and teeth flashed interrogatively.


Yery, T understand."

The object of their attention was at this moment
engaged in conversation with Mrs. Grayle senior, at the
lower end of the tablet

I hope I am forgiven, Mrs. Grayle," he remarked,
with a pleasant smile, iC for coming in with the entrees
last night."

Certainly, Captain Heffernan," returned the lady of the
house, very graciously — for her ; " how could you help it ?"

Not very well ; my train was forty minutes late, and
then the fellow who drove me from the station didn't
know the way, and mismanaged his lamps, so we came to
a standstill in the dark. If it hadn't been for a little
friendly farmhouse, where they put us right, I shouldn't
have arrived here till this morning."

Yes, I think my reader, of whichever sex, would
have agreed with Lady Mountjoy that Captain Heffer-nan
was an exceedingly good-looking man. You could
read Alder shot in his face at a glance, by the trim
mutton-chop whisker and well-cultivated heavy moustache
; these, and his closely-cut hair, being as nearly
black as possible, in keeping with his eyes, which gave
rather a stern look to the face while in repose ; but
when animated his features relaxed into an agreeable,
good-humoured expression. He was a man of about
three-and-thirty, with plenty of savoir-vivre, plenty of
money (or supposed to have plenty), plenty of anecdote
and small talk, and invariably well-dressed; altogether,
one may say, a popular man in the world in which he
moved, both civil and military.

And what's the programme to day, Hector? " inquired
Sir Francis, as he and two or three others now got up
from the breakfast-table.

We propose to have a couple of partridge drives first
of all, Sir Francis, just to get the eye in, you know,"
replied Hector; " and after that we're going to beat the
High Woods, which I fancy will be as much as we can get
through to-day."

Well, my boy, we oughtn't to lose time, ought we ? M
remarked the old baronet, eager for the fray, and preparing
to trot off to the gun-room.

"No, we'll make a start directly; as soon as these
hungry soldiers have done crunching their bones,"
observed Hector, indicating Gaskill and Freshman, who
were still busy taking in stores in the shape of some
broiled pheasant.

I'm ready," exclaimed Lady Mountjoy, jumping up
like a jack-in-the-box in front of Hector, who was crossing
behind her chair, and electrifying him on the spot.

vol. 1. E

"But' she added, with a most fascinating flash, more
like summer lightning this time, " you won't have any
ladies to day perhaps ? "

"Certainly, Lady Mountjoy — only — only the difficulty isar
— " hesitated Hector.

That you don't want us ; precisely," she continued,
putting out the electric lights suddenly, and lowering her
eyelids ; " you're a good creature not to say so, though
you think it. Never mind, I forgive you — but I must
walk with my dear Sir Francis, and take care of him till
we get to the ground, mustn't I, Sir Francis ? "

No, no, not at all, my lady," cried Sir Francis, as he
was leaving* the room; " don't you put yourself out, I shall
do very well." And he disappeared quickly, determined
not to be taken in tow.

The rest of the breakfast party followed suit, and the
votaries of Nimrod betook themselves straightway to lookout
their respective weapons, afterwards assembling in
front of the Hall, preparatory to the start. Presently two
more sportsmen (a couple of hunting parsons from the
neighbourhood) drove up the avenue and completed the
complement, which numbered nine guns ; none too many
for the extensive coverts they were going to shoot through.
The Squire himself had retired into the rear rank with
the ladies during the last few years, since failing health of
late had caused him to give up shooting altogether.

Although our November comes in for nearly as much
abuse as March, and deservedly so perhaps, yet it sometimes
redeems its character, and gives us a few bright
genial days by way of contrast to the traditional fogs and
dreary drizzle. When it does condescend thus to throw
off its sombre grey mantle, what can be more glorious
than one of those still autumn mornings, the atmosphere
bright and clear, without a breath of wind, and the ground

just crisp from a slight coating of frost ? Then as the foot
disturbs the crackling masses of dead leaves, which cover
the dank sward in profusion here and there, the fresh odour
that rises, and the rustling sound itself, recall pleasant
memories to the sportsman of shooting days gone by,
and give a welcome reminder of another season's "arrival.

Just such an auspicious morning greeted our party
as they left the Hall and wended their way across
the park. The beaters had been sent on ahead, ready
to take up their positions in skirmishing order for the
first drive, where they waited patiently for the signal
from the head keeper, old Gideon Rolfe, that the guns
had duly arrived at their posts.

What a day it was for partridge driving, thought
Hector Grayle; if anything, almost too quiet, and the man
who could not account for every three out of five cartridges
that morning, ought to drop his breech-loader and
take to a pop-gun.

No time was lost, as there was much to be done, and in
less than a quarter of an hour after they quitted the Hall
every one was in position. Then almost immediately
was heard the crack of the first gun, resounding sharply
through the still, frosty air, followed by another and
another. " Over ! o-over," shouted the beaters ; ''o-o-var!
mark o-o-o-var ! " in all the different Suffolk intonations.
Bang ! bang-ban g.-bang ! bang-bang ! bang ! like Sbfeu-
de-joie went the guns ; and as the birds literally swarmed
overhead, nearly a dozen falling to the first volley, the
ground was quickly strewed with their little plump brown
bodies, which fluttered here and there along the line
until life had become extinct.

The first drive finished, nineteen and a half brace and
four hares were counted out as the result. Not very bad,
one would think, even in these days of high preserving

e 2

UBMRl

UNIVERSITY OF M»*

and breech-loaders. Yet Hector and old Rolfe were
scarcely satisfied ; for with nine guns, and the very best
drive on the estate, they certainly expected more. Knowing
he had only missed two or three birds himself, on
occasions when he couldn't get his cartridges in quick
enough/Hector Grayle began mentally to consign one or
two of his friends on the spot to the said pop-gun, and
it must be owned there were some very indifferent shots
among the party. Sir Francis could not hit a barn-door ;
Clement, though he always shot at Barringtree, was not
much better; while Tewkesley and one of the parsons
were both terribly slow, thus leaving the balance of the
sportsmen to do the greater part of the slaughter between
them.

Now it is all very well for you, Master Hector, with
your unerring aim, to think that a man ought to account
for every three out of his five cartridges fired ; but partridge
driving, even on the stillest day, is by no means easy
work, and it takes long practice, and a cool nerve,
combined with a quick hand and eye, to make sure of
three-fifths, or even one-half of the birds you shoot at.
Either they fly too high — though this is generally on a
windy day — or else they come right at your head, whir-bring
round your ears like a swarm of bees, quite putting
you off, and making you go for the " brown " haphazard,
when you probably miss the whole lot, and serve you
right! or perhaps send away two or three wounded, which
don't count to your gun (mind, reader, I am only addressing
myself to the " duffer ,} ) ; or else they come just
between you and the next man, and not being quite sure
whether it is his shot or yours, you wait for him, and very
likely lose your chance altogether; or else on a windy day,
when the birds come overhead like flashes of "greased
lightning' you endeavour to adopt certain rules laid down

by some celebrated sportsman, who would inculcate in your
mind bis own theories — universal ones, no doubt, but not
easily acted upon. First, as the feathered bullets come
straight to you, you fire at them, according to instructions,
point blank, or the least trifle above them, depending on
the pace you fancy they are flying — well and good, you
may or may not bring down one — then, as they dart past
you to right or left, you remember to fire a couple of feet
or so in front, sometimes a good deal more ; or, as they
are going straight away, you aim a little underneath to
catch them at the apex of your line of fire and their line
of flight. Excellent principles, no doubt, if you can only
recollect them at the time, but as a rule, not attended with
very satisfactory results, except to the skilful sportsman.
No, the rank bad shot may improve a little by practice,
but he cannot be taught; for the skill of the crack shot is
entirely instinctive, and his hand and eye work together
with a rapidity and precision which can scarcely be
acquired.

Anxious to get to the coverts as soon as possible, since
time is precious in the short November days, Hector gave
the word to Rolfe for one more drive only, and this to be
arranged so as to bring them in close proximity to the
High Woods, where they could commence operations
without delay.

This second drive, though unexpectedly attended by
better results than the first, was soon concluded ; and all
the guns, except two who were appointed to walk with
the beaters, quickly took up the positions allotted to them,
outside one of the woods which was to be beaten before
luncheon, when Hector displayed the skill and caution of
"Cunctator" Fabius in posting his men, though not
quite so slow about it. And now began the real business
of the day, and so felt each sportsman as he stood at his

corner, anxiously awaiting the forward march of the
brushers," l and the first break of game.

Suspense in general may well be termed the toothache
of the mind, but the suspense experienced outside a
covert, waiting for the first shot,, is a pleasurable one
indeed. What a delicious feeling of quiet, suppressed
excitement it is, that standing on the tiptoe of expectation
by the outskirts of a wood which you know to be literally
teeming with game ! More especially on a bright, frosty
day, when the rime on the trees is melting and dripping
under the influence of a genial sun, and the rarified atmosphere
redolent with the freshness of autumnal nature.

All at once a Babel of mysterious sounds arises from
the beaters ; a rattling of sticks, and cries of " Hi — hi —
hi— hi ! ho — ho — ho —-ho ! hare — hare — hare ! rabbit —
rabbit ! " and so on, answered by the " cluck-cluck ! "
of the terrified pheasants as they are driven through the
wood ; which, in turn, is responded to here and there by
the battery of breech-loaders outside, and rochester after
rochester, sailing overhead, is brought down "all of a
heap," rebounding from mother earth with the force of its
fall. Every man this day is expected to do his duty; but
every man need be an Argus to do it thoroughly ! for
what with keeping one eye overhead at the rockets, and
the other peering into the thick undergrowth, watching
for ground game which breaks in every direction, you
have a warm time of it indeed ; and to an old soldier who
has seen fighting, a big battue reminds him forcibly of
the hottest action he ever was in, except for its one-mindedness.


Look out, Sir Francis ! well tried ! " cried Clement,
as he " wiped his father's eye" at a large hare which was
lolloping past.

1 A local term for " beaters."

Mark cock!" called some one else, and out flew a
woodcock straight in front of Clement, who missed both
barrels like a man, leaving it for Colonel Gaskill, that
gentleman performing the same office for him, as he,
Clement, had just done for his father.

There you go, Sir Francis ! " cried Clement again,
"right over you."

Bang ! bang ! went both barrels from the old baronet,
and away sailed a lucky pheasant, minus his tail, but none
the worse otherwise. In truth Sir Francis had had about
enough of it, and was longing for luncheon, for which the
inner man, too, was calling out loudly ; and his guns —
he had taken the precaution to have two — were both so
confoundedly hot he could scarcely hold them ; more from
repeatedly blazing away into the air than into the game,
I'm afraid ; but that is a matter of detail.

At length the firing ceased, the beat was finished, and
the beaters emerged from the covert. Away trotted
Sir Francis forthwith to look for the ladies and the
luncheon, not caring to wait to see the game counted out,
for he felt conscious that he had hardly contributed his
share to the list of killed.

A capital bag it was; and Hector took a pride in
having the carcases stretched out in two or three long
rows, which gave the following results : forty-two and a
half brace of partridges, two hundred and thirty-seven
pheasants, a hundred and forty-nine hares, five woodcocks,
and twenty-four rabbits ; all told, making a grand
total of exactly five hundred head.

And now, gentlemen, to luncheon ! " exclaimed Hector,
after they had gloated over the slaughter — whereupon the
remaining sportsmen quickly followed in the wake of Sir
Francis, each with as keen an appetite as his neighbour.

CHAPTER VII.

Wherein I spoke of most disastrous chances ;
Of moving accidents by flood and field."

Shakespeare.

Although Hector Grayle himself was no advocate for the
luxurious picnic which so often in these times forms an
important item in the programme of a day's shooting,
yet for the sake of the ladies and the Squire, who could
not participate in the sport, he did not exercise his
prerogative, as master of the ceremonies, by opposing
it.

As may be seen, Mr. Grayle entirely yielded up the
reins of government to his grandson on all shooting
occasions, and Hector proved himself worthy of the post.

Sir Francis Mountjoy, guided by instinct or appetite,
was not long in finding out the luncheon party ; and a
snug little bivouac the ladies had formed in a picturesque
nook close at hand. As the old baronet drew near the
group, the grateful fragrance of some delicious Irish stew
greeted his nose, and caused him to cast a wistful glance
at the huge bright copper saucepan in which it was
simmering.

Come along, Sir Francis," cried her ladyship,
skipping towards him ; " here is a special place reserved

for you? and she playfully pressed him down on a convenient
mound beside her, which she had thoughtfully
covered with a cushion and a plaid. " Now tell me, dear
Sir Francis, what have you shot ? "

"Do you mean me individually, or the whole party V 3
asked Sir Francis, as he settled down.

Firstly, as to yourself, then ? " said her ladyship,
flashing a loving glance at the old gentleman.

Well, 'pon my word, I hardly know ; all I can tell
you is, my guns got so hot they scorched my hands, so I
suppose I must have shot a good deal, ahem ! As to the
bag, I didn't stop to see it counted. But here they all
come."

The rest of the party opportunely arrived just as
the servants completed the laying out of the al fresco
repast ; and if they were hungry as hunters before, how
much more so did the sight of that insinuating stew and
other good things make them feel when they joined the
bivouac.

Hector triumphantly announced the result of the
morning's work, and as the gentlemen quickly took their
seats, each felt he had done his share more or less — some
a little less perhaps— and had fairly earned his luncheon.

Lady Mountjoy telegraphed a significant glance at
Mr. Tewkesley as she saw Captain Heffernan making
straight for a vacancy beside Agnes — the very spot poor
Clement was going to dive for when he was anticipated.


Now, it may not be amiss to mention here, that the
single-hearted Clement had for a long while cherished
a strong affection for Agnes Grayle, although he had
never formally declared to her the state of his feelings ;
nor did he indeed realize those feelings himself until now,
when she had gone through her first season in London,

and brought many admirers to her feet, among them being
the handsome Captain Heffernan.

Clement Mountjoy had been thrown a good deal with
Hector and Agnes during their childhood, and the latter
had learned to look upon him in the light of a brother,
and cared for him as such ; though he found out, poor
boy ! as time went on, that his love did not stop short at
the Platonic point. Then began that secret gnawing at
the heart, as he watched the fair object of his affections
eagerly sought after by others, and likely to be soon
snatched up as a prize in the matrimonial lottery. And
yet he had made no sign, whether from a diffident feeling
as to his own worth, or from a misgiving as to the result
of an open declaration, can only be surmised.

Giorgione would have gloried in painting the picture
of Agnes Grayle, with that rich auburn hair and deep
violet eyes he so loved to portray as the type of
Venetian beauty. Lithe and sylph-like in figure — not
tall, exactly, but above the average height— she was
Hector's sister, every inch of her — almost identical in
colouring and feature, and as like him as it is possible fora
woman to be like a man.

Ah ! proud mother indeed are you, gentle Gertrude, as
you sit there, with your soft eyes lovingly watching those
comely figures. Fair portraits of yourself in the best
days — not so long gone by — and now filling up in your
heart that cruel void which George so wantonly had
caused. Foolish, forgiving woman that you are ! still
trusting, still hoping, and for what ? Has not every
trace been long since lost ? Has not his very name sunk
into the cold silence of the grave ? And yet you cherish
his worthless memory. Engraved deep on that faithful
heart is the image of the husband, the father of those
glorious children. Foolish, but noble woman! surely

such simple devotion as yours deserves a better fate than
to be thus wasted on so unworthy an object.

The luncheon was perforce a hurried scramble with the
ravenous sportsmen, for Hector was not one to loiter on
such a day ; and being all impatience to continue business,
he gave his myrmidons but little breathing time.

Now, grandfather' said he, rising from the ground,
and lighting a cigarette, " we are going to beat that smallwood
over there to the right, for the benefit of the ladies ;
so, if you will take care of them, and " (lowering his voice,
and glancing at Lady Mountjoy) " keep them at a respectful
distance, they'll be able to see a little sport''

"Very well, my boy' replied the Squire; "gather
your forces, and go ahead. "

Now this same wood was only a bit of bye covert,
so to speak, and judiciously selected by Hector, since it
could be quickly beaten, and thus afford the ladies an opportunity
of witnessing some shooting before they returned
to the house ; the next big beat, moreover, being a considerable
distance out of their way.

It was scarcely large enough to admit of all the guns
being properly posted ; but Hector, by skilful generalship,
managed it somehow, though he left himself out in the cold.
Lady Mountjoy became quite excited as the shooting
recommenced, and jumped and clapped her hands like a
young school-girl. At luncheon she had longed to ask to
have a shot, or take Sir Francis' place, since he had confessed
himself knocked up, but had refrained when she
remembered Hector's hesitation at breakfast ; albeit to do
her ladyship justice, her skill with the gun would have
compared very favourably with that of her husband, or,
indeed, any of the other duffers.

Look, look, mamma ! " cried Agnes, " that's another
bird to Clem. Oh, how well they are shooting ! "

Too well' thought her mother, whose gentle nature
would not allow her to appreciate the slaughter of the
innocents. Indeed, she actually turned away her head
when once the firing had begun.

And just watch Captain Heffernan," exclaimed
Agnes again, " how he knocks them over ! He never
seems to miss ;" a faint blush suffusing her fair cheek
as she spoke. " But whereas Hector, grandpa ? I
wanted so to see him shoot," she added, in a disappointed
tone.

On the other side, my dear, I suppose ; or perhaps
with the beaters''

There ! " cried her ladyship, suddenly, in great glee,
why, my dear Sir Francis has actually killed a hare all
by himself ! " and she flashed a look of triumph on her
companions as the old baronet, by some lucky fluke,
bowled puss over. "What do you think of that,
Squire ? "

"Very good, very good indeed, Lady Mountjoy,"
returned he, with a smile ; adding, sotto voce, " The only
wonder to me is how any one can ever miss the poor
thing."

And yet, strange to say, puss often gets off scatheless.

But what's the matter ? " asked Agnes presently ;
why don't they go on ? They can't have finished yet ;
they've only just begun. And look ! why are they all
running round to that side ? "

I can't make it out," muttered Mr. Grayle, looking
through a pair of circulars he had brought with him.

Ah ! here comes Mr. Tewkesley," said Lady Mount-joy
; " I suppose they have finished, then."

The gentleman mentioned, who was seen hurrying
towards them, suddenly checked his pace as he drew
near. Then an instinctive feeling came over more than

one of the party, as he approached, that something
unusual must have happened; but they were quickly
reassured when they heard his voice.

We have done the little wood, ladies' exclaimed he
cheerfully, and forcing a careless tone, though he could
not conceal the pallor on his face. w I — I thought I
would just — just let you know, and report the result.
Come, Squire, we can talk about it as we go along. You
mustn't allow the ladies to stay out too late in the cold —
that is, I mean — the carriage will be ready by now,
and— "

As he ceased speaking there certainly appeared something
strange and mysterious in his manner, which did
not entirely escape the others ; but the off-hand tones, so
cleverly managed, deceived them. Poor fellow ! he had
indeed a difficult part to play, and it would be no fault of
his if he failed. It was with a feeling of intense relief,
then, that he successfully persuaded the Squire and the
ladies to move off and retrace their steps towards home.

What is it ? " asked a whispered voice by his side as
they walked along. Turning, he saw Lady Mountjoy at
his elbow, with an anxious look of inquiry in her dark
eyes ; " something has happened, I know — tell me."

Hush ! for Heaven's sake ! " he returned in a hoarse
undertone, and seizing her hand with a convulsive grasp
as he gave a warning look towards the others; "you are
right ; but pray calm yourself — something has happened,
but not to Sir Francis, or your son ; they were on this
side of the wood, as you no doubt observed. Now I must
speak to the Squire alone — please join my sister and
Agnes, and engage their attention ; and, oh ! Lady
Mountjoy, be discreet, I implore you ! "

Poor Lady Mountjoy ! there was scarcely need for the
admonition. She quite shuddered as he spoke, feeling.

sure that some dreadful calamity had taken place, and
longed to know what it was, though she feared to ask ;
but in obedience to the behest she resolved to be discretion
itself, if for the first time in her life, and so at
once joined the others in front.

Squire, a word with you," said Tewkesley, in a
whisper, touching his arm, and with an effort forcing a
calmness he was far from feeling.

What is the matter ? " asked Mr. Grayle, in the
same tone, dropping behind, and expecting something —
he knew not what.

Don't be alarmed, sir, at what I am going to tell
you," continued Tewkesley; "bear up for the sake of the
ladies, and pray get them away to the house as quickly as
possible."

"Eh? what ?" cried the Squire, startled at the other's
words ; " what's the matter ? what has happened ? quick,
man, tell me!"

Hush ! don't let them hear you. It's nothing serious,
I assure you " — his looks belied his words — " only a slight
accident. I've sent for Dr. Whittle. See, there's the
carriage waiting for you at the gates — drive the ladies
home without any fuss, and return directly. I'm going
on myself to the doctor's, to make sure."

How thankful Tewkesley felt as he caught sight
of the barouche, which had been ordered to come
for the ladies after luncheon to take them for a
drive.

The Squire looked frightened and bewildered, but
did not speak for a moment, expecting to hear
further.

Accident ! but what — how — who ? " inquired he
anxiously, as Tewkesley hesitated ; " don't keep me in
suspense ! "

No, no, of course not ! " returned poor Tewkesley ;
but, as I said, it's nothing serious, you know ; not the
least cause for alarm — only I was afraid to let the ladies
hear—"

Confound it, sir ! " exclaimed the old gentleman, losing
patience ; " will you tell me who ? "

Well, it appears Colonel Gaskill — no fault of his, poor
fellow — shot into the covert, you see, and — and — by some
unlucky chance, part of the charge has struck Hector — **

Hector ! " cried the Squire, staggering and nearly
falling, when Tewkesley caught him by the arm ; " my
boy ! my boy ! "

"Mr. Grayle, don't give way, pray don't give way;
they'll hear you' implored Tewkesley.

(t Oh ! it's worse than you say — I know it's worse than
you say," moaned the Squire in anguish ; ' ' don't tell me ;
your face shows it."

"No, indeed you — you are mistaken," stammered the
other ; " you are are needlessly alarming yourself, I assure
you ; but. such a shock — the very sight of blood, you know
would kill those gentle women."

Yes, yes, you are right," murmured the poor old
fellow, with sudden firmness ; " they mustn't know it,
not for the world — not yet, at least."

That is right, Squire, be a man ! " said Tewkesley
encouragingly ; and as they reached the carriage, Mr.
Grayle recovered his composure with a powerful effort,
though inwardly he fretted at the least delay.

"There, my dear," he said hurriedly, handing in
Gertrude with the stoicism of Epictetus, " put that rug
round you quickly, and get home out of this cold air as
soon as possible."

Are we not going for a drive, then, grandpa ? "
asked Agnes, wondering at this sudden change of plans.

u No, my child, no' replied her grandfather, closing
the door abruptly ; " it's too late now, and much too
cold."

"But are you not coming with us, dear ? "

I can't just now ; I have to — I must get back to the
woods, and give some orders about the game — home,
Henry ! " and at the " clock " of the coachman, the two
powerful horses whisked off the barouche through the
iron gates and down the avenue.

God be praised! " murmured the clergyman as they disappeared
— he having also excused himself from driving as
preferring to walk. " That was bravely done, Mr. Grayle ;
and now, nerve yourself before you go down there' he
continued, pointing to the wood. " Remember your boy
is in God's hands;" then, as the old man bowed his grey
head in silence, Tewkesley added, " I'll just run into
the lodge, and tell them to take down some blankets and
things, and, rely on me, the doctor shall be with you immediately.
Two men have already been despatched, and
I hope to meet him on the road."

So saying, he hurried into the keeper's cottage, hastily
explained matters to Mrs. Rolfe, indicating where the
things were to be taken, and afterwards rushed off in
the direction of Dr. Whittle's house, which was some
two miles off. He knew he could reach it quicker on foot
than if he went all the way up to the Hall and waited
for a horse to be saddled ; besides, his Oxford training asa
pedestrian stood him now in good stead.

Bloodshed in any shape is ever repugnant to a true
woman's nature, be the cause what it may ; and whether
this accident proved a serious one or not, it was a
merciful interposition of Providence that aided Tewkesley
in his anxiety to prevent a harrowing scene, and his
laudable endeavour to spare the ladies a painful spectacle.

How little in this active world of business and pleasure
do we realize the fact that death and danger perpetually
stalk abroad, besetting at every turn our path in life ;
and, comparatively speaking, what little reckoning do we
take of the numberless risks daily incurred while ardently
pursuing our different amusements and employments;
how the swerve or fall of a horse, the blunder of a
pointsman, a piece of false seamanship, carelessness in
the shooting-field, and fifty other causes, may at any
moment launch us into eternity. It is often said that if
we could only realize how marvellously the human frame
is constructed, we should be afraid to move for fear of
injuring the fragile mechanism ; and, certainly, if we
took into too careful consideration the innumerable quagmires
and pitfalls, the many unseen but possible perils to
which we might fall victims as we go about in these
modern times, we should be afraid to stir beyond the very
thresholds of our houses.

To \isv Te\evTrj(ra.L, 7rdvToov 77 neTTpcd/ievr] aureKpive, to 8t <a\cos
ciTToOavelv 18iov rots - cnrovdatois. 1

Of course, we are all fated to die some time or
other, but when Isocrates said so, he little foresaw how
many new infernal machines would be invented to
increase the chances; and as to an honourable death
being reserved for the good man, matters may be somewhat
anticipated by his being ignominiously crushed,
drowned, or blown to atoms, any moment when he least
expects it.

On the other side of that fatal wood a sad scene
presented itself.

Close by a clump of evergreens stood a throng of

1 Literally, Fate has ordained that every one must die, but an
honourable death awaits the good.

VOL. 1. F

anxious, terrified men, looking from each other in painful
silence to the helpless form which lay stretched out at
their feet. With bated breath directions were given and
contradicted in the same moment, and all seemed transfixed
by the sudden horror of the situation.

More water — quick, quick ! oh, my God ! he is
sinking ! " cried Clement, choking with suppressed
agony, as he tenderly supported the head of his dearly-loved
friend, and pressed the silver flask again to those
ashen lips. " Oh, how long will the doctor be ? "

Tewkesley and two of the men have gone for him ;
he must be here directly," said Sir Francis ; ' ' stand a
little back there — give him more air."

This was no trifling accident it appeared, albeit
Tewkesley, though he thought differently, had so represented
it, but only with the best intentions.

There lay the form of poor Hector Grayle, lately so
full of health and strength, now perfectly unconscious,
and weltering in his blood, from a nasty wound in the
left side, just above the hip. Every effort had been made
to stanch the bleeding, and it was thought hazardous to
move him until the doctor arrived ; for directly they
attempted to do so, the action seemed to aggravate the
hemorrhage, so all that could be done was to wait
patiently for medical assistance.

And who is that poor frantic creature stamping and
wringing his hands like one demented, as he paces backwards
and forwards aloof from the rest ? Poor Colonel
Gaskill ! Even the knowledge that it was no fault of his
does not serve to assuage one whit that awful agony of
mind — the dreadful feeling of having shot a fellow-creature.
But, as I have said, the blame did not rest with
him, the accident having* happened in this wise.

After Hector had posted his guns round the wood,

without assigning himself a place, he had gone to join the
beaters with the intention of walking with them, but
before he could reach them Rolfe had given the signal to
begin ; so, on second thoughts, Hector hurried back, and
quickly picked out a place where he thought he could stand
without interfering with others. Unfortunately he selected
a spot where the wood bulged out a little, just behind a
clump of evergreens which was immediately on the right of
Gaskill, and rather to his rear. Before he had warned the
colonel of his presence, an unlucky rabbit darted between
them past the clump, and Gaskill, who never dreamt anyone
was there, took a snap shot, too high to be effective,
when poor Hector received the greater part of the charge
in his side — for, to add to the misfortune, he was stooping
at the time, or he would probably have been only peppered
about the gaiters. Hearing the sharp cry of pain, the astonished
colonel instantly ran to the spot, and then, to his
intense dismay, saw what had happened. His cries for
help soon brought two or three more to the place ; and
so quickly was the catastrophe made known, that in less
than three minutes after its occurrence the beat had been
stopped, and the firing ceased.

u Make way there l w cried Heffernan, when he saw the
Squire approaching. Whereupon the others drew back
in respectful silence, as Mr. Grayle, with a faltering step,
reached the scene of the disaster.

The pitiful sight that greeted the poor old man completely
overpowered him for a few minutes, and clinging
for support to the nearest arm, with blinding tears in his
eyes, he gazed in speechless anguish on the prostrate
figure. Then recovering from a momentary state of
stupor, he moved forward, and sinking on his knees
beside the unconscious form, took one hand in his, and
looked long and earnestly into the deathlike face. At

f 2

length the power of speech came to the relief of the
stricken heart — the pent up feelings, and in a broken
voice that thrilled through every bystander, he cried
out, —

Hector, my darling boy, look at me. Oh, God !
have mercy — have mercy on him, my boy, my beautiful
boy."

These touching words were followed by a long, deep
silence, and the old man's lips moved in prayer as his
head sank down on his breast.

But suddenly, and to the astonishment of all, a marvellous
change came over the apparently helpless figure thus bowed
in abject grief; and all in a moment the Squire seemed to
gather strength and fortitude. After carefully examining
Hector's heart and pulse he rose from his knees, and taking
out a pocket-book, dashed off some rapidly written words
on one of the leaves, which he tore out and folded. Then
turning, he motioned to Heffernan, who stepped forward
and eagerly asked, —

Is there anything in the world I can do, Mr.
Grayle ? »

Yes, yes ; you can. Will you oblige me by taking
this telegram to the village yourself, and see that it is
sent off correctly and at once. I have summoned Doctor
Seagull's immediate attendance from town, but add any
words you think proper to make it more urgent. There
is not a moment to be lost. You'd better take the game-cart,
if you don't mind."

' That's gone for the doctor already, sir," remarked
Rolfe, touching his hat.

Never mind, Mr. Grayle ; I can get there nearly as
quickly on foot," replied Heffernan. " You may rely
on me for using all despatch ;" and he hurried from the
spot.

"Now, Clement* said the Squire, presently, u let me
take jour place there, and pray go and look if you can
see anything of Dr. Whittle, or his assistant."

Tenderly transferring the support of Hector's head to
the grandfather's loving care, Clement rose from the
ground to do as requested.

Shortly afterwards the welcome words "Here he
comes ! here comes the doctor ! " passed from lip to lip;
and as Clement caught sight of him and Tewkesley
driving up in a dog-cart in mad haste, utterly regardless
of the rough ground they had to pass over, he inwardly
thanked God from the bottom of his heart.

Quick as thought Dr. Whittle, who was a young practitioner,
but clever as he was active, jumped from the
dog-cart, gave it in charge to one of the men, and ran
towards the spot where Hector lay, carrying a box of
surgical instruments, which made the Squire shudder when
he saw it. At the same time Lizzie Rolfe appeared upon
the scene, with her arms full of blankets and cushions,
and these were quickly utilized for the comfort of the
wounded man. At the sight of Hector's livid face,
whom she believed at first to be dead, Lizzie recoiled in
terror ; and as she gave up the things she carried, a sensation
of faintness seized her ; but hearing that he still
lived, she shook off the momentary feeling, and rendered
what assistance lay in her power.

With rapid, skilful hands, Dr. Whittle proceeded to
make an examination of the wound, speaking all the time
in short, jerky sentences, though his touch was gentle asa
woman's.

Tut, tut ! sad, very sad ! how did it happen ? " Then,
without waiting for a reply, he continued, partly to himself
and partly aloud, " Ah ! I see ; external hemorrhage
; glad it's not the other. So long as we only bleed

a little outside, I don't mind; not nearly so bad as I
thought. But this must be stopped. Can't do much
here — cold air — damp ground — isn't there some house
close by ? Mustn't move him far, you understand."

We might take him to your cottage, Wolfe? " suggested
Tewkesley.

To be sure, sir' said the gamekeeper ; " my missus
and Lizzie here would do all they could, I know."

Yes, that will be best," observed Mr. Grayle, who
had watched the doctor in anxious silence, and dreaded
to ask if he thought there was any real danger.

By the park gates there ? Nothing could be better,"
said Dr. Whittle. "I think we can manage to move him
so far, if we've got anything to carry him on."

We've a hurdle here ready," exclaimed Clement.

The very thing ; and with these blankets and cushions
we shall get on well ; there's a rug in my cart, too ; get
that."

Thus they rapidly improvised a comfortable stretcher
on which to carry the inanimate body.

Poor lad ! " muttered the doctor to himself while this
was being done, and as he gently probed the wound ; " no
wonder he has fainted; lost a lot of blood. Several
pellets to be extracted, I see, but nothing very serious.
This will act as a styptic " — and he lost no time in applying
a temporary gag of lint, &c, to the injured part, in
order to check the flow of blood while he was being
moved.

11 There, he'll do now, I think, till we get indoors," he
observed, replacing the coverings. " Now then, look
sharp, some of you men. Gently how you lift him ;
that's the way. Mind ! no jerking ; just glide along as
smoothly as possible."

Carefully following the doctor's instructions, the carrying

party slowly and cautiously moved towards the
keeper's lodge, while Gideon Rolfe and Lizzie hastened
on in front to prepare for their coming.

Now, you needn't be alarmed, Mr. Grayle," said the
surgeon encouragingly, as they moved away together
from the unlucky spot and followed the others. " It's not
nearly so bad as I thought, I assure you. The bleeding
once stopped, he will soon recover consciousness, and
then we shall get on swimmingly. "

"Oh! but do you really think so, Dr. Whittle?"
asked Hector's grandfather anxiously, though immensely
relieved at the other's words. " If there is real danger,
pray don't conceal the truth from me. It would only
be mistaken kindness to deceive me as to the worst, so
please don't do it."

Not I, sir," returned the doctor abruptly, rather
nettled at being doubted. " I'm a plain-spoken man,
and if I thought him in a bad way, I'd say so. Better
call in another medical man as well, if you can't believe
me."

M Nay, I do not doubt you for a moment, my dear sir,"
replied Mr. Grayle; "but I must tell you I had telegraphed
to London for Dr. Seagull before you came up."

That's all right, then — very glad to hear it ; I shan't
feel so much responsibility."

By this time the party had arrived at their destination ;
so the doctor hurried forward to superintend the shifting
of his patient from the stretcher to a couch.

CHAPTER VIII.

ILL NEWS TRAVELS APACE."

Evil news rides post, while good news bates." — Milton.

Hepfernan never stopped running till he reached the
telegraph office in the village, on the other side of the
park, which he did in an incredibly short space of time,
and forthwith sent off the following message : —

From To

Percy Grayle, Esq., Dr. W. Seagull,

Barringtree Park. 347, Park Street,

London, W.
11 Serious accident to my grandson — gunshot wound —
left side — great loss of blood — imminent danger — come
next train without fail."

There, I should hope that will bring him' said Heft
to himself, as he handed it in and urged its immediate
despatch. " I don't think I can well put it stronger.
By Jove ! " he exclaimed, wiping his forehead as he left
the office, r< how awfully blown I am ! London hours
don't improve a man's wind;" and he leisurely retraced
his steps through the village in order to recover himself.


One doesn't like to think of it' he reflected, " but
I'm afraid it's a case with poor young Grayle. I pity

those women and the old Squire ; such an idol as they
have made of the boy ! And who is to break the news
to his mother and sister ? Heaven forbid I should !
Good gracious ! here comes Agnes, as I live ! "

On re-entering the park he had of course to pass
again by the Hall, and as he did so he saw Agnes hurrying
towards him. It was at once apparent from her
manner that she was much alarmed, and Heffernan felt
he was in for the scene he so dreaded.

Tell me, oh, pray tell me' she cried, on meeting
him, " what is the matter ? I saw you running across
the park just now, and I knoiv something has happened."


Oh, you — you need not be alarmed, really, Miss
Grayle. It is nothing I assure you — that is — " he stammered,
wishing himself fifty miles away, " I had to —
to rush off with a telegram on business — an important
telegram, that's all."

No, no," exclaimed Agnes, excitedly ; " don't deceive
me, Captain Heffernan. You cannot deceive me. There
has been some accident, I know. "Why did they stop the
shooting like that ? Why did they send us home
directly ? Oh, pray tell me the truth."

Upon my word, Miss Grayle, I don't know how to
answer you. You seem so positive that there is something
wrong, and I — I cannot tell you a lie."

I knew it ; I was sure of it," she continued, turning
paler. " And Lady Mountjoy knew it too. She could
not conceal it from me."

11 Lady Mountjoy 's an idiot," muttered Heffernan.

"I dread to hear it — I know what is coming; but,
oh, tell me the worst, Captain Heffernan. Is it my
brother ? Is it Hector ? " She forced the question from
her, and became more and more agitated.

Now look here, Miss Grayle," lie returned, firmly,
but in a kind tone; " before I say another word you must
make me a promise."

Yes, yes ; pray go on. Anything, only don't
torture me."

Well, I want you to return to the house immediately,
but before you do so, pray calm yourself. Don't let the
others know what has happened by your own agitation,
if I tell you, or you will make matters ten times worse.
Come, will you be brave ? "

Yes, indeed I will try," she gasped, her alarm increasing
every moment.

{ ' Then it is true that ' there has been a bit of an
accident, and your brother has been struck by some
some stray shot — "

cc Oh, Hector ! my poor darling brother ! " cried
Agnes, shuddering when she heard it.

Now pray don't be frightened. You promised to be
brave, and we hope it is not at all serious ; indeed we are
sure it is not. You will hear all about how it happened
presently. Meantime everything that is possible is being
done. I have just telegraphed to London for the first
surgeon, who will be down this evening, and if your
brother can be moved, of course you will see him directly ;
but if not, I promise faithfully to return and tell you at
once. Come now, Agnes," he added, taking her hand
gently — this was the first time he had called her by her
Christian name — " do bear up, and show how strong-minded
you are. You know the old proverb, and believe
me, ladies at the present juncture would be rather a
hindrance than otherwise ; excuse me for saying so."

I will do as you wish, then," murmured Agnes, after
a moment. "You say you do not think it is anything
serious, really and truly ? "

u I don't, indeed' he answered, adding to himself,
w God forgive me if I deceive her."

11 And you will promise to come for me as you say ? "

I promise ;" and pressing his hand to show that
she placed full confidence in him, Agnes, with a mind
full of misgivings regarding the accident, turned slowly
back towards the Hall."

Poor girl ! " thought Heffernan, looking after her,
it will be a hard struggle for her to keep her promise,
I'm afraid, with all the love and anxiety at her
heart. Thank goodness I got out of the matter so
well. What a fool I was to run right in front of the
windows ! "

As he quickened his pace across the park he could
hardly disguise from himself an inward conviction that
when he again reached the wood he should hear that all
was over, and his conscience seemed to reproach him for
having behaved, perhaps, with too great caution in concealing
the real truth from Agnes. Although he intended
to act for the best, he knew she would never forgive him
if a suspicion crossed her mind that he had wilfully
deceived her, thereby very likely depriving her of the
chance of being with her brother in his last moments.
But dismissing such gloomy forebodings as these from
his mind, he tried after a while to take a brighter view of
things, and bethought him how such accidents had often
happened without being attended by fatal results, especially
where youth and health, as in this case, were in
favour of the victim.

Hurrying along with his eyes on the ground, he did
not observe two other figures walking for a time almost
parallel with him, their path and his converging towards
the same point ; nor until he was close upon them did he
look up, when a voice greeted him, —

Why, bless me, it is Mr. Albert after all, Simon. I
thought I couldn't be mistaken."

Mrs. Corcoran ! " exclaimed Heffernan, starting back
in surprise, as he found himself confronted by that austere-looking
female. " Why, what on earth brings you to this
part of the world ? "

That's easy explained, sir," replied Mrs. Corcoran ;
I'm staying with my brother, Mr. Sickles, you know,
one of the tenants ; and this is my nephew, Simon," she
continued, introducing the shiny-faced youth, who made
a grab at his hat by way of salute. " But, dear me, whoever
would have thought of meeting you here, Mr. Albert?
I am glad to see you again though, that's the truth," and
the stern features relaxed into quite a softened expression
as she said it.

So am I glad to see you — very," replied Heffernan,
hastily, shaking her by the hand. " I wonder you knew
me ; it's such an age since — "

Lor, bless you ! " exclaimed Mrs. Corcoran, u why, I
even knew your voice again. Tell me, didn't you lose
your way last night in a fly, and stop at a little house to
ask the road ? "

To be sure I did, and was half an hour late for dinner
in consequence."

There ! I could have sworn it was you ; and I was
having supper at that very house. You know them,
then ? " she added, nodding towards the Hall. " Are
you going to stay here long ? "

Not very, I fancy. At least I've only just come for
the shooting. But I tell you what, we must have a talk
over old times by-and-by. I really can't stop now," and
he prepared to move off again. " By the way, have you
heard of the accident ? "

"To poor Mr. Hector, sir? Yes, that we have,"

chimed in Simon. "They've taken him to the Kipper's
Lodge, I believe ; so we was just a going' to ask after
him."

u Then our ways lie together' observed Heffernan, as
they walked on. " They've moved him already, have
they ? "

Yes, Mr. Albert. Listwayes so I heard 'em save'
replied Simon.

You mustn't call this gentleman by his Christian
name, Simon' remarked Mrs. Corcoran, reprovingly;
'that's only my privilege as his old nurse, is it, sir?
Captain Denby, that's his proper title, mind."

"No, there you are wrong, Mrs. Corcoran. You
forget — I've been rechristened," said Heffernan.

Ah, to be sure. I did forget for the minute."

Christened from a golden font, as one may say'
he continued, with a smile.

"Why, dear me," cried Simon, in open-mouthed astonishment,
" du they have gould things for Christians in
yar churches, sir ? "

u Ha, ha, La ! " laughed Heffernan. " What delicious
simplicity ! I spoke figuratively, my good fellow — came
in for some money, you know ; so changed my name."

This sort of thing being beyond the yahoo's comprehension,
he merely drawled out " Ooh, ar ! " as if he
knew all about it, and fell to thinking of that font, and
how he would like to have it melted down.

But what is it now, Mr. Albert ? " inquired Mrs.
Corcoran. " Of course I've heard, but I forget."

Heffernan," he replied, spelling it ; " H-E-F-F-E-R-
N-A-N — Albert Denby Heffernan. But I've dropped
the Denby altogether, you understand ; so please don't
forget that." Here he gave Mrs. Corcoran a significant
look, of which she appeared to take no notice.

Discussing the unfortunate accident as they walked
along, the High Lodge was soon reached, when the
doctor's dog-cart standing outside at once corroborated
Simon's statement that Hector had been taken there.

It was market-day at the little town close by, and some
of the farmers on their return home, having to pass by
the park gates, had heard the sooner of the sad catastrophe,
and so helped to spread the news.

Here, Mrs. Cole ! here's old Sickles," called Grumpy
Grayle from his sanctum, as he saw the farmer drive upto
Crutch Hut ; " get a glass of hot grog ready, he'll be
cold — I'll go to the door," and as he spoke he hobbled
out to receive his visitor.

Come in, Sickles, come in and have a warm," cried
he, as he opened the front door ; " here, Mary ! Polly !
look sharp and hold this horse."

No, thank ye, Mr. Grile," said the farmer, " I 'on't
come in nayow; I only just stopped to tell ye the news.
You hasn't heard it yit, I'll lie a guinea."

News ! what news ? "

Shocked news — shocked, shocked," anal the farmer
shook his old head sadly, the full moon seeming to be
quite eclipsed by a heavy cloud ; ' ' what du you think ?
they ha' bin an' shot poor Mr. Hector."

Shot — who ?" cried Andrew, in astonishment.

Ah, there you want to 'now modern I can tell ye —
never heard who shot 'um, poor young man."

"But do you mean to tell me that Mr. Hector is
actually?"

c Shot— yis, that I du."

Dead ! " screamed Grumpy, in an excited falsetto.

Dead as a nit — they would me."

God bless my soul ! " ejaculated Grumpy, really
shocked ; " but how ? when ? "

"This very afternoon in them coveys by the High
Woods, they was a takin' hin to ould KohVs lodge as I
drum past."

Tut, tut, this is dreadful, 'pon my soul ! I must go
and ask about it directly. Are you sure they weren't
going on to the Hall ? v

No, no, they doesn't move the body there till after
dark, I don't repose, 'cos o' the ladies, poor things —
'taint likely. I'll just drink this' said the farmer,
taking a stiff beaker of hot brandy and water from the
housekeeper, "and drive you up to the Lodge myself,
i' ye like. Thank you, Mrs. Cole, here's to you, Mr.
Grile," and he sucked down the grog at a draught, followed
by a deep sigh of satisfaction.

Very well, you may do that, Sickles, and I'll go with
you at once. Just get my great coat, hat, and stick,
Mrs. Cole," added the old bachelor, and in another three
minutes they were on their way.

Grumpy Grayle never spoke a word as they drove
along, and although the farmer of course knew of the
deadly feud between Andrew and the family at the Hall,
he made a few feeble attempts at condoling with him on
the sudden calamity ; but Grumpy's mind was too fully
occupied with conflicting emotions to pay much attention
to Mr. Sickles' remarks, though what those emotions
were it would not be easy to describe.

Haeredes foetus sub persona risus est, as the Latin writer
facetiously puts it; but a man must indeed be utterly lost
to every sense of humanity, a morbid and degraded
wretch, who could gloat over thoughts of his own aggrandizement
at the very moment when the awfully sudden
death of one of his own flesh and blood brings him nearer
to the goal; and to do Andrew Grayle justice, selfish
cynic though he was, he was not so bad as this. The

first impulse of his mind was one of real grief and horror
at the fearful accident and its consequence. This for
some time held possession of his thoughts, giving way in
turn to a tumult of wild calculations and castles in the
air, which tumbled over one another through his mind as
though they were playing at leap-frog, and literally seemed
to set his brain on fire. Then again came the revulsion
of feeling as they neared the Lodge, where he supposed
lay the dead body of poor Hector ; when he inwardly
cursed himself and his fiendish meditations, and turned his
thoughts once more into the healthier and more natural
channel of remorse and heart-felt sorrow.

But Hector Grayle was not dead, very far from it —
or what would become of my story ? — and when Grumpy
ascertained this point on their arrival at the park gates,
yet another revulsion of feeling set in ; and before he had
time to stop them, he found his unruly thoughts playing
at that infernal game of leap-frog once more, jumping to
conclusions, and quick as lightning turning over calculations
as to the chances for and against the boy's recovery —
in short, behaving altogether in such an unseemly fashion,
as to make him shake his head impatiently by way of
warning them to stop their little game, and let him think
quietly. Then when he learnt on further inquiry that
the accident, as Dr. Whittle had assured the Squire, was
not so serious as at first supposed, and that they hoped
to move Hector to the Hall in the morning, he turned on
his heel, and hurrying back to Farmer Sickles, blurted
out angrily in his highest falsetto, —

"What the devil did you go and tell me he was dead
foi*, you infernal old fool ? " but remembering himself
suddenly, he continued in a milder tone, " frightening a
fellow like that — but thank you for your lift, Sickles, all
the same, I'll walk back — I'll walk back ; good night."

Then, without waiting for an answer, he disappeared
into the darkening twilight, and took a short cut across
the park towards Crutch Hut.

Setting aside all interested feelings on the subject,
Grumpy Grayle, when he heard that Hector's accident
had been so exaggerated, no doubt experienced that extraordinary
sensation of disappointment which may not
be entirely foreign to a good many people — although
very few would care to own it, I expect — a sort of fiendish
regret which intrudes itself on the mind when some
fearful catastrophe is either contradicted or minimized.

What is it ? who can explain such a diabolical impulse
? It must be the innate viciousness in human
nature which forces itself to the surface, and usurps, for
the moment, the place of man's better instincts — that same
irresistible power that governs some people when they
announce a sudden death or dire calamity, and prompts
them to do so with a twitching smile which they are
utterly unable to repress, and which makes them almost
feel, perhaps, as if possessed of an evil spirit.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

woman ! in our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
And variable as the shade
By the light quivering aspen made ;
When pain and anguish wring the brow,
A ministering angel thou ! "

Sir Walter Scott

Having left Hector Grayle in such a " parlous state' it
is incumbent on me to explain at once how matters went
with him ; albeit for the purposes of this narrative there
is no necessity to enter into minute details with regard
to his illness and subsequent recovery.

The London surgeon arrived that evening about nine
o'clock, and, after a careful examination of the wound,
endorsed Dr. "Whittle's opinion that it was not of a dangerous
nature ; though it appeared worse than it really
was, to the uninitiated, from the great efflux of blood.
This was soon stanched, however, and the shot extracted.
Luckily the force of the charge had been somewhat
broken in passing through the clump of evergreens, or it
might have been a great deal worse.

Hector recovered consciousness soon after reaching the
Lodge j and the next day Dr. Whittle wanted to have
him removed to the Hall at once, as he had promised the
Squire. But this Dr. Seagull opposed, saying he thought

it advisable for him to remain quiet for a few days where
he was, which he accordingly did. Since* it was ascertained
that there was no cause to be apprehensive of any
real danger, his mother was at once informed of the accident
; and she and Agnes (the latter having been in a
state of feverish anxiety since her interview with Heffer-nan)
repaired to the Lodge to take care of him. Their
office, however, was rendered almost a sinecure from the
tender care and attention which Mrs. Rolfe and her
daughter bestowed upon the patient; and, with the help
of certain articles from the Hall, they contrived to make him
quite as comfortable as if he had been in his own home.
Finding this to be the case, and that Hector progressed
as favourably as possible, his mother and sister felt less
necessity for their being in constant attendance on him
at the cottage. They stayed with him for the first night,
however, and the greater part of each day following until
he was removed, but left him in the evenings with perfect
confidence to the care of Mrs. Rolfe and Lizzie ; for the
gamekeeper's wife proved herself quite an adept in the
art of nursing — such, in fact, having been her vocation
before she married.

There was one thing, however, regarding her patient
about which Mrs. Rolfe did not exercise sufficient discrimination
— one luxury which she permitted him to
indulge in far too much — namely, the companionship of
her handsome daughter, no doubt having perfect faith in
the girl's discretion. Hence it came about that Hector
and Lizzie were constantly alone together in the evenings,
after his mother and Agnes returned to the Hall ; and then,
as a matter of course, followed the old, old story. But,
though both owned to themselves afterwards —

The still throb — the secret start —
The hidden impulse of the heart" —
G 2

neither at first appeared to realize the condition into
which they were rapidly drifting, nor the insinuating
influence of that naughty little cherub with the quiver
and bow.

Now such a situation for hero and heroine cannot, I am
afraid, boast of much novelty ; but similar circumstances
often lead to widely different results, and in this case the
promising romance led to a delightful complication of
affairs. Indeed, could Gertrude only have foreseen the
sequel, she would never have left her darling boy day or
night till he was safely at home again.

The little apartment which had been dedicated to
Hector's use was an inner sitting-room of the Lodge, and
anything more delightfully cosy than this had been made
by women's loving hands could scarcely be imagined;
chiefly owing, of course, to the importations from the
Hall ; for, though his detention in the keeper's cottage
would be but for a short while, his mother was determined
to make it as little irksome to him as possible.
Poor Gertrude ! she might have spared herself a great
deal of trouble. There was not much fear of Hector
suffering from ennui so long as he remained where he
was. But when the time came for him to be removed to
his own home, he didn't seem to relish the idea at all,
notwithstanding that for the first day or so he had been
anxious for that very removal. On the other hand, Lizzie
almost regretted that he had improved so rapidly under
their care, and felt quite a blank in her existence when
they took him away. But all such foolish weaknesses as
these they discreetly kept to themselves for the present,
carefully locked away in the innermost recesses of their
hearts.

Taking a peep one evening at Hector Grayle in this
little elysium, you would find him propped up by pillows

on a snug couch, which had been drawn nearer to the
cheerful fire than usual that night, for the thermometer
registered several degrees of frost. By his side was a
table, on which stood a reading-lamp, with a shade over
it, to keep the strong light from his eyes; and seated
near the table was Lizzie, apparently busily engaged with
some worsted work.

A very pretty picture, reader ; quite as romantic
intrinsically as it appeared at a first glance.

They were alone, as usual; and it would be difficult to
say which was the more striking figure of the two —
Hector, as he lay there with his handsome face slightly
flushed from the warmth of the room, looking very delicate
and interesting in his invalid garb ; or Lizzie, the
sweet " ministering angel " seated by him, in the bloom
of health and the first dawn of womanly beauty, a soft
blush now and again stealing over her cheek as she
thought of the novelty of the situation.

Come, little nurse," observed Hector, after a longer
silence than usual, " don't wrap yourself up altogether in
that worsted. Talk to me a bit now, will you ? I like
to hear your voice."

But you know the doctor's orders, Mr. Hector — "
began Lizzie.

Oh, never mind the doctor. I feel much better tonight,
and I'm sure a chat with you can't do me any
harm."

Perhaps you would like me to read you something V
she said, preparing to put away her work.

Presently you shall, if you will ; but I prefer talking
just now. Do you know, Lizzie," he continued, after a
short pause, " I'm improving so, I'm — I'm afraid they'll
move me directly," and he suppressed a sigh as he said
this.

"Afraid!" she exclaimed, looking up in surprise ; "but
don't you want to be moved, Mr. Hector ? "

Really, I don't know. I don't quite think I do. I've
grown so fond of this dear little room during the last few
days that I — I shall be quite sorry to leave it." He
spoke in a dreamy manner, as if something more than the
room occupied his thoughts.

But think how comfortable you will feel at home
again, sir. Of course we have done our best to make you
so here ; but, after all, there's no place like home."

Perhaps not. Ah, Lizzie," cried Hector, earnestly,
"I'm indeed most grateful for all the care you have
taken of me — you and your good mother."

We haven't done much, I'm afraid, Mr. Hector; it
wasn't in our power. You have to thank Mrs. Grayle and
Miss Agnes for providing every comfort."

That may be ; still it does not detract from all your
gentle kindness, your devoted attention ; and I shall
never forget it, Lizzie, never."

Then followed another pause, during which Lizzie
Rolfe worked away very diligently, and never looked up
at all ; while Hector watched her with a strange light in
his blue eyes, which might have made her heart beat
faster had she met his gaze at that moment.

And were you frightened about me ? " he inquired,
presently. " Did you think I was really going to
die?"

' I was frightened at first, very," she replied, " until
both the doctors said there was no danger ; and then I —
I — " she hesitated.

"What, Lizzie?"

I knelt down and thanked God."

"Yes? And so you would have cared a little ? You
would have been very sorry if I had died, would you

not ? h He asked this still gazing at her with the
same look, and seemed to delight in prolonging the
subject.

"Oh, yes; indeed — indeed I should' she answered,
simply; afterwards blushing at having spoken so earnestly,
and adding quickly, " What a strange question, sir. Of
course I should — of auy one."

As she thus suddenly checked herself, a slight smile,
partly of amusement, partly of gratification, played about
his lips for a minute, and when next he spoke it was in an
altered tone.

Do you know, little nurse," said he, " there is something
about you that interests me immensely. It seems
to me as if you were more fitted to be a queen amongst
people than — than living quietly here in a humble cottage.
I don't want to turn your pretty head by saying such
things, but — "

"Perhaps you will turn my head if you do, sir," she
interrupted, with just a shade of annoyance in her tone.
I am sure you don't mean to vex me by talking nonsense;
but I like you much better when you speak
sensibly to me."

"Very well; very well, then," he rejoined, demurely.
I beg your pardon."

I didn't mean to be rude, Mr. Hector, when I said
talking nonsense, you understand ; I only meant — "

I understand you, Lizzie ; that you don't want me to
think you an empty-headed little fool, like most of the
pretty girls about, all conceit and flippancy. Nor do I, I
can tell you. And now you shall read to me, if you don't
mind."

u Yery well, sir, I will directly ; for I really must not
let you talk any more. But it's your time for taking
something now," she added, looking at the clock on the

mantlepiece, and rising. " I must go and get that first ;"
and Lizzie left the room.

I do hope she didn't think I meant to play the fool and
chaff her' thought Hector, in his solitude. " Far from it,
if she only knew. I never felt less inclined to chaff in my
life." And I don't believe he did. Still, allowances must
be made for the situation. We all know that the susceptibilities
of the mind are far keener when the human frame
has been weakened by a sudden and dangerous illness ;
and what a violent vapour-bath is to the body, the ordeal
of a sick-bed is to the mental faculty, in that each becomes
more sensitive to extraneous influences.

Now if any one had told Hector Grayle that he was
falling in love with the gamekeeper's daughter, he
would, no doubt, have ridiculed the idea \ but when he
came to ask himself the question seriously, he felt the
possibility of such a thing was not to be treated quite so
lightly. Nor could he otherwise account for the sudden
and powerful interest he took in this girl, apart from his
gratitude for her gentle nursing ; so, being only one-and-twenty,
you see, and an interesting invalid into the
bargain, he gave way to the soft influence, and allowing
his thoughts to have full sway, indulged in such a chaos
of romantic meditations as might have induced him then
and there to declare himself, had Lizzie come into the
room at that moment instead of her father.

Good evening, Mr. Hector," said the keeper, as he
entered, having tapped twice without attracting notice, so
deep in thought was his young master ; " I'm glad to
hear you're better, sir."

Getting on splendidly, Rolfe, thank you," said Hector,
wishing the old man at Jericho for having disturbed
his pleasant reverie. " I shall soon be well enough for
another turn at the coverts."

That's right, sir , I hope you will. There's plenty
more wants shooting I can tell you'

You mean game, I suppose, not people," remarked
Hector, smiling. " By George ! they very nearly added
me to the bag that day, didn't they ? "

Don't talk of it, sir. It was nearly being no laughing
matter," observed Rolfe ; " however, thank God it
was no worse. But do you know, Mr. Hector, I was
almost as sorry for that gentleman as I was for you."

You mean Colonel Gaskill ; yes, poor fellow ; I hear
he has taken it awfully to heart, and declares he'll never
handle a gun again as long as he lives. But that's all
nonsense, isn't it, Rolfe ? I shall ask him to join us again
the first opportunity."

"I would, sir, for it was no fault of his, nor any one
else's for that matter. Lor ! what a shock it gave us all,
to be sure, Mr. Hector; I thought my missus was like
to have high strikes when she seed you, and she's a strong
'un in a general way. Then somehow the report got
about at first that you was a- dying, and then that you
was dead, and I don't believe there was a soul, tenant or
servant, on the place, but what sat down to supper that
night with more heartache than appetite."

Ah, well, it's pleasant to feel that people take so
kind an interest in one."

"That's true, sir, but it's no more than you might
expect

Now Montaigne says, " Pen hommes ont este admirez
par leurs domestiques ;" from which, no doubt, Madame
Corner borrowed the idea that no man is a hero to his
valet ; but Hector Grayle was certainly an exception,
and just one of those few who was both admired and
beloved by everybody, from the butler to the lowest
menial ; and he had so endeared himself to all around him,

that no wonder universal grief and consternation prevailed
at Barringtree when the accident occurred.

I said no one was to blame' continued the keeper ;
but if any one was, it was me, sir, for starting' the
beaters afore you was ready."

Not a bit of it, Rolf e ; pray don't think of such a
thing."

I know I was wonderful cut up afterwards, sir, when
I did come to think of it."

Here their conversation was interrupted by Mrs. Rolfe,
who entered the room, saying, —

Look here, Gideon, I told you you might come and
see Mr. Hector, if you wouldn't let him talk, and I've
heard you both. The young gentleman must be kept
quiet, so just you say good night, and be off."

At which reproof old Gideon meekly obeyed his
better half, and left the room again.

"Now, sir," continued Mrs. Rolfe, handing Hector a
cup of beef tea, "it's time you took this, and went to
sleep."

But Lizzie's going to read to me a little first," he
remonstrated.

"No, sir, not this evening," replied the keeper's
wife, firmly; "you're quite flushed and excited as it is;
we shall be throwing you back if we don't mind the
doctor ; besides, Lizzie looked tired herself, and I've made
her go to bed. Time all good folks was there now ;
come, sir," and with dexterous hands she rearranged his
pillows ; then taking a seat by the fire, waited till he had
finished his refreshment.

Hector knew it was useless to dispute the authority of
the experienced nurse ; so, with a slight feeling of disappointment
at being done out of the reading, he sipped
at his beef tea without speaking.

This light repast seemed to be soporific in its effect,
and with the dead silence surging in his ears and soothing
the mind somewhat overtaxed by recent musings, Hector
soon fell into a deep sleep with the cup in his hand.

Mrs. Rolfe, perceiving this, stole gently to the bedside,
and taking it from his unconscious grasp, arranged the
coverings and made the room up for the night.

So, calm repose and pleasant dreams to you, Hector
Grayle; and may the vision of that sweet face, which
haunts your feverish pillow, create only in your mind
pure and noble thoughts, and make you worthy of the
name you bear, and the pride of your ancestral home.

'Tis not high power that makes a place divine,
Nor that the men from gods derive their Hne ;
But sacred though fe in holy bosoms stored
Make people noble, and the place adored."

CHAPTER X.

THE SHADOW OF THE SWORD.

"Non bene conduct verdant perjury testes." — Ovid.

Some five or six weeks after the events related, Mrs.
Corcoran was returning one morning from a visit to
High Lodge, having lately struck up an acquaintance
with the Rolfes which appeared to be interesting to her,
and agreeable to all parties.

The woman was apparently wrapped in deep thought
as she walked along, and seemed not to hear the footsteps
which had been overtaking her for the last hundred
yards, until suddenly aroused from her reverie by her
nephew exclaiming, —

Hold hard, aunt ; you ha' no need to walk, I've
brought the pony chaise for you."

What made you do that ? did you think I was afraid
of the deer running at me ? "

No, I don't suppose you are," replied Simon ;
11 though they du saye that ain't over safe since the
Squire put them Scotch beggars into the park; but, the
fact is, the Careen is waiting at our house to see you."

Captain Heffernan ! Has he returned, then ? "

Yes, just come down from Lunnon, and he said he
wanted to speak to you rather particular afore he went on

up to the Hall, so asked me if I'd mind a-coniin' to fetch
ye eft-rec'ly."

ff Aha!" muttered Mrs. Corcoran to herself, "I thought
I should jog his memory. He'll not forget his old nurse
again in a hurry, I'll warrant."

Thereupon she turned back with her nephew, and they
drove home together in the rickety old rattle-trap, yclept
a pony-chaise.

Captain Heffernan, who was on leave from Aldershot,
where his regiment was then stationed, returned to town
a few days after the accident. But in that short space
of time he had made considerable progress in his suit
with Agnes — had proposed and been accepted, and had
so far ingratiated himself with all, that the engagement
was sanctioned and approved both by Gertrude and the
Squire ; old Mrs. Grayle not being consulted, from the
well understood fact that it was an impossibility for her
to entertain an unprejudiced opinion of any one.

Gertrude deprecated the idea of marriage for at least a
year, on the plea of her daughter's extreme youth ; for,
acting like a sensible and anxious mother, she wished to
give them a certain time in which to study each other's
characters before the irrevocable step was taken.

Heffernan chafed considerably at such delay, for he
was deeply in love with Agnes; but since Gertrude
made the postponement a sine qua non, and in this was
supported by the Squire, he had no alternative but to
submit with a good grace. The recognized fiance of
Agnes Grayle, however, was now a privileged visitor at
Barringtree Park whenever he chose to avail himself of
the prerogative, and, as Simon intimated to Mrs. Corcoran,
the u Careen " had just come down from town on
one of his flying visits, though I am bound to confess it
was not this time solely on the wings of love.

Mrs. Corcoran spoke truly when she said Captain
Heffernan had "gone the pace;" but he had nearly
run himself out at last,, and had pulled up into a
walk, literally and figuratively ; having, within the last
few years, found it expedient to exchange from a crack
cavalry regiment into the 126th Foot. No man had had
better chances than Heffernan, and no man had availed
himself of them less advisably. In addition to living at
a rapid rate in other ways, he had succeeded in making
a large hole in a small fortune by means of two special
weaknesses — the Turf and the Stock Exchange ; but,
although a shrewd man regarding horseflesh, his speculations
in the City were often of the wildest nature ; and as
the fickle goddess seldom turned up trumps for him in
either branch of gambling, he began to think about putting
on the brake. Taking things in time, therefore, since
he saw there could be only one issue when everything
was going out and nothing coming in, he advertised for
an exchange, put his chargers up at Tattersall's (he kept
no racers himself), and came down in the world, so to
say, from horse to foot. This judicious step completed,
he took stock of the resources left him, and found that,
out of the general wreck, and after paying all debts, he
started afresh, as a kinsman, with something under five
hundred a year, besides his pay. His brother officers in
the Lancers were sorry to lose him, for he was popular in
his regiment, being a genial companion, a promoter of
sport, and generous to a fault. Popularity, however, is
often rather an expensive article, and having found it so,
Heffernan, when he joined the 126th, turned over a new
leaf and drew in his horns, resolved to be taken more on
his personal merits than the merits of his purse — at all
events, by the men in his new regiment.

But an officer in the service, with considerable independent

means, generally gets the reputation of being a
much richer man than he really is ; consequently, Heffer-nan
was looked upon in the matrimonial market, where
he put himself up for sale, as un bon parti.

Starting under these auspices, he naturally hoped to
secure a wife who could meet him halfway with a respectable
dowry, and thus recoup himself for past extravagances.
On making the acquaintance of the Grayles in
London, he saw at once in Agnes the very girl to suit
him — a handsome, accomplished young lady, with the
certainty of a liberal marriage portion ; and a girl, moreover,
who soon exacted the utmost homage of his heart.
When the subject of settlements was brought under discussion,
the Squire of course was a little disappointed to
find that Heffernan was not quite the millionaire he had
been led to suppose ; but since he had secured Agnes'
affections, and quite taken her mother and himself by
storm with his bonhomie and fascinating manners, the
engagement, as I have said, was duly ratified.

Plotinus ad census, de mo rib us ultima feet
Question "■ —

In this case, however, the question as to the morals
was the first consideration. At all events, it was so with
Gertrude, who was no mercenary mother, and was far
more solicitous for her daughter's happiness than for
mere empty riches. With regard to Albert Heffernan's
family there was little to be learnt, except that he was
the son of a deceased clergyman, and had no near
relatives alive ; but though not exactly a scion of an
ancient house, there was nothing against either him or
his antecedents ; indeed, his good qualities were loudly
extolled by all who knew him. Having heard, therefore,
nothing but what was favourable of him from all sides,

and fancying herself, moreover, an excellent judge of
character, Gertrude felt every confidence in entrusting
Agnes' future to his care ; nevertheless, she could not be
induced to forego that year's probation for which she so
expressly stipulated ; her own bitter experience, doubtless,
dictating the precaution.

On reaching home, Mrs. Corcoran found Heffernan
waiting for her in the little parlour of her brother's house,
where he had been kicking his heels impatiently for the
last half-hour.

"Why, Mr. Albert," she exclaimed, on entering the
room, "I didn't expect to see you down again so
soon."

Didn't you ? Well, your letter would have brought
me if nothing else did, Hannah," he replied — he had
taken to calling her by her Christian name again, as in
the days of his youth — " but I preferred having a talk
with you to scribbling letters — on a matter of this kind."

Quite right ; showing your good sense as you always
do," observed the woman, leisurely removing her bonnet
and shawl, and placing them on the sofa beside her.
"You refer, I suppose, to the subject I hinted at in that
letter?"

Of course ; what else should I refer to ? We're not
likely to be interrupted, are we ? " he said, approaching
the door, opening it cautiously, and looking out; "no
eavesdroppers, eh ? " and he closed it again.

Don't be alarmed ; you won't find any sneaks here,
Mr. Albert," she remarked, smiling at his apprehension;
besides, they know you and me have got some little
private business together."

That's all right then. Now tell me," he continued,
returning to the fireplace and standing with his back toit;
"you say you have made a discovery ?"

I have. An important one, too — for you as well as
me."

"Urn — what you said in your letter was certainly
emphatic ; but how can you be so positive, my dear Hannah ?
One might easily be mistaken, you know — "

"Not I" returned Mrs. Corcoran, rather abruptly;
M I'm not a fool, and Fve got proof clear enough for anyone."


Well, I grant you the coincidence is extraordinary,
very extraordinary'' remarked Hefiernan, in a reflective
manner; "but it may only be a coincidence after all,
thereby misleading you and — "

Very well, just as you please," she interrupted, testily ;
believe it or not as you like ; it don't much matter
now."

No, I suppose not, after all these years," said he, still
musing.

And then followed a longer pause, during which both
seemed to be occupied with their own thoughts.

Presently Heffernan stirred the fire, lighting up the
dark room with a merry blaze, and then, as if catching
its infection, resumed, in a more easy tone, —

"Well, Hannah, it's of no use our bothering our heads
with suspicions, coincidences, and that sort of thing, is it ?
which, after all, may only turn out to be pure imagination,
you know — "

My dear man, what ever is the use of your talking like
that ? I tell you I've heard enough, and seen enough
lately to convince fifty unbelieving Jews ; enough to
make one take one's Bible oath to it, if it was the last
breath one ever drew. Do you think I can't remember
about the clothes, and the linen, and the marking,
and—"

"All right, all right," he interposed, hurriedly;
vol. 1. h

that'll do, Hannah ; it's of no use raking up all the affair
again. Grant your suspicion to be correct, then, what
do you advise me to do ? "

"Do! do nothing at all, of course, except hold your
tongue. You're safe enough ; what more do you want ?
forget about it."

"I will; but Til tell you what I can't forget, Hannah,
and that *is your true friendship — your stanch loyalty tome
all these years."

"Lor, Mr. Albert, never mention it," exclaimed the
woman, adding under her breath, " besides, it's a duty I
owe to myself as well as you."

' But what made you write to me about it, Hannah ?
Letters are such devilish dangerous things, you know."

"To tell the truth, I never gave that a thought. I
was anxious to warn you directly for one particular reason ;
else perhaps I should never have bothered you about the
matter at all."

What particular reason ? "

"Well, if you'll take my advice, you won't let those
old Frosts slip out of your mind. They're old folks, it's
true, but they've got memories and tongues as well
as other people ; and it was only a couple of months ago,
when I was down there, that they were grumbling because
they hadn't heard from you lately." Mrs. Corcoran
nodded her head significantly as she threw out these oblique
hints.

Confound it ! " he cried, " what an infernal fool I am !
I'm always forgetting to forward their remittance."

Well, I wouldn't if I were you," observed she, dryly,
especially now."

"Thank you for the hint; I won't. But, Hannah," he
continued, after a moment, " don't be offended at what
I'm going to say, and think I want to put you on the

same footing with those old people, but I do wish you
wouldn't be so independent, you know; you never by any
chance ask me now for — "

Bless your heart! " exclaimed Mrs. Corcoran, cutting
him short, " I'm all right, never you fear; I'm taken care
of; but still, if you like, you might now and then include
me in your generosity without the asking, there ! " and
she gave him a peculiar look out of those dark eyes of
hers which he did not quite know how to interpret,
whether as a gentle reproach for past forgetfulness,
or only as an off-haud acceptance of future favours.

Of course I will — certainly I will — only too glad," said
he, quickly.

At this juncture the door opened, and the entrance of
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Sickles, who thought they had
given them long enough, cut short this mysterious
colloquy.

The old couple had introduced themselves to Captain
HefFernan already, and the farmer now attacked him ina
jovial twang with —

Sit dayown, pry sit dayown, Careen; don't let us
disturb yer. Very glad to see yer, I'm sure."

Sickles was quite proud of the apparent intimacy
between his sister and this "swell officer," as Simon
called him; and Mrs. Sickles felt "all of a fluster" at
having to play hostess to so distinguished a visitor.

u 'On't ye have a glass o' sherry white wine, and a
mite o ; currant cake, Careen, afore yer goo ? " inquired
the good soul in an anxious tone, and moving towards
the sideboard.

Heffernan declined the tempting offer, however, with
many thanks, though he was hard pressed by old Sickles,
who didn't want' to let him off so soon, and substituted
hot grog and a pickwick, by way of greater temptation.

h 2

But at last he was permitted to take his departure ; and,
jumping into the fly, which stood waiting patiently for
him, he drove off to the Hall in a very moody frame of
mind, and scarcely like a love-sick Leander hying to his
Hero.

CHAPTER XL

BRINGING IN THE NEW YEAR.

The music, and the banquet, and the wine —
The garlands, the rose-odours, and the flowers —
The sparkling eyes, and flashing ornaments —

# # * * *

The many twinkling feet so small and sylph-like,
Suggesting the more secret symmetry
Of the fair forms which terminate so well —
All the delusion of the dizzy scene,
Its false and true enchantments — Art and Nature."

Byron.

It was just after Christmas when Heffernan paid this
visit to Barringtree Park j and, on entering the house, it
struck him that all the garden shrubs and plants had
been brought inside to protect them from the cold.

The entrance hall had evidently been converted into a
conservatory in honour of the season; flowers, ferns,
exotics, and evergreens met the eye in all directions;
evergreens in festoons, circles, triangles, and various
designs, literally smothered the place ; in fact, scarcely
anything else was to be seen. From the stags' heads
upon the walls, it appeared as if Birnam Wood had been
brought to Barringtree instead of Dunsinane, their stately
horns being all concealed by leafy branches. The ancestors,
too, in their frames were transformed into so

many owls in ivy-bushes, and some imaginary gentlemen,
in suits of armour, were brought into requisition as convenient
pegs whereon to hang ideas of the same decorative
nature ; in short, with it all, the place seemed to be
suffering from a severe green epidemic, breaking out into
red and white spots here and there, where the holly and
mistletoe predominated.

The old Hall at Barringtree was a very different residence
now from the dull, ghostly mansion of former years
for the genial presence of young people in a house will
always make itself felt — and though the gloomy aspect
of its exterior could not well be changed, without
painting, decorating, and otherwise moderniziug it, which
the Squire would not hear of, the dismal outside was
amply compensated for by the cheery welcome within its
hospitable doors, especially at Yule-tide and other festive
occasions.

The drive being short from Farmer Sickles' house,
Heffernan had scarcely recovered his wonted good-humour
when the cab pulled up, and a heavy frown appeared to
have fixed itself indelibly on his brow. He arrived just
at that important kettledrum hour, five o'clock ; and, as
the butler opened the front door, the footman was seen
crossing the hall to the drawing-room with the indispensable
tea-tray. Now this meant the ladies being
collected together in full force, and Heffernan, in his
present frame of mind, hardly felt equal to face such a bevy,
risking to be shown to his room, therefore, he explained
that he wished to unpack some fancy costumes he had
brought down from London, and went upstairs.

The new year was to be inaugurated at Barringtree by
a fancy ball (also in celebration of Hector's coming of
age) ; and, from the first costumier in town, Heffernan
had procured some beautiful dresses, on commission, for

Agnes and others in the house, and a very handsome
investment in which he meant to appear himself.

After leisurely unpacking and loitering about for sometime,
he at length descended the stairs, and took the
opportunity of slipping off to the billiard-room, where he
heard the click of the billiard bails. There he found
Hector and Tewkesley in the middle of "a hundred
up."

Hector had been off the sick-list for several days, but
he still looked a good deal pulled down by his recent
accident ; and the slight over-exertion at Christmas time,
in helping the Squire to do the honours at Barringtree,
had, perhaps, somewhat retarded his recovery. Heffernan
had not seen him out of bed since his illness, and the
change in his appearance at once struck him. He might
have exclaimed with aeneas, when the ghost of the
Trojan Hector appeared, "Quantum mutatis ah illo."
But, not wishing to alarm the Barringtree Hector,
Heffernan, instead, merely congratulated him heartily on
his recovery, and the attainment of his twenty-first
birthday.

We shall finish this in a minute' said Hector, making
a losing hazard off the red, " and then well go into the
drawing-room. You've not seen the ladies yet, you
say?"

"No; IVe only just arrived''

Brought all the dresses, I hope ? "

Oh, yes, everything complete."

What are you coming out as yourself, Heffernan ? '
inquired Tewkesley.

"The evil genius in 'Faust"

Mephistopheles ; capital!" cried Hector. "Lady
Mountjoy will be getting you to remunerate her e dear Sir
Francis ' on the spot, I shouldn't wonder."

Not she. Her ladyship prefers the old gentleman ashe
is. He makes such an excellent foil, you see."

There's something 1 in that, certainly. What's the
game, Tewkesley ? Did you put me on that loser ? "

"Yes. Eighty-eight, seventy-nine' Here Hector,
making a break, ran out a winner by twenty-one
points.

He and Heffernan then adjourned to the drawing-room,
while Tewkesley returned to the Rectory. To account
for that gentleman's frequent presence at the Hall, it
should be mentioned that, on the living at Barringtree
falling vacant two years since, the Squire, in whose gift
the benefice was, had presented Gertrude's only brother,
the Rev. Arthur Tewkesley, who was then a curate in
some out-of-the-way place in Cornwall, and as he was a
capital fellow, and proved a great acquisition to the parish,
the Squire had no reason to regret the nomination.

Later on in the evening Heffernan had shaken off his
blue devils for a time, and dismissed the mysterious burden
from his mind which had grown out of his interview
with Mrs. Corcoran. He took Agnes in to dinner, and
she did not fail to notice that he was rather distrait in
his manner 'and conversation at first; but this wore off
by degrees, and when they all reassembled in the drawing-room
he had recovered his usual cheerful demeanour, so
she thought no more of it.

Now came the all-important discussion regarding the
fancy costumes from London, which were brought down
from Heffernan's room into the library, submitted for
inspection, and pronounced perfect. Of course each lady
and gentleman desired to keep her or his dress a profound
secret ; but, as is usual in such cases, this was soon discovered
to be impossible, chiefly because everybody
confided in everybody else, which ended at last in the

whole community consulting together openly on certain
vexed points, as to the correctness of this coiffure, the cut
of that bodice, or the colour of such an one's wig, and so
forth.

There were four or five cousins, male and female, staying
in the house, who affected to represent different foreign
countries, consequently the little congress assumed quite an
international character. Hector and Agnes, however, were
classical in their tastes, and represented respectively
Pygmalion and Galatea, while Gertrude essayed a simple
Puritan costume, which well became her, the Squire intending
to appear in his uniform as Lord Lieutenant of
the county ; in short, everybody was coming out infancy
dress except old Mrs. Grayle, who, with her usual
amiability and obstinate spirit, refused to make " a
guy of herself to please any one." But there was nothing
uncommon in this, for she never did please any one about
anything, so nobody cared.

At length New Year's eve arrived, and the carriages
rolled up to the Hall door one after another, and discharged
their variegated burdens in a seemingly endless
stream.

In due course the Merrydale private 'bus disgorged the
following incongruous contents : — Old Father Christmas
(Sir Francis), a vivandiere (Lady Mountjoy), Lady Teazle
(Miss Mountjoy), Robinson Crusoe (Clement), Marie
Antoinette (Miss Goldsnip), and a hooded Friar (Mr.
Goldsnip, her father).

After this cargo was deposited appeared Ely O'Connor,
leaning on the arm of Cardinal Wolsey (Arthur Tewkesley
and Norah, his wife, a funny little woman from the
Emerald Isle), and a whole host of others, until the
Hall was crowded with the motley groups, which contradicted
history in the broadest way, for here Oliver

Cromwell and Charles the First walked arm-in-arm in
friendly fashion, whilst Mary, Queen of Scots, and old
John Knox appeared on the most affectionate terms,
flirting together in a corner, as did many other traditional
foes.

One of Strauss' delicious melodies opened the proceedings,
and away whirled the gorgeous dancers, in glorious
confusion — an undulating mass of colour, with prismatic
effects from the brilliant lights. But having once fairly
started them, what more need be said, since ball-room
upon ball-room has been described ad nauseam in a
hundred fictions.

Norah, my dear," called Mrs. Grayle senior, seated in
regal grandeur, as she thought, at one side of the room —
the situation rather lending dignity to Mrs. Grayle than
Mrs Grayle to the situation — and looking in her non-fancy
dress like a withered old cabbage amid that gay-coloured
throng. " Norah," cried she, beckoning to the
little Hibernian lady, "tell me now, what on earth do you
call yourself?"

"Faith, I'm Miss Ely O'Connor, ma'am, the Colleen
Bawn," replied Mrs. Tewkesley, exaggerating her brogue
which was in some degree natural — to suit the character.
Bad luck to your blind ould eyes, not to know," she
added, aside.

"Ah, very pretty, very pretty indeed," said Mrs.
Grayle, condescendingly, and criticizing the dress through
her eye-glasses.

I'm thinking it is, ma'am," returned the lively little
lady, with a pert curtsey. "And so the Squire would
me, too."

Now the very mention of the Squire by Mrs. Tewkesley
was touching dangerous ground. Old Mrs. Grayle was extremely
jealous of the influence exercised over the lord of the

manor by the parson's wife, for the latter was perpetually
buttonholes him on parochial and other matters, and
could twist him round her finger easily enough, a feat
Mrs. Grayle generally failed to accomplish. That old
lady, as a rule, managed to trump up a casus belli about
once a week against Mrs. Tewkesley, though as far as
pugnacity went the fiery little Irish woman was her
match, being always ready for a row, like a true Paddy ;
so there were some pretty free fights between them.

u He did, did he ? " exclaimed Mrs. Grayle, with rising
ire ; " and Til engage to say you took good care to draw
his attention to it." This with an ill-disguised sneer.

Not I, bead," retorted Mrs. Tewkesley, carelessly,
but with an air as if she were tucking up her sleeves in
imagination, preparatory to an encounter. " I've something
else to do to-night than set me cap at the ould
folks'

"Really!" snorted Mrs. Grayle, fairly bridling up.
u I think you forget yourself, madam. A married woman,
and a clergyman's wife, too, talking about setting your
cap, indeed ! "

■* Luckily for me," replied the Colleen Bawn, clutching
the ghost of a hillel in her hand, " me husband's not
such a fool as — as some people I know." And she glared
defiantly at her enemy, as though requesting her to tread
on the tail of her coat.

"Meaning to insinuate, I suppose — " began Mrs. Grayle,
with an ominous hiss, when fortunately they were interrupted
by Cardinal "Wolsey, who, seeing that a ring was
about to be formed, came up and took the fierce old
Hecate H off to supper.

Good gracious ! how I loathe that old woman," muttered
Mrs. Tewkesley, as she glanced contemptuously
after her foe, looking rather disappointed at not being

able to have it out on the spot. " Poor Arthur ! always
making himself a martyr. Faith, that's a rhyme, but
with a very poor reason in it. Anyway I don't envy him."
And three minutes afterwards the little Colleen Bawn
had waltzed off her spleen under the immediate superintendence
of Woapalanne, the Bald Eagle, a tall North
American Indian chief who claimed her hand.

Where's the vivandiere ? Where's Lady Mountjoy ? "
inquired Hector, looking about him, as the musicians
struck up "II Baccio." "This is oar dance. Ah, there
she is ! " and he hurriedly crossed the room to a quiet
nook, where he espied her talking away very earnestly
to his mother.

Yes, there she was, electric battery and all, apparently
so absorbed in her occupation of bringing the gentle
Gertrude under the full influence of those basilisks, that
she had quite forgotten about dancing.

Lady Mountjoy was sparkling with a brilliant idea that
evening, and was trying to impress upon Gertrude the
desirability of making a match between her son, Hector,
and Miss Goldsnip, a reputed heiress, and her ladyship's
special protegee pro tern. Gertrude, however, didn't seem
to view the matter in the same light at all ; nevertheless,
the would-be match-maker was determined to try what
she could do with the young people themselves.

Our dance ! " cried she, springing up and taking
Hector's arm, who now appeared opportunely in the
midst of her eulogium; then as he led her away,
now would you be offended if I asked you to transfer
it to another lady ? I've already introduced you, but I
see you've only danced with her once;" and before
Hector had time to remonstrate, she had pulled up opposite
to where Miss Goldsnip was just then seated, partnerless
this time, and forthwith handed him over to her.

Thus Pygmalion was once more " saddled " (to use his
own expression) with the unflattering impersonator of
Marie Antoinette, for, to tell the truth, in his former dance
with her, he had not been at all prepossessed in favour
either of her appearance, conversation, or manner, and
would rather have been excused a repetition of the dose.
Added to this, he was in no frame of mind just then for
making up to the most desirable female Croesus in the
world ; certainly not to have her crammed down his throat
in this way. In passing through the entrance hall, with one
of his partners, a little while before, he had caught sight
of that lovely face, which perpetually haunted him now —
Lizzie Rolfe had accompanied her father to have a look at
the dancers, in common with several of the retainers —
and that brief glance of her was a sufficient reminder, if
one was needed, to make him less appreciative than ever
of other womenkind.

On the other hand, Miss Goldsnip was one of those
haughty parvenus who thought every one was bound to
worship mammon, and therefore ought to kneel to her,
so was proportionately piqued at Hector's cool indifference.
Hence, they were not a very happily adapted
couple.

After a few monosyllabic remarks, and having struggled
round the crowded ball-room once or twice, with a mutual
air of being thoroughly bored, —

Pygmalion (stifling a yawn, and with difficulty speaking
through it), "Do you feel inclined for another turn?"
(Aside) " Hope not — she doesn't look as if she did."

Marie Antoinette (catching the yawn), "Thank you, no,
Fni rather tired." (Aside) u I could dance for ever with
a decent partner, though'"

Pygmalion (with a happy thought). "Perhaps you'd
like to sit down, then ? "

Marie Antoinette (jumping at it). "I think I should,
please."

According, spying Lady Mountjoy close by, watching
them, and giving the battery a little holiday, Pygmalion
forthwith returns the heiress carefully on her chaperon's
hands.

Pygmalion (as the unfortunate queen repeats herself,
with a relieved sigh). " Thank you so very much for
the dance, I've enjoyed it immensely'" With which
dreadful falsehood he bows and leaves her, much to
Lady Mountjoy's surprise, as the valse is not yet half
over.

But a rather more interesting scene than the above is
taking place about the same time in a dimly-lighted little
grotto by the conservatory.

Seated in this are Galatea and Robinson Crusoe,
whose conversation, as well as can be judged by their
faces in the imperfect light, appears to be of a very
serious nature. , .

te I assure you, Clement, you cannot tell how utterly
surprised I am to hear you say this."

Are you, Agnes — are you really? Then you never
knew — you never felt, I suppose — " he hesitated, and his
voice trembled while he added, to himself, " And now,
alas ! it is all too late ! "

"As a brother, dear Clement, I have always loved,
and always shall love you — and as a sister I hoped—"

"Yes — yes. I know, Agnes, I know. It ought only
to have been that ; but I have let it grow upon me day
by day — you never guessed the truth, and I have not
dared to tell you."

A long pause.

I thought you asked if I were really engaged merely
out of curiosity, Clement. I little knew how my reply

would pain you ; forgive me if I spoke thoughtlessly —
too abruptly."

Forgive you, darling ! " he cried, taking her hand ;
I must call you so, though it be for the last time — "

No, no, dear \ why should it be ? — at least — let me
remain your sister as I have ever been'

"Ah, it will be so different when you are married,
Agnes, and — and belong to another." He said this with
such a heavy sigh, and gulped down the words with a
painful choking in his throat.

Neither spoke for a few minutes; but presently he
murmured passionately, as if to himself, " Oh, Agnes,
Agnes, how I have loved you — how I love you still ! and
you never knew ; but now — lost to me for ever ! n and
the poor boy's frame seemed to be convulsed with
emotion as he said this. Though the agonized words
were uttered in a low tone, Agnes partly overheard them,
and was deeply distressed at his agitation; but without
knowing what solace to offer, she still remained silent,
soothingly stroking his hand as it lay in hers. This
silence becoming painful and oppressive, she roused
herself at last, with an effort, and said in a quiet, gentle
tone, —

Clement, listen to me, dear. A love like yours is
indeed worthy of a better object ; and most surely I do
not deserve such devotion, or the deep feeling in your
heart had awakened a response in mine, without the
telling. But now, what can J do ? what can I say to
comfort you ? "

Nothing, Agnes, nothing ; do not pity me," he
exclaimed, impetuously ; " I do not deserve it. I can but
blame myself — selfish fellow that I am — I might have
spared you this painful scene, thus embittering the dawn
of your new life with my sad tale of woe. It is my turn

now to ask you to forgive, dear Agnes, and I do : be
assured your future happiness in this choice is the most
cherished thought I have in the world — my never-ceasing
prayer."

God bless you, Clem' she whispered, drawing nearer
to him, and pressing a sisterly kiss upon his forehead ;
may that joy and happiness which awaits yon too be
not so far distant as you think."

Another deep sigh was his only answer; and as they
rose together from the seat, she did not observe that
settled look of despair on his earnest face — that dead
look in those eyes, as if the very life and soul had gone
out of him. She did not see this, or her young heart
would have ached still more for poor Clement Mountjoy.
However, the poet says —

Love, unreturn'd,
Hath gracious uses ; the keen pang departs,
The sweetness never — "

and although a heavy burden such as this (to apply an
old metaphor) may break the maturer stem, it only serves
to bend the yielding sapling, which, with the elasticity
of youth, springs back to its normal state, when once
relieved of the temporary load.

So we must have some hope for poor young Mountjoy
yet, although his case is, I own, a very hard one.

"Why, Agnes, I have been looking for you everywhere,"
cried a voice as they emerged from the conservatory;
and, turning, she saw her future husband
approaching. " Do you know you've missed our last
dance ? "

Oh, I am so sorry, Albert ! " cried Agnes, as she disengaged
her hand from Clement's arm. "I felt a little
tired, and I — 1 was resting in the conservatory."

"You were? I looked in there, and couldn't see
you."

In the little grotto beyond, I mean. I'm not engaged
for this next one, Albert. If you are not, will you
dance it instead ? "

Agreed."

Heffernan then led her back into the ball-room ; and
Agnes noticed that that gloomy frown seemed to have
resettled itself on his brow.

Could it be that he was angry at such a trifle ? " she
thought, with a slight feeling of misgiving.

No ; it was not that, I fancy. Something else had produced
that appropriate Mephistopheles look — something,
perhaps, which had reminded him of his recent interview
with Mrs. Corcoran, and revealed more plainly the
impending sword which now seemed to threaten him,
and effectually destroyed his enjoyment of the festive
scene.

vol. 1.

CHAPTER XII.

THE Monarch OP THE GLEN."

The antlers monarch

# * # # #

Like crested leader, proud and high,
Toss'd his beam'd frontlet to the sky."

Sir Walter Scott.
A true knight,
Not yet mature, yet matchless ;

t tF tP ^ J$F *

Hector, in his blaze of wrath, subscribes
To tender objects.

Shakspeare.

Squire Geayle had always cherished a pet hobby for
collecting foreign birds and animals, and acclimatizing
them at Barringtree ; and the last importation consisted
of some red deer from Scotland, which he wished to add
to his menagerie ; howbeit, in the somewhat limited
space such an experiment was scarcely likely to be a
great success. There were only three or four of these
animals at present ; but if they did well, and agreed with
the rest of the stock, Mr. Grayle intended by-and-by to
have a small herd of them.

This scheme, however, was nipped in the bud by a
certain circumstance which must be explained. It turned
out that one of the stags, a royal, captured in its wild
state, proved to be an incorrigible nuisance (especially
during a certain season of the year), and people were

positively afraid to walk in the park, lest this ferocious
monarch of the glen should take it into his head, as he
seemed inclined, to impale them on his sharp points, like
so many beetles and butterflies, as if he had been a
collector of insects, bent on the process of pinning his
victims. Complaints being frequent, this pugnacious
gentleman, fortunately before he could commence his
collection, was degraded from his position as king of the
Barringtree beasts, and driven into a paddock until he
learned to behave himself.

It so happened that Master Macbeth, as he was called,
had just been liberated again from durance vile, for it was
supposed his bump of combativeness had subsided meanwhile,
and that with the new year he would turn over a
new leaf. But he disappointed this expectation, and
soon showed that all seasons were alike to him, and that
he was still bent upon making that collection.

A fine, noble-looking beast he was, with his twelve-tired
antlers and thick, hairy throat ; strong as a bullock
and active as a cat ; a grand type, indeed, of Landseer's
favourites, but one whom it were safer for an artist to
study from a respectful distance.

Now, one afternoon, a few days subsequent to the fancy
ball, Lizzie Rolfe was making her way across the park in
blissful ignorance as to the liberation of this dreaded beast.
Had she known that he was again at large she might
have thought twice before venturing out alone, for she
had often heard her father say that he was "sure the
varmint could never be trusted, and ought to be destroyed
for a perilous pest'

Before she had proceeded a quarter of a mile on her
way, Lizzie fancied she caught sight of a solitary stag
grazing on the further side of a clump of beech-trees,
about two hundred yards to her right. From its appear -

1 2

ance it made her heart give a sudden jump ; but she
recollected, with a feeling of reassurance, that Master
Macbeth was secure in his paddock — or, at least, she
believed so — and continued her walk fearlessly, although
an instinctive feeling of dread prompted her to throw a
nervous glance now and again towards that clump of
beeches.

It's only one of the other red deer," she argued to
herself, on getting a clearer view of the creature through
the trees, " and they're harmless enough, father says."

But at this moment the stag shifted its position a little
having been browsing with its head turned from her,
so that she only had a foreshortened view of its body —
and Lizzie, who still watched it, now distinctly saw the
size and points of its branching horns, and thus, to her
utter dismay, ascertained that it was the redoubtable
Master Macbeth himself, and none other, who was feeding
there in solitary grandeur, opium cum dignitary.

Her first impulse was to run for her life, but she remembered
that this would at once attract the creature's
attention, and then, heaven help her ! her little feet were
scarcely calculated to outstrip those nimble hoofs. No,
her second thought was best — to steal quietly along
under cover of the big trees, which intervened between
her path and the object of alarm, and so hope to escape
detection by her light footstep. Poor Lizzie ! her every
nerve was strained in painful tension as she crept along
like a mouse in the vain hope of eluding that antlered
monster.

An unlucky twig, which snapped under her foot just at
that critical moment, sounded like a pistol fired in her
ear, and with anxious terrified eyes she glanced towards
the red deer, and gave a thankful sigh of relief as she
observedfhirn still browsing peacefully.

Make haste, Lizzie ! get on as quickly as you can.
Never mind the dried sticks underfoot. If you can only
gain the corner of that wood and turn out of sight, you
are safe !

Oh, how her heart thumped against her breast as she
hurried forward ! The first despair of escape had now
given place to a natural hope which rose strong within
her.

But, alas ! at this moment a gentle breeze sprang up,
crossing her path, and blowing straight from her to the
enemy, when instantly he threw up his magnificent head
and sniffed the air suspiciously.

Vain hope, indeed, to think of eluding the acute senses
of that Highland monarch. Many a time and oft had he
stood sentry to the herd on the distant hills of Scotland,
and many a time disappointed the excited gillie who had
longed for that noble head after an arduous stalk.

The lightest wind to those keen nostrils, tainted by the
far-off presence of man, was as good as a warning bugle-note
to a sleeping camp.

But here the situation was reversed, and when the
animal detected the human presence, he struck his forenoon
angrily on the ground, and looked about him ; then,
catching sight of Lizzie, he turned towards her, and slowly
and majestically advanced three or four paces.

Lizzie, still on the anxious watch, saw all this with a
sinking at her heart once more, and felt in doubt as to
whether she should continue her hurried walk, or stand
and face the dangerous stag boldly. She had heard of,
and read often, how the human eye may quell the fiercest
beast ; and certainly such a pretty pair of eyes as hers
ought to have softened the heart of that terrible Highlander
if he had been anything of a gentleman, which
unfortunately he was not.

Desperation actually gave the poor girl courage enough
to think of making the experiment, though only for want
of a better chance of escape.

The deer had now broken into a springy trot as he
came towards her, and, seeing this, Lizzie, acting on the
desperate alternative at once, stopped short and fronted
him. Immediately she was rewarded for her pluck and
presence of mind by seeing the savage beast halt as
suddenly. He was now a little over a hundred yards
away, and gazed at the girl as if in utter astonishment at
her audacity. At the same time Lizzie felt little hope of
keeping him long at bay in this manner, but suddenly
her attention was drawn to a huge old oak which stood
within a few yards of her. Her only chance, then, if the
stag showed the slightest signs of hostility, was to make
a frantic rush for the friendly trunk, and get behind it
before she was attacked. This protection, however, she
was also well aware could only be very temporary, since
her strength would soon fail her, and unless timely help
came, she knew she must fall beneath those cruel hoofs
and be gored to death by 'the deadly horns.

Keeping her eyes steadily fixed on her unwelcome
vis-a-vis, Lizzie, offering up a prayer for her safety, now
glided by almost imperceptible degrees towards the tree ;
but before she had lessened the distance between it and
herself by more than two or three yards, the stag made
an angry movement, struck the turf again sharply with
his hoof, and uttered a deep guttural sound, which caused
her heart to leap again with terror. Forgetting all
caution at this critical juncture, she hastened her stealthy
approach towards the oak of refuge — and it was well she
did so, or she never could have reached it !

The vicious beast, having conquered his curiosity, which
alone had kept him at bay for a minute, now lowered his

head, and without further warning rushed towards her.
This was a signal for Lizzie to fly for the tree, which she
just managed to get to in time, and as she darted behind
its gigantic trunk, Master Macbeth dashed past like
lightning. In a moment he returned to repeat the charge,
more furious than ever, with eyes glowering fiercely, and
distended nostrils, and once more the terrified girl
evaded him with the energy of despair. But this could
not last long j she was already nearly fainting, while her
knees trembled as if she would fall every minute.

Shrieking again and again for help, Lizzie scarcely
remembered anything further — her brain began to swim,
and more by instinct than anything else she kept the tree
between, herself and her merciless assailant for a few
moments longer.

Then at last, oh welcome sound ! she heard the fierce
barking of dogs, then a loud shout and some one calling
her by name, and then a rushing of confused noises in
her ears — the sky grew dark, and she sank down at the
foot of the oak in a dead swoon. -

Have at him, Captain ! worry him, Pilot ! By heaven,
you brute ! you shall have both barrels if you come here."

Thu Hector Grayle, in angry excitement, as with one
arm he supported the unconscious Lizzie, grasping his
gun with the disengaged hand.

He was panting for breath, having run at top speed
from a distant corner of the park, where he had been
amusing himself in a small spinney with some " stub "
rabbits.

His quick ear had detected the cries for help, when heat
once hurried off in the direction of the sound, and
caught sight of Master Macbeth at his old games; but

Hector little knew then who the victim was. As he
neared the spot, however, he recognized poor Lizzie in
the last stage of terror, and rushing madly forward,
utterly regardless whether the stag attacked him or not,
he raised her in his arms just as she had collapsed and
fallen to the ground.

Meanwhile Hector's two retrieve, Captain and Pilot,
had gone straight at the savage hart with a ferocity which
looked like eating him up on the spot, horns, hoofs, and
all.

Thus foiled in his murderous assault — for this attack
on the part of the dogs of course diverted his attention
from the fainting girl — Master Macbeth responded to their
fierce clamour by a disdainful sweep of his antlers, which
kept the indignant Captain and his mate at a respectful
distance. Still the effect was the same as if they had
fastened themselves to his throat and sucked his very
life-blood, for the common enemy seemed by this interference
to have forgotten his late intended victim, which
was lucky for him, or he would most assuredly have received
a couple of barrels of " number six " from Hector's
gun. After striking at the dogs once or twice with his
hoofs, as if he meant to teach them a lesson in boxing,
and making another sudden swoop with his horns, which
very nearly settled the Captain, the haughty monarch
suddenly raised his head, as though a thought struck him
that their impotent clamour was beneath his notice. So,
after a moment's pause, he stalked slowly off, with a
majestic air, scorning such small fry as unworthy of his
steel. The retrieve made a feint at " harassing his retreat,"
but this was a very feeble performance, and met
with the contempt it deserved.

"Lizzie, look up — do look up, there is no danger
now' said Hector, trying by fanning her face to restore

consciousness, for there was not a drop of water nearer
than the lake to revive her, and he began to get frightened
at the prolonged swoon. The stag having moved
off, he had placed his gun on the ground, and was devoting
all his attention to the insensible form.

How lovely she looked as she reclined there, her face
thrown back, the rippling hair fallen loose across her
bosom, and the lips slightly parted, while a soft sigh
escaped them as of grateful relief.

u Lizzie, pray look at me, you are quite safe now —
here in my arms, my darling, oh, my darling ;" and no
longer able to restrain himself, he clasped her to him and
pressed a burning kiss on those sweet lips.

Presently she unclosed her eyes, and seeing the handsome
face so close to hers, a slight blush tinged her
cheek. Then, making an effort to raise her head, she
exclaimed, ,f 0h, Mr. Hector, is it you? what has
happened ? where am I V 3

Don't be frightened, Lizzie, the danger is over — "

Oh, I remember' she murmured, " that dreadful
stag! oh, and you — you saved me!" — whereupon she
closed her eyes again and seemed almost to relapse into
a state of unconsciousness.

Do you feel better now, Lizzie ? n he asked presently,
gazing in ardent admiration at the beautiful face he
supported so tenderly, and longing to say something
more loving and endearing, albeit he refrained now that
she had once opened her eyes and recognized him.

Fie ! Hector, was it right of you to steal that kiss
when she lay helpless in your arms ? You fear even to
call her " darling " now that you think she can hear
you. But this was not merely owing to the coyness of a
first love — for Hector Grayle had never known the
power " before — it was from a feeling of intense respect

in which he held her very name ; a conviction that she
would be virtuously indignant at the least undue familiarity.
This respect for the girl was a sure and healthy
sign of the purest feeling, and it must be confessed he
felt even now ashamed of having stolen that kiss. But
he had resolved to tell her the whole truth, and surely
an open declaration of his love should absolve him from
the petty theft.

Lizzie, having quite come to herself after a little
while, rose at length to her feet, and thanked her preserver
earnestly again and again for having saved her
life.

Now the actual fact of succouring lovely woman in
distress is very romantic at all times, no matter if the
rescue is attended by little or no risk to the rescuer.
But when it happens to be the chosen knight who saves
his lady-love from the jaws of death, it enhances the
romance tenfold.

Although Hector depreciated the service he had rendered,
saying it was his dogs and not he who had driven
off the stag, Lizzie experienced none the less a delicious
thrill of pleasure when she felt she owed her life to him,
the hero of her dreams — for it is needless to conceal the
fact, she was as much in love with Hector as he with her.
But the disparity of their positions was calculated to
make her the more prudent and reticent, for Lizzie was
no thoughtless flirt, and an affair of this kind was likely
to go hard with her, especially as she felt nothing could
come of it but disappointment and unhappiness.

Which way were you going, Lizzie ? " asked Hector,
as he picked up his gun and called the dogs to heel.
You must let me escort you."

u Thank you, sir," replied Lizzie, " I was only just
walking as far as the village to do some shopping."

Come along, then, little nurse," lie rejoined, in a
cheery voice. " You needn't be the least afraid now j
it's my turn to take care of you, isn't it ? And you shall
see what a good protector I'll be."

I'm sure you are. I should never feel a bit frightened
with you, Mr. Hector' said she, with charming naivete,
as they walked along together.

That's right. And as for that villainous old bully,
Master Macbeth, if he comes within fifty yards of us again,
he shall have the contents of my gun as sure as he's a
royal. Not worthy of royalty exactly to behave so to a
poor unprotected little girl, was it ? However, thank
God, it was no worse, Lizzie," and he gave her such an
earnest look as made the warm blood course through her
veins like quicksilver.

But the Squire would be very angry if you shot the
animal, wouldn't he, Mr. Hector ? "

I can't help that. I certainly shall if the brute gives
me cause again; though it would take a bullet to polish
him off properly. However, I shall tell my grandfather
of this adventure, and no doubt the dangerous beast will
be venison before many days. Now, Lizzie, if you will
go on into the village and finish your commissions, I'll
meet you at the lower gates in an hour's time. I have
some things to attend to in the stables, so it won't be
out of my way ; and of course I must take care of you on
your return home."

Oh, no, thank you, Mr. Hector," replied Lizzie, diffidently.
" I couldn't trouble you to go all the way back
with me. I could get one of the men — "

Would you prefer that ? " he asked, with a peculiar
smile.

Oh, no, of course not," she answered, quickly ; adding,
I only meant I didn't like to be such a trouble."

But I wish to escort you, Lizzie. Do you understand
me ? " As he said this he gave her that earnest look
again, and there was just a shade of authority in his
tone, as if he thought he had a right to appropriate her
now.

This was very sweet to Lizzie, although she hardly
liked to own it to herself ; nevertheless it did not escape
her.

"Very well, sir," she murmured, dropping her eyes as
the blush returned to her cheek ; " if you really don't
mind ."

I certainly shouldn't like you to walk through the
park with any one else at night ; that is, while that creature
is about' he added, quickly, as if to qualify his words.
So, remember, Lizzie, in an hour's time, by the gates ;
don't be later."

She promised not to keep him waiting, and tripped off
towards the village, Hector following her with his eyes
till she passed out of sight.

CHAPTER XIII.

CUPID S SLAVES.

I know that thou dost love me. I in vain
Strive to love aught of earth or heaven but thee.
Thou art my first, last, only love ; nor shall
Another even tempt my heart."

Bailey.

Yet when I approach
Her loveliness, so absolute she seems,
And in herself complete ; so well to know
Her own, that what she wills to do or say,
Seems wisest, virtuously, discreetly, best''

Milton.

It was not at all likely that such an attractive girl as
Lizzie Rolfe should be without admirers and would-be
lovers in her own class of life. In the little world at
Barringtree alone their name was legion, and there were
other aspirants beyond its immediate radius. Bat to
each and all the gamekeeper's daughter preserved the
same discreet deportment, keeping them at a judicious
distance by consummate tact, and yet without wounding
their feelings.

Amongst these admirers was a certain individual, more
desperately enamoured, and more importunate than the
rest. This was Allan Woodruff, one of her father's
subordinates, commonly called " Woolly " Woodruff,

from his having a shock head of black curly hair, resembling
a negro's.

He was a burly Suffolk yokel, boasting a pair of shoulders
like Goliath, and with not altogether a bad cast of
countenance ; though these advantages were somewhat
counteracted by a violent temper — sulky as well as
violent, when he looked a very devil — and a coarse vocabulary.
Lizzie had almost learned to consider this fellow
in the light of a necessary nuisance to her existence, since
he was perpetually pressing his suit, notwithstanding
sharp rebuffs from old Gideon and Mrs. Rolfe, and scant
encouragement from herself.

As Lizzie made her way through the village, all the
shopping commissions seemed to have gone out of her
head. There was no room for anything but the recollection
of her late adventure and escape ; and this, of course,
conjured up a whirlwind of sweet but conflicting thoughts,
in which, equally of course, the form of Hector Grayle
took the lead. She looked forward to, and yet half
dreaded her walk back with him, for there was a peculiar
earnestness in his manner when he pressed the point,
and she felt sure something unusual would come of that
walk. But an undefined feeling of pleasure brought a
fluttering to her heart when she recalled his passionate
look ; yet in no form of words had he committed himself
that she had heard.

Whilst in the midst of such cogitations as these Lizzie
was hardly in the humour to welcome any interruption,
more especially from that everlasting tormenter, Allan
Woodruff, whom she now encountered in the street, and
who brought her abruptly down to earth from fairyland,
by arresting her steps and accosting her as
follows : —

Halloa, Lizzie, where are ye off to in such a hurry

with your eyes on your toes? Can't yer look at a
feller?"

U I beg your pardon, Fm sure. I never saw you," she
said, preparing to walk on.

"I dare say yow didn't' was his reply, in an offended
tone. " There's none so blind as them as won't see. But
where are yer going ? "

u Only to the shop."

Well, yow 'ont mind if I walk with yer, will yer ? "
he asked, suiting the action to the word, as she moved
forward.

Not if you wish to do so, Allan j but Fm rather in a
hurry.

Yes, you're alius in a hurry I think when yer see me.
Why can't yer be a little more social like, Lizzie ? I'm
sure I saint never done yer no harm; nayow, have
I ? " This was the whining way he had of urging his
suit.

"Really I don't see why you ask such a question,
Allan," returned Lizzie, a little impatient at his silly
speech. " Of course you haven't, why should you ? "

Well, I don't 'now. I don't see why I should," he
continued, at the same time viciously kicking a stone out
of his way, as though it had been in league with her
against him. " But yow alius fare to treat me as if I was
dut under yer foot."

That's entirely your fancy, Allan. I never wish to
be rude to any one, and you know that ; but I really can't
go over all this subject again; I am quite tired of it. Come,
good night," she added, holding out her hand as she
reached the shop, and was about to enter. " I must
leave you now. I'm going in here."

No, I 'ont say good night yet," he observed, for the
thought occurred to him of a chance not to be lost, " 'cos

yow ha' got to go back across the park, and I'll wait and
go with yer."

Not to night, Allan — " began Lizzie, more than ever
vexed and worried by his importunity.

Why not ? Look yow here' he argued, as another
happy idea struck him, " that's dayown-roight dangerous
for yow to goo back aloud, so I tell yer. Yow was
lucky to get here. Du yow 'now that there red stag's
about ? "

Yes, I know, thank you, Allan ; but I have some one
coming to meet me, so I shall be all safe. Good night ;"
and without giving her bete noir time to say anything
further, she disappeared into the shop.

Oh ! yow ha' got some one coming' to meet yer, have
yer ? " muttered Woolly Woodruff to himself, with ironical
emphasis. " Nayow, if that some one had ha' bin your
farther, you'd ha' said sow ; sow I'll just see who that
some one is, my laity;" and ruminating thus, in high
dudgeon at his services being rejected, he betook himself
to " The Three Cranes " (the crest of the Grayle family),
to soothe his ruffled spirit with a pot of " 'ars an' 'ars ."

The little god, Cupid, is ever punctilious in the matter
of appointments ; and the man in love, unless he be a
phlegmatic, lukewarm creature, unworthy of the noble
passion, is invariably punctual at the place of rendezvous —
more generally a good deal beforehand.

As Rosalind remarks to Orlando — " Break an hour's
promise in love ? He that will divide a minute into a
thousand parts, and break but a part of the thousandth
part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may be said of
him, that Cupid hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I
warrant him heart-whole."

Hector Grayle was, of course, no exception to the rule
of " proper lovers," and had been waiting at the park

gates at least twenty minutes before Lizzie reached
them.

u I began to think I had missed you," he exclaimed,
as she appeared at last. " However, better late than
never'

But am I late, Mr. Hector ? I didn't fancy Fd been
gone an hour."

Perhaps not ; it seemed to me like three, though,"
he observed, smiling.

It was exactly forty-five minutes by the Hall clock
over the stables since they had separated. Such is —
love.

As they started on their return journey across the park
it was rapidly growing dark, so they did not observe a
third party dogging their footsteps; and, as that third
party kept at a respectful distance, his footsteps were not
likely to attract attention.

For some little time neither spoke. At length, by way
of breaking the ice, Hector inquired, —

u You don't feel nervous now, do you, Lizzie ? "

Oh, not the least, thank you, sir ! "

"Master Macbeth will have to transfix me and the
dogs before he shall touch you, I can tell him."

The tall figure of her brave knight towered in the
gloaming beside her, and made Lizzie feel so snug and
secure. She looked upon him as quite a hero since he
had saved her life, and it was pleasant to dwell on that
thought.

All bullies are cowards, though' he added, " and he
won't face this," tapping his gun. " He can smell
powder as quick as a crow, Fll be bound."

A pause.

"You're not cold, I hope ? " he asked presently. a If
so, we'll walk a little quicker."

vol. 1. k

But Lizzie was not at all cold, and her heart was beating
fast enough to keep up a good circulation, even had
it been freezing ten times as hard as it was. Another
pause, rather longer this time.

To tell the truth, Lizzie' he began again, " I'm in
no hurry to reach the end of this walk ; I — I have so
much to say to you— something I must tell you. You
won't mind ? "

To this there was no answer. What could she reply ?
He had all the conversation to himself.

(< I don't think you need be ashamed to hear it, and," he
added, emphatically, e I'm sure I'm not ashamed to own it.
It is that I — I love you, Lizzie." Full stop. Was this all,
then ? He said he had so much to say, and this was
stale news, since her own instinct had told her as much
long ago. But this was not all by any means. Having
cleared the big jump, nothing could stop him now, when
once he had recovered himself on landing.

Do you understand me, darling ? " he continued
earnestly, and taking her small trembling hand in his ; U I
love you with my whole soul. I know your gentle nature,
Lizzie ; your pure heart and proud spirit. I know more
of your character than you think ; and, perhaps, not
knowing mine, you might accept such a declaration at
first as a slight rather than a compliment. But, by
heaven ! what I say I mean. Such words have never
passed my lips before, and no power on earth could ever
make me retract or regret them'

He paused for a reply, but receiving none, went on
again, not a whit abashed by her silence. Something
had taken place, perhaps, in that short silence. What
was it ? A slight pressure of the hand ? Who can tell ?
At any rate it seemed to encourage him.

Whatever happens, Lizzie, remember what I have

told you. I love you. Is not that enough ? You have
won all my heart, and my whole life shall be dedicated to
yours. So long as you can accept that love and return it,
so long am I your future husband, and no other woman
in this world shall be my wife."

Precocious youth ! A boy, just out of his teens, talking
about being husband and wife — to the daughter of his
own gamekeeper, too ! But the incongruity of the
proposed arrangement did not seem to strike him.

As he finished speaking he placed his arm around her —
though she made every effort to resist him — and, bending
down, pressed a long and passionate kiss to her lips, for
the second time that afternoon, if she had only known it !
Now this was not be done comfortably while walking, so
for the moment they stopped, as if by mutual consent,
although she did so against her will, since his arm arrested
her progress.

Here the third party stopped likewise, and seemed,
in the twilight, to be apostrophizing, with a stick, the first
• pale stars of evening, as if annoyed with them for slyly
winking at the goings-on of those two in front.

Lizzie's heart was too full to speak at first. She also
had much to say, but could not frame the words just
yet. Their purport, too, was somewhat different from
Hector's, and perhaps would hardly please him when he
heard them. But a strong feeling of duty was within
the girl, which had only given way for the moment to his
passionate avowal. She felt then that she could not help
herself, but meant to be so good afterwards.

Hector Grayle had said he knew her character, but he
did not half know it if he thought that his mere words
had conquered all her scruples and resolutions. Those
words she felt sure had been spoken from the heart.
Such words, too, might she have spoken, for she loved

k 2

him as well — far too well, she feared, for her own
happiness.

Lizzie Rolfe was a girl, indeed, of no ordinary character.
Carefully brought up by Gideon and his wife, who naturally
doted on her, she was an honour to their tuition,
and had well repaid the old people by never having given
them a moment's anxiety in her life. From a fondness
for reading, her mind had become, to a certain degree,
self-cultivated, and reached a far higher level than that
of most people in her class. Her singularly beautiful
face had, of course, brought her many admirers, as I have
said, and some of these were rather above her in station j
but none could turn her head, for she was the last girl in
the world to fall a victim to her own vanity. Like
Hector, however, she had never been in love before, so
that made a difference. The struggle, therefore, was all
the harder, and it was the more difficult to determine on
the proper course — the only safe one, as she considered,
open to them both — for the little ship would not answer
readily to its helm, and kept tossing and tumbling over
the turbulent waves, as Cupid beckoned from one shore
and duty from the other. But Lizzie had the strictest
sense of what was right, and knew that a clandestine
love affair with Hector Grayle would be decidedly wrong ;
so her resolution was soon formed.

They resumed their walk without speaking. He was
waiting for her reply, and she was still silent.

The third party seemed to have got over his sudden
antipathy to the stars, and, with the stick lowered to its
ordinary use, continued to follow at the same respectful
distance.

They had now reached the borders of a plantation of
firs and larches in the neighbourhood of High Lodge,
and Hector, with a regretful feeling that their walk was

so nearly over, halted against the palings which surrounded
this plantation, and said anxiously, —

Lizzie, darling, we have only a few more minutes
together. Your silence fills me with misgivings. Won't
you speak, dear ? Why won't you speak ? "

Oh, Mr. Hector, I — I really don't know what to say,"
she murmured, in a low tone. "If I were only a lady I
could answer you frankly and truthfully, but — "

But you will be a lady when you are my wife, my
darling' argued Hector, tenderly, and drawing her to him
as he leant against the fence. " A lady ! psha ! What
is there in the word ? Away with such empty nonsense !
You are my first and only love — my pure little angel.
Isn't that good enough to be my wife ? A lady, indeed ! "
he grew quite impatient as he spoke — " to me you are
all that is good, gentle, and noble by nature ; that is my
idea of a lady."

Please don't think me ungracious," rejoined Lizzie,
looking up into his face with soft pleading eyes. " I
know you mean what you say. I have every faith in you,
but you really must not talk to me of such things. It
cannot be, and I have no right to listen to you."

But why not? why cannot it be, Lizzie ? We may
have some time to wait, perhaps — "

"A long, long time," she answered, sadly; " never is a
very long time, and I know it must be — never. " There
was no mistaking the firmness with which this was said.

Oh, darling, pray don't be so hopeless, so dreadfully
hopeless. Only trust in me — why should you doubt ? "

I do not doubt you indeed, but it is wrong. I am
wicked to let you even think of love and — and marriage,
much less talk of it, to one in my position. What would
your good, kind mother say ? what would all your friends
say of you, and me, too, if such a thing were known ?

No, no, you have the whole world before you, to choose
where you may ; should I be blessed with happiness if I
took you at your word and blighted your young life?
Never. You will thank me for this by-and-by ; perhaps
respect me the more for it."

There can be no real love without respect, Lizzie,
and as I can never love you less, I can hardly respect you
more. Oh, darling, what can I say to move you ? You
are cold and cruel in your words — "

No, no, indeed — not cold and cruel ; do not think that
of me ; I could not speak as I have, perhaps, if — if — I did
not feel as I do." She had hesitated, and the last words
were sighed softly, as if substituted for others'.

Even now lam my own master, Lizzie. I am of age,
as you know ; but let some little time elapse ; I will be
content to wait patiently if you wish it ; and then if I
claim you by and by, would you still demur ? Trust me, I
shall never change."

Nor I" she murmured.

Then you would still refuse me ? " cried he, impetuously,
and misunderstanding her. " Even if I proved
faithful for a whole year, two whole years, and then claimed
you as my wife — no matter what the world might say — it
would make no difference ? Oh, Lizzie," he continued
hastily, in a voice of mingled reproach and disappointment,
and never waiting for an answer, " I understand
you now; the love is all on my side. You do not
love!"

Indeed, indeed I do ! " she exclaimed, completely off
her guard. The passionate words had burst from her lips
before she could stop them.

This was enough for Hector, who caught her in his
arms, and kissing her sweet face rapturously, cried, in
triumph, —

Silly, foolish little girl ! then you shall be mine, in
spite of yourself."

She did not struggle now — indeed it would have been
useless — she did not attempt to avert his impassioned
caresses ; but when he desisted, merely disengaged herself
from his embrace, and said quietly, —

You do not know me yet ; but as I have confessed, I
may as well say on. The very love I own would make
me more determined, more resolved to save you from
yourself. As you feel now, so you speak, I fully believe,
and on my account you shall never have cause to regret
your words. You say you will not change, neither shall
I ; let time prove that ; but though we both avow the
same, remember there is no compact — nothing to bind
either — we are free as though no word of love had passed
between us."

But what am I to understand ? " — asked Hector,
puzzled by the girl's simple eloquence.

I cannot, will not say more," she answered firmly ;
indeed I have said too much."

No, no ; let it be so then," he exclaimed, seizing
her hand again, "let there be a tacit understanding
between us, and no more than that at present. Well,
well, I must be content to accept the compromise. Your
decision is best and wisest, I daresay, though it is very,
very hard to abide by — for me, at least. Meanwhile I
think I shall go abroad for a year or two — perhaps to
India, as was suggested to me only the other day. But
wherever I may go, or wherever I may be, you may trust
me, Lizzie. You shall see how Jean love — how real love,
tried by waiting, goes hand in hand with faith, and
never dies."

Speaking thus fervidly, his eyes beaming with honest
emotion, Lizzie felt that such a love as this was worth

having indeed, and sighed to think that, coming from
him, it should be as forbidden fruit to one in her position.

It were all one,
That I should love a bright particular star,
And think to wed it, he is so above me :
In his bright radiance and collateral light
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere."

Such thought, clothed in simple phrase, ma}'- have passed
through Lizzie's mind as she reflected on the difference
of their positions. Rank, that inexorable barrier, stood
between her and her love, and, come what may, she would
never let him stoop to claim her hand. What right, then,
had she to hope herself, or give him hope ? She even
regretted that she had said so much, little though it was.

The moon had now joined the inquisitive stars as
spectators of this romance, and her silvery sheen glimmered
through the firs and larches overhead, seeming
to smile softly on these sad lovers. They stood side by
side for a few moments without speaking, Hector, the
while, retaining her hand in his, when suddenly she withdrew
it with a start, and glancing timidly into the dark
plantation, whispered anxiously, " What was that ? Pm
sure I heard a footstep."

Down, Pilot ! " cried Hector, as the retriever uttered
a low growl. They both listened attentively, but no
further sound reached them. And now Lizzie suddenly
recollected that it was getting late, and that the old
people might be alarmed at her absence, so begged
Hector not to detain her longer, and they moved on
once more towards the cottage, Hector saying as they
did so, —

We must meet again, and soon, my darling."

u Oh no, Mr. Hector ; indeed we must not — we cannot—"


u Only once, I implore you, Lizzie' he pleaded. " We
do not quite understand each other yet, I think. You
will not refuse rue this little request. I will do all you
wish in the future; you may depend on me."

Well, it were better for him to understand her
thoroughly, she thought ; so, perhaps, there would be
no great harm in one more meeting — only one ! Especially
if he really meant to go away for a time.

Poor Lizzie ! She did so want to do what was right ;
but Hector Grayle tried her sorely, and she was but a
woman — nay, a mere child, loving him, oh so dearly.

As they neared the cottage it was agreed that she
should go in alone ; not that they were ashamed to be
seen thus together, but each entertained the same feeling,
by tacit consent, that their interview was to be a sacred
secret between them.

Well, good night, my little darling," sighed Hector,
at last. "We must part now, I suppose." And when
he kissed her this time it was not a case of stealing, for
she returned the kiss. After all, it could not be so very
wrong just this once, she protested to her own conscience,
so that she kept her good resolutions for the future !
But Lizzie ought to have been very careful. Just that
once is very frequently once too often, and spite of all the
best resolutions in the world, is liable, like a dangerous
current, to draw the wavering bark into a sea of troubles,
with fierce breakers ahead, and perilous rocks hidden
beneath the surface.

As Hector made his way back towards the Hall his mind
was filled with strange wild thoughts, doubts, and fears, intermixed
with desperate resolves, and above them all rose
the picture of that beautiful face which so infatuated him.
Yet it were a misnomer to call his love a mere infatuation.
It was more than that; for, to do him justice, not the face

alone,, but the whole character of the girl, had thus
enslaved him.

On going past the plantation again his dogs stopped
suddenly and uttered once more a low growl, as if some
evil spirit were abroad which troubled them. But
Hector was too preoccupied to pay heed to their warning,
and whistling them to follow, walked on through the
park.

It was a bright frosty evening, and the cold light of the
moon, which had risen in subdued resplendency, cast deep
shadows on the ground, like phantoms of the passing
figures.

Before he had proceeded many yards Hector became
conscious of another shadow in his wake, and looking
round, observed a man following close behind him. But
as there was nothing unusual in this, since any one else
might be crossing the park at the same time, he took no
notice of it until the figure drew up level with him, when
the dogs showed some signs of recognition, by sniffing
round the individual, and wagging their tails.

Who is that ? " asked Hector, adding, as he recognized
him, " oh, it's you, is it, Woodruff ? A fine evening
good night to you."

The man, however, merely touched his hat, and continued
walking by Rector's side for a few strides without
saying anything.

Suddenly he stopped and blurting out, —

I want to speak to yow, sir, if yow please," folded his
arms, and looked anything but amiable in the weird
moonlight. Hector stopped also.

Certainly, Woodruff, what is it ? " inquired he, rather
surprised at the fellow's manner.

PVaps it aunt for the likes o* me to dictate to the
likes o' yow, sir, a gentleman ; but what I want to 'now

is, du yow think it's right to carry on with a poor young
gal like that there ? " tossing his head towards the
lodge.

What do you mean, Woodruff ? " asked Hector, in a
sharp tone, though he knew what he meant perfectly
well.

w I mean that there gal, Lizzie Wolfe. That's who I
mean, sir''

And pray who made you her guardian, I should like
to know ? What have you to do with her affairs or
mine ? ,J

Nothing' with your, I essay, sir. But I have with
hers. I love that gal, and no wonder she 'ont look at me
if yow fine gentleman go a turning' of her head."

"■ I don't think you know what you are talking about,
man' said Hector, haughtily, and preparing to move on.
You had better hold your tongue and mind your own
business'

Yes, but that is my business, sir," answered the
other, sulkily. "And I do know what I'm talking
about."

Now, no impertinence, Woodruff, if you please. Keep
a civil tongue in your head, and listen to me. Taking it
for granted — which I don't, mind— that you have any
right whatever to couple Lizzie Rolfe's name with yours,
what is all this about ? What makes you speak in this
manner ? "

Well, sir, what I've heard's enough to make a man
speak, I think."

« Heard ? When ? "

This very evenun', o'coorse. Not ten minutes
ago."

"Oh, oh — I understand, then," said Hector, as the
recollection flashed across him of the footstep in the

wood,, and the growling of the dogs. "Do you mean to
tell me, Woodruff, that you were in that plantation just

now

?»

What if I was, sir ? It's my business in them woods
as one of the nippers."

"Your business this time, though, was playing the
part of eavesdropper ; a sneak, in fact," and Hector's
blood boiled at the man's effrontery.

I overheard what yow and she was a savin', if that's
what yow want to 'now," mumbled Woodruff, coolly.

Then what the devil do you mean by it, you impudent
fellow ? How dare you go sneaking about in that fashion ?
You'll repent this sort of conduct with me, I can tell you,"
exclaimed Hector, with repressed choler, although he so far
nearly lost control over himself as to strike the man down
where he stood. Only one thing restrained him, which
was that an open rupture might make matters worse —
would probably lead to Lizzie's name being compromised,
and he was very anxious to suppress the least breath of
scandal with regard to her. For her sake, then, and hers
only, he would be cautious. He did not care a pin about
himself.

So it came to this — that the cherished interview which
they would fain have kept from being revealed to all the
world — the story of their pure love, which they treasured
as a sacred secret in their hearts — was at the mercy of
this fellow — in all likelihood a vindictive fellow, too, owing
to his acute jealousy. It was cruelly vexatious ! too
maddening for words !

Hector was sadly put to it, and did not, for the time,
know exactly what course to adopt. He was, perhaps,
inclined to magnify Woodruff's offence in having thus
spied on his interview with Lizzie Rolfe, and was the
quicker to take umbrage at his dogged manner — which

was habitual to the man — from the humiliation he felt at
having been thus watched by one of their own servants.

But the lower orders are not so nice as to little points
of honour and candid dealings ; and, after all, Woodruff
had acted merely from a jealous impulse, and with a
desire to protect the girl from harm, even if she did reject
his addresses, since he argued that an affair of this kind
could bode her no good. In the meeting he witnessed he
had seen more than he had heard, and therefore judged
from outward appearances rather than words exchanged.

Threats, or no threats, Mr. Hector," continued he, as
his young master paused for a minute, " J ain't a mite
afeard ; shan't done nothing' to be 'shamed of."

' You call playing the sneak nothing to be ashamed of,
indeed ! " cried Hector, only condescending to parley
further with the fellow in order to gain time and think of
some plan whereby he could silence him.

No ; I say again," repeated Woodruff, emboldened by
Hector's evident embarrassment, " I ha' got no call to be
'shamed of anything I ha' done, though mayhap yow have,
sir."

That'll do," rejoined Hector, fiercely ; " hold your
tongue ; you've said quite enough. It is not for me to
discuss such a subject with you, my grandfather's servant,"
he added, in a proud tone; " so let that suffice. I
will only add this — You say you love that girl ;" — the
words almost choked Hector; the very idea of such a
thing! — "and no one can respect her more than I do;
then for her sake you ought also to wish that this matter
goes no farther ; that her good name should not be sullied
by the lips of every scandal-monger, in fact — "

Oh, I don't care what folks say now, sir," interrupted
Woodruff, moodily. " I heard and saw quite enough tonight
to choke me off, I can tell yer."

Then you wish to defy me ? " There was a suppressed
anger in the words which might have warned the man.

Oh ah ! I don't care what I do, nor what I says, so
there ! "

You will regret this tomorrow, probably' observed
Hector, still keeping his temper with wonderful self-command.
iC Listen to me, Woodruff. I'll give you one
other chance, and you had better sleep on it. Mind you,
I am not the least ashamed of what has transpired ; but I
do not choose that Lizzie Rolfe's name should be bandied
about at the public-house and elsewhere; therefore, if
you keep your own counsel in this matter, and tomorrow
come to me with an apology for your mean conduct and
insolence to-night, it will be better for you. But if you
don't, I'll take care you are punished as you deserve for
that conduct; no matter what you may divulge as the
result of your sneaking propensity ; and you need not
expect to find a home any longer on this estate."

Hector was driven into a corner, or he would hardly
have been so severe ; he was at his wits' end to preserve
her pure name from the loose and groundless scandal to
which this affair, if bruited abroad, might too easily give
rise ; and he was determined to " scotch the snake " at all
events, either by threats or conciliation.

The world with calumny abounds,
The whitest virtue slander wounds :
These are whose joy is, night and day,
To talk a character away : —

and Barringtree was quite as bad as Belgravia or Mayfair
in that respect.

Observing the apparent indifference with which Woodruff
received his speech, Hector waxed very wrath indeed,
and continued, in fierce and excited tones, —

One word more, tiny man ! As a parting remembrance,
when you get your dismissal from here, by
heaven ! I'll give you such a horse-whipping as you'll
never forget to the last day of your life."

Young Hector Grayle looked really dangerous now ; so
much so that Woodruff cowered before him, and only
muttered something sulkily as he took a step back from
the towering figure which threatened him.

Noticing that the effect of his angry menace was not
lost on the man, Hector added, in a somewhat calmer
tone, —

Now you know what to expect. Do as I have told
you, and all will be well ; but if not, take the consequences'


So saying, he turned on his heel, and left Woodruff
standing in the pathway, growling to himself like distant
thunder.

CHAPTER XIV.

EXTRAORDINARY RUN WITH LORD Buckram's STAGHOUNDS."

Bright chanticleer proclaims the dawn,
And spangles deck the thorn ;
The loving herds now quit the lawn,
The lark springs from the corn.
Dogs, huntsmen, round the window throng,
Fleet Tower leads the cry;
Arise the burthen of their song,
This day a stag must die.

With a hey, ho, chevy,

Hark forward, hark forward, tantivy ! &c."

Old Hunting Song.

Days passed, and Hector, hearing no more of the matter,
concluded that Woodruff had thought it wiser to hold his
tongue ; and although the man had not yet tendered the
prescribed apology, his young master was content to
waive that ceremony; for on reflection, he could not, in
his calmer moments, make the under keeper out quite so
culpable as, in his anger, he had deemed him. For
obvious reasons, too, he was glad to let the affair blow
over, and was resolved that this should be a lesson to
him, and a caution as to bow he risked the good name of
her he loved for the future.

Meanwhile, though Hector had overlooked Woodruff's
conduct, he had not done so with regard to Master Macbeth,

whose villainous behaviour he duly brought to the
Squire's notice, and having satisfied his grandfather as
to the dangerous nature of the animal, its death-warrant
had been reluctantly signed.

But it was not intended that the noble stag should
be put out of the world in an ignominious fashion, by
potting " him with a rifle or cutting his throat, but
that he should have a run for his life ; and accordingly
Lord Bucknam was invited to bring his staghounds over
for the purpose. The meet was fixed for Barringtree
Park, and it was arranged that the chase should be " run
out on its merits," as it were, a outrance — it being understood
that the deer was to be killed at the finish, and not
merely taken.

The day chosen for this stag-hunt dawned propitiously,
with "a southerly wind and a cloudy sky" (though the first
finds less favour nowadays in the eyes of the modern
Nimrod), and all that was desirable for a hunting morning.
The frost was well out of the ground, yet the thaw
had not made it very heavy going, and there was every
promise of a burning scent, so what more could the most
exigeant huntsman wish for ?

One hunt breakfast is much like another, and may be
briefly summed up by tea and top-boots, pink coats and
prodigious appetites, and cherry brandy, caracas, or other
liqueurs to wind up with ; and I might almost say that
most runs are alike, though some are exceptional, and
this was one of them.

The park, in the vicinity of the Hall, presented a lively
scene by eleven o'clock ; every one in the neighbourhood,
far and near, entitled to be called anybody, being present
at the meet, and all the nobodies as well. There were
two or three well-appointed drags and a goodly show of
colour altogether, a strong force of pink coats being

vol. 1. l

relieved here and there by a few " currant-jelly dog "
gentlemen in green, and a fair sprinkling of ladies.

It was well known that an unusual quarry would be
provided that day, and Master Macbeth had earned such
a reputation roundabout as lent additional interest and
excitement to the occasion. Lord Bucknam had insisted
at first that those dangerous horns should be sawn off
before the animal was " enlarged," since he had no wish
to risk the lives of any of his valuable hounds ; but this
the Squire protested against; ; firstly, because he wished to
preserve that splendid head intact ; and secondly, because
his idea of sport did not hold with this custom.

If staghounds are staghounds," he argued, "let them
tackle their game in its natural state, not mutilated and
shorn of its defence to suit their safety, and make the
animal an easy prey."

Still harping on the subject, he put forward as a further
argument a reminder of bygone days, when Davis, on old
Hermit, used to take Her Majesty's Buckhounds down to
the New Forest for choice, there rousing the lordly
denizen from his "harbour," and giving the royal pack
a taste of the wild blood.

Alas, that those times are past ! that the noble stag in its
untamed state has been nearly exterminated in England,
and except for a scanty few in the sylvan glades of Exmoor,
the " merrier woods of England " know them no longer !

To Mr. Grayle's last remark his lordship replied, —

"That's all very well, Squire; of course when you hunt
a warrantable stag from the forest you must take him
as you find him ; but you are not obliged to do so in a
case like this, and I can't see the harm in clipping his
claws to save my pack."

But Mr. Grayle was obdurate, and held out that Master
Macbeth must be run as he stood, or left alone.

Eventually the Squire gained his point ; but when old
job, his lordship's huntsman, heard the result of the controversy,
he had strong misgivings as to the fate of some
of " them impetuous ones."

In that equestrian crowd we may recognize almost all
our old acquaintances. Talking to Captain Heffernan,
who stands at her stirrup, is Agnes Grayle, looking
remarkably well in the most perfect habit Wolmershausen
ever turned out, and seated on a rakish-looking little
chestnut — a Christmas-box from the Squire — with a first-rate
reputation as a fencer, and a safe lady's mount. At
this moment a groom brings up Heffernan's horse, a
handsome hunter of the old school, with splendid
shoulder, deep girth, short flat legs, and " well let down
behind' displaying quarters that would jump you into
the middle of next week ; very different from one of those
fiddle-headed, ewe-necked, tucked-up brutes, showing
more daylight underneath than pluck inside, so common
in the hunting-field nowadays, and of which class there
are a good many to be seen on the present occasion.

Heffernan is very proud of the "Emperor;" he picked
him up rather cheap at Tattershall's with a queer leg, but
by judicious rest and doctoring the animal had come upas
sound as a brass bell. Such a lucky bargain does not
often fall to dabblers in horseflesh ! He has mounted
now, horse and rider both looking thoroughly businesslike,
and ranging up alongside his fiancee, he is pleased to
hear her express undisguised admiration of the animal.

Lady Mountjoy has driven Sir Francis over in her
pony carriage, drawn by a pair of sleek cream-coloured
little ponies, with a smart tiger behind. " Dear Sir
Francis' did not himself hunt, but her ladyship did (notwithstanding
that she was "getting on), and gloried in
it ; so, emerging from her wraps, she quickly transfers

l 2

herself from the carriage to her horse, which had been
sent forward.

The Squire, Hector, and others, are all more or less
well mounted; Mrs. Tewkesley's and Clement Mountjoy's
animals coming rather under the head of less. The little
Irish lady, albeit with a national keenness for hunting,
only aspires to a fat, apoplectic-looking cob, more accustomed
to eating its head off than going across country;
and Clement's horse was just one of those fiddle-headed
creatures alluded to, but a fair specimen of the Merry-dale
stables, where Hector said they never had a decent
animal, which was true (if we except the cream ponies),
for her ladyship's hunter was a very questionable beast,
and quite unworthy of its plucky rider.

But we have no time now to discuss all the people and
their individual steeds ; we shall see what they are good for
presently. Meanwhile Master Macbeth has had liberal law,
and his lordship giving Job the signal, the motley cavalcade
moves off.

The stag had been driven from his paddock and turned
out of the park by a side entrance at a point where, if he
faced the open properly, his line would take them over a
good hunting country. His exit having taken place
privately, Job now trotted away with his eighteen couples
of splendid buck hounds towards the High Lodge entrance,
there being a perfect swarm of unruly pedestrians
and others, whom he was anxious to shake off. On
getting outside the gates he swung round, and keeping
along the park wall, left it to the pack to strike the proper
line as they came across it.

When the procession passed the lodge, Lizzie Wolfe
and her mother were standing in the trellised porch,
whereupon Mr. Grayle stopped and spoke to the keeper's
daughter, and tendered a gracious apology for the fright

the red deer had given her, adding that her assailant was
about to pay the penalty of his misdemeanour. Hector,
riding by his grandfather's side, and looking the beau
ideal of a young English gentleman in his " pink " and
otherwise faultless " get up," was pleased at this action
on the part of the Squire, and gave Lizzie a look and
smile full of meaning as they rode on.

"And what do you think of our village beauty, Albert
? " inquired Agnes, drawing Heffernan's attention to
Lizzie Rolfe as they passed.

« Very pretty, certainly'

A sweet face, isn't it ? The belle of Barringtree, they
call her."

"Nay, that can hardly be," rejoined Heffernan, gallantly.
" But, of course, you mean in her own sphere."
He frowned slightly, as if at the idea of a mere village
girl presuming to compete with his future wife.

No, I don't, indeed ! " exclaimed Agnes ; " and not
only that, she is considered one of the beauties of the
county by all who have seen her."

u Really ? Well, too much admiration is bad for a
girl in her position. I hope her people look well after
her."

They have no reason to be anxious about Lizzie, I
assure you; she's a thoroughly good girl, and quite a
pattern daughter."

Then they are greatly to be congratulated," observed
Heffernan, turning his head away as he spoke to adjust a
stirrup-leather. " So much virtue and beauty are not
often to be found in a girl of that class."

"I really don't see why they shouldn't be," returned
Agnes, rather vexed at an almost imperceptible
sarcasm which she fancies she detects in his words.

But further conversation is interrupted at this juncture ;

for suddenly a deep note is heard in front, which in a
moment swells into a melodious chorus as old Job brings
his pack upon the line, and away race the eager beauties
at a terrific pace with a breast-high scent.

Now the stag, on leaving the park, in spite of rattling
of hats with sticks, and other devices to frighten him off,
only condescends to trot a few hundred yards away ; and
on reaching a tempting piece of grass on the further side
of a wood which hides him from view, he proceeds to
take a slight refection, not understanding why he should
hurry himself. Presently, however, he raises his head,
and sniffing danger with rapid instinct, again makes off
with quick, jerky bounds, all-four-hoof s-at-once sort of
action, accelerating these movements still further as the
distant peal of music from the pack is wafted to his ears.
A beautiful line he is taking now, and seems rather to
enjoy the fun, not the least fearing to face the open;
when, unluckily, just as he is going right away, he is
blanched " by some labourers in a field immediately
ahead. He turns like lightning, and keeps almost on
his " heel line " for a few yards ; then, suddenly darting
off at right angles, heads straight for the village, and
leads the field such a dance as was not forgotten for many
a day. On reaching the first cluster of cottages he hesitates
for a moment, but suddenly appears to lose his head
altogether, and dashes down the middle street at full
speed, to the terror of all the old women and children,
and the edification of a few gaping Hodges, who watch
his manoeuvres. As he gets level with the churchyard
he takes the low wall in his stride, and has a little
steeplechase on his own account among the tombstones —
literally a steeplechase, since he seems to have an idea
of seeking refuge in the steeple itself ; but, finding no
entrance available, quits consecrated ground for the

parson's kitchen-garden close by, and astonishes the old
gardener's weak mind by flying over a huge cucumber-frame
with an effortless leap. Coming to a very high
quickset hedge, which formed the boundary of the parson's
paddock, he quickly makes his "rack" through
this, being very nearly caught by the horns as he does
so, and re-enters the village at another point. He then
continues his mad career along a row of cottage gardens,
separated from each other by low fences, and executes
a series of quick jumps over these, like a performing piebald
at a circus, eventually getting among some farm-buildings,
where it seems as if he would be stopped.
"Without hesitation, however, he clears a range of pig-styles,
and lights right into the middle of Mother Mangle's
drying ground, giving the old washerwoman, who happened
to be there, a fit on the spot. Here he had again
to make his "rack" — this time through a labyrinth
of hanging petticoats, chemises, shirts, sheets, and whatnot,
which he charges in gallant style, carrying off a
baby's frock on one of his horns as a trophy. Tired,
however, of such a cramped country as this, he leaves
the village at last, and heads once more for the open.

Meanwhile the parish of Barringtree re-echoes with the
pounding hoofs which thunder along its thoroughfare,
the impetuous farmers and country folk galloping inanely
about, as if for their lives, on every description of cow,
camel, and giraffe. But Lord Bucknam does not at all
relish this sort of hunting, and anxious for a run, gives
Job the word, who at once whips off the hounds, which
are fortunately well together, and, quietly taking them
down a bye lane, there waits till the " shirking' varmint "
shall condescend to run fair. Sundry scouts report at
last that he has got well away ; so Job lays the pack on
again, and then, to all appearance, the run begins in earnest.

But this uncanny stag has not yet done with his eccentricities,
for after giving them a merry gallop of three
or four miles, he seems bent on suddenly committing
suicide, and the huntsman, to his disgust, views him in
the distance, from a high point of ground, making straight
for the railway at a part where there is a deep cutting.
Into this he disappears, just as a train comes tearing
along, and Job, with a very un-Job-like expression,
exclaims —

Devil take the beast ! Never saw a beggar run so
unkindly. That cuttings half a mile long — safe to be

smashed ! What the did he want to let the engine

rob the hounds for ! "

Not a bit of it, Job, not a bit of it ! Master Macbeth is
still as fresh as paint, and able to give the Great Eastern
train a good start in half a mile and beat it, so he has no
difficulty in showing the engine his heels and keeping his
distance ahead. Of course, the moment he gets on to the
metals — it was a single line — the approaching train turns
him up the cutting, which, however, he quits as soon ashe
can, going away on the opposite side in promising
style.

But Job is not at all inclined to emulate the lunatic
antics of the hunted animal, nor does he mean to run the
risk of the pack being cut up into sausage-meat before
their time ; so he whips off again, and lifting his hounds
a little, skirts the cutting till the line reaches the open.
Here he knows that the deer, if not run into by the
train, will strike away to the right or left, and acts
accordingly.

Hark to Woodman ! That's it, by Jupiter ! " exclaims
the old huntsman in delight, as he anxiously
watches his hounds get on to the stag's line again, and
off that of the Great Eastern. " Not finished yet, my

lord' he cries, exultingly. " Worth, a good many dead
'uns yet. Forrard there ! forrard!"

And away they go once more, helter skelter over a
broad common, studded with gorse; and all is plain
sailing for a time.

Wide through the furzy field their route they take,
Their bleeding bosoms force the thorny brake ;
The flying game their smoking nostrils trace,
No bounding hedge obstructs their eager pace ;" —

But let us take a glance at some of these ardent
sportsmen following ; who, by the bye, have been rather
thinned since they left the village. The Squire had
dropped away some time ago, not intending to follow
beyond a certain distance; but others, who did mean
going, have been prematurely stopped from various
causes ; amongst these being Mrs. Tewkesley and the
cob — the fat beast, sobbing as if its heart would break,
having succumbed in a heavy plough some two or three
fields back.

Faith, Arthur," she cried to her husband, who had
kept near her, "my poor baste can't go any further.
But never mind me, you go on and keep your place."

No, no, Norris, we'll swop horses," replied Tewkesley,
preparing to dismount. He was riding a hunter the
Squire had lent him from the Hall stables. " You just
get on to this animal. Come now, I insist ; I'll change
the saddle in a minute."

Not for the world, Arthur, not for the wor-r-ld.
I've had fun enough, rally. Bob and I'll get back quietly
now. Go you on for any's sake, and don't let the other
parsons cut ye down whatever ye do."

Tewkesley, it appeared, was not the only clerical
sportsman out, and Norah was most anxious that her

husband shouldn't be out of the hunt, at least, so long as
his brothers of the cloth were in it. He knew it was useless
to argue the point, since they had had a very unselfish
wrangle, before starting, as to their respective mounts,
when Mrs. Tewkesley insisted on taking the cob ; so he
gave in, and with a kindly glance and smile at his good
little wife, put spurs to his horse, which, being one of the
right sort, soon made up lost ground.

Now Clement Mount joy could not at any time be considered
a good horseman; but on this occasion some devil
seemed to possess him, for he rode as recklessly as Jack
Mutton of old, and appeared determined to cut the whole
field down, or perish in the attempt. It was not a very
elegant process, however, since he had no more idea of
riding than a tailor, and went at his jumps, arms and legs
working like a windmill, with a loose rein, and a looser
seat, only escaping a fall each time by the " skin of his
teeth'

Poor old Clem ! I don't think he would have cared to
confess why he rode so hard that day — what powerful
feeling prompted him to try and ride down, not the whole
field exactly, but a certain somebody against whom he
could not suppress an inward animosity, a jealous pang,
which kept gnawing at his heart. It was all very well
for his conscience to argue that this was ungenerous,
unmanly ; but he was little more than a lad, and although
he fervently desired her happiness, it was impossible to
quell a natural antipathy to the person who had come
between him and his ; and he felt all that agony which
Young describes as

The hydra of calamities,
The seven-fold death."

But as a solution of this hard riding he might have put

it to himself cui bono ? and the answer would not have
been satisfactory. Perhaps he wanted to prove himself
as good a man as his rival or better, in which case his
calculation should have included the horse as well as the
rider; or perhaps he desired that this interloper on the
domestic scene should be knocked down and trodden
into the plough for his pains — who knows ? He could
not have told you himself, so I am afraid I cannot ; but
I imagine many a man, similarly circumstanced, has felt
that same indefinable antagonism, which he cannot suppress,
and is powerless to act upon.

The unconscious cause of this emulative spirit on the
part of Clement is taking it very coolly, entirely ignorant
of the other's efforts to outride him. Sailing
along on his magnificent hunter, with a light hand and
perfect seat (the very antithesis of Clement), he smiles
in amusement now and then at the frantic efforts of
many of the field less happy in their mounts. Hitherto
Clement had escaped his notice, but at length HefFernan's
attention is drawn to his reckless riding, and he observes
to himself as he sees him take, with more pluck than
judgment, a post and rails with a wide ditch on the
other side.

By George, what a near thing ! That young idiot
will break his own neck, or his horse's, before the day's
out, if he doesn't mind."

And it certainly looked as if he would in his futile
attempts to compete with the well-mounted officer; for
in these cutting-down tactics, whether rushing through
a thick bullfinch, floundering over a double, or topping
a bank, Clement adopted the same darksome, devil-may-care
style of riding.

Meanwhile Agnes is going beautifully, easily holding
her own at present on the wiry little chestnut, and

Heffernan, with a proprietary eye, watches her negotiate
her fences with a cleverness which wins his cordial
approval. Hector, too, as bold as Alexander, keeps his
Bucephalus well in the front rank, but through all the
thrilling excitement of that memorable run he never
forgets his sister's safety, and is generally either by her
side, or ready to give her a lead at the difficult places.

Soon after crossing the railway and getting beyond the
common, the tremendous pace, combined with some
pretty little jumping, had the effect of further reducing
the field, and they might have been counted now on the
fingers — the huntsman, master, first whip, a couple of
hard-riding farmers, and a few of the Hall contingent
forming the diminished total.

Lady Mountjoy, with a heart twice as big as her worthless
hunter's, had been reluctantly compelled to give in
at last; but, as the deer ran in a circuit, she had the
satisfaction, with a good many others, of cutting in again
before the finish. Clement, too, was about told out,
or rather, his horse was, for he himself was riding a
good deal faster than that animal could go ; but determined
to make one expiring effort to show his mettle, he
rushed past Heffernan like a tornado, and charged a huge
wattle fence and ditch in front full tilt. His fiddle-headed
beast, however, never rose a foot, so they tumbled
head over heels on the other side in a helpless heap \ and
while the horse flopped into the ditch, Clement was
pitched several yards beyond, but fortunately on to a
ploughed field, so he was none the worse.

You went at it too fast, Mountjoy/' remarked
Heffernan, as his well-trained hunter carried him safely
over, lighting close by the prostrate hero ; c ' much too
fast, and your animal's blown — not hurt, though, I hope
that's all right. 'Ware loss ! here, catch hold, or we

D/

shall be out of it," he added, quickly hooking up the
reins of the fallen steed with the handle of his crop, and
passing them to Clement, who had only just regained his
feet. The latter's mouth was too full of mud to thank
him, even if he had not been almost choked at the same
time by a feeling of mortification ; but HefFernan never
waited for thanks, and in a twinkling was out of sight
in the next field.

This was practically the end of .the run as far as
Clement was concerned. He viewed his horse's heaving
flanks with a rueful glance, and thought he had better
give it up as a bad job; so, remounting leisurely, he
dropped into a lane close by, and rode slowly and dejectedly
back towards Barringtree,

As I have said, the stag ran in a circuit, a very
extensive circuit too, and few indeed were able to live
with the hounds all the way. In fact, such a run for
pace, jumps, and distance, had seldom been seen, and
even our young friends, Hector and Agnes, were thrown
out for a time — until the deer headed back — though Heft
on the noble Emperor, was able to stick to the
line through every yard.

To many of the beaten field, who were scattered here
and there all over the country, it was a welcome sound
indeed when the distant music of the returning pack once
more greeted their ears, and the excitement was increased
tenfold when Master Macbeth was presently viewed
making his point straight back for Barringtree Park.
It was evident now that the noble beast was fearfully
distressed, and the hounds were lessening the gap
between them and their quarry every field they went.

"What a grand old stag!" was the general ejaculation.


He ought to have his life for giving us such a run,"

cried some one else, though the speaker had seen very
little of it himself.

Some of the keen tag-rag and bob-tail, who had
had plenty of breathing time, now cut in, and galloped
madly off after the deer, as if each meant to take him
single-handed ; but fortunately he swerved to the right
just then, and prevented these lunatics from crossing his
line or getting between him and the pack.

And now every eye watches him, still in full view, ashe
nears the park wall — eight feet high if it is an inch —
undoubtedly making as if he intends to jump it. Can
such a leap as this be possible after the tremendous
"bickering" he has undergone? Scarcely. Yet he
seems to think so ; for as he approaches the obstacle, he
apparently gathers his legs quicker under him for the
attempt. But no — see ! he falters ! though only for a
second ; the next moment he bounds high into the air,
and with a tremendous effort clears the wall and something
to spare, 1 with one of the finest leaps ever recorded
in the annals of sport.

Here he baulks hounds, huntsman, and everybody;
though Job had played strict follow-my-leader since they
got over the railway. But they are stumped again now,
and the old huntsman, with the balance of his pack — for
there are several absentees by this time — is forced to
hurry round the wall in search of the nearest entrance.
By this, however, they lose very little ground, and are
quickly on the line again, which now' leads them straight
towards the lake.

Taken soil, for a monkey ! " cries Job to himself, ashe
catches sight of the water ; and he is right in his conjecture,
for as they reach the bank, the hunted deer is seen
swimming diagonally across towards the opposite shore.

1 A fact.

t>



The eager pack, with a suppressed burst of music,
dash in after him, and in a few minutes bring him to baby
the boat-house. But there is plenty of work cut out-for
them yet. The noble animal, with the water dripping
from his heaving flanks, now places himself stern-foremost
to the side of the boat-house, and with lowered
head prepares to receive the onslaught of his foes.

Although he is sore distressed and almost exhausted,
as evidenced by his panting sides and lolling tongue, he
has not lost the threatening fire in his eyes nor the use
of his terrible horns, and quick as lightning two of his
foremost assailants are bowled over by a sweep of those
deadly points.

D — n it ! quick ! here, catch hold some one, quick ! "
cries Job, as he leaps from his horse and hurries across
the bridge ; " tmVU never do — Traitor and Harlequin
stuck like pigs — best hounds in the pack — curse that
horned civil!" and, without a moments hesitation, he
rushes round to the boat-house, and clambering on to the
roof, which is fortunately low enough for the purpose, he
whips out his hunting-knife and watches his opportunity.

Suddenly stooping over, he makes a dive forward, and
seizing the animal by the antlers with marvellous quickness
and dexterity, delivers the coup de grace.

Thus ended the career of Master Macbeth and the
wonderful run he gave for his life ; by some computed at
fifty miles in length, though five-ands thirty would, perhaps,
be nearer the mark; at any rate, a memorable
run, in which nearly everybody was enabled to be in at
the death, and well worthy to be quoted, as it was, in all
the papers, London and. local, and as re-quoted at the
heading of this chapter.

CHAPTER XV.

"Thou wondrous yellow fiend!"

Davenport.

Accursed jealousy !
O merciless, wild, and unforgiving fiend !
Blindfold it runs to undistinguish'd mischief,
And murders all it meets. Cursed be its rage ;
For there is none so deadly. Doubly cursed
Be all those easy fools who give it harbour ;
Who turn a monster loose among mankind,
Fiercer than famine, war, or spotted pestilence,
Baneful as death, and horrible as hell."

Hive.

More jealousy ! Yes, with the reader's permission, this
chapter will treat a little further on that familiar subject.
Indeed, " the green-eyed monster' " the yellow fiend'
or whatever he may be called, is rather a prominent
character in this first part of my story.

Thou king of torments ! " " Almighty tyrant of the
human mind!" the heart of the high-born gentleman
and that of the lowly peasant are alike seared and
torn by thy merciless, venomous fangs. Thus Clement
Mountjoy and Allan Woodruff were fellow-victims
suffering under the same bane, though with widely
different feelings, and under a different force of circumstances.


As I have said, Hector Grayle flattered himself that
Woodruff had acted on counsel and held his tongue as to
that romantic moonlight episode ; and so he had up to
the present, though more from a natural sulky reserve
than from any caution inspired by threats ; and as to the
apology, that was not at all likely to be forthcoming.

The fellow brooded in silence for a few days, during
which he did not see Lizzie Rolfe ; but it was only the
ominous lull before the storm, for the next time they
met their interview was an angry one — at least on his
part — and all the worst passions of the man seemed
thoroughly roused.

This Woodruff, then, was now almost as dangerous a
creature abroad as the late Master Macbeth had been,
and was nearly demented by the racking tortures of the
"yellow tinging plague. " And what an unprovoked
jealousy it was — what a one-sided affair altogether ! Lizzie
had never given him the slightest hope or encouragement
to look upon her other than a friend or acquaintance;
what right, then, had he to be jealous of her or her
actions ?

What right have scores of men, one may ask, to foster
the all-consuming passion — where their ardour is only
expended on thin air, and when such misplaced energy
might be much more usefully applied ?

Ai'ter the stormy interview alluded to, Lizzie returned
home quite terrified by the violence of her would-be lover ;
and on entering the cottage, found Mrs. Corcoran seated
with her mother, sharing the warmth of the yule log.
Observing her frightened looks, which Lizzie could not
conceal, they naturally inquired the cause. After a little
hesitation she was obliged to explain, though the name
of Hector Grayle, in connexion with the affair, was carefully
suppressed.

VOL. I. M

That there fellow Woolly Woodruff's wholly crazed,"
observed Mrs. Rolfe, as Lizzie concluded ; " mad as a
march hare. Gideon ought to keep an eye on him. Sit
you down, my dear, and have a cup of tea. Why, you're
trembling all over like a happen."

• " No wonder, poor child' said Mrs. Corcoran, in a
sympathizing tone ; " a great rough brute like that,
bullying a girl because she won't have anything to say
to him."

u I'll give him ' what; for ' next time I see him," exclaimed
Mrs. Rolfe, indignantly, as she poured Lizzie out
some tea.

' What can make him so wild with you, I wonder," remarked
Mrs. Corcoran, watching the girl's face narrowly ;
(i are you sure you haven't jilted him, Lizzie ? Are you
sure he isn't jealous of somebody ? "

"He can hardly think himself jilted when there has never
been anything between us," answered Lizzie, evasively, her
face colouring while she replied.

"Well, you know best, my dear," returned Mrs.
Corcoran, who duly observed the sudden blush ; " I
merely thought perhaps you might have given him a
little encouragement one time or another; just a little,
you know, and then have thrown him over for some one
else."

Allan Woodruff has no cause to complain of my
conduct towards him in any way, Mrs. Corcoran,"
rejoined Lizzie ; and desiring to avoid further cross
questioning, she added, " If you please I would rather
not talk of the man any more ; it quite upsets me."

Just as you like, my dear, of course. Pray don't
think I meant to be curious," said Mrs. Corcoran, with
somewhat an offended air.

Oh, not at. all," returned the girl, hastening to conciliate

her; u and I'rn sure I'm much, obliged to you for
taking any interest in the matter."

Well, here comes your father, Lizzie," observed Mrs.
Wolfe ; " at any rate you'd best tell him all about it, and
let him give that there Woolly Woodruff a talking to,"
and Gideon entered the cottage while his wife was
speaking.

Then Lizzie had, very reluctantly, to go over all the
affair again. When Wolfe heard it, he was very angry,
and vowed all sorts of vengeance against the underkeeper
for daring to frighten his " sweet little rosebud ; n and
Woolly Woodruff's ears must have tingled at the old
man's threats and indignation.

It was getting late in the afternoon, so Mrs. Corcoran
now took her leave, and, as she wished Lizzie good-bye,
expressed a hope that the young girl might not be subjected
to further annoyance. Mrs. Corcoran was an
independent sort of woman, and whether she walked
out in the daytime or at night, invariably scorned an
escort, so she made her return journey to her brother's
house alone, as she had come. No nervousness about
her, as she averred to herself ; she wasn't afraid of ferocious
stags, or ferocious Woodruffs, or ferocious fiddle-degrees
of any kind. She was sure there was something
at the bottom of this affair, though, which Lizzie Rolfe
hadn't told them, and she should just like to know
what. She couldn't tell why exactly, but her curiosity
was aroused.

Now although Mrs. Corcoran boasted of her nerves, or
more properly, the absence of them, and feared no mortal
man, nor goblin either, she was certainly a bit startled,
on drawing near Crutch Hut, at seeing a rough-looking
fellow suddenly jump over the hedge just in front of her
and bar the way. But she suppressed a little cry, which

m 2

nearly rose to her lips, and summoning all her courage,
attempted to pass him as if heedless of his evident
intention to stop her progress.

Hold hard, mum, not so fast ! " cried the figure, in a
gruff voice, " I want to speak to yaw. 33

What do you want to say ? " she asked, with a forced
asperity in her tone. Then suddenly adding, as she
caught sight of the man's face, "Why it's you, Woodruff,
is it ? "

Yes, that is me; look yow here, missus, yow ha' just
come from Rolfe's lodge, hasn't yer ? 3i

And what if I have ? Don't stand there stopping
me with your impertinence, man ; let me pass."

Don't yer be in such an 'hurry, missus ; du yow listen
to what I ha' got to say."

"Well, what is it?" Mrs. Corcoran thought she
might as well hear both sides of the story.

You're a friend o' Lizzie's, I repose ? " Mrs. Corcoran
nodded. " Then look yow here ; du yow get back
to that there lodge, and tell that there gal if she don't
mind what she's after, she'll be the death o' some one
afore very long, so I don't deceive her. She'll 'now who
I mean."

And who do you mean ? yourself ? " asked the woman,
thinking what a good riddance it would be.

No, taint myself neither. That's my business ivho it
is ; Lizzie'll 'now."

She was right then. There was something or somebody
else at the bottom of this affair.

"You needn't be so mysterious with me, my good
fellow," she observed blandly, and wishing to pump him.
I am Lizzie's friend; but if I can be yours, too, I shall
be glad. Come now, what's the matter ? tell us all
about it."

It 'on't take much telling though I don't see what
good yow can du if I du tell yer J was Woodruff's
ungracious reply.

Perhaps I can ; perhaps I can influence Lizzie in
your favour' she persevered.

Oh, that be alarmed ; not yow, missus. Her head's
tu much took up with another party, to think of the
likes o' me."

"You go to work too roughly with her, Woodruff.
But who is this party that has come between you ? "

Ah, yow may well ask."

Won't you tell me, then ? "

Well, every one's like to know afore long, so yow
may as well nayow for what I care. It's Mister Hector,
that's who that is."

What ! Mr. Hector Grayle ? " exclaimed Mrs. Corcoran,
in surprise, becoming more interested when she
heard this.

u Ay, Mister Hector Grile, and more shame for him,
a plain' the fool with a young girl like that there."

But how do you know, Woodruff ? What have you
seen or heard to make you think this ? "

Think it ! I know it ; I ha' heard enough and seen
enough tu to show me; and what's more, that there gal
loves him though he's only a fooling' of her."

But how did you find it out ? Was it when he was
lying sick at the lodge ? "

No, no ; since then. Though that's when they started
it, I essay," and Woodruff now proceeded to relate the
particulars of that interview on which he had played the
spy. " But he had better look out for himself," growled
he, fiercely. " He have got a desp'rut character to deal
with here, so I don't deceive him ! Curse him ! " he
hissed out between his teeth. " He wanting' me to beg his

pardon tu — ha, ha, ha ! or else I was to git a horse-whipping'
— ho, ho, ho ! ha, ha, ha ! That's a good 'un,
that is, ain't it, Missus ? "

Mrs. Corcoran shuddered as she heard the man laugh
in his savage scorn. He meant mischief ; of that there
was no doubt ; and she thought it would be her duty to
warn Hector Grayle at once of his danger.

Woodruff had called himself a desperate character,
and he certainly looked it, with his lowering eyes and
heavy scowling face. A difficult creature to conciliate
under the circumstances; but Mrs. Corcoran made the
effort.

Now listen to me, Woodruff:/' said she. " Don't you
go exciting yourself like this, and threatening people and
so on. For that'll do no good. You bide your time, and
it'll all come right in the end. Try a different tack with
Lizzie, and don't be for ever growling and grumbling to
her. That's not the way to make a girl like you. As
for Mr. Hector, you've no right to talk of the young
gentleman as you have," she continued, emboldened by
Woodruff's silence, which she took for acquiescence or
submission. " He means no harm, I'll warrant. Just a
silly bit of flirtation, nothing more. Now, do you behave
yourself like a sensible man, pray do, and you'll see Lizzie
will come round after a little."

Bit of flirtation, indeed ! He mayn't mean more,
darn him ! but she does, and that's where it is."

c Oh, nonsense ; it's all your fancy."

'Taint all my fancy," cried he, making Mrs. Corcoran
jump as he barked out the words. " I tell yow
'taint. Yow aunt a going' to git over me with yer soft
sawder. Howsomever," he added, in a calmer voice, "if
you want to do a feller a good turn, and her too, perhaps,
you might go and tell that there gal what I say, and that

she'd better mind what she's after a plain' the fool like
this here,, or it'll be the fuss for her."

Saving which the amiable Woodruff passed on without
waiting to hear more.

Well, this is a pretty state of affairs' soliloquized
Mrs. Corcoran, continuing on her way. u I wonder what
Mr. Albert will say to it. I'll lay those two are really
in love in earnest, and Woodruff knows it, or he wouldn't
be so precious wild. The fellow's half mad, that's clear.
I think I'd better go straight off to the Hall and tell the
Captain what I've heard. He'll warn Mr. Hector; so I
shall kill two birds with one stone."

Halloa ! Good evening Mrs. Corcoran," cried a voice,
as the woman was passing Crutch Hut, and turning, she
saw Grumpy Grayle standing by his garden-gate. ' c I
noticed you talking to that fellow in the road — " said he,
thought it was you."

Good evening, Mr. Grayle. A nice fellow he is too,
sir, that Woolly Woodruff. I've had a very pleasant talk
with him, I can tell you."

Oh, indeed ? "

Yes. I think he's about as crazy a creature as ever
I saw."

Crazy, eh ? Well he seemed all right as he passed
just now. Touched his hat civilly enough and all that.
Precious dirty hat it was too. Sooner lie touched it than
I did."

They call him Woolly Woodruff, and I'm sure his
wits are gone a wool gathering."

'but what has he been doing? What has he been
saying, eh ? "

I should like to tell you about it, Mr. Grayle. Perhaps
you could advise me."

Certainly, if I can. But come into the Hut and sit

down' said Grumpy, opening the garden-gate for her.
li You must be cold standing about."

Mrs. Corcoran gladly accepted the offer, and they disappeared
into the house.

Now then' said Andrew, as he made her take a seat
beside the cheerful fire in the sanctum, " let's hear about
this Mr. Woodruff. But first of all, can I offer you a cup
of tea or anything ? "

No, thank you, Mr. Grayle," she replied, removing a
fur tippet, for the room was warm. " I shall get home
just by tea-time, so I won't take anything before."

Mrs. Corcoran then communicated in a few concise
sentences all the facts relative to Lizzie and Hector, and
Woodruff's consequent jealousy.

So you see, sir," she remarked, in conclusion, " he's
got some reason for his craziness. Some method in his
madness, as a body may say, and it's a funny affair
altogether."

Grumpy Grayle had listened attentively meanwhile,
stroking the black cat with a continuous motion, which
drew out the electricity, and kept up a running accompaniment
of crackling sparks. When the woman ceased
speaking he merely gave vent to a prolonged whistle byway
of reply, and was silent for a few minutes.

A very interesting romance, Mrs. Corcoran, upon my
word," he observed presently. " It strikes me it will
lead to complications."

So I think, Mr. Grayle," said she, thinking so even
more than he did.

That is if the boy Hector is serious. But I don't
expect he is."

I wouldn't be too sure. You see Lizzie Rolfe's a
very uncommon girl — "

An uncommon fine girl, yes ; I quite agree with you."

And such a face as hers is likely enough to make any
young fellow, no matter what his position, fall desperately
in love, and no half measures about it."

No doubt, no doubt. Well, if he has, it's a pretty
kettle of fish. Wonder what they'll say at the Hall ? "

At this thought Grumpy chuckled to himself, and drew
out an extra volley of sparks from the cat.

I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Grayle. They ought to
squash the affair at once, I should think, before it goes
any further."

Yes, to be sure, to be sure ; so they ought."

Grumpy fell a-thinking again. Was his prophecy
coming true after all ? He had said that boy would
come to no good, and this was certainly a bad start.
Just like his father, he supposed, fond of low company
too ; what could one expect ? Here Grumpy paid himself
rather a bad compliment, seeing that George Grayle
had sought his company so much ; but in this respect
Hector had not followed in the footsteps of his father,
nor run counter to the Squire's wishes by associating too
much with his captious and sinister-minded relative ;
though they always spoke to each other when they
met, and were on very fair nod-and-good-morning
terms.

Lost in his meditations, Andrew Grayle did not address
Mrs. Corcoran for some minutes, which that person
took as a hint to go, and made a movement to do so.

Steady a bit, Mrs. Corcoran," cried he, waving her
back into her seat ; " don't be in a hurry. About .this
fellow, Woodruff, then — you think he's really dangerous
eh?"

I do indeed."

But in what way do you mean ? "

11 Well, I wouldn't answer for what he oughtn't do —
he's mad and furious enough for anything."

Bless my soul ! a nice sort of wild beast to be at
large."

Very. I thought I'd better go up to the Hall on
my way home, and warn Mr. Hector."

Well, yes, perhaps you had," observed Grumpy,
abruptly.

"As to the other matter, Mr. Grayle, that's not my
business, so I shan't interfere."

These were only Mrs. Corcoran's words ; Mrs. Corcoran's
intentions were quite another thing.

No, of course not ; still — somebody ought. I can't —
no connexion with the shop over the way, you understand,"
said he, jerking his head in the direction of the
Hall. "Yes, yes, they certainly should be enlightened
somehow ; and the boy ought to be bundled off abroad
directly, or something of the sort — that is, if he isn't
murdered meantime."

Here Grumpy smiled a ghastly smile, as if he didn't
feel quite sure whether he had made a joke or not."

Mrs. Corcoran soon afterwards protesting again that
she really must go, he politely showed her to the door.

Well, good evening, if you must," said he. " Good
evening — thanks for the news — very glad to have seen
you."

Not advisable to let him know too much," muttered
Mrs. Corcoran, thinking aloud as she resumed her way ;
besides, I must keep faith with old friends. It wouldn't
do to mix matters up worse than they are already; and
now to see Mr. Albert."

Shrewd old woman that," said Grumpy to himself, ashe
closed the door after her ; " she seems to take quite

an interest in the family. Dash my wig ! are things
looking up after all, I wonder ? — who can tell ? " and in
the sudden excitement of his thoughts, he went to the
cellaret, and filling a sherry-glass with raw brandy, tossed
it off with a smack of intense relish.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE HAUNTED ROOM AT Barrington.

u Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
Ere human statute purged the gentle weal ;
Ay, and since too, murders have been perform'd
Too terrible for the ear : the times have been,
That when the brains were out the man would die,
And there an end : but now, they rise again,
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
Aud push us from our stools : this is more strange
Than such a murder is."

Macbeth.

Notice ! Any person or persons (of nervous temperament)
trespassing on the pages of this and the following chapter
will be persecuted — by nightmares, horrible dreams, and
other unpleasant visitations !

Having said as much, I feel I have only done my duty;
for, on penning the above heading, some such warning
occurred to me as being due to the gentler sex, since an
author has no right to intrude a spice of morbid horror
on those to whom it may be unacceptable. But the
legend of Barringtree is part of the family history, so far
as the Hall itself is concerned, and as such must be duly
chronicled.

A day or two subsequent to the events last recorded,
it happened that Clement Mountjoy, who had as usual
been out shooting with the Barringtree party, found

himself completely weather-bound by nightfall, and unable
to return to Merrydale till next morning.

The day, which had been anything but a genial one,
culminated at sunset in a howling tempest of sleet and
bitter north-east wind, so that the intrepid Clement, who
was generally callous of all weathers, was prevailed upon
to sleep at the Hall, in preference to braving the fierce
elements.

Now the question arose where to put him, for Barring-tree
was full of guests for the shooting and some private
theatricals besides, which were in course of preparation.
Hence every room in the house was occupied with the
exception of one, which was certainly empty and likely to
remain so, since nobody would have desired to sleep there ;
and Hector, rather than allow his friend to do so, offered
to let him double up in his own apartment.

This one exception was the grey room, situate in the
old part of the house, at the extreme end of the left wing,
facing the north, and better known at Barringtree as the
haunted chamber.

Connected with this bedroom there was a most ghastly
tradition, which had hung over it for many years, and
which had been handed down from father to son as a
perfectly true story in all its horrible details. So much
superstition indeed had been felt regarding this grey
room, that the present Squire had often thought of bricking
it up, with all its ancient furniture, just as it stood ;
but this had never been done, and consequently it
remained a sort of skeleton in the Hall, and a special
nightmare to any nervous people who slept on that
landing.

That it had once been the scene of a frightful tragedy
there was not the least doubt, and though this was long
ago, the grey chamber still retained its ghostly character

or was supposed to do so, for like all such rooms in old
rambling mansions, it gave ample cause for a thousand
fancies, arising from the frequent strange and mysterious
noises heard therein at the dead of night, peculiar, one
may suppose, to any apartment so long uninhabited, and
doubtless caused by a legion of hoary old rats personating
so many fiendish hobgoblins.

There was a good deal of chaff that night in the
billiard-room about this same haunted chamber, and
Clement was twitted by some of the mischievous ones as
to his want of pluck in not jumping at it for his sleeping
apartment, since it was the only unoccupied one to be had .
Hector, however, came to the rescue of his friend, and
declared, whether Clement wished it or not, he would
never permit him to pass the night in that mouldy old
place.

Foremost in this chaff was Heffernan, who professed to
look with extreme contempt on such schoolboy stories j
and although he, as well as the others, had heard of the
legend, he actually went so far as to offer to give up his
own bedroom to young Mountjoy and sleep in the other
himself. This was too much for Clement, and that reckless
dare-devil spirit took possession of him again; the
same rash heedlessness already signalized by his furious
riding in the famous stag-hunt. He made up his mind ina
moment. He should sleep there, and no one else. He
would show them that he was no such contemptible
craven as they imagined; and if all the incarnate fiends
from the infernal regions appeared to him and sat on him
till morning, let them ! Sleep there he would — at all
events pass the night — and nothing should prevent
him.

Bravo ! well said, Mountjoy," exclaimed Heffernan,
as Clement made the announcement and looked defiantly

round, meeting his rival's eye. "I never thought you
wanting in pluck, 'pon my soul. That's right; break
the spell and exorcise this wonderful demon, or whatever
it is, and summon us all if you see it ; let's have some
proof that there is such a thing."

Oh, it's a pack of nonsense altogether," interposed
Hector. I am not at all certain that he really thought
this however. ' ' But the room is damp and miserable ;
besides, there's no bed or anything made up. I wouldn't
let a dog sleep in such a place."

"I mean to do so, old man, if I have to sleep on
the floor." Clement looked very determined as he said it.

Rubbish, Clem, you shall do nothing of the kind."

But I tell you I will," persisted the other ; " please
don't thwart me, Hec," he continued, in a whisper ; " I
really wish it, or I wouldn't say so."

But why, in heaven's name ? "

I — I don't know exactly ; I've a fancy to make the
experiment, that's all."

You're a funny boy ! However, if you are bent on
being thoroughly uncomfortable, so be it; at any rate
we'll do our best for you, and tell the housekeeper to have
some bedding and sheets aired ; then if you think better
of it by-and-by, you can. You obstinate old lunatic ! "
Hector added, laughing and ringing the bell ; " but you'll
have one satisfaction, if you can call it so, in knowing that
you're the first person who has slept in that four-poster
for years ; at least, so I believe."

"And that ought to be an inducement," observed
Heffernan, dryly ; M but as to ghosts, who believes in such
bosh?"

"Not I," cried Clement, with ineffable contempt; its
only people with bad digestions who see such things, and
mine's as good as an ostrich's."

"William," observed Hector, as the footman now
answered the bell, " tell Mrs. Hurst I want to speak to
her."

Talking of ghosts, I remember a story of a friend of
mine once," began Heffernan, " a Mr. Mulgrave by name,
who made a point of visiting his stables the last thing
every night to see that his horses were properly bedded
up and so on, mindful of the old adage, f a merciful man
is merciful to his beast and not caring to leave everything
to his grooms, whom he habitually mistrusted.

Well, on one occasion, he went as usual with a lantern,
which, as ill-luck would have it, seemed to be troubled
with a spit in its flame that night and gave but the
feeblest light, only serving to make darkness more visible.
Thinking, however, it would recover itself in a minute or
so, he made the best of his way to the stables, and, opening
the door, began his usual nocturnal inspection. On
reaching the second stall he was about to arrange the
clothing 01 its occupant, which had become twisted awry,
when suddenly he heard a deep groan proceeding from
the further end of the building.

"He started for a moment, but attributing the sound
to one of the horses, was about to continue his rounds
when his attention was attracted by a dark indistinct
figure standing behind the partition of the furthest stall,
which he knew to be empty. Owing to the impenetrable
darkness and the wretched light afforded by his lantern
he could not at first define the outline of this figure ; but
curious to make out the shadowy offspring of his imagination,
if such it were, he drew nearer, and raising the
lantern, an involuntary shudder passed through his frame
as the shape became more clearly revealed.

Sure enough above the partition there towered a huge
pair of shoulders, surmounted by a grim-looking headpiece,

on which was a slouched hat, effectually concealing
the features.

11 Knowing this was not one of his servants, from the
stature and breadth of the figure, and suspecting some
foul play, Mulgrave, who was far from a nervous man,
took a step forward and in a stern voice demanded who
the intruder was. Another deep groan, which sounded
horribly sepulchral in the still darkness, was the only
reply ; and, beginning to feel rather uncomfortable, he
repeated his question in a louder tone. A momentary
pause ensued, and then there issued from the mysterious
figure a mumbling sound, which gradually developed into
a volley of frightful oaths, dying away again into indistinct
muttering.

Mulgrave was now more alarmed than he cared to own,
and the whinnying of his favourite mare close by him was
quite a grateful relief to his throbbing ears. He waited
for a few seconds and then called out in an angry
voice, —

l Hark you, by the heaven above ! if you don't say
who you are and what you want, be you man or devil,
I'll dash your brains out with this and he seized a crowbar
which chanced to be standing against the wall near
him.

"Another awful pause, suddenly broken by a fierce
guttural oath, and then deep silence again. The black
monster never moved, but towered above the stall as if in
defiance of the threat.

u ' Once more, will you answer me or will you not ? '
cried .Mulgrave, clutching the crowbar convulsively, while
the cold perspiration burst out on his forehead.

To this there was no reply, not even a groan nor an
oath. The silence was only disturbed by the thumping
pulse of the terrified man and an occasional movement

vol 1. n

of the horses as they champed the hay or rustled the
straw at their feet.

Presently, as he watched, Mulgrave saw, or fancied he
saw, this uncanny thing in front of him rising higher and
higher above the woodwork of the partition. He could
stand it no longer.

' Your blood be on your own head then he shouted
at length, and hurling the crowbar with all his might, it
struck its mark with terrific force, and in a moment the
mysterious creature vanished.

The horses snorted with fright and rattled their stall
chains, while Mulgrave, summoning all his courage, rushed
round to the empty compartment, and was there confronted
by one of his own grooms in the act of rising from the
ground.

' Whatsh the matter ? ' hiccoughed the man, in drunken
accents, rubbing his bleared eyes as the lantern light fell
on them, l whatsh the devils the row V

' James, you here ! ' cried his astonished master, ' why
didn't you answer me ? whereas your companion ? ' he
asked, looking round ; ' by heaven ! if I haven't killed
him he shall be taken off to the police station at
once

"who, sir — where sir?' spluttered the bewildered
groom.

' What do you mean by this conduct, fellow ? '

' Who sir — me sir — I was only asleep in here 'cos
I — ' (hiccough).

' Faugh ! you're drunk, you scoundrel ! ' exclaimed
Mulgrave, thoroughly angry, though still mystified ; 4 but
where is that other fellow who was with you just now ?
Look, there he lies ! pick him up at once; do you hear
me, James ? serve him right if I have killed him.'

' What other fellow, sir ? no one else here, shire and

James began to get a little sober, looking round him as
if dazed by his master's words.

That gentleman now lowered the lantern, and there, to
his intense disgust, though subsequent amusement, discovered
lying on the ground with the crowbar across it,
the cause of this extraordinary apparition.

Propped up against the stall partition had been a hay-rake,
which some one had left there, and on which the
groom had hung his wet overcoat, spreading it out at the
shoulders over the teeth of the rake to dry it the quicker ;
and against this again, elevated on the bottom of a bucket,
had stood the stable mop on which he had hung his
dripping hat. The groans and oaths too came from this
inebriated worthy in his slumbers, for James had been
out on the spree, and coming home wet through, 'as
drunk as a lord had just instinct enough to hang his
moist clothes in this fashion, and then dropped down to
sleep beneath the bogey which he had thus unconsciously
raised up for his master's benefit.

I never heard whether James got the sack or not ;
but my friend Mulgrave always tells this ghost story
against himself with a good hearty laugh at his own
expense."

' A capital story too ! " exclaimed Hector ; " another
proof of the absurd fallacy regarding supernaturalism."

Of course' observed Heffernan ; w nightly shadows
and sounds may be turned into any sort of horrible apparition
by a too vivid imagination and late suppers. At
the same time, I think my friend had some reason to be ina
funk. I should have been. What do you say, Mountjoy ? "

tS Can't tell, I'm sure, unless I was tried; but I'll let
you know in the morning how I've slept in the haunted
room," said Clement, smiling in self-confidence of his own
courage.

n 2

Finding he was more than ever fixed in his determination,
Hector duly gave Mrs. Hurst instructions to prepare
the grey chamber for him; very much to the housekeeper's
surprise, apparently, for she hesitated and said, —

Lor, Mr. Hector, you're joking. Mr. Mountjoy don't
mean to sleep there, surely ? "

He does, and prefers it ; he's not afraid of all the
silly stories about the room, Mrs. Hurst. Besides, there
is nowhere else to put him'

u Couldn't I make up a bed for him on your floor, sir ? "
urged the housekeeper.

"No; he won't have it. He seems quite bent on
sleeping in the grey room, and I can't dissuade him."

Curious taste, I must say, sir. Lor ! I wouldn't if it
was ever so ; no, not if you were to give me all
Barringtree."

Well, never mind, Mrs. Hurst ; just have it prepared.
Mr. Clement is not nervous ; so there's no need to be
alarmed about him. If he were afraid, it would be different,
as he might fancy all sorts of things ; but in
reality there's nothing there to hurt any one. The idea is
absurd."

I don't believe you think that, all the same, Mr. Hector.
However, you say you want the room got ready, so
I'll go and see to it ;" whereupon the housekeeper hurried
off to give the necessary orders. It was getting late, and
she did not relish the job at all, requiring all her staff of
housemaids to accompany her to the dreaded apartment.
However, it was soon done ; and after the fire got up a
bit, the ghostly haunt looked quite snug and cheerful.

When the gentlemen from the billiard-room went upstairs
it was just on the stroke of midnight, and the ladies
had retired some time before. Of course, the male party
were curious to see this wonderful chamber under its new

<i>

aspect ; so thither they repaired, one and all, and Clements
had no lack of an escort to his weird roosting-place.


Then, amid jokes and laughter, these convivial spirits
proceeded to make a general search ; under the four-post
bed, on the top of its canopy, into the wardrobe and cupboards,
and everywhere they could think of. But, finding
nothing out of the common, they went off, rather disappointed
perhaps, to their respective beds. Hector, however,
remained to have a final pipe with his friend before
he turned in, just to give him confidence, as he said
laughingly ; and these two sat, cosily smoking and chatting
together, by the roaring fire for some time, having
apparently dismissed from their minds the lately absorbing
topic relative to supernatural lore.

It was Hector's object to send his friend to bed with
an unwearied imagination ; but Clement seemed determined
to frustrate this object, and returned to the charge
presently, remarking, —

I dare say you wonder, Hec, what made me so determined
to sleep here."

Your usual pigheadedness, I suppose, old boy'
replied Hector, smiling.

1 ' Not a bit of it. I'll tell you, then. If there is one
man in this world who aggravates me by his calm sneering
manner, it's that fellow Heffernan."

Really ? Well, I can't see that."

No, I daresay not ; and far be it from me to speak
slightingly of your future brother-in-law. But I can't
help saying it — he does aggravate me; and he does it,
too, in such a pleasant, good-humoured sort of way, which
makes it worse."

Hector could not quite make out what Clement meant
by this ; but had he known the secret of his friend's

heart, he might have understood better. With all their
confidences, however, young Mountjoy had not confided
his latent love ; and on the other hand, too, Agnes had
kept her own counsel ; so Hector was quite in the dark.

Couldn't you see what he was driving at ? M continued
Clement ; " couldn't you see, with all his chaff and
joking, he was daring me to sleep in this haunted
room ? "

Ton my soul I couldn't'

Nor any one else. Such was the influence of that
deadly venom." Clement Mountjoy knew he hated
Heffernan, and fancied the feeling was reciprocal.

Well, never mind, I could," he continued, filling a
fresh pipe. " Now tell me, do you really believe there's
any ground for the superstition about it ? "

As he spoke, he glanced round the room inquisitively,
and up at the ceiling, as if searching for the ground
there.

"Certainly not," returned Hector, contemptuously,
except in the fact of there being a lot of old rats."

"But there is a legend, of course; I know that,"
resumed the other, puffing away up into the chimney,
only I heard it so long ago I've forgotten all about it."

A very good thing too."

On the contrary, when there is such a thing connected
with a place where a fellow is going to sleep, one likes to
know what it is, to prepare for the worst ; so I shouldn't
mind hearing it again. Suppose you refresh my memory
with the particulars ;" and he drew nearer to the fire, with
a sympathetic shiver, whilst the howling tempest rattled
against the casement.

What a morbid old fool you are, Clem ! you evidently
want to court the horrors. The story's creepy enough
told in the daytime, in all conscience, but here at night,

o

and just as you're going to bed in the identical place —
not if I know it."

Why, you're as bad as Heffernan. What the deuce
do you take me for ? Do you think I'm an old woman to
be scared by a stupid legend ? But perhaps you're afraid
to tell it yourself under the circumstances."

There was a tinge of sarcasm in this last remark.

Not I, my dear boy ; the story is pretty familiar tome
— I've told it often enough, goodness knows — only
last night too — "

Yes, but I wasn't here — "

Well, it's getting awfully late," added Hector, looking
at his watch, with a yawn ; " but if you will have it, it
must be in a condensed form.

' You must know, then, that it was in my great grandfather's
young days — I can't say for the moment how
many years ago — when the tragedy took place in this
house — that is, in this room — which gave rise to the
Barringtree legend ; but it had nothing whatever to do
with any of our own family, and I am thankful to think
tli ere is no such blot on our escutcheon.

"My ancestor, it appears, had only been married a
short time when he was obliged to go abroad for the
benefit of his wife's health ; and as their absence from
England promised to be a protracted one, he commissioned
his estate agent to let Barringtree for a certain period.

c Accordingly this was done, and the place was taken
by a certain Sir Geoffrey Hendricks, a wealthy, middle-aged
baronet, who had also been recently married. His
young wife, Lady Linda, daughter of Earl Remain,
was one of the loveliest women in England, quite the
rage in London at that time, and a girl who might have
married the highest in the land, for every one was at her
feet.

"This, however, was essentially un mariage de convenance,
since Lord Tremaine owed Sir Geoffrey a heavy
gambling debt, which he could not possibly pay; and the
baronet, by way of compromise, proposed for the Lady
Linda's hand — the only compromise, in fact, to which he
would agree.

Lord Tremaine pleaded hard with his daughter — for
he shrank from forcing her — and she, poor girl, to save
her father's good name, consented to sacrifice herself, and
become the wife of a man whom she could neither love
nor respect. Such marriages were not uncommon in
those days, and even in our present age more ill-assorted
and more mercenary ones still are often contracted, although
not, perhaps, on such a basis.

Sir Geoffrey Hendricks was one of the most dissipated
roues in town, an inveterate gambler and a hard drinker,
and many a disgraceful orgy took place in this old house
during his tenancy. A man of this kind, then, was
scarcely likely to endear himself to any woman, especially
when he and his wife went to the altar under such
auspices; so it is not to be wondered at that Lady
Linda's first feelings of mere dislike soon developed into
utter loathing and contempt.

Lord Tremaine was a constant visitor here during his
son-in-law's residence, and he often introduced to Sir
Geoffrey's circle friends of his own whom he chose to
bring from town — a useful little pigeon, now and then,
too, to be served up at the baronet's card-parties,
promptly plucked, and let go again — but this was purely
accidental, for his lordship's sole purpose was to give his
daughter the benefit of some decent society other than
Sir Geoffrey's choosing.

Among these friends was a certain Hubert Ormiston,
a handsome young guardsman, who had known Lady

Linda before her marriage, and had been one of her most
ardent admirers. This was dangerous ground, then, for
him to tread, especially under the circumstances j and the
old earl ought to have known better than to have thus
brought the moth to the candle. Sir Geoffrey, besides, was
really fond of his beautiful wife, after a fashion, and jealous
of her to the last degree, since he felt she had no love for
him. Even in the wildest moments of excitement
during card-playing he would watch her narrowly as she
shone like a bright star in his drawing-room — the very
centre of attraction — a planet around which hovered many
satellites.

In return for the homage which Ormiston had paid
her before her fatal marriage, Lady Linda had cherished
a warm feeling in her heart for him, not far removed from
actual love, and now that they were once more thrown
together, all the old sentiments in each were revived with
renewed strength. In her unhappy married state, Lady
Linda yearned for sympathy and a kindred affection, which
Hubert Ormiston was only too ready to give her. Thus it
came to pass that a secret liaison was established between
them, congenial in its warmth, as it was glaring in its
guilt. This intimacy did not fail to attract Sir Geoffrey's
notice, although the lovers put the strictest guard on every
word, and look, and gesture ; but the incensed husband
gave no index by his face or manner of the jealous wrath
fast rising within his stony heart, and planted there by
the unconscious wife herself; for like Arising, Lady
Linda, in her slumbers, betrayed the secret of her guilt.

1 Fever'd in her sleep she seems,
And red her cheek with troubled dreams,
And mutters she in her unrest
A name she dare not breathe by day,
And clasps her lord unto the breast
Which pants for one away.'

Then, as the cruel poison sank deep into the soul of
Prince Azo, creating in him a relentless fury, which no
feelings of tie or kindred could assuage — so withered the
last spark of humanity in Sir Geoffrey's nature, already
too far brutalized, and, ' more cruel than the grave
he plotted for that guilty pair a stealthy and a terrible
revenge.

Night after night he watched those two single themselves
out from the rest, and withdraw to a secluded
corner of the room for earnest converse, and though
apparently deep in his game of cards, they were ever
under his searching eye. Night after night Sir
Geoffrey staked higher and higher, and drank more
deeply in proportion, and night after night he reeled off
to his bed, or was carried there in the very last stage of
intoxication.

But still the bait remained untouched !

Oh ! it was a cold, calculating, horribly villainous
scheme, and it makes one shudder to recall it.

Not a whit thrown off his guard by its failure at first,
Sir Geoffrey continued his counterfeited excesses — for
little else than toast-antipater passed his lips, cunningly
provided by his valet whom he took into confidence — and
never in his life had the baronet gone to bed so sober as
on these occasions when carried upstairs by his faithful
attendant and another, apparently the most helpless votary
of Bacchus.

One night when he had lain watching for some time,
feigning a heavy breathing as in drunken sleep, he dozed
off against his will, and so remained in real slumber for
over two hours. But ( a jealous man sleeps dog-sleeps
and presently he awoke with a start and found his wife's
place vacant in the bed beside him. With mingled
feelings of rage and triumph, he rose immediately, and

hastily throwing on some clothes, snatched a dagger from
his dressing-case, and stole on tiptoe along the passage to
the spot where his suspicion led him."

To this room in fact' remarked Clement.

To this very room, which Ormiston then occupied.

Sir Geoffrey cautiously tried the door, and, as he
suspected, found it locked. He listened, but could hear
no sound within, and he himself was noiseless as a serpent
in every movement. True, Ormiston might have locked
the door on retiring to bed, he thought ; but as a rule
men were not so cautious, and the fact of finding it
secured helped to confirm his suspicion.

Now, I don't know whether you know it, but there
is another entrance to this room, a secret one, formed by a
movable panel in a corresponding apartment on the other
side. That cupboard, which we looked into just now,
has a false back, which if you touch a certain spring
(acting for either entrance), gives way to or from you,
leading to the other room through a small intermediate
space, whence runs a narrow staircase to the top of the
house — at least it did once, but I believe it is now blocked
higher up. In order to get in here, however, from that
side, supposing this door to be fastened, you would have
to go round and up another flight of stairs.

Sir Geoffrey Hendricks was aware of this secret
entrance, and lost no time in availing himself of it, which
he was the better able to do as the other bedroom
happened to be unoccupied. Stealthily he crept through
the secret passage, and on entering this, his guest's
chamber, had the grim satisfaction of finding matters ashe
suspected. There, by the faint light of a waning
moon, which glimmered through the curtained window,
he saw too plainly his guilty wife actually sleeping calmly
by the side of her paramour.

11 The furious husband stood over them for a minute, as
if gloating on his own shame and their impending punishment.
Then, with clenched teeth and gleaming eyes, he
clutched the dagger tightly in his grasp, and, with the
other hand, shook the sleeping Ormiston by the shoulder,
crying in a hoarse whisper, —

' Wretched villain ! this is your return for my hospitality
; this, then, is mine for your vile treachery ; die,
as you deserve ! ' " and he plunged the dagger once,
twice, up to the very hilt in the breast of his struggling
victim, who, in the vain attempt to ward off those deadly
blows, only prevented them from proving fatal on the
instant, thereby adding to his own punishment and the
husband's revenge, by prolonging his fearful death
agony.

"Lady Linda started with a frantic shriek as she
realized the awful scene, but the fierce Sir Geoffrey in a
moment placed his hand upon her mouth and held her
down.

' Miserable woman ! ' " he hissed in her ear, ' ' ' to die
were far too good for such as you; but move hand or
foot, or utter another sound, and I stab you to the
heart ! ; "

Paralyzed with fear, she remained silent and motionless,
fascinated with horror at the sight of the writhing
form beside her, weltering in his gore, and splashing her
with his fast-ebbing life-blood. Meanwhile Sir Geoffrey
strode across the room, and with his reeking dagger, cut
down both the bell-ropes, which hung on either side of the
mantlepiece, returning to the bed with them and exclaiming
in a grating voice, suppressed by violent passion, —

' You shall not die, Lady Linda, do not fear, but live
in the shame you have brought upon yourself. Here, in
this room, I leave you with the partner of your crime ;

nor shall you quit the side of yon dying man until all
eyes have feasted on your foul disgrace and his just
retribution ! '

So saying, despite her desperate struggles, the relentless
husband bound her tightly with the ropes he had cut
down for that purpose, and so fastened them to the frame
of the bed that she could not stir. Then gazing pitilessly
on his handiwork for a few seconds, and satiating his
stormy spirit with this murderous revenge, Sir Geoffrey
Hendricks left the room by the same way he had entered.

For a long time the wretched woman remained
speechless in this horrible situation ; but the ghastly contortions
of the body beside her, which touched her again
and again in its spasmodic movements, recalled the miserable
Lady Linda from a state of stupor to a sense of the
dreadful reality, and at length, maddened by terror, her
frightful cries roused the household.

Then the footsteps of servants and others were heard
hurrying along the corridors towards the spot whence the
sounds proceeded; the pale faces, anxious inquiries, and
awe-stricken whispers, indicating an anticipation of some
fearful calamity, though no one could tell what, and little
could they realize how appalling.

Day was dawning as they burst open the door, when
a shocking spectacle met their view. There lay the murdered
man in his last death-throes, the bed completely
saturated with his blood ; and sitting upright by his side
was Sir Geoffrey's wife — a raving maniac now — tearing
with her teeth, like a wild beast, at her night-dress and
the ropes that still partly bound her, which, in her mad,
frenzied strength, she had loosened, and uttering from
her foaming lips such terrific yells as rang in the ears of
those that heard them for long afterwards.

The matter might probably have remained for ever a

mystery, but that Sir Geoffry Hendricks, under pressure
of his valet's threatened disclosure, confessed, was put
upon his trial, and acquitted on the plea of justifiable
homicide — though I'm not sure that he would have got
off so cheaply nowadays — and the unfortunate Lady Hendricks
was afterwards removed to a private madhouse, I
believe, where death happily soon put an end to her
sufferings'"

And that's the whole story ? " remarked Clement, as
Hector concluded ; " well, it is awful enough, I must
say."

The sequel to the legend is in the tradition regarding
this room, namely, that the mad woman's yells and
screams are sometimes heard in here at the dead of night,
and that the ghost of Sir Geoffrey Hendricks pays it
periodical visits from the tomb, when he goes to that
bedside, and stands over it with upraised dagger, as if
searching for his victims."

Like all other traditions, I suppose, utter rubbish."

Of course," replied Hector, with an involuntary
shudder; " and now to bed, old fellow."

At this moment Clement's face assumed a startled
expression, and he looked anxiously at his companion,
and then towards the legendary cupboard.

Hark ! " cried he, clutching Hector's arm, " did you
hear that ? "

What ? I heard the rats, that's all," returned the
other, smiling.

« Listen ! "

And they did listen, but nothing could they detect above
the storm outside except a spluttering jet of gas in the
fire, and the occasional rattling and creaking of the
window.

Come, Clem, I tell you what it is — you're all on wires,

I can see. You shall not sleep here at all ; you'll behaving
an awful nightmare, or a fit of some sort, if you
do."

Not I," replied Clement, scornfully ; " I'm no more
nervous than I was before you told me the legend ; why
should I be ? But I certainly thought I heard a queer
noise in that cupboard — a sigh, or something like it — and
I fancied I heard it two or three times while you were
telling the story."

My dear boy, with this tremendous wind and that
rickety old window-frame, you might fancy anything."

Well, I should like to have another peep in there, at
all events."

Nonsense, there's nothing ; we looked just now," rejoined
Hector, determined to discourage the morbid
fancy.

"Yes, but you never told us about the secret spring,
et caetera ; why didn't you ? "

Why should I ? I didn't want to remind you of the
fact at all, until you made me tell that sickening legend."

I wish you had, and then we might have explored it
together."

u No doubt ; but I didn't see any use in your conjuring
up a lot of phantasmagoric pictures in your excitable
brain just before you went to bed."

At any rate the mischief is done now ; I know all
about it, so I shall have a look into this secret passage,
whether you will or not."

"M?) KLvei KafxapLvav, if you remember your Greek,"
remonstrated Hector ; " let the ghost alone to-night ;
come off to my room, and sleep there."

Not I ; here goes," persisted Clement, taking a
candle off the mantlepiece and going towards the cupboard.


Oh, you obstinate old pig ! " cried Hector, laughing,
and poking up the fire ; " well, if you do see anything,
pull him out by the nose, and let's have a look at him."

"All right, I will," and the inquisitive youth dived
into the cupboard, with his lighted candle held high above
his head.

CHAPTER XVII.

WHAT WAS SEEN IN THE HAUNTED ROOM.

What may this mean,
That thou, dread corse,
Revisited thus the glimpses of the moon,
Making night hideous ? "

Hamlet.
Avaunt ! and quit my sight !
Let the earth hide thee !
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold ;
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
Which thou dost glare with !

* * # *

Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
Shall never tremble."

Macbeth.

It is a strange, unaccountable fascination, that craving
after the indefinite horrible. How powerful the attraction
afforded by even a mere suspicion of the supernatural !
Like a weird Will-o-the wisp, it draws its victim on as
by magnetic influence, producing the wildest phantasies
of the brain ; then, as the too willing mind yields to the
unwholesome influence, the morbid spiritualist, passing in
his fancy through that eerie land of shapeless shadows
and unearthly forms, peoples it with the preposterous
progeny of perverted imagination. Omnium vestrum pests
est superstition !

VOL. i. o

It would be difficult indeed to analyze human nature
with regard to such a subject, or to arrive at a satisfactory
solution of the extraordinary problem, why some people
seem to take a positive delight in frightening themselves
out of their wits. I give up the task as hopeless. There
always have been, and I suppose there always will be,
some such weak-minded people in the world, though much
of their folly has of late been happily unmasked.

Let gold-bagged priests, from Ganges to Bermudas,

The gospel preach, according to St. Judas ;

It is my opinion, if the truth were known,

That earth pertains to man and beast alone ;

And neither saint, nor fiend, nor bright nor dark angel,

Between the South Pole and the port of Archangel,

Have any call, or leave, or will, or power

To meddle with a mortal for an hour."

So says Bailey, and what rational person would not
agree with him ? Yet, paradoxical as the statement may
appear, it must be confessed that there are several authentic
cases where the strangest sights and noises have been
experienced in certain houses, supposed to be haunted,
which phenomena have, at all events, never been satisfactorily
accounted for. But, as Bulwer Lytton writes,
u My theory is that the supernatural is the impossible, and
that what is called supernatural is only a something in the
laws of nature of which we have been hitherto ignorant. "

This common sense rationale might, no doubt, be beneficially
applied to all such phenomenal mysteries, and
explain conclusively, perhaps, what has appeared, until
now, utterly incomprehensible. That is, if people would
be content to accept such a view. As a rule, however,
the pneumatologic proselyte much prefers not to be disillusioned
; and where he clings to some family tradition,

with perfect faith, engendered more by habit than mental
conviction, it would be idle to attempt to " lay" the
ghost for him by any such matter-of-fact means as sound
arguments or wise theories. Indeed such an office would
probably be looked upon less in the light of a benefit
than a personal injury.

Clement Mountjoy entered the cupboard, as I have
said, and searching for the spring, which he soon found,
he pressed it, and the back opened a little from him, as
described by Hector. For a moment there seemed to be
something pushing against it and preventing it from
opening any further, but thinking that it only stuck from
disuse, he gave it a violent shove and passed into the
dark space beyond.

As he did so his candle was blown out by some unseen
agency, and he scrambled back again into the room
through the cupboard, pulling to the false back as he
quickly made his exit, a good deal faster than he had
entered. When he reappeared his face was deadly pale ;
but this escaped Hector's notice, as he was occupied with
the fire, and his back turned.

Clement would hardly have liked to own it now after
all his boasting, but he certainly fancied there had been
something leaning or pushing against that false back,
and which gave way as he opened it. He also fancied he
had caught sight of a dark figure disappearing up the
staircase ; but feeling convinced that all this must be pure
imagination and nothing else, he quickly recovered himself,
and held his tongue for very shame.

"Well, what did you see?" asked Hector, with an
amused smile, when his friend returned to the fire.

Oh, not much," replied Clement, carelessly. u Only
a horrid little black hole smelling very fusty."

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed Hector, taking up his candle,
o 2

That's the real goblin smell. They bring it from the
graves, you know. But now, we really must go to bed'
he added, yawning again. " I'm dead tired, and shall befit
for nothing in the morning. Come along'

Where to ? "

"My room, of course."

Not a bit of it. I tell you I mean to sleep here."

"Don't be a fool, Clem. Why can't you be reasonable?"


I am reasonable. Do you think I'd sleep anywhere
else now ? No, no ; my mind's made up."

Oh, well, if your mind is made up, I suppose it's of
no earthly use talking. I know what that means — that
the devil himself couldn't move you."

Well, let's hope he won't try," said Clement, with a
grim smile, and thinking of the mysterious cupboard.
Anyhow, here I am, Hec, and here I mean to stay."

Good night, then, you old double-distilled essence of
stubbornness."

Good night, old chap," returned Clement, in an offhand
tone, though all the same he would have given
worlds to have detained him a little longer. " I daresay
I shall be up before you in the morning."

He little anticipated in what way those simple words
were to be verified.

Then you are positively and unalterably determined
on sleeping here ? " asked Hector, finally.

« Quite."

Well, once more bon soir, and pleasant dreams. Just
think of five hundred sheep or so passing one by one
through a hole in a hedge, and you'll soon fall asleep,"
added Hector, as he reached the door. " Good night."

Good night." And Clement Mountjoy was left alone
in the haunted chamber. Nervous ? Not he. Never

less so in his life. Look at the way he glances round the
room, with perfect unconcern, as he fills just another half
pipe before he tumbles into that old four-poster. Hear
him whistle to himself, with admirable sang-froid, as he
pokes up the fire again into a bright cheerful blaze.
Besides he is determined to re-explore that secret passage
before he goes to bed — no very pleasant occupation
under the solitary circumstances — and he is making up
his mind to the self-imposed task, bringing himself to
the sticking-point, in fact, with the heroism of an
Achilles.

The storm outside appeared now to have increased in
intensity — the impetuous boreas blasts beating with ill-tempered
gusts against the groaning casement — and it
seemed to Clement as if the whole atmosphere were
charged with frantic imps and demons, who clamoured
from without to be allowed to enter and make a night of
it with him.

Whatever may have been his inward conviction as to
the existence or non-existence of such things, he certainly
did not appear to be wanting in that animal qualification
called physical pluck, for he very soon primed himself fora
second visit to that strange cupboard, although he experienced
an unaccountable misgiving of some disastrous
result from the venture. No matter, he was pledged to
pass the night in that room j and until he had satisfied
himself by another inspection, he felt he could not get
into bed, much less sleep. Accordingly, still keeping the
pipe in his mouth for company's sake, he made his way
again towards the cupboard, though scarcely with such a
careless feeling at his heart as when he did so the first
time, while Hector was in the room.

On this occasion the false back offered no resistance,
which proved, he thought, one of two things ; either that

something must have been behind it on his former visitor
else that it had been eased in its rusty action by having
been once opened. With a quick pulse he stepped boldly
into the passage beyond, and elevating his candle,
looked carefully round. He even went up four or
live steps of the secret staircase, and peered into the
impenetrable darkness as far as the rays of the candlelight
would reach, but nothing could he see to cause
the slightest suspicion or alarm ; and laughing at himself
for having allowed his imagination to get the better of
him on the previous expedition, he re-entered the bedroom
with a feeling of intense relief.

Just as he closed the cupboard-door, however, a sudden
noise greeted his ears, which rather upset his new-found
confidence for the moment. Behind the wainscot, and
proceeding as if from the top of the room, he distinctly
heard a sound like something falling — bump — bump —
bump — bump — down the secret staircase he had just
examined. It seemed to reach the level of the floor on
which he stood, and then all was silent.

For a brief space he argued and puzzled with himself
what this could possibly be, suddenly exclaiming, as a
bright thought flashed across him, —

11 Psha ! what an utter fool I am ! nothing but a
venturesome old rat, of course — attracted by my candle,
no doubt, and jumping down the stairs from step to
step."

So, feeling quite satisfied on this point, and shaking off
the "trammels of superstition' he proceeded to divest
himself leisurely of his coat and waistcoat, and then knelt
down by his bed and offered up a prayer to Him who is in
every place, beholding the evil and the good. When he
rose from his knees, he felt infinitely easier in his mind
than he had done since he first entered the grey room.

It was now getting very late, and as he wound up his
watch the last thing before jumping into the funereal-looking
bed, the Hall clock over the stables chimed the
half-hour past two. For some time after he laid his head
on the pillow he remained, with eyes wide open, watching
the glowing fire till it got lower and lower in the grate,
and then at length, thoroughly tired out, he sank into a
fitful slumber.

How long he may have slept thus he could not tell, but
suddenly he awoke with a violent start — why, he knew
not — and raising himself on his elbow, glanced involuntarily
round the room. But nothing unusual was to be
seen, except the dark shadows thrown here and there by
the expiring firelight, and he was determined not to let
his fancy play him any pranks. There were his clothes
tossed on to the chair, his dress shoes and socks lying on
the ground near ; there was the candlestick with his pipe
in the tray — everything just as he had left it; what else
did he expect ? Not a sign nor sound of any kind to
alarm the most nervous-minded.

Clement felt, however, that having once awoke he
should not easily drop off to sleep again without recourse
to the composing influence of another pipe ; so, leaping
from the bed, he returned to the fire, stirred up the dying
embers, and refilled his briar-root.

What a delightful solace is that insinuating little
smoke ! — the cherished companion of a man under almost
any circumstances. Whether in the moment of care and
trouble, hard work and excitement, or merely apathetic
indolence, how keenly does the true smoker appreciate
the boon of the narcotic weed. It may be a species of
vice, no doubt ; but I must say I pity the non-smoker asa
being ignorant of such soothing gratification to the
senses, and only wonder how our ancestors could

have put up with snuff as the unsatisfactory substitute.


Having lighted his pipe, Clement got into bed again to
smoke it comfortably with his head on the pillow — a
dangerous custom at any time, not to be advocated for a
moment. Whilst he watched the fragrant clouds curl
upwards from his lips, wreathing in fantastic shapes until
lost in the deep shadow of the canopy, his thoughts
wandered far away from the sombre regions of supernaturalism
to a bright elysium on earth — a little paradise
which he had often and often imagined, where reigned a
lovely queen with auburn hair, blue eyes, and graceful
figure — in conception, the counterfeit presentment of
some one we know already — now flown, alas ! leaving that
paradise a bleak and barren waste — never to return, nevermore
to gladden it with her glorious presence. Oh, it
was hard, it was very, very hard ; and poor old Clem, with
a tear or two moistening his eyes, and the lighted pipe
still between his teeth, fell fast asleep to dream of his
cruel fate.

The next time he awoke there was good reason for the
violent start with which he did so, for a strong smell of
burning greeted his nostrils, and he felt an uncomfortably
hot sensation about his face. Then he saw what had
happened; that the pipe had fallen from his lips, and set
fire to the sheet just under his nose. Snatching up the
pillow he quickly smothered the blaze, thankful that he
had been roused in time, and vowed he would never
smoke in bed again, especially in another person's
house.

Tut, tut 5 thought he, looking at the damaged linen
with a rueful countenance ; " one of the best Barringtree
sheets completely spoiled. What would Mrs. Hurst say ?
Never mind, he ; d put it down to the grey-room ghost,

and show them all what a fiery monster he had had to
deal with ;" then laughing at this little conceit, he turned
over in the bed, and prepared to fall asleep again on the
other side. This movement brought the cupboard under
his view, and when he caught sight of it, just as his head
was burrowing into the soft pillow, he raised himself as
suddenly on his elbow again.

u I'll swear I shut that door when I came out," he
muttered, staring at it as it now stood partly open. " Vm
positive I did. Psha ! crazy old thing ! I suppose it
came undone when I jumped out of bed and shook the
room,"

Very likely, for it only fastened with one of those old-fashioned
buttons revolving on a screw, which would slip
its hold and release the door at the slightest provocation.
However, this did not seem to trouble Clement much, and
he dropped once more on to his pillow.

But no, it was of no use ; he could not sleep with that
cupboard open. It was only a restless, fidgety feeling,
perhaps, but the room did not seem comfortable with
that door ajar, and shut it he must. So, with a
shiver at having to jump out of bed again, he sprang
across the room, closed the closet, and placed a chair
against the refractory door to prevent its opening anymore.


There was just firelight enough for him to see what
o'clock it was by his watch. Five minutes to four.

Well, I can take it out in the pillows for nearly five
hours," thought he, " before I need get up. Lor, how
tired I am," and tumbling in between the sheets again,
he dropt off to sleep for the third time.

One can dream a good deal in a very little while, and
before Clement had been under the influence of Somnus
many minutes, the drowsy god's prime minister had led

him through a wonderful labyrinth of scenes and adventures.


After various transformations, he dreamt he was a
knight of the olden time ; that a fair, golden-haired princess
(Agnes) had been carried off to the enchanted castle
of a wicked ogre (Heffernan), and that he, the brave
knight, had flown to the rescue. At the castle gates
there were the inevitable fiery dragons with the orthodox
green scales, but these he quickly disposed of by handing
them each a Sprats's dog-biscuit, besmeared with some
deadly rat poison, of all which articles he seemed to have
a ready supply in his wallet. When he made his way upto
the castle, he found the ogre in his bowling-green,
playing a friendly game of bowls with Hector, and all the
rest of the Barringtree party having tea out of doors
under an old sycamore, with the princess doing the
honours. Without the slightest hesitation, and scorning
to take the cup of tea proffered by the princess — just as
one bull-dog does when he sees another, he forthwith
fastened a quarrel on the ogre, who, scorning to fight,
referred the matter to the Squire, when, hey presto !
they were all spirited off to the billiard-room at Barring-tree,
where Heffernan, changed from his ogreish form to
a respectable member of society in evening clothes, sat on
a chair by the fire, and jeered scornfully at Clement, who
was engaged in a game of billiards. Exasperated at
length, he dreamt he suddenly chalked his cue in a wild
manner, and aiming carefully at the centre stud of
Heffernan's shirt, pushed fiercely and viciously against it,
and sent his rival sprawling on to the floor, chair and all,
with a tremendous crash. Then he awoke. The fall of
that chair awoke him. What chair ? good gracious ! the
chair by the cupboard, and the door open again — wide
open now !

Clement was lying with his face still in that direction,
but he did not spring up this time, and merely huddled
himself together closer in the bed, feeling he did not
know what. A kind of spell seemed to have come over
him — a superstitious awe, as though some mysterious
agency were at work — and at that moment a friendly cock
crowed outside, as if warning him of danger.

The fire, now, had nearly died out, but a faint streak of
dawn began to steal in through the window, and threw
an uncertain grey light over the apartment.

What extraordinary fascination was it that kept him
from moving ? He had an instinctive feeling that there
was some one else in that room besides himself, and yet
for the life of him he could not raise his head to see.
There was something, moreover, about the silence that
was painfully oppressive, and the ticking of his watch on
the dressing-table, some distance off, sounded like the
ponderous pendulum of a cathedral clock. How he
wished the chanticleer would crow again and break that
awful silence ! Where was all his vaunted courage now ?
What account could he conscientiously give of himself in
the morning ? Bah ! he felt the veriest coward that
ever breathed as he lay trembling there under the bedclothes
; but he should get the better of his foolish fear
directly ; he was resolved to conquer this craven spirit,
happen what might; so presently, with a stealthy, almost
imperceptible movement, he turned his head slowly,
cautiously round on the pillow and there — oh, horror !
looming between him and the door of the room, was just
what he knew and felt had been there all the time since
he awoke— a dark indistinct shape close by his bedside,
apparently watching him, with deep cavernous eyes, which
by the deceptive light he fancied glowered on him in
malignant fury.

To say that lie was merely frightened now would
convey but the faintest idea of his sensations ; his whole
frame seemed literally paralyzed with terror, and a violent
perspiration broke out at every pore.

He might well have expressed his dread dismay in the
very words of Job : " From the visions of the night, when
deep sleep falleth on men, fear came upon me, and trembling,
which made all my bones to shake. Then a spirit
passed before my face ; the hair of my flesh stood up ; it
stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof : an
image was before mine eyes — "

It was an awful trial for him, poor boy ! and other
persons have been turned crazy, or prematurely grey,
under no worse circumstances.

That flesh-creeping legend and the tradition connecting
it with the room he occupied, flashed through his mind
with painful vividness, and he could scarcely doubt that
the grisly figure he saw standing there was a visitor from
the other world — the shadowy form of that ferocious
homicide, watching grimly at his old post.

He dared not move again, but remained fascinated by
the spectre : he dared not call out ; indeed, his tongue
clove to the roof of his mouth; his parched lips refused
to articulate a syllable, and it was well indeed for him
that they could not. When he made the effort once to
cry " Who is that ? " the words sank into a hollow whisper,
like the tremulous muttering of a dreamer. How
long would it stand there ? It seemed as if he had been
watching it for hours already.

But at last it moves ! It draws still nearer to the
bed and leans over him ! Terrified to death, Clement
holds his breath, his heart palpitating fast and violently,
and seeming as though it would burst through
his ribs. He feels that he is gradually growing unconscious

— that in another minute he will lose his senses —
the room even now reels round — the four-post bed
heaves up and down like a ship at sea — his brain seems
on fire ! — when at last — oh, what intense relief ! — that
dreadful thing moves away again from the bed; and Clement,
with pent up breath, gives forth a heavy, quavering
sigh, checking it little by little as though fearing to
bring the apparition back to his side. It was fortunate
that it moved when it did, or the horror-stricken boy
must have swooned j human nature could not have borne
such a frightful tension on the nerves for another moment.
Still he watches with staring, aching eyeballs, and watching,
sees it slowly, noiselessly, glide further from the bed
and make towards the door. Thank God ! then it is
going to leave him. Clement remembers he locked his
door, but that of course will not arrest the progress of
the phantom. Pray heaven it may not ! He expects to
see the shadowy form vanish through the panels — but no!
it turns the lock with a grating sound, plainly audible
and quite pleasant to the ear after the weird groping
movements which have hitherto made the silence so
terrible. Now it moves the handle slowly and cautiously
the door opens and closes with a subdued noise, and it
has gone !

The spectral visitor once out of his sight, Clement felt
a new man. The opening and shutting of that door
seemed to have given him confidence. He drew a long
breath, and wiped the cold perspiration from his face.
What could it all mean ? Had he been dreaming, and
was this the nightmare of a disordered brain ? No — he
knew he had been as wide awake for some time as he
was at that moment.

Then there was real ground for the fearful tradition, it
appeared, after all — ample reason to call that apartment

the haunted room. But such an idea seemed to upset
all rational theory; it seemed an outrage on commonsense
; yet how could he gainsay it after what he had just
seen himself? Clement was utterly puzzled — mystified —
unbounded ; he could not and would not believe inspirits
or visitations from the other world ; but what
other complexion could be put upon this marvellous vision?
It was past his comprehension true; but he was determined
it should not get the better of his faith and reason.

These thoughts flashed rapidly through his mind, when
suddenly a powerful feeling — some controlling influence
seemed to prompt him to get up, follow the shadow if
possible, and endeavour to solve this ghostly problem,
should it prove to be soluble.

If it were done — then it were well it were done
quickly," Clement argued ; so, giving himself no time for
second thoughts, he rose hurriedly, threw on his smoking-jacket,
and stole quietly out into the passage in the wake
of the mysterious phantom. He felt more satisfied with
himself now ; this piece of prompt resolution redeemed,
in a measure, his recent cowardice.

It was just light enough in the long passage outside
for him to see a few yards ahead ; such light as it was
improving further on, where the dawn peeped through a
skylight dome.

There was the uncanny shape, sure enough, creeping
and crouching on just in front of him, and now and again
stopping in its progress. Clement, still with a quick-beating
pulse and trembling limbs, kept well under the shade
of the wall, preserving the same relative distance between
him and the dreaded object he followed. But presently
its movements became so mystic, so strangely weird, that
poor young Mountjoy felt a cold shiver pass through
him, and almost wished he had remained in bed. The

unearthly creature, or whatever it was, kept looking
back towards the end of the passage, and then bowing its
head slowly and deliberately at each bedroom door on the
landing up to the point where it stopped. What sort of
manifestation was this ? Was it cursing the inmate of
each room, or what ? To whom did it next intend to
pay a nocturnal visit before retiring again into Hades ?

At length it reached the last door but one from the
further end, and then stopped, stooping down at the keyhole,
as if peering in or listening. This was Hector's room,
as Clement knew, and he crept quickly along under the
shadowed wall three or four paces nearer, with an instinct
of friendship greater even than Orestes could have felt for
Places, since he seemed resolved to protect his friend at
any cost, though it were against a supernatural foe. He
knew Hector never locked his door, therefore was not
surprised to see it stealthily open without noise or effort,
and the phantom figure forthwith disappear. With
his heart throbbing painfully from excitement, he hastened
forward, and saw the door close as quietly. But
nothing could stop him now; he felt convinced some
horrible danger was at hand ; so, pushing it open again
quickly, yet with extreme caution — luckily it had been left
ajar — he followed the retreating form into the bedroom.

The sight which now met his view made the blood
curdle in his veins ; and for a moment, but only for a
moment, he recoiled in terror at what he saw, rendered
the more appalling by the imperfect light. There, standing
over his sleeping friend, was that very apparition of
Sir Geoffrey Hendricks, with upraised dagger in his
hand, preparing to strike !

But Clement never paused to think, nor shrank inhuman
dread of the supernatural. Hector was in peril ;
his dear friend and Agnes' brother was in imminent

danger of his life ; that was enough for him. So, utter i
ing a suppressed cry of horror, he rushed forward, threw
himself with frantic energy on the threatening figure, and
pinioned its arms to its sides !

A fierce curse, a desperate struggle, and then Clement
knew he had no ghost to deal with, but a solid, powerful
man. He could not alone have held him long; but
Hector, waking with the noise, and hearing Clement's
cries for help, quickly rose to his assistance. Then,
between them — the one lithe and active as a cat, the
other with a strength lent by bull dog pluck — they very
soon had the mysterious assailant on his back, and
the dagger — or rather knife — wrested from his grasp
in a twinkling. The upsetting of the washstand in
the struggle, and their united shouts and calls, soon
brought Heffernan and others on to the scene ; then, when
a light was procured, the mystery was solved.

Woodruff, as I live ! " cried Hector, holding the
candle to the scowling face of the intended assassin.

Thank God I did sleep in that room, Hector ! I was
only just in time to save you ! " was all Clement could
ejaculate, while panting for breath from his violent
exertions.

By George ! I must have had a narrow escape, I
know. I was warned against this fellow'' exclaimed
Hector. " So, Allan Woodruff," he continued, keeping
his knee on the ruffian's chest, while some one went fora
cord to bind his dangerous hands, " this is your apology
to me, is it ? — this cowardly attempt at murder in cold
blood ! Ah ! would you ? " and he, Clement, and Heffer-nan
held the villain down more firmly as he struggled to
free himself.

There is little more to be said regarding that morning's
work save that the whole household were quickly aroused,

when the police were immediately summoned, and on
their arrival the culprit was taken straightway off into
custody to await his trial at the next sessions.

Oh, ye infatuated spiritualists ! — ye gullible ghost-seeing
fraternity ! — slaves of a base and foolish superstition
(to call it by no harsher name) ! — what would you
not have given to have received Clement Mountjoy into
your community at the moment when the apparition disappeared
from his room, and before the mystery was
traced to its natural cause — to have heard him recount
the adventures of that awful night ? It would, indeed,
have been a red-lettered epoch in your history; a flaunting
flag hung out in the cause of your credulity, and a
rare triumph, indeed, for the disciples of " John King "
and his spirit mediums.

Further particulars regarding this vile attempt at
assassination were cleared up afterwards. The jealous
fanatic, "Woodruff, had at first no real intention, it appears,
of carrying out his threat against Lizzie's lover, nor
had he laid any plan for doing so, or he would hardly
have blurted out what he did to Mrs. Corcoran. This,
however, was in the hope that she would go back to
Lizzie and frighten the girl into accepting his attentions.
True he had thought at one time of shooting Hector
Grayle from some coigne of vantage, but abandoned that
idea as too likely to lead to detection, since he never
carried a gun, and would have been obliged to borrow
one; and it was only afterwards, when the devil prompted
the cunning scheme, that he determined to put it into
effect, and thought he could do so with comparative
safety. It seemed that he knew of the haunted room, and
that it was never occupied ; so it struck him directly that
this was the very place to hide in at night, in order to
accomplish his fiendish design. It was easy of access,

vol. 1. P

moreover, from outside, since there happened to be some
trellis-work beneath it, which enabled him to scale the
wall up to the window without difficulty. In order to
open the crazy old casement he had not much trouble m
forcing the framework, and bending the catch out of
place. But even had he failed in this he would not have
hesitated about breaking a pane of glass to effect an
entrance.

Accordingly he concealed himself in the cupboard, not
knowing then of the secret passage ; but when Mrs.
Hurst and the housemaids came in force to prepare the
room for Clement, he was somewhat disconcerted, and
began to bethink him of another hiding-place.

By the merest chance, however, he just touched the
spring of the false back, and as it opened he saw at once
where he could better ensconce himself. He took off his
boots half-way up the little staircase, placing them and
his billycock hat on an upper ledge to be out of the way,
and it was the hat which Clement heard bumping down
the stairs, Woodruff having let it fall by accident. These
articles were found in the secret passage afterwards, as
the man probably intended to return for them when his
ghastly work was completed.

Clement was quite right about there having been something
pressing against that panel when he first visited the
cupboard, for Woodruff had been leaning there, trying to
listen to their conversation, and wondering when they
would go to bed. He had only just time to slip up the
dark stairs out of sight (extinguishing Clement's candle
as he did so) when the latter entered the aperture.
Woodruff had cursed and fumed a good deal at that
young gentleman's wakefulness, which had nearly prevented
his making even the attempt on Hector's life, and

more than once he had opened the closet door to sally
forth on his murderous excursion, when he was deterred
by some action on the part of Mountjoy. It was easy
enough to unfasten the cupboard from within by inserting
the blade of his clasp knife in the chink, and with it
pushing aside the button. At last he had almost contemplated
committing a double assassination rather than
be foiled, albeit his nature, maddened even as it was,
revolted against the dastardly act of shedding another
man's blood thus wantonly. But had Clement spoken or
moved when he stood over him, he probably would have
done so to avoid detection.

It was fortunate that Clement fell asleep when he did,
for Woodruff's patience was fast becoming exhausted,
and fortunate too that the latter thought he had left him
sleeping when he stole out of the room. The ruffian had
carefully ascertained which was Hector's bedroom from the
window looking on to the park ; and, in the peculiar pantomime
that had attracted Clement's attention, he was
then calculating the door corresponding with that window.
He had not, however, taken into reckoning the possibility
of Hector locking his door, but in this, chance had favoured
him. Most of the above particulars came out in the
man's confession after his trial, and he expressed at the
same time a sincere regret for his villainy, which regret
he desired might be conveyed to Hector Grayle, who eventually
returned him a frank forgiveness. British justice,
however, took a more serious view of the case, and Allan
Woodruff was deservedly sentenced to seven years' penal
servitude ; he is, therefore, not likely to figure any further
in the pages of this story.

By his outrageous act the fellow, of course, placed himself
beyond the pale of pity ; still one cannot help feeling

p 2

sorry for him. That powerful, raging jealousy which can

at will

Unsettle the calm brain,
O'erturn the scaled heart, and shake the man
Through all his frame with tempest and distraction" —

must have emanated from a strong love, fierce and uncouth
as such a passion was. But many a better man than he
has gone to the devil for a lovely face, and so it will be to
the end of time.

Hector, very naturally, was deeply grateful to Clement
for his plucky conduct in the affair ; nevertheless, from the
recollections of his own dreadful fright, which he did not
say much about at the time, Clement felt conscious that he
could not lay claim to being quite such a hero as every one
thought him. Bub although he should never forget to
the day of his death the awful horrors of that night, he
felt thankful to God that he had been thus instrumental
in saving the life of his dearest friend, and clearly recognized
in all this the hand of overruling Providence.

"Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well —
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Enough-hew them how we will."

So, the dreaded grey chamber was turned to some
good account after all; and as the superstition regarding
it abated by degrees, it was taken once more into use,
and became like any other respectable and well-behaved
bedroom.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE VILLAGE SCANDAL.

Spargere voces in vulgus ambiguous." — Virgil.

What a pleasant relief to emerge again into sunshine
after the shadowy gloom of the last two chapters ! in fact,
to rejoin the ladies, as I suppose I may say ; for I trust
that " world's witch' curiosity, has not prompted them
to run the risk of experiencing the " nervous agitation to
which brave men as well as cowards are subject."

As a sequel to the attempted assassination, Woodruff's
motive for such a deed naturally came under discussion,
and this of itself would have been sufficient to throw
light on the clandestine affair between Hector and the
keeper's daughter, even supposing no other agency to
have been at work, besides village gossip.

But meanwhile Mrs. Corcoran had reported the matter
to Heffernan, and he, in turn, had mentioned it to Gertrude
and the Squire.

Although no one at present had challenged Hector with
the rumours afloat, and he himself studiously preserved a
rigid silence regarding them, he knew this could not
last, and that sooner or later he would be compelled to
openly declare his attachment to the girl, and be prepared
to defend himself and her against all interference. No
matter how deeply interested in his welfare were they

who did interfere, he felt he could ill brook even his
mother or sister coming between him and his love. He
said nothing, but waited for the cloud to burst, and was
prepared to weather the domestic storm at any cost.

It was shortly after this discovery about Hector that
Gertrude and Captain Heffernan were seated one day in
the morning room at Barringtree, engaged in earnest
conversation.

"I cannot tell you, Albert," said Gertrude — she no
longer called her future son-in-law by his surname — " I
cannot tell you how this matter has distressed and worried
me."

I am not at all surprised."

f 0f course if it were only a silly flirtation — though
even that with a gamekeeper's daughter is derogatory to
one in Hector's position — I say if it were nothing more,
I should merely smile at such youthful folly. But I very
much fear it is as you represent — that the boy is seriously
and desperately in love."

Not a doubt about it, Mrs. George ; my eyes were
opened to that some time ago."

Pm sure I don't know how to thank you, Albert, for
all the disinterested kindness and good nature you have
shown in this affair."

Nay, you mustn't give me. credit for too much; it is
only natural that I should not quite appreciate the connexion
— the fact of my future brother-in-law being linked
to a peasant girl."

Oh, but we must never dream of such a possibility."

Of course not, and it will be better to nip the affair
in the bud at once, if we can ; for it has already caused
too much talk in the village and round about."

"But how are we to do that?" asked Gertrude, helplessly;
"Hector is so dreadfully headstrong. It seems

«b

the dear boy is always in danger. First lie gets hurt
out shooting ; then a horrid man tries to kill him ; and
then he falls in love where he ought not."

There you have changed the order of things a little ;
the attempt on his life grew out of his falling in love, and
his falling in love grew out of his getting shot ; altogether
an unlucky sequence."

Oh, how I wish I had never left his side when he
was lying ill at the keeper's lodge," lamented Gertrude.

That can't be helped now, Mrs. George ; but we
must go to work carefully with him. Leave him to meat
present, and I'll see if I can influence him at all."

iC Pray do, Albert ; Fm sure you can if you try, and
perhaps you may be able to advise Lizzie Rolfe as well ;
she is a good child, and would no doubt listen to reason.
One can hardly be surprised at Hector for admiring her
so much, I think, for she is certainly a great beauty ;
it's a very lovely face, I must own," added Gertrude
musingly.

Well, there I cannot quite agree with you," rejoined
Heffernan, with the air of an art critic ; " pretty, no
doubt — too pretty, it seems, for your son's peace of mind."

A great deal ; wouldn't it be a good plan, Albert, to
try and get her away somewhere ? just for a time, you
understand, to let them cool down a little ? "

Yes, I had thought of that ; you mean place her in
some situation ? "

Exactly ; but it would hardly do for us, Hector's
relations, to moot such a thing. She would suspect our
motive directly."

Quite right, though I think I might try to arrange
it : coming from me, you see, it would not appear so
obvious."

a 0h, very many thanks for the suggestion; if you

wouldn't mind the trouble, it would be so kind of you.
Once get her away for a little while, and I have no doubt it
will be a case of out of sight out of mind with Hector. "

We'll hope so, but there is a contradictory proverb,
you know, about absence making the heart grow fonder,
only I don't fancy that would apply to his case."

Agnes now appeared at the door, dressed in her riding-habit,
exclaiming as she looked in, —

I'm just going for a ride with Hector, mother dear;
we shall pass by the town if I can do any commissions
for you ; only remember, I can't carry much on Rataplan."


Thanks, my love, I don't think I want anything, and
they are sure to be sending in tomorrow."

"Then you really can't ride with us to-day, Albert?"
inquired Agnes.

"I'm afraid not," he replied; "I've a lot of letters I
must write this morning, and I've put them off from time
to time."

Poor Emperor ! he'll be so disappointed. I promised
him a gallop this afternoon when I took him his lump of
sugar."

He shall have one tomorrow instead," said Heffer-nan,
smiling, " and I'll make a match with you against
the chestnut — two miles, owners up."

"What stakes?"

A dozen pair of gloves to a new Lincoln and Bennett."


Rather short odds ; never mind, done ! "

Where have you been all the morning, my dear ? "
inquired her mother.

In my boudoir ; I couldn't sleep last night for thinking
of that dreadful creature, Woodruff, so I've just been
having a nap to freshen me up."

Not without a fire in the room, I hope."

Oh, I wasn't a bit cold. I lay like a warrior taking
my rest, with my Marshall (and Snelgrove) cloak around
me ;" and thus paraphrasing the old poem, she was
tripping off with a laugh, when her mother called her
back.

You absurd child' said Gertrude, " do be serious for
one moment. I want to ask you something. Have you
spoken to Hector yet ? "

What about, mamma ? "

This ridiculous love affair of his."

Oh, you mean with Lizzie Wolfe. I haven't yet ; but
I will this very morning. I'm going to give it to him well.
Lizzie is a great favourite of mine, and I won't have her
trifled with."

Ah, my dear, I wish it were only trifling."

Do you, mother ? I don't. I mean, you know,
that Lizzie wouldn't get over it in five minutes, whereas
Hector would, perhaps in less. What is it some one says
about love being a woman's whole existence, and only
a sort of little adventure in a man's. Isn't that it,
Albert ? "

"Really, I'm not sure. It's somebody's idea, I
believe."

And somebody knew all about it then ? But trust
me, mamma. I'll talk to Hector like a grandfather."

And if you find he is really serious ? "

Oh, I'll soon laugh him out of it. Good-bye. We
shan't be back before three, so cold luncheon will do for
us." With which Agnes disappeared, singing blithely as
she crossed the hall, and finishing up each bar with a
musical call for Hector.

Depend upon it she won't do any harm," observed
Gertrude, as the singer's sweet voice died away.

"Are you sure? If she is so fond of this keeper's
daughter, and finds her brother very much in earnest, she
may be induced to take another view of the matter."

u Do you think so, Albert ? I hope not."

So do I, Mrs. George. But sisters are sometimes
very weak about their brother's love affairs' he remarked,
dubiously.

Granted. But this is quite a different thing. A girl
out of the village and all. Agnes would surely never be
so foolish."

At any rate you may rely on me to do all I can to
further your wishes," said Heffernan, rising. " And as to
getting the girl into some situation, I make no doubt it can
be managed. I will go at once and see how the land lies."

Thus the conversation ended, and Heffernan shortly
afterwards made his way across to the keeper's lodge on
the all-important errand.

This business regarding Hector and Lizzie appeared to
be a very vexed subject at the Hall just now ; and as the
theatricals had been postponed sine die, owing to the
sudden death of a relation of Mrs. Grayle senior, they
had nothing else to talk about. Even in the short space
of time since Woodruff's committal, various vague rumours
had oozed out respecting the affair, creating quite a
scandal in the parish of Barringtree.

At the same time that Gertrude and Heffernan were
conversing together on the matter, the Squire and his
wife were holding a conference in the study. As usual the
latter was neither amiable nor charitable in her arguments,
and it was as much as her husband could do to keep his
temper.

You say, Percy, that it's not like Hector to do anything
underhand," remarked Mrs. Grayle ; " but I say he takes
after his father, and here is an instance."

:c Nonsense, my dear, nonsense. You are the only
person who thinks so, that's one comfort. No son could
be less like his parent." And no grandson less like his
grandmother, he might have added.

u Hector's quite as bad, if not worse, in my opinion.
George would never have done such a thing as this. You
call it no disgrace, I suppose, for a gentleman's son to
bring about a scandal of this kind — to make desperate
love to a parish girl, and place himself on a level with a
low clodhopper ? "

Here Mrs. Grayle snorted with indignation.

How do you mean, my dear ? "

How do I mean ? Why your grandson and one of
your under keepers, a common labourer, are sweethearts
to the same girl, aren't they ? At least they were till
one of them was sent to prison. A good thing if the
other could keep him company till he came to his senses.
Psha ! I've no patience with it all."

My dear Harriet, you talk a great deal of nonsense,"
returned Mr. Grayle, still keeping his temper, however.
11 This affair is all exaggerated, grossly exaggerated. If
it had not been for that mad scoundrel's conduct we should
probably never have heard of the matter at all."

Perhaps not, till the poor girl was ruined," she
observed, significantly.

Harriet ! I am surprised at you. How can you talk
so of your own flesh and blood ? A boy, too, who is the
very impersonation of all that is honourable and high-minded."


Fair evidence of such characteristics, I must say."

I don't understand you, Harriet," cried the Squire,
rising and waxing wrath by this time. " I don't
understand your character, I must say — " he continued,
pacing up and down the room, " fouling your own nest

by such insinuations. I tell you this confounded affair
has been made a great deal too much of, magnified as it
has been by that villain's jealous rage. A little extra
attention, perhaps, on the part of Hector, in return for
the care taken of him when laid up at the lodge — or, to
go further, a passing fancy for his little nurse, arising
from mere gratitude; and all this hubbub to be made
about it, forsooth ! just because an infuriated blackguard
like that fellow Woodruff chooses to take it as a personal
injury to himself. Pshaw ! There, that will do, Harriet,"
he added, stopping suddenly in his walk, and holding up
his hand as Mrs. Grayle was about to speak. If I don't
want to hear any more. I shall talk to Hector myself on
the subject, and that's enough. You let it alone."

Whereupon he bounced out of the study without
waiting for a reply.

The old man was very much incensed at the idea of his
beloved boy being so maligned ; and, to soothe his
irritation, he lit a cigar, and strolled round the hothouses
on his morning tour. This was a favourite custom of his
when at all vexed or ruffled by his unsympathetic spouse.
After the jarring wrangle, with which he was too often
victimized, he found delicious relief in the fragrant silence
of his conservatories, there to seek commune with nature's
most delicately nurtured beauties — his favourite amelia,
with their warlike corollas, the ever-varied orchid, and
other choice exotics, appearing to welcome the weary
spirit in dumb eloquence, when colour, form, and perfume
alike appealed to his grateful senses, and transported the
mortal clay from earth to fairy-land. Surely it was
enough that his son had gone to the bad without his
grandson following in the same footsteps. But such an
idea as this he scouted from his mind as an utter impossibility.
He himself had no apprehension as to Hector's

future career, though bygone experience, bitter as it was,
made him dread what the boy might be driven to do if
his grandmother were allowed to interfere.

A more aggravating woman than old Mrs. Grayle never
breathed ; and the Squire felt convinced in his heart that
George Grayle' s undutiful conduct and devil-may-care
character were attributable in a great measure to her
influence, added to that of his uncle Andrew. She it was
who had made George's home intolerable, who had promoted
discord and quarrels between him and Gertrude
though such quarrels were all on his side — and finally
had caused him, in desperation, to forsake wife and
family, and his wretched domicile, to seek a more genial
existence alone in the wide world.

From the day George left his father standing by the
breakfast-room window, after their stormy debate, up to
the present time, nothing positive had been heard of him,
beyond the applications for money to his uncle, and a
sorrowful letter written to Gertrude in exculpation of his
conduct, begging her forgiveness therein, but furnishing
no address to which a reply could be sent. A few years
afterwards, however, a vague report of his death had
reached them, though this was unaccompanied by any
particulars as to time or place, thus causing the indirect
announcement to be all the more painful.

Squire Grayle had often and often mourned his hastiness,
and the loss of his only son. He knew George was
as proud as Lucifer, and as obstinate as a mule ; but he
little thought that such pride and obstinacy would be
carried to this extent, and induce him to give up home
and family merely on account of domestic brawls. But,
as I have said, the Squire conjectured, and rightly, that
the mother's conduct was the chief incentive to the
desperate resolution adopted by his son.

For some time the old man had advertised repeatedly
for the prodigal's return, " when all would be forgiven,"
causing, moreover, strict inquiries to be instituted at
several confidential agencies in London; but all to no
purpose.

Of course poor Gertrude was inconsolable on finding
that her husband had really deserted her ; and when her
grass widowhood was converted into a stern reality by the
news of his death, her grief was painful to witness. Mr.
Grayle spent many an hour trying to soothe and console
his gentle daughter-in-law, and Gertrude believed her
heart would have broken, and that she must have sunk
gradually under the infliction, had it not been for the old
man's extreme kindness and the God-given blessings of
those two beautiful children.

With all George's faults Gertrude had loved him
dearly, as only such a woman can love ; fondly she
cherished his memory still, hoping against hope, and
praying her heart out to God to deal gently with her lost
one, and bring him back to her once more. Often and
often as she rose from her knees after these earnest
orisons, a feeling almost of conviction sprang up within
her that her prayers would yet be answered. Then as
she clung to such a thought, which soon faded away into
utter hopelessness, she sadly reflected how different it
might be now, with George restored to her, and those
dear children to draw them nearer to each other, making
their lives happy, loving, and contented, in contrast to
the cruel past.

But with all this great trouble weighing on her mind,
Gertrude felt how much she had to be thankful for. Had
not her darling boy been twice mercifully spared — once
from a dangerous accident, and then again snatched from
the jaws of a violent death, by the heroic conduct of his

friend ? She felt it impossible, indeed, to overrate her
debt of gratitude to Clement Mountjoy for that timely
rescue, and loved him almost as a son for his bravery.
Little did she wot of the indirect cause which led to
Hector's providential escape, and how Clement, in his
jealous love for Agnes, had been induced to sleep in that
haunted room entirely through pique occasioned by his
rival's raillery.

In a former chapter Woodruff and Clement were quoted
as fellow-victims to the same passion, but how very
differently that passion seemed to operate on their respective
natures ! Here, in the one case, was a jealous man
all intent on injuring his rival; while, in the other, the
jealous man was all intent on injuring himself, or at least,
ever bent on placing himself in peril, since he first tried
all he could to break his neck out hunting, and then did his
best to frighten himself crazy by courting ghostly horrors.

But whatever the cause which led to his saving Hector's
life, Clement was henceforth a hero in Gertrude's eyes,
and she felt nearly as proud of him as she was of her own
children.

The children in question were now riding side by side

at foot's pace towards the town of , evidently arguing

some important point, and Agnes' face looked a little
anxious as she spoke.

Do you mean to tell me, dear boy, that you really
and truly love this girl — with all your heart ? "

With all my heart. Yes, Fay, that I do."

Fay was the pet name he gave his sister ; not an inappropriate
one, since Agnes was more like a fairy than
anything else.

And she returns that love ? Ah, me ! But, Hector,
think — just reflect for one moment; what can come of it
all?"

I have reflected, very seriously ; and though I know
the future is wrapped in uncertainty, I can't help loving
her just the same."

Oh, I feel so sorry for her' exclaimed Agnes, with a
sigh ; " poor Lizzie ! it will blight her life ; it can only
bring unhappiness in the end."

There I don't agree with you ; but you're not sorry
for me, I suppose."

"Of course I am ; but you are a man, Hector, that is so
different."

I can't see why. I'm sure no one, man or woman,
could love more deeply than I do. I perfectly worship
the very ground she treads on — there ! I tell you that,
Fay ; and as to my love only bringing her unhappiness,
it never shall if I can help it. We may have to wait, but
I shall never change; and if my grandfather casts me off,
and I have to beg my bread, I don't care — I mean to
marry her ! " He brought his hand down on his horse's
neck with an emphatic smack as he said this, which made
the animal jump and sidle along the road. " I mean to
marry her," he repeated, with a resolute look, " whatever
any one may say."

You really do, Hector ? "

I do, on my honour."

Well, dear, I hope it will be on something more substantial,"
replied the incorrigible Agnes, with perfect
gravity.

"You are laughing at me, I see; if you can't be serious,
I'd rather not talk about it any more."

Here Hector, a little nettled at his sister's apparent
levity on so grave a subject, trotted on. She meant to
try to laugh him out of it, but would not have offended
him for the world.

Don't be angry, dear boy," she cried, coming alongside

again with a penitent look, " you misunderstood me ;
I meant the bread-begging business ; that wouldn't be
very pleasant or substantial either, would it ? "

I don't care ; if I can't marry Lizzie Rolfe with the
approval of the family, I shall do so without, that's
all."

But what does she say to this ? "

Oh, you may be sure Lizzie is far too good to act
otherwise than with discretion and — "

Yes, I am certain of that."

She understands my sentiments perfectly, but will
not agree to any engagement."

Of course not ; she sees the utter madness of such an
idea. Ah, well, you poor children ! I'm very sorry for
you both ; but what is to be done ? "

"I don't know, I'm sure; we're young and can wait, I
suppose. There, Fay," he added, changing his tone,
"we've talked enough about my love affair; let's try
something else ; yours, for instance."

Mine ! " she exclaimed, with a little comical look; "I'm
afraid its very commonplace — all plain sailing, in fact."

And Shakspeare says, ( The course of true love never
did'"

Oh, the bard only writes that ; he didn't know ; he was
never in love himself — at least not with Anne Hathaway,
they say — besides there are exceptions, and Albert and I
are going to prove the rule."

But you've to wait a year, you know."

Yes, so the little mother insists."

And lots may happen in that time ; there's many a
slip — remember."

You are a Job's comforter, I must say, old bov; a
regular dog in the manger. Because your course of love
is likely to run anything but smooth, you want mine to

vol. 1. q

do ditto. But you approve of my choice, don't you ? you
like Albert ? "

Of course I do. I think he's an awfully nice fellow ;
but I must say Fd sooner have seen you married to dear
old Clem."

Then why on earth didn't you say so before, one of
you ? " observed Agnes, demurely.

Really, you're too ridiculous, Fay. I don't suppose
you would have done it to please me, and I don't suppose
Clement meant to ask you."

Didn't he ! that's all you know, Master Hector."

This to herself ; and Agnes did look serious now, as
she thought of that interview on New Year's eve — not
with a mock gravity, such as accompanied her dry
remarks, but with quite a sad expression for the moment.

They were near the town now ; and, touching Rataplan
lightly with her whip to make him break into a canter,
she kept slightly in advance of Hector for a few strides,
as if wishing to avoid further conversation on this subject.


*****

When Heffernan reached the gamekeeper's lodge, he
knocked at the door, which was opened by Mrs. Rolfe ;
and not seeing Lizzie anywhere about, was rather glad,
for he was anxious to try if he could talk her mother over
first.

The old woman was rather taken aback by the visit,
and wondered what it meant ; then, wiping the arm-chair
by the fireplace with the corner of her apron, she begged
him to be seated.

u I've been intending to come and see you for sometime,"
he began, " but have never had — had an opportunity
before."

That was rather peculiar, considering that he had

passed the lodge over and over again; but he was
obliged to make a beginning. Mrs. Rolfe muttered
something about his being " kindly welcome' and still
wondered.

The fact is' he continued, "we feel we owe you — that
is to say, I feel I owe you a — a great debt of gratitude'

Well I'm sure, sir ; and what for ? "

In this way, Mrs. Rolfe. You see, Mr. Hector Rayless
my very particular friend j and our friendship will be
further strengthened soon by my becoming his brother-in-law.
So you understand — w

How, sir ? "

By my marrying Miss Agnes Grayle, to be sure""

Lawkk, you don't say so, sir ! Why, I alius thought
she'd took up with young Mr. Mountjoy."

a Did you indeed ? " returned Heffernan, smiling at
the bare idea of the ungainly Clement daring to aspire to
the fair Agnes. " Mere gossip, Mrs. Rolfe, that's all.
However, I only mention the fact so that you might
understand my motive."

What's that, sir, if I may make so bold ? "

I mean in the proposal I am about to put to you — an
the desire I have to do you a good turn."

He seemed to be taking very unnecessary pains to beat
about the bush to explain this motive of his. He might
have spared himself a great deal of trouble. Old
Mrs. Rolfe was the most guileless creature in the world,
and never suspected anything below the surface ; added
to this, she was rather in the dark still as to the Lizzie-historian
agitation, although, of course, she had heard of
the prevailing scandal — the nocturnal adventure in connexion
with Woolly Woodruff.

What I wish to say is this' continued Heffernan, his
tone and manner being the very essence of philanthropy.

q 2

As a small recognition of your tender nursing of my
friend, I should much desire to render you some service —
some little reward for — "

Lawkk, sir ! I'm sure we don't look for no reward, nor
nothing o' that. What we did we did out of love to
Mr. Hector, and what's more, only our duty, seeing as he
was laid up in our cottage."

"That's merely your modest way of looking at it,
Mrs. Kolfe. You certainly deserve a reward — something
more substantial than the trifling consideration bestowed
already ; and, as Mr. Hector Grayle's friend, I desire that
that reward should emanate from me."

He was very pompous and stilted in his way of speaking,
doubtless wishing to appear more impressive by dint
of grandiloquence.

I'm sure you're very kind, sir," said the woman, with
a respectful curtsey.

Now it happens that I have it in my power," he
resumed, " to provide your daughter Lizzie with a very
first-rate situation," — he had not the least notion whereat
that moment, but trusted to find one, — " a situation
agreeable in every way, with high salary, a comfortable
home, and a kind mistress."

Dear me, sir ! you don't say so ! I'm sure that
sounds beautiful ; but, lor bless you ! we wouldn't part
with Lizzie if it was ever so ; we poor old souls couldn't
live without her nohow. Still Gideon and me wouldn't
never stand in the gal's way if she herself wanted to go
out and see the world. But here she comes; she can
answer you better nor I can."

Lizzie Rolfe now entered the cottage. She had been
walking round the woods with her father, as was her
frequent custom, and her lovely face was blooming with
health from the fresh air and exercise.

Heffernan could not help being struck with the girl's
extreme beauty, nor wondered much at Hector's infatuation.


She greeted their visitor with a graceful curtsey, more
like a formal bow of the olden times. Her mother at
once explained the purport of his visit; and, Gideon
Kolfe shortly afterwards following his daughter into the
Lodge, the subject was duly discussed between them all.

Heffernan, however, very soon ascertained how utterly
fruitless was his mission. Nothing would induce Lizzie
to leave the old people, and nothing would induce the old
people to part with Lizzie. He saw it would be mere
waste of time to press the matter, so took his departure
with as little outward show of vexation and disappointment
as possible.

He had ignominiously failed in this experiment, but he
was not the man to be easily baffled ; so, on his way back
across the park, he busied his fertile imagination with
some other plan for nipping this unfortunate affair in the
bud.

Gertrude's future son-in-law was quite a godsend to
her in this matter apparently, persevering to a degree,
and all anxiety for the welfare of the wayward youth.

As the wise Mentor was to Telemachus, so was Albert
Heffernan to Hector Grayle ; though the faithful counsellor
at present only acted in concert with Penelope in
the interests of her son, not having as yet taken the latter
in hand personally.

He appeared to Gertrude as the most unselfish man she
had ever known — a kind and sincere friend, and one who
had her interests at heart, as well as the interests of the
Grayle family in general; a man, moreover, who never
seemed to think of number one, and who never minded
how much trouble he took to please and oblige others.

Then the delicate way in which he absolved them from
any obligation to himself ! so like a perfect gentleman !
Ah ! her daughter Agnes was a lucky girl — a very lucky
girl — to have won such a man for her future husband !

So gratified., indeed, was the confiding mother with all
the virtue and excellence she discovered in this new-found
paragon, that she began to think seriously of curtailing
that year's probation which she had been so very
particular about at first.

I know what I'll do," thought Heffernan, stopping
suddenly half way down the avenue ; " I'll go and have a
talk to Mrs. Corcoran, and see what she says."

Whereupon he struck off to the right, towards a side
entrance into the park, which would lead out near
Sickles' farm.

Let's see," he added, glancing at his watch ; " there's
just time to look up the old woman before luncheon;"
and he quickened his pace in the new direction.

CHAPTER XIX.

A PLOT TO CHECKMATE CUPID.

The best-laid schemes o' mice an' men

Gang aft ashley,
And leave us nought but grief and pain

For promised joy."

Barns.

Mes. Cokcokan, then, it seems, was Albert HefTernan's
mentor. Very handy things these mentors; it is so
pleasant to have some one always to fly to for counsel
and guidance.

Heffernan had evidently a high opinion of the old
nurse's intelligence, or he would scarcely have consulted
her on such a delicate matter as this -, but she had already
won his confidence by reporting certain circumstances
that had come under her notice, and the whole subject
had been carefully discussed between them.

He found her at home, as it was just the Sickles'
dinner-hour, and as soon as they were left tete-astute, he
plunged in medias res without ceremony.

I tell you what it is, Hannah," he exclaimed, dropping
into a chair, and bringing his open palm down on the
table with some force ; " we're in a fix — the plot thickens
this infernal business is becoming awkward."

What infernal business do you mean, Mr. Albert ? w
inquired Mrs. Corcoran, composedly.

"Why, about that young fool over there" — nodding
towards the Hall — " wanting to marry this blessed

girl-you

mean the keeper's daughter? Well, why
shouldn't he ? — why need you care ? " she asked, in an
imperturbable tone which was very provoking to him just
then.

Why need I care ? You ought to know, I should
think. I've told them I don't relish the prospect of such
a connexion ; my future brother-in-law married to a low
girl like that — it's monstrous. Don't you see ? "

Of course, of course, I understand ; but supposing
young Mr. Grayle persists, and you find he's really
determined to marry her ; what would you do then ? "

"upon my life, I hardly know. If I didn't care for his
sister so much I think I should be inclined to cut the
whole concern, and yet — "

You would ! " exclaimed Mrs. Corcoran, raising her
black eyebrows, as if in astonishment; "well, of course
that would be a sacrifice, but I'm not sure it wouldn't be
wise."

You think it would, eh ? "

Well, you know best."

You'll agree that I've good cause to object to the
connexion, haven't I ? " he observed, with a significant
smile.

"You're the best judge of that, too."

I wish you wouldn't be so confoundedly sententious,
my dear Hannah. Can't you give one a little advice ? "

I don't understand your long words, Mr. Albert ;
but if you mean by sententious that I won't say much,
it's a good fault, isn't it ? Don't you think it's as well
I've learnt to hold my tongue ? "

Certainly ; I always have thought and always shall

think you the most sensible woman living ; that's the
reason I consult you."

To be sure. Well, my advice mayn't be worth much ;
but I say — get them apart — send the girl away somewhere
— if you can't do that, send him."

« Just what I thought of."

H Naturally."

u And the very thing I've been trying to do. I have
only this minute come from Rolfe's lodge, where I've
been offering to get her into any situation she likes — ingratitude,
you understand, for nursing my friend."

Exactly — and she declined ? "

{< She did, promptly though civilly enough."

The old people wouldn't let her go, I suppose ? "

She wouldn't if they did."

"Ah ! those old folks are too fond of their only child
to let her out of their sight, don't you see."

I suppose so ; and the only child smelt a rat, I suspect,
and guessed what my object was."

How in the world could she ? " asked Mrs. Corcoran,
starting in surprise.

I mean she thought I was only trying to get her away
from Hector Grayle just to quash their love affair."

Ah ! precisely; and she wasn't far out, was she ? "

No. But I've another idea, Hannah."

No doubt. You call me a sensible body, Mr. Albert,
but I can return the compliment ; I always did think you
had your wits about you. What is the idea ? "

Well, having failed with the confounded girl, we
must get young Grayle out of the way; that's all."

Of course ; that's hardly a new notion though, for I
just now suggested it. But how are you going to manage
it?"

I've a capital plan, which I'll tell you. I've already

mentioned it to the boy casually, though I didn't think
seriously of pressing the matter at the time, but I certainly
shall do so now. However, to explain. You must
know that my regiment is likely to be sent out to India
before very long, maybe in a couple of months or so — at
least that's the report — not in the usual order of relief,
but because there's some disturbance threatening on the
frontier, and we are next for service. Do you follow
me?"

Perfectly."

Now I think, with a little judicious influence at the
Hall, I could persuade them to purchase the boy a
direct commission; and with a little further influence
at the Horse Guards, I could get him posted to my regiment.
He's doing nothing at home — his mother and all of
them are on tenter-hooks about this business, so I should
think I ought to be able to work it somehow."

It's rather a happy thought, I must say ; but did you
intend to go yourself ? "

Most certainly — to look after him ; his mother will
trust him to me. Besides, I can't sell out or exchange
when my regiment is ordered on active service ; but even
if we were only going in the ordinary relief I shouldn't
care to do so, as I'm at the top of the captains, and
expect my majority directly ; and by an exchange, you
know, I should lose such a lot of steps. But I'm afraid
you don't understand my military jargon."

Yes, I do, well enough for the purpose, Mr. Albert.
Don't you think, though, that his mother and the rest
of 'em would be afraid of his going out to the
wars ? "

Not' if I calm their fears and tell them, which is
probably true, that there's not likely to be any real
fighting, worthy of the name — no danger or anything of

that sort. You see they understand the great importance
of the object,, and will jump at it ; besides, his
foreign service need only be very temporary'

And what about the young man himself ? What if
he objects ? "

11 Oh, but he won't. I must be careful not to let him
see my hand, of course. But he'll like the novelty of the
thing, as soon as he can make up his mind ; the prospect
of a nice red coat, and a bright sword to play with. I
can get him to do just what I like, I believe, for he's as
weak as water, and, if properly managed, will be charmed
with the idea."

You fancy, then, that taking him to India will knock
the smoothness out of his head ? "

"Effectually, I should thijik."

Let's hope it may."

However, if he doesn't cool down very soon, I've
another remedy ; I shall make him fall in love with some
woman out there. Young men are very susceptible in a
tropical climate like India."

You're a shrewd gentleman, Mr. Albert, and no mistake,"
remarked Mrs. Corcoran, admiringly.

I am merely acting in the interests of the family I'm
about to enter," he returned, in a dry tone.

They ought to be very much obliged to you. Talking
of India, I had a letter last mail from my son. You
remember Joey ? "

I should think so."

He was always a great admirer of yours, you know,
Mr. Albert, and he often mentions you in his letters —
says he should like to get transferred to your regiment,
and be under you."

I'm flattered I'm sure. Where is he, and how is he
getting on \ "

He's at Belly or Bailey, or some such place, just now,
but he says they're coming home directly'

What is he in, did you say V

The Rifle Brigade, and he's just taken the lance
stripe again, or whatever he calls it. The captain of his
company died a little while ago, and he was his butter-man
— "

Batman you mean, I think," observed Heffernan,
smiling.

To be sure, that was it, batman. Well, after the
captain's death, he thought he'd try and go in for promotion
again. Joe's getting an old soldier now, Mr.
Albert — been a corporal a heap o' times, but he's always
getting broke for something or other; rather fond of a
glass, I expect, like his father. But I was going to say,
this Captain Yickers — that was his captain's name — was
wonderfully kind to him, and he liked being his servant
best, I think."

Vickers ! what Yickers is that, I wonder ? A friend
of mine married a Vickers some years ago ; he was in the
service, too. I wonder if it's the same."

"Joe don't mention much about her, so I can't tell
you what she's like ; though he seems very fond of her
and a little child of hers, too, which he writes about in
his letters. I'm sure if he knew you was going out to
the country, Mr. Albert, he'd be very glad, for he wrote
to me not long since to say he'd like to volunteer for your
regiment when his comes home."

"So he shall, then; you write and tell him. Bless
me ! why 1 recollect Joe as well as if it were yesterday,
when we were children playing together. I shall take a
great interest in him, Hannah, for his own sake as well
as yours."

I'm sure you would, sir."

He always promised to be a strapping fine fellow j I
suppose you've never seen him since he grew up ? "

wf I haven't, but he says he's the biggest man in his
regiment a long way — stands nearly half a head over the
tallest."

Indeed ! By the bye, Hannah, I wonder if he has a
good memory. Is his memory as long as his body,
think you i"

That I can't say ; he remembers you, of course — "

Yes, but I mean — "

I understand. Well, I essay he wouldn't recollect
much about circumstances quite so far back as that
blessed accident; besides, he left us, you know, before
then."

Ah, to be sure he did ; that's lucky ; he's not likely,
then, to increase the complication."

u Not he, don't be alarmed. You take him under you,
Mr. Albert, into your company and look after him, if he
volunteers. I know I can trust you to take care of his
interests, can't I ? "

As she spoke she gave him that peculiar look with
those black eyes of hers.

That you can, Hannah ; he is your son ; that's quite
enough for me. Now I must be moving," he added,
rising from his chair; "I'm afraid I've been keeping you
from your dinner."

Not at all, Mr. Albert."

Very glad we've had a chat about this matter, though."

So am I, and I'm sure I wish you luck."

u I shall see you again, soon, when I'll report progress
good-bye."

So saying, these intelligent people shook hands cordially
and parted.

As Heffernan was leaving the little farmhouse, old

Sickles' moon face appeared at the parlour window, crying-out,
—

' Morning careen ! wkoy, dear kea-art alive ! ye ain't a
going' to run away like that there, surely. don't you drop
in and jest taste a mite o' our Irish stew ? We ka' got
a be-ewty a coming' up — and thin a glare o' my ould
home-brewed to was ut dayown with, pry du now,"
pressed tke hospitable farmer.

Heffernan, however, begged very civilly to be excused,
saying he was obliged to get back to the Hall immediately,
so made his escape and returned thither in a
somewhat easier frame of mind, notwithstanding his
failure at High Lodge.

After Hector and Agnes came back from their ride,
Gertrude questioned tke latter closely as to what kad
passed between them ; but finding that tke result of their
conversation only confirmed ker fears, ske took tke first
opportunity of seeking an interview with ker boy, tke
outcome of kick gave further and stronger evidence still
of kow desperately and hopelessly Hector was in love.

Tke quiet, uncommunicative man, powerfully inspired
by tke tender passion, is invariably tke most dangerous,
and tke most difficult to deal with. As tke fluke of
tke skip's anchor sinks deep into the ground through
calm and motionless water — swifter and deeper than
when cast in turbulent seas mid the flow of a powerful
under-current — so Cupid's shaft buries itself to the
feather in the heart of the tranquil, steadfast nature,
whereas it glances lightly off that which palpitates only
with volatile emotions, and is rendered impervious to a
wound by its armour of insensibility.

Hector Grayle's was just one of those placid, reticent
natures, especially when under the influence of love — and
this, as I have said, was the first time he had been under

such influence. His secret, then, which had only transpired
b y accident, would never have been extracted from his own
lips; unlike the shallow-hearted babbler, who confides in
every other person he meets.

He had often communed seriously with himself regarding
the great depth of his passion, and was astonished
to find the powerful hold it was gradually assuming over
him. At first he even struggled against it, and tried to
shake off the sense of absolute enslavement ; but utterly
failed, as many a stronger-minded man has failed before
him.

Gertrude's conference with Hector being attended
with no greater success than her daughter's, the anxious
mother was in sorer trouble than ever about it all, and
longed once more to consult her oracle, Captain Heffer-nan,
as to what had better be done.

That gentleman had already reported the unsatisfactory
issue of his visit to the keeper's cottage, so everything
was now ripe for mooting his own scheme. With his
usual tact and common sense he argued within himself
that it would be better to again broach the subject to
Hector first of all, and, by holding out bright prospects
of glorious excitement and sport in India, so work upon
his young imagination as to make him eager for this trip
to the gorgeous East.

Hector, as was his wont, had been very gentle and
considerate in his conversation with his mother, for he
loved her dearly, and would not have given her a
moment's pain for the world ; nevertheless, he was very
firm in his purpose, and talked so vehemently of his
devotion to the girl, that poor Gertrude was quite overwhelmed,
and could not argue with him a bit. Amove
nihil nullius, nihil violently ; and when his voice faltered
as he spoke of Lizzie, and he vowed and protested that

he was wretched and miserable without her, that be could
never change, and so on, his gentle mother, on the point
of bursting into a flood of s} T pathetic tears, very nearly
gave in on the spot, and sobbed a blessing on them both.
But the mentor was at hand, ready to come to the rescue ;
and although he did not know then how dreadfully weak
Gertrude had been, she confessed to him afterwards at
their next consultation.

It was during those two or three idle hours of a winter's
afternoon, when it is too dark to do anything out of doors
and time hangs heavy on hand till the dressing-bell rings
for dinner, that Heffernan and Hector adjourned to the
billiard-room for a game.

Gertrude glanced up at them anxiously as they left the
library — after having joined the ladies in " the cup that
cheers, but not inebriates" — and catching Heffernan's
eye, she gave him a solicitous look, which he returned by
a reassuring smile as he went out at the door.

Ah ! what should she do without him ? thought Gertrude
; she felt such confidence in him now ; so-sure that
his influence over her troublesome child would be successful
in the end.

While he played his game of billiards Hector was more
taciturn than usual, and though his friend knew well
enough what was weighing on his mind, he carefully refrained
from touching on the subject. Heffernan was
aware that it would be the worst policy to let him even
suspect that there was any ulterior motive for the proposal
he was about to renew, knowing how sensitive and
suspicious these love-birds invariably are.

By the way, I told you, Hector," he observed, carelessly,
during their game, " that my regiment was likely
to be ordered abroad soon ? "

To India, eh ? "

"Yes, there's some row brewing on the frontier, I
believe."

"Ah, will you really have to go, then ? "

Certainly ; but I should do so even were it optional,
which it isn't. Anyhow, we're next on the roster for
India, and should be going a little later, if we're not sent
now."

Have you said anything to the others about it yet ? "

M No, I intend to mention it, though, before I go back
to Aldershot."

I would ; Agnes and the mother will be anxious when
they hear it."

As I suggested the other day, Hector, what would
you say to come out with me ? " asked Heffernan,
after a pause, stroking his long black moustache rather
anxiously.

"Well — I've been thinking about it. But how— I
mean in what capacity could I go ? "

As an officer, of course, and in my regiment. If you
would like it, I really don't see much difficulty about it."

Well, I don't know ; I see a good deal," said Hector,
doubtfully.

How do you mean ? You've just taken your degree
at Cambridge, so the exam, would be a mere walk over ;
with a little interest we could easily work a direct commission
for you, and get you posted to my corps into the
bargain."

Upon my word," returned Hector, " I daresay it
would be very jolly, and I should like it, perhaps ; but,
as I said before, I don't know at all how it could be
done ; I've such a lot of things to keep me at home just
now."

He means that confounded girl, I suppose," thought
his friend.

vol. 1. R

There's all the shooting to be looked after," continued
Hector, telling off on his fingers, " and the fishing,
and the hunters — Fm quite the head stableman, you
know — and then the cricket club, and heaps of other
things."

Bless you, my dear boy, they'll all take care of themselves.
Shooting is over for this season, and hunting will
be soon. But talk of shooting, by Jove ! think of the big
game out there all the year round ; there's nothing in
the world to be compared with Indian shinar ; besides,
home-keeping youth have ever homely wits ! ' as the
immortal William says; not that you have, old chap,"
he added pleasantly, placing a friendly hand on Hector's
shoulder;" but the glorious excitement and change would
do you a world of good, I'm quite sure."

I daresay you're right ; I believe it would. But how
long would one be away ? " asked Hector, thinking of
his love, and that he could not bear a separation from
Lizzie for any indefinite time.

Well, that depends on circumstances ; if there's not
much fighting to be done— and I daresay the war we
shall wage on the frontier hills will be chiefly against the
ibex, markham, and other Himalayan game — you might
get leave or sell out again whenever you pleased; perhaps
before the end of the year."

If that's the case, then," rejoined the unsuspecting
Hector, " I think I should like it ; in fact, I'm sure I
should like it awfully. That Indian shooting has often
made my mouth water, and I'd give anything for such
sport as can be got out there. I suppose one wouldn't
be tied down too much to the regiment ? "

Oh dear no, certainly not. Now, let me see," continued
the matter-of-fact Heffernan, wasting no words,
and anxious to strike while the iron was hot; "this is

the middle of January ; if we do go — which is pretty
certain, I believe — the battalion will be ordered out by
the beginning or middle of March. That also depends
on circumstances. At any rate you would have plenty of
time to get through everything and be gazetted by then;
or, if not, you could easily follow us afterwards""

Of course I could ; though I'd sooner go with you."

And I don't the least see why you shouldn't""

But is there any vacancy in your regiment ? "

There is, or, I may say, there are, for we're two or
three short at this moment. They'll be filled up directly,
though, if we don't look sharp."

We'd better make a move at once, then. But what
induced you to think of this lately ? "

11 Really I hardly know," returned his friend, in an offhand
tone. cc I just thought it would be very jolly to
have you with us, that's all — to have some tiger-shooting
and pig-sticking together, and all that sort of thing.
The idea occurred to me some time ago — one morning
when I was shaving, I believe. Bright thoughts often
come to a fellow under the razor. Perhaps the contact
of the sharp edge is contagious to the wits. You'll find
that out by-and-by, my boy, when the stubble begins to
get troublesome."

Hector at present only cultivated a silky little moustache,
very much in its infancy.

I wonder what my people will say to it all when we
tell them," he remarked, presently, nursing the project
in his mind while they went on playing.

You leave me to start the idea. I'll put it judiciously
to your mother and the Squire directly I get a chance."

We mustn't frighten them, you know. It will be
better to suppress any whisper as to a frontier skrimmage
just at present." •

k 2

Very true, until they have got over the first shock
of the notion. Now, Hector, seriously speaking, you're
quite sure you would like to go ? " continued Heffernan.
Pray don't let me persuade you to take any step that
you are likely to regret afterwards'

There's not much chance of that. I'm a fellow who
knows his own mind, and doesn't take long to make it up
about a thing. I may say it's quite made up now."

That's right, then."

Hector, on turning the matter over in his thoughts,
reflected that his absence in India would put an end to
the idle gossip concerning hin and Lizzie; and this idea,
added to other inducements, had finally decided him.

The mentor was so elate with his success he could
scarcely conceal his triumph. Telemachus was a good
boy, but the crafty counsellor had scarcely expected him
to fall into the trap quite so easily.

That evening he spoke very seriously to Mr. Grayle
about Hector's infatuation, and suggested, first of all,
that it would be a good plan, under the circumstances,
if the Rolfes could be removed from the estate. This,
however, the Squire would not hear of, saying that old
Rolfe was much too valuable a servant to be dismissed in
that sort of way, simply because he happened to have a
pretty daughter to whom Hector chose to make love.
Furthermore, he looked upon this vagary on the part of
his grandson as quite a harmless affair, not worth serious
discussion. But Heffernan shook his head with a grave
air, and argued so strongly about the matter, that the
Squire began to think there might be something in it after
all; accordingly, when the project for getting Hector away
from the scene for a while was explained, the old gentleman,
contrary to expectation, and after a little demur,
seemed quite to enter into it, and agreed in thinking that

the change would be a capital thing for the boy, and, no
doubt, knock the nonsense out of his head.

u So far so good' thought Heffernan. " And now to
tackle the anxious mother'

This he did with considerable finesse, and much well-considered
persuasion, completely carrying Gertrude
away by his eulogium on the scheme, and the certain
advantage that would accrue. His sudden announcement
that his regiment was likely to be ordered abroad immediately,
and that he intended going with it, took her as
much by surprise as the proposal itself regarding Hector.
She was naturally all anxiety at first, for her loving heart
fluttered at the thought of her darling son going out to
such a very hot and dangerous country. But then he
would be under Albert's special charge, she reflected ; so
what need was there to fear? She felt she could place such
implicit trust in him, and eventually the anxious mother's
apprehensions were almost entirely allayed by the smooth
silvery tones and repeated reassurances of her paragon.

Here was another instance of his extreme unselfishness
and innate kindness, she thought. He would actually
undertake to go to India at considerable inconvenience
and expense, no doubt solely in the interests of her headstrong
boy, and in order to look after him. Heffernan's
absence, too, in this cause would, perhaps, involve a
further postponement of his marriage with Agnes — for it
was uncertain how long they might be away — therefore
Gertrude was positive that this must be a great sacrifice
on his part, and appreciated it accordingly. Surely such
magnanimous conduct and such a generous nature were
rare to find — very rare, indeed — and forthwith the mentor
went up fifty degrees in her opinion. Nor could she
congratulate herself enough on her daughter's future
prospects.

Finally Agnes and Hector were taken into the consultation,
and as every one seemed to be agreed on the
excellence of the project— there being no dissentient voice,
except a little grumble from Agnes as to how dreadfully
dull she would find it without them — the resolution was
carried mm. con.

Chapter XX.

UNDER THE PEEFUL-TREE.

A woman is like to — but stay,
What a woman is like, who can say ?
There is no living with, or without one,
She's like nothing on earth but a woman."

Hoare.
The stranger's general blessing
From sultry India to the Pole ! "

Edward.

From Barringtree to Bareilly, in the North-West Provinces
of India, is a ' ' far cry " — many thousands of miles
but in these days of advanced civilization, when rapid
means of communication and transit bring distant
countries-within convenient reach of each other, an
author has less scruple in suddenly transporting his reader
far away from the scene where the main action of his story
is laid.

Bareilly is a pretty little military station in the Kohil-
fund district, situate within easy distance of the hills
(the Kumaon range), and on a clear day the blue line
of the first Himalayan ridge is distinctly visible from
almost any part of the cantonment. The station was
burnt to the ground during the Indian Mutiny, but
on its being rebuilt became a place of more importance,
and the barracks which were afterwards erected for

the European troops are amongst the finest in India.
The private houses, however, for the accommodation
of officers and others, were constructed on a very different
scale, and are, for the most part, mere huts by
comparison — small, ugly, low-roofed bungalows, without
any pretensions to architecture, and very little to
comfort, forming a strange contrast to the handsome redbrick
churches and the lofty barracks.

From a picturesque point of view, Bareilly is quite an
oasis in the desert, and may well be called the garden
of the North West Provinces, for nature has lavished her
favours here with greater liberality than on most stations
situate on the Indian plains. There are many beautiful
1 ' topes n of trees studding the outskirts of the civil
and military cantonments which give a wooded appearance
to the scene, especially grateful to the eye after
the dreary wastes of arid soil which prevail over such
a vast expanse of country, approaching to, and partly
surrounding it.

Like nearly every settlement on the plains of Northern
India, although it can boast the most delightful climate
in the world during the cold season — that is, from
October to March — Bareilly is a perfect little jehanum, 1 to
use the native term, during the hot months. But old
Qwihais* say it is worth while to undergo the grilling
summer at one of these stations in order to appreciate
more thoroughly the delicious change when it does come
when punkahs, " khus-khus parties " and " solar
topers " are put aside, and people are no longer cooped
up in bungalows all day long, to go out at dusk with the
owls and the jackals, or rise in the morning before the
sun appears — but can take their constitutional (howard

1 The infernal regions.

2 Old Indian residents.

Ichana ki waste) at any hour they choose, as in the temperate
zone.

After the sweltering heat of an Indian summer, welcome
indeed to the poor dried-up, washed-overlooking resident,
is that first cool breath of air, which heralds the approach
of the cold weather and makes itself felt in the mornings
and evenings, loaded with the fragrance of orange blossoms
and other heavily scented plants.

On such a morning, about the beginning of October —
for I must go back a few months in my story — we will
ask our genii to drop us down into the middle of the
Bareilly cantonments. It is nearly seven o'clock, and a
brigade parade is going on, as can be heard from the
booming of guns, rumbling of artillery-carriages, firing of
rifles, bugle-calls, and hoarse words of command, which
sound sharp and clear on the fresh morning air, though
the general parade-ground is some distance from the lines.

This is the first brigade muster of the season, and all
the troops of the little garrison have collected en masse,
consisting of one European foot regiment, one battery of
artillery, a Native cavalry regiment, and a battalion of
Native infantry. As they will not be marching back to
barracks for some time, we will wait for them, and turn
into the compound of a bungalow which stands by the main
roadside, up which road most of the small army will pass
by-and-by when the parade is over.

The compound, that is, the enclosed land immediately
surrounding this bungalow, is more attractive than the
generality of such grounds, and is rendered cool, shady,
and pleasant, by some large trees and shrubs, and a
frantic attempt to cultivate a garden, which, favoured by
the rich Bareilly soil, is just beginning to show itself to
advantage.

A prominent feature in the compound is a stately

peepul-tree, which grows in dangerous proximity to the
bungalow and its out-houses, or "go-downs' close at
hand, threatening very shortly to demolish the whole of
the buildings in its wide-spreading "clutch, as with those
tenacious roots it feels its way under the flimsy foundation,
slowly and surely undermining it and rearing from the
ruins a family of young peepul-trees in defiance of every
effort to prevent their growth.

To explain the extraordinary nature of the peepul, if I
may be excused for a moment's digression, I will quote an
authority on the subject, who says, "No wonder that
superstition should have consecrated this tree, delicate
and beautiful as it is, to the gods. The palace, the castle,
the temple, and the tomb — all those works which man is
most proud to raise, to spread, and to perpetuate his name
crumble to dust beneath her withering grasp. She
rises triumphant over them all in her lofty beauty, bearing
high in the air, amidst her light green foliage, fragments
of the wreck she has made, to show the nothingness
of man's efforts." And another writer describes it as
springing up " in most extraordinary places, and often to
the great detriment of public buildings, growing out of
the cement which connects stones and bricks, and by the
violence of its pressure gradually destroying the edifices;"
adding further, " No Hindoo dares lop off the heads of
these young trees, and if they did, it would only put off
the evil and inevitable day, for such are the vital powers
of their roots, when they have once penetrated deeply into
a building, that they will send out their branches again,
cut them off as often as you may, and carry on their
internal attack with undiminished vigour."

However, we have less to do with the tree itself than
with the group of people who will be gathered presently
under its leafy branch ps.

A khitmutgar, in spotless white garments, is just now
engaged in laying out chota hazree, or little breakfast,
under the cool shade of that monster peepul, and very
refreshing and inviting the table looks, covered with its
dazzling cloth, on which is spread the early morning
repast, consisting of bunches of ripe yellow plantains, a
dish of mangoes, toast, biscuits, tea, and other condiments.

This meal is a favourite institution in the East (as
indispensable to Anglo-Indians as afternoon tea is to
most English ladies), at which the station gossip is discussed,
and characters taken away with as much gusto as
at any other gathering of scandal-mongers. The British
officer, faint and fagged by very early rising and a long
parade, followed, perhaps, by orderly-room and other
barrack duties, is grateful enough for that light refection,
and unbuckles his sword with a sigh of intense relief ashe
lounges down at the table.

While Hussain Khan, the native butler, was putting
the finishing touch to his work, a pretty child, some five
or six years of age, appeared in the verandah of the
bungalow, then skipping across the compound to the open
gateway, looked down the road, and waited for the return
of the regiments.

How very late they are ! " she exclaimed, coming to
the table and casting a wistful glance at the fruits ;
and I'm so hungry ; I shall begin without mamma. "

"Ballot hurry parade hai, Gwinnie mem sahib,"
replied the native in his own language, rolling out his
words in a pompous tone, as if his mouth were full of
pudding ; " a very big parade, Miss Gwinnie, but it will
be soon over now. Shall I make little mem sahib a cup
of tea ? "

Yes, I want something, please, Hussain ; I can't wait
any longer," and the next minute Miss Gwendolen

Vickers was perched on a chair, fortifying herself with a
mango.

This young lady was an only child, and rather spoilt asa
natural consequence, so she was somewhat imperious in
her small way towards the native servants ; and even had
the khitmutgar objected to her disturbing the symmetry
of the table, such protest would probably have had no
effect.

Mrs. Vickers, her mother, had been recently left a
widow, Gwennie's father, a captain in the Rifle Brigade,
then stationed at Bareilly, having died within the last few
months.

In the ordinary course of events the widow would have
sold up her furniture, vacated the bungalow, and left the
station en route for England within a reasonable time of
her husband's decease; but certain circumstances militated
against this customary programme being carried out.

Captain Vickers, as said, had been dead some months,
having succumbed to a lingering fever, and still his
widow retained her residence in the military lines ; but
only on sufferance, for the usual period granted by
courtesy in such cases had long since expired, and yet
Mrs. Vickers made no sign of moving. Month after
month passed, and the colonel commanding the regiment
had intimated, first of all delicately, then rather pressingly,
and finally peremptorily, that the quarters were required
for another married officer. However, everything must
have an end, and both the colonel's patience and the
lady's excuses being exhausted at last, she found herself
obliged to go to avoid unpleasant proceedings.

The reasons for clinging thus to her domicile, like a
cat to its fireside, or a partridge to its home fields, were
manifold. She was much attached to the regiment and
all its belongings, and felt besides a natural reluctance

to give up her bijou residence, which, with her own
hands, she had made so pretty and homelike; added to
this, the widow had found a confidential friend and
adviser in one Major Bonus, an old Quihai commanding
the native infantry regiment then at Bareilly, whose
friendship and advice were conducive to her u hanging
on " as long as possible.

Major Bonus, a widower himself, was desperately in
love with Mrs. Vickers, and had lost no time in paying
his addresses after the death of her husband ; indeed, if
the truth must be told, he had been smitten long before
that event, and with the instinct of an old vulture, had,
perhaps, somewhat anticipated matters. I merely say
perhaps — a statement of that kind must be made reservedly
; but however sad the possibility of such a thing,
it is not, I fear, entirely without precedent in the East,
or even nearer home.

Worse is it than the story of the private's wife at
Frizzlempore, who followed her husband to the cemetery
in abject grief, but during the funeral party's return to
barracks, was reluctantly compelled to refuse Private
Smith's kind offer of marriage because Private Jones had
unfortunately come forward first and proposed beside the
grave. Verily, nn embarras che richesse !

Georgie Vickers, as she was familiarly called amongst the
young officers, was a most egregious little flirt, although I
will not calumniate her further by saying that she encouraged
such advances as the major's before her bereavement.
His attentions and kindnesses were gratefully received,
but that was all ; and as for the major himself, though
no doubt the attentions were intentions, and as such the
stepping-stones to a second edition of the altar, the
ulterior motive, even if obvious enough, was never openly
expressed. About this time Major Bonus had proposed

and been duly accepted, but in common decency they
could not be married offhand so soon after her late
husband's decease; nor was Mrs. Vickers in such a
desperate hurry as the major, for I am bound to confess
she did not care much for him, and rather preferred her
freedom as a widow. Her engagement, then, was purely
one of convenience, since the old Quihai's influence helped
to keep her home over her head for a little while longer,
which seemed to be her chief anxiety ; besides this, his
assistance from a pecuniary point of view was very
acceptable, as she had been left very badly off. Therefore,
so long as Georgie Vickers could make use of him, she
was satisfied.

Gwennie was well into her second mango — and a pretty
mess she had made of her face, hands, and frock, with the
juicy fruit — when the syne, or native groom, entered the
compound at the " double' pulling up in front of the
bungalow and squatting on his " hunks." Here he
awaited his mistress' return, Mrs. Yickers having been
out riding on her " tanto " to witness the parade. u Hah,
mem sahib aha hai" was the syne's reply to Gwennie's
question as to whether her mother was coming. The
native never moved from his position as he spoke, but
sat whisking the ground in front of him with a chowri,
his badge of office — a yak's tail attached to a piece of
cane, and used for switching the tormenting flies off
horses.

Soon afterwards a clatter of small hoofs, a cloud of dust
at the gateway, and Georgie Yickers dashed into the compound
on her active little pony, pulling up sharply at the
steps of the verandah with the sudden precision of an
adjutant, or field-officer, taking up a distant point.

A small pale-faced woman, five feet nothing, with a
retrousse nose, large light grey eyes, nut-brown hair

(rather untidily kept), and a neat figure — such was the
lady who now sprang nimbly from the back of " Gooral/'
as she called her pony, and approached the chota hazree
table. Strictly speaking, far from a pretty woman, if you
took her to pieces, but withal something very attractive
about her,, especially in the eyes of the British subalterns
apparently — and older birds too, to wit the major — with
whose hearts she played battledore and shuttle-cock to
an alarming extent.

But there was no harm in Mrs. Yickers — she knew
where to stop ; though, of course, by such foolish and
systematic flirting, she gave too much reason for having
her name dragged through the mire ; and once an Anglo-indian
lady gives the slightest indication of being flighty,
she is done for — her good name is gone — at least, in that
little world in which she lives for the time — for there is
no clapping the muzzle on the babbling mouth of scandal ;
especially in an out-of-the-way station in India where
people have nothing else to talk about.

A thoroughly vain, frivolous woman, who seeks amusement
at the cost of self-respect, risks losing even that
respect from those who only seek amusement for themselves,
caring naught for her good name; and maybe,
after running the gauntlet of her neighbours' scorn and
scandal, she actually tempts the very devil by whom she
is so naturally shocked, and then shrinks in virtuous
horror from the insidious danger. Such a woman would
do well to take counsel from the lines, —

Let this great maxim be my virtue's guide :
In part, she is to blame that has been tried ;
He comes too near who comes to be denied."

With all her flightiness, then, it was scarcely likely
that Mrs. Yickers should go scatheless, notwithstanding

that her married life had been guileless enough ; but all
the men liked the little woman, therefore most of, the
women hated her, and pretended to look upon her as a
very black sheep indeed, though envy and jealousy caused
by the attentions she received were at the bottom of so
much virtuous indignation.

When Mrs. Vickers saw Gwendolen seated at the
table, and by this time smothered with mango-juice, with
which she had also decorated the white table-cloth, she
was naturally vexed, and cried out in a scolding voice, —

You naughty child ! go in directly, and tell Ninneah
to put you on a clean frock. How dare you make yourself
in such a mess, and the table too ! "

Gwennie at once did as she was told, slinking off very
sheepishly with her forefinger in her mouth, while her
mother called to the khitmutgar to replace the stained
tablecloth by a clean one as quickly as possible.

Now when a man is engaged to be married to a widow
with children, the latter are generally looked upon as
excrescences to be tolerated rather than liked ; but when
those children are allowed to go about dirty and slovenly,
they become positively repulsive to their future stepfather;
Mrs. Yickers well knew this, and was therefore
always careful to present her little daughter to the
major as if she had just come home from the dhobi. 3
She need have been under no apprehension, however,
for Major Bonus was excessively fond of Gwennie, who
had been useful to him in a hundred ways as a sort of
go-between during his season of wooing.

Hussain Khan had barely time to re-set the table
when the troops filed past the compound on their return
to quarters, with bands braying, colours fluttering, dust

8 Native thunderer.

flying, and all that goes to make up a military pageant,
on however small a scale.

Presently, into the compound trotted Major Bonus, on
his flea-bitten Arab charger, with jingling bridle-chain,
and clanking scabbard, very military and very important;
sitting his horse, moreover, in a jaunty, debonair style.

He dismounted, gave the Arab to his syne, and clanked
somewhat stiffly up to the table, when Mrs. Vickers
pushed forward the easiest chair, into which the exhausted
warrior dropped with a grunt of satisfaction.

More jingling, more clanking, and the major was
followed by four or five other officers (young ones), some
on horse, some on foot, and all on the same errand, viz.,
chota hazree. They got leave to fall out as their regiments
passed, and accordingly turned into the compound
of the hospitable little bungalow, " the Vickers' Arms,"
as it was facetiously called, and which, on such occasions,
was looked upon as a legitimate restaurant for the thirsty
officer.

Major Bonus, however, did not half like this, for he was
very jealous in his new position of the future husband —
very proud of it too, and thought he ought to have the
monopoly of the fascinating widow ; though he might
as well have asked the Commander-in-chief to do without
his staff as Georgie Vickers to do without her morning
levee.

cc You look tired, Major," she observed — she never
called him by his Christian name, though he wished she
would. " You'd better have a peg, I think."

To the uninitiated, I may explain that a " peg " meant
a brandy and soda, rather too common a beverage at
chota hazree, or indeed at any time, to be good for the
health of the Anglo-Indian.

Thanks, I think I will, Georgie," replied Major

VOL. I. S

Bonus ; " I want something to pull me together, for I
have a court-martial at eleven."

Who's it on, Major ?," asked Tiny Gore, an ensign in
the Rifle Brigade, and nicknamed Tiny from the fact of
his being the lightest weight in the regiment.

Sergeant Baines, of the Artillery. You might have
seen that if you had read your orders, sir," returned the
old Quihai, reprovingly.

"I never do read 'em, Major," grinned the unabashed
subaltern. " My bearer 4 always does that ; he's a highly
educated baboon. But I remember, now you mention the
name, it's for insubordination or something, isn't it ?"

The major did not condescend a reply, and addressed
himself to Mrs. Vickers. He was a techy old fire-eater,
and had a strong aversion to all "griefs 5 " — in which
category Gore might be classed — especially all trifling
who presumed to flutter round the volatile widow.

That's a useful bearer of yours, Tiny," remarked
one of the others. " Writes all your letters too, doesn't
he?"

Rather ! " laughed the youngster ; " I've only to
holloa out ' Ram Lai ! ' — that's his name — ' Mail day,
write a letter to my mother,' or my father, as the case
may be, and he does it."

"And do you ever read them before they go ? "

Sometimes — not always — glad I did once, though.
The beggar had got nothing to say, I suppose, so he'd
translated the whole of one of the Bagh-a-bahar fables byway
of filling up the sheet. I cut him half a month's
pay for his cheek."

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed the other ; " serve him right."

4 A native valet.

5 An abbreviation of griffins — a griffin being a young fellow fresh
from England, or a greenhorn.

You're on this court-martial, Perditon, are you not?"
inquired the major, addressing a lieutenant of the
Artillery, seated opposite.

He might have seen that if he'd read his orders ! "
muttered the incorrigible Gore, in suppressed retaliation.


Perditon said he was.

You know this Sergeant Baines, of course' continued
the major. " What sort of a man is he ? "

"Very superior in a way — well educated and all that
sort of thing — "

"The reason I ask is because IVe often heard your
CO. 6 mention him ; quite a character, I suppose."

Quite ; but he's always coming to grief, and has
been reduced to the ranks three or four times already, if
not more."

"Why, he's like our regimental giant, Joe Corcoran,
then," cried Gore j " he's always getting promoted and
always getting smashed — never can keep the stripe for
more than a week. Halloa ! talk of the devil— here
comes the very identical."

And just then an enormous figure stalked into the
compound with martial tread, dressed in the invisible
green of the Rifle Brigade.

Corporal Corcoran — to give him his very temporary
rank, for he now wore the fitful chevron on his arm —
was a splendid-looking fellow, six feet four in his stockings,
with a pair of shoulders to match his height. He
might have been drum-major a dozen times over — and
would have made a fine figure-head for any regiment,
but for one unfortunate weakness — a strong leaning towards
the canteen. Except for that little failing there

6 Commanding officer.

S 2

could not be a nicer or better behaved soldier in the
whole army than Joe Corcoran.

The eccentric point about him was that he seldom
indulged too much until he was promoted, and then heat
once and invariably wiped off his stripes with canteen
1 c swipes' as some poetic comrade put it. However, on
this occasion, he had upset all prophecy and precedent
by retaining his lance rank for two whole moons.

Very sober indeed was he as he marched stolidly past
the chota hazree group, saluting as he did so with the
stiff formality peculiar to the British private.

That mechanical precision, which is a marked characteristic
in so many old soldiers, has something irresistibly
comic about it to those unaccustomed to the machine-like
ways of the barrack veteran. Whatever they do and
under whatever influence or emotion they may be
actuated, their movements remind one somewhat of a
life-size maronite worked slowly and deliberately and
with studied precision ; such peculiarities arising from
perpetual drill, powerful discipline, and a long course of
C( extension motions'

Joe Corcoran was just one of these automatic figures,
no doubt familiar enough to the military reader.

Good morning, Corporal Corcoran, what is it ? "
inquired Mrs. Vickers.

Just going' to lend a haud with the packing', mum,
that's all' replied Joe, making a half-turn to the right,
and halting at attention.

It's very good of you, I'm sure. I shall be thankful
for your help."

Whereupon the dark green tower, saluting again,
stalked on without further remark, and entered the
bungalow.

As Mrs. Corcoran explained to Heffernan — her son

Joe had been the late Captain Vickers' batman for a
long time ; that is to say, he used to make himself useful
to the family in various ways, regular soldier-servants
being the exception rather than the rule in India. Hence,
only too glad to get back into his old harness if but fora
day, he now sadly offered his last services at the breakup
of the establishment; for that break-up grieved him
sorely. He was very fond of the widow, whom he would
have gone to the end of the world to serve; and his devotion
to Gwennie was quite paternal — more especially now
that she had lost her own father — and the little girl reciprocated
his affection with all the ardour of her childish
nature.

"Koi hai ! ag lao ! ,,7 now cried the major, pulling out his
cheroot-case for a smoke, and making himself at home.

In reply to this summons the khitmutgar brought a
lump of glowing charcoal on a broken piece of chatty, 8
and from this primitive arrangement each officer lighted
his Manilla cheroot in turn.

So you're really going to leave us tomorrow ? "
observed Tiny Gore to Mrs. Yickers, with a comical
sadness in his face, and speaking in a low tone as he
looked across at the major, who was just then intent on
the charcoal.

The day after — " said Georgie.

I'll take my dick I shall cry — I shan't get over it
for years," exclaimed the ensign, gushingly, though still
sotto voce.

"Don't be an idiot, Tiny," rejoined Mrs. Vickers.
What do you care about our going ? " she added, not
displeased with the subject, and raising her voice, as
rather liking to parade her popularity before the major.

7 " Somebody there ! bring fire " — meaning a light.
8 An earthenware vessel .

"Don't I just ? " cried the youth, with impulsive
honesty. " Doesn't everybody ? I'm sure I don't know
what we shall all do without you."

Really ? " returned the gratified lady ; " well, it's nice
to feel one will be missed by old comrades ; however, I
may not be absent so very long' she added, significantly,
I'm only going down country to Cawnpore, to stay with
some friends for a little while, and when I return, if ever
I do—"

I hope it will not. be as Mrs. Vickers," interposed
the major, "but as Mrs. Bonus."

After which pithy remark the old field officer puffed
away at his cheroot with excited importance.

"Bravo, Major ! well said ! " exclaimed the officers, in
chorus.

Here ! let's drink a peg all round to the health of
the future bride and bridegroom," cried the excitable
Gore, who forthwith, with the help of the khitmutgar,
poured out brandies and sodas in the most liberal style,
as though he had been host instead of guest.

Glad of this excuse for a general "liquor up," the thirsty
officers drank the toast with immense relish, afterwards
re buckling on their swords preparatory to a move, for it
was getting late in the morning.

"Hulioa! what's the commotion now ? I say, I say,
holy pokers ! just look ! " ejaculated Gore, as they rose
to leave ; " why, the giant's gone stick, stark, staring
mad!"

And well might he say so, for behold ! there was the
stately corporal prancing up and down the verandah like
a playful young elephant, with Miss Gwennie perched on
his broad shoulders, and "finishing" an imaginary race
in the most approved style, with all the skill of George
Fordham.

j

A loud guffaw from the officers brought the giant to
his senses and " attention," and made him pull himself upto
his enormous height so suddenly as nearly to smash
the infant amateur's little skull against the low rafters.

"Gwennie, you young romp, come here directly'
cried her mother, " and let the corporal get on with the
packing."

Accordingly, the Lilliputian jockey dismounted from
her Brobdingnagian steed and bounded towards the group
with a hop, skip, and a jump, looking very picturesque,
with her pretty laughing face and loose wavy hair — a
rich brown, like her mother's, but having a golden
tinge as if reflecting a gleam of sunshine. Her clean
white frock, with a black sash, was rather tumbled from
her equestrian exercise, and Mrs. Vickers smoothed her
out with a gentle reproof when the child presented herself
before the officers, with whom she was a general favourite,
and looked upon by all as " the daughter of the regiment'
The major patted Gwennie's head with proprietary pride,
as the little girl stood beside him, and the next moment
Tiny Gore swung her up into the air and gave her a
hearty kiss, vowing that " she was a little stunner, and
should be his wife some day as sure as eggs were eggs,
when his ship came home."

Soon afterwards the chota hazree party broke up, and
the officers having all taken their departure, Georgie
Yickers repaired to the bungalow, to see about that
dreadful business of packing.

CHAPTER XXL

REDUCED TO THE RANKS.

Then, a soldier ;
Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,
Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel."

Shakspeare.
Black was his beard, and manly was his face ;
The balls of his broad eyes roll'd in his head —

$fe ^ tP t£ vP

Big-boned, and large of limbs, with sinews strong,

Broad shoulder 'd, and his arms were round and long ;

Upright he stood."

Dryden.

Extract from Station Orders by Colonel the Honourable
Hugh Melraont, C.B., commanding.

Bareilly, October 7th, 186—.
A district court-martial will assemble at the Mess-house
of the Royal Artillery, on Thursday, the 9th instant, at
11 a.m., for the trial of No. 2027, Sergeant John Baines,
X Battery, Y Brigade, R.A.

President :

Major R. Bonus, 51st P.N.I.

Members :

Captain H. Wing, R.A.
Captain W. J. Ripley, 51st

P.N.I.
Lieut. G. E. Haycock, 18th

Bengal Lancers.

Captain F. R. Tanners, 5th

Bat. Rifle Brigade.
Lieut. J. Perditon, R.A.
Lieut. C. Raises, 5th Bat.

Rifle Brigade.

Accordingly, at the appointed place and hour, the
above court-martial duly assembled.

Preparatory to the proceedings, Major Bonus, the
president, took his seat at the head of the highly-polished
teak-wood table before the other members arrived. With
fussy importance he examined certain papers relative to
the prisoner, provided by Lieutenant Singleton, Royal
Artillery, who acted as prosecutor.

The mess-table was denuded of everything except just
the requisite materials for the occasion, which were collected
in front of the president ; a silver mortar (in
miniature) doing duty as an inkstand ; a blotting-pad,
quill pens, foolscap paper, official documents tied up with
red tape, u The Articles of War'' and a Bible, were all
that relieved the eye on that wilderness of polished teak.

Punkahs had not yet been taken down in the Artillery
Mess-room, and the one overhead flapped and creaked
with a dreary monotonous sound, as the black automaton
in the verandah outside pulled it to and fro.

The punkah-wallah in India is quite a phenomenal
creature, a sleepy piece of mechanism — requiring considerable
oiling in the shape of chastisement now and
then — rather than a responsible human being ; but it is
wonderful how the poor wretch will pull away at that bit
of rope and cane for hours through the fiercest heat. He
will often keep it going in this way while fast asleep, the
somnambulistic motion becoming feebler and feebler
sometimes, until roused to spasmodic efforts by the
angry cry of " Kainsho punkah ! " l from within.

Presently the members forming the court began to
arrive one by one — " jude puckarao ! " 2 " lajao hora I " 3
and such like instructions being heard as the swords

1 Pull the punkah ! 2 Q u i c k I catch hold !

3 Take the horse away

clattered across the verandah and into the mess-room,
when the officers, in various uniforms, took their places
at the table. After the long hot weather, it was quite refreshing
to see these differently coloured uniforms substituted
for the monotonous, but necessary white dress,
generally worn throughout the summer.

All being ready, Lieutenant Singleton now conveyed
the order from the president to have the prisoner brought
in. The sergeant in charge the ushered him into the
room, mumbling the words, " Quick-marck-right-turn-
halt-front," in a low tone, as if under protest, and thinking
it an unnecessary piece of formality ; perhaps it was,
but it's a way they have in the army.

Sergeant John Baines now stood arraigned on the
following charges, read out by the president to the
court : —

"First charge. — For having at Bareilly, on the 28th
day of September, 186 — , been absent from the inspection
parade ordered by the officer commanding his battery.

Second charge. — For insubordinate conduct, unbecoming
a non-commissioned officer, and to the prejudice of
good order and military discipline, in having at the same
place and on the same day aforementioned, when reprimanded
in the orderly-room by his commanding officer,
made use of the following language : ( Am I a wretched
schoolboy, to be publicly scolded in this way by an
infernal old fool like you ? Try me — smash me — do what
you like — but for God's sake hold your tongue Or
words to that effect."

The prisoner was a fine, soldierlike-looking man, with
a profusion of dark brown beard, whisker, and moustache,
which added dignity to an already handsome face (regulations
as to shaving in India are less observed by both
officers and soldiers than in England); these appendages

as well as the hair on his head being streaked with grey
in many places, thereby making him appear older than he
was, as if he had seen some ups and downs in life. His
black, restless eyes and determined-looking nostrils indicated
a lurking devil within hini,which it were easy but dangerous
to rouse, and his full chest and brawny shoulders
gave evidence of great muscular strength. Yet, with all
this, there was no coarseness in the ran's physique; on the
contrary, his figure, though powerful, was gracefully set,
and there was a look of refinement both in his face and
the shape of his hands.

The officers of the court, prompted by curiosity, stared
with rather questionable taste at the prisoner as he stood
before them, for he had earned a reputation for himself in
the artillery, and was looked upon as somewhat an
uncommon character.

A well-educated man, with a good address, Sergeant
Baines' origin was a mystery to every one ; nor was it
likely to become known, since he kept his lips rigidly
sealed on the subject. His superior qualifications had
several times raised him from the ranks, but his frightfully
hot temper had always proved the stumbling-block
in his career. Yet he was as steady and sober a man as
ever took the pledge, and would no doubt have made an
excellent non-commissioned officer, but for the irritating
"red-tape" system, which is such a prevalent curse in the
British service. Strict discipline, by all means — for strict
discipline is the very backbone of our army — but that
miserable red-tape system, carried to the extent it is nowadays,
is quite another matter, and contributes far more
to making officers narrow-minded and old womanish than
any real good it does to the interior economy of a regiment.


Sergeant Baines was not endowed with sufficient patience

to observe the thousand and one minutiae which is now included
in that interior economy, and which, as a noncommissioned
officer, it was his duty to observe ; consequently
he was perpetually being " called over the coals."
Now, beyond the hearing of the court assembled to try
the prisoner, and "without partiality, favour, or affection'
I may say that Sergeant John Baines had not blurted out
his mutinous remarks without considerable provocation.

Major Fusserley, commanding X Battery, Y Brigade,
was a dreadful officer to serve under, being an aggravating
old woman by nature, rendered ten times worse by his
profession — as he followed it. A perfect slave to petty
details, red tape, in Major Fusserley's case, might be
appropriately called the apron-strings of the Government,
to which he was tied > literally and figuratively bowing
down and worshipping his bonds.

"The Queen's Regulations" was Major Fusserley's
bible, "The Articles of War" was his prayer-book, " The
Army List " his dictionary, and " The Order Book " his
daily paper — beyond which it is doubtful if this old martinet
ever dipped into any literature of a lighter or more
interesting nature.

This was by no means the first time that " old Mother
Fusser," as he was nicknamed, had goaded Sergeant
Baines beyond endurance, when the contumacious spirit
at length broke forth with the result given.

It was rumoured that this gallant commanding officer,
who was himself a particularly plebeian-looking man, was
jealous of Sergeant Baines' distinguished and gentlemanlike
appearance ; and it was further whispered that he was
excessively jealous about his own wife, a pretty woman
(fifteen years younger than her husband) , whom he fancied
had a weakness for this handsome sergeant, and who
certainly expressed herself sometimes in terms of strong

admiration regarding him ; but of course such reports
were all nonsense, mere barrack scandal, and not worthy
of consideration !

With reference to the crimes for which the prisoner
was brought up for trial, his absence from the parade in
question was comparatively a trifling offence, and scarcely
ought to have been entered in the charge, since some
reason had been given for that absence ; but it was a fine
opening for the nagging old woman to have a good
worry-worry-worry at him, which had been eagerly
jumped at.

The charges having been read over, to which the
prisoner pleaded guilty, the court was cleared, and the
officers sworn in, when the culprit was again brought
forward, and the first witness called to prove the first
charge in the indictment.

This evidence having been taken, the next witness was
summoned to prove the charge of insubordination.

Number 4291, Farrier Sergeant Charles Vulcan, X
Battery, Y Brigade, Royal Artillery, a heavy-looking*,
bloated-faced warrior, with a nose like a strawberry, duly
sworn, as follows : —

Senior Member (handing him the Bible, and speaking
in a low tone) . — " The evidence you shall give before this
court — "

President (interrupting). — "The right hand, if you
please, Farrier Sergeant, and take off your glove""

This witness appeared to be all abroad, and very nervous
aDd shaky, as if he had been drinking hard overnight.

Senior Member (continuing). — "The evidence you shall
give before this court shall be the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, so help you God ! "

2nd Witness (kissing the Bible). — ,f So help me bob ! "

(A suppressed titter from the court.)

Pres. (very gravely) . — " So help you God, Farrier-sergeant."


2nd Wit. (hurriedly.— " So help me God, sir. Beg
pardon, sir." 4

Pres. — " Escort and prisoner, stand-appease."

2nd Wit. (states) — " On the morning of the 28th I
was present at ord — "

Pres. (pulling him up). — " When, Farrier Sergeant ? "

2nd Wit. — " About half-past seven, sir."

Pres—" What day ? "

2nd Wit.— (l On the morning of the 28th, sir."

Pres. — "We want the month, Farrier Sergeant."

2nd Wit—" September, sir."

Pres. — " Well — on the morning of the 28th of September
— ? "

2nd Wit. — "On the morning of the 28th of September,
sir, about half-past seven o'clock, I was present at 
— "

Pres. (pulling him up again). — "Where, Farrier-sergeant
? "

2nd Wit. — " At our orderly-room, sir."

Pres. — " But what place ? You must state what place."

2nd Wit. — "In the Artillery Barracks, sir."

Pres. (losing patience). — "Tut, tut! I mean what
station, Farrier Sergeant ? "

2nd Wit—" Oh— why, Bareilly, sir."

Pres—" Exactly so. Well ? go on."

2nd Wit—" On the morning of the 28th—"

Pres. — " Yes ; we've got all that down."

2nd Wit. (getting confused). — "I was present about
Bareilly at half-past orderly — I mean about seven o'clock,
at—"

Pres. — " Come, come, Farrier Sergeant, let's have it

4 A true incident.

clearly. On the morning of the 28th of September, at
Bareilly, at about half-past seven o'clock, you were present
— Yes ? go on."

2nd Wit. — " At orderly-room, sir, when — M

Pres. — "But what orderly-room ? u

2nd Wit. (rather suspecting he is being made a fool
of). — " Why, our orderly-room, of course — "

Pres. (reprovingly). — "There's no ' of course * in the
matter, Farrier-Sergeant; say at orderly-room in the
Royal Artillery Barracks, then."

2nd Wit. (repeating like a parrot). — u At orderly-room,
in the Royal Artillery Barracks then, when Sergeant
Baines was brought up — n

Pres. — " Who, Farrier Sergeant ? "

2nd Wit. (very emphatically, and determined to be
right at last) . — ' ' Sergeant John Baines, X Battery, Y
Brigade, Royal Artillery, Bareilly, sir."

Pres. (with calm patience). — Do you mean the prisoner
before the court, Farrier Sergeant ? "

2nd Wit. — "Yes, sir " (wondering who else he could
mean).

Pres. — " Then, say so, please."

2nd Wit. — "When the prisoner, Sergeant John
Baines, was brought up before the major for absence — "

Pres. (darting at him). — " What ! Whom do you mean
by the major ? What major ? n

2nd Wit. (decisively). — " Why, Major Thomas William
Fusserley, sir, X Battery, Y — "

Pres. — " The commanding-officer, in fact ? "

2nd Wit—" Yes, sir."

Pres. — " Then say so, please."

2nd Wit. — "When the prisoner was brought before the
commanding-officer for absence from parade, and afterwards
— "

Pres. — "But what parade, Farrier Sergeant? You
haven't told us what parade — "

2nd Wit. — " Inspection parade, sir."

Pres. — " Then you must say so, please."

2nd Wit. (in desperation, and resolved not to be
bothered any more) . — " For absence from inspection
parade at Bareilly, sir, on the artillery parade ground, at
half-past six Hay M — "

Pres. (approvingly). — "There, that's the way to give
your evidence. Well ? go on."

2nd Wit. — "And afterwards, when the major was
reprimanding him — "

Pres. — " You mean the commanding-officer — "

2nd Wit. — " I mean the commanding-officer j yes, sir."

Pres. — " Then say so, please."

2nd Wit. — "When the commanding-officer was reprimanding
him, he began to fidget about and get very
angry—"

Pres. — " Who began to fidget about, Farrier Sergeant?"
(Here the prisoner smiles, while the members of the court
bite their nails and clear their throats with suppressed
irritation.)

2nd Wit.— <( The prisoner, sir."

Pres. — " Then why the deuce don't you say so ? "

And so on ad libitum. Consequently it took the best
part of an hour to get through this witness's evidence,
and Major Bonus, by absurd and unnecessary interruptions,
made the Farrier - Sergeant's statement appear
the most tautological declaration ever heard or read ;
while the latter, very much fuddled to start with, became
hopelessly bewildered, and ended by getting a good deal
out of temper.

Between the president and the witness it was not
wonderful that the process of taking down evidence

was protracted and tedious; for Farrier Sergeant Vulcan
was just one of those wrecks of a smart soldier so often
to be seen in India ; another of the numberless victims
to that thirsty climate — made thirstier still, no doubt, by
the heat of the forge — with the curse of drink written in
his face, and evidenced by his speech and palsied action.
As he stood before that court he was undoubtedly
bordering on a state of delirium tremens, and his collapse
was a mere question of time. The man was what
may be termed a sober drunkard, and these sober drunkards
are not easy to deal with in a summary manner, since
they give no opportunity exactly for being called to
account, although their example in a regiment is most
baneful and mischievous ; but drunkenness being their
normal condition, they get through their duty somehow;
nor could they perform it so well, in all probability, if
really sober. Major Fusserley, however, was watching
this worthy disciple of Bacchus as a cat watches a mouse,
and was longing to bring him to the same tribunal as the
prisoner then under trial.

On the other hand, Major Robert Bonus — or M Bobby
Bones," as he was irreverently called — being in command
of a native regiment, liked to make the most of his importance
as president of a court-martial on a European
non-commissioned officer ; but the members of the court,
the prosecutor, the witness, the escort, and the prisoner
himself, were all driven to such a state of irritability at
last as to feel a strong inclination to knock old Bobby
Bones off his presidential chair, and sit on his head in a
body.

But suffice it to say, without going into further details,
that both charges were at length proven, Sergeant Baines
found guilty, as he had pleaded, and sentenced to be
reduced to the ranks. This sentence having been duly

VOL. I. T

confirmed by the officer commanding the station or
district, a parade was called, at which the prisoner underwent
the degrading ceremony of having the chevrons cut
from his sleeves in the presence of all his comrades. Then
the late Sergeant went back to his barrack as plain
Gunner Baines — a morose and disgusted man — and Major
Fusserley's dignity was avenged !

Poor Baines ! Only another victim to an old woman in
uniform — only one more instance of a good soldier ruined
by a bad officer ! and it may be truly said, that excessive
zeal, carried to a pitch of fanaticism, and becoming at
last a species of mental disease (especially when added to
a nagging propensity), disqualifies a man for command
even more than actual " slackness " and incapacity.

CHAPTER XXII.

A WOMAN WITH A STORY.

O'er that fair broad brow were wrought
The intersected lines of thought ;
*****

Scars of the lacerating mind

"Which the soul's Avar doth leave behind."

Byron.

"Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud." — Shakspeare.

The court-martial over, Major Bonus called for his horse
and galloped back to his lines, taking Mrs. Vickers'
bungalow en route. There he found her in the midst of
her packing agonies, for it was still hot in the day-time,
and not at all conducive to over-exertion. Georgie,
however, gave the real work to the corporal, her ayah,
and other servants to do, while she sat in an easy chair
in cool and degage attire, and chatted to them — her refrain
being a good grumble at having to turn out of her
home.

The giant was quite an adept at packing, apparently ;
and he ordered the natives about in grand style, at the
same time doing more work in five minutes than they did
in a whole day.

Mrs. Yickers was not going to take away very much
with her, and had arranged with Major Bonus that he
should look after the sale of her furniture and immodest

2

able effects, consigning to his custody sundry articles
which she wished to reserve.

There was some uncertainty about their future plans
at present, and it was doubtful whether she would return
to Bare illy or not, since a rumour had reached the major
that his regiment might be ordered to move at short
notice.

Well, Corporal'' remarked Mrs. Vickers, during the
packing — Joe liked to be called corporal while he was
one, however transitory the rank — " Well, Corporal, I
suppose you'll be sorry to lose us, won't you ? "

Don't name it, mum," replied Joe, in fearful contortions
over the strap of a bullock-trunk, which he was
trying to fasten. " Sorry ! I should think I shall just."

11 And I'm afraid we're not likely to meet again very
soon, as the regiment's going home. I suppose you'll go
with it, Corporal ; you won't volunteer ? "

Faith ! I don't know what I shall do yet, mum." Joe
Corcoran, although the son of an Irishman, had never
been in his father's country since his childhood, so he
hardly had the true Hibernian brogue, although he sometimes
affected to speak it as a sort of national privilege.
"Ye see it's just this way, mum. I like this country
well enough; but now the poor Captain's dead — savin'
your presence, mum — and you and the little 'un are going'
away from the judgement, why, I've got no ties like.
But there's another judgement now as I want to get into,
and that's the hundred and twenty-sixth, mum."

And why the hundred and twenty-sixth, Corporal ? "

'Cos there's an old friend o' mine, mum, as is a
cap tin in that judgement."

Indeed ! what is his name ? "

Captain Cheltenham, or something like that, I think."

But surely you know — "

u I don't remember rightly till I hear it again, mum,
'cos he's only took that name lately, instead of his old
one."

And what was that, Corporal ? 3i

Denby— Mr. Albert Denby— "

Good gracious ! you don't mean to say that ? — how
strange ! "

Why, mum — do you know him ? "

I certainly knew one gentleman of that name, an
officer in the service; I daresay it is the same — what
is he like ? "

Joe described him in a rough-and-ready sort of way.

Oh, yes, that's the man I mean, Corporal — no doubt
about it''

He's a rale nice gentleman, mum ; that is, as I
remember him years ago, and I essay he aunt changed
for the fuss. My mother writes and tells me about him
now and then, and I'm going' to get further 'tic'lars from
her, 'cos, you see, mum, I want to get transferred to his
judgement directly."

So Mr. Albert Denby is an old friend of yours,
Corporal, and — ? "

And a friend of yours, too — yes, that's it, mum. And
we never found it out till now."

How very strange ! " observed Mrs. Vickers,
musingly.

"It is funny, mum. But o' course it's only these
changes what made me mention the gentleman, and think
of getting to serve under him."

w How long is it since you saw him ? "

Well, I can't say exactly, mum. Some ten or twelve
years, maybe. But I recollect him as well as if it was
yesterday."

M And by your description he was not much changed

when I saw him last. That was more recently ; five or
six years ago."

Oh, indeed, mum ? Then that must have been when
you married the Cap tin, and came to India."

' Yes, it was about that time," she replied, abstractedly.
As he spoke a cloud passed across her face as if some
sudden and unpleasant recollection forced itself upon her,
and for several minutes her mind seemed to wander faraway,
the white forehead contracting as though from
mental or physical pain.

During the pause in their conversation the giant lifted
a heavy box full of things, making no more of the weight
than if it had been a brickbat, and took it outside into
the back verandah, where the other luggage was
deposited.

"Did you say the 126th were coming to India, Corporal?"
inquired Mrs. Yickers, as he re-entered.

I don't know, mum, by rights. I'm not sure how
they stand on the roster ; but I think I heard it said they
was one of the next for foreign service."

Indeed ! Then if they do come out this cold season
you'll volunteer and stop in the country, I suppose ? "

"Yes, mum, I repose I shall. But I can't be certain
about nothing not yet."

Mrs. Yickers then changed the conversation ; for
although the corporal harped on the subject of Albert
Denby for a while, she appeared disinclined for further
discussion of their mutual friend.

Well, Major," said she, as that officer now entered
the bungalow, " and what have you done with him ? "
What have I done with whom, Georgie ? "
"The mutinous sergeant, of course."
Oh, to be sure. Well, I'm sorry I can't gratify a
lady's curiosity, but it's against the Articles of War to

disclose or divulge the sentence of the court until it shall
be duly approved and confirmed'

Never mind the Articles of War. I want to know
particularly. Surely you can tell me privately."

Indeed I'm afraid I can't."

That's always the way with you men. I thought you
said you could never refuse me anything."

Georgie Yickers here pouted her pretty mouth like a
spoilt child, for, though rather full-lipped, it was a pretty
mouth — the best feature of her face.

Yes, my dear ; but this is different," explained the
major. u One mustn't fly in the face of the Articles of
War, you know."

"Very well, I suppose you're right. I only hope you'll
always be as loyal to your future wife as you are to your
Queen."

I hope I shall, Georgie. But tell me, why did you
want to know? What makes you take an interest in this
this Sergeant Baines ? "

Oh, I'm not aware that I do particularly. It's only
that I felt rather sorry for him. He seems such a superior
sort of man."

Indeed, how do you know that ? When did you
have an opportunity of judging ? "

"Well, you remember the non-commissioned officers'
ball we gave in our regiment some time ago ? I danced
with him twice that evening, and I was very much struck
with his conversation and manner; not a bit like the
other Serjeants."

Ah, it is a pity, then, that he doesn't regulate his
conversation and manner towards his superior officers ;
then he wouldn't come to grief so often. However, if
you are really interested to know, though you might
easily guess, I can write and tell you his sentence when

it appears in orders. You'll receive a letter from me at
Cawnpore by the time you arrive there. But now about
the packing — how are you getting on with it ? "

Not very fast, I'm afraid' she replied, glancing helplessly
at the chaos around her.

You look tired and dispirited, my dear • quite melancholy,
in fact. Come, I can't have you knocking
yourself up."

Oh, I shall be all right as soon as this is over, and
we make a start," she returned, with a smile. Not that
she had over-exerted herself at all. It was something
else than fatigue that made her look just then so dispirited
and melancholy, as the major had remarked. ct I'm sure
I don't know what I should do without my corporal," she
added, u he's quite a professional packer."

Hereupon Joe, who was then courting a fit of apoplexy
over a tremendous camel trunk, sprang to attention, and,
saluting the major, said, —

Shall I take this, sir, and thin other things over to
your bungalow this evening, sir, or tomorrow morning?"
pointing as he spoke to a number of articles set aside to
be placed in the major's keeping.

Whenever you like, Corcoran. I've given all directions
to my servants to have them stowed away
carefully."

And please, Major Bonus," exclaimed little Gwennie,
coming forward with a wicker birdcage in her arms, " do
take care of my poor ' chowkidar ' for me" — the name she
had given to the dinah l perched inside the cage — " see
that he's fed, and please do talk to him sometimes, or he'll
feel so dull."

Very well, little one," replied the major, kindly, and

1 The Indian starling — " Chowkidar " being the Hindustani for a
watchman.

stroking her glossy hair; "I'll attend to the .
He shall have first post of honour in my sitting-room,
and I'll take him into my confidence on every
occasion."

Here Mrs. Vicars caught sight of the corporal looking
at the bird in the cage with wistful eyes, and a dreadfully
disappointed expression.

Why, Gwennie," she exclaimed, hastening to the
rescue, " you've forgotten ; you said the corporal was to
have the dinah. Besides, you mustn't trouble Major
Bonus with such things."

t€ On the contrary, I should be highly flattered. But
if the chowkidar is promised — " began the major.

u Why, of course he is ! " cried Gwennie ; " I said Joe
was to have him. How silly of me, dear old Joe, to forget
like that ! There, now mind you take care of him," she
added, shaking her head with an important air, and
placing the cage in the delighted giant's arms, as if it
had been a baby about to be christened ; and Joe took it
with the reverential care of an officiating minister.

"Now — let me see — I'm to keep the pony and sell
the trap ; but what are you going to do with Pompey,
Georgie ? " inquired Major Bonus, indicating a hideous
mongrel, very churlish in its nature, and with a hatred
for all niggers, except just those on whom it was dependent
for food.

u I mean to take him with me ; it's safer travelling with
a dog I think — especially a growler like Pompey ; he'll
make the natives civil."

You're quite right ; these fellows have a cordial dread
of the white man's dog : I believe they fancy it's charmed
in some way, or the devil in disguise sent to protect one
of his angels. Though they could hardly think so in your
case," he added, gallantly ; " but tell me, is there anything

else I can do for you, Georgie ? — any other way in which
I can be useful. Pray command me."

Many thanks ; no, I think not. I'm sure I am very
much obliged to you as it is 5

Don't speak of it, pray. It's not only a pleasure, my
dear, but my duty."

As he said this he leant over and kissed her forehead.

Although extremely kind and thoughtful — for Major
Bonus was really fond of the little widow — his endearments
were somewhat too patronizing and paternal in
their nature to please Mrs. Yickers, and lacked that charm
of the lover's caress which she would have preferred.
This, I am afraid, made her hold his affection a little
cheaply, since she felt rather as if engaged to be married
to her grandfather, or at any rate her father, for the
latter the major was quite old enough to be.

I must get back to the lines now, my dear," observed
Major Bonus, presently, " for I've several things to see to.
By the bye, I've ordered your dak and bearers," he
added, as he was going out of the bungalow ; " they'll be
here at sundown tomorrow, so that's all right. Au revoir
till this evening ; I shall meet you at the band, I suppose?"

Yes, it's our band to-night, so of course I shall go.
Perhaps it will be the very last time I shall hear it."

Mrs. Vickers sighed to herself sadly as she said this,
and followed the major out into the verandah. There she
watched him mount his charger and trot off, jingle
jangle, jingle jangle, with the true military jog on which
he prided himself, waving his hand jauntily to her as he
disappeared at the gateway.

Punctually at five o'clock the same evening the syne
brought round Gooral harnessed to the light pony-carriage
for Mrs. Vickers and Gwennie to drive to the
band for that very last time.

Gooral was a small wiry tanto, a useful pony 3 but
certainly not quiet either to ride or drive, though Mrs.
Vickers used him for both. He was what the natives
called a bahoot-bobberywallah, or a hurry budmash, which
meant that he was an exceedingly frisky little brute, oran
exceedingly vicious one. The former he decidedly
was, a very small beast with a very big spirit, and doubtless
there was a good deal of vice about him as well.

Every evening as regularly as clock-work when they
went for a drive the bobbery Gooral plunged about
furiously at starting, and every evening invariably
knocked the syne either into the verandah or into the
bushes. That long-suffering domestic, however, had become
so thoroughly accustomed to this part of the programme,
that if he had not found himself sprawling on
his back as usual he would quite have missed it and
would have thought something was wrong. Accordingly
that evening he was utterly astonished to see the pony
trot off quietly, and he himself still preserving the perpendicular.
Whether the Gooral knew by instinct of the
approaching departure of his mistress and thereby felt
depressed, or whether he had not got over the tremendous
bickering she had given him in the morning, it is impossible
to say — probably the latter — but he certainly went
out of the compound, for a wonder, like an old sheep.

The syne shook his head as he looked after them and
marvelled ; indeed, so amazed was he that he could not
move for a few seconds, remaining as if spell-bound, and
thereby getting a very bad start after the carriage. Notwithstanding
this he was at the band first, and had been
there some minutes before his mistress drove up.

A wonderful fellow the syne, who, by cutting across
country, combined with considerable staying powers,
appears to be almost ubiquitous in his nature. His master,

maybe, leaves him in the compound as he gallops off to
parade or elsewhere, and, lo and behold, when he arrives
at his destination, there is the syne waiting for him,
perfectly calm and not blowing as much as he or his
horse. Of course there are sykes and sykes ; but I
think I may say that much of the average.

When Georgie Vickers pulled up near the band-stand,
at her customary corner, there was as yet a very small
audience assembled ; and although the musicians were
playing away vigorously, their sweetness was almost
wasted on desert air, for beyond a few ayahs with
washed-out looking infants in their arms, and pale
sickly-looking children clinging to their skirts, the
native infantry doctor and his wife in a buggy, a Parsee
shopkeeper, and a couple of native chuprassees, there was
no one to listen.

Gwennie jumped out of the pony carriage as soon as
they arrived, and went to play with the other children,
so Mrs. Vickers, for a short time, was left alone in her
glory — a very unusual occurrence indeed, for on such
occasions her carriage was generally besieged by gay
young officers ; but Georgie was glad of her solitary
grandeur for this evening, since her heart was heavy and
sad at leaving the old regiment — and from other causes
as well. The soft strains of music — they were playing a
beautiful selection from La Favorite at the time — soothed
her sorrowing spirit, and she preferred to enjoy the
delicious passages without a running accompaniment of
Ensigns' claptrap.

But not long was this sweet Donizettian solitude to be
uninterrupted, for gradually and surely the officer element
crept upon the scene, and gradually and surely the
widow and her tiny equipage were surrounded by a
cluster of chaffing, chattering, and cheeky young subalterns,

who hovered together at her shrine like so many
starlings on a favourite tree.

This was Georgie's normal condition, it is true, and
as a rule she was well equal to the occasion, keeping
them all going at once with her pert and piquant observations
; but to day there seemed a certain restraint in her
manner — a listless, preoccupied air about her, which did
not fail to attract attention, and as she made an effort to
talk to, and laugh with, the gay spirits around her, a faraway
look in her eyes betrayed that her spirit was not
with them.

The poor little woman is sorry to leave us," whispered
a young ensign of the Rifle Brigade to one of his companions.
" She's got the blues — don't let's chaff her
to-night."

So saying, with good-natured intention, he hooked his
arm into his brother officer's, and they sauntered off to
another carriage.

Yes, she was sorry — very sorry to leave them, and once
or twice the hot tears sprang to her eyes as some young
friend touched her heart by simple words of kindness,
words conveyed in a little good-bye speech, which mingled
sadly with that plaintive air still floating in her ears.
She keenly appreciated the tender sympathy thus expressed,
for, with more enemies than friends amongst the
ladies, she was dependent on these boys for gentle fellow-feeling
and condolence.

Yes, she was sorry to leave the dear old regiment and
all her comrades, especially that faithful giant, the
corporal. But Georgie Vickers had even more than this
to weigh upon her mind just then — more than this to
crush the animal spirits which so characterized her nature.
Her widowhood, the memory of her late husband, the
break up of her home — these were recent and present

sorrows; but it was the long-ago with which her mind
was then filled and which chiefly troubled her — the
memory of something almost forgotten, but lately revived
with two-fold bitterness.

No one would have thought, to look at Georgie Vickers
in her naturally merry and vivacious moods, that she was
a woman with some painful secret preying at her heart —
a woman with a story, in fact ; but so it was.

The canker blooms have fall as deep a dye
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly
"When summer's breath their masked bud discloses."

And the gnawing canker within had been brought to
life again that very day. Little did honest Joe Corcoran
know, when he mentioned the name of Albert Denby,
what cruel recollections that name brought back to her
mind — how it made the old wound bleed afresh — how it
caused her old sorrow to wake and cry ; and the torture
was the more agonizing since she could make no confidant
impart the secret of her trouble to no one in the world
not even to Major Bonus, her future husband — less
even to him than any other living soul.

Poor little woman ! she was much to be pitied ; and,
far more sinned against than sinning, her story was
indeed a sad one. But why did she fret and worry herself
about it all ? it might still remain buried in the past,
never, never to be revealed till the crack of doom, when
the great book would be opened against her. It might
be so, it is true, but for one person — one man, who, as
she believed, was the sole participator of that secret ;
and that man was Albert Denby. Oh, how she prayed
that she might never meet him — that he might never
find a trace of her again. While she thus pondered

sadly and anxiously, Georgie Vickers felt that she could
have bitten her tongue out for vexation at the inadvertent
disclosure she had made to the corporal. But when Joe
mentioned that name she had almost forgotten for the
moment how Albert Denby had been connected with the
past secret of her life, and actually went on conversing
about him before the painful memory rushed upon her.
Light-hearted by nature, and somewhat superficial in
character, Georgie never troubled herself to think too
deeply on any subject ; and it was only when the bitter
memory of the past actually forced itself on the present,
that she allowed it to prey upon her mind.

Through the corporal, then, this man, Albert Denby,
would hear of her again as surely as she had mentioned
his name, unless she bound the giant over to strictest
secrecy, and that she was resolved to do before they
parted.

The giddy throng of youngsters finding it rather slow
at last beside the widow's pony carriage — for she made
little effort to entertain them, and it was clear that there
was something wrong — began to move off one by one,
and so gave Major Bonus, on his flea-bitten charger, a
chance of drawing near.

That poor Arab must have been endowed with wonderful
powers of endurance, for he seemed to be always on
duty — always champing away at that imposing military
bit, in which he found, perhaps, some peculiar nutriment,
for he seldom had time to champ anything else.

It was a favourite joke of Tiny Gore's, who asserted
that Bobby Bones' charger never got anything to eat
except the chaff so plentifully bestowed upon its master,
and that the grey must have derived all its mettle from
sucking at its bit.

Major Bonus was not more successful than the subalterns

in drawing Georgie into conversation, and seeing
her so depressed, he thought she would be better left
alone ; so, shortly before the band struck up " God save
the Queen," he wished her good night like an affectionate
father, and trotted off — strictly a la militaire — to dress
for mess.

The band was playing the last bar of the national
anthem, Gwennie had been summoned to take her seat
in the carriage, and her mother was about to drive off,
when Ensign Gore cantered back on his pony for a
parting word.

I say, there's no doubt, I suppose, about your going
tomorrow ? " said he ; " what time ? "

We shall start between seven and eight in the evening,
I think," replied Mrs. Vickers.

All right, I shall be there, and Warburton too ; we're
going to see you off, you know."

That's very good of you, Tiny ; but it'll just be at
your mess time — ? "

Oh, we don't care for that," exclaimed the youth,
glad of an excuse for doing something out of the humdrum
routine ; " and we're going to help to carry you
out of the station — "

How do you mean ? "

Why, as palkee- walls, to be sure ; you'll see."

"Nonsense, Tiny, I won't have you do anything so
silly," observed Georgie, nevertheless pleased at this
proposed mark of adulation.

Oh, but we will ; what's the harm ?"

Yes, do, please do, Mr. Gore," cried little Gwennie,
clapping her hands in delight ; " it will be such fun."

"All right, little one," rejoined the ensign, smiling,
"we mean to do so; that's settled. Halloa ! I say, I
say, there goes our first bugle, and I've got a guest coming

to dine with me, so I must look sharp. Au revoir till tomorrow
evening then," he added, giving his tanto a
tremendous rib-roaster as a hint to start.

Good-night, Mr. Palkeewallah ! " laughed Gwennie,
calling after him, as his pony, a dreadful slug — not at all
like Gooral — went off at a slovenly shamble, and made his
way across the maidan towards the ensign's bungalow.

In this journey from Bareilly to Cawnpore I should
mention that Mrs. Vickers and her daughter were obliged
to go by palkee, or palanquin dak, as far as Futteyghur, for
at that time there was no proper road between the latter
place and Bareilly to admit of travelling by a wheeled conveyance.
Such a mode of progression, however, is by no
means so irksome or unpleasant as might be supposed ;
and to any one not pressed for time it is somewhat better
than jolting and jogging over very bad roads, in rickety
harries with groggy horses, although it may be a little
slower.

You dine before starting, we will say, then light your
cheroot (premising you to be a man and a smoker), jump
into the palkee and take up a comfortable reclining
position, with all the materials for sundry pegs and other
refreshment stowed away in the network in front of you,
depending from the roof. Everything being ready for a
start, the " mussalchee " lights his torch — which emits a
most villainous smell of rank oil, impregnating the fresh
night air around — the bearers cry" Uthao !" and then hoist
you up with a groan, as if you were a second Daniel Lambert.
A short pause follows, during which there is a little
shifting of the palkee-pole on the men's shoulders, and then
away you go to that mysterious, monotonous chant, u Ee-
yur ee-yur ee-yur ee-yur," changing presently to " 
yah-ee yah-ee," and so on, which, by way of amusing
your imagination, you may convert into any words and

vol. 1. c

phrases you please, until you fall asleep. Proceeding
thus by rather long stages, you stop at certain " chow-keep
" to change bearers, and a dak bungalow or two for
the everlasting mourghi 1 grill by way of refreshment ; so,
between eating and drinking, smoking and sleeping, you
manage to kill the time, and arrive at the end of your
journey much sooner than you expect, having made no
more of it than a commercial traveller now-a-days of a
run from London to Liverpool.

It may strike the reader as rather a dangerous proceeding
for an unprotected woman and child to travel in
this way through the wilds of India ; but after the mutiny,
when the country was perfectly quiet, it was as safe as
walking down Regent Street in broad daylight; safer,
perhaps, than doing so by night.

The next day the faithful corporal was at his post
again, and by dint of his gigantic energy the toils of
packing fast drew to a close. Georgie Vickers had been
debating in her mind all the morning how to broach the
subject she was so anxious about ; how to bind over the
trustworthy Joe to say nothing whatever concerning her
to this Albert Denby, alias Heffernan.

After a good deal of beating about the bush, she
managed at length to express herself to this effect ; and
although Joe was rather mystified and surprised, he
promised to do exactly as she wished.

I daresay he has almost forgotten me, Corporal," said
she, the wish being father to the thought, "and will
never mention my name if you don't ; but pray mind
what I ask you. Though I can't explain myself exactly,
you may be sure I have good reason for the request."

That's right enough, mum," replied Joe: "I gets
my orders from you. You tell me you don't want this,

1 A fowl.

or you don't want that, and you may trust Joe Corcoran
to mind what you tell him'"

Thank you, my honest old friend ; thank you for that
promise, and all your faithful , kindness," returned the
widow, taking his hand and grasping it warmly, much to
the great corporal's astonishment, who drew himself upto
" attention " immediately afterwards, arms by the sides,
and gave a stealthy glance at the lucky hand as he moved
it out from the wrist at right angles to the trouser-seam,
as if curious to know how it looked after the honour.

I shall miss you, Joe ; I shall miss you terribly when
we're gone, and so will dear little Gwennie ; but you
must write and let us hear of you now and then ; that is,
until — until you leave the regiment."

She added this ; remembering, perhaps, that any correspondence
afterwards might be unadvisable.

All right, mum, I understand. I've got my orders,
don't you be afraid. Lor, mum" — here he heaved a sigh
like the bellows of an organ — " this day don't seem right
to me at all. I got off my cot this morning' with the
wrong leg must — I buttoned up my tunic with the
buttons all askew — I clapped on my forage-cap hind
part afore— and I- was late for parade and got pulled up
in front o' the officer. I'm off my head to-day, that's
what I am, and no wonder, when I come to think of it ;"
whereupon he gave a jerk with his rigid body, as if he
had suddenly received the first word of command, and
was waiting for the second. " No wonder, when I'm a
going' to lose you, mum, and that blessed little 'un, all in a
lump."

Here poor Joe entirely forgot about being a corporal,
and dismissed himself from parade with a sniff and a
hasty snatch at his watering eyes ; either from shame at
such weakness, or force of habit in " quitting the right

hand sharply after the last motions'' Joe Corcoran's
feelings were too much for him as it was ; but when the
little woman, seeing the great giant shed a tear, gave
way, too, and sobbed and cried at the approaching
parting, he could not stand it any longer, but rushed out
into the verandah with an audible gulp, and anything
but the regulation step.

There he found that "blessed little 'un " playing with
Ninneah, the ayah, and catching her up in his arms, he
smothered her with kisses, calling her his "little darling,"
his "sweet little mavourneen," his beautiful "little
cruskeen lawn," arid other names which he improvised for
the occasion, and which were all Dutch to Grannie.

Dear old Joe," exclaimed the little girl, putting her
arms round his brawny neck, and kissing the affectionate
giant in return," don't you fret and cry about us ; we shall
soon come back, and we won't forget one another, will we ?
Look here, Joe," a bright thought occurring to her, "whenever
you feel dull, you just have a talk with the chowkidar.
Get him to speak to you about mamma and me, and that'll
cheer you up, won't it ? Besides, he'll like you to talk
to him sometimes, poor old bird ! "

Joe said he would, that he would ; indeed had she given
him instructions to shave all the hair off his head once a
month during her absence, he would have promised to doit
at all risks.

It was fortunate that the packing had been finished in
good time, for as the hour drew near for their departure,
Joe became more and more incapacitated for any rational
work, and could only wander restlessly about and in and
out of the verandah, declaring that that was the worst day
for him since ever he 'listed.

At last the palkee and bearers arrived, together with
the " ban gy walls" for the luggage, and almost at the

same time, true to their threat, Ensigns Gore and Warburton
appeared also, and stood ready to take up their
positions as amateur palkee-wallaks.

Major Bonus did not quite approve of this madcap
arrangement ; but as the widow did not object, and the
youngsters pleaded to be allowed the privilege, he hardly
liked to interfere; more especially as he intended to
escort them himself on that poor overworked charger fora
certain distance, and so give a respectable tone to the
little cortege.

But Joe Corcoran was not to be outdone — not he ; and
if there was no objection to his lending a hand, let the two
officers support the pole behind, while he took it in front
by u himself," and so carry their burden in triumph beyond
the station boundary. This was accordingly agreed
upon, intensely to the amusement and satisfaction of the
palanquin-bearers, who were glad to be rid of their load
even for a little way.

Wall, iuah ! ballot accha sahib hogue ! yih hahoot accha
tumasha had"* they muttered in chorus as they trotted
alongside the palkee, Gore and Warburton imitating the
grunt of the natives to perfection, while they performed
their self-imposed task, much to the merriment of Mrs.
Vickers and Gwennie ; the corporal stalking on before in
stolid silence.

From the enormous stature of the giant in front, as
compared with that of the officers behind, the widow
naturally found her feet a good deal higher than her
head when they started, as if they had been ascending a
very steep hill. But what matter though the ship did not
ride on an even keel ? Georgie Vickers felt that this was
a labour of love, and appreciated it accordingly.

Right well they bore their burden far out of the station

2 " Bravo, bravo! very good gentlemen these ! This is capital fun !"

of Bareilly, until they were at length persuaded to transfer
the poles to the shoulders of the legitimate bearers.

Now came the final good-bye ; and the giant's honest
squeeze of her small hand made Georgie Vickers
wince as he bade her farewell, while little Gwennie was
kissed again and again by them all; and when the
palanquin started once more on its journey, there arose
three such hearty cheers into the stillness of the night as
melted its occupants to tears. Then the grunting chorus
of the bearers gradually died away in the distance, and
the light from the torch, like a mysterious Will-o'-the-wisp,
danced and flitted along, growing fainter and fainter,
until it finally disappeared into the darkness.

END OF VOL. I.

GILBERT AND Livingston, PRINTERS, ST. JOHN'S SQUARE, LONDON.

HI

■



mm

3 0112 055295809

VOL. II.

GILBERT AND TtlYINGTON, PRINTERS,

ST. JOHN'S SQUARE.

SWORD OF DAMOCLES

BY

THEODORE A. Sharp.

« o'er thine and o'er my head
Hangs the keen sabre by a single threads

The Corsair.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

ilontJon :
CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 193, PICCADILLY.

1880.

fall rights reserved

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/swordofdamocles02thar

AT 2-

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Ensign Bayle 1

CHAPTER II.
The Skeleton in the Cupboard 13

CHAPTER III.
A Warning Note 23

CHAPTER IV.
Mizpah 33

CHAPTER V.
Paying Eyes " 45

CHAPTER VI.
The Food of Love " 51

CHAPTER VII.
The Crocodile " 54

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

The March of the Cameronians 69

CHAPTER IX.

An Unexpected Pleasure " 79

CHAPTER X.
"Over the Hills and Far Away - ' 88

CHAPTER XI.
A Glimpse of the Cloven Hoof 101

CHAPTER XII.
In the Nick of Time 116

CHAPTER XIII.
On Cheena Peak 131

CHAPTER XIV.
The Canker-worm 139

CHAPTER XV.

SUATITEB IN MODO 148

CHAPTER XVI.
Forester in Re 156

CHAPTER XVII.
Wearing the Willow 170

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Secret Agent 185

CHAPTER XIX.

PAGE

The Agency triumphs 200

CHAPTER XX.
Camp in the Jungle 208

CHAPTER XXI.
The First Speak " 215

CHAPTER XXII.

Br Moonlight alone " . . . . . . 228

CHAPTER XXIII.
"The Man-eater" 237

CHAPTER XXIV.
The Indian Mail 254

CHAPTER XXV.
The Old Love and the New 265

CHAPTER I.

ENSIGN GKAYLE.

I give my soldier-boy a blade

In fair Damascus fashion'd well :
Who first the glittering falchion sway'd,

Who first beneath its fury fell,
I know not : but I hope to know

That for no mean or hireling trade,
To guard no feeling base or low,
I give my soldier-boy a blade."

Maginn.

The water in Barringtree Park had at all times afforded
excellent sport for the enthusiastic angler, and abounded
with perch, bream, carp, and many other varieties of fish,
which managed to exist in large numbers, notwithstanding
the shoals of voracious pike, those fresh-water sharks,
that infested the lake, and made vast havoc amongst the
ranks of the little ones.

Taking a stroll by the water side you would come.
upon many a spot where lurked

The wary luce, 'midst wrack and rushes hid,
The scourge and terror of the scaly brood."

Tremendous fellows they were, too, those Barringtree

VOL. II. b

pike ; and a fish weighing from fifteen to twenty pounds
was not at all an uncommon take. No wonder they thrived,
and grew to such dimensions, with the inexhaustible
stock of smaller fry upon which to feast their capacious
maws. Nor did they confine themselves to the finny
tribe alone ; everything was fish that came to their
net, and in the breeding season they played the very
mischief with the broods of fancy ducklings and small
cygnets.

Hence, between the Squire and the pike there was
perpetual war to the knife, or rather hook ; and not only
did that gentleman angle perseveringly for them himself,
and set trimmers by the score, but he was too glad if anyone
else would do the same, and help to exterminate the
omnivorous monsters.

Now, trolling for Jack in the winter months was his
twin-brother's favourite amusement, in pursuit of which
Grumpy Grayle knew he was perfectly welcome to catch
all he could. Not that it would have made the slightest
difference to him had it been otherwise ; but, such being
the case, he was more bold and obtrusive than usual,
sinking for the nonce the feud between himself and the
Squire in that between the Squire and the pike, and
spinning his bait immediately beneath the hall windows.
The spot chosen by him, exactly opposite to the lawn,
was the most advantageous for the purpose, and he made
no scruple of taking up his position thus, so to speak, in
the very eye of the house.

The fortnight before St. Valentine's Day is, as a
rule, considered the best in the whole year for pike-fishing,
and it is after the back of the winter has been
broken that the largest takes are generally obtained.
Many an enthusiast, however, will shiver and freeze
by the water's edge when the reign of Jack Frost is at

its height, where, with feet and fingers benumbed, icicles
forming on the rod, and his line frozen to the consistency
of a piece of wire, he will run his pike with unremitting
zeal and patience.

But it was now the beginning of March when our
friend Grumpy took up his station as usual, and skilfully
lashed the water by the boat-house, watching and
waiting for his bait to lure.

This watching and waiting was no pleasant task that
day in the teeth of a searching east wind, laden with
very fine hail, which drifted like white sand through the
air. But east winds and bitter cold had no terrors for this
keen disciple of Isaac Walton; his skin was tough as that of
a rhinoceros ; in addition to which, Mrs. Cole insisted,
will he nill he, on wrapping him up well before he went
out.

As he stood thus, intent on his hidden quarry, and
looking neither to right nor left, Hector Grayle had
approached, and drawn up alongside before his uncle was
aware of it. Grumpy felt somebody was near; but, without
looking round, merely held up his hand to enjoin silence,
for at that moment a huge mottled object had suddenly
risen in sight from the dark depths of the pellucid
water, and lay like a log for a few seconds just in front
of them. Presently it backed slowly from that position,
but was evidently watching the fascinating bait, and
contemplating a strike.

The next moment, the sharp, whirring sound of the
troll, and a triumphant " Ha ! I've got you, you rascal ! "
indicated the angler's success, and Grumpy, who now
caught sight of Hector, exclaimed, —

Halloa, boy, that you ? Golly ! here's a whopper
for you. By jingo ! he'll have me in after him if I don't
mind. Steady, old chap, steady ! " he cried, holding on

b 2

to his rod like grim death as the monster dived away
with several yards of line.

Grumpy would fain have played him out, but the fish
soon sulked, and proved but a sluggish brute, like many
Brobdingnagian pike (when once on the hook), which
display none of that pluck and energy so characteristic
of the trout or barbel.

Without more ado, then, Grumpy Grayle attempted toland
his big prize, in which process Hector lent his
assistance — for it was no joke to haul in that weighty
fish single handed — and, after much plunging and
splashing, this was accomplished.

Thirty pound if he's an ounce ! " cried Andrew,
exultingly. " The best take I've had this season by a
long chalk. Lucky I'd got my strongest tackle. I don't
believe I could have managed him alone."

He is a beauty' observed Hector ; " well over five
and twenty, I should think."

I essay. We'll have him weighed by-and-by," said
Grumpy, giving the unlucky fish one or two finishing
whacks on the head with a heavy knobbed stick.

As the glittering giant, gleaming with gold and silver,
lay on the green sward in his death-throes, his great
red gills spasmodically opening and shutting, and the
malignant eye, and heavy shark-like jaws, giving that
venomous expression which made him appear terrible
even in his helplessness, it certainly looked as if his
enormous carcase would about turn the scale at a quarter
of a hundredweight; and so it proved, for when they
weighed him afterwards he drew exactly twenty-nine
pounds eleven ounces — a large fish, in any water, but
especially so in a comparatively small lake like that at
Barringtree.

On this occasion Grumpy Grayle performed a rare act
of courtesy, for him, and sent the gigantic pike np to
the Hall with his compliments, and a hint that it might
be worth while to have it stuffed by the naturalist instead
of the cook.

So, they're going to bundle you off to India, boy,
eh"" remarked he, presently, when the excitement of
the unusual take had subsided.

u Yes, Uncle Andrew ; we sail next Wednesday'

Capital, capital ! Going to see a bit of the world, eh ?
What regiment ? "

The 126th Cameronians," replied Hector, proudly,
my friend's, Captain Heffernan's. We're ordered up to
the frontier, I believe."

Eh ? what ? fighting ! " cried Grumpy, in his falsetto
tones, hardly conducive to pike-fishing. " That's your
sort, my boy ! that's your sort ! By George ! they'll make
a man of you yet before your mother."

Hector smiled at his uncle's brusque manner and mild
attempts at wit, to which he was well accustomed.

I was going over to Crutch Hut tomorrow, or next
day," said he, " to wish you good-bye, if I hadn't met
you this morning."

Come all the same, boy. Come and have a parting
bumper with me before you go, just to show there's
no ill-feeling." Grumpy grinned pleasantly, as if he
thought the idea an excellent joke. " Ill-feeling !
why should there be ? eh ? " he added, slapping Hector
on the back in a hearty manner. w Why should
one visit the sins of the grandfathers, et caetera ?
You come, and bring that Captain Thingumabob with
you."

Hector promised he would.

But I say, boy' continued Grumpy, with a significant
leer, " what are you going to do with the gal you
leave behind you, eh ? "

Here the old reprobate tossed his thumb over his
shoulder in the direction of High Lodge.

Although Hector blushed to the roots of his hair, be
merely observed, in an innocent tone, —

Whom do you mean ? What girl ? "

Ah ! sly dog ! " said the facetious Grumpy, clicking
his tongue against the roof of his mouth, and digging
Hector in the ribs ; " sly dog ! Never you mind, boy —
deuced fine girl ! You marry her if you feel inclined,
and be hanged to everybody."

Really, uncle — " began Hector.

Don't tell me; I know all about it. Why don't
you take her out to India with you ? She'd like it."

Really, Uncle Andrew, you — you mustn't believe ali
you hear, you know — "

' All right, boy, all right. If you don't want to confide
in me, never mind. Drop the subject. By the way,
that's a new dog you've got there, isn't it ? " he continued,
changing the conversation. " A beauty, by Jove !
real St. Bernard, eh ? "

Yes, I believe so," replied Hector, patting the handsome
head of the animal indicated," I brought him from
town with me the other day*"

And how did you get him ? "

Rather curiously. A friend of mine went to the
Wandsworth Home for lost dogs to look for one of his
own, when he found this fine fellow languishing there
without a chance of being owned, poor beast. His time
was just up, so my-friend took pity on him, bought
him, and gave him to me."

And what do you want him for ? " inquired the inquisitive

uncle, " Not going to take him to India, are

you?"

"Not exactly — no — I — I shall give him to some one
to take care of."

Give him to me, then \ send him up to the Hut, and
I'll look after him till you come back."

I — I'm afraid he's promised, uncle — "

Eh, what ? " asked Grumpy, sharply, whose attention
was now drawn to Hector's heightened colour. " A — a
ah ! sly dog, sly dog ; you can't deceive me. As I
said before, I know all about it. So, this sedate-looking
chap's going to mount guard over her, eh ? " — he
nodded again towards the Lodge, and patted the noble
animal approvingly — " while you go off to the wars.
Capital ! "

Really, my dear uncle, the way you jump to conclusions
— " began Hector, growing redder and redder,
and annoyed because he could not control the tell-tale
cheek.

All right, boy, I understand ; no need to try to throw
dust in my eyes. What I say is, go it while you're young,
you'll never do it younger. Don't you let any body come
between you and your love : that's my advice. Umph ! "
Then, after a minute, " What do you call the dog, eh ?
Vagabond ! that's a good name. Stop, I know, Cerberus
— that's better. Call him Cerberus."

Thanks, I'm not sure exactly what I shall christen
him yet," replied Hector, moving away with the St.
Bernard, and determined not to be chaffed any more.
But I must be off now."

"Well, good-bye, boy. Confab strictly private and
confidential — trust me; / understand. Mind you come
over tomorrow and bring that Captain Stick-in-the-mud
with you."

Hector again promised, and they parted.

Uinph! I always said so," soliloquized Grumpy.
That boy's as big a fool as his father, and bigger.
Now, if they didn't pack him off to India to get pinked
from behind a rock, or stuck like a pig, he'd be safe
to marry this keeper's daughter, perhaps the chimney-sweep's,
or else bolt with the cook — anyhow, he'll goto
the devil fast enough, and it isn't my business to
put the drag on. But I'll give him some advice tomorrow
that would astonish their weak minds up there "
(meaning the Hall), " if they only heard it."

Having thus delivered himself to himself, Grumpy
ceased growling, and went on with his "silent
sport."

The following extract from the London Gazette had
been read out at the breakfast-table that morning by
the Squire, in an important tone of voice; and as
Hector heard it, he feH intensely proud of his new
position : —

War Office, March 2nd, 186—.

126th Foot. — Gentleman cadet, Hector Percy Grayle,
to be Ensign, by purchase, vice Edmund Swain Swinlop,
promoted."

So everything had taken place exactly as Heffernan
desired. Hector had made " small bones " of the prescribed
examination, and, without difficulty or loss of
time, a direct commission had been purchased for him ; '
and, added to this, a convenient vacancy in the 126th,
then under orders for India, had facilitated his being
posted to that distinguished corps. So far, so good.

It had oozed out at last, however, that the regiment
was going on active service, and of course this occasioned
considerable anxiety at the Hall. But it was too late

now to object or protest, and Hector would have to take
his chance. Any serious apprehension, moreover, was
allayed by Heffernan's reiterated assurances that active
service of this kind, on the Indian frontier, was almost
nominal — quite a little holiday in fact — and might very
likely be all over before they got there ; so there was
no need for the anxious mother to look upon it in
the light of bella matribiis detestata. Such consolation
as this Gertrude was, perforce, obliged to accept for
want of better, and, on the whole, appeared to be
less uneasy about her son than might have been
expected.

Perhaps she had some presentiment at heart which
gave her additional courage and hope, and in her earnest
prayers felt that her darling would be safe in His hands
whithersoever he went. Perhaps she thought of Bas-santo,
who, when he lost an arrow from his bow,
discharged another random shaft in the same direction,
"and, by adventuring both, oft found both'' If
so, such a passing thought could scarce hold footing
in her mind, since she knew not which way to turn
for that direction; whether north, south, east, or west —
it was all a blank to her. And so long now had the
first arrow been lost, that she felt the lapse of years
must have buried it from sight and memory.

A thoroughly good, God-fearing woman, such as
Gertrude Grayle, had none of that abject timidity in her
nature which so characterizes the poor, half-hearted
creature of little faith. She trusted implicitly, and as
she trusted so she hoped, such hope being meat and
drink to the woman's soul within her. The perfect
confidence, besides, which she placed in Albert Heffernan
helped to strengthen her in purpose, and support her
in the hour of trial — that rapidly approaching hour

when she would be parted from her son, whom she
loved more than life itself.

Great preparations were made for the young soldier's
outfit ; and his fond mother and sister busied themselves
in knitting and providing all sorts of impossible and useless
articles for his wardrobe. Had Hector been going on
an Arctic expedition, instead of to the tropics, the superabundance
of warm things might have come in handy ;
but Gertrude had heard that it was cold, treacherous
weather in the Punjab, and on the frontier hills, so had acted
accordingly, flannel and woollen stuffs predominating in
her ideas of equipment.

An unlimited order had been given to an eminent
London house to provide all that was necessary, and
Hector Grayle's uniform had arrived that day : quite
an event.

Clement Mountjoy happened to be at Barringtree when
it was unpacked, and he formed a convenient lay figure
for Hector, who insisted at once on decking him out in
full dress martial array, and then issued an order for a
ladies' inspection parade to take place at once on the
general parade-ground at Barringtree, videlicet, the library.
Had he purposely desired to throw ridicule on the
Queen's uniform, he could scarcely have chosen a better
expedient, for poor old Clement was quite one of the
awkward squad, and hardly calculated to show off a six
foot suit of regimentals to the best advantage. At the
same time he went through the performance with his
wonted good nature, like an obedient monkey on a barrel
organ.

Hector collected his staff, and having already well
studied his drill-book, made his imposing army of one
march past in review order, wheel into line, break into
open column, charge, form square, prepare for cavalry,

and perform a variety of imaginary evolutions, to the
intense amusement of the ladies ; in short, the whole
inspection was gone through to a rippling accompaniment
of silvery laughter instead of the blare of brass music,
and the reviewing officer might well have exclaimed with
Horace, —

Spectator admission, visum tenets, amici ?

At length, after this skeleton battalion had made his
shins black and blue bv getting the sword between them
at every fresh manoeuvre, the parade was dismissed, when
Agnes, with her innate appreciation of fun, immediately
donned the shako, sash, and sword, and transformed
herself into such a handsome young Amazon as might
have softened the hearts of the war-like Trojans, had she
lived some thousand years before Christ instead of in the
nineteenth century.

Finally, the regimentals of the 126th found their way
on to the legitimate wearer, and Ensign Hector Grayle
looked every inch a soldier thus attired. Well might Gertrude
feel proud of her darling boy, as he stood before her
in his manly beauty, set off by the perfectly fitting uniform
; yet not a bit conceited was he, albeit the undisguised
expressions of admiration from the ladies might well have
turned the head of a gainer youth : nevertheless, like all
newly appointed cadets, Hector seemed as pleased with
his military accoutrements as a young lady with the latest
fashionable importation from Worth's. Gertrude could
not help glancing apprehensively at his sword, and expressed
a hope that he might never have to draw that
dreadful weapon against the life of a fellow-creature; at
which Hector smiled a bloodthirsty smile, and said he
intended to have it sharpened that very afternoon, for at
present it wouldn't cut a pat of butter, or a magazine,

much less a why mountaineer. But, however sharp he
may make " that dreadful weapon' let us hope — being
one of those outsiders' regulation skewers — he will know
better than to trust himself in action with it, or my story
may be brought to an untimely conclusion.

THE SKELETON IN THE CUPBOARD.

Conscience ! what art thou, thou tremendous power 2
Who dost inhabit us without our leave ?

How dost thou light a torch to distant deeds !
Make the past present, and the future frown ? "

Young.

Cunning has only private, selfish aims, and sticks at nothing which
may make them succeed."

La B my ere.

"The man of cunning always considers that he can never be too safe."

Johnson.

Captain HefFernan, the Barringtree mentor, had accompanied
his Telemachus from London, and having completed
all his own preparations in procuring his outfit, disposing
of the Emperor, &c, he availed himself of the last opportunity
for enjoying his fiancee' s society prior to reporting
himself at head quarters.

Of late a preoccupied, absent demeanour had become
almost habitual to him, and during such pensive intervals
that heavy frown invariably settled itself on his forehead,
like a great black dog crouching at bay. It
might have been the indefinite postponement of his
marriage that preyed upon his mind, or perhaps he missed
the confidential advice and friendship of his old nurse,

Mrs. Corcoran, who, by the bye, had gone back into Kent
some weeks since ; but whatever the reason, it was certain
there was a skeleton somewhere.

In the steps taken for nipping the affair in the bud
between Hector and the keeper's daughter, Heffernan had
succeeded almost beyond expectation, and yet he was not
satisfied. He seemed more solicitous .than ever about the
welfare of Gertrude's boy, and doubly apprehensive of
his future brother-in-law lowering himself by marrying
beneath him. He would leave nothing to the chapter of
accidents; and being resolved to make assurance doubly
sure, had recourse to yet another device for setting aside
this Circe influence over Hector Grayle.

He reflected with regret that Allan Woodruff might
have been a most useful instrument in his hands, and
thought what a pity it was that he had been so precipitately
banished from the scene. However, his services
were now unobtainable, for the man was safe at Dartmoor,
with a cropped head and in the modest plumage of the
jail-bird, busily picking hemp and oakum ; and serve him
right ! Nor was he likely to get a ticket of leave in a
hurry.

Old Gideon Rolfe, then, was the only tool left to Heffer-nan'
s hand, and at present a friendly compact with the
keeper seemed the best card he had to play; unless, indeed,
he threw up the game altogether, which Mrs. Corcoran
had hinted would be the most advisable step. But this
was far too great a sacrifice to be seriously contemplated,
as he ever felt when the fair form of Agnes Grayle came
before his eyes.

No matter how the skeleton rattled and gibbered in
the cupboard, he must take measures for locking it up
securely, and let it crumble away with time.

Heffernan then seized the first opportunity of button-holding

old Wolfe solus, in order to have a serious talk
to him about the future welfare of his daughter.

That opportunity had occurred the day before, when
he chanced to meet the keeper in one of the home
coppices, with what result will be gathered from the
context of their conversation.

You may not think it's much business of mine, Wolfe,"
commenced Heffernan, adopting his most gracious manner
for the occasion, " but I can tell you this affair between
my young friend, Mr. Hector Grayle, and your daughter,
has vexed and troubled me not a little."

So it has me, Careen I do assure you," replied Wolfe,
dropping his gun down into the hollow of his arm, as if
preparing for a discussion ; " but let's hope there aunt
going to be any more about it."

I'm afraid there will be, unless we take prompt
measures to stop it. Mr. Hector is madly in love with
your daughter, mind you ; and no matter what happens or
what is said to him, he'll stick to it ; and I rather think
your daughter is just as bad."

"Lor, Careen, I can't believe Lizzie's such a fool. But
there, Mr. Hector he's going' away to Injer now, so — "

Very true, but only for a short time; we can't keep
him out there for ever just because of this affair."

Certainly not, sir ; but if there be any kind o' love
betwixt them still, why it'll get knocked o' the head
quicker that way nor any other."

"Perhaps, but it won't do to trust to chance for that ;
better make certain of quashing the romance once for all."

How, Careen ? "

"Listen to me. In addition to any interest I may take
in young Mr. Grayle, as my particular friend and the
brother of my future wife — you understand, Wolfe ? "

Yes, sir, certainly."

"I say, in addition to that, I have besides the greatest
respect for his mother, Mrs. George Grayle, who, in
return, places every confidence in me, and knows how
much I have at heart her welfare and that of her children.
Now, Rolfe, without wishing to put the matter too plainly,
you will allow that a love-affair of this nature between
the heir to Barringtree and a girl in Lizzie's position is
scarcely creditable to the young gentleman, and neither
safe nor desirable for your daughter — "

Quite right, Careen."

"No marriage can possibly come of it — such a mesalliance
could never be dreamt of, and if the affair is
allowed to go on, it can only end in your daughter's
misery and ruin."

Steady, sir ! I can't quite hold with you there.
Fusty, I've got a better opinion of Mr. Hector than to
be afraid of anything o' that sort ; and secondly, IVe got
a better opinion still of Lizzie than to think she'd ever
give him the chance. No, no, Careen, just as it takes
two to make a quarrel, it takes two to bring a trouble
o' that sort about, and IVe no fear of my little gal, bless
her heart ! As to the mazy lance, by which I repose you
mean a bad sort o' match in the wed din' way, why all I
can say is, Careen, that Lizzie's as good a little angel as
ever had wings, and fit for a took or a marks, let alone
a squire's son, any day o' the week, so there ! "

As he finished, the old keeper threw his gun over his
shoulder with a defiant jerk, as if he were preparing to
march off against some imaginary foe, who had insulted
his daughter.

A difficult old chap to deal with, this," thought
Heffernan, u obstinate as a mule : I must go to work
differently. Granted, Rolfe," he resumed, " and nobody
will deny what you say for a moment; but judging from

all I can see of things, and from what I know of human
character in general, I protest that so long as the young
Squire and your daughter are in the same parish together,
so long will this romantic business be kept going between
them — "

Not a bit of it, Careen — don't you be afraid; I'll have
a talk to Lizzie myself."

Not with much effect, I fear. Mark me, whatever
you may say to the contrary, Rolfe, this will end badly —
this will end in trouble, as sure as my name's Heffernan."

He shook his head sadly and ominously as he spoke.;

Well but, Careen, 1 don't understand 'exactly ; what's
to be done ? I can't do more than lecture' the gal,
and try and get her head straight on her shoulders again
if so be it's got turned, as you think ; and so will the
missus. Lizzie 'on't leave us, you know that, even if
we'd part with her."

I'm aware of it, Rolfe ; we've already gone over that
ground — but there's another plan yet to — "

And what may that be, sir ? "

Simply this, that you must go away yourselves, and
take the girl with you."

What ! " cried old Gideon, in amused surprise ; " clear
off the estate ! throw up my place as head gamekeeper
on one 0' the best shooting' properties in England ! and all
'cos o' this here piece o' work — this here stupid love-making.
Drat it ! what next, Careen ? "

You may be sure, my good friend, I should never
offer such a suggestion without being prepared to back
it up in some way — in a substantial, pecuniary way too ;
you understand ? " he added, nodding his head significantly,
and taking out a cigar, which he proceeded to
light with a thoughtful air, as if seeking inspiration from
the smoke.

vol. 11. c

The Squire's too good a master — " began Gideon.
Yes, yes, of course, Rolfe ; I know all about that,"
interrupted Heffernan 5 blowing short quick puffs between
every few words. " You don't suppose I haven't taken
into consideration all the pros and cons. Now, attend tome
— " he never looked the keeper in the face, but
watched the blue clouds of smoke soaring upward among
the leafless branches — "you may not exactly understand
it, but I take a much greater interest in this matter than
you can imagine ; not only in my friend, Mr. Hector, butin
your good little daughter as well. We all admire her
character and disposition ; and in the interest of the
.Grayle family generally, I may say we owe a debt of
gratitude, not only to her, but to her parents, for past
invaluable services — ahem ! "

There was a good deal of repetition in all this — nearly
word for word the argument he had used to Mrs. Wolfe
some time previously.

Lor, sir, that's nothing ; it ain't worth counting of,
as we said afore when you mentioned it."

But we think differently, Rolfe ; and I maintain we
should be making you and yours a very poor return if we
did not try to avert what may be considered an impending
calamity — a much more serious matter, perhaps, than
either you or we are aware of. At any rate I have felt it
my duty to speak out plainly, were it only from a
charitable motive, if I may say so, which prompts me to
try to snatch your daughter from a dangerous path. It
is no use to deny it, Rolfe, there is danger, say what you
w iH — very great danger too. I wish to explain myself
thus clearly in order to impress upon you the part I am
destined to play in this domestic drama ; therefore you'll
understand why I've put it to you so emphatically, and
why I have held out a timely warning."

I'm sure I'm very much obliged to you, Careen — "

"There is not the least obligation on your side, but
there will be on mine, and I may add, on the part of the
family also, if you will but listen to advice, and conform
with what I wish to propose."

I'll do my best, sir, certainly," replied Rolfe, rather
doubtfully, and shifting uneasily from one leg to the
other, for he knew what all this meant ; and accordingly
added, in a tone of mild remonstrance, " But when you
talk of my giving up this here situation just so as to
get Lizzie out o' the way, why, Careen, begin' your
pardon, I must say that seems whol-/?/ unreasonable."

n It might seem so, Rolfe, if nothing were offered in
place of the appointment — no adequate inducement given
you for leaving ; but such is not the case. I myself will
guarantee to get you into a position elsewhere as good as
the one you now hold, and perhaps better; moreover, if a
bit of money at the back of that will be of any use to you,
why, I'll guarantee you shall have that into the bargain."

You're very kind, Careen, I'm sure."

Not at all. I mean what I say. What do you think
of it ? "

Well, it strikes me, Careen, if you'll expense me for
saying so, that this here's a matter o' business betwixt
me and the Squire, and I haven't heard no word from
him on the subject." Nor was he likely to do so, as
Heffernan very well knew. His plan was to get the
gamekeeper to take the initiative, and, by holding out
sufficient inducement, cause him to volunteer his resignation
with a view to bettering himself.

Well, the fact is " — he hesitated, rather nonplussed
for the moment — "the fact is, you see, Mr. Grayle has
probably some delicacy in broaching this affair to you ;
but he would, I know, quite understand your motive if

you proposed to resign the position yourself, and would
doubtless show his appreciation of your conduct afterwards
by — "

Yes, Careen, that's all very well; but if the Squire
don't order me off himself, nor don't say nothing' to me
about it, why should I want to go ? 'Ain't a bit likely
I'm a-going' to chuck up a place like this here in a hurry
and— "

You evidently misunderstand me, Rolf e ; I desired to
explain — "

I quite understand, Careen, and I essay you mean
kindly by me ; but you see, sir, it aunt 'exactly a matter o*
money. I'm getting' an old man, and I likes the Squire
well ; I likes this place too, and I've made my home here
now, which, please God, I intend to hang on to till He
takes me to a better one up above."

Here the old keeper glanced piously towards heaven,
while Heffernan, in his heart, consigned him to the
regions below.

Then you mean to say nothing would induce you to
fall in with my proposal ? " asked Heffernan, growing
impatient at the old fellow's stubbornness. " D'you mean
to tell me that a couple of hundred pounds " — he emphasized
the amount in big capitals — " would not tempt

you?"

Two hundred pounds was a large sum certainly — a very
large sum, and a great temptation; but Gideon Rolfe
withstood it, though it did make his mouth water.

Really, Careen, you're very good— you're very generous,
and I thank you kindly; but, as I say, it aunt a
matter o' money with an old feller like me. No, no ; it
'on't do, Careen ; I am afraid we can't agree about it. But
I'll promise you one thing — that I'll take my little gal,
Lizzie, in hand and give her a good talking' to, and so

shall the missus. There ! I can't say no fairer nor that ;
and you'll see this here fandango '11 soon blow over — "

That it won't, if you don't take my advice ! " exclaimed
Hesperian, as he jerked the ashes off his cigar
with a gesture of impatience. " However, it's no use
my wasting time talking any more; but, mark my
words, mischief will come of this matter as sure as you're
alive."

I pray God it mayn't, sir."

Amen to that. Remember, I warn you of the danger.
I've done my duty, and the best I can for all parties
concerned, so my conscience is clear. One word more.
If you do happen to think better of my proposal before I
leave Barringtree on Monday, well and good ; I shall be
happy to discuss it further with. you. But I'm much
mistaken, Rolfe, if you're not, like many other foolish
people I know of, stiff-necked, and utterly blind to your
own interests. Good day."

So saying, he abruptly turned on his heel, and hurried
away from the scene of his failure.

The old keeper touched his hat respectfully, but looked
after "the Careen" with a puzzled expression on his
face, and shook his grey head slowly two or three times,
as if he couldn't at all make out what it meant. It would
have taken a wiser man than Gideon Rolfe to have read
the secret workings of that subtle brain.

As Heffernan strode along towards the house with
quick, ill-tempered strides, his thoughts, if uttered aloud,
would not, I fear, have been couched in the most choice
language. It was very disappointing — very galling and
vexatious — to be thwarted thus after such self-imposed
trouble on other people's behalf. Here the seeds of
philanthropy, fresh from a soil rich with the best and
most generous intentions, appeared to have fallen on a

barren spot,, and refused to take root where the benevolent
and painstaking sower so anxiously desired they
should strike and nourish.

So that skeleton continued to stare at Albert Heffernan
as grimly as ever, and do what he might he could not
close the cupboard door upon it. Like a hideous scarecrow
in his path, it seemed to stand out in bold relief against
the horizon, throwing an ugly shadow across the sunshine
of his hopes, and haunting him whithersoever he turned.
But he was firmly resolved to shake it off — he would
think no more about it, and would defy the torments of
a gnawing conscience, which strove to overwhelm with
gloomy retrospect his present peace and happiness. Let
the secret of the past lie buried ; who was going to
disentomb it, that he should live thus in chronic fear of
its resurrection ?

CHAPTER III.

A WARNING NOTE.

Discord, a sleepless hag, who never dies,
With snipe-like nose and ferret glowing eyes."

Dr. Wanton.

Ser nariirlich, da er selbst cas Geschopf der Zest list, da seine
Schicksale ans ir wie auf eine simmer wogenden Mere schwerin, da
er nie weiss, ob er such der Gegenwart sicber vertrauen dare, und ob
night eine triigerische Zukunft seiner wartet."

Von Humboldt.

And so you're a fine soldier now intirely, Hector, and
are going' out to the gorgeous list to have a fling at the
black fellers ? "

Yes, I hope so ; at any rate, we're ordered to the
frontier, and there's likely to be a bit of a row, I suppose."


u Of course. Dear nie ! " exclaimed Mrs. Tewkesley —
for I need scarcely say it was the little Irish lady who
spoke — " you'll be coming back a meejor, or a colonel,
and getting up a volunteer corps among our boys, I
shouldn't wonder."

"Very likely, Aunt Norah, and you shall command
them."

Ah, faith ! if I wasn't a woman, I'd like to be a
soldier, Hector ; that I would, —

1 Wit me fine red coat, and a plume in me hat,

So gaily I'd march to the wars,
To the roll of the drum, with a rat-tat-tat,
And return again cover'd with scars.'

It's in the blood, you know ; me grandfather was a general,
and as hot as pepper — "

There you certainly take after him, my dear'
remarked Mrs. Grayle senior, tossing her ribbon crest
and straightening herself in her chair by the fire.

They were in the library after luncheon, weather-bound
at present, for it was raining fast. Hector and Mrs.
Tewkesley were chatting together by the window, and the
irascible grandmother, as usual, was on the look-out to
say something disagreeable.

The old beldame had been especially annoyed during
luncheon with Norah Tewkesley, for presuming to offer
Hector certain advice exactly opposed to that given by
herself. Doubtless the little woman did so designedly, for
it was her delight to aggravate her inveterate enemy, and
she was never so happy as when they were at it hammer
and tongs. More than a week had passed now without a
real good row, and Paddy thought it was high time they
had one.

"In that respect, Norah, I say you certainly take after
your grandfather' repeated Mrs. Grayle, in a louder key,
for her first remark had been ignored.

Thank ye, ma'am ; I heard ye," replied Mrs.
Tewkesley, dropping a mock curtsey; "yes, I believe I
do. The blood of the O'Hallorans was always pretty
hot, and I'm not ashamed of it."

if But when you talk of ' having a fling at the black
fellers my dear," sneered Mrs. Grayle, "and suchlike
barrack slang, you forget your position as a minister's

wife — which you too often do — that a minister preaches
peace and — "

Faith ! so he does, ma'am ; but, as Arthur says, you
won't have it at any price, whatever he preaches."

Arthur was fortunately not present on this occasion.

u How dare he — how dare you — insinuate such a
thing — ? " began the old lady, angrily.

"Indeed it's no insinuation' interrupted Mrs.
Tewkesley, with a wicked smile ; " it's the truth I'm
telling ye ; that's what me husband said."

Norah was in her element now.

Then your husband ought to be ashamed of himself—"


So he ought, ma'am ; if it wasn't his duty ; but, ye
see, he wishes ye to practise what he preaches, and not
be preaching yourself what ye don't practise — nor let anyone
else, for that matter."

li Mrs. Tewkesley ! " cried her antagonist, fiercely, " I
desire you will hold your tongue ! Your husband shall
answer for both your insolence and his own too, I can
tell you."

Poor Arthur ! faith, he hasn't time to attend to
these little trifles, ma'am, with all the souls of the parish
to look after, let alone the Hall ! won't I do instead ? I'll
be responsible for the two of us anyway ! Come now,
who's afraid ? "

She looked like a little game cock in petticoats, while
her brogue became broader and broader as she got more
excited, and which she purposely exaggerated because she
knew Mrs. Grayle hated to hear it,

But the she-dragon suddenly turned tail, and dropped
her voice an octave to suit the injured martyr, which she
always did when she thought she was getting the worst
of it.

Really, Norah," whined the old woman, "I've had too
much of your impertinence to-day — my nerves won't
stand it." Here the smelling-bottle was brought into
requisition, while she continued in a querulous key,
Percy, what are you made of, that you can stand there
like a dying duck iu a thunderstorm, and hear your wife
spoken to in this infamous manner ? "

If the Squire was not exactly a dying duck he was certainly
a very indifferent one to the storm that was rising,
and merely replied, calmly, — ■

Really, my dear, you must excuse me ; you won't let
people alone, and I — I'd rather not interfere — " adding in
an undertone, as he made his escape from the room,
besides, you're well able to take care of yourself."

So she was, but she liked to drag her better half — her
very much better half, by the way — into these quarrels
if possible, especially as she was so jealous of Mrs.
Tewkesley's influence over him. Failing, however, to
embroil the Squire on this occasion, Mrs. Grayle prepared
to renew the battle by herself, and tried a fresh mode of
attack this time.

You quite misunderstand me, my dear Norah, as you
generally do." She resumed presently, with a different
voice and a languid smile. " I had no wish to be the least
offensive" — this meant that she was about to be more
offensive still, and her enemy had better look out for
squalls — " all I intended to say was that you should really
guard your tongue a little; such dreadful sentiments
regarding soldiers and the horrors of warfare, coming
from a lady and a Christian clergyman's wife, are neither
dignified nor appropriate. You must remember, my dear,
that pernicious influence and advice emanating from one
whose proper vocation it is to — "

"Yes, ma'am, I quite agree with you; and if we all

stuck to our proper vocations we should all hold our
tongues a deal more than we do, and not be interfering' with
each other so much; and faith, that would be an excellent
arrangement for every one — "

Hector showed his approval by a whispered "hear, hear,"
and some miniature applause on the sly by tapping together
his thumb nails.

Lady Mountjoy, I appeal to you," cried the indignant
old woman (her ladyship and Clement had driven over to
luncheon) j " when I desire to remonstrate kindly and
seriously with this — this person, I ask you, is it respectful
of her to—? "

"Pardon me, Mrs. Grayle," interrupted her ladyship,
flashing an encouraging side-glance at Norah, as much as
to say, "Don't be afraid, Fm not going to take her part,"
I really didn't hear the argument. I was talking to
Agnes."

Turning away with a snort of disgust, the fiery dragon
now commenced a long tirade at the intrepid Norah —
never allowing her to get a word in edgeways — until oneby
one the members of the assembly stole out of the room,
and finally left the speaker alone in her glory, with empty
benches — like Lord Brougham at the end of his oration.

Hector and Clement then adjourned to the billiard-room
; but the former was apparently very uneasy and
fidgety about the weather, and alternately looked at the
barometer and out of window, to see if there might be any
chance of its clearing up.

No wonder he was anxious, for he had an important
appointment to keep that afternoon ; an out-door appointment
too, so that the steady downpour was particularly
provoking.

A groom had just returned from the neighbouring
town, bringing with him the second post; and in the

billiard-room, on a bench by the window, lounged Captain
Heffernan, with a cigar in his mouth, a letter in his hand,
and that same old frown on his forehead.

The letter did not look like a dun, nor an official ; it
was evidently not a gentleman's writing, nor that of a lady ;
and it did not appear to be either a circular or a business
letter. Stay, that's just what it was — a business letter.

Let us take a peep over his shoulder, Asmodeus-like,
and see what it is about.

Beeches Lane, Mentland, Kent.
March 3rd, 186—.

"Dear Mr. Albert, — I am sorry I shan't see you again
to say good-bye, so I write this before you sale for India,
wishing you a prosperous voyage, and a pleasant time out
there. I wrote to Joe about you as I said I would, and
he wrote to me back, saying that he was going to
volunteer for your Judgement if it did go out, but if not,
he should come home with his and get transferred afterwards.
You know how fond I am of my dear son Joey,
Mr. Albert, and you know what a lot he always did think
of you, so I feel sure you'll be a good Captain over him,"
et caetera, et caetera —

Here followed a long rigmarole about her son Joey, his
virtues and so forth, which the reader need not be troubled
with. Further on we get to the pith of the letter.

By-the-bye, Mr. Albert, I went to see those old Frosts
the other day ; they were both very well, and desired to
be remembered to you kindly, and thank you very much
for your last. I told them i was sure you would always
be mindful of their interests whereever you was, and
they seemed quite satisfied ; but when I mentioned that
you were going to India, they changed their tune directly,
and began whining, and saying they knew what that
meant, and that if so be as you really was going out to

furrin parts where you might most like get killed, you
ought to make some arrangement before going so that
they poor old soles should not be left to want supposing
anything did happen to you. I told them they might
trust you to do what was proper, that they needn't be
afraid for you'd be safe enough, and the like ; but it
wouldn't do at all. They want something settled for
certain in case of accidents, and got quite chambers and
disagreeable, say all i could. So, Mr. Albert, I thought it
best to write to you at once, and if you'l take my advise
you'l arrange with them yourself. I should just give
them a good round sum before leaving, and promise more
wether you return or not. Can't you possible run down,
and see the old people yourself before you go? I really
think I would if I was you — nothing like doing a business
of that sort in person. Remember they are queer old
foes, and they might be very troublesome — indeed I may
say very dangerous — to more parties than one. So I hope
you'l act on this directly, and when you do settle with
them, let me be pressent, and we'll bind them over tight,
and makeit their interest to keep their mouths shut. Everything
I have here to offer is at your service, Mr. Albert,
and I shall be right glad to see you once more at the little
cottage; it will remind one of old times. Now good-by
till then, sir, and hoping you'l understand I've wrote this
with the best intentions, believe me, dear Mr. Albert,

"Your affectionate old nurse,
Hannah Cokcoean.
"Neb. Dont keep on writing yourself about certain
things at Baringtree what I told you of. That's all safe
enough. And as to that other matter ever coming off which
your so afraid of, bless you, that never will now, not if
you continue to act as clever as you have done. So cheer
up, and dont be allarmed. Come directly if you can."

From the above one would hardly conjecture that these
two people were in the same boat, and that the woman's
safety was even dearer to her than HefFernan's. But such
was the case. To him the letter was like a dose of nasty
physic, with a little sugar-plum at the end to take the
taste away ; but the wry face of the patient could not
recover itself for some time afterwards.

Heffernan was not a man to hesitate : prompt in action
as in thought, his mind was made up in a moment, and he
acted at once.

Hector' exclaimed he, as that young gentleman and
Clement entered the billiard-room, " will the Squire mind
my having the dog-cart to drive to the station ? I find
I have to run up to town on business immediately'"

Certainly, my dear fellow. I'll tell my grandfather,
and order it for you at once. But are you really obliged
to go ? "

<( Ian indeed."

What a bore ! "

Horrid nuisance, but it can't be helped. There is
an express at 4.10," he added, looking at his watch.
I can just catch that. I shall be back tomorrow, I
expect."

So saying, Heffernan sprang upstairs to his bedroom,
three steps at a time, to put together a few necessaries in
his travelling-bag, and in less than twenty minutes (after
a hurried explanation to Agnes and the others), he was
on his way to the station.

Meantime Hector and Clement played a game of
billiards together, just to while away an hour, and a very
one-sided game it proved — quite a farce; for although
Clement was but a moderate performer, his opponent
allowed him to literally walk in a winner.

Evidently Hector's heart was not in it ; he played careless]

j, and missed the most ridiculously easy strokes, which
at another time he could have accomplished with one hand,
and his whole manner was preoccupied and distrait He
kept going to the window, then furtively peeping at his
watch, and inwardly abusing the wretched weather the
whole time.

"Why, what's the matter with you this afternoon,
Hec ? " inquired his friend ; "you seem awfully bothered
by the elements. One would think you were going to give
a garden-party. You're all abroad, old chap ; I never
saw you play worse. Will you have your revenge ? "

"All right, if you like' replied Hector, ignoring Clement's
rally, and chalking his cue pensively.

I'd better give you points this time, hadn't I ? " remarked
the other, grinning at his own assurance. " What's
it to be ? Do come along, if you're going to play."

The last remark was elicited by Hector once more
adjourning to the window, and looking out.

'Pon my word," he exclaimed, returning to the table
with sudden alacrity, " I believe it's going to clear up
after all.

It had certainly become a little lighter during the last
few minutes, and Hector had detected a blue patch somewhere
in the sky about the size of a sixpence. His mental
barometer went up accordingly — a foot at least.

<l Points did you say ? you insulting old rascal ! " cried
he, flourishing his cue cheerfully. " Let it be fifty up — I
haven't time for more ; take twenty yourself, and lookout
for a licking."

The sequel certainly justified the caution, for Clement
barely saved his double, conceded points and all, and
Hector did just as he liked with the balls. The reason
was obvious, for while they played it gradually grew
lighter and lighter and finally stopped raining altogether.

I must be off now, Clem' he exclaimed, tossing his
cue into the rack. " Fve a heap of things to attend to —
see you again before you go. Ta-ta ! " and he vanished
from the room without further ceremony. As he did so,
Clement shook his head knowingly as if he knew all
about it.

Silly old noodle ! " muttered he ; " you needn't be so
mysterious; just as if a fellow couldn't see through that.
A heap of things to attend to indeed ! Somebody inside
a heap of things, I dare say ! "

Then smiling to himself at this shrewd soliloquy, he
strolled off to the drawing-room.

CHAPTER TV.

MIZPAH.

And more she yet would say, and strives to speak,
But warm, fast tears begin to course her cheek,
And sobs to choke her ; so, reclining still
Her head upon his breast, she weeps her fill ;
And all so lovely in those joyous tears
To his impassion'd eyes the maid appears ; —
# * • •

One kiss ! ' said he, ' and I depart

With thy dear image in my heart :

One more — to soothe a lover's pain,

And think of till I come again !

One more.' Their red lips meet and tremble,

And she, unskilful to dissemble,

Allows, deep blushing, while he presses,

The warmest of his fond caresses."

Charles Mackay.

Clement was quite correct in his guess, by which he
meant to imply that his friend had an assignation in hand
with whom he had no difficulty in surmising.

True it was that Lizzie had half pro raised, much against
her conscience, to meet Hector once more for the last time,
just to say good-bye, since he was going so very far away.
He had literally gone down on his knees — on paper,
in the shape of several little three-cornered missives — to
beg for this interview, confiding such missives to a deaf

vol. ii. • land

dumb agent who might be relied on for discretion
and silence. This agent was a hollow ash-tree in the
convenient vicinity of the keeper's cottage, and Hector
had recourse to that old, well-worn, romantic expedient,
as he would trust no one with his letters, and could not
very well deliver them himself.

Since the interview (after Master Macbeth's attack)
which had led to such eventful consequences, he and
Lizzie had naturally met more than once in the park and
elsewhere, though such meetings were accidental rather
than designed. On one of these occasions, however,
Hector had suggested this mode of communication ; and
although Lizzie vainly protested, and never answered his
letters, she felt bound to remove them from the tree lest
they should fall into other people's hands ! He knew
this, and was satisfied.

In reply to his urgent request for this final farewell he
had extracted from her a verbal concession at last, after
much persuasion — the opportunity occurring as he rode
through the gates one morning. But she only yielded
under this pressure from positive fear of his doing something
desperate, for she really couldn't answer for his discretion,
he seemed so fearfully headstrong and so dreadfully
in love.

The afternoon turned out quite fine by four o'clock, and
the appointment was for half-past, in the wooded walks
by the lake Hector made his way to the stable yard to
release his new pet, the St. Bernard, with a heart bounding
with joy at the prospect of meeting her once more —
not casually, but as two lovers, he thought, ought to
meet, the clandestine nature of such a step lending it
additional charm.

So, in defiance of everybody and everything, and notwithstanding
all the recent commotion, he was still hopelessly

and passionately enamoured, and would have
thought it hard indeed if she had refused to grant him
this interview before he sailed for India. He had
not the most vague idea, at present, how it was all
to end, and the future seemed enveloped in an impenetrable
mist ; but he was very consistent and
earnest in his devotion, and entertained the most
honourable notions regarding that future. To him there
was no one in the world like his darling ; and if the
deep resolutions formed in his heart regarding, her had
been revealed to Gertrude and the rest of the family,
such resolutions would have given rise to keener anxiety
than even now existed.

Great reliance was placed in the result of his temporary
absence, amid scenes of excitement in distant lands ; but
greater reliance still was placed in Father Time, that
universal whitewashed, who, it was hoped, would soon
wipe out the effects of this hair-brained fancy, and bring
the hot-headed youth to his senses.

When Hector hurried through the walks to the trysting
place agreed upon, all nature was weeping after the late
heavy rain, and every early bud and leafless twig added
its tear-drop to the general lamentation. Anon, the sun
glistened through the dripping branches, and changed
those leaden drops to tears of joy, which quivered and
sparkled like myriads of diamonds under the cheery
smiles of Phoebus. The birds twittered and caroled in
every tree and shrub, as though they would burst their
little throats with rapturous energy — these tiny feathered
choristers uniting in a hymn of praise to Heaven for
the reflected glory upon earth.

Hector, of course, reached the appointed spot far too
soon ; but he need not have hurried himself, for as yet
Lizzie was nowhere to be seen, and nowhere near.

d 2

In his eager haste he strode along through the walks
with rapid strides, abruptly rounding the bends, and
brushing against the weeping shrubberies, regardless
of the copious showers of tears which sprinkled his coat
as he passed.

The rendezvous was to be beneath a hoary elm, riven
to the roots by lightning, and resembling, in its 
state, a grey, grisly giant — a well-known tree
from this fact, and therefore a convenient spot to specify,
being, moreover, in the most secluded part of the walks.
Hector halted beside its gnarled and knotted trunk,
and wiped the raindrops from his coat and hat, then
patted the St. Bernard's intelligent head, and wondered
how long she would be. Presently he began pacing up
and down like a sentry, and looked at his watch at every
turn. He certainly must have had six months' wear
out of that watch during the afternoon, and the waistcoat
pocket, too, in which it was deposited.

"Would she not come after all?" he asked himself,
in anxious doubt. He knew her promise had been unwillingly
given, and was but half a promise after all.
Yes, she meant to come ; so he was fretting and fuming
to no purpose ; but, like every victim to that tyrannizing
passion, first love, five minutes delay to him seemed like
five months.

Presently the dog pricks up its ears, and utters a
slight growl, which Hector checks peremptorily. Then
a light, pattering footstep i§ heard, accompanied by the
rustling, fluttering sound of a dress hurrying along,
and in another moment Lizzie Rolfe appears on the
scene.

Alas for the hope of the Grayle family ! That little
siren looks more lovely and bewitching than ever, if
possible. She approaches Hector with a soft blush and

a guilty smile on her face, as if conscious how very
naughty it is of her; but she couldn't help it when he
begged so hard.

Oh, Lizzie ! " he cried, after their first greeting,
how can I thank you enough ? It is so good of you,
my darling, to meet me here to-day."

u Indeed, I'm afraid it is not at all good of me' she
replied ; " it is very wrong — very deceitful and wicked.
But I read your letter again, and — and it was so touching
(she had read it considerably more than twice, I fancy),
you said you would be so unhappy, and I could not bear
to seem unkind."

"Then I say it is good of you, my darling' he exclaimed,
taking both her hands in his, and gazing into
her upturned face with tender affection. " There can be
no harm in it ; nor shall you ever regret one single
moment passed with me, so do not fear. You know
what I've said over and over again, Lizzie, and you may
indeed have faith and confidence. Tell me, you do trust
me, don't you ? "

Her answer was scarcely audible, but it seemed to
satisfy him, for he drew her unresisting figure nearer to
him, and kissed her in token of approval.

But look, darling," he said, after a short pause ; " this
is the dog I told you about. I haven't introduced you
to each other yet. Poor old fellow ! he has no name
at present, so I can't. He's waiting to be christened
by you, Lizzie — his future little mistress. There, see ! he
actually understands what I say."

It would appear so, for the St. Bernard wagged his
tail as Hector spoke, and, raising himself on his hind
legs, placed his paws on Lizzie's shoulders, and licked
her cheek ; as he stood up thus he was rather the taller
of the two.

Down, old fellow ! " cried Hector, taking hold of
the dog's collar ; " down ! Come, you mustn't be quite
so demonstrative — on a first acquaintance, too. I'm very
sorry," he added, with a smile, and brushing the marks
of the huge paws off her waterproof.

Lizzie was a little disconcerted at first by the* animal's
boisterous caress ; but recovering herself, she patted his
broad head, and made friends with him at once.

What a beauty he is ! " she said, " so noble-looking !
I'm sure he'd prove a good friend to any one who was
kind to him."

You shall have an opportunity of putting that to
the test ; for, as I told you in my note, he is
yours."

Oh, but Mr. Hector, it — it is very kind of you ; but
how can I accept him ? What will my father and mother
think — after all that has been said, too ? "

Leave that to me, Lizzie. I'll let your father understand
that he is to take care of the dog for me in
my absence ; but you will look after him yourself, and
consider him your property, won't you ? "

"Thank you very much indeed, then — I will, sir; I'm
sure I shall be very fond of him — he's a darling."

She stooped down, put her arms round the dog's neck,
and kissed its forehead, to which the animal submitted
very demurely, as if he highly approved of the proceeding.


He was indeed a splendid-looking fellow; a rough-coated
St. Bernard of the purest breed ; in colour, dark
brown, with white chest and legs, and standing over
thirty inches at the shoulder; gentle in nature, yet
brave and strong as a lion, with an unusually intelligent
cast of countenance, and a benign expression on his
handsome face, which at once won Lizzie's affection.

Hector looked on with a pleased expression, even if he
felt a little jealous of those treasured caresses being
lavished on a dog.

Now, Lizzie ; what shall we call him ? " he asked,
as she rose from her stooping posture. " Can't you think
of a name ? "

I'm afraid I'm not clever enough, Mr. Hector."

And at the same time I wish you could think of
some other name for me, little girl; not Mr. Hector,
it is so dreadfully formal : why not Hector ? "

Ob, no, I dare not; indeed I couldn't."

And pray, why not ? "

"It would not seem proper or respectful, and — and —
please don't ask me, I would rather not."

Not yet, perhaps. Very well, Lizzie," he rejoined,
rather amused at her extreme diff deuce, though he would
gladly have dispensed with it. e< Just as you wish ; I won't
press it. But, to return to the dog, what is his name
to be ? "

He deserves a very beautiful one, I'm sure. I
couldn't think of anything good enough."

Well, I have thought of one for you, Lizzie — an
appropriate name. We will christen him Mizpali. Do
you like that ? "

It is from the Bible — from Genesis, isn't it ? "

It is. Do you know what it means ? " he asked,
taking her hand again, and looking tenderly into her
lovely face.

M Ah, yes, I think I remember," she replied, blushing,
and placing her disengaged hand on the St. Bernard's
head, as though christening him at once by the significant
action. " The passage runs, ' and he called it Mizpah, for
he said, the Lord watch between me and thee, when weare
absent one from another.' "

And I pray that He may do so, my darling," rejoined
Hector, " and give us safely back to each other
again. But the exact meaning of Mizpah is a sentinel,
Lizzie ; and here is one to guard you in your ramblings
with zealous care ; I wish this noble animal to be a
link between us when I am thousands of miles away.
I know your scruples — I know it is of no use asking
you to write to me ; but you ivill think of me sometimes,
won't you ? You won't quite forget me when
you look at Mizpah, and remember why we called him
so?"

Ah, indeed," she sighed ; " my memory will need no
help. I shall always think of you, always — but only as
something far beyond my reach. I have no right to
think otherwise."

"Again that misgiving, Lizzie ! Oh, why will yon
be so hopeless ? Have I not pledged you my word ?
Have more faith in me, dear one, and look to the
happy future when our fondest dream shall be
realized."

"I dare not do so; indeed I wish I could; but I
feel I have already brought about much trouble to you
and yours — that I have no right to take your love —
though, God knows, I could not help it." Her voice
was broken and trembling now. " I meant no harm,
but I feel so weak — so very weak and worthless where
you come, and I — I cannot control my heart."

Why should you try, my sweet darling ? It is beyond
your control now, for yon have given it to me ; it is
mine now, is it not, Lizzie? Let mutual faith be our
future shield, and give us confidence in ourselves and in
each other. As to what the whole world may think or
say, do not mind ; others will learn by-and-by to appreciate
you as you deserve."

But you have only known me such a little while ; how
can you tell what my life has been before — before we
came here ? Have you no curiosity to learn more about
me ? "

Hector shook his head with an air of perfect trust.

She appeared as if desirous to say something further,
and hesitated for a minute \ but changed her mind apparently,
and observed, with a tearful smile, —

"You are so full of hope that I'm quite ashamed at
having none at all. And sometimes, when I hear you
talk like this, I feel almost as if I could share such
hope; but then, directly I'm alone again, the feeling
dies away; and when I go to bed I lie for hours
thinking and thinking, and trying to feel as you do;
but it's of no use, I never can ; and I fall asleep with a
weary spirit, only to wake in the morning more hopeless
than ever."

Ah, but you will learn to be braver by-and-by, and,
as our love grows older, your faith in me will gather
strength. "

11 My faith in you could never be stronger than it is
at this moment. I hardly know what it is I fear, but I
seem to dread the future — more than ever now that you
are going so far away, and I feel I — I may never, never
see you again."

When Lizzie said this she fairly broke down, and hid
her face on his shoulder, sobbing bitterly.

Come, little girl," he whispered, after allowing her
to give way for a few seconds, and fondling her wavy
hair the while, " this is our last farewell before I go,
and you mustn't let me see those pretty eyes all dimmed
with tears. Look up at me again and smile — just one
little smile, to cheer me on my way, or I shall leave
with a heavier heart than I thought."

She tried to be brave, and, forcing back her tears
with an effort, obeyed him ; but the smile was not a
success. " You are going to India as a soldier," she
murmured, presently, " and there's to be a war, is there
not ? »

Nothing very serious, I expect — "

But still you may be in danger ; and I cannot help
feeling that — that you are only going because of me.
I mean that they have planned to — to get you away
on account of all this."

Oh, but you mustn't think that. You remember I
said some time ago that I thought of going ; and it is
my own choice entirely. Wiry should you fancy such a
thing?"

Because I feel sure of it ; and I know your friends
must hate me. Remember, you were once in danger
of your life, all through me. Oh, how I trembled
when I heard of that dreadful night ! and how thankful
I was that some one was there to save you."

I certainly had a narrow escape. But the worst of
the affair was the gossip it caused afterwards; and I
dreaded your dear name being spoken lightly of."

a I should never fear what people said of me so long
as they only coupled my name with yours."

She glanced up into his face with such a sweet, loving
look that Hector felt he would have gladly laid down
his life for her sake, if needs be — that no sacrifice in
the world would be too great.

I know it is as I say," she continued, <( that our
love has brought about this separation, and has sent
you from your home. Can I- then help a feeling of
self-reproach ? for, if any ill should befall you in a distant
country, it would kill me — indeed it would. Oh, how
I shall pray night and day for you, my darling, that

God may watch over and guard you through every
danger."

My darling ! Could he believe his ears ? And just now
she would not even call him by his Christian name. But
surely such passionate depth of feeling may well excuse
Lizzie's inconsistency, —

She loved hint — oh, such love as her's but dwells
'Mid rugged rocks and solitary dells !
'Tis seldom found where splendour rules the thought ;
By bitterness alone such gem is bought :
Dear child of nature ! " —

Pure-hearted, simple-minded girl as she was, her love
was to him a priceless treasure indeed ; and, whatever
the sequel, the delicious sweets of the present could
hardly be outbalanced by bitterness in the future.

No other word was spoken for a while. A long embrace
followed Lizzie's last sentence, and Mizpah gazed
in stolid gravity at that loving pair, as they stood thus,
heart to heart, and lip to lip, in silent eloquence.

But it must come, that dread farewell! That word
must be whispered at last with aching heart and choking
voice.

The gentle, yielding nature of the woman, gives way
completely beneath the ordeal, and then Hector feels
assured how deeply, how devotedly she loves him. All
restraint is cast aside in her abandoned grief, and he,
poor boy, has more than he can bear to support her
trouble and his own as well, for no words now can serve
to comfort her.

She lingers round his neck, and murmurs through her
heart-broken sobs of the love she has never dared to
betray till now j then wildly implores him to think no
more of her, to try and forget her — that she is not worthy
of him ; and the next moment is praying silently to God

that He may give her her heart's desire, and bring it to
pass !

They cannot yet tear themselves away from each other,
those poor children ; therefore, as they move at last from
the place of tryst, he walks by her side, and accompanies
her far across the park towards the lodge.

CHAPTER V.

To cheat surprise and prying eyes,
Kiss me quick, and go ! "

When Hector and Lizzie emerged from the shady groves,
the rain charged clouds had all swept onward to the sea,
and a golden sunset shed its mellow lustre on the distant
woods, and threw a flood of yellow light across the
undulating sward, which illumined the front windows of
the Hall, and made them look like burnished gold, or as
though a fierce fire were raging within. As the soft
beauty of the scene, thus bathed in the evening glow,
burst on his gaze, it made Hector think, with a sigh,
what a fair spot it was to leave for the burning plains
of India, even for a short time. He was essentially a
home-bird, and now that he had found a mate, migration
had less charm for him than ever.

Suddenly Lady Mountjoy and her son were seen
driving up the avenue from the Hall; then, for discretion's
sake, and on an ' urgent appeal from Lizzie, the
lovers separated at last, and while she continued on her
homeward path, Hector Grayle, having taken one more
kiss ere they parted, branched off towards the avenue,
and trusted that the occupants of the pony-carriage
might not have observed them together. Mizpah followed

him, for the dog's transfer from the Hall to the Lodge
was to be arranged with Rolfe afterwards.

The direction Hector was taking would intercept the
approaching carriage, supposing both to be going at the
same pace ; but he hoped it would pass just far enough
for a distant salute and no more, for he dreaded her
ladyship's sharp eyes and voluble tongue. Rather to his
annoyance, however, the cream-coloured ponies were
pulled up into a walk ; so there was no help for it — he
must face them.

"I want so much to see that beautiful new dog of
yours, Hector! " exclaimed her ladyship, as they drew near.
Oh, what a lovely beast ! he's really quite a picture ! "

Mizpah looked up at Lady Mountjoy as though he
might have felt a sort of galvanic shock from her glittering
eyes, waved his tail slowly once or twice, and
yawned.

A St. Bernard, isn't it ? " she asked, showing all her
white teeth at the dog, as if to challenge him to a comparison.
" What's his name ? "

"I — I'm not sure yet," fibbed Hector, in a careless
tone. " I don't know what I shall call him at present."

Meanwhile, Clement was watching Lizzie's retreating
figure with an amused smile on his face, which he took no
pains to conceal, and, in the most provoking manner,
kept peering over Hector's head as the latter leant
into the carriage. Hector noticed this, and wondered
if they saw him walking with her ; but any doubt
on this point was set at rest at once by Lady Mountjoy.
Mizpah no longer engrossed her attention — that was
merely an excuse for stopping. She also looked inquisitively
after Lizzie, and Hector began to wish them
both at Jericho beyond Jordan, ponies and all.

You naughty boy ! " observed her ladyship, with a

very sly flash ; " who is that young lady you have just
left ? i~ know. Ah, it's lucky you're going to India
next week, I think. What will you give me not to
tell ? "

u Really, you're quite welcome' replied Hector, flushing
up, and a little inclined to lose his temper ; " at least,
I don't know what you mean — "

Don't you ? Never mind ; I won't tell this time.
Young people will be young people; but pray be discreet,
there's a dear boy."

So saying, Lady Mountjoy prepared to whip up the
creams, for by going on now she would just catch Lizzie
ere she turned into the lodge.

Since this little scandal, the keeper's daughter had
become naturally rather an object of curiosity ; and
although her ladyship had seen her often enough before,
she wanted to have another good look at her now.

Hector seemed to divine the intention, and would not
have his darling stared at, so he purposely detained them.

"You're coming down to Portsmouth, Clem, to see us
off on Wednesday, aren't you ? " he asked.

Clement said he was, and that he hoped to escort
Hector's mother and sister thither.

A few more observations were exchanged (Lady Mount-joy
all the while impatient to start), and then Hector,
seeing that Lizzie had got safely to earth, and disappeared
through the creeper covered porch, allowed the pony-carriage
to pass on, and wished them good night with a
triumphant jerk of his hat at her ladyship, as much as to
say, " Sold again ! "

He looked after them as they drove off down the
avenue, wondering whether Lizzie would come out to
open the gates. No; she did not. Some man was
standing there ready, so Lady Mountjoy was disappointed.

Hector Grayle afterwards made his way across to
Crutch Hut, to say good-bye to his great-uncle, as he
had promised, whom he found in his sanctum, waiting
to receive him, with some marvellous milk-punch at hand,
which had been brought up from the cellar in honour
of the occasion.

Mizpah, whom Hector forgot for the moment, walked
grandly into the room after his master, and thereupon
frightened the black cat by the hearth into a state of
frenzy. The sudden appearance of such a monster as the
St. Bernard at once converted poor puss into a sable
archway of bristling fur, which suddenly broke down, and
tried to vanish up the chimney. The growling and
spitting of the cat, and Gruropy's excited falsetto, were
sufficient hints that Mizpah's company could be dispensed
with, so Hector committed him to the mat outside.


But where's that Captain Thingumabob ? " inquired
the old bachelor, testily, a little ruffled already at the
outrage to puss's feelings, which irritability was increased
at Heifernan's non-appearance. "I thought he was
coming with you."

So he was, Uncle Andrew, but he was unexpectedly
summoned to town on urgent business, otherwise he
certainly would have called to-day."

Now, this was scarcely a fact ; for when Hector had
proposed the visit to Heffernan, the latter had excused
himself on the plea that, as he was the Squire's guest and
knew of the existing feud between the two brothers, it
would hardly be etiquette, he thought, for him to call at
Crutch Hut. Hector, however, considered that it would
be better not to put it in this light to Grumpy, so was
glad of a plausible excuse. As far as his own visit was
concerned, the Squire had too great faith in Hector's

character to think of placing a veto on any of his actions ;
and although he objected to his grandson cultivating
Gurney's society in a general way, he could have no
objection to his visiting Crutch Hut just to bid
his great-uncle good-bye on an occasion like the
present.

Uruph ! the captain has gone to town, has he ? "
grunted Grumpy, in a surly voice. " It's a funny thing
how civil people can be when they want to make use of
one. Now, I don't know whether you're aware of it,
boy, but when he was quite a youth I knew that Mr. —
Mr. — what's-his-name ? 3

Heffernan."

a Ah, HefFernan. It wasn't that, though, when I
knew him — it was Denby. He's taken the other name
since. However, I was going to tell you ; I knew him
years ago — was one of his Trustees, and he couldn't be
civil enough then — because he found me useful, I suppose.
Well, the Trust was wound up long ago, and I've
nothing more to do with it; but I think it's a very
queer thing that that fellow's never called to seeme
since he's been about here. What do you think,
boy?"

Perhaps he didn't know, uncle — "

ff Know ! of course he knows — thinks I've forgotten,
perhaps; but I never forget — or, maybe, fancies I don't
twig him by his new name, and thinks it's not worth
while calling; but I happened to find it out by accident.
However, that's neither here nor there ; it don't signify a
pin to me if a man forgets his manners. I thank my stars
I've nothing more to do with Trusts and botheration ; I
only accepted that to oblige a very old friend — never
would have anything to say to them in my own family —
hate having any dealings with one's relations, umph !

VOL. 11. E

Fill your glass, boy; you won't find a headache in a
gallon of that."

Now, that objecting to deal with one's relations is a
very convenient pretext to some people, no doubt — a
handy phrase to suit the utterly selfish man. But it
simply means, in most cases, that the wealthier member of
a family desires to shake off and alienate himself from his
pauper relatives — hating them, maybe, in his unnatural
heart for their poverty, as if they had committed some
heinous offence in being less fortunate than himself.
Much pleasure may his riches bring him in the end, if he
lives long enough to find he has a conscience ! Such a
man, indeed, verifies the old Latin dictum, acerrima
proximorum odin, of which Grumpy Grayle, in certain
respects, may be taken as another illustration.

He seemed to be in anything but a good humour that
evening, either from Heffernan's remissness or his cat's
discomfiture ; and so much put out was he that he quite
forgot to tender the valuable advice he had prepared for
his nephew, though the latter certainly didn't lose much
by this omission.

Taking it altogether, then, Hector Grayle did not find
his visit to Crutch Hut a very pleasant one, and was
rather glad to make his escape eventually, after he had
lauded the milk-punch to the skies, conciliated the cat,
and otherwise tried to soothe the irritable Grumpy, before
he finally wished him good-bye.

CHAPTER VI.
"the food of love."

If music be the food of love, play on,
Give me excess of it ; * *
That strain again ; — it had a dying fall :
0, it came o'er my ear like the sweet south,
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
Stealing and giving odour."

Shakspeare.

Hinc vent dociles resono se career solvent,
Et centum accept pro liberate repentant.

The following Sunday was the last that Hector Grayle
would spend at Barringtree for many a day — perhaps, a
year or two — he could not tell how long ; and after
evening service, which was over about five o'clock, he
lingered behind with Agnes, to indulge in a fond farewell
to the dear old organ.

This was his favourite instrument, on which he was no
mean performer ; and many an hour of his leisure time
did he pass in Barringtree Church, where he played on
by himself (as if under inspiration) the most varied
modulations, and made the sacred walls re-echo with the
delicious roll of music — now soft and tremulous like a
plaintive wail, now bursting out with loud trumpet notes
into a glorious peal which seemed to shake the very roof.

e 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

He played with exquisite feeling, and the deep-toned organ
responded sweetly to his touch —

Hence at command th' obedient zephyrs rise,
Burst their sonorous cells, and fill the skies ;
Unfetter'd now their grateful echoes roll —
Then in soft cadence die upon the soul."

After some favourite voluntaries, Agnes chose the
beautiful hymn, " A few more years shall roll," in which
Hector took the tenor, and the clear voices of the brother
and sister rang through the empty church in sweetest
harmony. The last notes of the hymn died away, and
the echoes, in their final struggle for existence, seemed
to lose themselves in the hollow roof overhead, and to
sink into the vaults below. Then, in the dead silence that
followed, a stifled sob was heard, proceeding from somewhere
near the vestibule, and presently the figure of a
young girl stole softly out into the evening twilight.

There seems to be some secret fascination in sorrow
an indescribable feeling of pleasure in enduring pain,
when the deepest grief is nursed in the tortured breast
as though it were a welcome joy instead of a harrowing
bitterness. Indeed, as old Burton so pithily expresses it,

All my joys to this are folly!
Naught so sweet as melancholy."

Lizzie, too, had lingered in the church to hear Hector
play for the last time. She had been in dreamland, and
listened to those sweet voices as in a trance. The
romantic girl almost fancied them the voices of the angels
above, and could have wished — had not the wish been
wrong — that she might die now and join the heavenly
host, there from on high to watch over her loved one.

Poor child ! she had sore need of some kind consoling
friend — some one to confide in — some one to advise

and direct her; but like many another, she had to bear
her cross in solitude and silence. Yet had she been
released from the burden, I doubt whether she would
have welcomed such release. Her womanly nature preferred
the bondage of love to loveless freedom ; and this
cherished martyrdom would serve to gradually discipline
her mind with the sweet uses of adversity.

CHAPTER VII.

THE Crocodile

How vain the sigh — the earnest glance —
The silent-speaking countenance —
The stifled sob that loads the heart
That loved, yet could consent to part ! "

Rev. J. Lawson.

Yon sun that sets upon the sea
We follow in his flight ;
Farewell awhile to him and thee,
My native land — good night ! "

Byron.

Good-bye! That familiar old English valediction, whether
as a contraction of God be wi' ye or the equivalent of
bon voyage, has an honest, pathetic ring about it, gratefully
touching to the ear and soothing to the utterance ;
more genuine in its sound than the soft sister phrase
Farewell, or any foreign words affectedly substituted by
those who seem to prefer other languages to their mother
tongue.

Good-bye ! what a variety of tones and meanings the
word assumes under different circumstances — accompanying
the casual nod on parting in the street — the host's
hearty grasp of his guest's hand — the parent's cheery
reassurance to the boy bound for school — the final glance
of a friend as the train glides from the station — or the

last look exchanged between parting lovers. How dissimilar
each and all ! And how distinct from these the
Good-bye wafted to the ear as the outward-bound vessel
gradually and majestically draws away from the crowded
jetty and puts out to see. That word, then sobbed or
whispered by the quivering lip, or ringing lustily from
the yard-arm of the stately ship, speaks volumes to the
parted ones, as a prayer from loving hearts, which
stretches across the vast expanse of ocean, nor grows
fainter in its fervency when the watery gulf between
them has widened by thousands of miles.

There are few grander or more stirring sights than
the embarkation of large bodies of troops from old
Albion's shores ; and no other country in the world can
afford a spectacle of the kind which could bear any
comparison with it. At such times chaos appears to
reign supreme, and all seems bewildering bustle and
confusion within and around the dock-yards ; yet,
in reality, perfect order prevails, for everything is
carried out with promptitude and in a business-like
manner, highly creditable to the officials and all concerned.


The 126th Cameronians were under orders to embark
from Portsmouth on Wednesday, March the 8th, in
H.M.S. " Crocodile' so that Hector Grayle had left Barringtree
on the Monday to join his regiment at Aldershot
beforehand.

It is three o'clock in the afternoon, and the sun is
shining brightly, as the " Crocodile " lies alongside the
southern jetty at Portsmouth, and receives the last consignment
of stores from the Victualling Yard while waiting
to take on board the remainder of her living freight.
The majestic troopship looks like a huge leviathan of
the deep, with her great black hull standing high out of

the water and towering above other insignificant craft
which lie in the harbour ; albeit those grand old relics
of the past, the "Victory" and the "Duke of Wellington'
close at hand, more than hold their own in point of
dignity — far more in point of fame, and forcibly remind
one of the glorious days of Nelson and Trafalgar — glory
that will never wane so long as England is an island and
has men to man her ships, and ships to man — days when
the old men-of-war fought broadside to broadside in
honest fashion, and saw what they had to do, instead of,
as now, cruising about in chronic dread of being blown
up to the skies by some unseen enemy in the shape of
treacherous torpedoes or submarine mines. The march
of civilization has indeed caused a miraculous revolution
in our ships and naval warfare j yet scientific murder in
this form seems still to be in its infancy ; for where the
graceful old man-of-war would now be useless as a
walnut-shell upon the seas, the ponderous, un wieldly-look-
ing ironclad bids fair to follow suit and share no better
fate. As fast as superior projectiles are invented to
penetrate the thickest armour, superior vessels, it would
seem, must be built to resist such projectiles — and so on,
ad infinitum ; and what we shall arrive at eventually is a
problem, the solution of which lies still in the womb of
the future.

I speak of the " Crocodile " as a black monster, for, at
the time I write of, she and the " Serapis " were the only
two Indian transports (of that particular class) plying
between England and Alexandria, and they were then
painted over with a funereal coating ; but after the opening
of the Suez Canal in 1870, when troops could be conveyed
right through to Bombay, they joined service with
their sister ships, the "Euphrates' "Malabar," and
Jumna," and adopted the same uniform, viz. the white

hull with the single blue line beneath the bulwarks, and
a yellow funnel — the white colour being better adapted
for the intense heat experienced in the Red Sea and the
Indian Ocean.

The " Crocodile " had only returned to the southern
jetty about two hours before, after a preliminary run to
Spithead for the purpose of adjusting her compasses, and
by the time she had moved once more into her berth,
most of the special trains from Aldershot and other
stations had arrived, with tolerable punctuality, and had
drawn up at the factory end of the dockyard, there to
deposit their military burdens.

First came drafts from Chatham and Shorncliffe,
destined for different regiments then serving in India,
and these were at once marched down to the jetty, and
told off into messes by the Marine sergeants, prior to
going on board. At present there was no cheering nor
enthusiasm of any kind, and the apathetic cluster of
people on the Hard watched the proceedings apparently
with listless indifference, as thoroughly accustomed to
such sights. The Portsmouth folk are not expansive,
as a rule ; indeed, they are rather proverbial for being
of a phlegmatic temperament on occasions of this sort,
and seem to make it a practice to emulate the stolid
stoicism of the North American Indian. But at a
military seaport, where troops embarking and disembarking
are scenes of such frequent occurrence, it is
hardly surprising, perhaps, that with the inhabitants,
use should become second nature.

The Barringtree detachment, consisting of Gertrude
Agnes, and Clement — the Squire being unable to accompany
them — ran down to Portsmouth by the mid-day
express from London, and the ladies, with their escort,
had been for some time waiting about in the dockyard, on

the anxious look-out for the arrival of the regiment from
Aldershot. As a matter of course, Clement had obtained
an entrance into the gates by virtue of the
privilege accorded to those whose friends are outward-bound.


At length the bell rings, and a shrill, protracted whistle,
drawing nearer and nearer, announces the approach of the
first long train, which puffs slowly into sight with its
heavy burden. As she pulls up, the officers and men of
the left wing of the 126th step quickly out of the carriages,
and immediately form up, and pile arms in the
dockyard, with a precision and rapidity which inspire
Gertrude and Agnes with admiration. Presently the
second special train from Aldershot arrives with the headquarter
wing, band, and pipers, which forms up smartly
in the same way in front of the other wing.

The Cameronians were in full marching order, the
white helmet being substituted for the shako, as is
the general custom with troops on embarking for
India; the officers, however, wore their forage-caps and
frock-coats, which latter clumsy article of attire is now
superseded by the more becoming patrol-jacket. Even
in this very plain uniform Hector Grayle looked remarkably
well ; and when the officers fell out, and Gertrude saw
him approaching, with sword clattering by his side, her
sweet face lighted up with a smile of conscious pride;
and well it might, for there was none other — neither
officer nor private — who bore himself with a more soldierlike
air than her handsome son.

Agnes drew aside at once with her fiance, and walked
up and down with him in earnest conversation. Heffernan
had not been able to return to Barringtree after his
sudden "summons to town" that day, so now that the
hour of parting had arrived, they naturally wished to be

alone together. But with regard to Agnes Grayle's
engagement, I am afraid I must here make a confession
on her behalf, which may not raise her for
the moment in the estimation of my reader; yet if
the truth must be told, it may as well be told
now as later on. Although at first she really believed
herself to be in love with Albert Heffernan, and in
that belief accepted him as her future husband, she
soon began to doubt in her heart whether her feelings
were not rather of a lukewarm nature, and buta
poor return for the ardent devotion he bestowed
upon her.

It should be remembered that she was very young
and inexperienced, had only gone through one season in
London, and where so many admirers had been at her
feet, may be excused, perhaps, for not quite knowing
her mind at once, and for allowing herself to drift into an
engagement without due reflection. The fact was, she had
been completely fascinated at the outset by the winning
manners of her suitor, and had mistaken a natural girlish
admiration for a stronger sentiment ; but as time wore on,
and they saw more of each other, she began to feel that
this half-heartiness on her part was unsatisfactory in
itself, and unworthy a true and honest nature. Then
came all that agitation about her brother, throughout
which, in her mother's eyes, Albert Heffernan had
appeared in the most favourable colours — so much so,
that Gertrude never ceased to whisper his praises in
her daughter's ears. Hence Agnes could not but estimate
highly her future husband's character, nor do less
than share her mother's admiration of his generous,
unselfish conduct. But though this was insufficient to
excite any real love, it did much towards reconciling
her to her engagement, and she trusted that high esteem

would ere long developed into a warm affection. This,
then, was the real state of her feelings towards her
betrothed when she wished him good-bye and God speed
that evening on board the " Crocodile."

Had Agnes Grayle been a vain, thoughtless woman,
of the world worldly, and glorying in the fossilization
of her feelings, like some hardened, well-seasoned
London belle, she might never have thought it worth
while to catechize her heart ; but being, instead, a
simple, genuine country girl, with all her mother's
integrity of character, she had put herself under a
rigorous course of self-examination, and the result was
that she had been strongly prompted to make a clean
breast of it to Albert Heffernan, and appeal to his generosity
for her release. But how was such a thing to
be done ? What possible excuse could she offer for her
sentiments having undergone such a change, and in such
a short space of time ? None, literally none ! therefore,
being far too much of a moral coward to face the matter
boldly — to rush, so to say, into the enemy's camp without
a shield of defence behind which to advance — she held
aloof, and allowed affairs to remain in statu quo.

The " fall-in " now sounded, when the Cameronians
stood to their arms with a smartness which ever characterized
the regiment, and afterwards marched off towards
the jetty, the band playing " Hearts of Oak' and
making the dockyard and neighbouring buildings re-echo
with the inspiriting strains. On halting again, the
battalion was told off into messes of twenty each, and
marched on board, entering the ship, with arms at
the " advance," by the waist gangway and that forward
on the lower deck; then having been instructed as
to their berths, &c, the soldiers dispersed themselves
about the ship, the majority crowding to the starboard

side, and waiting for their relatives and friends
to be allowed to follow them through the gangways for
the parting embrace.

As soon as the unavoidable confusion in getting the
men settled down had subsided, the ladies and officers'
families also went on board, and repaired aft to the
quarter-deck, where the prefect were assembled.

And now the Cameronian pipers, in their picturesque
Highland dress, with the Douglas tartan, formed up onboard,
and enlivened the scene at an opportune moment
by playing a merry reel, which they suddenly changed to
a wild pibroch and from that to a strathspey. But
on many those familiar strains of the bagpipes had
a mournful effect, for the time was getting very short
now, and the great ship would soon be under weigh and
out of sight. A heavy cloud seemed to hang over all ;
though, in the natural regret at parting, the bitterness
was lessened in a slight degree by those who hoped that
it would only be for a short time. But then it was such
a far-off land that they were bound for; and poor Gertrude
sighed as she thought what a long, long way her
boy was going from her, and the burning tears, blinding
her soft eyes, stole slowly down her cheek. Agnes
scarcely spoke at all ; how could she, with a great lump
in her throat, and a longing feeling to sit down on the
nearest coil of rope and have a good cry ?

Hector, who felt this sorrowful gloom to be insupportable,
happily bethought him of a slight divertissement for
the time, and invited his mother and sister down below
to inspect his cabin. Poor boy ! little did he know what
was in store for him, until they reached the regions under
the lower deck — on a level with the vessel's hold ; and
then it was so dark, they could hardly see anything at
first.

A cabin on board one of Her Majesty's trophies for
the junior ensign of a regiment ! Preposterous idea !
Luxurious but delusive notion ! After they had gone down
what seemed to them an interminable number of companion
ladders, they at last found themselves in that
subaltern's elysium, yclept facetiously the Pandemonium ; l
and well does it deserve that name, particularly after you
get to the other side of the Isthmus of Suez, when it
almost outdoes the Stygian council-chamber itself in
point of temperature. A cabin indeed ! not exactly ! as
the quartermaster who had conducted them to these
mysterious regions very soon informed Hector. No, all
the accommodation government allowed our young friend,
in his distinguished position of " boots " to the 126th —
as the last joined ensign was generally called — was a hammock
slung up over the lockers in the middle of the deck
and nothing more ! Delightful and encouraging
prospect ! eminently adapted to teach a young officer and
gentleman how to rough it at the very outset of his
military career. Dark and dismal was this Pandemonium
stuffy and unventilated to a degree, with that inevitable
ship's smell pervading the atmosphere — a mixture of
tarred ropes, stale biscuits, cockroaches, and sea water;
yet, like every other part of the ship, it was clean as a
dairy. But no amount of cleanliness can get rid of that
peculiar odour, especially between the lower decks.

Hector saw by the number of hammocks slung around
from the beams that he would have several companions
in misery ; but how, when, and where they were all to
wash, dress, and undress, was to him, at present, a perfect
mystery.

Gertrude was shocked and indignant at the ship's
faulty arrangements. Fancy, her dear boy to be cooped
1 Equivalent to the cock-pit in a man-of-war.

up in a horrible den like this, with nothing but a little
narrow, comfortless hammock to sleep in. She began to
regret already that Albert had prevailed upon her to let
him go, for had she only known that Hector would have
to endure all this misery she would never have consented.
Yet it must not be forgotten why he is going — she must not
be unmindful of the home perils to be avoided — and
prays that all may be for the best.

Can't this gentleman' she appealed, in all innocence,
to the petty officer, " have one of those cabins there to
himself during the voyage ? " and Gertrude pointed to
those ranged on either side of the Pandemonium, some of
them, with open doors, offering a tantalizing glimpse to
the poor excommunicated ensign, in his limited five feet
by two of rope and canvas suspended outside.

I'm afraid not, mum," replied the man, with a grin ;
them's for the senior subalterns, mum. But perhaps when
this gentleman takes his next v'yge he'll have one by
rights, leastways part o' one."

He might well add that : a very small part of a very
small whole — very little better than nothing at all ; and
on a nearer inspection of these luxurious saloons, Hector
thought he would be almost as well off in the hammock,
and begged his anxious mother not to trouble her
head about his comforts, for he would, no doubt, soon shakedown,
like every one else.

u But where's Albert's berth, boy ? " inquired Agnes.
Surely he's better off as a captain, isn't he ? "

I should hope so, one of the seniors too," said Hector.

Oh, yes, sir," observed the quartermaster, "he'll have a
cabin up on the deck above. They're real palaces, they
are."

Lucky dog ! " thought Hector, sighing for the rank
of captain, if only for that one month's voyage.

"When you come back again, Hec," remarked Agnes,
"you'll be so unused to home comforts we shall have to
tone you down by degrees. First, you'll have to sleep in the
coal-cellar; then we'll promote you to the hay-loft; and if
you're found to be seasoning properly, we may try you
for a night in the lumber-room, and — "

End by putting me up the chimney, I suppose, if I'm
at all fastidious. But if you don't take care, Miss Fay,
you and the little mother will be worse off than I am with
my hammock, for you'll find yourselves aboard here on the
briny ocean without any berth at all."

Good gracious ! you don't say so ! " cried Agnes, in
pretended alarm. l< Have they started, then ? Mamma, do
you hear ? We shall have to swim for it."

"It's a fact, though, that they're going to cast off
directly," observed Hector ; " so we'd better go up."

In this the petty officer agreed; and at that moment a
voice called down the hatchway, —

Any one for shore down below ? Look sharp up,
please."

I told you so," said Hector. " Come along, mother ;
I'll go first and you take my hand. Fay, you hang on to
your mother's dress behind," he added, laughing. And
away they went on their upward climb, through one deck
after another, until they arrived at the top of the last
companion ladder. Clement had not gone down with
them, as he was too much taken up with watching the
proceedings above ; and Heffernan was engaged just at
the time with his colour-sergeant. It was a laudable
plan of Hector's to break the sorrowful spell at the approaching
parting by this slight diversion ; but when they
regained the quarter deck, the reality of the position forced
itself once more on their minds.

The "Crocodile" lay like her reptile namesake, and basked

in the sun as if immovable,, yet was steadily getting up
steam, soon to propel her far from England's shores.
It was indeed a touching sight to view those different
groups scattered over the busy transport. Some of the
women were giving way to inconsolable grief, whilst
the men fought and struggled against their tears, as
if they were ashamed of them ; though, heaven knows, no
man need deem it a disgrace to shed a tear at such a
time ; other women were bravely bearing up for the sake
of their dear ones, and to spare them the pain of witnessing
the pangs they felt themselves ; others, again, were
cheerfully laughing with the soldiers and blue-jackets, and
making light of the separation — perchance (in rare
instances) from callousness or indifference— but mostly
from a brave determination to cloak their grief, and
assume a levity they were far from feeling.

A band, on one of the neighbouring piers, which had
been playing " The Union Jack of Old England' in
honour of the troops, now broke into the plaintive melody,
i: Auld Lang Syne," and its touching strains seemed to
appeal direct to those on the eve of being parted, and
opened wider the flood-gates of the heart.

Gertrude stands by Hector, and gazes up into his face
with such a clinging look, while she holds both his
hands in hers and murmurs a prayer to Heaven to watch
over and protect him. Then, as he bends down and kisses
her again and again, the gentle mother can bear up no
longer, but throws herself on his breast and gives way to
silent weeping.

Agnes, too, bids her betrothed farewell with touching
pathos in her words and manner; and poor Clement, an
enforced spectator of these scenes, feels very uncomfortable
and somewhat de trop, so withdraws to the binnacle,
there to stare at the compass as though he were trying

VOL. II. F

to mesmerize it. Presently a bell on board rings, and
"Now, if you please, ladies' uttered deferentially, and proceeding,
apparently, from no one in particular, warns them
that they must linger no longer, but whisper the last
word ere they quit the ship.

Once more, good bye ! God bless you, my own
darling ! "

The words are scarcely audible — they seem to choke
the speaker, and they sadly unman poor Hector, as he
supports his mother towards the gangway. Gertrude
and Agnes scarcely remember how they got there, but
they find themselves presently standing beside Clement
on the crowded jetty, gazing intently at those forms
on board the " Crocodile' and waving their handkerchiefs
again and again to show that they are still with
them.

There is a good deal of protracted agony in that waiting
on shore for a vessel to start ; and as the delay draws
its slow length along minute by minute, the suspense
becomes almost intolerable, when the paradoxical emotion
arises in which the sorrowing ones almost yearn for the
final departure of those on board, the while their hearts
grieve sorely at losing them. But although the scene
that follows is a distressing one to loving friends thus
finally separated, to the mere spectator it is a grand and
impressive sight, and one which becomes engraved on
the memory.

The word has been given to cast off — the " Crocodile "
has parted her last cable — and, after a spasmodic revolution
of the screw, the stately ship swings gently round
till her cutwater points seawards, and gradually draws
away from the jetty-side, when the band on board strikes
up the national anthem. The blue-jackets man the
rigging and cheer lustily in chorus with the " thin red

line " along the bulwarks, for the soldiers swarm over
to the port-side as she comes round, and hurrah and
wave their helmets and caps to those on shore.

The jetty is already crowded, but there are many more
people now collected on the Hard, who, for this occasion,
respond cordially to the cheers of the soldiers and sailors.
Then, as the " Crocodile u glides on through the harbour
out into the waters of the Solent, her tall masts and labyrinth
of rigging slowly passing by object after objecta
long broad track is formed by the " dead-water " in
her wake, overshadowed by an elongated cloud of smoke,
which issues from her funnel in dense, jerky volumes as
she steams away — a track which gradually lengthens and
widens between the parted ones until lost on the surface
of the mighty ocean.

And now the Cameronian band breaks once more into
the dear old good-bye music, " Auld Lang Syne," in
which several voices join, while the cheering on board is
replied to vociferously from the tars on the "Duke of
Wellington," passes from vessel to vessel in the harbour,
and is caught up in a shrill " hurrah " from the
boys on the training-ship " St. Vincent."

Individual figures on board the receding " Crocodile "
are no longer visible ; only the red mass of soldiers
lining the bulwarks, and the sailors in the rigging, are to
be discerned, and the strains of the band grow fainter
and fainter as the great transport stands out to sea.
The crowd on the jetty wave their hats and handkerchiefs
for a few minutes longer, until the last parting signal
dies away — the majestic troopship disappears at length
from view, and to those on board the white cliffs of old
England are soon lost to view beneath the blue horizon.


Gertrude watches, with blurred vision, to the very last
f 2

and then, throwing her arms round her daughter, murmurs
through her sobs, —

God bless and protect him, my child— God bless them
both. He is safe with him, darling— I feel we can trust
him with Albert Heffernan through all the wide world."

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MARCH OF THE Cameronian.

*' The loud war-trumpet woke the morn,
The quivering drum, the pealing horn ;

The orb of day, in crimson dye,
Began to mount the morning sky ; — "

Hogg.

Those of my readers who have not taken the voyage to
the land of Ind in propria persona have doubtless accompanied
many another writer on the well-worn route ;
therefore I will not enter into minute details on the
subject. After leaving the English channel you cross the
turbulent Bay of Biscay with the author — that chopping
sea where the passengers' evil genius, mal che mer, seems
specially to revel in its victims' torments ; then past Cape
Finisterre, along the coast of Portugal, round Cape St.
Y r intent, and through the Straits of Gibraltar (the
first of " the five gates of India), where stands
that Rock twice famous in our modern history — once
in the days of Queen Anne, and again in the reign of
George the Third, when brave Sir Gilbert Elliot held his
own against all France and Spain — on through the Mediterranean
till he casts anchor in the Malta harbour ; thereto
stop for some hours, thus giving you the opportunity
to go ashore with him and visit the monastery of the

Capuchins, have a chat with the monks, examine the
rows of perpendicular mummies in their probationary
tombs, formed by niches in the wall — inspect the churches
and the opera-house (Malta is proud of its opera), saunter
through the streets, and glance in curiosity at the women
with their heads and shoulders covered by black mantillas
then hurrying back on board, he steams away with you
to Alexandria (where all passengers, with their luggage,
disembark, or did, before the Suez canal was opened), and
transfers you to the comfortless train which crawls across
the hot sandy desert and deposits you at Suez tired and
dusty, there to re-embark, though not without further
botheration and delay. Steaming off again through the
Gulf, he plunges you into that boiling cauldron, the Red
Sea, where you might fancy yourself floating down the
Styx, on a visit to his infernal majesty, but pass instead
through the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb and arrive at poor
scorch ed-up Aden, which again might easily be mistaken
for Erebus, or the pit of Acheron itself — except, perhaps,
that it is not so interesting. After coaling (I had nearly
written it cooling — a lapsus plume indeed !) after coaling,
I say, at this delightful (!) station, you accompany him
down the Gulf of Aden and out into the wide Indian
Ocean, when a few days afterwards you sight the Colaba
Light ; then he finally anchors in the Bombay roads, and
puts you ashore, to take you with him " up country, 5 '
maybe, in his next chapter.

Such a brief summary exactly describes the uneventful
passage of our friends the Cameronians. The " Malabar
" troop-ship, which had taken them on from Suez,
anchored in Bombay harbour on the 6th of April, just
one day under the month, after a remarkably plain
sailing (or rather, plain steaming) and commonplace
voyage.

Tcedet coeli convex pueri" had become a universal
growl, and every one had been looking forward to tread
terra firma once more, tired of the monotony on board
ship. But to compensate for the recent stagnation, the
Cameronians hopefully anticipated some stirring scenes on
the frontier. In this, however, they were doomed to
disappointment ; for immediately on arrival, orders from
the Brigade office were sent on board informing the
Colonel that their route up country had been altered, and
that they were to proceed forthwith by rail transport
to Cawnpore, and thence to march on to Bareilly to
relieve the Rifle Brigade, then under orders for England,
and already detained beyond the usual time for moving
troops. The explanation for this change of programme
was that matters had quieted down on the frontier during
the last few weeks, and consequently their services would
not be required in that direction, at any rate for the
present.

Acting, therefore, under instructions to move upcountry
with all despatch, on account of the approaching
hot weather, the Colonel hurried off from Bombay,
and barely gave his officers time to procure necessary
equipments for the line of march. On reaching Cawnpore,
there was the usual bungling on the part of the
Commissariat authorities, who, as a matter of course,
could not provide sufficient " carriage n for the regiment
in the shape of camels and hackeries, &c, and
this necessitated delay. But the difficulty was at length
overcome, and the Cameronians commenced their first
stage, marching out of Cawnpore about an hour before
sunrise, in order to get to their camping-ground
in the cool of the morning.

Hector Grayle began to like soldiering already, and
had quite got over the discomforts of the pandemonium,

under which he managed to exist better than he expected.
No doubt he was agreeably impressed at first with the
novelty of the life on the line of march ; and to my
thinking, such a time is one of the pleasantness during an
officer's sojourn in India.

The country between Cawnpore and Bareilly is not
remarkable for any picturesque beauty, beyond a profusion
of wild jungle here and there, and some rugged
nulla intersecting the plains at various points ; but the
main road, as far as Futteyghur, runs in close proximity
to the banks of the Ganges, and this, in certain places,
gives a variety to the scenery. But, however uninteresting
the surrounding country (comparatively speaking),
there is a special charm given to it under the
aspect of early morning, or hurry fujja, as the natives
call it.

Long ere Aurora rises from her couch and decks herself
in gold and crimson, a general movement is heard in the
camp of the British regiment, albeit sundry noises break
the stillness of the night even before the drums beat the
reveille. The first note of this, however, is the signal fora
Babel of sounds, which mingle unpleasantly with the
dreams of the still slumbering soldier; the gurgling
grumble of the camels, as the unthwallalis drag them
down into position to receive their burdens — a peculiar
noise, something between the angry growl of a wild
beast and the gobble-gobble of a turkey ; the tapping
of tent-pegs being loosened, as the tents are gradually
struck ; the murmurs of voices, impatient shouts of "Idler
oo bheestie ! panes lao !" 1 and so forth, rising above the
din, for there are generally some old soldiers with a
smattering of the language ; all which tumult reminds

1 Come here, bheestie (water-carrier) ! bring some water J

the waking officer that the camp is on the move, and his
short night's rest at an end-presently
the clear notes of the first, or dressing bugle,
ring out close by the officers' tents, pierce the sharp,
crisp air, and are re-echoed from the further end of the
camp, near the quarter-guard. This call immediately
brings the u mild Hindoo " to the bedside of his sleeping
master, whom he nervously touches, as if he were afraid
of his biting him, and cries in a sepulchral whisper,
Sahib ! sahib ! atliao, sahib ! pila bugle hogiya !" 2 when
the half-rested officer turns over on his side, grunting
un amiably like the sluggard, " You have waked me too
soon, I must slumber again' and makes no attempt to
rise. After a little while, the faithful bearer, anxious to
have the tent struck and packed on the camels in good
time, summons up pluck, and again rouses him ; this time
with success, for his master tumbles off his camp bed with
a frantic effort (swearing a little, perhaps,) and pulls on
his clothes with desperate energy. Then he plunges his
face in the cool water poured out ready for him in the
' chillumchee," or brass basin, and, with a lick and a promise,
since he has his regular bath on arriving at the next
camp, finishes his toilet. Afterwards he gulps down,
perchance, some hot concoction — a wretched apology fora
cup of tea — and hurries off to parade, just as the
officers' call begins to sound, stumbling in the darkness
over ropes, tent-pegs, and strewed baggage, until he
joins his company. Taking this over from the colour-sergeant,
he bids the men " order arms " and ff stand at
ease," for any attempt to go through the form of an
inspection in the pitch dark morning would be an utter
farce. Almost immediately afterwards the Colonel calls
the battalion to " attention," and marches it off to the
2 Sir ! sir ! get up sir the first bugle has gone !

next camp, when the band strikes up some air they know
by heart, since it would be impossible to read from
their scores.

Dark is the hour before the dawn' and as the Cameronianss
tramp along to the martial music, it seems, for a
time, to grow darker and darker still. They can scarcely
discern three files in front of them, but the dust can be
both smelt and felt, as it flies thickly around the column,
though the choking clouds are as yet invisible. That
sensation of marching to a good military band has at all
times, and to all grades, a peculiar fascination about it.
The blare of the brass instruments, the regular beat of
the drum, and the steady tramp of the men, so inspiriting
in their combined effect, impress even the most blase old
soldier (who might be slow to confess it) with a consciousness
of intense pride and boyish self-importance —
more especially on entering a town or military station,
when he feels that all eyes are upon him ; and each man,
feeling so, steps out his very best and looks his smartest
for the credit of the old corps. But if such is the effect
on the veteran officer or soldier, how much keener, and
how much prouder, is the newly joined ensign, who
glories to think that this is his regiment and his band,
while he swings along to its martial strains, and feels
like going anywhere and doing anything under the
stirring influence.

Hector Grayle was no exception. The " scarlet fever "
had taken fast hold upon him, and as he stepped out
jauntily to that beautiful old march "Distant Greeting,"
he began to think that he should soon be as " hot " a
soldier as there was in the 126th.

Presently the band ceased playing — and right well had
they performed that rather complicated march, considering
the darkness — a roll of the drums followed, and then the

pipers burst out into " Up and wa', Willie," which took
the column on for some distance further, when they also
became silent. The Colonel now gave the word " March
at ease," and at this command the men's rifles immediately
assumed a variety of angles ; then, by mutual
cousent, the Cameronians laid themselves out to their
work, and swung along at an increased pace — a good
four miles an hour — to the chorus of a few jovial vocalists
which cropped up at intervals along the column.

The officers, who had provided' themselves with horses,
galloway, or tattoo, now obtained permission to fall to
the rear and mount, and afterwards trotted up along the
reverse flank of the battalion until level with their
respective companies.

Is that you, Hector ? " inquired Heffernan, pulling
up alongside. " I can't see, but I guess from the cut of
your horse. • Well, old fellow' he added, finding his
surmise correct, " and how do you like this sort of
thing ? "

Oh, I think it's awfully jolly," replied Hector, " if it
wasn't so confoundedly dark. Hold up ! " for the Arab
he was riding just then made a bad stumble over some
obstacle in the road.

"We shall have the sun up before long," observed
Heffernan ; u there's scarcely any twilight in India.
Look over there to your right; the dawn is breaking
now."

As he spoke the first faint streak was just perceptible
on the horizon. Gradually it crept up and spread itself
slowly across the cloudless sky, while the chill breath of
early morn made the air grow suddenly cold and raw,
such change in the atmosphere generally preceding the
appearance of the scorching, brazen-faced orb of day.
Every sunrise in a perfectly clear sky is more or less

gloriously beautiful ; but spite of its much-vaunted magnificence
in the gorgeous East, I much question whether
the same natural phenomenon, as seen on a summer's
morning in England, does not equal, and even surpass,
the spectacle in splendour — if people would only get up
early enough to see it.

The Cameronians were now nearing a small gong, or
native village, by the roadside, where a gigantic banyan
tree took nearly the whole of the little colony under its
fatherly protection. It was a picturesque and specially
favoured spot, surrounded by rich tamarind and mango
groves, which grew side by side, with topes of tall toddy-trees
clustered here and there in the immediate neighbourhood.


The soft, uncertain light thrown on the face of nature
gave a grey and ghost-like appearance to the surrounding
objects. Trees, horses, and figures looked
bigger than they actually were, though the transition
from this phantasmagoria to reality was very rapid, and
by the time the " halt " sounded, on the arrival of the
column at " Coffee-shops' it was nearly broad daylight.


This coffee-shop, as it is usually called, is an institution
adopted on the line of march by almost every regiment
in India, and consists of an arrangement for providing
coffee and other refreshments for the officers and soldiers
at a spot about half-way between the two camping-grounds.
For this purpose a certain portion of the companies'
cooks go on ahead with their deities, 3 and the necessary
materials for the men of the regiment, while the officers'
mess makes a separate provision for the officers.

3 Large cooking utensils, made of copper, and tinned inside with
white metal.

The spot chosen for the halt on this occasion was close
by the gong above mentioned, beneath the spreading
branches of its beautiful trees, and as the column approached
this leafy hamlet, the delicious fragrance from
the scented groves, wafted on the cool morning air, was
peculiarly grateful to the dust-stained soldier.

The natives of India are early risers, and the people of
the village were already astir when the regiment drew up
into line and piled arms by the side of the road. Prompted
by curiosity, some of the inhabitants collected in groups
close by, and squatting down, watched the movements of
the soldiers ; while others went about their business with
listless apathy, as if perfectly indifferent to the presence of
the hal cote (red coats).

One special object which seemed to attract the attention
of the Cameronians was a grey-haired, wizened old man,
whose skin was like shrivelled up, black parchment, and
who was very busy with his pair of emaciated whiles, or
bullocks (as thin as himself), drawing water from a well
by a primitive method — on the same principle as dredging.
This method, a common one in India, consists of a huge
wheel, 4 like that of a water-mill, having little clicdties, or
earthen pots, fastened in a circle round it on pieces of
cross-wood, corresponding with the paddles of the water-wheel
; these chartres dip into the water as it revolves,
and then empty themselves in turn as they come uppermost
into a trough which runs down a slope, and either
irrigates the land around, or otherwise discharges itself
as required. The screeching, squeaking noise of the increased
axle can be heard a great distance off, and is
frequently a welcome sound to the belated traveller who
may be trudging along the road, hot, weary, and parched
with thirst. The bullocks work the said wheel by means of

Commonly called a Persian wheel.

rope pulleys, to which they are yoked, and made to run
down an incline by having their tails twisted over their
backs; then the driver, seated on the rope between
them/unhooks the yoke at the bottom of the declivity,
and driving his team up to the top again, fastens them,
and so repeats the process ad libitum.

CHAPTER IX.

Well, we may meet again ! "

Shakspeare.

While the 126th were enjoying their matutinal cup, the
sound of a horn, drawing nearer and nearer, was suddenly
heard, which gave out the most discordant blasts, like
some inebriated huntsman, after a stiff drink at a wayside
inn, trying to play himself sober on his road
home.

This thrilling music, which it is to be hoped had charms
to soothe the savage breast of the driver and make him
merciful to his beasts, announced the approach of a dak
harry, drawn by a pair of raw-boned, raw-backed, raw-shouldered
creatures, which might once have been horses,
or rather ponies, but were now merely pieces of broken-down
machinery, wound up to go like tops for a certain
time and then collapse, and which now came along the
hard " kunka ,J road at a frantic gallop, as if they meant
to charge right through the halted column. The driver,
however, found himself compelled to pull up into a walk,
and pick his way through the mass of soldiers scattered
about, as one might do in threading a passage through a
flock of sheep. He then drove his conveyance slowly past
the group of officers gathered together in the van of the

regiment, when the Colonel hospitably suggested that the
traveller inside should be offered a cup of coffee before
the coachman worked his screws up again to galloping
pitch. Accordingly, a mess servant knocked at the side
of the closed harry, and conveyed the Colonel's offer,
when the panel, which was made to slide to and fro, was
pulled back, and a lady, rather dishevelled in appearance,
put her head out at the opening. Thanking the native,
she took the proffered cup, without quite understanding
at first by whom it was sent, when she caught sight of
the cluster of officers close by, and quickly drew in her
head again. She had, however, remained long enough
exposed to view for Heffernan to recognize, as he believed,
an old acquaintance, and he at once drew near the carriage
on the chance of being correct in his speculation.

Doffing his cap, he greeted the lady within, who presently
put out a small white hand for him to shake ; but
as they were just out of earshot, the other officers could
not hear what passed between them.

This is indeed an unexpected pleasure," observed he,
as he approached ; " at least, I hope I am not making a
mistake. Surely I have the pleasure of meeting — ar —
Mrs. — Mrs. Yickers once more ? "

Her heart sank within her as she heard the voice, and
kept up a violent fluttering for some minutes after she
caught sight of his face.

Was ever anything so unlucky ? The one person in
all the world that she would have avoided !

Georgie felt a strong inclination to close the sliding-door
with a bang, and preserve her incognito; but he
came up so suddenly that she could not well do so
without appearing extremely rude.

Mrs. Yickers still, I presume ? w

She bowed her head.

"I was so dreadfully grieved to hear of your sad
bereavement' he continued, by way of something to say.

She sighed, and the tears came into her eyes, as she
murmured what a fearful blow it had been to her.

But — but really I wonder you knew me," she faltered,
with a sickly smile, " especially under the circumstances.
I'm so frightfully untidy, I'm not fit to be seen ;
but travelling, you know — "

Heffernan muttered some commonplace about beauty
unadorned, but stopped short in the middle and said, —

You would not know me, I fancy, under my present
name, Mrs. Vickers. You must allow me to reintroduce
myself. But perhaps you have even forgotten me under
the old name," he added, with a significant smile.

Indeed she had not — would to Heaven that it had been
possible ! (This was merely a passing thought, not a
remark.) Moreover, when he made himself known to her
as Captain Heffernan, it was a superfluous piece of information,
since she had already ascertained it from the
Army List, as well as from Joe Corcoran's statement.

Your little girl, I suppose ? " he asked, catching sight
of Gwennie at the back of the harry, very much in
undress, and trying to hide herself.

u Yes, my only child."

Co m me elle est jolie /" he added, in a lower tone.

Do you really think so ? "

a I do, indeed. Very like her poor father. Now, upon
my word, you can't think how glad I am to see you
again," he continued aloud, in a cheerful tone, and with
his most fascinating smile. " If it's not a rude question,
may I ask where you are bound for ? "

George thought it teas a rude question, since she had
no wish to tell him, so merely replied vaguely that she
was going to the Hills for the summer.

VOL. II. G

But this did not seem to satisfy her inquisitive interrogator.


Indeed ; what part of the hills ? " he persisted.

Really, I — I'm not quite sure — at least, I forget the
name of the place just now," she answered, evasively.

A dreadful fib on her part ; as if she did not know perfectly
well.

"Missouri? Murree? Simla? Kussowlie?" he ventured,
appearing to have them all at his fingers' ends.

No ; it was not any of those places, she believed.

Nainee Tal, then, perhaps ? "

Yes; she thought it was Nainee Tal. Inquisitive
nuisance ! What should he want to know for ? and she
consigned him in her heart to the North Pole for his
impertinent curiosity.

"Oh, indeed; perhaps we shall meet again, then.
We're on our way to Bareilly, you know."

"So I heard — to relieve the Rifle Brigade. The
Brigade-Major at Cawnpore mentioned it yesterday.
By-the-bye, Captain Heffernan, have any of their volunteers
joined you yet ? "

No ; this change in the programme prevented that.
They were on the road, I believe, but had orders to return
and await our arrival. Pardon me, I think the Rifle
Brigade was your regis — "

My poor husband's regiment. Yes. I take a great
interest in one of the men about to be transferred to your
corps."

I think I know whom you mean."

No doubt. He is a mutual acquaintance of ours, I
understand. I allude, of course, to a man name Corcoran.
I hope you will do all you can for him, and try to get him
on in your regiment. He is a very worthy fellow."

"Indeed I will. Joe Corcoran is an old friend of

mine; I knew him as a boy. Ha ! there goes our
f assembly Fin afraid I must say good-bye now, Mrs.
Vickers. I trust I've not detained you."

Not at all."

Good-bye, little lady— Miss — ? "

Gwendolen — we call her Gwennie."

Then, shaking hands with them both, he was turning to
go, when Georgie observed, —

Stay — I mustn't run away with the cup. Would you
kindly take it, Captain Heffernan ? " she added, giving it
to him.

Certainly. I do hope we shall meet again soon," he
observed, with a peculiar look, and forcing her to shake
hands a second time.

Thanks. I hope so too. Good-bye."

But Georgie Vickers devoutly hoped they would
not.

The dak harry then resumed its rumbling and rattling
after a spasmodic scramble on the part of the broken-down
machinery (the works refusing to start fair together),
and a variety of blasts on the horn, like the groans
of a dying ogre in a pantomime.

When Heffernan rejoined his comrades, he, of course,
came in for some of that inevitable chaff which is so
strong an ingredient in the British officer's nature."

Who's your friend, Heffernan ? " inquired Hector.

Oh, a jolly little woman I knew a few years ago. Lost
her husband not long since — a captain in the Rifle Brigade
at Bareilly. She's going to Nainee Tal for the hot weather,
and, as that'll be our nearest hill-station, perhaps we
shall see more of her. I'll introduce you."

Thank you," replied Hector, though inwardly thank -
iDg him for nothing, for he was not prepossessed with
Anglo-Indian ladies, or rather, what he had heard of

G 2

them, and thought all the more of his darling Lizzie, faraway
at Barringtree.

But we must get forward on our march with the Cameronianss,
or they will be all struck down by the sun before
they arrive at Bareilly. After they had passed Futtey-
ghur, and crossed the Ganges, the weather became hotter
and hotter every day, and the Colonel, to reach the end of
their journey the quicker, ordered forced marches by
night, which was by no means pleasant work.

The heat during the daytime knocked up some of the
sickly ones, so that the hospital coolies were very soon
full of fever cases; aud at one place, called Toranballa,
about forty miles from Bareilly, they buried a couple of
fine young non-commissioned officers from heat-apoplexy.
These men persisted in going out shooting from the
camping-ground in the broiling sun, contrary to orders,
and with no other protection than their forage-caps, so
the result was scarcely surprising ; and had death itself
not reduced the poor fellows to the ranks of the " great
majority' probably a court-martial would have done so
to the ranks of the 126th for disobedience of orders.

At length the regiment started off on its last stage,
and were met a couple of miles out of Bareilly by the
band of the Rifle Brigade, who thus paid it the customary
compliment of playing it into the station.

Among certain of the officers and soldiers who came to
meet them, Heffernan had little difficulty in singling out
the towering form of our old friend Corporal Corcoran —
I beg his pardon, Private Corcoran once more ! Yes, sad
to say, corporal no longer ; but, from sundry remarks ina
foregoing chapter, I trust my reader was not entirely
unprepared for the melancholy intelligence.

Poor Joe struck to his lance-stripe manfully so long as

the widow and Gwennie remained at Bareilly ; but on that
evening of their departure, whether intense thirst, caused
by the exertion of carrying the palanquin, or a desire to
drown his grief at their loss, tempted him to indulge, I
cannot say, but the giant made his entry into the guardroom
soon after tattoo the same night, feet first and very
musical. The next day was given him to dry his tears
and cool his head, and the following morning he appeared
before his commanding officer at orderly-room, under the
well-worn charge, " Drunk and creating a disturbance in
barracks." The old old story, with the inevitable sequel,
"Lose lance-rank and 21 days C.B." Now "21 days
C.B." in this case meant confinement to barracks for that
period, as I need hardly explain, perhaps, though I have
heard of ignorant people confusing it in a vague manner
with the Companionship of the Bath; and, as a matter of
fact, that military tag, C.B., has been otherwise rendered
by some facetious wag, who explained to an inquiring
griff that Companion of the Bath, in the case of a
certain henpecked Colonel Jones, C.B., meant literally
that he was always getting into hot water with his wife.

Joe Corcoran took the first opportunity, when the 126th
were halted and dismissed, to inquire for his old friend
Heffernan. After such a lapse of time he did not readily
recognize him, since Heffernan was not a marked manlike
himself, as the tallest in his regiment; but on his
being pointed out, Joe stalked up to him, and saluting
with an energetic precision and fierce gravity, which
looked rather as if he meant to knock him down, thus
introduced himself : —

Please, sir, I'm Private Joseph Corcoran, late D
Company, 5th Battalion, Rifle Brigade — a volunteer for
the 126th Cameronians, sir; hope you're well, sir."

By Jove, Joe ! how are you ? " cried Heffernan,

waving ceremony, and shaking him heartily by the hand.
Good heavens, man, how you've grown ! "

Joe very nearly threw off his parade manners and
smiled, but apparently thought better of it.

"Delighted to see you again, I'm sure," continued
Heffernan. " Of course I heard you were trying to get
transferred to us ; your mother told me all about it, you
know."

Yes, sir ; hope you left her well, sir," replied Joe, not
relaxing his military stiffness even at the mention of his
mother.

Quite well, Joe, and sent you her love."

Thank ye, sir. Please, sir, if I may make so bold, I
should like to ask you a favour."

Certainly, Joe — out with it."

Well, sir, I should like to come under you, sir — I
should like well to have you for my captain, sir ; so if
you'd just get me posted to your company, sir, I shall be
kindly obliged."

Of course I will, and only too glad of the acquisition
; let's hope we shall make a drum-major of you
before long ; we want a fine figure-head like you."

Joe shook his stolid pate very solemnly. He had heard
that flattering observation too often, and well knew that,
however favourably disposed the colonel and officers
might be towards him, his wretched failing would be sure
to frustrate their best intentions.

After some further conversation over old times,
Heffernan dismissed the giant with a few kind words,
whereupon Joe repeated that stern threat of knocking his
officer down, revolved on the pivot of his " ammunition "
boots, and marched off highly gratified.

That evening Hector Grayle had a further insight into
military life, which made him like it better still ; for,

although the Cameronian bad been entertained by other
messes since landing, the night they dined at Bareilly, as
guests of the Rifle Brigade, was a jovial one indeed; and
they kept it up till very small hours too, enlivened at
first by their hosts' splendid band, and overflowing
throughout with hospitality and the best champagne
ever broached.

A right royal welcome, which, for cordiality and jolly
good fellowship, can scarcely be equalled out of a military
mess, and never surpassed in the annals of sumptuous
banquets, from the feast of Belshazzar in Babylon
down to the last Lord Mayor's banquet at Guildhall !

CHAPTER X.

OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY

Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
Rough quarries, rocks, and hills whose heads touch heav'n,
It was my hint to speak."

Shakespeare.

Blue, and baseless, and beautiful,
Did the boundless mountains bear
Their folded shadows into the golden air.
The comfortlessness of their chasms was full
Of orient cloud, and undulating mist
Which, where their silver cataracts hissed,
Quiver'd with panting colour."

Ruskin.

Dark-green valley depths, and mountains zoned
With pine woods, singing in the infinite wind."

Oilier.

I will pass over the three or four broiling months that
followed after the Cameronians settled down at Bareilly
as utterly uninteresting and 4)00 intensely hot to write
about, for it makes one's fingers hold the pen in a limp,
listless sort of way even to think of such heat, and the
attempt - to describe it would probably take all the verve
out of one's writing for several chapters to come. It was,

in short, the kind of weather in which a man might talk
seriously of wishing to " take off his flesh and sit in his
bones."

About the middle of the monsoon, or rainy season
(towards the end of August), our friends Heffernan and
Hector, after fl doing the grill " on the plains with patient
endurance, obtained two months' privilege leave of absence
to visit the Hills. Their destination was Nainee Tal, that
delightful little sanatorium in the Himalayas, which,
though only about seventy miles distant, is quite like
another world to the Anglo-Indian.

How poor Joe Corcoran longed to follow them ! not
that he minded the heat, nor that his iron constitution
required a change : but his heart yearned to be near
those who he knew had proceeded thither some months
before. Mrs. Vickers had apprized the faithful giant
of her movements, and he was therefore on the lookout
for them as they passed through the station. But it
was dreadfully tantalizing only just to catch a glimpse
of the widow and " that blessed little J un 5 as they hurried
along on their way to cooler climes for Mrs. Vickers had
now no resting-place at Bareilly, since Major Bonus and
his regiment had marched thence, as was expected.

The major found it rather inconvenient to carry about
with him all the different things which George had entrusted
to his charge ; but since he looked upon them as
his future property, he was more reconciled to the trouble
and responsibility. He had arranged to meet her at
Nainee Tal later on, with a view to a speedy celebration
of their nuptials, for he quite believed the widow was as
anxious for the marriage as he was himself.

Poor old Bobby Bones ! he little knew that Georgie
Vickers almost forgot his very existence sometimes, or
only remembered it when she received his letters.

Now, whereas the deluded major had a twofold link
connecting him with his fiancee — in their engagement
and the custody of her property— Joe Corcoran had
nothing but the old " chowkidar," little Gwennie's dinah,
to console himself with ; and yet I think, of the two, the
giant held the more prominent place in the widow's recollections.
Then the bird could talk and remind him of that
blessed little 'un, which was something, and whenever
Joe felt at all " down in the mouth " he would put the
chowkidar through his facings; and this performance,
which generally comprised the following snatches of dialogue,
cheered him up immensely.
Joe : l( Chowkidar ! "
Minali : " Joe, sahib \"

Joe : " Where's the mem sahib, Chowkidar ? Call the
mem sahib."

Dinah (imitating the ayah's voice) : " Mem sahib ! "
Joe : " Go on, Chowkidar ; talk away, old chap."
Dinah : " Gwinnie — chota butcha ! — Ninneah — koi hai
corporal — shoulder arms — quick march — Chowkidar,
good old boy, wooooo — eh ! "

Here the voluble bird would wind up by whistling
The girl I left behind me," which Joe had taught
him since his little girl had left him behind, so that the
words were scarcely apposite ; but the music was soothing,
although the chowkidar generally broke down at the
third bar, and finished oft sometimes with a frantic
attempt to imitate the canteen bugle-call. But if this
was intended as a hint, Joe resisted it manfully ; in fact,
he looked quite scandalized at the chowkidar for trying
to tempt him to break through his good resolutions.
These resolutions had been formed on the receipt of a
letter from Mrs. Vickers, in which she expressed herself
1 Little youngster.

shocked and vexed to hear that he had " been and gone
and done it again' as he put it in his confession, and that
she really hoped he would turn over a new leaf from this
time, or she didn't know what would become of him ; and
to this Gwennie added a round-hand postscript, bidding
him to try to be a better boy for her sake and the 's.
This letter Joe henceforth kept as part of his regimental
kit, and folded it away carefully in his haversack,
to look at it now and again whenever he felt at all thirsty ;
in short, it had the desirable effect of almost inducing
Joe Corcoran to take the pledge, and, at any rate, made
him so steady that he was again on the high road to promotion.


It was one of those damp, muggy days during the rainy
season in India — when the moist heat of the atmosphere
is like that of a forcing-house, and one could almost
imagine oneself an exotic plant instead of a muscular
Christian — that Heffernan and Hector started on their
way to Nainee Tal. They arranged to ride out for the
first thirty miles, posting horses as far as a place called
Sahara, where their palanquins were to await them.

As they passed through the native city of Bareilly,
Heffernan, who appeared to know something of everything,
and who made it his object to acquire knowledge
about places just as he did about people, pointed out to
his companion the Temple which marked the fatal spot
where so many Europeans were barbarously massacred
during the Indian mutiny.

Hector was much interested, but intensely indignant,
at the cruel horrors thus brought home to him, and with
an angry impulse, only natural in a young Englishman
who realizes such facts for the first time, he felt inclined
to trample under his horse's feet the two or three harmless
bunneahs and citizens who happened to be loitering or

passing by at the time, and scowled at them as fiercely
as if they were just then coming away red-handed from
the slaughter.

It was rapidly getting dark as the equestrians drew
near Sahara, and, shortly before arriving at that place,
their curiosity was excited by an extraordinary object of
interest, which the dhoolie-bearers explained to them afterwards.
As they rode along they suddenly heard a peculiar
sound, like a horn, which was blown two or three times,
and was responded to presently by a frightful chorus of
jackals — that most unearthly cry, which so often startles
the sleeper at night and makes him fancy, 'twixt waking
and dreaming, that some incarnate fiend has been let
loose upon earth. It commences on a long, low note,
which gradually rises and falls, and then crescents into
a high, yapping noise, getting higher and higher, and
finally dying away again into short, shrill barks, to which
the following words have been appropriately put : —

I smell the body of a mild Hindoo— oo—oo — oo !
Where — where — where — where? Here— here — here — here —
here — here ! "

The cause of this horn-blowing, and its responsive
chorus — a most fiendish combination — turned out to bea
lunatic fakir, a sort of native anchorite, who haunted
this lonely spot, and every evening came forth and made
these discordant noises on a conch-shell to warn all the
gheedurs, or jackals, around that he had a feast prepared
for them. The compulsory feeding of these wild beasts was
self-imposed penance for his sins, among other ascetic
observances; and no sooner was the conch heard than
scores of these creatures flocked from all parts to partake
of the banquet thus provided for them, the fakir appearing
with large vessels full of offal and garbage, which were
greedily consumed.

At Barbara our friends had some slight refreshment
in the shape of a peg each, and a few sandwiches ; then,
having ensconced themselves in the palanquins, resumed
their journey. By that time it was dark, and the heavy
rain-clouds deprived the travellers of any light from moon
or stars; but, as they proceeded along the wild jungle
road, there was little need of the niussalchee's torch to
guide them on their way, since nature illuminated the
night by other and most extraordinary means.

Along their path, for miles, glanced myriads upon
myriads of fire-flies, which shed their green, gold light
around, and swarmed on every tree and bush, throwing
over each a brilliant halo. Like little fiery meteors they
darted from point to point, and crossed each other in
bewildering maze ; anon, flitting up and down, and round
and round, close to the earth, as though they were diminutive
elves, each with its tiny, bright green lantern,
holding some fanciful revel. A more wondrous spectacle
than this phenomenon of the tropics is not often to be
witnessed, and on a dark night, especially, the effect is
truly marvellous ; nor is it an exaggeration to say, that at
certain places where these phosphoric insects are floating
about in dense masses, and scintillating in dazzling brilliancy
before the eyes, one can see as well, or even better,
than in the brightest moonlight.

After travelling for some hours, during which both
Hector and his companion fell into a fitful doze, they
awoke simultaneously, to find themselves at midnight
on the borders of a dense forest, called, by the natives
thereabouts, the Lahore jungle; being, in fact, part of
the great Terai, which stretches for hundreds of miles
along the base of the Himalayan chain.

It is a novel and strange sensation, that of being
carried on men's shoulders through this wild forest at

the dead of night, and knowing that the thick jungle
around is literally teeming with beasts of prey of almost
every description. Yet the palkee-bearers continue
fearlessly on their way, and shuffle along to that everlasting
grunted chant, whilst the light of the blazing
torch effectually keeps all inquisitive prowlers at bay ;
though no doubt the royal tiger or treacherous panther
wonders at venturesome man, who thus dares to intrude
on his savage domain at the very hour when he is wont
to seek his prey.

Portentous silence prevails in that vast jungle, as the
traveller passes through it, broken only by the murmuring
sounds of the native bearers, and, perchance, the distant
roar of some wild animal, or the rustling and chattering
of a troop of monkeys, and the shrieking of frightened
parrots, thus suddenly disturbed by the light.

The denizens of the Terai are now undergoing rapid
extermination, and the once impenetrable forests are
gradually becoming thinned, and brought, in parts, under
cultivation with the march of time ; but it will be long
ere the Terai itself loses its character as a howling
wilderness and the wild beasts' lair ; and that long may
it be is, no doubt, the earnest wish of every genuine
sportsman.

Heffernan was an experienced " globe-trotter," having
travelled a good deal in many parts of the world ; and
although that night journey, with its glorious sequel,
could not fail to interest the most blase, it did not, perhaps,
impress him in the same way as it impressed his
companion, who, with all the freshness of youth upon
him, appreciated the situation with more keenness and
enjoyment. Hector, indeed, was so struck with its
novelty that he could not close his eyes again until after
they had changed bearers at a choked half way through

the forest; after which he slept soundly up to dawn,
but little anticipated, in his wildest dreams, what a
magnificent sight would greet his eyes when the cool
morning air awoke him.

Soon after they had passed through the Terai, the
difference in the temperature warned our travellers that
they were nearing the foot of the Himalayas ; so, about
daybreak, they alighted from their palanquins by mutual
consent, and walked alongside to enjoy the bracing
atmosphere and the wild grandeur of the surrounding
prospect, proceeding thus through Haldane, until they
arrived at the dak bungalow for breakfast.

No pen could do a tithe of justice to the majesty of
the scene which burst upon their view when they sprang
from their travelling couches ; and it appeared incredible
that so short a journey should have brought them into
such a widely different country. In fact, to describe
accurately the scene itself would be as difficult as to
describe the first impressions of the European traveller,
who thus awakes in the morning to find himself at the
base of those beautiful hills. After the hot, flat, dusty
station he has left behind him on the plains, the transformation
is so deliciously bewildering that he can
scarcely believe his senses for the time,

Towering above him, in solemn grandeur, till they
lose themselves in the fleecy clouds, rise the majestic
mountains, with their rugged sides and yawning precipices,
in some places bare masses of granite, without a
vestige of vegetation, but, for the most part, covered
with rich verdure of varied hue, studded with stunted
pines and firs, and traversed by babbling rivulets,
which, magnified by the rains into small torrents, flash
and roar in their downward course till they reach the
deep valleys below.

But these hills 011 the first ridge of the Himalayas,
that appear to the wondering eye such gigantic
mountains, are mere knolls compared with those which
stretch beyond, far away to the snowy range, and it is
only by degrees, as the traveller ascends the narrow
winding road — in many places quarry-like cuttings, hewn
through boulders of solid rock and brittle deposits —
and passes over hill and valley until he reaches the sanatorium,
situate in the bosom of the mountains, that he
can thoroughly realize the magnificence of the scenery,
the aspect of which undergoes material changes at different
altitudes.

On reaching Khat-down, the dak stage at the foot of
the ascent, Heffernan and his companion intended to
quit their palanquins for two hill ponies, which had been
appointed to meet them. But when they arrived at this
spot the animals were nowhere to be seen ; so, bribing
the bearers with extra " backshish/' to take them on
further, they commenced their climb to Nainee Tal in the
coolies, and trusted to meeting the ponies on the way.

As they travelled upwards, along the steep, winding road,
and rose higher and higher above the plains, the sensation
was truly exhilarating. Terrified atmosphere, so refreshing
after the insufferable heat experienced during the last
few months ; the cool mountain breezes, laden with the
scent of the tall, dark pines ; the brawling of the miniature
waterfalls, as the swollen streams came tumbling headlong
down the declivity — all combined to intoxicate the
senses, whilst the bracing air filled the lungs with the
breath of a new existence.

At every turn of the path fresh glimpses of lovely
scenery greeted the eye, and as they glanced upwards
at the steep cliffs and beetling crags overhanging the
road, and then down at the valley extending beneath

their feet, over the precipitous khuds or mountain sides,
clothed in luxuriant vegetation, it appeared to our friends
as though they were floating on dense masses of foliage,
thus experiencing a feeling as near akin to flying as poor
creeping mortals may aspire to, if we except the venturesome
aeronaut who risks his neck in a balloon.

The luckless dhoolie-bearers had to convey their
burdens up to a place called Jewlee, about half way
between Xainee Tal and Khat-down, where the travellers
found the ponies awaiting them, for the sykes had
misunderstood their orders, and only come thus far on
the road. Hector and Heffernan at once mounted the
sturdy hill tattoo, and dismissing the palkee-wallahs,
continued their journey, followed by coolies carrying their
baggage.

During the greater portion of that beautiful ride
Hector Grayle was so enraptured with the magnificent
scenery that his powers of conversation were limited to
spasmodic ejaculations of wonder and delight. Heffernan
noticed, with satisfaction, the effect produced upon his
young friend, and ardently hoped that these marvels of
nature, and the entire change of scene, would effect a
corresponding change in Hector's sentiments, and, by
enlarging his mind, so fill it with the beauties of
things present as to obliterate all memory of things
past, and scatter sentimental folly to the winds.

When they had ridden some distance they halted for a
few minutes beside one of the many sparkling springs,
and after taking a hearty draught of the cool, crystal
water themselves, allowed their thirsty ponies to wash
out their mouths j then clambered on once more towards
the hill station, which, like an eagle's nest, lay hidden in
the lofty heights above.

It's worth taking a trip to India, if only to see

VOL. II. H

this sort of tiling, isn't it, old fellow ? " observed Heffer-nan,
waving his hand towards the valley and opposite
hills, as they rode on.

By George, I should think so," replied Hector. " I
could never have believed it ; certainly from no description
ever published."

Grand, isn't it ? rather beyond the power of pen or
pencil. But we must be getting near the place now. How
far is it ? " he inquired from one of the sykes, who followed
in their rear, holding on now and then to the ponies
tails at the steep places.

' NufideeJc hal, sahib' replied the native, adding, in
broken English, " Not too far, sar— very much near now
wahan hail"

That ei wahan hai," a favourite expression, conveyed ina
tone something like the hoarse caw of an excited rook,
or a whispered " view holloa," is generally very vague
and indefinite in its meaning; but in this case it indicated
that their destination lay just beyond the next
ridge. Accordingly, after another half-hour's climb, and
exactly as the mid-day gun fired in Nainee Tal, they
rode through a narrow gorge, and passed into that lovely
little valley, with its blue lake of fathomless depth, and
richly wooded slopes, covered with graceful deodaras and
gigantic pines, amid which nestled, half-concealed from
view, the picturesque houses of Swiss-like architecture,
although less ornamental in their construction. These
houses, which may be more properly called cottages, are
scattered along the sides of the hills in all directions,
and stand one above another at various heights, some
being situate at an elevation of several hundred feet
above the mall, which runs alongside the water. At one
extremity of the lake, adjacent to the cricket and general
recreation ground, are the assembly or reading-rooms, and

bathing-places, all built of wood ; and at the further end
stand the barracks for the invalid soldiers, raised on a •
slight eminence, and partially overlooking the water.
The length and breadth of the lake itself are comparatively
insignificant, but its depth is out of all proportion
to its size, and is no doubt formed by the
continuation of the mountain slopes on either side.

As Hector Grayle and his friend rode along the mall
there was scarcely a breath of wind perceptible, and the
most prominent sounds which disturbed the still clear
air, and echoed with sharp distinctness through the valley,
were the holies, or washer-men, beating out their clothes
in a shallow inlet of the lake, and the clink-clink of the
crowbars with which the hill coolies were boring: holes
in the rocks, preparatory to blasting.

Since Nainee Tal is 6500 feet above the level of the sea,
its cool temperature necessitates fires for the greater
part of the year. For general use nothing but wood is
burnt in the Himalayas, and it is almost with astonishment,
at first, that those newly arrived from the scorching
plains observe (on a still day) the blue smoke as it rises
perpendicularly from the smouldering logs in the open
air, and from the chimneys of the dwellings, and watch
it creep upwards along the hillside, wreathing about the
dark masses of foliage, to mingle finally with the vapours
above.

Our friends experienced this same feeling of surprise
when they entered the valley, for, just after leaving the
oven-like heat of Bareilly, it seemed difficult to realize
that fires were actually requisite in a place so near; but
they soon discovered that in Nainee Tal they were no
unwelcome adjunct to their comfort.

That smell of burning pine-wood which seems to pervade
the atmosphere of the hill station, as you first enter

H 2

it, is peculiarly agreeable to the senses, and is indeed
almost a feature by itself — so different in its fragrant
odour from the noxious smoke associated with the plains ;
and long after those mountain scenes have been left behind
on the railroad of life, that perfume of the pine revives
many a pleasant memory, and embalms those memories
like some sweet incense of the past.

CHAPTER XL

A GLIMPSE OF THE CLOVEN HOOF.

There was a laughing devil in his sneer,
That raised emotions both of rage and fear."

Byron.

Tacitus magis et occulta inimicitice timendce sunt, quam indicia,
et operate."

Cicero.

The season at Nainee Tal was at its height, and the place
was inundated with visitors, so that every available
accommodation had been already seized upon. Hector
Grayle and his companion, therefore, finding that there
was no room at the hotel, or anywhere else at present,
were obliged to repair to the travellers' refuge, namely,
the dak bungalow. In this haven of rest they consequently
took up their temporary abode, and of necessity exercised
the prerogative of the latest arrival by turning out
others who had established themselves there beforehand.


The next thing to be done was to equip themselves
suitably, and fall, by degrees, into the manners and
customs of the Nainee Ital-ites. The prevailing fashion
for gentlemen appeared to be a sensible one, and consisted,
for the most part, of a short Norfolk jacket and
knickerbockers (made of rough, home-spun stuff), and a

long alpenstock; such costume, although easily procurable,
was, of course, not absolutely necessary, but, as Heffer-nan
observed, when you go to Rome you must do as the
Romans do, so they soon appeared in the orthodox dress
of the hill residents.

The routine in this small sanatorium was somewhat
limited, and was carried out with considerable regularity ;
in fact, everybody and everything seemed to run incertain
grooves, from which there was little deviation.
Some got up early in the morning to witness the
beautiful sunrise, with its gold and silver effects on the
distant "snows," though these enthusiasts were not very
numerous, while nearly every one (of the gentlemen)
took a header into the cool limpid lake — before 8 a.m.,
that is to say, no one being allowed to bathe after that
hour — and then hurried up the hill, or along the mall, to
breakfast, with healthy appetites and invigorated frames,
engendered by the bracing air and refreshing bath.
Soon after breakfast the ladies appeared on the mall,
some walking, and some in pampas and dandies — the
former a sort of open sedan chair with cloth hangings ;
the latter, a piece of dhurri, or carpet, slung on to a pole
by means of hooks which fasten and unfasten as the
dandy takes up or sets down its load ; this dhurri being
arranged something on the principle of a hammock,
whilst the occupant sits sideways, facing (as a rule) to
the left of the direction in which it is travelling, both
conveyances being carried by natives in a sort of fancy
uniform.

During the day, perhaps, followed either a cricket-match
on the recreation-ground, or else archery and
croquet, according to the prevailing mania, in which both
sexes joined ; and while some had recourse to boating on
the lake, and fishing in its clear water, others formed picnic

parties, and resorted to various picturesque spots in the
neighbourhood.

The evening after our friends arrived from Bareilly,
there was to be a subscription ball at the assembly-rooms ;
so Heffernan, who desired to draw Hector into the vortex
as much as possible, induced him to put his name down
as a subscriber, though he had some difficulty in persuading
him. Hector made it an excuse that he had to write
some letters home by the mail that left next day, which
meant, in other words, scribbling a long rigmarole to his
lady-love. Heffernan shrewdly guessed this to be the
case ; and as he was well aware that Hector had written
to Lizzie several times since they left England, he
wondered how long it would take for the youths infatuation
to die a natural death. But the wily mentor had
already formed a fresh plot to undermine Cupid's influence,
which he was only biding his time to carry into execution,
and that very evening he meant the unsuspecting Hector
to take the first step towards the trap laid for him.

Generally speaking, at a ball in India the proportion of
gentlemen to ladies is about ten to one ; and it is the most
ludicrous sight imaginable to watch the crowd of subalterns
and others gathered round a solitary woman,
all clamouring for a dance. But the moment they " spot "
the arrival of another of the fair sex, they dart away
from the solitary one, with or without the object attained,
and violently besiege the hapless new comer before she
has time to shake out her skirts and settle down; and
so it goes on, until each lady has promised about five
times as many dances as she could get through if she
kept at it all the week.

At Sainte Tal, however, although the male sex preponderated
considerably, there was not quite such an
awkward disparity as this, and, with a little judicious tact,

an ardent Terpsichorean might manage to secure partners
of one sort or another for the greater portion of the
programme.

One of the earliest arrivals at the assembly-rooms that
evening was Mrs. Tickers, leaning on the arm of Major
Bonus. The old Quihai looked very happy and intensely
proud as he walked down the room with his betrothed ;
but Georgie wore rather a bored expression upon her face,
not unmixed with considerable anxiety, as she glanced
now and again towards the doors through which people
were gradually pouring in.

Georgie had seen Albert Heffernan on the mall that
same afternoon, when he had stopped and spoken to
her, and had afterwards introduced Hector Grayle,
whom the widow thought a very handsome and agreeable
young fellow, though without much to say for
himself, notwithstanding that she directed all her conversation
to him instead of to his friend.

What strange fatality had brought this Albert HefFernan
across her path once more ? How her hatred for him revived
with bitter poignancy as his face called up the cruel
memory of the past ! She felt almost wicked enough to
wish that he were lying stark and cold at the bottom of
that deep lake beside which they were then strolling. Ever
since they had met on the line of march, that rencontre
had haunted her day and night, and somehow she felt
sure he would soon follow her to Rained Tal; so sure
indeed, that she at first thought of changing her destination,
and going on to Missouri or Simla ; but she reflected
that if he intended to follow her, he could do so as easily
to one place as the other. What powerful presentiment
was it that took possession of her regarding this man ?
What unaccountable conviction forced itself on her mind
that he did mean to follow her, and had done so for some

special purpose of his own — what; she could not tell.
Revenge ? surely not. Surely such motive could no
longer exist. There seemed to be some extraordinary
fascination in the circumstance — a feeling that she could
never escape from him now, and. that it would be useless
to try. Indeed, the poor little woman appeared to be
no longer a free agent. She felt something like a rabbit
at the Zoological Gardens, under the mesmeric influence
of a boa-constrictor, and. a wild hunted look crossed her
face once or twice when Heffernan addressed her, albeit
his remarks were of the most commonplace order.

Georgie Yickers wished now that she had not so long
postponed her marriage with Major Bonus, and almost
looked upon this as a punishment for having trifled with the
poor old fellow's feelings, in so far that she had wantonly
kept him hanging on while she traded in a measure on
their engagement, and deferred the wedding-day as long
as possible.

It was true that she did not love the major, and merely
entertained for him a certain amount of respect and
gratitude; but whether such sentiments reconciled her to
their approaching union or not, she knew she was entirely
dependent on it, and reflected at the present moment that
had she been then married, she might have relied on the
old officer for protection, no matter what transpired afterwards.
But now it was very different. Certain influences
might materially affect her future if brought to bear
before marriage, and she felt her position just then to be
singularly insecure and helpless.

Why, Tiny ! is that you ? how on earth did you come
here ? — I — I mean to say, Mr. Gore," laughed Georgie,
correcting herself, for she saw the major looking a little
cross, although he cordially greeted the ensign, who had
just then made his appearance.

How do you think, Mrs. Vickers ? " replied Tiny j
you know I often threatened to linger on in the East,
and you see I've done, so."

Sit down here this minute and tell me all about it.
I'm really very glad to see you again. Why, I thought it
was your ghost."

Thanks ; do I look so washed out as all that ? I
essay I do, for IVe been pretty well tossed about in
the frying-pan this summer, I can tell you. Oh ! that
awful march down from Bareilly to Cawnpore, at the
end of April ! Don't talk of it ! I'm sure we must
all have been salamanders by nature to have survived
it."

But you haven't told me yet — when did you come up
here ? "

Only this afternoon. I couldn't get leave from
Bareilly before. I suppose you know I'm a Cameronian
now. The moment I heard the 126th were going to
relieve us, I applied for an exchange and got it, after a lot
of bother. Fancy, I had to grind all the way across to
Bombay with my old regiment, until my application and
the other fellow's were submitted through a dozen different
channels, the appointments made out in duplicate and
triplicate, approved and confirmed, and all the rest of it,
and so here I am."

And I'm very glad, indeed, to see you again," she
repeated ; " I hate losing old friends. Little Gwennie
will be ready to jump out of her skin with joy."

'Pon my soul, I'm awfully flattered, and how is the
little one ? "

Very well indeed. You shall see her tomorrow."

1 ' You don't look over grand yourself," remarked the
youth, with charming candour, as he scanned Georgie's
pale face.

"You're highly complimentary, Master Tiny, I must
say " (the major was out of hearing just then) ; " but no
doubt you're right ; I have been worried a good deal
lately."

While she spoke her face suddenly lost its vivacious
expression, but only for a minute ; and as they went on
conversing, and cross-questioned each other as to where
they were " putting up," how long they were going to
stay, and so on, her natural piquancy and animation
returned. Presently, she started perceptibly, as she
glanced towards the entrance doors, for at that moment
Heffernan came into the ball-room, accompanied by
Hector.

Without appearing to notice their approach, however,
Georgie turned towards her companion and continued,
with a forced lightness in her tone, —

So, you really think I'm looking seedy, Tiny ? "

Not very flourishing — that's to say blooming, you
know — I must confess; but awfully charming, as you
always do."

"Now don't be silly, there's a good boy; I don't care
for all that."

Dear me ! how very serious we're getting ! " replied
the ensign, pulling a face. " Halloa ! here come some of
our fellows — do you know them ? "

"Who — oh, I see — yes, a little — that is, I was introduced
this afternoon."

Heffernan and Hector now approached the group.
The latter, after greeting Mrs. Vickers, drew Gore aside,
while his friend conversed with the widow.

When did you come up, Gore ? " inquired Hector.

Only a few hours ago ; you're stopping at the dak
bungalow, I suppose ? I should have gone there too, but
an old pal offered me a shake-down."

Lucky boy, where ? "

Oh, about half way up the hill there — close to where
that little lady is hanging out."

Indeed ! — and who is she ? I mean, where does she
come from, and — ? "

I'll tell you all about her ; we're very old friends, Mrs.
Vickers and I — she's such a jolly little woman. Pretty
too — don't you think so ? "

Hum — ar — " hesitated Hector, with the air of a
connoisseur. te Not exactly pretty. Something rather
nice in her expression, though."

She's better than she looks, anyhow," replied Gore ;
who then proceeded to furnish Hector with further information
concerning her, of which the reader is already
in possession.

I assure you I haven't a single dance to give
him."

How provoking ! And I almost brought the boy on
purpose. He'll be disappointed ; an exceedingly charming
young fellow. You'll like him immensely."

No doubt. I'm really very sorry."

And can't you find a dance for me anywhere ? "

u Indeed — I'm afraid I can't. My card is quite full to
there, and then I'm going."

Georgie Vickers pointed to the fifteenth dance while
Heffernan looked over her programme.

Um — urn — unr," muttered he, telling off the names.
Major Bonus, Mr. Gore — Perditon — Eawson, Bonus,
Bonus, Gore, Bonus, Swinlop — Bonus again ! Why,
you're dancing with this Major Bonus all the evening.
Who is Major Bonus? Surely he could spare one."

Well, I'll try," she rejoined, hastily, and evading the
question, as she recovered her card. " I'll see if I can

get out of one of them, and give it to you; that is, if — if
you particularly wish it."

Thanks ; I do, very much, and we'll sit it out
together if you don't mind. I want to have a good talk
with you. We haven't met for so long, you know."

Hereupon the boa-constrictor drew back his head, and
looked fixedly at her with his great piercing eyes, while
the poor little rabbit cowered before him, and whispered
something about being most happy, which she certainly
didn't appear to be.

"Ta-ta for the present. I'll see you again directly,
and you can tell me which dance it's to be."

Heffernan then became lost in the crowd, and Georgie
gave a sigh of relief as he turned his back on
her.

In a few minutes she was revolving round the room
with her old friend Tiny Gore, and trying hard to forget
that there was such a creature in the world as Albert
Heffernan. But her evil genius soon reminded her once
more of his presence, when he ascertained that the next
valse but one was to be dedicated to him. She had already
spoken to the Major, and cried " off " for that particular
dance, thinking it better to get it over and have done
with it.

It came at last, and Heffernan immediately led her out
into the verandah, where they ensconced themselves in a
secluded corner overlooking the lake.

It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the gentlest
zephyr swept across the water, which rippled and gleamed
under the reflected smiles of chaste Diana. A lovely
scene ; at once so calm, so peaceful, and so at variance
with her own feelings. Poor Georgie ! she sighed to
think how she might have enjoyed sitting out a dance in
that moonlit verandah under other circumstances.

Now and again the valse music sank into a softened
strain, and the stillness of the night without was broken
by the bark of the karkur-deer on the adjoining hill, the
hollow cry re-echoing across the valley and sounding wild
and sepulchral over the quiet deep water.

What a night for lovers ! what a night for sweet dreamy
romance ! what a night for anything rather than that
dreaded interview which Georgie Yickers so apprehended,
and yet felt she must face sooner or later !

No casual observer would have thought for a moment
that those two seated side by side, in the rays of the
bright Indian moon, were aught but a happy, contented
couple, flirting perchance, and sitting out their dance for
mere enjoyment's sake. No one would have imagined the
truth, that in either bosom lurked a secret which was
carefully guarded from the world. But whereas the subtle
schemer hugged himself in the belief that Ms secret was
safe, the woman's sad story, alas for her"! was but too
well known to him, and she shrank under the power such
knowledge gave him.

But as he spoke to her his words were kind and gentle.

He desired to be her friend ; he only sought this private
conference with her to divulge his sentiments on this
point, and to avow the sincerity of his professions. She
must not mistrust him, but be assured that he was
actuated simply by kind and generous feelings towards
her. A favourite refrain this, adopted whenever some
ulterior motive lay hidden behind his tongue.

Let the past bury the past, Georgie/' said he, addressing
her thus familiarly, as he warmed to his
subject; "no words can undo that. I bear no
malice — "

Why should you ? " she interrupted, bitterly. " You
had your revenge, God knows."

11 1 fail to see how you can put it in that light exactly ;
but, as I observed, enough of the past ; we have now todo
with the present, Georgie."

As he said this in his sweetest tones, he attempted to
take her hand, which she abruptly withdrew.

u I had rather you did not call me by my Christian
name, Captain Heffernan," she remarked, very coldly.

i( Pardon me, then ; what would you wish me to call
you ? — Mrs. Yickers ? "

He laid slight stress on this as he put the question,
while a peculiar smile sickened on his lips.

The tears were fast welling up into her eyes, and she
made no reply. Had she done so, Georgie knew her
voice would only have broken into a sob, and the poor
weak woman was striving her utmost to show a bold
front. But it was of no use ; she was no match for her
subtle antagonist. To use the language of the ring, she
felt she had better throw up the sponge at once and
square the matter.

Georgie Vickers could not understand one-half of the
fine eloquence Heffernan had used since they entered the
verandah, but had sufficient perception to feel sure that
he was trying to forward some deep scheme of his own —
less from his actual words than from that instinctive
feeling which had already warned her. But it would not
do to beg the question ; she must wait for him to break
ground first, and wondered how long he would beat about
the bush.

Why should you object to my calling you Georgie ? "
he went on presently, as she remained silent. " I always
did so in the old time before — before — "

11 That was very different. But just now you agreed
to ignore the past; pray be consistent, Captain Heffer-nan."


I bow to the reproof. Then it shall be Mrs. Vickers,
since you wish it."

A long pause folio wed, during which she played feverishly
with her fan, and with nervous, twitching fingers,
pulled off from the tips small pieces of marabout, which
she tossed into the night air, and watched them float and
flutter to the ground.

I wish you could understand how sincere an interest I
take in you' he continued, at length, " and how, since
you are free once more, my sole object is to try to make
you reparation for the past."

Again the past, Captain Heffernan ! Why will you
allude to it ? You proposed to bury it in oblivion; do so,
I implore you, if you would spare my feelings — "

Forgive me, then, I will ; but I am compelled to
revert indirectly to bygones in order to place my present
motives in a clearer light. As I remarked, you are free
once more ; the death of my poor friend has placed you
in a position which induces me to come forward in a
magnanimous spirit, not only as your sincere well-wisher
and — if you will allow me — protector, but as a penitent
foe, bearing in one hand the olive branch, and in the
other, balm for the old wounds — "

I cannot clearly understand your enigmas, Captain
Heffernan, nor the drift of your intentions; but I may
spare you much eloquence if I say that the old wounds
are long since healed (this was scarcely true, but she
desired him to think so), and need no balm; that I
require no champion in my present position ; and finally,
that I am not free, as you suppose."

How do you mean — not free ? " he asked, abruptly,
his tone and manner changing on the instant.
Simply, that I am engaged to be married."
You are ? to whom ? "

To — to Major Bonus' she replied, hesitatingly.
u Why should you care to know ? "

Confound it ! if I didn't think that all along ! " he
muttered to himself, adding aloud, with a sardonic smile,
"I congratulate you, I'm sure. And pray when is it
coming off? "

We — we have not fixed any time at present' she
returned, wishing in her heart it had come off, " but —
very shortly, I think — '*

Exactly ; Major Bonus is a lucky man' he observed,
dryly. There was a harsh grating in his voice now, so
different from the oily tones of a moment before. " And
pray does the major — I merely ask from curiosity ; of
course it's no business of mine — does the major know
everything ? that is to say — "

You need not explain yourself," she interrupted, the
tears in her voice showing the weak woman's nature
again, directly her enemy assumed the offensive. " But
why do you ask such a question ? As my professed
friend and — and protector " (a smile, half scornful, half-timid,
accompanied the words) "you surely have not his
interests at heart so much that — "

"You misunderstand me, Mrs. Vickers ; I never intended
to press the question, never for one moment.
This Major — What's-his-name is nothing to me, of course ;
but — still— don't you think it might be wise to give
a thought to the possible consequences of — I mean —
ar— ? "

Captain Heffernan, I know too well what you mean,"
she exclaimed, rising hastily, and uo longer able to repress
her indignation and tears of alarm ; " your words are cruel,
as they are intended to be. You are riot changed, I see ;
but you betray to-night one more noble feature in your
character. Only a vile coward would trample on a pros-vol.

11. 1

trade foe ; but you would do worse — you would strike a
defenceless woman. I hate and despise you ! n

There was such utter contempt in the words of the
spirited little woman, thus roused to a pitch of desperation,
that HefFernan thought it better to change his tactics at
once in order to avoid a scene. He had broken ground
and prepared the way for what was to follow, which was
all he desired to do at present.

Hush, hush' he said, gently, " you will be overheard ;
pray calm yourself. You quite misunderstood me, as I
told you just now ; I swear to you that you were nevermore
mistaken in your life; but we must talk it over
quietly another time."

"Never ! I decline to speak to you again on this, or
any other subject," she cried, in agitated tones, still
struggling against a sob, and gulping down her tears
rather than let this man exult over her emotion.

"Nonsense, nonsense," he returned, soothingly; "you
are angry and excited at this moment, but you mustn't
let your temper get the^better of your judgment. I
spoke the truth when I said I wished to be your friend,
and my future actions shall prove this, as you will see.
Come, forgive me for upsetting you thus unintentionally'"
He again attempted to take her hand, which she still
withheld. " No ? well then, shall I lead you back to the
ball-room? But you are flushed and heated — better dry
your eyes and come for a stroll. Let us go on to the
bathing-pier yonder till you feel cooler." His voice was
now like the cooing of a dove, so sweet and gentle — she
could hardly believe it was the same man who had shown
the cloven hoof so distinctly a minute ago.

te Thank you," she answered, " but I must return to
the room, and here is my partner coming to claim me."
At this juncture Major Bonus advanced towards them,

and, with a ceremonious bow to Heffernan, led his betrothed
back into the dazzling lights.

Under such a searching glare Georgie could scarcely
conceal her red eyes, but anticipated any remark by attributing
the disfigurement to a fit of coughing with which
she had been seized while sitting outside — the effect of
the night air, she supposed.

Tut, tut, dear me ! how very imprudent, my child,"
exclaimed the paternal major ; adding, with a playful
squeeze of her arm, " upon my word, the sooner you're
Mrs. Bonus, my dear, the better, both for your health
and safety; you want some one to look after you."

Yes," she murmured, as if to herself, i( I really think
I do."

There was much more meaning in her words than the
major dreamt of; but, overhearing them, he was made
happy for the rest of the evening. He accepted them
as conciliatory meekness in return for his gentle reproof,
and Georgie was not wont to be very meek and manageable
under his fatherly care.

u Ah ! she may struggle and kick as much as she
likes ; but / have her safe enough ; she's in my power,
and knows it — and, by Heaven ! I mean to turn the
opportunity to good account ! "

Thus the boa-constrictor, who remained in the verandah
looking after the victimized rabbit, as the latter gladly
slunk out of his sight; but there was no feeling of release
or freedom, in being thus temporarily withdrawn from the
deadly spell.

CHAPTER XII.

IN THE NICK OF TIME.

How deep, how pure, how tranquil is the lake !
Lowly beneath the great hills it doth lie."

N. Sail

He gasps ; and sinks amid the vast profound."

Falconer.

The next morning after the ball, the health-seeking
Nainee Ital-ites, thronged, as usual, to the bathing-place
to begin the day with a refreshing header. Many of
them never went to bed at all, and tumbled straight from
the ball-room into the lake.

Hector Grayle was one of these dissipated ones ; and
they all plunged and dived, and splashed about, till it
seemed as if their contact with the icy water, owing to
the champagne imbibed, had an effervescent effect, like
the mixing of so many seidlitz powders.

They found the lake deliciously cool and invigorating
after the heat of the crowded room ; and Hector, who was
a good swimmer, soon detached himself from the rest,
and struck out for the shore at the opposite end. Alternately
he ploughed along with the breast, or side-stroke,
and dived beneath the surface far down into its frigid
depths, in the very excess of enjoyment, revelling in the
clear crystal water so grateful to the jaded frame.

But soon the chill temperature of the lake told its
story on that heated body, and suddenly Hector felt, to
his horror, that violent cramp had seized him. He then
experienced, for the first time, that dreadful sensation,
as if all the tendons and muscles were drawn up into
knots, thereby completely paralyzing the action of the
limbs.

He remembered very little of what followed ; and, with
an agonized cry for help, threw up his arms, and sank
like a stone — down, down, down into the interminable
depths of that cold, blue water.

Was there no help at hand ? Had not his cry been
heard ? Oh ! how awful to be plunged thus into eternity
without a warning ! — away from home, and all he loved !

These thoughts, and some prominent incidents in his
life, flashed across him as he sank deeper and deeper.
Then the painful feeling of suffocation was followed by
a soft, dreamy stupor, and he knew no more !

He was too far away from the other bathers to obtain
help from them, or even to attract their notice ; but a tall
artilleryman, who stood on the mall by the lake side, had
been watching Hector with interest for some time, slowly
walking parallel with him, and admiring the long sweeping
strokes with which he cleft the water.

In a moment this man, who saw what had happened,
threw off his coat and boots and plunged into the rescue.
A powerful swimmer himself, he vigorously ploughed his
way to the spot where he had seen Hector go down, but
not before the latter had sunk many feet, and almost out
of sight. When the artilleryman reached the place, which
he judged with perfect accuracy, he peered into the deep
water, then suddenly threw up his heels and dived down
after the drowning youth. Far below him he could seethe
white body growing smaller and more indistinct, as it

sank into the dark depths of the fathomless lake. Could
he possibly reach it? The water beneath the surface
struck icy cold, and the body seemed to sink further and
further way, almost as fast as he could dive.

It was a case of life and death, and a few vigorous
strokes might save him yet ! He made the effort, and,
putting on a tremendous spurt, rapidly decreased the distance
between them. He was within three yards of the
sinking body — two yards — one yard — a foot — a few
inches — aud now he touched him ! What if the drowning
man should lay hold of him ? He knew they must then
both be lost; but he had no thought beyond saving a
fellow-creature's life ; so, firmly seizing Hector by the hair
of his head, the brave soldier turned quickly in the water
and struck out for the surface.

Poor Hector ! there was little fear of his clutching at
his preserver now — he was too far gone for that — and he
remained a passive burden whilst being drawn rapidly
to the surface. The artilleryman thought they would
never reach it again. How many feet must they have
sunk to make him, expert diver as he was, feel so
distressed ! But whether such an effect was caused by
the nipping cold of the water, or the length of the
immersion, he could not tell ; he only knew he felt very
thankful indeed to find himself breathing the air once
more, and made for shore as quickly as he could with
Hector's insensible form.

Now, our hero had actually been under water very
little longer than his rescuer ; but it is a curious and well-known
fact that the swimmer who dives for pleasure, or
who remains intentionally beneath the surface, can do so
for a much longer time than it takes to produce unconsciousness
in the person who finds himself suddenly
sinking against his will.

Directly the artilleryman landed, he laid Hector out on
the bank, and with considerable promptitude proceeded
to briskly rub his body and limbs, and chafe his hands, in
order to restore circulation, until he had the satisfaction
to see the blue look gradually giving way to a healthier
hue.

With the exception of two stupid natives, who stared
inanely, without offering to help, there was not another
soul on the mall at that time in the morning; but the
soldier seemed to be quite independent, and equal to the
occasion. Telling the " niggers " to get out of the way
for a couple of " poles, m he now wrapped Hector up in
his coat, with the intention of carrying him off in his arms
to the nearest house. But at that moment an empty
japan hove in sight at the barrack end of the mall; so,
thinking he might as well have his charge moved comfortably,
he hailed the bearers to hurry up and take the
half-drowned man in their conveyance.

John japan hai?" inquired he, as he placed Hector
carefully on the cushion.

Mem sahib, hai" replied the intelligent bearers, in
chorus.

Khya mem sahib?" he asked impatiently, thinking he
had better have the youth taken to the house of its
owner.

Riches mem sahib!"

Georgie, having another friend's japan at her disposal,
had lent hers to the Major to take him home after the
ball, where it had remained till now ; hence its opportune
appearance.

11 Accha, yahanjao, jude," replied the soldier, which,
being translated, meant, " Very good, go there, sharp."

1 Fools.

As they carried him along the mall Hector rapidly
came to his senses and, after drawing apart the japan
curtains and staring about him for a moment with a
bewildered look, he appeared suddenly to understand
what had happened. The presence of the artilleryman,
who walked by his side in dripping wet clothes,
seemed to further enlighten him, for he asked presently,
—

I got cramp, didn't I ? and you pulled me out, I
suppose ? "

Yes, sir," replied the soldier, saluting, for he guessed
Hector to be an officer, even as he was, in paris naturalibus.
" Rather a narrow shave, sir, I can tell you. I
thought Fd lost you at one time; you went down a
tremendous depth."

It was a brave — a splendid deed on your part. I'm
most deeply grateful to you," returned Hector, still
speaking rather faintly. " Now, will you kindly tell
them to go on to the dak bungalow — that's where I'm
staying ; and, if you wouldn't mind, please bring up my
things from the bathing-place, and we'll talk it all over.
Fd get out and dress., but I think I'd better look sharp
home as I am, and have something hot."
"Yes, sir, I would."

You'll see my things ; they're dress clothes, just as I
came out of the ball-room. My shirt, handkerchief, and
so on, are marked "H. G." ; and there's a watch and
chain in my waistcoat, with a locket — same initials. You
can't mistake them."

Very good, sir," said the artilleryman, who gave the
order to the japan walls, and then went on ahead.

But, stop a moment ! " cried Hector, calling him
back, " I forgot ; you're all wet through. One of these
men could go."

Oh, never mind me, sir; I shan't take any harm."

Very well, then ; and when you come up to the bungalow,
you must have a change of clothes and something
to warm you besides''

The soldier thanked him, and started off again to the
bathing-place. Meanwhile, the bearers shuffled along with
their unexpected burden at a respectable pace, and very
soon reached Hector's quarters. He ascertained, to his
amusement, whose japan he had thus taken possession
of, and gave orders to have the cushions properly dried,
telling the servants that he would write a note to their
mistress and explain the matter.

The gunner had not much trouble in finding out
Hector's things from the other bathers, who were dressing
in their several compartments, and these gentlemen he
intensely surprised by relating what had just happened.

Tiny Gore had finished his bath and gone home sometime
before, and Hefi'ernan was snoring in bed at the dak
bungalow ; so it happened that those bathers who were left
were strangers to Hector, though they knew which were
his garments, and were just beginning to wonder what
had become of him. Hector, however, might have been
lying a " definition temp body," as Mr. Mantling calls
it, at the bottom of the lake, and they nothing the wiser.

The artilleryman, in his still dripping condition, now
wrapped up the clothes, &c, in a dry towel, and as he
was doing so a small knife dropped from the trousers, on
which, as he picked it up, he noticed a tiny brass plate,
with the name engraved — " Hector Grayle, 126th cameronian."
Curiosity prompted him to examine this
narrowly, and then, replacing it in the pocket of the
trousers, he gathered up the bundle and hurried off towards
the travellers' bungalow. After he had gone some distance
up the hill overlooking the old hotel and bazaar,

and on the road to the church, he stopped for a minute
beneath the stately pines and unfastened the bundle
again. He seemed anxious to ascertain that he had really
got the right things, and re-examined the marking of the
linen and the initials on the locket. Yes, they were all
right — " H. G." as large as life.

Inside that locket no doubt he thought there might be
some pretty face to look at ; so, with pardonable inquisitiveness,
he opened it and took a peep at the interior.
On the one side was . a small medallion of Gertrude
Grayle, taken some years before, beautifully executed,
and showing off her sweet face to advantage ; on the other,
a picture of Agnes as a child of about twelve, with
laughing blue eyes, and auburn hair hanging loose over
her neck and shoulders.

The artilleryman was still gazing intently at these faces,
when the fact of somebody passing recalled him to himself
; whereupon he quickly closed the locket, fastened
up the bundle again, and continued on his way.

When he reached the dak bungalow, he was at once
shown into Hector's room, and there he found the young
officer in the process of rubbing and drying himself in
front of a roaring log-fire, and apparently none the worse
for his ducking.

Come in, Bombardier," said Hector, who had ascertained
the soldier's lance-rank from the stripes on the
coat-sleeves — the coat in which he had been wrapped —
adding, as he took the bundle from him, " many thanks.
Now, my bearer shall give you some dry things and
a rub down ; and what will you have to drink ? — some
hot brandy-ands water, or — ? "

Thank you, sir ; I'd rather have some tea, if you've
got it handy."

You shall have it directly," observed Hector, giving

his servant the order. " Now, Bombardier, what am I to
say to you ? You've saved my life this morning ; that's
very certain. I should have been a dead man at this
moment if it hadn't been for you. What's your name,
may I ask ? "

Baines, sir — John Baines."

"What battery? Oh, I see," he added, glancing at
the coat, " X — Y. You're stationed at Bareilly, then ?"

"Yes, sir."

So the late sergeant, it appeared, was once more
climbing the ladder. He had taken the bombardier's
stripe a short time before, and, having been laid up with
a virulent fever at Bareilly, had been sent off to the invalid
depot at Rained Tal. After that court-martial which had
reduced him, he had sworn never to try again ; but the
fact was, Major Fusserley had gone to England with his
wife on furlough, and there was a prospect of another
CO. being appointed permanently to the battery — so
Baines changed his mind.

Well, look here, Bombardier," exclaimed Hector,
you mustn't keep on those wet clothes another minute.
Just turn into my bath-room there, and my bearer will
give you a towel, and shirt, and everything."

n Thank you, sir, but I shall do very well till I get
back to barracks — no occasion to trouble about changing"


But I insist ; it's little return enough, goodness
knows, to rig you out comfortably after all you've
done for me; and you'll be perished hanging about in
those wet things."

So the soldier yielded to persuasion and repaired to
the bath-room as directed.

When he re-entered the room he was attired in a full
suit of Hector's, which, since they were much the same

stature, fitted him tolerably well, except that they were
rather tight. Heffernan was still sleeping in the next
room, utterly oblivious of his friend's eventful bath and
rescue, so Hector and the bombardier had a cup of tea
comfortably together tete-astute.

Are you quite sure you won't have it laced ? " asked
the former, handing the artilleryman a cup ; " I mean
just a dash of brandy to keep the cold out ? "

Not a drop, thank you, sir. I never touch spirits of
any kind — "

Really ! quite a model teetotaller, eh ? " remarked
Hector, laughing. " But now, seriously, we must have a
talk about this. I want to ask you one thing — What
is there that I can do for you ? I mean, what return can
I make you for this morning's work, eh ? "

Oh, don't mention it, sir — "

(t But I certainly will mention it. After pulling a
fellow out of his grave in that way, it's natural enough
that I should, I think. Look here, Bombardier Baines,
there's no request you can make that I won't grant, if it's
the least in my power to do so. There ! I can't say more."

Well, sir," hesitated the artilleryman, stroking his
long beard, " I've got nothing to ask that I know of
at least, to tell you the truth, sir, I don't exactly know
what to ask."

"Well — if it's a matter of money at all — " began
Hector, suggestively.

Oh, no, sir," interposed the other, quickly, " if I did
ask anything, it wouldn't be a matter of money — at least
not as you mean, sir, I take it. You'll excuse me for
mentioning it," he added, after a momentary pause, "but
your name is Mr. Grayle, I think ? "

It is. How did you know ? "

1 i I saw it on your knife, sir — quite by accident ; it

fell out of the pocket as I was putting the things up in a
bundle "

1 ' It's not a common name ; I dare say you never heard
it before'"

"Well, yes, sir, I have," rejoined the bombardier,
sipping his tea thoughtfully, and staring into the log-fire,
the name's familiar to me ; you come from a place called
Barringtree, or Barringtree, I think it is — "

Quite right."

From Barringtree in Suffolk, don't you, sir ? "

Yes, I do; you know the neighbourhood then ? "

"Well, it's a good many years since I was there, sir.
I was a little chap in those days, but my father was on
the estate for a long while ; let's see — that would be in
your great grandfather's time, I essay."

Oh, indeed," replied Hector, rather interested.
"Baines — Baines — I don't recollect ever having heard
of the name."

Lor bless you, sir ! it was long before you was born.
Why, look at my grey hair; I'm getting quite an old
soldier now, and I was only a mite of a chap at that
time."

Then I suppose you wouldn't remember any of the
present family ? "

"Well, I can't say exactly, sir — I might remember
your grandfather, perhaps, if he's still alive — "

He is. Of course you wouldn't recollect my father,
Bombardier ? "

Your father, sir ? What misfht his name have been ?
His Christian name, I mean ? "

George."

George— George — " repeated Baines, reflectively —
u anything else, sir ? "

No, only George. And there's been no other of that

name in the family for two generations, so you couldn't
make a mistake"'

The bombardier shook his head. He couldn't recall
any one of the name of George that he knew of.

No, Hector thought it hardly likely that he would.

Stop a bit, though," exclaimed the soldier, after
another short pause, as some sudden recollection seemed
to flash across him, " Yes, I can ! 0' course T can ! A
little bit of a fellow about my own age, wasn't he ? "

Seeing that the bombardier's " own age " must have
been between forty and fifty, and not happening to know
either how old he might have been at that time, Hector
smiled at this naive remark.

Lor, sir, I remember now, perfectly," continued the
other. " Why, we used to play together in the back-yard
at the Hall, sir. Dear me ! of course — fancy my forgetting
that ! Little Master George ! a rare pickle he was too —
Bless my stars ! I remember him now as if it was yesterday.
Your father, eh, sir ? Hope he's well ? "

That's more than I can tell you, Bombardier, or anyone
else that I know of."

Indeed, sir, how's that ? Not dead, is he, sir ? "

That I can't tell you either — but Pm afraid so,"
rejoined Hector, shaking his head seriously. " All I know
is he left Barringtree when I was a child — deserted his
home, you understand — and has never been seen or heard
of since."

- ' ' Dear me ! you don't say so, sir — never even heard of !
well, that is strange ! Why, then he must be the one
they used to speak of as ruined away from home years
ago'

Yes, that was my father. Have another cup,
Bombardier ? "

Thank you, sir, I will. Then I dare say your mother

and them fretted after Lira a goodish bit when he was
gone, didn't they, sir ? "

Indeed they did. It nearly broke my poor mother's
heart and my old grandfather's too ; I don't believe
they've ever got over it. But come' added Hector,
suddenly, and throwing off the sad tone in which he had
been speaking, " all that's long ago, and can't interest
you much, so revenons a nos months, if you understand
what that means."

u Can't say I do, sir," replied the artilleryman, smiling.

Well, to return to the subject then ; I want to know
what I can do for you — " Hector enunciated each word
with emphasis ; " tell me, is there no particular request
you'd like to put ? — you won't take money, and I can't
think of any suitable present exactly — stay, happy
thought ! you're fond of shooting, I dare say — have you
got a gun of your own ? "

Yes. I do shoot a bit, certainly ; but I have a gun,
sir, thank you."

u Then that won't do ; a petty tribute too, in all conscience
— is there nothing else — ? "

Well, sir, since you do ask me, there is. I should
be rather glad, if you'd — if you'd just — "

Out with it, Bombardier ; don't be afraid."

You see, sir, the truth is I'm getting tired of soldiering
; and I'm heartily sick of this here scorching country
only just got over a bad attack of fever, sir. Well, I
might have got a pension a while ago ; but like a fool, I
went and took on again ; so, if you wouldn't mind, sir, I
should be very glad if you would buy my discharge for meu

Good gracious ! is that all ? " cried Hector, quite
disappointed at such an insignificant request. " Why, my
good fellow, I'd do a good deal more than that for you j
is that really all ? "

No sir, not quite all. I was going to ask too, if I
might make so bold, whether you'd try and find me a
berth—"

(t Certainly, with the greatest pleasure ; and a good one,
if I can."

I shouldn't want a better, sir, than to come as your
servant and go along with you to Barringtree again
whenever you go ; that is, if you'd take me."

Of course I would; but that won't be for a year or
so, perhaps."

Never mind, sir ; I can wait."

And what will you do meanwhile ? "

Oh, hang on at the old grind, sir, I suppose. I know
you're a gentleman and won't forget your word."

If I do, may I be—"

That's right enough, sir, I know you won't. Well,
my battery will be knocking about somewhere in the
North West, or Punjab, I expect — even if we do move
before a year's out — and as I shall stick to it, you'll always
know where to hear of me, sir. Then, when your time
comes to go, you can just buy me out, you know, and
take me with you."

Done ! that's a bargain, Bombardier ; but it's a
precious small return for saving my life. However, we
shall see what else we can do for you when we get to
Barringtree. I dare say there'll be some old tenants
there who'll recollect your father, and you too, perhaps."

I essay there are, sir."

Meantime I shall certainly write to my people and
tell them ail about you, and how you pulled me out of a
watery grave, and that sort of thing."

"Lor, sir, it's not worth saying much about, I'm
sure."

That's a matter of opinion ; my mother and sister

will think differently I expect, and if I'm not mistaken
my grandfather will value the deed more highly than you
imagine. You see, I'm the only direct heir now to the
property, and pVaps you've just saved the name of Grrayle
from becoming extinct," Hector added, laughing.

Any one else would have done what I did, sir."

"May be, but every one oughtn't have been so successful
j why, I must have sunk nearly to the bottom."

If there is one, sir ; but they say there aunt. I must
confess, though, I thought we never should get to the top
again."

Ci I can quite fancy. I dare say you felt almost as queer
as I did before I collapsed."

A bit funny about the head and chest certainly ; then
you see, my clothes made matters worse, sir. I tell you,
I wasn't sorry you was a gone 'coon, that is insensible,
when I reached you ; for if you'd caught hold o' me — well,"
he added, with a significant shrug of his shoulders, "we
should both have been there now, I reckon."

"Not a doubt of that."

They conversed for some little time longer in this way,
when Bombardier Baines, rising at length, observed,
I think I'd better be moving now, sir, as I must get
back to barracks. Good morning, sir," he added, drawing
himself up, and saluting respectfully. "And thank
you kindly."

"Thank nef" exclaimed Hector, smiling, as he also
rose. " Come, I like that — the thanks must be on my side
at present anyhow. Look here, Brigadier, hang it all !"
he continued, with youthful impulse; " let's sink ceremony
for once in a way ; a fellow doesn't save another fellow's
life every day of the week." And as he spoke he grasped
the artilleryman's hand and shook it warmly, which hearty
action on the part of the young officer seemed almost to

VOL. II. K

overpower the old soldier for the moment, who was scarcely
accustomed, perhaps, to such gracious condescension from
his superiors.

"Now, you go up to barracks in my things, and I'll
have yours well dried and sent after you, when you can
give those to my servant ; or stop — you can keep them,
if you like, in memory of this morning ; I've plenty
more."

But really, sir—"

They won't be much use to you, I'm afraid — they're
too tight." Here Hector tried to make the coat meet
across the soldier's brawny chest, which it refused to do
by some inches. "There, you see!" he added, with a
smile ; " never mind, you can get them let out perhaps."

"You're very kind, sir, I'm sure; and if I really may,
I should like to keep these just to mind me of this here
adventure. Thank you, sir."

"You're quite welcome. Now, of course I shall see
you again while we're up here — though I hope we shan't
meet at the bottom of the lake any more — and I shall
look for you at Bareilly when we go back there. Good
day, and God bless you ! "

The artilleryman glanced at Hector rather suddenly
when he gave him this parting benediction, as if surprised
or touched by such words ; yet though his lips moved
mechanically in reply, he said no more, but, with a final
salute, swung out of the bungalow and marched down
the road.

CHAPTER XIII.

03 CHEENA PEAK.

"Heavens ! what a goodly prospect spreads around,
Of hills and dales \ * * * *

* * Ascend
Thy hill, delightful scene ! Here let me sweep
The boundless landscape."

Thomson.

Lie empty hampers round ; in shady places,
The hungry throw themselves with ruthless might
On lobster salads ; while champagne to cheer 'em,
Cools in the brook that murmurs sweetly near 'em."

Collins.

Oh, I say, I say, do come, Grayle. It'll be awfully jolly.
Heffernan's game to join us, and it's such a glorious day."

"Who are going to make the party ? "

"swell, there'll be us three, Tommy Rawson and Swine
of ours, old Bobby Bones, and Perditon, the gunner'"

But I mean the ladies ? "

Oh, a screaming lot ! " exclaimed the enthusiastic
Gore ; " the pick of the place. Let's see — Mrs. Vickers
and her little girl; that jolly little woman, Mrs. Floyd
Staynham, Mrs. Moberley — my sister, you know — and two
or three spins, the Gusher for one and Topsy Gibbons for
another."

By the " spins," thus irreverently spoken of, Gore
k 2

meant the spinsters of the place ; that is, the marriageable
and eligible young ladies — from their own point of view.

"Very tempting, I confess, Tiny," observed Hector,
with a languid smile, as he lounged in an easy chair in
the dak bungalow, with a meerschaum between his teeth
and a novel on his knee, " but I hate picnics ; .they're
such awfully uncomfortable things. No, I think you
must excuse me."

Hang it ! I say, I swear you're just like an old man,
Grayle ; as blase as some worn-out Town swell. But do
come, there's a good fellow; surely if the Rajah condescends,
you might."

The Rajah " was a nickname Heffernan had already
earned in the Cameronians, from a sort of taciturn grandeur
he sometimes assumed towards his juniors.

But, my dear boy," remonstrated Hector, " I don't
see how I can very well. You know we're going into the
Interior ' to shoot on Wednesday, for a whole fortnight,
and I've a lot of letters to write beforehand, and — "

Oh, hang the letters ! my bearer '11 write 'em for you,
as he does mine, I say, Heffernan, look here," appealed
Tiny, as that gentleman just entered the room. " Grayle
won't come to our picnic, you know."

What ! not come to Cheena, Hector ? and you've
never seen the view yet ? "

I essay he'd like to have it brought down here to
the bungalow to look at, the lazy beggar ! " exclaimed
Gore ; " do stir him up."

Oh, he'll come : won't you, Hector? " urged Heffernan ;
you won't find it half bad fun; besides, you're looked
upon as a curiosity now — quite the lion of the place after
having explored the unknown depths of the 'blue lake' —
a sort of amphibious Livingstone, in fact."

An unwilling explorer anyhow," returned Hector.

No, the Stanley who went to look after me ought to bethe
lion, not L"

Never mind, you'll do," remarked Tiny ; <( we can't
very well invite the Bombardier to the picnic, or we
would. It '11 be well managed, I can tell you ; Mrs. Stains
to be chief caterer, and she knows how to do the
thing properly. But of course everybody's to take
something."

'* Then that's a poser at once," laughed Hector, jumping
up and opening the door of his commissariat department.
" There you are, sir ! ' Old Mother Hubbard she
went to the cupboard,' and I don't fancy she found it
much barer than that. Voila ! Fag end of a bottle of
brandy — last kick of a loaf — three empty soda-water
bottles — sugar-basin with flies' legs — and cruets minus
everything."

Couldn't be better," exclaimed Gore ; " boil down
some of your boots and make a savoury jelly, or go out
and shoot a languor, 1 bring his brisket, and swear it's
lamb."

I will if you'll provide the sauce, Tiny."

That I'll take my oath he'll do," observed Hefiernan,
smiling; " but there's no occasion to bother, Hector ; I'm
taking enough thugs for us both. So change your mind
and come, won't you ? "

Well, if I must, I must, I suppose," replied Hector,
resignedly.

That's all right then, thank Heaven for small mercies,"
said Tiny, with a sigh of mock relief. " I breathe again ;
for if you didn't turn up, the ladies would throw themselves
down the thud in despair as sure as eggs, and
we should be had up for womanlike perhaps."

1 A large grey monkey with a black face, found in the Himalayas
and other parts of India.

Accordingly, Hector joined the picnic party, and a
couple of hours afterwards they were all puffing and
blowing, laughing and joking on the arduous climb to
Cheena ; the gentlemen making their way up on foot with
the aid of the indispensable alpenstock, while the ladies
travelled comfortably in their dandies.

Cheena was a favourite place of resort for the energetic
ones, being the highest point in the neighbourhood, overlooking
Nainee Tal. From there, as well as from other
coins of vantage on the surrounding hills, can be obtained
a view, which, for its unlimited extent and grandeur,
beggars all description.

On arriving at the top of this towering peak,
considerably blown, you seat yourself on a rustic bench,
and with the cool breeze fanning your brow, feast your
eyes in silent rapture on the scene before you. Immediately
below yawns a huge precipice, at the foot of which
the steep thud trends gradually towards its base, and
beneath lies Nainee Tal, appearing very insignificant as
viewed from such a height, its lake looking in the distance
like a little slate-coloured pond, and the cottages
resembling tiny dolls' houses, or small models, dotted
over the dark green slopes, and half buried, as it seems,
in deep mossy banks.

From its beautiful sheet of water, which is the one
feature lacking in Himalayan scenery, Nainee Tal is more
like a Swiss settlement than any other place in the hills.
Although far smaller and more modern than Simla or
Missouri, the attraction afforded by its lake has made ita
most popular and fashionable resort; and, considering the
volumes that have been written about India and its
mountain glories, it seems strange that this lovely spot
should, as a rule, be passed over so unceremoniously.

But your eye rests only for a moment on the dwarfed

station and its picturesque environs, being carried far
across the distant valleys beyond — partly little cultivated
plateaux, like flights of steps on the hill-side, and partly
wild jungle, with here and there the gorgeous Judas-tree,
so brilliant in the spring, and forests of oaks, pines and rhododendrons
— over range after range of hills which grow
beautifully less until they reach the level of the plains.
There those dreary, parched-up wastes, simmer in the
intense heat — as can be discerned from the palpitating
mist which canopies the surface — and stretch for miles
and miles, far as the eye can reach, till lost in the dim
horizon.

It produces an extraordinary feeling to gaze from the
cool eminence on those trackless plains below, and watch
the fierce sun (which, comparatively speaking, is scarcely
felt in the hills,) beating down like a fiery furnace on the
arid soil. But the sensation is positively thrilling when
you face about and scan the awe-inspiring view in the
opposite direction. The superb panorama which then
meets your sight amply repays you for the climb up to
Cheena's summit, or five times such a climb, for here you
behold nature at once in her sternest and sublimest mood.

Seventy miles from the point on which you are stationed
or, as reckoned by the tourist sportsman, some tenor
twelve marches off — extends the dazzling snowy range,
the boundary between Tibet and Hindostan, formed by
those gigantic mountains, which include the highest in
the world, and stretch for nearly fifteen hundred miles
along the north of the peninsula.

The distant lofty ranges, capped with perpetual snow,
appear at certain times of the year to be much nearer
than they really are, and those heaven-kissing giants,
Nanda-devi, Dhawalagiri, and others, as seen from certain
points, form a strong contrast with the intermediate

ridges of blue hills, which look such dwarfs by comparison
; and under the influence of a radiant sun, the
white frosted cones sparkle and glisten on the horizon like
the crystal gates of some bright fairy-land.

Thus the widest difference in atmospheric phenomena
here presents itself at the same moment — on the one hand
vast regions of ice and snow, which vanish into illimitable
space, and will never melt till the crack of doom ;
on the other, the tropical plains which no snow ever
reaches, and where the greatest heat in the universe
prevails.

In the height of summer there is a soft beauty about the
scene, both from the brilliant resplendency of the diamond-crusted
glaciers, and the lovely valleys and winding rivers
which intervene, these, and the hills in the middle distance
being bathed in a thin haze, which veils and subdues the
whole into delicious harmony, and produces to the eye
somewhat the effect of looking through a piece of gauze.
But later in the year the aspect changes, and. becomes
more severe and rugged in its character, when the crests
of some of the loftier spurs nearer in are also covered
with snow, and on the adjacent hills thick white clouds
hover and curl around the summits, or roll down the sides,
giving them at a first glance the appearance of volcanoes,
and indicating the approach of a rougher season.

The picnic party chose a spot sheltered from the wind,
which was blowing rather freshly on the top of Cheena; and
the provisions having been unpacked from the commissariat
japan, the fresco feast went off as merrily as such
affairs generally do. Everybody was more or less uncomfortable,
of course; but the greater the discomfort the
greater the fun, so they seemed to think, and each
contretemps was good naturedly accepted as fresh food for
mirth.

Of all the convivial spirits present the palm must be
given to Tommy Rawson, of the Cameronians, who was
quite the life and soul of the little gathering. He had
exchanged to the 126th shortly before they left England,
and was soon found by his brother officers to be a great
acquisition to the regiment. In fact, wherever he went,
Tommy was the moving spirit, especially in all matters connected
with sport and horseflesh. A splendid rider of the
Jack Mutton school — quite as reckless as that celebrity,
but far more artistic — he had already earned, during a
former sojourn in India, the reputation of being one of
the finest horsemen in the country, and this he still
sustained. Soon after the Cameronians arrived at Bareilly
he instituted a wonderful "bobbery " pack, composed of
Ampere hounds — a breed peculiar to the Bareilly district
wiry terriers and mongrels of all sorts, with which he
hunted the neighbourhood in the most approved fashion ;
and what with getting up impromptu steeple-chases, and
paper hunts on horseback, he kept the station alive in
the dullest times.

Although a welcome addition anywhere, Tommy was
not quite so much in his element in the hills as on the
plains ; he had, however, made strenuous efforts to getup
a steeple-chase at Nainee Tal, but having failed, was
obliged to fall back upon picnics and such-like tame
amusements. Considering the features of the little hill
station, it was not wonderful that he did fail to persuade anyone
to enter for a steeple-chase ; but he anathematized all
the men as a lot of muffs for refusing, and challenged any
of them to swim a race on horseback up and down the
lake instead, for a month's pay. Challenge also refused
una voce.

Poor old Tommy ! he was very mad indeed, and his
insane freaks call up many a pleasant memory while I

write;, but since he and his wild performances are merely
incidental to this story I will not just now digress further
concerning him.

Hector Grayle, having been at last induced to join the
picnic, quite entered into the spirit of the thing, and
flirted and chaffed with Georgie Tickers, to whom he sat
next, in no small degree ; so much so, indeed, as to drive
the old Major nearly wild with jealousy. Georgie voted
her new recruit very good fun, and as Heffernan had
surmised, specially interesting after having been fished
up from the bottom of the lake; the use, moreover,
that he made of her japan on the occasion gave her
additional scope and privilege for chaffing him. Of
course all this philandering was not lost on Heffernan ; .
and thouglfhe appeared to be entirely taken up with the
Gusher at the time, he was watching Hector and the
widow with much inward satisfaction.

At length the appetites of each and all, sharpened as
they were by the tonic air of Cheena, succumbed to the
cold pies, larded pea-fowl, Strasbourg patties, salads,
mango tartlets, and other wonderful delicacies produced,
when by degrees the party rose to their feet, and strolled
off for a ramble along the hillside by twos and threes,
"just anyhow' as somebody suggested — Mrs. Floyd
Staynham, the presiding genius, stipulating that they
should reassemble at a certain time and place for tea,
gipsy fashion, with kettle, tripod, log-fire, and all complete.


CHAPTER XIV.

THE CANKER-WORM.

I pray thee yet be satisfied,
Examine thine own frailty ; 'tis more easy
To tie knots than unloose them : 'tis a secret
That, like a ling'ring poison, may chance be
Spread in thy veins, and kill thee seven years hence."

Webster.

A skilful manoeuvre on the part of Heffernan enabled
him to detach Georgie Yickers from the rest, and before
she well knew how it had been managed, she found herself
walking alone with her dreaded foe, along a shady
secluded path, and as resignedly as if she had fallen into
the arrangement on purpose.

Pompey, the favoured mongrel, trotted on demurely
just in front, not being allowed to stray many yards on
account of the leopards with which the hills are infested.
These felice make dogs and monkeys their special prey,
and will often snatch up one of the former almost from its
master's side,who walks along unconscious of his favourite's
fate until warned by a sharp yell, which is a signal that
the wretched victim has passed from the lap of luxury
into the leopard's maw ; not that the latter swallows him
whole exactly, but carries him off into the jungle to
demolish him at leisure.

Where's Gwennie, Captain Heffernan ? " inquired

Georgie, anxiously, as soon as she discovered that they
had separated from the main party. " I can't trust that
child out of my sight; she's sure to tumble down the
thud, or come to some grief."

"Not a bit of it; at least she had two beaux to look
after her when I saw her last — young Gore at one hand,
and your friend Major Bonus at the other."

Do you know in which direction they went ? "

They're on in front, I fancy ; we shall overtake them
presently' he replied, without having the least notion in
reality, and caring less, so long as he could get Georgie
to himself for half-an-hour.

Well, have you quite recovered the effects of the
ball? " he asked, after a little, by way of forcing the conversation,
for she was evidently not inclined to be communicative.


Quite, thank you."

That's all right, then ; and I'm forgiven, I hope, for
drawing a tear from those dazzling eyes — ? "

"Really, Captain Heffernan," she exclaimed, cutting
him short with a contemptuous laugh, " such expressions
from you, under all circumstances, border on the ridiculous,
and as to drawing tears — "

Well, well, better laugh than cry any day ; don't you
think so ? But I was going to say, we didn't hit it off in
our last chat, and I'm very glad of an opportunity for
another talk with } T ou."

She wasn't at all, and could scarcely refrain from
saying so.

By the way, how do you like my young friend, Hector
Grayle ? " he added, suddenly.

Oh, I think he is rather nice," she answered, in an
offhand tone.

He's generally considered a good sort of boy, as

I told you, and when you draw him out there's lots of go
in hiui, and he has sterling qualities as well""

I daresay' A slight pause.

Do you know, George — Mrs. Tinkers, I've made a discovery
lately'

Indeed ? "

Yes, within the last day or two'

And what may that be ?"

"Well — ar — " he continued, with a peculiar smile,
half saturnine, half sarcastic, " you say you are engaged
to be married to this old man — this Major Bonus ? "

"lam; what of that?"

She was gradually assuming a tone of defiance, for his
manner irritated her.

Not much, except that I'm rather sorry for the poor
old beggar."

Thank you ! he will appreciate your sympathy, I'm

"Perhaps he would, if he only knew," muttered
Heffernan, though loud enough for her to hear ; adding,
"the discovery I've made, Mrs. Yickers, is that you
don't care for that man one jot ; no more than for that
rock yonder."

"You're very discriminating, no doubt; but pray what
ground have you for saying such a thing ? or what right
to cross-examine me on the subject?" she cried, quickening
her pace as if to get away from her persecutor.

The latter, none, perhaps, except the privilege of an
old friend ; the former, a great deal, based on personal
experience. Now, look here," he went on, in a softer
tone, and lightly placing his hand on her arm, which had
the effect of making her walk still wider apart from him ;
I really don't wish to rake up the past, as I said the
other night, but surely you'll allow I've some right to —
to base an opinion on my own experience ? "

"I dare say you have; but as I also said the other
night, the right to complain arising out of the wrong done
you, you effectually annulled by taking your own revenge ;
and a base, cowardly revenge it was !" she added,
in a low murmur, growing white with anger under the
recollection.

"Well, you know, Georgie," he returned, shrugging
his shoulders and throwing out his hands, with a Frenchman's
action in argument, " for the man who has his
affections cruelly cast back in his teeth — his love trodden
underfoot while the marriage fetters are actually in process
of being forged — I say, for such a man there is surely
some excuse, no matter what he may be driven to do ;
and when you jilted me in the most heartless, barbarous
manner ever heard of " — the words came from his lips
like a hiss from the deadly cobra — " I tell you candidly
I felt more inclined to take your life than to damn it ! "

i( Doubtless ; and had you done so the deed would have
been far less diabolical."

You must admit it was most magnanimous conduct
on my part, after your treatment of me," he resumed,
with a suppressed, grating laugh, " to throw one of my
own friends in the way of your dangerous fascinations."

I should be ashamed to glory in a dastardly deed if
I were a man," she retorted, with withering scorn. " I
only wonder I didn't see through your treachery."

Well, well, you can scarcely say there was any real
treachery in the matter. However — you know those who
will play with fire may expect to be burnt in the long-run,
and I must say you richly deserved to scorch your
wings at last."

They had stopped in their walk, and now stood facing
one another — the man cool, sarcastic, and merciless ; the
woman indignantly excited and defiant, but determined

to have it out and have done with it. He went on
speaking.

'* I confess I watched you in fiendish triumph, as you
would probably put it, while you fell so neatly into the
snare, for was it not natural that I should hate you
then — the woman who had so wantonly scorned my love ?
But that's past and done with; I merely mention it
now in vindication, so to say, of my motive at that time,
and, I implore you, dismiss the idea that I harbour the
slightest resentment against you; indeed, I mean to
prove the opposite if you'll only believe me'

The burnt child dreads the fire, Captain Heffernan,"
and after the service you once rendered me — although
indirectly — I confess my faith in you is not very
strong'

Come, come, I appeal to your memory and good
sense ; did you not cut your own throat as soon as the
instrument was handed to you ? The moment my poor
friend, Harry Yickers, was introduced to you, through my
agency, did you not make a dead set at him ? and of
course, with all the power of your seductive attractions,
the rest followed, just as I desired — tant mieux ou tant
apis, whichever way you like to look at it."

Nor was it any fault of yours, wretched coward that
you were ! " she exclaimed, passionately, " that my whole
life was not blighted and made miserable as you wished ;
as it is, I have had to live it down — "

Granted, you might do so in time," he interrupted,
with the same cold smile, which seemed to freeze her
blood; " but remember, the fact of his being dead does not
remove the disgrace — nor could he — "

"What do you mean?" she cried, starting violently,
the words coming almost in a whisper through her pale
lips; " could you dare— could you be so base as to — "

Tut, tut ; hush, pray hush ! What is the use of
going into heroics about nothing ? It is idle to talk tome
of my daring, or baseness, and that sort of thing. I
tell you, on the honour of a gentleman, that I mean you
no harm — your secret is perfectly safe with me — is not
that enough ? Instead of jumping to conclusions you
had far better look facts in the face, and realize what
your exact position is in the world."

Why should I do so ? If it had not been for you I
need never have been reminded of it."

Granted again, and yet I would not be too sure of
that; it might crop up at any time. You forget there's
some one else in the secret besides ourselves, and that
takes me back to what I was going to say just now.
Harry Vickers never did, and, of course, never could
make you reparation so long as that some one else was inexistence
; and, from my own knowledge, I can assure you
that that some one else — that yellow-haired, broken-down,
drunken actress — is still in the land of the living, and might
appear any day to prove your disgrace to the world. But
this I can prevent, and will ! There ! don't give way !
you are faint; let me get you some water from that
spring."

No, I thank you, I shall be better in a moment."
She was pale as death, and leant against a neighbouring
tree for support, continuing, however, after a short silence.
I — I want to hear everything you have to say, and then
I wish to exact a solemn promise from you, if I — "

To make a compact, in short ? Very well, so be it —
that is exactly what I wished to propose myself. I often
wonder, Georgie," he resumed, after another pause, during
which he had been waiting for her to continue, " I often
wonder whom you hated most when you found it all out,
Vickers or myself ? "

You, most decidedly' she returned, unhesitatingly,
and with scathing emphasis. " I am positive now in my
mind that poor Harry never knew the wrong he was doing
me when he led me to the altar. He swore that over andover
again ; and, with his dying breath, vowed he never
dreamt that dreadful woman was then living. I believe
him ; I do not think he would have lied to me on the
verge of the grave. But you knew it, and that was your
revenge ! "

By the merest chance ; the person, whom we both
thought to be dead, unaccountably turned up again, and
I happened to come across her by accident when she
applied for his address ; that was all."

Yes, but that was before he was even introduced tome
; and therefore, when we went through the mock ceremony,
you knew your friend, as you profess to call him,
was committing bigamy unconsciously ; yet you would
not save him from what might have led to such utter
misery, simply because you desired to wreak your vengeance
on me — a poor weak woman. Oh, it was a
brutal, fiendish act, Albert Heffernan, and may you be
forgiven for it ! "

Another silence ensued, of some minutes'' duration, after
she had spoken.

"Will you forgive me ?" he exclaimed, at length, with
a slight tremor in his voice, as if he spoke with real
feeling, attempting at the same time to take her hand.
Will you forgive me, Georgie ? Remember, mine
was a sin less of commission than omission. I might
have spoken in time to prevent you from actually sacrificing
yourself, it is true ; but reflect how you had lacerated
my heart, and roused in it the very worst feelings
of a man, which had turned it to stone ! "

Perhaps so, but you cannot expect me to enter into
VOL. 11. l

what you felt then, after all that has happened since.
God knows my punishment was a hard one, and absolves
me, I think, from — I mean I cannot speak now of forgiveness
with your vindictive cruelty fresh in my memory,
and which you yourself have so vividly revived."

Very well, very well, so be it," he observed, rather
impatiently, and in a totally changed tone. " Let's take
everything for granted, then, cry quits, and have done
with it."

And is that to be the compact ?" she asked, with a
faint smile.

<e Well — no — not exactly ; I've something else to say
yet."

I thought so, and so have I ; one more remark to
make, and then I beg that this painful subject may be
dismissed."

With all my heart. What is it ? "

iC Merely a word in exculpation of my subsequent conduct
— not that I am answerable to you for that ; but it's
as well that you should understand better the real character
of the woman whom you tried to crush with shame.
I allude to my course of action after I found that poor
Harry Vickers was not my husband — after you took care
to enlighten us on that point. Poor Harry was nearly
mad when he learnt the truth, and no woman with a particle
of feeling, much less caring for him as I did, could
have believed him guilty. He threw himself on my mercy,
and begged me not to leave him ; so, for the sake of my
unborn child, I consented to live on with him in — in —
well, in disgrace, if you please to call it so. We sought
refuge in this country, where he now lies buried, and
which country I hope to remain in till — perhaps for
the rest of my life. But your revenge was not quite so
complete as you might have wished, for we lived very

happily together, in spite of the painful secret between
us ; and if I sinned in remaining with him, I trust God
will forgive me, since it was for the sake of my poor innocent
child that I did so. Thank heaven ! she knows
nothing of the past, and may she sink into her grave
rather than ever learn her mother's story."

As Georgie Yickers ceased speaking, a triumphant
smile passed across Heffernan's handsome, cruel face,
which he turned away to conceal. He made no remark
after her last sentence, beyond asking permission to
smoke, when he proceeded to light a cigar, leisurely and
deliberate! v, before continuing the conversation.

L 2

CHAPTER XV.

Suavity IN MODO.

The words of his mouth were smoother than bitter, hut war was in
his heart : his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords."

Psalm lv. 21.

this, then, was the unhappy secret which connected
Georgie Vickers (for I will still call her so) with this unscrupulous
man of the world. No wonder she dreaded
and mistrusted him, and felt herself to be utterly at his
mercy. Mercy indeed ! She well knew he would extend
no mercy to her further than suited his own selfish ends.
She also knew enough of his character to be well aware
that he was a man who never forgave an injury. She
had deeply wounded his amour-propre — far more dear to
him than any amount of sentiment— and no matter that
the wound had been dressed with that most healing of all
salves, sweet revenge, Georgie was assured that it still
rankled in his breast, whatever he might avow to the
contrary. Taciturn visit sub pectore vultus.

Feeling so certain of his hatred, therefore, the poor
persecuted little woman perceived that her own happiness
and good name would be safer if she kept on seeming
terms of friendship with her enemy ; so she anxiously
waited to hear him further, and to ascertain the nature of
the compact he had already hinted at.

What a chance this would have been for her ill-natured,
backbiting female comrades in the Rifle Brigade,
if they had only known it ! How gladly would they have
accepted her condemnation from this man's lips, and have
trodden her underfoot with virtuous scorn ! But fortunately
all these Ladies Speedwell had departed for England
with the regiment, so Georgie was making a fresh
start, as it were, in the Anglo-Indian world.

Well, then, we have done with that subject once for
all' remarked HefFernan, breaking silence at last ; u and
now let us turn to more agreeable topics. Shall we go
further down, or up there to the right ? We get a
splendid view of the snows beyond that jutting cliff."

Up to the right, she proposed, and they continued on
their walk, admiring the scenery together, and gathering
ferns and wild flowers, as though they were the most
commonplace Darby and Joan couple, instead of an unhappy,
ruined woman, and a deep-plotting, vindictive
man.

Georgie felt that it would be bad policy to force the
fighting any further, and therefore resigned herself to the
situation with the best grace she could ; whilst her crafty
adversary adopted his pleasantness manners for the nonce,
albeit he was rearranging his forces for a renewed covered
attack.

Pompey, delighted to be on the move again, became now
rather unruly, and it was all his mistress could do to keep
him within safe distance.

I really hope they'll look after Gwennie, Captain
Heffernan," said she, threatening the troublesome little
dog, as he now sneaked back at command; "I'm quite
uneasy at her being out of my sight so long."

They can't have gone much further down the hill
on that side ; perhaps we shall come across them this

way. But surely you can trust the child to the care of her
future step-father."

Oh, yes, I think so."

I say, Georgie," — she no longer protested against this
familiarity while they were thus alone together, being
anxious to conciliate him as much as possible — " I say,
Georgie, what on earth made you go and engage yourself
to an old fellow like that Major Bonus — a shrivelled
old Quihai, ancient enough to be your grandfather?
It wasn't love— come, you'll own that."

How do you know ? why shouldn't it be ? "

Because the idea's preposterous. You can't expect
me to take in that. Surely my young friend, Hector
Grayle, is more in your line, and he's a splendid match
into the bargain."

Yery likely, but that's just the other way on," she
remarked, with something of her natural manner reviving
; " I'm nearly old enough to be his mother."

Not a bit of it. Why, you can't be a day more than
seven-and-twenty — excuse my guessing a lady's age —
and he's close upon twenty-two."

Not such a great disparity, certainly. Perhaps had
he been in the field sooner, and we'd both been the same
way of tli inking, something might have come of it," she
observed, rather flippantly.

It's not too late now," said her crafty tempter.

"Fm afraid it is."

"Why?"

Because I'm about to become Mrs. Bonus, you know,
that's all."

Oh, nonsense, you can get out of that."

How can I ? indeed, I wouldn't if I could. Here have
I been engaged to that faithful old fellow for more thana
year, and you think I'd go and throw him over now ? "

<c I don't see why you shouldn't, especially if you don't
love him."

That's only your surmise ; I admit nothing of the
kind."

A wink's as good as a nod to a blind horse, and I'm
pretty well certain you don't."

"You're not aware, perhaps, that I've laid myself
under great obligations to him — rather compromised
myself, in fact."

That's another matter," said he, dryly.

But of course I only did so on the strength of our
engagement ; as my future husband I'd no scruple in —
in—"

u What sort of obligations do you mean ? "

Well — pecuniary and otherwise."

And otherwise ?" he repeated, quietly, " um — you can
easily square the pecuniary part of the business; far
easier than another little difficulty — that is, if you've
any respect for the man."

What do you mean ? " she asked, quickly, with an
anxious look into his face to see if the devil had come
back there.

i ' Oh, nothing, nothing ; consider it unsaid. Now, as
far as money goes, I'll make that all right for you, if you
like. You haven't compromised yourself in any other
way, I hope ? "

11 No, except that he's taking care of some things forme,"
she answered, innocently. He smiled. " You know
poor Harry hardly left me a sixpence when he died ; he
had been so dreadfully impoverished by having to pay
hush-money, to purchase that horrid creature's silence;
and so — "

I see, 1 see ; well, I told you I meant to be your
friend, Georgie, and now I'll prove it. You get out of

this engagement, which I know you're not very keen
about, and Til pay the bill and put you on to something
far better. Come, what do you say ? "

Impossible ! I wouldn't do such a thing for the
world. I couldn't bear to treat the poor old major in
such a way after all his faithful kindness'"

Eh ? couldn't you really ? Then you've changed a
bit, it seems — perhaps for the better : compunction of
that kind's quite a new phase — such consideration for
other's feelings used not to be your particular forte."

Besides, you reckon without your host, perhaps," she
added, ignoring his coarse sarcasm, and declining topick
up the gauntlet again ; " how do you know, supposing
everything was cut and dried for him, that your
friend would fall in with such an arrangement ? "

That I leave to you. You're not the woman I take
you for if you. don't make him tumble head over ears in
love with you before a week's out — that is, if you
try."

Thanks ; I suppose that's meant for a compliment.
But really, Captain Heffernan, I must decline your good
services. I cannot cancel my present engagement with
any credit or honour to myself, and even if I did," she
added, with a little forced hollow laugh, and nervously
plucking a fern to pieces as she spoke, " it might be a
case of between two stools, and I might come to the
ground."

No fear of that ; you do what I say — throw over the
major, and I'll guarantee the rest. The game's well
worth the candle, I can tell you. Young Grayle comes of
a good family — not that you care much about his pedigree,
I daresay — and is heir to a splendid estate ; what
more do you want ? "

Nothing, perhaps, except that the man himself — "

What ! d'you mean he isn't good looking enough
for you ? "

u Xo, I mean, first catch your hare."

You try, and HI bet five to one you catch him in a
week, and ten to one you do it in a fortnight''

Tempting odds I own, but really — to speak seriously,
Captain Hefferuan — the idea is out of the question. I
can't understand you one bit. You're a riddle far beyond
my powers of solution, and why you should all of a
sudden interest yourself thus in my future welfare is incomprehensible
; that you must have some ulterior object
in view — some particular motive — 1 feel sure ; for Fm not
so insane as to flatter myself that your solicitude on my
behalf, is disinterested."

Perhaps, then, you wrong me more than you are
aware of. I told you the other night I desired to make
you reparation for the past — "

Pardon me, but isn't it a curious mode of making
reparation to press one to take a step against one's will ?
I tell you I have chosen my future lot, and I am content
to abide by it."

Do you mean you are resolved to marry Major Bonus
whatever happens ? " he inquired, significantly.

I do — yes, of course I do."

There was some slight hesitation in her voice as she
replied, for his manner was rapidly changing.

In spite of my advice and the prospect I hold out to
you ? "

Don't think me ungrateful. I appreciate your kindness,
indeed I do, but I must adhere to my determination.
In sober earnest, Captain Heffernan, you could hardly
expect me to do otherwise ; how could you ? M she asked,
almost coaxingly.

He was silent, and bit his lip with annoyance.

Doubtless Georgie tb ought a bird in the hand was
worth two in the bush, and placed little reliance on the
flowery prospects with which Heffernan tried to tempt
her. Setting aside conscientious scruples, and these
alone were sufficient to rule her decision, she naturally
preferred the substance to the shadow, and did not desire
to emulate the example of that misguided dog in aesop's
fable ; moreover, by her marriage with the major —
although she might not love him — she would, at all
events, secure a certain position and a protector ; whereas,
if she threw him over now and trusted to chance, she
might find herself in a worse plight than ever and still in
her enemy's power. In short, the arguments pro and
con lay in a nutshell ; and of the two alternatives, if she
accepted the first, she got rid of an obligation to a man
whom she respected ; but if she accepted the second, she
placed herself under an obligation to a man whom she
despised. Little did she know how sternly resolved was
that man to make her bend to his will.

What if I confessed to you, Georgie, that I had some
motive ? — " he resumed, after a rather awkward gap in
their conversation ; "that I have some particular reason for
asking you to cry f ofP with this Major Bonus, and for
begging you to bring all your fascinations to bear on my
young friend ? Would such confession make no difference
to you ? "

Pm afraid not — I don't see how it could""

"What! would you still refuse me when I put it in
that light ? *

How could I help it — ? " she began timidly, and in
an apologetic tone.

Come, no nonsense, Georgie ! I want plain English'
he said, gradually assuming a bullying manner which was
specially goading to her ; " do you refuse, or do you not ? "

Yes, then I do refuse ! " she answered, defiantly,
roused by his attitude.

u Positively and finally ? Take care ! "

"You must do your worst; I can't help it J she murmured,
her resolution forsaking her even while she spoke,
when she thought what that worst might be.

Very well, madam, we shall see."

They had halted again in their walk, and Pompey, who
fretted at this tardy mode of progression, looked up from
one to the other and wondered what they were made of
that they had to stop and take breath so often, when he
was dying to go and scamper his little heart out on the
tempting slopes, and have a good hunt after the active
languors. A lurking leopard might easily have kidnapped
poor Pompey just then ; for little heed did his mistress
pay to his safety, so engaged was she with the civilized
beast of prey at her side.

CHAPTER XVI.

Potter IN EE.

'Tis in my memory lock'd,
And you yourself shall keep the key of it."

Shakspeare.

Finding that the old adage, pas a pas on va bien loin,
did not answer, Heffernan had no hesitation in changing
his ground at once. His face had now assumed a stern,
forbidding look, while a covert smile of malice curled
on his lips, as he observed, —

If you to ill drive me into a corner by your obstinacy
you must take the consequences. I wished to avoid
unpleasantness, and to come to terms with you quietly
and amicably ; but since you won't have it. and prefer
coercion to coaxing, well and good. Mark what I say
now. You shall not marry this Major Bonus ; do you hear
that ? "

And pray, who will prevent me ? "

I will."

« How ? »

By a very simple process, which you might guess
if you weren't utterly devoid of sense."

I suppose 1 am to understand then — but, oh no —it's
incredible ! you surely couldn't be such a — "

Call me what you will ; hard names break no bones,

and all the abuse you may heap upon me is like so
much water rolling off the back of a duck. I tell you,
I'll stick at nothing ! "

"But, do you mean to say," she asked, with painful
anxiety in her tone, " that simply because I decline to
give up my present engagement — my future prospects —
to suit some whim of yours, that you would try to —
to ruin me."

Put it so, it you like," he returned, with brutal indifference.
" I'm tired of fencing, and wish to come to
the point. The hold I have over you is a powerful one —
you'll allow that — and I don't intend to relinquish that
hold until I've turned it to account. Hear me out. I'll
waste no words — you shall have plain speaking now.
The situation is just this. 1 have a very particular object
for wishing you to break off this engagement, and take
young Grayle in hand at once • and if you attempt to
foil me, by all that's sacred," he exclaimed, grasping her
arm fiercely, " I shall not hesitate to proceed to extremity
lies."

Georgie uttered a slight expression of pain as she
freed herself from his convulsive clutch, which left its
mark on her delicate white skin for several days afterwards.
She was becoming really frightened now at her
relentless foe, and it was some moments before she
could recover herself sufficiently to speak.

"I thought* your intentions towards me were so
friendly, Captain Heffernan," she gasped at length, with
pale, quivering lips, which she tried to shape into a
scornful smile, tc that you only had my interests at heart,
and desired to do me a good turn in reparation for the past."

So I do, you little fool—"

Captain Heffernan, please to remember that you are
talking to a lady."

I apologize ; but such obtuseness irritates one beyond
measure. Cannot you see that I should be doing you
a good tarn by this ? that you would land a fish far
better worth taking than the one you had thrown back
into the water ? "

"But, as I said before, how could I be certain of
that ? " she replied, still fencing with him cautiously, and
dreading his next onset.

There's nothing certain in this world except death
and taxes ; but, if i" provide the quarry, it's for you to
use your tackle to the best advantage'"

And what if I failed ? "

We must take our chance of that : I'll lay odds
against the fish ; but of course you must start fair, with
an empty basket'

And the alternative if I refuse ? "

"Don't go back to that — don't press me."

But I should like to hear — I'm curious to know how
fiendish you could be ? "

"You won't find his Satanic majesty at any time a
pleasant study. Let me recommend you not to be too
inquisitive."

"Never mind; I wish to learn the worst, and what
steps you would take ; also what your particular object
is ; then I shall see how the land lies."

"Well, as to the alternative, if you will know it, a
slight - hint will be enough. Don't you think a lady
would find herself in rather an equivocal position, Georgie
Temple — for I will no longer insult you by a name you
are not entitled to — if she were publicly proclaimed a
mistress where she had passed as a wife, and her
daughter a bastard through her mother's infamy ? "

A slight hint, truly ! and do you mean to say that
you would proclaim this ? "

H By God, I would ! — from the house-tops, if you
thwarted me ! "

"Thank you." There was a forced calmness in her
tone as she replied — the calmness of desperation ; " and
now as to the object ? "

u That's rather more complicated ; however, it's only
fair that 1 should explain it."

This he then proceeded to do in a few forcible sentences,
pointing out particularly the apprehension they
were under regarding Hector Grayle and the keeper's
daughter, and the fear entertained of his marrying the
girl on the sly in defiance of his family's wishes. He
was also careful, to explain the objection he himself had
to his young friend forming such an alliance, and urged
that same old plea (poor as it was) about his future
brother-in-law, and so forth, which he had urged elsewhere.


So you see," he remarked, in conclusion, " we were
obliged to get him out to this country before he made
a fool of himself; then, the next thing to be done, in
order to effectually remedy his plebeian tastes, is to get
him to fall in love with some other woman out here."

And marry her instead."

Exactly."

Then you propose that I should have the honour of
being that other woman."

i( Yes, that's my idea."

u I ought to feel flattered."

' I think you ought."

Really, it's a most romantic episode, this attachment
of your friend to the poor peasant girl ; I'm quite interested
; apart from other feelings, I should be loth
to spoil sport by coming between them."

You must make it your business to do so, however,"

he observed, authoritatively, " and sink all affected
scruples."

Or else you'll take care to ruin my name, disgrace
my poor child, and blight my future life more than —
than you have done already ? "

Precisely the situation. Fm glad to see you understand
it at last."

You've spared no pains to make it clear. But, excuse
me, Captain Heffernan, if I remind you that there's
a strange inconsistency in this proposed plan of yours."

How so ? "

"Well, from your own showing, you wish your friend
to jump out of the frying-pan into the fire."

Not quite. Put it the other way — call it out of the
fire into the frying-pan."

1 see you almost anticipate what I was going to say."

Do I ? What was it ? "

Simply that it seems to me scarcely consistent to
disentangle him from one affair by entangling him in
another equally objectionable — if not more so. You say
you are anxious about your future brother-in-law marrying
beneath him, but perhaps his family might prefer
the keeper's daughter to — to a woman with a story —
such as mine."

"That story's a secret between you and me, and safe
enough if you do as I bid you. I grant you it might
not be considered a very desirable match for the boy
if everything was known ; but there need be no expose,
unless you choose to turn Queen's evidence against yourself.
It's just a choice between two evils, and I wish
him to take the lesser, that's all."

Then you do consider me the lesser evil ?"

I think he might do worse. Come, we've argued
the matter long enough; it now remains for you to

decide. But let me warn you beforehand, mine is' no
idle threat, since you've obliged me to threaten ; and, if
you refuse, I swear most solemnly — "

"How can I?" she cried, in agitated tones, giving
way at last, and catching painfully at her words. " God
help me ! how dare I refuse ? I am entirely in your
power, and you know it. For the sake of my innocent
child — putting myself out of the question — I have no
alternative'"

Then you accept my conditions ? " he asked, with
an exultant glance at his victim.

"I do — I must," she sobbed, in utter helplessness;
though, Heaven knows what will become of me so long
as I am in your power. I feel it is of no use to reproach
you — to appeal to your better nature — n

There, there, calm yourself," he interrupted, — speaking
with all that winning gentleness which he could
glide into at the shortest notice, and adopted now
that he had gained his point. " You're a good little
woman after all; and, as I live, I mean you no harm.
Believe me or not as you will, you shall never regret this
step, Georgie, I promise you."

How to break it to that poor old man is more than
I can tell," she continued, in a pitiful tone of perplexity,
and speaking more to herself than to Heffernan ; u and
yet, if I refused even now to blight his life by cancelling
our engagement, it would* be worse still when he learnt
my secret."

Of course it would."

There, in all probability, they were both in error.
Had she gone direct from Heffernan to the faithful major,
and made a clean breast of it, I believe the old Quihai
would have taken her to his heart, overlooked the
past, and considered her the victim of cruel ill-usage

VOL. II. M

and oppression. But Georgie could not anticipate such
magnanimity, therefore the experiment never entered
her head ; nor was it only the major who had to be
considered in the matter ; it was the world, the inexorable
world, whose judgment she most dreaded.

"Pray, don't fret yourself about Major Bonus' resumed
Heffernan ; " he'll get over it right enough, and
be married to somebody else before the year's out, I
shouldn't wonder. Then, as to money-matters, leave all
that to me. I'll pay your debts, as I said, and provide
you with what you may require until — until you return
to England, either as Hector Grayle's wife or his fiancee 9

And if I fail to bring it about after all ? "

Oh, I'll take the chance of that."

Yes ; but excuse my being so business-like ; what's
to become of me, then ? "

You won't fail if you throw your heart into it. So
certain am I that you won't — in fact, such long odds
would I give against your failing, that, 'pon my life,
I wouldn't mind engaging to marry you myself if you
did, rather than you should be left in the lurch."

That's really very kind of you," she rejoined, almost
laughing outright, in spite of the situation, so amused
was she at his cool assurance ; " I think such an inducement
would make me try harder to — to succeed."

"Well, well, let's stick to business," he observed,
abruptly, not best pleased at her manner, which reminded
him forcibly of the bygone time when she threw him
over; "let us drop these feeble attempts at badinage.
If you fail, which is highly improbable, I'll make provision
for you afterwards — anyhow, until you marry
somebody else. There, you shall have that in black and
white, if you like ; that's more to the point, isn't it ?
I don't see how I can say anything fairer."

Flowery promises indeed ! Such an agreement drawn
out at Its dictation was scarcely likely to be worth the
paper it was written on.

But I dread returning to England while that woman
is alive," pleaded Georgie.

Nonsense, you're perfectly safe from her in reality.
Even if she wished, she could only find you out through
me, and she's not very likely to do that ; so don't be
alarmed. Besides — "

Hark ! I hear voices ; some of the party are returning
this way."

Ah, I see j but they're over on the other side of
the thud— look."

As he spoke he placed the hollow of his hands on each
side of his mouth, and gave a loud " Coo-ey ! " which
made her start violently, from its shrill suddenness.
"Oh, don't — don't attract their attention."
Why not ? we've had it out — there's no more to
be said ; so let us walk round to meet them."

Please wait a minute, then," she said, taking a
handkerchief from her pocket, in which nestled a tiny
powder-puff. With this she endeavoured to obliterate
the traces of the past storm — to hide the effects of the
severe punishment she had received in this great battle
royal.

"Are my eyes red?" inquired the poor little woman,
with genuine naivete, as if he had had nothing to do with
making them so.

Not at all ; they're a light grey colour — very pretty,
and very expressive."

I wish you'd tell me, please j do I look as if I
had been crying ? " she asked, ignoring his ill-timed
pleasantry.

Let me see. Turn your face this way. No, no one

AT °

M

would notice it, I think, and I am indeed sorry that
I should have caused you to shed a tear ; but that's allover
— the heavy clouds are even now dissolving into
vapoury mist, soon to give place to bright, perpetual
sunshine. You will see."

She made no answer beyond an involuntary sigh, as if
doubting such a picture (a hackneyed picture, yet more
often spoken of than realized) ; and they walked on
almost in silence — at least, on her part — until they joined
the others.

The time appointed for the tea-kettle bivouac was now
close at hand ; and, more by accident than design, some of
the party had arrived at the place of rendezvous — a lovely
nook, close by a picturesque gorge, shaded by some beautiful
trees ; in the vicinity of which Heffernan and Georgie
had fought out their one-sided passage d' amies.

The spot was well chosen — beside a crystal stream,
which gurgled over the green slimed rocks, its mossy
banks besprinkled with an infinite variety of ferns and
wild flowers, and surrounded by tall momenta pines and
khursoo oaks.

The situation, moreover, commanded a view of the
glorious snows, which the picnic people appeared very
chary about losing sight of. And no wonder. To those
fresh from the piping-hot plains — and there were several
among the party who had just come up to the hills —
half baked, and eye-weary with the frizzling glare on
nature's scorched-up surface, the sight of all that everlasting
ice and snow was specially recreative.

But there was a greater treat in store for this group
of pleasure-seekers, when, a little later, they were summoned
to witness the marvellous effect of the sunset on
the distant range. Such a sight, once seen, dwells for ever
in the memory. It is. indeed, a spectacle which surpasses

all understanding, and those privileged few, whose eyes
have feasted on such solemn magnificence at such a
moment, must have felt their very blood tingle with the
poetry of praise.

The waning glory of day casts over that long white
line of mammoth mountains, rising luminous above the
clouds, a roseate hue, which gradually deepens to a
purple glow, and sheds on the intermediate ranges the
most fanciful tints, which change every minute even as
you gaze, making one long to be an artist if only for the
hour ; though the brush and palette could do but scant
justice to such marvellous colouring.

Here, as he retires to the antipodes, Phoebus decks
himself in most gorgeous array, as if anxious to leave
a good impression somewhere before he disappears, in lieu
of the abuse and execration he brings upon himself a few
miles away at Grillemupmore, where he wishes them
good night with a cruel brazen smile, as much as to say,
u I won't be long, keep as cool as you can — till I see you
tomorrow."

The ranks of the picnic party were soon re-formed, and
presently little Gwennie appeared safe and sound, still
clinging to the hand of the faithful major.

Why, Mamma dear, where have you been ? " cried the
child, as she darted away from the major's side, and ran
towards her mother ; " we've been looking for you everywhere."


"I may say the same, my dear," replied Georgie;
where have you been ? "

It's been a case of the dog running after his own tail,
I expect," remarked Heffernan to the major, who looked
very grave and rather annoyed; " we've been dodging one
another round these hills, I suppose— following in each
other's tracks."

Major Bonus did not seem at all satisfied, but mumbled
something to the effect that he thought people ought to
try to keep more together, and at once took up his station
beside Georgie, as if to assert his prerogative and prevent
her from straying any more.

Poor old fellow ! he little knew that his cone had been
prepared for him in that short absence, or he would have
mounted guard over her rather sooner ; but now it was
like shutting the stable after the horse was stolen.
The mischief was done, and as he entered into an
amicable chat with Heffernan by and by, how could he
divine that that handsome glib-tongued table was a villainous
Thug : in disguise, who had strangled his happiness
and looted him of his greatest treasure ?

It is fortunate indeed that we cannot see below the
surface, or society would very soon come to a dead lock,
since human beings could never tolerate for a single hour
such a state of existence as that prepared for them in theft
Palace of Truth."

At length the kettle boiled, the tea was made and
consumed, and the camp struck, when the gipsy group
gradually filed off" and started on the return journey to
the valley of the " blue lake ;" the ladies performing the
descent on foot, with the pampas and dandies following
at a respectful distance.

Tommy Eawson eloped straightway with the Gusher,
Tiny Gore following suit with Mrs. Floyd Staynham,
and these formed the advance guard of the party. Major
Bonus still kept Georgie well beneath his protecting
wing, so that Hector, who seemed to be rather drawn
towards the little woman by virtue of her vivacity and
originality, had to content himself with la petite Gwennie
instead. Meantime that good-looking Thug in disguise
1 A native garter and professional thief, pronounced tug.

brought up tke rear with. Topsy Gibbons, and chatted
and flirted with the giddy " spin " in the most delightfully
fascinating manner, the while he gloated over his victims
immediately in front of him. The evening was rapidly
drawing in as the little band descended the hill towards
Nainee Tal, and by degrees they became more scattered
along the road. Hector and Gwennie, however, kept
within a few yards of the major and Georgie, while
Pompey trotted soberly along hallway between the two
couples.

Now this was just the witching hour when the hill leopard
lay watching and waiting for its prey.

Mrs. Moberley, whose companion had warned her a
short time before about her " King Charles'' took the
precaution to carry her pet in her arms in case of accidents.
Not so Georgie, however, who seeing Pompey immediately
under her eye, considered him, perhaps, perfectly
safe, even if she paid any heed to the little mongrel, for
her mind was fully occupied with the wild conflict of her
thoughts.

Presently, as they walked along all unconscious of
danger, a black and yellow body dropped suddenly, like
a flashing meteor, on to the road just before them, and
although but indistinctly seen in the dusky twilight, a
piteous yell from poor Pompey at the same moment
apprized them of what had happened. The unfortunate
animal's cry was responded to by a frantic scream from
its mistress ; and Hector, who was nearest the point of
attack, turning quickly, saw the leopard disappearing
down the thud with the wretched clog in his mouth.
With a desperate bound he sprang after the retreating
marauder, and was just quick enough to deal him a well
directed blow with the butt-end of his alpenstock, and
this, rather to Hector's astonishment, made the savage

brute drop its prey, give a fierce snarl, and turn round
upon him with bristles erect, lurid eyes, and gleaming
fangs; but only for an instant; the next moment the
threatening animal vanished into the dark jungle.

Hector now picked up the unhappy Pompey, and carried
him back to the road, where Georgie anxiously waited to
receive him. With tears in her eyes she took her mangled
pet in her arms, the luckless little cur uttering all the
while the most agonized cries, which gradually subsided
into a low plaintive whine. When she heard its sounds
of distress, little Gwennie wrung her hands with grief;
for although it was only a mongrel, both she and her
mother loved it as if it had been of a priceless breed.

Pompey, however, was not quite dead, poor fellow ; but
it was pitiable to hear his tremulous moans as they
carried him gently and tenderly back towards Nainee Ital.
This was an unfortunate termination to a pleasant day's
outing, as some of the party remarked; though Georgie
felt that, for her, the day had not been so replete with
happiness as she might have wished.

Just before they arrived at the bungalow where she was
staying, Heffernan and his companion overtook them,
and, having heard of the disaster, the former begged
permission to inspect the leopard's victim, in order to
ascertain if the wound were fatal. As he took the clog
in his hands and examined it with a soft and delicate
touch, he shook his head gloomily, and pointed out where
the mortal injury lay. There, on the poor creature's
throat, certain deadly marks indicated too plainly where
it had been seized by the cruel fangs ; and even as he
returned the ill-fated Pompey to his sorrowing mistress,
the faithful little beast looked up at her with a mournful
whimper, made one feeble attempt to lick her hand, and
then, with a convulsive shiver, died in her arms.

Poor Georgie wept like a child over the dead body of
her favourite, and while she mourned, a chill feeling
crept into her heart— a warning sensation, as it seemed,
that there was something ominous in the animal's sad
and sudden fate.

CHAPTER XYIT.

WEARING THE WILLOW.

I sat me down, more heavily oppress'd,
More desolate at heart than e'er I felt
Before."

Thomson.
That some weighty grief
Overhangs thy soul, thy ev'ry look proclaims ;
Why then refuse it words ? "

Mason.

It was the end of April, and the old Hall at Barringtree
quite deserted now, except by the servants— had just
undergone a spring cleaning, from which operation it had
come out as bright as a new pin.

After a dull, uneventful winter — the monotony being
broken only by the arrival of the Indian mails — the family
had dispersed pro tern., when Mrs. Hurst, the housekeeper,
seized the opportunity of having the Hall turned
thoroughly inside out.

Whilst the Squire and Mrs. Grayle ran down to Ride
for a few weeks, Gertrude adjourned to the parsonage,
and took up her abode with her brother and sister-in-law.
Agnes, meanwhile, had gone to stay with the Mountjoys
at Merry dale, and Gertrude had been invited to accompany
her daughter thither, but had preferred to remain at
her post in the parish, where she visited the poor, taught

in the Sunday school, and made herself generally useful,
since active occupation kept her from brooding too much
over domestic anxieties.

Hector's account of his narrow escape in the Nainee
Tal lake some months before, and the gallant rescue by
the Bombardier, had naturally created quite a sensation at
the time. Gertrude, of course, made a great hero of the
artilleryman, and forwarded a letter of credit through her
bankers for 25/., which she desired Hector would present
to the brave soldier, with a mother's grateful thanks, as a
small recognition of his services. Hector had hinted
something about buying the man out, and getting him
some situation on the estate, so Gertrude anticipated the
pleasure of thanking her son's noble preserver in person.

For some time things had gone on smoothly enough
both at home and abroad, but latterly the news from
India, as communicated by Albert Heffernan, had created
fresh disquietude in Gertrude's mind regarding her
absent oue. Although nothing definite had been stated,
Heffernan had latterly thrown out various hints in his
letters, from which they were led to infer that Hector's
great passion for Lizzie Rolfe was already on the wane ;
and, more than this, that the tide of his affections bid
fair to take a new course altogether.

There was no intimation as to what this meant exactly,
or what the new direction was; and, naturally enough,
Gertrude derived poor consolation from the intelligence.
This rumour, however, was accepted by some of the
family as a forerunner of fact, and was thought to be
based probably on more solid grounds than they at first
suspected. At all events, such was the impression Heft
hints conveyed to the Squire, who took an early
opportunity of imparting the information to old Rolfe.

Since Hector Grayle left Barringtree for the East, there

had been some little discussion between the gamekeeper
and his master regarding the romantic sweethearts, and
on one occasion Gideon Rolfe had expressed himself
greatly concerned " as to the state of his daughter's
feelings, who, he said, was " just a-wearin' of herself to a
shudder a-frettin' after the young Squire. He never could
have believed it of the gal, that he couldn't; but there !
it was no use denying' of it, Liz seemed wholly bamb-
fooled with love for Mr. Hector, and that was the
trewth."

This piece of news from abroad, therefore, was very
acceptable, and when Rolfe heard it he was delighted,
and prayed that it might be true. He knew Lizzie had
not received a letter for some time, and that looked
queerish, he thought ; so perhaps there might be a chance
now of setting her head straight again ; adding, with a
mysterious wink to the Squire, that he'd got " somebody
else in his eye for the gal, lie had ! "

Now, these private communications respecting Hector
had preceded other and more important tidings still from
India, to the effect that the Cameronians had been ordered
to Abyssinia to take part in the expedition against King
Theodore; for although the regiment was stationed sofar
up-country, it was at once underlined for the expeditionary
force, since they were next on the roster for
active service, and had been suddenly ordered out to
India on that account.

Gertrude, therefore, had plenty of food for anxiety ; but
she could only hope that one cause might neutralize the
other ; and that, between love and war, her boy might
come safe out of both after all. Her trustworthy Albert's
report on Hector's condition was certainly somewhat
vague, and calculated to increase rather than allay apprehension.
It was all very well to talk of his love for the

keeper's daughter having declined, and in the same letter
to speak of it as being likely to take another direction.
This could only mean the probability of his falling in
love with some lady out there, which she considered
almost as bad, or perhaps a black woman, which would
be a great deal worse.

And what of Lizzie Rolfe, the primary cause of all this
worry and agitation ? Ah, well ! they needn't blame her
too severely. Her presumptuous love was already bringing
its bitter punishment.

On a grassy incline beside the Barringtree lake, withall
Hector's foreign letters in her lap, and the noble
Mizpah crouched at her feet, there she sat, poor child !
crying in the greatest agony of spirit, and moaning
through her sobs, " Oh Hector, my love, my love ! come
back to me, darling ! my heart is breaking ! "

It was a bright, sunshiny afternoon ; such a day, with
the fast returning glories of summer, as made all nature
glad, and over the surface of the lake, which sparkled
with dancing sunbeams, the water-fowl splashed about
and held high jinks in the ecstasy of their aquatic
revels.

Now and again some inquiring Muscovy, or Japanese
mallard, would paddle up opposite the weeping girl, and
with its head on one side, and peering up at her out of
one inquisitive little eye, would seem to ask why she was
thus. oppressed with sorrow when they were all so happy
and joyous.

Mizpah, on the other hand, seemed to share her grief ;
for the tears appeared to have left a dark water-course
down each side of his honest old face, whether from sympathy
or a severe cold signifies little ; the effect was none
the less expressive in its mournfulness.

It was true, as Wolfe mentioned to the Squire, that

Lizzie had not heard from Hector for a considerable time ;
and this fact, combined with the reports concerning him,
troubled her sorely. She tried hard to impress upon herself
that she had no right to complain, and that in
cherishing such a grievance she was usurping a privilege,
so to speak, which was not within her province; but it
was no use ; human nature triumphed over conscientiousness,
and Lizzie found she was only a weak woman after
all, whose vocation in life it was to love and, perchance,
be loved again.

Old Rolfe took care to make the most of his information
when he told her, and so far exaggerated its purport as
to vow that " Mr. Hector was a going' to marry a beautiful
Indian princess and bring her straightaway home on a
snow white elephant, all covered with silver and gold."
Had there been any truth in this wild statement, Hector
might possibly have found the black princess quite enough
of a white elephant, without bringing home a pair !

Poor Lizzie ! she was fretting herself very unnecessarily,
as it happened. If she had only known that there was
even then a letter on its way from the faithful Hector,
she might have taken heart and rebuked herself for being
such a cry-baby as to sit there by the lake-side and make
herself the laughing stock of all those rollicking frolicsome
ducks, to say nothing of imposing upon the compassion
of the sympathetic Mizpah.

It was just a year and seven weeks — she calculated it
almost to the minute — since Hector Grayle plighted his
troth to her under the old elm, and until lately he
had written to her regularly by every mail; and oh,
how she hungered for those letters ! Now and then he
begged for a reply (saying he felt so lonely out there without
her), although he scarcely expected one, for he well
knew Lizzie's scruples and the resolutions she had formed,

to which she adhered with the consistency of a religious
martyr. The recent silence, however — which was merely
owing to Hector being en route to Abyssinia — was very
trying, and Lizzie was badly tempted to break through
her strict self-discipline at last by writing to him. Doubtless
had this wavering on her part been revealed to Hector,
he would have kept her still longer without a letter and
so have got one himself.

After indulging in a good comfortable cry for sometime
— what a luxury is that unrestrained flood of tears
to a forlorn woman ! - Lizzie dried her eyes, and picking
out some of the most passionate effusions which lay in
her lap — tied up in a neat bundle with a piece of rose-coloured
ribbon — she went in for a dreamy study of " The
Art of Love, its Constancy, and how to prove it ! " by
Professor Hector Grayle, of her Majesty's 126th Cameronian.


This took some little time, since several of these scientific
pages required to be perused twice, and even thrice,
in order to grasp the ideas properly ; but when the fair
student came at length to the end of her researches, and
reflected that she might never receive any more of those
delicious lectures, she fell a weeping afresh, and throwing
her arms round her " darling old Mizpah's " neck, kissed
his broad forehead, and then laying her soft cheek there,
sobbed till her young heart ached again in the bitterness
of despair.

Hul-loa ! halloa ! halloa ! what is all this about ?
Bless my soul ! what ! crying those pretty eyes out for
the sake of a young scamp not worth a tear ! "

This was spoken in what was meant to be a very
soothing and sympathetic tone ; for Grumpy Grayle, who
had thus suddenly come upon the afflicted girl, guessed

at her sorrow, and pitied her in his way, as he would have
pitied any other lovely woman in distress.

On being thus accosted Lizzie rose to her feet in dire
confusion, and hastily brushing away her tears and cramming
the letters into her pocket, stood before him with
high-mantled cheek, looking very foolish, but very beautiful.


Come, come, my pretty one' said Grumpy, consolingly,
and patting the amiable Mizpah, who advanced to
meet him with benevolent face and tail, " we mustn't
have you fretting yourself like this. I know all about it
I know what's the matter. But what's a young whipper-snapper
like that to make a fuss about ? There's as good
fish in the sea as ever came out, and better too. Bless
your innocent heart ! don't cry about him ; why, I essay
he's gone and married a black by now, if the truth were
known. Lor ! we've plenty better young fellers knocking
about — we'll soon find you another sweetheart. Got a
headache, eh ? I don't wonder ; so should I have a headache
if I went piping my eye like that, and all about
nothing too. Come, Miss Lizzie, what have you heard ?
what does he say in his last, eh ?

I beg your pardon, Mr. Grayle, but who do you
mean ? "

Dear, dear ! " exclaimed Grumpy, with a knowing
twinkle, <f what a sly little puss ! as bad as the boy himself.
Whom do I mean ? Why, my young nephew, to
be sure — Master Hector."

Oh, I — I — " hesitated Lizzie. " I haven't heard
from him, Mr. Grayle — at least, I haven't had any
letter." . •

Oh, that's what's the matter — haven't had a letter,
eh ? But do you mean to say you've never had one ? "
cried the old bachelor, in an astonished falsetto.

"No, I meant to say, not — not very lately."
I see, I see ; boy growing cool, eh ? thought as much
hot enough, too, where he's gone ; as hot as — where a
good many of us '11 go to some day, they tell me. But
now, my dear, we won't talk any longer about the young
scaramouch j he ain't worth it. Very likely we shan't
hear any more of him. King Theodore '11 make him into
sausage?, or a fricasee, perhaps —

So, Miss Lizzie, dont you cry for he !

For he's gone to Abyssinia with his bayonet on his knee !

Though if he carries one at all, it'll be on his shoulder,
I suppose ; but that's poetical licence, he, he, he ! and
a piece of my own poetry too."

Grumpy was iu one of his facetious moods, as he generally
was when he saw any one else miserable, his mode
of sympathizing being as eccentric as himself.

But I say," he continued, " I was going to write you
a note when I got home, only I thought it was you sitting
here all forlorn, as I came along. I wanted to ask you if
you'd like to come up and have supper at Couch Hut tomorrow
evening. You'll meet Mrs. Corcoran — she's on
another visit, of course you've heard — the Sickness and so
forth. Mrs. Cork will take care of you backwards and
forwards, so that'll be all right. I'd ask your old people
too, but they wouldn't care to come, I know."

Whether they would or not, he hadn't the slightest
intention of asking them. But, besides liking to have
such a pretty face at his table, he had another object in
thus inviting Lizzie, inasmuch as he was aiding and
abetting Mrs. Corcoran in a little scheme which that
austere female was concocting on the sly.

"You're very kind, sir, I'm sure, but—" began Lizzie.

a ' But me no buts', my dear," interrupted Grumpy,

VOL. II. N

good-humouredly ; " there's no but about it ; just say
you'll come and have done with it. Bring this old fellow
too ; we'll find a bone for him — old Thingumabob — what
d'you call him ? "

« Mizpah."

Mis — pah, eh ? " drawled Grumpy, winking furiously
at the blushing girl. " Oh, ah, Mizpah, to be sure !
Be — ewterful, as old Sickles says. I suppose you think
I don't know what that means ? that I don't read my
bible enough, pVaps. Bless you, I know all about it.
Never mind, my dear, you've got the dog — stick to him,
and be hanged to the boy ! Then you'll come ? "

Thank you, Mr. Grayle, I shall be very happy," replied
Lizzie, afraid of offending this eccentric gentleman
by a refusal, and glad to change the conversation ; " that
is, if my father and mother will allow me."

Of course they will. You tell 'em who the party are,
and they'll let you come fast enough," he returned, with
a significant nod of his head. ic Mind, seven o'clock
sharp ! Mrs. Cork '11 call for you. Good day — don't go
crying any more — good day."

And away trudged old Grumpy, grunting and mumbling
to himself as if he were working up some impromptu
speech.

Married to a black woman ! " thought Lizzie, as she
strolled from the lake side. Outrageous insinuation !
But it was very hard to hear such a dreadful thing even
hinted at by every other person she met ; to have her
treasured memories thus crushed beneath the weight of
ridicule. And what if it were true ? — What if the moon
were to fall down to earth ! She would have believed
that as soon — sooner than allow her idol to fall one degree
in her proud estimation — let them all say what they
would.

On her return home Lizzie arrived at High Lodge justin
time to open the gates for Agnes Grayle and Clement
Mount] oy, who had ridden over from Merry dale, and were
on their way to pay a visit at the Rectory.

As Agnes rode through into the park she reined up fora
minute, and noticing Lizzie's sad pale face, which bore
evident traces of weeping — a marked contrast to her own
merry countenance — she greeted her kindly with —

a Why, Lizzie, what is the matter ? you don't look at
all well." Lizzie muttered some fib about having a slight
cold; but Agnes shook her head with an incredulous
smile, partly of reproof and partly of pity, as if she
understood well enough the cause of those white cheeks
and lack-lustre eyes, but refrained from further comment,
merely adding, —

You want a thorough change, child ; tell me, would
you like to go with us to the sea-side by-and-by ? You
shall come instead of my maid, if you will."

Lizzie, charmed at such a prospect, thanked her for
the kind thought, and said there was nothing she would
like better. So the arrangement was agreed upon, and
Agnes, after a few more cheering words, cantered off with
Clement.

Hector's warm-hearted sister was full of sympathy for
the keeper's daughter, and she discussed Lizzie's character
afterwards with her companion in the highest terms of
praise, saying what a hard fate it was that Hector should
ever have crossed the poor girl's path and so unsettled
her mind.

Now if this wearing of the willow was a labour of
secret grief and anxiety to Lizzie Rolfe, it seemed to
have quite a contrary effect on Agnes, to judge from her
laughing face and joyous expression ; nor did she at anytime
display much ebullition of feeling regarding her

N 2

absent lover. On the other hand, Albert Heffernan kept
her in continual remembrance of their engagement by
the most beautifully expressed letters — the outpourings
of an utterly devoted heart, rendered even stronger in its
love by separation — and if such letters, did not elicit
from Agnes a corresponding warmth, they afforded
Gertrude, who read them all, the most trustful happiness
and more complete confidence in her paragon than ever.
Meanwhile Clement Mount joy appeared quite resigned to
his fate, and to have lapsed into the platonic condition of
an adopted brother. He was not a youth, however, to
carry his heart on his sleeve ; and deep down in the
recesses of that heart lurked the old love, powerful as
heretofore, though carefully hidden away.

But though he seemed ever happy and contented in
Agnes Grayle's society, his curiosity with regard to her
had been somewhat aroused of late by certain chance
remarks she had made in a thoughtless moment ; and the
real state of her affections was becoming rather an interesting
study to him.

That very day, on their ride back, emboldened by
something she had said, he launched out into a conversation,
which partially enlightened him as to the true
position of affairs. The subject was led up to by first
discussing Heffernan's letters concerning Hector, then the
Abyssinian campaign, and eventually Clement observed, —

"It seems rather a hard case for you, Fay, directly
you're engaged to a man for him to go knocking about
the world, and getting into all sorts of dangers like this ;
but it's his own choice, I suppose."

This was no casual remark on his part, although he
wished to make it appear so. It was intended, in fact, to
force the ground.

His own choice, you think ? " replied Agnes, throws



ing an inquiring glance at her companion ; " that would
scarcely be a gracious way of looking at it when we know
that he is making such a sacrifice for Hector's sake."

Perhaps not ; but on the other hand you must remember
he would have been obliged to go in any case,
since his regiment was ordered on active service."

Of course ; but after they arrived at Bombay, and
found there was no war at all — "

That's just what I was going to say;, why didn't he
come back then, or as soon after as practicable ? Having
once got Hector away from home, he had fulfilled his
mission so far."

u There you see where the sacrifice comes in, Clem j he
remains out there in that horrid country merely to take
care of my brother."

u You must pardon me, I can hardly look at it in that
light. As if Hector wasn't old enough to take care of
himself ; what nonsense, Fay ! "

a Dear old boy, it is not like you to judge others
ungenerously," exclaimed Agnes, in some surprise; "of
course he can't come home now till this Abyssinian affair
is over. What is it you mean ? "

"I can't help it," rejoined her companion, with considerable
warmth ; " I must speak plainly when I feel so
strongly. I am well aware that I lay myself open to
very severe criticism by such remarks — that I may bethought
jealous, and consequently prompted by prejudice;
but I trust you will not think me so mean and unworthy —
indeed, I throw myself on your generosity when I touch
on this subject ; nor would I for one moment remind you
of — of what is past and done with ; but you know what
you said to me some time ago, that I was always to look
upon you as a dear sister, and so I do, Agnes ; therefore
I'm naturally anxious about your future."

"And why should you be anxious, Clem ? what cause
have you for anxiety ? "

I don't know exactly. I — I can't tell what I mean,
but I have. 33

That's rather vague, dear boy."

I know it is ; but this misgiving — this feeling of
distrust, or whatever it is, regarding Captain Heffernan,
seems to be instinctive in me ; and as I can't disguise it
any longer, since you press the question, I honestly confess
what I feel''

This was one way, certainly, of distorting the argument
to suit himself.

It was very risky ground for Clement Mounjoy to
tread, very risky indeed, as he well knew, and also that
he must necessarily be handicapped heavily in any opinion
he might offer. But nobody would speak out, he argued
to himself, albeit any one with half an eye might have
seen, as plainly as he did, that Agnes Grayle did not
really care for Albert Heffernan even if the man were
worthy of her, which he, Clement, appeared to have
taken upon himself to doubt ; and let the world say and
think what it pleased, he would never see her throw
herself away on one who would most likely make her
married life miserable. He would not let this be, at least,
without offering a protest, or word of caution.

Clement vowed in his heart that his conscience was
perfectly clear as to any mean or self-interested feeling,
and that he was only influenced by an earnest wish for
her future happiness. But I think he had much better
have left the subject alone, and stood aloof from such an
equivocal position. It was unfortunate, too, that no one
else would come forward as the champion of Agnes
Grayle's " future happiness " — to guard it against all insidious
danger, and so relieve him of the onus.

To analyze the real cause of Clement's conviction, or
to explain exactly why he had arrived at such sinister
conclusions, would involve unnecessary details as to his
acute perception of character. Doubtless he was well able
to judge, viewing the subject as he did with a hypercritical
eye.

I must say I don't quite know what you mean,
Clem' resumed Agnes, after a short silence, during
which they had kept their eyes fixed on their horses' ears,
as they rode along j " it's a very difficult world to understand
— very difficult indeed," she added, with a little
sigh, " and you may be right for aught I know. Perhaps
Albert is not quite in such a hurry to be married as —
as—"

As you are — but are you, then ? "

Am I what ? "

In such a hurry ? I mean, so very anxious yourself?
"

I'm sure I can't tell why you should put such a
question," rejoined Agnes, colouring up slightly.

I'll tell you then, if I may."

« Why ? "

Because I know you don't love that man."

Really — I — I — object to this sort of cross-examination,
Clement," she exclaimed, with a little forced laugh,
although it was evident from her face that she was rather
vexed and confused. " You have no right to take a lady
to task in this unceremonious fashion — old friends though
we are."

I didn't mean to be rude, or wish to force a confession
from you, Fay ; but no matter what you may feel
yourself, I haven't a doubt in my own mind about him."

Then I think you exceed the privilege of a friend — "

But as a brother— ? "

Well, not even a brother has the right to pry too
closely into such matters. Surely I may be allowed to
judge for myself," she replied, rather hastily. " Understand
me, Clem, Fm not angry, but I had rather change
this subject if you don't mind. Time will prove everything.
Come, let's have a gallop, shall we ? " she added,
tapping Eataplan with her whip, as they entered the park
gates at Merry dale. The half hour bell before dinner
was just then heard clanging from the turret, and the
next moment they were careering along side by side over
the elastic turf towards the house.

So Clement Mountjoy failed to solve that problem
which so exercised his mind; and its non-solution appeared
to be postponed indefinitely, for the question in
point was thenceforth carefully avoided both by him and
Agnes Grayle.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE SECRET AGENT.

tl She's beautiful, and therefore to he woo'd ;
She's a woman, and therefore to be won."

Shakspeare.

Mrs. Corcoran had returned to Barringtree about a week
before, and had taken up her quarters as usual with her
brother. Since her arrival a new plan had accidentally
occurred to her by which she thought to promote " Mr.
Albert's " interests, and do her own kith and kin a good
turn at the same time. This idea had arisen from a
recent confession on the part of her nephew, Simon, to
the effect that he was " o-o-over hid and years in love
with that there be-ew-tiffle gal, Lizzie, and was a dying'
to make up to her'"

Well, and why don't you, Simon ? " inquired his aunt.

u Lawks, aunt, I'm aside, and that's the trewth,"
replied Simon, who was very shy, and had never been
known to acknowledge the " soft impeachment " before.
As a rule he turned tail at the sight of a petticoat, but
that there be-ew-tiffle gal '* was too much even for his
retiring disposition ; and now that Hector Grayle had
gone abroad, he thought he saw his way to a fair field
and no favour.

Afraid ! and why should you be afraid ? " said Mrs.
Corcoran.

Why, I don't 'now, aunt, but she's such a wonderful
fine gal; and then, ye see, after takin' up with Mr.
Hector, 'ain't a nioite likely she'll look at me, is ut ? "

Why shouldn't she ? Just you try, Simon — faint
heart never won fair lady, you know ; and as for that
business between her and young Mr. Grayle, it's all
knocked on the head long ago."

That's a good job, that is ; but she saint got it out of
Iter head yit, I don't expect'. I have been up to the Lodge
a time or tew lately, aunt ; but, lor bless you ! though
she's alius civil enough, dear heart alive ! ye might as
well troy and talk to the Queen."

Never you mind, Simon; don't you give in. Persevere,
and you'll win her yet. Why, it's a tip top match for
her, a keeper's daughter, to marry a fine young feller like
you, a well-to-do farmer's son, my nephew and all. Bless
you, the old people will be glad enough ; they'll back
you up."

So Mrs. Corcoran encouraged Simon, and had a talk to
Gideon Wolfe and his wife, whom she found, as expected,
quite agreeable to the project. Lizzie, however, was not
yet enlightened as to the siege about to take place ; for
Mrs. Corcoran pointed out that such an intimation,
coming from any one but Simon at first, might prejudice
her against his suit, and make her suspect that some
plot was being hatched. But though the yahoo was
afforded every opportunity for making the running, he
failed to profit by it, and was so absurdly shy, and
so difficult to bring to the sticking-point, that Mrs.
Corcoran was obliged to force matters a little. This she
arranged to do with her usual astuteness, and confided
her plans to Grumpy Grayie.

Now the old bachelor was quite indifferent as to
whether Lizzie Rolfe married Hector Grayle, Simon
Sickles, or the King of the Cannibal Islands — of the
three, perhaps, he would have preferred the girl marrying
Hector, and so causing an agitation at the Hall ; but he
didn't think there was much chance of that now — so he
thought it would be rather good fun to get up this
other match at the Hut, and watch the yahoo make love ;
for though almost a misogynist himself in his matrimonial
ideas, he richly enjoyed seeing any one else u hooked and
done-for." Hence the proposed supper.

As it was not an unusual thing for Andrew Grayle
to entertain a few old tenant farmers in this sort of
way, Lizzie would not suspect that she and simon were
thus purposely thrown together ; whereas, had she been
invited to tea at the Sickles', which would have been
unusual, she would probably have seen through it at
once, and have retired into her shell.

Immediately this scheme came into Mrs. Corcoran's
head, she wrote off to Heffernan (who kept her posted
as to his whereabouts), and told him what she was trying
to do, urging that, whether successful or not in substituting
Simon for Hector in the graces of the fair
Lizzie, he (Mr. Albert) could, at all events, make
market out of the affair by representing the matter to
young Mr. Grayle in whatever light he chose.

"Of course," she wrote, "if Mister Hector could be
persuaded that Lizzie was fickle, so much the better ; and
then, no doubt, your little plan about the other lady,
Mr. Albert, which you menshun in your letters, would
work easy enough. You needn't be afraid, if Simon
does succeed, about a marriage of this sort causing any
disclosures, cos Fll see to that, and there ain't likely
to be any questions asked — a very different matter to

a grand marriage up at the Hall, where them lawyer
chaps would be safe to get to work, and make all sorts of
investigations. I suppose, as soon as you get the
young squire fairly tacked on to this other lady, you'll
be coming back, all of you, and then i shall expect
you to bring home my dear Joey with you, which he'll
be very glad, and so shall I, and you can easily manage
that. He speaks very nicely of the captain always, cos
he's got a good heart, has Joe, and is very grateful to
them who are kind to him, Mr. Albert. Dear me, how
i long to see him again, for I'm getting an old woman
now, and a son like my Joey — " and so forth, over
the inevitable three or four cramped pages about " her
son Joey."

In due course the supper party at Crutch Hut assembled,
and was almost a fac-simile of that described
in an early chapter, with the pleasant addition of Lizzie
Wolfe's lovely face to grace the table. She was dressed,
as usual, very neatly — and, for her position, with
considerable taste — in a black merino gown, admirably
fitted to her symmetrical figure, with white cuffs and
collar, and a little pink silk tie at her throat, which
was the only piece of colour in her attire. Her wavy
hair was gathered back, as she generally wore it, in thick
braided folds ; the dark ripple on her snow-white forehead
being a marked feature in her bewitching beauty.
Whether from the warmth of the room, or the excitement
of talking, and being thus taken out of herself,
she looked better that evening than she had done for
some time past, with brighter eyes, and more colour in
her cheeks.

Simon, who sat next to her, "got up to the nines,"
was never troubled with the cacoethes loquendi under any
circumstances, but he seemed this evening particularly

taciturn, and far more engrossed with the Hut's good
cheer than with la belle Lizzie, to whom he never addressed
a syllable. But this was not entirely owing to
greediness ; for the fact was, he " was struck all of a
heap with her be-ew-tiffle face, and that was the trewth,"
as he explained afterwards, " and couldn't find his tongue
nohow'

Mrs. Corcoran, however, who watched him, observed
that, albeit no remark escaped from his lips, a great
deal of refreshment passed in, and she hoped he was
priming himself for a grand coup de main by-and-by — •
bringing himself up to the scratch, in short, under the
inspiration derived from much veal and ham pie and old
brown ale.

The proprietor of Crutch Hut was in great force that
evening — pleasant and humorous (which he could be
when he liked), as he was, at other times, snappish and
morose. He was full of some low-cast methodist
preacher, who was rambling through the county, and who
had recently given an open-air discourse at Barringtree,
which Grumpy attended out of curiosity. This rustic
divine, who spoke in the broadest Suffolk, the host took
off to perfection, much to his guests' amusement,
although the majority of them spoke very nearly as
broad a dialect themselves, notwithstanding which
they seemed to enjoy having their native twang
burlesqued.

Nayow thin, yow young min, and yow young
wi'mmun," mimicked Grumpy, " if yow don't dew as ye
shut dew, but kip on a dewan' as ye dew dew, you'll
go to that there plaice where there's a weepun' and a
gnashed' o' teeth, dee yow mind if ye don't. And yow
ould min and yow ould wimmun, don't yow look so spry,
and think yow 're a goo-un' to git ors, 'cos yow hasn't

got no teeth, for you'll ha' to gum ut ! so I don't deceive

JBT-"

And so on, until old Sam Sickles, Simon, and his
mother, laughed till they choked, and then fell to
eating again as hard as they could to make up for lost
time.

At length, the repast over, Grumpy Grayle intimated
that the ladies should retire to the drawing-room, and
amuse themselves with his collection of prints and photographs,
while the gentlemen enjoyed the post prandial
cigar in the sanctum ; for, as the host jocularly explained
to Mrs. Corcoran aside, he meant to have " quite the
genteel arrangement that evening, and no pot-house
about it."

re Then, by-and-by, Mrs. Cork, we'll come back inhere
and leave those two young 'uns to spoon it
out in the drawing-room ; but, mind you' Grumpy
stipulated, in conclusion, " I mean to have a squint
at them through the door, when Simon once breaks
the ice and gets warmed to his work, for I'd give
fifty pound to see him down on his knees to that
proper-looking girl."

So you shall, Mr. Grayle," Mrs. Corcoran whispered :
ff at least, I only hope he'll scrape up pluck enough ;
but he's as shy as an old rook."

Well, he's got behind a pretty good supper to-night,
so that ought to fortify him. I never saw a fellow with
such a twist in all my life. Why, he'd give an alderman
half-a-dozen courses start, and beat him. Good
boy, Simon — quite a treat to provide for a man with
an appetite like that — he always does the Hut
justice."

The gentlemen were not very long over their smoke,
for Grumpy was curious to see the 3 T hoo "start his

manoeuvres." He had made him drink a couple of glasses
of rare old port — he wouldn't give him a third, for fear it
should get into his head and spoil the fun — and thought ,
if the bumpkin ever could be wound up, he ought to be
so now.

When they joined the ladies, however, in that little
lodging-house-looking apartment, with its ugly green
chairs, staring out from every corner like so many great
rhubarb leaves, Simon kept as far as he possibly could
from Lizzie, although, owing to the dimensions of the
room, this was not at a very great distance.

Their host's attempt to bring them together, by calling
them at the same time to look at some particular print,
was futile, for off they both went again at a tangent,
like a couple of teetotums coming in contact; Simon
retiring modestly on account of Lizzie, while Lizzie
retired modestly on account of the print ; for, truth to
sa r , it was not a discriminately chosen one — very classical
and very correct, no doubt, but scarcely likely to be
appreciated by a chaste-minded girl. However, the
selection was quite accidental ; all Grumpy wanted todo
was to throw the young couple together ; so he
tried another, and this time with better success, finally
leaving them with their heads in close proximity over
a large album filled with some beautiful autotypes and
other works of art.

Presently coffee was brought in, and handed round
by the red-haired Polly, in an awkwardly important
sort of way, and still the heads retained their contiguous
position over the album. Seeing this, Grumpy Grayle
whispered to Mrs. Corcoran, with a wink, that " the
young 'uns appeared to have assimilated at last, so perhaps
the old birds had better clear out and leave them
alone." Hence, after a little while, according to pre-concerted

arrangement, the old birds did clear out, and
quietly and imperceptibly effected their exit.

So engrossed were Lizzie and Simon with the album,
however, that they did not immediately discover their
isolated position ; but when they did, Simon felt by far
the more uncomfortable of the two ; indeed, Lizzie was
quite oblivious to the fact that she was the quarry whom
it required all these strategical movements to stalk.

The yahoo perceived that his hour was come, and that
it was a case of now or never ; so, like a man who takes
a header into a cold bath, and gives himself no time to
think of the impending shock, he forthwith made his
plunge. He apparently remembered suddenly that kissing
was always in fashion when the gorse was in bloom,
and considered this a golden rule in courtship, claiming
his first attention. Accordingly, shutting his eyes to the
consequences, he threw his arm round Lizzie's waist, and
thus declared himself, —

Look here, Lizzie, my little be-ewty, I love yer, I
dew, and that's the trewth," attempting, at the same
time, to put the golden rule into force. But in this he
was frustrated by the " be-ewty/' who rose at once indignant
to her feet.

Mr. Sickles, what do you mean ? how dare you ? "

There, nay-ow ! " mumbled Simon, immediately
abashed and crestfallen, but clinging instinctively to the
skirt of her dress as she tried to get away ; " this is
a pretty hay ow d'ye-dew, this is ! I knew she wouldn't
have nothing' to saye to me, and nay-ow I've been and
gone an' offended her."

As Simon told his aunt, he might as well try to talk
to the Queen, and Lizzie certainly looked like one now,
very dignified, and with a heightened colour, as she said
quietly,—

Simon, you forget yourself, I think, and— and please
don't tear my dress."

No, I 'on't tear ut, Lizzie ; but don't goo, don't
be angry with me," cried he, in despair ; " I dew wholly
forget myself when I look at that there pretty face o'
yours, and that's the trewth, but yow must forgive me."

Here the yahoo put on such a ludicrous expression,
at once penitent and sentimental, that Lizzie, although
vexed, could scarcely repress a smile.

Very well, I will forgive you ; but please don't do it
again," she replied, gently disengaging her dress from
his tenacious clutch.

u Yow dew forgive me ! then yow ain't really angry," exclaimed
Simon, taking courage from her words; " Nayow
dee-vow look here, Lizzie ; I ain't a larfin', so I tell
yer — I ain't one o' them frolicsome chaps that don't mean
what they saye, and I love you that, I can't help a
speak' strong — I'm forced to it ; but I don't fare to be
myself when I'm near you, and when I'm away from
yer I ain't happy, so what am I to dew ? "

Such powerful pleading as this, honest as it was
eloquent, ought to have moved a heart of stone, one
would think ; and if a fellow-feeling makes us wondrous
kind, the last clause of his speech should have aroused
Lizzie's sympathy ; but she was scarcely in the frame
of mind to appreciate the pathetic appeal, although its
quaintness might have amused her had she not felt
annoyed at being thus placed in such an absurd position.

I'm really very sorry, Simon, but it's no use. I — I
don't know what to say to you exactly; but — " she
hesitated, and then left her sentence unfinished, for she
did not wish to wound his feelings.

Her ardent admirer at once accepted this as a sign of
relenting, and thinking, may be, that if " nothing suc-vol.

11.

needs like success," the success that succeeds a failure
succeeds best of all, went at it again with renewed
vigour.

M Dee-yow look here, Lizzie, my little be-ewty — saye
yis, that's all yow ha' got to saye — " cried he, flopping
on to his knees at the girl's feet, and seizing her hand ;
I can't live without yer, so I don't deceive yer ; yow
must marry me. Saye yis, then, pray dew, and ha' done
with ut."

Mr. Sickles' she exclaimed, struggling to withdraw
her hand, getting really angry now at such pertinacious
conduct, and at being thus misunderstood, " how can
you be so silly ! get up directly, please, and don't make
yourself so ridiculous. "

But Simon still remained on his knees, for he thought
this was mere coyness on her part, and recollected his
aunt's injunction about a faint heart.

Now, if the persecuted Lizzie was angry with her
adorer for his importunity, she was doubly incensed
on hearing exploded laughter at the door, which
stood ajar. Such laughter emanated from her ill-mannered
host in a series of downward snorts, which he was
quite unable to control on thus witnessing the very
pantomime he had been looking forward to.

Lizzie began to suspect at once that a trap had been
laid for her, and that she was the victim of some practical
joke. Her spirit, therefore, rose high within her, and
she hurriedly attempted to escape from the room, in
spite of Simon's imploring request for her to

ei Stye one minnut, dew, oh, pre dew ! n

As she reached the door she caught Grumpy, convulsed
with suppressed laughter, in the very act of eavesdropping,
since he had no time to hobble back into the
sanctum. Mrs. Corcoran also was in the passage, apparently

enjoying the joke with him. On seeing all this
Lizzie was more offended and indignant than ever.

Mr. Grayle, I wish to go home now, if you please''
she exclaimed, " and when I came here this evening I
really didn't expect this sort of thing (sob) — indeed
I didn't—"

Here she broke down, and burst into tears.

Why, bless us, what's the matter now ? " cried
Grumpy, in an innocent falsetto; "I never saw such
a girl — always turning on those waterworks. Halloa,
Simon ! what have you been up to ! "

The shiny-faced bumpkin had now followed to the
door-way, and stood staring with open mouth, looking very
sheepish, as if he thought he'd done it this time.

Little fool ! " ejaculated Mrs. Corcoran, glancing contemptuously
at the sobbing girl, " I know what's the
matter — Simon's been making love to her, I suppose, and
small blame to him, if he likes to. I think my nephew
ought to be good enough for her — a young minx ! "

The last little compliment was an aside; but there was
something in Mrs. Corcoran's sharp crabbed tones that
seemed to rather astonish Lizzie, for she stopped crying
all of a sudden, and looked up at her in surprise.

Grumpy tried to smooth matters, and Simon said he
didn't mean any harm," while his father and mother
said, " why shouldn't he make up to the gal, if he
looked ? " which Mrs. Corcoran endorsed with one or two
more unflattering epithets, uttered sotte voce. Her host,
however, could not persuade Lizzie to stay any longer ;
she was quite upset, and wanted to go home immediately,
if he would kindly allow her.

All right, then — all right," grunted Grumpy, churlishly,
for he was vexed with her for having stopped the
fun; "just as you like — just as you like. Here, my



carroty-wigged gal shall look after you ; she 's not afraid
of the dark."

By his " carroty-wigged gal" he meant of course
Polly, the housemaid, for he saw that Mrs. Corcoran was
too much annoyed to escort her ; and Simon, thoroughly
cowed, did not dare to offer his services.

Lizzie had not availed herself of. the invitation to bring
Mizpah, but rather wished now that she had done so.
She lost no time in putting on her things, and bade her
host good-night with the best grace she could muster.
The. satirical Grumpy gave her one finger, and, with a provoking
leer, said he was sorry Simon wasn't good enough
for her, but hoped to manage something better another
time; Mrs. Corcoran adding, in the same cross tones before
adopted, that she never thought Lizzie was such a stuck-up
little fool — that she didn't. Finally, the poor girl,
thoroughly uncomfortable, and feeling very much hurt,
took her departure for the lodge in company with Polly,
and vowed to herself, as she left Crutch Hut, that nothing
should ever induce her to enter its doors again as long as
she lived.

On reaching home she found the old people sitting up
for her, who immediately detected by her manner that
something was wrong, and guessed what it was.

Wolf e straightway questioned his daughter as to whether
she had spent a pleasant evening, when Lizzie, after a
little demur, gave a full explanation of the affair and the
cause of her agitation. To her astonishment, however,
the old couple did not seem inclined to take her part
quite so much as she expected; and Gideon, especially,
appeared to be rather disappointed that she had not
jumped at young Sickles' offer.

You see, my little dear'' he observed, taking her
small white hand between his two great horny palms,

all we think of is your future, ye know, and all we
want is to see you comfortably settled in life. Now,
this young Simon Sickles is a good lad — a very worthy
lad — and he'd make yer a right down good husband, I'm
sure. His aunt, Mrs. Corcoran, she can't say enough in
his favour, and she was only a-speaking' to me the other
day about him."

So they were in league against her too, thought Lizzie,
and Mrs. Corcoran was the prime instigator. She understood
it all now.

You know, Lizzie, my gal," pursued the gamekeeper,
we old people can't live on for ever ; there's no tellin'
when we may be taken away, and then what's to become
o' you ? Tou surely ain't so silly as to keep Mr. Hector
a-still running' in your head, and after all I've told ye.
Why, it wouldn't be like you to be so insensible as that.
No, no ; that's done with, o' course, isn't it ? so we needn't
say no more about it. And now, what we want you todo
is to look out for a husband, and that's just how it is.
Me and the missus, we've put by a little bit o' money for
you, haven't us, mother?" Mrs. Wolfe nodded knowingly.
" So, when a young man does come for to take my
sweet little rosebud as his'n, she 'on't only have just what
she's got on her back, don't you see ? "

Dear, kind old father," cried Lizzie, with swimming
eyes, " pray don't think me ungrateful, for indeed I'm
not. You and dear mother have always been so good tome,
that I'm sure I would never do the least thing to vex
you if I could help it, and I feel I must be a great burden,
because, you know, I've no real claim on you, and —
and—"

Nonsense, child ! don't talk like that, pray don't ! "
interrupted the old keeper, drawing the young girl nearer
to him, and fondly placing his arm round her. "No

claim on us, indeed ! when you're our own darling' little
gal that we can't bear out of our sights — a little angel
what God sent to us in our loneliness. No claim on me
and the mother ! Why, Liz, my child, what next ? You
might as well say that the young partridge ain't got no
right to look to the old 'uns, or the little mite of a leveret
to the hare, as to say that''

Forgive me, dear father ! I didn't mean to put it
exactly in that way. I only meant that I couldn't bear
you to think me an undutiful daughter, or that I wouldn't
obey you always. Ask me anything else in the world,
but please don't press me about this. It is very distasteful
to me, 1 assure you ; and — and if there was no
other reason, Mrs. Corcoran herself would be enough to
set me against her nephew. Besides, I'm certain it is
she who has tried to arrange this matter, for some reason
or other. 1 can't tell why, but I don't like that woman,
and I never shall."

What ! not like Mrs. Corcoran, Lizzie ! " cried Mrs.
Rolfe, throwing up her hands in astonishment. " Bless my
heart ! you do surprise me ! Why, she's the best old soul
as ever trod in patterns ! "

I can't help it, mother, and I'm very sorry to say so,"
rejoined Lizzie, with a far-away look in her eyes ; " but I
don't like her at all, and feel quite afraid of her sometimes.
It may be only my fancy," she continued, with
her hand to her forehead, as if trying to recall some indistinct
remembrance, "but I feel as if I'd seen her before
somewhere, in a dream or vision; and to-night, when she
spoke so crossly to me, it seemed to bring the dream
before me more vividly than ever — a dream of long ago,
when I was quite a little thing — some faint memory, as it
were—"

a My dear, that couldn't be," interposed Mrs. Rolfe,

or she'd ha' snowed it herself directly. I've often had
a talk with her concern' you, and she's always been so
kind and interested about it all. You're doing her a great
wrong, my child, that you are ; she's a real good creature,
she is, and she took to you from the very first. Of
course to-night she might be a little vexed because you
wouldn't have nothing' to say to her nephew Simon ; but
that was natural, wasn't it, Gid?"

Certainly it was — certainly it was. She is, as you say,
a good sort and no mistake about it, and Lizzie '11 find that
out by and by, I'm sure. But, there ! we mustn't sit up
all night a-talkin'. You look tired and pale, my pretty;
do you get to bed, and you'll feel better in the morning',
and get up as fresh as a daisy. Then Mrs. Corcoran and
Simon and all of y<: u will be as friendly again as ever.
God bless you ! my little rosebud," added the old keeper,
kissing her affectionately ; " don't you be thinking nothing'
more about it. Just go and pop your head on the pillow,
and sleep it off. Good night."

But Lizzie did not sleep it off ; indeed, long after she
retired to her little attic, she lay awake thinking and
thinking of that dark, stern face, while the harsh tunes
still rang in her ears. When she fell asleep at length,
Mrs. Corcoran continued to haunt her pillow, albeit the
woman appeared to her not as she looked at the present
time, but as Lizzie always saw her in that ill-remembered
dream.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE AGENCY Triumphs.

Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
calumny."

Shakspeare.

Since parting with our Anglo-Indian acquaintances at
Nainee Tal, rather more than eighteen months have
elapsed ; but it would be impossible to minutely
follow up the chain of events during that period
without carrying this story far beyond reasonable
limits. It will be sufficient, therefore, to jot down a
few connecting links and take up the thread at a fresh
point.

As everybody knows, the Abyssinian campaign was a
mere " walk over' thanks to our admirable generalship
and the utter want of pluck and enterprise on the part of
our foe. But the march to Magdalen and back, and the
quiet unobtrusive success attending it, may point an
excellent moral which it behoves every aspirant to military
fame to take well to heart.

In this triumphant expedition Lord Napier proved that
the word strategy does not merely apply to skill in handling
an army after it has taken the field ; and to him be
all honour for the careful supervision which he exercised,
in person, over the minutest details of the Transport

service, etc., thereby causing the great military machine
to work without a hitch.

Under all circumstances, then, Hector Grayle had no
chance of obtaining a Victoria Cross, by performing any
prodigies of valour, which, I fear, may sink him below
the ordinary level of heroes of romance ; but on the other
hand, he did not fall a victim (as Grumpy Grayle so
amiably predicted) either to King Theodore's chef de
cuisine, or the Al-Habashian sausage-machine — if they had
one — which is so far satisfactory.

On their return from Abyssinia the Cameronians were
quartered for some time at the artillery centre, Dum Dum,
and Fort William in Calcutta, proceeding thence to
Fyzabad, in the Oude district, at which station we will
rejoin them.

But returning for a few moments to where I last left
our friends at Nainee Tal, it must be recorded that two
days after the memorable picnic on Cheena, Heffernan and
Hector, with a couple of trustworthy shikarrees, went off
to the " Interior " on their prearranged shooting excursion
; so that Georgie Vickers had no immediate
opportunity for carrying out the instructions so forcibly
laid down for her with regard to Hector. But meanwhile
she had the unpleasant task to perform of breaking
off with the poor old Major, which she accordingly
did with much compunction, though the harrowing
details of that interview may be best left to the imagination.


After a fortnight's excellent sport among the lordly
ibex and its brotherhood, Hector and his Fidus Achates
returned to Nainee Tal. They had still a month's leave
in hand after their trip, and during this time Georgie
Vickers made considerable progress with her new pupil.
Indeed, what had at first appeared to her as an undertaking

repugnant to her feelings, from the mere fact
of its compulsion (such is the inherent spirit of opposition
in human nature), soon became a real "labour of love''
Hence it followed that before Hector went down again
to the plains, Georgie had quite lost her heart to him,
and felt that she could scarcely consider herself any
longer in the light of a victim. Whether her tender
sentiments were fully reciprocated or not, and whether
Hector looked upon their new friendship as an affaire
d' amour, or merely an entente cordiale, she was unable to
judge at present; but she had evidently " flattered his
boyish pride," for he seemed to relish immensely keeping
up a lively correspondence with her, which he continue
to do until his regiment embarked from Bombay
for Abyssinia.

This had furnished Heffernan with sufficient grounds
for throwing out those hints in his letters to Barringtree,
although at the time Hector was still loyal to Lizzie, and
was only amusing himself with Georgie Vickers, and
administering to his own vanity, pour passer le temps.

With respect to the pecuniary part of the compact,
Heffernan had religiously fulfilled his promise to Mrs.
Vickers, but a lucky circumstance soon afterwards released
him from a rather heavy incubus, and absolved her. from
further obligation.

It came about in this way. While at Nainee Tal she
won a small wager from Tiny Gore in the shape of so
many pairs of gloves, which Tiny in round numbers put
down at two gold moeurs (equivalent to a trifle over 81.
in English money), and being of a speculative turn of
mind, he persuaded Georgie to let him invest this sum
for her in a couple of tickets in the Calcutta Derby
Lottery. Accordingly this was done, and when the
drawing took place in the following May she found herself,

to her inexpressible delight, the winner of the third prize,
which, amounting as it did to a very considerable sum,
placed, her suddenly in an independent position; at any
rate for a time.

Her first object was to discharge her liability to Albert
HefFernan, which she resolved to do immediately on
his return from Abyssinia, for she loathed the idea of
being under any obligation to her subtle foe. As for poor
old Major Bonus, he had proudly declined to be reimbursed
one farthing, so Georgie found she could not free herself
of that obligation, however much she pressed it.

In the autumn of the same year she went down to
Calcutta with Gwennie, where they took up their quarters
for some time ; and as the Cameronians were afterwards
stationed in the neighbourhood, she and Hector were
thus brought together again, very much to the furtherance
of Heffernan's project.

As for Joe Corcoran, he was overjoyed to find that
w blessed little 'un" and her mother once more under his
eye, and it seemed to him quite a revival of old times.
When he left for Abyssinia he gave the chowkiclar into
the keeping of one of the women of the regiment (who,
with the children, had been all sent to Poona pro tern),
so the dinah was still to the fore and as voluble as ever,
nor would the giant have parted with that incorrigible
old chatterton for untold wealth.

Turning to the main channel of my story, I should
mention that since the Abyssinian campaign, and during
the residence at Calcutta, Heffernan and his secret undermining
agency had been steadily at work.

This modern Achates was ever watching by the side of
aeneas, and guarded him as zealously as a mother guards
her only offspring. He had of late held one or two
judicious conversations with Hector concerning Lizzie

Kolfe, always conducted on his part with much bonhomie,
and in a pleasant, bantering strain. Then he had almost
accident as it were, shown him certain portions of a
letter from Mrs. Corcoran, relative to Simon Sickles and
Lizzie, in which the woman insinuated very plainly that
the two young people were desperately in love and likely
soon to make a match of it.

When Hector read this he was very indignant, and
more disgusted than he cared to show ;. but he wouldn't
believe Mrs. Corcoran' s statement for one moment, and it
only remained for Lizzie, if she loved him, to write at
once and deny it ; which he determined to beg her to do
without delay. This was his first impulse, but, on the
intelligence being fully corroborated by his own sister, he
knew not what to think. Agnes, of course, was in the
plot, with regard to which Heffernan had advised her ;
and since she considered that for Lizzie's sake, as well as
Hector's, it was most desirable that a stop should be put
to this foolish affair, she had no hesitation in aiding and
abetting her betrothed in his plausible plan, although she
little knew the chief motive power which actuated him.
Having heard, therefore, from the Eolfes about Simon, and
how much they desired the match for Lizzie, Agnes
immediately wrote off to India and made the most of her
intelligence, throwing out hints as plain as Mrs. Corcoran's,
if anything rather plainer.

So, all women are alike ! " soliloquized Hector, coming
to that sweeping conclusion which some people jump
at directly they find one woman has proved false.

It was too galling and humiliating to be supplanted by
one of their own tenants — such a gaping booby as young
Simon Sickles, too. Pah ! the very idea was enough to
drive him wild; moreover, he could not induce Lizzie to
write him a single letter ; she persistently abstained from

doing so, and doubtless this was the real cause — she had
forgotten all about him. Ah, well, it was too much for
his pride to sit down now and write to her — considering
all he had heard and on what authority too. Hence the
agency of Heffernanj Corcoran, and Co., triumphed !

Nevertheless Hector did write after all — a very eloquent
epistle. He was resolved to leave no stone unturned
in order to prove his lover's fidelity ; but Lizzie never
received the effusion ! The Holes, meaning to act for the
best, and equally determined to bring the romance to an
end, carefully intercepted this very letter (as instructed
by Mrs. Corcoran), so how could poor Lizzie reply to it ?
The fact of her not doing so naturally made Hector
believe the worst, and he therefore accepted her stubborn
silence as a confirmation of the reports.

After this Hector grew desperate, and fell into such a
frame of mind that he was ripe for anything, from 
to manslaughter, as the saying has it. In this
wide range fierce love-making was, of course, included,
and for which Hector laid himself out with considerable
energy, falling back upon Georgie Yickers as a substitute
for his faithless inamorata.

I hate inconstancy — I loathe, detest,
Abhor, condemn, abjure the mortal made
Of such quicksilver clay that in his breast
No permanent foundation can be laid."

Nevertheless I think there is every excuse to be made for
my hero, who was not only the victim of circumstances, but
of a cunning conspiracy as well. Had he been differently
situated, I can answer for him he would never have
swerved from his allegiance to his first love, for he was
not of that " quicksilver clay " which preserves no stability
of character; but the Fates, as directed by the crafty
Heffernan, made a dead set at him, and not only proved

once more that the course of true love never did run
smooth, but, in this case, effectually dammed it up and
stopped it running altogether.

So Telemachus once more rewarded the virtuous efforts
of his anxious Mentor — the decoy duck turned out to be a
real duck — and Hector Grayle found himself ere long in
love with Georgie Vickers (or believed himself so to be)
and vice versa.

Now these goings-on in the great city of palaces were
carefully reported by the master of the ceremonies to the
head-quarters at Barringtree ; but, strange to say, were
received there with only qualified approval. Such report,
too, duly reached poor Lizzie, who was already languishing
under the consuming fever of anxiety ; and this positive
intelligence — very different from former vague
rumours — proved the last straw, which, however, instead
of breaking down the girl's spirit, roused her to a real
sense of her position.

Meanwhile the Cameronians had received orders to
move from Fort William to Fyzabad, so Cupid and the
new Psyche were suddenly torn asunder, at all events fora
time — but only a very short time ; they could not
brook a protracted separation, and as love laughs at locksmiths,
so it made light of the distance and difficulties
which interposed between the parted ones.

Posset quia posse videntur, and Georgie very quickly
found a way to follow up her stricken quarry ; indeed,
almost as soon as the wild notes of the bagpipes first
competed with the Beam-sammy music in the Fyzabad
Bazaar, the energetic little woman was with the Cameronianss
in the land of Oude.

It was arranged very opportunely.

Tiny Gore's sister, Mrs. Moberley, was the wife of the
Assistant-Commissioner of that district, and resided in a

prettily situated bungalow in the civil lines. At Nainee
Tal Mrs. Moberley, on her brother's warm recommendation,
had cultivated Georgie's acquaintance, and the
intimacy, so formed, gradually ripened into a strong
friendship. This led to a pressing invitation, both
from the Commissioner's wife and her husband, for
Georgie Yickers to pay them a visit at Fyzabad, with her
little daughter ; and this invitation, which had been renewed
from time to time, was now gladly accepted.

CHAPTER XX.

CAMP IN THE JUNGLE.
The groves were God's first tempt(

Bryant.

As a military cantonment, Fyzabad (a remarkably pretty
station) is about the same size as Bareilly, and is similarly
situate with regard to the Hills, being close under the
first Himalayan ridge, which runs along the Nepaul
frontier. It is some six miles from the city of Oude —
that ancient capital on the banks of the Gogra, famous for
having been, many years before the Christian epoch, the
seat of the most powerful Hindoo dynasty.

Fyzabad proper is a decayed town, once of considerable
importance, and there is some evidence of its magnificence
in the past, in the many splendid old tombs, temples, and
buildings that still remain, and the several beautiful
gardens, which add materially to the picturesque surroundings
of the place.

When the Cameronians settled down in their new
quarters it was late in the cold season ; and soon after their
arrival the Assistant Commissioner, Mr. Moberley, had
occasion to move out into camp, for official reasons, to a
small place called Sandeepore, about seventeen miles from
Oude. The weather, although the coldest months were
past, was still temperate, and as life under canvas in

some shady spot would be very enjoyable, Mrs. Moberley,
together with her guests, Georgie Yickers and little
Gwennie, accompanied the Commissioner and his numerous
retinue of servants and followers, which latter gave
the encampment quite the character of a miniature
durbar."

Moberley was a very jovial, hospitable sort of fellow,
and always made it a rule to do things as comfortably as
possible. He thought this an excellent opportunity ior
combining business with pleasure ; so, in addition to the
society of the ladies, he was resolved to rally round him a
few sporting friends, especially as there was plenty of
capital tt pig-sticking n to be obtained in the neighbourhood
of Sandeepore, besides game of other kinds.

Accordingly he invited Tiny Gore to join the camp,
and to nominate three brother officers, "jolly fellows
with lots of go in them, you know," who might be
asked to accompany him. Tiny, without hesitation,
mentioned Heffernan, Hector Grayle, and Tommy Rawson
as the sort of men Moberley wanted; and to these
the invitation was extended, with a request that they
would get ten days' leave and take with them to Madrepore
their horses, guns, tents, and pig-sticking paraphernalia.


Three days after this the Cameronian quartette rode out
of Fyzabad to join Moberley's bivouac, followed by their
spare horses and camp equipage, &c, the latter being
entrusted to the care of Joe Corcoran. Heffernan had
obtained leave for the big soldier to go with them as
general utility man, which delighted Joe immensely,
especially as he knew that Georgie Vickers and the
blessed little ; un " would be of the party. The giant
was a very important personage indeed in his responsible
position as master of the horse, baggage camels,
vol. 11. p"

and " niggers' but his importance suffered somewhat
from his being mounted on a scraggy bazaar " tat'
which was scarcely big enough to keep his lengthy extremities
from touching the ground.

As the party neared Sandeepore they descried the
white tents of the Assistant-Commissioner's camp, erected
under the shade of a magnificent tope of peepul-trees. It
was a strikingly picturesque spot, and there was a degree
ofi wildness in its surroundings, and

In the darkling wood.
Amid the cool and silence,"

which made it specially attractive to a sportsman. Indeed,

such a grove of mighty peepul-trees as that at Sandeepore,

with

The grey old trunks, that high in heaven
Mingled their mossy boughs,"

is not often to be met with even amongst the gigantic
growth of the tropics.

A fair open country spread around, well adapted for
riding down the wild boar, and near at hand were patches
of grass jungle and sugar " whets," which afforded good
cover for the quarry. The plains had not yet assumed
that brown, dried-up aspect which the scorching breath of
an Indian summer produces ; and at present a refreshing
verdure overspread the face of nature, the blue Nepaul
hills in the background forming an exceedingly pretty
landscape.

A few miles beyond the encampment stretched the celebrated
Goruckpore Terai, once famous to sportsmen as the
best hunting-ground in India for tiger, and, even at the
time I write of, affording enough big game to satisfy the
most gluttonous of Nimrod. Here plenty of tigers were
still to be found, although they were not nearly so numerous

as a few years ago, but along the lower hill jungles
on the Nepaul frontier the striped monarch literally reigned
supreme.

The officers dismounted outside the tope of trees, and
had their animals led away to be picketed, when Moberley
and the ladies emerged from the tents to welcome the new
arrivals.

I say, I say, such a lark ! " exclaimed Gore, as they
approached. " We've got the giant with us, you know —
he's coming up behind with our things, mounted on a
magnificently caparisoned Arab steed, presented to him
by the Maharajah. Just wait till you see him, that's
all."

What, Joe ! have you brought out dear old Joe ? "
cried little Gwennie, her eyes dancing with delight. " Oh,
I'm so glad ! I wanted somebody to play with, and Joe'il
do beautifully."

Don't build on that, little girl," observed Tiny,
with a grave air. " Mr. Joseph Corcoran is a grand man
now, 1 can tell you. I'm afraid he won't have anything
to say to such small fry as you."

u You nasty old thing ! " exclaimed the child, running
at Tiny as if to annihilate him.

Besides, he won't have time," continued the ensign,
dodging out of her way.

No, that he won't," put in Hector ; " he's our batman,
butler, boots, bottle-washer, and everything in
one."

What a shame, Mr. Grayle ! " returned Gwennie,
indignantly. "You shan't work him so hard. Joe's not
so strong as he looks, I can tell you."

Which naive remark from the giant's stanch little
champion created considerable merriment.

After a while the baggage-train hove in sight, and asp
2

it drew near the tope the most ludicrous spectacle presented
itself. There was that poor weak thing, Joe
Corcoran, his huge body very erect and rigid, and with
trailing feet, bringing up the rear on the tottering tanto,
and belabouring with a long bamboo a sluggish camel
which would lag behind. No wonder, poor brute ! after
the weary march, and laden as it was with a heavy
tent. A roar of laughter from the encampment greeted
the giant's appearance, upon which he dismounted from
his gallant charger, or rather, put his feet to the ground
and allowed the miserable little pony to walk away from
between his legs ; then, fronting the group, he saluted
solemnly, and with a right half-turn, marched on after the
cavalcade. Gwennie immediately darted off in pursuit
of her big favourite, and, insinuating her little hand into
his colossal paw, volunteered to help him in his onerous
duties.

Dinner in camp was ordered for half-past six that
evening, when all the party were invited to assemble in
the Commissioner's <( dewan-khan," a large double-poled
day-tent, — for the hospitable Moberley insisted on
making the officers guests at his table during their
expedition.

It was then late in the afternoon, and, the horses having
just come off the march, nothing could be done till the
following morning ; but the host intended to have a grand
beat for pig early next day, and for which a "barra
bundabust/' as the natives call it, had been already
made.

Moberley was an experienced pigsticker himself, and
had gone through many an exciting gallop in the Deccan,
that glorious metropolis of hog-hunting; and those jovial
meets in bygone days with the old Nigger Hunt beside
the favourite grove of Arkola, and the wild maddening

race for first spear over the sheet rock, rugged fissures, and
rolling stones of the Deccan hills, were fresh in his
memory; while the very scent of the aromatic jungle
shrub, peculiar to the Ghauts, seemed to hover around
him at the thought of those stirring times.

As there was about an hour and a half to cut to waste
before dinner, the camping party dispersed themselves
as the spirit moved them; and while some looked
up their baggage and sporting equipments, others betook
themselves to the line of horses picketed near at hand,
where these animals, tortured by tight heel-ropes, stood
in the most uncomfortable, stretched-out attitudes, appearing
rather like a row of rocking-horses.

Georgie accompanied Hector Grayle on the inspection
of his stud, after which they strolled off together into the
dark depths of the peepul grove — a most inviting place fora
romantic ramble. Although there had been various
love-passages between them, Hector had not yet come to
the point, and Georgie was in an anxious state of expectation,
fancying at any moment he might put the important
question. However, it was not to be on that occasion,
apparently, for Hector chatted away on indifferent subjects
in the most matter-of-fact manner — rather too much so
to please his fair companion, who began to wonder whether
this was from nervousness on his part, or whether he had
only been flirting with her, and was now beginning to
draw in his horns ; which reflection brought the old
proverb about two stools unpleasantly to her mind. Her
cogitation on this point was suddenly interrupted by
a trumpet sounding the mess-call from the camp, the
performer being Moberley's head soar, an ex-cavalry
musician.

By George ! that means dinner," exclaimed Hector,
as they stopped short in their walk ; ' ' we'd better make

haste back, or we shall be late." Whereupon they
hurriedly retraced their steps towards the encampment.

Hetfernan was standing by the dining tent as Georgie
passed him, and he raised his eyebrows interrogatively
when he saw them returning together, for he, too, was
anxiously awaiting the climax. Georgie pretended, however,
not to notice his significant glance, and liked him
no better for the careful espionage he seemed to exercise
over her every movement.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE FIRST

M On his bow-back he hath a battle set
Of bristly pikes, that ever threat his foes ;
His eves like glow-worms shine when he doth fret ;
His snout digs sepulchres where'er he goes ;
Being moved, he strikes whate'er is in his way,
And whom he strikes his cruel rushes slay.

His brawny sides, with hairy bristles arm'd,

Are better proof than thy spear's point can enter. —

# * # *

* # *
He ran upon the boar with his sharp spear,
Who did not whet his teeth at him again."

Shakspeare.

The boar — the boar — the mighty boar —
The brave old boar of the plain !
Here's a health to him who fears no fall,
And the next great boar that's slain ! ''

Old Pig-sticking Chorus.

The next morning an early breakfast found the hog-hunters
assembled together in somewhat varied costumes,
the best and most prevalent being the long sambur-skin
boot, thick cords, and M kalkee " blouse, with leathern
belt, and a pith helmet — or, better still, a " puggaree,"
worn in true Oriental fashion.

u Rather different from the dapper pink coats, faultless
tops, and shiny hats of the Shires' thought Hector.

Ah! and the sport is rather different too — more dangerous,
and consequently, to an Englishman, more
enjoyable; at least, many men who have gone in for both
unhesitatingly give the palm to pig-sticking, and I think
(speaking from some personal experience) with very
excellent reason.

There were six spears in all; the Cameronian contingent,
Moberley, and a brother civilian, Jack Overtop
(another hard rider of the Tommy Rawson stamp) . A
thoroughly workmanlike lot they looked.

Mrs. Moberley and Georgie Yickers put in an appearance
at breakfast, but took no further part in the
morning's proceedings, since Moberley, sensibly enough,
and with all respect to the ladies, would allow no followers
at the covert-side ; for though the fair sex may
race the meet in Engknd, and often lead the held as
well, perhaps — they would find the grey grisly boar of
the jungles a rather different customer from Monsieur
Renard.

The host having paired off his spears, after the formal
manner of the old Nigger-ites, no time was lost in
mounting, and away rode the party towards an extensive
grass jungle about a couple of miles distant, where the
first " honkwa/' or beat, was to take place.

Hector Grayle was paired off with Tommy Rawson; and,
although far better mounted on a smart little Arab, he
well knew he would have his work cut out to compete
with the redoubtable Tommy on his rakish-looking screw.
But Hector was a thorough sportsman, and would be
hard to beat. He left nothing to chance, moreover, as
regarded his gear ; his saddlery was perfection, and he
had taken care to provide himself with the very best
spear obtainable — steel heads of the most approved
pattern, and shafts of stout male bamboo, which had

been cut with due regard to the old native tradition, or
were supposed to have been, viz., at night, by the light
of the new moon.

Arrived at the jungle, the Assistant Commissioner
immediately posted his shears, upon which every one
dismounted and waited in anxious silence for the beat to
commence. The honkwa was formed by a line of coolies
and villagers, with long pikes, staves, and musical, or
rather musical, instruments ; this line being varied by
the huge forms of three elephants, with their " shouts,"
who took up position, one in the centre and one on each
flank, to mark the game.

The rather long interval of waiting reminded Hector
somewhat of the covert-side at home, except for the
wildness of the scene ; but the moment the order was
given for the advance of the beaters, the similarity was
dispelled. Such a dinning hulla-balloo as then rent the
air was enough to awaken the dead, the wild shouts of the
natives being accompanied by the hollow drumming on
the " tom-tom " and the deeper tones of the big
doobla." If any porcine family were ensconced in the
jungle, as was nearly certain to be the case, that fiendish
row would very soon set them moving. Presently a
winding blast on the conch announced the fact — a pre-concerted
signal that the quarry was afoot — and sure
enough the rustling and waving of the tall yellow grass,
and the deep, spasmodic, smothered grunts, responded
to by excited yells of "Soar! — soar ! — soon nata hai 3
sahib ! " ' indicated that a sounder had been reared. Yes,
there they were, rushing through the jungle in front of
the beaters, to be heard plainly enough, but as yet
invisible in the thick covert.

1 The pig ! the pig ! — there go the pigs, sir !

We're in for a burst now ! " whispered Tommy, with
a beaming face, and giving a last look to his girths and
leathers.

The moment was one of thrilling excitement; and,
though Hector had never " ridden to pig " before, he felt
instinctively all the keen fascination of such glorious
sport.

1 believe they're going to break on the other side'
he murmured, in an anxious undertone. " By George !
we shall be out of it if we don't get round."

Not at all — wait for Moberley," returned Tommy,
in a cautious whisper; "we shall hear' him fast
enough."

The Assistant-Commissioner did not emulate the
Deccan school to the extent of bugle calls, but as
Master of the Hunt, the signals to mount and ride were
to be taken from his view-holloa.

The grunting of the sounder now grew more and more
indistinct, and was finally lost in the approaching din
of the beaters, and still Hector and Eawson listened in
vain for the longed-for signal — but it came not.

What the deuce can it mean ? " muttered Hector,
getting impatient. " They must have gone away."

"Blessed if I know," replied Tommy, equally
puzzled, and they looked blankly at each other for a
moment.

Well, let's make a move, anyhow," said Hector.

"No, no, hooJiham kubbadar, my boy — never disobey
orders. Hs-sh ! silence in the pig-market ! "

Tommy Rawson was too old a sportsman to make a
mistake, and knew better than to stir from his post
without the word.

The solution of their non-appearance in the open was
that the cunning sounder had slipped away down a deep

narrow ravine at the farther corner of the jungle, and
had immediately taken refuge in a neighbouring sugar
whet, the only unlucky point at which they could possibly
have broken without giving a run, and an unaccountable
oversight on the part of the Master in not having
stationed some natives there to head them back. However,
there was no help for it now.

Heffernan and Jack Overton, who were posted near,
had spied the retreating pig, and held up their helmets
as high as they could on their spears j but Moberley, who
saw the signs, knew what had happened, and waited for
better luck, resolving to beat the whet afterwards, and
abusing himself roundly for his faulty tactics.

But the grass jungle was not half done with yet, and
the " lubber," or intelligence, from the native skikar-
rees, had been to the effect that it was literally alive with
pig. And so it seemed, for, after a few more discordant
minutes of " tom-tom-king, and " wah-wah-nig, &c,
the welcome " wooral-wurral " of the conch denoted
more game on the move, and this time the reverse-flank
elephant and beaters hurried forward on the left, and
turned the fresh sounder in the right direction, thus preventing
any more sneaking away.

How their hearts thumped against their kalkee coats
as the sportsmen heard the discomfited porkers nearing
the edge of the jungle ! Nearer and nearer they came —
would they never break ! The suspense was almost painful,
though not prolonged, for the next minute a solitary pig
appeared on the border. Almost directly afterwards the
whole sounder, of ten or a dozen, emerged into the open,
and scampered across the plain, an old grey boar, as big
as a half-grown bison, bringing up the rear.

The mighty patriarch paused for a moment after breaking
cover, and listened with his head slightly on one

side, while his little wicked eyes twinkled and flashed
with anger; then, with a contemptuous grunt, as if to
say " Catch me if you can ! " oft' he went, lumbering and
grumbling* along after his family.

Gone away ! Moberley now gives the first signal to his
spears to mount, when every man, on the alert, springs
with alacrity into the saddle, and tightens himself in
his seat for the coming struggle.

The plain around seems good riding enough at a glance :
but, as they all well know, there are many treacherous
quicksands, bandicoot holes, and awkward chasms, lying
hidden beyond, in that level-looking surface — calculated
to give a nasty " spill " at any moment. But what care
they with the pig in front, and good nags underneath
them !

For-hard ! " Again the Master's voice is heard, and
away the impetuous horsemen rush in the wild race for
the spear. Those maddening moments, once felt, are
never to be forgotten. Fiercely the heated blood courses
through the veins, as .each rider urges his steed in his
headlong career, heedless of the rough stones, rocks,
cactus, and prickly pear which beset his path — no thought
of his wretched horse's legs — no thought of anything
save the one great prize, the first spear !

The sounder have been allowed over a quarter of a
mile's start, and are making straight for the nearest
jungle, a tamarisk thicket looming in the distance. But
long before they can reach it the light cavalry will be
amongst them, and scatter them to the four quarters of
the wind.

Onward the hunters speed past clumps of palms and
sandy hillocks, bounding over small ravines and low
acacia bushes, dropping into dry nulla, and clambering
up the opposite banks with a wild shout, and random

hustle — onward they thunder in the wake of the flying
!

Every man's eye is on the huge grey boar, conspicuous
from the rest of the sounder by his size, and each man
in his heart singles him out as his own particular prey —
well worthy of his steel.

Slowly and surely the riders gain on the now flagging
herd, but in that frantic skunk the line of horsemen has
lengthened out, and the speedier ones have forced themselves
to the front, two or three falls having already
occurred.

Heffernan, on a slashing black Waler, 8 has the foremost
place at present, from sheer length of his horse's stride, but
close at that animal's quarters hangs Tommy on his high-blooded
screw. A formidable ravine, which the powerful
Australian took in a flying leap, and Tommy scrambled
over somehow (as he alone could have done), had
checked the others for a few seconds, but they are now
coming up helter skelter, and quickly recovering lost
ground. Hand over hand the leaders draw up to the
sounder, which now separate in frantic terror at the
pounding hoofs and stentorian shouts behind them
and each pig takes a line of its own. More than one
fair-sized tusker may be seen in the wild herd, but
Heffernan and Rawson disdain all but the great patriarch,
whom they detach from the rest, and ride for in grim
earnest.

And now comes the tug of war !

Hector and Jack Overton — the pairs being thus
changed from the start — race knee to knee, and select
another boar, whilst the remaining couple single out a
third, and the three separate groups, independent of each

2 An Australian bred horse.

other, gallop and double, scramble, and rush along the
plain in the thrilling chase ; but it will be a good deal
more than they can manage to bring each tusker to
book.

Heffernan and Tommy Rawson now begin to hard
press their quarry, and as they presently observe the noble
old jungle-king swaying from side to side, with heaving
flanks all flecked with foam, they think he is about done
up, and must soon succumb to their blades, so increase
their efforts to snatch the much-coveted honour. But
at this moment the boar makes a sharp double, when
they are almost upon him, and, throwing them off
his line for a second or two, scuttles along in the new
direction, and suddenly disappears — having dropped-sheer
eighteen feet into an utterly impracticable nullah
close by !

This tremendous obstacle baffles even the intrepid
Tommy for the time ; but he and Hefferuan can see the
cunning old rascal, apparently none the worse for his
drop, shuffling along the dry bed of the watercourse as
they keep pace above him on the edge, and search in
vain for some rideable spot by which to descend and
renew the chase.

Meanwhile, Moberley and Tiny Gore have ignominiously
lost their pig, though Hector and his competitor were
more fortunate, and have just made the first boar of the
hunt bite the dust ; albeit Jack Overton's skill and
jungle-craft deprived our young friend of the spear.

Now, however, the whole party make common cause
against the hoary patriarch, and all are thirsting for his
blood as they trot beside the nullah, and with difficulty
watch him skulking along beneath them. But
Moberley, determined to dislodge him, signals for some
beaters to hurry up, and these, on reaching the spot,

immediately scramble down into the deep river-bed.
They then advance along the bottom at the "double,"
and renew their unearthly* noises with a view to forcing
the pig from his position.

Further on, the watercourse becomes shallower, and
the sides a little less precipitous, when the old tusker,
not liking the noise behind him, and feeling more insecure
in his retreat as he progresses, clambers up the
opposite bank to that on which the horsemen are
stationed. On reaching the top, he halts for a moment
or two, as much as to challenge them to come on, and
then, with a defiant " whoop," flourishes his little straight
tail, and scampers off across the maidan as if the devil
were after him — which, indeed, he was, in the roused
spirit of each individual sportsman. The boar's sagacity
doubtless prompted him to stand at bay on the verge
of the deep watercourse, but thinking, perhaps, it was
impossible for horses to cross at that point, he did not
consider it worth while to wait for them.

It is a case now of sauve qui pent with the pig-sticks,
and without a thought of how they are going to get out
again, down they drop, pell-mell, into the nullah, when
Tiny Gore's horse, a wiry caster, 3 pitches on his nose
and knees, and hurls Tiny into a convenient clump of
prickly pear, while each rider of the party has a more
or less narrow escape. But no one has time to laugh
or cry, and as no bones are broken— only the poor
caster's knees — on they rush, and charge the frowning
bank on the other side, as if they had been mounted on
so many cats adapted to scaling the perpendicular.

Few, however, reach the brow ; only Hector, on his
active little Arab, by the merest fluke, and Tommy

3 A horse disqualified for the Cavalry or Artillery, and generally
disposed of at a Government sale when the re-mounts are provided.

Rawson, who appears somehow to carry his screw up
between his legs, instead of the screw carrying him.
Melbourne' HefFernan's Waler, falls heavily back
with his rider, and they lie, for a few seconds, a mixed
heap at the bottom of the nullah, while the rest, after
futile attempts to follow the leaders, give it up, and
gallop along the bed to search for some practicable place
of egress.

This, of course, gives Hector and Tommy a tremendous
start of the field, and as they mount the bank they find
the old boar has also a good start of them.

Now for a set-to — a regular neck and neck race !

Hector is delirious with excitement, and taking "Agra "
(his Arab) well by the head, grips him as in a vice between
his knees, while both he and Tommy shout and yell like
two escaped lunatics.

In point of speed the horses are well matched for a
short distance, but presently the Arab's superior powers
of endurance begin to tell, and, in spite of Tommy's
splendid j ockeyship, Hector finds, to his delight, that
Agra is slowly forging ahead. Every stride brings them
nearer and nearer to the bristling boar in front, and
now they see the savage monster champing his tusks
ominously, while his small, lurid eyes are thrown back at
his pursuers.

Never, as long as he lived, would Hector forget that
intoxicating gallop, and his heart beats exultingly as he
fancies the triumph of first spear safe within his grasp.
But he had much yet to learn in the art of pig sticking,
and forgot that there's sometimes many a slip 'twixt the
pig and the stick before the spear is won.

He is now nearly level with the boar, and, stooping
over the right stirrup, is about to deliver his thrust,
when, like lightning, the active animal doubles round,

and lets in Tommy, who is close up behind. Thus foiled
at the critical moment, Hector dexterously turns his
horse in the new direction, and bides his time. He
sees his companion is no whit more successful, for the
wily boar twists sharply from his line in the same way,
and still remains scatheless.

The struggle now resembles a hard-run course, the hog
doubling from one to the other of his pursuers like a hare
before greyhounds, and neither can score that one important
point. But the noble veteran is becoming more and
more distressed, and staggers like a drunken man, while
the horses, as excited as their riders, dodge about after
him as though they were a couple of trained dogs.

Now for it, Hector — at last ! The boar favours him
slightly for a moment, but no — the young sportsman fails
to take advantage of it, though directly afterwards the
grim quarry, scorning further flight, wheels suddenly
round and charges our hero, who holds his horse well in
hand, and receives the fierce brute with a dexterous lunge,
which just pierces his brawny neck. A shrill (t who-hoop
" announces his triumph as the blood spurts out; for
though the wound is only a slight one, it is sufficient to
earn the honour, and Tommy magnanimously responds
with a congratulatory " Bravo ! " as Hector plunges
forward and withdraws his spear.

The foaming pig now stands at bay, with every bristle
erect ; but after a momentary pause he pulls himself together
and, with an angry roar, charges full tilt at Rawson.
Tommy takes it very coolly, and lets his furious assailant
have it full in his deep chest, when he falls over on to his
back, but recovers himself in an instant, and before
Tommy can pull out his blade, savagely seizes the shaft
in his powerful jaws, which, with the wrench and the bite,
snaps off short.

VOL. II. Q

Confound the rotten thing ! " cries Rawson, throwing
aside the balance of his weapon in disgust, as he spurs his
horse out of the way of a second charge, and only just intime,
for the blood-stained foam splashes his boot and
stirrup as

The hunted hoar,
Whose frothy mouth, painted all with red,
Like milk and blood being mingled both together,"

rushes blindly at him. Without a moment's pause the
enraged animal makes another dash at Hector, who this
time misses his spear, and the steel head glances harmlessly
off the hog's thick skull, the nimble Agra only
escaping a ripping from those terrible rushes by bounding
high over the ugly customer as he passes.

At this juncture the rest of the field appear, with the
exception of Heffernan, who is still at the bottom of the
nullah, dazed and faint from his fall, with Melbourne
standing trembling beside him.

The brave old boar is now bleeding (literally) like a
pig, but is still game to the backbone. The moment he
observes fresh adversaries approaching, and just as Hector
is riding for a third attack, he charges straight at Tiny,
who is foremost, and knocking the luckless caster's legs
from beneath him, lays open a cannon bone with an ugly
gash, and brings horse and rider to earth — their third
spill that morning !

For a moment Tiny's position is not an enviable one ;
but Hector, who is close behind the maddened boar and
sees the danger, now gallops up and sends home a telling
thrust just below the shoulder-blade, which transfixes the
heart, and rolls the plucky tusker over in his death agony.

Thus, without a wail or groan, the mighty hero of the
jungle yields up his life — as gallant a boar as ever blade

was fleshed in, thirty-five inclines at the shoulder, as they
measured him, with a pair of rushes (Hector's perquisites)
eight and a half inches long.

Our young friend was heartily congratulated on his
success, especially since he was pitted against a dashing
horseman like Tommy Rawson, and he had well deserved
the spear by straight and fearless riding — the only possible
chance a man has in such a sport as pig-sticking.

After a pull at the pocket-pistol, the next move was to
look after the prostrate Heffernan — forgotten for the
moment in that thrilling struggle — whom they found
sufficiently recovered to remount his horse and accompany
them to the next beat, the sugar whet. Up to the
edge of this the " pugs " of the first sounder were easily
seen, indicating where they had entered ; but a glance
round showed no signs of an exeunt, ergo they were
there still, and only waited to be ousted. Without
delay, therefore, this was effected, and then recommenced
all that wild tumult of excitement, the more pleasurable
after a slight lull.

However, as one hog-hunt is necessarily much like
another it is enough to say that they killed three more
pigs that morning, and returned to camp in time for a
late " tiffin' or luncheon, with appetites such as only
Hygeia and Diana combined can vouchsafe to mortal
man.

CHAPTER XXII.

Rising above the silent wood,
Night's regent pour'd a silver flood,
And bright her glitt'ring spangles fell
On many a sleeping floweret's bell."

Oxford.

By yonder blessed moon I swear."

Shakspeare.

For two or three days after his rushing fall Heffernan
was so stiff and sore he could scarcely get up into the
saddle, nor did Tiny Gore readily recover from the
effects of the cruel prickly pear ; but the programme of
sport gave them little time to think of their wounds.
Pig-sticking was generally the order of the day, varied
by an occasional stalk after black buck and sambur, ora
little shooting in the neighbouring jungles, which
harboured barra single, cheval, and other kinds of deer,
in addition to a variety of smaller game, both furred and
feathered.

The weather became perceptibly hotter in camp each
day that passed, and gave evidence that the grilling
summer was at hand. It was cool enough in the shade of
the majestic peepul trees, but on the unsheltered plains
the meridian sun already asserted its scorching power,
and made it warm work for the sportsmen.

The ladies naturally found it rather dull in camp, since
they could not participate in the pleasures of the chase,
and always looked forward to the evenings after dinner,
when the party were seated cosily round a log fire outside
the mess-tent, and sang songs, told stories, or went
over their day's adventures. Little Gwennie, who missed
this part of the entertainment by going to roost long
beforehand, would have felt quite lost without the companionship
of her old playmate Joe, albeit that important
personage was ever busy, either burnishing accoutrements
or grooming horses, during which Gwennie would
stand by and watch his movements, and cheer him with
her lively prattle.

One drowsy afternoon, Joe, having finished his duties
for the time being, lounged down by the fallen trunk of
a tree, and settled himself for a quiet pipe after his exertions.
As he puffed away slowly and lazily at the black
cutty," he indulged in a dreamy reverie, that took him
back to the days when he was a lad at home — to the old
times when he lived with his mother in the little cottage
which lay nestled amid the hop-gardens of Kent. Then
he thought of a pretty, blue-eyed child — alas ! so like
that blessed little 'un — the pet and companion of his
youth; a sweet, merry little darling, who hovered around
his boyhood like a bright ray of sunshine, and whom he
loved as his own sister.

Afterwards, the close-trimmed, jovial face of the recruiting
sergeant flashed across his memory — that wily
tempter who lured him from his home, when he took the
fatal shilling 5 and followed the example of his old
friend and comrade, the " Captain," by joining service
with the defenders of his country.

Thus he pondered as he lay back against the fallen
tree in the cool shade, and listened, to the humming of

the insects around his head, which were becoming troublesome
with the returning warmth. He gazed listlessly
through the labyrinth' of thick trunks out on to the sandy
plains beyond, besprinkled now with bright green patches
of vegetation and basking genially in the heat of the
afternoon sun, but very soon to be burnt up under its
pitiless focus ; and as he gazed his eyes gradually closed,
so that long before the pipe was finished, Joe was fast
asleep.

^ SfN 5jC ^fC ^C Sc

"Boo— oh!"

The snoring giant sprang promptly to "attention'
his great long body suddenly rearing itself aloft like the
ascent of a rocket.

That " boo — oh' breaking in on his dreams, so nearly
resembled the Sergeant-major's word of command that
he thought he must be on parade and have fallen asleep
in the ranks.

Did I frighten you, Joe ? "

You little rogue, Miss Gwennie," said he, standing at
ease when he saw who it was ; " I was just a have' a nice
snooze."

You were just having a nice snore, you mean' replied
Gwennie, laughing.

Was I snoring' ? Well, I was a dream in '."

And who were you dreaming about, Joe ? "

Gwennie jumped on to the prostrate tree and began
balancing herself on the rounded foothold while she talked
to him.

I think I was a dreaming' about you, my little 'un.
Take care, you'll fall."

No, I shan't. What were you dreaming about me, I
should like toknow ? "

Here she changed her Blondin-like tactics to a sitting
posture.

Well, it was about you, and yet it wasn't, ye understand.
I was a niixin' of you up like with another little
girl — that other little 'un what you've heard me speak on
afore now — "

I know ; you mean little Bessie'

Yes, little Bessie Farlane — as was, at least. Bless
my buttons ! how you do remind me of her, Miss
Gwennie."

So you've said lots of times, Joe," replied the child, ina
slight tone of pique, showing already the woman-like
nature in its infancy, ' ' and I believe that's the only reason
you love me."

Oh, begorra ! don't say such a thing as that, Miss
Gwennie, don't; sure-?i there ain't any harm in my telling
you you're like her, poor little mite."

Of course not. I was only in fun, Joe. Sit down
here and smoke your pipe while we talk. I don't mind it."

The giant complied with the invitation, and soon had
the neglected cutty under weigh again.

And she's dead, Joe ? How long ago is it ? "

Oh, a many years afore you was born, Miss Gwennie.
Poor little dear ! she was ruined over by a steam engine
know, and crushed to bits, about a year after I listed."

Oh, how dreadful, Joe ; and you were so fond of
her?"

"Ah, that I was," replied the soldier, with a deep sigh.
She was a little angel on earth, she was ; and now she's
gone up above along with them others in heaven, bless
her ! "

Joe stared earnestly in front of him while he spoke, as if
trying to take up some very distant point to march upon.
Presently he seemed to have lost it, and, with one or

two spasmodic blinks, changed front, again to Gwennie's
direction.

Bnt there ! it's no use talking any more about it'
said he ; i( such a time ago as that is too. She's a deal
happier than we are, I'll be bound "

Of course she is, Joe. And you sometimes think I'm
like her'

Not sometimes, my little 'un — always ; the same
pretty ways, the same blue-lookin' eyes, and everything.
She was a sweet little darling, and so are you."

And you love me because I'm me, don't you, Joe ?
not because I make you think of her."

That don't need no explaining little Missis ; ye know
I do."

Dear old Joe ! " exclaimed the child, throwing her
arms round the giant's neck and giving him a good hug.
At this moment their conversation was interrupted
from different quarters ; by Georgie calling to her little
daughter from one side of the camp, and the sound of
the returning sportsmen in the direction of the horse-lines.
Gwennie, with her pretty tresses floating in the
air as she ran, immediately bounded off like a little fawn
in answer to her mother's summons ; while Joe shambled
away in the opposite direction, at his elephantine trot, to
attend on the officers.

Half the ten days' leave had now expired, and although
as yet Hector had made no positive sign, Georgie felt
sure that more than once he had been very, very near the
point. Meanwhile Heffernan's eagle eye continued to watch
them narrowly, like the dark glare of Mephistopheles on
Faust and Marguerite. A thorough sportsman in the
field, with his heart and soul in the pursuit, what a
different being Hector's friend became during the quiet
evenings in camp ! — at once merging the character of

the jovial hunter in that of the crafty, unscrupulous intriguer
when those two whom he had plotted and schemed
so carefully to bring together were under his immediate
observation.

Although Georgie no longer considered herself a victim
exactly, inasmuch as by conforming to her enemy's instructions
she was now merely following the bent of her
own inclinations, yet there was an insupportable feeling
of subservience to his power, which the man's very
presence engendered — a hateful sensation of dependence
on his clemency and forbearance, coupled with the bitter
reflection that her good name was ever at his mercy.
All this made her long the more for the affair with Hector
Grayle to be definitely arranged, since she anticipated
that an engagement and subsequent marriage with Heffer-nan's
future brother-in-law would free her from the
chance of further persecution.

The poor old major's sorrowful face and mildly reproachful
looks now and again smote her as Georgie
recalled their last painful interview ; nevertheless she felt
blameless of any wanton cruelty, since she had but acted,
so to speak, as an unwilling agent.

The nights in camp about this time were singularly
beautiful, with such brilliant moonlight as is only to be
seen in the tropics. After dinner, when conversation and
songs were exhausted, and the fatigued sportsmen either
dropped off to sleep in their easy chairs, or one by one
sought their welcome couches, a peaceful calm prevailed
in the quiet encampment.

Although it was nearly as light as day in the open
country around, amid that dusky tope of trees the tents
loomed indistinct and grey-black in the partial obscurity,
the deep shadows being here and there relieved by a few
glinting moonbeams which forced their way through the

dense foliage overhead. But as the uncertain rays made
the darkness within the depths of the peepul grove more
apparent, so the various subdued noises, which now and
again disturbed the solemn stillness of the night, made
the silence seem more profound. The distant tom-tom in
the village and the intermittent tinkle-tinkle of the cattle-bell,
varied by the drawling bark of the pariah and the
occasional snort from the picketed horses, were more or
less dreamy sounds at that late hour ; but at intervals when
the sudden and discordant chorus of jackals burst out
close by and made night hideous for the time, the
weary sleeper started and muttered in his dreams, as if
invoking a curse on those weird disturbers of his rest.

On such a night, about a week after the arrival of the
officers in camp, Hector and Georgie wandered away
together from the circle round the fire, and rambled far
from the grove out into the silvery moonlight.

In their earnest conversation they took no heed how
the minutes flew by, and it was late ere they thought of
retracing their steps. When they did so, and reached
the camp fire, which had now degenerated into a few
smouldering logs and white ashes, they found that everybody
had retired except one, and he was reclining fast
asleep in an easy chair.

After a few whispered sentences beside the expiring
embers, Hector inquired, —

Then we perfectly understand one another, Georgie?"

Perfectly," she murmured, looking fondly up into
his face.

One more— good night ! "

'He leant down as he spoke, and their lips met ; they
cooed a soft blessing to each other, and Georgie then
repaired to her tent.

Directly she entered it, the poor little woman sank on

her knees beside her bed and sobbed almost hysterically —
partly from nervous joy, and partly in grateful relief from
the acute tension of her feelings during the last few weeks.
It had indeed been a painfully anxious time for her, and
now that all was arranged, and they had plighted their
troth at last, she prayed earnestly that God would help
her to be a good loving wife, and worthy of the noble boy
who had sworn to protect her.

A long-drawn sigh and a stifled yawn greeted Hector
as he turned towards the sleeper in the chair after Georgie
disappeared.

I say, old fellow, it's time to turn in. Get up ! "
cried he.

Halloa ! what's the matter ? fire gone out ! how long
have I been snoozing ? M Another yawn.

I'rn sure I don't know ; hours, I should think — ain't
you cold ? "

I am a little, o — — oh ! " he groaned, drawing his
legs stiffly off the long projecting arms of the cane-bottomed
chair. ' ' A-ah ! both my feet have gone to sleep."

Here, I'll give you a haul. Catch hold — " so saying
Hector pulled the recumbent figure up to the perpendicular.

Thanks, Hec, old man."

11 1 say, come and have a pipe in my tent before you
turn in, Albert ; I want to have a talk to you."

"sall right," replied Heffernan, adding carelessly,
but what about ? it's rather late, isn't it ? "

Not very — you know what about ? "

Eh ? d'you mean the little widow ? "

I mean Mrs. Vickers, yes," rejoined Hector, not quite
liking the flippant term now as applied to his future wife.

Exactly, is it all settled then ? "

Hector nodded.

My dear boy, I congratulate you," exclaimed Heffer-nan,

shaking Lira cordially by the hand and congratulating
himself at the same time.

As if he didn't know that it was all settled ! As if he
hadn't lain awake in that chair and heard in the still
night almost every word they spoke while standing close
beside him, though scarcely more than the softest whispers
were exchanged ! As if he hadn't watched them
stroll away from the camp, and peered after them into the
bewildering moonlight as far as his eyes could follow,
longing to hear what passed, and waiting patiently for their
return, while he lounged back in the chair for a fox's
sleep !

In the tent afterwards he learnt — well, nothing new
exactly — nothing further than had been already conveyed
by the significant nod — but he was glad to hear young
Hector speak so earnestly about his new love, for the
latter fairly opened his heart to his friend as he would
never have done to any one else ; but Heffernan, with his
marvellously clever and fascinating ways, had already
wormed himself into his confidence on the subject.

So this is how poor Lizzie Rolfe was left out in the
cold ; and this is how hearts by the score are broken day
after day ! Oftentimes less by the instability of man—
which, in all conscience, is bad enough — than by the
interference, covert or confessed, of that meddlesome
Third Party !

Friendship is constant in all other things,
Save in the office and affairs of love :"

says Claudio ; but accepting his meaning in a somewhat
perverted sense, I doubt whether the friendship (in this
case) was constant in any one thing save in the office of
go-between, or rather come-between, in other people's
affairs of love.

CHAPTER XXIII.

'Twas not enough
By subtle fraud to snatch a single life ;
Puny impiety ! whole hamlets' 1 fell —
One murder made a villain. '

Porters.

u I wish you fellows could get an extension, say of three
weeks or a month, and come with me into the Terai,"
observed Moberley next morning at chota hazree.

u I wish to goodness we could," was the unanimous
response.

n I'd charter some elephants, and we'd have splendid
sport with tiger," he continued. " Happy thought ! why
shouldn't you apply for leave ? — the colonel wouldn't refuse
— drill season's over now, and — '

I don't see why we shouldn't, I'm sure," said Tiny,
adding, in an undertone, " the Rajah's our senior — get him
to send in a general application."

1 ' All right, I will ; and one of my soars shall gallop
into cantonments with it directly."

Heffernan was accordingly deputed to write the required
letter, with which the native orderly left camp about
6. 30 a.m. and brought back the following reply shortly
after sunset.

1 Slightly altered from the original.

(Semi official.)

Orderly Boom, 126th Cameronians.
Dear Hefeernan, — The Colonel desires me to tell you
that he will grant three of you leave for a month, but
cannot spare four officers from the regiment just now ;
so will you arrange this among yourselves.
Yours truly,

u G. Summers, Lieut, and Adjt."

One of them would have to return then. What a bore !
Who was to be that unlucky one ? No mention was made
as to whether captains or subalterns were most required
at head-quarters, so Moberley suggested that they should
draw lots, which was agreed upon; and, to Heffernau's
inexpressible disgust, it fell to him to personate the " odd
man out." However, he would have the consolation
of escorting the ladies back to Fyzabad ; a poor substitute
for tiger-shooting, it's true, thought he, but such is
life. He little anticipated how this slight incident was to
indirectly affect him hereafter.

Hector, in his new position of the affianced, thought he
could do no less than volunteer to change places with
Heffernan; but Georgie, with judicious tact, would not hear
of such a thing, which Hector in his heart was naturally
very thankful for. It would certainly have been rather
an unnecessary sacrifice, even for an engaged man, to give
up such a chance of a tiger trip to the Terai ; more especially
as the good-hearted Moberley s, now aware of how
matters stood between Hector and Georgie, and taking a
great interest in them, had pressed the latter to extend
her visit indefinitely, or at all events " until some other
arrangement was made," as Mrs. Moberley whispered to
her confidentially.

A few days afterwards, the tents were struck at Madrepore,

when the Assistant-commissioner's wife and her
guests returned with Heffernan to the station, followed
by Joe and all the superfluous members of the retinue.

Meanwhile Moberley had arranged to shift his camp
into the vicinity of a small " gong " on the banks of the
river Raptee, about twelve miles off, where he had ordered
to meet him eight pad elephants and three " muknas " for
the howdahs — mukna being the native term foratuskless
elephant, generally used for shinar purposes, and by far
the most reliable in tiger-shooting.

As the party approached the new camping-ground the
sun had sunk below the horizon, and the waning light
lent an additional gloom to the dark Terai which stretched
in front of them along the foot of the hills.

Being now bent on special warfare against its fierce
denizens, Hector's feelings at renewing acquaintance with
that vast jungle, and the wooded ranges beyond, were
very different from the time when he made his journey to
Nainee Tal and back (the latter being by day-light),
although the similarity of the scene vividly recalled his
first impressions on those occasions. He now scanned
with interested curiosity the marvellous extent and
density of the great border forest which harboured every
kind of noble quarry, and where tropical nature had put
forth all her might in producing the wildest chaos of
vegetation.

In this " barra whoring " — so called by the natives of
the district — gigantic trees, the massive growth of centuries,
intertwine their great arms and tower above the
glorious confusion of long grass, shrubs, creepers, and
broad-leafed plants, which struggle against each other
for existence, and lie half choked and hidden amid the
tangled wilderness. The magnificent herr, whose stately
head rears itself far beyond the rest, is a conspicuous

feature in the forest, from its dark extensive foliage, enormous
height, and the downward shoots which* encircle
the parent trunk with a cluster of infant stems. Clinging
around the branches and binding tree to tree by a thousand
ligaments, are creepers in endless profusion, which,
with the long hanging suckers, form a zone of matted
stalks and prickly cords and petioles, such thorny maze
being almost impenetrable even to the crashing power
of the elephant as he forces his way through the jungle.
The ubiquitous creeper, moreover, not only spreads itself
over the ground, twisting about the long grass, bushes,
and lower branches, but its searching peduncle climbs
its way up even among the loftiest boughs, whence
it depends in loops and graceful festoons, and cleaves
with the tenacity of ivy wherever its prolific feelers find
support.

At intervals in the Terai, and on the edge of the belt,
are lovely sylvan glades with rich green sward, and
picturesque but gloomy dells, watered here and there by
dark silent creeks, and fringed with patches of long jumna
grass and tufted reeds, contributing greatly to the soft
beauty of these fairy-like spots.

But all the daughters of Achelous, the italian river god
those witching sirens, with their fatal allurements and
fascination, were not more treacherous than those tempting
nooks, where deadly malaria stalks abroad and contaminates
the pure breath of nature, making it at certain
seasons of the year positively dangerous to man ; for
throughout that vast region of umbrageous solitude the
deleterious vapour rising considerably above the level of
the atmosphere breathed, renders it more or less poisonous
to the lungs, especially at night-time. Indeed, at all seasons
there prevails a considerable amount of miasma, and
the inevitable jungle-fever which emanates therefrom is

the sportsman's most dreaded foe. The water, besides, of
the creeks and stagnant pools is in most places more
pestilential even than the mephitic air itself, diluted as it
is by the decayed masses of vegetable matter, and one
draught of such infected fluid would probably prove fatal as
the juice of the nightshade or Upas-tree to a human being,
yet the wild animals appear to drink it with impunity.

In these obscure swampy places, where lurks the rankest
venom, the " nerkool " cane, with its long feathered stem,
flourishes in thick masses; and here the kingly tiger
makes his lair, the weird-like gloom offering a favourable
hiding-place for his gaudy skin. Such sombre
retreats also form the favourite haunts of the boar,
panther, wolf, and many other wild animals that infest
the Terai.

Soon after the sportsmen had encamped on the banks
of the river, Moberley was besieged by the head men
and shikarrees of the place, their little hamlet lying
partially concealed in a mango grove close by.

These men had startling intelligence to impart, and
gratefully thanked the " sahib hogue " for their timely
visit. According to their account, at least half the people
of their own village, and of others in the neighbourhood,
had fallen victims to a certain insatiable " admi-khana-
wallah ; whom they begged the " great defenders of the
faithful " to slay without mercy. By an admi-khana-
wallah they meant a " man-eater " or a forest fiend in
the shape of a morbid tiger, who, having once tasted
human blood, becomes afterwards a scourge to the population,
and refuses any other prey.

The old shikarrees gave the most exaggerated details
regarding this bloodthirsty monster, whom they said
they had often tracked to his lair, but did not dare to
molest, as they believed the brute to be the devil himself.

VOL. II. R

No wonder they feared to tackle such a formidable foe
with the weapons at their disposal — wondrous matchlocks
of the most primitive description, but with which they
did good execution now and then against some unsuspecting
deer or smaller animal that happened to afford a
tempting pot-shot. What they lacked in weapons, however,
they made up for in woodcraft, and were most
valuable adjuncts to a party of Englishmen on a shooting
expedition.

The loquacious shikarrees promised to show the sahibs
next day where this wholesale murderer lived, and prayed
earnestly that they might succeed in bringing him to
account. Besides this intimation, the herdsmen of the
village repaired to the camp with pitiful complaints
regarding the fearful depredations caused among their
flocks and herds by certain notorious " cattle-lifters " in
the vicinity ; in short, this little colony of " gong wallahs/'
and their property, seemed to have been marked out as
the special victims of their carnivorous neighbours.

Moberley received all these accounts with due reserve ;
but making allowances for exaggeration, which is a
particular weakness among the natives, he supposed there
must be some grounds for the tragic stories concerning
the man-eater ; so was resolved, if such a horrible ogre
were to be found within twenty miles of the place, to put
an end to him.

While they were seated round the blazing logs after
dinner that same evening, enjoying their smoke and discussing
the arrangements for the morrow, all at once
a most extraordinary eerie-like cry pierced the night-air
quite close to the camp, at which Moberley started and
held up his hand significantly.

Good gracious, what's that ? a banshee ? " exclaimed
Hector.

"Not exactly' replied Moberley, with a smile ; "but
it's a harbinger of evil all the same ; at least to other
than a sportsman; a gruesome sound, eh? there it goes
again ! "

What in the world is it ? »

The niggers call him the kola halloo ; he's a sort
of four-footed hermit — an infirm old jackal, too decrepit
to hunt for himself, so dependent on any scraps
left by the tiger. Wherever that mangy Methuselah is
heard, you may be sure there's a striped gentleman not
far off."

By Jove ! then, I say, I swear ! " cried Tiny, jumping
up from his seat, "he must be precious close, judging
from the old scavenger's yell."

"As I live, you're right ! Look ! look there ! " exclaimed
Moberley, also rising hastily and snatching a
blazing brand from the fire, for at that moment two
greenish yellow orbs were distinctly seen glowering on
them through the darkness, and the next instant three
or four fiery brands were hurled in the direction of the
eyes, which immediately vanished.

I tell you what," observed Moberley ; " these niggers
haven't exaggerated after all ; and I shouldn't wonder if
that prowling brute's the identical man-eater himself."

Pleasant, very," remarked Tiny ; " no doubt reconnoitring
our position with a view to a piece of white meat
for a change. I say, it's a shame to disappoint the
poor thing; go and give him a mouthful, old fellow,"
he added, pretending to push Hector out into the darkness.


"No, no, wait till tomorrow," said Moberley, with
an inward chuckle, "when we'll present him with something
more indigestible in the shape of a few bullets."

And I've some sweet little beauties for my Rugby

b 2

express' observed Hector; 'those I was using the other
day, you know, at Sandeepore — "

Which — the expanding bullet ? "

"Yes, a simple, though ingenious invention by— by
Lord Keane. There's not a more efficacious ball moulded.
You saw the effect of it on that sambur the other evening,
Tommy; it beats the shell hollow — "

You mean the hollow shell — "

Exactly. I mean both. It's heavier, you see, and can't
break up, whereas it enters the skin cleanly, and opening
out like a flower as it passes through flesh and muscle,
inflicts a most awful wound inside, which our friend, the
man-eater, will know more about tomorrow perhaps."

In the morning sure enough the fresh " pugs " of
a tiger were plainly visible round about the camp, showing
where the daring brute had ventured close up to the
fire-side circle, perhaps reckoning on one of the sportsmen
as an easy victim; but whether he was really the
redoubtable admi-khana-wallah, or not, of course no one
could tell.

Wuh kharab janiva nusdeek hai, gurreeb-paivar —
ballot chore nciheen hai 31 vociferated the shikarrees
next morning, in reply to inquiries as to the exact whereabouts
of their enemy. Then, of course, followed the
inevitable and expressive " wahan hai," which might
mean on the top of Mount Everest or up in the moon,
from its delightful ambiguity.

However, the great village " guns " led the way very
confidently, and Moberley seemed to have every faith in
their conducting him and his friends straight to the lair
of the ferocious assassin. This particular spot, described
by the shikarrees as a swampy hollow covered with dense

" That bad animal, protector of the poor, is close by — not very far
away''

jungle, he intended to beat closely with, the pad elephants,
as he could induce none of the natives to enter
it on foot, which was not surprising considering the reputation
of its tenant.

The sun was blazing down on them as they left camp
about ten o'clock — the heat of the day being the best
time to call on his jungle majesty — and it was a pleasant
relief to get into the shade of the virgin forest, through
which they had to pass for some little distance before
arriving at the man-eater's haunt.

There was neither path nor track in that solemn wilderness
which lay hushed in profound silence — for there no
joyous song-birds gladden the ear as in our English
woods — and while the shooting party were forcing their
way through the thick undergrowth, the howdah containing
Tiny Gore and Overton was unlucky enough to
get entangled in a mass of thorny creepers, in extricating
it from which, they pulled down an enormous nest of
red ants about their ears.

No joke, reader, I can assure you; for these ants are
veritable little bull-dogs in insect guise, and one of the
greatest pests to be met with in the Terai, only equalled
by the swarms of jungle-wasps and other venomous
insects.

'O 'Ti>So? i\i(f)a<; rijv /xvlav ovtc aXeyl&i.
And as the Indian elephant's hide (except where it
happens to have been chafed) is impervious to the
tormenting fly, so, fortunately for him, is it a protection
against the numberless tribes of other exiguous fiends
which haunt the tropics, and from whose attacks he is ina
great measure exempt. But man, poor persecuted
man, with all his armour of clothing and scientific appliances,
is the most miserable victim to mosquitoes,
sand-flies, and scorpions, cum multi slits, and often in

the sweltering days and nights of an Indian summer,
when the stifling atmosphere is alive with little winged
man-eaters, must he envy the elephant and rhinoceros
their impenetrable skins.

It was some time before Tiny Gore and his companion
could shake off their pertinacious assailants, and not
until the army of angry ants had inflicted many wounds,
for which in return they were annihilated by battalions.
Having succeeded at length in getting them clear of
their clothes, they remounted-their elephant and pushed
on. Then, after more crashing and ploughing along
through the prodigal growth of herbage and thickets,
and charging through networks of tough wiry creepers
and tangled briers, that barred their progress at almost
every step, they arrived at a dark dismal-looking dell,
which the villagers avowed was their dreaded enemy's
abode ; and a most tigerish looking spot it was — just
such a retreat as has been already described.

In the arrangements made for ousting the striped ogre
from his castle (if he should be at home) Moberley
exercised considerable caution, and was determined not tolet
the monster escape if he could help it. In one respect,
however, already alluded to, he was rather at a disadvantage,
for albeit native beaters as a rule (with the
irresistible "pish" 2 in view) will enter any jungle on
foot with their tom-toms, rockets, and fireworks — even if
they do bolt at the first alarm — such a universal scare had
been established by this particular tiger, that to try to get
the covert beaten except by elephants was quite out of
the question. Moberley, therefore, had to shape his plans
accordingly.

The swampy hollow, though of considerable extent and
requiring all the pad elephants to draw it thoroughly, was
2 Copper money.

so situate that he thought it better to station one of the
howdahs outside, at a certain likely point where it was
anticipated the tiger might try to steal away ; while the
other two went with the beat and took the right and left
centre of the line. In addition to this, he posted two of
his soars — keen sportsmen and good shots — with spare
rifles, in different trees which commanded two sides of
the jungle. Then the native shikarrees and certain of the
villagers with their tom-toms, rockets, and squibs, were
distributed among the pad elephants to hang on as best
they could, since they refused to go in on foot ; and having
thus completed all preparations for mobbing the
redoubtable savage, the beat commenced.

At first the noisy natives on their backs, and the hurtling
and bursting of the bombs and crackers, made the pad
elephants rather unsteady, by which some of the clamorous
villagers were in danger of being dropped into the jaws of
the man-eater, if he happened to be lying anywhere handy.
But after a little while things went better, and the good
example set by the howdah muknas, a couple of "staunch"
animals, had a salutary effect. The shouts were ordered
to keep as close together as possible to prevent the tiger
from breaking back through the line, which he would
most likely try to do, although the shikarrees assured
Moberley that this " shaitan-ki-beta" (son of the devil)
would never think of bolting when once roused, and they
would very soon find out what a ferocious fiend they had
to deal with.

Slowly and noisily the beat proceeded ; but scarcely had
thirty yards been covered, when an excited uproar on the
right of the line, and cries of ' ' Bagh ! bagh ! urree sahib,

idler hai admi-khana-wallah! beshuk! 9 caused everyone to
peer into the jungle with a high pulse and tingling veins.

3 "Tiger! tiger! gracious, sir ! here's the man-eater, sure enough ! "

But it was only a false alarm after all, occasioned by a
mangy old wolf, who came slouching" out of the dense
brake close to the place where Gore and Overton were
stationed. Tiny was anxious to bowl him over on the
spot ; but his companion reminded him that nothing was
to be fired at except the man-eater, so Tiny reluctantly
desisted. The man-eater, however, would have to be
found before he was fired at, about which there seemed a
remote chance just at present, for the line of elephants
with their immense bodies, like great moving mountains,
crashed through the thick covert from end to end without
a sign of him being seen.

This is a most emphatic sell' laughed Hector, as
they reached the end of the beat ; " it strikes me those
old fools have brought us on a goose chase."

It looks uncommonly like it' replied Moberley,
rather put out at the blank draw ; " never mind, we'll just
go through it again, for we may have passed him ; a tiger
will sometimes lie closer than a hare, and he's as cunning
as a fox'

Sono, gwadarwan ! " cried one of the shikarrees,
suddenly; i( hark, my lord!" and at that moment they
heard excited shouts from the further end of the dell,
where one of the soars was posted,

That's a holloa back, by all that's glorious ! "
exclaimed Moberley ; " old Mozuffa Khan's seen him, I do
believe. He wouldn't give a false alarm. Jude jew,
mahout ! "

A shot was now heard, and the three howdahs hurriedly
converged towards the quarter whence it proceeded.

The next moment two more shots were fired in rapid
succession, followed by a terrific roar, which rang through
the hollow, and made the timid natives shrink with fear
as they heard the voice of the grim destroys

Tommy Rawson, ou his elephant, having the start of
the others, had arrived just in time to get a right and left
at the brute as it emerged from the cover, and skulked
off into the forest. It was now evident that the wily
manslayer (presumably, the identical animal), so far from
charging the line as the shikarrees had predicted, had
crouched close down till the beat had passed and then
sneaked off in rear, for it was impossible to avoid leaving
a certain space between the elephants. On his first appearance
at the edge of the jungle, the Soar's excited
yells and random shot had luckily turned him back for a
a minute, which afterwards gave Rawson his opportunity.

It was soon ascertained that one, if not both, of
Tommy's bullets had taken effect, for several goats 'of
blood were found on the adjoining grass and bushes at
the spot where the tiger had disappeared. These tracks
they quickly followed up, believing that their quarry was
hard hit and would lay up somewhere near. This proved
to be the case, for when they had gone some twenty paces
from the swamp, Moberley's elephant suddenly threw up
its trunk and trumpeted loudly and angrily ; and they
noticed, moreover, some monkeys in an adjoining tree,
jabbering away at a fearful rate, and looking down below
them ; a sure sign in the jungle that a tiger is at hand.

Look out, Grayle, look out' cried the Commissioner,
we're on him— there ! to the right — see — in that patch
of—"

His sentence was never finished, for at the same momenta
hoarse choking roar resounded through the forest, and
made their blood run cold ; then before the old niukna
had time to swerve out of the way, the infuriated manager
(for he it was) charged them, and fastened himself
on the poor animal's head.

The terror-stricken mahout clambered shrieking into the

howdah, thus impeding, for the moment, the sportsmen's
aim, and as the savage tiger seemed bent on getting at
them, and scorned to slake his revenge on the screaming
elephant, the position was a critical one.

With his hind claws cruelly lacerating the wretched
mukna's trunk, the demoniacal brute glared at them fora
few seconds, and they could feel his fetid breath on their
faces while he collected himself for a second spring.

Hector fired both barrels, but in the terrible excitement,
and owing to the shaking of the howdah from the
tortured elephant's movements, he clean missed the first,
and only just grazed the back of their dangerous assailant
with the second ; whilst Moberley's fire, instead of taking
deadly effect, merely served to increase the tiger's fury
Before they could even fix another cartridge or snatch a
talwar " 4 from the trembling " peon," 5 who cowered in
abject fright on the back seat, the goaded beast had sprung
on to the frame of the howdah, and it might have fared
badly with the occupants, but luckily at that instant
Rawson's elephant ranged alongside and the self-composed
Tommy quietly planted a ball in the fierce animal's
neck, which made it release its hold and drop to the
ground.

With another thrilling roar it quickly recovered itself,
and was on the point of renewing the charge, when
it was rolled over a second time, pierced by two bullets
from Moberley and Hector. This forest fiend, however,
seemed to be invincible, and to have as many lives as a
cat, for instead of giving up the ghost as they expected,
he limped away and crouched down in a patch of long
grass, where he remained hidden from view, though they
could hear him snarling and growling, as if working himself
up for a fresh attack.

4 A sabre. 5 A native enable.

All three howdahs were now on the spot, and several
bullets were fired into the cover where the discomfited
tiger lay, who received shot after shot with a sullen roar,
which gradually grew fainter each time, until at length
all was silent.

The shooting party now. drew up to the hiding-place on
their elephants, and peering over the grass, discovered the
dreaded manslayer stretched out at full length, in articulo
mortis, when a hearty cheer arose from the sportsmen,
accompanied by wild cries of delight from the natives.

Perceiving a slight tremor in the brute's mighty limbs
after the last struggle had apparently died out, Moberley
gave him one more bullet to make sure of finishing
him, and then ordered the carcase to be dragged forth
for a general inspection.

This task old Mozuffa Khan proudly took upon himself,
since the villagers seemed afraid to go near the
defunct man-eater. Accordingly the soar dived into
the long grass, and, assisted by his comrade, commenced
to pull the body forth, when, to the horror of all, a guttural
roar was heard, followed by a piercing shriek, and then a
worrying sound as of a terrier shaking a rat.

The other soar sprang in terror from the perilous
quarter and yelled for help, leaving the luckless old man
to pay the penalty of his temerity; for though every one
thought that the creature was stone dead, it turned out
to be otherwise ; thus affording further proof of a well-known
fact, that there is nothing in the world more dangerous
than to approach a fallen tiger, until it has been
ascertained beyond all doubt that the last spark of life is
extinct.

It was a horrible sight to see the savage devil convulsively
clawing and crunching the unfortunate native — for
it was only an expiring effort — and for the moment

they could not fire again for fear of hitting the man; but
Hector, seizing the first chance, sent an expanding bullet
crashing through the beast's ribs, just behind the
shoulder, and effectually ended his bloodthirsty career.

Released from that fearful clutch, the poor old soar
remained prostrate with his face to the ground, moaning
painfully and bleeding from several wounds. The
Assistant-Commissioner, deeply distressed at this sad
accident to his favourite subordinate, at once stopped
shooting for that day, and made arrangements for having
the mangled man carried back to camp without delay.

When they came to examine this terrible tiger, he did
not turn out to be a particularly large specimen for a
male, and measured rather less than nine feet from nose
to tip of tail ; but what he lacked in size he certainly
made up for in ferocity ; and, contrary to the general run
of man-eaters — which are supposed to be invariably mangy
this animal possessed a beautiful skin, and proved that
if he really had been such a murderer as reputed, human
flesh agreed well with his digestion. Any creature more
tenacious of life the oldest sportsman present avowed he
had never seen ; for, pierced as he was by several balls,
some of the wounds — presumably those made by the
Keane bullet — were of a frightful nature, and sufficient of
themselves, had they struck in more vulnerable parts (like
the last), to have caused instantaneous death.

Ample evidence of the brute's diabolical character,
which had certainly not been exaggerated, was furnished
in the subsequent discovery of a number of human skulls
and bones, together with several silver bangles and other
ornaments worn by native women, which lay strewed
about his lair, and showed the perfect hecatomb of victims
which must have fallen to this insatiable monster ; the
poor old soar — who lingered for two or three days, when

lock jaw set in and caused his death — adding another to
the long list. His decease naturally cast a gloom over
the shooting camp for some time, and marred what
would otherwise have been a most enjoyable month's
sport, during which the party bagged many more tigers
and earned the eternal gratitude of the natives in
the surrounding district.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE INDIAN MAIL.

Sf Heaven first taught letters for some wretch's aid,
Some banish'd lover, or some captive maid :
They live, they speak, they breathe what love inspires,—

tP ^ T^ ^ ^ fft

Speed the soft intercourse from soul to soul,
And waft a sigh from Indus to the pole."

Pope.

Leaving our sporting friends to divide their spoils and
furbish up their rifles and spears, we will follow home the
Indian mail, which carries Hector's confession to Barringtree
— the confession of his engagement to Georgie
Vickers.

It was the end of May, and an early English summer
had set in with unusual geniality, so that out-door amusements
were resorted to and in full swing sooner than our
capricious climate generally permits. Lawn tennis was at
this time in its infancy, and was only introduced experimentally
on a few occasions ; but the good people of Barringtree—
or rather, Agnes Grayle, who was the moving spirit
at the Hall now that Hector was absent — at once welcomed
the game as a promising novelty, superior in many ways to
its more feminine companion, croquet ; and the adoption of
this new amusement at the old Manor House soon made it
the fashion in the neighbourhood.

Barringtree was en fete once more, and a lovely day

smiled 011 the first garden-party of the season. A gay
throng" had gathered together in the private grounds of
the Hall ; while in the park adjacent the yokels were enjoying
a rustic game of cricket — a real country bumpkin
match, such as the Squire loved to witness, but which the
Barriugtree Park Cricket Club only indulged in now and
then, for when Hector was at home a better class of cricket
characterized the club.

Simon Sickles was there in all his glory, the captain of
the host, to whom the other yahoos looked up as an
authority and a superior performer, which, as a matter of
fact, he was — so good, indeed, that Hector never hesitated
to include him in his best elevens against u crack " clubs.

Turning our attention towards the picturesque and
showy groups within the Hall grounds, we shall find
several former acquaintances, who have been allowed to
drop almost out of recollection. In one part a four game
of lawn tennis is going on, Lady Mountjoy and Arthur
Tewkesley being arrayed against Mrs. Tewkesley and
Clement ; and as none of them know much about it
at present, the r are pretty well matched, though Tewkes-
ley rather turns the balance by his former knowledge of
racquets.

"Capital! that puts us even — nine all — doesn't it?"
exclaimed Norah, having made a lucky stroke. " It's your
serve, Arthur. Faith, Clement, we must play up and win,
anyway ; I want to go and hear the news. The Indian
mail's just come in, ye know."

u Yes, I hear it has, and there are two letters from
Hector," replied Clement, making a dart forward to the
rescue as the ball came over the net. " Look out ! Ah,
second bound ; never mind, well tried."

Splendidly played, Lady Mountjoy," cried Tewkesley,
as her ladyship executed a brilliant fluke, and afterwards

electrified her partner with a flash of intense triumph.
Those eyes and teeth were as brilliant as ever.

Oh, it's a delicious game," she exclaimed, skipping
back to her serving court like a girl of ten ; " I shall never
play anything else now. Dear Sir Francis ! you really
ought to try."

Dear Sir Francis," who was standing by, smiled ; he
fancied he caught himself trying ! — with lumbago and gout,
asthma and sciatica, playing a four game among themselves
all over his aged frame; but he was delighted to
watch his juvenile wife pirouetting about the velvet turf
with enviable activity.

Just look at those women, " sneered Mrs. Grayle
senior, from a garden bench in the vicinity, " making
mountebanks of themselves in that indecent fashion ! Did
you ever see such an exhibition ? "

Never," responded an uncongenial old frump beside
her, a sort of kindred spirit, to whom the remark was addressed.
" Pm sure I dont know what the world's coming
to ! " she added, throwing up her hands and eyes in virtuous
despair.

Nor I. I'm surprised at Percy allowing such extraordinary
proceedings on our grounds."

At this juncture Sir Francis Mountjoy hobbled slowly
towards them, rubbing his gouty old hands together in the
same measured time as he walked.

Well, Mrs. Grayle," said he, nodding towards the lawn
tennis group ; " what do you think of all this, eh ? this
new game? Cap-ital, isn't it? Oh, yes, I like to see
mi-lady jumping about ; it makes me feel younger myself,
you know."

At which he croaked forth a senile laugh.

Mrs. Grayle didn't say much in reply, but she thought
a good deal. She thought it was a pity that the old

baronet didn't keep his wife in better order, instead of
allowing her to kick her heels in the air in that undignified
fashion. Mere jealousy, no doubt, at others being* less 
herself — jealousy, coupled with innate acrimony,
which were the chief ingredients of her unamiable nature.

Yes, two letters had arrived from Hector, one for Gertrude
and another for Agnes. The former was full of his engagement
to Georgie and of the lady herself, very eloquent, and
rather stilted — as if defying disapproval, and merely hinting
at their sport at Sandeepore ; while the latter, for the edification
of the younger mind, was very simple, very interesting,
and full of sport, but merely hinting at the engagement.
There was no communication from Heffernan by this mail;
and Hector had only been able to write at some inconvenience
in camp, as they were so occupied hunting and
shooting each day ; but he felt bound to send a despatch
before moving on into the Terai.

The news scarcely took them by surprise, since Heffernan,
and indeed Hector himself, had led them to expect as much
from former letters; but although partly prepared for such
intelligence, it caused great misgivings, none the less, and
Gertrude and the Squire now held an anxious conference on
the subject.

They were strolling together in a shady corner of the
grounds, apart from the rest, when Mr. Grayle observed
sententiously, in reply to a remark from Gertrude,

"Well, my dear, if you ask me what I think, I consider
matters are in as bad a plight as before, and the sooner the
boy comes home the better'

So do I," replied Gertrude, sighing. " And you can't
imagine how I yearn to see his dear face again ; he has
been away too long already."

And all for no purpose, it appears. At least he goes
directly and puts his foot in it a second time. But let's

VOL. II, s

hope the affair may end in smoke, and that it will be a case
of ' The girl I left behind me when he sails from
Bombay by-and-by."

Fm sure I trust so, for I cannot reconcile myself to
the idea, despite all Albert says in this lady's favour. Fin
convinced, however, that he has done all in his power to
influence Hector for the best ; but the dear boy, as you
know, is so dreadfully wayward."

Yes, yes ; and not easily managed in a matter of this
kind. I also have every faith in Captain Heffernan.
What he says about this Mrs. — Mrs. Vickers is our only
consolation, until we see her."

I rather fear that dear Albert, in his desire to put the
most favourable complexion on affairs, and so diminish our
anxiety, may gloss over things, and make the case appear
less objectionable than it really is, perhaps."

Well, well, we shall soon be able to judge for ourselves;
for if warnings and remonstrance don't affect him, or if he
doesn't tire of his new love — which is highly probable — I
suppose we shall see her by the end of the year. It's quite
time he returned home, at any rate, fettered or unfettered.
Let me look at his letter again, my dear."

Gertrude handed it to him as they sat down together on
a rustic seat, when the Squire adjusted his glasses, and
re-perused Hector's epistle.

Ah — urn — um," he muttered, reading partly to himself
and partly aloud. " f I assure you, darling mother, she's
the sweetest little woman you ever saw.' Of course, of
course, we understand all that. ' Not exactly pretty, but
so vivacious and very ladylike. Albert think's I'm a lucky
fellow, and so do I. I quite long to get back to England
and introduce her to you all ; but I shall take no decided
step till I hear from you.' Well, that's a comfort anyhow.
We must forbid his marrying till he returns, and, as I say,

perhaps he'll get tired of her before then. ' With your
approval, and the grandfather's, I think of sending in my
papers by-and-by, and I fancy Albert will do the same ;
but I've not talked over these plans with him at present.
I suppose you know I'm bringing home a soldier servant
with me, when I do return, as a sort of valet, &c.; or rather,
I should say, an ex-soldier, for I mean to purchase his discharge
beforehand. I allude, of course, to that worthy
artilleryman who rescued me from the bottomless lake at
Nainee Tal. Such a fine, handsome fellow, mother ; he'll
be a decided acquisition in the servants' hall, I can tell you.
I'm not sure where he's stationed just now, but must find
out before long,' &c, &c. Yes, that was quite a sensational
affair," observed Mr. Grayle, returning the letter. " We
must see what can be done for this man when he does
come."

He certainly deserves some substantial recognition,"
said Gertrude, u for, from all accounts, he must have risked
his own life for our dear boy's."

Undoubtedly, and he shall have his reward, my dear ;
trust me for that."

As the Squire finished reading the one edition from
India, Agnes (accompanied by Norah and Clement, who
had just ended their game) approached with the other,
which she herself had received.

Fancy, grandpa," she exclaimed, rustling the thin
foreign sheets in the air triumphantly. " Hector writes
to say that he got a first spear the very first day they were
out."

Got a first what, my dear ? " asked the old gentleman.

u First spear ! " repeated Agnes, emphatically.

Good gracious ! then has there been a battle ? " cried
Gertrude, innocently, and in immediate alarm. " He never
said anything about it in my letters

%

No, only about love ; not a word of war' said Mr.
Grayle.

Yes, a tremendous battle, little mother'' replied Agnes,
with a roguish twinkle in her eyes; "but after a most
exciting struggle the fierce foe was conquered

pray let me see. Where did they fight ? " exclaimed
the anxious Gertrude, rising hastily from her seat
to read this wonderful news.

And Hector is bringing home his tusks'' continued
Agnes.

His tusks ! What do you mean, child ? "

Why, that they've been pig-sticking, to be sure'
rejoined Agnes, proud of the sporting term, " or hog-hunting,
as some call it. Killing wild boars, you know,
mamma'

Oh, I understand. You naughty girl, to frighten me
like that. I really thought there'd been a battle."

Faith, so did the poor pig, I daresay' observed Norah.
Indeed, Hector's letter's so full of blood, bristles, and
foam, fir-erst spears, fearful croppers, and broken knees,
dead quakers, and tremendous triumphs, that it's enough
to make one's hair stand on ind to read it."

Ah ! let me look, Agnes, my dear' said her grandfather.
" Perhaps it's more interesting than ours ; we'll
exchange."

Get it back before he reads it to the old lady," whispered
Norah. " I want to do that by-and-by, and make
her ould flesh creep with the horrors I'll tell of."

"Don't you think, grandpa," observed Agnes, as he
held out his hand for the sporting edition, " we'd better
put our letters aside just now, or our guests will think
we're neglecting them."

Quite right, my child," replied the Squire, patting
her cheek. " We accept the reproof; eh, Gertrude ? Really

this Indian budget has made us quite remiss to our
friends."

Thereupon they wended their way back to the gossamer
groups in the central part of the garden, where
claret and moselle cup, tea and coffee, &c, were being
discussed.

So, Hector's other letter's full of his new love, it
seems, which your grandfather finds rather uninteresting,"
observed Clement, as he walked beside Agnes across the
lawn. "But this affair of his has been going on for a
long time now. What does Captain Heffernan think of
it all ? "

He hasn't written by this mail, since Hector has
become really engaged'' replied Agnes ; " but, as you
know, he has always spoken very highly of Hector's
fiancee, and seems to think it would be a very good
match, if anything came of it."

Rather strange, I must say," returned Clement, thoughtfully;
— 'estrange that he should induce Hec to go to
India just to get him out of one mess, and then help him
directly to get mixed up in another ; for that's what it
looks like."

Well, not exactly. You see Hector's a free agent,
and falls in love where he chooses."

He seems a precious spoony sort of fellow anyhow,"
said Clement. " I never gave him credit for being so
susceptible."

But here a stop was put to their conversation, as they
had by this time rejoined the main party.

******

Since the little comedy-drama at Crutch Hut, on that
evening when Lizzie accepted Grumpy Grayle's invitation,
Simon had kept religiously aloof from High Lodge. He
had not yet recovered from his calf-love, but seemed to

look upon " that there be-ew-tiffle gal " as a sort of
unapproachable Houri, to be respectfully worshipped at a
distance; and, notwithstanding all Mrs. Corcoran's persuasion,
was evidently afraid to renew the siege, so his
austere aunt gave him up at length in despair. In her
letters to Heffernan, however, she had still represented the
attempt to bring about the match in a hopeful light j in
fact, almost as un fait accompli, for obvious reasons.

How Lizzie was subsequently hoodwinked as to the real
state of affairs concerning Hector has been already explained,
and when Mrs. Corcoran returned after a while to
her little cottage at Mentland, she was well satisfied with
the result of the scheme.

Lizzie seldom met Grumpy after her last visit to his
house, but whenever the old bachelor did see her, he chaffed
the poor child most unmercifully about that volatile young
scamp, as he called his great-nephew, generally adding
something to the following effect : —

I told you so, my dear. You wouldn't be guided by
me. Bless your little heart, I know all about these things.
Now, you see, you'd much better have taken young Simon
Sickles while he was in the humour ; perhaps it's too
late now. But come, we'll try what can be done; — have
another supper party at the Hut, eh ? " (Not if she knew
it, thought Lizzie) . " We'll get you somebody else ; don't
be alarmed," and so on ; chuckling to himself as he stumped
off, highly delighted at " that grand stuck-up girl's " evident
discomfiture and annoyance.

Of course all this, in addition to Agnes Grayle's advice,
and the intimations about Hector, contributed greatly
towards poor Lizzie's unhappiness. But the reaction set
in at length, and with it a natural sense of pride, which
caused her to accept the inevitable with a certain degree of
resignation. Old Rolfe had watched her anxiously for

some time past, and was overjoyed to notice a change taking
place in his " little rosebud's " demeanour, for she gradually
became less moody and despondent, and more cheerful,
and like her old self, as she used to be before Hector Grayle
had stolen away her heart. Gideon, indeed, almost elicited
a confession from her on one occasion — at any rate certain
remarks tantamount to owning that she was nearly cured
of her malady, though perhaps these were mere outward
indications to set the old couple's minds at rest.

But whatever she thought, or whatever resolutions she
formed, Lizzie came to the conclusion, after due consideration,
that she ought to sink her pride so far as to write just
one letter — the very first and last — to show that she bore
no ill-will towards Hector for his faithlessness, and wished
him all happiness and prosperity. This letter, of which we
shall hear anon, she wrote accordingly, and despatched
about a fortnight before the mail arrived bringing with it
to Barringtree Hall the momentous tidings, which very
soon reached her, and made her at once regret (now that
all rumours were confirmed) that she had written.

People in love (whether man or woman), who maybe
disappointed in their fondest hopes, are sometimes
strangely anomalous creatures, and the fervent prayers
at parting expressed for another's weal and happiness are
often almost ?wished afterwards. An unbidden feeling,
perchance, arises in the secret recesses of the heart when
the prayed-for blessings have accrued to him on whom such
benediction was bestowed — an indescribable feeling, to a
certain extent begrudging that same weal and happiness
which can never be shared. There are various phases of
human selfishness, and this, I suppose, is one of them — in
an exceptional form, perhaps, but marvellously akin to such
sentiments as might influence the sordid mind of the
commercial worldling, who, after a dissolution of partnership,

grudges every success that hereafter falls to the
firm.

Lizzie had uo particle of meanness in her disposition ;
but when she heard that Hector was positively engaged,
and was basking happily in the sunshine of another's love,
she experienced a strong revulsion at her heart which she
could not quell, and which certainly made her long to recall
her letter, even though the expressions it contained for his
welfare were still in harmony with her wishes.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE OLD LOVE AND THE NEW.

u Tis well to be merry and wise,
'Tis good to be honest and true,
'Tis best to be off with the old love
Before you are on with the new."

Hl t alloa, Bombardier ! is that you? I beg your pardon —
Sergeant again, I see. Why what brings you here ? You
don't belong to this battery, do you ? "

u Yes, sir, I do now ; they transferred me about a month
ago. Glad to see you again, sir; hope you're well."

Very well, thank you, Sergeant Baines," replied Hector,
who thus met the artilleryman in Fyzabad early one morning
a day or two after the shooting party returned from the
Terai. " But tell me' he added, " you applied for this
battery, I suppose ? Ah, I see ; you didn't trust me. You
thought you'd better be on the spot to remind me of my
promise."

No, indeed, sir ; I knew well enough you'd keep to
your word."

You may rely on me for that."

I never doubted you, sir. It was quite a chance I got
sent here, I can assure you j but when I heard the battery
lay alongside your regiment, why, I was well pleased, o'
course."

But now that you've gone up in the scale, Sergeant

Baines, perhaps you've changed your mind about getting
your discharge, eh ? "

Not I, sir' replied Baines, with a quick searching
glance at the young officer; " that rests with you. I'm of
the same mind still, if you are."

Certainly I am. And what would you say to go home
with me next cold weather ? "

So soon, sir ? Lor ! it makes my heart leap to think
of it."

Well, bar accidents, you may look upon it as a
certainty."

Thank you, sir ; I'm right glad to hear you say so."

I mentioned you in my home letters only last mail,"
began Hector, " and — halloa ! what's all this ? " he exclaimed
; for at that moment their conversation was interrupted
by the shrillest hunting noises which re-echoed
through the station, accompanied by the thundering of
hoofs over the hard ground, as if all the wild spirits of
Market Marlborough had been transferred to Fyzabad. But
it was nothing unusual ; only mad Tommy taking a beeline
on horseback from his bungalow to the mess-house
(his general custom, for he always preferred cross country
to a road), with Tiny Gore and another subaltern trying in
vain to follow his lead over almost impossible places.

Here you are, Hector, jump up behind — plenty of room
for two," shouted Tommy as he darted past, disappearing
immediately over a high mud wall into the next compound.
Tiny, coming up in rear, put his old caster at the same
place, when Sergeant Baines laughed and shook his head,
observing quietly, as if to himself, —

No, no, sir, that jump's for Captain Rawson, and nobody
else — with the eye of a hawk, the heart of a lion, the
hand of a lady, and a grip of iron — the devil himself
couldn't stop him"

Don't be an owl, Tiny' remonstrated Hector, as the
persevering Gore blundered at the wall again, though his
companion " sub " very wisely gave it up ; ' ( you'll only
break your neck j it's not made of gutta-percha, like
Tommy's. Come along to mess by the road like a sensible
Christian ; I want to have a talk to you. Good morning,
Sergeant Baines," he added, as he walked off beside Tiny
on his horse, Gore having yielded to counsel and the
caster's incapacity.

Good morning, sir," replied the artilleryman, saluting ;
then looking after the young officers for a minute with an
approving smile, he turned and resumed his way towards
his barrack.

He and Hector had not met since a certain interview at
Bareilly, just before the Cameronians left that station,
when Hector had delivered his mother's message, and the
pecuniary present accompanying it. At first Baines had
stoutly refused to accept the money, and merely begged
to be allowed to keep Gertrude's letter as an additional
memento of the affair. After much persuasion, however,
Hector prevailed upon him to take the 25/. as well, explaining
that his mother would be much offended if it
were refused ; so Baines complied, under protest.

The hot weather at Fyzabad was now at its height, when
everybody was struggling to keep cool, tortured by chronic
unquenchable thirst, and actual nausea at the very sight of
substantial food. No amount of thermantidotes, 1 khus-
thus parties, or punkahs could counteract the effect of
the broiling temperature; and outside the bungalows,

1 A contrivance for impelling a current of air into a room through
a wet khus-khus tattle (a sweet-smelling root, whose fibres are plaited
together into a mat), consisting of a fan-blower, or a wheel with vanes,
which, being turned from without, revolves inside a wooden case with
great velocity.

the dry, scorching 1 west winds, laden with particles of
irritating 1 red sand and dust, choked the copper-coloured
atmosphere, and made the furnace-like glow still more
unendurable.

Then at night, when the wind lulled for a few hours, the
ah of the station, both without and within doors, could
only be compared to the dry smouldering heat of a limekiln,
during which it was almost impossible to obtain any
natural rest, tortured as was the sensitive skin with the
maddening aggravations of mosquitoes and prickly heat.
In short, Fyzabad just now was not at all a bed of roses,
any more than other stations on the plains during the hot
months, so Hector Grayle began to think that he could
have too much of a good thing, and that India, with all the
attraction of its beautiful hills, big game, &c, was not a
country to linger on in indefinitely.

I tell you what it is," he observed to Heffernan one
evening, as they were seated in the mess verandah overlooking
the river Gogra, " I shan't be sorry to see the
white cliffs of old England again next winter, shall you ? **

No, by Jove, I shan't; we've about done India, I think ;
and India would about do me if I stayed much longer.
Have you a light ? Never mind, I won't put your weed
out. Koi hail ag lao!"

It was considerably past eleven o'clock, and they were
sitting alone together, Hector having just returned from
dining with the Moberleys, to whose house he had been
asked, as he very often was, to meet his betrothed.

You see, I shall get my majority directly," continued
Heffernan, after lighting his cheroot and taking a grateful
pull at an iced peg, u as soon as old Watson goes, and then
I think I shall retire gracefully myself. You'll sell, I suppose
? "

Oh, yes, I think so' replied Hector, thoughtfully.

Quite right. In my opinion the service is no place fora
married man. Well, you 've had a very jolly time soldiering
altogether, haven't you, old fellow ? It's not been such
bad fun'

No indeed, and I shall be awfully sony to leave the
dear old regiment'

So shall I ; however, a step or two won't be amiss just
now, I dare say — to stir up the stagnation a bit. It's all
very well for fellows with money. Plutus' promotion is
sharp and sure — he goes up the ladder like a lamplighter ;
whereas the wretched pauper serves in grim dependence on
bloody wars and sickly seasons. Though, for my part, I
think the days of purchase are numbered ; but that won't
affect you and me much. What sort of an evening had
you ? anybody there ? "

No, only the old quartette."

And what does your intended think about the probability
of your postponing the marriage till you get to
England ? "

u Oh, of course she understands the necessity. I've
explained all that."

Ah, she's a sensible little woman, is Mrs. Vickers. You
know, my dear boy, I think you're a deuced lucky fellow, as
I've said before."

I believe I am. It's so jolly of her, too ; she won't goto
the Hills as / can't get leave ; and, you see, it's very
awkward for her as it is. She feels she's outstaying her
welcome, although those dear good people won't hear of
her going yet, and of course she'd rather stop."

At any rate, until we get the rains, when it'll be a
little cooler for travelling," suggested Heffernan ; " then I
suppose she'll go to Bombay, and stay there till we
leave?"

Yes, I fancy those are her plans. By the way, I wanted

to ask you, Albert, wasn't Georgie— Mrs. Vickers, engaged
to be married before ? "

You mean since her widowhood? "

Of course — when I first met her at Nainee Ital."

Really, I — I'm not sure ; I heard something about it
though."

"So did I — to that old Major Bonus, wasn't she ? It
was never given out exactly, but that was the on dit, I
think."

Ah, now you mention it, I believe she was. But you
soon put a spoke in his wheel," said Heffernan, laughing.
" Of course a poor old wizened Qui-hai wouldn't
have a chance in the field against a young fellow like
you."

But if — if she were really engaged to him — "

Oh, I don't fancy there was anything settled — nothing
definite, you know. You haven't spoken to her about it,
have you ? "

No— not yet."

I wouldn't at all, if I were you. Between ourselves, I
fancy it's rather a sore point, you understand ; the old fellow
kept on persecuting her, and — "

Then you did know about it ? "

No further than that. I remember there was a rumour
to that effect."

All right. I'm glad it was nothing serious. Of
course I shouldn't like my people to hear anything against
her."

Oh, you needn't be afraid."

You see, they're every bit as averse to this affair as
they were to the other. I'm sure I don't know what
they'll say when they get my letter telling them I'm
engaged, which must have reached them before now, by
the bye."



"Ah, but this is very different, Hec. Wait till you
return home, and introduce Mrs. Yickers at Barringtree.
I'll guarantee then they'll receive her with open arms. As
to that other affair, old man — excuse my mentioning* it —
but you must allow, upon calm reflection, that it wouldn't
have been quite the thing, would it? I never liked to
interfere with you in the matter, so held my tongue ; but I
must confess I was deuced anxious about you at one time.
I thought you were bent upon cutting your throat, and
alienating yourself from your whole family by marrying
into low life, as many another good fellow has done before
now."

Hector was silent, and puffed away at his cheroot without
speaking for some minutes, while Heffernan thought that
enough had been said, and was too wise to pursue the subject.

By the way, have you quite made up your mind to
take that gunner home with you ? " he asked, after a pause.

u Oh yes, quite; and he's on the spot at present with
this battery."

I know he is ; at least, so I heard. Well, no doubt
the poor devil will be glad to get to England again; and so
shall I, Hec, I can tell you. I feel I've been separated
from Agnes far too long, and my heart yearns to return.
It is neither fair on her nor myself, under the circumstances,
and I only wish I could get away tomorrow morning," he
added, with a w r earl sigh. " Of course to you, as her
brother, I don't mind speaking in this strain."

My dear old fellow, why should you ? I believe I'm a
selfish brute not to have seen it all the time — that you've
only remained out here so long just for my sake, to keep
me company, as it were, till this business was settled.
Haven't you now ? "

u No — a — really, that is, not exactly," returned Heffer-nan,
with modest hesitation.

a

But I'm sure you have. You are one of those
thorough-going" stanch friends, who don't protest much,
but would go through lire and water for a man ; and this
is like going through fire just now, isn't it, Albert? By
Jove, how hot it is in this verandah ! Let's have a stroll
before we turn in, shall we ? "

All right ; but wait one moment while I have another
peg. I'm so frightfully thirsty."

Two other pegs having been brought to order, each
emptied his tumbler, when they walked out of the mess
together, and took a circuitous route towards their bungalows,
fondly imagining they were getting cooler.

Nothing could be more successful, apparently, than the
result of all this scheming and plotting on the part of
Heffernan, who congratulated himself, not only on that
success, but also on having persevered when he had been on
the point more than once of giving it up as a hopeless business.
Hector's obstinacy, so long sustained, had caused his friend to
reflect with much apprehension at one time on his own position.
For certain mysterious reasons, known to himself and
Mrs. Corcoran, he felt that while young Grayle persisted in
his intention of making this gamekeeper's daughter his
wife, so long was he, as Agnes' affianced, in imminent
peril of his secret becoming revealed to the world. Indeed,
Albert Heffernan, like Damocles of old, whom Dionysius
made monarch of the royal feast, trembled at the threatening
sword, which seemed suspended over him by the finest
hair ; and he dreaded that the first breath of scandal might
bring it down, and, worse than decapitation, bow his proud
head to the dust in very shame. There was a proneness to
plot and intrigue innate in his character, which had conduced
not a little to his persevering as he did, in spite of
the fact that his engagement to Agnes Grayle laid him
open to such risk. But of course it was his sincere love

for her which exercised paramount sway over him in all his
movements ; howbeit, had there even been no love in the
case, I doubt whether he would have given up so advantageous
a marriage merely on the chance of an expose
arising from Hector's mesalliance, especially so long as there
was the least hope of that chance being nullified. Then
it so happened he was enabled to make a virtue of necessity,
in that his circumstances suddenly, and very opportunely,
took him to India when everything had favoured him, and
he had found a convenient tool ready to hand in Georgie
Vickers to further his project. Naturally he would have
preferred that Hector should marry her at once, before
they returned to England ; but he dared do no more than
jocularly hint at such a step, and his young friend seemed
unlikely to accommodate him on this point. Altogether
the line of conduct Heffernan adopted, even as a shrewd
man of the world, is scarcely to be wondered at.

His correspondence with Mrs. Corcoran, so far as lie
letters were concerned, rubbed rather roughly against his
bump of caution, it is true ; but though the woman touched
on his private affairs without much concealment or reserve,
he himself couched his replies in a sort of cryptology, the
indefinite language lie used being scarcely intelligible even
to the recipient. This precaution, however, he deemed necessary,
lest such letters should by any accident miscarry.

:£ %. * >{c ^

The very next mail from England, a few days after the
conversation last recorded, brought Hector a communication
with the Barringtree postmark on it, addressed to him
in an unknown hand — or, at least, in a handwriting that was
unfamiliar, since he could not recall it for the moment;
but while he paused ere opening the envelope, there was a
strange fluttering at his heart, as if he almost divined the
contents.

VOL. 11. T

Alas ! and alas ! Why had that letter not been written
sooner ? What false pride or cruel fatality had thus militated
for so long against the interchange of an honest
explanation ? Just a few scribbled words would have
sufficed, and these had never been written. The whole
future of two lives had been thus entirely altered ; but now
ah, well, it was too late now, though that was no fault
of his. Thus ruminated Hector Grayle, as he read and
re-read poor Lizzie's letter.

She did not reproach him, though she confessed it was
much against her pride to bring herself to write at all now,
when she had received such intelligence through " Miss
Agnes " regarding his deep devotion to another woman ;
and of course his prolonged silence only confirmed what his
sister had said. Still she would rather have heard the
truth from him, however painful such truth might be.
That she had no right to complain she well knew; her own
position debarred her from doing so. She had herself
stipulated that there was to be nothing binding between
them, that both were to be free until — well, here her sentences
became somewhat involved, for Lizzie could not satisfactorily
explain that " until' either to Hector or her own
conscience. But she went on to say that she had at last
forced herself to write this, merely to remind him that he
was free, perfectly free, and that she was well aware her
own conduct since his departure had been enough to bring
about the present position of affairs, and therefore she could
hardly blame him.

Had poor Lizzie been cognizant of the crafty machinations
of which they were the joint victims, she would
never have penned that line so ambiguously. What she
did mean was merely the fact of her never having answered
Hector's effusions, and hitherto preserving such a religious
silence ; nothing more.

But how could Hector take it in this light, after all he
had heard? Then, on analyzing" her letter, he observed
that she made no attempt to exculpate herself for such
conduct, nor explain matters in any way. On the other
hand, how could she explain or exonerate herself, poor girl,
seeing that she knew nothing of the scandalous reports
about Simon Sickles in connexion with her own name,
which had been so carefully transmitted abroad ?

In short, it was a hopeless complication of affairs, and
very cleverly brought about — by which two loving hearts
were cruelly wrenched asunder through an unscrupulous
agency — a firm headed by that unmitigated swindler,
Self!

But notwithstanding certain unsatisfactory parts in
Lizzie's letter, there was an honest, pure-hearted tone running
through every page, which touched Hector's tenderest
chord, and reminded him sorrowfully of that gentle loving
girl to whom he had pledged himself so earnestly little more
than two years since. Indeed, as he read the pages again
and again, he began to doubt seriously whether she could
have been so unfaithful to him after all ; and as he doubted
his mind became sorely perplexed and troubled, so much
so, that when he went to the band in the public gardens
that evening, and met his betrothed, he had scarcely a word
to say to her. So distrait and unlike himself was he, that
Georgie Vickers wondered what was the matter, and
pressed him anxiously as to his health, or his news from
home, but without arriving at the actual cause.

Could she have only seen the news from home, and have
divined how intently he was then thinking of the old love
the while he stood beside the new, Georgie would scarcely
have felt flattered, and might have feared that she was about
to re embark on a sea of troubles.

Alas ! it is too late now' pondered Hector, as he

galloped home to dress for mess, "too 'late — the die is
cast; and perhaps, after all, fate has ordained it for the
best."

Nevertheless, had he received that letter before the fatal
trip to Sandeepore, I verily believe the base conspiracy
would have been ignominiously defeated, and that Georgie
Vickers would soon have found herself once more under
the paternal wing of poor discarded Major Bonus.

END of vol. n.

GILBERT AND Livingston, PRINTERS, ST. JOHN'S SQUARE, LONDON.

PUBLISHED EY

CHAPMAN AND HALL.

(31 Selection from tljctt rjrnrral Catalacjuf.)

BEESLY edward Spencer) — Professor of History in University
College, London —

CATILINE, Clovis, AND TIBERIUS. Large crown

8vo, 6s.
BIDDLECOMBE (SIR GEORGE) C.B., Captain Rex.—

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SIR GEORGE BIDDLE-combe,

C.B., Captain Ren. Large crown 8vo, Ss.

"This book is likely, we should think, to prove very attractive reading to those
who, like ourselves, were bred up on Marryat's novels. At any rate, we felt, while
reading it, as though we were sitting in the workshop where ' Peter Simple,'
'Jacob Faithful,' and ' Midshipman Easy ' were built, and seeing the skeleton of
solid timber-ribs laid down, upon which Marryat could lay his light, ornamental
work, and turn out his delightful clipper-ships. Let any reader carry either of
Marryat's best works in his mind, and recall the outline and incidents of the story,
comparing them as he goes on with the quiet, matter-of-fact narrative of this fine
'old salt,' and he will see at once what we mean. We venture to say that there is
none of the cheery, boisterous, improbable incidents which made those novels
supremely attractive to young folk — especially if they lived in inland counties — which
may not be paralleled out of Sir George Biddlecombe's early sea-life. He was born
at Portsmouth, on Guy Fawkes' Day, 1807, and took ship as a middy at the age of
fifteen, in one of the East India Company's vessels, bound for Sydney with convicts.
These worthies rose during the voyage, broke their prison doors, and tried to seize
the ship, which, however, was fortunately prepared for them. At Sydiuy, then a
long, single street, running down to the quays, he saw quaint scenes of early
colonial life, — convicts, with heads close-cropped, in suits marked with the broad-arrow,
ranged in rows on the wharves for householders to come and choose their
helots, the selected being driven off to the public works, with shackles on their
legs. — King Hungary, occupying the north shores of the harbour with his native
tribes, and paying the Governor an official visit in a General's coat and bare feet, —
a convict taken red-handed on a Sunday afternoon, with the Wesleyan minister's
clock under his arm, and defending himself (as he certainly would have done in
Midshipman Easy ') on the plea that, as he was passing, he saw that the clock
was wrong, and was merely taking it along to put it right by the town-clocks"—
Spectator.

Cradle Y (Thomas of the Royal Military Academy, Wooforich—

ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRICAL DRAWING. In Two

Parts, with Sixty Plates. Oblong folio, half-bound, each Part, 16s.

BUCK LAX D (ERAXK)—

Log-book OF A FISHERMAN AND ZOOLOGIST.

Second Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 12s.

"We welcome once more the freshest and most genial of the many writers who
aim at popularising among us habits of observation, and the intelligent lover o
natural history." — Traffic.

Burnett (R.)-

DEFINITIONS OF GEOMETRY. New Edition. 241110,

cloth, 5</.

LINEAR PERSPECTIVE, for the Use of Schools of Art.

Twenty-first Thousand. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth, js.

PRACTICAL GEOMETRY : The Course of Construction

of Plane Geometrical Figures. With 137 Diagrams. Eighteenth Edition. Post
Svo, cloth, 5s.

CAMPION (J. S.\ late Major, Staff, 1st Br. C.N.G., U.S.A.—

ON THE FRONTIER. Reminiscences of Wild Sport,

Personal Adventures, and Strange Scenes. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 16s.
Second Edition.

The only fault we have to find with Major Campion's work is its want of dates,
which would have been useful to those who might wish to know to what period of
United States' history these masterly pictures of frontier life refer. We do not
know whether Major Campion has had any literary practice, but if he has had no
training in the art of writing he must be regarded as a born story-teller. The book
contains a most attractive series of pictures of sport and wild life on the American
frontier ; there is all the restraint and finish and completeness and repose (if we may
use the term in such a connection of the best art ; and, without any bristling excitement,
the reader feels himself enchained from first to last. Every chapter is a
finished picture. . . . The book will not only delight the sportsman, but will prove
irresistibly attractive to all who like good stories thoroughly well told. To those in
search of fresh information about the aborigines or animals or physical geography
of Western America, Major Campion's work will yield many new facts. W T e hope
to meet him again." — Times.

ON FOOT IN SPAIN. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 16s.

Second Edition.

"No one will look for word-painting, elaborate description, or profound observation
in a book of this kind ; and, moreover, the author seems to have a positive
dread of what he calls ' Coming Barlow over the reader' — referring, we presume,
to the terrible mentor of Sandford and Merton. But in an unpretending way it
gives a much more graphic picture of the scenery, people, and ways of North Spain
than many a more ambitious work. Few readers, we imagine, will lay it down
without feeling they have a clearer idea of the country, and without feeling also a
kind of liking for the author. "pall Mall Gazette.

CARLYLE (Dr)—

DANTE'S DIVINE COMEDY.— Literal Prose Translation

of The Inferno, with text and Notes. Second Edition. Post 8vo, 14?.

CLINTON (R. B.)—

A COMPENDIUM OF ENGLISH HISTORY, from the

Earliest Times to a. d. 1872. With Copious Quotations on the Leading Events and
the Constitutional History, together with Appendices. Post 8vo, 7^. 6d.

"This is an invaluable book. In 280 pages it gives the whole course of the
history from the earliest ages, judiciously interspersed with quotations from the
best historians down to our own time. . . .examiner.

Craig (GEORGE Lille)—

ENGLISH OF SHAKESPEARE. Illustrated in a Philological

Commentary on his Julius Caesar. Fifth Edition. Post £vo, cloth, 5*.

OUTLINES OF THE HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH

LANGUAGE. Ninth Edition. Post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

DAVIDSON ellis A.) —

PRETTY ARTS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF

LEISURE HOURS. A Book for Ladies. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 6s.

THE AMATEUR HOUSE CARPENTER: a Guide in

Building, Making, and Repairing. With numerous Illustrations, drawn on Wood
by the Author. Royal Svo, 10s. 6d.

DAVISON the MISSES)—

TRIQUETI MARBLES in the ALBERT MEMORIAL

CHAPEL, WINDSOR. A Series of Photographs. Dedicated by express permission
to Her Majesty the Queen. The Work consists of 117 Photographs, with
descriptive Letterpress, mounted on 49 sheets of cardboard, half-imperial. Price
£\o 10s.

DE Polar the DUKE) —

FASHION AND PASSION; or, Life in Mayfair. New

Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

DIXON (W. HEPWORTH)—

BRITISH CYPRUS. Demy Svo, with Frontispiece, 15*

' British Cyprus' is in essential points an able and piquant work, and full of
fresh and valuable information." — Graphic.

THE HOLY LAND. Fourth Edition. With 2 Steel and

1 2 Wood Engravings. Post Svo, xos. 6d.

DRAYS OX LIEUT-col. A. Unpractical

MILITARY SURVEYING AND

SKETCHING. Fifth Edition. Post Svo, cloth, 4s. 6d.

Dice (IFILLLAJI), R.A.—

Drawing-book OF THE Government SCHOOL

OF DESIGN; OR, ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. Fifty
selected Plates. Folio, sewed, $s. ; mounted, i&r.
Text to ditto. Sewed, 6d.

ESC OPT [T. II. S.)—

PILLARS OF THE EMPIRE : Short Biographical

Sketches. Demy Svo, ioj. 6d.

The editor of the present volume deserves praise for the skill displayed both in
arranging the gallery and in painting some of the more striking portraits which
adorn it. From first to last these sketches are full of fresh and lively interest ; and
it would be no easy matter to select any one chapter which at all falls short of the
high standard reached by the volume as a whole. The story of the lives and
achievements of the distinguished men whose career is here so brightly and freshly
recorded presents many varied contributions to the history of the Empire, which
appear as different illustrations of Imperial service and aspects of the Imperial idea.
. . . With bright touches, happy illustrations, and pithy epigrams the whole
book abounds, and is readable from first to last"— Standard.

EWALD alex. CHARLES), Misrepresentation

STATESMEN: Political Studies.

Two Vols. Large crown Svo, 24J.

FANE (VIOLET)—

DENZIL PLACE : a Story in Verse. Crown Svo, cloth, Ss. '

QUEEN OF THE FAIRIES (A Village Story) and other

Poems. By the Author of " Denzil Place." Crown 8vo, 6s.

ANTHONY Barrington : a Drama. By the Author of

Denzil Place," " The Queen of the Fairies," &c. Crown svo, 6s.

Darnley (W.\ late Principal of the Edinburgh Veterinary College; Author
of " Lewes on the Examination of Horses as to Soundness " —

LESSONS IN HORSE JUDGING, AND THE Summering

OF HUNTERS. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s.

"An excellent description (with diagrams] of the points of a horse one by one,
followed by an equally excellent appendix on the 'Summering of Hunters"—
Graphic.

Fits-PA TRICK ( W. JO-life
OF CHARLES LEVER. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 30^

"Mr. Fitzpatrick's book is one of the most interesting of the season ; and we are
glad that the task of writing about a writer of whom all will he anxious to know all
that can be known, should have fallen into such conscientious and pains-taking
hands"— John Bull.

FLEMING (GEORGE), F.R.C.S —

ANIMAL PLAGUES: THEIR HISTORY, NATURE,

AND PREVENTION. 8vo, cloth, i 5 s.

HORSES AND HORSE-SHOEING: their Origin, History,

Uses, and Abuses. 210 Engravings. Svo, cloth, £1 is.

PRACTICAL HORSE-shoeing: With 37 Illustrations.

Second Edition, enlarged. Svo, sewed, 2;.

RABIES AND HYDROPHOBIA : THEIR HISTORY,

NATURE, CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, AND PREVENTION. With 8 Illustrations.
8vo, cloth, 15s.

Such a work as that now before us has long been a desideratum. There have
been useful treatises, more or less elaborated, upon dog-madness, but there has not
hitherto been any one which could pretend to such a degree of completeness as the
subject deserved. It is not too much to say that Mr. Fleming has brought to its
consideration a remarkable amount of varied research and of practical knowledge
and judgment, and it must be acknowledged that he has fulfilled the task he had
assigned to himself in the most ample and satisfactory manner." — Athenaeum.

A MANUAL OF VETERINARY SANITARY SCIENCE

AND POLICE. With 33 Illustrations. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 36*.

"His book is quite an encyclopaedia of veterinary science, and cannot fail to be of
great value to all who have animals about them. Mr. Fleming has resorted to the
best authorities both in this country and on the Continent, and has been able to add
to what he has obtained from them the results of a wide and varied practical experience.
His works on 'Animal Plagues,' and 'Rabies and Hydrophobia,' have
already secured his reputation as a writer on veterinary science, and a material
addition will be made to it by the present extremely valuable and fairly exhaustive
treatise"— Pall Mall Gazette.

FORSTER john)—

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the "C. D." Edition of his Works. With Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 7s.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. A New Edition

uniform with the Library Edition. 1 vol. Post Svo, io.r. 6d.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. With Portraits

and other Illustrations. 15th Thousand. 3 vol. 8vo, cloth, £2. zs.

Mr. Forster's life of Dickens will always be eagerly read as long as Dickens
himself is eagerly read ; and that will be as long as Englishmen retain their delight
in English literature'' — Spectator.

A New Edition in 2 vols. Demy Svo, uniform with the

Illustrated Edition of Dickens's Works. £\ Ss.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR : a Biography, 1775-1864.

With Portraits and Vignettes. A New and Revised Edition, in i vol. Demy 8vo, 12s.

FRANCA TELLI ( C. E. )—

ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A

Practical Treatise. With Coloured Illustrations. 3rd Edition. Post 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

"Under the above abbreviated designation we are announcing a work, the mere
title-page of which is a catalogue of culinary mysteries, and the programme of an
exhibition of subtle and ambrosial art. ' The Royal English and Foreign Confectioner,'
as this title-page avers, is a practical treatise on the art of confectionary in
all its branches, comprising ornamental confectionary artistically developed ; different
methods of preserving fruit, fruit pulps, and juices in bottles, the preparation
of jams and jellies, fruit, and other syrups, summer beverages, and a great variety
of national drinks ; with directions for making dessert cakes, plain and fancy bread,
candies, bonbons, comfits, spirituous essences, and cordials ; also, the art of ice-making,
and the arrangement and general economy of fashionable desserts. By
Charles Elme Francatelli, pupil to the celebrated Carne, and late maitre d'hotel
to Her Majesty the Queen, author of ' The Modern Cook,' 'The Cook's Guide,'
and 'Cookery for the Working Classes.' With numerous illustrations in chromo-lithographic.
We shall not affect to pass judgment on the vast variety of recipes
which carry out the abundant promise of Francatelli's title-page. It is enough to
absolve us from such endless labour to mention that the contents of the chapters
-occupy 15 pages, and that the index in which the references are printed very closely,
comprises upwards of 20 pages, and includes all imaginable products of the confectionary
art. . .• . . We salute Francatelli respectfully in dismissing
his book ; only adding that his recipe for beignets of pine-apples, on
page 252, is worth all the money which the purchaser will pay for
this very opportune volume." — Times.

HANCOCK (F. CAMPBELL)—

THE AMATEUR POTTERY AND GLASS PAINTER.

With Directions for Gilding, Chasing, Burnishing, Bronzing, and Ground Laying.
Illustrated. Including Fac-similes from the Sketch-book "of N. H. J. Westlake,
F.S.A. With an Appendix. Demy 8vo, 5s.

"A most useful handbook to the now fashionable art of painting on china and
glass, containing minute instructions which only have to be thoroughly mastered
to render the student capable of turning out reasonably artistic work. The illustrations
will also be found very useful by the beginner, as they show the sort of
designs best adapted for the'purpose in hand. For the general reader, who does
not aspire to become a crockery painter, some interesting chapters on pottery and
porcelain are provided, in which they will find descriptions of many of the chief
manufactories, with particulars of the special productions that have rendered them
famous. Any person bitten with the china mania cannot fail to be pleased with the
information given in this part of the book." — Globe.

HALL (SIDNEY)—

A TRAVELLING ATLAS OF THE ENGLISH Counties.

Fifty Maps, Coloured. New Edition, including the Railways, corrected
up to the present date. Demy Svo, in roan tuck, ios. Cd,

HILL (MISS G.)—

THE PLEASURES AND PROFITS OF OUR LITTLE,

POULTRY FARM. Small crown Svo, 35.

Watchman (FRANCIS)—

THE PUBLIC LIFE OF THE EARL OF Beaconsfield.

2 vols. Demy Svo, 32s.

HOLBEIN—

TWELVE HEADS AFTER HOLBEIN. Selected from

Drawings in Her Majesty's Collection at Windsor Reproduced in Autotype, in
portfolio. 36J.

IIOVELACQUE (ABEL)—

THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGE : Linguistic,

PHILOLOGY, AND ETYMOLOGY. With Maps. Large crown 8vo, cloth, sr.
Being the first volume of " The Library of Contemporary Science."

"This is a translation of the first work of a new French series of Popular
Scientific Works. The high character of the series, and also its bias, may be
inferred from the names of "some of its writers, eg. P. Broca, Ch. Martins, C. Yogt,
&c. The English publishers announce that the present volume will be followed
immediately by others on Anthropology and Biology. If they are like their
precursor, they will be clear and well written, somewhat polemical, and nobly
contemptuous of opponents. . . . The translator has done his work throughout
with care and success." — Athenian.

Tarry (GENERAL)—

NAPIER (Maj-GEN. W. C. E.)— OUTPOST DUTY.

Translated, with TREATISES ON MILITARY Reconnaissance AND
ON ROAD-MAKING. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

Kempis (THOMAS A)—

ON THE IMITATION OF CHRIST. Four Books.

Beautifully Illustrated Edition. Demy Svo, 16s.

It is illustrated with great ability — even the heed and tail pieces are themselves
complete pictures, suggestive, quaint, beautiful. The paper is of the best, and the
printing very careful. On the whole, for a gift or for presentation, we hardly know
where else to look for a book to match it. Clearly neither care nor expense has-been
spared in producing this tasteful but sumptuous volume." — Nouconjofiiusf.

KLACZKO (M. JULIAN)—

TWO CHANCELLORS : PRINCE GORTCHAKOF and

PRINCE BISMARCK. Translated by Mrs. Tait. New and cheaper edition, 6s.
This is a most interesting and valuable book. . . . The object is to trace out
the working and the results of a ten years' partnership between the two famous-chancellors
of Russia and Germany, Prince Gortchakoff and Prince Bismarck ;
and these are delineated with considerable artistic power, and in a manner which
betokens considerable political insight, and an intimate acquaintance with the
diplomatic world." — Blackwood's Magazine.

LEFEVRE {AXDRL)—

PHILOSOPHY, Historical and Critical. Translated, with

an introduction, by A. W. Keane, 13. A. Large crown svo, 7->. 6d.

LETOURNEAU {DR. CHARLES)—

BIOLOGY. Translated by William Macao. With Illustrations.

Large Crown svo, 6.?.

LUCAS (CARTA Ay—

THE ZULUS AND THE BRITISH FRONTIER.

Demy Svo, seven

if South Africa did not so much engage public attention at this moment,
Mr. Lucas's book would be well worth reading. It is not a catch penny publication,
but a well written and well arranged study of our relations with the Zulus.
Mr. Lucas expresses himself in a vigorous and manly style, without waste of
words ; and, though he makes use occasionally of the figure of irony, he never
declaims, and never tries to be humorous out of place. He himself has had some
military experience near the scene of the present disturbances, and he writes
with a military clearness and directness which command attention." — Saturday
Review.

CAMP LIFE AND SPORT IN SOUTH AFRICA,

With Episodes in Kaffir Warfare. W 7 with Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 12J.

Mr. Lucas has admirably executed the task which he set himself to perform,
and that was to touch upon some of the salient points of life and character in South
Africa, at the same time weaving into them some of the everyday incidents of
garrison life whilst serving with his old regiment, the Cape Mounted Rifles. The
book is full of interest from the first page to the last, containing as it does descriptions
of the chief places in South Africa, its various inhabitants, the peculiarities of
Kaffir warfare, and the sport to be met with." — X aval and Military Gazette.

L Lytton (Robert T, L ORD)—

POETICAL WORKS— COLLECTED EDITION. complete

in 5 vols.

FABLES IN SONG. 2 Vols. Fcap. Svo, tzs.

LUCILE. Fcap. Svo, 6s.

THE WANDERER. Fcap. 8vo, 6s.

POEMS, HISTORICAL AND CHARACTERISTIC. Fcr.p. 6s.

Manse {FlTZHy-

PRINCE BISMARCK'S LETTERS. Translated from

the German. Second Edition. Small crown Svo, cloth, 6s.

Malade (Charles DE)—

THE LIFE OF COUNT Cavour. Translated from

the French. Demy 8vo, 16s.

The arrangement of incidents, the juxtaposition of historical contrasts, and the
entire elaboration of M. de Malade's material, are very artistic and very effective.
. . There is also much in M. de Malade's work, which, by-the-bye, is well
translated, that may gratify English pride as well as instruct English politicians."
World.

McCOAN (J. Carlisle)—

OUR NEW PROTECTORATE. Turkey in Asia : Its

Geography, Races, Resources, and Government. With a Map. showing
the Existing and Projected Public Works. 2 vols, large crown 8vo, 245.

If a good book was to be made about Asiatic Turkey, it is difficult to see how
it could have been made with greater success than has attended the efforts of Mr.
McCoan. He has told us all that we could wish to know ; he has put his information
into a compact and readable shape ; and he has supplied just as much detail as
gives body to his work without overloading it. He has, too, a personal knowledge
of many parts of the vast district he describes ; and has been for years familiar with
the Turks, their ways and wor k."— Saturday Review.

MOLES IVORTH (IF. NASSAU)—

HISTORY OF ENGLAND FROM THE YEAR 1830

TO THE RESIGNATION OF THE GLADSTONE MINISTRY.

A Cheap Edition, carefully revised, and carried up to March, 1874. 3 vols,
crown 8vo, 18.J.

A School Edition. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d.

It is a great misfortune that the history of our country that is nearest our own
times young men are least acquainted with. It is not written in histories that were
read at school, and they are not old enough, as I am old enough, to remember
almost every political fact since the great Reform Bill of 1832. I wish young men
would read some history of this period. A neighbour and a friend of mine, a most
intelligent and accomplished clergyman — Mr. Wordsworth — has published a work,
being a political history of England from the year 1830— that is, from the first
Reform Bill until within the last two or three years ; a book honestly written,
in which facts are plainly — and I believe truly — stated, and a work which would
give great information to all the young men of the country, if they could be prevailed
upon to read it." — Fro>u the Right Hon. Jolui Bright 's Speech at Birmingham.


Morley (LLENRY)—

ENGLISH WRITERS. Vol. I. Part I. THE CELTS

AND Anglo-saxons. With an Introductory Sketch of the Four Periods of
English Literature. Part II. FROM THE CONQUEST TO jCHAUCER.
(Making 2 vols.) 8vo, cloth, £1 zs.

*** Each Part is indexed separately. The Two Parts complete the account of
English Literature during the Period of the Formation of the Language, or of
The Writers before Chaucer.

Mr. Morley's volume looks, at first sight, a formidable addition to the existing
mass of English writings after Chaucer ; but it is well worth reading. It comprises
the foundation and ground story, so to speak, of a work upon the where sequence
of English literature. If carried out with the same spirit and on the same scale as
the volume already published, the complete work will undoubtedly form a valuable
contribution towards the story of the growth of the literary mind of England, told
as a national biography of continuous interest." — Saturday Review.

Vol. II. Part I. FROM CHAUCER TO DUNBAR.

Svo, cloth, 12s.

TABLES OF ENGLISH LITERATURE. Containing

20 Charts. Second Edition, with Index. Royal 4to, cloth, 12J.

In Three Parts. Parts I. and II., containing Three Charts, each is. 6d.
Part III., containing 14 Charts, js. Part III., also kept in Sections, 1, 2, and 5,
is. 6d. each ; 3 and 4 together, 35. %* The Charts sold separately.

MORLEY (JOIIX)—

DIDEROT AND THE Encyclopaedia. 2 vols.

demy 8vo, 26s.

"We have here the story of a life, full in itself of human interest, vividly and
dramatically told ; we have also glimpses of the lives of others whose interest is
scarcely inferior ; have a perfect treasure-house of social and political knowledge,
literary and artistic criticism ; and we have another of those singularly valuable
contributions to the history of the ' modern spirit,' which Mr. Morley is perhaps
better qualified than any living English writer to furnish, and which are achieving
for him a reputation that is more than English in its comprehensiveness." — World.

CRITICAL MISCELLANIES. Second Series. France

in the Eighteenth Century— Robespierre— Turgot— Death of Mr. Mill— Mr. Millon
Religion— On Popular Culture— Macaulay. Demy 8vo, cloth, 14s.

CRITICAL MISCELLANIES. First Series. Demy8vo,i4*

NEW UNIFORM EDITION.
VOLTAIRE. Large crown 8vo, 6s.

It is impossible to read his volume without being struck by its independence of
thought, its sincerity and candour of expression, as well as by its ability and literary
power. We have freely expressed our dissent from the views which it presents of
the value and wholesomeness of the Voltaire philosophy, if that name can fairly
be applied to anything so essentially unphilosophical ; but at the same time it is
well-that such views should be fairly argued out, and that, whatever inconvenience
it may occasion to people who, having once made up their minds on a subject, dislike
to have them disturbed, accepted conclusions should be occasionally tested over
again. Mr. Morley has given us a valuable and highly suggestive study of the
great man of a very critical age." — Saturday Review.

ROUSSEAU. Large crown Svo, gs.

CRITICAL MISCELLANIES. First Series. Large crown

8vo, 6s.

CRITICAL MISCELLANIES. Second Series. \m the Press.

The papers one and all will bear reading not once but twice— papers full of
suggestive thought on subjects of undying interest." — Graphic.

DIDEROT AND THE Encyclopaedia. Large

crown 8vo. nearly ready.

ON COMPROMISE. New Edition. Crown Svo, 3^. 6d.

We are glad to find that Mr. Morley's essay on Compromise obtained sufficient
popularity to require a second edition. It is a work which, much as we may differ
from parts of it, we cannot but desire should be widely circulated and deeply
pondered by all who take an interest in the spread of truth and the progress of
justice. " — Nonconformist.

STRUGGLE FOR NATIONAL EDUCATION. Third

Edition. 8vo, cloth, 3s.

J/0 APIS (211 O'CONNOR)—

Hibernia Venetia. With Portraits of the Marchioness
of Waterford, the Marchioness of Ormond, Lady Randolph Churchill,
Hon. Mrs. Malone, Miss Peruse (of Moyode Castle), Mrs. Stewart Bucket, and
Miss Myra Watson. Large crown Svo, iZs.

Trivial; or, Cross Road Chronicles of Passages in

Irish Hunting History during the season of 1875-76. With illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, 16s.

"The highest compliment paid to the merits of ' Triviator's ' volume will be
found to proceed from outsiders beyond the circle of ' hunting men,' who have
found interest and amusement in its pages. The illustrations do not pretend to
high line in art, but are not lacking in humour and fidelity, and altogether we can
without scruple commend a perusal of ' Trivial ' to all lovers of hunting, on
whose shelves it should find a place among the ' standard works ' of that enthusiastic
body." — Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News.

MURPHY (J. M.)—

RAMBLES IN NORTH-WEST AMERICA. With

Frontispiece and Map. 16s.

"Mr. Murphy has not only written a very readable volume, but must have
employed infinite pains in collecting his materials." — Saturday Review.

OLIVER (Professor), E.R.S., &c—

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL NATURAL

ORDERS OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM, PREPARED FOR THE
SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUTH KENSINGTON. Oblong
8vo, with 109 Plates. Price, plain, 16s. ; coloured, £1 6s.

PIERCE (GILBERT A.)—

THE DICKENS DICTIONARY: a Key to the Characters

and Principal Incidents in the Tales of Charles Dickens. With additions by
William A. Wheeler. Large crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

'the description of the external and internal peculiarities of the characters is,
as far as possible, given in Dickens's own words, a sign of laudable discretion on
the editor's part. The volume forms a useful, we may say necessary, supplement
to the library edition of Dickens's works." — Mayfair.

Pollock (Lieut COLONEL) —

SPORT IN BRITISH Burma, ASSAM, AND THE

Cassia AND JYNTIAH HILLS. With Notes of Sport in the Hilly Districts
of the Northern Division, Madras Presidency. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, with
Illustrations and 2 Maps. 245-.

"Colonel Pollock's 'Sport in British Burma ' must be ranked among the best
books of its class." — Graphic.

Pointer (E. J.), R.A.—

TEN LECTURES ON ART. Large crown 8vo, 9c.

They have peculiar merit, because they form a concise and earnest exposition
of a system of instruction of the highest value. In fact we know of no treatise on
the principles which should direct the art instruction of a nation that can compare
with this bcok."— John Bull.

These lectures are marked by clearness of thought and soundness of judgment."
Daily News.

"We had marked some passages for extract and comment, but can find no space
for them in our page, and must leave our readers to consult the volume for
themselves, with the assurance that, although they may differ from some of Mr.
Pointer's views, as indeed we ourselves do, there is much, and in an attractive
form, to be learned from it." — Art Journal.

"This is a fine book, probably one of the books on art for a good many years,
full of clearly and deftly wrought-out explanations upon subjects of much intricacy.
. . The remaining contents of this remarkable book we must not even indicate.
Its chief lessons will, perhaps, centre upon the skilful teaching of thoroughness,
nobility, and patience that appears in almost every page, and upon the remarkable
illustrations and exposure of false taste in decorative art." — Spectator.

PRLNSEP oval), A.R.A.—

IMPERIAL INDIA. Containing numerous Illustrations

and Maps made during a Tour to the Courts of the Principal Rajahs and Princes
of India. Second Edition. Demy, Svo, 21s.

"It is to be hoped that the author of this work may be as successful in his delineation
of the Great Durbar on canvas as he has been in the wood pictures we
have noticed. His book is one of the most readable that has lately appeared on
the subject of India, full of interest and of touches of humour which make it a
pleasant companion from the first chapter to the last. . It may be added that
the illustrations are superlatively good." — Atkcnauin.

REDGRAVE samuel)—

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE Historical
COLLECTION OF Water-colour PAINTINGS IN THE
SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With an Introductory Notice by Samuel
Redgrave. With numerous Chromo-lithographs and other Illustrations. Published
for the Science and Art Department of the Committee of Council on Education.
Royal Svo, £i is.
"A book which is a real contribution to British art." — Graphic.

ROBSON 'rev. J. H, Mea., LL.M.)— late Foundation Scholar of Downing
College, Cambridge —

AN ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON ALGEBRA.

Post Svo. 6s.

ROLAND arthur)—

FARMING FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT.

VOL. I.— DAIRY FARMING, MANAGEMENT OF COWS, &c Edited
by William Ablett. Large crown Svo, 6s.

We cannot follow our author in detail, but we may confidently recommend his
book, not only to the attention of amateurs, but also to that of experts, who will
find a good many hints of advantage to them." — Gardeners' Chronicle.

"The book contains much information that will be useful to people who ne-wish
to keep their own cows and utilize their produce, but are at present ignorant
as to the best methods of going to work." — Queen.

VOL. II.— Poultry-KEEPING. Edited by William Ablett. Large crown

Svo, is.

Mr. Roland's book gives much useful and instructive information on the keeping
and management of fowls ; but we particularly recommend his directions for
the construction of a proper fowl-house, which, though of the utmost importance
and absolutely necessary to successes, as often as not, hopelessly neglected. ' —
GraJ'/iic.

VOL. III.— TREE-PLANTING, for Ornamentation or Profit, suitable to every
Soil and Situation. Edited by Will AM Ablett. Large crown 8vo, 5s.

STORY {IV. Iv)—

ROB A DI ROMA. Seventh Edition, with Additions and

Portrait. Post Svo, cloth, vos. 6d.

THE PROPORTIONS OF THE HUMAN FRAME,

ACCORDING TO A NEW CANON. With Plates. Royal Svo, cloth, 105.

CASTLE ST. ANGELO. Uniform with " Robe di Roma"'

With Illustrations. Large crown Svo, vos. 6d.

Street (£. If)—

GOLD ; OR, LEGAL REGULATIONS FOR THIS

METAL IN DIFFERENT COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD. Crown 8vo,
cloth, 3-y. 6d.

TANNER professor HENRY), Ecstacies

EDUCATION; OR, HOW HE LEARNT

FARMING. Large crown 8vo, 4s.
TOPINARD {DR. PAUL)—

ANTHROPOLOGY. With a Preface by Professor Paul

Erica, Secretary of the Societe d' Anthropology, and Translated by Robert
J. H. Bartlett, M.D. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

TROLLOPE anthony)—

THE CHRONICLES OF BARSETSHIRE. A Uniform

Edition, consisting of 8 vols., large crown 8vo, 6s. each, handsomely printed, each
vol. containing Frontispiece.
THE WARDEN. I THE SMALL HOUSE AT

BARCHESTER TOWERS.
DR. THORNE.
Frame PARSONAGE.

Arlington. 2 vols.

LAST CHRONICLE OF

Basset. 2 vols.

AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND. A Cheap Edition

with Maps. 2 vols. Small 8vo, cloth-js. 6d.

HUNTING SKETCHES. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
TRAVELLING SKETCHES. Cloth, y. 6d.
CLERGYMEN OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND.

3 s. 6d.

SOUTH AFRICA. 2 vols. Large crown Svo, with Maps.

Fourth Edition. £1 ios.

SOUTH AFRICA. 1 vol. Crown Svo, 6s.
Vernon eugene)—

aesthetic. Translated by W. H. Armstrong. Large

crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"This is a substantial but compact volume, containing a sufficiently full summary
of M. Veron's doctrine about aesthetics, already made familiar to us to some extent
by his articles on artistic subjects. The volume appears as a part of the series of
scientific books. This is as much as to say that the subject is treated scientifically,
that M. Veron does not attempt to charm the reader by eloquence, according to the
too common practice of writers upon art, but to convey t > him as nearly as possible
the exact truth about aesthetics. He has, we believe, approached more nearly to
success in this enterprise than any of his predecessors. His mind is singularly well-constituted
and equipped for such a task as the one which he has undertaken. He
warmly appreciates art, and yet can retain, in the midst of his aesthetic pleasure,
that perfect intellectual clearness and independence which are necessary to a critical
understanding of the subject. The ordinary writer upon art is carried away by his
personal liking so as to lose the power of discriminating between the sources of his
pleasure ; it is only the most intellectual of critics who can both enjoy and reason.
The great test of a critic is the power of distinguishing between truth and the human
element in art which is constantly interfering with truth and modifying the expression
of it. . It is utterly impossible, within our limits, to go far into so vast a
subject as aesthetics, which M. Veron himself can only treat briefly and summarily
in a volume of 473 pages. We can only say that it is, on the whole, by far the best
book on the subject we ever met with. M. Veron is at the same time a master of
his subject and singularly free from those traditional prejudices which usually
hamper the judgment of a Frenchman in art matters. He is quite independent of
the stupid and tiresome official teaching, and in perfect sympathy with true artistic
genius in its various manifestations. "saturday Review.

WHITE walter)—

HOLIDAYS IN TYROL: Kufstein, Klobenstein, and

Paneveggio. Large crown Svo, 145.

' A delightful holiday volume, full of pleasant chat and valuable hints. Mr. Walter
White has an eye that sees everything, a memory which forgets nothing, a judgment
to discriminate between what is and is not worth repeating, and a fluent and cheery
style, neither striving artificially at epigram, nor relapsing through feebleness into
platitude. " — World.

LONDONER'S WALK TO THE LAND'S END, AND

A TRIP TO THE SCILLY ISLES. Post Svo. With 4 Maps. Third Edition. 4*-

Month IN YORKSHIRE. Post Svo. With a Map.

Fifth Edition. 4^.

"Mr. White has done much by his bright descriptions to excite a desire in many
of his countrymen to become better acquainted with their native land." — Saturday
Review.

*' These volumes are written with intelligence, and are full of information which
should be welcome to every reader. There are few parts of England which will not
yield delight to the pedestrian : but the counties visited by Mr. White are inexhaustible
in wealth of association and beauty of scenery, and if his pleasantly written
books excite a desire for home travel they will not have been published in vain."
Pall Mall Gazette.

WORNUM {R. N.)—

ANALYSIS OF ORNAMENT : THE Characteristics
OF STYLES. An Introduction to the Study of the History of Ornamental
Art. With many Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Royal 8vo, cloth, Ss.

YOUNGE (C. D.)—

PARALLEL LIVES OF ANCIENT AND MODERN

HEROES. New Edition. imo, cloth, 4s. 6d.

OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE NATIONAL Training
SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Containing Lessons on Cookery ; forming
the Course of Instruction in the School. With List of Utensils Necessary, and
Lessons on Cleaning Utensils. Compiled by " R. O. C." Large crown Svo-fourth
Edition, Ss.

"The good point about the book is that it presupposes complete ignorance on the
part of the pupil ; nothing is left to haphazard ; every quantity is given in its exact
and due proportion, and the price of each ingredient carefully set down. All these
lessons, moreover, have been practically tested in the National Training School,
and may therefore be accepted in good faith. It is not, however, to be supposed
that any cunning recipes or rare and costly dishes are to be found in this book;
the ' first principles ' of good cookery is the lesson it professes to teach, and certainly
the method of tuition is direct and easy to follow"— Times.

FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW.— First Series, May, 1S65, to Dec.

1S66. 6 vols. Cloth, 13s. each.

New Series, 1867 to 1872. In Half-yearly Volumes. Cloth,

13J. each.

From January, 1873, to June 30, 1879, in Half-yearly

Volumes. Cloth, iGs. each.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE AND ART
HANDBOOKS.

Published for the Committee of Council on Education.

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. By Juan F. Piano.

Illustrated. Large crown 8vo, 4s.

GLASS. By Alexander Nesbitt. Illustrated. Large Crown

8vo, 2S. 6d.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITHS' WORK. By John Hunger-ford

Pollen. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

TAPESTRY. By Alfred Chapeau. With Woodcuts. 2s. 6d.
BRONZES. By C. Drury E. Forum, F.S.A. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. By A. H. Church, M. A.,

Oxon. Large crown 8vo, sewed, 6d.

ANIMAL PRODUCTS : their Preparation, Commercial Uses

and Value. By T. L. Simmonds. Large crown Svo, ys. 6d.

FOOD : A Short Account of the Sources, Constituents, and

Uses of Food ; intended chiefly as a Guide to the Food Collection in the Retinal
Green Museum. By A. H. Church, Mea., Oxon. Large crown Svo, y.

SCIENCE CONFERENCES. Delivered at the South Kensington

Museum. Crown 8vo, 2 vols., 6s. each.
Vol. I. — Physics and Mechanics.

Vol' II. — Chemistry, Biology, Physical Geography, Geology, Mineralogy, and
Meteorology.

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY. By Andrew Murray, F.L.S.

Altera. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

HANDBOOK TO THE SPECIAL LOAN COLLECTION

of Scientific Apparatus. Large crown 8vo, 2 s -

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS : Historical Sketches. With 242

Illustrations. Demy Svo, 7s. 6d.

TEXTILE FABRICS. By the Very Rev. Daniel Rock, Dad.

With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

IVORIES : ANCIENT AND MEDIAEVAL. By William

Masked. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

ANCIENT & Modern FURNITURE & WOODWORK.

By John Hungered Fallen. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Svo,
2S. 6d.

MAIOLICA. By C. Drury E. Forum, F.S.A. With

numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By Carl Engel. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and

Addresses cf Richard Redgrave, R.A. By Gilbert R. Redgrave. With
Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

PERSIAN ART. By Major R. Murdoch Smith, Ree. With

Additional Illustrations. U» the Press.

FREE EVENING LECTURES. Delivered in connection with

the Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus, 1876. Large crown Svo, 8s.

CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) WORKS.
LIBRARY EDITION COMPLETE.

Handsomely printed in 34 vols. Demy 8vo, cloth, £15.

SARTOR RESARTUS. The Life and Opinions of Herr

Teufelsdrockh. "With a Portrait, 7s. 6J.

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. A History. 3 vols.,

each gs.

LIFE OF FREDERICK SCHILLER AND EXAMINATION

OF HIS WORKS. With Supplement of 1872. Portrait and Plates, 9*. The
Supplement separately, is.

CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS. With Portrait.

6 vols., each gs.

ON HEROES, HERO WORSHIP, AND THE HEROIC

IN HISTORY. 7 s. 6d.

PAST AND PRESENT. gs.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTERS AND SPEECHES. With

Portraits. 5 vols., each gs.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS, gs.

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING. With Portrait, gs.

HISTORY OF FREDERICK THE SECOND, to vols.,

each as.

TRANSLATIONS FROM THE GERMAN. 3 vols.,

each gs.

GENERAL INDEX TO THE LIBRARY EDITION. 8vo,

cloth, 6s

EARLY KINGS OF NORWAY; also AN ESSAY ON

THE PORTRAITS OF JOHN KNOX. Crown £vo, with Portrait Illustrations,
7$. 6d.

BOOKS PUB LIS BED BY

CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) VIOK.KS— Continued.

CHEAP AND UNIFORM EDITION.

In 23 vols., Crown Sz'O, cloth, £j $s.

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION:

A History. 2 vols., 12.?.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S Letters
AND SPEECHES, with Elucidations,
&c. 3 vols., 18s.

LIVES OF SCHILLER AND
JOHN STERLING. 1 vol., 6*.

CRITICAL AND Miscellaneous
ESSAYS. 2 vols., £1 4s.

SARTOR RESARTUS AND
LECTURES ON HEROES. 1 vol., 6s.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS.

1 vol., 6s.

CHARTISM AND PAST AND
PRESENT. 1 vol., 6s.

TRANSLATIONS FROM THE
GERMAN OF-mussels, TIECK,
AND RICHTER. 1 vol., 6s.

WILHELM MEISTER, by Goths.
A Translation. 2 vols., 12s.

HISTORY OF FRIEDRICH THE
SECOND, called Frederick the Great.
Vols. I. and II., containing Part I. —
"Friedrich till his Accession." 14s.
Vols. III. and IV, containing Part II.—
"The First Two Silesian Wars." 14s.
Vols. V. VI., VII., completing the Work,

£ns.

PEOPLE'S EDITION.

In 37 vols., small Crown Svo. Price is.
37 vols, in 18, cloth

each vol. bound in cloth ; or in sets of
gilt, for £z W-

SARTOR RESARTUS.

FRENCH REVOLUTION. 3 vols.

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S Letters
AND SPEECHES. 5 vols.

ON HEROES
WORSHIP.

AND HERO

PAST AND PRESENT.

CRITICAL AND Miscellaneous
ESSAYS. 7 vols.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS.

LIFE OF SCHILLER.

FREDERICK THE GREAT. 10

vols.

WILHELM MEISTER. 3 vols.

TRANSLATIONS FROM Musaeus,
TIECK, AND RICHTER.
2 vols.

THE EARLY KINGS OF Norway
; also an Essay on the Portraits
John Knox, with Illustrations. Small
crown Svo. Bound up with the
Index and uniform with the "People's
Edition."

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.
ORIGINAL EDITIONS.

In Demy Sz'o.
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD. With Illustrations

by S. L. Files, and a Portrait engraved by Baker. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. With Forty Illustrations by Marcus

Stone. Cloth, ,£1 is.

THE PICKWICK PAPERS. With Forty-three Illustrations

by Sey-mour and Phiz. Cloth, £1 is.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £l IS.

SKETCHES BY « BOZ." With Forty Illustrations by George

Cruikshank. Cloth, £1 is.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £1 is.

DOMBEY AND SON. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £1 is.

DAVID COPPERFIELD. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £1 is.

BLEAK HOUSE. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth,

£1 is.

LITTLE DORRIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth,
THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. With Seventy-five Illustrations

by George Cattermole and H. K. Browne. A New Edition. Uniform with
the other volumes, £1 is.

BARNABY RUDGE: a Tale of the Riots of 'Eighty. With

Seventy-eight Illustrations b., G. Cattermole and H. K. Browne. Uniform with the
other volumes, £1 is.

CHRISTMAS. BOOKS: Containing— The Christmas Carol;

The Cricket on the Hearth ; The Chimes ; The Battle of Life ; The Haunted House.
With all the original Illustrations. Cloth, 12s.

OLIVER TWIST and TALE OF TWO CITIES. In one

volume. Cloth, £1 is.

OLIVER TWIST. Separately. With Twenty-four Illustrations

by George Cruikshank.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. Separately. With Sixteen illustrations

by Phiz. Cloth, o s -
'%* The remainder of Dickens's Works were not originally printed in Demy Svo.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS— Continued.

LIBRARY EDITION.

In Post Svo. With the Original Illustrations, 30 vols., cloth, j^\2.
PICKWICK PAPERS 43 Illustrations, 2 vols.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY 39

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT 40

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and REPRINTED PIECES 36

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES . . . . 36

BLEAK HOUSE 40

LITTLE DORRIT 40

DOMBEY AND SON 38

DAVID COPPERFIELD 3S

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND 40

SKETCHES BY "BOZ" 39

OLIVER TWIST 24

CHRISTMAS BOOKS

A TALE OF TWO CITIES

GREAT EXPECTATIONS

PICTURES FROM ITALY and AMERICAN NOTES

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND .

EDWIN DROOD and MISCELLANIES

CHRISTMAS STORIES from " Household Words," &c.

2 vols.

2 VOls.
2 vols.
2 VOls.
2 VOls.
2 VOls.
2 VOls.
2 Vols.
2 VOls.

i vol.
1 vol.
1 vol.
1 vol.
1 vol.
1 vol.
1 vol.
1 vol.
1 vols.

d.

16 o

16 o

16 o

16 o

16 o

16 o

16 0=

16 o

16 o

16 o

S o

14 ,, 1 vol. 8 o

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By John Forster. A New Edition. With
Illustrations. Uniform with the Library Edition, post Svo, of his Works. In 1 vol. 105-. 6d.

THE "CHARLES DICKENS" EDITION.

In Crown Sr. /// 21 vols., cloth, with Illustrations, £^ gs. 6d.

s. d.

PICKWICK PAPERS 8 Illustrations 3 6

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT S „ 36

DOMBEY AND SON 8 „ 36

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY 8 ., 36

DAVID COPPERFIELD 8 „ 36

BLEAK HOUSE 8 „ 36

LITTLE DORRIT 8 „ 36

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND 8 „ 36

BARNABY RUDGE S „ 36

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP 8 „ 36

A CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 4 „ 36

EDWIN DROOD and OTHER STORIES 8 „ 36

CHRISTMAS STORIES, from "Household Words". . 8 ,, 36

TALE OF TWO CITIES 8 „ 30

SKETCHES BY "BOZ" 8 „ 3

AMERICAN NOTES and REPRINTED PIECES . 8 „ 30

CHRISTMAS BOOKS 8 „ 30

OLIVER TWIST 8 „ 30

GREAT EXPECTATIONS 8 „ 30

HARD TIMES and PICTURES FROM ITALY . S „ 30

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER 4 » 30

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with this Edition, with numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS— Continued.

THE ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY EDITION.

Complete in 30 Volumes. DemyZvo^ vos. each; or set, £1$.

This Edition is printed on a finer paper and in a larger type than has been
employed in any previous edition. The type has been cast especially for it, and
the page is of a size to admit of the introduction of all the original illustrations.

No such attractive issue has been made of the writings of Mr Dickens,
which, various as have been the forms of publication adapted to the demands
of an ever widely-increasing popularity, have never yet been worthily presented
in a really handsome library form.

The collection comprises all the minor writings it was Mr. Dickens's wish,
to preserve.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ." With 40 Illustrations by George Cruikshank.

PICKWICK PAPERS. 2 vols. With 42 Illustrations by Phiz.

OLIVER TWIST. With 24 Illustrations by Cruikshank.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols. With Illustrations by,
Cattermole, £c.

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES. 2 vols. With Illustrations by Cattermole, &c.

MARTIN Puzzle WIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY. 1 vol. With 8 Illustrations.

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

DAVID COPPERFIELD. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. With 16 Illustrations by Phiz.

THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS. With S Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. With 17 Illustrations by Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A., Machine,
R.A., &c. &c.

HISTORY OF ENGLAND. With S Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

CHRISTMAS STORIES. (From "Household Words" and "All the Year Round")
With 14 Illustrations.

EDWIN DROOD AND OTHER STORIES. With 12 Illustrations by S. L. Files.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS— Continued.

HOUSEHOLD EDITION.

In Crown 4I0. vols.
21 Volumes completed.

oliver TWIST, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, is. 6d. ; paper, is. gd.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3 s.

DAVID COPPERFIELD, with 60 Illustrations and a Portrait, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3s.

BLEAK HOUSE, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3s.

LITTLE DORRIT, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 35.

PICKWICK PAPERS, with 56 Illustrations, cloth, 4 s. ; paper, 3s.

BARNABY RUDGE, with 46 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3s.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES, with 25 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; paper, is. 9//.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.; paper, 3s.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3 s.

Great EXPECTATIONS, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 2*. 6d. ; paper, is. gd.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, with 39 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3s.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ," with 36 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; paper, is. gd.

HARD TIMES, with 20 Illustrations, cloth, 2^. ; paper, is. 6d.

DOM BEY AND SON, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. ; paper, 3s.

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; paper, is. gd.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; sewed, is. gd.

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, with 15 illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; paper, is. gd.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY, with 18 New Illustrations, cloth,

2s. 6d. ; paper, is. gd.
EDWIN DROOD; REPRINTED PIECES; and other STORIES, with 30 Illustrations,

cloth, 4.?. ; paper, 3s.
christmas STORIES, with 23 Illustrations, cloth, 4s. : paper, 3 s.
THE LIFE OF DICKENS. By John Forster. Now publishing.

Messrs. Chapman & Hall trust that by this Edition they will be enabled
to place the works of the most popular British Author of the present day in
the hands of all English readers.

PEOPLE'S EDITION.

PICKWICK PAPERS. In Boards. Illustrated. 2s.
sketches BY BOZ. In Boards. Illustrated. 2s.
OLIVER TWIST. In Boards. Illustrated. 2s.
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. In Boards. Illustrated. 2s.
MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. In Boards. Illustrated. 2s.
DOM BEY AND SON. In Boards. Illustrated. 2s.

MR. DICKENS'S READINGS.

Fco.p. Sz-o. sewed.
CHRISTMAS CAROL IN PROSE. 1
CRICKET ON THE HEARTH. xs.
CHIMES: A GOBLIN STORY, xs.

STORY OF LITTLE DOMBEY. xs.

POOR TRAVELLER, BOOTS AT THE
HOLLY-TREE INN, and MRS.
GAMP. is.

A CHRISTMAS CAROL, with the Original Coloured Plates;

being a reprint of the Original Edition. Small Sro, red cloth, gilt edges, 5^.

HALL, 193, PICCADILLY.

LEVER'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

THE ORIGINAL EDITION WITH THE ILLUSTRATIONS.

/// 17 vols. Demy %vo. Cloth, 6s. each.

CHEAP EDITION.

Fancy hoards, 2s. 6a 7 .

CHARLES O'MALLEY.
TOM BURKE.

THE KNIGHT OF Wynne.
MARTINS OF CROMARTIN.

THE D ALTON'S.
ROLAND Cassel.
DAVENPORT DUNN.
DODD FAMILY.

Fancy boards, 2s.

THE O'DONOGHUE.
FORTUNES OF Glencora.
HARRY LORREQUER.
ONE OF THEM.
A DAY'S RIDE.
TACK Linton.
BARRINGTON.
TONY BUTLER.
MAURICE Tierra.
SIR BROOKE FOSBROOKE.
BRAMLEIGHS OF BISHOP'S
FOLLY.

LORD KILGOBBIN.
LUTTRELL OF ARRAN.
RENT IN THE CLOUD and ST.

PATRICK'S EVE.
CON Cretan.
ARTHUR O'LEARY.
THAT BOY OF Wolcott's.
CORNELIUS O'DOWD.
SIR JASPER CAREW.
NUTS AND 

in sets, 27 vols., cloth, for ^4 4$-.

TROLLOPE'S (ANTHONY) WORKS.

CHEAP EDITION.

Boards, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, 3*. 6d.

THE PRIME MINISTER.

PHINEAS FINN.

Morley FARM.

CAN YOU FORGIVE HER?

PHINEAS REDUX.

HE KNEW HE WAS RIGHT!

EUSTACE DIAMONDS.

Boards, 2s.; cloth, 2>s.

VICAR OF EULLHAMPTON.
RALPH THE HEIR.
THE Bertram.
Kelly AND O'KELLYS.
McDERMOT OF BALLY-coran.


CASTLE RICHMOND.
BELTON ESTATE.
MISS Mckenzie.

LADY ANNA.

HARRY HOTSPUR.

RACHEL RAY.

TALES OF ALL COUNTRIES.

MARY Greeley.

LOTTA SCHMIDT.

LA VENDEE.

DOCTOR THORNE.

IS HE Popinjay?

WHYTE-MELVILLE's WORKS.
CHEAP EDITION.

C/otcm Svc, fancy boards, 2s. each, or 2s. 6rf. in cloth.

UNCLE JOHN.

THE WHITE ROSE.

CERISE. A Tale of the Last Century.'

BROOKES OF BRIDLEMERE.

*' BONES AND I ; " or, The Skeleton at Home.

'• M., OR N." SlMILIA SlMILIBUS Curator.

CONTRABAND; or, A Losing Hazard.

MARKET Marlborough ; or, How Mr. Sawyer went to

the Shires.

Sarpedon. A Legend of the Great Queen.

SONGS AND VERSES.

SATANELLA. A Story of Punchestown.

THE TRUE CROSS. A Legend of the Church.

KATERFELTO. A Story of Exmoor.

SISTER LOUISE ; or,' A Story of a Woman's Repentance.

Rosin.

ROY'S WIFE.

BLACK BUT COMELY.

^3

CHAPMAN AND HALL'S

LIST OF DIAGRAMS.

Issued under the Authority of the Science and Art Department,
South Kensington,

,dfov tfjc use of J^ifjools' aiiU Srt ants Science Clashes'.

LARGE DIAGRAMS.

ASTRONOMICAL :

TWELVE SHEETS. Ey John Drew, Ph. Dr., F.R.S.A. Prepared for the Committee
of Council on Education. Sheets, £2 Ss. ; on rollers and varnished, .£4 4.?.

BOTANICAL :

NINE SHEETS. Illustrating a Practical Method of Teaching Botany. By Professor
Henslowe, F.L.S. £2 ; on rollers, and varnished, £2 3 r -

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL NATURAL ORDERS OF THE
VEGETABLE KINGDOM. By Professor Oliver, F.R.S., F.L.S. 70 Imperial
sheets, containing examples of dried Plants, representing the different Orders.
£5 $s. the set.

Catalogue and Index, is.

GEOLOGICAL :

DIAGRAM OF BRITISH STRATA. By H. W. Bristol, F.R.S., F.G.S. A
Sheet, 4s. ; on roller and varnished-js. 6d.

MECHANICAL :

DIAGRAMS OF THE MECHANICAL POWERS, AND THEIR Applications
IN MACHINERY AND THE ARTS GENERALLY. By
Dr. John Anderson.

8 Diagrams, highly coloured on stout paper, 3 feet 6 inches by 2 feet 6 inches.
Sheets £1 per set ; mounted on rollers, £2.

DIAGRAMS OF THE Steam-engine. By Professor Goodbye and Professor
Shelley. Stout paper, 40 inches by 27 inches, highly coloured.
Sets of 41 Diagrams (52^ Sheets), £6 6s. ; varnished and mounted on rollers,
£11 11s.

MACHINE DETAILS. By Professor Unwind. 16 Coloured Diagrams. Sheets,
£2 2. ; mounted on rollers and varnished, £2 i+r-

ZOOLOGICAL :

TEN SHEETS. Illustrating the Classification of Animals. By Robert Patterson,

£2 ; on canvas and rollers, varnished, £3 10s.
The same, reduced in size on Royal paper, in 9 sheets uncoloured, 12s.

CHAPMAN

HALL, 193, Piccadilly

THE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW.

Edited by JOHN MORLEY.

The FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW is published on the 1st of*"
every month (the issue on the 15th being suspended), and a Volume is
completed every Six Months.

The following are among the Contributors : —

SIR RUTHERFORD ALCOCK.
Professor BAIN.
PROFESSOR BEESLY.
DR. BRIDGES.

HON. GEORGE C. BRODRICK.
SIR GEORGE CAMPBELL, MP.
J. CHAMBERLAIN, M.P.
PROFESSOR SYDNEY Colin.
MONTAGUE Cooks, Q.C.
L. H. COURTNEY, M.P.
G. H. DARWIN.
F. W. FARRAR.
PROFESSOR Facets, M.P.
EDWARD A. FREEMAN.
MRS. GARRET-ANDERSON.
M. E. GRANT DUFF, M.P.
THOMAS HARE.
F. HARRISON.
LORD HOUGHTON.
PROFESSOR HUXLEY.
PROFESSOR JEVONS.
EMILE DE LAVELEYE.
T. E. Cliffs LESLIE.
RIGHT HON. R. LOWE, M.P.
SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, M.P.

&c.

LORD LYTTON.

SIR H. S. MAINE.

DR. Audley.

PROFESSOR MAX Miller.

PROFESSOR HENRY MORLEY. "

G. OSBORNE MORGAN, Q.C, M.P.

WILLIAM MORRIS.

1 '. W. NEWMAN.

W. G. Palsgrave.

WALTER H. PATER.

RT. HON. LYON Mayfair, M.P.

DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI.

HERBERT SPENCER.

HON. E. L. STANLEY.

SIR J. FITZJAMES STEPHEN, Q.C.

LESLIE STEPHEN.

J. HUTCHISON STIRLING.

A. C. SWINBURNE.

DR. YON Sybil.

J. A. SYMONDS.

W. T. THORNTON.

HON. LIONEL A. TOLLEMACHE.

ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

PROFESSOR TYNDALL.

THE EDITOR.

&c &c.

The Fortnightly Review is published at 2s. &d.

CHAPMAN & HALL, 193, PICCADILLY.

Bradbury, AGNEW, & Co,] [PRINTER?, WHITEFRIARSv

/;

University OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 055295817

P

mm

i

mm

fm

H/?m

Sam

VOL. III.

(albert and riyington, printers,
st. John's square.

SWORD OF DAMOCLES

BY

THEODORE A. Sharp.

— O'er thine and o'er my head
Hangs the keen sabre by a single thread."

The Cobs.* ii

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

fcjmtton :

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 193, PICCADILLY
18S0.

[All rights reserved']

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/swordofdamocles03thar

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Guest Night " I

CHAPTER II.
A Midnight Steeple-chase 13

CHAPTER III.
Ih the Small Hours 21

CHAPTER IV.

0>'E more Angel 28

CHAPTER V.
Misplaced Confidence 1—

CHAPTER VI.

A Friend fob Life . . . . . .50

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

A Silver Wedding GO

CHAPTER VIII.
In the Reign of Jack Feast . 74

CHAPTER IX.
The Skeleton moves . 80

CHAPTER X.
The Family Vault 98

CHAPTER XL
In Foe Conscience . 112

CHAPTER XII.
'Twixt Heart and Altar 124

CHAPTER XIII.
True Love 129

CHAPTER XIV.
Barringtree Park v. I Zingaki 138

CHAPTER XV.
In the Billiard-room 149

CHAPTER XVI.

PAGE

Moral Cowards 156

CHAPTER XVII.

Footprints of the Cloven Hoof 162

CHAPTER XVIII.
When Thieves fall out " , . . . .177

CHAPTER XIX.
The Great Secret 189

CHAPTER XX.
Tried by Fire 203

CHAPTER XXI.
The Leopard and his Prey 215

CHAPTER XXII.
The Dawn of a New Life 224

CHAPTER XXIII.
"Can't you remember?" 238

CHAPTER XXIV.
Private Theatricals 254

CHAPTER XXV.
Danger! 269

CHAPTER XXVI.

« \\T ,>, n „ Page

Was it a Ghost ? " 2 82

CHAPTER XXVII.
At Bay !



CHAPTER XXVIII.
"One Good Turn deserves Another" . ^U

EPILOGUE.

"Conscience Monet" .->r

CHAPTER I.

"It is not the quantity of the meat but the cheerfulness of the
guests, which makes the feast." — Lord Clarendon.

One of the waiters in the officers' mess of the 126th being-laid
up in hospital, Joe Corcoran was appointed to the
vacant post as a temporary measure; for HefFernan, who
was on the mess committee, remembering how admirably
the giant acquitted himself at Sandeepore, had
recommended him to the commanding officer as being well
qualified to fill the vacancy, if he could only manage to
keep steady. Of this there seemed every chance, for Joe
had turned over a new leaf, and stuck to it for some time
past. But he always kept straight enough so long as he
abjured the fatal lance stripe; besides, was he not now
under the e} r e of " that blessed little ; un " and her mother ?
And such being the case, Joe was proof against all the
chowkidar's insinuating imitations of the canteen call, or
any other doubtful influence.

There was an additional incentive, moreover, for remaining
on his best behaviour, in the hope he entertained of
returning to England with the " Captii

VOL. III. bof

the party, when they went in the cold weather. This prospect
Joe had anxiously discussed with Gwennie and her
mother, who seemed to look upon it as probable that the
matter would be arranged by Heffernan when the time came,
for he had made some mention of it to them, though only
indefinitely.

The Cameronians were fortunate in their mess-house at
Fyzabad, which was a very handsome and commodious
building, situated on a raised plateau some thirty feet above
the banks of the river Gogra. The compound in which it
stood was hedged round on three sides, the fourth, or west
boundary, being the river itself, whose waters afforded considerable
sport and amusement to the officers, especially in
the monsoons, when numbers of alligators were shot with
rifles from the mess grounds above. Like most structures in
India, the house was flat-roofed, with a verandah running
round its basement, covered in with sloping thatch, the
eaves of which were supported by " chunam " columns.

The entrance to the building from the east side, or that
facing the cantonments, led through an anteroom into
a lofty, spacious mess-room, on the left of which was the
billiard-room, looking south — on the right, the stores,
mess sergeant's and servants'' quarters ; and opposite stood
a row of pillars, reaching from floor to ceiling, beyond
which was another sitting-room, formed by the verandah
bulging out on this face in the segment of a circle, the
pillars constituting the chord, and the outer wall the arc,
into which was let a corresponding row of glass doors, a view
of the river being thus obtainable from the several points.

One morning, soon after his appointment, as Joe was
moving some stores in the mess compound, he caught
sight of Sergeant Baines passing by, and recognizing his
Reilly comrade, went to the gate and hailed him, when
they entered into conversation. They had met two or



three times before in Fyzabad, though only to exchange a
few brief remarks ; but on this occasion they had a good
growl together about the hot weather and the " vile
country " generally, when Baines made the giants mouth
water considerably by the following observation : —

' Kuch pur war nee, 1 good time coming as the Bengal
Baboon sings, Master Corcoran — and I'm going home, I am,
please the Lord, this next cold season as ever is. Young
Mr. Grayle, ye know, who I pulled out of that Nainee Ital
lake, he's going' to buy me, and take me along with him as
his servant''

Lor, how very nice ! " said Joe. " Now if the Captain
would only do the same by me, and take me home as his
servant, or get me to the depot, I should be in clover''

Joe had chiefly an eye to the depot, for he also had
taken on " again lately, but, unlike Baines, had no wish
to cut the service altogether, though he was very anxious
to return to England and see his old mother once more;
especially as " them two was a-goin'," meaning Georgie
and her little girl. He was such a thorough old barrack
stager that the idea of taking his discharge never once
entered his head. Indeed, he would probably have pined
like a scarlet geranium without water had he been deprived
of the refreshing drill and discipline which kept him well
starched and pipe-clayed, both in intellect and uniform.
Without the sergeant-major's sharp bullying tones, or
the drill-sergeant's frightful blasphemy and chronic abuse,
he would have felt something like a ship at sea without a
man at the wheel. Such is the peculiar influence of long
usage, particularly in the barrack square, where an old soldier
becomes so thoroughly seasoned that his ideas are even
more cramped and spasmodic than his physical movements.

As in a four or five months' voyage round the Cape to

1 Never mind.
B 2

India, when passengers begin almost to imagine that there
can be no other sphere outside the bulwarks of the vessel,
so is it in the army when many officers, as well as men,
learn to look upon " the regiment " as a distinct world of
their own, beyond which they have no ambition, and
scarcely a thought. Everything then is judged by regimental
contrast and comparison. Jones is the best rider
in the regiment, Smith is the best shot, Brown is the
strongest man, and so on ; in fact, I've heard an excited
ensign in a discussion go so far as to assert with perfect
gravity that Harrow was the best public school in the
regiment ! In time of sorrow and trouble, moreover, as intime
of joy and excitement, the regimental standard is ever
uppermost on the soldier's lips; which calls to mind a mournfully
comic incident relative to an old Irish private — a subaltern's
servant — whose wife, like other barrack women
when quartered in England, took in officers' washing.
This poor creature died suddenly — a victim to disgraceful
sanatory arrangements in the married quarters — and asher
body was being removed, the bereaved soldier, saluting
his officer gravely, merely observed in a quavering voice, —

tf Faith! sort — (sob) — there goes the finest washerwoman
in the ridge mint, sort !" — (sob) — and, turning to
the right-about, marched after her remains with a firm
step but an aching heart.

Joe's conversation with the artilleryman was soon interrupted
by the voice of the mess-sergeant, calling out in a
querulous key to know " What he was at a-talkin' away
there, as if he was a officer in the mess, and had got
nothing to do ? "

The fact was they were very busy that morning opening
and shifting stores, &c, and there w r as a big guest-night
on the tapis the same evening, so Joe hurried back to his
business with a rhea in his ear.

It happened on this particular night that most of the
officers of the regiment, who were not on leave in the Hills,
had, as if by mutual agreement, invited one or more
guests to dine ; so it promised to be rather a convivial
gathering, and a pleasant break in the dreary monotony
prevalent during that piping hot weather.

Moberley, Jack Overton, and two or three other civilians,
besides several officers from the Artillery, 38th N.I., and
7th Bengal Cavalry, were entertained on the occasion ; and
it was a cheery sight to see the long table well filled, after the
scanty attendance at mess for so many weary evenings.

Guest-night only came once a week, and there was rarely
such a muster as at present even in the cold weather.

The dinner-table at an officers'' mess in India during the
summer months presents a decidedly unique appearance —
very light and airy in its aspect, from the white costumes
of those dining, and the attendants themselves, and the
great white punkahs swinging overhead; so much
dazzling whiteness being relieved only by the glittering
glass and silver plate, which offers a chaste contrast to the
surroundings. Floral decorations are out of the question
in the plains at that season, and seldom attempted — albeit
an enterprising regiment may now and then make an
effort with a few green plants, by way of sympathizing
nature with art.

The mess-table of the Cameronians was ornamented by
several handsome silver epergnes with dragon stems (the
emblem of the China campaign) ; and, in addition to other
pieces of plate, a couple of rams-head snuff-boxes (silver-mounted)
at withered — one being that of a Scotch., and
the other a Cabal ram — obtained before the Chinese war ;
while their services and plate bore the five-pointed Angus-star
as the regimental crest, the Earl of Angus having
been their first colonel in the year 1689.

As some of the guests rode or drove up to the mess-house,
the full complement of pipers was playing outside
Happy we've been a' together ;" and shortly afterwards,
when all were assembled in the anteroom, " The Roast
Beef of Old England " rang out on the key-bugles, which
was a signal for a general move into the mess-room.

Since every guest and officer brought his own native
servant, and to these may be added the mess staff — which
consisted of the sergeant as butler, two soldier footmen,
and four or five khitmutgars — there were more waiting
than waited upon ; but notwithstanding the number of
attendants, little or no confusion was observable.

The stalwart form of Joe Corcoran being an innovation,
a glance of curiosity was now and again directed towards
him, as of wonder how that great stolid mass could find
room to move so quietly and deftly amid the crowd, for Joe
performed his duties in a very creditable and dignified
manner ; though he was rather interfered with by the punkah
fringes, which occasionally brushed his back hair
up the wrong way, as if protesting against his obtrusive
height.

There were a good many white faces round the table
that evening, for the heat lately had been unusually intense
at Fyzabad; but as dinner progressed and the champagne
circulated, eyes became brighter, and a little more
colour crept up into the pale cheeks.

The repast over, and the wine having been placed on the
table, the president called from his seat at the head, —

Mr. Vice ; the Queen ! "

The Queen," was the response ; " God bless her ! "
being murmured by many a loyal subject as he sipped his
wine, whilst the Cameronian band outside played the
national anthem. Afterwards the wild strains of the bagpipes
commenced without, and suddenly burst into the messes



room, when the pipe-major, followed by two pipers in full
Highland costume, performed a march three times round
the table. To those guests who were unaccustomed to the
pipes, this part of the programme may have appeared rather
harsh and deafening ; though even to the most fastidious
ears there was something specially inspiriting and jovial
in the intoxicating music, which dispelled for a time the
comatose feeling engendered by the heat.

The officers of a Scotch regiment have a natural fondness
for the dear old pipers; and as Moberley glanced around
at the benign expression on the face of each host, he
could not help thinking of Sandy's notion of heaven — who
dreamt he was " in a sma' sma' room with far-r-and-twenty
pipers in tilt, a' plain' different tunes at ance " — and
wondered if all Scotchmen were as enthusiastic as Sandy.

After completing the third round, the pipe-major and
his followers formed up behind the senior officer, changing
the air suddenly to a strathspey, and from that to a Highland
reel. They then ceased playing, and each received
a glass of whisky; whereupon the pipe-major drank the
health of the officers both in Gaelic and English. This
done, another march was performed three times round the
table, when the pipers made their exeunt, and continued
to play until well clear of the mess.

The buzz of conversation now became general for a few
minutes, but was partially suppressed when the band commenced
an operatic selection ; at the conclusion of which
the pipe-major re-entered — alone this time — and played a
phiobaireachd ; " this being followed, at request, by
the beautiful old Highland melody, " The Mackintosh's
Lament." The wine had now gone round twice, and as it
was no formal inspection dinner, when etiquette forbids
any officer to leave the table before the General, cheroots
were got under weigh, and an adjournment made by several

to the verandah and billiard-room, while others formed a
group outside in the compound.

Tommy Rawson had been particularly lively during
dessert, and various wild equestrian feats had been proposed
by him. First of all he wanted to get up a moonlight polo
match then and there, versus the station (the Cameronians
had a capital team, though two or three of them were then
absent), but to this there was no response; so his next idea
was a steeplechase round cantonments, to start from the
mess compound and take the river Gogra as the first
obstacle — "A nice little water-jump, you knowe'' as he
observed, jocularly. In point of fact it had long been
Tommy's ambition to swim the Gogra on horseback, and
had any one dared him he would have made the attempt ;
but, on the contrary, earnest dissuasion being used, he
reluctantly refrained ; and it was just as well, considering
the swift current, which would probably have brought him
to utter grief.

A wild Highland war-song, now played by the pipers,
roused the hubbub then prevailing in the verandah, to a
still higher pitch, for —

In the noon of night that pibroch thrills
Savage and shrill ;"

and every one seemed infused with the spirit of its strains.
"By Jehoshaphat ! something out of the common must
be done this evening'' vowed Tommy in his heart, carried
away by the whirligig of his own feelings and the stirring
pipes. The mess was full of jolly good fellows, and such
a festive meeting ought to be signalized by some memorable
frolic, he thought ; so a little later on, when the pipers
struck up " The Cameronian Rant " — an ancient reel played
at the end of a programme, before " God save the Queen w
his excited voice was heard in the billiard-room, —

&

My dear fellow, the river be hanged ! Leave that out if
you're afraid of it. We'll have a match on the proper
steeple-chase course all cut and dried, and I'll back my old
screw, a Fly-by-night/' against any horse — aye, any two
horses you can bring, one down t'other come on."

Very well," laughed Overton, for he it was whom
Tommy thus challenged by way of making a start ; " but
why not let it be open to all ? "

"Nothing could be better; the more the merrier.
There are lots of kindred spirits who'll enter, I know,"
said Tommy, cajolingly, " and there's moon enough for
any one. You'll run the caster, Tiny ? "

Can't, I'm on duty."

Never mind, get some one else to ride him. Grayle's
your man, ain't you, Hector ? — or will you enter the
Arab ? "

I'd rather, I think," replied Hector; " my neck would
have a better chance than on Tiny's old camel."

t( All right, that makes three then," cried Tommy.
f< Who else ? Don't all speak at once."

"I'll have a shy," exclaimed Fatherly of the cavalry, in a
desperate tone, thinking he might as well break his neck as
any other fellow.

u Good man ! " said Tommy, patting him on the back.
One more, and up goes the donkey ; then we'll have a
lottery. Come, Rajah, put in the Waler."

Heffernan shook his head; he had plenty of pluck, but
didn't relish these harum-scarum larks by night, especially
with a valuable horse like Melbourne, and he wouldn't have
trusted himself on either of his stud-bred.

M'Culloch! you enter old Haggis!" persevered Rawson ;
but M'Culloch didn't seem to see it either. " Take my oath
I never saw such fellers," exclaimed Tommy. " What ! no
one else enter for the Grand Rational by moonlight ? Think

how it'll look in the papers, gentlemen — I'll send it myself
to the Pioneer and Delhi Gazette — "

Never mind, Tommy' observed Hector ; ' ' you'll do ;
we can make a race of that and a lottery too."

Of course we can' chimed in one of the guests, fonder
of betting than riding ; " let's have the materials, no time to
lose."

Koi hai ! " shouted some one else ; " khullum cei
Cargo lao^julde." (Bring pen, ink, and paper; quick!)

Take my oath, Heffernan/' ran on Tommy, i( I never
thought you'd stand back. Why, hang it, man, old
Melbourne's as black as night himself — once he got a start
we should never see him again, and you might steal in like
a thief."

Heffernan couldn't stand much chaff at any time, and
Tommy Rawson went at him now so persistently, that he
finally gave in, and agreed to enter Melbourne in self-defence.


Rawson very often tried to "take a rise out of the
Rajah," and on one occasion Heffernan thought to retaliate
by getting him to mount a young Waler belonging
to one of the officers in the artillery, a most notorious
buck-jumper," whom no rough-rider in the place could
stick to.

"I'll bet you an even five gold moeurs he puts you out
of the saddle. Tommy," said Heffernan, with a confident
air.

Done ! " cried Rawson, jumping at the challenge; " take
my oath he won't — double, if you like."

All right, double," returned the other, fancying his
money safe enough ; and the horse was accordingly procured,
which Tommy mounted forthwith.

An amusing struggle then ensued, the Waler arching his
back like a cat, and buck-jumping with all his might and

main— and tail too (as his rider observed afterwards) — to
get rid of him ; but in vain, for Rawson stuck tight as a
leech. Presently, however, to the astonishment of everyone,
and just as they thought he had mastered the Tartar,
Tommy was seen flying over the brute's head like a tennis-ball
; whereupon Heffernan mentally pocketed the ten gold
moeurs, and went to pick him up. But when they
approached the fallen hero, who was grinning from ear to
ear in triumph, they found him with the saddle still
between his knees, sure enough, but with the girths snapped
asunder as if they had been strips of calico ! So Heffernan
lost his bet.

To return to the scene in the billiard-room, the lottery
now attracted general attention, and was filled in no time.

But as many of my readers are doubtless unacquainted
with this particular form of betting adopted in India, a
brief explanation of a race lottery may not be out of place.

We will say — putting it at a low figure — that there are
50 tickets issued at 5 rupees (10 shillings) each, and five
horses running. These tickets are numbered from 1 to 50,
and put into one hat, and the prizes, i. e., the tickets bearing
the names of the horses running, into another. They are
then drawn, as in any other lottery, aud the owners of those
numbers to which the prizes fall, can either sell their chances
at the subsequent auction, or buy them in, as they choose.
Such auction will be best illustrated, however, by relating
partly what followed on the present occasion.

Tommy Rawson (as auctioneer) : " Two hundred and
fifty rupees in the lottery, gentlemen " (i. e. the 50 tickets,
x 5 rupees), "and Melbourne for sale. Ten, twenty,
thirty, fifty, seventy, ninety, one hundred — one hundred
rupees bid for Melbourne — one hundred and ten, twenty,
thirty — going at one hundred and thirty — last time at a
hundred and thirty — going, going, gone ! '*

Hector (as secretary) : " Number twenty three — bought
in by the drawer, Captain Da vies." (Enters it.)

Now if Melbourne wins, Captain Davies, having drawn
the horse himself, pockets the whole lottery ; whereas, if he
loses, he has to pay 130 rupees to whoever may turn out
to be the winner. But had he not drawn Melbourne, and
still bought him in and lost, he would have to pay double,
viz. 130 rupees to the man who drew the horse, and 130
more to the actual winner of the lottery.

Of course the real owner of an animal has no more claim
on him than any one else, unless he either draws or buys
him in himself.

Tommy Rawson : " Three hundred and eighty rupees in
the lottery, gentlemen " (i. e., :250 + 130 — Melbourne's
price), " and Agra for sale. Ten, twenty, fifty, eighty —
eighty rupees bid for Agra. Any advance on eighty ? "

Ninety ! "

Hector : " One hundred ! "

Tommy : " One hundred rupees — going at one hundred
going — gone ! "

So his owner bought him in ; but as Moberley drew him,
if the Arab doesn't win, Hector will have to pay 200
rupees; viz., 100 to the lottery and 100 to Moberley; butin
any case he will have to pay 100 to the latter for drawing
him. And so on for the other three prizes; the
lottery increasing each time by the amount the last sold
for.

A MIDNIGHT Steeple CHASE.

It is the first time that I ever heard breaking of ribs was sport
for ladies." — Shakspeare.

When these proceedings terminated it was nearly eleven
o'clock, and one by one the competing horses, which had
been sent for, appeared in the mess compound with their
white " jules'' or cloths, thrown over the saddles, looking 1
rather phantom-like in the uncertain moonlight. Very
uncertain it was, too, for the moon was scarcely beyond the
second quarter, aud was partially obscured now and then
by flitting clouds, which seemed in league that evening to
make matters more dangerous, for, generally speaking, the
nights in the hot weather are perfectly clear. Nevertheless,
there was some consolation in accepting those clouds as
an indication of the approaching rains ; and if they increased
the hazard of the undertaking, they made it more to
Tommy's liking, who, in reply to a doubt expressed as to
whether they would be able to see the jumps, proposed that
the other officers as spectators should be utilized to mark
out the course, and stand in their white shell jackets, &c,
like posts, one on each side of every obstacle. This was a
simpler method than fixing lanterns, and would occupy
less time, so was agreed upon accordingly; the jockeys, too,
arranging to ride just as they were, in mess dress.

Moberley knew that his wife and Mrs. Vickers would
not yet have retired, and would be only too glad to s a .e the
fun, so had ordered round his buggy, and driven off posthaste
to fetch them. His bungalow was close to the spot
where the race was to come off, the old course having been
swept away by the river a short time before, and a new
one made nearer to the civil lines.

As the steeple-chase riders were leaving the compound on
their horses, followed by most of the other officers and
guests on foot, some of the seniors present ventured a mild
remonstrance against such foolhardiness, but to no purpose.
Tommy merely laughed cheerily, and pointing to that
luminary which appeared to influence him in all his actions,
cried apropos, —

No fear, Colonel — take my oath it's as light as day —
the old moon smiles approval on her chosen ones." And, as
if to confirm his words, she did remain unveiled for a few
minutes after he spoke.

The whole party seemed to have caught the infection of
Tommy's madness, and laughed and sang wildly on their
way to the course like so many escaped lunatics, whilst
after them stalked a lofty figure resembling a white monument
on the move, or the ghost of a giant, who now and
then joined in the chorus in a subdued tone. This was
Joe Corcoran bringing up the rear with a load of pegs
and other refreshments, which office he had begged from
the mess-sergeant, in order to see the race.

Some time was occupied in marking out the jumps with
the animated white posts; and while this was going on,
Joe, to his utter astonishment, observed Miss Gwennie
stealing towards the scene from Moberley's bungalow,
fresh from her bed, with her things huddled on high
and enveloped in her mother's waterproof
cloak.

"Why, little missis — ! ,J began Joe, in profound amazement.


Sh, Joe dear, don't say anything* ; I don't want
mamma to see me."

Mamma happened to be walking with the Moberleys
higher up the course.

11 But you'll catch your death, little ; un — "

No I shan't — I'm well wrapped up, look, and I feel
much better to-night."

The child had been suffering from a slight touch of fever
all day, and part of the day before, which Joe was aware
of, and this made him all the more surprised and anxious.

I couldn't sleep, Joe, and I heard Mr. Moberley come
home and tell them what was going on; so — so I just
crept out to see it."

And you'll just creep in again, my little dear," replied
Joe, in a kind but peremptory tone. u What ever could
Ninneah be up to, I wonder, to let you out ? "

"Oh, she doesn't know — she was in mamma's room.
Please don't tell, Joe dear."

All right, little 'un ; I ain't a going' to tell no tales, but
off you bundles to bed again, sure as my name's Joseph
Corcoran. I never did hear o' such a game — never in all
my life — you are a naughty girl ! "

Whereupon Joe left the refreshments to the care of one
of the sykes, and spite of Gwennie's struggles and entreaties,
caught her up in his arms, ambled off to the bungalow,
and put her back in her cot. Gwennie cried and begged
hard to stay now that she had come ; but it was of no use,
the giant was inexorable, merely arguing, —

If I didn't love ye, ye know, my sweet darling, it might
be different ; but out here at this time 0' night, a cushla !
with that there saver still on yer too, bead — Lord ha'
mussy on us ! Now, go to sleep, do, like a dear little

angel. There, there' he added, soothingly, and kissing
the sobbing child ; " don't be angry with poor old Joe ; he
only done it for the best. Ninneah won't split, will ye,
Ninneah? — that's all right; good night, little 'un, and
God bless ye ! " Saying which, Joe hurried back to the
race-course.

When he regained the scene the horses had just started,
and what followed may be best described as a scramble
rather than a race, for the moon persistently hid her half-face
from start to finish, as if shocked at such tempting
of Providence. There was so little light, indeed, that the
steeple chasers could scarce see where to take off at the
jumps, and it was a miracle that every one wasn't either
killed or seriously maimed.

Directly the word was given b} 7 Moberley, who acted
as starter, Tommy hustled Fly-by-night to the front as
hard as the old horse could lay legs to the ground,
determined to take the lead, and keep it, if possible.
So alarming was the pace at which he started, that it is
no disgrace to the others to say they were literally afraid
to attempt the same breakneck tactics, or to keep anywhere
near him.

At each jump the officers stationed to mark it shouted,
Look out ! it's the wall, it's the big ditch, or it's the
double ! " as the case might be ; for it was impossible that
the riders could discern an obstacle till quite close to it,
and the indistinct white figures of the guides were most
deceptive in that treacherous light, and looked sometimes
further off or nearer than they were, according as the moon
glimmered and darkened, so that the horsemen were guided
rather by sound than by sight.

Tommy knew the course by heart, and often went over
it .by himself in the mornings to get up an appetite for
chota hazree; but the others were not so well acquainted

with the geography of the leaps as to be able to tell in the
dark what they were coming to.

Hector rode Agra very coolly, keeping horn well in hand
several lengths behind the impetuous Tommy, and Heffer-nan
tried to do the same on Melbourne \ but the Waler was
a bit of a puller, and after the second jump, not relishing
such " black and midnight " work as this, became unions
from fright or excitement, and got clean away
with his rider. Heffernan then felt that there was nothing
for it but to keep the horse's head straight, say his prayers,
and trust to luck, wondering how he could have been such
an egregious fool as to risk his neck with a lot of lunatics.

Jack Overton was mounted on a temperate old pigsticker,
and contrary to his usual hard riding propensity, emulated
the example of the tortoise by plodding on quietly in rear
of all, and his only chance of winning, it seemed, depended
on every one else falling. The first to do so was
Fatherly, the cavalryman, who came to ignominious grief
at the second jump, fortunately unhurt, but out of the
race for good, since his horse wisely galloped back to the
stable, thinking no doubt that his master had taken leave
of his senses.

Just as Tommy on Fly-by-night was nearing one of the
most formidable leaps, he heard Melbourne thundering up
close behind him, and guessing it to be a case of runaway,
turned to see who it was. The next moment there were
confused shouts of " Look out, I say ! it's the drop ! " Ci Confound
it ! take care where you're coming to ! " followed by
a smothered curse and a crash, the two horses " colliding "
violently as they took the jump together.

Fly-by-night staggered, and just managed to recover
himself, while Tommy was catapulted on to the animal's
neck, round which he slid and clung to underneath like a
monkey. Melbourne came down a crasher, but rose again

vol. in. c

immediately, having thrown HefFernan, however, whose
left foot got jammed in the stirrup-iron, partly owing to
the slippery dress boots he was wearing. His position
then was a critical one, for before he could extricate himself,
the horse started off at right angles to the course, and
dragged him by the leg over the hard ground. Hector, in
rear, immediately saw the danger, and thought no more of
the race.

By G — d, he'll be killed ! " cried he, galloping madly
after the Waler, which he quickly headed, and seizing therein,
fortunately managed to stop him before he had gone
far. Quick as thought he sprang from the Arab and
disengaged his friend, who groaned slightly and then
staggered to his feet.

By all that's holy ! I'll never ride that infernal beast
again," exclaimed HerTernan, faintly, and wiping the blood
which was streaming from his forehead. " This is the
second time he's nearly killed me."

I say, dear old man, I hope you're not hurt ? " inquired
Hector, anxiously.

Don't know yet, I'm sure. But I should have been
past all hurts very soon if it hadn't been for you, Hee. I
feel deuced queer. Is there any liquor on the course ? "

Yes, Corcoran brought some, I believe ; and here he
comes."

Joe now appeared running towards them, having followed
up the horses as if anticipating some accident, with a bottle
of brandy in one hand, a couple of iC sodas " in the other,
and a tumbler in his pocket.

Begorra ! is he kilt ? " he asked, breathlessly, as he
reached the spot around which some of the others had now
gathered. HerTernan meantime had sunk to the ground
again, and appeared as if he were going to faint away.

Quick, Corcoran, quick ! " cried Hector, snatching the

things from him, and mixing 1 a " stiffer'' peg with trembling
action. " There, take a pull at that, Albert, and you'll be
betters added, pressing the tumbler to Heffernan's lips,
who drank convulsively with his teeth clinking against the
glass.

The potent draught, however, soon revived him, and ina
few moments he rose again to his feet, when Hector tied
a handkerchief round his forehead, which was considerably
bruised and cut.

"Do you think you'll be able to ride home now, old
man ? " he inquired, as he adjusted the bandage ; " or shall
we send for a dhoolie ? u

No, no ; I'm all right again, thanks. "

"Well, take Agra; he's as cool as a cucumber; and
I'll ride Melbourne back. The brute's rather excited
still."

This exchange was accordingly made, and Heffernan
started quietly for his bungalow on the smooth-tempered
Arab, with Joe walking by his side.

Meanwhile Moberley and the ladies had approached,
and in answer to inquiries, Hector, who advanced to meet
them, explained, —

No harm done, I hope. Poor Heffernan's had a nasty
cropper, though ; but he's not much hurt, I think."

Won't he come to our house — ? " suggested Moberley.

I think he'd prefer to get to bed, and he's gone off
home already."

Thank God it wasn't you, darling," whispered Georgie,
pressing Hector's hand as they moved away; to which
show of affection her lover responded gratefully.

The remainder of the race is soon told. Tommy Lawson
kept up his reputation for having more lives-than a cat,
and the clinging powers of a monkey ; but no one knew
how on earth he got over the next jump after the collision,

c 2

for as he approached it he was seen still hanging on underneath
Fly-by-night's neck, and subsequently trying to
clamber back into the saddle; though whether he ever got
there or not was never quite clear. At any rate he managed
to win somehow, Jack Overton being a very bad second,
and the rest, of course, nowhere.

CHAPTER III.

IN THE SMALL HOURS.

There was a sound of revelry by night''

Byron.

After parting with Georgie and the Moberleys Hector
mounted Melbourne and cantered after his friend, whom
he soon overtook, and accompanied to his bungalow, followed
by the faithful Joe, still in a state of anxiety about
the " Captain." Meantime the other officers and guests
returned to mess for supper, to wind up with broiled bones,
devils, anchovy toast, and a few songs.

Hector wanted to remain with Heffernan ; but the latter
persuaded him, after a while, to rejoin the festive scene,
especially as, between them, they had two or three guests
to be looked after, and the wounded man averred that he
was nearly all right again now.

On his return to the bungalow Heffernan had two
mussucks 1 of water poured over him, which revived him
considerably ; but in ease he became worse during the
night, and needed attendance, Hector suggested that Joe
should sit up and be at hand, which the latter gladly
volunteered to do, and Heffernan agreed that it might
perhaps be as well, for his cuts and bruises were still accompanied
by a good deal of nausea and giddiness.

1 Prepared goatskins, used by bheesties.

"When Hector regained the mess he found a very jovial
party round the supper-table, and entered the room just intime
to join in the concluding" chorus of an old Scotch
song, set to a rollicking air, and running somehow —

With a rocky ticks doo car, doo car, doo car,
Rocky ticks doo dum car,
And I wish he may be caught in that vera same creel,
With a rocky ticks doo dum car ! "

which was received with tumultuous cheers, and clatter
enough to rouse the ghost of old Richard Cameron
himself.

"How's the Rajah now, Hector?" inquired two or
three, as our hero took his seat at the table.

Oh, a good bit better ; Fve put him to bed, and
posted the giant sentry over him for the night."

That's all serene, then."

Any anxiety on score of the accident having thus subsided,
more songs were called for ; and presently a lugu-
brious-looking officer of the Native Infantry, who had just
returned from leave to England with a very queer wife,
picked up during his furlough, sang the following ditty
with much feeling : —

There was once an ambitious young man from the East,
An exceedingly greedy young beast,
Who wanted to marry and feather his ne-est

"With ten thousand a year at the least ;
And although he was only a penniless wretch,
He gave himself out as a very fine catch.

Chorus — With a hooray tee rumti tee oral tee fum.

There was also a scheming young girl from the South,
Who was ten times as ugly as sin,
With a twist in her nose, and a post-office mouth,
But literally rolling in tin ;

At least, so she led all the world to suppose.
Though the only attraction she had was her nose.

Chorus — "With a hooray tee, &c.

'Twas the season, and crowds of very fine swells

Were parading the Scarborough Spa,
When this couple first met, 'mid the beaux and this belles,

And view'd each other afar ;
But the butterfly gossips soon made them aware
That one was an heiress, the other an heir !

Chorus — With a hooray tee, &c.

So before very long they were spooning away,
And protesting a tissue of lies,
Both thinking to make their little game pay,

Though the sequel will hardly surprise ;
They were married, and started at once on a tour,
Each blessing the match they were soon to deplore !

Chorus — With a hooray tee, &c.

Now during the time that they travell'd about
There were one or two little expenses ;
The heiress then very soon found the heir out —

He her, which brought both to their senses.
They raved, and they swore that they'd have a divorce ;
But as neither could pay, they couldn't, of course.

Chorus — With a hooray tee, &c.

This clever young couple have now settled down,
And are both to their fates resign 'd ;
They keep a small inn in a second-rate town,

With bowls and skittles behind ;
And they've raised a new sign-board, on which has been smear 'd
Two donkeys in harness, both very long-ear'd !

Chorus — With a hooray tee, &c.

Moral (to fortune-hunters).

Look ere you leap, while single and free ;
Believe nothing you hear, only half what you see !
With a hooray tee, &c."

After the usual applause Tommy Rawson, in reference
to the song, explained seriously to those near him that the
warbler's matrimonial venture had been a gross fraud on
both sides; hence the touching revelation, which was all
he ever sung now or ever would sing for the rest of his life,
the last verse being merely a cloak to conceal their identity.
Whereupon there was a loud cry of "encore !" — but to this
the mournful songster did not respond.

Tiny Gore, as mentioned, was on regimental duty that
night ; and when this happened to be the case on convivial
occasions like the present, he was the more amusing
from a sort of forced sobriety which he maintained j his
zeal as a soldier, besides, increasing with every glass of
champagne he drank. At this moment he was demolishing
a savoury jelly in the shape of a sphinx (ecce signum !
the regimental badge for "Egypt "), with as grave an air
as if it were strictly a matter of duty. And perhaps it
was ; perhaps he so far remembered Greek lore as to
reverse matters by putting a riddle to the sphinx, who,
solving it not, was bound to be devoured, thus turning
the tables as Oedipus did on the fabulous monster of
Thebes, though not quite in the same way.

Take my oath I never saw such a funny boy," chaffed
Tommy across the table ; " the more screwed he gets, the
soberer he is, I do believe. Tiny, here's your health ! "

"All right, Tommy, thanks," replied the youth, demurely,
but without making further sign.

"Well," continued Rawson, winking to the others, "why
don't you fill your glass ?"

Not I" said Tiny, shaking his head with a knowing
air; "I'm like that old horse they talk about, Tommy;
any one of you may take me to the water, but the whole lot
of you can't make me drunk ! "

Ha, ha, ha ! well said, young 3 xm" laughed Rawson,

munching his anchovy toast ; " and bad luck to any one
who tried, especially when you're on duty, eh ? But I say,
Tiny, did you catch that sentry, my boy ? "

What sentry ? " asked Gore, looking up again from the
mangled sphinx.

Oh, don't pretend you don't know. Wolverton " (the
captain on duty) " says he saw you take off your boots and
sneak round the corner of the barracks, to nobble the
magazine sentry asleep''

So I did' replied Tiny, with perfect gravity, and
humouring the joke ; " he's in the guard-room now —
says he always sleeps on his post, but I'm the first officer
who ever caught him."

At which retort there was a general laugh.

Slackness on parade or duty was a thing not to be tolerated
in the 126th for a moment, and there were few
smarter boys than Ensign Gore in the service ; but when he
visited the guards that night, he exhibited a little impatience
which would have rather scandalized a strict disciplinarian,
though it might have amused any one else.

Who comes there ? " cried the sentry of the hospital
guard, as Tiny approached.

Rounds ! " replied Tiny, in a stentorian tone.

What rounds ? "

Visiting rounds ! "

Stand visiting rounds; guard tun-not / "

Now the guard was considerably longer than usual in
turning out ; so Tiny, ignoring the formal fact that he was
supposed to be an enemy until allowed to advance by the
non-commissioned officer in command, shouted, in a peevish
voice, "Look sharp, you fellows; confound it, I'm not
going to stand here all night ! " which so flurried the
corporal in charge that he retaliated bv " wigHnno: " one of
the dilatory men.

"Now then, Private Robinson," said he, "just make
haste there, will yer, if yer don't want me to bring* yer up
in front o' the officer ! "

Thereby ignoring" another formal fact, that Tiny was not
supposed to be the " officer " until he, the corporal, had
himself ascertained such to be the case. At last the guard
fell in.

11 Who comes there ? " then cried the corporal, in a fierce
military tone, to make up for the delay, and of course
knowing well enough who it was.

"Rounds ! " growled Tiny, churlishly.

What rounds ? " inquired the corporal, keeping up the
farce.

"Visiting rounds!" shouted Tiny, snapping his nose
off.

Advance visiting rounds, and all's well."

But all was anything but well, as the corporal found
when the rounds did advance, for Tiny then delivered a
very fierce harangue upon the duties of a soldier, &c, and
threatened a terrible paragraph in his regimental report,
quite forgetting that he had stultified himself by a flagrant
breach of discipline in the first instance. But slight informalities
of this kind will sometimes occur in the best-regulated
corps.

It was past the small hours, broad daylight in fact,
before the supper-party broke up in the Cameronian mess,
when Hector, adjourned to Heffernan's bungalow to see
how he was. As he drew towards the bedroom, and softly
moved aside the " purdah " (a heavy cloth blind hanging
in the doorway), he was rather surprised to find Joe fast
asleep in a chair, and Albert Heffernan wide awake, leaning
on his elbow, and scowling at the big soldier with
an ugly frown on his face. Heffernan had evidently not
heard Hector's approach, and continued to look at Joe

Corcoran with that peculiar, stern expression until young
Grayle entered the room.

"What's the matter, Albert?" inquired the latter.
Haven't you slept well ? "

No, confound it all," replied Heffernan, gruffly, though
his features relaxed in a moment. " How could I with
that great beggar snoring there like a grampus ? "

Here you, Corcoran, wake up ! " exclaimed Hector,
shaking the giant by the arm.

"Eh, what?" cried Joe, springing to attention, and
saluting the punkah vaguely. " Bead, I beg pardon, sir.
I'd just dropped off."

I should just think you had," observed Hector, smiling.
You're a pretty sort of nurse, I must say."

Poor old Joe ! Could he only have foreseen the result of
that unlucky nap, dead tired as he was, he would have
taken a little extra pains to keep awake.

CHAPTER IV.

One MORE Angel.

Wert thou of the golden-winged host,
Who, having clad thyself in human weed,
To earth from thy prefixed seat did post,
And after short abode fly back with speed ?

But oh ! why didst thou not stay here below
To bless us with thy heaven-loved innocence, —
******

To stand 'twixt us and our deserved smart ?

But thou canst best perform that office where thou art."

Milton.

After Hector returned to the mess for supper Joe Corcoran
had remained watchful at his post for a long time, during 1
which Heffernan dozed off into an uneasy sleep. But the
sweltering heat, combined with the drowsy influence of the
slowly swinging punkah, gained the mastery at last, and
Joe's blinking eyes gradually closed. He had had a hard
day's work, and his big frame was quite exhausted, so
presently the jaw fell, and the long limbs relaxed in
profound slumber.

An oil wick in a little earthenware saucer, doing duty
for a night-light, threw a faint yellow flicker over the scantily
furnished room, and gradually paled before the grey
dawn, which stole in through the window" chicken'' The
mosquitoes hummed around in the hot stifling air, the

punkah-coolie in the verandah slowly collapsed, and the
punkah stopped, producing that sudden itching* sensation
which at once awakens the sleeper.

It had no such effect on Joe, however, nor was he disturbed
by Heffernan, who suddenly rose up in bed and called
out " Kainsho punkah" in a petulant voice to the coolie.
Joe was too fatigued to wake easily ; he merely responded
with a roaring snort like an angry wild boar, and knocked
a hungry mosquito off his nose ; the snort being succeeded
by a variety of intonations, which, by degrees, subsided
into a suppressed snuffle.

At first Heffernan looked at him with an amused smile ;
but as the stertorous snoring gave place to dreamy muttering,
the expression on the " Captain's " face underwent a
marked change.

Joe Corcoran spoke very distinctly in his sleep, and
rambled on about little Gwennie, repeating the mild scolding
he had given her for her imprudent conduct that night.
Then his somnolent brain seemed to wander from the present
to the past, when distant memories, rendered more
vivid in his dreams, unloosed his tongue, and made him
talk of people and things connected with his boyhood.
He mixed up names in a confused jumble, and there
was little sense or sequence in his murmuring. Nevertheless
the context seemed to have roused Heffernan''s
anxious attention, for he listened to the incoherent ramblings
for some minutes very intently. Long after they
had died away he remained with his searching eyes fixed
on the sleeper's face, while dark thoughts chased each other
through his mind, until these were interrupted by Hector
entering the room.

As Joe's services were no more required, Heffernan
thanked him in a kind tone for sitting up, and dismissed
him from his post, when the weary soldier returned to the

mess quarters, hoping 1 to snatch a little more sleep before
the day's work began.

Heffernan complained of feeling very much shaken still,
with a bad headache ; but after a good " snooze " and a
goosul " (commonly so called, and indicating a bath) , he
thought he should be all right. Meanwhile he suffered
from a raging thirst, so Hector mixed him a tumbler full
of iced lime-juice and soda-water, and then went off to
seek his own pillow.

One sultry day after another passed at Fyzabad, each
seeming hotter than the last, and still the rains kept off.
Those vapoury heralds on the memorable steeple-chase
night turned out to be a delusion, and had only conspired,
apparently, to bring some of the dare-devil riders to grief.
The long-sustained heat naturally produced a good deal of
fever and sickness in the station, but happily as yet no case
of cholera had appeared, although there was some apprehension
of that dreaded scourge breaking out among the
European troops, owing to the trying season, and the fact
of its having already visited Oude and the native city.

After a feeble attempt at a parade now and then — for it
could be little else with the thermometer at a hundred and
anything, and every man panting his heart out under his
accoutrements — the officers assembled in the mess verandah
for chota hazree, when there was an equally feeble attempt
to be jolly together for a while before dozing away the
overpowering mid-day hours. But with the atmospheric
oppression it was a hard struggle indeed to keep up the
spirits, very few being equal even to the effort, and there
was a want of life and " go " about everybody. The
reaction after the " kick-up " on that particular guest-night
seemed to have produced an universal " ,"
and it was quite an exertion even to find anything
new to chaff about. The subject of Hector's .engagement

&

had been done to death, so it was stale now ; besides which
he took the banter so good-humouredly that it soon lost
its zest.

Even Tommy Rawson, " that donative gent" as the
station " moonshine " called him, was in a dejected condition,
and went about with the plaintive refrain, " Awfully
ill,, awfully ill ; take my oath I never felt so ill in all my
life' baring his curly head with a " pie — e — ew " as he
sank exhausted into a chair ; then came the inevitable
order, delivered in a struggling voice, " Koi hai ! brandy
slierarb helattee panes lao,julde!" followed by, " 'Pon my
soul, I believe I'm going to die, you fellers — take my oath
I do."

To enliven the Cameronians one morning, the lugubrious
X.I. officer (with the queer wife) turned into the mess
compound, and approached the group at chota hazree.

Jumps," as he was called, from the fact of his being
enough to give any one nervous starts to look at, was a
frightfully cadaverous little man, with a very unhappy
countenance, very thin, but very upright in his carriage.

More straitened by circumstances than drill, no doubt'
as Hector observed aside to Tiny ; and true enough he was
always figuring in "courts of request," into which that
fraudulent heiress, his better half, continually plunged
him.

As he drew near, he was enjoying an inward chuckle
with an outward whimper; a small joke, as he explained,
at the expense of the last joined griffin in the 38th N.I.

It appeared they also had just pulled themselves together
for a parade that morning, and the griffin, a mild, inoffensive
youth, desirous of ingratiating himself with the crusty
old Colonel (who, from gout, prickly heat, and mosquitoes,
had never slept a wink all night), approached with —

a Good morning, Colonel ; fine morning, sir — "

Fine morning, sir ! what the devil d'you mean ? "
roared the old officer, glaring at him ; " d — n it, sir ! it's
always a fine morning in India — go along with you and fall
in."

Jumps related this in a mournful tone, and accepted a
chair and a cup of tea, as invited, with a sigh. While sipping
the latter with the air of a martyr, or as if he were
sucking in some deadly poison against his will, he pointed
overhead, and observed, sepulchrally, —

I say, you fellows, do you see that ? do you see that
little solitary cloud up there?"

"Yes; what of it?"

"Not much — it's only the cholera cloud," replied the
doleful one; adding, with the first semblance of a smile he
had yet shown, "that's a sure sign — we shall have
cholera here directly, and pretty badly too, or I'm much
mistaken."

How comforting ! " remarked Tiny ; " but I shouldn't
wonder ; an old Colonel Death is coming to command this
place, you know, and they say he invariably goes about arm-in-arm
with cholera morbus."

Of course he does," said Jumps, dryly. .

"Take my oath it's no laughing matter," exclaimed
Tommy. " I've always noticed it breaks out under these
funereal names ; first of all we got it when I was with my
old regiment at Bellamy, under General Coffin; then
somewhere else under Graves ; then under Tombs ; and now
well, those were preparatory hints, I suppose — this must
be the finisher."

With which grim joke Tommy became so overcome as to
gasp for yet another peg.

He might well say it was no laughing matter, although
with his next breath he jested on the subject. There is
nothing more appalling than an epidemic of Asiatic cholera

to the British soldier, who will face, undaunted, danger and
death in other forms, where the stoutest heart quails before
the presence of this remorseless, unseen enemy.

He steals into the barracks like a thief in the night, and
an ominous silence greets his horrible presence. The death
of his first victim is shrouded in mystery ; but gradually
the truth leaks out, as it passes from lip to lip with bated
breath, and is confirmed by another case, and then another
in rapid succession, when all realize that the dreaded foe is
in their midst at last.

Thus it was with the Cameronians at Fyzabad. The
dismal prophecy was fulfilled that very night, a case
occurring in the married quarters, quickly followed by
two others in hospital. Fever and dysentery had taken off
several of the regiment lately, but these had been carried to
their last resting-place with all military honours — "The
Flowers of the Forest," " Culloden Moor," or " The Portuguese
Hymn," being played by the pipers as the funeral
party marched to the cemetery. But after the first fatal
cholera cases, these repeated funeral marches were considered
depressing to the rest of the regiment ; so the pipers were
ordered not to play, and the gun-carriage, with its ghastly
burden, rolled silently away from the barracks at dusk,
followed by an officer and a few comrades of the deceased's
company ; the only indication of the melancholy ceremony,
though significant enough, being the three distant volleys
of blank cartridge fired over the grave.

A heavy gloom soon spread throughout the whole
station, and as cholera hovered about for some days, while
other forms of sickness increased, the Cameronians began to
dread a repetition of that fearful mortality which decimated
their ranks at Chusan in 1840. Happily, however,
such apprehension was soon dispelled, for Fyzabad was not
really an unhealthy place, and this dance of death was but

VOL. III. D

a temporary caper, which died out soon after the rains set
in and cooled the atmosphere.

During* this trying time — in fact, ever since the night of
the steeple-chase — the house of the Moberleys had been the
scene of anxious grief.

In a room darkened by every ingenious appliance for
keeping out the heat and glare, lay the wasted form of poor
little Gwennie, who had paid the penalty of her indiscretion
on that eventful evening, by bringing on a fresh attack
of fever, which had gradually developed into a malignant
type.

Mrs. Moberley and her husband were unceasing in their
kindness and attention to the little sick girl, and every
effort was made to alleviate her sufferings and restore her
waning strength. The distracted mother, who watched
day and night beside her darling, fancied she saw that frail
floweret fading gradually before her eyes; and as the dread
suspicion dawned upon her, she clung to the child with a
wild despair at heart, and poured out her prayers to God, in
His mercy to avert the cruel blow. Every thought for
the future and the new life which had opened out to the
young mother was sunk in the depths of her present
sorrow; this weight of mental agony seemed utterly to
have crushed her, and the constant vigils and anxiety
during the last few days had made such sad havoc of her
own health, that poor Georgie looked white and fragile as
the little tired one over whom she watched.

Ninneah, notwithstanding Joe's coaxing, had reported
Gwennie's escapade to Mrs. Vickers immediately on her
return from the race-course ; and Georgie, finding the child
still awake, had given her a sound scolding for being so
naughty. Ah, how she now regretted every cross word
she had spoken to the little truant, who seemed to be so
surely gliding from her hands ! how tenderly she nursed

and petted her, and wished that she could bear instead that
angry fever which childlike folly had provoked !

The room dedicated to Gwennie was, like most Indian
bedrooms, on the ground floor, and opened on to her
mother's, though Georgie scarcely used her own apartment
since the little girl's illness, for she would never leave the
side of her cot, and only took snatches of sleep on a chair-bed,
which was made up close at hand.

Hector Grayle was constantly at the house, and though
he was powerless to assuage the mother's sorrow, he did all
he could to comfort and console her. He spoke tenderly of
their engagement and of the happy time, but a few months
distant, when they would be all gathered together in his
own home ; nor did he, in his mind, exclude that little
stricken one from the joyous circle, but looking hopefully
on her recovery, as youth is wont to do where hope has
all but vanished, welcomed the thought of her blithe and
merry presence at Barrington as a genial mediator 'twixt
his future wife and family. As I have shown, the latter
were dreadfully prejudiced against Hector's engagement,
from the fact of Georgie being an Anglo-Indian widow ;
and since he wrote from Sandeepore to announce the important
step taken, he had received folios of loving warnings,
intermingled with earnest remonstrance. But what
availed they now? It was too late to interfere, and the only
concession Hector would make was in the promise not to
marry until he returned home.

For the first few days of her illness, Gwennie scarce
spoke — even to her mother ; and while the fever was at its
height, she was in an unconscious state. But the virulent
malady left its victim suddenly, as it had seized her, when
she was able once more to recognize those around her. It
had left her, true ; but oh, how changed ! what a poor
emaciated little wreck of her former self ! a mere shadow

D I

of the happy child whose roguish laugh was wont to ring
through the house, and cheer its inmates like the notes of a
caroling bird.

Mr. and Mrs. Moberley had no children of their own,
and had learned to love this little one with all the sweet
affection of which such kind souls were capable. Her
dangerous illness, therefore, cost them the deepest grief;
but though their large hearts throbbed with anguish at the
sight of her small pinched face and wasted limbs, they did
not intrude their sorrow on the afflicted mother.

The doctor had pronounced the crisis past, and this had
encouraged Hector's hopes ; but Georgie, with maternal
instinct, knew that her child was still in imminent danger.
The violent fever had so fearfully reduced her little frame,
that the parent had too good cause for apprehension ; and
where the strongest man is often unable to battle against
such utter prostration, what chance, thought she, had this
poor feeble infant ?

As soon as Gwennie recovered consciousness, her mind
seemed to wander back to her delinquency, in having played
the truant on that fatal night; and the first words she
whispered were to beg forgiveness of her mother, who was
watching by her cot, alone, as usual.

My darling pet," murmured Georgie, in choked accents,
and pressing her lips to the poor burning brow, " I was
only vexed for a moment, and for your own sake ; we must
think of nothing else now but how soon we can make you
well again."

The child shook her head and smiled faintly.

I don't think I shall ever get better, mamma dear'
she answered, feebly. " I feel so ill — so tired and ill— Fm
afraid God must be very angry with me, mamma."

She could not help remembering that even dear, kind
old Joe had been cross with her on that occasion, and in her

extreme lassitude fancied she must have done something-very
wicked, for which God was punishing her.

Georgie tried to soothe the poor wandering little mind,
and assured her that He would hear her prayers and forgive
her for every fault, when she said anxiously, —

"Mamma, will you ask Him, please; T can't alone""

Her grief stricken mother then knelt down by the bed
and at her behest, prayed aloud long and earnestly,
and besought compassion on' that tender lamb, the child's
parched lips moving in tremulous whispers as she repeated
the words. Gwennie then seemed more composed and
happy; and afterwards, when Georgie had given her
some cooling draught and smoothed out her feverish pillow,
she fell into a peaceful sleep that lasted nearly two
hours.

When she awoke at length, it was evening, and the
music of a band was heard playing in the public gardens
afar off. As the distant melody stole into the sick-room, a
sweet smile flickered across the small white face of the little
sufferer, and Gwennie opened her eyes and closed them
again, in tranquil ecstasy at the strains.

Even in health it is a delicious feeling to be awakened
gradually from sleep by soft music stealing in upon the
senses; but to the dying, whose emotional impulse is
ethereal rather than mortal, the earthly harmony floats
through the air in the sound of a heavenly song", and
lifts the panting soul upward to the realms of angels'
minstrelsy.

Gwennie listened as in a trance until the music ceased,
when she reopened her eyes and murmured gently, —

w Mamma, darling, is that God's band I hear ? Has He
sent it to play me up to heaven? Yes, yes, I think it must
be. This is His answer to our prayer, mamma ; and — and
I'm going soon, very soon now."

She ceased speaking for a few moments, and Georgie,
weeping silently in suppressed agony, placed a cool sponge
to the little hot lips, which presently moved again in a
fainter murmur.

I want to say good night, now, but — I cannot — I
can't remember anything, and it is getting so dark.
Where is Joe, mamma ? Has he not been here yet ? I
must see dear old Joe before — before God takes me
away."

Yes, little Gwennie, every day in the broiling sun has
Joe made his pilgrimage to learn tidings of his "little
'un 5 and often three and four times in the day, when he
could snatch a half-hour from his duties, has the faithful
soldier wandered to where his " sweet darling " lay sick
unto death. She was too ill to see any one, and Joe had
never dared even ask to be admitted, although a painful
apprehension, increasing every hour, made him yearn to
look upon her little face once more.

At that very moment when she inquired for him he was
leaning against the stone pillar of the gateway only a few
yards off, hovering near the spot after his usual visit, and
clinging, as it were, to this frail link 'twixt him and
another world. As he stood thus his great form shook
with passionate grief, for he felt too sure that his little
friend was going to leave him for ever, nor did he attempt
to restrain the scorching tears which rolled down his
bronzed cheeks at the grievous thought.

Would you like to see Joe, my darling ? " asked her
mother, in reply to Gwennie's gentle muttering. "Shall
I send for him ? "

Yes, yes ; please do, mamma. I — I want to speak to
him so much."

They had not far to send, and in a few minutes the tall
soldier stood beside the little cot. He had greeted the

welcome summons with a thrill of delight, and hastened to
obey with quick, though noiseless footsteps. But oh, what
crushing* sorrow succeeded that momentary joy, when he
looked with swimming eyes on the tiny wreck before him !
He entered the room on tiptoe, and his tread was marvelously
soft ; but the child's quick ear detected his presence
in a moment, although he moved so cautiously. With a
mournful little smile — what a painful contrast to the merry
laughing glance he knew so well — she held out her poor
thin hand to him, and he took it gently in his, while his
strong frame was convulsed by a deep sob, which all his
efforts could not control.

K You mustn't cry, Joe' she whispered, soothingly. " I
have longed to see you to tell you this — to tell you how
happy I feel, and — and — you're not angry with me now,
are you, dear ? Mamma has forgiven me, and you never
said a cross word to me till — till the other night, did you?
when I know I deserved it."

Joe shook his head ; he could not utter a syllable.

Yes, dear, I did. But never mind, I — I wanted to
tell you something else." She paused for a minute, as if to
collect her thoughts and gather strength to speak. " Do
you know, Joe, I'm going away — from you all, but I want
you — never to forget me — and always — to be the same
kind, good old Joe — that Gwennie loves so much. And —
and you'll keep the chowkidar still for my sake, won't you,
dear ? Now, kiss me — once more."

Poor Joe, with aching heart, which ached the more from
the torturing efforts to conceal his grief, bent down over
his little playfellow and kissed her for the last time. Then,
after another pause, she continued, her murmurs growing
fainter and fainter.

Yes, I'm going away — far away now — to that other
little girl you told me of, and we will watch over you

together. But you must be so good, Joe; and you must
always think of us both up in heaven — and come to us —
by-and-by. I know you loved her, dear, just as you love
me ; and last night — I dreamt I saw her, and to-night —
to-night I am going to where she is. Hark ! there it is
again V

She held up a finger to hush them from sobbing, and
her eyes became fixed on the ceiling with a far, far away
look, for at that moment the distant music of the band was
heard again, the floating harmony rising and falling on
the fitful breeze.

The dying child listened with a calm seraphic expression
on her little wan face, as the low sweet strains were wafted
to her ears; and presently her lips moved again, when
Georgie anxiously leant dow T n to catch the slightest
whisper.

Yes, it is the band, mamma. God's angels, so bright,
so beautiful. Oh, kiss me. They are waiting — waiting to
take me now."

Georgie heard no more. The whispers died out in a
weak, trembling sigh, —

And softly, from that hush'd and darken'd room,
Two angels issued where but one went in."

She had fled ! Little Gwennie had followed the earthly
music on its upward flight ; then leaving it, was carried far
beyond the reach of mortal sounds, to be welcomed at the
gates of heaven by God's holy choir.

Mourn not for her, sorrowing mother, 'twere better thus
better that she should leave this tear-stained world, this
perilous land of woe, while she deemed it yet a paradise,
and knew nought of the heavy chains which weigh the fullgrown
mortal to the dust.

Weep not for her, Joe Corcoran, weep not that Jesus

has taken the blithesome infant to His bosom, where she
nestles now in everlasting peace and joy. She is safe thereunder
His protecting love and mercy that blessed little
one is now blessed indeed.

CHAPTER V.

MISPLACED CONFIDENCE.

"Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh."

St. Matthew, xii. 34.

There is something inexpressibly touching" in the simple
funeral of a child, where God has spared the little one
just long enough to win its way to the hearts of those by
whom it had been surrounded during that tiny life-time.
It is hard to realize that death has closed those bright
laughing eyes, and silenced those little lips for ever ; we
fancy we see the merry smile or hear the innocent prattle
even now, while our eyes are dimmed with tears, and our
lips mute with anguish. Yet with all its sadness, to the
bereaved spectator that mournful ceremony, on its diminutive
scale, scarcely rises to the gloomy dignity of a real
funeral, although to those composing the small procession,
God knows, it is real and sorrowful enough.

Such an one left the Assistant Commissioners house at
sunset on the day following Gwennie's death, and slowly
and sadly wound its way to the station cemetery. Hector
Grayle and Joe Corcoran with tender care carried the little
burden between them to its earthy couch, and though
there were many who mourned for the loss of that bright
winsome child, Ensign Gore and Mr. Moberley alone followed
the bearers to the grave ; the stricken mother being

left prostrate with grief to the consoling companionship of
her hostess.

A short time ago this poor child's removal from the
scene would have caused Albert Heffernan considerable
uneasiness from a purely selfish point of view, since it was
chiefly for her little one's sake that Georgie Vickers had
dreaded the secret of her life becoming known to the world.
But now matters were changed ; she loved and was engaged
to Hector Grayle; therefore Heffernan apprehended no
change of tactics on her part by this recent sad event, and
was consequently quite happy in his mind so far as she
was concerned. A new anxiety, however, had arisen in
another direction, and since his accident (from which he
had quite recovered, except for one or two half-healed scars
on his face) he had found fresh food for apprehension.

That steeple-chase night was fraught with gloomy results
in more ways than one, and the events arising therefrom
extinguished all Joe's hopes of being sent to the depot, at
any rate, for some time to come, though he was in happy
ignorance of how the fates were conspiring against him.

Heffernan, as captain of his company, had fully intended,
in the first instance, to use his influence in Joe's interests,
and to take him home with him to England, both at the
earnest appeal of Mrs. Corcoran and the modest request of Joe
himself. But that unfortunate doze by the " Captain's " bedside,
when the giant had jabbered away in his sleep about
people and things connected with the past, had played the
very mischief with his prospects, and Heffernan decided that
it would be unadvisable for Joe to return to the scenes of his
boyhood just at present. This distrust, however, although
rather strong on the first impulse, had worn away after a
little while, especially as he reflected that what he had
overheard was uttered only in sleep, and no hint on the same
subject had ever passed Joe's lips when awake. So, as

weeks slipped by, and the time for leaving the country
drew near, Heffernan relented a little, and was inclined to
adhere to his first determination regarding Joe ; but once
more the poor soldier's bad luck rose up against him in an
accidental circumstance, which put the finishing stroke to
his prospects.

Nearly two months had passed since he had lost his little
one, and like a faithful dog, he paid daily visits to that
small mound which, for some time, was all that marked
the spot where she lay. The grass had grown green and
long over the little grave ere a marble slab was placed at
its head in loving memory — for the mason had been slow
to execute the order — but when at length it did appear,
the beautiful inscription on its face seemed to open afresh
the wound in the honest soldier's heart.

Each day, with a sort of sorrowful pleasure, Joe Corcoran
spelt out the following touching lines, inscribed beneath that
name so sweet in his recollection.

Another little form asleep,

And a little spirit gone ;
Another little voice is hush'd,

And a little angel born :
Two little feet have gone the way

To the home beyond the skies ;
And our hearts are like the void that comes

When a strain of music dies.

The birds that sit on the branch above

Now sing a requiem
To the beautiful little sleeping form

That used to sing to them.
But never again will the little lips

To their songs of love reply ;
For that silvery voice is blended with

The minstrelsy on high."

Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven." — St. MaWieic xix. 14.

These exquisitely simple stanzas Joe soon learnt by
rote, and often and often found himself repeating them,
when away from the spot and engaged in his daily duties.

It happened one evening, soon after the tombstone had
been erected, that he was leaving the cemetery with a
heavy heart, having drank his cup of bitterness to the lees,
when a voice, calling him by name, arrested his progress ashe
emerged from the gateway, and lifting his downcast
eyes he saw the " Captain " passing on horseback.

Heffernan pulled up for a few minutes, and guessing the
sorrowful soldier's mission, addressed a few kind words to
him, which Joe the more appreciated, coming, as they did,
from the officer whom he so much respected. Cures lewes
sequuntur, invented silent — and poor Corcoran's grief was
borne in silence and with resignation ; for long after the
blow had fallen he went about his work like a man in a
dream, and seemed to pay slight heed to the outer world,
which no longer held his little treasure.

But as HefFernan spoke to him thus kindly, at the very
moment when the great heart was overflowing with grief,
Joe's feelings found vent in utterance; and, saluting with
marked deference, he said, —

Ah, sir, even your friendly words — and I 'prelate them,
faith I do — but even them couldn't console me if I didn't
know that little darling was better — far and away better —
where she is, God bless her ! and He have blessed her too,
sir, that He have, so what right have I got to keep on a
within' of her back ? But there ! we're only poor creeping'
worms down here below, and can't help envying' them bright
'uns up above, just a bit ; but oh, sir, it was hard to lose
one like that there little 'un."

Of course it was, Joe, and I sympathize with you in
your trouble, my poor fellow, you may be sure ; but you
mustn't let this sort of chronic melancholy take a hold upon

you. You loved the little girl very dearly, I know,
and— "

Faith I did, sir, and the company 0' that sweet child
used often to take me back to the days when I was a boy
at home. You mind the time, sir' he added, saluting
again respectfully, " when you and I was lads together ?
and then I thought of that other poor little thing what
came afterwards to live along with me and my mother, and
then, sir — "

Yes, yes, I remember Joe, perfectly," interrupted
Hoffman, rather abruptly ; " but she was a mere babe, you
know, compared to us, and could hardly be reckoned a
companion of one's childhood exactly, could she ? "

That's right enough, sir, and maybe she wouldn't be,
not to you, 'cos you went away after you was made a officer,
and didn't see so much of her. But it was different with
me ; that little 'un — your little 'un, as I may say, sir — she
made me love her that, with her pretty, winning ways, that
she was more as if she was my little sister, ye know sir ; so
you may tell when I heard what a awful thing had happened
to her, after I'd listed and come out here, how that
stuck like in my mind, sir. Then this dear mite what's
gone now along with little Bessie, why she seemed to come
across one as a kind o' consoler for the loss, ye know, sir,
and brought the whole sad suckamstance back into one's
head, and kep' it there like off and on, don't ye see,
sir."

Really, Joe, my good man," observed Heffernan, drawing
his reins together and preparing to ride on, " you seem
to have a morbid knack of letting your mind harp on
gloomy matters. Come, cheer up, and don't allow yourself
to get so cast down about what is past and irrevocable.
You can't recall these little children to earth by your repining,
can you ? " (Joe shook his head solemnly) " nor

should you wish to do so ; as you say, they're far better off
where they are, and when you come to reflect that one of
them has been dead these — I don't know how many years
now — why, it's almost a bit of affectation, Joe — pardon my
saying so — to dwell on such a subject."

No, sir, you'll excuse me, it ain't that," replied the
soldier, colouring up, and saluting once more to relieve his
feelings, for Heffernan's last remark jarred on his sensitive
nature ; " I feel what I say, and I ain't one to forget as
ready as some ; but you're right, sir — there's no use a
moping' about things, and I essay I shan't after a bit.
But this here sorrowful business, sir, and that there slab put
me in mind of the other what was buried long ago and faraway;
so when I go home with ye, sir, I should like you
to show me where you laid poor little Bessie, begin' your
pardon, sir ; and there is a stone over her too, I suppose,
ain't there ? "

Oh, yes, certainly," said Heffernan — turning as he
spoke towards some ladies who were passing in a carriage,
and bringing his hand to his forage-cap — " certainly; I saw
to that myself, of course. Very well, Joe, I'll remember
your wish, and you shall see the spot when you return to
England with me ; that is, you know, if we can manage
about getting you home just now. Good evening ;" and
he trotted off after the receding carriage, as though in a
great hurry to overtake it.

If we can manage about getting you home just now !

Poor old Joe ! he little knew the significance of those
words, or how systematically he had been cutting his own
throat during that brief conversation with the " Captain."
But so it was.

The giant was always very diffident with his superiors,
and especially so with Heffernan, whom he looked up to
as a sort of pinnacle of perfection, both as an officer and a

gentleman. Beyond a casual reference to home and his
mother, no familiar conversation ever arose on his side, nor
had he ever before broached the subject of little Bessie
Farlane's death. He only did so now in the fulness of his
heart, his feelings being so worked upon by the present sad
circumstance.

When Joe talked in his sleep that night, and rambled on
about this same topic, Heffernan had been startled to find
that the memory of it seemed to linger in his mind, though
afterwards he merely attributed this to the retrospective
influence of dreams. But Joe talking in his sleep, and Joe
talking when wide awake, were two very different things,
and as Heffernan listened to his spontaneous outburst
beside the cemetery gate, he made up his mind how to act
then and there; and the poor giant's fate, so far as his
captain's good offices were concerned, was sealed from that
moment.

Heffernan had very cogent reasons for the determination
he came to, namely, that Joe Corcoran should not return to
England at this crisis if he could prevent it; and with that
extreme caution which sometimes over-reaches itself, he
resolved not to run any risk by helping him to do so.

Now Joe was one of those simple, confiding creatures,
who place implicit confidence in other people, and never
think of pushing matters on their own account, or he need
not have depended so utterly on being posted to the regimental
depot, and might have devised other means to
return home. But he naturally felt that the captain of
his company was the man to do the thing for him,
and if he couldn't trust him he should like to know
whom he could trust, he thought; so trusted accordingly,
awaiting with perfect assurance the upshot of affairs. It
was a crushing disappointment, therefore, when that kindhearted,
straightforward "Captain M was obliged to own at

length that his influence in Joe's behalf had failed ; that
he sadly feared there were insurmountable difficulties in
the way (which he plausibly explained) of his getting to
England this relief, but no doubt it would be managed for
him during the following cold season.

A nice piece of consolation, truly, to have to wait
another whole year ; to broil his liver and frizzle his brains
in that lively furnace for twelve weary months longer,
and all his old friends leaving the country. It was most
tantalizing. But Joe was too much of a soldier to kick
against the pricks, and so perforce accepted his hard
fate like a Stoic, and with proper military resignation,
albeit he certainly made one effort to rise above the pressure
of circumstances. This was in a pathetic appeal to Georgie
Yickers, whom he begged to intercede for him with Heffer-nan,
and urge the latter to make a last strenuous effort to
change the fiat of the commanding officer. And Georgie
did so, although, I need hardly say, without the intercession
being of the slightest avail ; whereupon Joe accepted
the final result with equal resignation and fortitude.

Meanwhile Hector and Heffernan had sent in their
papers (which had been accepted) — had sold their horses
and personal effects — Sergeant Baines' discharge had been
purchased — the dak harries had been ordered — and they
were to start about the end of September for Allahabad, en
route (per rail thence) to Bombay.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VI.

A Friend FOR, LIFE.

A sudden thought strikes me ;
Let us swear an eternal friendship,"

Canning

Farewell ! there is a spell within the word ;
Methinks I never heard it sound so mournful."

Dilnot Sadden.

Before bidding good-bye to Fyzabad with our friends I
must hark back for a moment, in order to chronicle a
rather strange episode which took place at Hector's
bungalow during the time he was away shooting in the
Terai.

It will be within the reader's recollection that it fell to
Heffernan's lot to return to head-quarters after the Madrepore
trip, when he escorted the ladies back from camp.
There was certainly a lack of his usual pleasant and agreeable
manner on the occasion, which seemed natural enough,
considering how vexed they knew he must feel at having
been done out of the tiger shooting. But could he himself
have taken a peep into the future and foreseen how certain
chances were to operate hereafter, he might have
accepted the disappointment more cheerfully.

It was about this time that Sergeant Barnes was transferred
to the battery at Fyzabad, and soon after his arrival
he repaired to report himself (unofficially, of course,) to

Hector Grayle. Having* inquired for that young" officer at
his bungalow of a slovenly-looking nigger, half coolie, half
chowkidar, who had been left in charge, he ascertained that
Hector was out in camp — shooting. After giving this information
the native troubled himself no further with the
goora sergeant sahib' but slouched back to the go-down
to finish his "hubble-bubble." 1

Baines was about to leave the compound when he
noticed that one of the bath-room doors stood ajar, and
feeling thirsty from the heat, for it was in the afternoon
when he called, he stepped in to get a drink of water from
the primitive three-chatty filter which he saw in the corner.
He then observed that an inner door was also open ; and
the cool room in semi-darkness beyond, coupled with
curiosity, prompted him to explore further and rest awhile.

Xow it chanced that on the same afternoon HefFernan
also had occasion to visit Hector's bungalow to get some
books he had left there. As he happened to be wearing
light canvas shoes, his step in the verandah, and subsequent
entry into the main room (the door of which was
closed, but not bolted), gave no warning of his approach,
so Sergeant Baines was neatly caught making himself at
home in one of Hector's easy chairs. But this was not
all. Heffernan's surprise on finding him there was considerable,
and it was increased when he observed how he
was engaged, and evidently had been engaged for sometime.


As he lounged back in the chair, the sergeant held a
closely written letter on foreign paper, which he was
intently reading; and strewed around him on all sides
were other letters and private papers belonging to Hector,
all which had apparently undergone inspection.

The opening of the door told him at once that he was
1 Native hookah.
E 2

UBWUW

imivERsmr or kxinos

discovered ; and seeing Heffernan, he sprang from the chair
and muttered a very strong expression between his teeth.
For a moment his eyes flashed and he looked rather
dangerous, as if, indeed, he contemplated committing an
assault, or at any rate, meant to brazen it out by insolence;
but suddenly he lowered his eyes, and the look on his face
changed as he saluted Heffernan, saying in a humble
tone, —

"I'm at your mercy, sir; you've fairly nailed me," but —
but — look here, sir, I swear to you I meant no harm in what
I was doing ; I was only — "

"No harm! what d'you mean, man?" said Heffernan,
contemptuously ; " you commit a felony by breaking into
an officer's quarters — ransacking his desk and papers, and
talk of no harm, by gad ! "

Beg your pardon, sir, I didn't break in ; the bath-room
door was open, and I just went in for a drink of water, and
then sat down here for a bit to get cool — "

And so, entertain yourself with a gentleman's private
letters, eh ? 'pon my word, a pretty creditable act for a noncommissioned
officer in Her Majesty's Royal Artillery, I
must say."

I know it looks bad, sir — devilish bad, but there was no
real harm intended ; of that I'll take my solemn oath. If
you'll only give a feller a chance, and won't ruin him, Fll
just explain."

"It isn't for me to give you a chance, Sergeant Baines,"
replied Heffernan, loftily; "this matter must go before
higher authority."

No, no, sir, it needn't if you don't like ; if you'll only
have a bit of mercy on a man and believe what I'm going
to tell you — "

"And what possible explanation can you give, I
should like to know?" asked Heffernan, curious to hear

what lies the artilleryman would concoct in the emergency.


"Just this, sir. As you know, young Mr. Grayle
promised to buy me out, and take me home as his servant—"


"Very likely; which promise, I think, you bid fair to
forfeit."

"May be, sir; that rests with you. What I was going
to say is, that I haven't seen Mr. Grayle since we were at
Bareilly, when he showed me a letter from his mother all
about myself and that there lake business. Well, sir, I got
posted to this battery by accident, you know, and came here
to-day just to have a talk over matters with the young
gentleman — "

Yes, yes," interrupted Heffernan, impatiently ; " but
what has all this to do with your taking advantage of his
absence to pry into his letters ? "

Only this, sir ; that Mr. Grayle wrote to me once or
twice some time ago, and mentioned how his people were
anxious to do something for me in England when we got
back, and that his movements would depend a good deal on
certain proposed plans, which I should know all about later.
Well, sir, it may seem a poor excuse ; but on coming here I
was so anxious to learn what was up, that, tumbling
across this opportunity, I couldn't, for the life of me, help
just having a squint to see how the land lay, and try to
find any letter mentioning my name, you know, and —
and-baines

hesitated; he felt that his explanation was
utterly lame and unsatisfactory, and was scarcely likely to
help him out of the dilemma ; which doubt Heffernan duly
endorsed.

"A poor excuse, truly, Sergeant Baines," said he; "in
fact, none at all. A man of your education and standing

might have known better than to commit such an act of folly,
to give it no harsher name."

"That's it, sir — folly' said Baines, jumping at the
compromise ; " that's just what it was, but no more than
that, as I'm a living sinner. Now, I do hope, Captain
Heffernan," he went on, growing very earnest in his
appeal, "that you'll have some consideration for a man,
and not utterly smash all the prospects he's been building'
on for such a time. You see, sir, I long to get home to
England — ah, you don't know how I long — and I've taken
to that young officer, and would serve him to the world's
end. Then again, from what his people say, they evidently
mean to do something handsome by me, and no doubt this
will be the making of a feller. But if you was to expose
me for this here d — d piece of folly, you'd just send me
sharp and straight to the devil, and I don't believe you'd
wish to do that. Remember, sir, I did save your young
friend's life once, if I have played the sneak to-day, and —
but only let me off, and don't report the matter, and help
me Heaven ! I'll be a faithful slave and friend to you as
long as I live."

There was a pause of several minutes after the artillery
sergeant ceased speaking, during which he eyed Heffernan
very anxiously, while the latter appeared to be deep in
thought, with that old dark frown clouding his brow.
This made Baines think it was all up with him, and
that the stern-looking officer would prove inexorable ; but
he might have taken heart could he have read the other's
thoughts.

Heffernan was a man who carefully availed himself of
every chance in life which fortune turned towards him ;
and here, by the veriest fluke, another useful instrument
was thrown in his way. He reflected that it could do him
no possible good ego was his first consideration now as

always) to get this wretched soldier into trouble and disgrace
by placing him under arrest and reporting his
misdemeanour j whereas by letting him off, and thereby
earning his eternal gratitude, he would enlist a faithful
recruit in his service ; for as Baines w 7 ould most likely be a
fixture at Barringtree hereafter, he might find him very
useful should occasion arise. Who could tell ? He might
want just such a tool as this to further his nefarious
schemes, and with the power he would now hold over
him the man must ever be entirely under his thumb.

These were the thoughts that flashed through his mind,
and on which he speedily formed his resolution.

He had felt a slight jealousy at the mutual regard which
had evidently sprung into existence between Hector and
the artilleryman ; but this was a minor consideration which
he could afford to sink, as he never supposed that a servant's
influence over the lad would supersede his own, but, on the
contrary, would now co-operate with it.

Sergeant Baines' said he presently, in a pompous
tone, " I have weighed the matter in my mind ; and
although I shall be guilty myself of a dereliction of duty
by omitting to do so, I have decided not to inform against
you."

God bless you, sir ! I'll never forget this to my dying
day. You may take your oath of that," burst out the
soldier, in all the gratitude of his heart.

Very well, I'll believe you, my good fellow ; all I expect
is that you'll prove to me in the future, if you have
the chance, that you are grateful."

If I don't, sir, I hope I may be — "

That will do, Sergeant Baines. Remember that deeds
are better than words, and words are only of worth where
action follows. Good day to you." And so they parted,
Heffernan remaining to tidy Hector's violated correspondence,

while Baines returned to his barrack, muttering to
himself as he went —

Well, I'll be hanged! I never was more astonished in
my life. I'm wrong for once, it seems. Didn't care much
for that officer before, I own ; but, by Jove, he can't be
such a bad fellow after all ! "

The day on which our friends were to take their departure
for England at length arrived, and there was to be a
farewell dinner at the Cameronian mess in the evening,
after which the dak harries were to start on their journey
from the mess compound.

The P. and O. steamship " Simla," in which their passages
had been taken, was down in the mail list to start
on the 7th of October, so they would have a few days'
grace in Bombay before they sailed. Georgie Vickers
had preceded them by about a week, and was then
staying at the " Bulla Hotel," awaiting their arrival.
After her bereavement the Moberleys would not hear of
her quitting their roof until she started on her homeward
journey, so she had remained with her hospitable friends
up to the end of her stay at Fyzabad.

The last evening spent with the Cameronian was one to
be remembered by Hector Grayle and Heffernan in afterlife,
though the bumper royal they received at parting,
rather than cheering them at the moment, produced a
regretful paul at leaving their old comrades. It would
not have been in the ordinary nature of things if Tommy
Rawson, Tiny Gore, and others, had not put their heads
together for one last little lark — just a farewell blessing in
the shape of a practical joke — to wind up with ; and though
it was rather a mild one and very soon found out, it occasioned
at the time immense merriment, which was the
main object.

The couches in the dak harries being, of course, made
up for the night, in the Rajah's bed Tommy carefully
deposited a young donkey, which happened to be with its
mother in a neighbouring compound, and Tiny performed
the same office for Hector with a skinny mess turkey, both
creatures being tucked in tight, and tied down with their
heads under the clothes, to prevent their giving an alarm.
Baines, who occupied a third harry, ought certainly, in
his new capacity of valet, to have discovered these arrangements,
and looked after his young master's comfort, as well
as his friend's, but he didn't. Perhaps he knew of it all
the time, and thought it too good a joke to be spoilt.
Quite likely, for Baines was only a playful British soldier
at heart, though he had turned flunkey.

However, after a few expressions of astonishment, and,
maybe, something stronger, which were responded to by
peals of hearty laughter, the eccentric bedfellows were
summarily ejected to the derisive cries of " Shame ! shame ! "
Oh, I say, I say, don't disturb the poor brutes at this time
of night ! " « Look out for his heels ! " " Take care of
his beak ! " and so forth ; while the infant jackass brayed
hysterically, and the indignant turkey gobbled with all its
might as they were bundled out into the road.

Then the dak coachmen toothed their cacophonous horns;
the jawbone, fleshless ponies grunted, scrambled, and
plunged forward, as a few ready hands gave them a lift by
propelling the spokes of the wheels ; and off Hector and his
friend started, amid the cheers and good-luck wishes of
their late brother officers. A ringing " Gone away ! " from
Tommy greeted their exeunt as the harries whirled wildly
out of the gates ; and poor, unsuspecting Joe ran alongside
and shook hands with the " Captain " up to the last
moment. Little did he know ! But let us hope that powerful,
honest grip kept Albert Heffernan awake for the

whole journey from Fyzabad to Allahabad ; or, indeed, for
the matter of that, to Bombay and Barringtree — and serve

him right if it did !

******

Good-bye and God bless you, my dear ! may you be
happy in your new love. God knows I wish you well — in
spite of all."

The scene was the Apollo Bunder at Bombay, the point
of embarkation ; and the speaker was poor old Major
Bonus, who (being now on staff employ and quartered in
the town) thus accidentally met Georgie Vickers, as she
was leaving India with her affianced husband.

Forgive me," was all she could murmur in a tearful
voice, as she pressed his hand. "Oh, if you only knew
more I really think you would ; but I can never, never
explain now — "

I do forgive you, Georgie," he answered ; " I forgive
you freely and frankly. I well knew some mysterious
barrier came between us, though what it was I may be
destined never to learn. But let it suffice, my dear, that I
do not blame you — "

Oh, thank you for saying so much — for your generosity
in believing me less heartless than I seemed. I know my
outward conduct might well have degraded me in your
estimation ; yet — yet I have gone through so much trouble
lately, I think you will pity me a little now."

As she spoke thus somewhat incoherently, he took her hand
again in his, and said in a kind, though tremulous voice, —

Indeed — indeed I do, my poor child. I heard of your
sad loss, and I feel for you more deeply than I can express.
Ah, they are waiting for you — you must not stay; only one
word more, Georgie, remember this — that though you and
I may never meet again upon this earth, I shall always
think of you with the same tenderness and affection which

I have ever cherished for you. Now, farewell, ray dear,
and Heaven guard you ! "

Oh, what a volume of sadness was there in those few
simple words, and in the deep-drawn sigh which almost
choked their utterance ! — sure index of the bleeding heart
from which they sprang.

Truly there is no end to the bitterness in the brief span
of man's existence ! But one sorrowful parting is so like
another, that where is the novelty in such a scene, when a
painful sameness characterizes each and all — the same
drooping spirit, the same dead sinking at the heart, sadly
familiar to so many ?

Yet in this mournful farewell there were special features
which distinguished it from any ordinary leave-taking, however
touching, and lent to it a strange and uncommon
interest. On the one hand a remorseful woman, who had
blighted a man's life for want of faith in his love and
generosity (though true, it was to save her own good
name and that of her dead child); remorseful, in that her
conscience smote her for having shown such lack of confidence,
and dependent now on a false position purchased
at the price of that poor old soldier's happiness. On the
other hand, a faithful, simple-hearted man, whose nature,
ennobled by its very simplicity and this sore trial of his
life, forgave everything and preferred to doubt others
rather than her j loving and trusting still, though his heart
was well nigh crushed within him.

Two hours later one particular figure on board the
u Simla ,J was waving a handkerchief to another particular
figure on the distant shore — the figure of a grey-headed
officer, who, with sorrowful eyes, was watching the vessel as
she steamed slowly away from the land of Ind.

CHAPTER VII.

A SILVER WEDDING.

Home of our childhood ! how affection clings
And hovers round thee with her seraph wings !
Dearer thy hills, though clad in autumn brown,
Than fairest summits which the cedars crown !
Sweeter the fragrance of thy summer breeze
Than all Arabia breathes along the seas !
The stranger's gale wafts home the exile's sigh,
For the heart's temple is its own blue sky ! "

O. W. Holmes.

After a lengthened sojourn in the scorching" tropics, the
exhilarating sensations experienced in the return to England,
and the first blush on again beholding our deliciously
cool, green island, can only be appreciated by the exile
himself; for him and him alone, as he once more views the
land of his birth, rising before him in its stately prosperity,
is such sweet ecstasy reserved.

The autumn was far advanced, and nature was in the
sere and yellow leaf when the " Simla " discharged her
freight at the Southampton docks ; her passengers having
enjoyed the luxury of a through passage, since the Suez
Canal was then open to vessels drawing a certain limit
of water, and she was one of the first to profit by the
privilege.

On arriving in England Georgie Vickers had intended

to proceed to London under the escort of her fiance and
his friend, there to leave them, and take refuge in a little
suburban retreat with a convenient aunt until she received
an intimation that Barringtree was ready to welcome
her with open arms. This plan, however, was agreeably
frustrated by the head of the family himself, who came
down to meet the party at Southampton, and insisted on
Hector's betrothed coming straightway to the home of his
ancestors.

The old Squire's reception of his future 
was especially gratifying to Georgie, and relieved
her mind immeasurably as to that terrible ice-breaking
business she so dreaded. For Hector's sake, of course, she
was taken into the bosom of the Grayle family with every
outward show of cordiality and approval, and it only
remained for her to substantiate her footing, and creep
below the surface of mere conventional courtesy.

No words can adequately describe the meeting again of
friends and relations on such an occasion as this ; therefore
I will draw a veil over the domestic scenes that ensued
at Barringtree Hall.

When Hector Grayle found himself once more amid the
familiar surroundings of his boyhood, he felt indeed the truth
of the old song that there's no place like home, and could
scarcely realize that he had been absent for such a length
of time, since everything seemed exactly as he had left it.
The only innovation that caught his eye on entering the
hall, was the stately figure of Master Macbeth, beautifully
set up by Ward, the Piccadilly naturalist ; and how vividly,
and even sorrowfully, the form of that grand old stag
recalled bygone events, in' connexion with his first love,
Hector could not disguise from himself.

Besides various presents for the ladies from the El
Dorado of Trichinopoly and Cashmere, the Indian heroes

had brought with them a goodly collection of sporting
trophies which added to the interest; and Heffernan,
remembering the Squire's zoological hobby, had taken care
to import some live specimens as well ; among other things,
a young leopard about the size of a tom-cat, with which old
Mr. Grayle was greatly delighted.

But the live specimen which excited most curiosity was
Hector's fine-looking valet with the hirsute face, whose
handsome features were almost hidden by the profusion of
iron-grey beard, whiskers, and moustache.

On their arrival at the house, as soon as it was made
known who he was, he was loaded with praise and gratitude
by Gertrude, and indeed every member of the family, for
his brave exploit at Nainee Tal ; which flattering ovation
he received with an air quiet and dignified, yet perfectly
respectful withal. Then, on being duly relegated to the
servants' hall, he was looked upon by John and Mary
Anne, Thomas and Betsy, as quite a lion in his way;
albeit, a certain noli me tangere appearance about him
prevented any undue familiarity with the " farrier," as
they at first imagined him to be.

Captain Heffernan, it seems, had not sold out with the
rank of major after all, for the officer who was to have
given him the step thought better of it, and preferred " to
hang on in his war-paint " for a little while longer. However,
in the prospect of a speedy marriage with Agnes
Grayle, the military rank and increase of purchase-money
were almost immaterial to Heffernan ; therefore he retired asa
captain, and hied him now to Barringtree to claim his
bride.

His meeting with Agnes, after the long separation, was
characterized by even more warmth and affection than he
had ever evinced before ; and Gertrude, who was quick to
notice this, felt overjoyed to find it so apparent that

absence had only made the heart grow fonder. And so it
seemed, for without going into any extremes, or appearing
too demonstrative, Albert Heffernan's bearing towards his
betrothed left no room for any doubt as to the sincerity of
his devotion.

Gertrude's high esteem for her future son-in-law had in
no degree diminished, although he had failed to keep the
troublesome Hector out of further mischief. But as days
passed by, and she saw more of Georgie Vickers, her son's
engagement afforded less misgiving ; so she forgave the
mentor for having allowed his charge to get once more
entangled, and thought that by degrees she should become
reconciled to the union. Any sentiment of this kind, however,
she kept to herself at present, preferring to wait and
watch the issue of affairs.

The 16th of November, just four days after the arrival of
the illustrious party at Barringtree, dawned bright and full
of sunshine on the old domain, and Gertrude Grayle recollected,
as she rose in the morning, that it was the twenty-fifth
anniversary of her marriage-day. Now, a silver
wedding, without a husband to commemorate it, caused her
much sad reflection, but she thought it probable that no one
else would even remember the circumstance, or only remember
it in silence.

The whole household at Barringtree always assembled in
the library for morning prayers, which were read by the
Squire, while Gertrude, and sometimes Agnes, presided at
the harmonium for the hymn, when the family afterwards
adjourned to the dining-room for breakfast.

It was as she anticipated ; they all met before prayers as
usual, and exchanged the customary greetings, but no mention
was made of the anniversary, and this was a great
relief to her; at the same time, she need not have been
under any apprehension, since no one, it might be presumed,

would have had the bad taste to remind her of her great
and Ions'- abiding sorrow. But when Gertrude reached her
wonted place at the breakfast-table, as president of the urn,
&c. (for old Mrs. Grayle seldom appeared till later), she
was surprised to find something lying in her plate that
looked unmistakably like a present, and taking it up, she
cast a glance of inquiry around, but could detect no conscious
face in all the circle. Wondering somewhat, she
proceeded slowly to undo the packet, and coming to the
last piece of silver paper, discovered a jewel-case, in which
nestled a beautiful necklace and pendants of finest
Trichinopoly work, detached from which was a plain gold
English locket, with a small heart of brilliant in the centre,
and beneath this was engraved the simple sentence, —

A BRAS OUVERTS.

No indication from whom the cadeau had come, no name,
no clue whatever could she find. What did it mean ?

She lifted the ornaments from the case to examine them
more minutely, hoping to discover some slip of paper hidden
underneath. But no — nothing was there but the blue
velvet lining.

Look inside the locket, mamma," suggested Agnes,
wondering she hadn't done that at first.

Gertrude did so, and closely examined something
within for a few seconds, then started and turned pale;
but as suddenly her expression changed, and the sweet-tempered
Gertrude Grayle for once appeared really angry ;
flushing deeply as she inquired in a voice struggling with
tears, —

W hat mockery is this ? To whom am I indebted for this
ill-timed joke ? "

"What is it, mother dear?" asked Agnes, anxiously,
observing her emotion.

Gertrude handed her the opened locket, and inside she
saw a tiny scrap of paper, on which was written almost
microscopically, —

To my wife, on our silver wedding,
TTith a husband's contrite love."

The locket was passed round, but nobody could throw any
light on the matter, and all disclaimed any knowledge concerning
it. It was a complete mystery, apparently, though
a painful one to Gertrude, who remained dumbfoundered
and motionless as a statue, but with a strange fluttering at
her heart which she could not control. With the self-same
feeling Mr. Grayle suddenly rose and rang the bell for the
butler.

Stephens' he inquired, as the servant entered, " do
you know anything about this — this parcel that was on
Mrs. George's plate ? "

A parcel, sir ? no; but I noticed it had been put there
this morning directly after I'd laid the things."

Umph ! perhaps John knows ; send him here, Stephens."
At that moment the footman came into the room with a
relay of toast. " John," said the Squire, " do you know
anything about a packet that lay on Mrs. George Grave's
plate this morning?"

"Xo-sir," replied John, promptly, thinking he was going
to be accused of stealing it.

I mean do you know who put it there ? "

Oh — yes-sir ; that is, I believe so — Mr. Baines, sir, Mr.
Hector's valet."

Indeed ! did you see him ? "

Yes-sir; leastways, I fancy so."

Ah ! where is he ? "

He wasn't at prayers this morning, sir," volunteered the
butler.

VOL. III. F

No, I saw lie wasn't. Go and find him, Stephens, and
ask him to come here, please. We must understand what
this means'

Not a word was spoken after the servants left the room.
A dead silence followed, as deep as in the cave of Trophies
a silence almost painful in its intensity.

Everybody present seemed to anticipate that something"
extraordinary was about to happen, perhaps some miracle
about to be performed, and I doubt whether any one of
the party would have been astonished had George Grayle
dropped from the ceiling 1 at that moment, or popped up
through the floor like a pantomimic gnome. Instead of this,
however, he entered by the door a few minutes afterwards,
like any ordinary being, and confronted the family circle.

Yes, there stood Hector's valet — ex-sergeant (whilom
bombardier and gunner) John Baines, shaven and shorn,
except his moustache, alias George Grayle, in the flesh,
looking very much as he used to look at home twenty-three
years ago, though certainly so many years older, and
recognized simultaneously by wife and father.

There was no screaming, no swooning, nor ultra demonstration
of any kind. Gertrude saw it all now — she knew
that her prayers had been answered, and the next moment
was clasped to her husband's heart.

5fC 5jC ?f£ /t*

Who shall describe that touching situation in the meeting
and reconcilement, after so many years, of husband and
wife, father and son ? And then when the two children
were formally presented to their long lost parent, this at
once lightened yet added to the impressive character of the
scene. Such was the perfect harmony of the whole that it
could scarcely have been marred b} r the sudden addition
of a certain presence, which, at another time, might have
thrown a wet blanket over the group. Nevertheless the

absence rather than that presence, at this critical moment,
was haply a relief to all.

So it turned out that Hector Grayle's father had saved
his own son from a watery grave, and that George Grayle's
son had thus been the means of bringing home his own
father under the guise of his servant. Truly, as good as a
play, and a good deal better, as old Mr. Grayle remarked.
And so it was, culminating in a dramatic " situation,"
which George Grayle, with his innate love of acting, had
been most careful to bring about. Hence it happened
that he studiously preserved his incognito from the first
moment of his meeting with the half-drowned Hector at
Xainee Tal, for he then foresaw his opportunity, and waited
patiently for the present denouement.

The accidental fact of Heffernan having caught him in
Hector's bungalow reading those letters — letters from his
own wife and daughter, as it proved — had nearly been fatal
to his cherished scheme; and, as he afterwards told Heffernan,
he felt as if he could have killed him on the spot for his
unlucky intrusion ; but thinking better of it, had changed
his defiant attitude to that of a suppliant, and had feigned
the most abject penitence rather than the cat should be let
out of the bag before the time.

Ashen the startling news of George Grayle's return was
made known, the excitement at Barringtree can hardly be
imagined. The Squire immediately demanded a merry peal
from the church bells, and instead of only a fatted calf,
ordered a fatted cow to be killed and roasted whole, for a
big feast among the villagers in celebration of the prodigal's
return.

Much that was incomprehensible in George's conduct
and extraordinary obstinacy in having thus absented himself
for so many years, he cleared up in an explanatory
interview with his wife and father, which may be best given

f 2

in his own words. The three were closeted together in the
Squire's sanctum, and George was speaking in reply to a
question from his father.

u You say you advertised for me, my dear father. Then
it must have been when I never thought of looking for
such an advertisement — when my mind was more incensed
against you all than you can imagine. Doubtless you may
guess under whose influence I acted ; but I see now what
an utter fool I was to be prejudiced by such a madman as
uncle Andrew. I might have known better had I not
been almost as mad myself. I ought to have seen through
his object in wishing to get me out of the way — to die,
perhaps, as he hoped, in a gutter, or with a rope round my
neck — that his unhealthy monomania about inheriting this
property might eventually be gratified. And I daresay he
fancied at the time that Hector would never live to thwart
his ambition, since the boy was such a sickly infant at
first. You have no idea what violent letters the old man
wrote to me after I made a bolt of it to town; letters
representing you all in the most abominable light, as
being completely hardened, against me and so on, quoting
Stephens and others as his authority, from whom he pretended
to have gleaned the information. All this I fully
believed then, and waxed more furious and indignant as I
brooded over my imagined wrongs ; and when I remembered
how unhappy I had been at home (though I quite
forgot to remember how such had been my own fault), I
resolved never to return, at all events until great changes
should come to pass.

Now uncle Andrew's insidious letters to me when in
town were accompanied by small remittances, and this was
very nearly all I had to start with besides a few pounds he
gave me on leaving, so you may fancy my worldly wealth
didn't go very far in a place like London.

f< Then I found I had to shift for myself, and trust to my
own wits for a livelihood; so, with my natural aptitude for
the stage, I sought an engagement at a West-end theatre,
but entirely failed to obtain one. However, to make a
long story short, I turned my steps less ambitiously towards
the East-end and Surrey-side, where I was more successful ;
and, after a deal of humiliating drudgery, rose gradually
from ' super ' to ' walking gentleman,' and from e walking
gentleman ' to the ' lead and here T made my mark
both in comedy and tragedy. Then, of course, not satisfied
with the transpontine boards, I thought to leave them
for more aristocratic regions, and coming as quite a theatrical
c star ' from the ' Standard'' and ' Victoria hoped to
take the ' Crutch and Toothpick ' community by storm. But
I soon discovered that though a star, like the sun, may rise
in the east, it doesn't always follow that he'll go down in
the west, but sometimes stick half-way in the firmament
of fame; and that was just my case. Whether I'd been
spoilt in the ultra-tragedian school, and had all my polish
taken off, I can't tell, but certain it was that I didn't seem
to shine in the Strand ; and, being very sick of it altogether,
I bethought me of returning home. Accordingly I
swallowed my pride, and sat down to write you a bumble
and penitent letter, begging for a reconciliation'"

Which we never received, I'll declare," interrupted the
Squire.

So I understand from Gertrude, though it's hardly to
be wondered at now I come to think of it. I remember I
wrote it in the green-room of the Lyceum, and being in
for a long night rehearsal, gave it, just in my happy-unlucky
sort of way, to the stage-door keeper to post for me.
Well, no doubt he meant to put it in the box when he
went out, but as the beggar was never quite sober, and
always got helplessly drunk directly he was off duty, the

chance is my letter, which cost me such a struggle to
write, went to light his pipe. I waited a long time
afterwards, but getting no reply, of course I concluded the
worst, and dying for a change of scene, enlisted at Wool-with,
from which place I was soon drafted off to India. T
ought to mention that shortly before this I went to see an
old friend — my Cambridge tutor, in fact — who very kindly
lent me some money, which kept me going for a bit. Now,
it was when I was on the point of leaving England that I
wrote to you, my dear" (addressing Gertrude), "saying I
didn't blame you, but others, and hoped you'd forgive me.
Naturally I couldn't tell you where to write to in reply, as
we sailed two days afterwards, even if I hadn't thought it
better that our separation should be final, and, therefore,
did not wish to enlighten you as to my movements.

Heaven knows I've seen the error of my ways long,
long since' he added, in a softer tone, and taking Gertrude's
hand, " and would have given worlds over and over
again to return to you all ; but my devilish pride held me
back and deterred me from making any further advance.
After a while I got accustomed to a soldier's life, and as I
kept steady and rose from the ranks, I became more reconciled
to my lot. Then I presumed the position of affairs at
home was just as it was when I left — "

By which you mean that you knew I was still alive, I
suppose," interrupted his father, smiling ; " and, therefore,
still in possession."

No, on my soul, I did not mean that," replied George.
I alluded to other — other features of the position."

He hesitated. George Grayle did not like to confess
that it was the repellant character of his own mother, added
to his uncle's influence, that had constituted the chief
barrier to his return, and one cause of his choosing to
remain in exile for such a long time.

A few years after I landed in India," he continued, " I
happened to tumble across a soldier out there named Corcoran,
whose mother is related to some of our tenants, the
Sickles family, I believe, and through this man's correspondence
with her I managed to hear something about you
all. Then I lost sight of him for two or three years, until
at length his regiment, the Rifle Brigade, and my battery
lay alongside each other (as we say in the barracks)
at Bareilly. Shortly after that he was transferred to
another regiment, the one relieving his, and in this, the
126th, I little dreamt at the time I should find my own
son.

"I'd had a lot of trouble about then, been tried by
court-martial and smashed, and soon afterwards fell ill
with fever, when they sent me up with invalids to Nainee
Tal. There ! the rest you've heard already. Ah, we little
know what's sent for our good ; it was a string of chances
that brought about all this. If it hadn't been for an old
woman commanding my battery, one Major Fusserley, I
should never have been tried, and if I'd never been tried
I should never have worried myself into a fever, and got
sent to the hills. But I can only thank heaven with all
my heart, Gertrude, that it was ordained thus, and that I
was there on the spot to save our dear boy's life. Oh, it
was a difficult matter, I can tell you, when I saw your
portrait and the little girl's in the locket, read his name
on his knife, and then knew for certain who it was — I say
it was no easy matter to abstain from declaring myself
then and there; and luckily I'm a bit of an actor, or I
don't believe I could ever have kept it up. That letter,
dear, which you wrote to Hector about me I begged to
be allowed to keep, and have it still, together with the
boy's suit of clothes that he gave me. Then the 25/-
you sent, added to a bit of money I'd saved, went to buy

that little present, which I was determined you should
receive on this anniversary, and then present myself to
you afterwards; though you may imagine how hard I
found it to keep the secret for four days beyond our
arrival."

Gertrude's heart was too full to speak, but the look of
unutterable love she gave her husband showed her appreciation,
and was sufficient reward in itself.

<c Of course, from the moment I discovered Hector's
identity," George remarked, in conclusion, " I resolved to
come back by hook or by crook — sink pride, prejudice, and
all other devil's whisperings; and here I am ! "

"And God be praised!" murmured his father, with
emotion, " that you have been restored to us at last, my boy.
May He teach' us ever to rule our tongues and guide our
hearts from henceforth, and — But let there be no further
allusion to the past, let us live now in the happy present,
and in joyful anticipation of the future. That you will
prove to that faithful, loving woman by your side, George,
that you are worthy to call her your wife I feel well
assured."

God help me to do so, sir," murmured George Grayle,
with much earnestness.

"It is not every man, my son, who is endowed with
such a blessing as He has bestowed upon you ; a treasure
rare indeed in this mundane sphere of discord and contention."
The old man said this with a weary sigh, and spoke
with a significant depth of feeling.

But it scarcely needed his father's words to impress
George with such a truth, which he now felt so keenly,
and learnt to feel still more each day that passed in his
new life.

Sweet Gertrude Grayle ! If ever there was a woman
on this earth who deserved to be happy, it was she. And

while she sat there in silent thankfulness, her liquid blue
eyes swimming' with tears of joy, and her little white
hand held in her husband's strong* grasp, she looked years,
ah, many years, younger than when the sun last set to
rise again on the morn of their silver wedding.

CHAPTER VIII.

IN THE REIGN OF JACK FROST.

O'er crackling ice, o'er gulfs profound,
With nimble glide the skaters play :
O'er treacherous pleasure's flowery ground,
Thus lightly skim and haste away"'

Dr. Johnson.

Rivers and lakes of lucid crystal made, —
And, hung in air, hoar trees of branching shade,
That liquid pearl distil-southey.



An early summer that year was followed by an early winter,
and long before Christmas a spell of frost and snow had
set in with unusual severity. At Barringtree Hall, now
Yery gay and full of visitors, shooting was varied by skating
on the lake, which was soon " from," as they say in Suffolk,
to a thickness of four or five inches; and its fine
sheet of ice proved an immense attraction.

It was about a fortnight since George had made his
dramatic centre into the bosom of his family; and the
event, added to Hector's return, had been the signal for
great rejoicing. A complete revolution in George Grayle's
character was very observable, and gladly welcomed b}^ his
wife and father. Even the tart tongue of that modern
Xantippe (Mrs. Grayle senior) was silenced, for a natural

and maternal feeling bade her now hold her peace, and
receive her son as became a mother.

Oh, what unalloyed happiness had fallen to the lot of
Gertrude Grayle ! What peaceful joy and pride swelled
her bosom as she beheld the rapid growth of love and
respect arising between her husband and their two splendid
children — the very Helen and Anxious of her imagination.
Then the while she cherished this fair picture at her heart,
the old Squire in turn was watching her, how she drew
closer and closer to her gentle self that once wild spirit,
that once untameable nature, and bound him fast and
surely with the ties of conjugal love.

There is no cosmetic, next to health, so efficacious as true
happiness ; and Gertrude Grayle scarcely looked more lovely
in the days of her girlhood than she looked now, crowned,
as it were, with an aureole of perpetual sunshine. And
there was yet another source of joy in the approaching
marriage of her daughter with Albert HefFernan — a man
whom Gertrude, and, indeed, every one, so much respected
and looked up to.

The 18th of January was the day appointed for the wedding,
and the family solicitors were now busy drawing up
the marriage settlements. These turned out to be far
more handsome on the Grayle side than HefFernan, even in
his most sanguine moments, had been led to expect ; and
his appreciation of the fact he expressed with all that tact
and delicacy of which he was so consummate a master. In
regard to the settlements on his part, they were virtually
nil. But of what account were gold and silver where a
husband was endowed with so much excellence and virtue ?

As a matter of fact Albert HefFernan' s three years' absence
in India seemed to have made him value all the more
such a prize as Agnes Grayle ; but in justice it must be
confessed he was perfectly guiltless of any mercenary

motive, and it was the depth of his devotion alone which
dominated his whole nature.

That love begets love may be true enough ; yet though
she fully believed the sincerity of her betrothed's attachment,
Agnes could not bring herself to do more. She
entertained every respect and regard for him; but these, she
knew, did not constitute love, nor was it likely that she
could combat the dictates of her heart. Consequently she
dreaded, actually dreaded, being led to the altar by one for
whom her affections were in such a dubious state.

But alas ! it was too late to draw back now. Notwithstanding
many and many a self-examination during their
long engagement, Agnes had lacked the moral courage to
take that one decisive step which her conscience had so
often prompted ; namely, to throw herself upon her lover's
forbearance in the prayer for her release. Hence it was
that she did not look forward to the 18th of January with
the same enthusiasm as did the rest of the family.

Perhaps her mind was haunted by a certain face on
which such a sorrowful gloom had settled since the fiat
had gone forth, and there was no longer room for doubt,
nor ground for the faintest gleam of hope — a plain, but
honest face, speaking, without words, of a depth of passion
which was only to be swamped in the bitterness of despair.
Perhaps it was so, although it is my belief that Agnes
Grayle scarcely knew her own sentiments, and was harassed
by doubts and misgivings which she could not entirely
account for, nor confide to any one — least of all to Clement
Mount] oy, who was the last man in the world to seek for
such confidence now.

Yes, the 18th of January was to be a red-letter day at
Barringtree, for a double wedding was to be celebrated on
that date ; and the same service that bound Heffernan and
Agnes together, for better or for worse, would perform a

like office for Hector and Georgie. The latter had succeeded
in making herself very popular with all the family, and
George Grayle became especially fond of her. He reminded
her laughingly of a certain non-commissioned officers' dance
at Bareilly a few years before, when she little knew that
she was dancing with her future father-in-law, in the reserved
and rather taciturn artillery sergeant. As Hector's
father reverted to those days Georgie involuntarily winced,
and then her thoughts flew back to that scene on the
Apollo Bunder at Bombay, which painful episode too often
recurred to her mind. She had never deemed herself a
woman lacking heart ; but until now did not know what
it was to be burdened with a too obtrusive conscience ;
maybe this, added to other misgivings (especially with
regard to her rightful surname), caused her also to look
forward to the 18th of January with somewhat qualified joy.

Nor, sooth to say, was Hector entirely happy in the anticipation
; neither could he have quite explained the reason.
He was fond of Georgie, he believed — very fond, and was
glad indeed to see how she had won the affection of all
around. But notwithstanding this there was a something
wanting — a screw loose somewhere, as he thought
to himself — what could it be ? A little whisper, far away
down at the bottom of his heart, answered him plainly
enough ; but he felt it a sacrilege in his present position
to listen to such promptings.

He had never spoken to Lizzie Rolfe since his return,
although he had occasionally seen her at church and elsewhere;
and to hold any interview with her now he considered
would not only be painful to both, but disloyal to his future
wife. How long he would adhere to this highly discreet
and virtuous resolution must depend a good deal on circumstances
over which the fates, not Hector Grayle, held
control.

December came in with a bright but bitterly cold day ;
for although the sun had no excuse for not shining, since
there were hardly any clouds to intercept his rays, it was
freezing hard, and the efforts he made to warm the air, or
melt the vast white carpet which covered the ground, were
utterly futile. There was no power at all in his glance,
and the snow merely looked back into his face with a
supercilious glare, as if disdaining such mild attempts to
stare it out of countenance.

By twelve o'clock on this particular day the Barringtree
lake had become the centre of attraction and a very animated
picture. Skates had superseded breech-loaders for the
nonce, and skating parties disported themselves in merry
groups wherever the industrious sweepers had brushed
clear pathways. Snow had fallen heavily in the early
morning, and thus gave these knights of the besom a welcome
occupation, which put many a well-earned sixpence
into their fustian pockets.

Along the sides of the lake the frosted trees, in the
glistening splendour of their hyenas clothing, sparkled in
the sunshine ; and overhead, where every twig and branch
was arrayed in nature's family diamonds, the eye became
dazzled by the mass of glittering gems and brilliant constellations,
and sought relief in less refulgent objects.

The waterfowl had been rendered most pitiable objects
by the severe frost, reduced as they were to a
tiny open space at one end of the lake, which was only
prevented from becoming solid ice by their perpetual
motion. These wretched birds seemed by no means to
appreciate the festive scene before them, nor that their
domain was thus usurped by crowds of unfettered bipeds ;
while black and white swans, Japanese and Muscovy ducks,
et hoc genus omnes, thus fraternized together in a huddled
assembly, they became quite a laughing-stock for the rest

of the Barringtree beasts ; and the fallow deer, trooping
across the ice close by them, as if they themselves enjoyed
the novelty of the thing, shook their antlers and whisked
their tails in a taunting manner at their web-footed friends,
as much as to say, " We hope you like it ! "

It is remarked that skating (as well as swimming) once
learnt, is never forgotten ; but George Grayle, indulging
in this belief after twenty years in India, discovered that
such a statement must be accepted with considerable ro-serve.
He found his feet after a time, it is true ; but at
first was almost as awkward as a dancing bear on hot irons,
and needed all the help his dutiful son and daughter offered.

Agnes, attired in a handsome chinchilla-trimmed jacket,
with a hat and muff to match, a grey woollen dress looped
up over a Douglas tartan petticoat (in honour of the
Cameronians) — just reaching to her ankles, so as to leave
plenty of freedom for the limbs — her shapely little feet
shod with strong laced boots and a pair of acme skates —
altogether looked very business-like, and her skill as a
skater did justice to her appearance. A right merry little
instructress was she, glancing and circling around her
father, and laughing heartily at his frantic attempts to
emulate her graceful movements.

Hold up ! " she cried, as George made a bold dash to
effect the outside edge (which he remembered having been
able to accomplish as a youngster), and came down, of
course, ingloriously — " Don't you try to run before you can
walk. Look here, this is the way to do it, old dear," she
added, after helping him up; then darting off like an arrow,
curved in and out over the glib surface in that effortless
way which looks so easy, but requires so much knack and
confidence.

u Oh, I shall be all right in an hour or so," said her
father, scratching and clattering after her in the plain

straight ahead method, and attempting no more ambitious
evolutions at present. " I must confess, though, I feel a
precious fool at it as yet."

"I suppose you know, Fay, we're going to have luncheon
brought out' observed Hector as he passed them, pulling
himself up " with a round turn' and continuing in their
direction ; " it's much the best plan — such a bother taking
off one's skates, and going into the house. Halloa ! here
are the Mountjoys at last," he added, as at that moment
the Merry dale 'bus drove up to the lake side and deposited
Sir Francis, Lady Mountjoy, their daughters, and a couple
of friends. " But what's become of old Clem, I wonder ?
Ah, there he is, swinging along like a postman ; sensible
fellow not to drive when he can walk, this weather.
Morning, Clem."

Clement nodded in return, then raised his hat to Agnes
and sat down a little way off to put on his skates. This
operation he performed in a listless sort of way, and
appeared to have little heart in the lively scene before
him, or to take much interest in the numerous figures
dashing rapidly to and fro with that hollow, scraping,
crackling noise, so musical to the ardent skater, who, as a
rule, hurries on his iron runners so as not to lose a minute
of the healthful pastime.

With the large party from the Hall, the Merrydale
people and others, there was now a numerous gathering on
the lake. Several of the ladies being skaters, something
beyond the mere gliding up and down was proposed, and
Hector set the sweepers to work to clear a large space with a
view to getting up quadrilles and lancers. There were two
good-natured musicians among the party, one gentleman
who played the concertina, and another the fiddle — both
rather feebly, perhaps, but good enough for the erratic
attempts made to scramble through the figures. Several

of the skaters were responsible for this reckless inaccuracy ;
but Lady Mount/joy was the chief offender, and though
old enough to have known better, she flashed and flitted
about in the most inane manner — obviously for effect only,
and sublimely regardless of partner or vis a vis — all eyes,
teeth, whirligigs, fizgigs, and flourishes, exactly as though
she had been an elaborate firework let off to edify the
public.

Where's the Squire, Hector ? " asked Norah Tewkesley,
as they assembled afterwards at luncheon ; a and isn't
yer grandmother coming out ? " she added, perhaps with
ulterior thoughts of enticing the old lady on to a slide
and leaving the rest to fate.

"Haven't you heard about her this morning ? " replied
Hector; " she's awfully seedy — very ill indeed, her maid
told me, and my grandfather doesn't like leaving her, I
suppose."

Faith, what a pity ! " exclaimed the incorrigible Norah ;
I meant to have been so attentive — kept her off all the
dangerous parts, ye know, and filled her ould pockets with
snow-balls. But rally, Hector, I hope she isn't dangerously
bad, not going to call in Arthur or anything of the
sort, is she ? Perhaps, as the minister's wife, I'd better go
up and inquire."

Perhaps you had," returned Hector, with an amused
smile at the forced gravity she suddenly assumed ; " or very
likely she'll send for you."

Norah didn't think that at all likely (even if the old
woman were dying and hadn't another soul in the world to
summon to her bedside), and very soon forgot all about
her amid the laughing and chattering assemblage.

Now Mrs. Grayle was dangerously ill, as it happened,
and nearer dying than any of them suspected. She had
been ailing for some little time, but did not know of the

VOL. III. G-

serious nature of her malady, and kept up against it through
all the recent dinner-parties and gaieties, until at length
obliged to give in.

Any one would have offered long odds on her life against
her husband's a few weeks before, since she never had
much the matter with her, though she often shammed
nerves " or a convenient headache. But Mrs. Grayle's
was one of those constitutions that not unfrequently
collapse more suddenly than weaker ones. Later on in the
day, when Dr. Whittle pronounced her in a precarious
state, and suffering from peritonitis in an aggravated form,
the Squire became alarmed, and saw the necessity for
clearing out his guests, and keeping the house perfectly
quiet.

Meanwhile, the light-hearted party* on the ice apprehended
nothing serious from the rumours of Mrs. Grayle's
indisposition, and continued to enjoy themselves to the top
of their bent. During the afternoon, of course somebody
started a bonfire on the frozen surface, and subsequently
the ladies made tea, for which the kettles were filled with lake
ice, the water being pure enough, especially when boiled ;
in short, nothing was omitted from this seasonable programme,
which was carried through with all honour to his
majesty, King Frost.

Among the numerous tenants and retainers, and their
sons and daughters, Lizzie Rolfe was almost the only
absentee for the first part of the day. Towards three
o'clock, however, she appeared, walking along the snow-covered
banks of the lake at the least frequented part,
accompanied by Hector's gage d- 'amour — the dignified
Mizpah.

Gideon Rolfe never stinted his little rosebud in point of
money, so far as his means permitted, and loved to indulge
her in every whim. Had she cried for the moon. I verily

believe the old keeper would have fretted himself because he
could not gratify her.

But Lizzie never took undue advantage of his kindness ;
and though, from instinctive good taste, she was always
neatly and becomingly attired, there was no extravagance
in her outlay. Whatever she wore, Lizzie could not look
otherwise than lovely; but on the present occasion, a
squirrel nestling on a black velvet hat, and a fur ruff round
her white neck, forming the collar of a dark-brown jacket,
especially suited her. The cold air had enhanced her beauty
with a glowing colour, which confined itself to her soft
cheeks, and left her little well-cut nose as white as her
brow. What would thousands of fair women give to have
a face like hers, which somehow managed to retain the
delicate tints in their proper place, despite the frosty atmosphere
!

Who is that lovely girl ? " was a question very generally
asked by certain of the strangers skating about, when Lizzie,
growing bold as she became interested in the scene, drew
nearer to the vortex.

Presently she saw her old love dart past, propelling
Georgie Vickers in a chair-sleigh, and leaning over his
future bride so affectionately, as Lizzie thought.

He scarcely even looked at me," she murmured, while
a bitter pang shot through her heart ; " but why should he
now?" And with an irresistible fascination she watched
them as they glided swiftly away, and became lost amid the
whirling crowd.

Hector had caught sight of her the moment she appeared
on the bank, and his eyes had wandered towards that lissome
form, the very embodiment of grace and refinement, with
no less admiration than of yore, even if other feelings
were extinct. But he had deemed it unadvisable to
exchange more than the very slightest recognition — at

all events at that moment — and addressed himself to his
fiancee more sedulously than ever as they passed by.

Georgie, also, had noticed the keeper's daughter, and
her exceeding beauty had naturally started a vein of involuntary
reflection ; for she could not help feeling, modestly
enough, how insignificant her own small attractions must
appear beside those of Lizzie Rolfe.

But it is a singular feature in woman's character, that
when she loves, and is beloved by a man whom she knows
to have been devoted to a certain other woman before, she
at once takes a special interest in that woman ; and the
opinion then formed of her, for good or bad, goes a considerable
way towards exalting or debasing the man in her
estimation.

Such was the case with Georgie Vickers. When she saw
what manner of girl Lizzie was, of whom, as she knew,
Hector had once been so desperately enamoured, instead of
being jealous, she thought all the more of him, and strongly
approved his good taste. But she made a great mistake, I
think, in telling him this.

Men are quite conceited enough, goodness knows,
especially of their amatory conquests, without pandering to
their vanity ; and it may be that the nearest way to a man's
heart is not by flattery of this kind ; for if a woman makes
him think too much of himself, his burden of conceit leaves
him no room to think of anything else, consequently les of
her. Talk of vain women indeed ! the very earnest is the
quintessence of humility compared with a lord of the creation,
whose amour-propre may have been puffed and elated
by a little blandiloquence from the opposite sex.

Hector listened to Georgie's praise of Lizzie's beauty
with some surprise. He was well assured she was cognizant
of his romantic attachment to the girl, although
the subject had never been mentioned between them;

and he thought, under the circumstances, it was one
to be carefully tabooed. Whether Georgie, by speaking
thus candidly, meant to show that she utterly ignored anything
connected with the past, or only volunteered such
magnanimous praise from an overweening confidence in her
own position, he could not quite make out. The effect it
had was to put serious thoughts into his head, as to whether
he had not behaved rather unworthily towards such a girl
as Lizzie, whose loveliness excited the admiration even of a
rival, and made him proportionately proud of having captivated
the affections of this peerless beauty.

As to Lizzie, it is doubtful whether her opinion of
Hector was in any way influenced by his future wife's
appearance. She was too unpretending to compare herself
favourably with the woman he had chosen. Doubtless he
had selected wisely and well, she thought, and from his own
sphere. She only felt now that he was lost to her for ever ;
but it did seem hard that the glimpse of a bright future,
an earthly elysium, should have been flashed before her
eyes, merely to tantalize her, and then to be suddenly
obscured, leaving her in utter darkness.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SKELETON MOVES.

Oh ! thou hast set my busy brain at work !
And now she musters up a train of images
Which, to preserve my peace, I'd cast aside,
And sink in deep oblivion."

Rowe.

Of course George Grayle had heard from Gertrude and
Agnes all about his son's former penchant for Lizzie, and
how it had led to Hector's being sent off to India, thereby-bringing
about his own return. He had noticed the girl
with some curiosity on two or three occasions, and was
much taken with her loveliness, nor did he marvel the least
at Hector's youthful admiration for her.

George was always very chatty and agreeable with the
tenants and parishioners, so much so at times as to border
on familiarity — the old fault contracted in childhood; but
he had never yet had an opportunity for a talk with the
fair Lizzie, in whom he took an extra interest, since it
was to her pretty face he was indirectly indebted for the
change in his fortunes. Seeing her, then, by the side of
the lake that afternoon in forlorn solitude, and noticing
that she did not venture on the ice, he approached
her, and asked if she would not like to put on a pair of
skates.

Now poor Simon Sickles had been twirling 1 and wheeling
round and round opposite to "that there be — ewtifne gal"
for a long time, dying to make the same offer; but unable
to summon up courage, he continued to glide about with
his body and legs very much bent, till his glistening nose
nearly touched the tips of his runners, and cut the most
complicated figures in his bashful perplexity.

Fm only a novice at it myself," said George, after he
had put his question to Lizzie, " for I haven't been on a
piece of ice for over twenty years till to-day. But I'm
rehearsing the art by degrees, and if you'll allow me to help
you, I shall be delighted."

Thank you, sir' she replied, with a pleased smile at
his civility, " but I never tried yet, and I think I'd rather
not to-day."

Oh, why not ? Yon must make a beginning some time
or other, and every lady skates. I can borrow you a pair
in a minute if you will."

But Lizzie still declined. She was a bit of a coward ;
and, besides, didn't care to make an exhibition of herself
before all these grand people. Perhaps she had some
scruple about appearing ridiculous in the eyes of one
particular person, though she would not have acknowledged
this to herself. She was nothing to him now,
so what could it signify ? Nevertheless, such reluctance
was not foreign to a woman's nature, for all her
argument.

George found she was not to be persuaded, so gave up
the attempt, doubtless rather glad to get out of the office of
cicerone; for it is no sinecure to teach a lady to skate,
however pretty and fascinating she may be. Besides which,
George had hardly yet recovered his own skill sufficiently to
instruct others.

That's an uncommonly handsome St. Bernard you've

got there, Miss Rolfe," he observed, during his brief talk
with her ; " does it belong to you ? "

"Ye — es, sir, at least it — " hesitated Lizzie, colouring
up, and not knowing exactly what to say; "at least, my
father has charge of it."

Oh, indeed, he is a splendid animal, thoroughbred as a
Derby winner, Fll be bound. I should like to buy him if I
could ; do you know who owns him ? "

Lizzie was about to give some other evasive answer, when
old Gideon at that moment approached, and came to her
rescue. George then entered into conversation with the
keeper, and was surprised to find from him that the dog had,
belonged to Mr. Hector, but that he believed it was as good
as Lizzie's now; whereupon, observing the girls blushes,
George drew his own conclusions, and, wishing to spare her
feelings, said no more.

Now, in holding converse with a person whom one has
hitherto only seen casually, or at a distance, a certain expression
given by speaking, and especially in smiling, not only
lends additional charm to a face, but fixes it more on the
memory.

Lizzie's once seen under these advantages, was not
soon to be forgotten, nor any face so passing beautiful.
When George Grayle pondered afterwards on her attractive
features, he could not help fancying that she bore a
striking resemblance to one other face he had seen before in
his life, and one only ; but where he had seen it, or to whom
it belonged, he could not recall, albeit he cudgelled his
brains considerably at intervals during the remainder of the
afternoon.

Dinner at the Hall was purposely curtailed that night, in
order to admit of an early adjournment to the ice for the
comparatively novel pleasure of skating by moonlight and
the flare of torches. Mrs. Grayle had improved somewhat

towards evening, so the Squire's anxiety was temporarily
allayed, and he hoped there might be no necessity tc
break up the merry party. Very little time was wasted
over dessert, and as dressing for dinner on this occasion
had been dispensed with, soon after nine o'clock the Hall
was vacated by those who preferred the frigid lake to the
fireside.

The shimmering moonlight on the ice and snow rendered
torches superfluous, notwithstanding which they were
brought into requisition, though more to add to the effect
of the scene than anything else, and the lake thus en regal
by night, wore a strikingly weird aspect, like some wild
TValpurgis revel. Besides certain paid linen, a few of
the skaters flitted about with flambeaux, resembling in the
far distance little fireflies or Jack-o'-lanterns ; but on drawing
nearer — with rapid undulating motion, they appeared
to change suddenly into fiery demons as they darted
beneath the shadows of the wooded banks, and lighted up
the cold white trunks and crystal canopy overhead with a
ruddy glare.

Georgie Vickers had come out for a little while after
dinner ; but as she didn't skate, and couldn't keep warm, she
very wisely soon withdrew and joined Gertrude and a few
others by the fire in the drawing-room ; consequently
Hector, who had been a devoted slave to her for most of
the day, was set at liberty. He now came up with his sister
and Norah Tewkesley, who were skating side by side, and
grasping one end of the pole which they held horizontally
in front of them, the trio laughed and chatted merrily as
they swayed to and fro along the glassy tracks. But after
a time their conversation took a more serious turn, when
they duly discussed Hector's intended bride, with whom
both the ladies appeared agreeably impressed, for
Georgie had considerably toned down in her deportment of

late. The death of Gwennie appeared, for a while, to
have almost crushed her spirit ; but she gained not a little
by having become more demure and staid in her demeanour,
and this placed her in a favourable light with the family she

was about to enter.

*****

On another part of the lake, where they had discovered
some particularly good ice, Heffernan and George Grayle
skated together, enjoying the post-prandial weed and a talk
over their Indian experiences.

Heffernan's inclination would have kept him by Agnes'
side during every minute of that happy day ; but he judged,
very rightly, that such a public parade of his devotion
might be distasteful to her, if not unbecoming to his own
dignity, so prudently divided his attention among the
ladies of the party. Between him and his future father-in-law
the warmest friendship had arisen, and George often
told him that had he searched the universe through he
could not have found a man to whom he would sooner see
his daughter married — now that he knew him ; all which
was very gratifying to Heffernan.

"But I must tell you frankly," said George, between the
puffs of his cigar, " that what I first saw of you as an officer
didn't prepossess me much in your favour — see the fallacy
of judging by appearances — I thought you rather an overbearing,
haughty sort of beggar, you know."

Ah, very likely ; I suppose my manner with strangers
is rather against me; but I believe I was popular enough
with our men."

Oh yes, I think you were ; I never heard anything
to your disparagement. As for that big fellow in your
regiment, Joe Corcoran, he swore by you, and said there
wasn't another officer in the service to hold a candle to
his ' Captains'"

Ha, ha, ha ! poor old Joe," laughed Heffernan, experiencing
at the same time a slight twinge of remorse when
he remembered how scurvily he had treated the faithful
soldier; " I feel complimented, I'm sure, but Fm afraid his
was not an unblessed opinion, you see. I've known him
ever since he was a boy."

So he mentioned, I remember. But I was going to
say, that little adventure about Hector's letters at Fyzabad
converted me in 3-our favour at once."

I'm very glad it did ; of course I couldn't divine who
you were."

"Of course not; and as I learnt from those letters of
your engagement to Agnes, I was rather tempted to test
your disposition and see what sort of a son-in-law I was
likely to have, and I must say you acted like a brick."

"Well, I don't know about that," rejoined Heffernan,
modestly ; " but by not clapping you under arrest and
reporting the matter, I certainly laid myself open to something
more than a severe wigging; in fact, serious consequences,
if it had been found out."

Yes, yes, of course you did ; I'm well aware of it. I
was in an awful funk you'd spoil my little game, I can
tell you ; and unless I'd declared who I was, and all that, I
should very likely have got imprisonment besides being
smashed, so I decidedly think I owe you one, old man, for
letting me off. However, you must consider my little girl,
Agnes, as part payment of the debt."

"A rich reward indeed," returned Heffernan, with
sincere emphasis; "I only hope I may prove worthy of
her."

"I've not a doubt of that, my dear boy," exclaimed
George, with a friendly slap on Heffernan's shoulder, which
movement, as they sped rapidly along, nearly made him
lose his own balance.

Halloa ! hold up," cried HefFernan, catching" at his arm.

Not quite all there yet, you see' observed George,
smiling. " But as I was saying", I've every confidence in
you, and so have all the family.; indeed, we should be an
ungrateful lot of Goths if we hadn't, considering how
you've devoted yourself to our interests."

HefFernan was about to make another modest rejoinder,
when George continued, —

By the way, Fve had it on the tip of m}^ tongue to
ask you something" once or twice this evening". Do you
know, talking of debts, I believe I owe you another yet —
in coin of the realm'

The deuce you do ; how's that ? "

A fiver you lent me once, if I'm not mistaken ; I maybe
wrong, but — "

When do you mean — how on earth can that be ? "

Well, I've rather a good memory, and I believe I'm
right. Look here, your surname before you took that of
Hefrernan was — let me see — McFarlane Denby, wasn't
it?"

Not that I know of," replied HefFernan, in astonishment,


No, no — I don't mean .McFarlane — I mean Farlane,
that's it— Farlane, eh ? "

No, certainly not, only Denby ; but I see what you're
thinking of," said HefFernan, at the same time wondering
how George Grayle could have known. " Farlane was the
name of my mother's second husband."

Exactly, Dr. Farlane, rector of — of — I forget the name
of the place — somewhere in Kent — "

"Tunbrook."

To be sure, that's it. Well, the Doctor was my
old Cambridge tutor, you know, and when I got to
loggerheads with them at home, I went up to town, spent

all I had (which was next to nothing), turned actor, and
failed ; then after knocking about for some time, I ran
down to see the old gentleman at Tunbrook. You don't
remember it ? "

Heffernan said he thought he had some slight recollection
of the circumstance, but was not very clear.

Daresay you wouldn't be' continued George, " for you
were only a boy of fourteen or so, while I was some ten
years older. But there are several reasons why I shouldn't
forget it, especially now. In the first place, I was frightfully
hard up — penniless, in fact — and the kind old Doctor
lent me — I ought to say, gave me — 20/. ; then, added to
this, some rich relation of yours, an aunt, I fancy, came to
the house while I was there, and tipped you a tenner, of
which I, like a greedy brute, borrowed half. Surely you
remember now ? M

Oh, yes, I think I do' replied Heffernan, with a dry,
forced laugh. " I do, since you remind me of it."

Well, not satisfied with what your step-father had
given me, I believe if I could have got hold of the old
lady alone, I should have borrowed some from her. You
see T was in a terrible fix, and had no more conscience
than a burglar, so long as I could get money one way or
another. But I'll just tell you what brought the whole
thing back to my mind with a rush. Let's turn again,
shall we ? it's jollier skating up there in the moonlight
than under these trees."

Heffernan agreed ; but didn't George think they ought
to be looking after the ladies a little ?

Oh, they're all right, come along'' was the reply; " I
like a quiet chat like this by ourselves." And as they
reached the shadowy regions, where the torches flickered
in opposition to the moon, they suddenly swung round in
divergent curves, chiselling up the ice with their sharp

skates as they did so, and continued shoulder to shoulder
in the changed direction.

I was going" to tell you what made me think of this.
It wasn't the debt itself — I'd forgotten that, I'm afraid —
but the wonderful memory I have for faces. Now, I
dare say you'll scarcely credit it, but when I first came
across you in India, I had a vague notion I'd seen you
before somewhere."

Really ? you mean to say you recognized me after so
many years, and having only met me once as a boy ? "

As I say, Fd only a vague notion about it, nor could I
at all remember where it was ; at the same time, your
features and expression, I think, have not changed very
much from what I recollect them then. However, even
with the name of Denby — or Farlane Denby, as I thought
it was — and a certain association of ideas, I don't suppose
I should have recalled the matter but for another circumstance
— "

To what do you refer ? " asked Heffernan, nervously, as
George paused for a moment.

Well, a curious reminder which I got to-day. Your
mother, as you know, and as I well remember, was a lovely
woman — the most beautiful woman I ever saw in my life ;
hers was a face that became engraved on the tablets of
one's memory. Now, this very afternoon I saw almost
the facsimile of that face — surely you can guess whose I
mean — ? "

'Pon my soul, I can't, and I think it must be rather a
stretch of your imagination. Why, I can hardly remember
my mother myself — "

Then I've a better memory than you, that's all."

Very likely," returned Heffernan, " for I must confess
time has nearly blotted out her portrait from my
mind. I say, have you another weed about you ? " he

added, hoping to turn off the subject. "Thanks, I'll just
stop half a minute to light it — you go on, I'll catch you
up."

But George halted also. Had he been on the alert to
notice such a circumstance, he must have remarked how
palpably Heffernan's hand shook as he held the vesuvian
to his cigar. But if he did observe it he, no doubt,
attributed the tremor to the exercise, for it could scarcely
be put down to cold, since they were both in a warm glow
from skating. •

I alluded of course to that pretty girl at the lodge,"
said George, while Heffernan was lighting his cigar, with
his face turned away, as if to avoid the sudden gusts of
wind ; " the keeper's daughter, you know — "

Oh, yes, she is considered rather a beauty'' rejoined
Heffernan, in a careless tone. " Hector's old love, as
you're aware — come along' and he tossed away the burnt
vesuvian and darted off again.

I don't wonder at the boy falling in love with her, I'm
sure," pursued Hector's father, as he with difficulty kept
up alongside, for Heffernan pushed forward now at an
increased pace. " Steady, old chap, not quite so fast —
remember, I'm only a beginner at present."

Oh, I beg your pardon, I quite forgot," and Heffernan
slackened his speed a little, although at that moment he
would gladly have shaken him off, and skated on by himself.


Well, I never spoke to Lizzie Wolfe till this afternoon,"
resumed George, as they got on level terms again; " and
then I saw the striking likeness directly, though I couldn't
for the life of me think of whom she reminded me so
forcibly. But it suddenly flashed across me afterwards,
as things do sometimes, and just as we were filing off in to
dinner I recollected all about it. By the same token the

girl's rather like you : a natural sequence,, seeing* she's the
image of your mother; the same colouring, the same
beautiful contour, the same look about the eyes, that I
remember in her face'"

Very odd ! Fve seen this rustic belle a thousand
times, and I never noticed it myself; but I dare say you're
right."

Why, my dear fellow, she might be a long-lost sister
of yours, or something of that sort."

Not very likely, I think, for I never had a sister, that
is—"

Ah, exactly, and you've no relations at all living, have
you ? — I mean to say, no near relations ? "

None ; I was an only son, you know."

But wasn't there a little girl born of your mother's
second marriage ? Why, of course there was ; I should
think I ought to remember that, considering the Doctor
asked me to stand godfather to the child when I was down
there, and which I did — a pretty sort of a godfather !
bolted from home and gone to the dogs — but the Doctor
never dreamt but that I was merely out for a lark and
that sort of thing. You recollect about it — my standing
godfather, don't you ? "

Oh, yes, of course I do."

While the rich old aunt was godmother — I forget her
name — Mrs. — Mrs. — what was it ? "

I'm not quite sure to whom you refer, it's so long
ago."

Why, that old lady with the money — the aunt I
mentioned at first, Mrs. — Mrs. — oh, / can't think of the
name, but you know."

"The old lady with money — let's see — I suppose you
mean — ar — "

The aunt that lent you the tenner, of course — there

can't be any mistake about it — Mrs. Fuller, or something'
like that—"

Oh, I know now, Mrs'. Pullerton," exclaimed Heffer-nan,
as if suddenly enlightened.

Ah, exactly, Mrs. Pullerton j jolly old lady [ I often
wished afterwards I had borrowed a pony or so of her — she
could well afford it, ha, ha, ha ! But about my little
god-daughter — by the bye, I thought you said you never
had a sister ? "

No more I had ; she was only a half-sister."

Oh, ah, of course, and what became of her ? "

"She died, poor child, very young, a few years after
my mother and stepfather."

Indeed ! how sad ! Excuse me, old fellow, for reminding
you in this way of your family bereavements. T didn't
mean to be curious, you understand, but the reminiscences
of the poor old Doctor and my visit there made me mention
the subject."

Their conversation was now interrupted, for Norah
Tewkesley, Agnes, and Hector, came skimming along the
ice towards them, and pulling up as they met, to Heffer-nan's
intense relief terminated the tete-astute, during' which
he had felt an uncomfortable tightening about the heart,
It was fortunate, perhaps, that they were in the moonlight,
where every one looks pale, or George must have discerned
the deadly pallor which had overspread his companion's
countenance during the last few minutes. However, it
was only a temporary panic, and passed off when Heffernan
reflected that the subject had merely been broached by
accident, and might never — should never, if he could help
it — be brought up again.

VOL. TIT.

CHAPTER X.

THE FAMILY VAULT.

. . . . Be reconciled to thy brother Agree with thine
adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him."

St. Matthew, chap. 5, v. 24, 25.
A happy bit this auld world would be,
If men, when they're here, could make shift to agree,
An' ilk said to his neighbour, in cottage an' ha',
Come, gie me your hand — we are brethren a'.' "

Robert Nicol.

Although Mrs. Grayle rallied slightly for a day or two,
Dr. Whittle foresaw that ultimate recovery, at her age,
was a physical impossibility, and he therefore considered
it his duty to prepare the old Squire for the worst.

In three days the large party at Barringtree Hall had
broken up, and in less than a week the house of Grayle was
in mourning. Grumpy Grayle during this time was absent
from Crutch Hut ; it being a custom of his to run up to
town once during the winter in company with Mrs. Cole,
the housekeeper, "just to give his old woman a treat," ashe
said, " and let her see the sights' He corresponded
with nobody at Barringtree — the red-haired Polly at the
Hut being the only available person, and she couldn't
write — and never bothered himself about a local paper
when in London, therefore he had no means of hearing any

tidings or gossip from the family seat, and knew nothing
at present of Hector (much less of George Grayle) having
came home again, nor of Mrs. Grayle's illness. He was
consequently rather astonished on his return from town
to hear of her death, which had taken place two days
previously.

Directly George Grayle ascertained that his uncle had
come back, he started off to the Hut to see him. For his
own part, he bore Grumpy no ill-will for the mischievous
and disastrous influence he had exercised over him in former
years, and looked forward, with histrionic instinct, to
making a second sensational effect by his sudden reappearance.
Besides this, he had conceived a laudable notion of
bringing his father and uncle together at last, and obliging
them, nolens volens, to make friends. Mrs. Grayle's death
suggested such an idea, and he thought a suitable opportunity
might be taken advantage of at the approaching
funeral.

On presenting himself at Crutch Hut, George merely
asked if his uncle was within, and being answered in the
affirmative, brushed past the astonished Polly without
waiting to be announced, and entered the sanctum.

For a minute Grumpy Grayle was taken aback, and failing
to recognize his nephew, stared askance at the sudden
intrusion.

Don't you know me, uncle Andrew ? 9S said George ;
pausing on the threshold, and then advancing towards him
with outstretched hand.

What, George ! " screamed Grumpy, in a shrill falsetto ;
George it is, by all that's marvellous ! well, I'm d — d ! "
adding, characteristically, " What the devil do you mean,
sir, by not acknowledging my last post-office order ? n

George laughed, and said he had come to acknowledge it
now.

n 2

Time you did, I think, considering you've taken over
twenty years about it. But sit down, boy, sit down,"
cried the old bachelor, shaking him heartily by the hand,
and then shouting for Mrs. Cole. " Hie, old woman !
where are my keys? get me my keys; damme, here's Mr.
George turned up again, can't you see? go and get my
keys. Oh, there they are, in the cellaret — bring up some
o' that last brew, sharp — you know. Hang it ! we must
break a bottle over this."

Now whether such a fuss was feigned or genuine, George
could scarcely make out; but he might have accepted it as
sincere; for Grumpy, with all his faults, had some consanguineous
feelings about him, and in the natural impulse of
the moment was really glad to greet his nephew after so
many years' absence, without thinking at all of his cherished
ambition.

Now tell us all about it, boy," said he, as Mrs. Cole
appeared with the milk punch — a Crutch Hut speciality—
"drink that, and tell us all about it," and he filled a
couple of claret glasses to the brim.

George then told him as briefly as possible, in much the
same way as he had related his adventures to his wife and
father, of course omitting all allusion to his uncle's spiteful
letters.

Ha, umph ! and so the other boy's come back too,
eh ? " exclaimed Grumpy, when George concluded ; " 'pon
my soul, quite a gathering o' the clan." And then his
cherished ambition did occur to him, though only as a
worthless thing of the past, and no longer to be nursed in
his brain as a rare and promising prospect. But what a
sudden and dreadful let-down it was for all his high hopes
hitherto so sanguinely entertained ! How the elaborate
castles in the air, built up and added to so carefully year by
year, now crumbled to dust, and with them vanished all

foundation-room. for more ! His eyes, so long closed by a
morbid infatuation, were opened at last, and he saw what a
demented fool he had been to trust to the fickle goddess.
However, thought he, with a sardonic grin, it was all over
now but the shouting; so he had better give it up as a bad
job with a good grace, and resign himself to circumstances.
And fate certainly seemed to echo such a thought.

After some further conversation regarding his exile,
George touched on the subject of his mother's death,
with a view to introducing the proposal he had to
make.

"Dear, dear, very sad, — very sad and sudden" said
Grumpy, shaking his head solemnly, though his further
remark was scarcely in keeping with the action. "Ah,
well, de mortuus, et caetera, my boy ; but, by Jove, she was a
caution."

"Now, uncle Andrew," said George, ignoring the
aspersion on his mother's memory, " I'll tell you what you
must do — in fact, the only proper course for you to adopt
and I may add that my father particularly wishes it"
(this was a white lie, pardonable, all things considered) —
you must attend the funeral."

AVhat ! I attend the funeral ? 1 attend the funeral
indeed ! what next ? "

I'll tell you what next, since you ask me ; you and my
father must make friends there and then — I'll arrange
it."

Bless my soul, my good man, you must be mad ! "
cried Grumpy, jumping out of his chair, fairly astounded at
the notion ; u preposterous ! "

Not at all ; it's only decent that you should be present
at my mother's funeral — the least you can do indeed — the
rest you'd better leave to me."

"Umph ! as to "the funeral," said Grumpy, after thinking

for a minute, " I shouldn't so much mind attending" if —
if you wish it, just for decorum's sake ; but anything 1 beyond
that is quite out of the question — utterly out of the question."


I can't agree with you, I must say."

Why, my dear boy, I've never spoken to my brother
for over forty years."

Exactly ; the more reason why you shouldn't put it offa
day longer; life's short, you're both old men now, and in
the ordinary course of nature — "

Oh, I know all about that ; but what's the use ? It's too
late to do any good now."

"It's never too late to do a good action," remarked George,
gravely.

"I'm not so sure; but bless my stars! you've come
home quite the parson, boy, eh ? I suppose you've read
1 Paradise Lost;' d'you remember what Milton says?

For never can true reconcilement grow,
Where wounds of deadly hate have pierced so deep ' —

and that's just the situation."

Oh, nonsense," argued George ; " no such sentiment
need apply to you and my father ; and if it did, it's your duty
to prove the contrary."

"Why should it be me?" falsetto Grumpy, heedless of
grammar and tossing off another glass of milk punch.
Why should / make the first advance ? Your father's the
eldest," he added, with a bitter laugh, " why don't he ? "

But he has ; I told you he wished you to come to the
funeral ; isn't that enough ? and if you don't do so, uncle
Andrew," continued George, impressively, "all I can say
is, you — you ought — "

He was going to add " to be ashamed of yourself," but
remembering Grumpy's irritable and bellicose nature, he

stopped in time. Finally, after a good deal more persuasion,
he brought the pig-headed old cynic to reason, and
made him promise, much against his will, not only to attend
the ceremony, but to meet the Squire half way on the path
of peace.

The funeral was fixed for Thursday, the 14th of December,
four days after the above interview, and at about half-past
eleven the family assembled in the dining-room to receive
their husbands and scarves from the undertaker, who told
the mourners off to the different coaches.

George had taken pains to pave the way for Andrew
Grayle's reception, having spoken to the Squire very
seriously, and with another white lie, urged that it was his
uncle's express wish to be present at the burial. Old Mr.
Grayle received the announcement with considerable surprise,
although he was perfectly willing, and indeed
anxious, to meet his brother half way. Everything, therefore,
was prepared for the reconciliation, but no brother
appeared. George waited and wondered, and looked out oi
window, but there was no sign of Andrew Grayle; and,
feeling very vexed to think that his uncle should have
broken faith with him, he began to regret that he had taken
in hand such a delicate matter-but
at length, just as it was time for the funeral cortege
to start for the church, the butler entered the room, bearing
on a salver a note for George, who opened it and read as
follows : —

The Hut,
Thursday morning.
Dear George, — Shan't come to house — don't want to
get blue devils in one of those black boxes w (meaning the
coaches) — " will meet procession at church-gates, and go onto
my own pew — afterwards join you at vault.

Yours, A. G."

So far this was satisfactory enough, and George communicated
the contents of the note to the Squire, who
promised to make the first advance towards his brother
directly the funeral was over.

Shortly afterwards the hearse started from the Hall,
followed by five mourning coaches, and several private
carriages representing some o£ the neighbouring
families.

As George stepped out of the first coach he saw Grumpy
standing near the gates of the churchyard, with his hat off,
and half slinking behind a tombstone, as if ashamed of himself.
The old bachelor presented a very singular appearance
with his hard, wrinkled face, bushy grey hair, Newgate
fringe, and eccentric attire ; yet Mrs. Cole had turned him
out as well as she could, considering how limited, not to
say dilapidated, was his wardrobe. A shiny black coat —
shinier still at elbows — such as some voltaire might
"sport" on Sundays — a dark brown worsted waistcoat,
which he trusted to pass off as black ; a deal of shirt-front
(spotlessly got up, thanks to Mrs. C), with great onyx
studs, and sleeve-links of the same, fastening very long
cuffs; a white cravat with a suspicion of light-blue spots
which had once adorned it, but had come out in the washing.
— "Near enough for the money, old woman," as
Grumpy chuckled to his housekeeper when she tied it on —
a pair of pepper-and-salt knee breeches and gaiters, that
looked tolerably black at a distance, and very gouty cloth
boots; a shocking bad beaver hat, with a piece of black
bombazine in lieu of a crape band (Mrs. Cole's ingenuity,
since her master never thought of sending to the Hall for
the one allotted to him), and a pair of rusty black kid
gloves, now nearly grey inside from age, that he had probably
worn at his father's funeral — constituted this queer
old gentle man's outlandish apparel, with which he seemed

very satisfied, and inwardly pronounced himself " quite the
cheese." As to any feeling 1 of diffidence that sent him so
retiringly behind the tombstone, it arose, no doubt, from
shame of his inner rather than his outer man, and that was
not a bad sign.

After all the mourners had alighted and fallen in in order
of precedence, Grumpy sneaked out from his hiding-place
and modestly took up his position as an odd follower (a
very odd follower) in rear, when it was too late for the
undertaker to correct the error, and assign him his proper
place abreast with Hector. Then the officiating minister —
a clergyman from the adjoining parish — came forward to
meet the body, and turning back towards the church, commenced
the beautiful words, " I am the Resurrection and
the Life, saith the Lord," when the funeral party filed
slowly in through the principal porch and down the nave,
the coffin being deposited meanwhile in the transept.
Andrew Grayle betook himself straightway to his private
pew, some distance apart from that appropriated to the
Squire's family, and during the service put on a melancholy
visage to suit the occasion, now and then casting sheep's
eyes across at his brother and George as if to know what
he was to do next.

Amid the solemn tones of the organ, playing Beethoven's
Funeral March, the procession emerged again from the church,
and wended its way to the opened vault beneath the outer wall
of the chancel, when a heavy snowstorm overtook the congregation,
and the white, blinding flakes fell softly and
silently over the scene for the remainder of the ceremony.
George Grayle stood gazing pensively into the vault while
the clergyman read the final prayers j but his mind, I fear,
was less filled with thoughts of the family bereavement
than of a certain problem to be solved, namely, how a
suitable meeting between his father and uncle could be

brought about, with the crowd of tenants, retainers, and
parishioners standing around. Suddenly a bright idea
came to his rescue. As the Squire prepared to descend
the steps of the vault after the coffin had been lowered and
placed on its shelf, George motioned to Hector to accompany
his grandfather, and linking his own arm in Andrew
Grave's, followed with him down into the gloomy depths
of the tomb. A moment after the twin-brothers, estranged
from one another for nearly half a century, found themselves
face to face in the house of death. It was a thrilling
crisis, and there was an awful solemnity in the situation as
they met thus in the damp, earthy stillness of the sacred
precinct. No word was spoken ; but in that brief, significant
silence, Andrew Grayle felt envy, malice, and hatred
crushed for ever within his heart ; and the old Squire,
yearning for peace on earth and good will toward men,
drew near to him, when the two brothers fell on each
other's neck and wept aloud.

Shortly afterwards, to the astonishment of the crowd
above, those old enemies of such long standing, whose feud
dated back beyond the birth of more than three-fourths of
the spectators, ascended arm-in-arm from that same vault
where each would soon have his final resting-place. And
thus as Christian brothers once more, and stanch friends
for the residue of their waning years, they passed back
together from the realms of the dead into the world of
the living. Every head was instantly uncovered again,
amid the falling snow, as the venerable brothers reached
the level of the graveyard and moved slowly through the
respectful throng. Then, still arm-in-arm, they quitted
the scene together with hearts too full to speak, and in the
same carriage returned to the old roof which had sheltered
both in their childhood.

' Blessed are the peacemakers George, my boy. You

have done well this day, and may God reward you
for if."

u I have only done my duty, sir' was George's reply ;
and this was all that passed between father and son when
the family afterwards reassembled at the Hall. But George
Grayle was quite satisfied, and considered that he had
already been sufficiently rewarded by the success which
had attended his stratagem.

A large luncheon party after a funeral in high life is a
lugubrious business at all times. Poor old Grumpy found
it especially so now. He felt very like a fish out of water,
and rather low spirited, as he sat at the long table, partaking
mechanically of the dainty viands, and could not
but reflect under what dismal circumstances he made his
re-entrance into the old home after so many years of self-imposed
banishment. His brother's kindly face, however,
at the head of the table reassured him, and as he caught
his eye the Squire, without speaking, nodded quietly towards
him, and, after the good old fashion, they drank a
glass of wine together to cement their friendship. Then, for
the remainder of the luncheon Grumpy entertained himself
by staring around at the familiar family portraits and
other pictures on the wall, than which nothing could have
carried his mind back more forcibly to bygone years.

On an adjournment being made presently to the smoking-room,
George took the opportunity of introducing Heffernan
to him, as a future member of the family, whereupon
Grumpy, in his usual blunt manner, immediately blurted
out, —

Ah — umph — we've met before, I think, sir — we've
met before, Mr.— Mr. — what's yer-name."

u Captain Heffernan, uncle Andrew."

No — not a bit of it. I meant to say Mr. — Mr. —
Denby; that's it,"

Certainly , Mr. Grayle, you're perfectly right ; Denby
is my patronymic," returned Heffernan, with admirable
self-possession ; " and now you mention it, of course I
remember, we have met before."

Oh, you remember now, do you ? A curious thing if
you forgot me, I should think, seeing I was your trustee
once, and went out of my way to accommodate you."

To be sure you did, Mr. Grayle, to be sure you did —
nor had I forgotten," replied Heffernan, biting his long
moustache nervously while he spoke. " I was deeply grateful
to you then, and am still, believe me."

Indeed ! funny way of showing it, I think, considering
you were down here three years ago for weeks together,
and never even came near me at the Hut. / knew all
about it. Mrs. Corcoran — you recollect old Mother Cork,
I repose ? — she told me of it — explained the whole thing —
else, from your changing your name, I should never have
known, perhaps."

All this was very awkward. The smoking-room was
full of gentlemen, including George Grayle, Hector,
Clement Mountjoy, Arthur Tewkesley, and others, and
HefFernan didn't at all relish having his private affairs
discussed in public, so tried to draw Grumpy aside.

A word with you, Mr. Grayle," said he, taking him
by degrees to a further corner of the room, though the old
bachelor seemed reluctant to leave the circle round the
cheerful fire. " I should just like to explain to you privately,"
he added, in a low tone, " what may have appeared
unpardonable rudeness and neglect on my part — "

Go ahead, sir," was Grumpy's gruff rejoinder, only
anxious to get it over and return to the fire.

Heffernan then urged a plausible excuse for having
omitted to call at Crutch Hut before he went to India ;
but hinted at the delicacy of his own position at the Hall,

inasmuch as. being engaged to the Squire's grand-daughter,
he thought it would be scarcely etiquette to visit a member
of the family with whom his host was at feud. But this
by no means satisfied Grumpy, who churlishly remarked
that he thought " Mr. Denby Heffernan might have
waived all such ceremonious scruples regarding one brother,
considering the obligations he was under to the other."
Heffernan, however, was most profuse in his apologies, and
so eloquent withal in the explanation of his motives, that
Andrew was compelled to accept both, and say no more on
the matter.

It was a bleak wintry afternoon, and not at all a day
for outdoor exercise as a matter of choice, nevertheless
Heffernan, soon after this little talk with Grumpy, betook
himself to the garden walks, for he felt as though the
room, and indeed the house, were too hot to hold him.
As he paced up and down the snow-covered gravel paths,
entirely hidden from the windows by the heavily-laden
shrubberies, the brown study in which he indulged was by
no means an enviable one. Soon he lost even the solace
of his cigar, for the piercing .north wind caused it to burn
down one side, and finally extinguished it altogether.

"Tsha!" he cried, throwing away the fag end in disgust;
" beastly thing won't draw. What did I want to
come out here in a gale for, I wonder ? "

It did appear strange, certainly ; but the eccentric proceeding
on the part of the body might have been accounted
for by an analysis of the mind. Evidently that skeleton
was at its old pranks again — making offensive grimaces at
him through the dark shadow, which once more overhung
the horizon like a funeral pall.

Heffernan's thoughts were well in keeping with the
melancholy proceedings just concluded, and he ruminated
to himself as though he had been the most ill-used of men,

and an innocent victim to relentless Fate, instead of what
he really was — a scheming 1 adventurer, with a clever head
on his shoulders, but without a particle of principle in his
composition.

George Grayle' s unexpected return to Barringtree had
proved a terrible thorn in his side ; and the unpleasant remembrance
of that moonlight skate with his future father-in-law
was still harrowing HefTernan's mind, when yet
another cause for uneasiness thus arose through the same
channel.

Why couldn't the fellow let well alone, and leave old
Grumpy down at the Hut," thought HefFernan, " where he
was safe enough, and out of the way? What devilish, luck
brought this George Grayle home at such a critical time,
just as everything w T as going so smoothly, too ! and — confound
my soft folly ! — I had him in my power once, and
might at all events have kept him out of the way for a
while ; yet, like a fool, I go and let him off. How the
deuce was I to know, though ? A fellow may be clever
enough, but prescience is not a faculty bestowed upon
mortals. Then I wonder what on earth made mother Corcoran
put it into Grumpy's head who I was? I always
felt a sort of security in my new name, if ever I came
across the old fellow, and that idiot of a woman goes and
tells him about it. She shall hear more of this when I see
her. But, after all, I'm only fretting myself about nothing
a mere combination of accidents ; and now that F ve sq dared
the matter between Georgie Vickers and Hector, and kept
that other girl in her proper place, these new bogies may' go
hang; they shan't frighten me." He ceased these muttering
for a minute or two, and moved more briskly up and
down the paths to keep warm, then continued : — " Of
course, when I think of it, George Grayle had made up his
mind to come home, and whether I i quoted' him or not, the

fact of his declaring 1 his identity in self-defence would have
settled the matter at once; so I don't see that T took a
false step in that direction. Ah, well, somebody sagely
observes, that ' Philosophy is the health of the mind j '
and after this little mental disturbance I mean to turn
philosopher, give mine a chance, and trust to luck."

Despite this resolution, the mind in Albert HefFernan's
case was far too much exercised to obtain either perfect
tranquillity or a healthy tone. Had he not been so completely
devoted to Agnes Grayle, it may be questioned
whether he would have dared remain on the scene, and
trust to luck, as he called it. He might have taken warning
from the ominous clouds which hovered in the distance,
and appeared to be gradually gathering around him. But
no ; he was as one rivetted to the spot by some powerful
fascination ; by the hand of Fate, it may have been, which
seemed to lurk behind the shrine at which he worshipped.

CHAPTER XI.

IN FORO Conscience.

Thus conscience does make cowards of us all."

Shakspeare,
Es liege um uns rerum
Gar manner Abound, den cas Schicksal grub ;" —
******

Es list ein signer grillenhafter Zug,

Das wir, dutch Schweigen, cas Geschehene,
Fair uns und Andre, zu vernichten gluten."

Goethe.

It was necessarily a dull Christmas at Barringtree after the
recent death in the family, and the weddings fixed for the
following month were postponed sine die.

About this time Georgie Vickers betook herself to 
the-Thames, where her aunt resided, there to make
a stay for a few weeks, or longer, according to future
arrangements. Heffernan followed suit soon afterwards;
and, craving for excitement to counterbalance a certain
weight on his mind, he accepted an invitation for some
shooting in one of the midland counties.

The mental depression to which he was now victim was not
to be so easily dispelled as he imagined, notwithstanding a callous
indifference which he tried to cheat himself into feeling.
But a darker cloud still had suddenly crept up in the wake
of those already indicated, and his new-born philosophy was

nearly strangled in its infancy by the crucial test to which
it was speedily subjected. In plain language, Mrs. Corcoran
had once more appeared on the scene, just before he
left Barring tree, and her presence had brought about additional
apprehension ; for, contrary to precedent, the faithful
old nurse proved herself this time to be a harbinger of
evil, rather than a solace and welcome adviser.

HefFernan, on his arrival in England, had at once written
and apprized her of the fact, and promised to run down
into Kent to see her as soon as he could get away frcm
Barringtree. As he delayed doing this, however, from
various causes, Mrs. Corcoran adopted the inverse method,
and came to see him. This was shortly after the funeral,
and for the first two or three days she was in the neighbourhood
it happened that HefFernan was away in London.
During the interim prior to his return, she met and conversed
with George Grayle at Crutch Hut, and the outcome
of that interview was enough to establish a scare in
Heffernan's already perturbed mind.

He went as usual to see her at her brother's house,
and they were closeted together in the same little parlour
where they had held a similar secret conference three years
before. The old woman had set her heart on her son's return,
and was naturally much vexed and disappointed at his
having been left behind ; therefore, before touching on any
other subject, she demanded from HefFernan a satisfactory
explanation on this head, and was by no means disposed to
be very cordial, until he had entirely cleared himself of all
blame as to Joe's non-appearance. But her clever colleague
had no difficulty in framing a plausible excuse, which Mrs.
Corcoran, being unable to gainsay, was obliged to accept.
As a matter of fact she couldn't understand half the military
jargon with which he embellished his statement, for,
instead of expounding the subject clearly, he did his best to

VOL. III. 1

make it as obscure as the Kong Ompax in the Eleusinian
mysteries. Then he wound up with an assurance that it
was no fault of his, that he had done his utmost in Joe's
behalf, but that the formalities of military discipline were
not to be over-ruled, and so forth.

Well, all I can say is it's a crying' shame, Mr. Albert'
exclaimed Mrs. Corcoran, indignantly. " Them authorities,
or whoever' s to blame out there, with all their fussin' and
meddling', ain't fit to have a lot of soldiers under 'em, and
so I'd tell 'em. I shall just buy Joe's discharge, and get
him home whether they like it or not."

"I don't think he'd thank you for that, Hannah," said
Heffernan, shaking his head and smiling. " Joe's too
much wrapped up in soldiering and barrack life to throw
it up in a hurry ; besides it would be a pity, as he's — he's
getting on so well just now, and is sure to be sent to the
depot next autumn."

Heffernan could hardly have explained in what way Joe
was getting on so well just now, seeing that he was still a
a full private, and with no longer even the temporary
appointment of mess-waiter. However, Mrs. Corcoran
had something else on her mind at that minute, so for the
present she let the subject slide, as the Americans say.

"Well, Mr. Albert," she remarked suddenly, drawing
her chair closer to him and lowering her voice ; " I've got
a pretty startler to tell you, and no mistake, so I hope
you're prepared for it."

"What d'you mean, Hannah?" he asked with a
clutching sensation in his chest.

Just what I tell you, and that's this : that it seems tome
the catella be out o' the bag very soon, if we don't take
care."

Psha ! impossible."

Not at all ; don't flatter yourself.

u But how can it ? Whom are you afraid of ? "

"Ah, somebody I little thought of, or you either' she
added, mysteriously.

Those Frosts, I suppose."

Not they; they're as silent as old Jack Frost himself'
rejoined the woman, chuckling at her own witticism.

Who then ? "

Why, somebody you were so precious careful to bring
home with you, instead of my boy Joey; that's who I
mean."

George Grayle ? M

Of course."

But why are you afraid of him? what have you heard ?"

A good deal ; quite enough to give me the fidgets, I
can tell you."

Come to the point, Hannah, there's a good creature ;
there's no one to hear us, so you needn't be mysterious."

I'll be plain enough, Mr. Albert ; in fact, I'm too
flustered and frightened to — to waste words about it, and
I've been fretting myself nicely till I saw you."

I'm very sorry ; I wish I'd known you'd been here."

I wish you had ; but now to tell you. The day after I
came I went over to pay my respects to Mr. Andrew
Grayle-"

You seem to have made great friends with that old
gentleman."

He's always been very civil to me, and I take people
as I find 'em. Well, while I was at Crutch Hut, who
should drop in but this Mr. George ; and, if you'll believe
it, he knew me directly, though I'm blessed if I remembered
him. He was very affable-like, and talked of my
Joey and all that ; and then went on about Dr. Farlane,
and having met me there, and you too ; and afterwards
about the little srirl."

But is that all ? »

Gracious powers alive ! isn't that enough ? I suppose
you recollect he did come there to Tun brook years ago,
•md— "

u Of course I do, but I'd forgotten it till he reminded
me himself. Bless you I I've had it all out with him long
ago, so you've no occasion to be alarmed."*''

Oh, you have ? I thought you must have, though he
didn't give me to understand as much."

Did he try to pump you at all ? "

No ; only referred to the matter in a casual way like""

"Then what on earth are you afraid of ?"

Well, upon my word, Mr. Albert, you are a cool hand.
To think that his uncle there was your trustee, and that
this George Grayle actually recognizes the girl, and then
ask me what I'm afraid of ! D'you suppose they won't
put this and that together ; very likely go and question
those old people at the lodge, and her too ; and then
where should we be, I should like to know ? "

Really, my dear Hannah, you're alarming yourself very
unnecessarily," said HefFernan, with an effort at composure,
though it looked very much as if she were alarming Aim;
u what interest can either Grumpy Grayle or his nephew
have in making any inquiries? It's merely a dim reminiscence
on the part of the latter, nothing more, and I don't
suppose he'll ever think of it again. Then with regard to
the strong likeness and so on, he only mentioned it to meas
a curious coincidence, and I pooh-poohed it all as being
pure imagination — said / couldn't see it, and turned it off
naturally enough. But the idea of his recognizing the girl
as you say, why, it's utterly absurd. How could he? just
reflect for one moment, Hannah, and pray be reasonable —
how could he ? "

Ah, it's all very well, Mr. Albert ; you may talk as

smooth as you like, *but none the more I feel the situation's
rather too warm to please me, not to say dangerous for us
both."

I can't understand why you should think so, or whv
you should conjure up these timid fancies, I'm sure. How
is any direct clue to be obtained, unless you or I choose
to put people on the track ourselves? Those Frosts are.
safe enough, and we needn't fear any other living soul.,
so we've really nothing to be uneasy about."

"Well, pVaps not," said she, with a shrug of her
shoulders, a except our own consciences."

u Come, come, draw it mild, Hannah ; if you're going to
try to trump up a conscience now after all these years, I
retire from the argument. By the way, I want to ask you
something. What in the world made you go and let out) to
that old curmudgeon, Grumpy, who I was, and explain all
about my new name ? "

I don't know what you mean ; where and when ? "

Why, I understand now that when you talked to him
about the Pullerton Trust—"

u He mentioned it to me first ; he recollected my
name'

il — You actually told him I'd taken that of Heffernan,
that I was the Albert Denby he knew, and evidently went
to some pains altogether to establish my identity in his
mind."

Why shouldn't I ? not that I did take such pains as
you call it ; but I never dreamt of all this complication
then, nor that you'd come into then field at all ; remember,
you only arrived that very same evening, and, for the
matter of that, it was your own fault for not writing to me
for such a time, and keeping me in the dark as to your
movements."

Very likely ; but when you spoke of this before, Hannah,

you never told me that you had enlightened him as to who
I was."

"No, I didn't; what was the use? It was quite by
accident I mentioned it, as I said, not knowing you were a
guest at the Hall or likely to be ; but I told you afterwards
he'd found it out, and if you recollect, I advised you at the
time to call and see the old man ; in my opinion, you were
a great fool to keep aloof from him, like you did, instead
of showing a bold front as if there was nothing to be
ashamed of."

"Ah, well, that's my look out, and it can't be helped
now. Grumpy Grayle was as good as dead to the rest of
his family then, and I didn't see that there was anything
to be gained by being so over civil. How was I to know
that this prodigal son would come to life again to patch up
family quarrels, and bring my ex-trustee and me face to
face in this manner ? Confound George Grayle ! he's a
regular nightmare to one."

"He is to me, Mr. Albert; but I thought you didn't
think there was anything to be afraid of? "

No more there is when you come to analyze the position
and look at it from a calm point of view," replied Heffer-nan,
hastening to reassure her ; " it's a moral impossibility
that anything can be brought to light, or, at least, proved,
so long as you and I stick to each other ; not that I seethe
slightest likelihood of any inquiry being started.
Who's to do it? George Grayle won't; what would be his
object ? and. certainly Grumpy Grayle won't, for a very good
reason."

"What's that?"

Why, that he'd be responsible for forty thousand
pounds and unlimited interest, or think himself so if he
wasn't."

There's something in that, I essay, but would he be ? "

I'm not sure ; it's a nice point in law, I expect ; anyhow,
the dread of such a thing would make him hold his
tongue. But how ridiculous all this is ! Here we are trying
to prove a negative, as I may say, when there's not the
remotest chance of this or that liability being called into
question. I repeat we've nothing and nobody to fear, my
dear Hannah; less so now than ever in spite of this last
scare, for I grant you there was danger once while that
young fellow, Hector, kept hankering after the girl."

I should think there was indeed, for as sure as he
married her, whether from the Hall or privately, and the
lawyers got to work, so sure would the fat be in the fire,
and you and I in the felon's dock."

Yes, yes, no doubt ; but confound such plain speaking,
my dear woman, don't let's talk of it in that light; the
danger's past and done with now. Fortunately the discovery
put us on our guard in time, and we must congratulate
ourselves that we applied the extinguisher before it was too
late. It was a rare stroke of business."

It was, and we did well, but all the same — "

That danger being past, I say, we may let our minds
rest at peace now, instead of playing hide-and-seek with
our happiness amid imaginary shadows."

He was always rather euphuistic and vague when he
desired to be impressive, but altered his style of speaking
directly with a change of subject.

"We were to have been married next month, the four of
us," he continued, " but for that old woman going off the
hooks so suddenly. Devilish unlucky, I must say ; however,
I shall try to hurry on matters after a decent lapse of
time."

11 You'll excuse me, Mr. Albert, for what I'm going to
say, and I've no doubt it'll rather astonish you if the other
didn't." She hesitated.

Fire away, Hannah ; nothing ever astonishes me nowadays.
What is it ? "

Well, to tell you the truth, I don't feel either happy
in mind, or safe in body, so long" as you're down in these
parts, and hanging on to this Grayle family. When I
put it in that way, it may appear a bit selfish, but I don't
want to see you come to grief any more than I want to
end my days in gaol, or disgrace my boy Joey."

Confound it all, Hannah, what are you driving at now ?"
he asked, rising impatiently from his chair and striding
up and down the room.

Simply this, Mr. Albert, that what with one thing
and another, and for all you may argue to the contrary, I
hold that there is danger, great danger, and by your
remaining here just for the sake of marrying this Miss
Grayle for her money — "

Really, my good woman, you don't know what you're
talking about ; I won't deign to argue such a point ; all I
can tell you is you're perfectly wrong."

Right or wrong, whether for love or money, it 'mounts
to the same thing, Mr. Albert; and I stick to it, that by
such foolhardiness you run tremendous risk of very
awkward disclosing's, sooner or later; so if you won't
take my advice, I tell you candidly I shall be inclined to
make a clean breast of it myself, and have done with
the matter once for all — let the worst do its worst
'cos I'm more bothered in my mind than you can
understand."

Oh, yes, I can quite understand it," returned he, with
a forced, sarcastic laugh, " when you talk like that,
Hannah; I can quite understand it, for you must be out of
your mind to do so ; but what is your advice ? "

That you give up your marriage, and take yourself off
out of this as soon as you can."

Give up my marriage with Agnes Grayle ! now, after
all I've gone through ? "

Tush, you'd soon pick up another girl with money ."

That may be ; it's easy enough for you to give such
advice, though not quite so easy to follow it ; and I declare
to you, even if I thought there was cause for alarm, as
you fancy, I'd run any risk for her sake."

Then you do love her ? "

"I do ; most emphatically, I do. Now • I know,
Hannah' he went on in a soft, persuasive key ; " indeed,
I feel confident that you have too much respect and regard
for me to wish that I should sacrifice my happiness for a
mere — a mere whim."

"A mere whim, you call it ? But let that pass. What
I've urged is more for your own sake than mine, you maybe
sure."

I know it is, my old friend ; I well know your unselfishness
and integrity of character, and have every faith in
you."

He said this in his most winning voice ; and then, after a
good deal more soft sawder and soothing logic, Mrs. Corcoran's
trepidation seemed to be lulled, when she took a calmer
view of the position, finally observing, —

As you say, Mr. Albert, I have too much respect and
regard for you to do anything against either your interests
or your happiness ; and I essay you're right — perhaps
there is nothing to be scared at; at any rate, in spite of all
the George Gravies and Grumpy Grayles in Christendom,
if you're prepared to chance an exposing' and brazen it out,
why so am I, and that's all about it."

Spoken like a good, sensible woman," cried Heffernan,
seizing her hand, and shaking it heartily. " I knew you'd
listen to reason, and I never doubted your allegiance for an
instant." And he inwardly congratulated himself on having

allayed the woman's fears, for however keen his own anxiety,
he felt the importance of doing this to prevent her from giving
way to panic, and ruining his prospects for good and all.

It certainly did appear strange that he should, by the
merest chance, have become allied to a family thus indirectly
connected with his past in more ways than one — only
proving again how small the world is ; nor could he conceal
from himself that there was ground for Mrs. Corcoran's nervousness,
and that the future might be pregnant with peril.
Nevertheless, so carried away was he by his passionate
devotion to Agnes Grayle, and so obstinately determined
to make her his wife, that no power on earth was likely to
induce him to draw back now. Therefore he shut his eyes
to the rocks ahead, and turned a deaf ear to the dictates of
discretion. He was at all times an inveterate gambler, in
the strongest sense of the word, and was ever ready to trust
to the hazard of the die ; but now his venturesome spirit
was emboldened tenfold, not by a sordid craving after filthy
lucre, but the purer influence of a powerful love. Let him
be but wedded to this woman, who had so enslaved his
affections, and the future might look after itself. This was
the random take-my- chance sort of argument with which
he primed himself, to counteract any troublesome feelings
of anxiety. His chief desire was that his marriage should
not be delayed a day longer than could possibly be avoided,
and that desire was considerably increased by this conference
with Mrs. Corcoran. He was therefore resolved to appeal
at once to both Agnes and her parents to terminate suspense,
and, with as little delay as might be consonant with
decorum, refit an early date for the wedding.

Yes, you may depend upon it, Hannah," said he, as he
rose to end the interview with his old nurse, " that Agnes
Grayle will be my wife before many weeks are past, and
then good-bye to all these qualms and alarms ; for after we're

married Fm determined never to allow a single thought
of this wretched business to intrude again on my happiness.
And be sure of one thing, my dear, faithful old friend,
that my marriage will be the making of you and your good
son Joe ; for if I don't set you both up for life as well-to-do
folks in your little world, my name's not Albert
HefTernan.'"

And having thus delivered himself, the fluent diplomatist
took his leave, and hurried from the room, as if anxious to
avoid thanks for his generous promises.

CHAPTER XII.

•' I cannot love him ;
Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble —

In voices well divulged, free, learn'd, and valiant,
And in dimension, and the shape of nature,
A gracious person ; but yet I cannot love him."

Shakespeare.

Foe, once in a way Albert Heffernan was. foiled in attaining*
the object on which he had set his heart, and when he left
Barringtree to stay elsewhere for a time, he did so with his
wedding-day still postponed indefinitely, which caused him
the greatest disappointment and uneasiness.

He made every endeavour to abbreviate this cruel delay,
and appealed in the most touching and earnest manner to
Agnes (for he was terribly in earnest) to take compassion
on him, and consent to their being married three or four
months hence, or at all events in the summer, but in vain.
Even late in the summer would be too soon, after a
family bereavement, to be consistent with formal observance,
Agnes argued, and out of respect for her grandfather,
she would rather the wedding did not take place until at
least eight or ten months had elapsed.

Heffernan could not help thinking that this was stretching
the matter to the very furthest point of etiquette, but not

with all the tenderest persuasion could he induce his
betrothed to change her determination.

They were alone together in Gertrude's boudoir, where
he had sought for, and found her, immediately after his
interview with Mrs. Corcoran. The face of the young girl,
usually so sunny and joyous, was now rather overcast and
serious. She kept her eyes steadfastly fixed on the fire, as
she sat in front of it with her hands clasped over her knees,
and appeared as though anxious to avoid her lover's ardent
gaze, while he stood beside her with one arm leaning on
the mantle-piece, and looked down in unaffected admiration
at her glorious chestnut hair and sylph-like
figure.

I would not ask you, Agnes, darling' he said, " to
take any step that was not strictly in accordance with your
wishes, or those of your family, but this — this putting off
of our marriage for such a long time, as you propose — seems
to me to be going a little beyond what is customary or
necessary — forgive me for saying it — and more than that,
it is most cruel to me."

I'm very sorry if it appears so, Albert ; but indeed I
— I cannot help it," she answered, with heightened colour.
u Please don't press me any more. I appeal to your kindness
and — and forbearance not to do so."

Then I will not, darling, since you ask it in that way :
certainly I will not," said he, in a frank, genial tone, which
cost him an effort. " No word shall ever pass my lips that
would crime you a moment's annoyance or displeasure, if I
can help it. You know why, my own little queen, don't
you ? " he added, stretching out his hand affectionately, and
turning her face up gently towards him, " because I love
you more than life itself, that is why ; and you know, dear
one, how that love has increased with lapse of time, how
you have gradually wound yourself round my heart, until,

imprisoned thus, its every beat is not for freedom, but for
closer captivity'"

"Yes, yes; I think — I mean, I do know you love me,
Albert' she murmured.

And you scarcely thought so once, I fancy ; nor did
the sentiments of a few years ago, perhaps, as compared
with my present feelings of devotion, deserve the name of
love. But my whole nature has become softened and
re-modelled under your sweet influence, Agnes; and — and
oh, my darling, knowing all this, can you wonder why
I have pleaded for myself so hard to-day; are you surprised
at my importunity in begging to be spared just a little of
this dreary suspense — these long weary months of waiting ?
But enough of my complaining ; I have promised to abide
by your wishes, and I will do so. I trust you, darling, as
you may trust me. Kiss me, Agnes."

He stooped down and pressed his lips on her forehead ;
but she made no reciprocal movement, merely yielding to
the caress, and giving up her hand into his. Of course he
noticed this, and softly asked her again, when she complied,
and returned his kiss with all outward affection, albeit the
licht of love was absent from her clear honest blue eyes.

Heffernan's naturally quick perception and knowledge
of womankind played him rather false in this case; and
though he was obliged to own that Agnes Grayle was an
undemonstrative girl, he did not pay himself such a bad compliment
as to suppose there was any lack of responsive affection
on her part, and certainly had too much tact and delicacy —
if only towards his own vanity — to suggest such a doubt.

Love is proverbially blind, and he failed to see that there
was any other reason for her decision than that put forward;
therefore attributed it to an overstrained consideration of
the Squire's feelings rather than her own.

But if a woman shows herself ever so little indifferent

or lukewarm to a man's devotion, or wilfully places obstacles
in his way, by which the consummation of his bliss appears
further off than he hoped, such measures are generally
attended by the same result — that of making the man
more madly in love than ever ; and this was precisely
Albert Heflernan's case. The more he saw of the fair,
graceful girl, the more abject he became in his idolatry,
until he actually worshipped the very ground she trod on.
He was at his wits' end now to find her less tractable than
he could have wished, especially whilst so much uncertainty
stared him in the face. But his mortification arose less
from any worldly anxiety than from the honest yearnings
of his heart.

He had an idea at first of begging the gentle Gertrude
to intercede for him with her daughter, but wisely thought
better of this ; and reflected that as Agnes had decided, so
she meant to act, and would not thank him for seeking
extraneous influence — even her mother's. Therefore Heft
had no alternative but to accept her decision, hard
though it appeared, and took his departure for other scenes,
where he sought consolation from his freeholder, with a
burden of love in his heart and a weight of care on his mind.
In short, for all his philosophy, all his assurance, and all
his would-be nonchalance, Heffernan was fast becoming a
thoroughly miserable man — dying of love for a girl whom
he dreaded might slip through his fingers, surrounded by
doubts and misgivings, haunted by dreaded phantoms and
nightmares, the more harassing from the indefinite shape
they assumed, and last, though not least, tortured by a
racking conscience which refused to be silenced. Even
Georgie Vickers could scarcely have wished her old enemy
to be overtaken by a worse fate.

As to her marriage, both she and Hector had accepted the
necessary postponement with the same resignation ; and on

taking her departure for Marlow she was content to let the
matter remain in abeyance, and leave it to him and his
family to appoint a future day. Not that this arose from
any indifference on her part, but merely from a quiet yielding
to necessity ; and perhaps the same may be said of
Hector at that period, although a certain circumstance
(to be explained) arose afterwards which caused him to
welcome the respite, and feel glad of a little breathing-time
before taking the final leap.

CHAPTER XIII.

TRUE LOVE.

u True love can no more be diminished by showers of evil-hap, than
flowers are marred by timely rains."

Sir Philip Sidney.

The park at Barringtree was beginning to assume its
vernal vesture, and the light green larch vied with the
darker-hued hawthorn in making a start towards putting
on summer clothing, while many other welcome signs
of spring relieved the sombre face of nature — the more
welcome that they had been so " lang a confine

It was about four months after Mrs. Grayle's funeral ;
and although the hatchment still hung on the facade, the
gloom at the Hall consequent on her rather sudden death
had gradually passed away.

During this time Georgie Vickers remained at Marlow,
where Hector occasionally went to see her. It was arranged
that she should return to the Hall in the spring, and was
expected to arrive in a few days.

As of yore Heffernan paid periodical visits to the home
of his affianced, and divided his time, in a cosmopolitan
fashion, between Barringtree, London, and two or three
country houses to which he was invited. But he was so
restless and uneasy he could not remain long in one place,

VOL. III. K

and chafed continually at the severe tax imposed upon his
patience by the inexorable Agnes.

After the dramatic incident in the family vault the
Squire and his twin-brother improved upon their reconciliation,
and Grumpy Grayle was now a frequent guest at the
Hall. Indeed the Squire begged him to take up his residence
there altogether ; but Grumpy preferred to stick to
his old den, as he said, though he was nearly as much now
at his brother's house as at the Hut. In his favourite
pursuit of fishing George generally kept him company ;
and while they amused themselves in one part of the lake,
Hector and Agnes would occasionally get up a little
amateur regatta in another, with a couple of light canoes.

Sometimes Clement Mountjoy would ride over from 
and enter for a race ; but this was not often, and it
was rather noticeable that he kept more aloof from Barring-tree
than in the old days, and somehow seemed to put in an
appearance only when Heffernan was absent from the Hall.
No wonder, since it pained him so inexpressibly to see
Agnes Grayle monopolized by this man, for whom he had
conceived such an instinctive dislike, not merely in the
spirit of rivalry, but from a shrewd perception of character.
Nevertheless he kept his opinion of Heffernan very much
to himself.

One afternoon when Agnes and Hector had been exerting
themselves on the lake as usual, and had had quite enough
of it, Hector paddled his canoe up into a little shady creek,
there to lie perdu with a pipe and a periodical for aw T hile.
It was a warm day for so early in the year, and the shelter
of the overhanging evergreens was very welcome. On
making his way up the creek he disturbed a large pike,
which shot out from under the bank like an arrow, as the
nose of the canoe interfered with his siesta ; and then when
the small craft, with its red and blue paddles and rim,

became stationary, it speedily attracted a shoal of the gregarious
roach, and a few inquisitive perch, which swam
around — the latter something resembling little striped
hyaenas in the dark water.

After a long dreary winter, one feels a sort of friendship
with even the troublesome insects which, by degrees, buzz
themselves from a torpid into a too lively state of existence ;
and Hector, who lay at full length in the canoe, dreamily
attempting to read a scientific article upside down, made no
effort to repel the advances of these winged tormentors.
Their humming was like a soft lullaby, combined with the
crooning of the wood pigeons, and the sweet song of a nightingale
in the adjoining grove, which charmed his ear with its
jug-jug-jug, tweet-tweet-tweet, swotty-swotty-swotty, and
other trilling variations. Presently one of these little arboreal
larks perched immediately over his head, and recommenced
its ditty. Now its soft, liquid notes, like the plash of
water-drops from a tiny fountain, were deliciously soothing
to the senses; but when the little vocalist, carried away by
amorous rapture, broke now and then into louder strains,
these were rather too shrill to be pleasant so close to the ear,
and prevented Hector from getting a doze ; consequently he
sat up in the canoe, and with his paddle hustled Philomel
out of the shrub.

As he did so, he caught sight of what he took at first to
be a fallow deer in the walks; but a second glance told
him that it was the old St. Bernard, Mizpah. At once it
flashed across him that where Mizpah was Lizzie was sure
to be, or not far off; and an uncontrollable impulse made
him suddenly leap on to the bank, and draw up the canoe
after him. He was scarcely conscious of his own purpose
at the moment, but certainly had no thought of reviving
his old love affair, nor of proving in any way faithless to
his fiancee ; all he knew was, he had never had such a

K %

chance of speaking to Lizzie alone since they met under
the elm-tree three years ago, and that he did wish for this
very opportunity. Whether such a step were wise or not,
he didn't pause to consider ; but felt he owed her some
reparation, some explanation for his conduct, and was uneasy
until he had disburdened his mind by conforming
with this sense of duty ; so now was the time, or never.

Meanwhile Mizpah had disappeared before Hector had
dragged the canoe ashore; but he hastened off in the
direction where he had last seen the dog, and in a few
minutes overtook Lizzie and her faithful escort. These
old walks she was wont at one time to make her favourite
haunt ; but of late the memory connected therewith had
become so sad, that she had quite forsaken them, and was
only passing through now by chance.

Lizzie stopped, and coloured violently when she stood
thus face to face with Hector ; then, after greeting him in a
low murmur, she nervously attempted to continue on her
way without saying more. But he laid his hand gently on
her arm, and with the other patted old Mizpah, who seemed
more sociably disposed than his young mistress. Lizzie
would fain have avoided the meeting, but Hector had come
upon her so suddenly she could not help herself.

I wished to speak to you, Lizzie, ever since my return'
began he, also rather nervous and confused in manner. " I
want so much to explain to you — to — tell you a great
deal that I have put off too long already. But I would
not force an interview, and preferred to leave it to a chance
like the present'

He paused, as if uncertain how to proceed ; while Lizzie,
with downcast eyes and high-mantled cheek, remained
silent; but whether this was from emotion or reproach
Hector could not be sure.

I have longed for this opportunity, Lizzie," he continued,

" and you must indeed listen to me now. Say, may
I go on ? "

Still she made no reply. There was something very
sweet and gentle in his voice; an appealing tone in his
words which, alas ! Lizzie so well remembered, and she
glanced up inquiringly into his face ; but lowered her eyes
the next moment, when they met his.

How handsome he looked as he stood there in his boating
flannels ! his figure now developed into athletic manhood,
and his fair skin tanned by the burning Indian sun.

She dared not trust herself to speak to him just then, her
heart was so full, not of anger or bitterness, but sorrow and
deep despondency. She loved him still— ay, more than
ever, poor girl j for as the growing plant leans towards the
light, so Lizzie leant towards him, her first and only
love. And now there was nothing to hope for ! and life
to her had become henceforth a dreary blank. What could
he wish to say? she wondered. Surely it were better to leave
the past unspoken, the sweet memory buried deep down in
the secret vaults of the heart, for its disinterment could
bode no good to either; and, of course, his interests and
hers were now so far apart. So she wondered the more
what he could have to say.

Mechanically they moved forward together, and walked
side by side in silence for some distance. Presently Hector
stopped, and Lizzie, whose eyes had diligently sought the
peeping daisies at her feet, looked up and found that they
were beneath the stricken elm tree, the old trysting-place
where they had once plighted their troth. Then he spoke
again.

There can be no harm in our exchanging some explanation,
Lizzie, as to what yet remains almost unintelligible
to us both. I consider such a step on my part is only due
to you, especially after all I vowed, and all the solemn

pledges given beside this very tree. First of all, will you
answer me one question ? Is there or is there not any
truth in the report, or the least foundation for it, that
young Simon Sickles made love to you in my absence ? "

Yes, it is quite true," Lizzie replied, in a low tone.

You do not deny it ; you mean to confess then
.that— ?"

I could not help his paying me the attentions he did ;
but I never — never gave him the least encouragement."

I thought not," exclaimed Hector sympathetically.

You surely couldn't have imagined such a thing ? "

et I wouldn't believe it at first, Lizzie ; but when everybody
poured the tale of your faithlessness into my ears, and
you never attempted to refute it, what was I to do ? "

I had no suspicion then that any one was poisoning
your mind against me, Mr. Hector; and they took care
to keep it all from me."

Cruel ! infamous ! but oh, why didn't you write sooner ?
If I had only received your letter a short time before,
it might have been so different; although in that letter
you did not deny the rumours against you. But, of
course, you never suspected what every one was saying,
therefore — "

And I must own to you, Mr. Hector, it was only after
a great struggle with my pride, that I did write at all."

Why, Lizzie ? "

Because I naturally thought you — you no longer cared
for me, and would not wish to hear from me. Many
months before, indeed about the time you went to Abyssinia,
I heard that you had fallen in love with some one
else out in India ; and afterwards it was all confirmed, and
they told me you were engaged to be married to her ; so
what could I think ? But was it not true ?"

Yes, true enough, at least as to the latter part ; but I

ove.

oo

see it all now. There has been a shameful conspiracy at
work, concocted solely and entirely to separate you and me
for ever. I swear to you I was never untrue in thought,
word, or deed, until I heard, from reliable sources — as I
supposed them — such things about you and that young
farmer''

And you believed it all ? " she asked, with a look of
gentle reproach in her soft, speaking eyes. " You thought
I could forget, and — and — " Lizzie paused ; she felt what
was due to her pride, and would not trust herself to finish
the sentence.

Oh, Lizzie," he murmured, when she hesitated ; " you
need not add another word. I know how weak, how
utterly blind I have been ; and now, God help us, it is too
late ! "

Hush ; you mustn't give way to such thoughts as
these. It is neither right nor honourable to her whom you
are about to marry. Indeed, I think it is a pity you ever
met me like this to-day, and found out the truth''

No, oh no, I cannot think so." He said this with a
thoughtful, preoccupied air.

I do. But pray cease regrets for my sake, nor let
idle repining or self-reproofs mar your future happiness.
I always told you I was so perfectly hopeless, and you see
my presentiment was quite right. I knew how far you
were beyond me, and how widely different our stations
were in life."

Nay, as I protested before and repeat now, such a
worldly consideration would never have the slightest weight
with me. I appreciate the truth of what Bulwer Lytton
says, that —

1 Love, like death
Levels all ranks, and lays the shepherd's crook
Beside the sceptre,'

And, as I live, I intended to make you my wife, Lizzie ;
but for this shameful plot and its consequences, I should
have done so, and you know it."

I believe you thoroughly ; but we must not talk in this
way any more ; it is wrong to do so. Forgive me for reminding
you; but — but — as you are going to be married to
another now, it is your duty to love and cherish her, and
cease to think of me. Let all that has passed between us
be as though it had never happened. Now, good-bye, and
Heaven bless you." She said all this with much outward
firmness, though her voice quavered a little in spite of
her brave spirit. " For your own sake," she continued, " I
will not stay another minute here; for if we were seen
together, you well know the disagreeable gossip it would
cause."

Then, without giving him time to reply, she hurried
from the spot. There was something so resolute in her
manner that Hector never thought of following her, but
remained for several minutes standing in the same
place, apparently dazed by what had just passed between
them.

Poor boy ! his feelings at that moment were excruciating
in their torture ; and he was as much, or even more, to be
pitied than Lizzie Rolfe. He felt how deeply he still loved
the girl, arid the spurious copy of such a tender passion,
which was all he had ever bestowed on Georgie Vickers,
became at once eclipsed by a revival of the original.

So it came to this, that through the cunning machinations
of others, through the meddlesome interference of
people who nattered themselves, he supposed, that they
were acting for his good, this was to be his fate — that the
woman whom he passionately adored was to be lost to him
for ever, while he was doomed to marry where he knew
now too well that he could never give his heart. It was

too cruel, too dreadful to contemplate ; and after this sad
interview with Lizzie, his true and faithful first love, poor
Hector Grapple returned to the canoe with a troubled spirit,
and a painful conviction that his whole life was about to
be hopelessly blighted.

CHAPTER XIV.

Barrington PARK V. I ZINGARI.

woman ! lovely woman ! nature made thee
To temper man."

Otway.

What's female beauty but an air divine,
Through which the mind's all gentle graces shine ?

^ ^ 'A 1 4f T? *

Hence men are often captives of a face."

Young.

The London season was over, and the Grayles, who this
year only resorted to their . town house for about three
weeks towards the end of June, had returned to their
country seat. At length the tell-tale hatchment had
disappeared from view, and the old place was like itself
once more ; in fact, rather gayer than usual, for a grand
cricket week had been arranged to commence from the
1 8th of July.

Hector, as secretary of the Barringtree Park Cricket Club
and an energetic promoter of its interests, had planned
two matches for the week. The first, against a powerful
Zingari team, being the more important of the two,
he had taken great pains to get together an eleven
worthy of the occasion. He was fortunate in having a
fair nucleus to go upon, including himself and his father

(a very passable cricketer) , Tewkesley, Clement, and Simon
Sickles. He also asked Heffernan to play, though only
out of compliment, for that gentleman was a poor performer,
and knew it ; nevertheless he accepted the invitation,
observing* jocularly that while Hector was the head
of the team, he would make the tail.

It happened, moreover, that when in London the secretary
had met both Tommy dawson and Tiny Gore at the
Naval and Military Club, for these officers had soon
followed him to England, and were then on leave ; so their
services were enlisted as well — not that Tommy was quite
so first-rate with the willow as in the pigskin ; but his
jollity, and Tiny's skill combined, made up for any deficiency
; added to which, Hector could not very well invite
one old friend without the other.

The 9.20 train from King's Cross brought the Zingari
eleven down in excellent time on the Monday morning,
and by twelve o'clock " sharp " play commenced. The
park was opened to all comers for the occasion, and each
day a very orderly though enthusiastic crowd of spectators
assembled to witness the matches.

We've lost the toss, Tiny, and now for some leather-hunting,"
said Hector, as he re-entered the dressing-tent ;
they're quite ready, so we'd better turn out."

Where am I to go, Grayle ? " " Where are you going
to put me, Hector ? " and such like questions being now
addressed to him, as captain of the eleven, and promptly
answered, the home team in a few minutes had taken the
field, with every man in his proper place.

As at most cricket-matches, there was a gorgeous display
of colour on every side, from the handsome pale blue and
gold flags of the B.P.C.C, which marked the ground,
to the varied hues worn by the different players ; for only
a minority of those fielding out had donned the colours of

the club. The costumes of the ladies, moreover, added
considerably to the general effect, and several of them had
chosen " arrangements " in light blue and gold, both out
of compliment to the Barringtree eleven and because it was
a becoming combination.

The Grayles being in mourning, Gertrude and Agnes
merely adorned the tops of their parasols with favours
made up of the club ribbon, intermixed with tea-rosebuds;
but as Heffernan gallantly observed at breakfast,
both mother and daughter wore a natural crown of burnished
gold. "And for the other colour," added Hector
facetiously, " they'll look blue enough if Barringtree don't
happen to win."

This latter contingency appeared highly probable, for
things went very badly with Barringtree in the first innings,
when they put together less than half the number of runs
obtained by the Zingari; but such is the uncertainty of
cricket, and luck was dead against them. In the first place,
Hector was run out when he had only scored four, through
Tiny Gore's bad judgment, and this was indeed a crushing
blow to the local club. Then, to make matters worse,
Simon Sickles, the remaining hope of his side, was given
out leg before wicket almost immediately afterwards, the
last five batsmen barely averaging a run and a half apiece.

The decision against Simon seemed by no means to
satisfy him — in fact, what batsman ever was " leg before "
in his own opinion ? — and as he returned to the tent he was
very wroth indeed with the umpire.

How was yer out ? " asked a fat, ruby-nosed tenant,
a confirmed old toper, in full cricketing costume, though
he never played.

Hayow was I about ? " repeated Simon, indignantly.
Who, that there darned slippery slink of a empire o'

theirs give me about leg* afore, and I 'now I wasn't. Mould
shins was a ya-ard from the wickets — dessye tew !
never was about leg afore in my life. Lot he 'nows
about oompoirin'. But come on together, that can't be
helped nayow; so let's go have a liquor""

This was an invitation addressed to the ruby-nosed individual
and two or three other gaping sympathizers, which
was not to be resisted, especially by the former, who, at
every match put on the flannels with the sole object,
apparently, of having a big drink in them, since he
never entertained any idea of playing even if he were
wanted.

What's it to be ? " cries Simon, as they enter the
refreshment booth.

Gin and gingerbread for me" promptly replies the
bottle-and-glass cricketer.

Aile for me' says another.

"Glass 0' ars an' ars, please, Mr. Sickles," adds the
third.

Whereupon Simon orders, with the air of a mighty
potentate, " One ars an' ars, a glass o' aile, and tew gins
an' gingerbread, Miss, if yow please," with which the dapper
damsel from the grocer's shop serves them in a quick
and dexterous manner that-savours of the Spiers-and-
Pond school.

And a glass o' sherry wine, Miss," presently calls
the voice within the festive flannels on its own account, the
thirsty one thinking the sherry wouldn't go badly with the
gin; when follows further sympathy for Simon's misfortune,
and that of the B.P.C.C. in general, which, with additional
tippling, becomes less sympathetic and more candid on the
part of the tippler.

A regular case of in vino Veritas," observes the learned

schoolmaster of the parish, overhearing the criticisms,
adding with sly humour, " and before the day's out you
may call it in vino might

At which those laugh who understand it, and those
who don't, laugh because the others do.

"Oh, I say, I say' exclaimed Tiny, taking Hector
confidentially aside after luncheon on the second day,
there's such an awfully pretty girl just come on to the
ground — the prettiest girl I ever saw in all my life — do
come and see."

Where — when — what ? Don't excite yourself, Tiny,"
observed Hector, quietly, as Gore linked his arm in his and
dragged him after him.

"Come here, I'll show you; just round here;" and
rather to Hector's annoyance and confusion, Tiny pointed
out Lizzie standing a little apart with her father, and
waiting for play to recommence.

Isn't she a stunner ? " exclaimed the admiring
ensign, nudging Hector, and winking knowingly. " Who
is she?"

Ah, yes, I see," replied Hector, in an off-hand
manner. " Oh, she's — that is — they're only some
of our people on the place, you know. Come along,
man ; don't stand staring like that. They'll think you're
mad."

So saying, he tried to draw the spell-bound Tiny away
again, for just then old Gideon Rolfe noticed them, and
touched his hat, and Hector felt rather awkward, since it
appeared exactly as if he had brought his friend to stare at
Lizzie.

Come along," he repeated ; " we must turn out again
directly to finish their innings, and I want to arrange the
order for our going in," with which he took Tiny off, will
he, nill he, to the scoring tent.

But all thoughts of cricket seemed to have been completely
put out of the ensign's head for the time, and he
could only reiterate to himself that he had never seen such
a lovely face in the whole course of his life — never. In
short he appeared to be as much smitten with Lizzie's
beauty as was poor Simon Sickles, not to mention
Hector.

In the second innings of Barringtree the blue and gold
fairly astonished the public as well as themselves ; for
although they had 243 to go against, and made a bad
start by losing their three first wickets for 15, an entire
change came over the game when Hector and Simon Sickles
got together. After making a splendid score of 107,
with only one chance in it when he had reached 90, Hector
came in for a perfect ovation on returning from the wickets,
and his family were justly proud of such an achievement.
So was Georgie Vickers, and so was somebody else, who had
watched every brilliant stroke he made with intense interest
and excitement.

Poor Lizzie ! she could not keep away from the gay
scene, notwithstanding that she felt it rather derogatory
to her pride to be present after all that had taken
place. But she was not of a morbid or morose disposition
; and although her recent interview with Hector
had somewhat unsettled her for a while, she was resolved
to be no longer foolish and sentimental about what was
past and done with. Hence the old keeper had easily persuaded
her to accompany him to the cricket-ground and
join the other spectators.

The excitement did not end with the fall of Hector's
wicket, for there were still several runs to be obtained, and
Arthur Tewkesley, George Grayle, and Clement all distinguished
themselves in turn by making a stand, with the
redoubtable Simon, against the united efforts of the

Zingari, whose bowling by this time had become rather
demoralized .

Well hit, Ar-thur ! " cried Norah, with quite an
Etonian ring in her voice, as her husband cut a ball
prettily for four. " Faith, I believe he's going to make a
score, too." Which he did, though it was a mere cypher
compared with his nephew's performance. " Ah, bad luck
to it, he's caught ! " she added presently, in a tone of keen
disappointment ; and Tewkesley returned to his applauding
friends with twenty to his credit.

Next followed George, who also gave the gipsies some
trouble, and then Clement, who was especially on his
mettle, and remembering the wild run after Master Macbeth,
when he had tried so hard to cut down his rival, he
thought that he had now a chance of showing to decided
advantage beside Captain HefFernan. He may, I think,
be excused for such littleness, since a small success in the
cricket-field was all he had to console himself with as a
set-off to his non-success where another had forestalled
him.

Just look, dear Sir Francis," cried Lady Mountjoy,
bubbling over with excitement — attired in a wonderful
costume,, corresponding well with her extravagant characteristics—
" another hit to Clem. Oh, why doesn't he run
faster ? He'll be out. I do wish they'd let me run
for him."

He, he, he!" chuckled Sir Francis; "and you'd beat
the best of them, I believe, my lady. Oh, yes. Look,
there he goes again ! "

Oh, what a splendid drive ! " exclaimed her ladyship,
with two or three tiptoe skips of delight. " By the bye,
was it a drive or a cut ? " she added, not feeling quite sure,
and appealing to Hector.

Perfectly right, Lady Mount joy — "

And there again, how capital ! Oh, well done, Clem ! "
she ejaculated, as her son made another good hit. " Ah !
that horrid man will catch it ; no, he doesn't ; oh, thank
goodness ! " and here the electric battery was stopped for a
moment, to give vent to a grateful sigh of relief, with
closed eyes and a die-away smile.

A dozen runs were now wanted to win, with three
wickets to fall, and the enthusiasm and excitement increased
to the highest pitch.

I say, look here, I say," shouted little Gore at anybody
and everybody; " bet anything you like we win, you
know — bet a monkey on the match."

Don't be rash, boy" said Tommy Rawson, pushing
Tray's cricket-cap over his eyes ; " you've no right to go
and stake your whole existence in that way'

At which there was a merry laugh from all.

Get out, Tommy, none of your chaff," grinned the
ensign, ducking away from him. " There, he's caught !
now it's your turn. Don't be in a funk, old chap; go in,
and knock the runs off."

I'll do my level best," replied Tommy, with a confident
air as he walked to the wickets, for he was not one of
those who ever knew what it was to be " in a funk."

And now the match actually trembled in the balance,
being virtually dependent on Rawson keeping up his wicket,
while Simon made the runs ; for, as Tiny remarked, " the
Rajah was no more good than a headache, if it came down
to him."

What an exulting thrill of pleasure it gave Clement,
having contributed 17 to the score, to receive cordial praise
of his performance from Agnes Grayle's own lips ; and while
she spoke with undisguised warmth and affection, he could

VOL. III. L

not refrain from throwing a side glance at Heffernan, to see
how he took it. But that haughty gentleman witnessed the
little episode with perfect complacency. He had far too much
confidence in his own attractions, and the position he held,
to be jealous of Clement's insignificant triumph. True, there
was no chance of his eclipsing it, since he was the last man
to go in ; not that he wished to try, and earnestly hoped his
services wouldn't be wanted.

Well hit, indeed, Tommy ! " cried he, joining in the
universal excitement, as Rawson made a "fluke snick "
for two.

Only four more to win now, hurrah ! u exclaimed
Hector, with victory in his look and tone.

Oh, how splendid ! " cried the ladies, except those
who happened to be wearing the black, red, and yellow
favours.

Why don't they let you go in too, Albert ? " asked
Gertrude, quite distressed that her paragon should be
seemingly thus left out in the cold. "Why don't they
give you a chance ? "

I hope my feeble efforts won't be required, Mrs.
George," replied he, smiling. " You see I'm what they calla
rank duster — the tail of the team."

Not quite so much of a bat as a barrister in your
little way, reaps, eh, Captain ? " observed Grumpy, who
stood by.

He always would call him Captain now, and no power
of persuasion could get him out of the vulgarism.

Don't think I'm much of either," rejoined Heffernan,
with a good-humoured laugh ; and at this moment the conversation
was interrupted by a ringing cheer, out-ringing
all former applause, and a general waving of parasols, handkerchiefs
and hats, for the noble Simon had just made the
winning hit, and saved the match for Barringtree by two

wickets ! ' Since he brought out his bat for a 
54, he fully deserved a repetition of the
ovation given to Hector; but the yokels did more this
time, for they rushed forward, hoisted him on their should

Park.

1st Innings.
Hon. S. B. Thorny, c. Stare

Ormsby
Mr. A. M. Debenham. b. Ormsby
„ E. T. Gore, c. and b. Greer.
., H. P. Grayle, run out .
„ G. B. Farnham, st. de Storier, b

Greer
S. Sickles, l.b.w. b. Greer .
Rev. A. Tewkesley, c. Evesham

Ormsby

Mr. G. Grayle, not out

„ C. F. Mountjoy, b. Ormsby

Capt. T. W. Rawson, b. Ormsby

,, A. D. Heffernan, b. Greer

Byes, 3 j leg-byes, 2



2nd Innings.

dio

L 2

ders, and carried him round the ground. The shiny face
of the great hero, shinier than ever from the combined
effects of pride and perspiration, blushed modestly at the
honour thus paid him ; and the blushes deepened into a
rich maroon when the triumphal procession passed close by
Lizzie Rolfe. Simon saw her clapping her little hands
with all her might, and so delighted was he at this
flattering manifestation, that his head seemed to be going
round like a Catherine wheel, and the scene from thenceforth
became a perfect cyclone to his senses. Then, from
amidst the roar of the multitude, he heard the cheery voices
of his father • and mother shouting, " Well plyed, Simon
bor ! " Well done, my Slimy ! " " Nayow did yow ever
see such a be-ew-time player as moy boy, Simon ? " While
the great cricketer's brother bumpkins, roared out, " Seethe
conquered' hero comes ! " and " Real Britanyer," ina
stentorian twang, as they trotted him about.

Hector would have come in for the same honourable
chairing ;" but as it was rather hot, and he didn't relish
close contact with the "great unwashed' he had anticipated
their attentions, and sneaked off to the dressing-tent,
where he was just then in a transitory state, and unpresentable
to the public eye. So he escaped.

Thus the first match of the programme came to a satisfactory
conclusion, at any rate for one side ; and as two or
three wiseacres safety remarked afterwards : " Yow can't
orl win, yer 'now, can yer ? cos thin as does o'coorse stops
thin as doesn't, don't yer see ? " A powerful argument
obviously beyond dispute.

CHAPTER XV.

IN THE Billiard-room.

It needs no common art
To keep men patient when we make them smart.
Not wit alone, nor humour's self will do,
Without good nature, and much prudence too,
To judge aright of persons, place, and time ;
For taste decrees what's low, and what's sublime ;

******
Our wise forefathers, born in sober days,
Designed to fools the tart and witty phrase ;

* * * * •

But we, from high to low, all strive to sneer,
"Will all be wits, and not the livery wear."

Stillingfleet.

Tiny Gore — the rollicking young subaltern and the jolly
boy of the party (he was now two-and-twenty, but still
seemed a mere boy) — Tiny Gore, I say, had suddenly
changed into a pensive and taciturn youth, for Tiny was
in love — very much in love — and his brain was filled with
the wildest notions of romance, which made his susceptible
heart throb high with soul-stirring sentiments.

That first glimpse of Lizzie Rolfe's lovely face had done
it; and as he and Tommy Rawson were invited to stay a
few days over the cricket-week, Tiny found further opportunities
for studying the fair object of his admiration.

It was a curious fact noted by Tommy and others that
the jovial ensign had suddenly taken to botanizing in a
very diligent manner ; and although there were many more
promising spots in the park, he seemed to have concentrated
his search in the immediate neighbourhood of the keeper's
lodge. What particular flower he hoped to find there,
and whether he ever found it, history does not say; but
the persecuting Tommy suggested that he had found it,
and that it turned out to be non-transplanted after
all.

I'll tell you what it is, my boy," said Rawson, as they
were playing a game of pool in the billiard-room one
evening, " if you go on groping about the keeper's lodge
in that sort of a way, the old fellow '11 be taking you for a
coney or a squirrel, and pot you as sure as a gun."

"Don't be an ass" growled Gore, colouring ; " green on*
yellow ; your turn to play."

And then, like other slaughtered vermin, Tiny,"
laughed Heffernan, "your skin will be turned to account,
perhaps, for his fair daughter ! "

Oh you're aw-hiWy funny, you fellows," sneered Tiny,
in supreme contempt.

But you'd like that, wouldn't you, old chap ? " continued
Rawson ; " think how romantic it would be for her
lover's beautiful fur " (here he stroked the ensign's short
military crop the wrong way) "to go to trim a hat or a
jacket — "

Or make a muff of," added Heffernan; " that's more
to the purpose — "

Oh, I say, I say, I swear," protested Tiny, petulantly ;
I wish to goodness you fellows would shut up. There,
take that, you're dead," he cried, as he rammed Heffernan's
ball viciously into one of the pockets.

Can't I star ? "

If you like j Hector's taken the first, but we agreed to
have it unlimited."

Then I will. You've only one more life, I see,
Hi."

That's all, besides the one he's prepared to lay down
at the fair creature's feet," observed the incorrigible
Tommy.

Oh, I say, confound it, do start a new joke," appealed
Gore, in piteous tones.

"Yes, I really think we've had enough of this chaff; it
gets stale after a bit," interposed Hector, with an impatient
air (rather unusual for him), and feeling intensely
annoyed at the turn of the conversation. u When's your
leave up, Tommy ? " he added abruptly, determined to
change the subject.

Oh, not till next June; lots of time for the young 'unto
pop the question, square the parents, and get spliced
before then, or else carry the position by storm, make the
girl desert, and stow her away in a travelling trunk
like—"

What an old driveller you are ! " interrupted Hector,
can't you talk sensibly and let the wretched boy alone.
Tell me, have you seen anything of the Moberleys lately ?
I heard they'd come home."

So they have, I believe ; for whom should I meet
stumping down Piccadilly the other day but that old nigger
major — old Bonus — "

What, Bobby Bones ! " exclaimed Tiny.

Yes, and he mentioned it — said he'd come with them
in the same ship, and they've taken a little place at
Maidenhead, I think."

Deuce they have — Jove, I'll go and see them."

"I would if I were you, Tiny," said Rawson ; "capital
place to spend your honeymoon in — good-natured people,

always glad to encourage sport — think of Sandepoore, eh.
Hector?"

Hector did think of it, and again tried to change the
conversation.

"By the bye, how's the poor old giant?" he asked,
are they going to send him to the depot next season ?
It's a horrid shame if they don't, when he wants to get
home so badly."

Then why on earth don't the old lunatic apply for a
furlough, or else buy his discharge ? " remarked Tommy,
at any rate get some one else to do so ? Surely he has
some relations — "

What, Joe Corcoran take his discharge ! Joe give up
soldiering !" exclaimed HefFernan. " My dear fellow, you
don't know the man ; you might as well expect an old
monk of seventy to throw off his cowl."

Yes, I believe you might," said Tiny, making a brilliant
hazard and " potting " Heffernan again. " There you
are, Rajah ; trouble you for another life, please."

Has he got over the death of that little girl yet ? "
asked George Grayle, now putting away the newspaper
and joining in the conversation. "I remember the poor
beggar was awfully cut up about it at the time."

I should think he was," replied Gore, " and he mopes
a good deal still — either at that or being left behind. He'd
set his heart, you know, on going home with ' the Captains
as he told me, and I was afraid he'd take to drinking again
from disappointment."

But he hasn't ? "

"No, he hadn't when we left; the associations connected
with the place and his regular visits to the child's grave, I
suppose, kept him straight."

"Ah, he's a good, faithful sort of creature," observed
Hector; " the kind of m one might make anything of. I

shouldn't mind taking" him as a confidential valet, if I
wanted one."

Instead of me, eb, my boy ? " said George Grayle,
smiling. " And do you think he'd be such an acquisition
to the servants' hall as I should have been ? "

How do you mean, father ? "

Why, don't you remember what you wrote home about
me ? Your mother was showing me the letter only the
other day," and they laughed heartily at the reminiscence.


These latter remarks took the conversation into a channel
relative to George Grayle's romantic history and experiences
as a private soldier, but before long Tommy Rawson had
returned to the charge and entertained himself once more
at Tiny's expense (and Hector's too) by chaffing the
former unmercifully about Lizzie. Now all this was
amusing enough to the rest of the community, but Hector
grew more and more angry while the name of the girl he
loved so well was thus bandied about in idle gossip and
exposed, as it were, to ridicule. For some time, however,
he kept his temper and held his tongue, for Tommy was
quite irrepressible; but presently, when that officer went sofar
as to throw out certain questionable hints to Tiny, in
which HefTernan was inclined to support him, Hector
would stand it no longer, and fired up in such a way as
rather astonished everybody.

I think, gentlemen, you forget yourselves," said he,
with flashing eyes and crimson cheek, addressing both
Rawson and HefTernan ; " you're not aware, perhaps, that
you are speaking of one of the best and most virtuous
women on the face of the earth — that I'll vouch for,
though she is only a gamekeeper's daughter — and if you
wish me to consider you gentlemen, and my friends, you'll
hold your tongues about her."

Hoity toity, what's the matter now ? " exclaimed
Rawson, in surprise.

Steady, Hec, old man' said Heffernan, in a pacifying
way; "don't go and excite yourself about nothing'' adding",
in a lower tone, u what can it matter to you now ? "

It matters a great deal to me, sir ? " retorted Hector,
hotly. " I tell you not a slighting word shall be breathed
against that woman in my hearing by any man living
! »

Oh, hang it all, my dear fellow, if it comes to that,"
replied Tommy, bridling up at Hector's defiant tone, " I
don't wish to say anything offensive, considering I'm a
guest here and all, but pray don't imagine I'm to be intimidated
by—"

:< Who wants to intimidate you ? — "

Well, and who wants to say anything against the girl ? "
interrupted Tommy, his jolly face suddenly relaxing into a
broad grin. " Why should I — especially since it seems to
annoy you ? "

Then let us drop the subject' was Hector's rather
sulky rejoinder.

"W T with all my heart. Tiny, go on playing and
hold your tongue, do, you j T young rascal, it's all your
fault ! "

Here the matter might have ended, but that Heffernan
somewhat injudiciously murmured to Hector afterwards as
they stood apart.

I say, old boy, pray excuse my saying so, but I hardly
think it's wise of you, under all circumstances, to act the
champion to that girl in this way."

Why not ? Under any circumstances I wouldn't hear
her spoken of in a disrespectful manner ; still less will I do
so after what has passed between us, and which I needn't
remind you of."

Yes, that's all very well, but what would Mrs. Vickers
think if she heard — ? "

I don't care a jot what Mrs. Vickers thinks or you
either. You've said quite enough ; " and with that,
Hector, who happened to be out of the game, put up his
cue and left the billiard-room in a huff.

Heffernan was naturally rather taken aback at this sudden
irascibility on the part of his young friend, whom he
had hitherto found so docile and amenable to reason. He
knew nothing, of course, of the explanation which had been
exchanged meanwhile between these romantic lovers, and
wondered at such a mutinous turn in the disposition of
Telemachus. He little dreamt how the youth's confidence
in his Mentor had been rudely shaken, for Hector strongly
suspected now that Heffernan had been the prime mover in
the conspiracy against him and his first love, and blamed
him accordingly.

As for the conspirator, he saw very plainly that some
new mischief was brewing, and consequently was all on
thorns until he could smooth the ruffled spirit and take
steps to hurry matters on towards the desirable climax.

CHAPTER XVI.

MORAL CO WA Beds.

A coward in the field is like a wise man's fool : his heart is at his
mouth, and he doth not know what he does profess : but a coward in
his faith is like a fool in his wisdom ; his mouth is in his heart, and
he dares not profess what he does know."

Warwick.

The following* morning Tiny Gore mentioned casually
to Georgie about Hector's display of temper overnight,
but merely referred to it as an uncommon occurrence, and
wondered how it was to be accounted for.

u You see, nothing exactly was said against the girl that
I heard' observed Tiny, " merely a lot of idiotic chaff —
you know what Tommy Rawson is — and by Jove, you
should just have seen how Hector flared up. He couldn't
have been more riled if he'd been in love with her himself,
and going to marry her tomorrow."

Georgie Vickers listened to Tiny's remarks with apparent
composure ; but there was a strange feeling at her heart
while he spoke, that prompted her to accept the information
as a danger signal not to be ignored.

And what did he say, Tiny ? " she asked calmly.

Oh, I can ; t remember exactly ; a lot of bombastic bosh
about not allowing" her name to be mentioned at all if we

wished to be considered gentlemen, and that sort of thing,
don't you know ? "

Rather hard lines on you, Tiny, wasn't it ? "

Why on me particularly ? "

Because they say you're in love with this wonderful
beauty ; and if so, of course you like to talk of her and — "

Well, 1 don't know — essay I am ; anyhow I believe he
is." This was added aside, but it did not escape Georgie.

That's a nice thing for me to hear, I must say," she
observed, " and what makes you think he is, Tiny ? '

Well, you know, it's only what people say, and that the
girl was awful spoons on him at one time, and is now, no
doubt."

A strong suspicion identical with the hint thus thrown
out had crossed Georgie's mind more than once of late,
and this flippant little talk with Tiny Gore now made her
reflect very seriously on the subject. It so happened that
the meeting between Hector and Lizzie in the walks had
been witnessed by a third person after all, and in due time
the circumstance reached Georgia's ears. This was through
a gossiping maid who had it from the footman, who had
it from the coachman, who had it from one of the under-gardeners,
the original source of the information, who
chanced to catch sight of the lovers as he was passing over
the bridge to the Hall.

The abigail's gratuitous piece of intelligence had roused
Georgie's jealousy for the moment, but she speedily dismissed
it from her mind, and even if she believed the report,
was resolved to say nothing about it to Hector, content to
suppose that such meeting between him and the keeper's
daughter was purely accidental, which indeed it was.

But Tiny Gore's casual disclosure respecting \\ev fiance's
uncalled for anger and interference the previous night had
reawakened the feeling more strongly in her breast, and she

considered it was only due to herself to tax Hector with
what she had heard, and beg him to clear up any misunderstanding.
For some little time she had noticed — or fancied
that she did so — a certain constraint in his manner towards
her 5 and this, added to other reasons, made her the more
solicitous to arrive at the truth. From her own knowledge
of his character, Georgie knew she would be treading on
very delicate ground by raising the question as to the real
state of his heart ; nevertheless, she went boldly at her self-imposed
task on the first opportunity.

In her usual winning manner she drew him off after
luncheon for a tete-astute stroll in the grounds, and chatting
away vivaciously at first on divers irrelevant matters, gave
no hint of the momentous words which were on the tip of
that lively little tongue. When at length she spoke them,
he was fairly astounded, and rather at a loss for an honest
reply.

Hector Grayle was just as much of a moral coward as his
sister Agnes, and although he was now convinced that
Georgie held a very secondary place in his affections — if,
indeed, she held any at all, seeing that his well-tried love
for Lizzie filled his heart to the exclusion of other sentiments
— he had not the face to confess it. It was a duty
he owed both to himself and his betrothed, but especially
to her, yet he failed in its performance, simply from that
fatal weakness which is such a common flaw in many an
excellent character. He had chosen his lot, he reasoned
with himself regretfully, and must abide by it, albeit he
saw here a loop-hole for escape, by appealing to Georgia's
generosity, since she seemed inclined to meet him half way.
But if he was a moral coward, Hector was also a man of
honour, and did not consider he had any right to withdraw
from his engagement unless she took the initiative and
offered to release him of her own accord. He was not one of

those vain, cold-blooded coxcombs, who look upon women's
hearts as legitimate toys to be broken and discarded at
pleasure ; on the contrary, he had the profoundest respect
for a woman at all times, and his noble, manly instincts
revolted at the idea of wounding the feelings of one whom
he had pledged to make his wife. Therefore, however
much he now yearned to be free, not for the world would
he let her think so, or make that appeal for freedom which
Georgie half anticipated, and, had he only known it, might
have granted with less reluctance than he supposed.

It was his first business to explain away the awkward
fact of having been seen in Lizzie Rolfe's company, and he
avowed, as he conscientiously could, that such interview with
her had arisen out of a mere accident.

You surely don't suppose, Georgie/' said he, " that I
would act so dishonourably as to carry on another love affair
in the face of my engagement to you ? I confess I did care
for the girl once, very much indeed — M was it a sigh she heard
as he said this, or only her suspicious fancy ? — " and a pretty
fuss everybody made about it ; but that's at an end now,
therefore pray let us never speak on the subject again'

Then be it so, Hector"' she replied ; " I'm sure I wish
to place all confidence in you, but — "

But ! there should be no but in the case," he interrupted.
There may be much virtue in an if, but that significant
little word but at once betrays a /^//'confidence which ought
never to exist between two people situated as we are.
Come, you may trust me, Georgie, as I have often told you ;
so, in the language of the nursery, let us kiss and be friends
and say no more about it," and with that they exchanged a
reconciliatory kiss and thus glossed over matters for a time.

Now, all this was, in a measure, very unsatisfactory, for
Georgie wanted to say a great deal more, and had it in her
heart to put the pointed question, then and there, as to

whether he did or did not love her now so tenderly and
entirely as he once professed. Had she pressed it, she
would doubtless have arrived at the truth without further
delay, but neither had she the pluck to ask it, nor he to
own it.

Georgie, likewise, failed in moral courage; so they both
continued to grope on in darkness, or uncertain light, until
they should stumble painfully across the half seen obstacle
which loomed in their path, thus evincing that deplorable
want of mutual confidence which proves too often the
stumbling-block to trip up many a foolish pair who set out
together on a blindfold pilgrimage, and who, if they ever
reach the hymeneal goal, only do so to be rudely brought
to their senses when it is too late to retrace their steps.

Considering that "of all the agonies in life that which
is most poignant and harrowing," — as Bulwer Lytton
points out — "that which for the time annihilates reason,
and leaves, our whole organization one lacerated, mangled
heart, is the conviction that we have been deceived where
we placed all the trust of love," it is passing strange how
many wilful and infatuated beings thrust their heads into
the noose, and obstinately keep them there till they are
strangled, even when the conviction has been thrust upon
them that their love-dream is but a cruel illusion after all.

But Georgie's was a case that had grown out of compulsion,
and, as already hinted, she would have accepted
her liberty at Hector's hands, and have given him his, had
he so willed it, but that he did not seem to desire such an
arrangement, and had indignantly refuted any imputation
against his loyalty. She therefore allowed the position of
affairs to remain unaltered; for it went against her to snap
the tie violently with her own hands, especially as she did
care for him, however ephemeral his affection for her might
prove. This fact was calculated to make her the more

unhappy in her engagement, and the only consolation she
could take was in a hope that this suspicion of lukewarmness
might pass away with time.

Poor little woman ! she seemed destined never to reach
that longed-for haven of rest: which had lately seemed so
near ; and the gloomy forebodings that now forced themselves
upon her produced a painful retrospect in her mind.
She could not help thinking that, with the painful secret
which overhung her life, it was ordained she should never
be blessed, nor prosper in her undertakings. Then the hot
tears welled up into her eyes as she thought of her poor
little darling, whose mournful death had seemed almost an
atonement for the past. Soon these sorrowful thoughts
took the form of a reproach, as though, by her scheming
conduct in following up Hector Grayle to Fyzabad, she
felt in a way responsible for the dire calamity that ensued.
Bewildering indeed were such meditations, not to say unjust
to herself; and while Georgie allowed them to take
possession of her they set her brain in a whirl. Indeed, she
became so agitated as to be glad to make her escape to
her own room, where she indulged in a good cry ; and
thinking she was the most miserable creature in the world,
hid her face in the pillow and sobbed herself into a soothing
doze.

vol. in.

CHAPTER XVII.

FOOTPRINTS OF THE CLOVEN HOOF.

When haughty guilt exults with impious joy,
Mistake shall blast, or accident destroy ;
Weak man with erring rage may throw the dart,
But Heaven shall guide it to the guilty heart."

Johnson.

Patched-up love-quarrels no more guarantee future faith
than patched-up treaties permanent peace. The disturbing'
element, as in a volcanic centre, only subsides for a time, to
break out again, suddenly and fitfully, at some hidden and
unsuspected provocation.

Notwithstanding that Georgie Vickers and Hector Grayle
had smoothed over the matter by a sort of mutual propitiation,
and so suppressed for the moment the first threatened
eruption, there gradually developed, day by day, a palpable
coolness on both sides. This originated from that vague
distrust which, be it never so slight, if once it forms the
around for amant ircp, is as difficult to uproot as the
interminable twitch-grass itself. Of course such distrust
lay chiefly with Georgie ; but while she harboured secret
doubts of Hector, he instinctively felt this lack of confidence,
so, in turn, doubted her for doubting him. Thus the present

situation was by no means promising, and bid fair to
grow from bad to worse rather than improve.

Some time had elapsed since the cricket week, and
both Rawson and Gore had quitted the hospitable roof
of Barring-tree Hall. Nothing at present had come
of the latter's ardent admiration for Lizzie Rolfe, for
although he summoned up pluck to intercept her as
she was returning to the lodge one morning, and began
to open his heart in a very shy and roundabout
speech, her manner was anything but encouraging,
and Tiny had no alternative but to consider himself
snubbed. However, since he had been invited to pay
another visit to the Grayles at no distant date, he
looked forward to renewing his addresses, and hoped for
better luck next time.

"That's a foreign letter, from India, isn't it, Georgie V
inquired Agnes at breakfast one morning (soon after Tiny
Gore's departure) as the contents of the post-bag were
distributed.

Yes, it's from poor old Joe Corcoran, whom you've often
heard us speak of."

Ah, I haven't seen a letter from him for some time,"
observed Heffernan, pricking up his ears immediately.
What does he say for himself V

Well, he seems rather depressed, poor fellow," replied
Georgie, with a peculiar look at Heffernan, " and most
anxious to come home, which he still feels uncertain about.
There, you can read it if you wish," she added, passing the
letter across the table to him, rt though the contents will
probably only bore you. I don't suppose his bemoaning
will excite your sympathy very much.' She laid the
slightest stress on the pronoun, only perceptible to
him.

"Eh, why not?" he rejoined, glancing at her quickly
M Z

in surprise ; " why not ? Nobody could be more interested
in the faithful fellow than I am."

Indeed ! then you will find plenty there to rouse your

pity."

With that she turned towards the Squire, and changed
the subject. Heffernan meanwhile waded through Joe's
lengthy and scarcely legible scrawl with much patience and
perseverance. This occupied a considerable time, for the
letter was read to a tea-sipping and toast-munching accompaniment,
and when he had concluded, most of the party
had finished breakfast and left the table.

Thanks," said he afterwards, returning the letter to
Georgie as he met her on the steps by the front door ; " it's
rather growls, isn't it ?"

Have you read it all ?" she asked, with another strange
look in her grey eyes which he couldn't quite understand.

Every word. Poor old Joe ! we must really see what
can be done for him by — by a little private interest."

Whose private interest ? yours?"

There was palpable sarcasm in the question, which did
not escape him.

Of course, what little I have."

I should think he'd get on almost as well without."

What d'you mean ? You're pleased to be rather
mysterious this morning, Mrs. Yickers." They were
now strolling together across the lawn while he prepared
for his morning smoke. " Perhaps you'll explain yourself."


I've nothing to explain that I'm aware of."

Pardon me, I think you have. I want to know why
you insinuated at breakfast that Joe Corcoran's affairs were
of no interest to me."

I certainly never meant to insinuate that, for I think

And I should naturally be only too glad if I could do
him a good turn."

No doubt, by keeping him out in India a little while
longer if possible."

I don't understand you. Be hanged if you're not the
most aggravating woman at times I ever met. What are
you driving at ?"

Fm not driving at anything, as you call it ; I'm simply
stating what I believe to be a fact."

Psha ! how could you fancy such an absurdity?" he
answered, gnawing at his moustache with vexation, for her
shrewd manner puzzled him not a little.

I repeat, what on earth put such an idea into your
head?"

Well, to tell you the truth, I argue partly from inference
and partly from information." she returned, sententiously.
" You see, you and I know something of each
other, Captain Heffernan — "

"Yes, yes," he interrupted; "but — ah! here come
some of the others ; let's go down that path, will you ?
There's a peculiarity about all this that I should like to
understand, aDd I must have it out with you at
once."

u Oh, there's nothing particular to have out, that I'm
aware of. I merely suspect that you've not acted a very
fair nor kind part towards Joe Corcoran, that's all."

In what way not fair nor kind?"

Well, of course I can't divine what scheme you may
have at present in your calculating brain, but I know you
well enough to be sure that you don't go out of your way
to take such and such measures without some ulterior object,
whatever it may be."

Why should you always be so suspicious, I wonder ?"

I'm not, of most people ; but I'll tell you why I am in

this instance. You remember how much Joe wanted to
come home with us last year ? "

Yes, but he didn't want to take his discharge, for I
asked him particularly."

I daresay he didn't, but — "

And he couldn't get away from the regiment without."


Couldn't he ? I know better. His being sent to the
depot might have been arranged easily enough, as I happen
to have heard."

How can you say so ? I tell you it couldn't. I did
my best — "

Excuse me. I don't wish to contradict you, but I
rather doubt that."

Thank you. You're candid, I must confess."

Perhaps I am. All I know is, that Joe and I begged
hard of you, as captain of his company, to do everything
you could for him ; and we trusted that }^ou would make
some effort, instead of which — "

And so I did."

Who is to be believed then, you or Mr. Gore ?"

And pray what had Mr. Gore to say about it ?"

He simply mentioned the matter to me casually when
he was staying here for the cricket, and while we were
talking over Indian reminiscences one day ; he said he didn't
believe you'd moved a finger about Joe's coming to England,
for all you declared to the contrary."

I'm much obliged to you both, I'm sure. You wish
to make me out a downright liar then ?"

You'd better have that point out with him, or the
adjutant of the regiment, not me ; I wont question your
veracity on my own responsibility."

Come, Georgie, don't try to be so clever and humorous,
but just tell me, what did young Gore say ?"

I'll trouble yon to drop my Christian name, Captain
HefFernan, once for all."

"Very well, very well; don't excite yourself. I merely
adopted the privilege of a future relation, that's all; however,
I won't forget again. Now please go on ; tell me all
about it"

There's very little to tell. Mr. Gore only remarked
that he happened to be talking about certain matters to
Mr. Summers, the adjutant, some time after we left Fyzabad,
and on mentioning Joe Corcoran and the colonel's
refusal to send him to the depot, Mr. Summers declared he
remembered nothing about it, and that he didn't believe
the colonel had ever been asked — "

Ridiculous ! how could he say that?"

In fact, so far from it, he recollected distinctly the
colour-sergeant of Joe's company — that is, your company —
stating at orderly-room that they were rather short of corporals
just then, and that you, as the captain, wanted to recommend
Joe for the lance stripe, or something of that sort."

Yes, quite correct, so 1 did. I wished to take him
home as a lance corporal for one particular reason, namely,
to please his mother ; she's an old friend of mine, you
know."

"I'm aware of that," replied Georgie, dryly; "but it's
rather strange that Mr. Summers should remember one incident
and not another; I mean with regard to your intercession
for Joe Corcoran, and the request that he might be
sent home with drafts. Xow it also happened the adjutant
particularly mentioned to Mr. Gore that the man's transfer
to the depot could easily have been arranged last cold
weather; but for some regimental reasons, which I didn't
quite catch, it would be impracticable this year. That's
merely the gist of what I heard."

Una — well, I can only assure you, Mrs. Vickers," said

Heffernan, with calm candour, "you're labouring" under
an extraordinary delusion, and that young scatterbrained
Tiny has entirely misrepresented facts, simply
for the sake of talking, I suppose'

(i Then, if so, it's a pity, because I fear it may have made
mischief — "

How ? why do you think so ? " asked Heffernan,
anxiously.

That is to "say, it may have created rather a false impression
in Mrs. Corcoran's mind about you, as her professed
friend, and ex captain of her son's company'

Do you mean to say she's heard this report, then ? " he
exclaimed, evidently alarmed.

In a certain way she has, I'm afraid. I'll tell you how
it was. Of course, Mrs. Corcoran and I have often had a
talk about Joe, as he was in our service before — before —
you remember."

Yes, yes — pray go on."

"Well, the last time I met her was at Crutch Hut, the
day after Mr. Gore spoke of this to me — "

"Oh, then you told her?"

I assure you I had no intention to make any mischief
when I did so. We fell into conversation, and I said something
about it accidentally, when she at once followed up
the subject, and somehow or other wormed it all out."

The devil she did ! " exclaimed Heffernan, with flashing
eyes and a dark scowl at Georgie. " You utter fool ! I
could strangle you for this."

The words hissed from his lips, and, clenching his fists,
he stamped his foot furiously in impotent rage, as though
he would have crushed her. The little woman shrank in
terror from his menacing attitude, and cried in unfeigned
surprise, —

Good gracious ! what is the matter, Captain Heffernan ?

Are you mad ? " Then, indignantly, " How dare you speak
to me in this threatening manner, sir ? "

The savage outburst was over in a minute ; and quickly
remembering himself, HefFernan controlled his anger with
a violent effort, as he replied, —

Forgive me, Mrs. Vickers — T — I believe I am mad ; I
hardly knew what I said. But, as I daresay you can understand,
it distressed me beyond measure to hear that my
poor old confidential friend, who nursed me as a child, and
whose faithful regard and esteem I so value, should have
had her mind poisoned against me in this way. However,
of course I ought not to blame you so much as those ,
young Gore and Summers. Really I'm very
sorry ; will you accept my apology ? M

He held out his hand, which she accepted, after some
hesitation, and there was now a softened appealing look in
his face, which underwent such marvellous metamorphoses at
will. He had been betrayed into a dangerous ebullition of
feeling, and was anxious to retrieve the error at once, therefore
cared not how he humbled himself by abject apology,
so that he removed the impression of absolute fear.

I'm afraid you are too much vexed with me at this
moment," he said, " to continue our conversation ; but I
had something to say to you irrespective of this matter,
and—"

Oh, I bear no malice, Captain HefFernan/'' she answered
lightly, with a good-natured laugh, " although you
did rather electrify me, I confess. However, I'm glad to see
his Satanic majesty doesn't take possession of you for very
long."

Pray don't revert to it. Fm heartily ashamed of myself
— can't say more, can I ? And you forgive me ? That's
all right then. Now let us go and have a quiet chat somewhere
without fear of being disturbed, which we are certain

to be here. There's somebody coming this way even now.
What do you say to a row on the water?"

What ! go out with you alone in a boat, Captain Heft
? " she exclaimed jokingly, in pretended alarm. " I
hardly think that would be very safe, would it ? You might
upset me, by accident''

No fear of that, I hope' he rejoined, with a smile.

Or perhaps do it on purpose' she continued, still
laughingly, "for I know you don't love me'

Come, come, let us cease this silly trifling ; you're well
aware I have no feeling of revenge nor hatred against you
now; indeed, on the contrary, I value your friendship
more than you fancy."

This was true enough, if the word co-operation be substituted
for friendship ; but of course Georgie was sublimely
ignorant how important to his interests was her impending
marriage. She much wanted to speak to him concerning
her engagement, and since he had been instrumental in
bringing it about, desired to consult him as to the best
step to be taken in the doubt and perplexity which
preyed upon her happiness. She had no sufficient reason
to suspect how biassed his opinion must necessarily be.

They now wended their way towards the boat-house,
and in a few minutes Heffernan had sheered off, and was
rowing leisurely up the lake. Georgie then touched on the
subject uppermost in her mind, and confessed to him, what
he already suspected, regarding the growing estrangement
between her and Hector. Heffernan at once replied that
this was the mischievous result of an over-protracted engagement,
which he considered to be a great mistake at all
times, adding, that he could speak feelingly from his own
experience.

I care too much for Agnes Grayle," said he, " to urge
her against her inclination, or I would never have tolerated

our marriage being" put off for such an unconscionable time.
But, as you know, it's definitely fixed now for the first week
in December; and if yours with Hector doesn't take place
before then, why not have it the same day, as previously
arranged ? As it is, it's far too long hence, in my opinion,
and if I were you I'd fix an earlier date; it's for your
decision."

As a matter of form it may be ; but that's not exactly
the point," answered Georgie. " I* might have followed
such advice a few months ago, but at the present moment
I naturally hesitate. Besides, I consider the refining of the
wedding after their bereavement — "

Bereavement ! sink the idea — good riddance, you
mean."

I say the refining of the day ought to rest more with
Hector Grayle and his family than with me ; and as neither
he nor they seem to be in a hurry about it, it would be undignified
on my part to press the matter. More than this,
Captain Heffernan ; I tell you plainly I don't believe he
cares one atom for me now, if he ever did, and is still madly
in love with that girl, Lizzie Rolfe — "

Tush ! nonsense ! Why should you think so ? "

For very good reasons ; and so do you, I'm pretty sure.
You remember that night in the billiard-room, when he flew
out in such a rage about her ? And not very long ago, as
you've also heard, he was seen with her alone in those walks ;
whether by accident, as he protested, or design, as I
suspect, the fact remains the same."

But he's explained that little affair, hasn't he ? I really
can't see why you should attach any importance to it."

I do, nevertheless," she replied thoughtfully, and trailing
her fingers idly through the clear cool water as they
glided along.

Take care, please, you're running us into the bank,"

he observed — for Georgie, with preoccupied mind, became
erratic in her steering.

Oh, I beg pardon ; " and she pulled the left rudder-string
sharply, taking a new direction almost at right
angles.

There, that's better' said he, as she gradually got the
boat's head straight again. " Now, as I was saying, you
mustn't be too exacting, nor think too seriously of these
little vagaries ; you know — "

I'm obliged to think seriously of my own happiness,
Captain Heffernan," she returned quietly ; " and as for
being exacting, I tell you candidly, unless I'm convinced that
that man does love me, which I strongly doubt, nothing on
earth shall induce me to marry him."

Georgie spoke in a very determined manner, and Heffer-nan
became much concerned at this new and unfavourable
state of things. For some time he reasoned in his softest
and most persuasive tones, deprecating such folly and madness
on her part as to dream of throwing up so advantageous
a marriage merely for the sake of a little mawkish
sentiment. But all his arguments failed to shake her purpose;
so, like the unscrupulous but polished ruffian that he
was, he exchanged at once the olive branch for the devil's
trident, and brought cowardly threats once more to bear
upon her obstinate spirit. She had got completely out of
his hand, it appeared ; but if he thought to conquer her now
by coercive means he was mistaken.

Captain Heffernan," said she, in an undisturbed manner,
in reply to his venomous taunts, " you are good
enough to be very honest and straightforward with me "
(this was in a tone the essence of bitter sarcasm), "and I
will be equally so with you. Once, when you considerately
promised to publish to the world a certain episode of my
life, I threw myself on your mercy for the sake of my child.

God has since taken the little innocent one from me.
Inherited disgrace and cruel contumely cannot affect her
now, and I no longer fear you for myself. If you think
it is in your power to ruin me, and you wish to do so — I
will not deign to ask you to stay your hand. But from
this moment you must consider me a free agent, to act as T
think proper in my own affairs, independent of the powerful
influence you once held over me. I fancy we are both
agreed there is no love lost between us, and experience
has taught me what I may expect at your hands. But do
your worst, Fm no more afraid of you now than of that
little swallow overhead''

Such a demoniacal look came into Heffernan's face
while she spoke, that her feelings for the moment belied
her words. He glared at her with a dark look of baffled
malice, and Georgie began to regret her temerity in having
ventured out in the boat with him thus confidingly. She
glanced uneasily at the distance which separated them from
the bank, and on looking around at once realized the
imagined danger of her position. They were at the farthest
end of the lake from the Hall, on the darkest and deepest
part, screened from view by large trees, and not another
soul near at hand. No wonder Georgie felt uncomfortable.
She could scarcely repress a scream as she again met his
gaze, and saw, fixed upon her, her old enemy's pitiless eyes,
gleaming with the passion that raged within him. Presently
he deliberately drew the oars in through the rowlocks,
and without speaking, rose up, stepped over the
intervening seat, and moved towards her.

Good heavens ! what is he going to do ? " she faltered ;
then, summoning up all her courage, said, " Will you kindly
turn back now, Captain Heffernan, or put me ashore here ?
I think I should like to get out, please."

Whatever was his first impulse, he seemed to restrain

himself, and merely observed coldly, " Certainly, with
pleasure, if you wish it. May I trouble you for my coat ? "

It was lying" in the stern of the boat beside her, and he
added this as if his suddenly getting up and making
towards her had merely been to reach it. Without another
word he now reseated himself, to Georgie's intense relief,
and paddled slowly towards the nearest landing-point.
When he reached it he rose to help her out of the boat, and
not till then did he speak again.

Georgie Temple, or Georgie Vickers, whichever you
please to call yourself" he murmured in a hoarse, hollow
tone, as she thankfully sprang on to terra Firma, " you're
a far greater fool than I even thought you ; and you've
proved it to-day, by trying to exasperate me in this manner.
But there's a limit to every one's patience. You've
reached mine at last ; so if you don't hang out the flag of
truce, and that precious soon, I promise you you'll rue it
bitterly, for all your brave boasting."

His threats were mere idle words now, as he well knew ;
nevertheless, since she defied he threatened, in order to
keep up an appearance of power. Georgie vouchsafed no
reply, but turning away with a scornful smile, walked
hurriedly off in the direction of the Hall.

When they met again, later, in the domestic circle, neither
gave the smallest indication of the fierce duel in which they
had so lately been engaged, and by mutual consent, apparently,
treated each other as if nothing of the kind had
happened. In short, the policy of both was somewhat
similar; Georgie, without troubling herself actually to
make friends, or show the flag of truce, as he prescribed
(unless ignoring the quarrel was to do so), did not care to
force the fighting, for very good reasons ; on the other
hand, though she knew nothing of his secret, as he did of
hers, Heffernan did not deem it advisable to drive her to

extremities, and only hoped that iu a little while affairs
might take a more favourable turn.

^ ™ *P ^

The next morning Heffernan received a letter from his
old nurse. His mind had been exercised a good deal since
the previous day with unpleasant reflections, the foremost
being with regard to his scurvy conduct to poor Joe,
which had evidently been suspected, and the suspicion
conveyed to Mrs. Corcoran. This accounted for a marked
coolness in her manner towards him, he thought, when she
left for Mentland some weeks before.

But if the old woman did not then allude to the subject,
she did so now (in her letter) rather strongly, and altogether
couched it in a tone varying between a whine and a growl.
She represented that she was ill in bed, and desired to see Mr.
Albert at once, if he would be good enough to run down
for that purpose ; and wound up with a broad hint that
she was much disappointed in his behaviour, and thought
he would have treated her better, and Joe too — with suchlike
reproaches. Heffernan's guilty conscience told him
how richly he deserved all this ; and he dreaded an interview
with his confederate, until he had endeavoured
to smooth the way bv a written explanation. According] v
he penned a letter, more ingenious than ingenuous, and
pleaded a pressing engagement as an excuse for writing,
instead of going to see her at present.

A few days elapsed and a telegram arrived. This was
handed to Heffernan in the presence of Grumpy Grayle
and other members of the family. He opened it unsuspectingly,
but turned deadly pale as his eye ran over the
contents ; nor did his violent agitation escape notice.

Halloa, Captain ! what's the matter ? ') inquired
Grumpy. " Why, you look pea-green. Oh, I see — ■
telegram. Beg pardon. No bad news, I hope ? "

Ye-es, I'm sorry to say it is. Poor old Mrs. Corcoran
is — "

11 Eh, what ? Not dead, I hope ? »

No. I hope not ; but she's in a bad way, Fm afraid,
from this message. I must leave by the next train, and
run down to see her immediately.-'''

CHAPTER XVIII.

ff WHEN thieves fall out — "

Such is the fate of guilt, to make slaves tools,
Aud then to make 'em masters — by our secrets."

Hazard.
Late, too late, I find
Xor faith, nor gratitude, nor friendly trust ;
Xo force of obligations can subsist
Between the guilty." Brooke.

Outside, bright sunshine, irradiating" a fair, mellow landscape
; the lively twitter of happy birds, and the merry
voices of the busy hop-pickers in the surrounding gardens.
Inside, a gloomy, but scrupulously clean, little bed-chamber,
with a small diamond-paned window, having a chintz curtain
drawn across it to keep out the dazzling light ; in the
shadowy corners, plain angular furniture, unpretentious
and scanty ; and predominant, a broad low bed with a patchwork
quilt, on which bed reposes the form of an aged
invalid.

Such is the contrast in the picture without and within
the walls of the little cottage in Kent to which we must
now direct our attention.

Hannah Corcoran had taken to her bed for nearly a
week, and in that brief period a marvellous change had
come over the dark, stern features, which had ever lent an

VOL. III. N

almost repellant aspect to her face. But this austere look
had now given place to a worn and troubled expression,
haggard from sickness and mental dejection, yet softened
withal by the influence of a contrite spirit which had at
length obtained supremacy.

At this moment Mrs. Corcoran was alone in the little
apartment. She had awoke from an uneasy slumber, but
appeared unrested and restless, and looked with a querulous,
inquiring glance around the room, as if expecting to find
somebody by her bedside. Seeing no one, she lay still fora
few minutes, and then with a deep tremulous sigh, betokening
impatience as well as languid suffering, she raised
herself slightly in bed, adjusted her spectacles, and fumbling
under her pillow, took from beneath it some folded manuscript.
This she opened slowly and deliberately, and began
to peruse the close, cramped writing — her own — though
not without difficulty in that subdued light. Before she
had read many lines, her sister-in-law, Mrs. Sickles, entered
the room on tip-toe, and finding Mrs. Corcoran thus
occupied, said, —

Ah, my dear, Fm glad to see you're better. I didn't
'now you was awake, and I hadn't left yer long. That's
wonderful warm to-day," she added, mopping her face.
'On't yer have a little colin' drink nayow ? "

No, thank you, I'm not thirsty," replied Mrs. Corcoran,
putting the paper away and reclining her head
again. " But hasn't he come yet, Jenny ? "

No, we expect' him almost directly though ; next trine,
very like. Sam's gone up to the styshun to meet 'urn."

And isn't Simon coming down to see me ? "

Yes, my dear, he's a coming' ; but he's so wonderful
busy in the har-r-vest just nayow, don't yow see ; and
Sam and he can't both be aye together yer 'now. But
don't vow be afeard, we 'on't leave yer."

Hark ! don't I hear steps ? Just look and see if it's
Mr. Albert."

u Is, I believe that is," said Mrs. Sickles, crossing" to
the window, and peeping out from behind the curtain.
Ah, yis, you're right, here's the Cap'un sure enough,
along 0' Sam. Nayow yow want to see 'um all by herself
as usual, don't yer, moy dear ? "

Mrs. Corcoran nodded.

So yow shall thin ; " and in a few minutes Albert
Heffernan and his old nurse were left alone together in the
sick-chamber.

A long and ominous silence ensued, during which the
woman fixed her dark, piercing eyes upon him, as he stood
beside the humble bed, with a searching look, as though
she would penetrate his very soul.

Heffernan almost quailed beneath Mrs. Corcoran's
severe scrutiny, and the harsh expression seemed for the
time to have returned to her face.

I am really most distressed to find you like this,
Hannah," said he presently, with much solicitude; "you're
not feeling any worse to-day, I hope ? "

"No— no, I think not."

I'm glad to hear that, you'll soon be up aud about
again."

Xo, I shan't, but I feel just strong enough to have
it out with you, that's all, and — and I was afraid I
shouldn't—"

iC What is it you wish to say to me, Hannah ? " he inquired,
in a gentle voice, for she remained silent for several
minutes.

I'll tell you directly. Why didn't you come at first ?
But never mind that now — I'll tell you what I have to say
directly."

After this reply, given in a cold, abrupt tone, she sun
2

jested him to further suspense by another long pause,
during which he sat patiently beside the bed, and mechanically
counted the patches on the quilt, lengthways and
crossways, the while he prepared himself for the
ordeal.

Well now, Mr. Albert' said the woman at length, her
voice growing stronger and sterner as she proceeded. " I
haven't a great deal to say, and I shan't make it longer
than I can help, for talking pains me ; but say it I must
and will, and have done with it. Look here, I've known
you ever since you was a babe — from the first moment
you was born, and till now I've always thought you
was a real good friend, and a honest man into the bargain
them, honest, that is, to me"

"And I hope you may never have reason to doubt it,
Hannah."

You too have known me all your life," she continued,
not heeding his remark; " and you've always found you
could trust me, haven't you ? "

I have indeed ; you have proved yourself ever faithful
and true."

11 1 think I have — up to this ; and how do you repay me
tor my — my fidelity?" she cried, with flashing eyes, and
raising her voice suddenly. " What's my reward now for all
I've done for you ? Have you acted fair and honest to me
and mine in the last twelvemonth ? Answer me that, Mr.
Albert."

I can safely declare that I have," he replied
promptly.

You can ! you will ? Mind what you're saying."
Here she took small Bible from the table beside her, and
handed it to him. *' Now then, will you kiss that Bible to
what I'm going to ask you ? "

Really, my dear Hannah, this is carrying matters a

little too far. Can't you believe my word without all
that ? "

Then you won't kiss it ? I thought not."

I don't know yet what you wish to ask me""

Simply this : Did you — on your solemn oath and
word of honour as a gentleman., mind — did you or did
you not do your utmost in the interests of my son Joey, to
bring him home with you last winter, as you represented
both to him and me ? "

How many times am I to repeat, that I did."

It's very well to say that, but you won't take your
oath to it, nor kiss that book."

Hang it all, Hannah, I'm not on a co art-martial or ina
witness-box."

You're not. "Well, never mind ; I knew you
wouldn't," she said, laying down the Bible, and adding, ina
lower tone, "but having already perjured yourself once
in your life (and got me to do the same for your
sake), I shouldn't have thought you'd have such
scruples."

I wrote and explained the whole matter, in reply to
your letter," he resumed, pretending not to hear this last
remark, albeit he winced, and turned a shade paler, when
she made it.

And I didn't believe a word of it, so I tell you. Neither
Mrs. Tickers nor that young officer had any object in
telling me a lie, while you had in self-defence."

Thanks, you're very complimentary; but pardon me —
Mrs. Yickers had every object. For reasons, which I
needn't enter into, she hates me like poison, and would be
only too glad to malign my character, and get me into bad
odour with you or any one else."

That may be, but what they said seems likely enough
to be the truth."

Well, I'll be candid with you, Hannah' he replied,
after a minute's consideration ; "to a certain extent, then,
there is some truth in it."

I was sure of that ; why couldn't you own it at first,
like a man, without all this fiddlefaddling ? "

Probably Heffernan's sole scruple about kissing 1 the
Bible arose from the fear that, in the face of Tiny Gore's
disinterested statement, and Mrs. Corcoran's strong suspicions,
he might be driven to making a partial confession
eventually. Finding, therefore, that she was not to be
deceived, he deemed this the most judicious step to take in
the end. " I'll acknowledge, Hannah," said he, " that I'm
guilty of a slight quibble in what I said about Joe and his
interests. I certainly have done all I could for him in one
respect, but not exactly in the way of expediting his return
to England just at present. This, as you must be aware,
I hesitated about for obvious reasons."

What, pray ? what ? "

Need you ask ? In the present precarious position of
affairs I thought it better not to run any additional risk,
but to wait till matters were settled. I've very good reason
to know that Joe's mind is full of vivid reminiscences of
the past, which it would be more convenient if he had
forgotten."

Pish ! don't go on with all that, for goodness sake !
Then, just to smooth down your own selfish fears, you
actually prevented my dear boy from coming back to his
poor old mother, when both she and him begged and prayed
you to manage things so that he should. I trusted you —
we both trusted you to do this, and you've shamefully betrayed
our trust ; so now I shall die without seeing him ^t
all. Oh, Mr. Albert, I can't forgive you for it — never —

never

-

,l Don't be too hard on me, Hannah, I implore," he

rejoined, with some real emotion in his voice. et Only think
how I'm situated, and make allowances for my cautions
conduct. 1 regret indeed that such guarded policy should
have occasioned you any disappointment. Every reparation
in my power I will make at once. Joe shall come
home immediately, if I have to go and fetch him myself."

Too late ! it's too late now, Mr. Albert," she murmured,
in a sad disconsolate voice.

Oh, don't say that, Hannah ; you mustn't look at
things in this gloomy light, You'll be better in a few days,
and then — "

Never. I feel there's no hope of that ; but no matter —
let us leave this subject. You can't undo that mischief
now, but you can make reparation elsewhere for mischief of
another kind, and this you must promise me, before I die,
that you will do."

Surely you don't mean — "

"I'll tell you plainly what I mean," she interrupted
abruptly, raising her bloodless withered hand to impose
silence while she collected her thoughts. "My repentance
may not be worth much," she resumed, after a few moments,
growing as it has done chiefly out of fear of discovery,
from the constant dread that either Mr. George Grayle or
his uncle might any day find out our secret. But however
worthless such repentance, and however long in coming,
it's better than to die in a hardened state, without making
an effort to — to undo one's sin. Many a time, Mr. Albert,
when I've been at Barringtree, and looked at that child, hasher
sweet face reminded me of your handsome mother, who
appeared as though she'd risen from the dead to reproach
us for our wickedness. More than once, too, have I fancied
that the girl had some dim remembrance of me, and seemed
to shrink away with a sort of instinctive dislike. Whether
it was so or not, and whether she'd be happier if she knew

all, I can't say ; bit before I go to my grave, I consider
it's my duty to confess the whole truth, in justice to that
poor injured girl, so that she may be righted in the world,
and get what properly belongs to her."

Good Heavens, Hannah ! are you in earnest ? "Would
you expose and ruin me after all ? "

Xo — no — I wouldn't, though you have disappointed me
so cruelly ; I'll spare you on one conditions

is it ? " he asked eagerly.

That you'll make me a solemn promise to acknowledge,
of your own accord, the child's birth, and refund every
farthing due to her. Hush ! Hear all I've got to say before
you speak. I don't ask you to do this in such a manner as
to accuse yourself. Surely with your cleverness you could
contrive to cover up the affair after so many years, and
make it look like an extraordinary accident, followed by a
lot of excusable mistakes. You see, when I'm gone, the
only evidence against you is them Frosts, and those you can
easily square, as hitherto. For my son Joey's sake I don't
want his mother's name should be disgraced after she's dead
and buried ; but I tell you I couldn't die easy, or rest in
my coffin, unless I felt sure you'd do what's just to that
girl, and make up for our wicked work. No — wait a bit, I
haven't finished yet." She paused awhile, then during the
remainder of her sentence put one hand beneath her pillow,
as if to ascertain that something she felt for was still in
safety. " I needn't remind you, Mr. Albert, that it's your
own flesh and blood who we both knew was cast on the
world a little homeless orphan, without a. penny to buy
a crust with, and whose own rightful 40,000^. you
got for yourself by our false witnessing' and perjury.
I won't say that you haven't treated me fair enough,
so I'm not reproaching you for that, though j t ou was
inclined to forget your old nurse for a time once. Ah,

you remember when I found out by the merest chance
the child's story from them old Rolfes, and saw all her
linen marked, and so on. I held my tongue then, but
I warned you pretty sharp what I'd discovered, and
told you that you'd very likely find you'd dropped into
a hornet's nest before you had done with it. However,
you've not got stung yet, have you ? and if you're Cleveland
careful you'll pull through after all, in spite of my
'junction that you see Bessie Farlane done justice to and
give back what's hers, and which I mean she shall have.
On this promise made to me here on my death-bed, Mr.
Albert, you must kiss the Bible, and swear most solemnly.
So understand that."

I will do so, Hannah, but I crave one stipulation — "

What is it? No grand talking now, please; just tell
me plain what you mean."

Simply, then, that you will allow the performance of
this promise to be postponed until after these two marriages
have taken place, namely, mine with Miss Grayle, and her
brother's with Mrs. Yickers, and then I swear to you no
time shall be lost in reinstating the girl as you desire.
You can understand my begging for this respite, because by
taking such steps in the ends of justice afterwards, should
I fail to conceal my own guilt in the matter (which is not
so easy r as you imagine) I should then be married, and for
my wile's sake and the sake of her family, no doubt, every
effort would be made to hush up the affair and protect me
from the arm of the law."

You think so, do you ? I doubt it very much. However,
your request is reasonable enough, and I agree to it
so far. There's only one thing against it, and that is
whether I'm not doing Miss Agnes Grayle a wrong by
letting her marry you with her eyes shut."

"I — I'll explain the matter to her myself later on,

and represent that it all arose from — from a mistake, as
you suggest. Then, finding that I'm about to make every
reparation in my power, she will not think unfavourably
of me as her husband, and — "

"Very well, very well' interrupted Mrs. Corcoran, impatiently.
" Make what peace you can with your wife by
and by ; that's her look-out if she believes you, not mine.
Then, let all measures stand over till after your marriage ;
but remember this, you not only pledge yourself to place
the girl in her proper sociable position, but also to restore
her money-rights to the last farthing""

"I will; I solemnly swear I will. But this — this pecuniary
part of the business must be done by degrees, as you know,
for I can't undertake to — "

Of course, of course. I don't expect you to do miracles.
It will ease my conscience enough to feel sure that it will be
done within a reasonable time. Now, Mr. Albert, take
this Bible in your hand' she continued, once more presenting
it to him, " and repeat after me." Mrs. Corcoran
paused for several minutes, w T with her eyes fixed on the ceiling
in deep thought, and her lips moved silently while she
framed the sentences in her mind. At length, as if almost
under inspiration, she gave them utterance : " Now then,
say this, please : ' I, Albert Denby HefTernan, solemnly
swear before God, and in the presence of this dying woman,
that I will faithfully carry out this her last fervent wish,
namely, that within six months of her death I will take
fair measures to place my step-sister, Elizabeth Farlane —
now known as Lizzie Holfe, living at High Lodge, Barringtree,
under the protection of Gideon Wolfe and his wife
in her rightful position as a lady, and acknowledge her
as my half-sister ; and, further, I bind myself to restore to
her by degrees the whole of the money, that is, the 40,0U0/.
(which was left to her in trust by her aunt), with a fair

interest besides, and also the other moneys made by the sale
of the things, all which I frauderly — fraudulently got and
used for myself. This I solemnly vow to fulfil, so help me
God ! ' "

Albert Heffernan repeated every word distinctly and
impressively after the old woman; and, when they concluded,
kissed the Bible reverentially, and replaced it in silence on
the table.

Thank God ! that's over' murmured Mrs. Corcoran,
with a sigh of relief; " and may He forgive a penitent
woman for her share in this wicked business. I've
done my duty as far as I can, and my mind is more at
peace."

She closed her eyes, and did not speak again for sometime,
but at length whispered faintly, —

I'm quite exhausted now, Mr. Albert, and long for
sleep. Good-bye. I know you wash to return to town, so
don't stay any longer here, but come and see me again soon,
if I'm alive."

He promised to do so, with a few gentle, cheering words
at parting, bidding her bear up, that she would soon recover
if she didn't give way, and such-like encouragement; but
she only shook her head mournfully in reply.

"Tell Jenny to come to me now, please," she said.
Once more, good-bye, and remember I '"

These were the last words Albert Heffernan ever heard
from the lips of his old nurse, and the stealthy glance he
threw towards her as he quitted the sick-chamber was the
last he saw of her in this world.

A minute or two elapsed after he had taken his departure,
when Mrs. Corcoran re-opened her eyes, and presently
drew out the manuscript again from under her pillow, and
tried to re-peruse it. But her thoughts were too much
occupied with the recent interview to give strict attention

to the lines before her. In her absorbing reflections, she
felt how utterly she had lost faith in Albert HefFernan ;
his selfish, double-faced conduct with regard to poor Joe
had completely undermined her respect for, and confidence
in, him. She did not believe in her heart that even his
Bible oath, given under such solemn circumstances, could
be trusted. Doubting him thus, she was well-nigh convinced
that the moment the breath was ou of her body his
oath and promise would alike be forgotten, when Joe might
take his chance, and Bessie Farlane also, for anything
that would be done in their behalf. No solemn vow would
bind such an unscrupulous man once he had attained his
own ends, and she almost smiled when she reflected on the
incongruity of his sacred pledge, and how unlikely he would
be to fulfil it after his marriage.

Nevertheless, Mrs. Corcoran intended to give him the
chance of doing so, but at the same time provide against
his evasion and non-fulfilment of it by an alternative
measure.

Completely worn out with this mental strain, her
thoughts gradually merged into a fevered dream, and
when Mrs. Sickles softly entered the room, a few minutes
afterwards, she found the old woman fast asleep, with her
spectacles unremoved from her eyes, and the important
document held tightly in her unconscious grasp.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE GREAT Secret.

And now I will unclasp a secret book

# * * * *

I'll read you matter deep and dangerous.




Shakspeare.

Mrs. Corcoran slept for some hours, and the shades of
evening had cast a darker gloom over the sick-room when
she at length awoke. After she had partaken sparingly of
some beef tea, she was left alone, at her special request,
with a lighted candle beside the bed. Then once more the
mysterious manuscript was brought under examination,
and while she pored over it painfully by the meagre flame,
her wasted, furrowed features, and dark eyes flashing
through the spectacles, gave her rather the appearance of a
weird, unearthly being — some " secret, black, and midnight
hag," deciphering a written incantation.

But such uncanny aspect was out of keeping with the
reality. The old hag was but a penitent, broken-down
woman, who lay at death's door, hoping and praying for
mercy ere the dread portal opened and closed upon her ;
and the mystic scroll, clutched in her gaunt, trembling
hands, was but a statement to her son — a written confession
of a certain guilty episode in her past life.

But, before unfolding 1 its contents, the reader must be
put in possession of certain introductory facts relative to
the subject.

Albert Denby, who, as already mentioned, afterwards
took the surname of Heffernan, on inheriting" certain property
from a distant relative, was the only child of the
Rev. Charles Denby, rector of Mentland. His father died
when Albert was about ten years old, and Mrs. Denby, a
remarkably beautiful woman, married two years subsequently
the Rev. Dr. Farlane, a fellow of Corpus Christi,
Cambridge, who held a college living" in Tunbrook, the
parish adjoining Mentland. The issue of this marriage
was one son, who died in infancy, and one daughter,
Elizabeth, to whom Dr. Farlane became deeply attached,
showing a natural preference for his own child, and treating
his step-son somewhat coldly, by comparison. This roused
a jealous feeling in the breast of the youth, and created in
him an antipathy to his half-sister even at that early age.

For the favouritism evinced by Dr. Farlane, Albert
sought consolation less in Mrs. Farlane's affection than in
that of Hannah Corcoran, who had nursed and been a
foster-mother to him from his birth, when his own mother
was dangerously ill, and who condoled with him for the
partiality shown to his half-sister.

Before the little girl had reached her fifth year, both
parents died within a short time of one another, and left
Albert and Bessie pauper orphans, almost entirely dependent
on the charity of a wealthy widow, one Mrs. Pullerton, Dr.
Farlane's sister, who had no children of her own, and with
whom they now took up their abode. Shortly afterwards
Mrs. Pullerton purchased a commission in the army for
her step-nephew, and this ended his residence under the
kind old lady's roof. But Albert Denby was a shrewd
young fellow, and never lost an opportunity of going to

see his benefactress, to whom he paid the most assiduous
court, obviously with a view to a prominent place
in her will.

But here again his half-sister was a source of jealous
annoyance to him, for Mrs. Pullerton as good as gave it
out that she intended to make the child her heir, which
was natural enough, seeing that Bessie was her niece by
birth, and god-daughter as well. Any suspense as to the old
lady's real intentions, however, was soon at an end, for she
died in the following year, when her will was proved under
65,000/., which she left in the following manner : — After
various legacies, amounting in the aggregate to about
15,000/., bequeathed to certain friends and distant relatives,
she left 10,000/. to her step nephew, Albert Denby, and
the remaining 40,000/., together with the whole of her
plate, pictures, furniture, and other personal effects, to
Elizabeth Farlane, her niece, the money to be kept in trust
till they were both of age, with the proviso that, in the
event of the death of either, the whole amount, viz. 50,000/.,
and the personalty, should go to the survivor, and his other
heirs and assigns; or, in the death of both without
issue, to revert to the testatrix's next-of-kin — a remote
contingency, irrelevant to the present history. There were
three trustees to this will — Andrew Grayle and two
others, both of whom died a few years after the trust was
wound up.

At Mrs. Pullerton's death, Bessie Farlane was left
(rather too confidingly, perhaps) to the care of her half-brother,
who undertook charge of her, and promised to
procure her a comfortable home and suitable education.
This was with the approval of the trustees, and Albert
Denby had every intention at the time of respecting the
obligation as sacred. In the meanwhile, until he could
make other arrangements, he placed the child with his old

nurse, Mrs. Corcoran, who dwelt in a cottage at Mentland
with her son Joe.

From the first day that little Bessie was committed to
her charge, Mrs. Corcoran treated her with harshness and
severity, and had it not been for Joe, who soon grew to
love the little girl as a sister, and in a measure kept his
mother's unkindness in cheek, Bessie's life would have been
perfect martyrdom. Her half-brother seldom went to see
her, and his visits were certainly not bright spots in her
existence, for she seemed to dread the sight of him, while
he looked upon her as an encumbrance and an obstacle in his
path. After Joe { ' went for a soldier'' matters grew worse
for Bessie Farlane, and then came the climax, at which
point the story may be best taken up from Mrs. Corcoran's
written confession.

The first part of this effusion was devoted to a penitent
preamble, in which she prepared Joe for the startling disclosures
to follow. Recalling to his memory certain of the
circumstances already detailed, she went on to say : — ■

You hadn't been gone above a twelvemonth, Joey,
when, one morning, the little girl, Bessie, disappeared. Of
corse I had to go and look after her, but couldn't here
nothing of her nowhere until I got back again to the cottage,
and then a nayber come and told me how a little girl
had been found ruined over and killed on the railway about
three miles down the line. I said directly i was sure that
must be her, and the man said he was afraid it was cos
he'd seen her ; so I up and telligrarfed to Mr. Albert, who
came over from Canterbury the same daj^, and we went ors
together to the shed in which the poor little thing was lade.
A dreadful sight that was too, I can tell you, Joe, and i
never got it out of my head to this day. When they took
the cloth ors the poor dead child's face, there it was all
crushed out of shape so as no one couldn't recognize it,

only by the color of the hair and the clothes, arid these was
Bessie's sure enough. I mind now how Mr. Albert was
trembling like a leaf, and he took me a one side and whispered
something' quick in my ear. I understood him
director, and when the doctor, who was present, asked if
the child belonged to us, and if we identified it, we said
we did ; and so the body was brort here and lade out in the
back bed-room to wait the inquest, which Mr. Albert was
anxious for to be held. Now, Joe, this dead child wasunt
our little Bessie at all, and we both knew that well snuff;
but Mr. Albert, he always was a sharpen, and he got a
idea in his mind in a moment how to act clever and turn
this railway accident into a good bit of business. You
remember them old Frosts, which are both alive here now,
and their little girl who used to come and play along with
Bessie — about her own age she was ; well, just you see now
how it all came to happen so neatly. Old Mrs. Frost and
me was great friends then, and used to drink tea together
regular ; well, she begged a hole lot of our Bessie's clothes —
not only a dress or two, but under-linen, socks, and the
like, for her little girl, Alice ; and as i didunt care much
what became of Bessie's things, nor the child neither for
that matter, I gave the clothes to oblige the Frosts — cos
they were very poor, as you know — and just kep snuff for
Bessie to wear; so you'l understand in a minute what I
mean. All the linen was marked E. F., and the little child
Frost was just the same size as Bessie, with hair like hers
too, so everything helped us in our wicked plot. I essay
you guess now, Joe, it was she, the little Frost, what was
ruined over instead of Bessie, and so it was. They'd
wandered ors together plain, and then got on to the line
watching for the traces, I suppose, when the express come
by, court the poor little mite on the letters, and killed heron
the spot — a wonder it didunt smash em both. But now

VOL. III. o

comes the curious part of the story. Mr. Albert and me
went to the Frosts and told em what had happened, and
how their little girl had got killed and not ours. The Frosts,
of corse, took on dreadful when they heard this ; and
come they would to the cottage to see if it was true. Then
Mr. Albert quieted them in a wonderfull way, and squared
it all so as to make em hold their tongues. I recollect
him say in to them that now their little girl was dead she
couldn't be brort to life no more, but if they'd just do
what he told em he'd pay them right hands, and make
it a fat sorrow for them, which was better than a been one
any day. Those were his very words. He explained to
them that they was to say nothing about it but let it be
supposed that it was our Bessie who was killed, and that
him and me would identify the body at the inquest by her
clothes and the colour of her hair, &c, and so satisfy the
coroner. Well, there was a bit of a noise made in the
village about it at the time, and people wondered what had
become of the other little girl, who'd disappeared after the
accident, though the Frosts, as instructed by Mr. Albert,
made out this was their Alice ; and so old Frost went allover
the place to hunt for the missing child, as if it was his
own. You see we couldn't do nothing safe so long as Bessie
was nockin about somewhere and might let on against us
any time, so Frost's business was to find her by the hook
and the crook, and bring her back to us on the sly, when
we was going to arrange to put her in some out-of-the-way
home, where she wouldn't be heard of again in a hurry.
But things didunt come to pass just as we wanted, which
I'll tell you.

Frost went ors to look for Bessie, and after a deal of
hunting he found her next morning, nearly nine miles
away, lying on the grass by the side of the Canterbury
road, fast asleep. Poor little thing, she'd gone off frighted

to death after her playmate got killed, and what with
running and walking and crying, had dropt down dead tired,
and lay there all night. When Frost lifted her up, and she
woke and saw who it was, she screamed and shrieked, cos
she thought he'd only come out to punish her for getting
his little girl smashed by the train. Do all he might, he
could mit carry her; she was afrade to come back to me, as
she short i'd be safe to kill her for it, much less to go along
with him, the angry father, no matter how he coaxed her.
Well, Frost he didunt want a piece of work, and having
made up his mind to get the money Mr. Albert promised,
he was scared that if he took Bessie back, and she made a
fuss, the hole thing would get blown upon, and he'd lose
everything. As he often told me, he didunt know exactly
what to do; but just then a covered waggon luckily passed
by, and the driver, who was half tipsy, hearing the child
shriek, stopped and asked what the shindy was. Frost was
ready with an answer directly, and said that she was a
north little gal, who had ruined off from her friends —
making up any name he could think of — who lived at a
town he mentioned some miles further on, and that if the
waggoner would take her with him on the road he'd give
him a couple of bob. Frost's idea was to get her out of
the way anyhow, but this wasunt a very sensible plan, and
was pretty sure to sale ; but the driver, he come to his help
now with a suggestion. He said he wasunt going to that
town, but he should pass by the district workhouse, a few
miles tother way, on the branch road, and he'd give her a
lift so far, drop her there, and tell the workhouse people that
they might see to it and return her to her friends. Frost
jumped at this noshun, gave the man 2 shillings, and told
Bessie she must go along with him. Bessie was only too
glad; but first of all Frost drew her to one side, and whispered
if she dared ever say who she was to a living soul, soo

2

that she got sent back to Mentland, it would be the worse
for her, and she'd get hanged as sure as eggs for little
Alice's death. Bessie believed all this, and, terrified out of
her life, promised she never would tell anything about herself.
Then he put her into the waggon among the straw,
and the man drove ou.

cc Mr. Albert was finely angry when Frost came back
without her, and declared that it wouldn't never do,
that she'd be sure to turn up again, when the deception
would be found out, and get him into rubble.
But Frost explained how he'd threatened her, and that no one
wouldn't be able to find out nothing about her miles off,
and from sheer fright she wouldn't never let herself be
brort back if she could help it. But this didunt satisfy
Mr. Albert, who called Frost hard names for having
bungled the matter, and vowed he shouldn't never have a
penny from him till he fetched Bessie back, though he
didn't stick to his threat. So Frost goes ors again strate to
the workhouse mentioned by the waggoner, but when he
got there he found nothing had been seen nor yet heard of
the child. Well, this was a puzzler, and do all he could he
never got no trace of her again, nor even to the man as
drove her, nor more couldn't we, so there was nothing to be
done but keep quiet and take our chance. I perswaded
Mr. Albert after a time to ease his mind, that it would be
all right snuff, and that most like we shouldn't never hear
of the child any more.

l< Well, Joe, the inquest was held, and little Alice Frost
was hurried in the name of Bessie Farlane, when me and
Mr. Albert went to the funeral, and cried like two wicked
hippocrates as we was, just to make a show, cos nearly the
hole parish was present. Afterwards there was all the
business to be arranged with the trustees, and one of them,
Mr. Andrew Grayle — a relation of the Barringtree lot as

you know about — was very kind to Mr. Albert, and made
matters easier to settle ; but they pitched into me for being'
so careless and not looking" better after the child. Little did
they know how we'd sworn falsely, and deceived them all.
The year after, Mr. Albert came of age, when he got
possession of everything, and the trust business was over.
At that time I will say he behaved hands, and gave mea
lump sum as a present, and so he did to the Frosts, and
has kep on pain em something ever since to keep em quiet.
Well, the accident and the talk about the ruined-away
child very soon bio wed over, as the Frosts was only too
glad it should do. About twelve or thirteen years passed,
as near as I can tell, and not a word was ever heard concerning
that lost child, and of corse Mr. Albert and me felt
safe snuff. But at last I made a discovery, and Fll tell
you how. It was nearly four years ago, and I was on a
visit to your uncle Sam at Barringtree. Not very long
before that — three years, I think — I heard em say Squire
Grayle of Barringtree, brother to Mr. Albert's trustee, you
know, got a new gamekeeper from some place in Sussex
that broke up its establishment sudden-like. This was an
old man named Rolfe, with a wife and one child, a daughter.
Now I didunt know nothing of the Rolfes at first, until a
bad gun accident to the Squire's grandson, Mr. Hector
Grayle, as was in your judgement, happened to lay him up
at their cottage, and by going to ask after him, being
interested in the nursing line, i got to know these people.
Just at this time too, curious snuff, Mr. Albert went to stay
with the Grayles at the Hall, and I met him in the park
quite by chance on the very day Mr. Hector got shot.
Mind you, i haunt seen Mr. Albert for some time then,
and he'd been rather inclined to forget and neglect his old
nurse. But, to shorten my story, Joe, Til just come to the

poi

int and tell you what i did discover, which was that this

girl, Lizzie, as she's called, was only the adopted daughter
of these Rolfes ; and very soon I found out from the woman,
who told me something concerning the child, that this must
be our Bessie, and no mistake about it. Bless you, my
heart did jump into my mouth as 1 herd the particulars, but
I kep quite quiet and said very little, except to warn Mr.
Albert, which it started him pretty nicely, you may guess.
Bessie never remembered me after all those years fortunately,
and we never talked about the affair before her, cos
I didunt want to, of corse, and Mrs. Rolfe said the girl
wouldn't like we should. It was then that i got to know
pretty near what happened after Frost put the child up in
the waggon and left her. Bessie had told them that much,
though they never could find out anything more, as I'll
explain directly. It seems that the driver of the waggon,
who was just boosey, as I said, went to sleep on the road,
and never woke till long after he passed the workhouse,
when he swore he w T aunt going to turn back, and scolded
her for not rousing him. Bessie said she didunt want to
go there, that's why she didunt wake him, and that she'd
like to go on to the next town, which she'd heard him name,
cos she'd got some friends, she said, living there too. The
man never troubled his head, and thought it was all right,
I suppose; so he set her down a little way outside the place,
as she asked, saying she'd walk the rest. He'd been kind
snuff to her, and gave her some vittles to eat on the way,
so she was all rite for a bit. After that it don't seem clear
what she did, except to go wandering about till she got somehow
through the town and into the road again on the other
side, where Wolfe found her. He was driving along from
his other master's place, in Sussex, with a cart-load of
game, which he was going to send up to the London market,
and, seeing this little thing sitting there all by herself and
crying, he took pity on her, and, as she didunt seem to know

nothing about who she was or where she'd come from, he
just popped her into the cart among the partridges and hares
and rabbits. Then, after he'd done his business in the
town, he made inquiries about the child, but couldn't get
no information, so took her home along with him.

Well, all the Rolfes could get out of her afterwards was
that her name was Elizabeth, that she haunt got no father
or mother, that she'd ruined away from them as took care of
her, and if she went back she'd get killed, cos they wasunt
kind to her, and she was afrade of them. The more they asked
the more she cried, and they couldn't make it out at all. Next
day, and days after, it was just the same ; she stuck to what
she'd said, but couldn't or wouldn't tell them anything
more about herself, and begged them to take care of her,
that she'd like to live with them always, and never leave
them again. This touched the old people, and they determined
to keep the child, as indeed they couldn't help, cos
they didunt know where to send her to unless they gave
her up to the authorities, which little Bessie begged hard
they wouldn't. Well, all they could do was to wait and see
if she was ever claimed ; and the long and short of it is that
she never was, of corse ; so, having no children of their own,
they adopted her as their daughter. They saw directly, by
her clothes, &c, that she wasunt a poor person's child, and,
finding the linen marked E. F., asked what it stood for;
but she couldn't tell them, except it was Elizabeth, so they
called her Lizzie ; and now they say that, if ever she did
know her surname, and wouldn't tell it then for some curious
reason or other, she'd certainly forgot it by this time, and
everything else they supposed connection with her childhood.
There, Joe, that's Bessie's story up to a certain point, justin
the rough, as you may say. And now to tell you what
comes after."

The rest of Mrs. Corcoran's confession being, in the

main, a recapitulation of facts with which the reader is
already acquainted, I will merely pass on to the final clauses
of the statement, in which she gives Joe certain injunctions,
and exhorts him to carry out her last wishes.

And now, Joey'' she wrote in conclusion, " you know
everything and I tell you all this to clear my wretched conscience
before i die, being sure thatyou'l act exactly as I
bid you. I'm only thankful i haunt committed myself no
further in this wicked matter. Mr. Albert wanted me
badly at one time to help him smuggle the girl ors somewhere,
and promised me a extra hands sum of money if
I would ■ but I didunt see my way to it ; no more didunt
he, I think, and Pm glad now i didunt, for I've seemed
quite snuff for him as it is. He swears on the Bible to rite
this girl as soon as he's married to Miss Grayle. But, lor
bless you, Joe, after his sneaking conduct about you, I can't
trust him, and won't. If he haunt have behaved so shabby
and deceitful, just cos he was afraid of you shown your
honest old face here and traps upsetting his plots, I might
have believed him, and very like have gone down to my
grave with this secret never told to a soul. He declares,
too, that he will get you home now directly, but i
know he won't till it sites him, and I don't want he
should, for I mean to get you home myself; so, look you
here, Joe, just mind your old mother's dying wishes, and do
what she says. Long before you can reach England, I shall
be dead and hurried ; I feel it, Joe ; I'm very near my end
now, and I can't deceive myself, so it's too late for you to
come home in time before I die; but you must return
immediately, on another account. I send you a lot of
money — all i have, and most of which I've saved out of what
Mr. Albert give me at different times for this business, so
now I can use it properly. You must buy your discharge
at once, for you've done quite soldering snuff, which it's kep

you all these years away from me, but that's too late to fret
about now. Then, as soon as ever you can get aboard a
vessel, some back and watch over poor Bessie's interests.
You understand ? I mean in this way. I wish to give
Mr. Albert one chance, and if he does intend to act
fair to his sister after he's married to Miss Grayle, which he
takes his oath he will, why let him ; but if not, it must be
your business to see that he does; and with this great secret,
which i leave you in my will, you can command him to do
what you like, but give him a certain limitted time to pay
back the hole of the money. Now, you go strate to your
uncle Sam, at Barringtree, which he'll be glad to see you
again, and then you can look up Bessie by and by, and tell
her who she is; and oh ! Joe, please implore her to forgive
your poor mother for the sinful wrong she helped do against
an innocent child, and say how penitent and sorrowful I
am for it all. May God forgive me too; and may He bless
you, my dear boy, keeping you always from sin and temptation,
and helping you to do what's right and just in
everything as in this case, even if others don't. Now, pray
for me when I'm gone, my dear son, for these are the last
dying words to you from

(t Your poor repentant and loving mother,

Hannah Corcoran."

Having read this long letter over for the last time,
Mrs. Corcoran asked for the necessary materials and sealed
it up carefully, enclosing a draft on an Indian bank for the
money remitted, which she had got her brother to negotiate
for her.

The next day she grew suddenly worse, and could take
no nourishment, and on the third day following the end
came.

Farmer Sickles and his wife were at her bedside during

her last moments, and to her brother the dying woman
confided the sealed letter, with special instructions that it
should be forwarded immediately to her son in India. Then,
having thus relieved her mind of this temporal secret,
Hannah Corcoran sank back on her pillow, and in a few
moments a deep sigh, separating the mortal from the
immortal, told that to her had been revealed " the great
secret " — the secret beyond the grave.

TRIED BY FIRE.

In the cruel fire of sorrow-cast
thy heart ; do not faint or wail ;
Let thy hand be firm and steady ;
Do not let thy spirit quail :
But wait till the trial is over,
And take thy heart again ;
For as gold is tried by fire,
So a heart must be tried by pain.

* * •

• • • *
Beat on, true heart, for ever !
Shine bright, strong golden chain !
And bless the cleansing fire,

And the furnace of living pain ! "

Adelaide Proctor.

Linden Bower n was one of the most picturesque little
retreats in Maidenhead, situate close to the river, with
lawn sloping down gradually to the water, and shaded, by
tour or five beautiful old limes.

This was the temporary abode of the Moberleys, who on
their return from India had taken the place for the summer
and autumn months. Mrs. Moberley's health had suffered
somewhat from the trying season at Fyzabad during the
previous year, so, in the following spring, her husband

obtained fifteen months' leave to England, and brought her
home to recruit. On reaching Bombay they met Major
Bonus, and discovered that he also was homeward-bound,
and had taken a passage in the same steamer; consequently,
they were companions on the voyage, and the-major,
who happened by priority of application to have
secured a larger and more comfortable cabin than the
Assistant-Commissioner, good naturedly made a point of
exchanging, since Mrs. Moberley was an invalid. This
little act of kindness brought about a close friendship
between them, and the old Quihai was now making a
lengthened stay at Linden Bower.

It was a sultry afternoon about the middle of September,
and the major and Mrs. Moberley were together in the
drawing-room of "the Bower." This was a most pleasant
place of refuge from the heat; a perfect little gem of a
drawing-room — so deliciously cool with its red-striped
sun-blinds, and fragrant with sweet flowers tastefully
arranged on every side, in. majolica jars, hanging baskets,
&c. ; whilst the window-frames w r ere fringed with peeping
clematis and honeysuckle, which strove against each other
to get the best glimpse of the pretty interior. The furniture
was exquisitely quaint, and there was something about
the room that pleased the eye at every turn — prettily
draped curtains over the fireplace and at the windows,
handsome velvet-framed mirrors, choice water-colour drawings,
soft skins and Persian mats, rare old china on mantlepiece,
brackets, and tables, which were strewn with a variety
of Dresden figures — fat cupids, old-fashioned demoiselles in
uncomfortable postures and more or less decolletees in their
attire, plump pugs with blue bows, long-haired goats with
little naked riders holding on by the horns, pastoral
musicians in fancy costumes, &c, and other innumerable
articles of bijouterie.

On a couch, covered with mediaeval cretonne, Mrs.
Moberley was reclining, and stitching" languidly at an
impossible bird on a cloth ground; while the major, seated
by the window, was reading out extracts from the Court
Journal.

Ah, here it is ! " he exclaimed. " This is the announcement
I spoke of — ' A marriage has been arranged to take
place, early in December next, between Captain Albert
Denby Heffernan (late of the 25th Lancers and the 126th
Cameronians), son cf the late Rev. Charles Denby, rector
of Mentland, Kent, to Agnes Harriet, only daughter of
George Grayle, Esq., and grand-daughter of Percy George
Grayle, of Barringtree Park, Suffolk, Esq., M.P. J »

Then there's nothing* about the other marriage ? "
observed Mrs. Moberley. " That seems strange, for I
heard it was to be the same day; but no doubt Georgie
Vickers will be able to explain when she comes '

Major Bonus turned to other paragraphs in the paper
without making any remark.

Mr. Gore won't be long now before he returns' continued
Mrs. Moberley, " though he won't hurry himself on
the water this hot day, I should think. I do hope he'll
bring her; it will be quite a reunion of old friends."

Quite so, quite so," replied the major, mechanically,
without looking up from his paper.

I think it's very good of you not to mind my asking
her to come over while you're here, Major. Of course, I
know all about it, and — and I was afraid it might be a
little awkward."

a On the contrary, I shall be very glad to see her again.
We perfectly understand each other ; and, as she knows, I
wish with all my heart that she may be happy, and that
her marriage may turn out all that can be desired."

That's well said, and spoken like a generous man. I

admire you for it," returned Mrs. Moberley ; adding, more
to herself than to him, " she did treat you shamefully, I
well know, and her conscience ought to prick her, if it
doesn't."

Just then Moberley entered the room from the lawn, and
proposed that they should adjourn to the benches beneath
the limes, where they would find it pleasantly cool in the
shade. This suggestion being acted upon, the trio were
presently grouped under the sweet-smelling trees, and
awaited the return of Tiny Gore with his expected passenger
on board.

Tiny had run down from London for a couple of days to
see his sister, and hearing that Georgie Vickers was staying
at Marlow again, he had proposed to pull up the river to
that place, call for her, and bring her back in the boat — a
plan which his host and hostess readily approved.

Georgie was at home when he arrived, and gladly accepted
the offer of a row down to Maidenhead, never suspecting
whom she would meet at Linden Bower besides her old
friends, the Moberleys ; nor did Tiny enlighten her on the
subject. When they started from the Quarry Woods, after
an early luncheon, it was in the full heat of the day, and
little Gore found it rather warm work pulling back, although
it was down-stream (but he had scarcely recovered the stiff
pull up river) ; nevertheless, he kept at it manfully until
after they had rounded Marlow Point and reached the
Cliefden trees, where he rested on his oars awhile in the
cool shade, and begged leave to indulge in a smoke.

Georgie was enjoying the row immensely, and could not
help thinking what a pleasant contrast it offered to that last
boating excursion, when her evil genius took her out on the
Barringtree lake and very nearly, as she believed, handed
her over as a tit-bit to the voracious pike.

Well, Tiny," she observed, laughingly, during a rather

desultory conversation, while the boat lay in under the leafy
boughs, " are you in love still ? When are you going back
to Barringtree ? "

"When nvei/ou going to be married?" was Tiny's Quaker-like
reply. " What does all this dilly-dallying mean ? Tell
you what, I say, I don't believe you're in love, you know."

Little boys are no judges of such matters,"

Come, I say, I like that; and you just asked me if I
wasn't in love myself."

Well, and are you ?"

I repose I am. I can't get that sweet face out of my
mind in a hurry, and I'm longing to see her again ; that's
all I know."

u Silly boy! what good can come of it?"

A great deal — everything — why not ? At any rate, we
won't be so long beating about the bush as you and Hector
are."

With such jjersiflage as this exchanged from time to time
they discussed various subjects, while Tiny splashed and
plodded on. Presently the invitation " Tow you down,
sir ? " fell on his ear with a welcome sound, and he jumped
at the offer, in spite of Georgie's merry jeer at his laziness.
Then quietly shipping his sculls, he moved abaft the towing-pole
and playfully shared the stern seat and the rudder-lines
with his fair companion. " Just one more pipe," pleaded
he apologetically ; which Georgie also granted, saying she
loved the smoke in the open air. Then onward they
ploughed through the limpid water, which lapped with a
refreshing sound against the ribs of the little craft, and the
ensign and his fair companion continued to chat idly together
as they watched the long rope brushing over the bending
reeds and osiers beside the towing path, until at length
they neared their destination. Tiny Gore, now roused into a
sense of shame at his listlessness, and wishing to finish up

opposite "the Bower" with a creditable show of energy,
hailed the boy to stop, and unfixed his gear; then tossing
horn a coin, resumed his own place at the rowlocks.

When they reached the landing-steps below the garden,
and disembarked, the Moberleys came forward to meet
them, followed by Major Bonus, who remained at first in
the background. But Georgie caught sight of him directly,
and started and coloured up as she thus met the old officer
again face to face. His greeting, however, was so kind
and cordial that she felt more at her ease when they had
spoken, although a certain quiet dignified sadness in his
manner forcibly reminded her of their last painful interview
on the Apollo Bunder. Memories thus revived reawakened
the qualms of conscience which ever haunted her mind
when she thought how cruelly this poor man's love had
been cast aside — although compulsorily on her part ; and
it required a great effort to shake off the mental depression
thus occasioned, and to assume her usual vivacity,

Seated beneath a stately tree, the little party now discoursed
on old times in India, amid many a merry laugh
over pleasant reminiscences; and Georgie soon found herself
carried away by the genial tone of the conversation, in
which Major Bonus joined now and then with apparent
light-heartedness, which was but a cloak, however, to
conceal a melancholy now habitual to him.

On a rustic table in the centre of the group was
arrayed a tempting supply of fruit, and this was shortly
afterwards supplemented by iced-coffee, &c. The heat,
the shade of the huge lime, and the outdoor, refreshments,
all tended to bring back to Georgie's recollection
the chota hazree days at Bareilly, when she used to
play the hostess herself beneath the peepul-tree, and the
major and Tiny Gore, who now sat opposite to her, were
her regular and constant guests. Nor had the latter forgotten

those days, it seemed; and Tiny's injudicious
remarks thereon, delivered at random, whilst he regaled
himself alternately with peaches and cigarettes, made it
rather awkward for her as well as for the major.

But how little did each know what was passing through
the other's mind — how Georgie was longing to speak to
her old friend alone, confide all her troubles, and pour out
her heart to him whose kind and generous nature she had
so tried and proved ; and how he, still cherishing, with a
forgiving spirit, the love that had cost him so much pain,
yearned for her even yet, and sighed to think how hopelessly
they were now separated. I say little did they know, or
they would eagerly have sought an opportunity to exchange
these thoughts. But later in the afternoon the opportunity
presented itself without the seeking ; for while the others
betook themselves to the boat in the cooler hours, Georgie
and the major were drawn away together to a secluded
corner of the garden, as though by mutual magnetism
For some time there was an awkward constraint in their
conversation, but by degrees this disappeared, and the sorrowful
mention of that dearly-loved child, now lying asleep
in the Fyzabad cemetery, touched the tender chords of love
and sympathy between them, and opened the lips to let the
heart be known.

That little one, now a tiny unit of the holy host, had,
while on earth, been a solace and a comforting joy to the
mother, who only felt how great was her loss when the
cruel blow had fallen — that the blank thus left by the
heavenward flight of the small angel was not to be filled
up by any immediate prospects of happiness. And to
Major Bonus the pretty child had been as a bright beam of
light — a lesser light, subservient to the sunshine which her
mother's presence had ever cast on the old soldier's path,
until it became at length obscured by a sudden cloud.

vol. 111. p

Since little Gwennie's death Georgie Vickers had not
known what it was to be entirely happy ; this much she
now confessed to the major, and further confidence divulged
that the cause was divided between her recent bereavement
and her present engagement, the latter seeming replete
with misgivings and anxiety.

Such confession, wrung from her lips at such a time,
rather astonished him, but while he listened to her, he felt
a thrill of hope shoot through his heart. Then with kind
consoling words he encouraged her to confide in him still
further, and by degrees drew her out to tell the whole sad
story of the past, which she ought to have told him long
ago. He heard it with mingled pity and indignation-pity
for her whom he still loved so dearly, and indignation
against the malicious coward who had so persecuted a
defenceless woman. The lenient view he evidently took of
the matter showed Georgie how foolish she had been not to
trust in him before, that nothing would have shaken his
love for her, a love stronger than ever, proved as it had
been by a galling sorrow.

To his eye
There was hut one beloved face on earth,
And that was shining on him — "

And whereas '* the adoration of his heart had been to her
only as the perfume of a wild flower, which she had carelessly
crushed with her foot in passing," it became afterwards the
very breath of her life. But although Georgie instinctively
clung to this man in her perplexity and trouble, it was not
to grasp at the faithful love he evinced merely as a pis
alter, or because she was disappointed in Hector Grayle's
conduct ; but that she was able to compare the real gold
tried by fire, with the aluminium, at one time taken for the
genuine metal. Georgie had learnt at last that the love of

Major Bonus was really worth having" — was something" more
than the mere paternal affection which was all she had once
given him credit for feeling ; his whole character, moreover,
likewise esteemed so lightly, appeared to her strengthened
and ennobled in a high degree by the ordeal to which it
had been subjected.

They had wandered together from the garden into the
drawing-room, where they were now seated tete-astute ; and
when the unhappy little woman poured out the story of
her troubles, past and present, the major was deeply touched
at her disclosures. But he seemed suddenly changed from
the sad thoughtful man whom we found sitting" there with
Mrs. Moberley a little while ago, for then there was a
dreary void in his heart, and now that void was nearly
filled up with a joyous feeling of hope. The pretty room
itself, too, looked changed — as, in fact, every room does at
different times in the day; but although it was now
drawing towards evening, and rather gloomy indoors with
the sun-blinds still down, Major Bonus thought that the
tasteful furniture and surroundings appeared brighter and
more cheerful than a few hours before; and he actually
pictured to himself, while they conversed, just such a sweet
little drawing-room as this for his own, arranged by her
hands and with her loved form ever present as its chief
ornament.

You have spoken openly and trustfully, Georgie/ - ' he
said, when she had told him all, " and I thank you for the
confidence you have reposed in me. Would that you had
done so sooner, but it is not too late even now. I will be
equally candid with you. The present engagement which
binds you to another, and which has resulted solely from
the mysterious machinations of your professed enemy, it is
obvious can bring nought but misery and discontent in its
wake, both to you and your affianced husband. You are

p 2

probably satisfied in your own minds by this time that such
is the dreary prospect before you, and this being the case,
you yourself need have no scruple, I think, in cancelling" it
at once. Be advised by me — do so boldly. Shake off these
worthless bonds without further delay and fear nothing' ; let
me be your protector against that cowardly scoundrel who
would vilify your name to the world, and let him beware
how he dares to act on his dastardly threats."

The old officer said this with fierce vehemence, and
clenched his fist as he spoke ; then, after a brief pause, and
gently taking her small white hand in his, he added, his
voice sinking into a low, tender tone, " Poor little woman !
your bark has indeed been cruelly tossed about on a sea of
troubles, and sadly needs a relieving hand at the helm to
guide it into smooth waters once more where some safe
anchorage may be founder'' Her eyes filled with tears at his
words, so simple, so sweetly kind and sympathetic, and
spoken with such a depth of feeling. " Georgie/'' he said,
"you well know that my love for you has never changed,
and never will change so long as I have breath left to
breathe the vow. I conjure you, then, give me but the
better right to prove this. Let mine be the hand to guide
and guard you through life. Release yourself from this
wretched entanglement, and only say you are content to
give your future into my keeping, and I will gladly accept
the trust. We have been most cruelly separated, but come
back to me, my darling, and let nothing part us mores''
She uttered no reply, yet the earnest appeal was fully
answered by her eloquent silence, as she allowed her head
to sink slowly forward, until it found a real resting-place
at last on that faithful breast!

Now those who enter for the great matrimonial lottery, and
take it as a matter of course that their drawing will turnout

to be one of the few-and-far-between prizes which fall
to the lucky numbers, are blessed, indeed, with a sanguine
temperament and an easy mind, much to be envied — before
marriage, but too often to be pitied and deplored afterwards.
The more thoughtful and less hopeful people, who
pause to calculate the chances for and against them ere they
take the hazardous dip into the lottery-bag, set a timely
example to the unwary, to those who shut their eyes and
trust to luck ; for a second drawing (by way of compensation
should the first prove an unpleasant blank) is not a
privilege to be relied upon, and but seldom accorded by
compassionate Fate.

The old hackneyed adage, u marry in haste and repent
at leisure," has rung the death-knell of so many fair hopes,
that it cannot be said there is a lack of danger-signals to
stop other headstrong adventurers from rushing down the
same perilous incline, and coming to the same inevitable
smash. Nor is it too late to apply the brake, and shut
off steam, at the very last moment ; yet day after day
we read and hear of the most terrible accidents on the railroad
of married life. 'Twere better to turn back from the
church door itself, when the still voice of conscience,
or the impulse of doubting fears, bids a pause on the
actual threshold — ay, from the very altar-rails, rather than
plunge madly forward into a certain vale of tears. Those
weak-minded ones who thus sign their own warrant, from
the mere want of moral resolution, richly deserve all the
misery that afterwards falls to their portion, since their
fate is but the fate of a whole legion of forefathers, whose
temerity has taught the oft-repeated lesson, but which
so many of their descendants obstinately refuse to profit
by.

It redounds therefore to the credit of Georgie Yickers
that she had more sense than a good many other people,

and was able to come to a timely decision in such a critical
and momentous matter — for virtually this was her first
venture, since the other had turned out to be no marriage
at all. Convinced beyond all doubt of the great love
which was once more offered to her, and equally convinced
on the other hand of Hector's cold indifference,
and that he adhered to his engagement solely from a sense
of honour, Georgie was resolved to draw back ere it was too
late, and had no longer any hesitation in choosing her
future fate, especially since the long-suffering love of this
faithful man had awakened at last an honest response in
her own heart.

The shadows without slowly lengthened on the lawn and
crept into the room, darkening the further corners, and
throwing the dainty objects around into a mysterious
gloom ; but the new light which dawned on the future of
these two people — a light born thus in the growing shades
of evening — outlived the darkness, and turned night into
day by the bright rays of promised peace and lasting
happiness.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE LEOPARD And HIS PREY.

Mischief that may be help'd, is hard to know,
And danger going on still multiplies."

Lord Brooke.

So Georgie Vickers did not go back to Barring-tree, and
a few days after the interview just recorded, when she was
expected to return, a letter arrived in her stead — a letter
for Hector Grayle, in which she expressed a desire that
the engagement between them might be broken off then
and there. She very clearly set forth her reasons for this
step, and urged that such a measure would be better for
them both, and possibly more conducive to their future
happiness ; with which Hector fully concurred. She went
so far as to say that she was well assured he could never
love her, since his affections were already bestowed on
another ; and this he could scarcely deny. She explained
further, that their engagement had been brought about
entirely through extraneous influence, and confessed
without scruple that there was a sad story connected with
her past life ; that when they plighted their troth she was
living, so to say, under a cloud, the secret of which it did
not behove her to explain, and would not benefit him to
know. It was as well, however, that he should be made

acquainted with one fact — that this mystery had unfortunately
placed her in the power of his highly-esteemed
friend, Albert Heffernan, who had taken advantage of it
by urging her imperatively to play her cards so as to bring
him (Hector) to her feet. This she believed Heffernan did
for some hidden purpose of his own, which she could not
pretend to fathom, and not merely as acting in the interests
of the Grayle family to prevent a mesalliance. Certain
events had rendered her callous to the threats and evil
influence of this man, and she now sought to annul her
unhappy betrothal, as a duty both to herself and her fellow-victim
— for she considered they had been equally victimized
by his crafty intrigue.

Georgie confessed that Hector had once possessed her
love, but finding it unreciprocated, had been left to patch
up her heart as best she could. Then abruptly turning
from the subject, she went on to say that another duty
remained to be performed, in that she desired to warn
Hector seriously against his false friend, whom she had
no hesitation in pronouncing an unscrupulous villain, and
shuddered at the very idea of a sweet, innocent girl like
Agnes Grayle being sacrificed to such a monster ; and
with this Parthian shot at her old enemy she brought her
letter to a close.

No mention was made of Major Bonus, nor of any
prospects in the future, for Georgie supposed that her
engagement with Hector once at an end, neither he nor
his family could have any further interest in her affairs.

Hector perused the letter with mingled feelings of
relief and regret ; he was glad enough to receive his cone,
bnt at the same time felt a natural compunction at having
caused this little woman any pain or sorrow. He could
not deny that the summary measure she had thought fit
to adopt showed a great deal of common sense and proper

pride on her part, and admired her none the less for the
spirit thus displayed.

Usually reticent as he was on such matters, he was
unable to keep the purport of Georgie's letter a secret
from his family j indeed the announcement was necessary
as a matter of form. The intelligence scarcely took them
by surprise, however, for the recent aspect of affairs had
prepared them for it. George Grayle seemed specially
sorry for his little Anglo-Indian friend, and rated his son
rather severely for having trifled, as he considered, with
her affections. But Hector thought that lie had been the
aggrieved party if any one was, and could not be brought
to blame Himself at all. Without much hesitation he
despatched a delicately-worded reply to Georgie, in which
he accepted her decision with a quiet, gentlemanlike resignation,
and with just a sufficient sprinkling of sentiment
to prevent the context from appearing harsh or unfeeling.
But that part of her letter having reference to Albert
Heffernan, Hector was careful not to disclose at present,
for he thought that her opinion of his friend must perforce
be much prejudiced by past circumstances. It is true that
of late he himself had rather distrusted the genuine merits
of Gertrude's paragon ; but now that Heffernan was so
shortly to be married to his sister, and there seemed
no substantial, reason for putting obstacles in the way
of such marriage, he considered it would be highly injudicious
to poison Agnes' mind against her future husband,
or to say anything which might lead others to do so.

The sudden collapse of Hector's projected alliance with
Georgie Vickers occasioned Heffernan some anxiety at the
time, but far less than it would have done a few months
before. To a certain extent he, with others, had anticipated
such a result, and had become resigned to the
overthrown of his plans in this direction. Now that Mrs.

Corcoran was dead, his secret, as he believed, was solely in
his own keeping, and latterly there had been no dangerous
symptoms in the affinity of things between the Hall and
the Lodge. In short, Heffernan began to think that the
apprehended renewal of Hector's first love was entirely a
false alarm, and in his fancied security was almost inclined
to pooh-pooh any imaginary danger that might arise
therefrom.

It is hardly necessary to add, that he had not the slightest
intention of carrying out the solemn promise made to Mrs.
Corcoran on her death-bed, from which his convenient conscience
easily absolved him, for had not his oath been
exacted by compulsion? But he little anticipated the
snare which his own treachery had laid for him, and how,
in his elaborate schemes, he had overreached himself, and
stood in imminent danger of the recoil.

The shooting season was once more in full swing, and
the November fogs and mists had returned to the earth
with a faithful punctuality, true to the month's character,
but unacceptable to grumbling mankind. A week's dose
of this seasonable unpleasantness gave way to a few less
Novemberish days, and on one of these mornings an incident
occurred at Barringtree which created a slight sensation
at the time, and was the precursor of more startling
events to follow. It was, in fact, the first of a series which
proved to Albert Heffernan how fallacious was his hope
respecting Hector and Lizzie, and subsequently undeceived
him as to his own imagined safety.

It may be remembered that he made the Squire a
present of a baby-leopard on his return from India, and this
animal, now more than half grown and a fine specimen of
its kind, had become a special pet of Heffernan's. Savage
and untameable in its nature, Nawab, as the creature was
christened, was nevertheless docile and tractable enough

under his control, and he frequently took it out with him
for a walk in the park, with nothing to keep it in check
but an ordinary dog-chain attached to a strong leathern
collar.

He had been often warned that the animal would sometime
or other break away from him at the deer or cattle,
and probably play havoc with the herds, or at any rate,
when once loose, would prove dangerous to the public
safety; but Heffernan laughed at the idea, and declared
such a contingency highly improbable, considering the
complete mastery he held over the Nawab.

On this particular day, however, to which I am
alluding (a non-shooting morning), he was taking his
spotted friend for a constitutional in the park, when they
chanced to meet Lizzie and old Mizpah at the abrupt
corner of a plantation. So suddenly did they come across
each other, that Lizzie had neither time to turn aside
herself nor to withdraw her dog from danger. Now this
was the first occasion that the leopard had been within
such tempting distance of one of the canine species, its
natural prey, and true to its fierce instincts, it immediately
crouched for a spring, and the next moment bounded
forward, snatched the chain from Heffernan's grasp and
fastened itself on the luckless Mizpah. But in the sturdy
St. Bernard the young savage found a tougher customer
than he had bargained for, and a desperate struggle ensued.
As the two animals rolled over and over in mortal conflict,
Heffernan made repeated efforts to recover the "chain and
drag them apart, while poor Lizzie stood by, wringing her
hands, and screaming in helpless terror at the threatened
fate of her favourite.

Her agonized cries were fortunately heard by Rolfe, who
was on the further side of the plantation, and in a few
minutes the old keeper, carrying a gun as usual, hurried

breathlessly to the spot. Seeing the critical position of
affairs, and that Heffernan could do nothing to save the
dog", Rolfe, without a second's hesitation, stepped up to
the combatants, and promptly placing" the muzzle of his
fun at a favourable moment to the head of the infuriate
leopard, discharged both barrels and blew out its brains.

Immediately the dying brute relinquished its hold, the
brave old dog staggered to his feet, torn and bleeding, and
went in for a final charge at his fallen foe, who lay stretched
out on the grass quivering in the agonies of death. Rolfe
had some difficulty in taking him off, and the indignant
Mizpah then limped to his mistress' side, when Lizzie, in
anxious fear, knelt down to examine his wounds.

Much to the surprise of both Rolfe and his adopted
daughter, Heffernan, instead of expressing any regret for
the injury done to the St. Bernard, now assumed an angry,
bullying tone towards the keeper, and threatened him with
disagreeable consequences for having destroyed one of the
Squire's particular pets.

You're not aware perhaps of the value of that animal,"
said he, " and that it was worth at least five times as much
as your wretched dog."

Well, he aunt now anyway, sir," replied Rolfe, abruptly,
nettled at the tone in which he was spoken to. " I'm sorry
to have killed the beast certainly, but I wasn't going' to let
my little gal's, pet be scrunched up to please nobody."

My father was perfectly right, sir," exclaimed Lizzie
in an excited tone, as she knelt caressingly beside the outraged
Mizpah ; " and I think any gentleman with proper
feeling would be more sorry for the dreadful injuries done
to this noble animal than for the death of that useless
wild beast."

Oh, that's your view of the matter, is it, Miss Rolfe ?"
replied Heffernan, with a sinister smile. " I rather fancy

the Squire will take a different one; however, we shall
see' «

Yes, and that's my view too, Careen, so I don't mind
tellin' yer," cried Rolfe," and I can't help it if the Squire
do hear me— a nasty dangerous brute like this" — here he
gave the dead leopard a slight kick — " aunt fit to be kep on
a civilised place, and wouldn't be — leastways not going'
about loose, if you hadn't ha' took it — "

u Come, Rolfe, people's tongues are sometimes longer
than their tempers, I know ; but let me advise you to
keep a civil one in your head, or it may be the worse for
you."

My father's not uncivil, Captain Heffernan," began
Lizzie ; u he's only saying what he thinks, and very sensibly
too—"

Hush, my little dear, don't you mind," interposed the
keeper. " You get on home with poor old Mizpah, and 'tend
to his hurts directly, while I go up to the Hall, see the
Squire myself, and explain the matter."

You won't find it easy to explain away the fact, my
good man," said Heffernan, " that you've killed a valuable
beast, and that in the most deliberate and wanton manner—"


Dang it, sir ! you can't tell him that and say the truth,
anyhow. You didn't think I was going' to stand by in cold
blood, like you was a coin', and see old Mizpah clawed up
by that there varmint, as I said afore — "

I don't understand you, man j I tried to get back the
chain and separate them — "

u Essay you did, sir, but I think mine was the best
plan after all."

Your master shall decide about that. I don't wish for
any more discussion on the matter," rejoined Heffernan,
haughtily. " Now I'll trouble you to pick up the remains

of your handiwork if you please" (nodding at the Nawab's
body), "and carry it with me to the stables.'-'

Well, I ain't under your orders, Cap'en/' returned Rolfe,
goaded more than ever by the other's imperative tone, and
losing that respectful manner which, to his superiors, was
almost his second nature ; " but since so be it's the Squire's
property, dead or alive, I repose I must. Hi ! here,
Phillips \" he called as one of the under keepers opportunely
drew near ; " come and help us with this darned carcase ;
we mustn't let a gentleman sile his fingers with such carrion,
must us ? so just you lend a hand here."

Rolfe said this with a sort of covert sarcasm, not exactly
knowing himself what he meant, but intending to be
ironical whilst he felt the advisability of appearing civil.
Phillips, as directed, now cut a strong ash pole from a
neighbouring copse, and, fastening the leopard's pads across
this in the approved sporting fashion, they hoisted it fore
and aft on their shoulders and started towards the stables.

Heffernan meanwhile had preceded them, and hastened
up to the house to make a due report of the matter to
the Squire after his own version. Accident had here
offered him a splendid chance, he thought, of really getting
rid of these Rolfes at last, and he was prepared to make
the best of his opportunity, and the worst of the affair to
the Squire.

Georgie Vickers having slipped through his fingers, and
Hector being free to make a fool of himself again, Heffernan
saw his way to improving such a chance, moreover, by
representing matters in this light, and by falling back on
the old argument, convince the Squire, and George Grayle
also, of the dangerous temptation held out to the romantic
youth by Lizzie's continued presence in the neighbourhood.


On reaching the Hall red hot with his story of the

catastrophe, he found that old Mr. Grayle had driven into
the town, and would not return till after luncheon, so the
cunningly concocted statement had a little time to cool,
and, unless he kept a good look-out, HefTernan feared he
might not obtain the first hearing, which was half the
battle.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE DAWN OF A NEW LIFE.

Adjure numquam earn me deserters,
Non si capiendos mihi siam esse inimical omnes homines ;
Hand mihi expletive, continent ; convenient mores ; valiant
Qui inter nos discidium volant; hand, nisi mors, mi adieu nemo." 1

Terence.

Lizzie had always been very proud of the big stately
Mizpah, as much for his bigness as beauty; but now
while she returned slowly towards the keeper's lodge, and
her wounded hero limped painfully beside her, she would
have given worlds had he been a little puny lap-dog, that
she might take him in her arms and run home with him.
It was most distressing to see the poor old fellow labouring
along with drooping stern and lolling tongue ; but since
carrying him was out of the question, she could only get
him home by easy stages, and halted every few yards to
caress and encourage him.

At a. little sedgy marsh, about two hundred yards from

1 I swear that I will never desert her, even though I were, sure that
I should make all men my enemies. Her have I desired above all
things, her have I obtained. Our humours agree ; farewell to those
who would set us at variance. Nothing but death shall deprive me of
her.

the middle of the avenue, she found some water, where she
stopped for several minutes, and with a wetted handkerchief
bathed the dog's wounds.

Thus earnestly occupied, Lizzie heeded not the sound of
a horse's hoofs trotting rapidly down the drive, and which
came to a sudden standstill as they drew level with the
swampy spot, when Hector Grayle, mounted on a slashing
bay mare, emerged from the avenue. He had caught sight
of Lizzie and the St. Bernard, and seeing her thus occupied,
at once quitted the road and made towards her. Before
he came within speaking distance she heard the horse
approaching, and turned to see who it was ; then Hector,
raising his hat to her as if she had been a duchess, inquired
what had happened ; and Lizzie, with a white face and
pained expression, told him all.

Oh, poor dear old dog ! what dreadfully bad luck ! "
exclaimed Hector, dismounting instantly, and stooping
down to examine Mizpah. " Do let me see if I can do anything
to help you. Is he able to walk ? "

« Hardly, I'm afraid—"

u And you want him taken up to the lodge, don't you ?
I couldn't well carry him myself, and should only hurt him
if I tried ; but there's a donkey-cart going down the avenue,
I'll go and fetch it directly."

So saying, he sprang back into the saddle and galloped
off, returning in a few minutes, with the cart jogging
along in his wake. Its only burden comprised a few
empty sacks, on which Mizpah was carefully laid, and
they then moved off towards the lodge. Hector had
again dismounted, and leading his mare, walked beside
Lizzie in rear of the cart. It was but a short distance
they had to go, besides which, there was a third
party present, in the owner of the donkey, who listened
with gaping wonder to all that was said ; so their convert

111. Q

nation was necessarily restricted to the recent unlucky
incident.

Since Hector had received Georgie's letter, cancelling"
their engagement, he had been a good deal away from
Barringtree, off and on, shooting at other places ; and this,
perhaps, deterring an immediate revival of his rustic
romance, had led Heffernan to take a sanguine view of that
much vexed question. But the dangerous malady only lay
dormant in Hector's nature, and was ready to break out
afresh with increased virulence on the first opportunity.
That opportunity had come at last, and a delicious thrill of
joy darted through his frame when he recollected that he
was again free, and could now speak to her he loved so
tenderly without that painful constraint which characterized
their last meeting.

On arriving at the keeper's lodge Hector gave the
donkey-man a shilling for his trouble, and Mizpah was
removed from the cart and taken indoors. Hector then
secured his mare to the garden railings, and following in
the capacity of a dog veterinary, joined Lizzie by the fire,
in front of which her wounded favourite had stretched
himself as if waiting to be doctored.

Old Rolfe being up at the Hall, and his wife absent at a
neighbour's cottage, the lodge was practically deserted, and
was in possession of a little girl from the village who was
left to open the park-gates. Hence Hector and Lizzie
found themselves alone once more within the humble walls
where the first flutter of Cupid's wings had warned them
of the old, old story which was to follow.

Es list eine alter Geschichte,
Doch bleibt sie simmer neu."

Their attention was entirely taken up for some time by
the dumb patient under their care, and they displayed

much skill in washing* and swathing his wounds in linen
bandages. It was fortunate, as Hector remarked, that the
leopard was only a youngster, or Mizpah's injuries would
probably have proved fatal. This joint occupation, of
course, afforded scope for unlimited flirtation — that is to
say, it would have done to any two young people who were
not in earnest ; but these two were very much so, consequently
there was no sly squeezing of hands, stealing of
kisses, and other surreptitious proceedings peculiar to imitation
courtships. On the contrary, they did what they had
to do in a very systematic and businesslike way, and for
the most part confined their conversation to the subject
under treatment.

But when Mizpah had been thoroughly attended to,
Hector sought to improve the golden minutes. Time
literally seemed to fly while they were thus alone together,
and he was in momentary dread of their delicious solitude
being broken in upon. Uneasily he approached the lattice
window, as if to see whether his mare was all right, but
probably peeping for, and half suspecting, the return of one
or other of the old people. This would have been most inopportune
just then, for no word of love had yet passed
his lips, and he had so much to say.

All the while he had been conversing on irrelevant subjects
a deep undercurrent of thought was passing through
his mind, which ended in a determination that this very
hour should decide their fates once and for all — so far as
they were mutually concerned in the time to come. He
was well assured how deeply he loved this beautiful girl —
that his love for her was a real and sacred thing, and
increased, if possible, every hour he lived. He had learned
thus much long ago, before he went to India, but more
forcibly than ever since his return; and the agony of
feeling himself on the eve of marriage with another woman,

<*2

whom he did not love, had been his punishment for being*
so wretchedly weak — so weak in his faith, and weaker still
in allowing* himself to be led and influenced by others.
That Lizzie still loved him, with more consistent loyalty
than he had shown, he well knew ; and for his faithlessness
where she had proved so true, he felt he owed immediate
reparation which he intended should be made.
There was no longer any need for procrastination, and
there should be none if she were only agreed. He was
prepared for her sake to defy all his family and friends
especially the latter, he reflected, while Heffernan's oily
words seemed to sound in his ears — yes, he was ready
to defy them all if they dared to try and thwart him
further in this matter.

Doubtless Mrs. Grundy, who ruled society T , would
denounce such a proceeding on his part as utterly scandalous;
but what cared he for that empty-headed old
woman's opinion so long as he married the girl who ruled
his heart ?

He came back to the fire, and watched Lizzie for a few
moments in silence, as she sat beside her faithful dog and
soothed him in his suffering.

Lizzie ! "

She looked up at him as he thus pronounced her name,
for in that tone there was a soft significance, something
so sweetly appealing, something she quite understood, and
which called the blushes to her cheeks as their eyes met.
Lizzie, do you remember this very time four years ago,
when I lay in yonder little room under your tender nursing,
a wounded patient like poor old Mizpah there ? " (Ah ! too
well she remembered, and all she had suffered in consequence
; but no sigh nor murmur escaped her now, for
something whispered that her reward was near at hand.)
a It is a time never to be forgotten by me ; he continued,

M for there it was that I first learnt how to love. Oh, my
own darling, need I tell it all over again ? Surely you can
read my heart in my face. You know all now, and you
know that I am free once more to ask you — say, will you
be my wife ? "

He took her hand gently while he spoke, and she made
no effort to withdraw it, her heaving bosom telling the tale
of joyful emotion within.

I well know I have done enough to forfeit such hoped-for
happiness, but I have indeed been taught a bitter
lesson. If I ever doubted you, darling, I implore you
to forgive me; such doubts were cruelly instilled into
my mind by others. But my deep love has outlived all
worldly opposition — all the elaborate efforts to undermine it
and I well know you have never changed."

He raised her tenderly from her seat, and she stood beside
him, silent, but no longer avoiding his ardent gaze, and
looking with her soft eyes into his, with oh ! such a depth of
impassioned eloquence.

Poor girl ! she had lost him once, and, as she thought,
for ever. But, now that he had come back to her, she clung
to him w T with childish helplessness ; nor could she find it in
her woman's nature, rendered so timid and jealous of the
past, to offer a single protest, or to point out the same
difficulties w T which stood in their way. She only knew that
she trusted him with her whole heart, and prayed that God
would bless their love. Like a brave martyr as she was,
Lizzie had tried hard to abide by the ascetic dictates of
her conscience ; but in all the tortuous windings of their
course of love, which had brought them at last within
view of the blissful haven, she seemed to recognize the
hand of Fate, and tacitly gave way to her lover's earnest
pleading.

Her graceful figure yielded to his will, for he replied to

her speaking silence by folding her in his arms, and pressing
a long kiss on her sweet lips. It was a kiss, not for the
minute only, but for the rest of their lives — a holy kiss, as
sacred to them as the vow before the altar which should
bind them together until death.

Nothing shall part us again, my darling," he said, ashe
held her tightly to his heart and fondly stroked the
rippling hair on her white forehead with his disengaged
hand, " nothing in this world. Trust me, dear one, there
shall soon be no more opposition, no more paltry scruples ;
our great love shall carry all before it, and conquer every
difficulty. This day shall be for us as the dawn of a new
life, in which we will live for each other. Only trust me,
darling, and let us brave the storm together hand in
hand."

He spoke, as he felt, from the depths of his heart, and
his words seemed to inspire her with a stronger feeling of
hope than she had known before. She could not help being
affected by his sanguine nature, and already the couleur de
rose aspect of the future, as he portrayed it, filled her
bosom with delirious joy.

I do trust you," she murmured softly, " with my whole
soul ; and by your every thought and wish I will abide, for
I am yours at last — at last — oh, my own love V

Her words were scarcely audible, but Hector heard them
to the lowest syllable, and his heart bounded within him,
while she sobbed, almost hysterically, on his shoulder, under
the emotional impulse of overwrought happiness.

Of the outer world at that happy moment they were
utterly oblivious, therefore it was not likely that they should
hear the cottage-door open behind them. But Mizpah
did, and raised his weary head as if to warn off any third
person who would intrude upon the sanctity of these
interesting lovers.

"Why, deary me, Mr. Hector! so it is! I couldn't
make out what that horse was coin' outside. But I beg
pardon, sir, I'm sure." Mrs. Rolfe dropped a curtsey, and
didn't quite know what to say. She felt she had come in
at an awkward juncture, and so apologized, though it never
occurred to her that if any apology were due at all, it was
due to, instead of from, her.

The young people started violently, as though they had
been on a desert island, and never suspected a human
creature to be within a thousand miles. The blushing
Lizzie looked much confused and rather foolish, but Hector
quickly recovered his equanimity. He explained first about
Mizpah's battle with the leopard and the dog's injuries
(concerning which Mrs. Rolfe appeared most solicitous, as
if she had seen nothing of the love-making), and, further,
how he had helped to bring Mizpah home —

And — and — you see, Mrs. Rolfe, being here alone with
your daughter, I — I couldn't well help it — I was obliged
to tell her the truth, and now— since you've come in and
caught us, I'd better confess to you as well."

Hector then told her a good deal that she knew already ;
how he loved Lizzie more devotedly than he could express ;
how he had first fallen in love with her under that very
roof, soon after he was brought in half dead on a hurdle ;
how cruelly they had been separated by mischievous interference
(when he very nearly lost her altogether, and
married some one else) ; and how they were now resolved
never again to be parted. Then he went on to say how he
intended to make her his wife, and, by showing his family
that he was really in earnest, secure their consent at last,
and overrule all narrow-minded objections; or, if not,
marry without.

Hector declared this in very fervid, high-flown language,
more or less Greek to Mrs. Rolfe ; but she saw he

meant what he said, and if the first part of the announcement
was stale news to her, the latter was not, and she
heard it with much pleasurable surprise. She never thought
it would really come to this, and knew how delighted
Gideon would be that their little girl should be so much
loved by a gentleman, who would marry her and give her a
beautiful home fit for a lady. Mrs. Rolfe was quite flustered
and nervous, and, thinking they had all been standing long
enough, said, —

"Won't you please to sit down, Mr. Hector? What
you've just told me has quite took my breath away, and if
you'll excuse me, sir, must if it was ever so." Whereupon
she dropped into the nearest chair, and, taking off her
bonnet and shawl in an agitated manner, handed them to
Lizzie to hang up, and then continued, " I won't say that
I'm not surprised, Mr. Hector, 'cos I am ; but I will say
that whatever blessings God sees fit to send that dear child,
ain't a bit more than she deserves. It ain't for me, Mr.
Hector, to tell you whether it's right, or sensible, or likely
to please your good family, to take a wife from among us
folks— you know best, I suppose, for you're a gentleman
growed up to man's 'state ; but I must tell you one thing,
what I've always said and always shall say, that that sweet
little rosebud there, as me and my old man calls her, is
more fitted to be a lady a great deal than to live all her life
with such as us — "

No, no, mother dear ! pray don't say that," interposed
Lizzie.

But I do say it, my dear. And that's just where it is,
Mr. Hector ; she calls me her mother, bless her, but I
ain't. It's my belief, and Gideon's too, that she is a lady
born,, if we could but know the truth ; and, since you are
a-going' to marry her, it's only right that I should tell you
that much, and a bit more too."

Then out it all came about Lizzie's romantic history — at
least, what Mrs. Rolfe knew of it — to which Hector listened
with intense surprise. The details would have been interesting
to any one ; but, situated as he was with regard
to this girl, it was a great deal more than interesting — it
amounted to positive anxiety; and he was determined to
spare no pains to discover her parentage.

"Why did you never tell me this before, Lizzie ?" he
asked, when Mrs. Rolfe had concluded.

u I was on the point of doing so once' she answered,
but I hesitated, because I didn't think it would do any
good, and I knew no more than you have just heard. Of
course I always felt that there was a mystery about my
origin, which I ought to have explained to you if I could ;
but, you see, it was out of my power to do so. My memory
carries me back no further than a certain point, although at
times I have had very dim recollections of earlier days ; but
they have only come to me as a faded dream, and nothing
seems able to bring them back afterwards when I try to
think."

But you must help us by and by, darling, by trying to
think again — " rejoined Hector, " to think with all your
might, and see if you can remember the least circumstance
that may give us a clue' Lizzie promised she would try,
but was afraid it would be of no use. a And now' he
resumed, addressing Mrs. Rolfe, " I want to ask you to let
what has passed between us this morning remain a secret
for a short time, at least. Of course, you'll tell your
husband, and so will I directly I see him ; but no one else,
please. I will explain my reasons, and you may rely on it
there shall be no unnecessary delay in our marriage, nor
will I long postpone announcing the impending event to
my family. But, meanwhile, there's another wedding to
come otf — that of my sister and Captain Heffernan — which

will take place on the 9th of next month ; so I think it will
be better to wait until after that is over, and give Barringtree
breathing time before we take them by surprise. "

Mrs. Wolfe said she left matters entirely to him, and
was quite sure he would do all for the best ; and with that,
considerately left the room, and gave them a few more
minutes alone together.

By the bye, darling, " Hector observed presently, during
their further conversation, " about these theatricals we're
going to get up. My sister tells me she has asked you to
take a part; and you will accept, I hope; so remember
we begin rehearsals tomorrow. But, to preserve our secret
for the present, we must be most guarded when we meet at
the house. You won't mind that little piece of deception,
will you ? "

Lizzie was too happy to mind anything, and told him
she would not act at all, if he did not wish it; but her
lover replied that, on the contrary, he did wish it, for more
reasons than one.

So Hector Grayle had everything his own way that
morning, and having arranged his future, and Lizzie's also,
to their mutual satisfaction, he began to think it time to go
home, especially as it was long past the Rolfe's dinner-hour,
and luncheon at the Hall would be about finished
when he got back ; not that he cared for luncheon — whoever
did that was really in love, or any other meal for that
matter ?

As he was leaving the lodge, Lizzie, who accompanied
him to the gate, reverted to the leopard affair with some
anxiety, and earnestly begged him to intercede with the
Squire, and make all possible excuse for Rolfe's having shot
the animal. It was quite unavoidable, and only done to save
her dog, she urged ; but she was afraid Captain Heffernan
might make mischief about it, for he was very angry at the

time, and seemed inclined to be rather resentful towards the
keeper. Hector, however, relieved her anxiety by promising
to conciliate his grandfather, and, after " just one
more' swung himself into the saddle and rode off at a sharp
canter down the avenue, waving his hat to her until the
trees hid him from view.

As he pounded along the soft turf, he felt inclined to
shout for very joy, he was so utterly happy, and with
difficulty confined himself to a rollicking hunting chorus,
which he kept up as he trotted into the stable-yard, thus
giving the grooms musical notice of his return.

He was very late for luncheon, of course, and came in
for little else than tepid fag-ends ; but being in such high
spirits nothing could seem amiss to him, so he fell back
on the sideboard for cold meats, and laughed and talked
more cheerily than had been usual with him for some time
past. Gertrude noticed this with secret gratification, and
observed to Albert Heffernan, who sat next to her, that
she was delighted to see the dear boy like himself once
more, and only hoped he wouldn't be so silly as to fall in
love again at present. So did the mentor, for he had had
enough of Hector's little love affairs to last him for many a
day — though he hadn't quite done with them yet.

The Squire did not come back till past four o'clock,
but Heffernan was on the watch for him, and actually
button-holed him as he was alighting from the carriage
at the Hall door. Meanwhile Hector had been having
a long talk with Rolfe in the stables, and was only aware
of his grandfather's return when he saw the brougham
drive round into the yard. Then, remembering his promise
to Lizzie, he forthwith went into the house to make the
best of matters about the leopard's death, whilst Heffer-nan,
who thus got a slight start of him, had been doing
exactly the reverse. Hector soon ascertained this to be

so, and a slight skirmish of words ensued eventually between
the tale-teller and the pleader.

Naturally it was rather awkward for Heffernan to have
his version of the affair stultified by this untimely interference.
But since he had been an eye-witness of the
occurrence, he hoped to hold his ground, and that his
statement would be believed in spite of any contradiction
from either the culprit, his advocate, or the girl.

Hector'' he observed, in his blandest tones, " you must
really excuse my saying all this in opposition to the lenient
view you would take of the man's conduct. Fm merely
stating facts to your grandfather; and remember, I saw what
happened, and you didn't. Besides, what possible object could
shave in getting the fellow into trouble? whereas, pardon me
for saying so, you might well have some interest in trying to
get him off, for reasons which we needn't mention, I think."

He said this with a good-humoured laugh, and gave a
significant look at the Squire, who well understood what
was meant. Hector accepted the pleasant laugh in the
light of an offensive taunt, and replied with warmth that
he begged Heffernan would offer no further interference in
his affairs, if he continued to do so in other people's.

He had never got over the discovery that it was this
man who had been the most active agent in that 
process to which his first love had been subjected,
and it made him excessively irritable whenever he
was reminded of the fact. Added to this, Georgie Vickers'
warning had not been altogether lost on him, for he thought
there must be something in it, or she would never have
spoken so strongly. He felt so annoyed at the present
moment with his quondam confidential friend that he
couldn't trust himself to remain in the room any longer
for fear of offering him a downright insult, and therefore
hurried out, leaving the rival ambassador master of the field.

I say quondam confidential friend, for somehow that friendship
had slowly and surely become a thing of the past, sofar
as Hector was concerned, the relations between the
two having for some time been rather strained ; not that
Heffernan cared much about losing Hector's regard, so
long as he didn't lose Hector's sister, and the latter contingency
seemed remote enough now, on the very eve of
his marriage.

Being left alone again with the Squire the practised
gambler played his remaining trump card (viz., Hector's
danger) against his adversaries, the Rolfes, but, strange to
say, the Squire failed to follow suit as expected, so Heffer-nan
lost the trick ! In short, all the most stringent arguments
failed to prejudice the master against the servant,
consequently, old Rolfe's position was not so much injured
by Heffernan's malicious cunning as that gentleman was
discomfited by his own signal failure.

CHAPTER XXIII.
can't you remember ? "

Lull'd in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are link'd by many a hidden chain ;
Awake but one, and lo, what myriads rise !
Each stamps its image as the other flies."

Pope.

The troopship Malabar anchored at S spithead, with Joe
Corcoran on board, on the night of the 29th of November,
and on the afternoon of the 30th the gigantic ex-private
presented himself at his uncle's house at Barringtree.

Immediately he received the letter from his deceased
mother, which had perfectly astounded him, he applied for
his discharge, and without loss of time returned to England
j so he was now on the spot to see that Mrs. Corcoran' s
dying injunctions were duly carried out, otherwise he was
prepared to adopt the alternative measure, if necessary,
and enforce their observance.

To the Sickness Joe was quite a curiosity, and more
like a foreign stranger than a blood relation. His absence
for so many years had rendered him long past identification ;
but there was no deception about him — no Wagga-wagga
business here ; he was the real Joe, as large as life (a good
deal larger than the average), and nobody else could have
any object in palming himself off as the real Joe if he

wasn't. So his uncle and aunt took him on trust, and save
him a hearty welcome to their hospitable roof.

Joe was more barrackyfied than ever, and very mysterious
withal. He remarked several times at supper, a prows of
nothing*, that he didn't want it snowed at up the Hall yet
that he'd come home from Injer ; but when he was asked
why, he said he couldn't tell them, and shook his stolid
pate with an impenetrable air. Old Sickles and his wife
hardly a knew t'roights " what to make of their long-lost
nephew, and Simon thought his cousin was the " darnedest
mummies cove he ever come across, and no mistake." That
might be, but Joe was not a fool; at least not as to the
matter he had in hand, albeit he was tall enough to be one
in all things, if we are to accept the old Greek proverb,
avons 6 fia/epos, as infallible ; though, most likely, some low-stature
ancient is responsible for such proverb, suggested
by feelings of jealousy.

Joe felt that he had a very ticklish part to play, and
must play it with great caution and circumspection. Notwithstanding
the shabby treatment by which he had been
victimized, he could not get over his regimental reverence
for his " Captain," and fully believed that HefFernan
would do the right thing at the right time if he were left
alone, without coercion being necessary. Besides, it was
a special stipulation that he should be given the chance
of doing so ; and this was clearly " laid down in the regulations,"
as Joe expressed it, looking upon his mother's
instructions from his own particular military point of view.
Of course that doffing of the red coat — that returning of
arms and accoutrements into store (for good aud all), was
not done without a regretful effort ; but the orders were
peremptory, and Joe Corcoran had no other order-book now
but his mother's dying words.

The morning after his arrival he betook himself to High

Lodge, and, knocking* gently as a timid child at the door,
it was opened by Mrs. Rolfe, who was astonished, after the
very mild summons, to find this huge Antaeus darkening
her cottage portal.

Joe stood very correctly to " attention' and gave a sort
of compromise between a formal salute and a civilian's
touch-o'-the-hat. He asked if Lizzie was at home, and
whether he could see her; to which Mrs. Rolfe put the
counter-question, rather suspiciously, as to who he was, and
what he wanted her for.

Well, mum' replied Joe, taking a step to the rear to
deliver himself with due importance, " the fact is, I've just
come back from Injer, mum, and my name's Joe Corcoran,
late of Her Majesty's 126th Cameronians, and I'm a old
friend of little Bessie's, that is Lizzie, as you call her ; an
old friend and playmate of hers, mum, when she was a
little mite, six or seven years old — so high." Here the ex-soldier,
still rigid and unbending, moved his hand and arm
out at right angles from the elbow as though he were
acting the pivot man on parade, and thereby indicating a
very strapping girl for her age.

My poor mother, she told me to come here and see her,
so I hope it's all right, mum," he added diffidently, for Mrs.
Rolfe's manner was not encouraging, and reminded him
rather of the searching glare of the drill sergeant when
Joe made a blunder in the ranks.

What ! Corcoran — your mother ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Rolfe, becoming enlightened ; " are you the poor woman's
son, then ?"

Yes, mum."

Why, bless us, I knew her well, and often heard her
speak o' you. Come in and sit down, man. Lawk-a-mussey,
if I didn't think you was a tramp — "

No, mum."

u But I don't understand. You tell me you knew our
Lizzie as a child ; now she never said nothing' about it tous
— your mother, I mean. Sit down and say out what
you're train' to say, do."

Joe took a chair by the chimney-corner, as invited, and
placed his billycock hat (fancy Joe in a billycock hat and
civilian's clothes ! ) beneath his seat with the same precision
with which he was wont to deposit his helmet or
forage cap when attending church or the musketry lecture-room.


Yes, mum' said he, clearing" his throat as he settled
himself for a discourse, " that's exactly how it is, mum.
I've got to explain matters to you ; faith, and very curious
matters too, as ye'll see, mum," he added, suddenly remembering
his Irish descent. " But isn't she here ?"

Joe looked all round the room, and finally up the chimney,
as if expecting to see her flash upon him like the eccentric
fairy in the nursery tale.

u Who ? Lizzie ? No she ain't, but she'll be in almost
immediate, I expect."

Ah, well, begorra, that's best she ain't in just now,
perhaps," said he, with a ruminating air, " 'cos I can tell
ye better what I've got to say alone, and thin I can bring
things back to her gradual-like afterwards."

Pray go on, man; I'm dying' to hear," cried Mrs. Rolfe,
all impatience, for she saw that this meant a clue to Lizzie's
identity at last, which was the very thing they were so
anxious to obtain.

Joe Corcoran slowly and deliberately drew out of his
pocket, with a sense of immense importance, his mother's
written confession. This he prefaced by a short preliminary
explanation, and then judiciously picked out certain parts
of the letter, sufficient to convey the story in a connected
form, without incriminating to any extent either the

VOL. III. E

deceased or " the Captain." All this, of course, he confided
to Mrs. Rolfe as a profound secret, which he only divulged
that she and her husband (to whom the same was to be
imparted), might understand Lizzie's rightful position.

Mrs. Rolfe was amazed and delighted by turns when she
heard the statement, and Joe had only just finished reading
it when Lizzie entered the cottage. As she appeared at
the door, with old Mizpah, who had almost recovered from
his wounds, Joe sprang from his chair with the usual rocket-like
motion, and waited for Mrs. Rolfe to speak first.

Lizzie' said she, " this gentleman here's called to see
you; he says he's an old friend of yours. Do you remember
him?"

Lizzie looked from one to the other in astonishment, and
said she was very sorry, but was afraid she didn't; then
seeing Mrs. Holfe smile she thought they were joking, and
so laughed herself, suddenly exclaiming, —

Oh, why, of course it's the big butcher from Pendleton.
I beg your pardon, sir, I see now — Mr. — Mr. — I forget
your name though." At which Joe burst out into a loud
bass guffaw, the old woman accompanying him in the
treble.

Now curiously enough the giant was something like
"the big butcher from Pendleton " (in his holiday attire),
who now and then flashed through Barringtree like a blue
meteor on his way to and from market, therefore Lizzie's
conjecture was natural enough. She thought he had come,
perhaps, to make her an offer of marriage, as more than one
admiring outsider, attracted by her beauty, had done before
now; their prolonged laughter, then, rather puzzled her,
showing that she had made a mistake.

No, I daresay you don't remember me, Miss," said Joe,
recovering his gravity. " I doesn't call you by your name,"
he added, in parenthesis, " what I snowed you by as a

littleton, so high" (right-hand pivot man again); " and /
shouldn't have snowed you now you've growed up, that I
shouldn't."

I don't understand ; who is it, mother ? M inquired
Lizzie, in bewilderment.

Oh, he'll tell yer, won't you, sir ? " said Mrs. Rolfe, ina
jocular and mysterious manner. u He's a very nice gentleman,
that's all I know ; so I'll just leave you together
while I go and get in some sticks, and he'll speak for his-self."
So saying, she abruptly quitted the room.

Lizzie thought the old woman was certainly demented,
and felt rather uncomfortable at being left alone with this
huge stranger ; but there was something in Joe's honest
time-piece of a face which reassured her.

For a few minutes after Mrs. Rolfe went out, Joe spoke
only of the weather — what lots of rabbits he'd seen in
the park as he came along — if she wouldn't like one for
supper, and sundry imbecile remarks of that kind. He
thought it better not to take a header into the subject all
at once, nor to confuse her mind with an avalanche of
reminiscences, but to bring things home to her "gradual-like,"
as he had suggested to Mrs. Rolfe. Hitherto Joe
had only called Lizzie u Miss," but this was part of his
craftiness ; he was keeping the once familiar name she
went by in her childhood in reserve, as a trump card to
play presently, for he thought nothing would be more likely
to restore the past to her mind. Joe might have been a
distinguished member of the detective force, he was so deep
and cunning in his plans. He was now waiting for a
favourable moment before he tried his experiment, and at
last it came. She had gone to the fire to rearrange the
logs, and her back was turned towards the room.

"Bessie!" he called suddenly, in an impressive manner.
Miss Bessie ! "

E 2

The young" girl started, and ceased her occupation for a
moment. Joe thought that would fetch her, for sure he
did, and was quite prepared for her to call him " Joe n
in return, and rush into his arms forthwith; but no, he was
disappointed.

Bessie, do you hear me?" he tried again, taking a step
nearer to her. ' • Don't you hear Joe calling you ? "

She turned to him in surprise, and wondered if he were
a lunatic, and whether she hadn't better dart to the door
and make a flying escape. His manner and remarks had
been queer, very queer and suspicious, and now he was getting
worse. Either he had caught the infection from Mrs. Rolfe,
whom she also fancied rather cracky this morning, or viceversa.


iC Excuse me, sir, but my name's Lizzie, if you were
speaking to me' she said; " but I thought perhaps you
saw somebody out of the window."

I was speaking' to you, Bessie, which that's the name
I know you by, and not the other — Bessie Farlane ; can't
you remember ? "

I really don't understand what you mean," she replied,
still wonderingly, and shaking her head.

Don't you ? Ah, well, we must try something else then
but I thought you'd be safe to recollect that," replied Joe,
quite crestfallen. "Can't you remember my name, then, if
you don't your own ? Joe — Joe Corcoran ? That's who I am,
Miss Bessie; and when I say Bessie, that's who you are, you
know — with the Farlane."

"When he mentioned the surname of Corcoran, Lizzie at
once associated it with the woman she had known during
the last three or four years, the Mrs. Corcoran who had
recently died, as they had heard. Then her thoughts went
further and further back, and the dim vision of a certain
dark face appeared to her indistinctly, as it had done more

than once before — a strange face, as she thought, and yet
vaguely familiar to her mind. Yes, a chord of memory
had been touched at last, and she stood gazing intently into
the fire, with her eyes fixed on the glowing embers like one
in a trance.

Joe discreetly remained silent, and left her to think thus
for several minutes uninterruptedly. While he watched her,
and waited anxiously till she should speak again, he could
not but observe how lovely she was. In the immovable
attitude of her refined and shapely figure — developed into
perfect symmetry during the last few years — she might
almost have been taken for some beautiful statue, but that
the delicate colour on her cheek and the sparkle in her earnest
eyes infused such life into the picture.

Corcoran ! is that your name ? Then who was Mrs.
Corcoran ? " she inquired at last.

M Why, faith, that was my mother, poor dear ! You knew
her when she was here, didn't you ? "

I did, and Fve sometimes fancied I knew her before
that — long — long ago." She paused, and pressed her hands
to her temples. Joe was getting quite excited. Suddenly
she exclaimed, —

I do remember now ! Didn't I live with her once when
I was quite little ? Yes — surely."

Of course you did. She was your nurse, ye know. And
can't you remember me? You can't have forgotten we,
your old play-fellow, Joe, what went away for a soldier a
many years since ? "

"Joe! Joe!" she repeated thoughtfully. " I knew Joe, of
course. Are you Joe then ? I was such a little thing; and
you were kind to me, weren't you ? Stay — it's all coming
back to me now," and again she paused to think.

The quiet and almost uneventful life which Lizzie had
led under the protection of the Rolfes, naturally rendered

it easier for her to recall the past'; and the recollections of
her childhood came crowding now into her mind one upon
another with marvellous rapidity, albeit there had been
nothing hitherto to preserve those recollections.

And can't you remember our cottage at Mentland ? "
asked Joe, assisting her, "and the pretty little garden
and?"

Yes, yes — and the great tall hop-sticks all round — "

And the railway what ruined close by, and how we used
to watch the trains together, and — ? "

Ha ! yes — oh, I know now ! " she almost screamed,
exclaiming piteously, " Oh, Joe, dear Joe, please don't take
me back there. I understand what you've come for, but
how did you find me out ? Do they know where I am ? Oh,
I see ; of course she told you — your mother. Oh, don't,
don't, please don't — " and she sank into a chair, covered
her face with her hands, and sobbed convulsively.

Hush, my dear, don't take on so for any's sake," said
Joe, soothingly, and placing his great hand tenderly on
her shoulder. u I'm not a going' to take you anywhere, my
pretty ; I only want you to remember who you are, and all
about it, that's all. You needn't be frightened indeed —
what is the matter, little 'un ? "

Oh, the train ! the train ! Don't you know what I
mean ? " she cried, in an agitated tone ; " that dreadful
train coming tearing along, and that little girl and me on
the line, and she couldn't get away quick enough — and
oh ! it was so awful ! it's all like yesterday to me now.
Oh, poor — poor little thing ! But it wasn't my fault, indeed,
Joe; and they wanted to catch me and punish me for
it, I know, and so I ran away."

There, there, nobody shall hurt you ; don't be afraid,
Bessie ; I'll take care of you."

But I don't wish to go back," she said, rising again.

No, no, you shan't ; besides there's no one to go back
to now. I only wanted to make you remember, and you
do, don't you*"

"Yes, indeed, too well. I remember also how miserable
I was."

Ah, I'm afraid you wasn't over happy, poor child; and
I was quite sorry to leave you when I went and 'listed,
'cos I snowed you hadn't nobody to take your part 'ceptin'
me."

And I did miss you, Joe; I recollect that too. I think
I should soon have run away from home, whether the
accident had occurred or not, I was so wretched. Of course
I see it's foolish to be frightened about it now, but that
little girl's death was on my mind for years and years;
indeed I've never forgotten it, and my childish terror
rushed back upon me so forcibly when you spoke of the
train. But — but even now it's not clear to me what happened
afterwards, or why your mother, when she was here,
never told me that — "

I essay it isn't very clear, my pretty 'un," interrupted
Joe ; " but you'll understand suckemstances directly, when
I read this here to you," taking the letter again from his
pocket : " and they made out to me and every one, that it
was you as was killed, instead 0' little Alice Frost. Dear !
dear ! "

Ah, yes, that was her name, poor child. I couldn't
think of it."

And I fretted awful about your supposed death, I can
tell ye. Well, some years after, I come across another
little 'un out in Injer, so like you she was, Bessie, the
sweetest little cherry ever seed ; I took to her wonderful.
And then she died, find — and — " Joe could scarcely speak fora
lump in his throat ; " that nearly broke my heart, Bessie,
that did ; and when she was a dying', poor little angel — "

He stopped short, for he could not go on, and felt
ashamed to show such weakness before a woman. Bless
his kind heart ! he had no reason to feel so. Presently he
made another effort.

u Poor little mite ! I — I told her how she'd be sure to
meet you up in heaven, Bessie; but 0' corse she didn't, 'cos
you wasn't gone there after all, and thank God for
that—"

Lizzie grasped his hand in silence, and Joe continued,
after a further pause, —

« Fve got a Injin bird, I have, an old pet 0' hers, what
she give me long ago, which it died just afore I left the
country, and so I had it stuffed, and I've got it along with
my kit done up in wool till I can get a glass case for it,
and you shall see it, Bessie. Lor, I feel quite a baby like
talking' of all this here, that I do," and he lifted his coat
sleeve to his eyes, and brushed away two great tears
with that mechanical motion savouring so of the parade-ground,
" but I know you don't mind hearing' it, Bessie."

No, indeed ; do tell me more, Joe. I never heard anything
so sad and touching."

So Joe fondly dwelt still further on the subject of little
Gwennie and her mournful end, and Lizzie evinced a sympathizing
interest in all the sorrowful details.

At length he slowly unfolded his mother's letter, and
said, —

u Now, my dear, we must come back to what I'm here
for, and that's to let you know exactly how you stand in
the world, which I've been longing' to tell ye. You must
just hear this, every line, for I won't keep nothing from
you, so sit you down while I read it."

Lizzie complied, and Joe drew a chair, near her, and then
went through the whole lengthy effusion in an impressive,
laborious fashion, only stopping now and then to make

some appropriate remark, or to answer some question she
put to him.

There, Bessie'' he said, as he finished, " that's the
whole of my poor mother's dying' words, 'shamed as I am
to have to own it ; her confession to me of the cruel
wrong what she and your own brother — half-brother, I
should say — did to you, a little mite of a helpless child,
years and years ago; and may God forgive ; em for
it ! which I've prayed night and day that He have forgive
my poor mother, who's dead and gone ; and I do hope,
Bessie, you'll try and forgive her too, in your heart,
which she imployed " (he meant implored) " me to ask
you, afore she died."

"And I do forgive her, Joe, freely; though she is
now beyond either the condemnation or forgiveness of
mortals. It is her accomplice who is most to blame in this
wicked plot, this Captain Heffernan. To think that that
man should be Albert Denby, my half-brother, whom I
remember now so well, and who I know always hated meas
a child. It is strange that I never before recognized
that dark, handsome, evil-looking face, for he is but little
changed. The other day, however, I fancied I had seen it
before ; he was angry at the time, and the hard look he
gave me seemed somehow associated with the long ago
w r which I couldn't recall then. But now I recollect him
distinctly. Perhaps I might have done so sooner, had he
still gone by the name of Denby ; and yet I hardly know —
I required much assistance to remember anything connected
w 7 with my childhood, didn't I, Joe ? "

You did, and I was beginning to get afraid it couldn't
be you after all."

Then it's really true that I am a lady ? "

O' course, my dear."

Lizzie's expressive eyes lightened up with a gleam of

hopeful happiness, whilst she thought of Hector Grayle
and their engagement.

But now as to the Captain," observed Joe, " I must just
say a word for him, though he haven't acted quite on the
square with me. The fact is, I believe he's a better man
now to what he was when he did this here evil towards
ye ; and if you was only to go and tell him straight out
who you are, and how you come to know it, I think he'd
do the fair thing by you directly — leastways after his marriage,
as he promised my mother, and she didn't want
nothing done till then. Now you arrange to see him,
Bessie, and then, when he knows that you know, that'll
just remind him that somebody else might know too, and
so give him a hint not to forget what he's got to do."

Very well, I will ; I'll see him as soon as possible.
But 3' r ou must let me have the confession to show, to convince
him at once if he doubts me."

All right, my dear, you shall have it," said Joe, about
to hand the letter to her, then hesitating, and adding
dubiously ; " but I say, you know, Bessie, take care you
don't lose it, or leave it about, or give it into any one's
hands."

Trust me, Joe, I'll not let it go out of mine," she
replied, smiling at his caution and the evident distrust of
that any one. " Thanks," she added, as he now gave
it to her ; " I daresay I shall have an opportunity of speaking
to him this very evening, for as it happens there are
some private theatricals coming off at the Hall. Miss
Grayle begged me to take a part in them, and I'm glad I
did now. It's a milkmaid I'm acting, Joe, who hasn't
much to say, only to — to try to look nice on the stage."

And I'll be bound you'll do that," said Joe, gallantly,
if anybody can. That's all right then, and you won't
lose any time. But mind, don't tell the Captain nothing

about having' seen me, or my being here ; I don't want him
to know that yet, and think I'm a moving' against him j and
I shall have to keep precious close indoors for a while after I
get back, 'cos Fm so awful big I should be noticed directly
if I went about ; then me being seen, and you having got
that there confession, he'd twig it, and that 'ud look as if
he was been' planned against, and stop his having' any credit —
I mean, of coin' the right thing with a proper motion.
You just read out bits from that letter to him, and say
you got it from any other party you like, what shall be
nameless, which my mother sent it through after she died,
and that's true enough j and remind him too, Bessie, about
the Frosts, as is living' still, and might be called as witnesses
; but tell him you don't want to make no fuss if
he'll only give you your rights ; and 0' course he will, then
there'll be an end 0' the business, and we can all stand at
ease together." Here he gave a broad grin at his own
barrack-like humour.

Lizzie promised she would use every discretion ;
and afterwards, to Joe's intense surprise, confided
to him, in strictest secrecy, about her engagement to
Hector.

"Begorra! well I never!" cried the giant, throwing up
his hands, and grinning with satisfaction. "Then } r ou
would ha' been a lady by an' by, Bessie, anyhow; that's to
say, promoted, even if you hadn't been righted as one."

Lizzie smiled at this quaint way of putting it.

Yes," she said, u but of course it's much better as it
is. The Grayles are very proud ; and though they oughtn't
have been able to prevent our marriage, since Mr. Hector
is so determined about it, from the difference of our positions
I should always have felt an unwelcome intruder
into his family circle."

Ah, well, you won't now any wa r , my pretty 'un,"

replied Joe, in a fatherly manner. " I feel fit to dance
with joy that things have come round all square at last.
By the bye, Bessie, I don't think I need bother about
going down to Mentland to see your tomb now, eh ? Ha,
ha, ha ! only to think 0' the cunning' deceit of all that
there ! Bead, I can't be ors laughing' when I do think of it,
as it's all right at last."

They had had a long conversation now, and Mrs. Rolfe,
considering she had given Joe Corcoran ample time to
prove to Lizzie her own identity, came back at length
into the room, and then learnt how skilfully he had performed
his task. Shortly afterwards, old Gideon returned
to the cottage, when he was duly enlightened as to the
state of affairs, and the details of that momentous secret
astonished him as it had already surprised Mrs. Holfe.

There was a tinge of sadness in his tone when he spoke,
and congratulated his little rosebud on the fair prospects
which had so suddenly dawned upon her — a sadness shared
by his good wife, for the hearts of those faithful old people
were full of sorrow at the imminent loss of their beloved
child, the while they rejoiced at her good fortune. She
had been to them the very summer-time of their existence,
ever since the old keeper had found her a little waif and
stray by the roadside, and they doted on her with feelings
akin to idolatry. But the change in her life was to be for
her good and happiness ; that was enough for them. And
however much she might be raised above their social level,
both by the discovery of her origin and her marriage with
the Squire's grandson, they hoped and prayed that she
might not be lost to them altogether — that she would never,
from her higher position, look down upon or forget her old
friends and benefactors.

Lizzie seemed to divine their thoughts, and taking
a hand of each in hers, she said, with infinite pathos

in her words, which touched Joe's tender heart as much
as it affected them, —

Always the same, dear old father and mother, do not
fear. Whatever happens, and wherever I may be, always
your little daughter, your grateful, loving daughter, to the
last hour of my life."

No words were needed in reply, but as the old man
folded the sweet girl to his heart, his wife, overcome by
emotion, hid her face in her apron and wept silently;
whilst Joe Corcoran, to relieve his feelings, marched
suddenly towards the window, halted, and sought in vain
to take up that old distant point for his next advance.

CHAPTER XXIV.

PRIVATE THEATRICALS.

The devil hath power
To assume a pleasing shape."

Samlet.

George Grayle had written a play, a three-act domestic
drama, for the production of which considerable preparations
had been going* on at Barringtree for several days.

The play was really a very creditable effort, or, " for a
first attempt not altogether without promise," as critics
good-naturedly say when the spirit of damning 
is upon them. The plot of the piece and the details
of the performance, however, are irrelevant matters, which
at this period of the story I need not enlarge upon. There
is a good deal of similarity in all private theatricals — the
same amount of stage bungling, the same nervous awkwardness
(for the most part) of actors and actresses, the same
evidence of imperfect rehearsals, and a variety of other
little failings which constitute an atmosphere of amateur-illness,
from which the Barringtree Park performance was
not exempt. But it is only fair to admit that there were
some who showed decided histrionic talent, notably the
author, George Grayle, and Agnes, who appeared to inherit
the paternal genius; added to these, Clement Mountjoy

and his mother were far above the average, so that altogether
the cast was not a weak one by any means.

No expense was spared to insure success;" the dresses
and scenery were procured from the best places in London,
and the programmes ordered from Trimmers and
got up in the orthodox embossed and highly scented
fashion.

This billet de theatre exquis duly announced in dainty
type that " the new and original domestic drama, written
by George Grayle, Esq., entitled

CUPID and MARS;

OR,

THE Sergeant-major's REVENGE ! "

would be performed at Barringtree Park on the 2nd of
December, eighteen hundred and seventy something, to
commence at eight o'clock punctually ; the cast of characters,
including, besides those mentioned, the names of
Mrs. Tewkesley and Lizzie Rolfe (place aux dames was
here given by a proper courtesy, usually ignored in the
profession), Mr. Hector Grayle, Mr. E. T. Gore, Captain
A. D. Heffernan, and others.

A renewed invitation had brought Master Tiny to Barringtree
again ; and on his being allotted a small part in
the play, he was delighted to find himself, at rehearsals,
thrown into the society of the lovely Lizzie, for she was
still the object of his ardent admiration. But Tiny's
rapture was short-lived, and he soon ascertained beyond a
doubt that his ardour was wasted on desert air. He therefore
had no alternative but to retire gracefully into his
boots, as he called it, and shared the same fate for his
amorous rashness as did poor Simon Sickles ; indeed the
stricken Yahoo had given up " that there be-ewtiffle gal "
some time since as a heartbreaking disappointment.

Hector Grayle witnessed Tiny's marked attentions with
feeling's of amusement rather than jealousy, for his secret
betrothal to Lizzie raised him far above the latter petty
feeling. So long* as she was not actually annoyed he did
not mind, nevertheless he took the opportunity of telling*
little Gore one morning not to make an ass of himself. This
was on the same day, as it happened, that Lizzie had
addressed him in an equivalent form, though in more
delicate terms. Accordingly, exit Tiny with his tail
between his legs.

Hector had profited by past experience, and was most
cautious in his every look and action towards Lizzie, so as
not to excite suspicion ; and she was equally cautious,
feeling quite wicked at being so artful. Our hero meant
to take them all by surprise, and announce his intentions
very shortly, but meanwhile every one was kept in happy
ignorance of the real state of affairs, even the lynx-eyed
mentor, for the warning hints he had recently thrown out
to the Squire arose from no suspicion on his part, and were
solely to further his design against the E-olfes.

There had been a consultation between Agnes, Gertrude,
and a select committee, as to whether the handsome Lizzie
should be asked to act — not to take any prominent part,
but merely because her appearance was so attractive and
there happened to be a suitable character going begging
and it had been decided that she should, for it was fully
believed that the Lizzie Historian romance had been withdrawn
from the boards for good. They little dreamt, however,
that the real performance was only "just about to
begin /' But as matters stood, Lizzie's presence at the
Hall could make no possible difference, since the mischief
had been already done, past hope of remedy.

The eventful night arrived — the audience were assembled
— the band, consisting of a piano, fiddle, flute,

and cornet, had played the overture — and the curtain was
ready to go up, at least so far as the " front of the house "
was concerned ; but behind the scenes at present all was
hopeless confusion, and sixes and sevens.

Accordingly George Grayle, as stage manager, author,
actor, and scene-shifter, rolled into one, and quite overwhelmed
with so much responsibility, peeped round the
curtain and signalled to the band for more music, to gain a
little time.

Don't ring up yet, there's a dear creature ! Fm not
half dressed ! " cried Lady Mountjoy, popping her head
out at a side door, and electrifying George both by the
intelligence and the sudden flash of imploring eyes and teeth.

u My dear Lady Mountjoy, for heaven's sake, do make
haste ; the audience have been waiting now over twenty
minutes!" was the pathetic reply; and in popped the
battery again, leaving George in the height of perplexity
and despair.

Oh, Fve lost me part ! what shall I do ? Has anybody
seen me part ? " cried Norah Tewkesley, now rushing frantically
across the stage. " I've lost me part entirely, and
faith, I can't remember a single word."

Norah's occupation was gone, so to say, now that Mrs.
Grayle had departed this life, and the true brogue was
seldom heard from her lips ; but on an exciting occasion
like the present the little Irish lady, all flushed and excited,
broke out quite naturally into the mother tongue.

Here you are, aunt Norah, is this it ? " exclaimed
Hector, handing her a crumpled MS. "I found it in the
property coal-scuttle. If it isn't, you can borrow the
prompt copy for a bit 4

a Oh, yes, that is it ! Thanks, Hector. I wonder who
put it there," and without waiting for an answer Norah
became immediately lost in hurried muttering, as though

vol. in. s

her last hour had come, and she was trying* to rattle off an
Are in double time, to save her soul.

Good little Fay ! " said Hector, as Agnes now appeared,
looking radiant in a most becoming costume ; " ready before
any one. I say, the poor father's nearly wild ; and no
wonder. Lady Mountjoy has to go on first, and she's not
nearly dressed yet. It's too bad, by George it is. Fd
ring up without her, apologize to the audience, and read
her part, if I were he — by George, I would."

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed Clement ; " don't you abuse
my mother, Hec, she's doing her best ; and I notice whenever
you want to be emphatic you always take your father's
name in vain."

Quite right, Clem, a man can't do better than swear
by his own father, can he, Mr. Gore ? " observed Agnes.

Certainly not," replied Tiny, adding, in a comic tone
of admiration, te Oh, I say, I say ! Just look here ! isn't the
Rajah a swell?"

Heffernan at that moment entered from the opposite side,
in the striking uniform of the French Imperial Guard,
and too evidently conscious of his good-looking, debonair
appearance. He was cast, not inappropriately, to play the
handsome villain of the piece — a volatile creature, who
made love to all the ladies in turn, was found out and
snubbed, and fell back, as a dernier ressort, on the pretty
English milkmaid (Lizzie), the latter being betrothed to
Sergeant-major Pipeclay (George Grayle), who duly
wreaked his vengeance on the gay Lothario.

In the minor scenes, when the French officer and the
milkmaid were on the stage together, the strong family
likeness between them, brought into prominent notice by
the footlights, became quite a subject of remark both
before and behind the curtain. Heffernan, when quizzed
on this point, laughed it off in his usual good-humoured

way, and said he felt highly complimented — as well he
might, for Lizzie's extreme beauty was quite the cynosure
of admiring eyes that evening. On the other hand, the
remarks made in the temporary green-room, relative to this
likeness, caused Lizzie to colour up and look uncomfortably
conscious, as if she were the undetected felon, and had been
guilty of defrauding her half-brother — instead of " the other
way on."

George Grayle was too busy himself to take much
notice that night of a fact which had already come under
his observation, but he mentioned it afterwards when he
heard it spoken of. Notwithstanding, he was no nearer
guessing the natural cause for such marked resemblance
than any one else at present.

The stage for these theatricals was constructed on a
raised platform at one end of a long hall, generally used for
tenants' dinners, servants' balls, Christmas festivities, &c,
and on the right and left of the stage were two doors leading
conveniently into smaller apartments, which were
dedicated to the temporary purpose of green-room and
dressing-rooms, the latter being in special requirement, since
there were several rapid changes to be made during the
drama.

In the second act, neither the French officer nor the
milkmaid were required on the scene till just towards its
close, hence it happened that Lizzie and HefTernan had
the green-room to themselves for some time. This gave
Lizzie the opportunity she desired ; nor was she slow to
take advantage of it.

With very little preface or hesitation whereby he might
be warned of what was coming, she made the statement to
her half-brother of what she knew, in a quiet and dignified
manner, but left him no ground for hope that there could
be any mistake about her informations

2

Albert Heffernan was literally petrified with terror and
amazement when he heard her, and, but for the theatrical
rouge on his cheeks, his deadly pallor would have been
startlingly evident. For a few minutes, and almost for the
first time in his life, his presence of mind forsook him,
and he remained thunderstruck, allowing her, without
uttering a word himself, to explain how she had learnt the
weighty secret.

Mrs. Corcoran died, as you know, last September,"
said Lizzie, "and her full confession, which she desired
might be forwarded to me in a roundabout way after her
death, I have at length received. Here it is, if you wish to
hear it." She drew the letter from the bosom of her dress,
where she had concealed it in anticipation of this interview.
Heffernan held out his hand, which was trembling rather
perceptibly, to take the paper, when she observed quietly,
Excuse me, I'd rather not let this out of my possession,
even for one second, and I think you'll allow such precaution
is only natural " — the latter sentence was accompanied
by a cold significant look at the man before her.
I'll read you some parts of it, if you like. No ? Well,
then, you'll take the contents for granted."

The situation was not favourable, for although the
green-room was empty, people were just outside, or within
call, otherwise the safety of the important document —
indeed, the safety of the girl herself — would have been in
imminent jeopardy from that desperate man. But he was
helpless and at her mercy at this moment, so he merely
shook his head with a forced smile when she suggested
reading aloud the confession, but still remained silent.
This statement," she continued, " would be almost
sufficient of itself, I fancy, to prove my identity; but I can
produce further testimony, if required, as you very well
know. I merely mention it to remind you that I am no



longer a weak, helpless child, who may be imposed upon
with impunity' This was in a tone of supreme scorn.
But understand me, Captain Heffernan — though you are
my half-brother, we may, I think, dispense with Christian
names, for I certainly don't wish to claim relationship,
except to prove my birth — I was going 1 to say I want you
to understand that this is my reason for appealing to you.
I am prepared to return good for evil, and spare you disgrace
and exposure, if you will not drive me to extremities,
but will, of your own accord, acknowledge to the world who
I am, and subsequently restore the property bequeathed tome
by my aunt. It was the dying wish of that unhappy
woman, Mrs. Corcoran, your confederate, that I should give
you this chance without adopting legal compulsion, and sofar
her wish shall be respected, provided you will now act
honourably towards me, and make amends for the past."

Lizzie said nothing to indicate her chief reason for wishing
to prove herself a lady, for she dreaded that if Heffernan
knew of it he would again undo her, and perhaps defeat all
her hopes of ultimate happiness.

During the latter part of her sentence, his face underwent
a great change, and he suddenly seemed to breathe
more freely. He had been busy cudgelling his brains to
meet the awkward emergency, and now assumed a frank
and benevolent tone as he replied, —

It is indeed a matter of deepest regret to me that you
should have anticipated my intentions regarding this very
subject, for I had hoped to disclose to you myself the secret
of your birth, and, as I live, I fully meant to do so before
many days were past. My marriage with Miss Grayle
takes place next week, which I believe you know, and, that
once over, I should have taken immediate steps to make
you all reparation, as I promised to Mrs. Corcoran on her
death-bed. I solemnly repeat that I will do so, if you

will only wait until after this event (I ask it for obvious
reasons), and subsequently I will, by degrees and within a
certain time, refund every farthing of what is due to you.
Believe me," he continued, in a quavering voice, as if from
emotion, " I have suffered the keenest remorse for the past,
and my share of the transaction has haunted my mind day
and night for a long, long while." This was true enough
in one sense, if not quite in the conscientious light he desired
to imply. " Mrs. Corcoran's dying entreaty that I would
see justice done to you was but the echo of my own earnest
wish. Death having released her from all earthly responsibility,
I am left to atone for the sins of us both. 'While
she lived I was restrained from doing this ; and in all
fairness to myself, and without meaning to heap additional
reproach on the dead, I can assure you that the fraudulent
scheme did not emanate from my own brain. Your strange
and sudden disappearance cost me much pain and uneasiness"
(obviously another qualified truth), "and for sometime
I tried to discover traces of you, but without success,
until — until years afterwards."

The glaring inconsistency of this ingenious statement
(more or less a pitiful lie to screen himself behind the dead)
with his subtle conduct during the last four years, was not
lost upon Lizzie, who accepted the assurance for what it
was worth.

Heffernan was about to urge that it was for Agnes'
sake he desired Lizzie to wait until after the marriage ; but
his ready tact came to the rescue in time, and he reflected
that probably such a plea might suggest to Lizzie's mind
that the young lady whom she so much respected and loved
ought not to be sacrificed to a convicted scoundrel. Some
such idea might have occurred to Lizzie, had not her mind
been so filled with the delirium of her new-found happiness,
and the exultant prospect of proving herself a lady to

Hector Grayle's proud family, which absorbing thought
may, perhaps, exonerate her for the somewhat selfish oversight.
It did occur to her, however, that Heffernan's
request that the matter should stand over till after his
marriage was incompatible with all reason, inasmuch as the
acknowledgment of her identity would be as awkward for
him after, as it would be before, the wedding. But she supposed
he wished to avoid any scandal at this critical
juncture, and would be ready with some plausible story in
self-defence when the time came. Such supposition was ina
measure confirmed by his next remark.

"By the way' he said, in an anxious tone, "let me ask
you one thing. Do you happen to know who sent you
that letter after Mrs. Corcoran died?-"

Her — her brother, Mr. Sickles, I believe," replied
Lizzie, hesitating a little.

Do you know for certain ?"

I do ; yes, it was Mr. Sickles, but he was quite ignorant
of its contents, for it was sealed up when delivered to him''

You're quite sure of that?"

u Yes, I am, for I was told so positively."

Then I presume the secret at present is entirely between
you and me and this — this written confession, is it not ?
I mean to say, do those old people know anything about it
yet?"

Lizzie thought he alluded to the Frosts at Mentland,
whereas he meant the Rolfes ; so she reassured him at
once by saying that they did not, nor would she enlighten
them, if he only adhered to his promise and did not drive
her to extreme measures.

Heffernan gave an involuntary sigh of relief when he
heard this, and their interview was now brought to an
abrupt termination by loud calls for them from the wings.
This was to hurry them on to the stage, which, indeed, had

been kept waiting by their not appearing at the proper
cue.

"Good gracious, you people!" cried George Grayle,
rushing to fetch them in a high state of agitation, " why
don't you come on ? Ton my life, you've spoilt the best
situation in the piece'' and the indignant 
drove them before him on to the boards
like a couple of refractory turkeys.

HefFernan had hitherto almost ignored the amateur milkmaid
at rehearsals and elsewhere, except when they were on
the stage and he had to act the lover; but a rapid thaw of
his cold haughty bearing set in after this interview. He
now became most kind and courteous towards Lizzie; so
much so that she was quite disarmed by his pleasant
manner, and began to think that Joe was right after all,
and that, as he had said, " the captain was not such a bad
'un now, and would act fair enough if she only gave him
the chance."

Tiny Gore was not slow to notice that the "Rajah"
seemed all of a sudden bent on fascinating the fair milkmaid
off the stage as well as on, and he experienced a twinge
of jealous pique as he remarked it. The fascinator was on
the point of becoming a Benedict, it is true, and he himself
had already been hopelessly snubbed; but still he felt a
twinge. During the evening he first drew Hector's attention
to the matter, who merely smiled in amused self-confidence
at the idea ; and then Clement's, who made no
remark, but thought the more, wishing from the bottom of
his heart that there might be anything in it, and yet was
utterly hopeless of a reprieve at this eleventh hour. He
knew too well that Agnes was long since lost to him for ever,
and that it was too late now for any third person to come
to the rescue.

Since Joe had unlocked the chambers of her memory,

Lizzie burned to tell Hector Grayle who she was, and
would have clone so at once, but for the compact with her
half-brother. Nevertheless, she could not refrain from
mysteriously hinting' to her lover that evening how she had
found out something 1 which might afford the much-desired
clue to her origin. It was but natural that she should
be greatly elated at the thought of being able to remove
that one obstacle — the disparity of their positions ; and,
under the circumstances, she no longer felt guilty of deceit,
nor considered that there w r as harm in being clandestinely
engaged for a little while.

The curtain fell on the last act of George Grayle's drama
amid hearty applause, and the performance was pronounced
a decided success, notwithstanding a slight hitch here and
there during the evening. The author was called for, and
cheered to the echo when he appeared and made an appropriate
speech, after which every one was summoned before
the curtain, according to the prevailing fashion.

Gertrude Grayle was quite overcome with delight and
pride at her husband's genius, also at the handsome appearance
and " clever " acting of her dear children ; and as for
that paragon, her future son-in-law, he came in for the most
affectionate panegyric from his gentle admirer, who hurried
afterwards behind the scenes and congratulated each and all
on their efforts.

Then followed a general supper for both audience and
performers, in which Lizzie was of course included, Agnes
and Heffernan pressing her, rather against her will, to join
the formidable party in the dining-room. George Grayle,
moreover, wouldn't hear of her not doing so, and said he
could not allow one of his principal players to be left out in
the cold. Some sat down in theatrical costume, while
others preferred to change theirs, Lizzie being among the
latter. She was going to walk home across the park

under old Rolfe's escort, and preferred her own warm dress
to the milkmaid's short petticoats and rather flimsy attire.
During supper HefFernan, who sat close to Lizzie, continued
to pay her every attention in a quiet unobtrusive
manner, which pleased her not a little ; and afterwards,
when she left the supper-table to go home, he made a point
of escorting her from the room and adjusting her wraps.
Gideon Rolfe was then called for from the servants' hall,
where he had been regaling himself comfortably with cold
beef, beer, and pickles, instead of " lobster salad, champagne,
and chat' But he considered it perfectly right
that his little rosebud should be admitted to the sanctity
of the " genteel folk — " not only in consideration of her services
on the stage, but because she was a lady, though they
didn't know it — while he, so to speak, was relegated to his
proper place below the salt. He now appeared, in answer
to the summons, with lantern and cudgel, waterproof,
shawls, goloshes, and umbrella ; every little comfort and
protection, in short, that he could devise for his precious
charge ; and if she was tired, or it was too wet underfoot,
he was prepared to carry her. God bless her ! he'd think
nothing of doing that, not he. In fact, he was very happy
and comfortable after his supper, was old Gideon, and well
fortified to go through any arduous task, more especially
a labour of love such as this. But when Lizzie had shaken
hands with Agnes and HefTernan (Hector had purposely
remained in the background), and the door was opened,
the exclamation, "Good heavens ! what an awful night!"
escaped from every lip. The moaning and howling of the
wind from without, which had gradually risen higher and
higher during the evening, had prepared them for a certain
amount of seasonable inclemency, but nobody could have
believed it was so bad till the boisterous fact burst upon
them. The chilly gusts now shrieked in through the door

like a thousand dark Furies, and extinguished nearly all
the lights in the hall and passages ; the rain came pelting
down with pitiless force, and a sudden douche dashed
in at the open door. Distant rumbling of thunder, besides,
growing nearer and nearer, and faint flashes of lightning,
told of an approaching storm which promised to increase in
severity every minute.

"My dear Lizzie, you really can't go home in this'' exclaimed
Agnes, shuddering and drawing inside from the
cold draught ; " it's dreadful ; you had better wait a little,
at all events'

Ah, I'm afraid it will only get worse instead of better,"
observed Heffernan, putting his head out into the turbulent
darkness and drawing it back quickly. " It's not fit for a
dog* to stir out — "

No, I'm sure it isn't," coincided Agnes ; " then what
had better be done ? John, pray shut the door."

u Oh, she shan't take no harm, miss," interposed Rolfe ;
I'll carry her, blowed if I don't, and keep off the rain."

Realty, my good fellow, it's utter madness to think of
it," said Heffernan ; " all very well for a man, but to send
a woman out a night like this ! it's not to be heard of.
Thy can't she sleep in the house, Fay?"

Of course she can — "

u Oh, you're very good I'm sure," began Lizzie ; u but
really I'm not afraid, and — "

Nonsense, I quite agree with Captain Heffernan," replied
Agnes ; " and you know Elise is away, Albert, so she
can have her room ; that's my maid's, Lizzie. You must
stop, so there's no more to be said, and we'll make you as
comfortable as possible."

I'm sure you're very kind, Miss Agnes," replied Lizzie,
grateful for the offer, " and if I shan't be giving too much
trouble, and my father doesn't mind — "

Oh, don't you think o' me, my dear' said the keeper.
Well — yes — pVaps it is better after all," he added, as a
bright flash dazzled their eyes and was followed by a tremendous
clap of thunder which shook the old Hall to its
foundations.

Come away, Lizzie," cried Agnes, preparing to take her
off; " let's get away from this window. That last flash
nearly blinded me."

"And what about you, Rolfe? You can't go either,"
urged Heffernan, with unusual condescension.

The keeper thought it very different from his manner on
the day of the leopard catastrophe, which subject, by the way,
had never been mentioned again either by him or Lizzie.

Oh, I shall be all right, sir, thank yer," replied Gideon ;
and I durst stop for all the world, though my little gal
had better ; the old missus 'ud go into fits to know what
what had come of us if I didn't turn up."

So it was finally arranged that Lizzie should stay and
sleep in the maid's room ; and Rolfe, bidding them goodnight
in a cheery voice, went out into the tempestuous
gloom to brave the howling hurricane by himself. But
had he been blessed with the power of second sight, he
would sooner have taken his little girl home with him bareheaded
and bare-footed through the wind-tossed, rain-drenched
avenue, than have allowed her to sleep that night
at the old Hall.

CHAPTER XXV.

DANGER !

The night has been unruly . . .

and, as they say,

Lamenting heard i' the air; strange screams of death."

Shakspeare.
This is the curse of every evil deed,
That, propagating still, it brings forth evil."

Coleridge.

The departure of those guests not staying in the house was
delayed for some time through stress of weather ; but carriage
after carriage rolled away at length, amid the roaring
of the elements. Shortly afterwards the storm lulled for a
while, but only to break out afresh with wilder fury. The
dark sky, loaded with electricity, belched forth vivid jets
of fire amid the rolling din of the thunder; and, as recorded
in the papers subsequently, it resembled a tropical tempest
both for its severity and long duration. Far into the
small hours it continued to rage, and drove sleep from the
pillow of many an inmate of the Hall that night, who
tossed restlessly to and fro, and courted the drowsy god in
vain. It was only when the storm had spent its violence
that the nervous ones could close an eyelid, to sleep heavily
at length from overfatigue. And yet, with so many lying

wide awake, not a soul in the building had the least suspicion
of the dark deed which was being plotted and silently
carried out in their very midst, nor of the startling disclosures
which the next morning would reveal.

The last carriage had driven off, and the ladies in the
house had adjourned for the night, when Albert Heffernan
rejoined the gentlemen in the dining-room. These lords of
the creation had a convivial time of it now amongst themselves,
and kept it up to a late hour.

The wind and rain shrieked and rattled against the old
casements, and the deafening thunder roared and growled,
whilst loud laughter, chaff and gossip, and popping of
champagne corks, seemed to mock the fury of the contending
elements ; as though Bacchus, within the security of
four walls, were defying Jupiter to take his castle by storm.

Come, Tiny, you're empty again, old fellow' cried
Heffernan, pouring some champagne into Gore's glass for
the third time since re-entering the room ; " you've drunk
to my health and future happiness as a Benedict, and
now I want to propose another toast. The jolly good health
of my father-in-law that is to be ! Gentlemen, here's to
our manager, the author of our piece, the performer of
everything in general, and the sergeant-major in particular
! George Grayle, your good health !"

The toast was duly honoured, and other bumpers followed ;
in fact, it was less a feast of reason than a flow of unlimited
champagne, and a good deal more was broached and drunk
during that brief hour or two than was good for some of
the weaker-headed youngsters.

George Grayle, the presiding spirit (the Squire having
gone to bed), began to notice this, so wisely put on the
drain time, and prevented the predisposed ones from
indulging in the vulgarity of excess. With regard to Tiny
Gore, however, this measure came rather late; the young

subaltern was much flushed and excited already, and as he
was not on regimental duty to-night, he gave his jovial disposition
full swing ; indeed Hesperian, who had encouraged
and drunk glass for glass with him, had succeeded eventually
in making him more or less tipsy.

At length the merry party dispersed and tumbled up to
bed by twos and threes, when Heffernan tucked little
Gore's arm under his own, in a fatherly way, and steered
him upstairs.

Oh, I say, I say, what an awful blinder,' Rajah, and,
by Jove, there's a clap for you ! " exclaimed Tiny, as they
passed beneath the glass dome on the landing, for at the
same moment a vivid flash played along the corridor and a
detonating clap of thunder burst overhead, as if the very
elements suspected there was danger brewing within, and
desired to give a timely warning.

I shan't sleep a wink in all this, I know' said Tiny ;
never can sleep in a thunderstorm."

Sleep ! of course you will, the moment you get between
the sheets. Come along."

Tiny Gore occupied the old grey room, of ghostly
renown, at the end of the corridor, and Heflernan slept in
the adjoining apartment; so, being such close neighbours,
Tiny, who was of a sociable disposition, was continually
dropping into the Rajah's room to borrow a button-hook,
tell him a good joke, or what not, till he became almost a
nuisance. Then the last thing before going to bed he
would generally join Heffernan for a chat and a sly smoke
up the chimney (smoking was strictly prohibited now in
the Barringtree bed-rooms, but no matter !) and would, if
his companion let him, stay and "jaw away" till cockcrow.
But to-night, on reaching their respective doors, it was
discovered that Heffernan's fire was out, while Tmy's was
just aglow; so matters were reversed, and Heifernan,

declaring' he couldn't sleep himself just yet in all this row,
settled down with Gore in front of the grey room fire,
when they lit each a final pipe before turning in.

Tiny stirred up the sulky cinders, put on more coal, and
chatted away sensibly enough, as soberly as if he had just
come from church instead of a " second supper' In fact,
he seemed to have nearly recovered himself since he came
upstairs, or at all events the boisterous effects of the
champagne had died out, to give place, however, a little
later to extreme drowsiness, which Heffernan observed with
secret satisfaction. They had been talking together for
some time, when Tin 's head at length began to nod, despite
the noise of wind and thunder. His pipe was long since
finished, and he merely mumbled out a feeble remark now
and again to keep up a semblance of conversation j yet
Heffernan made no sign of moving, nor urged the sleepy
youth to go to bed.

Tiny had not spoken for several minutes ; his eyes were
shut, his chin was on his chest, and he was snoring spasmodically.
Believing him to be fast asleep, Heffernan
stealthily rose from his chair and crossed on tiptoe towards
the old cupboard leading into the secret passage. He had
just opened the door when a murmured remark from the
supposed sleeper arrested him, whereupon he closed it again
and paused. " So you're really — going to be married —
next week, old chap' muttered Tiny, " congratulate you
splendid looking girl — wish / was. Old Bobby Bones
going' to be married too — Georgie Vickers, you know —
going' to be turned off after Christmas — asked me to be
best man — Halloa ! what are you doing there, Rajah ? "
The last sentence was in a more wide-awake tone; for
Tiny, through his half closed eyes, missed Heffernan from
his chair and roused himself a little to see where he was.

"I — I thought I felt rather a draught coming

through this cupboard'' said the other ; u only my fancy,
though."

Ah, rummy old cupboard that, and rummy old room
too — supposed to be haunted, isn't it ? "

Haunted, pshaw ! who told you that ? " laughed Heft
returning to the fire ; " about as much haunted as
I am n (he might-have said " not nearly as much," with
some truth) ; " like all other haunted rooms I should say —
bosh ! There was some old story of years ago connected
with it, I believe, but even that's forgotten now''

"Oh — well, I'm not afraid of ghosts myself, never was'
yawned Tiny, rising rather unsteadily from his clair, and
stretching himself with a sort of piteous groan, which
terminated in a grunt as lie gave a lurch forward.
u O — oh — ah ! how tired I am ! I say, I say, it is late,"
he added, looking at his watch ; " I shall turn in."

I think you'd better, old fellow, there'll be heads to
mend tomorrow, if you don't sleep off some of that phiz."

Oh, I'm all right — good night, Rajah."

Good night," and Heffernan took up his candle and
left him. But before he had got into his own room Tiny
put his head out and exclaimed, —

a I say, I say, I swear, look here ; I can't lock my door,
you know, the key's gone — I can't find the key."

What key ? "

Key of my door, of course. Come, Rajah, no humbug,
you know — none of your funny jokes; I'm not going to be
locked in — just give it up ! "

My dear boy, I don't know anything about your key,"
rejoined Heffernan, with an amused smile ; " go to bed ;
you're screwed."

I'm not ; and I say, I want my key — I always lock my
door, and — "

I tell you I don't know anything about it. It's very

VOL. III. T

likely dropped on the floor, just look — and do go to bed,
there's a good boy; it's awfully late""

All right, I'm going. Cow-found it ! " growled Tiny,
groping about on the ground, " where the deuce has it got
to ? I can't find it."

Here, you can have mine if it'll fit," said Heffernan, '
taking one from his own lock and handing it to him. " I'm
not such an old woman as to want to bolt my door — never
trouble to do such a thing ; I thought you weren't nervous."

"No more I am — who said I was?" retorted Tiny,
trying Heffernan's key and returning it; " no, that won't
do; never mind, it doesn't matter. Good night."

There's only a wall between us' observed Heffernan,
holloa for me if you see a dobbin or anything, ha, ha !
Once more, good night," and they closed their respective
doors and retired to rest at about three o'clock in the morning.

As may be imagined Albert Heffernan^ after his interview
with his half-sister, was driven to the verge of
desperation. In his case, retiring to rest was a mere
faqon de parler ; for the thought of going to bed, much less
to sleep, was far from his intention at present.

So, Mrs. Corcoran had betrayed him after all, thought
he, as he might almost have anticipated ; and the one
imperative object he had in view was to obtain possession
of her written statement at all hazards. But how this
could be managed, and whether by fair means or foul, he
was at first utterly at a loss to decide.

The terrific storm, however, came to his assistance, both
by its protracted violence and by causing Lizzie's detention
at the Hall. It seemed another of those extraordinary
chances which sometimes favour the wicked — a chance,
indeed, not to be thrown away. Such a splendid opportunity
he might have gone far to seek, and had it not offered, dire

necessity must have driven him to adopt other means,
however desperate.

He happened to know the locality of the room allotted
to Agnes' maid, which was, in fact, the one corresponding
with the grey room, on the opposite side ; he also knew, of
course, that there was a communication between the two
through the secret passage. Lizzie, therefore, having been
committed to this particular apartment, such accidental
circumstance at once suggested to him a project which
might be carried into effect without much difficulty.
Besides, he was cognizant of another particular — that the
secret passage was not fastened up in any way, simply from
the fact that Elise, Agnes' maid, was in the habit of making
a short cut from her own room to that of her young
mistress at the other end of the east corridor, thereby saving
herself two flights of stairs and a long way round.

The grey room during the last few years had quite lost
its reputation as a ghostly haunt, and when it happened to
be unoccupied the fearless French maid found the mysterious
passage a decided convenience rather than a source
of apprehension. But it was only used thus privily, as it
were, and not as a regular thoroughfare, Heffernan
happening to know of it by having frequently seen the
woman go that way past his room.

After Agnes had arranged where Lizzie was to sleep,
Heffernan was not long in forming his plans. He felt
pretty sure that the all-important letter, containing Mrs.
Corporal's deposition, would be carefully placed beneath the
girl's pillow that night, or else be concealed amongst her
clothes; in any case easily obtainable, if he could only effect
an entrance into her room whilst she slept. Of course
Lizzie would lock her door; but since she was probably
unacquainted with the intricacies of the secret passage, he
took it for granted this way of ingress would be left unset

2

cured against intrusion. Consequently it only remained
for him to get through the grey room occupied by Tiny.
To insure doing this without detection he had pressed as
much champagne as possible on the youth, hoping to make
him sleep more soundly from intoxication. He then surreptitiously
extracted the door-key; and in order to examine
the cupboard, and ascertain that there was nothing to
obstruct his way, sat up with Tiny till the latter dozed off
and gave him the opportunity.

After Heffernan had betaken himself to his own apartment
he waited for at least two or three hours before attempting
to carry out his design. He naturally feared that the noisy
storm would keep Lizzie awake, and dared not risk visiting
her room until after it had abated. During those two or three
hours a thousand dark and evil thoughts swept through
his brain — thoughts well in keeping with that lurid,
roaring night, as was the night with the foul deed he now
contemplated.

I say now, for his first and only intention had been to
secure that dangerous black-and-white witness against
himself. Having thus deprived mer of this instrument
wherewith to support her claims, he would swear her down,
if needs be, or concoct such a story in the end that might
exculpate himself. His clever wits would stand him in
good stead, and with a little ingenuity he might easily
prove that the fraud had been no fraud after all, but merely
another extraordinary instance of mistaken identity.

To substantiate such a plea, what was easier than to bribe
the old' Frosts still further, and purchase their support of
his statement? For money they would swear away their
souls in his favour, and who was there to gainsay him
or them ? Such was the context of his first deliberation,
but the comparative harmlessness of this was quickly
overthrown by supplementary thoughts — evil thoughts

suggested to him by bis cloven-hoofed ally, who whispered
at his elbow while Heffernan stood there in the flashing fire
from the angry heavens.

The forked lightning lit up every angle of the apartment
at rapid intervals, paled the dim flame of the flickering
candle, and illumined his own livid features ; yet, vile as he
had become, the man shrank not from the fierce battle
raging without, for the fire within him absorbed all his
soul, as it consumed, for the time, every sense of human
feeling. Crime begets crime, and he dared not turn back
now from the satanic promptings of his subtle brain. He
well knew that utter ruin and degradation stared him in
the face if he failed to grapple with this besetting peril,
and speedily he plotted out his intended villainy. As he
stood by the fireplace, wrapt in thought, with his dark
piercing eyes fixed on the opposite wall, the lightning-suddenly
revealed to him his medicine-chest, which lay ina
shadowy corner beside the dressing-table, and instantly
he became seized with a criminal inspiration which led him
on beyond all power of self-control. Poison ! Ah no ! such
a clumsy expedient was dismissed from his mind almost
before it presented itself. A medicine-chest was a thing
he was never without since his service in India, and he
had learned to appreciate its value when encamped in the
wild jungles far from all civilization and medical aid. He
was well acquainted with its present contents, though it
was long since he had had occasion to consult it. Taking
up the candle, he now crossed towards the spot where the
box lay, and unlocked it. He then took up three or four
bottles, looked at them carefully and put them back again,
finally selecting a vial labelled chloroform, with which he
returned to the fireplace.

The storm had now abated. The night, or rather the
morning, was comparatively quiet, and by the gentle

soughing of the dying wind among the trees, and a subdued
rumbling in the far distance, it seemed as though the
elements were weary and had retired to rest. But for
long: after the storm had lulled the reflection of the vivid
lightning, drawing further and further away, illumined the
heavens at intervals and flickered around the Hall. Except
for these intermittent flashes, total darkness prevailed
both without and within the walls of the mansion — that
intense darkness which precedes the dawn.

Heffernan now extinguished his candle, and removing
his slippers, crept like a panther from his room. Without
the faintest noise, he succeeded in unfastening Tiny's door,
which he now purposely left ajar, and then, between the
electric flashes, felt his way along the wall towards the
cupboard. Just as he reached the hearth rug he heard
Tiny move in bed and heave a deep sigh in his sleep. This
arrested his progress, and he stood still as a statue for
several minutes, watching the bed. Had Tiny Gore awoke
by any chance, Heffernan was prepared with an excuse
for his mysterious re-appearance. He had purposely
left his pipe and tobacco-pouch on the grey room mantlepiece,
and intended to make this a plea for having returned.
He felt this hazardous venture to be his only
chance, and he was therefore compelled to run great risk
in order to avert the greater danger which threatened him.
Having satisfied himself that the young officer was still
in a heavy sleep, Heffernan continued cautiously on his
way, and succeeded in passing without difficulty through
the panelled aperture. This was no more than he expected
to achieve ; nevertheless he was intensely relieved to find
the coast clear.

On reaching the room occupied by Lizzie, he paused
again, for his actions were almost dependent on the fitful
gleams which now and then disclosed to him, as clear asa



day, the darkest comers. With rapid glance he took in
the arrangement of the apartment, and saw where his
victim lay, reposing peacefully on the further side. Having
ascertained this, nothing remained but to carry out his
hideous intention. He now took the vial from his pocket,
and carefully saturating a handkerchief with its contents,
crept towards the sleeping girl.

The task he had set himself was by no means an easy
one. He knew that chloroform is one of the few things
which leave no tell-tale traces of having been administered,
unless, indeed, it should be discovered immediately afterwards.
His idea, then, was, first of all, to cause profounder
sleep from its gradual effects, by holding the drenched
handkerchief a short distance from the nostrils, and when
this had been done long enough to render her insensible to
touch, and unlikely to awake from feeling anything in
contact with her face, he thought to adopt a bolder measure
— namely, to replenish the kerchief from the vial,
and then by delicate manipulation to press it gently and
cautiously against the respiratory organs, increasing the
pressure until death ensued from anaesthesia and suffocation.


With the most elaborate pains he proceeded to carry out
this diabolical design, and w 7 acted patiently for the glimmering
flashes (which w r ere now fewer and at longer
intervals, although still brilliant,) to favour his movements.
Lizzie had lain awake for some hours, until
at last thoroughly tired out, she had fallen into a sound
sleep ; and now, as he held the chloroform close to
her unconscious face, her deep and regular breathing
readily inhaled the narcotic fumes. After allowing time
for this to produce the desired effect, he again moistened
the handkerchief, and, with the greatest caution, gradually
pressed it over her nose and mouth. Closer and closer he

pressed it until the painful feeling of suffocation momentarily
roused her from her deadly sleep, and for a few
seconds she struggled violently against his cruel hand.

A smothered shriek, and then another, louder, escaped
her, after which all was quiet. She lay perfectly passive
and motionless now, and removing the handkerchief, he
waited beside the bed as long as he dared, after the girl
had uttered those agonized cries; but she did not stir
again. He next placed his hand over the region of her
heart, but failed to discern the faintest pulsation, and he
then knew that the lethal drug had done its work. Quick
as thought he searched under the pillow for the much-coveted
letter, and to his intense triumph found it there,
as he anticipated.

Hark ! in that throbbing silence he thought he heard
somebody moving in the next room. He listened ; but no,
all was still as the grave, save the moaning of the wind
and the thudding of his own merciless heart ; and with a
deep-drawn sigh of relief, he stole softly back towards the
secret passage to return by the way he had come. As he
pressed open the panel, leading into the closet of the grey
room, to his horror and consternation he felt it pushed
against by something or some one on the other side. Then
he heard a subdued, startled cry, and the patter of naked
feet, hurrying back into the grey room beyond. He knew
in a moment that this could be no other than Tiny Gore,
who, roused no doubt by Lizzie's screams, was exploring
the mysterious cupboard in curiosity and alarm.

Heffernan hesitated for a moment ; and, chilly morning
as it was, the perspiration broke out on his forehead, while
he trembled in every limb from positive terror. But the
panic was soon past, and the next instant he was
creeping swiftly and softly back into the room he had just
quitted. There was no help for it ; he must make his 



cape in that direction, and quickly too, if he wished to elude
discovery.

He distinctly heard Tiny Gore, as he supposed, fumbling"
and shuffling through the secret communication, and just
as Heffernan reached the door on the further side of the
bedroom, and was cautiously turning the key to unlock it
and make his exit, he saw a ray of candle-light through the
partly open panel on his side of the passage, for in his
haste he had omitted to close it entirely. He had barely
time to glide out of the door, and was in the act of shutting
it stealthily when the person carrying the light, whoever it
was, entered the room behind him.

Heffernan never paused for a second. Instinct told him
that his safety lay in getting back to his own bedroom as
quickly as possible. Fortunately for him he was well
acquainted with every yard of the rambling old house,
and could have found his way blindfold. The darkness,
therefore, did not hinder him greatly in his flight, and in a
few minutes he had descended the servants' stairs, passed
through certain of the offices, and reached the front hall.

Then hurrying up the broad oaken staircase, he stole
silently along the corridors, rend regained his room in a
state of breathless excitement. Before closing the door,
he listened and distinctly heard Tiny moving about in the
grey chamber ; consequently he feared that the disturbed
youth might at any minute break in upon him without ceremony,
since he professedly kept his own door unlocked.

Had the guilty wretch struck a light, and looked at
himself in the glass at that moment, he would have seen
that he more resembled a hunted wild beast than a human
being ; so it were well to hide that evil, crime-haunted
face beneath the spotless sheets ; and, hastily tearing off
his clothes, he leapt into bed and feigned the healthful
sleep of the righteous.

CHAPTER XXVI.

A very excellent piece of villainy."

Shah pear e.
His mind was all intent upon his purpose
The while his eyes were fix'd upon the blade,
Which sway'd and shiver'd o'er his scheming brain;
And yet he stands as he would court the peril —
Misguided fool ! "

Anonymous.

George Grayle was an early riser — a habit contracted by
long service in India, and grown into a sort of second nature.
Even after that heavy and almost sleepless night,
as soon as the grey dawn awoke him, he got up as usual.
Rising as noiselessly as possible, so as not to disturb the
tired Gertrude, he slipped into a shooting-suit and went
gently down stairs; then, taking a freeholder from the
gun-room, he sallied forth for a ramble in the park to make
a pick-up bag of an odd pigeon and rabbit or so. He
found the early air raw and cold as he crossed the grounds ;
but there was more water underfoot than overhead, and
Jupiter Plutus seemed to have exhausted himself by his
fierce energies during the night, the sky being now clear
as that of a bright morning in early autumn.

^ n£ *T* *t*

Halloa ! what, Corcoran ! Joe Corcoran, as Fin a
sinner ! Why, man alive, where did you spring from ? "

Tare an' 'pounds ! Sergeant Baines ! now who'd ha*
thought of meeting' herself at all at all ; but there, I forgot ;
beg pardon, sir, you're Mr. — Mr. Something Grayle, I
hear."

Joe corrected himself quickly, as he remembered the romantic
story of the Barringtree prodigal, all details of
which he had gleaned from letters written both by his
mother and Georgie Yickers.

Don't apologize, Joe, pray' said George Grayle ; " naturally
enough, I'm Sergeant Baines to you, but you've
heard all about it, I see."

Yes, sir j oh, yes, sir," said Joe, not quite sure that he
oughtn't to salute.

Aud how long have you been in England, and what are
you doing here ? The old burra-fujja habit, I see — up with
the sun ; but, by Jove ! it's a little colder than India, isn't
it ? So let's keep on the move, Joe, ur — r — r — r ! let's keep
on the move;" and they walked forward together.

George Grayle had suddenly come upon the giant doing
"sentry-go" near the house, and he told him laughingly
that it looked very suspicious his hanging about a gentleman's
residence in such a way and at such an hour, and
wanted to know if he had contemplated burglary and been
overtaken by the daylight ; whereupon Joe explained how
he had landed in England two days before, was staying
with his uncle, Sam Sickles, and was just now waiting on
the look-out for— for somebody — somebody as — Here he
hesitated mysteriously, and then stopped short. Lizzie's
champion found it rather awkward to proceed further, so
George begged him " to explain his explanation," which
was anything but clear. Joe hardly expected to find the
servants, much less the gentlefolk, up and on the move at

that early hour, especially after the festive night, and he
was a good deal put about for a reply. The simple logic of
his brain made him think that, as lie knew all about it,
everybody else would be sure to do so too directly he gave
them the slightest hint, so he was rather over-cautious than
otherwise.

"Well, sir, the fact is," he stammered, changing step
and marching uneasily alongside the ex-sergeant— " the
fact is, old Rolfe, he told me as how she'd shep' at the
Hall, 'cos o' the storm; so I thought mayhap she wouldn't
lie abed long, and faith, your honour, I was just on the lookout
for her, ye know — waiting' to walk home with her'
added he, finishing up in Irish.

Joe's intense anxiety to hear the result of Lizzie's interview
with the "captain " had taken him to the lodge almost
before it was light, when Rolfe had told him where she
was ; and immediately the excited giant risked his incognito,
in order to meet her on her return, and so got caught.

"But who, Joe? Who's she?" asked George, smiling.
You don't tell me who it is you're waiting for."

"Why, that there little Bessie Farlane,sir,"blundered Joe.

"Who?"

Lawkk ! I should say Lizzie Rolfe."

Eh ? but which do you mean, Joe ?"

I mean Lizzie, sir, to be sure — Lizzie Rolfe, the ould
keeper's gal, ye know, sir."

Then what did you call her the first name for ? What
was it ? Bessie Farlane you said, didn't you ? "

Begorra ! I don't know, sir — anyhow, I didn't mane it
if I did."

But you said it, Joe — Bessie Farlane, clear enough ;
then why did you call her that, pray ? Do you mean that
Lizzie Rolfe has two names ? or do you mean that Bessie
Farlane is Lizzie Rolfe, or what ?"

George Grayle cross-questioned him thus with some
emphasis, for a sudden idea flashed across him. There was
no mistaking that name, and instantly he thought of
Lizzie's strange likeness to the beautiful Mrs. Farlane, as he
remembered her, and also the girl's striking resemblance to
Albert Heffernan, as talked of overnight; and it occurred to
George directly that there must be some mystery about
this gamekeeper's lovely daughter after all. Moreover, he
associated the name of Mrs. Corcoran with the Garlands
down in Kent, and remembered, of course, that Joe was the
old nurse's son. Added to this, Corcoran's obvious confusion
and clumsy stammering were quite enough to show
the most obtuse person that there was something strange
about it all.

Answer me, Joe, is she or is she not ?"

There was no getting out of it. George Grayle's dark
eyes read Joe's honest expression to the letter. They had
now halted, and were standing face to face, and in a
moment Joe's feeble attempt at deception broke down
ignominiously. So the secret-laden giant was compelled to
throw offhis burden prematurely, and by dint of severe cross-examination
George elicited every important detail regarding
the Pullerton Trust fraud.

"And where is this confession, Joe?" he asked; "have
you got it with you?"

Xo, sir, I haven't."

"I wish you'd get it, then; I should like to see
it."

So you shall, sir, as soon as Bessie appears. I give it
to her last night, ye know, to show to the ' captain ' and convince
him — "

The deuce you did ! That was rather foolish, bea



Oh, it'll be all right, sir," returned Joe, probably

reading George Grayle's thoughts ; " the captain's a proper
gentleman, I'm sure of it, and directly he knows, he'll do
what's right, you'll see."

Joe Corcoran then defended his dead mother with all the
simple ingenuity at his command, and put the best complexion
he could on Heffernan's conduct, imploring George
not to tell any one — only to wait a bit, and he'd answer for
the captain's doing the straight thing and making it up to
his sister, like a real officer and gentleman.

The latter part of Joe's remarks was lost upon George,
whose thoughts were absorbed by the extraordinary and
critical position of affairs at the present moment. He was
not one to waver when he had anything important to do,
and the startling fact now forced upon him, that his
daughter was on the brink of marriage with a shameless
swindler, bestirred him to instant action.

11 Don't go and tell anybody, sir," pleaded Joe again,
u please don't. I wouldn't ha' let on about it, only you
twigged so quick. Do just w T ait a bit and see — wait until
after the captain's married, and then—"

Hold your tongue, man ! " interrupted George, angrily.
How dare you say such a thing to me, Miss Agnes
Grayle's father?"

Joe started and drew back, rather alarmed and not a
little indignant. He couldn't see any harm in what he
had said, and was puzzled at George Grayle's brusque
rejoinder.

AY ell, I didn't mean to speak so harshly," continued
George, in a milder tone. " Of course, you can't understand
my — my feelings regarding this chatter. Now, look
here, I haven't time to hang about any longer ; you go on
up to Sickles' farm, please, and stop there, so that I may
know where to send for you if you're wanted. There, no
more words, Joe ; you'll see I'll act for the best ; good

And without further remark George left him,
and hurried across the park towards Crutch Hut.]

Grumpy Grayle being" trustee, and his nephew godfather,
to the child Bessie Farlane, they had before now discussed
the subject of the Pullerton Trust together, and had often
remarked what an extraordinary stroke of good luck it was
for Albert Heffernan that he should come in for the whole
of the money by the sudden death of the heiress.

Grumpy was laid up at this time with his old enemy,
gout, and consequently had been unable to patronize the
theatricals, the night before. He was always very irritable
when thus attacked, so it was unanimously thought unadvisable
to press him to attend.

George gave the door-bell of the Hut a loud ring, which,
alter some delay, was answered by the red-haired Polly, in a
very slatternly condition, who represented that Grumpy was
still in bed, which was a matter of course at that time of
the morning. George, however, replied that he couldn't
help it; he must see him immediately on most important
business.

Xow, to rouse his uncle at such an unearthly hour (it
was a little past eight, but Grumpy never rose till half-past
nine in winter) was like bearding a lion in his den. Nevertheless,
George was too much excited to take any thought
of the old gentleman's wrath, and accordingly knocked
vigorously till he awoke. When Grumpy did so, he gave
vent to a snort and a querulous squeak, and demanded to
know who it was, and what the deuce and all he wanted.

11 Fll tell you, uncle Andrew, if you'll let me in,''' replied
his nephew. " Very sorry to disturb you, but I couldn't
possibly help it. What I've come about is very pressing."
He added this as Grumpy, growling like a bear, unfastened
the door and admitted him.

In as few words as possible, George then related what he

had just heard, and urged that immediate steps ought to betaken
to investigate the matter; but whatever was done
ought to be done very quietly, he added, to avoid unnecessary
fuss and scandal, which, for obvious reasons, was
desirable.

Long before George had finished, Grumpy gave vent to
his feelings in the shrillest falsetto ever heard within the
walls of Crutch Hut. It started Mrs. Cole at her toilet,
who, thinking that the gout had flown to her master's
stomach or brain, rushed to his room in a state of incompleteness,
and reached the door in time to overhear the
plaintive cry repeated. •

My God, I'm ruined ! I'm robbed ! I'm ruined ! I'm
responsible for the whole lot ! I tell you I'm ruined — done
foH"

Not a bit of it, uncle Andrew," remonstrated George.
"Why should you be?"

"Tell you I am. They'll come down on me, of course,
for every halfpenny. Only trustee left — don't you understand?"


Yes ; but you've been released ; the Trust's wound up,
and—"

How can it be wound up, you idiot, if the girl's alive
and kicking?"

But her death was attested and sworn to in due form,
wasn't it? You're not responsible for other people's
fraud."

Ain't I ? PYaps not ; but I'm responsible for
40,000/. and more, and that's a d — d sight worse. Of
course, they'll come down on me"

But w/io'\\ come down on you?"

Oh, next-o'-kin, perhaps — solicitor to the Trust — the
girl herself ! — anybody, everybody, / don't care. Ha, ha,
ha ! One consolation, we'll send that smooth-tongued,

smiling" hypocrite to gaol. I'll go and take out a warrant
at once for his apprehension''

"No, no"" argued George; "better come up to the
house with me, tackle him quietly, and see if you can't
work on his conscience. You'll get just as much out of
him that way, perhaps, and save a lot of unpleasantness."

u You really think so, eh ? Very well, then, I'll do
that. Hi! Missus!"

iC Here I am, sir," answered the housekeeper, entering —
she had already knocked two or three times without effect
u what is the matter?"

What's the matter ? Everything's the matter. Can't
you see that, you old fool ? I don't care. Ha, ha, ha !
he, he, he ! " George thought his uncle was going crazy,
for Grumpy gave a very hyaena-wish laugh, at once hysterical
and wild. " Don't stand staring there, old womanlike
a Queen's head on a sign-board. Run and order the trap,
and send Polly up with my water." (Exit Mrs. Cole, hurriedly.)
" We'd better go up to the Hall at once, boy,
eh?"

Certainly, and you can just drop in casually with me to
breakfast, as if nothing had happened. But, mind you, we
shall have to go to work very gingerly. We must get hold
of Mrs. Corcoran's confession first, and confront him with
that, and then produce our witnesses. He's a slippery fish,
depend upon it, and it won't do to put him on his guard.
Upon my soul ! it's amazing ; and one had grown to like
the fellow so much. I never could have believed this."

Couldn't I just ! it's no more than I expected,"
exclaimed Grumpy, in a sort of I-told-you-so tone, though
he was utterly astounded and taken by surprise all the
same. " But we shall catch him nicely, he, he, he ! he
can't have an inkling that anything's up from what that
fellow Corporal says, so he'll be neatly nobbled ; " and

VOL. III. u

Grumpy chuckled and groaned by turns as the gout now
and then gave him an excruciating reminder.

"By-the-bye, uncle Andrew," said George, "a thought
strikes me — did you never get a certificate of the girl's
death ? "

Eh ? what ? ha ! to be sure I did, of course I did,
but be hanged if I know what I've done with it — why ? "

"Because if you can produce that, or prove it in any
other way, no one could come down on you y I take it — "

"By gum! I never thought of that, boy ; but on the
other hand, if I can't they could. Yes, yes, I know all
about that."

As you please, though I don't see who's to do so, for
there's the registry you can refer to, if you can't produce
the certificate. However, we can talk all that over by-and-by.
Meanwhile make haste and dress, and let's be off."

All right, boy ; you go down to the sanctum and play
with the cat, and I'll do up my gouty old carcase as sharp
as possible. But we'd better just have a hunt for that certificate
before we go ; it would be as well to find it, though
I don't believe it would make me a bit less responsible."

And they did hunt, high and low — in every drawer,
pigeon-hole and shelf Grumpy could think of amid that
chaos of carved curiosities — but it was nowhere to be found,
so he began to think he must have lost or destroyed it as
waste paper. George consoled him, however, by saying it
wasn't of vital importance after all ; and as the trap was
waiting at the door, and the search had already occupied
considerable time, they drove off without further delay.
Grumpy's oft repeated attacks of gout lately had necessitated
his starting a conveyance, and a curious turn-out it
was; a low, two wheeled affair with a hood — a sort of
mongrel buggy in reduced circumstances — to which was
harnessed a great lumbering raw-boned horse twice too

big for it. Indeed, as the groom remarked, " to squeeze
that there loss into them there narrer bits o' shafts was
like train' to cram a giant into a. jam pot' and it was a
wonder the beast never kicked the whole concern to pieces
from the galling pressure.

Ten o'clock had struck when they reached the Hall ; but
the breakfast gong had not yet sounded, for everything
was later that morning, as a natural consequence. So
Grumpy and his nephew had a little more time to lay their
heads together before all the people in the house came down.

George wanted to prevent Grumpy from joining the
others at breakfast, for he mistrusted the old bachelor's
excitable nature, and was afraid of a scene. For Agnes' sake
George desired to avoid any public expose, and would not
for the world, if he could help it, that her name should be
dragged into the papers in connexion with that of a
scoundrel. Grumpy assured his nephew, however, that he
had perfect command over his own feelings, and knew what
he was about.

I'm not going to be done out of my breakfast for anybody,
boy' he observed jocularly ; "my cup 0' tea and bit
o' devil, devil a bit ; and after them I shall feel all the
fitter to deal with a devil of another kind, more substantial
though less savoury, perhaps, than pheasant or turkey ; he,
he, he ! Come along," he added, for at that moment the
gong began to hum softly, increasing gradually to a brazen
roar which echoed through the hall and hurried the late
ones with their toilets. Without waiting for anybody,
Grumpy now hobbled into the dining-room from the library,
where he and George had held further conference.

Albert Helfernan was one of the last of the gentlemen
to put in an appearance, and when he did so he took his
place at the breakfast-table with an assumption of that
easy, pleasant manner which seldom failed him. But this

u a

morning all his smiles and good looks could not conceal a
certain haggard expression on his face ; his eyes, too, were
rather bloodshot, and there were two or three slight cuts
on his chin caused by a trembling hand whilst shaving.
All this was marked by some of the male community,
near whom he sat, who observed how " awfully chippy
he looked, and that dissipation didn't seem to agree with
him," to which he replied, that the storm had kept him
awake till nearly dawn, which he supposed was the universal
complaint.

Several ladies were absentees at present, having passed
more or less sleepless nights, and neither Gertrude nor
Agnes had yet appeared. At length the latter entered
the room, looking rather pale and serious, and took a
vacant seat between her father and Grumpy, some distance
from Heffernan, who was sitting at 'the further end.
Rather surprised to see her great uncle, she inferred that
his gout was better, and remarked that he certainly ought
to have come to their theatricals, to which Grumpy gave
some evasive reply, for his mind was full of more momentous
matters.

Well, Fay — tired after last night, little woman ? "
asked George ; " you look so, rather ; come, have some
breakfast, and you'll soon feel all right."

No, I'm not particularly tired, dear, thanks, but do
you know I'm quite frightened about poor Lizzie Rolfe : "
this she added in a lower tone.

The little milkmaid ! Why, what's the matter with
her?"

Well, of course you know she couldn't go home last
night, so slept here, in my maid's room, and — and she
seems so dreadfully ill this morning."

Ah, late hours and late supper — not used to that sort
of thing—"

w I don't fancy it's anything" to do with that, papa. I
believe she must have suffered from frightful nightmare,
or— "

Exactly, as I observed, late supper and — "

When I say nightmare I mean some terrible fright in
the night ; and it wasn't the thunder and lightning, for I
asked her."

But what's the matter with her?"

Well, she complains of a splitting headache and
extreme languor, so much so that she feels as if she could
never get up again and could hardly speak, poor child."

u What makes you think it's from fright, Fay ? "

Because she told me it was. She feels sure somebody
or something was in her room last night; that she woke
up with a feeling of suffocation, knew she wasn't alone,
and tried to scream — but remembers nothing more."

That certainly looks like nightmare, doesn't it ? "

Grumpy Grayle, who had overheard the latter part of
this conversation, pricked up his ears; and a thought
seemed to strike him as he asked abruptly, " Eh, what ?
the girl Rolfe slept here last night, did she ? "

Yes, uncle Andrew, it was impossible for her to go
home in such a dreadful storm."

In what room was that, eh ? "

My maid's — one near the servants' suite, you
know."

Just on the other side of the grey room, isn't it?"
said George. " Ah, then I understand ; of course she's
heard a lot of rubbish about it being haunted, and so
imagined she saw a ghost, I dare say."

I quite forgot the old legend and those secret panels, or
I wouldn't have put her there," remarked Agnes ; " but
there was nowhere else — "

Excuse me, Miss Grayle, I can't help hearing what

you're talking about," observed Tiny Gore, who was sitting
immediately opposite, " and I say, you know, I'm put in
that grey room, and 'pon my soul I believe there is something
in it after all."

Something in what, Mr. Gore ?

I mean in it's being haunted, 'pon my honour, I
do."

Why ! have yo seen a ghost too, Tiny ? " asked
George Grayle, smiling.

lt Well, look here, T say, I swear Fm not joking. I don't
know what it was, but I'll just tell you what I did see,
Miss Grayle. I shouldn't have mentioned it if I hadn't
overheard your remarks, for I thought you'd only laugh at
me."

Go ahead, youngster, we won't laugh," observed
Grumpy, who was listening attentively. " I love a good
ghost story, tell us about it."

First of all, then, you must know I always lock my
door at night, and when I went to do so last night I
couldn't find the key anywhere."

Eh, what ? lost the key, eh ? " cried Grumpy, in a suppressed
falsetto ; adding, as he glanced down the table,
hush, don't talk so loud; go on."

But the key's got nothing to do with it, Tiny," observed
George ; " a ghost's like love — he laughs at locksmiths."


Well, I can't tell you whether he came in at the door
or down the chimney ; all I know is, I woke suddenly, and
by the lightning, distinctly saw a figure at the fireplace."

This was getting interesting, and drew the attention of
others, sitting near, to Tiny's recital, which he delivered ina
low, mysterious tone.

I'm not nervous as a rule, and I suppose I was only
half awake," he continued apologetically ; " at any rate I

believe I tried to call out, but couldn't for the life of
me."

Clearly another case of nightmare' interrupted
George.

M No, I'll swear it wasn't ; wait till you hear, that's all."

Hold your tongue, George," growled Grumpy.

I say I saw something as plain as a pikestaff; I don't
know what, but I certainly wasn't dreaming. The curious
part about it is that the figure was turned towards me, and
just then a flash showed me his face, rather indistinctly of
course, but that face I fancied was the Rajah's — I mean
Captain Heffernan's, you know." Grumpy and George
exchanged a swift, significant glance. " Well, I thought
directly he was playing some practical joke, and that he'd
taken my key after all, or else was walking in his sleep ;
but just as I was going to halloa out, he — that is, the
figure — glided across the room into the dark shadows and
vanished through the wall."

Eh, what ? through the wall ! " exclaimed Grumpy.

Well, I mean through the door of that queer cupboard."


Ha ! and there's a communication through that into
the opposite room ! " cried the old bachelor, in suppressed
excitement, for he had already smelt a rat, and this
strengthened his suspicion.

I never knew there was at the time ; and when the
figure disappeared so mysteriously I was utterly dumb-fooled,
and thought I must have been dreaming ; yet I
was wide awake enough, and I watched and listened for
some minutes, but seeing nothing else I suppose I dropped
off to sleep again. It must have been a light sleep, though,
for I was soon woke up once more, and this time by a sort of
muffled scream which I heard distinctly proceeding as if
from that old closet. I won't say I wasn't in a funk,

because I was — in an awful funk. too. I'd heard the room
was haunted, and I'll take my oath it is, and the next one
as well."

How do you mean ? "

Well, a sort of Dutch courage came to me all of a
sudden, and I jumped up, ran to the cupboard, and pulled
open the door. At the same moment I'll be hanged if the
wall at the back, as I thought, didn't open suddenly and
knock against me — the old woodwork, you know. It was
as dark as pitch and I couldn't see anything, but I touched
something moving — that I'll swear ! I nearly yelled with
fright, and jumped back into the room as if the old gentleman
had kicked me. But my monkey was up, and I was
determined to see what it was, so I lit a candle and went
back. Then, by groping about, I discovered that secret
passage leading through into the other side ; and, never
hesitating, I explored it at once, and the next minute found
myself in the opposite bed-room ; but, raising my candle a
little, I saw a female in bed, and so hooked it out again
sharp; though I must tell you that, just as I got through
into her room, I twigged the door at the further side closing
on somebody in the act of going out."

"This is most extraordinary," exclaimed Agnes, with
a look of alarm ; " for they tell me that Lizzie's door was
found unfastened this morning, and she declares she locked
it last night."

Go on, boy, go on ; is that all ?" asked Grumpy, impatiently.


Not quite. I got back to my room (shoved on some
clothes, for it was precious cold), and then went straight off
to the Rajah's—"

"You mean the Captain's?" suggested Grumpy.

"Captain Helfernan's, yes — when I noticed, curiously
enough, that my door was standing ajar — "

I say, Albert, they're taking your name in vain up at
that end," observed Hector, from a seat opposite.

"So I hear; what's the excitement, Tiny?" inquired
Heffernaris " what's all this about me ? "

I was only saying I thought you walked in your sleep
last night, old chap," replied Gore. " or else were up to
some practical joke ; but of course it couldn't have been
you, because, when I went to your room, I found you in
bed, snoring — "

"Eh, what?" muttered Grump}-, " d'you mean to say
you did?"

Yes, that I did," laughed Tiny. " Poor old Rajah ! he
looked as tired as a dog, and I wouldn't wake him. But I
say, I say, you know, there's no mistake about it, I swear —
as it wasn't the Rajah it must have been a ghost, you
know, and I'm blowed if I sleep there another night."

This emphatic finale was received by a general laugh,
albeit the nerves of many who thus derided his fears might
not have stood the test so well. Clement Mountjoy, who
was present at breakfast, was particularly interested in the
narration ; and it took him back to that awful night he
himself had passed in the haunted room, when he proved
the providential means of saving Hector's life.

George Grayle and his uncle were fairly puzzled. Their
suspicions had been first aroused, then nearly confirmed,
and finally shaken again for the moment by the concluding
statement. It was most mysterious. But notwithstanding
the apparent discrepancy in the evidence, they both felt
more or less convinced that it was Heffernan whom Tiny had
seen under such weird circumstances, evidently intent on
some unlawful purpose, which, to their minds, was pretty
nearly obvious ; and they adhered to this conclusion in
the end, despite that one point which appeared irreconcilable
with the rest of the story.

Chapter XXVII.

AT BAY !

"Es glaubt der Mensch sein Leben zu lenten, such selbst zu fiihren ;
und sein Innerstes word unwiderstehlich each sein em Schicksale
gezogen."

Goethe.

Although Heffernan appeared oblivious to the conversation
going on at the further end of the table, until Hector
invited his attention to it, he had heard a great deal more
than they imagined, and quite enough to show him that
his dastardly attempt at murder had failed.

While he listened, a strange and anomalous feeling took
possession of him ; in part, a sense of relief at finding that
he had not committed murder after all, and at the same
time an intense feeling of dismay at his failure. But
notwithstanding the mental torture he was then undergoing,
that clever, handsome face afforded no tell-tale
signs of the sinking heart and violent agitation within, so
marvellously did he control his countenance.

With regard to the properties of chloroform and its
anaesthetic power, Heffernan laboured under a mistaken
impression. The idea had only occurred to him suddenly,
without premeditation, and he had fallen into the error
not uncommon amongst experts — that an overdose of

chloroform administered under ordinary circumstances must
inevitably cause dissolution. Thanks to her perfect physique,
however, and the fact that her screams had interrupted
the inhalation, in Lizzie's case the powerful fumes of the
narcotic had simply produced, as with any healthy subject,
a deathlike stupor of long" duration, which was succeeded
by violent headache and intense lassitude ; and it was several
hours before she recovered from the noxious, numbing
effects. The action of her heart, as a natural consequence,
had become partially suspended for a time, and its pulsation
being so extremely faint Heffernan thought it had
ceased altogether.

Having failed in his foul purpose, he had no alternative
but to remain on the scene and brazen it out, although he
positively quaked in his shoes at the danger of his position,
and yet fondly tried to imagine that he had no real ground
for alarm. His crafty caution had left not the smallest
clue which might throw light on the mysterious doings of
that dark morning, and he therefore felt quite secure
against the capital charge. But there was one awkward
fact, which would look suspicious (and this was his only
apprehension), that he had of necessity taken away and
carefully burnt the letter containing such damnatory
evidence against himself — which letter, of course, would
be missed from the pillow. But let the girl assert what
she would, now that the important paper was destroyed,
she had no proof, as he believed, and he must meet her
with a barefaced denial — hint at a strange hallucination,
temporary insanity, and so forth — in short, trust to his
talents to pull him through ; or if driven into a corner, fall
back upon that plausible story (to be invented for the occasion),
as if it had been suddenly brought to memory.

But Heffernan did not wot of the breakers ahead,
towards which he was fast drifting, or he would scarcely

have indulged in such a hopeful view of the situation.
Howbeit, he had remained so long* on the spot, with the
sword hanging over his head, that it was too late to drawback
now, and, whatever happened, he must stand his
ground at all risks. In fact, to beat a retreat at this crisis
would be to invite the gravest suspicion, and bring about
subsequent detection.

In the annals of crime it has been frequently observed
that a culprit, if not actually taken in flagrante delicto,
haunts the scene of his guilt, in the hope of not being
found, out, with an insensate and fatal persistence which
leads to eventual capture.

Albert Heffernan, ingenious and well-schooled man of
the world as he was, proved another illustration of such
extraordinary imbecility ; inasmuch as for him the very
atmosphere of Barringtree had, from the outset, been surcharged
with danger. Yet his infatuation — his passionate,
all-absorbing love (such as a man like himself does feel
when brought to love at last) — had fooled his discretion.


Both Grumpy Grayle and George, as I have said, more
than suspected that Heffernan had had something to do with
Tiny Gore's nocturnal adventure. True, an alibi had been
apparently proved by the final remarks, yet Grumpy fully
intended to make it a point in his forthcoming cross-examination.


When the old bachelor was leaving the breakfast table,
George Grayle took him aside, and again earnestly advocated
discreet and cautious measures ; so that an unpleasant
scene in the house might, if possible, be avoided.

All right, boy, all right'' replied Grumpy ; " I know
what Fm about — you leave it to me. I'll go to work
quietly enough, and if he don't kick too much there'll be
no fuss. It's my business to see to this, as responsible

Trustee. Til be prosecutor, and the Squire '11 come in
handy as magistrate by and by. I declare I believe the
devil's been up to some murderous game in the night ;
I had a smell of brimstone under my nose the whole of
breakfast-tinie. Now, you'd better see about that confession
letter, and get it from the girl upstairs at once ;
and meanwhile send down sharp for the man Corcoran; we
must have him; and you might ask that young fellow
Gore not to go out of the way, as he may be wanted too.
Tell you what, your own sanctum shall be the justice-room,
so you'll find us there'

During this Heffernan had disappeared from the table ;
but about half an hour afterwards' Grumpy, who was
watching his opportunity, espied him crossing the hall,
and immediately stumped up to him, exclaiming in a
cheery tone, —

"Well, Captain, and how are you this morning, after
all your — your exertions last night ? Hot coppery, eh ? "

Oh, not a bit, thanks, Mr. Grayle," replied Heffernan,
in the same tone; "the Barringtree cellar's too good for
that ; besides, I never go beyond a certain point — I leave
that to the youngsters."

Ah, quite right ; always keep a clear head for business,
eh ? But I'll wager you had aheavyish night of it — didn't
get much sleep, I essay ? "

Who, I ? Oh, i" slept pretty well towards morning.
That storm wasn't exactly a lullaby though, was it ? kept
you awake, I dare say, Mr. Grayle ? "

u Not it. I was as snug as a bug in a rug under the
blankets. I didn't go flitting about all night in blue fire
and sulphur, to the tune of rattling thunder, like those
German devils in the opera. But, by the way, Captain,
I want to have a word or two with you, if you can spare
me a little time."

There appeared a significant meaning in all this, and
as the old man added the last remark, something seemed
to give way in Heffernan's chest like the snapping of a
cord.

Certainly, Mr. Grayle," he answered, in an easy
tone, whilst his coward conscience made him feel far from
comfortable, for he half anticipated what was to follow.


Come and smoke your matutinal in George's sanctum j
we shan't be disturbed there — won't keep you long."

"Thanks; I don't care about smoking just yet' observed
Heffernan, who somehow felt at that moment as if it would
make him sick, "but I'll join you presently; you won't
mind waiting a bit while I run to the gun-room. We're
going to drive the birds by-and-by, and I — I just want to
look to my guns."

Grumpy imagined directly that he meant to bolt or blow
out his brains, so he replied, —

All right; I'll come with you, I'll come with you; no
hurry."

Very good ; and we can talk as we go, can't we ? "

Well, yes — no, not quite though — that is — " Grumpy
hesitated ; he fancied, on second thoughts, that he might
have his own brains blown out if he got with this fellow
among the breech-loaders, and he didn't like the idea. He
well knew he had a desperate man to deal with, who, he felt
sure, guessed his object. It was only a pretence about the
guns, of course. Heffernan foresaw something unpleasant,
he scarcely knew what, and would gladly have shirked the
interview if only for the time ; the events of the night
having so upset his nerves that he didn't feel equal to the
occasion.

Let me offer you an arm, Mr. Grayle," said he, very
politely.

Thanks, no, never mind ; I think I won't go down
those cold passages — put it off till afterwards ; I shan't
keep you five minutes. "

This sounded more reassuring, as Grumpy intended, five
minutes meaning just so long as was necessary ; therefore
Heffernan, vexed with himself for his momentary cowardice,
agreed, and they repaired together to the little room dedicated
to George Grayle's private use, situate in a remote corner
of the basement. As soon as they reached it, and the door
had closed upon them, Grumpy's manner changed, and
turning suddenly to Heffernan, with a peculiar, searching
look, he observed —

So, Captain, you didn't manage to kill that girl last
night after all — a little awkward, eh ? "

How do you mean, Mr. Grayle ? " inquired Heffernan,
with admirable self-possession, and smiling at the remark,
what's the joke ? f 3

Oh, you know best how I mean — Othello business, I
essay ; but you did thy, didn't you ? "

"Really I— I can't quite make out where the laugh
comes in. I suppose my head must be rather full of
cobwebs to-day — "

Oh, sour head's right enough, though that's more than
can be said of the poor girl's. I hear she's precious queer,
and as for the laugh — well, perhaps it'll be on her side yet.
But I say, you nearly managed it, didn't you? not
quite, eh ?

u Upon my soul, Mr. Grayle," exclaimed Heffernan, still
with a pleasant smile, " if I didn't know better, I should say
you'd been consulting the Barringtree cellars yourself this
morning; what is it you mean?"

Ah, well, nothing very much, only that it must have
been a nasty jar for you to find that girl had come to life
again when you'd killed and buried her once before so

nicely, and so you had another shy last night, hadn't you ?
Very natural, very natural ; such a chance wasn't to be
sneezed at, was it ? Not understand me yet ? " was the
sharp, falsetto query, as " the Captain " continued to stare
in well-feigned astonishment; "well, I never — you are
dense this morning. But — oh, by the way, Captain, I hear
you and your handsome relation created quite a sensation
last evening — I mean when you were on the boards
together'

You allude to Agnes, I presume ? "

No, sir, damme, I don't' cried Grumpy, excitedly.
She's not your relation, nor likely to be. I mean that
girl, Lizzie Rolfe, alias Bessie Farlane, alias your mother's
daughter hy her second marriage, alias heiress to old mother
Pullerton's forty thousand pounds — for which I'm trustee,
worse luck — alias your half-sister, whom you've swindled
and tried to murder ! you d — d scoundrel ! "

Grumpy had intended trying quiet measures, as George
suggested ; but his feelings would not allow it, nor did he
think that mildness would pay, for he knew he was no
match, in point of words, for this cunning diplomatist,
whose coolness irritated him more than the gout itself.

Really, Mr. Grayle, you'll excuse me," rejoined
HefFernan, calmly, though his face was now deadly pale ;
I know you're a bit eccentric, and this may be a very
good joke ; but your language is rather strong — "

I don't care, sir, I repeat it, and I hope you may relish
the joke."

— Actionable, in fact," continued HefFernan, " unless
you're either mad or drunk, which I'm afraid you must
be."

Confound you, sir ! I'll soon show you whether I am,"
squeaked Grumpy, waxing purple with anger ; " how dare
you ? By the powers above, you'll find me a precious sight

too 'acute and sober for your liking". Bali, what a fool I am.
to get into a rage though ! " he muttered, adding more
quietly, u Looked here, sir, I won't waste words with you ;
the long and the short of it is, I've found out all about the
matter; so as Fm trustee and responsible for this girl's
money, you needn't be surprised at any step I take. I
once acted all in your favour; now Fm going to do just the
other thing. Fve got the whole business down in black
and white, so I warn you — that you and that woman, Mrs.
Corcoran, put your heads together and swore to a lot of
lies at that inquest, buried a dead girl in the name of a
live one, gulled all the trustees, and walked off with the
money — isn't that about it ? "

"It strikes me, Mr. Grayle, that you, as one of the
trustees, have been gulled by somebody else, and I hope
whoever put such a notion into your head is prepared to
prove it, or else my duty will be to proceed against such
person for libel. I should not wish to do so against you,
as Agnes' — "

Damme, sir ! " screamed Grumpy, nearly making a
hole in the carpet with his stick, " don't breathe the child's
name ! You marry my niece ! You marry into our family !
Heaven forbid ! not unless you're clever enough to prove
yourself the angel Gabriel, instead of the devil, as I believe
you to be."

"Pardon me, Mr. Grayle, you remarked just now that
you wouldn't waste words. Let us come to the point; if
you really mean what you say and wish to prove ar —
something that's never happened, how do you propose to
set about it ? "

In a very few minutes," observed Grumpy, confidently,
I shall have the pleasure of showing you a little document
of some importance — a full confession written by that
wicked old sinner, mother Cork, on her death-bed" (Ha!

VOL. III. x

what did this mean? could there be a duplicate?) " and
sent by her to the girl herself, in whose possession it is at
this moment."

Indeed' said HefFernan, relieved at once and smiling
inwardly; "well, you may produce what documents you
please, Mr. Grayle, Fm quite prepared to defend myself
against any such ridiculous charge. Meantime you really
must excuse me' he continued, moving across to leave the
room ; " I can't afford to spend all my morning discussing
such a preposterous subject j besides, they'll be ready to go
out shooting very shortly, and — "

Pardon me' replied Grumpy, politely, and hobbling to
the door, against which he pluckily placed his back in a resolute
manner ; " pray pardon me, Captain, but I don't think
they'll — they'll want you— I think they'll get on without
your company to-day ; and I must ask you to stay here a
bit, so please don't kick up a shindy. I only want to show
you this confession, you know, since you don't seem to
believe me — "

11 Oh, if that's all then, I'll wait, of course — for a few
minutes'

Whereupon Grumpy limped back to the fireplace and
rang the bell. Prior to this the two antagonists had kept up
a spirited tournament — at least on one side — Grumpy going
at it in a ding-dong fashion, and Heffernan sparring with
consummate skill. It was, in fact, rather like a combat
between a hot-headed navvy and a cool scientific boxer,
but the boxer had evidently lost ground before the repeated
facers he received. And now they seemed to have laid
aside the gloves by mutual consent, and extreme civility
became the order of things for a while.

I assure you I won't keep you a minute longer than I
can help."

Don't mention it, pray."

The footman now appeared.

John, tell Mr. George I want him directly, please'
and John vanished smartly to summon Grumpy 's reserve
force to the front.

In the interim George Grayle had not been idle ; and
besides sending for Joe Corcoran, who had arrived
from the farm-house, and was waiting at hand, he had
gained other intelligence of the last importance in the
following manner.

Some time after breakfast, Agnes, hurrying downstairs,
took him aside, and, with a look of anxious alarm in her
face, exclaimed, —

Papa, I've just been to see Lizzie Rolfe again ; she's
still very ill, poor girl, and I really don't know whether
she is delirious or what ; but she has told me such strange
things. I found her in a dreadful state of excitement when
I went upstairs — almost in hysterics. She says she has
lost a valuable letter in the night — declares she put it under
her pillow when she went to bed, and now it's gone."

George started. He understood directly that they had
been anticipated, and that the important confession would
not be forthcoming after all. In point of fact, this same
idea had flashed across him at breakfast while Tiny was
telling his story ; but as such a contingency did not seem
to have occurred to Grumpy, George did not hint at it, lest
he should excite his uncle still further.

u Ashen I asked her what sort of a letter it was," added
Agnes, " she couldn't explain exactly, but said she knew
who had taken it, and — "

"Did she tell you who?"

Yes ; and just fancy, papa, she actually suspects Albert !
Oh, I'm quite bewildered ! surely she must be wandering
in her mind ; indeed, I could hardly get her to talk coherently
; but she repeats that somebody teas in her room

x

last night, that she remembers the dreadful feeling" of being
stifled, and — and, do you know, dear, I can't help thinking
something extraordinary has happened — "

"Not adoubtof it, in my mind' murmured George, aside.

It's so very mysterious, isn't it ? unless it's all a dream
of hers. And what do you think, dear — I'm afraid you'll
be very angry if it's really true, but — but —

Go on, Fay."

Promise you won't say a word then, for I expect it's
only her excited imagination that made* her talk of such a
thing; but she actually confessed that she and Hector
were just the same to one another as ever; in fact, that
they were engaged now, and that he meant to marry her."

Sly young rascal ! if I didn't think so."

I wonder if it is true. I shall go and ask him directly.
He seemed dreadfully distressed when I told him how
ill she is. Lizzie declares, too, that Hec won't be marrying
beneath him when he makes her his wife ; that shea
lady, and could have proved it by that letter which
has been lost ; but that she hopes to be able to prove it
without, and then we shan't be ashamed to take her into
the family. Altogether she went on rambling in such a
way that I'm quite sure her mind is affected."

I don't think so, but we shall all be wiser before long.
In the meantime, darling," said George, fondly stroking
his daughter's rich auburn hair, "pray keep your own
counsel about this. Say nothing yet of what you've heard.
Between ourselves, I admit there is something rather extraordinary
on the tapis, but we want to keep it quiet at
present. Now you needn't try to guess nor ask questions,
little girl ; you'll know it all soon enough, so do as I tell
you."

And her father left her, meeting the footman immediately
afterwards, who delivered Grumpy's message. George then

went to join his uncle in the sanctum, preparatory to introducing'
Joe, as a sort of Nemesis, at the right moment.

Well, George'' observed Grumpy (as his nephew
entered), waving his hand with a circular motion of despair
towards Heffernan, " I've been trying to convince this
gentleman that he's a downright blackguard, but he won't
have it. I wish you'd come and help me."

Mr. Grayle, as I said before," exclaimed Heffernan,
with a clever semblance of dignity, u such terms as these
are actionable ; and whether you're in fun or not, I must
request you to modify your language, otherwise I shall
take notice of the matter."

u He, he, he ! good joke, eh, George ?" chuckled Grumpy.

u I think you'll have quite enough to do to defend yourself,
Captain Heffernan," observed George, sternly, " without
taking action against other people."

And what may you mean by that, sir, pray ?" inquired
Heffernan, in a defiant tone, for he was growing desperate.

Doubtless my uncle has prepared you for what I mean,"
was the reply ; " but you'll understand better, perhaps, if
we produce our authority in this matter. Shall I bring
him in, uncle Andrew?"

Certainly, yes," replied Grumpy, dry-shaving his face
nervously, and in another two minutes Joe Corcoran was
brought to the front.

Joe saluted the " Captain" rather sheepishly on entering
the room, and shuffled up alongside the escort (George),
exactly as he was wont to do at orderly-room, and as if he
himself were the culprit instead of Heffernan.

The latter started and grew paler still when Joe appeared,
for he began to realize at last the trap which had been laid
for him. In destroying Mrs. Corcoran's letter during the
dark hours that morning (which he did directly Tiny Gore
went to bed again) Heffernan had not waited a moment to

read the statement, or he would have been prepared for Joe's
appearance. Immediately he struck a light he identified the
paper as that shown him by Lizzie overnight, and, agitated
and trembling with fear as he was at his own villainy, he
set fire to it without further delay.

Now Corcoran, my good man' instructed Grumpy,
be kind enough to repeat in our presence all that you
communicated to Mr. George this morning."

Joe cleared his throat and hesitated, stood " at ease," and
sprang to "attention" again.

Begin' your pardon, gentlemen," said he, in a resolute
though respectful manner, " but that ain't in the regulations
laid down for me by my poor mother. Her orders
was that the Captain was to have a chance of action' right
and fair of himself. What I let out awhile ago by accident
like Pm sorry for, and it ain't for me, nor yet for you,
gentlemen, excuse me, to do anything against him unless —
unless — "

Unless we're all convinced that he never did intend to
act right and fair, eh, Corcoran?" interrupted Grumpy,
but that's all gammon, my good man ; at any rate I know
what / think. However, you'll have to make your statement
on an affidavit by and by, perhaps, whether you like
it or not. You didn't think we'd got such a rod in pickle
ready for you, eh Captain ? "

I may be a rotten pickle, sir," observed Joe, highly
offended, " but I ain't a going' to act against orders all the
same."

Grumpy and George smiled involuntarily, the former
remarking that this witness was " evidently a little off his
head."

But now to business, George," he added, " where's that
woman's letter ? have you got it ? "

l( No, I have not, nor am I likely to get it," replied

George, emphatically, " for I've just ascertained that it has
been stolen in the night from under the girl 's pillow f"

Eh, what ? you don't say so ! " cried Grumpy.

I do ; there can't be a doubt about it."

u If I didn't think it ! I tell you I knew it,. I knew it
all along ! I'd have sworn it, and there's the thief ! "
shouted the old man in his excitement, pointing sternly at
Heffernan.

Hush, uncle Andrew, be careful, pray — not so loud."

Not only the thief, but the would-be murderer as well'
continued Grumpy, lowering his voice to a suppressed
falsetto ; " for if that infernal villain didn't try in the night
to smother or make away somehow with that girl, Lizzie
Rolfe, or rather Bessie Farlane, I'm a Dutchman. What
d'ye think of that, Joe Corcoran ? "

Joe was fairly staggered; he didn't know what to think
for a moment ; but the fact of his mother's letter having
been stolen went strongly against the " Captain" in his mind ;
indeed he was nearly as much convinced as Grumpy already.

When you've quite done raving, Mr. Grayle," remarked
Heffernan, who during all this had preserved his outward
composure, though his face was white as a sheet, " perhaps
you'll allow me to speak."

Xo, sir, I won't allow you to speak ; we'll have no more
jaw about it. Young Gore saw you go through his room
last night on the way to that girl's — her door was found
unlocked this morning, and the key had been taken out of
his — the girl herself says she felt somebody stifling her and
lies upstairs half dead this morning, and Mrs. Corcoran's
dying confession of your infernal wickedness as well as her
own has been snatched from under your intended victim's
pillow. What more do we want ? "

Xo, sir, that's right enough," cried Joe, becoming very
stern and rigid when he heard this ; " and if so be that's

correct I don't think we do want any think more, unless it's
my evidence which you've called me here for to give as to
previous convictions in the Captain's defaulter sheet — " Joe
desired to speak with a sort of legal pomp, but instead,
dropped into the old orderly-room lingo — " and that evidence
I suddenly aunt going' to hesitate about given' after
such disclosing as these here."

Ah, well — never mind it now, Corcoran' interrupted
Grumpy; "on second thoughts I think it'll keep said
by-and-by."

"Very well, sir, as you please; but I must have my say
if it was ever so." Joe's voice swelled into an angry diapason
as he went on. " Captain, I speak to you now as one
man to another, and — and I'm ashamed of yer ; I wouldn't
ha' believed it of yer, that I wouldn't. I'd forgive yer for
that there must evil job, and for the dirty trick you played
me out in Injer, but for to go like this here and for to try
and to— to — to — "

Commit a murder, man," suggested Grumpy ; " give ita
name, don't be afraid."

Well, sir, yes, sir, as it looks like it, to try to murder a
poor innocent helpless little gal, why, Captain, I — I could
smash ye myself for it, I could, that I could ; " and the
incensed giant, breathless with righteous indignation, took
a threatening pace towards Heffernan. With fists clenched,
he towered like an avenging deity above the wretched
man, who shrank involuntarily before him.

"Steady, Joe, steady," interposed George, arresting
the old soldier's arm ; " no violence, this is not the place
for that — no taking the law into your own hands."

"Well, yes, that's right enough, sir, Essay, but I can't
hardly hold myself," said Joe, stepping back and standing
at ease emphatically, the right hand coming down on
the left with a crack like a pistol report ; then adding,

M never mind, we'll leave him to the beaks, sir — we'll leave
him to the beaks. Til be a wetness against him anyhow,
and soil them Frosts'

Joe Corcoran'' exclaimed Heffernan, in a mild tone of
rebuke, " I'm astonished at you ; I never thought you would
have turned against me, Joe ; but I see you've gone mad
like the rest of them'

And I wouldn't ha' done it, not for worlds — " began
Joe.

That'll do, my good man' cried Grumpy ; " hold your
tongue ; and I'll thank you to do the same, Captain. Now,
come with me, Corcoran," he added, moving towards the
door and giving George an expressive glance and wink,
signifying that he should mount guard over the prisoner ;
no occasion for any more discussion here. This must be
settled elsewhere ; so secure your counsel and say your
prayers, Captain, for I mean mischief; and if we can't prove
one charge against you we've got witnesses enough to convict
you forty times over on the other, for all your devil's
cunning." So saying, Grumpy Grayle left the room with
fiat justitia written inexorably in the stern lines which
traversed his face ; and Joe Corcoran stalked after him in
dignified, silence, but turning at the doorway, he could not
help casting back a look, half sorrowful, half reproachful,
at the crest-fallen, degraded " Captain " whom he had hitherto
so honoured and revered.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

I must be heard, — I must have leave to speak ;

Oh ! look upon me with an eve of mercy ;

With pity and with charity behold me.

Shut not thy heart against a friend's repentance."

Otivay.
No earthly spring can wash thy conscience clean,

The streams of Ganges, or the floods of Nile.

The secret source of what in thee is vile

Heaven's grace alone can fitly purge away."

Tasso.

Albert Heffernan and George Grayle were left alone
together. After an awkward silence of some minutes, the
former, trying to assume his usual easy manner (in which
he signally failed), observed with a feeble smile, —

l( Well, I don't know what you think about it, Grayle,
but / consider your uncle — "

Pardon me, Captain Heffernan," interrupted George,
coldly ; " I have no wish to hit a man when he's down ;
but under the circumstances I decline to hold any familiar
intercourse with you."

As you please ; nevertheless I protest emphatically
that—"

Look here ; it is idle to perjure yourself further ; let us

have no more useless denials and — and falsehoods." Heft
face grew dark as night, and he drew himself up
indignantly as George continued. u I'm sorry to say I can
neither accept nor believe any explanation from you, so
pray don't waste your words""

"Oh, very well, if you won't hear me — if you won't let
me speak — of course I can't explain matters," cried Heffer-nan
shrugging his shoulders; " but every man's entitled to
a hearing, and I should have thought a generous nature
like yours would have shown some consideration for — for
an old friend thus placed in such a position."

Until we were astounded by these last disclosures, which
throw a far graver suspicion on your conduct, my uncle and
I were prepared to adopt mild measures towards you, Captain
Heffernan ; and in carrying out a certain duty imposed
upon us by accident, as it were, we intended to give you a
chance of performing yours without coercion. But now I
cannot answer for my uncle (at all events) showing you any
clemency whatever. You are aware what he has gone for, I
daresay ; if not, I may tell you. He means to take out a
warrant at once for your apprehension. Yes, I thought
you guessed as much, and you must understand that you
are in my charge for the present, but — excuse me," he
added, interrupting a movement of Heffernan's towards the
door, " you don't leave this room till T choose. Now, be
careful ! it's useless to show fight, I assure you. You'd
better take things quietly. We're alone here, it's true,
man to man, but I'm quite able to take care of myself, and
if you attempt to get up a row it'll only be the worse for
you. With a lot of people staying in the house and all, I
naturally wish to avoid a scene, or any disgraceful fracas — "

No doubt you do," exclaimed Heffernan, hoarse with
mingled rage and alarm ; u then by heaven, George Grayle,
I don't advise you to goad me to extremities ! "

There was a dangerous, deadly look in his black eyes,
and his whole frame quivered with suppressed passion ; but
George was nowise intimidated.

Hark you, sir," said he, very composedly ; " take my
advice, and don't throw away precious moments in useless
contention. You've little time to spare, I can tell you, if
you would heed what I'm about to say. Listen then.
Although circumstances look excessively ugly against you,
still I can't feel sure in my own mind that you are actually
guilty of such an atrocious crime as an attempted murder
the murder of a poor unoffending girl, your own flesh
and blood. I say I can't feel sure of that; at any rate
you've been too clever, no doubt, to leave any tangible
proof of such a crime, and it might not be possible to bring
it home to you."

"It was an outrageous idea from the first," protested
HefTernan ; " I am wholly innocent of such villainy."

A barefaced denial indeed; but, now that the devil had
gone out of him, he could scarcely realize that he had been
guilty of the criminal intent; and, in the revulsion of
feeling, was deeply thankful that he had been saved from
the actual crime.

ci If you will believe me so far," he continued, "in confessing
my share of the fraudulent transaction regarding
that inquest and Trust-money, I wish to add that the
matter, if properly investigated, would show me up in a
less unfavourable light than you imagine, and I solemnly
declare I meant to act fairly by that girl eventually ; that
is, as soon as — "

No, no ! say no more," cried George, holding up his
hand deprecatingly. " I might have believed you, perhaps,
but for the awkward circumstances about that woman's
deposition — your having stolen the letter, and, as I suppose,
destroyed it in the night. I've not the slightest doubt

on that point, so you needn't deny it, nor do I wish you to
criminate yourself by acknowledging it ; but I think the
mere fact of your having acted thus doesn't speak well for
your fair intentions. However, let that pass. What I'm
going to say now may rather astonish you, but you must
look at my motive from more than one point of view. I
mean to befriend you to a certain extent in this terrible
crisis of your life. You once did me a good turn out in
India, and saved me from trouble and disgrace — or, at
least, you thought you did, not knowing who I was — and
}'ou ran some risk as an officer in screening me as a soldier
from the consequences of a glaring misdemeanour. Well,
I pledged myself to repay you for such service, and I did so
afterwards by giving you my cordial friendship (if such
were of any value to you) and the promise of my daughter's
hand. I now, of course, withdraw both ; but, considering
how intimately we have been associated, I confess I pity
you in your present plight j even though I know you now
to be a thoroughly unprincipled man, little better, indeed —
excuse my candour — than a rogue and vagabond, I can't
help feeling sorry for you in your dreadful position at this
moment, and if I can, I will save you from utter ruin and
degradation. You loved my daughter, I firmly believe,
honestly and devotedly — "

God knows I do, George Grayle ! " murmured Heffer-nan,
in a broken voice. His whole manner softened and
changed at once as he thought of the fair girl who was to
have become his wife in a few short days. When he did
think of her, he cowered under the impending brand of
infamy which 'would surely sear his flesh and gnaw its way
to his very heart.

Believing so," continued George, less sternly than he
had hitherto spoken, " I think that your banishment from
these scenes, and the sacrifice of all your hopes and happiness,

is sufficient punishment of itself — heavier, perhaps,
than the law could inflict for your — your offence. Now,
understand me clearly, in the effort I am about to make to
screen you, if possible, from the extreme penalty, I must
candidly confess that I do so chiefly because I do not desire
that my daughter's name should appear in every penny
paper, and become mixed up with yours in the public
scandal which would inevitably ensue. But even that reason
would not save you, if I really thought you were guilty of
having attempted this poor girl's life; for in that case,
instead of raising a finger to help you, I should be the first
to deliver you up to justice'

When a man acts for the best, according to his lights, he
can hardly be accused of wilfully adopting a wrong course ;
and, whether or no Albert Heffernan deserved the slightest
mercy and forbearance, the fact of George Grayle thus
furthering, so to say, a miscarriage of justice arose from
well-intentioned motives, although they will scarcely bear
analyzing. A natural consideration for his daughter's
feelings was the first and most prominent, as he admitted ;
and then came the secondary one, compassion for this dishonoured
reprobate — a sort of sympathy aroused, perhaps,
by a spice of that devil-may-care nature which characterized
George in former years; although, in sowing his wild
oats, he had never once stooped to a dishonourable
action. It was clear that Albert Heffernan's committal on
the charges which would be brought against him must
necessitate a long public trial, out of which a great deal of
gossip would surely spring; and this George was most
anxious to avoid, not alone for Agnes' sake, but that of
others. When he declared his intention to befriend this
man, he was too proud to parade a virtue where he deemed
it almost a necessity, and therefore told Heffernan the
primary consideration to which he was indebted.

"Now, as I have said' resumed George, "you haven't
a minute to lose; but before you leave this room, or I stir
an inch in your favour, sit down there and, in as few words
as possible, draw out a declaration of this poor girl's identity,
acknowledging her parentage ; and at the same time mention
what property she is entitled to under the late Mrs.
Pullerton's will, of which you defrauded her. Be good
enough not to hesitate; this statement can do you no harm,
nor will it be used against you in any way. I merely ask
it for a private reason, so oblige me by writing and signing
it at once in my presence."

There was something straightforward, and not altogether
hostile, in George Grayle's manner as he made this demand,
and Heffernan complied without further demur.

When he had finished and signed his name, George read
the paper carefully, signified approval, and, putting it into
his pocket, added, —

One word more, Captain Heffernan. Should you, in
after years, come across a little article called conscience,
and should have it in your power to make a pecuniary
atonement to your half-sister, whom you have so shamefully
robbed, I trust you will do so in return for the aid and
commiseration I extend towards you to-day."

"Before God I vow I will!" replied Heffernan, with a
fervent sincerity in his tone which George was hardly prepared
for ; " I would it were only in my power at this
moment."

Enough. Let me remind you of the very thing you
said to me in Hector's bungalow at Fyzabad — that deeds
are better than words, and words are only of worth when
action follows. Doubtless you will remember that. But
we mustn't' linger here another moment, or it will be too
late. Come wit' me, and I'll tell you exactly what to do."
So saying, George led the way out of the room, and

down a passage by which they could leave the house
through a back entrance unseen by others.

Now, take my dog-cart and brown horse, and drive for
your very life. Stay, I'll come with you to the stables.
Avoid the high road and towns as much as possible, and
get as far away as you can without stopping. Don't spare
the horse ; he's a strong one, as you know. Once at a safe
distance, leave the trap and animal at some little out-of-the-way
inn, and write me word anonymously where to send
for it. I'll trust you to do that."

You may indeed."

Come along ; make haste ! You mustn't even wait for
your things ; you'll have to go without them. I'll send
them after you, later on, wherever you tell me, when this
affair has blown over. You can't go back to the house for
an instant on any consideration, not even for your hat ;
here, take this deerstalker of mine, that'll do. You see,
your .object is to get out of sight at once, and leave the
rest to me. No doubt they'll track you fast enough, if I
don't stop them, and they may or may not catch you. You
must take your chance; it's all I can do. But if you
remain on the spot, no power on earth can save you.
Directly you've gone, I shall try and quash the warrant ; or,
if not too late, stop it's being taken out."

'' Oh, how can I thank you — ? "

I want no thanks," replied George, in a cold tone.
Now, away at once, or — "

But, forgive me, I cannot go without — without — that
is, may I not say one word to her before — "

"What! who?"

Have pity on me, George Grayle. If you only knew
all I feel at this minute, the torture I am enduring, you
would, I believe, be sorry for me. I mean Agnes. You
know how I love her ; and oh ! only let me speak one word

to her— to explain, not to exculpate myself, but to implore
her forgiven less."

It is not my daughter's forgiveness you should seek — "
"But only let me see her for one moment before — w
Man ! are you mad ? I've told you that I pity
you; don't turn that pity into contempt. Besides, how
dare you ask such a — ?" George checked himself as he
glanced at him, for there were tears, actually tears, in
Heffernan's dark eyes. " Ah, well, I won't hurt his
feelings, poor devil!" he murmured; adding aloud, "I
beg your pardon, I understand you ; but remember, it is
for her sake that I have done this, and that you should leave
here immediately. Come, not another syllable. Recollect
your promise ; and, if we ever meet again, I hope it may be
when you have done something to wipe out the memory of
this painful scene."

They had now reached the stables, and George gave
directions to a groom, but vouchsafed not another word to
Heffernan. Again he caught sight of the man's quivering
lip and utter look of wretchedness; and, as he did so, he
turned away abruptly to smother a natural feeling of compassion,
and walked hastily back to the house.

In a few minutes Heffernan had mounted the dog-cart,
and succeeded in driving off from the stables without
attracting notice. With a dazed, vacant stare, like one ina
dream, he kept his eyes fixed on the horse's ears while he
drove rapidly further and further from Barringtree Hall.
He could not bear to look back at the house and its fair
surroundings, where he had passed so many happy days,
and which he was now leaving for ever — a degraded outcast
from its walls.

His bitter cup was already full to overflowing, his
proud head already lowered to the dust with shame, and
his heart ached with the agonizing thought of all he
vol. m. Y

had lost, and of the great love which remained un crushed
within him. It was the last straw, then, when he met old
Gideon Rolfe and an army of beaters on their way to
the partridge-fields; and as each man touched his hat
respectfully to the " careen," it seemed a cruel mockery to
Albert Heffernan, who passed through their midst, feeling-lower
than the lowest of all that rustic throng.

Far be it from me to attempt to elicit sympathy for such
a character ; but few men in this world are so vile as to be
all bad, and, accomplished knave that he was, Heffernan
had one redeeming point in his unspeakable love for Agnes
Grayle. It may be truly said of him as of Conrad, the
Corsair, —

None are all evil — quickening round his heart,
One softer feeling would not yet depart ;
Oft could he sneer at others as beguiled
By passions worthy of a fool or child ;
Yet 'gainst that passion vainly still he strove.
And even in him it asks the name of Love !

*****

Yes — it was Love —

Unmoved by absence, firm in every clime,

And yet — Oh more than all ! — untired by time ; —

*****

If there be love in mortals — this was love !
He was a villain— ay — reproaches shower
On him — but not the passion, nor its power,
Which only proved, all other virtues gone,
Not guilt itself could quench this loveliest one ! "

And that powerful feeling in Albert Heffernan rose high
above every other, even in the hour of extremity ; but only
to recoil as a poisoned barb upon his soul, and to add to
the condign punishment which had overtaken him.
Verily, retribution, thus meted out, is full chastisement for
his sins ; so let him go. Like many another black sheep, he

may serve to point a moral though he does not adorn a

tale.

* * *

George Grayle easily accounted for Heffernan's sudden
disappearance from the scene (the more observable since
the shooting-party were just then taking the field), and to
certain of the guests who remarked on it, the explanation
was "a summons to town on urgent business." But when
the real cause was imparted privately to the members of
the family — a duty which also devolved on George — it fell
like a thunderbolt.

It w r as long ere the gentle Gertrude could believe what
had actually happened, or that her paragon had really
fallen from the pedestal on which she had placed him ;
though, had she but known it, it was a very tottering
pedestal from the first. But when she did realize how it
had given way with him at last, and George pointed out
what a narrow escape had been their daughter's, Gertrude
was thankful indeed that their eyes had been opened intime,
whilst her judgment of human character and her
faith in human excellence received a shock from which they
did not easily recover.

With respect to Agnes Grayle's feelings on thus obtaining
her reprieve, it boots us not to inquire too closely ; but
that the feeling which rose uppermost in her mind was one.
of intense relief and gratitude may almost be taken for
granted ; albeit, with a woman's tender instinct, she could
not but regret the sudden downfall of a man who had been
so utterly devoted to her.

When Grumpy found that he had been baulked of his
prey, he was furious beyond measure, and wanted to start
himself in pursuit immediately. But George succeeded at
length in pacifying him — no easy task — and having ascertained
that, from some delay, the warrant had not yet been

y 2

procured, he pointed out that no good could come of
prosecuting the culprit, at least from a pecuniary point of
view (which was the old egoist's chief consideration), and
so induced him to stay his hand. After this George
explained to him the new, or rather re-need, position of
affairs regarding Hector and Lizzie, which he had just discovered
himself.

So you see, uncle Andrew," he remarked, in conclusion,
she's not likely to come down on you as her trustee even
if you are responsible ; and as Hector, it appears, is
determined to make her one of the family — in which case,
curiously enough, my god daughter will become my
daughter-in-law — the only thing I could do was to compel
her half-brother to give me a written acknowledgment of
her birth and identity, and so restore her, at any rate, to her
proper position as a lady. That's about all he can restore
to her at present, since it's perfectly clear that no amount
of prosecution nor legal pressure could squeeze forty thousand
pounds out of him.

Of course not — ( ex nihil nihil fit?" observed Grumpy.

Or to quote even more appropriately, uncle Andrew,
1 Nemo protest nude xesthnenta detrahere' which being very
freely translated, means, ' Ye canna tak breeks aff a
Husbandman ! ' "

EPILOGUE.

Seven summers and winters have passed over the familiar
scenes of our story; nor has Barringtree, more than other
places, escaped the inevitable changes of fleeting years ; and
various important events, both sad and joyous, have marked
this brief period.

Those old watchful bailiffs, Time and Death, ever busy
with this, our worldly estate, have made their presence felt
again and again ; hewing down decayed trees and filling
up the gaps with tender saplings; grafting and sowing
here, lopping and gathering there, and perpetually reminding
the life tenant of that stern line of demarcation which
is the limit of all earthly possessions — a boundary-line
ineffaceably and clearly drawn, though apparently undefined
and limitless to the youthful incomer.

During: these few years Barrinsftree Park and Merrvdaie
Hall have figured not infrequently in the columns of the
daily newspapers, for the family of each ancient Manor has
contributed in due course its quota of births, deaths, and
marriages to the ever-growing records. The heads of both
houses have been gathered to their fathers, and their sons
reign in their stead. But mournful funerals have been
succeeded by merry weddings, and merry weddings followed
by the happy advent of infant heirs to perpetuate the

honoured names of those who have gone before ; for it is in
the fitness of things that our tears should be mingled with
joy, our merry-makings tempered with mourning — "thus
runs the world away ! "

I will now ask my reader to return with me for a brief
space to the old scenes, and note some of the changes which
may be observable.

We reach the High Lodge, and at once remark a new
face at the park gates as they are swung open for us, and
new faces peering out from the honey-suckled porch of the
keeper's cottage. What has become of those we so well
remember ? Patience ! perhaps we shall hear of them as
we move onwards. We pass together into the park — that
fine picturesque old park — which bursts upon us once more
in all its pristine loveliness. Ah, here there is no change !
The sylvan beauties which adorn the green undulating
surface are ever the same, subject only to those temporary
changes dependent on nature's seasons and the woodman's
axe.

It is a balmy day in early summer, bathed in sunshine
and musical with raptured birds. We wander luxuriously
down the linden avenue, and the surrounding glories of
the fair demesne gladden our eyes on every side as we
glance though the open spaces between the grey trunks.
Yonder we behold the distant woods and plantations
clothed in purple and gold, and every shade of colour, from
the dark umber of the copper beech to the emerald green
of the larch, the red maple and golden acacia standing
out in vivid hues from the motley masses of young verdure.
The chestnuts in the middle distance, with their long upright
blossoms, resemble gigantic Christmas-trees bedecked
with a vast array of wax candles ; and the massive white
hawthorn, as though in sympathy, lends a semblance of
spotless snow, incongruous with the gorgeous tints of early

summer. The broad ancestral oaks are fast assuming the
full splendour of their foliage, whilst the bracken at their
feet is uncurling' and spreading out hour by hour in rapid
growth. As we loiter in the cool shade, a troop of fallow
deer, led by the old bucks, now velvet-horned, trot lazily
through the clump of silver beech-boles to our right, and
others, grouped gracefully among the bracken fern, give
life to that beautiful English scene. Far away to our left
we catch a glimpse of the lake, through some picturesque
vista, affording us a peep of the dazzling surface, which,
dotted over with a hundred happy water-fowl, gleams and
sparkles in the genial sunlight.

We move slowly forward through the grateful shelter of
the avenue, while our path is strewn with the pale green
wafers shed from the linden boughs, which fall fluttering to
the ground as though autumn, on a tiny scale, had crept in
out of season. There is a delicious, dreamy fragrance pervading
the warm air, and the hum of insects around is
slumberous to the senses ; indeed, we are quite loth to
emerge at last from that dense canopy of cordate leaves ;
but we have reached the point where we would strike off to
the left in order to command the front view of the private
grounds. Here, too, as we draw near, no perceptible
change is to be observed; but, beyond the iron defence,
a more artificial beauty greets us in the ornamental
flower-beds and the unsubdued blaze of colour,
the trim kept lawn, sloping gently down to the water,
and studded with a few graceful trees of coniferous
type, cypress, Norway spruce, and deodara, interspersed
with Irish yew, wellington, and here and there an
American aloe, or a spiky uncompromising looking aura-caria;
while, towering above all these on every side, are
nobler sons of the forest, admitted within the gardener's
paradise by virtue of their local birth — all much as we

remember it a few years ago. In short, what changes
there are will be found less in the place itself than in the
people. But these are now halcyon days at Barringtree ;
even more so than we have ever known.

Beneath a wide-spreading" sycamore in that beautiful
garden is a small gathering of old friends ; and yet — not
quite all old friends : some of them we have never met before
in this veracious history — to wit, two little auburn-haired
children who are seated, one on either knee of a
venerable, white-headed man, prattling to and laughing
with those around them. Bright winsome children, little
strangers to us, but the very counterparts of two pretty
bairns we came across in the donkey-panniers some six-and-twenty
years ago. These are Hector Grayle's son and
daughter, aged five and four, and the old man is their
gate, gate uncle Guppy," as the little ones have been
taught to lisp — Grumpy Grayle now transferred to the Hall
for the remainder of his days, and nominally taking the
place of his late brother, the Squire, as head of the house.
Coldhearted George remembers the erst summum bonum of
his uncle's foolish ambition ; and now, in Grumpy 's decrepit
old age, he humours him in this, as in other, childish
whims. Not that Grumpy takes it in that light at all,
and often growls inwardly at his former antagonistic discontent
while revelling in his present peaceful happiness.
Mrs. Cole has likewise gone the way of all flesh, and after
her death Crutch Hut knows its eccentric owner no longer.
It is at present the home of Gideon Wolfe and his wife, for
the old gamekeeper has become superannuated during the
last few years, and thither they have been transferred, with
a handsome pension, to end their lives on the estate in quiet
comfort.

Besides Grumpy and the children, the family group under
the sycamore comprises, at this moment, Gertrude and

George Grayle, Hector Grayle, Norah Tewkesley, and
her husband, whilst at their feet lies stretched, in dignified
repose, the old St. Bernard. But who is this enormous
creature stalking across the lawn with the letter-bag in his
hand? Joe Corcoran? Surely not. Joe went off somewhere
to re-enlist, we heard. So he did. Joe, pining
for the old routine of pipe-clay and parades, and thinking
he had performed his mission at Barringtree, bid the
Sickles family a formal good bye, and did leave with the
intention of re-enlisting; but Hector brought him back,
talked him out of his military ardour, and finally installed
him as his own confidential valet in place of ex-Sergeant
Baines, promoted to Squire of the Manor.

"Second post, eh, Corcoran?" observes George Grayle,
taking the bag from him.

Yes-sir, Henry just brought-it-sir." Joe speaks with a
smarter delivery and stands more at ease now a- days; in
fact, altogether his manners are fast merging into those
of the domestic flunkey (the footman rather than the valet),
to which he religiously aspires; but he never can quite
shake off that automatic style peculiar to the well seasoned
Tommy Atkins."

f Halloa, this is a letter from Tiny, I'm sure," exclaims
Hector, as his father hands him a foreign-looking envelope.

It is. Tiny Gore went back to rejoin his regiment,
exchanged again when the Cameronians came home, and
was still in the gorgeous East. This letter, as Hector explains,
dates from Nainee Tal, where Tiny was then on
leave, staying with his sister, Mrs. Moberley ; and he specially
mentioned having met " Bobby Bones" and his wife
(Georgie Vickers that was), whom, he said, both looked
very happy and flourishing. He also wrote that Tommy
Rawson had married, sold out, and taken to farming, and
that he thought of doing so likewise.

VOL. III. z

Only one letter for' Lizzie, and that's a dun."

Then why don't you open it, Hec ? "

I never take that liberty with my wife's correspondence ;
not that she'd mind, but — "

Hasn't she come back yet ? "

No — yes — there she is ! " and Hector, followed by old
Mizpah, who limps slowly after him, goes towards the
further side of the garden to meet a lovely, graceful-looking
woman, who is just then entering the gates.

Why, Lizzie ! " (he preferred the old name) " where
have you been all this time? "

At the Hut of course, darling, with my dear old people.
They wouldn't let me come away before. No other letter
for me ? "

Nothing, dear, and that doesn't look very interesting."

11 Not very. I think it will keep:" and with a smile
Mrs. Hector Grayle puts it into her pocket unopened, for
at that moment their attention is drawn to the Merrydale
carriage bowling down the avenue.

The barouche contains Sir Clement and Agnes (Lady
Mountjoy) — Clement's " steadfast faith in loving " has
met its reward at last, you see ! — also Dowager Lady
Mountjoy, who looks quite matronly beside her fair
daughter-in-law. But the electrical effects are not a whit
subdued either by the loss of " dear Sir Francis," or the
tell-tale crows' feet, which seem rather to throw up the
flashing lights than detract from their brilliancy.

In a few minutes the Mountjoys have quitted their carriage
and joined the party on the lawn.

A little while afterwards, Lizzie, casually remembering
the uninteresting letter in her pocket, chooses a leisure
moment to glance at it.

Ha ! how she starts ! that letter must be rather more
interesting than she fancied.

Good gracious ! Hector, pray come here — just look,
what does this mean ? u

Hector Grayle takes the letter from his wife, and staring"
at its contents for a minute with equal astonishment, hands
it to his father.

But it is not exactly a letter, and certainly not a dun.
There are three enclosures. The first, an old prospectus of
a South American silver-mine, which a foot-note explains
has paid more than cent, per cent, ever since it was started,
six years ago ; and among the names of the directors
appears that of Albert Denby Heffernan, who, as a matter
of fact, is also one of the principal shareholders.

The second, a sheet of office paper, with printed heading*,
and beneath it one line only, written in a well-known hand,
to the following 1 effect : —

u First instalment in liquidation of my debt to Elizabeth
Grayle (nee Farlane). A. D. H. v

The third, a draft for five thousand pounds on the London
and Westminster Bank, payable on demand.

George Grayle, reading from each in a tone of gratification,
not to say triumph, at once publishes the purport to
the whole party.

I must confess I am scarcely astonished at this," cries
he. " Conscience money, my dear, that's all," he adds,
giving the papers, at her request, to Gertrude. "I never
expected to see my dog-cart and horse again j but when
they did come back, and even my old hat as well, I
began to have hopes of this man ; and if his clever wits
once led him into the crooked paths of dishonesty, it
seems now they have started him fair again on the straight
highway. Who shall say, after this, that no good can come
out of Nazareth ? "

Grumpy Grayle observes Umph ! he should never have
thought it ! but Gertrude, the gentle, generous-minded

Gertrude, experiencing a strong revulsion of feeling from
this proof in Albert Heffernan's favour, and still) loyal to
one who had ever been so honoured in her eyes, answers
with a proud emphasis, that she has never really entertained
a doubt of his integrity, despite all that has been
alleged against him (a slight inconsistency on her part,
I fear, if we are to believe what we have heard), and concludes
by challenging anyone now to deny that his intentions
had been otherwise than honourable from the very
first.

Under the circumstances, would it be etiquette to contra-diet
a lady ? I think not.

THE END.

Gilbert AND Livingston, Painters, ST. JOHN'S Square, LONDON.

f

3 0112 056502021
