n fr ev;: 'tia^^^sji

■"^

AN AFRICAN ROMANCE

BY

JOSEPH THOMSON

AUTHOR OF " THROUGH MASAI LAND," AND " TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
LAKES AND BACK ; "

AND

MISS HARRIS-smith

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOL. L

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, Searle, .<l^ Livingston,

LIMITED,

gift. Dunstan's Il^ousc,
Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, Eg.

1888.

■ [All Rights reserved']

THROUGH MASAI LAND. With Illustrations.
Demy 8vo., 21s. Cheaper Edi hun, 7s. Qd.

TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN LAKES

AND BACK. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
2 vols. 24s. Cheaper Edition, Illustrated. Crown
8vo., 7s. 6d.

London :

Sampson Low, Marston, Searle & Livingston, Ltd.,

St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane.

LONDON: Printed ItT Wrr.MAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
SIAMFUUI) STIMCICT AND CHARING CROSS.

DEDICATED TO

Henry WALTER BATES, F.R.S., E.L.S., etc.,

AUTHOR OF " THE NATURALIST ON THE AMAZON,"
BY

THE Authors.

lUJNOlS LIBRARY
J^TtiRBAAIA-CHAWPAlGN

in 2010 with funding from

University of. Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/uluafricanromanc01thom

In introducing 'zulu" to the reader, it need only
be said that the descriptions of scenery, customs,
and incidents are true to the country and people
depicted. For such description it was not necessary
to draw either upon the imagination or on
books, one of the authors having traversed the
whole region in which the action of the story takes
place.

A word may be added regarding the language
of the Kilimanjaro district. Following the custom
of many other savage races, the natives vary the
significance of their substantives by prefixing a
particle. Thus the substantive Chaga (the name

of a district) gives rise to M-Chaga (sing., a native
of Chaga), Wa-Chaga (pour., natives of Chaga),
Ki-Chaga (the language of Chaga), etc., etc.
Among the Masai, again, the plural is indicated
by the particle 'eel," eg. el-moran (warriors),
el-morus (elders).

Examples might easily be multiplied ; but these,
it is hoped, will suffice as a guide to the meaning
of such native terms as are not explained in the
text.

CHAPTER I.

Our story commences in the month of April, 188-,
at the base of Kilimanjaro. The wet season was
near a close, and everything vegetable seemed to
have attained its greatest luxuriance.

The day was clear and bright, and the atmosphere
of that delicious purity and freshness so frequently
noticeable during the rains in Africa.

The sun, dripping rapidly towards the horizon,
commenced to veil its excessive splendour and
temper its somewhat oppressive heat. The first
puffs of a cool breeze fluttered refreshingly among
the leaves, and raised them from their languid
droop. The birds, awaking fi'om their noonday
siesta, arranged their feathers preparatory to renewed
flight. All nature appeared to become

VOL. I. B

reanimated with the lowering of the temperature
and the approach of evening.

In the forest of the Kahe, some miles to the south
of the mountain, there might have been seen on this
bright April afternoon a small party of hunters
wending their way ramparts from the plains.

The principal figure in the band was a European
who might be any age between thirty and thirty-five,
the effects of exposure in the tropics making
it difficult to form a more accurate estimate. His
height was slightly above the average, and he
possessed a wiry figure which suggested great
stamina and endurance. His face, bronzed by
pitiless suns, though fairly good-looking, derived
its chief attraction from a pair of frank blue eyes
softened by a touch of dreaminess.

The dress of the hunter consisted of a flannel
shirt of neutral colour, well open, sailor fashion,
at the neck ; a pair of dark grey drill trousers ;
canvas gaiters and shoes. His head was covered
by a soft felt hat, jauntily tilted to one side, the
better to serve as a protection from the fierce,
slanting rays of the sun. His waist was ornamented
as well as protected by an Indian kamar-
band, under which, attached to a belt, hung a
deadly looking hunting-knife and a revolver. An
Express rifle over the shoulder completed the
hunter's dress and accoutrements.

The rest of the party — five altogether — were
clearly the European's attendants, and belonged
to that race of negroes (Wa-Swahili) who, in the
absence of navigable rivers and beasts of burden,
have made it possible to explore Central Africa.
The M-Swahili who led the way was evidently a
leader among his fellows. His picturesquely ragged
apology for a dress hid little of a muscular figure
which seemed the very embodiment of strength
and activity, while his face, forbidding as that of
a bull-dog, suggested also that animal's fidelity to
the death.

The entire party were armed with rifles. Though
evidently familiar with the country they were
traversing, white man and negroes alike seemed
imbued with a sense of the importance of care and
watchfulness. With soft, feline steps they traversed
the forest pathway towards the mountain, careful
that not a sound should break the impressive
stillness which prevailed. Under the leafy arcades
the daylight was toned down to that most grateful
and subdued of lights, that soothing mellowness
which has been termed cathedral gloom. Here
and there only bright pencils of light broke through
the interstices of the foliage, and formed a golden
fretwork on the shaded ground.

As the party thus glided rather than walked
along, not an object bearing on their situation

escaped unnoticed, and every sound fell on attentive
ears. A mile or more had thus been covered,
with nothing seen or heard to cause alarm, when
suddenly the guide stood still, rigid in an attitude
of rapt attention. Like automatons controlled by
a master hand, those behind followed suit, awaiting
an explanatory signal.

In a few seconds the guide raised his hand.
Each man held his rifle ready for instant action,
though as yet those behind knew not the character
or magnitude of their danger. At length the
leader, after a period of intense scrutiny, shrank as
if blasted to the ground, disappearing behind a
bush. His companions required no orders. They
simply imitated, and in a twinkling the sole
evidence of the presence of eight men was here
and there the muzzle of a rifle peeping from
among the foliage.

After a brief interval of breathless suspense the
guide's head reappeared. In answer to a mute
summons the European wriggled himself forward
like a snake in the grass.

*' Ee-Masai !" whispered his servant, when the
two were close to each other.

A look, half of fear, half of pleasure, flitted
across the master's face. Gently he pushed aside
the screening branches, and the cause of the
mysterious stoppage appeared.

Through the forest, at right angles to the hunters'
homeward route, marched in single file a party of
savages. Their appearance and war-gear left no
doubt as to who they were. The swarthy band
which passed before the excited and eager watchers
belonged to that famous tribe of cattle-lifters who
are the terror of an enormous area in East Central
Africa, and whose deeds of daring and savagery
form the theme of a thousand extravagant stories.
They were, as the Zanzibarii had stated, Masai
warriors !

While recalling all he had heard of these strange
people, Gilmore — for such is the name of the white
man — was mentally remarking their admirable
proportions and unusual stature, but mingled with
his admiration were those less agreeable reflections
aroused by the thought of his dangerous position.
Fortunately his presence remained undiscovered,
and the Masai filed rapidly past and disappeared
in the forest, leaving the hunters to breathe more
freely and emerge from their hiding-place.

After making sure that no more were to follow,
Gilmore softly called on one Mahruki.

Here, Bwana ! " replied a burly fellow, stepping
forward.

'you and Songoro follow the Masai, and see
where they camp."

"Eh Wallah (yes," replied Mahruki.

*' Don't let yourselves be seen," cautioned the
master.

''No fear of that, Bwana ! " grinned Songoro.
"We don't-want to be killed yet."

'well, go at once."

Without further remark the two scouts started
off on the trail of the Masai.

Come, Uledi ; let us be off. The sooner we're
into camp the better."

True, Bwana," replied the negro so addressed ;
and once more he took his place as guide or leader,
and resumed his swift, noiseless pace.

In a quarter of an hour the approach of the
hunting party to the mountain began to be
apparent by a gradually increasing rise of the
ground. The soil became drier and the forest
more open, here and there revealing charming
glades.

The dangerous part of the route was now passed.
The hunters relaxed their intense vigilance, and
sauntered along more easily and slowly.

Well, Uledi," said Gilmore, having completed
mopping the perspiration from his face, " j^ou
were right, after all. I was beginning to think it
was all nonsense about the approach of the Masai."

"You see, master," answered Uledi, "I knew
this was their usual time. In the wet season they
raid towards the Nyanza ; in the dry towards the

coast. They won't bother us much more for a
month, though."

'* Why ? How do you know that ? " queried
Gilmore.

*' Evidently they are only spies. They have
not their war-dresses with them."

You mean the habere (war-cloth) and feather
ornaments, I suppose. Quite true. I remember
now, I did not notice them. There was only a
small party, too. I dare say we have nothing much
to fear."

'' We must be careful, however. They will be
sure to try to steal something to help them on their
way."

"Well, let them try," replied Gilmore, with a
laugh of conscious superiority. ** They won't get
much from us, at least."

"Ah, but they are like devils," cried Uledi.
Nothing frightens them."

Very likely," answered his master in a careless,
indifferent tone. " We must give old Serii warning,
though," he added, with more animation. " He'll
need to keep a sharp look-out now. Do you think
the Masai will be specially troublesome this year ? "

I am sure of it. Last year they were very
unsuccessful in their raids, and Said bin Named's
caravan, which has just passed on its way from
Masai-land, reports much disease among the cattle."

So they will make up their losses from their
neighbours' herds ? Very convenient truly ! "

'* Well, I shall be glad to see them," added
Uledi, darkly.

'' Indeed? Why?"

*' Why ? you ask. Look at this, and this, and
this. That is my answer ! " and Uledi exhibited
several ugly scars.

By Jove, Uledi, j^ou have had a narrow escape.
Masai spear wounds, are they not ? "

"Yes."

And you mean to shoot a few in revenge, eh ? "

'may I find my place in Gehenna if I don't ! "
was the negro's bloodthirsty answer.

*' Gently, Lied, gently. I can't have j'ou
shooting down even Masai except for some good
reason."

What are they but fish (hyaenas), Bwana ? "
argued the M-Swahili. " They kill all they meet ;
why should we not kill them ? "

'well, you see, we Wazungu don't quite like
the idea of shooting down human beings in cold
blood," was Gilmore's somewhat unsatisfactory
reply. " And while yoM are with a white man,
you must act like a white man."

This rule of conduct Uledi received with a shrug
of the shoulders and a half-muttered exclamation
that " God was great," which probably implied

that in his opinion the Wazungu were incomprehensibly
mad.

The next moment, however, seized by a sudden
impulse, he turned round and indicated by a sweep
of the hand the glorious stretch of country that
now lay at their feet.

Look, Bwana, look at that beautiful land. Has
it not a soil more fertile than that of Zanzibar ?
Has it not trees like the Seyyed's tower for height ?
Look at the many streams which traverse it, with
water clear as the air, and refreshing as the stone-water
(ice) of your people. These streams are
stocked with fish ; the land teems with game ; the
trees droop with untouched loads of fruit. Is
there not everything which can delight the eye,
and food for men and women in numbers like
the sand on the sea-shore ? "Well, Bwana, how
many are there ? Not one. The elephant is king
of all by day, and the lion by night. And why,
Bwana ? Is it not because of the Masai, who
delight to wash their spears in blood ? And these
are the people you would spare — the people that
your malayans (teachers) would call brothers ? By
the beard of Mahomet — on whom be peace ! — I
would give them to the hyaenas, and let the vultures
tear out their eyes ! "

To this fiery outburst Gilmore listened with a
sense of surprise at the unexpected eloquence and

passion of his follower ; but he made no reply.
He had nothing, indeed, to reply, for Uledi had
expressed the very thoughts which had often passed
through his master's mind.

As our travellers continued their way up the
mountain the nature of the ground would not
permit of further conversation. With bent bodies
they followed the native paths which penetrated
the otherwise impassable bush and made communication
between plantations and villages
possible.

After a time Gilmore and his men struck into
a rich alley which led along the face of a steep,
tree-clad slope running down to the Ural river.
At length they reached a grove of trees, the entrance
to which was defended by a stout palisade. Here
Uledi fired his gun, and amid its deafening echoes
the party passed the gate and entered a cleared
space. Gilmore had reached Pepo-ni, his home for
the time being.

CHAPTEK II.

Words cannot convey an adequate notion of the
singular charm and exquisite character of the
rocky dell which formed the quarters of Gilmore
on the sunny slopes of Kilimanjaro. In delightful
combination majestic trees intermingled with
fragrant flower-clad bushes round many a nook
where the checkered sunlight fell in golden glints,
or coolest shadow lingered invitingly.

This little Arcady occupied a niche in the face
of the mountain, and had at one time been used
as a burying-place by the Wa-Chaga. Thus rendered
a sacred abode of the spirits of the departed,
it had been left for generations to grow in its virgin
wildness. Under Gilmore's desecrating hands,
however, it speedily assumed a very different aspect,
and there was now little left to tell of its former
character. Only one part in the rear of the niche
had been permitted to retain its primitive luxuriance.
To open up the grove to sun and air, and

drive away its damps and noxious exhalations, the
greater part had been cut down, leaving only
a living wall of tropic verdure. Here could be
seen the stately giants of Africa — the mparamusi,
the more rugged mule, and the copal-yielding
mandamus. Beside them grew the fern-like raphia,
with its leaves thirty to forty feet long, the graceful
phoenix, or wild date, and the broad leaves of
the uncultivated banana. From tree to tree swung
festoons of lines and graceful creepers, filling up
the interspaces and giving variety to the foliage.

Over a lava precipice at the back of the niche
tumbled a mountain stream, branching into two
arms which embraced the grove.

Eight in the centre of the cool retreat rose two
giant sycamores. Beneath these stood Gilmore's
house, so situated as to face a gap in the ring
of trees, for the double purpose of catching the full
effect of the morning and evening breezes, and to
command a view over the Kahe plains to the
Songonoi Mountains. The building, though palatial
for those parts, had no pretension to style ; but
looked delightfully cool and cosy, with its heavy
thatched roof and projecting eaves. The walls
were formed of young trees stuck close together in
the ground in the manner of a fence or palisade.
Outside these, partly for ornament, partly for protection
from wind and rain, were palm leaves.

the divisions plaited together on the midrib giving
the effect of close latticework. A bright-coloured
Zanzibar mat did duty as a door, while two square
openings in the wall, similarly closed when necessary,
gave light and air to the interior.

In the neighbourhood of the master's house
stood the baraza — reception or palaver house.
Being intended only for day use, it was built with
the object of having the maximum of shade and
coolness ; consequently had only a wall to the
back, along which ran a broad bench covered with
reeds. In the baraza visitors were received in
the Arab fashion, and a palaver or a cup of coffee
enjoyed. Here all men were on a footing of
equality, and servants and master forgot their
relative positions in familiar chat or discussion.

Behind the baraza and the Bwana's (master's)
house stood that of Uledi, with the storeroom and
the kitchen, while the huts of the men lay cosily
ensconced in a semicircle at the base of the wall
of forest verdure.

The return of Gilmore to his romantic quarters
produced one of those exciting hubbubs so dear to
the native heart. Men sprang to their feet from
an afternoon doze or gossip. "Women threw down
the wooden pestles with which they pounded corn,
or emerged from their huts, and ran with gleeful
cries to meet the hunters, pulling tighter the

simple sheets of brilliantly coloured cotton, which
did not ungraceful duty for dress.

^'Bwana amarudi! (The master has returned,"
was shouted out on all sides, as if such an event
was the most unusual and unexpected of all things,
instead of being almost of daily occurrence.
*'Nyama! nyama ! (meat! meat)" became an
additional shout, as two of the men staggered
through the gate, bearing a fine Pallas antelope.
In the midst of this joyful welcome, one man
relieved Gilmore of his rifle, another proffered a
drink of water. The women and children crowded
round, eager to be taken notice of.

The recipient of all these attentions was by no
means indifferent. His grave face lighted up
pleasantly over the effusiveness of his welcome.
In a playful mood he pinched the bare, plump arm
of one of the more forward girls, and pulled the
frizzy curls of another, both of which innocent
pleasantries were taken to be evidence of a vast
fund of humour, to judge from the shrieks of
laughter they evoked.

All this ingenuous animation was suddenly stilled
as the news that the Masai were out spread rapidly
from one to another. As the Bwana disappeared
into his house, anxious little knots gathered round
the hunters, eager to learn the details, which
certainly lost none of their importance as filtered

through the perfervid imaginations of the .


In about half an hour Gilmore reappeared in
the cool comfort of voluminous pyjamahs. His
dinner had been laid for him outside the house for
greater coolness. With keen appetite he attacked
the hartebeest soup, fish from the Ural, and Chaga
mutton, with which were served sweet potatoes
and tomatoes from Taveta. Then followed delicious
banana fritters.

The meal finished, with the satisfied sigh of a
man who has done his duty, Gilmore left the table,
and in the fast-waning daylight sought the not
too luxurious comfort of a portable canvas chair.
Here, half reclining in the easy, unconventional
attitude affected by Americans, he sipped his coffee
and dreamily reviewed the events of the day, with
its fatigues passed and rest well earned.

As the short-lived twilight deepened, and evening
passed into night, his reverie was brought to an
end. Getting up, he took a last look around to see
that all was right. Guards were set with special
instructions in view of possible Masai attacks.
These necessary precautions taken, Gilmore tm-ned
in, happily unmolested by maddening mosquitoes
in these cool airy heights.

While Gilmore sleeps we may take the opportunity

of making some inquiries regarding his
personality. So far we can gather hut the vaguest
indications. We have no difficulty in recognizing
at least that he is Scotch. His accent, like his
pride in his native country, he carries with him,
and in rolling out the rich musical syllables of the
Swahili language, he gives the vowels-that characteristic
breadth which is the peculiar pride of all
true Scotchmen. With so much we must at present
be content. To answer the questions. Who is
Gilmore ? and, Why is he at Kilimanjaro ? we
must refer the reader to the pages which follow.

Our knowledge of him begins in Africa, towards
the end of the year previous to that of which we
write, about which time Gilmore surprised the inhabitants
of Taveta by his sudden and unannounced
appearance among them with a caravan of coast
porters.

Here, much to his surprise and disappointment,
everything was different from what he had expected.
Instead of the simple Arcadian who, a
few years before, had 'ein glad idlers throve,"
he found morose savages, defrauded of their little
plots of ground, and groaning under the exactions
and tasks of European pioneers of modern civilization,
who spread its " blessings " through the
medium of its poisonous spirits.

It would appear that Gilmore had had the

intention of taking up his abode in Taveta, but
the changed aspect of the place determined him to
move further inland, the society of the representatives
of European enlightenment being anything
but agreeable or desirable to him. The whites,
though dying of curiosity to learn what might be
his object in coming among them, found themselves
received politely, but as politely kept at
arm's-length.

On inquiry Gilmore learned that all the southeast
corner of Kilimanjaro was overrun by missionaries
and German traders. These latter he
mentally stigmatized as the pioneers of European
drudgery, vices, and diseases, and dispensers of
old clothes, gin, gunpowder, and guns — a sweeping
description, showing at least that he looked with
no friendly eye upon the advancing tide of European
intercourse.

Apparently Gilmore wanted to find a place
where the negro still throve in uncontaminated
naturalism, and where he would not be brought
in contact with his fellow-countrymen.

At length his headman Uledi told him of a
little state called Kindii, to the west of Mandate's,
which as yet remained untainted by wazungu
(white men). They were sure of a hearty welcome,
more especially as the chief and Uledi were 'blood
brothers." This information decided Gilmore;

VOL. T. C

and, determined to see at least what Kindii was
like, he resumed his march as soon as his porters
had recruited a little after their toils and hardships
in the Nyika.

With some difficulty our hero escaped the greedy
clutches of the notorious Chaga chief Mandate.
On the third march he and his party reached Kindii,
where Uledi's description was not helped. There
were no Europeans, and the new-comers were
received with open arms.

Gilmore, in looking around for a suitable place
to form his camp, discovered the niche and sacred
grove of Pepo-ni (ghost-land). For a consideration
the Wa-Chaga consented to its desecration, as it
had not been used as a burial-ground for quite a
generation. Nevertheless they expected to see the
direst consequences befall the daring violator of
the haunts of their ancestors' spirits.

In a short time the place of ghosts was transformed
from an almost impenetrable, gloomy forest
jungle into the smiling homestead we have described.

Gilmore now shut himself off from all intercourse
with the European settlers at Taveta, to whom he
remained an enigma and a mystery. They could
discover no object he was bent on attaining, so
they dubbed him the hermit and the nondescript,
and left him alone.

He soon, however, became the wonder of Chaga,

as stories of his reckless hunting exploits with
buffaloes, elephants, and lions began to circulate ;
while a few simple medical cures and an exhibition
of some scientific curiosities raised the admiration
thus excited to adoration pitch.

Serii, the chief of Kindii, at first made an attempt
to exploit Gilmore, but got a fright for his pains.
His guest, however, was generous in the extreme,
and the two soon became great friends, so much
so that in all matters of importance Serii consulted
the white man as an infallible oracle that might
not be gainsaid.

CHAPTER III.

The morning after the return from the hunt the
little camp at Pepo-ni was astir at daybreak.
After a bath in a pool reserved for the purpose in
the stream, Gilmore seated himself to discuss his
morning coffee, and prepared to hear the report of
Mahruki and Songoro, the two scouts of the day
previous. They had returned overnight, and, in
response to Gilmore's summons, now appeared,
wrapped in their long toga-like sheets of cotton.

They had followed the Masai till near sundown,
they said, when, evidently by pre-arrangement, the
band dispersed and each warrior took a different
direction. This manoeuvre on the part of the
Masai was supposed to be a precaution taken for
the purpose of hiding the whereabouts of their
camping ground, and as far as Mahruki and
Songoro were concerned it had proved effectual ;
for, fearing lest they should be caught in following
up the track of any one warrior, they had immediately

retraced their steps with what news they
had gleaned.

What do you think, Uledi ? " asked Gilmore,
appealing to his headman, in whose experience he
placed considerable trust.

"Without doubt, Mahruki and Songoro are
right," replied Uledi. '' The camp could not have
been far from where the band broke up. They
must mean to stay some time in the neighbourhood.
Yes ; they will want to lift some cattle to help them
towards the coast."

The theory seemed a highly probable one to
Gilmore, who at once gave orders that a number
of his men should prepare to accompany him to
Serii's, so as to give the chief timely warning of
the threatened danger. Shortly after, he set out
from Pepo-ni with some half-dozen followers, all
fully equipped with belt and rifle and the other
necessaries of men travelling in those wild regions.

The early morning was raw and foggy, and very
little of the previous evening's extended prospect
was to be seen ; but gradually the mist began to
disappear, and soon the grim, spectral outlines of
Meru and Sosonoi became dimly visible. Before
the glow of the ascending sun the landscape slowly
disrobed itself, until at length, gemmed and glittering
with a mjTiad dewdrops, it lay exposed in all
its virgin beauty — only here and there a lingering

bit of cloud or soft expanse of haze giving relief
to the dark green of the forest or the blues of the
distant mountains.

An hour's easy ascent, except where the footpath
wound in low tunnels through the bush, brought
the party to the little village which formed the
head-quarters of Serii, chief of Kindii. The customary
three guns were fired at the outskirts to announce
the approach of strangers, and while yet the noise
re-echoed from every quarter and spread in ever-widening
reverberations along the mountain-sides,
a hundred voices rose from glade and grove in
excited response.

As Gilmore entered the banana plantations-which
gave food and shade to Serii's people,
men and women came trooping forth, eager fora
glimpse of the new-comers. The sight of the
Mzungu called forth a volley of salutations in Ki-
chaga, Ki-masai, Ki-swahili, and Arabic, to which
Gilmore replied as best he might, and then sought
the shelter of an open shed wherein to cool and
rest himself after his morning's climb.

Meanwhile, messengers were despatched in
search of the chief, pending whose arrival the excitement
calmed down somewhat, and every man
disposed himself in his favourite attitude for gossip
and gazing. Sticking their great gleaming spears
in the ground, and wrapping their cotton sheets
more closely about them, the Wa-Chaga warriors.

squatted down, looking like so many Mexican
mummies as they sat with arms embracing legs
and chin almost resting on knees. Some smoked,
some chewed their tooth-sticks, while the livelier
among them gave vent to their feelings in low-toned
remarks — curious, speculative, or critical —
regarding Gilmore and the object of his visit.

Before many minutes were over the approach of
the chief was announced. With a certain air of
grace and native dignity, born of a free, active life
and the consciousness of his importance in the
little state over which he ruled with success, Serii,
surrounded by his headmen, advanced with leisurely
steps, as if to proclaim his superiority to haste or
vulgar curiosity. A nearer view revealed a negro
who had few of that despised race's characteristics
beyond the dark colour of his skin. Strong and
supple as a panther, he had a face which could
lighten with the most attractive and intelligent
expression, or darken with savage hate and fury.
It was full of kindness now, however, as with
becoming dignity he came towards Gilmore, and
took him by the hand, bidding him welcome with
numerous ''Yambos" after the Swahili fashion.
Sticking his spear in the ground, the chief then,
like his warriors, assumed a squatting posture,
and after further salaams and compliments asked
Gilmore the nature of his news.

''I came to give you warning," replied Gilmore,
bluntly. '^ The Masai are on the warpath."

The unexpected announcement fell like a bomb
among the Wa-Chaga. Moved by a common
impulse, they sprang to their feet as one man,
with a half-suppressed inarticulate exclamation.
Released by a sudden movement of the arm,
their voluminous cotton wrappings fell from them
like scales, as with quick, convulsive grasp each
seized the ever-ready spear and shield, and stood
looking towards his chief as if awaiting some
expected signal. The transformation from peaceable,
gossip-loving listeners, draped with almost
classical grace, to naked, savage warriors instinct
with the most malignant passions, was striking in
the extreme. It was as if the banana grove had
suddenly been peopled with devils, who waited but
the master spirit's word of command to commence
some horrible orgy.

At Gilmore' s words Serii, too, had jumped to his
feet as if bitten by an adder. Instinctively he
seized a knob kerry which lay near at hand, and
sprang upon a little knoll, where for a moment he
stood like some swarthy Mercury or Apollo, the
sun glancing on his dark, shining skin ; then, with
one quick, eager glance around, he whirled his
weapon in the air and gave voice to a terrible cry
that seemed to embody the very spirit of war.

Age, revenge, defiance, agony, and grief mingled
in eerie combination in the wild notes that rent
the forest and sent a shiver through the marrow of
all who heard it. A moment's silence, broken only
by mocking echoes, followed. Once more the chief
twirled his knob kerry over his head. Fifty spears
flashed responsive in the aii*, and from the throats
of as many warriors the war-cry rose in one grand
volley, making the welkin ring with the hideous
sound.

A scene of indescribable excitement now commenced.
With wild leaps and dashes the men
threw themselves about, heaping insults and
execrations on imaginary foes, or plunging their
spears into the quivering banana stems, as if each
thrust went to the heart of an enemy. Knobkerries
thundered defiantly against great buffalo-hide
shields, adding their horrible din to the shriller
notes of the war-cry which still echoed far and
near. It was caught up on every ridge-top, resounded
in every glen and forest — the very ground
seemed to have acquired a thousand tongues. In
ever-widening circles, in a hundred tones and
echoes, undistinguishable from real voices, it
spread with astonishing rapidity over the length
and breadth of Kindii; and in less time almost
than we have taken to describe it every inhabitant
knew there was war and bloodshed in the air.

Women, "waiting for no other-learning, seized their
children and fled precipitately to places of safety.
Men, eager for the tight, threw down their hoes
and grasped their spears, donned the feather headdress
and other accoutrements of savage warfare,
and trooped into the village in frantic haste. In
less than half an hour from the first signal the
entire population of Kindii was under arms.

The magical effect of his communication at first
completely overwhelmed Gilmore, and for the
moment he was carried away by the excitement of
the scene. As soon, however, as the first outburst
of fury had exhausted itself, he hastened to explain
that the Masai were not in force ; that indeed he
had only discovered a small party of spies, who
could not prove very dangerous in themselves,
though their presence might indicate the approach
of greater numbers.

Savage races change like summer skies, passing
with rapidity from storm to smiling sunshine. No
sooner had Serii's people calmed down sufficiently
to listen to Gilmore's reassuring words than the
war fever fell away as quickly as it had arisen, and
where the warriors had come to fight they remained
to dance. Clearly they were nothing loth to
display themselves in the fierce splendour of their
war-gear, wherein each man's endeavour was to
outdo his neighbour in savagery of aspect. Nor

did they regret the opportunity of parading thus
arrayed before the women, who, now that there
was no fear of danger, began to reappear, and
clustered in delighted groups to gaze with admiration
on the brilliant appearance of their protectors,
as they strutted like fighting-cocks under their eyes.

A grand ngomma, or dance, was arranged for
the evening, when there would be full moon —
an inspiring influence without which the Bantu
races are incapable of mustering up the requisite
amount of spirit for the sufficiently arduous series
of evolutions included by them under the idea of
dancing.

Meanwhile Serii set himself to look after the
physical comforts of his visitors. Under the direction
of the cook huge chunks of goat and ribs of
fat-tailed sheep were spitted on sticks and roasted
before the fire, while sweet potatoes in their own
jackets cooked among the hot cinders. With this,
wholesome, if not dainty, fare Gilmore's by no
means fastidious appetite was speedily appeased,
and the impromptu banquet over, he was called
away for a shauri, or talk with the chief.

Serii's house proved to be one of some pretension
for these parts. It was quadrangular in shape, and
had clay-built walls in the coast style. Alow doorway
for entrance formed also the only aperture for
the admission of light and air. The interior was inconsequence

somewhat gloomy, but felt pleasantly
cool and refreshing after the glare of the sun.
Around the house yere a number of circular huts
well stocked with wives and children, the whole
being enclosed by a strong palisade, which not
only ensured greater privacy, but also served for
defensive purposes.

On entering the hut Gilmore was invited to sit
down on a species of bench which did duty asa
seat or as a bed, as circumstances required.

A few moments' silence then intervened, as if to
indicate that with two such great personages there
need be no indecent haste.

"Well, mzungu (white man," commenced Serii
at last, " you have seen that my young men do not
sleep when danger is near, and that, like young
lions, they are eager to taste blood."

True," replied Gilmore, adopting the native
language and manner of speech. "Your warriors
swoop down upon their enemies like the eagles and
grasp their hearts with their claws. Your women
and children may laugh in the faces of the Masai
with such husbands and fathers."

Serii seemed pleased by the compliment, but
considered it beneath his dignity to acknowledge it.
Our numbers, however, are small," he went on
deprecatingly, "and our foes are in multitude as
the ants. Mandara on the one hand and Machine

on the other lie in wait to seize my country, and
the Masai, like hyaenas, prowl about our sheep and
cattle kraals. What can we do against so many,
though our hearts are bold and om spears sharp ? '^

Not knowing how to reply to this somewhat wide
question, Gilmore simply assumed a grave face,
supposed to indicate his appreciation of the difficulties
of the situation, and in silence awaited the
chief's next remark.

Look around you," Serii went on dramatically,
^' and you will see plantations uncultivated or crops
destroyed. Daily we become fewer and poorer, and
our children cry out for more food."

Again the chief paused, and again Gilmore
waited, secretly wondering what was to be the
upshot of this long tirade.

To you, oh mganga mkubwa (great medicine
man), we look for safety. You converse with the
spirits ; you know how to shoot your enemy to the
heart, though mountains separate jo\x. Make us,
then, some powerful medicine to take the courage
from our foes, and sweep them off like the pestilence
which stalks unseen amongst us, and we pass away
to the spirit-land."

"Nay," answered Gilmore; '^ I have no such
supernatural power. You must address yourself
to Maungu (God."

The Maungu to whom we pray is not like that

of the white man. He delights in evil and the
stirring up of strife and bloodshed. We have more
dependence on you. Our hunters have seen your
magic in the slaying of the elephant and the
buffalo. No one who is not an Mganga could do
the things told of you."

*your men have reported wrongly of me.
Courage, a good eye, and a white man's rifle are
the only powers at my command, and these are at
your service whenever you have need of them.
Am I not a guest in your house and country ? "

** But, like the other white men we have seen
amongst us, you will soon depart ; then our hearts
will be heavy and our enemies will rejoice."

No," replied Gilmore ; '' I have no intention of
departing. No wife waits for me in Ulyiah ; no
children call me home."

'your answer makes our drooping hearts dance
with joy. But if you will indeed make my country
your country, why live solitary with no women in
your house ? You have wealth to buy a hundred.
"Why not take some wives from among our maidens '?
There are scores who would be glad to cook your
food and sweep out the house, and plenty of fathers
are eager to give you their daughters for the
customary consideration."

This offhand way of stating the matter appeared
to amuse Gilmore immensely ; but, seeing Serii's

earnestness, lie gravely proceeded to explain that
an mzungu takes but one \\ife to his house, and
seldom buys her, though sometimes she buys him.
He also endeavoured to make clear the astounding
and incomprehensible facts that many white men
never even take one wife, and that of those who doa
yet greater number would be glad to get rid of
the one each has, only — still more incomprehensible
to the native mind — they are not allowed to
part with them.

*' The white men are more full of wisdom than
the rabbit, and we, who are in knowledge like
stones, cannot understand them," was Serii's conclusive
reply ; after which he sank into silence, as
if requiring some time to digest the wonders he had
heard. He was genuinely anxious, however, to
keep Gilmore in the country, knowing the importance
his presence gave him, as well as the additional
security from attack. To secure this end,
he had shrewdly considered that the best way
would be to get Gilmore to marry one of the .
Accordingly, dismissing the mystery of
civilized marriage customs from his mind after
a brief interval of fruitless meditation, he returned
to the subject from his own point of view, and once
more addressed Gilmore.

*' In a meeting of our headmen we have discussed
the question," he began. 'all have wondered

at, and many have pitied, your strange mode
of life without a wife. They would like to see you
take one — if ten, all the better ; it would be more
fitting your importance. You say you do not buy
wives in Ulyiah. We will not ask you to do so.
Has your eye not rested on any of our daughters ?
If so, speak, and she will be yours for the asking,
though worth fifty bullocks. Their skins are not
white, but they are glossy and well oiled. To run
yom errands they will be fleet as the pallas, and
they will not fall under a weight of sixty pounds,
carried from morning till night. They will be
pleasant or useful to you according as you shall
wish."

At this point Gilmore was about to burst outwith
a description of the status of wives in Europe,
but recognizing how impossible it was for the man
before him to understand the situation, he forbore
the intended enlightenment, and professed to enter
into Serii's ideas on the matter.

"Many thanks for your offer," he said. "I
know that a good Malaga maiden is worth not less
than fifty bullocks. True in our country they say
it is not good to mate the white with the black ;
but here it seems to be different. I shall look
around, and perhaps I may see some damsel who
will please me."

To hear that you are so disposed will brighten

the eyes of all the j'oung maidens. But let me
first show you one of my daughters who already
longs to cross your threshold. I can assure you
she is worth at least a hundred bullocks ; but if
she pleases you you shall have her for nothing,
though I have no doubt you will not forget the
sacrifice I am making. I shall go and call her."

Stop, stop ! " shouted Gilmore, half amused,
half alarmed at the chief's energetic interest in his
matrimonial engagements.

The warning came too late, however ; Serii had
akeady left the hut, and Gilmore hardly realizing
as yet that the matter had assumed a serious aspect,
did not trouble to go after him. The auctioneer-like
fashion in which Serii had appraised the
value of woman as a domestic comfort tickled
Gilmore immensely, and as the vision of himself
inspecting the coming candidate for wifehood and
deism-ely taking in her " points " rose before his
mind, he fairly burst out laughing. He quickly
grew thoughtful, however, as he remembered that
what to him seemed only a sublime joke was to
Seriiii a piece of sober earnest. Evidently Seriiii fully
believed that Gilmore intended to marry, and the
question with him now was not would he choose
a wife at all, but would his (Serii's) daughter have
the honors of occupying that distinguished position.
For the first time the enormity of such an

VOL. I. D

alliance presented itself to Gilmore, and an involuntary
shudder of disgust and repugnance
passed over him. All his civilized instincts,
which he had deceived himself into believing to belong
since dead and buried, suddenly rose in revolt.
Marry a savage ? How monstrous ! how impossible
! And Gilmore's face assumed an expressive
grimace, as if to his nose had come wafted an
odour of rancid castor-oil mixed with lamp-black,
an unsavoury compound with which he had oft
been wont to see the Chaga belles anoint themselves.


Scarcely, however, had the idea of the impracticability
of such a union taken the form of a
definite conclusion, than, with characteristic inconsistency,
our hero commenced to urge reasons
in support of an exactly opposite theory. The
feeling of defiant revolt against all things civilized
and conventional in which he had lived for some
months past began to reassert itself, and therewith
the prospect of a swarthy bride grew more enticing.
Why should he not marry a savage, and so bring
his contempt for society and social frauds to a
fitting climax ? To gratify this feeling and have
the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Grundy stand aghast,
was it not worth his while to do some violence even
to his own sentiments in the matter, which perhaps,
after all, only indicated a lingering touch of

the old leaven of artificiality he so earnestly desired
to see purged out ? Would it ever be purged out ?
he wondered. Was he, indeed, taking the right
way to bring about such a desirable end ? What
good did it do either to society or to himself, his
living this selfish, isolated life, nursing his wrath
and raving like a madman over his broken gods ?
To have taken refuge from his dissatisfaction with
the world in flight, was it not almost as cowardly
as suicide — more useless, too, since even in his
exile he could not quite shake himself free of the
old bonds of custom and prejudice ? Ought he not
rather to have faced his disappointment, manfully
lived it down, and remained among his fellows, to
teach the nobler of them how, in the widest sense,
to be " in the world but not of it " — how, indeed,
to be men, and not Fashion's weak machines ?

As Gilmore's thoughts took this turn the
memory of the past idle, wasted months rushed
upon him, and the contempt and disgust he had
been for so long cherishing against society was
suddenly diverted towards himself. '' What a fool
I have been," he muttered as he drew himself up
with an air of resolve, 'living here all this while,
and caring for no one but myself. It is high time
I had something to occupy me, something to keep
me from eternally harping on the same old strings.
But what can I do in this outlandish place ? Oh,

I had forgotten; there is this proposed marriage.
Hem ! the prospect doesn't seem inviting. To
marry a negress for the sake of having something
to care for besides one's self ! Plenty of room for
self-sacrifice there, I should fancy ! I wonder,
now, if I could care for a negress ? After all, why
not ? A man grows fond of his dog, and even
gets to have a certain feeling of companionship for
him ; I suppose it would be equally possible with
an M-Chaga maiden — some fresh, budding young
child of nature, even although black and barbaric.
There was something quite taking in that expression
of old Serii's about ' a woman in your house ; '
it makes ' house ' sound like ' home.' There's a
sort of fascination about the idea of a woman's
smile and a woman's welcome greeting you on your
return after an absence — something infinitely
superior to the * watch-dog's honest bark.' By-the-by,
that's Byron's. What's the rest of the
quotation, I wonder? "Tis sweet'— eh? — * 'tis

sweet to ' I really believe I have forgotten how

it goes, . . . Well, no matter. . . . What was I
saying ? . . . Oh, I remember now. Yes, a woman
in my house would certainly be quite an acquisition.
How I could talk to her, unbend and prattle to her,
as I cannot to my men, to whom I must always
remain the ^ Bwan' mkubwa.' Even if a negress,
is she not a human being with the feelings and

passions common to humanity ? True, there would
be great disparity between us ; but, after all, would
it be much greater than the disparity that exists
in many instances at home — that is, I mean, in
civilized society ? Then, here we live under more
primitive customs, and if the experiment proves a
failure the remedy is simple. You have only to
say, 'Here is so much cotton and beads as a
present ; go back to your father.' No one will
say, * Why have you done this thing ? ' Hem !
Gently, gently, Tom, my boy ; I am not so sure
about that. Suppose I should call forth a genuine
affection in this girl ; suppose I should raise her
above the level of her fellows, and after all turn
her adrift ; would she not turn and upbraid me ?
Is there not a something within myself that would
not be silenced, however much I might try to stifle
it with sophistries? But why should I bother
about the matter at all ? What have I to do with
marriage ? What are women to me, black women
in particular ? Marry a little savage ? Put her

in the place of my — my Good God ! what am

I saying?" he exclaimed aloud. "Shall I never
forget my old sweet, foolish dream ? Bah ! what
a fool I am ! " he went on, springing to his feet,
and in bitterness of soul pacing the hut like a
caged lion, " always keeping the old sore open
and railing against fate, as if the world were not

full of shattered hopes and disappointed ambitions,
as if I were the only man who had staked his all
upon a woman's smile and lost. Yes, I will marry
an M-Chaga girl ; I ivill shake myself free of this
bugbear of a past. After all, she may be the
saving of me. She will be something — I shall not
say to amuse me, but to interest me and rouse mea
little. That dumb, unawakened mind of hers ;
those sleeping thoughts and impulses — I shall teach
them to speak, I shall teach them to live. By
Jove ! the idea is splendid. Just think of it. To
watch the development, if not the birth, of a
human soul ; to see it expand under my fostering
care and gradually take on the higher attributes of
humanity, gradually begin to reflect some of the
sweetness and light of — well, I don't exactly know
what, but it doesn't much matter. If that is not

something worth living for, I'll "

Bwan' mkubwa, sambo ? " was the salutation
which here broke in upon Gilmore's soliloquy, and
startled him back from the ecstatic heights of
imagination to which he had been carried on the
wings of his ardent and romantic temperament.
With quick expectancy he turned towards the door ;
but what he saw on looking round we may reserve
for another chapter.

Chapter IV.

While Gilmore was engaged in the brown study
we have just described, there had entered, unperceived
by him, an M-Chaga maiden, who might
be about fourteen years of age — the marriageable
period in these tropical climes.

On stepping into the semi-darkness of the hut,
the girl looked timidly round with the half-wild, half-eagerly
curious look which distinguishes animals
on entering places where the unexpected might
happen. As she stood thus in her piquant native
simplicity, with nothing to hide her lissom supple
figure but a daintily dressed kidskin depending
from her waist, she looked the very personification
of wild natural grace and beauty. Thick brass
rings clasped her ankles, wrists, and neck, and
heavy earrings distended the lobes of her ears.
The hair was completely shaved from her head,
and her budding breasts peeped coquettishly from

beneath strings of beads and chains. The light,
almost bronze colour of her well-oiled skin, the
superior type of skull and face, and the bright,
swimming eyes indicated a parentage different from
the Wa-Chaga, though to that race might fairly be
ascribed the snow-white teeth which temptingly
glistened between her dark and by no means thick
lips.

The quick, eager glance of this wild mountain
slip soon fell upon Gilmore's grave, frank face,
lighted up at that moment with his new-born
enthusiasm. Reassured by the sight, she glided
noiselessly, with her unsandalled feet, across the
floor of the hut towards the mzungu (white man).
Bending before him, with one knee on the ground,
she uttered in a low, soft musical voice the
Swahili salutation which had startled Gilmore
from his reverie.

''Bwan' mkubwa, sambo?" (Great master, how
do you do ?)

Looking up with a confused start, Gilmore saw
before him just such a girl as he had been thinking
of as a possible mate and companion. " What a
pretty girl ! " was the thought which crossed his
mind, as he scanned the maiden searchingly, and
noted approvingly her admirable proportions and
graceful, submissive pose.

"Sambo sana (I am well," he at length replied.

Who is this damsel ? " he queried, as Serii entered
the hut.

This is Ulu. She is my daughter," replied the
chief, with paternal pride. "Have I not spoken
truly in putting her value at one hundred bullocks ?
Is she not equal in beauty to the houris of whom
the Wa-Swahili speak? Just look at her build!
There is strength and beauty ! Did you ever see
such "

Well, never mind," smilingly interrupted Gil-your,
as the chief, in his eagerness to dispose of
his daughter, was for entering into unnecessary
detail about her "points." "She is all that you
have said. But of what tribe is she ? There are
no Wa-Chaga girls like this maiden."

She is my daughter, and therefore an M-Chaga,"
somewhat haughtily replied Serii, touched in his
paternal and national pride. "Her mother is a
Masai captured in war."

"Oh, now I understand! Is this the daughter
you would give me to gladden my house at
Pei30-ni ? "

She is yours. May you find her worthy to
wash your feet ! "

To this Gilmore only replied with a quiet
laugh. "What is your name, toto (child"?
he asked encouragingly.

"Ulu," was the reply, each soft syllable cooed

out most musically ; while bashfully the girl cast
her eyes to the ground, and with her fingers traced
lines in the sand which strewed the floor.

*' Your father says you are to be mine. How
would you like to be the white man's mate ? "

In reply Ulu only turned the liquid depths of
her gazelle-like eyes upon her questioner in mute
surprise and astonishment. To have her opinion
asked as to the disposal of her soul and body was
altogether new in her experience.

Speak, toto ! Would you like to go with me ? "

"Ulu is in the hands of the mzungu. She will
be his slave."

''Oh, but look here, you know ! " Gilmore commenced
impetuously, but, with a smile, repressed
himself. "Would you not be afraid to live with
the mzungu ? Our enemies say that the white
man feeds on children, and lives at the bottom of
the great water beyond the prima (coast). Then,
look how white my skin is — whiter even than that
of the albinos among your people! " Here Gilmore
rolled up his sleeve, and showed his arm where
it was unburned by African suns ; while Ulu, to
express her astonishment, opened her mouth wide,
and held her open hand in front of it, as people
sometimes do to hide a yawn.

Your skin is like the glittering snow on Kino,"
she exclaimed at length, " but I shall learn to

look upon it and not become blind. May I touch
it?"

Of course."

Permission given, Ulu, still awestruck by the
wonderful sight hitherto concealed by Gilmore's
shirt-sleeve, timorously applied her little black
finger to his arm, as if she might be burned or
get an electric shock.

"Don't be afraid; it won't hurt you," said
Gilmore, encouragingly, as she quickly drew back
her hand to cover once more her widely distended
mouth. *well, now, Ulu," he went on, "if you
go with me, you will have to dress differently.
You won't mind wearing more clothes, will you ?
something like the women of my people. No.
All right, then. But there are other things besides
that you will have to change. You must give up
rubbing yourself with oil, and wash frequently with
water and sabuni (soap."

This time not only Ulu's mouth, but her eyes
also, opened wide with profound amazement.
Here, indeed, was an incomprehensible condition
attached to her marriage with the mzungu. An
expression of consternation mingled with her look
of astonishment, as she pictured herself like the
poorest of the poor, without a coating of oil.
What an object of contempt and ridicule she
would be ! And she shivered slightly, as if she felt

a foretaste of the cold and discomfort she would
experience without her daily publication. To Lu
oil was not only an adornment, but in a manner
her clothes.

Ulu will learn to do as the great master
desires," she at length stammered out ; but she
looked up beseechingly at her father, mutely
demanding his opinion on this unheard-of proposal.

Serii had listened with as great surprise as his
daughter, but he gave no expression to it. It
mattered little to him how Gilmore treated her.
He had done his duty as a father in selling her fora
political consideration.

'you had better prepare to go with me, then,
toto. Stop a minute, though," cried Gilmore,
going to the door and shouting an order to Uledi.
'give me that bag. Yes, that is what I want.
Now, Ulu, take this ! There is something nice for
you;" and Gilmore put around the neck of the
timid girl a string of highly prized beads.

This present brought back the smiles to Lu's
troubled face, and matrimony acquiring for the
moment brighter hues by this earnest of the
wealth which was in store for her, she tripped out
of the hut to show off her riches and discuss her
approaching departure to Pepo-ni.

"Well," commenced Gilmore, when Ulu had
disappeared, " I like your daughter very much.

and I shall take her with me. Only, you see, she
is not fit to be my wife, and "

'' She is but worthy to be your slave," interrupted
Serii, afraid that the negotiations might even
yet fall through, and anxious to attach Gilmore to
him at any price.

Let me explain myself. She has much to
learn before she is fit to be the wife of the white
man ; and, besides, you know, white men never
marry girls of her age."

The Wa-Chaga are, indeed, washenzi (wild or
savage people) beside the wazungu," chimed in
Serii, humbly.

Now, this is what I shall do. Ulu will go with
me to Pepo-ni. She will not, however, enter my
house yet, but be placed with the wife of Uledi. I
shall then teach her to become like the wives of
our people. Afterwards she may become my wife.
If, however, I find that impossible, I shall send her
back to you, for she cannot remain with me as my
servant or my slave."

'' The ways of the wazungu are beyond the
comprehension of the Wa-Chaga," replied Serii. ''I
cannot understand what you want to do with her.
She is strong and can carry your loads. She is
quick and can run your messages. She can cook
your food and shampoo your feet. She is beautiful,
and therefore desirable. What more can you

desire in an}^ one who is only a Tvoman ? Do the
wives of the wazungu fight for them, or do they
hunt the antelope and the buffalo for food in
Ulyiah ? If not, of what use are they more than
Ulu ? "

Oh," cried Gilmore, *' our women do none of
these things. They only work in our houses. But

then, you know, they are — that is — er "

Here Gilmore stopped short, once more remembering
that Serii could not understand the status of
wives in Europe, and the social position they
possessed.

'' No matter, Bwan' mkubwa ! " added Serii.
'^ Do whatever you like with her; only" — here a
little paternal feeling arose in the chiefs heart —
only don't eat her, or cut her up to make
uchawi (black magic."

Oh, don't be afraid of that," answered Gilmore,
laughing. 'you will see her often, and hear
how she is being treated. If she does not like it
she can always return home to you."

Good, mzungu ! I am satisfied."

There was a moment's silence. Then Gilmore
sprang to his feet and prepared to go, unable any
longer to stand the oppressive atmosphere of the
hut.

*' Stop, Bwana, stop a minute ! " exclaimed
Serii, as his guest took a step towards the door.

'' Well, what is it ? "

"You won't forget that I did not sell Ulu to
you ? "

*' Oh, I shan't forget ! "

*' I am going to hunt buffalo tomorrow," continued
Serii. " Our guns are useless. Won't you
give me one of yours ? Just as it were to complete
the bargain."

*' Oh, well, I don't mind giving you one, under
the circumstances," replied Gilmore.

*' With some powder and balls ? "

"Yes, you must have that, too, I suppose ? "

Oh, the wazungu are indeed beyond praise
for generosity. But stay just one moment. The
nights are now becoming very cold, and you see I
am almost naked. You would not like Ulu's father
to go about like a wild beast. You are great and
wealthy. Won't you give me some cloth ? "

Oh, come now ; this is too much ! " cried
Gilmore, annoyed and yet amused at the way in
which Serii was losing no time in taking advantage
of their new relationship.

Oh, Bwana, what is a little cloth to you ? "
asked Serii, in a short and disappointed voice. " It
will only be a small mark of friendship. Great
chiefs like ourselves do not deal in the manner of
traders."

"Humph!" grunted the white man. "I shall

have to see when I get back to Pepo-ni what I
can afford to give you. Perhaps among my paltry
stores I may find something for you."

Thanks, Bwana, thanks."

*' But remember, only this once."

*' Oh, certainly. Your generosity has satisfied
me for life. My heart overflows in contemplating
your greatness ! "

''A nice nuisance you'll be!" was Gilmore's
mental comment, as passing forth he inhaled with
a sense of relief a long breath of fresh air, after
the confined and unpleasantly odoriferous atmosphere
of the hut.

The aspect of the banana-clad knoll was now
very different from the wild scene it had presented
two hours before.

The fresh morning breeze had died away, leaving
the air heavy and languorous. The sun had
reached the zenith, and its heat and brilliancy were
overpowering. The monkeys in the wood had ceased
to chatter ; the leaves of the trees hung drooping
as if dying ; the birds had ceased to flit about, and
only at rare intervals a gaily coloured butterfly
fluttered past, or beetle buzzed noisily through the
motionless air. The natives, never loth to pass
the time sleeping, had sought the shadiest nooks
for a siesta along with the fat goats and sadly
tail-burdened sheep.

Gilmore, having nothing else to do, and yielding
like the others to the drowsiness of the hour,
sought an open shed where his men had spread an
Austrian rug over a soft bed of grass. He was,
however, too much engrossed with his new scheme
to fall easily asleep. He had carefully to consider
the pros and cons of his suddenly developed
romantic project. The play of expression on his
mobile face presented a pretty accurate index to
the varied character of his musings. The end of
all his cogitations was, however, expressed in his
silent exclamation, as he turned over to sleep, 'the
idea is capital ! I am sure something can be made
of her ! And what a piquant, taking little child
of Nature she is, to be sure."

VOL. I.

Chapter V.

Towards three in the afternoon the village was
again astir. Men lounged ah&ut, gossiping or"
dressing themselves in fantastic, styles , for the
evening revelry. Women — rarely allow tire for
the feminine amusements of more civilized countries
pounded grain for the evening meal, land otherwise
occupied themselves with domestic or agri •
cultural duties for the benefit of their lords and
masters.

Gilmore, like everybody else, bestirred himself.
Having nothing else to do till evening, he strolled
up a narrow lane, noticing with no small pleasure
various species of ferns, which reminded him of
home and his early boyish rambles , after those
graceful plants among his native hills.

At sunset he returned to the village, to find
dinner awaiting him, cooked and served with.? the
simplicity to be expected on the sides of Kilimanjaro.
Ere he had finished the stars began to peep forth

in the fast-gathering darkness ; and 'with night
came a cool fresh breeze to complete the delicious
change.

Preparations for the ngomma, or dance, now
proceeded actively. Drums of varied size and
note were hauled out of the huts. Calabashes
containing small stones to act as rattles were
placed ready to hand. The musicians raised 
squeaks as they essayed the native pipes
called zomiri. Women, all animation and chatter,
heaped 'together wood for the bonfires ; while the
Wen preserved their dignity by sitting in listless,
lazy groups, occasionally swearing at or directing
their wives.

The stolidity and indifference proper to warriors,
however, disappeared magically as a long file of
women marched out of Serii's compound bearing
huge pots of combe (beer) on their heads. In
QJcler duly to celebrate Ulu's approaching marriage
to the mzungu, the chief had trebled the amount
of drink which usually stimulated the flagging
energies of tired dancers.

The arrival of Serii was the signal to start the
night's festivities. A frightful yell of welcome burst
from every throat, and then with whoop and trilling
create \\iQ revellers scrambled with wild antics
into tLe open space near Gilmore's shed. Simultaneously
a dozen bony fists fell upon the resonant

UNSmOflUlSOIS

hides of as many drams, till they answered in
thunderous *' loom ! boom ! " or sharper tom-toms.
The musicians who wielded the calabashes waved
them wildly overhead, or shook them like bells, till
they rattled and crashed out a deafening contribution
to the awful medley. Above all, with earpiercing
effect, rose the shrill notes of the zomiri.
At the same moment fire was applied to the bonfires,
and these soon flared up, only to make the
outer darkness deeper and blacker, the inner circle
more demoniacal.

The dance itself is beyond description. To
Gilmore it seemed only a series of uncouth leaps
and jumps, varied by ludicrous wriggling of the
body and accompanied by ape-like grimaces.

To the natives themselves, however, it had all a
method and a meaning. Applause greeted some
performers and ridicule others, and there was no
mistaking the fact that every one enjoyed himself
to the utmost.

Though deafened by the terrific noise, Gilmore
was conscious of a certain uncanny admiration in
viewing the wild scene. The savages, almost naked
or dressed in hideous extravagance, jumping about
like madmen ; the yells, shouts, and chanted
recitatives ; the additional uproar from drum,
calabash, and zomiri; the lurid lights and the
dense circle of darkness— excited Gilmore's imagination,

as a scene of similar weirdness had once
affected Tarn O'Shanter. It had all the air
of being a glimpse of another and not a better
world.

As the evening wore on a solitary light began
to irradiate the eastern horizon, till, gradually
brightening, the moon in mild effulgence rose
above the horizon, just over the rugged peaks of
Teitav ,. A- hundred aldrich screeches, mingled with
fuller and more stentorian shouts, greeted its
welcome light. The zomiri-player threatened to
burst his already widely distended cheeks; the
drummers, determined not to be beat in noise-making,
knocked the skin off their knuckles as they
whacked their drums with renewed force. Faster
and faster grew the dancing, more madly did the
dancers surge about as if intoxicated, as indeed
many were rapidly becoming under the influence
of Serii's lavishly distributed combe.

In the height of this mad scene Gilmore
happened to look up towards the mountain. With
awed fascination he noted the contrast between the
peaceful beauty of Kibo and the fiendish revels
around him. He had often seen the snow-capped
dome at night, but on this occasion it shone under
the soft moonbeams with a divine majesty and
peace. For the moment, Kibo to Gilmore was a
glimpse of the serenity and beauty of Paradise ;

and he — he seemed to be viewing it from the
depths of hell.

While the white man thus alternately wondered
at the one scene and with his whole soul admired
the other, his attention was gradually attracted to
a girl among the dancers who appeared familiar to
him. Almost naked and drenched with perspiration,
this damsel was throwing herself with special
fervour into the savage revelry. No one jumped
about with more abandon, nor piped out in shriller
tones the trilling screams. Men danced about her
in rings, or with uncouth gestures and movements
pranced up to the tune of the oft reiterated monosyllables,
" Yo ho ! yi oh ho ! " to which, with
distorted face, she responded with her own wild
bird's trill, as she stamped her feet and wriggled
around till the iron bells on her legs and arms
tinkled out noisily.

With an uneasy interest Gilmore followed the
wild movements of the M-Chaga maiden. He was
about to inquire of Serii who she was, when the
whirling crowd opened up, and under the red glare
of a neighbouring bonfire, the girl stood revealed
to him as Lu.

'' Oh, this is too bad ! " exclaimed Gilmore, ashe
jumped to his feet with the impulse to drag his
pupil out of the savage circle.

With an effort he restrained himself, however.

as he thought that this would be the last dance of
the kid she would have. '' After all," he asked
himself, *' why shouldn't she? What else can he
expected of such as she ? "

Still Gilmore felt greatly annoyed at what he
saw. Ulu had never before appeared such a
savage — animal even, and a vague sense of the
huge gulf which separated him from her crossed
his mixid.- Here before him stood the rude reality ;
and how different that appeared from the ideal
child of Nature he had hitherto pictured in his
imagination !

While Gilmore thus watched and meditated,
matters became so decidedly worse around Ulu that
he could stand it no longer. Once more he jumped
to his feet. He turned to ask Serii to intervene.

*' Serii, will you " he commenced, but stopped

short on observing his host rigid in an attitude of
concentrated attention. '' What is it ? " he cried
instead.

There was no reply.

Gilmore knew full well the meaning of such
signs, and was himself at once all ears. The
suspense did not last long. During a slight lull in
the din of the ngomma, a faint cry came wafted
to his ear with a something in its tone which sent
a shiver through him. At the same moment Serii
sprang from his sitting posture, and then, like a

herald of war and death, he yelled out his fearful
cry to arms. As the first shrill notes rose sharp
and clear through the infernal festive clamour, the
dancers stood rigid, half-uttered shouts cut short
on their lips, as if each had received a blow on
the chest which had knocked the wind out of him.
A moment of ghastly silence succeeded ; not a
soul moved. Even as they listened, the terror-laden
words, "El Masai! El Masai! " came with
full significance to their ears, sending a convulsive
start through the spell-bound crowd. In quick
succession several piercing yells broke from the
outer darkness. There was no mistaking the
character of these sounds. Pain and death rang
in their every accent.

'* Spears ! spears ! " shouted Serii, the first to
regain his senses.

Then the charm broke which held the paralyzed
dancers. '' Spears ! spears ! " they echoed, as they
rushed off to their huts to arm for the fray.

Quick, eager shouts and exclamations were now
heard on all sides, some in terror, others in bold
defiance. The women, trembling with terror,
seized their children and fled into the bush. Ina
twinkling the place was empty, with the exception
of the mzungu and his men.

Even Gilmore was not absolutely free from the
panic which reigned around. The alarm was so

sudden, so unexpected, and the danger so indefinite.
From what quarter was lie to expect it ? What
had they better do ? A shout came from Uledi —

Come, Bwana ! Come away from the fires ! "

As fast as they could the little band sought the
shelter of the forest, where they lay trying to pierce
the dense gloom on the look-out for possible Masai
warriors, and ready with their rifles to give a good
account of themselves. Serii came rushing towards
them.

Mzungu ! mzungu ! fire your guns ! Oh,
Bwana, fire your gun ! " he cried.

Good gracious ! where ? What shall I shoot ? "
eagerly inquired Gilmore, stepping out of his
hiding-place.

Shoot, Bwana ! Quick! Shoot ! shoot ! Never
mind where," implored the chief.

'' What on earth is the use of that ? " exclaimed
Gilmore; but his words were drowned in the
discharge of the rifles of his men, who knew better
the value of sound in savage warfare.

Serii, inspirited by this announcement to his
enemies that he and his people had guns in their
possession, now mustered courage to raise the war-cry.
The note of defiance, feebly re-echoed by the
Wa-Chaga at the cattle kraal below, was scarcely
sounded when a Masai warrior appeared, standing
on a grassy knoll, on which the moon shone

brilliantly. Looking upwards to where the fires
could still be seen burning, he whooped out an
insulting cry, as he shook his great spear in the
air, and then struck his shield till it resounded like
a drum.

Serii and his men showed no eagerness to accept
the challenge, however, and the warrior continued
to prance defiantly, bidding them come down to
him, if they were not women. He looked portentously
picturesque under the moonbeams, with
his nodding ostrich plumes, and glittering spear
which seemed to emit electric flashes as he twisted
it in his hand. In the midst of his insulting cries
and the impotent, cur-like display of the Wa-Chaga
above, a rifle roared out an unexpected replj^, and
the Masai ended his shouts in a different key. For
the last time his spear quivered in the air, and with
a groan he fell back dead.

A roar of delight burst from Serii's warriors.

'who did that ? " demanded Gilmore sharply.

"Bwana, it was I," proudly replied Uledi,
'see!" he added triumphantly, "my gun still
smokes."

A sharp reprimand rose to Gilmore's lips, but
was interrupted by the appearance of one of Serii's
men, who rushed up with the news that the Masai
had retired on finding themselves prematurely discovered
in their attempt to capture the cattle,

though they had killed one of the guards m the
first unexpected onset.

This good news at once reanimated the ,
and, boiling with courage and hatred, they
rushed helter-skelter down the hill, making the
whole mountain-side re-echo with their bloodthirsty
cries, suggesting to Gilmore, who, of course, did
not follow, them, a i3ack of hyaenas on the trail
of a wounded animal.

As our hero stood and watched, he saw the men
of Kindii emerge from the wood and congregate on
the knoll, where they literally danced upon the
body of the dead warrior, hacking it with their
knives and swords till it became a shapeless mass.
Their savage fm-y sated, they turned their attention
to the killed cattle-keeper. Taking him up in
their arms, they bore him homeward, filling the
sad night air with their barbarous dirge. Half-way'
up, the procession was met by the women, who
mingled their wails and shrieks with the more subdued
cries of the men. Thus accompanied, the
corpse was brought into the village and laid ina
hut, to be watched and mourned over by the
women till the morning.

As for the men, they were soon as merry and
light-hearted as if no danger had ever come near
them. They were unanimous in expressing their
regret at not having got an opportunity to display

their leonine courage and hyaena-like ferocity
What wonders of bloodshed they would have done !
The dance, however, was not resumed, much to
Gilmore's relief, who was soon sound asleep,
wrapped cosily in his Austrian blanket, with the
cool mountain breeze playing on his healthy
bronzed cheeks. The soothing sough of the
prattling stream in the neighbouring glen, the
painful wails of the watchers, the mournful hooting
of owls, and the sighing of breeze-swayed trees —
all fell upon his ear, and quickened his sleeping
fancy to dreams of pleasing melancholy.

CHAPTER YI.

The morning after the ngomma broke clear and
bright. The flood of light which fell upon Gilmore
in the open shed woke him speedily from the sound
sleep which he had enjoyed during the night.
Finding the temperature below 45° F. and a cold
breeze blowing, he drew his rug more snugly round
him, and lay lazily watching one of his men, who
shivered piteously over a fire, awaiting the boiling
of some water.

At last, however, the sun rose in tropic gorgeous -
ness, and falling on the eyes of Gilmore, compelled
him to turn out. There being no soap or other
civilized appliances for a wash and brush up,
Gilmore contented himself with sauntering to the
nearest rivulet and dipping his head into the
water, thereafter wringing out his hair with his
hands, and leaving the sun to do the rest. Thus
freshened, though unkempt, he got back to the
shed to find some hot tea and a couple of eggs to

start him off for the day and put him in due
harmony with his surroundings.

By the time these necessary matters were disposed
of, the sun had risen some distance, and
permeated the atmosphere with its warmth.

One by one the Wa-Chaga pushed their heads out
of their huts, and gathered in well-wrapped groups
round the fires, while the women and slaves moved
about on their household duties, or wended with
hoe and basket to the plantations.

It was now time for Gilmore to set out for
Pepo-ni. Calling Uledi, he ordered him to announce
his approaching departure to Serii, and to bring
Lu.

While the M-Swahili was gone on his errand,
Gilmore buckled on his gaiters and belt.

A few minutes later Uledi returned.

Bwan' mkubwa, Serii will be here immediately,"
he said.

"And Lu?"

She has fled," was the man's reply, a curious
grin illuminating his bull-dog face.

"Fled! Where on earth has she fled to?"
asked Gilmore, thinking he must have frightened
the little girl the night previous.

*' Bwana, I know not ; but, Inshallah, she will be
found; " and Uledi's grin threatened to get beyond
his control.

What on earth are 3'ou grinning at, sou fool ? "
cried his master, wrathfully, becoming aware of
Uledi's expression of amusement. " And what do
you mean by sour please God (Inshallah) ? "

'perhaps," replied Uledi, more gravely, 'you
had better see her father."

Very well. Come with me ; " and, wondering
what was the meaning of all this mystification,
.Grilmour hurried off to Serii's quarters.

Uledi followed, and, being behind his master's
back, was able to grin to his heart's content.

Gilmore, in bursting unannounced into Serii's
presence, quite upset that important personage's
philosophy, as he eagerly asked —

"What has become of Ulu? Why has she fled?"

Serii seemed very much surprised at these questions,
and looked inquiringly fi'om Gilmore to
Uledi.

"Allah!" he exclaimed at length, "are you
not going to marry Ulu ? "

That depends on circumstances. At present,
as you know, she only goes with me to Pepo-ni."

"I don't understand the difference," said Serii.
Ulu believes she is to be your wife."

What nonsense ! " cried Gilmore, impatiently.
Pray what has that to do with her flight ? "

Why, it is what any girl in the same position
would do."

I don't understand," cried Gilmore, more and
more mystified. 'ris she frightened? Does she
not want to go with me ? Does "

''No," interrupted Serii, equally bewildered;
"she is not frightened, and she does want to go
with you."

Well, then, what the deuce is the meaning of
it all ? " exclaimed Gilmore to himself in English,
with difficulty keeping his temper, as he mopped
his face and ran his fingers frantically through his
hair, seeking for some happy inspiration.

How much longer the misunderstanding would
have lasted it would be difficult to say, but at this
point Uledi, who seemed to be the only man who
clearly understood the situation, fairly forgot himself
and laughed outright. Then, suddenly recollecting
the presence in which he stood, he turned and made
for the door. Before he got outside, Gilmore, now
thoroughly roused, precipitated himself upon the
culprit, and, seizing him by the nape of the neck,
shook him angrily as he ordered him forthwith to
explain the meaning of all this unseemly mirth.

'*Bwana! Bwana ! " howled Uledi, "you kill
me ! Let me go ! Oh, I shall die ! I shall die !
Oh! oh!"

Speak, then, and to the point."

"Why, Bwana, don't you understand? It is
the M-Chaga custom."

*' What is the M-Chaga custom ? " queried Gil-your,
impatiently.

*' When a girl is going to be married she runs
away and hides with a friend."

''Oh, now I begin to understand. The girl, I
suppose, expects the man to hunt for her ? "

Yes, that is why Ulu has fled ; " and once
more Uledi's face broke into a broad grin.

The infection spread, and, forgetful of his wrath,
Gilmore burst into a hearty fit of laughter as he
pictured himself bringing home Ulu pick-aback,
surrounded by a howling crowd of boys and women.
He knew that this relic of the old custom of wife
capture still existed among the neighbouring and
allied Wa-testa, but was not till then aware that
it also survived among the Wa-Chaga.

Recovering his gravity, he explained to the
astonished and somewhat scandalized chief how
alien that custom was to European ideas, and
how therefore that part of the ceremony must be
dispensed with.

The conservative instincts of the worthy barbarian
were greatly shocked; but, as he was determined
to have Gilmore for a son-in-law at any price, he
repressed all evidence of his outraged feelings, and
promised to find Ulu and explain matters to her.

An hour later Uledi appeared with the little
runaway. On entering the presence of her future

VOL. I. F

lord and master, she looked woefully abashed and
downcast. Traces of recent tears still lingered on
her chubby, well-oiled cheeks, and bedimmed the
brilliancy of her eyes.

The sight of her distress quite touched Gilmore's
susceptible heart, especially as he supposed himself
to be the cause of it. His face softened and his
voice became quite low and gentle as he patted
the little maiden under the chin and began trying
to comfort her.

'have you grown afraid of the white, man,
toto ? " he asked.

"■ No, Bwan' mkubwa," Ulu stammered out.

Then what's wrong with you, little one ? Don't
you want to go with me ? "

'' Oh yes, I want to go with you," she sobbed, as
she drew her well-rounded arm across her eyes to
wipe away the welling tears.

Do you not like to leave your father and
mother, then ? "

'' Oh," replied she, arresting her sobs, '' they beat
me and make me work in the shames (fields."

Then tell me what troubles you so much."

For a moment the little girl stood struggling to
master her grief, while with her great toe she
traced figures in the sand of the floor.

"Because — because you won't marry me after
the manner of our people," she said hesitatingly.

"But you know your ways are different from
ours," replied Gilmore, sorry for the child, yet
curious to know her whole mind.

But you are now living among the Wa-Chaga.
Why won't you let me hide '? Why do you refuse
to seek for me and carry me on your back to
Pepo-ni?"

*' Because the wazungu don't do these things,"
replied Gilmore.

And will not your men fire their guns and
shout when I go down to Pepo-ni ? "

Not now ; perhaps some other time, when we
get married like the white people."

Again Ulu broke down as her last hope of display
disappeared. "But all the girls of Kindii will
laugh at me," she contrived to say timidly.

"Why?"

Because you are marrying me without firing of
guns, drumming, dances, and plenty of combe.
Even slaves have commas when they are married."
And Ulu wept bitterly as she pictured the depths
to which she had fallen.

Oh, never mind what the women of Kindii say.
Just wait till you see the grand clothes and beautiful
beads and bracelets I shall give you. You'll see
then whether they'll laugh at you or not," said
Gilmore, adding a number of other things to the
same effect, with the object of soothing the poor

child, for he realized that it was impossible for her
to understand his ideas or feelings on the subject
of marriage, or the difference which, in his eyes,
distinguished a pupil from a wife.

Gilmore's pictures of riches and idleness soon
had the desired effect, and smiles speedily replaced
tears as Ulu saw herself arrayed in all the magnificence
the mzungu described. The latter now sent
her off to bid farewell to her father and prepare
to leave for Pepo-ni.

At length, everything being pronounced ready,
Gilmore picked up his rifle and started down the
hill towards Serii's house. As he approached, he
remarked an agitated group of people gathered
around some person or persons unknown, and
raising their voices in animated tones.

"What ! No flight ! No capture ! Whoever
heard of a marriage like this ? " cried one old
woman in a shrill key.

And our chief's daughter too ! " chimed in a
second.

She leaves her father's house like a slave,"
added a third.

Gilmore's approach was the signal for immediate
silence, and next moment the crowd fell back, exhibiting
Ulu, with disconsolate expression, staggering
under an enormous pile of calabashes, wooden
utensils, and other M-Chaga household furniture.

Ob, hang it all ! What's up now ? " exclaimed
Gilmore in English, a look of excessive annoyance
crossing his face. " Am I again to be made a
laughing-stock to my men ? "

The Zanzibar seemed, indeed, to enjoy the joke
immensely, for having mostly lived in European
families in Zanzibar, they had learned something
of the position of European wives.

The spectacle presented by their future mistress,
loaded as above described, was too much for them,
and they dodged behind trees, turned their backs,
or stuffed their caps into their capacious mouths
to prevent unseemly manifestations of their mirth
before the Bwana, who, though good-natured, could
show his teeth to some purpose if roused.

What is the meaning of this ? " sharply inquired
the sorely tried Gilmore.

Why, Bwana, that is the furniture," answered
Uledi, with difficulty mastering his desire to laugh.

Take care now, Uledi. Don't anger me again.
Tell me at once what Ulu is going to do with these
things ? " cried Gilmore, with rising wrath.

'' These are for the new house she expects to goto
at Pepo-ni. They are her marriage presents."

"Now, this is more than I can bear!" cried
Gilmore, beside himself with annoyance. " Order
her to put them down at once, and leave the
dirty rubbish behind. No, stop ! That will only

frighten the poor thing. — Oh, hang it all," he
again exclaimed in English, ^' I wish I had never
started this absurd freak of mine ! Developing
souls out of M-Chaga materials is going to be
more ridiculous than dignified. Evidently amusing
enough for my men. I can't stop now, though.
Here, you Songoro," he called; "come here, you
rascal. I'll teach you how to laugh. Now, take
these calabashes. Come, do it at once. You shall
carry them all the way to Pepo-ni. Ulu, give your
load to Songoro."

With a look of utter bewilderment Ulu relinquished
her load to the M-Swahili. She, a woman,
to have her burden carried by a man, and that
man a handsomely dressed fellow like Songoro, who,
in parenthesis it may be remarked, was clothed ina
ragged, cast-off flannel shirt of his master's ! Here
indeed was an upsetting of all her ideas of woman's
place and function in the world. She could not
realize for the moment the complete significance of
Gilmore's action. In a vague, stunned sort of
way, however, she felt that after all there was
indeed something in being a white man's wife, and
timidly, like one not yet quite sure where she stood,
she looked round at the awestruck women with a
little air of triumph, as if she would say, " There !
what do you think of that ? It will be a long time
before any of you get a man to carry your load."

Now, Ulu," said Gilmore, '' come along. Serii,
kwaheri (good-bye."

As the party turned and moved down the hill
the crowd of women regained their voices, and
raised a chorus of commiserating cries over the
shabby, prosaic departure of their chief's daughter.
They pretended to be greatly scandalized at the
transference of the girl's load to Songoro, and in a
score of characteristic ways canvassed the question.
What was the world coming to now, when such
things were possible ? There must be something
very dreadful underneath it all, they declared, with
many knowing shakes of the head.

Meanwhile Gilmore, oblivious and indifferent to
then criticism, continued his way homeward. Ashe
sauntered dreamily along, he naturally fell into
the soliloquizing strain which his lonely, isolated
life had made his normal condition. Indeed, it
was no uncommon thing for him to find that he
was holding a conversation or an argument with
himself, greatly to the amusement of his men,
who, walking behind, would signal to each other
with nod and wink their master's peculiarity.
They thought, in fact, that he really did address
some devil or spirit whom he could call up at will.

On this occasion Gilmore's line of thought
naturally turned on the subject of Ulu. The events
of the morning had greatly annoyed him, and

toned down his enthusiasm for his romantic project.
He felt that his original repulsion to the idea of
marrying a savage was beginning to reassert itself
with renewed force when face to face with some of
the realities of the situation. He was not, however,
going to let himself be turned aside from the
attempt to civilize Ulu without good reason. As
for the merriment of his men, well, he thought, he
would easily put an end to that.

Still Gilmore felt it necessary to argue the matter
over again. He declared to himself with wholly
unnecessary vehemence that he certainly would
make something of the maiden, however much of
a savage she was. He gravely proceeded to ask
himself if, after all, the savage life was not the
natural one, a condition in which man was free
and untrammelled by conventionalities, conforming,
in fact, to nature only To be natural and to
be free, was that not to have attained the ideal ?
Gilmore inquired triumphantly, with the air of a
man who had made an interesting discovery.

In contrast with that he placed the civilized life.
He pictured it to himself as a great complex
machine, of which each individual was only a petty
factor under conditions which made it absolutely
necessary that he should move in harmony or be
ruthlessly smashed.

What is civilization," he mentally queried,

but a mere mass of conventionalities, with
fashions in virtues and vices assumed and discarded
Eke so many Parisian modes in dress ?
What little good there is in it is scotched, if not
killed, by society and society's ways. Now, if I
can graft what there is of good in the thoughts and
feelings of Europeans upon a fresh, unsophisticated
soul like Ulu's, won't she just be perfect ? Still,
to marry a negress ! Whew ! it is a deuce of a
step. But, after all, is my repulsion a reflection
of the true and the right? Is it not merely an
artificial feeling born of my education and environment,
a reflection, in fact, of my European prejudices
? Now let me see where I have arrived
at. I shall get muddled up if I go much deeper.
Oh yes, I think I have it now. The savage —
that is to say, the natural life — is the ideal one ;
ergo, a savage, in other words a natural, bride is
ditto. That puts the whole matter in a nutshell.
Not such bad logic, either, when I think of it.
Well, I have done with your civilized girls. No
more animated artificialities for me. How I pity
the poor things with all the fresh young life
crushed out of them in obedience to the demands
of Mrs. Grundy ! Social frauds, indeed ! Faugh !

When I think of it all I "

But what Gilmore really did think of it all must
for ever remain unknown, for at this point he was

awakened from his reverie by a clear, English
Good morning," uttered in Iron of him in rich
feminine tones. With a start of surprise he looked
up, to encounter the glance of a pair of laughing
brown eyes, which met his from over the ears of
a white Muscat donkey, and sparkled with mischievous
delight at the embarrassment into which
their owner's unlooked-for appearance had thrown
him. For a moment Gilmore stood in utter
wonderment, seemingly unable to believe that herein
the heart of Africa, he was face to face with an
Englishwoman, young and winsome, too, with rosy
cheeks and laughing lips that looked almost out of
keeping with her broad, thoughtful brow and firm
outline of cheek and chin. In her soft white dress
and broad Panama hat, she formed a very charming
picture as she sat reining in her gentle steed right
in the middle of the foliaged pathway, and repeated
once more her cheerful *' Good morning."

Suddenly remembering himself, Gilmore, with
a quick, impulsive motion, carried his hand to his
felt hat, which — the first time for nearly a year —
he lifted, as he replied confusedly —

*' Sambo — that is, I mean, good morning."
*' Mr. Gilmore, I presume ? " said the lady, bowing
with mock ceremony as she recalled a well-known
African episode, and at the same time
frankly holding out her hand.

Gilmore, feeling still somewhat upset and unaccountably
awkward, took the proffered hand, but
without any responsive heartiness and warmth.
Utterly ignoring the humorous allusion in her last
remark, he merely replied —

'you have named me correctly For yourself,
I can only imagine that you are Miss Kennedy
from Mandara's."

Yes, you are quite right," said .the young lady,
a shade of surprise and disappointment passing
across her expressive face as she realized how
coldly she had been met, considering the place and
circumstances. " You could scarcely be otherwise,
for I am the only Englishwoman on the mountain,
you know."

Here an awkward pause ensued, during which
neither seemed to know what to do next. Gilmore
made no attempt to carry on the conversation, and
Miss Kennedy, repelled by the chill formality of
his reply to her first friendly greeting, felt strangely
disinclined to put any of the hundred eager questions
that had at first risen to her lips. She was
just in the act of wishing herself anywhere but on
Kilimanjaro, when her embarrassment was brought
to an end by fresh arrivals from below.

Oh, here is my father," she exclaimed with an
air of relief, as a tall, somewhat bony and angular
individual came into view, his dress a curious compound

of the clergyman's and the backwoodsman's.
"Papa," she continued, turning to the new arrival,
*this is Mr. Gilmore, of whom we have heard so
much."

Delighted to have the pleasure of meeting you,
sir," said Mr. Kennedy, heartily, shaking hands
with Gilmore, as if he had met with a dear and
long absent friend. '' We have long known you
by name, and long wished to know you in
person."

You are very good," answered Gilmore hesitatingly,
as if he could not all at once adapt his
thoughts and language to the unwonted situation.
I am very much obliged to you."

Somewhat put out at this cool reception of his
proffered friendship, Mr. Kennedy stood for a
moment silent ; then he recommenced —

"Yours is surely a strange sort of life, Mr.
Gilmore, especially for a young man to lead.
Don't you feel lonely with none but Zanzibar
about you? Don't you miss the advantages of
Christian fellowship and society ? "

I can't say that I do. The life suits me very
well. You know the French saying, ' One is never
less alone than when alone ; ' it seems to fit my
case exactly."

' My mind to me a kingdom is,' " quoted Miss
Kennedy sympathetically, and added, ''I think I

can quite enter into your feelings on that point,
Mr. Gilmore."

'well, I can't, Kate," said her father. 'the
Bible says ' it is not good for man to be alone,' and
I take that to be true in the general as well as in
the special sense. Men should ' do and not dream,'
and the true sphere for doing is among one's
fellows. But I am not going to read you a lecture
here," he continued, interrupting himself and
smiling pleasantly. " Let me only say, Mr. Gil-your,
that if ever you do feel lonely, or if we can be
of any use to you, please have no hesitation in coming
to us. You will always be heartily welcome."

"Really, Mr. Kennedy, you are very kind. I
certainly shan't forget your invitation. At present
I must be going, however. By the way, are you
aware that Masai scouts have been seen ? You will
require to be very careful in your movements for
some time to come."

What ! those bloodthirsty savages on the move
again ? " exclaimed the startled gentleman. " Your
news is indeed unpleasant. Ah, well, our lives are
in the hands of Providence. Kate, you know how
much this may mean ? "

"Oh yes, papa. But there's no immediate
danger, is there, Mr. Gilmore ? "

"Oh no; you have nothing to fear at present,
but I should advise you to keep away from the

lower parts of the mountain for the remainder of
the dry season. I really must he off, though ; the
sun is getting well up. Good-hye, Miss Kennedy ;
good-bye, sir." And lifting his hat, this time with
more grace and ease, Gilmore turned and continued
his way to Pepo-ni ; while Miss Kennedy
gathering up the reins of her donkey and tapping
its side lightly with her heel, moved up the hill in
the direction of Serii's, followed by her father and
his negro servants.

CHAPTER VII.

**I can't understand it," said Kate, abstractedly, as
she slowly withdrew her gaze from the tip of her
donkey's right ear, which organ had apparently
absorbed her attention for nearly five minutes.

*' What can't you understand? " said Mr. Kennedy,
inquiringly. '' The donkey's ear ? "

Now, papa, you are laughing at me," said
Kate, smiling pleasantly herself, however, at her
father's quiet way of poking fun at her. '* I was
not even thinking of poor Tanga, but of Mr.
Gilmore."

Did it strike you there was some resemblance ? "

'' Papa, you are really too bad ! Of course not.
I was only thinking that he seemed rather a
peculiar individual."

eyes?"

Quite different from what I had expected."

"Yes?"

"Wouldn't you have thought he would have

shown a little more enthusiasm at meeting a
fellow-countryman on Kilimanjaro ? "

'' Especially when the fellow-countryman was
accompanied by a fellow-countrywoman, eh ? "

''Oh, papa, do be quiet and talk sensibly!
Don't you think he might at least have shaken
hands with me as if he meant it, instead of just
touching the tips of my fingers ? "

*' Perhaps he didn't mean it. Perhaps he would
rather have been left alone, and was too honest
not to show it."

'' But, papa, whites are not so common in
Chaga. I know I should welcome any representative
of the race — even a sweep, if he had washed
his face. Why, he didn't even ask us to go and
see him ! " added Miss Kennedy, returning to her
grievance against Gilmore.

Probably because he doesn't want us."

'' But why shouldn't he want us ? He doesn't
set up for a hermit, does he ? He doesn't look
much like the orthodox hermit, at any rate. He
is a great deal too healthy-looking, to begin with."

Perhaps he is a new species, ' modified to suit
the environment,' you know, as you are so fond of
saying."

Then, his behaviour was so contradictory to
all the reports of him," Kate continued. '' We
have heard the most wonderful accounts of his

goodness and kindness ; and, when I come to
think of it, he had a nice, kind sort of face."
Here Kate stopped short, and tried to recall it line
by line. '' No, I can't make him out," she went
on, not troubling to finish her last sentence. '^ The
man is a mystery. '

Of which you seem bent on the solution, Kate,"
said Mr. Kennedy. " He seems to have excited a
great deal of interest in you."

Well, yes ; he was so indifferent. I am afraid
Edinburgh men have spoiled me. They have
made me expect too much attention. I must
remember I am in Africa ; the manners and
customs are slightly different."

The conversation now ceased, as the nature of
the pathway necessitated the falling back of Mr.
Kennedy to the rear. For a time they moved on
in silence, all Miss Kennedy's attention being fully
occupied in avoiding branches of trees which overhung
the pathway. Suddenly Kate drew Tanga to
a standstill, while she sat in an attitude of rapid;
attention.

Papa, what was that ? " she cried excitedly, asher
father came up to where she stood.

What ? " queried Mr. Kennedy, sharply, hurrying
forward in some alarm.

'* That strange sound. Listen ! there it is again.
Surely some one is being killed," Kate continued,

VOL. I. G

as the weird, mournful cry which had attracted
her attention came wafted more clearly on the
mountain breeze.

As they stood listening, the sound gathered
volume, coming to their ears with a strange
cadence, as it rose into shrill screams, or died
away into complete silence.

"Come, papa, let's see what is wrong," cried
Kate, giving the reins a shake, and starting forward
with the instinctive impulse of a generous
nature.

*not so fast, Kate; we must be careful,"
cautioned her father, at the same time stepping
out briskly, however, as if not to be behindhand in
helping, should help be required.

A few yards further the little missionary party
emerged from the wood, as they neared the shoulder
of a ridge which they were rounding. The noises
now became more distinct and more terrible to
hear; but amongst them could be distinguished
the clamour of drums and other evidences of
fiendish gaiety, turning Miss Kennedy's fears into
perplexity. Mr. Kennedy gave a sigh of relief.

Oh, it's all right ! We needn't hurry," he
said. The missionary was better acquainted with
Wa-Chaga customs than his daughter, and he now
understood there was nothing to fear.

But what is it ? " queried Kate.

*' Somebody dead, I suppose."

Dead ! " repeated Kate. ** And is that the way
they show their grief ? "

*' Exactly. These poor, benighted creatures
outwardly express their sorrows or their joys in
much the same manner. They dance equally at a
wedding or a death. But come, let us hasten
forward ; I may have an opportunity of saying a
word in season."

Oh, there is the village ! " cried Kate, as they
reached the end of the ridge.

'''Is that Serii's, Jonathan?" asked Mr. Kennedy
of his servant, who was following behind.

Yes, Bwana. Shall we fire our guns ? "

"By no means. Let us go into the village as
quietly as possible."

The sudden and unannounced appearance of the
wazungu in Serii's village produced a temporary
cessation of the death ceremonies. The inhabitants
had never before seen the white lady of whom they
had heard so much, and they crowded round to
examine her wonderingly. The sacred duties attending
the wake were too attractive to be more
than momentarily suspended, however, and the
mourners speedily left Mr. Kennedy and his daughter
to move forward to the shed recently vacated
by Mr. Gilmore. Having comfortably installed
themselves, the visitors forgot for a moment the

object of their visit in watching the strange proceedings
of the villagers below.

A certain number of the women devoted themselves
with the nearer relatives to speeding the
departed spirit from its earthly habitation, and
expressing their sorrow at his having been prematurely
relegated to the cold shades; while the
men, with howl and dance, accompanied by what
passed current as instrumental music, exerted
themselves assiduously to prevent any devil taking
possession of the vacated corpse.

The entire population seemed to have gone mad
with the most passionate grief. Men and women
alike, with inflamed and streaming eyes, literally
howled in their distraction, as they rushed continually
in and out of the hut where lay the body.
Some, more excitable, threw themselves down on
the ground, grasping the grass in their hands, and
almost biting the dust as they rolled about in
paroxysms of grief.

A more strangely wild scene could hardly be
conceived, and Kate felt her eyes fill with sympathetic
tears, as she viewed the passionate display
of feeling.

'* They must have been very fond of him," she
said.

"Not necessarily, my dear," answered Mr.
Kennedy, who had long been accustomed to similar

sights, and was thoroughly conversant with the
native character. " There is no people like the
negro for indulging in the luxury of grief."

"Do you mean that all this passionate sorrow
is only affected? "

Not quite that, of course. But it is all on the
surface."

'* I can scarcely believe it."

*sit's true, however. At this moment, as you
see, they are in the depths of grief and despair ;
to-night they will have a grand dance and carouse ;
tomorrow hardly a thought will be given to their
dead friend and relation. Lasting sorrows never
show themselves in that way."

*rit seems so strange, so impossible."

Still it's the case. Ah, Kate, my dear, I wish
I could go and speak to them ! "What more fitting
season to tell them of Him who came to seek and
to save ? I wonder when these poor creatures will
be gathered into the fold?" the missionary continued,
addressing himself more than his daughter.
How small appears to be the result of twenty
years of toil ! I feel often as if I had laboured
and suffered in vain."

*' Oh, don't say that, papa dear ! " cried Kate,
deprecatingly.

'they delight to dwell in darkness and shun
the light," Mr. Kennedy went on, falling into

the preaching strain which had become a second
nature till the arrival of his daughter on Kilimanjaro
had brought him back to a more easy and
natural style of speech.

'' Don't you think, papa, you try to do too
much?" began Kate, hesitatingly. 'instead of
bothering with doctrines too subtle for the comprehension
of even the civilized intellect, would it not
be better to keep to the very simplest rudiments
of Christianity, and try to teach these degraded
heathen something they could really understand ? "

'* Ah, Kate, Kate ! this comes of being away
from a father's care. You alarm me with the
dangerous modes of thought you have acquired in
Edinburgh. To me there is but one way to preach
the gospel to the learned and unlearned alike. It
must be taught in its entirety."

'' I must say I don't see what harm there would
be in restricting your teaching," urged Kate.

Ah, Kate, you don't know how it grieves me to
hear you talk in this light way," cried Mr. Kennedy;
*' it fills me with the gravest apprehension.
I greatly fear you have drifted from the old
anchorage and boundaries of our faith."

'but not, papa, from a love of all that is good
and true and noble," added Kate with dignity.

"Fine talk, but little solid sense. To bear
fruit and be acceptable before your Maker, your

love of goodness must be associated with faith in
Christ."

At this moment the conversation was interrupted
by the removal of the corpse from the hut. As
the friends brought it forth, the howls and wails
reached a climax. The mourners gathered round
in a jostling crowd, and, thus escorted, the deadman
was hurried off with speed to his last resting-place.
Gradually the clamour toned down as the
interval increased, and the village was left in peace
and quiet.

'who is dead?" inquired Mr. Kennedy of an
M-Chaga who had stopped to gaze at them.

'the warrior Chili. The Masai killed him last
night."

"Oh!" cried Kennedy, with a start of alarm.
Were the Masai here ? "

"Yes. But our warriors drove them off, and
killed six. The spirit of Chili will dance upon
them to-night. The mzungu of Pepo-ni was here,
and with his terrible rifle he slew them like the
lightning of Maungu (God."

"Oh, how could he?" involuntarily exclaimed
Kate.

Yes," cried the imaginative M-Chaga, seeing
the interest aroused by his news ; " the mzungu
delights to slake his thirst in the blood of his
enemies. Like the lion, he tears them limb

from limb, and leaves their offal to the beasts of
prey."

Oh, don't mind him," explained Mr. Kennedy in
English. '' It is only their way of stating things."

But sui-ely he can't have been shooting Masai,
except in absolute self-defence ? "

Of course not," answered Mr. Kennedy,
promptly. 'will you announce to the sultan
(chief," he continued in Ki-Swahili, '' that the
mzungu ki kitabu (the white man with the book)
desires to see him?"

*eyes, Bwana," replied the native; and he
hurried off on his errand.

In a few minutes he returned to announce Serii's
speedy arrival. The " speedy " proved to be, however,
only a form of speech, for the chief, to show
his importance, kept his visitors waiting some
considerable time.

At length he came strolling in leisurely fashion
towards the shed, a number of headmen following
behind with solemn and dignified step. As he
neared the temporary baraza, Mr. Kennedy rose to
greet him, but the chief did not show himself
sensible of the other's presence. With becoming
gravity he entered and seated himself on a convenient
log, while his attendants squatted behind
and outside.

''Yambo, Serii?" said Mr. Kennedy.

For the first time, the chief now deigned to look
towards the mzungu.

"Sambo sa Hey!" And Serii, who had

commenced his reply in the usual fashion, ended
abruptly with a startled exclamation as his gaze
fell upon Miss Kennedy. His open-mouthed expression
of wonderment and surprise at the sight
of the first white woman he had ever seen rapidly
gave place to one of intense admiration.

Are all things well with you ? " continued Mr.
Kennedy, beginning to feel uneasy at the character
of Serii's stare.

There was no reply. Serii was too much absorbed
in examining Miss Kennedy.

Most girls would have been alarmed at the
savage's persistent gaze. Kate's character, however,
gave no scope for premature fears, nor was
she so spiritually fragile as to shrivel up before
any person's stare. To the chief's admiring looks,
she replied with a frank, good-humoured smile and
a pleasant " Sambo ? "

Sambo sana," this time readily added Serii,
beaming responsively.

The good people of Ulyiah have sent me to tell

you about " once more began Mr. Kennedy,

only to be interrupted by Serii abruptly tui-king
round and addressing the uneasy missionary in
Ki-Chaga —

Is this a bibi mzungu (white lady) ? "

'' Yes ! But, Serii, will you tell me whether "

*' Is she your wife, your daughter, or your slave ?"

'' Oh, she is my daughter ! "

'' Good ! What is her price ? "

'' Her price ! "

*' Yes. What's her value in bullocks ? "

But I — I am not going to sell her ! "

*' Oh, I had forgotten — you white people don't
take bullocks. But of course you will take ivory ?
You will do anything for ivory."

^' Certainly not sell my daughter ! "

*'Ah! you are a cunning bargainer, I see. You
have not the open hand of some white men. Now,
don't be too hard on me ! "

Mr. Kennedy maintained an alarmed silence.

*' What is the chief saying, papa ? " asked Kate.
^' You are positively looking frightened."

Oh, nothing — nothing in particular ! " was her
father's hurried reply.

Come, now, mzungu, don't raise her price too
high. I shall give you three large tusks for her.
That, you know, would buy a dozen Wa-Chaga girls
for wives."

"But, Serii, you are quite mistaken. We never
sell our daughters in that way ! " exclaimed
Kennedy, with rising alarm.

An incredulous expression passed over Serii's

face. ^' I shall give you five tusks — oh yes — and
I shall send out my young men and capture some
girls from Machine. You shall have one or two
into the bargain."

Impossible ! Impossible ! " cried Kennedy, in
horror. *' I won't and can't sell my daughter for
five, nor ten, nor twenty tusks — no, not for all the
ivory of Kilimanjaro."

Serii looked the picture of surprise, chagrin, and
scepticism. " What can the mzungu want ? " he
asked himself mentally. A happy thought, however,
came to his aid. *' Well, then, you will give
her to me," he resumed more hopefully — " won't
you? She will teach me, you know, to become
like the husbands of the white women," he added
triumphantly, remembering Gilmore's intentions
with regard to his daughter.

'* I can neither give her to you nor sell her,"
was all that Kennedy could reply.

Now, papa, do tell me ; what's the meaning of
this mysterious conversation ? It is very cruel of
you to keep me in suspense ! " cried Kate, again
puzzled by the look of concern on her father's
face, and yet seeing nothing in Serii's manner and
looks to explain it. "I am sure it is something
about me ! "

'' Oh yes, it's about you. But there is no reason
to be alarmed. Just wait a bit."

** But why not ? " urged Serii in eager tones and
with growing excitement. " The Wa-doeth (Germans)
take wives from among our maidens ; why,
then, should not your daughter marry me — Serii,
chief of Kindii ? She will be my chief wife. She
won't have to work in the fields, nor carry loads — at
least, not till she is old," he added to himself sottovoce,
" True, I am black, and your daughter is soft
and white as a fleecy cloud in a summer sky. But
what matters it ? I have heard it reported that
at Pisgah you say all men are brothers. Is it
different here in Kindii? If not, why won't you
give me your daughter ? "

*' Yes, it is true. Before Maungu we are all
brothers. Still I cannot give you my daughter
for a wife."

*what do you mean by 'before Maungu'?"
queried Serii.

I mean There is no use talking about it ;

my daughter cannot be yours," again exclaimed
Mr. Kennedy, avoiding Serii's posing question.

'' You won't give her to me ? You refuse me !
me ! ME ! " cried Serii passionately, no longer able
to restrain his feelings.

*'I can do nothing else," replied the missionary
in great agitation.

Serii sprang to his feet, boiling over with wrath.
'rand what if I should take her?" he demanded

furiously, while he nervously fingered his kuob-
kerry with the instinctive savage impulse to brain
the offender. '' What can you do to prevent me
carrying her to my house, as the eagle carries the
lamb to its nest '? See, my young men surround
you. Their spears are bright and glistening. I
have but to give the word and they will drip with
blood — your blood. Your body will be food for the
hyaenas, and your daughter will be my mate. What
do you say now? Speak, speak, before my men
pierce you with their spears."

That was a terrible moment for Mr. Kennedy.
He, too, had jumped to his feet to class) his arm
about his daughter, as if he could protect her from
all evil. Before them stood Serii, shaking his rugged
club in their faces, and completely possessed by a
fury never accustomed to be restrained. Around
the shed crowded fifty warriors, standing in naked
savagery, their cloths thrown aside, and poising
their ready spears, awaiting but the word of command
to make them do their bloody office.

In this critical moment, and possessed as he was
with horrible fears for his daughter, Mr. Kennedy
never lost his self-command. His indomitable
spirit and Christian faith never showed so well as
when he faced with unflinching eye the negro chief
and his bloodthirsty warriors. Xor did Kate belie
her parentage. She did not understand the cause

of the volcanic outburst, but she knew full well the
meaning of the threatening attitudes. With one
hand she grasped her father's arm, while the other
travelled stealthily to the revolver, which she carried
always in her pocket. There was a slight paling
of the cheek, a tightening of the lips; but she
stood, like her father, erect, and, like her father,
eyed Serii with unfaltering spirit.

The chief looked with profound astonishment
from one to the other. He had expected to see
them both collapse in terror, whereas they seemed
to defy him to do his worst. His fury toned down
as he asked himself. Had they magical medicines
by which to protect themselves ? Might they not
turn the spears against the users? He began to
regret his precipitate action.

Happily at this moment a venerable elder stepped
forward and whispered something in the chief's
ear, of which the words '^ mzungu " and " Pepo-ni "
alone reached Mr. Kennedy. Serii's face softened
still further. At a signal his men fell back and
resumed their cotton wrappers, their indifferent
expression, and squatting posture. Serii himself
next sat down, and graciously signed to the
Kennedyss to do the same.

Be not afraid, mzungu," he commenced in
his soft, musical voice. " Think not I meant to
take from you the light of your household. She is

like Ngai (God), and therefore not for me. I meant
but to show you the quickness of my men to obey
me, and show them the courage of the wazungu."

Of course the chief Serii could not intend evil
to the white people who are his friends," replied
Kennedy, politely, hardly yet recovered from the
painful fright he had received.

My heart leaps joyfully within me," cried the
chief. " Who so great, so wise, and bold as the
wonderful white people ? We are but beasts before
you."

"Now, papa, I won't stand this any longer,"
here interrupted Miss Kennedy in English. " What
has all this been about ? "

"You may as well know now, I suppose. Serii
wanted me to give you to him for a wife. When
I refused he threatened to take you."

Kate's only comment was a startled " Oh ! "
but there was a light in her eye which eloquently
said that she would have had a final word in the
arrangement.

It's all right now, though," added Mr. Kennedy.

Now that we are friends, let me ask you a
question," again broke in Serii, speaking Ki-Swahili,
which Kate could understand fairly well.

Speak, sultan ! "

Could you not get me one or two white women?
I assure you I will pay you well for them."

*' But I have told you we don't sell our daughters
in that way."

^'Oh yes, I know; but the mzungu of Pepo-ni
told me that plenty of white men would like to
get rid of their wives. Could you not get some
for me ? Only," he hastened to add, '' not too old.
I would like them at least to be nice and young."

"You must have misunderstood the mzungu,"
replied Mr. Kennedy, gravely, though Kate could
not help laughing merrily. " I am sure no white
woman could be got in such a manner."

Truly the wazungu are incomprehensible ! Are
you sure there is no way of getting a supply ? "

"None whatever."

"Oh, stop a minute," cried Serii, as a new idea
struck him. " I have given my daughter to an
mzungu, and he says he will make her like the
wives of the white men. Does that mean that he
will make her white like your daughter ? "

"Oh no, no! Impossible!" replied Kennedy,
laughing, in spite of himself.

Well, that's what he says. Now listen. I will
give you lots of ivory if you will turn some of my
girls into nice white women ; or, if you like, for
each girl you turn out like your daughter I will
give you a plump young maiden for yourself.
There ! " And Serii assumed a look which said,
That will fetch you if anything will."

Kennedy was greatly amused by the request,
though horrified by the nature of the suggested
recompense. Once more he emphatically disclaimed
all power to get or make the chief a white
wife.

'' I thought you would have shown yourself more
my friend," said Serii, in a disappointed tone, and
with rising doubts as to Mr. Kennedy's veracity.

I am very sorry I cannot help you ; but what
you ask is beyond any man's power, black or white."

After one or two further appeals on Serii's part
the conversation turned to more ordinary affairs.
The customary present was given and received
graciously. Thus mollified, Serii listened patiently
while the missionary recounted the object of his
visit, which was to obtain the chief's permission
to found a mission station at his village.

Serii replied that he yearned with his whole
heart to be taught to read and write. He would
listen with pleasure to anything that the mzungu's
Maungu had to say to them, though if He was no
better than their God, the less one knew of Him
the better. Still, as the Balaam said he was quite
different, he (Serii) would Hke to learn something
about Him. The mzungu of Pepo-ni, however,
must be consulted, as he (Serii) had promised not
to have any dealings with white men without
informing him.

VOL. I. H

This result, upon the whole, was satisfactory to
the missionary, as he could not but believe that
Mr. Gilmore would consent at once. He therefore
made up his mind to visit Mr. Gilmore as soon as
possible, in spite of his churlish manner.

The interview now concluded, Serii leaving his
guests in the most friendly manner, and further
showing his good feeling by sending them a fat
sheep, some delicious milk, sugar-cane, and several
large bunches of bananas.

The Kennedyss, having refreshed themselves on
some of this fare, and rested during the heat of
the day, commenced their return in the cool of the
afternoon. At sunset they arrived at an out-station
of the mission, and next morning they reached
their headquarters, at Pisgah or Mkuyuni in Mandara's
territory.

Chapter Viii.

If the result of the meeting between Gilmore and
the Kennedyss had caused surprise and disappointment
to the latter, it had a no less marked effect,
though of a different character, upon the former.

As Gilmore leisurely sauntered homeward that
sunny April morning, he felt as if he had been
dreaming, nay, was still in a dream. For the
moment Ulu was driven out of his mind. He
discussed no longer the various aspects of savage
versus civilized life. A flood of pleasant memories
was aroused by the girl who had so unexpectedly
crossed his oath, the agreeable recollection that
she had betrayed a touch of the Scottish accent
bringing with it a whiff of Highland air, an aroma
of heather. He was no longer on Kilimanjaro in
truth, but far away in bonnie Scotland.

In a single moment Gilmore seemed to live over
the earlier years of his manhood, with their hopes
and aspirations, their cherished ideals and ambitions,

tbeii' 3'outliful friendships, and all the more
pleasant phases of the civilized life which a few
minutes before he had been proving to his own
satisfaction to be hollow and artificial. As he
contrasted these with the broken idols which now
surrounded him, he sighed regretfully, and his face
became overcast with a look of depression which, if
Miss Kennedy had seen it, would have gone far to
soften her reflections on his strange manner.

Although this unhappy effect was the immediate
result of his meeting with Miss Kennedy, Gilmore
at first thought very little about that young lady
herself. She had only, as it were, presented a
magic mirror to him, in which he saw the bright -
hued memories of the past placed side by side
with the more sombre realities of the present.
Gradually, however, the picture faded away to give
place to the image of the fair young Scotchman
whom he had that morning so unexpectedly encountered.


Having seen no European women for months,
Gilmore had unconsciously lowered his standard
of female beauty to suit the dusky types by which
he was surrounded. From the new standpoint he
pronounced this girl pretty or that one ugly',
according as she approached or deviated from
the Chaga ideal. Now suddenly a white girl had
appeared before him like the inhabitant of another

world, and, in comparison with the Wa-Chaga, she
seemed supremely beautiful.

x\s Gilmore recalled her soft brown eyes and
intellectual type of head, he thought to himself
that here, after all, was a civilized girl with a mind
and soul not to be cramped and bounded by
society's restrictions and requirements.

While thus absorbed in his reflections, Gilmore
sat down to wait for Uledi, who had fallen behind.
Presently the Zanzibar arrived, Alii with them.
The sight of the little M-Chaga startled Gilmore
back to the consciousness of his present situation,
and remembering his projects of the hour previous,
he fixed his gaze sharply and searchingly on his
little protegee's face.

In his present mood Ulu appeared altogether ina
new light. Her lips seemed thicker, her nose
more depressed and flat, her jaws more projecting,
her colour more unpleasing — and then the young
man's face puckered with an expression of disgust
as he detected an odour of rancid castor oil. The
feeling of absolute repulsion which had come upon
him on first entertaining the idea of marrying a
native girl now returned with tenfold force, and
he shuddered at the very thought.

Ulu, on her part, accustomed as a woman to
watch and fear the varying emotions on the faces
of the lords of creation, felt with savage instinct

that there was something wrong; and, the white
man being as yet an unknown quantity, she shrank
back in terror, expecting the stern look to be
followed by something worse. As among her own
people, the mzungu might — from the pure pleasure
of displaying his rights — take to beating her, nay,
he might even kill and eat her, for who could tell
the lengths to which white men would go ?

The sight of Ulu's terrified face brought Gilmore
back to his senses at once. Reproaching himself
vigorously as an " ass " and a " fool," he jumped
to his feet.

"Come now, Ulu," he said cheerily "you mustn't
be afraid of me. We are near Pepo-ni, and, once
there, you'll see what lots of beautiful things you'll
have ! There, that's right. Hey ! Uledi, hurry
up. Come along, toto!" And Gilmore, to make
amends for his late sternness and encourage his
little charge, took her as tenderly by the hand as
if she had been some delicate slip of an English
girl, unaccustomed to rough mountain paths.

This extraordinary action on Gilmore's part disturbed
Ulu more than ever. She could have understood
his knocking her about for the fun of the
thing, but his taking her hand ! What did that
mean? Was he afraid she would run away? If so,
why did he not give her over to one of his men to
be dragged along ? Furtively she cast her eyes up

at Gilmore's face. He was smiling pleasantly.
His grasp, too, was not that of harshness. Her
mother in childish days had looked at and helped
her along just so. The more Ulu thought of it
the more puzzled she became. She had jumped
from one big surprise to another. Her whole
little world of ideas was upset, and mentally she
did not know whether she was standing on her
head or on her feet. With growing confidence,
however, she trotted along ; and thus, hand in hand,
the white man and the negro maiden traversed the
forest-shaded paths, and at noontide entered the
idyllic shades of Pepo-ni.

The introduction of Ulu into the aristocratic and
exclusive circles of Pepo-ni on the footing of future
mistress speedily became the subject of indignant
comment among the men's wives and daughters.
Rage, surprise, and jealousy possessed each dusky
bosom. Uledi's wife foresaw that she would have
to abdicate her position as leading lady of Pepo-ni.
The marriageable girls felt the situation even more
keenly. It had never hitherto occurred to them to
think that a marriage with their master was within
the range of possibility. And now, all at once, a low
M-Chaga girl, an mshenzi (wild or savage person),
was introduced to them as their master's future
wife. The possibilities of the might-have-been
flashed across their minds at the very moment

when they saw their case was hopeless. And to
be passed over for an mshenzi ! If the Bwana
wanted a wife, ay, or half a dozen wives, why did
he not take one or all of them — they who were
wangwana (freed or noble people) ? Needless, however,
to recount all the adverse criticism which was
passed on the fresh arrival, and on the bad taste
of their master, the moment the latter was beyond
earshot. Nevertheless their scowls and remarks,
as the little maid was carried off by Uledi's wife,
under whose charge she was to remain while undergoing
her education, boded ill for Ulu's future
peace and comfort.

That evening, after dinner, and while seated
comfortably in his canvas folding-chair sipping his
coffee, Gilmore, in spite of himself, fell to thinking
about Miss Kennedy, and, through her, of numerous
subjects which for months he had carefully avoided.
After a few minutes of this indulgence some idea
crossed his mind. Taking a whistle from his
pocket, he blew a shrill note.

** Eh, wallah ! " was the response sung out
vigorously from the kitchen, and followed immediately
by the appearance of a Zanzibarii.

*' Bring me the last lot of books which came up
from the coast, Tubu," said Gilmore. " They are
in the tin box near my bed."

Ngemma (Very good," was Tubu's laconic

reply, as he hurried off. "Here they are, Blanche
said, as returning he placed a bundle of magazines
in Gilmore's hands.

"Thank you, all right!" and Gilmore settled
himself back in his chair.

Looking over the bundle, he selected several
numbers of the East Central African Missionary
Magazine, which had been sent up to him, but
had not hitherto been thought worth looking into.
His meeting with the Kennedyss, and the newborn
interest he felt in them, made him look over these
periodicals now in the hope of finding some descriptions
of the missionary's doings in Mandara's
country.

Discovering the last November number, Gilmore
scanned the index till he found " Kilimanjaro."

Turning up the article in question, he read it
over, but evidently with little satisfaction, to judge
from the half-muttered, contemptuous remarks
which ever and anon escaped him —

"Bah ! what a lot of fools there are, to be sure,
in this world ! Humph ! BajMsni of Jonathan
JJledVs child. . . . Signs of a deeper interest in the
hearing of the Word shoivn by Mandara ; followed
by — oh, that is like Mandara — a request for more
cloth ; " and Gilmore laughed heartily as he recalled
various stories about the results of Mandara's
insinuating wiles.

What have we here ? Finding it difficult to
secure an attendance at jyuhlic worship, I have hit
upon a plan ichich may work for good with these poor
heathens, though in a manner adopting the mode of
warfare of the ivorld. To all those who attend
morning service tickets are issued, ichich secure to
each work for the day. As the labour is of the lightest,
and payment in the much-coveted copper scire, large
numbers now gather in attentive and devout audiences
to hear the Word, inhere before there was nothing but
indifference and an empty church. The hand of the
Lord has surely led me to this thing. Well, I call
that simply delightful. Wonder if there's any more
like it? Let me see;" and Gilmore picked up
the next number, and turned over its pages.

Confound it all ! " he once more cried to himself,
" the same list of old maids' stories. Humph !
Maiidara more regular in his attendance at church.
Yes, and, of course, expects to be paid for it.
Hem ! Marriage of Job Makatubu ivitli Rebecca
Kyioli. — Trouble icith icomen ivho have been summarily
divorced, as converts are only allowed one
icife. Father hard lines, to be sure ! The * no
church no work' system is still successful, evidently.
Ah, here's something better ! In a day or tito
(d.v.) I leave for Mombasa, inhere I expect, if it is
the Lord's till, to meet my daughter, ivho, in response
to my appeal, but, I hope, also actuated by a higher

motive, has left behind her the prized fellowship of
Christian brethren to devote herself to the Lord's
cork on Kilimanjaro. As she has a very considerable
medical training, acquired in Edinburgh, I anticipate
that she icill find a ivy to be the physician to the
souls of many through curing their bodies. I ask the
prayers of the Church for her safe arrival, and that
her labours may be abundantly blessed. By Jove !
this is better. So Miss Kennedy is a lady^medical.
Bless me, I may yet fall into her hands as a
patient. How jolly to be looked after morally and
physically by such as she ! Let me see. There
must be more about her. November — hem !— February
Ah, here it is ! " and Gilmore picked

up the March number of the magazine.

My daughter has now been with me for nearly
a month, and already I feel my hands mightily
strengthened in the Lord's work. Hem ! hem ! hi
her medical capacity she has already acquired much
fame by numerous cures, and the former apparently
impenetrable defences, which the devil has raised in
the hearts of many, have been broken down, giving an
entrance to the healing virtues of the Christian faith.
. . I preached yesterday for the first time at Kota's
village, and was delighted by an attentive audience,
who seemed much impressed with the message. I
was, however, shocked and saddened at the close to
find that they had been more worldly-minded than I

had imagined as they noisily demanded 'payment for
having listened to me. As I was, of course, quite
unprepared to satisfy this demand, they became very
violent. Happily, by giving my best black coat from
my back to the chief, and my handkerchief and scarf
to his principal ivife, I secured their protection, and
was cdloived at length to depart in peace. Though
weary at heart, I consoled myself with the text, ' Cast
thy bread upon the haters : for thou shcdtfind it after
many days ' (Eccles. xi. 1). I have formed the design
of visiting the village of Serii of Kindii, for the purpose
of bringing before its inhabitants the inestimable
blessings of our faith. I hope ive may be successful
in establishing a mission there. I learn that there is
a youyig Englishman of the name of Gilmore staying
in Kindii, but everything connected ivith him is
enveloped in mystery. As, however, I hear no evil of
him, I hope I may yet be able to bring about relations
of Christian fellowship.

Oh, ho ! " was Gilmore's comment when he
had read thus far. *'I understand now what his
object is in going to Serii. As for the last expectation
he expresses, I cannot say that it's reciprocal.
As far as one can gather from his letters, Mr.
Kennedy is of the usual run of missionaries —
zealous and single-minded in pursuing his own
idea of the only true way to Christianize the negro;
ready, I suppose, to die in harness and make a

martyr of himself, and yet narrow-minded to a
degree, without a doubt ; ready to believe in
miracles, and that a civilized Christian can be
turned out of a savage in a twinkling. Then his
daughter ! Not much to be gathered about her
yet. Strong-minded, of course ; a missionary blue-stocking
— although that, I take it, is not verj^
common. And yet, by Jove ! her eyes, her merriment
at my confusion — her whole bearing — don't
seem quite to fit into the idea that she is either
a blue-stocking or a fool. Well, it doesn't much
matter what she is. I must be off to bed ; " and
Gilmore, having finished his summing-up, jumped
to his feet, took a last look round the compound,
and disappeared into his house.

Chapter IX.

Next day Gilmore rose with the determination to
think no more about the Kennedyss, nor allow
himself to be bothered further with the memories,
good or bad, of the past. Ulu and the present were
to occupy his attention. He must, he concluded,
commence work upon his pupil without delay.

Tubu, bring Ulu," he ordered, after he had
made sure that any floating fever germs would
not find congenial breeding ground in an empty
stomach.

'* Here she is, Bwana," cried Tubu, as he ushered
Ulu into his sitting-room.

Very well. Just wait ; perhaps I may want

you."

As yet there was no alteration in Ulu's scanty
dress, profuse head ornaments, and sooty greasiness.
She still retained, too, the expression of
a timid wild animal in new and doubtful quarters.
Squatting down on the floor with her legs doubled

under her, she cast furtive, though wistful glances,
sometimes at Gilmore's face, sometimes at the
strange objects in the room. ''He wanted her to
become like the wives of the white men. How was
the change to be effected? " she wonderingly asked
herself. Gilmore, on his part, after a few words
of greeting and inquiry, sank into silence. Brought
face to face with his pupil, the difficulty of the task
he had set himself appeared in its true proportions.
How was he to set about it ? How bridge over the
immense gulf that separated his thoughts and feelings
from hers ? How even make a commencement
? Thus equally plunged in perplexity, the
two sat regarding each other — he vaguely, dreamily,
wondering how he should begin ; she humbly,
expectantly, more than half frightened, looking
forward to the next surprise.

Gilmore speedily got an answer to one at least
of his silent questions. It gradually dawned upon
him that the air of the hut had an unusual odour.
He looked at Tubu inquiringly ; then his eyes fell
upon Ulu, and he laughed to himself as he found
in her shining skin the explanation of the strange
smell.

Oh," thought he, " I am for going too quick,
I see. I must commence with the body before
going on to the soul. Here is work for soap and
hot water ! And when I think of it, what about

her dress ? Yet after all, why should I trouble
about that ? Why should she not go about as she
is ? There is no real connection between clothes
and virtue ; and, by Jove ! that supple, well-made
figure could not be improved by hanging bits of
cotton on it. But suppose she became my wife !
And then amongst all these Zanzibar? Whew!
No, no ; that won't do. It may be very ideal and
very romantic, but it won't do ; oh no, by no
means.

Tubu, we must get Ulu a dress," he at length
remarked, as much, however, to himself as to his
boy."

eyes, Bwana."

'' What will be best ? "

x\h, Bwana, how should I know ? " cried Tubu,
thinking his master was making fun of him.

"Don't be afraid; speak out," urged Gilmore,
interested to hear what the negro would suggest.

Tubu stood for a moment in perplexity. Then
he took off his kofia, or skull-cap, and scratched
his newly shaved cranium, a ceremony which,
seemingly, had the desired effect.

*' Perhaps the bibi we passed yesterday will give
you one of her cast-off dresses," he exclaimed,
remembering how the women at mission stations
were usually clad.

*'0h no, no, Tubu; that won't do for me,"

Gilinoiir replied, laughing heartily as he pictured
Ulu made hideous by corset and gown. Then he
remembered reading the night before that Miss
Kennedy had invented a costume for her girl converts.
*' Wonder what it is, now ? Rational dress ?
divided skirt, perhaps ? Pooh ! too preposterous."

*' Why not dress her like the Zanzibar women? "
asked Tubu again.

Simple enough, at any rate," commented Gil-your.
" Easily made, and not difficult to put on
and off." A fairly accurate description certainly,
as the dress alluded to consisted of a plain sheet,
wrapped tightly round the body under the armpits
and falling to the feet. ''I don't like it, though,"
was Gilmore's conclusion.

Well, Bwana, I don't know anything else. All
the people I know wear less than Ulu now; you
couldn't dress her in hides like the Masai."

'* The very thing ! " cried Gilmore, joyfully.
"We will make her a Masai dress."

"What, Bwana, with bullocks' hides?" queried
Tubu in surprise.

Oh dear, no ,* but with white cotton. We must
see about it at once. You go and look out some
cloth and beads."

When Tubu disappeared Gilmore continued to
think out the details of Ulu's future toilette. After
carefully considering whether there would not bo

VOL. r. I

too much display of limb, be concluded, " No ; that
would only give ber a more classical appearance.
Then there's ber bead," be went on meditatively;
'will it be better to keep it saved ? That would
be rather queer. We may consider it later on,
however. The rest will do, though — quite a picture
! " and, Gilmore's ardent nature getting the
better of him, he suddenly jumped to bis feet with
the sharply uttered exclamation " Splendid ! "

On hearing this ejaculation Ulu started up in a
fright, thinking that this was the white men's way
of saying to their wives, '' Get out ! "

'' Oh, don't run away, Ulu," cried Gilmore,
seeing her make precipitately for the door. '' Come
to me ; I want to have a talk with you. There,
sit down beside me. You're not afraid of me
again, are you ? "

The white man is good. He will not kill me,"
she replied submissively.

Of course not. How absurd ! Why, I shall bea
fa — that is, of course, I shall be a husband to
you, if you do what I tell you. The wazungu treat
their wives as they treat themselves."

This statement was beyond Ulu's comprehension.
There was nothing like it in her experience of
domestic life.

''To be my wife, however," Gilmore resumed,
*' you must become like the women of Ulyiah."

A shade of apprehension passed over Ulu's face.
*' Won't it be very painful, Bwana ? " she ventured
at length to ask, though almost fearing the reply.

'painful? Certainly not. Do you think I am
going to flog you into being like a white woman ? "

'won't you have to skin me?" she continued
tremulously.

Good gracious ! How ridiculous ! What could
I do with your skin ? "

"Well, then, will sabuni (soap) do it?" she
further questioned, this time more hopefully.

"Soap do it! What on earth do you mean?
Painful ! skinning ! soap ! What can she be driving
at ? "

Is it a disease, then, such as makes our people
turn albinos ? " was the next astounding query.

"Why, bless my soul! this is too much; she
must be mad. What are you talking about ? What
is it you think may be a disease ? "

But Ulu could not answer. The growing sharpness
of the Bwana's tone and his irritated look
once more frightened her into tears.

How shall we ever understand each other at
this rate, I wonder ? " Gilmore mentally ejaculated;
then aloud, " Come, come now, toto (little
one). Don't cry like that. I am not going to do
you any harm. Try again."

"I want — I want to know if it is a disease to

become like the '^dves of the white men," she
sobbed out at length.

At this Gilmore could not help laughing merrily,
spite of Ulu's distress. Love, he knew, had been
described as a disease, but it had not before occurred
to him that the process of becoming like the wives
of the white men might likewise be regarded from
a pathological standpoint.

^' This is really too ridiculous ! " he exclaimed to
himself. 'what could have put that into the
child's head? No, toto," he resumed aloud;
"you won't have to go through anything of that
sort, I hope."

'' Then will jow. give me some medicines, or
will you pray to Maungu to do it for you ? "

Gilmore felt inclined to tear his hair. He began
to be angry with himself and with Ulu, and for a
moment even thought of sending her back at once
to her father.

"Are you sick?" he asked after a time, determined
to make one more effort. " I'll give you
some castor oil if you like."

But castor oil is no good, Bwana," she replied,
thinking of the external uses of that unsavoury
lubricant, and knowing that all the oiling she
bad ever indulged in had left her as black as
ever.

*how do you know?" asked Gilmore. "It

puts my men right at once." It was, indeed, Gil-your's
simple panacea for all savage maladies.

'but, Bwana^ I have used it every days,"
answered Ulu, " and it's of no use."

Well, then, I don't know what to give you till
you tell me better what's wrong with you."

Ulu had now arrived at the limit of her theories
as to the possible methods of changing her
Ethiopian skin, and she looked wistfully over her
swarthy form, wondering by what unthought-of
means her colour would be made like Gilmore's, so
that she might fulfil the conditions she supposed
he required in order to make her his wife.

The whole affair began to appear very terrible.
For anything Ulu knew, Gilmore might boil her.
Better run away and continue all her life to be a
slave and be flogged, than put through any such
whitening process. "With rising fears Ulu's face
lengthened till she looked the picture of wretchedness.

Gilmore, crusted over and embittered as he
was by rankling memories, and liking to imagine
himself hard and callous, as if he could thus steel
himself against the world, was not proof against
a woman's tears, even though that woman was
only a savage. Before Ulu's distress his irritation
melted away, and softly patting her cheek, he told
her in a coaxing voice to pluck up courage and
explain her fears and perplexities.

"Bwana, Bwana ! " she at length stammered
out, '' how am I to become white ? " • |

This direct way of stating her troubles at once
made the situation, hitherto so puzzling, quite clear.
Gilmore's first impulse was to indulge in a hearty
fit of laughter; but, catching sight of Ulu's still '^
frightened face, he restrained himself. '^

'' How deliciously absurd ! " he thought. '' While
I have been thinking of the inner — man, can I say ?
she has been thinking, like the sex, of the outer
woman ? Oh, Ulu, Ulu ! " he continued aloud,
addressing the perplexed damsel, " I don't want to
alter your colour. Why, bless me ! I like it far
better as it is. Mine looks quite ghastly beside
your warm, nut-brown skin."

'' Then it won't hurt to make me as you want ? "
asked Ulu, with brightening expression.

"Of course not. All you have got to do at
present is to give up grease and soot for cotton. ^^^
You must wash yourself often, and you must never ^
be afraid of me again. You must also try to
remember lots of things 1 shall tell you. What do
you think of that, now ? "

"Ulu is the slave of the Bwana," was the girl's-characteristic
reply.

"Nonsense," cried Gilmore ; "I have told you
before the wazungu have r.o slaves. You shall
have plenty of delicious food, and nice clothes, and

r.^

beautiful beads ; nobocl}^ sill ever strike you ; and
3'ou-will never have to work in the shames, nor
carry loads. Ah, that makes 3'ou smile. It's not
so bad, you see, to belong to the mzungu, eh?
Stop a minute; I'll bring you something good;"
and Gilmore, pleased at having arrived at a better
understanding, left Ulu for a moment to get her a
lump of sugar.

Returning with it, he stood watching Lu's
wondering enjoyment as she eagerly sucked the
sweet white stone."

*' Did you ever taste anything so sweet ?" he asked.

Ulu's mouth, however, .was too well filled to
allow her to express her satisfaction other than by
a further expansion of the smile which now lighted
up her beaming face.

Suddenly a new thought struck Gilmore, and,
crossing the room, he took out a case of photographs
from one of his boxes.

'now then, Ulu," he said, 'come here, and I'll
show you what the women of Ulyiah are like.
There ! " he added hastily; "not too close. Don't
rub against my white clothes." Opening the case,
Gilmore displayed a number of cabinet photos of
female relations and friends. *' Now, what do you
think of them "? Curious, aren't they ? "

Ulu showed no sign of intelligence. She looked
at the photos as at a blank sheet of paper.

Don't you see what they are ? " Gilmore asked.

Ulu only looked puzzled.

See," he continued, pomtmg with a pencil ashe
Event on ; '' they have got hands and arms,
eyes, nose, and mouth, the same as the Wa-Chaga."

Then a great light of new-horn intelligence
sprang into Ulu's eyes, and for the first time she
saw the resemblance of these dark objects on the
paper to human beings.

''Oh, Bwana, Bwana!" she exclaimed in astonished
ecstasies. "What very small people ! Are
they alive ? "

Certainly not, you little stupid ! "

Then, are they the wa-pepo (ghosts) of your
people ? " she asked in awed tones, at the same
time drawing back.

"Oh no, not that either," said Gilmore, puzzled
how to explain in Ki-Swahili how the photos had
been taken as the best means of enlightening Lu
as to what they were. His eye fell on a mirror.
"Ah, now I'll show you ! " he exclaimed. "Lookin
this glass. "You see yourself there, and me
also. Well, the white people know how to keep
that image and put it on paper."

Somewhat reassured, though still awed and inclined
to believe the photos to be the wa-pepo of the
wazungu, she returned to their examination.

"But they have no legs," she cried, with new

surprise, as she began to note the appearance of
the photographs in detail.

''Oh yes, they have!" explained Gilmore,
laughing in intense enjoyment of the unsophisticated
maiden's ideas. " They are hidden by their
dress. This is all cloth ; " and he pointed with his
finger to the skirt of the gown worn by the lady
who was for the moment the centre of interest.

"But how can they stand straight with such
narrow waists ? How can they walk when the
wind blows ? "

"In reality they have 'waists like yourselves,
but they bind themselves up with iron and wood
'till they become Hke this. They can hardly bend
because of the iron casing."

"Is it not very painful ? " asked Ulu. " Must I
be bound up like that ? "

Again Gilmore laughed, as he surveyed appreciatively
the girl's undraped figure, and assured
her that he had no intention of altering her shape.

A new wonder now attracted Ulu. " Hai ! hai ! "
she cried excitedly.

What is it ? "

The tattooing. Oh, the beautiful tattooing ! "
she exclaimed in ecstasy.

Where ? What do jowl mean ? "

"Why, there ! " and Ulu pointed to the lace-clad
shoulders and breast of a dowager.

''Oh, that's not tattooing; lent a pretty kmcl of
cloth."

'' Then is there cloth all over here ? " Ulu further
questioned, pointing to the tight bodice of the
dress.

*' Certainty. The yeomen of Ulyiah only show
their hands and face ; all the rest is covered."

'' How do they get it on ? "

'quite timidly. This way;" and Gilmore
showed how he put on and buttoned his jacket.

Many other points in the appearance of the
English ladies Ulu noted with exclamations of
surprise and delight, and half an hour sped swiftly
by both for her and her instructor. At last
Gilmore reminded her that it was time to return to
Uledi's.

The child's face fell with disappointment. She
much preferred remaining with the kind mzungu to
going back to the jealous women. She did not,
however, dare to remonstrate, and stood silently
awaiting orders.

''Tubu," said Gilmore to the boy who arrived in
response to his signal, '' take Ulu to Bibi Uledi to
be scrubbed thoroughly with soap and hot water.
Tell the Bibi to come to me afterwards, and I'll see
about that Masai dress."

'what a delightful little girl!" thought Gil-your,
when the two had disappeared. " There is

a blank virgin soul to work upon. I declare she
does not even know she has one. Now, how on
earth am I to get at it ? That's the difficulty."

In thinking it all out, he came to the conclusion
that his first object must be to gain the confidence
of his protegee. It would not do to go too fast, or
try too much at once. Better begin, in the first
place, to accustom her to the wearing of clothes
and other unusual and irksome habits. After that,
he would see how far he could influence and
cultivate her little soul.

"I really wonder what sort of soul she will
have? " was Gilmore's final speculation, as he left
the house to look round his little domain preparatory
to starting for the Kahe on a hunting trip*

Chapter X.

Some clays after Ulu's introduction to Pepo-ni,
<jilmour lounged in his house, in pensive mood,
wondering what was to be the result of his attempt
to transform the little savage. With growing
knowledge of her nature, the greater seemed the
difficulties of his task, the wider the gulf which
separated them.

In his attempts to get in touch with Ulu's soul,
Oilmour had grappled around with all the skill and
finesse of which he was capable. But in vain.
It eluded all his probings, being either so very
small or so completely hidden away. That she
had a soul somewhere he did not for a moment
question, and his ardent, sanguine nature, naturally
inclined to believe the best of everything, would not
allow him to doubt that, if he could but once get
into touch with it, he would improve it. If it was
small and stunted, he would, he felt sure, be able
to expand and develop it. If it was buried away or

encrusted with a fleshly husk, he would unearth it,
and, in a more congenial atmosphere, give it a
chance to blossom into, as he enthusiastically
thought, '' a thing of beauty and a joy for ever."

The very difficulty of his task had a charm for
Gilmore. He did not like to be beaten, and this
alone made him vow he would go on. Sometimes
the matter struck him in a humorous light. It
tickled his fancy greatly to picture himself as
"Gilmore in quest of a soul." "Better than,
diamond digging," thought he, " seeking for this
jewel in the matrix of a crude savage life."

Upon the whole Gilmore concluded that little
time had been lost. His first task had been to
clear the ground for more direct operations. It
was something to have succeeded, as he already
had, in breaking Ulu in to more cleanly habits,
and accustomed her to the irksome practice of
wearing clothes. Little changes of that nature
would have their unconscious influence, and bit by
bit he meant to find his way into her mind and
heart, carefully adapting his mental nutriment to-her
powers of assimilation.

Gilmore rightly felt that his only chance of
success lay not in preaching to her from his level,
but in getting down 'to hers, and working upwards
from that. He must first be able to see things
from her point of view, before he could know how

properly to guide, mould, and influence that 'little
soul" of hers in its growth towards the light.
(Gilmore would persist in calling it a '' little soul,"
partly in an endearing way, partly in humour, and
partly because he really thought it must be a very
little soul.) Yes ; he must get to the very roots of
her being, to loosen up the soil about them, and by
letting a purer atmosphere play upon them, destroy
deadening influences.

With the air of a man who had discovered the
only true way to elevate and regenerate the negro,
he pitied " those poor mistaken missionaries,"
who would persist in such senseless and impracticable
methods, and attempt to graft the higher —
nay, the very highest — conceptions of the Christian
religion and nineteenth-century civilization upon
the undeveloped, barren minds of savages, trusting
in Providence to do the watering and give the
increase.

Though the task Gilmore had set himself was
turning out harder than he had expected, to himself
personally it had brought an unlooked-for
reward. Since assuming the arduous quest, he
had felt happier than he had been for a very longtime.
It drew him away from harping on the
same old strings, and gave him something to do to
occupy his time and attention. He had now someone
other than himself in whom to take an interest.

The consequence ^-as that he felt less morally
bilious; more of the milk of human kindness
flowed about his heart, and less of the acrid
humours which had been poisoning all the healthy
life within him. He was, in fact, fast becoming the
cheery, good-natured fellow of other days, less inclined
to sit in sackcloth and ashes, " surrounded
by his broken gods," as he was wont to put it ;
perhaps also more disposed to permit new deities
to replace the crumbling fragments of the old.

In a vague sort of way Gilmore began to have
an uneasy feeling that he had been playing a
rather contemptible role, unworthy of his manhood,
making of himself a spectacle to be laughed at
more even than pitied. These thoughts, however,
as yet came only in transient gleams, and were not
established in his mind as fixed ideas.

He had just told himself for the hundredth time
that he had made " a nice fool of himself" (though
probably he would very much have resented it, had
any one agreed with him), when he was startled
from his reverie by a great uproar. Looking up,
his eyes fell upon Ulu, who had been playing in
the room beside him all the morning. Seated on
the floor, with legs partially extended and one
hand on the ground supporting her lissom figure,
the girl was teasing a monkey that sought with
fierce grimace to frighten its mischievous playmate.

Worked up to an extreme pitch of affected auger,
the agile little creature had just sprung with great
fury upon its tormentor. In convulsions of laughter
Ulu rolled over on the floor, while the monkey,
finding itself master of the situation, literally
danced upon her, pulling her loose dress, and, with
terrible aspect, screaming and raging, as if it would
tell her once for all that it was not to be insulted
with impunity.

For a moment Gilmore sat smiling at the absurd
scene.

^' Toto," he said quietly.

At the sound of its master's voice the monkey
quieted down, and shrank aside to resume its
customary watchful, would-be innocent expression.
Ulu jumped to her feet.

The girl could now be seen to proper advantage,
and truly in the figure of chaste classic grace she
now presented it was difficult to recognize the little
savage of former days. A white, loose-flowing robe,
hanging from the left shoulder and passing beneath
her right arm, clung in graceful folds about her
shapely form. A prettily beaded belt encircled her
waist, and prevented the robe from blowing about
too freely, at the same time causing it to fall in
more artistic lines. The left leg up to the knee
showed itself in the most approved classic fashion.
A few strings of brightly coloured beads encircled

her neck, wrists, and ankles, while dainty beaded
sandals protected her small, well-rounded feet.
Her skin, now a stranger to grime and grease,
showed its natural warm brown tint, anything but
disagreeable in colour. A crop of black curly hair
covered her formerly shining, well shaved cranium.
The look of bewilderment and fear which at first
had been her habitual expression had now disappeared,
and was replaced by a look of childlike
content, and at the Bwana's call she ran to his
side with all the air of a chartered favourite.

Although Ulu approached Gilmore thus confidently,
and established herself on his knees, where
she formed a pretty picture in her light draperies,
it must not be supposed that she was quite satisfied
with her position. It had lost its terrors, indeed,
and many of its aspects she enjoyed immensely;
but to her Pepo-ni was a species of prison, where
her hitherto unfettered life was chafed and restricted
on all hands. This wearing of clothes and washing
of body were terribly irksome, and secretly she
often longed to roll about on the ground like a
puppy, heedless of the result to dress and person.
How she missed, too, her customary pleasant rubbing
with oil ! At meals she yearned to throw
aside her knife and fork and once more use her
fingers — it was so nice to suck them afterwards.

The women of Pepo-ni were another source of

VOL. I. K

annoyance, persecuting her, as they did, in a
thousand little ways, Ulu, for her part, tried to
make the best of things, not from any very exalted
motive, it must be said, but simply because she
believed that if she ran away the mzungu would
only send his men and recapture her as his property,
or if he did not then her father would of
himself promptly restore her, after bestowing on hera
severe beating. To fly elsewhere than to her own
home was to be captured and made a slave of.

While Gilmore rearranged Ulu's dress, as a
nurse might a child's, he talked on a variety of
subjects suited to her comprehension, and calculated
to rouse her curiosity. Suddenly his face
developed a look of troubled inquiry.

"Dear me, Ulu!" he exclaimed. "What's
wrong with you ? Are you ill ? "
No, Bwana."

But look there ! " and Gilmore pointed to her
arms, which presented a strangely mottled appearance.


I don't feel anything wrong," answered Lu.
This must be seen to," muttered Gilmore in
perplexity. " Good gracious ! It looks dreadful.
Can it be some nasty skin disease ? Come here,
Tubu," he cried to his servant, who entered at that
moment. " Do you know anything about M-Chaga
diseases ? "

** Not much, Bwana."

Just look at Ulu's arm. There's something
wrong with it."

'' Oh, Bwana, that's nothing ! " replied Tubu,
with a gi'in.

Nothing ! " echoed his master. " It looks bad
enough, anyway."

''I think, Bwana, it's because she's not rubbing
herself with oil."

^' How do you mean ? "

All black people become like that without oil,"
Tubu went on explanatorily.

Oh, what a nuisance ! " was Gilmore's unhesitating
comment, while a look of amused disgust
crossed his face as he pictured his future wife daily
oiled like a piece of machinery or greased like a
pair of old boots. '^ Well," he thought to himself,
'' I suppose I must do in Chaga what the Wa-Chaga
do. It's evidently quite the proper thing, and
necessary too, to oil one's wife in these parts. I
must see the result, in any case. — Tubu," he added,
raising his voice, '' bring me a rag and the olive
oil; " and Gilmore laughed grimly as he thought
of the ludicrous absurdity of the situation.

In a few moments Tubu rem-ned with the articles
required.

Ulu's face beamed with pleasure.

Gravely dipping the rag into the oil, Gilmore
proceeded to apply it to Ulu's arms.

In the midst of this operation he was suddenly
startled by the discharge of three guns at his gate.

'hullo! Strangers! Who can they be?" he
cried ; then, bottle and rag in hand, he hurried to
the door. " Oh, bother ! " he exclaimed in a tone
of vexation, as he arrived in time to see Miss
Kennedy riding into the compound, her father
walking at her side.

Although somewhat annoyed at his visitors' inopportune
intrusion, Gilmore's first impulse was
to go to greet them courteously. Suddenly he
remembered, however, that his baggy pyjamahs
and almost buttonless sleeping-jacket did not forma
fitting costume in which to receive a lady, and
in some confusion he retired precipitately to his
room to make himself presentable.

Gilmore's sudden retreat was seen and misinterpreted.


'* There, papa ! Did you see that ? " exclaimed
Miss Kennedy, drawing up indignantly,
** Evidently Mr. Gilmore does not wish to see
us."

'' It certainly looks like it," Mr. Kennedy
admitted, 'though I confess I don't see why he
shouldn't."

Well, if it weren't nearly midday I should say
let's turn back at once."

"We'll hear what this 'boy ' has to say at any

rate," said the missionary, as Tubu came towards
them.

*' The Bwan' mkubwa sends his salaams," said
the messenger. *' He will be with you in a minute.
Here is the baraza," he added, leading the way
to the reception house.

This message relieved both father and daughter
alike, for neither could look forward with pleasure
to the failure of their mission, or to facing the
fierce heat of noon after their morning's toilsome
march. Moreover, Miss Kennedy had a keen,
though unacknowledged, desire to see and know
more of the strange individual who had received her
friendly advances with such unlooked-for coolness.

'what a delightful place ! " she enthusiastically
exclaimed as she dismounted. " Mkuyu-ni " (the
Kennedyss' place) "is nothing to this. It's a Perfect
fairyland ! "

'all very well, Kate; but I should be better
able to appreciate its charms if I had a seat."

How thoughtless I am ! We'll soon make that
all right. Here is a baraza in keeping with its surroundings.
There now ! are you quite comfortable.
Oh, how delightful after the dreadful heat ! " and
the young lady herself sank down on a seat with a
sigh of satisfaction.

The change from the glaring sunlight and oppressive
atmosphere to the shade and coolness of the

open shed was indeed delicious in the extreme ;
and Kate, like her father, was for the moment
content to forgive Gilmore and ignore the scene,
as she leaned back, with eyes shut, in complete
enjoyment of the refreshing change and rest.
They were not left long undisturbed, however.

'' Good morning. Miss Kennedy," cried a
voice ; and Miss Kennedy looked up with a start,
to find Gilmore before her arrayed in all the glory
of a snow-white drill suit.

"How do you do, Mr. Kennedy?" continued
the latter, as he shook hands. '' You must excuse
me having kept you waiting. The truth is, I was
not presentable ; " and Gilmore, to make amends
for his late churlishness, and also feeling bound
to be hospitable in his own domains, infused a considerable
amount of heartiness into his greeting,
to the agreeable surprise of his visitors, who had
been anticipating his reception with some apprehension.
*' You'll be ready for a wash ! " Gilmore
went on, after the usual exchange of civilities.
Come into my house. Tubu, coffee — at once ! "
and, intent on his hospitable duties, he led the way
to his own quarters.

When the father and daughter reappeared in
the sitting-room, they found Tubu waiting to hand
them coffee in the Ai-ab fashion, and Gilmore
himself all attention, ready to divine and supply

their wants. The little party soon felt quite at
home together, and chatted away about one thing
and another without a shade of stiffness.

As Kate sipped her coffee, half sitting, half reclining,
in an easy canvas chair, her eyes travelled
over the contents of this bachelor's den with
feminine curiosity. It presented an appearance
far different from what she had expected ; for Kate
was a young lady who shared the tradition of
her sex that men were very helpless, not to say
barbarous, creatures in all matters connected with
a house. Here, however, there was clearly no
evidence of a woman's hand, yet the arrangement
of everything spoke of an individual of taste, who,
though living apart from his fellows, retained his
civilized feelings, and liked everything arranged
neatly and artistically around him. The room
was crowded with hunting trophies and native
arms. Lions' and leopards' skins covered the
floor, and elephants' tusks, buffalo, antelope, and
rhinoceros horns adorned the walls.

"I see you are looking at my trophies. Miss
Kennedy," said Gilmore. "Father like a museum
this, isn't it?"

Not at all ! I have been admiring your room
very much, and thinking all sorts of flattering
things about it."

'' Delighted to hear it. Won't you tell me
what?"

*' Certainly not, Mr. Gilmore; though I don't
mind going the length of saying," Kate added,
laughingly, ** that your room is infinitely better
than I expected."

I assure you I am deeply flattered."

'did you shoot all these yourself?" Kate
asked.

"Every one. Miss Kennedy."

*what lots of adventures you must have had.
I dare say each ' could a tale unfold '— — "

Of plenty of hard work, at least," interrupted
Gilmore modestly, dreading a flood of feminine
*gush." Had he known Miss Kennedy better he
would have known that she never " gushed."

'that must have been a horrid brute;" Kate
went on, pointing to the grandly rugged horns of
an old bull buffalo,

"Yes, it was an ugly customer. It nearly killed
one of my men before I killed it."

Oh, do tell me all about it ! "

"I am a bad raconteur, Miss Kennedy, I should
only mangle my story."

Well, I'll let you off this time. But I shall
hope to hear some of your stories, whether mangled
or not, some day ; " and Kate turned to look at
something else, thinking it would be as well to
wait until they were better acquainted before
pressing her point further.

While Mr. Kennedy asked a few questions about
Pepo-ni and Gilmore's relations with Serii, his
daughter took the opportunity of noting the
character of the simple furniture, in the hope of
getting a few hints for her own house at Pisgah,
otherwise Mkuyu-ni. The rough but comfortable
benches, the boxes covered with leopards' or
monkeys' skins, the small collapsible table, etc.,
etc., were all critically reviewed.

'' Is your house not too well ventilated at night,
Mr. Gilmore ? " she remarked at length, on
observing the open lattice-work of the lower parts
of the wall.

*' Oh dear, no ! You see, I have a canvas curtain
outside, which I let down at. night or during rainy
weather."

'what a capital arrangement!" Papa, we
must really get our house done this way too. It
would be a great improvement."

"Yes, my dear, if it can be managed."

Suppose we go out to the baraza now ? "
proposed their host. " It will be pleasant there.
What do you say. Miss Kennedy ? "

'* Oh, I shall be delighted. I should so much
like to see your model settlement again. Come,
papa ! " and Kate jumped to her feet and led
the way, while Gilmore followed, carrying Miss
Kennedy's chair.

Chapter XL

For a few moments after Gilmore and his visitors
had comfortably established themselves in the
baraza, nothing was said. A delicious languor
pervaded everything in the cool shades of Pepo-ni
at this hour of noon, and it seemed as if it would
only break the poetic charm to utter a single word
or make a movement.

All who have faced the weary march in the
glaring sun and oppressive heat of the tropics will
understand the Kennedyss' feeling of satisfaction
in exchanging these for the cool shelter of a comfortable
lounge beneath shady trees, the restful
sound of rustling leaves, and splash of cool cascade.

Mr. Kennedy was the first to break the spell.
Taking himself to task for neglecting the object of
his visit, he suddenly sat up and drew his chair
nearer to Gilmore.

*' Doubtless you are somewhat surprised to find
us so far from Mandara's ? " he said.

'not at all. I took it for granted you called
in to see me on your way somewhere else."

"You are partly right. I am going to Serii's in
connection with my mission work, but I find it
necessary to speak with you first."

'how? With me?" exclaimed Gilmore in
surprise, thinking that Mr. Kennedy wanted to
say a " word in season."

"Excuse me," said the other, with a smile ; " I
see you misunderstand me. My object is this. I
want very much to establish a station at Serii's."

"But why come to me? You must go to the
chief himself."

I have already been to Serii. When we last
met, I was on my ways to him."

Well ? "

"He referred me to you. He seemed, however,
favourably disposed to receive a teacher."

Gilmore's sole response was an enigmatical
"Oh!"

"I am sure that I may depend upon your cooperation
in the good work."

There was an awkward pause before Gilmore
replied. He felt greatly annoyed at the turn the
conversation was taking. He had come to Kindii
to be free of his fellow-countrymen, and he had
vowed he would do his utmost to prevent the little
state from falling under European influence other

than his own. To missionary enterprise in itself
he had no objection ; in some of its aspects he
even had a profound admiration for it ; but, then,
he said to himself, it only too frequently opened
ways to the spread of enterprises of a very doubtful
character.

As these thoughts flashed across his mind, his
genial mood suddenly changed, and, to fortify his
own feelings, he infused more coolness into his
reply than he actually felt.

I don't know that I can help you," he said ina
hard tone of voice.

The missionary noticed the change at once ; and
Miss Kennedy, who, lazily enjoying the rest and
the view, had not paid much attention to the
opening of a conversation which promised to run
on very ordinary lines, felt there was a hitch
somewhere, and turned her head towards Gilmore.

'' May I ask why ? " asked Mr. Kennedy.

*' If you don't mind, I'd rather not discuss the
question. I have very strong opinions on missions
and missionaries, and all the stuff and nonsense
about introducing civilization to the African."

'' Stuff and nonsense ! " repeated the missionary,
aghast. "I certainly did not expect to hear a
fellow-countryman speak in that manner of the
noble efforts of Christian Europe to raise the
heathen."

'' It seems to me they are much better as
they are," replied Gilmore, forcing himself to be
angry.

There was another pause, painful to all three,
but most of all to Kate, who felt as if some unpleasantness
was brewing to disturb the hitherto
unalloyed pleasure of the visit to Pepo-ni.

'' Mr. Gilmore, you surprise me ! " slowly resumed
Mr. Kennedy. '' Object to the teaching of
the Word, and you a Scotchman ! "

*well, sou know," replied the other, with a
cynical smile, '* the Scotchman abroad is said to
be very different from the Scotchman at home."

But you have, doubtless, had a Scottish Christian
training, sat under a faithful minister of the
gospel, and experienced all the joys and blessings
of a Scottish sabbath."

'* Perhaps that has something to do with my
present opinions. You may have too much of a
good thing, and be glad to get away from it," was
Gilmore's irreverent reply.

"Mr. Gilmore! Mr. Gilmore!" cried the missionary,
in a distressed tone ; ''I am sorry for you.
I would not have expected this from any Christian
man."

Gilmore shrugged his shoulders. " Very likely,"
he said. ** The unexpected usually happens, you
know."

"But," began Mr. Kennedy, returning once more
to the charge, 'tell me why you object to the
introduction of civilization and Christianity to the
African."

Bah, Mr. Kennedy ! I thought your long
residence on the coast would have taught you by
this time the true meaning of this monstrous
shibboleth of the platforms."

I confess I don't understand you."

*has it never occurred to you," continued
Gilmore, *what the true significance of this cry
of the ' opening up of Africa to civilization ' really
is?"

Why, what could it be but the introduction
of all that is best and noblest in European life ? "

*' Humph ! Do you call old clothes, new diseases,
additional vices and drudgery, along with gin, rum,
and gunpowder, Europe's best and noblest ?"

For the moment Mr. Kennedy was overwhelmed
by this extraordinary retort. He had never before
been called upon to discuss the results for good
or evil of European intercourse with the native.

His daughter, equally surprised, sat up in her
chair with wide open eyes. She, like the majority
of people, took it for granted that contact with
Europeans could only be synonymous with the
moral, mental, and material progress of lower
races. Now, for the first time, she heard that there

was another side to the question, and she looked
inquiringly at her father, awaiting his reply.

** To our shame, be it said, there is some truth
in what you say," began the missionary at length.
But you cannot lay any of these dire results to
the door of our missions,"

I am not so sure of that," replied Gilmore,
dropping insensibly into a more argumentative
manner. 'don't the missionaries often pave the
way for the pioneers of this so-called civilization ?
Don't you frequently break down one set of barriers
before setting up an effectual substitute ? "

I cannot but admit that tares frequently creep
in with the good seed," replied Mr. Kennedy.

Yes, to find a soil well adapted to the growth
of the tares too," interrupted Gilmore.

Still, with the cultivation of that soil, better
and better results will be achieved. Even now
it cannot be denied that — altering our metaphor
many lost sheep have been gathered into the
fold."

'' It's not much to say that you have gathered so
many into what you call the fold, when for everyone
you gather other agencies of Christendom
contrive to send a thousand to — well, some other
place."

Mr. Kennedy was again silenced. He was not
accustomed to an antagonist of this description.

He felt bound, however, to continue the battle,
and did so with such weapons as he had in his
armoury.

There is a specious appearance of truth in
what you say," he resumed; "but I believe that
the sacrifices made by the godly will bear fruit in
His time."

Sacrifices ! " exclaimed Gilmore. '' Where are
the sacrifices ? Why, for every pound of money
given to save African souls, ten thousand are drawn
from their ruin and demoralization."

"You sadly misunderstand me," replied Mr.
Kennedy. " I did not so much allude to money
sacrifices as sacrifices of godly lives laid down that
the heathen might be saved."

"Well, I believe it's a saying that the blood of
martyrs is the seed of the Church. The Central
African ought to be a very flourishing one, indeed,
to judge from the number of deaths. Each new
member costs the life of a missionary. That's
about the rate, isn't it ? "

Oh, Mr. Gilmore, how can you talk like that ? "
exclaimed Kate, indignantly, breaking the silence
she had hitherto maintained.

Poor Mr. Kennedy was too utterly shocked at
what he deemed Gilmore's profanity to reply.

Perhaps I state the matter too baldly. Miss
Kennedy," returned Gilmore, addressing Kate, but

carefully avoiding looking at her; 'but, you see,
in my solitary life I have acquired the habit, seeing
I had only myself to consider, of stripping a topic
of all circumlocution."

Gilmore had now contrived to work himself up
into an irritable condition, in which he was capable
of saying any unpleasant thing, whether he believed
it or no. At present he was not expressing his
real sentiments, or, at least, he expressed them in a
manner not in accordance with his natural good
nature. He was angry with himself, with his
guests, with everything and everybody. Yet he felt
impelled to continue on the course he had started.
It was in this spirit that he suddenly turned upon
his visitor and said —

Come now, Mr. Kennedy, between ourselves,
tell me — have you had much encouragement from
the results of your twenty years' labour ? Haven't
you practically failed ? "

The moment Gilmore had asked this very direct
question, he would have liked to recall it.

A look of keen pain crossed Mr. Kennedy's face.
Time after time that word "failure" had rung in
his ears, till he felt in the depths of despair. Daily
he had wrestled with it in prayer, seeking to drive
it away as a thought inspired by the devil. And
now a stranger had divined his secret.

Miss Kennedy, on seeing how much her father

VOL. I. L

was affected by Gilmore's brutal question, indignantly
put the latter down as ''a boor." Instinctively
lie drew near her father, and slipped
her hand into his, as he sat with bowed head.

On feeling the sympathetic touch, Mr. Kennedy
took heart again, and addressed Gilmore in a
manner not wanting in impressiveness, though
couched in clerical st^de.

*' Your method of looking at missionaries and
missionary enterprise is a singularly narrow, not
to say profane one. From your petty, earthly
standpoint, and imbued, I suppose, with what
many would call modern thought, which to meseems
avant of thought, you look around and observe
nothing but apparent failure. You see an infinitesimally
small amount of good arising from
the introduction of Christianity to the heathen,
and innumerable gigantic evils following in its
train. But who are you who thus criticise the
Lord's work ? Your finite capacity can but imperfectly
see what lies immediately around you, while
the world and eternity lie beyond. When you can
enlarge your vision so as to view the whole in
space and time, then I shall be prepared to attach
some weight to your profane and un-Christian
sentiments. Meanwhile, I thank God that I have
faith to believe, though at times doubts will arise,
that in apparent failure there are the seeds of a

triumphant success. No, Mr. Gilraour ; I will not
admit that I have worked in the Lord's vineyard
in vain."

For a moment Gilmore was abashed by the
missionary's dignified reply ; then in a forced tone
of dogged obstinacy he replied, " It's a fine thing
to have a good supply of faith. It saves one a
lot of trouble and heartburning. Unfortunately
I have only my reason and my senses to help
me."

Then, indeed, I am sorry for j^ou."

"Thank you very much," Gilmore commenced
flippantly, but suddenly stopped, as if he could
maintain his forced attitude no longer. " My
God ! " he burst out abruptly, " I wish I had some
of your faith, or rather, some of my old faith in
God and man back again; " and in great agitation
he commenced pacing the baraza.

There you spoke from the heart," said Kennedy,
softened at once in his judgment of Gilmore. " Tome
that sounds the pleasantness thing you have said
to-day."

Kate was touched to the quick by Gilmore's
involuntary exclamation and evident unhappiness.
With a woman's intuition she divined that here
lay a clue to the mystery which surrounded him.

"Surely, Mr. Gilmore," she said softly "there
is much in civilized life and society that is beautiful,

much that is great and noble ? You cannot have
lost all faith in these ? "

Gilmore stopped short in his agitated walk, and
stood still in front of Kate. *' Civilized life and
society!" he repeated vehemently. "What is it
you call civilized life and society ? To me society
is the most monstrous fraud and imposture in the
world — a huge, horrible machine whose sole aim is
to grind down everything to its own beastly low
level. When you have seen a little more of it you
will find that the fittest to survive is not he who is
the best, the noblest, and the truest to himself,
but he with the most elastic conscience and the
most lax morality. Everything but self-interest
must go to the wall. Do you speak to me about
what is great and noble and beautiful in connection
with civilized society ? How little you
know what you are talking about ! Let a man be
absolutely truthful in everything he says, and he
will be hunted from this desirable society of yours
like a wild beast, or avoided as if he had the
pestilence. Let him be undeviatingly honest and
upright in all his dealings, and he will probably
die of starvation. That is how the great, the noble,
and the beautiful are nourished in this nineteenth-century
civilization of ours. Get on in the world,
get on in the world ! never mind how, so that you
rise. Add to your wealth. Else in the social scale,

though spiritually you be moving towards everlasting
perdition. Never mind ; your success will be a
measure of your applause in this world. If your
ideals and aims are different, you had better step
aside into some quiet backwater of life. If you don't,
sou will be whirled along with the torrent, compelled
to move with it, or be dashed on the rocks. But
what am I talking about ? You cannot understand
all this. To 3'ou it must appear the most arrant
nonsense. Ah, well ! it will be a good thing for you
if you always think so. Better live on Kilimanjaro,
sounded by savages, all your life, than go into
the world and get all your bright dreams and illusions
dissipated, and where you expected paradise
find — well, shall we say Tophet ? " And Gilmore,
regaining his composure and attempting to resume
his cynical manner, sat down on a bench, surprised
and a little confused at the torrent of words which
had rushed from him.

A moment of silence followed this unexpected
passionate outburst, the sincerity of which there
was no doubting. Mr. Kennedy restricted himself
to an eloquent gesture, and a look at his daughter
which plainly said, " "What can you make of a manlike
this '? "

He met no responsive expression in Miss
Kennedy's face, however. She sat looking at Mr.
Gilmore curiously for a moment, trying to makeup

her mind what manner of man he was. She
was not long in drawing her conclusions. She
surmised that some great disappointment was at
the bottom of it all, and that he was leading a life
quite foreign to his nature and education. She
felt certain, also, that he was playing a role to
some extent, and trying to make himself believe
things which in his heart he could not possibly
believe, and to do things which in reality he
detested.

"What a dreamy, romantic fellow he must be ! "
she said to herself. "With a lot of the right stuff
in him, though, for all that. I wonder now what
can have embittered him so ? Some woman, I suppose.
Ah, ses, depend upon it, Kate, 'there's a
woman at the bottom of it ; ' " and the young lady
sighed pensively as she reached this sapient conclusion,
as if she had a large experience of young
men's love troubles to draw from.

Gilmore, meanwhile, was feeling heartily ashamed
of himself, but at the same time did not see his
way to an apology. The silence was growing
painful. Nobody seemed to know what to say next.

"Will you stay to tiffin?" (lunch) Gilmore at
length asked abruptly, making a determined plunge
into conversation. "Or, if you could make it convenient
to stay all night," he went on hesitatingly,
I should be very pleased."

Thank you, Mr. Gilmore ; I'm afraid we can
scarcely do that. '' PajDa would like to get home
this afternoon, I think. Wouldn't you, papa?"

'eyes, my dear, I think so. Our people would
Wonder if we did not reach home to-night. We
shall he very happy to take tiffin with you, however."


*' In that case we had better have our refreshment
at once. You don't mind lunching in the
baraza, do you ? It's so much cooler."

''Of course not. It's much nicer here than
indoors ; " and Kate settled herself back in her
chair with an air which seemed to say she found
her present surroundings very much to her mind.

In answer to Gilmore's signal, Tubu and a couple
of assistants, all neatly dressed in snow-white
kansas, crimson waist-bands, and Zanzibar kofias
(linen skull-caps), appeared, bringing with them
the table, which was soon covered with all the
customary accessories of lunch, even in Central
Africa.

I need hardly apologize for my ware," said
Gilmore, as they gathered with some difficulty
round the small table, and he indicated with a nod
the enamelled iron plates and dishes.

Oh, please don't mention it," exclaimed Kate.
It's what we have all to become accustomed to
in this benighted country. I would be grateful if

it was no worse. Just think of it ! We have
positively been compelled to use some of the Chaga
wooden bowls."

"Indeed, how is that?" asked Gilmore sympathetically.


'' We got the greater part of our enamels stolen
by a pretended convert, who proved to be a thief."

How very annoying ! I think I shall be able
to help you, though. Tubu, turn out some of my
spare plates."

"You mustn't think of it," cried Kate, divining
her host's intention. " I can't allow you to
deprive yourself for us."

Mr. Kennedy joined in the protest.

Nonsense ! I insist," replied Gilmore, wilfully.
I have far more than I need, and there's no
possibility of loss from breakage, you know."

Kate gave way reluctantly, looking, however,
grateful and pleased. "You are really too good,"
she said. " How can we ever thank you sufficiently
? "

"You will best thank me by saying nothing
about it. Help one another is the grand rule of
conduct for Central Africa, it seems to me."

This little incident did wonders in removing any
traces of awkwardness or arrive pense after the
late conversation, and, dangerous topics being
avoided, they were soon once more on the best of

terms. A light lunch, or tiffin, as it is the universal
fashion to call the midday meal in the East, of
cold fowl and ship's biscuits, banana fritters, and
plenty of milk, formed an agreeable repast, made
all the more enjoyable by a further exchange of
news about home, and by the interchange of various
'' wrinkles " in domestic economy, as to how to
make the most of things in the position in which
they were placed.

The eager interest shown by Gilmore in hearing
all about the old life was in striking contrast to the
contempt and bile which he had just been pouring
upon it. Kate in a faint sort of way remarked the
change, but, happy that good relations had once
more been established, she was not in a mood to
be too critical. She ate her cold fowl with a
healthy appetite, and joined eagerly in the conversation
when it turned upon Europe, otherwise only
making an occasional remark, and more largely
busying herself with speculations about Gilmore,
or in noting the manifold beauties of her charming
soundings.

Curious and piquant, indeed, was the scene.
Three Europeans at a table, as a central feature,
attended by picturesquely dressed negroes in snow-white
garments, groups of Zanzibar men, women,
and children in various attitudes at a respectful
distance under the shade of trees; the rustic houses,

and still more rustic, though cosy, huts nestling
among leafy bush and palms ; the view through
the . Opening in the grove over the forest-clad valley
to the faintly outlined mountains of Sogonoi ; to
the north the '' Mount Olympus of these parts,"
rising by sunny rounded ridge and tree-clad hollow
to the arborescent heather zone, and the region of
death and desolation, ending in the ineffable
serenity, repose, and majesty of the snow-clad
Kibo.

Chapter XII.

*' Well, I think it's time we were going," remarked
Mr. Kennedy, rising and pushing back
his chair.

Gilmore rose also. '' Yes, I dare say it is," he
said, " unless you think better of it and stay here
for the night. Oh, but I say ! " he exclaimed, as,
leaving the baraza, he looked at the sky, '* I'm
afraid you can't go now. Just look there ! " and
he pointed towards the south, where a great bank
of dark blue clouds was slowly gathering.

The weather, indeed, had changed in a most
ominous fashion while they sat at lunch. The
breeze had died away, the leaves of the trees and
bushes hung droopingly, and the birds and monkeys
ceased to chatter and scream. Above, the stream,
from the unusual silence, seemed to rush more
noisily over its rocky bed. The atmosphere felt
close and oppressive. Over the sky a dark haze
had gathered, through which the sun shone yellow

and lurid. Everything portended a tropical storm
of unusual violence.

How very unfortunate," cried Mr. Kennedy,
with a look of vexation, as, following Gilmore's
example, he left the baraza and turned his gaze
towards the southern sky. '' It certainly looks bad."

Kate said nothing, but felt rather pleased than
otherwise at the prospect of having to pass the
evening and night at Pepo-ni. It would be a
pleasing variation in the usual monotony of her
life.

'perhaps it will pass over quickly," suggested
Kennedy, anxious to go, more especially as he still
felt somewhat sore after his recent encounter with
Gilmore, as well as disappointed at the failure of
his mission.

It will be wiser for you to stay, Mr. Kennedy,"
said Gilmore. " I can easily swing a hammock
for you, and there is a camp-bed for Miss Kennedy."

Besides, papa," added Kate, '' Tanga can't
possibly walk downhill on the stiff, clayey pathways.
They will be too slippery after the rain."

*rand then," continued Gilmore, "think what a
ducking Miss Kennedy would get pushing her way
through the wet foliage. You might just as well
face the storm itself. Come, now, you must stay
with me to-night."

*' I suppose you are right," said the missionary,

reluctantly. 'ewe shall accept your hospitality
thankfully, Mr. Gilmore."

'* That's right," cried Gilmore. '' I am delighted
at your decision. Perhaps," he added mischievously,
" we may he alle to discuss some of
these questions we left unsettled."

*' Oh dear, no ; not that," exclaimed Kate in
alarm. " I should prefer the ducking. Promise
not to come near the subject, Mr. Gilmore, or I
order out Tanga at once."

I am penetrated with the most peaceful sentiments,
I assure you," said Gilmore, gallantly.
'we'd better get indoors, though," he added
hurriedly, as a large drop fell on his hand. " It
won't do to be caught out here."

The storm was, indeed, on the point of bursting.
The great bank of clouds which had gathered in
the south had rapidly enlarged its dimensions, and
deepened into a more portentous colour. Towards
its upper aspect it rolled and unrolled in rounded
billows, to break here and there into ragged
fragments, as if torn to pieces by a whirlwind.
The strangest appearance of all, however, was the
gradual uprising of a great slaty-blue arch which
rested on the ends of the cloud, and rapidly moved
forward and upward like a line of skirmishers in
advance of an army. This arch, with its concavity
occupied by the great mass of the storm-cloud,

swept onwards till it hung directly over the heads
of Gilmore and his guests. There was a sudden
chilling of the air. A puff of cold wind lifted the
loose hair that hung about Kate's temples, making
her shiver after the stifling heat of the last few
minutes. A second, then a third puff followed,
each one stronger and more continuous than the
preceding. One or two heavy drops of rain fell.
Gilmore and his visitors had just time to run into
the house, when, without further warning, a vivid
flash of lightning shot athwart the gathering
gloom. A few seconds of death-like stillness
ensued, and then a terrific peal of thunder broke
over Pepo-ni. Simultaneously the slaty-blue arch
disappeared, apparently dissipated by the explosion.
The dark blue of the main mass as quickly changed
into a light sooty colour. The wind rose in cold,
gusty blasts, and the rain fell in '' bucketfuls."
Then the storm raged in all its fury.

The canvas curtain within Gilmore's house was
at once let down to exclude the rain and the chilly
wind. Amid the continuous and deafening thunder-peals
it was impossible to make one's self heard,
and conversation was strictly confined to occasional
remarks regarding the progress of the storm, the
vividness of the lightning, and the rush of the
falling rain.

Tropical storms, however, are usually of short

duration. The present one was no exception to
the rule. In little more than half an hour the
thundercloud had rolled past in their awe-inspiring
career, to waste their fury on the heights of Kibo
and Kimawenzi. Towards the south the sky displayed
afresh its depths of blue. The afternoon
sun shone with renewed brilliancy through the
purified atmosphere, glinting on the myriad drops
of moisture which begrimed every green leaf and
blade of grass.

It was, of course, far too wet for Gilmore and his
guests to venture out. The altered atmospheric
conditions, however, were reflected in themselves,
and the conversation, under the skilful leadership
of Kate, avoided dangerous topics and kept the
cheerful tone of the luncheon table.

Miss Kennedy's conversation was an agreeable
surprise to Gilmore. Though distinguished by a
certain masculine force and decision, it did not at
all accord with his stereotyped idea of the " lady-medical
and blue-stocking " manner of speech.
Gilmore talked to Kate on the same easy terms ashe
might to another man, but mingled with this
delightful ease was the piquant knowledge that
this other was, after all, a woman — a very charming
woman too, sparkling with all sorts of pretty
little graceful feminine traits.

Gilmore and his guests were in the midst of a

pleasant chat, when they were suddenly interrupted
by the unexpected and unannounced appearance of
Ulu. Shining with her newly applied coating of
oil, and as eager to show off her improved looks as
an English girl might have been to display a new
dress, the little maid came running in, all life and
animation.

Look, Bwan' mkubwa," she commenced. Then
her eyes fell on Kate, and she stopped short, struck
dumb by sudden wonderment. In her attitude
of suddenly arrested motion, one shapely limb
well in advance of the other, her dark bronze-coloured
head with its crop of crisp black curls
slightly turned to one side, and her whole expression
one of the deepest wonder, the girl looked a subject
worthy of any sculptor's chisel. The pose brought
out admirably the gracious lines of her figure, and
permitted her snowy draperies to fall into folds of
artistic grace and softness.

'what a lovely child!" cried Kate, enthusiastically.
"Who is she, Mr. Gilmore ? Where
does she come from ? Is she the daughter of one
of your men ? "

"Oh," began Gilmore, frankly, "that is Lu,
my int — my— that is to say, she is a — yes, as you

say, she is the — no, I mean Well, she is an

M-Chaga girl, I believe, staying with the wife of my
headman," he concluded hastily, suddenly grown shy

of revealing his romantic intentions regarding his
protegee, and hurriedly catching at the first feasible
explanation of her presence that came to hand.

Mr. Kennedy looked up sharply, struck by the
hesitating, incoherent answer to his daughter's
very natural question. He was only too well
aware of the free relations which existed between
many white traders and the natives ; and as he
glanced from Gilmore to Ulu, noted the white
man's embarrassment and the girl's dress and
appearance, he was not slow to conclude the worst.
Not daring to speak before his daughter, he tried
to look unconscious of there being anything wrong,
and discreetly held his peace.

An awkward pause ensued. Kate noticed with
surprise Gilmore's confusion and her father's
silence and evident vexation. She looked again at
Ulu. Something crossed her mind which made
her perceptibly start, and she turned a quick,
searching glance on the two men beside her. Fora
few moments her colour came and went, her
thoughts scarcely daring to shape themselves
towards the conclusion that was swiftly growing in
her mind. Suddenly she sprang from her chair.
As she half turned towards the door, she met the
inquiring gaze of Ulu, who still stood in wonderment
on the threshold. The sight of the little
maid changed her purpose.

VOL. I. M

My poor child ! " she exclaimed, making a step)
towards her.

Startled and afraid, Ulu drew back, and with a
little cry sought refuge by Gilmore's side. Then
Kate's indignation flamed out afresh, and her face
grew white and cold and hard.

The modern, well-bred, experienced young lady
would have known better how to control her
emotions under the circumstances — would, in all
likelihood', have accepted the situation with a
deprecating, downward glance, and a becoming
little French shrug of the shoulders. But Kate
was not an '* experienced " young lady, nor had
she been trained in the school of artificiality which
condoned vice by professing to ignore it. Feared
in almost academic seclusion, this "sweet girl-graduate
" had indeed seen very little of life ; but
she had heard far-off echoes of its ways, and she
had not made herself acquainted with the literature
of her own and other countries without acquiring
a certain knowledge of the good and evil in the
world. Generous and high-souled to a degree, and
exacting towards herself in all matters of duty, she
had but little toleration for the faults and frailties
of others morally weaker or more strongly tempted.
She was quick to judge — too quick, perhaps — and
quick to pass sentence ; and now Gilmore stood
condemned before her, a sinner, without a word of

excuse. Strangely mingled \Yith the scorn and
anger she felt for him was a dull sense of pain and
disappointment. She had been terribly mistaken,
cruelly deceived, in one she had begun to feel
interested in and was inclined to think well of. It
did not occur to her that possibly the fault lay in
the condemnation, and not in the culprit. His
suddenly embarrassed manner, his hesitating reply
to her simple question, his present silence, all spoke
only too eloquently of conscious guilt ; and Kate —
what could she do but condemn ?

Yes, Gilmore was silent. Urged on by the
demon of contradiction which possessed him, he
sat coolly surveying his guests with an assumed
air of callous indifference. But within, what wrath
there was ! Long before Kate had reached her too
hasty conclusion, Gilmore had seen the thoughts
which were passing in her own and her father's
mind — seen, and with the whole strength of his
nature resented them. His soul raged in a tumult
of angry questions. What were the missionary
and his prudish daughter to him ? What right
had they to criticize his conduct, putting the worst
possible construction on it too, condemning it
before they knew if there was reason ? If they
could think him capable of being guilty, they
might. Under which angry impulse, Gilmore
ostentatiously took Ulu on his knee, and began

toying with her crisp curls and the beads on her
neck, exhibiting, in this little bit of by-play, an
amount of histrionic power he had never before
given himself credit for.

Kate beheld the scene with ever-rising wrath.
This flaunting display of tenderness was insult
added to injury, and all the outraged woman within
her rose in desperate yearning to snatch the unconscious
victim from the monster's toils. '' In her
it is ignorance; in him, vice," was her indignant
mental comment. '^ Yet this is the man who rails
so vehemently against the introduction of European
wickedness, and cries out in protest against social
shams ! "

But while she thus thought and raged, Kate
neither spoke nor moved. She was paralyzed,
spellbound. At length, with an effort, she walked
swiftly to the door and looked out.

^' Papa," she said, in a cold, passionless voice,
'' I think, after all, it might be as well to go on. I
should think the paths will be dry enough after
such a hot sun."

'every well, Kate; I am quite ready," exclaimed
Mr. Kennedy with animation, heartily glad to
catch at any means of escape from the painful
situation.

Gilmore took no notice of this proposal, but
sat with heightened colour and compressed lips,

as if determined to offer neither explanation nor
excuse.

Mr. Gilmore'* continued Kennedy, rising, *' I
think, after all, we had better go on to Mandara's
this afternoon. It was very kind of you to ask

us to stay, but " Mr. Kennedy hesitated. He

had not thought how he was to account for his
sudden change of plans. Gilmore was determined
not to help him. With grim satisfaction at the
missionary's discomfiture, he awaited the conclusion
of the sentence. " Kate would like to get home,"
was Mr. Kennedy's rather weak explanation.

"Indeed?" was the sarcastic response. ** I
thought she seemed rather pleased at the idea of
passing the night here. I am sorry she has
changed her mind, but, of course, you will consult
your own convenience."

Outwardly calm and indifferent, Gilmore was
within a perfect volcano of conflicting emotions.
He was angry with the Kennedyss for what he
characterized as their want of discrimination,
angry with himself for wilfully misleading them.
It was too bad, he told himself, to be thus misunderstood,
when he was just beginning to get over
his despondency a little, and take a more hopeful
and pleasant view of things ; but it was also too
bad his acting in such a way as almost to justify
his guests' worst suspicions. As he leaned against

the wall of the hut, and watched Kate with
trembling hands adjusting her hat, preparatory
to taking leave, he was torn between the impulse
to explain everything and his obstinate resolve to
explain nothing. He did not dare to meet Kate's
eyes, which rested on him for a moment, as he
stood with his hands on Ulu's shoulders, lest their
mingled sorrow and anger should prove too much
for the flimsy defences of pride and obstinacy
behind which he had entrenched himself. Defiantly,
and, as if anxious still further to scandalize the
missionary and his daughter, he began —

**My little girl and I will " then stopped

abruptly, as if he had been about to do something
cowardly and ungentlemanly.

Kate was now drawing on her riding-gloves. At
Gilmore's words she looked up at him with reproachful,
tear-filled eyes. Gilmore caught the
glance. In a moment all his angry perversity was
swept away.

If you wait a moment I will explain," he said,
quite gently and quietly, as if in answer to some
unspoken question. " Oh, you needn't be afraid
to hear what I have to say," he added, with a
slight accent of contempt, as he met the look of
alarm with which the missionary greeted his first
words.

An expression of relief had settled on Kate's face

as soon as Gilmore began to speak. She knew at
once that there had been some mistake.

Oh, never mind any explanations," she cried
impulsively. 'rit's all right if you only tell us
so."

Your father does not think so ; " and Gilmore
looked significantly towards Mr. Kennedy, who
stood viewing the pair with a very dubious expression
of countenance.

"Oh yes, indeed, Mr. Gilmore " the missionary
began, with an affectation of fervour.

But Gilmore cut him short. " Ulu is a little
protegee of mine," he went on.

At the word protegee, Mr. Kennedy looked more
dubious than ever, and involuntarily shook his
head.

The gesture was not lost upon Gilmore, who
stopped abruptly, the old impulse to let the
missionary think his worst rising angrily within
him. ''I see you don't believe me," he continued
hotly, and then again stopped short.

"Oh, papa, how can you ! " broke in Kate, reproachfully.
" Never mind the rest, Mr. Gilmore ;
I believe you utterly. Forgive me for ever having
doubted you ; " and Kate's eyes filled with tears as
she seized Gilmore impulsively by the hand, and
looked appealingly up into his face.

There was a responsive tremor in Gilmore's

voice as he gravely thanked Miss Kennedy for
her expression of unqualified trust, which Kate
observing, she turned hurriedly away, and laid
hold of Ulu, whom she kissed enthusiastically,
heedless of the fact of that young damsel's recent
lubrication.

Mr. Kennedy did not know what to think. The
ways of the nineteenth-century maiden were a
mystery to him, and he could not make up his
mind whether to be pleased or shocked at his
daughter's ingenuous impetuosity. Under the influence
of her infectious enthusiasm he felt his
scepticism rapidly giving way, and he was strongly
inclined to follow her example in taking Gilmore
by the hand. But what he would have called his
*' common sense " coming to the rescue, he remembered
how often before he had been deceived by
specious appearances, and remained irresolute.

Gilmore had a pretty shrewd notion of what
was passing in Kennedy's mind, but he no longer
resented that gentleman's cautious reserve, and
determined to bring the misunderstanding at once
to an end.

'' Ulu is the daughter of Serii," he said. '' She
is here with her father's consent, and, indeed, by
his request. I have formed the romantic project
of developing what of good there may be in her,
with the intention of one day making her my wife."

Kate looked up in amused wonder ; the doubt on
her father's face deepened into incredulity.

*' You think the idea ridiculous, Miss Kennedy,"
Gilmore went on, addressing himself to Kate, as
evidently the more sympathetic part of his audience.
I can hardly wonder at it ; it appears sufficiently
absurd to myself sometimes. I have had many a
good laugh over it. But I never intend leaving
Kilimanjaro again, and there is a strong fascination
for me in the notion of a companion in exile. One
grows tired of being always ' Bwan' mkubwa,' you
know ; " and Gilmore sighed, as he looked at Lu,
and thought what a long time it might be before
he could be anything else.

But how did it come about, Mr. Gilmore ? "
said Kate. ''Do sit down and tell us all about it.
'Dog of an unbeliever ! ' " she continued melodramatically,
turning towards her father, and
addressing him in that teasing, coaxing tone he
never could withstand, '' come here and be converted;"
and she dragged forward a chair, and
gently pushed him into it, with a kiss that spoke
volumes of the affection and good understanding
that existed between the two. Then she sat down
herself, and prepared to listen ; while Ulu curled
up at her feet, and became absorbed in an
examination of Kate's dress that was largely
mingled with the desire to see her put it on.

As Gilmore proceeded with his narrative, and
waxed eloquent over his plans for the discovery
and development of Ulu's better nature, Kate
became warmly interested, and before he had done
was quite in love with them. She was all eager to
be allowed to help, and at once began to make
suggestions and think out details with a fine,
feminine celerity that amused Gilmore almost as
much as it delighted him.

Mr. Kennedy, with less of the enthusiasm of
youth about him, shook his head deprecatingly
over the scheme, but could not, as a missionary,
urge any suitable arguments against it.

Of course, you will instil into her the elements
of the Christian religion ? " he said.

This was an idea which, I am sorry to say, had
not occurred to either of Ulu's would-be benefactors,
who looked at each other feeling rather guilty,
neither knowing exactly what to say.

"Oh, papa," at length exclaimed Kate, "that
will come afterwards, you know."

It should come first," replied her father,
solemnly. " The only light which can truly
illumine a darkened soul is that which comes from
the Word of God."

Kate did not feel convinced ; but she wisely refrained
from arguing the point, knowing from past
experience how impossible it was for her father.

where religion was concerned, to view things from
any other than the strictly orthodox standpoint.
Gilmore, too, was silent, unwilling to disturb the
harmony that seemed once more about to prevail
between him and his guests ; while Mr. Kennedy,
feeling that he had done his duty in entering his
protest against Gilmore's method, and mistaking
the silence of politeness for the silence of unwilling
conviction, believed he had made an impression,
and was inclined to think more favourably of the
Quixotic young man, who in sober earnest contemplated
passing through life with a negress for his
most intimate companion.

How often prejudice and self-conceit lead wiser
men than Mr. Kennedy to form equally flattering
conclusions regarding their powers of argument?
Perhaps it is a wise arrangement of Providence, to
keep society from falling to pieces through intestine
wars.

CHAPTEK XIII.

'' Have a cigar ? " said Mr. Kennedy to Gilmore,
as after dinner they all lounged out-of-doors under
the shady eaves of the baraza.

Thank you, I don't smoke."

Don't smoke ! " repeated Mr. Kennedy in
astonishment.

'don't smoke ! " echoed Kate. ''A nineteenth-century
hermit without a pipe is an anomaly.
Don't you even indulge in an occasional cigarette ? "

'* Not even an occasional cigarette."

"Then I can't have the pleasure of making you
one. Dodo, my cousin, used to say I was * quite a
dab ' at that sort of thing. I filled his case for
him every morning before he went to college."

'skate, my dear child," exclaimed Mr. Kennedy,
what a very unfeminine accomplishment ! "

How, papa ? Cigarette-making is nearly all
done by girls. It's one of the few employments of
women men don't seem to dispute their right to.

As usual, they reserve to themselves the merely
pleasant part of the business — the luxury of
smoking them."

Then you didn't learn that, too ? " inquired
Gilmore, mischievously

'' Oh no, Mr. Gilmore. I was never at a ,
you know."

''I didn't know, but I thought as much. You
are too difficult to classify."

'how? Difficult to classify? What do you
mean ? "

A twinkle rose in Mr. Kennedy's eyes. ''Mr.
Gilmore," he said, "you have made a fatal mistake.
Kate is an enfant terrible when she starts to
ask questions. You may take the responsibility" of
dealing with her upon yourself; I'm off. I should
like to have a talk with your men," he explained,
rising and knocking the ash from the end of his
cigar. Then, remembering the argument of the
morning, he added doubtfully, " There is no objection,
I suppose?"

"None whatever," replied Gilmore, with an
alacrity scarcely to have been looked for from the
advocate of the principle of laissez faire in negro
politics and religion.

In point of fact, he felt Mr. Kennedy's presence
rather a restraint, and he was not sorry to have an
excuse for being rid of it. He was glad of the

opportunity of a tete-astute with Kate too. He
liked the girl's frank, unconventional waj^s, her
directness, her eagerness and refreshing enthusiasm.
He liked to watch her face, with its
constant change of expression, its quick prophecy
of a coming thought, its lingering reflection of
passing lights and shadows. He liked to hear her
voice, clear and fresh as a bird's, and changing,
like her face, with every changing mood. He felt
there was something about her that he had missed
in other women — something companionable, something
which, at least as far as she herself was
concerned, almost justified her in her resentment
towards men for their calm assumption of superiority.
Yet there was nothing masculine about
her ; no pretence to " strong-mindedness ; " no trace
of the pedantry commonly associated with women
whose thoughts tend towards the learned professions.
Gilmore's phrase, '' difficult to classify,"
exactly expressed his impression of her, as it also
indicated the attitude of scientific inquiry in which
he felt inclined to approach her. To him, Kate
was a new species, to be studied with interest, asa
creature of unknown characteristics and possibilities
of development. He could not altogether
free his mind of the suspicion that the cloven hoof
of blue-stockings would one day show itself — he
was curious to know how and when.

Spite of the missionary's warning, Gilmore
would not have felt sorry had Miss Kennedy insisted
on an answer to her question, or evinced a
desire to ask more. But for the moment Kate
seemed to have become oblivious of his presence,
and sat affectionately gazing after her father, ashe
crossed the compound to where a group of
white-robed Zanzibar lounged in lazy enjoyment
of the evening coolness.

'* The dear old pater ! " she said, half to herself,
*' he should always smoke. It has a humanizing
influence. He can't preach with a pipe in his
mouth. I know you don't like my father," she
added, suddenly turning towards Gilmore and
addressing him in her quick, straightforward way ;
** but you would, if you knew him better."

Gilmore was rather taken aback. ^'I assure
you, Miss Kennedy," he began.

'soh, don't sacrifice truth to politeness on my
account," interrupted Kate. '' I know well enough
you think him narrow, and prejudiced, and sanctimonious,
and a great many other disagreeable
things. You are wrong. You confound the missionary
with the man. Just look at him there
among your men. Now, Mr. Gilmore, even if you
don't sympathize with papa's efforts, you cannot
but admire his earnestness and patience. Where
you would swear, he explains; where you would

punish, he persuades. It is quite touching to see
how all the mission people love him. They cannot
understand his teaching, I am sure ; but they do
appreciate his goodness and true-heartiness.
You must come to Pisgah and be converted."

I shall be very pleased to come to Pisgah, but
I don't know about the conversion," said Gilmore,
doubtfully. " Why should you care about it,
though?" he added, as he saw the shade of disappointment
on Kate's face.

"Oh, I don't know," answered Kate ; " but I
somehow feel as if we should be friends, and I like
all my friends to like each other. Poor papa ! " she
went on. 'what a lonely, friendless life he has
had ! Twenty-three years of exile almost without
a break, and nothing to think of all that time but
Africa and African missions ; " and Kate sighed, as
she pictured to herself the isolation and monotony
of her father's life at Tanga, his old station, and
mentally contrasted it with her own pleasant,
cheerful surroundings in Edinburgh, where almost
ever since the untimely death of her mother in the
mission-field she had known all the best blessings
of an ideal home life in the family of a loving and
much-loved uncle.

For a minute or two she sat lost in thought.
Kate never could think of Europe without becoming
lost in thought.

''"What a lovely evening ! " she exclaimed at
length, rousing herself from her reverie, and growing
suddenly alive to the beauty of the scene before
her. *' Did you ever see such a gorgeous sunset ? "
and she noted with all the appreciation of an
artist the glowing hues of the western sky, and
gave herself up to the enjoyment of the hour.

It was, indeed, a lovely evening. The most
charming part of the African day had come. The
sun had just gone down in a splendour of purple
and crimson, and from behind the conical peak of
Mount Meru a thousand shafts of golden light shot
upwards to the zenith, and quivered about the
hoary mountain-top like an aureole about the head
of a saint. In the dim, delicious twilight —
delicious in a way none but the dweller in tropical
climes can know — nature seemed to taste anew the
joys of awakened life. Fanned by the evening
breeze, the leaves no longer drooped despondingly,
and flowers held up their dainty heads and shed
sweet incense of thanksgiving on the balmy air.
From every grove and thicket rose the glad evensong
of birds, in joyous trill or merry chirp and
twitter. In the trees overhead the monkeys leaped
from branch to branch, screaming and barking as
they chased each other in mischievous frolic. By
the aid of a glass Kate could see the antelopes
frisking in the open glades of the Kahe forest, the

VOL. I. N

great black buffaloes venturing to the edge of the
dense bush, and a solitary rhinoceros cropping
the herbage at no great distance. A group of
queer, ungainly-looking objects, whose movements
could only just be descried among the trees, were
explained by Gilmore to be giraffes. These being
the first she had seen, Kate was much interested ;
but before she had time to steady the glass for
another look, her attention was diverted from the
valley by a strange, swishing sound overhead.
Looking up, she descried three or four enormous
birds coming from the west. Arrived over Pepo-ni,
they commenced to descend, wheeling in ever-lessening
circles, till at length, with a final '' swish,"
they alighted on a neighbouring tree, and revealed
the comically grave aspect of the marabout stork.

*' Behold Hie Graves of a Household,' Miss
Kennedy," remarked Gilmore, indicating the new
arrivals with a melodramatic wave of the hand
worthy of the proprietor of a waxwork.

' Graves of a Household ' ? " repeated Kate,
inquiringly. " What do you mean ? "

'• Why, didn't you know that the marabouts are
not only the scavengers, but the grave diggers and
graves of the Masai? Shouldn't wonder if our
friends there had been doing a little in the undertaking
line to-day; they look fairly well pleased
with themselves''

Kate looked very much disgusted. '" Why don't
you shoot such horrid ghouls ? " she asked.

*' Oh, I wouldn't do that. They are very useful
in their way. Besides, I like to keep everything
characteristic of the country just as it is."

"Is that why j'ou retain such a strange name
for your camp ? • Pepo-ni ' means ' Ghost-land,'
doesn't it ? "

'eyes ; and it really is a place of ghosts — at least,
according to the native superstition."

"Really!" exclaimed Kate with interest. 'ris
it supposed to he haunted ? "

Yes. Pepo-ni was an old Wa-Chaga burying-ground,
and, as you know, the natives believe that
the spirits of dead men haunt the places where
their bodies have been buried."

Then I suppose they go in for ancestor-worship
? "

After a fashion — yes. African ghosts are supposed
to be very powerful and, as a rule, very
malignant creatures ; consequently they are much
respected. The natives toady to them in all kinds
of ways, so as to secure their favour or avert their
wrath. Especially are they careful not to disturb
the sanctity of their special haunts, ghosts
being rather particular as regards mixing in carnal
society. That is why Wa-Chaga buying-places are
invariably a perfect jungle of trees and creepers."

*' They must look on your clearing here as a
terrible piece of Vandalism, then."

** Oh, worse than Vandalism — sacrilege. All sorts
of horrible punishments have been prophesied forme
; but as none have yet fallen, my reputation has
increased, and I am honoured as one whom even
the shades respect. By-the-by, I didn't leave the
poor old ghosts quite without a habitation in the
land. You see that corner there ; it still remains
as I found it."

Oh, do take me to see it. I am dying to see
a ghost, especially a black one."

I'm afraid it's too dark now."

Not for ghosts, Mr. Gilmore. Like some of
their heirs and successors in the flesh, they 'love
the darkness rather than the light,' don't they ? "

*'If there were nothing more than ghosts, Miss
Kennedy, but I'm afraid my ' chamber of horrors '
contains more substantial terrors for a lady."

*' Nonsense, Mr. Gilmore. We women like to
have our nerves tingle ; it's quite nice to feel creepy
in company," Kate added after a slight pause,
the suspicion of a smile hovering about the corners
of her lips. " Then, you know, I am that case-hardened
creature, a lady-medical," she went on,
*' therefore, in the male imagination, quite above
the weaknesses of my sex."

'' Very well, then ; come along," replied Gilmore

rising. " We must hurry, or we really shall be
too late."

Kate was on her feet in a moment. Quickly she
and Gilmore crossed the clearing, passed behind
the rustic huts of the men, and almost immediately
found themselves among the sombre shadows of
the forest. Pushing aside a bush, Gilmom* revealed
the entrance to a low, narrow tunnel literally cut
out of the dense undergrowth which formed both
walls and roof. The fast-waning daylight was here
nearly quite cut off, and in more than semi-darkness
the two crept along, with backs bent and
hands outstretched to push aside a straggling
branch or trailing creeper that here and there
impeded progress. The darkness, the seclusion,
the close, prison like atmosphere, the weird sounds
that from time to time broke the prevailing stillness,
all had a greater effect on Kate than she
would have cared to admit. In spite of herself, her
heart beat quicker, and an eerie feeling took possession
of her, which she bravely struggled against
as she kept up a cheerful fire of small-talk with
her guide, who, on his part, was sympathetically
lively, not being without a shrewd suspicion of his
companion's true state of mind.

*^ Now, Miss Kennedy," cried Gilmore, stopping
at length in front of a bush that seemed to block
the pathway completely, prepare to meet the

worst ; " and, without waiting to listen to Kate's
impatient '^ Don't be foolish, Mr. Gilmonr," he
pushed aside the interposing branches, and the two
explorers emerged upon an open space where they
could stand erect and once more breathe freely.

'' Oh ! " cried Kate, involuntarily laying fast hold
of Gilmore's arm, and closing her eyes for a
moment to shut out the ghastly spectacle that
presented itself.

Opening them again, she found herself at the
bottom of what seemed to be a kind of pit orwell,
cut out of the dense forest vegetation, which
rose above her on all sides to a height of a
hundred and fifty feet. Eound this pit was an
irregular circle of dark, glossy-green dracsenas, and
at the foot of each lay a pair of black, oval-shaped
jars, about fifteen inches in their greatest diameter.
These jars lay on their sides, and in the mouth of
each was a grinning human skull, looking preternaturally
ghastly in its gloomy urn. There were
some sixty of them altogether, all white and grim
and hideous, with a terribly persistent stare in
their useless sockets that for some moments held
Kate speechless with the fascination of horror.

'what does it all mean ? " she asked at length,
shaking off the spell with an effort, and addressing
Gilmore with bated breath and eyes still fixed on
the weird circle of death's heads.

Gilmore started. He had been thinking not of
the dead, bleached bones before him, but of the
warm Httle white hand that nestled so confidingly
on his arm, and sent an unwonted thrill through
his veins.

*' I am afraid I must confess my ignorance on
that point," he said in answer to Kate's question.
'' All I know is that it is the custom. The Wa-Chaga
bury their dead in a sitting posture till the bodies
are reduced to skeletons. Then the skulls of the
man and his chief wife are disinterred and deposited '
in pots like these at the foot of dracsena trees. I
have never been able to find out why they do it."

Perhaps to give the poor ghosts some sort of
home above ground," suggested Kate, now completely
recovered from her first feeling of awe and
terror. *' "What a difference it makes when one
knows the explanation of things ! " she went on.
'' I am quite relieved to think this is all there is to
see. At first I felt as if it were only the setting for
some wild orgy, like the Brocken scene in * Faust.'
What a dreary sound the wind makes among the
trees, Mr. Gilmore ! " and Kate shuddered slightly
as she abruptly stopped to listen.

It's the spirits sighing for the good old days of
the flesh," said Gilmore, lightly. 'come, Miss
Kennedy," he added; "we really must be going.
It is almost dark."

'' Oh, do let me have a look at one of the skulls
first," pleaded Kate, her scientific instincts rising
as she became more and more familiar with her
vault-like surroundings.

'' I'm afraid you could make nothing of it by
this light," replied Gilmore, smiling at the strange
request. '' If you like, though, we can take one
with us ; then you can examine it at your leisure."

'' Yes, that will be best. But you must promise
to return it tomorrow. I don't want to play
resurrectionist, you know."

All right. Here is one in capital preservation;
" and out of an adjacent urn Gilmore tugged
the skull alluded to and turned to go. *' You had
better take my hand till we get out of the wood,"
he added, as Kate stumbled over a broken branch
at the entrance of the narrow pathway.

'^ Thank you," said Kate ; and without hesitation
she accepted the proffered assistance, as if it were
the most usual thing in the world for young ladies
to traverse forest footpaths hand in hand with
squires of only a few hours' acquaintance.

With the touch of her slender fingers, a rush
of olden memories came over Gilmore, recalling
the face and form of one more fair than she,
who in bygone days had been to him the type
of all that was best and noblest in womankind.
Kate felt his fingers tremble as they silently

groped their way along together in the darkness,
and instinctively she knew he was battling with
some strong emotion, though what she could not
guess. She did not commit the error of imagining,
a;S a more worldly maiden might have done, that
Gilmore had suddenly become inspired with a
violent passion for herself. She had all along had
ii vague feeling that some sorrow, some disappointment,
lay at the root of all his cynicism and
defiance, and she could only think that in some
unexplained way the jarring string had now been
set vibrating, and woke responsive echoes in the
inmost chambers of his soul. Involuntarily she
clasped the hand she held more firmly, but she
asked no question, made no further sign of sympathy.
A few minutes more and they were out of
the wood, and safe within the cheerful precincts of
the compound, by which time Gilmore had regained
his wonted composure, and Kate felt free to
exchange a few playful words with Ulu as they
passed her on their way to the baraza.

The rest of the evening sped swiftly and
pleasantly in conversation, Kate and Gilmore
exchanging views on many subjects so thoroughly
European, that ever afterwards it was a matter of
wonderment, to at least one of them, how they had
come to be introduced.

Kate was a later arrival in Africa than Gilmore,

and her heart, unlike his-^as all in Europe.
Brought up in Edinburgh with her uncle, a doctor,
she had never been taught to look on Africa asher
home ; for her father, until his recent appointment
to the mission on Kilimanjaro, had laboured
at one of the most unhealthy coast stations, and
the worthy man loved his only child too tenderly
to dream of exposing her to the dangers among
which he himself seemed to live a charmed life.

Kate had received a medical education, not with
a view to becoming a missionary, therefore, but
with the intention of practising among the poor
of one or other of our own large towns.
Although she made the sacrifice cheerfully, it had
been 'a sad blow to many of her most cherished
plans, when her father, pining for some sort of
kindred companionship, had asked her in the
mean time to leave her studies uncompleted, and
join him in his new sphere of work. As she told
Gilmore, her heart was more with the heathen at
home than with those abroad — the heathen not
only of the slums, but of the drawing-room, — men
and women living idle, purposeless, useless lives,
content to accept the world as it is, and unconvinced
of the necessity of striving to make it better.
She took a high view of women's position in
society — a high view not only of their rights, but
of their responsibilities, looking upon it as their

most sacred, social dutj^ not only to practise the
highest morality themselves, but to insist on it iu
others.

'' There should be no dual standard of morality,"
she said. " Men should be judged by the same
canon as women, and I fear it is women themselves
who are mostly to blame that it is not so. They
could raise men almost infinitely if they would only
try."

Gilmore listened attentively, nay, was even at
some pains to keep the conversation on the lines
along which it seemed so naturally inclined to run,
interested as he found himself not only in the
theories Kate chose to advance, but in their fair
exponent. Under the inspiration of a sympathetic
hearer, Kate, on her part, spoke with unusual
animation ; and when Mr. Kennedy returned from
his rather lengthy talk with Gilmore 's men, he
noted with pleasure that his daughter's eye was
brighter, her whole air more cheerful and happy,
than he had ever before seen it. It was late before
they separated for the night, not without a feeling
on every side that the pleasant evening had come
all too swiftly to a close.

Chapter XIV.

*' Good-bye, Mr. Gilmore. Don't be long in coming
to see us," said Kate, as early next morning she
shook hands with her host, and, mounting her
donkey, prepared to set out homewards.

*' Yes, I hope we shall see you soon," added Mr.
Kennedy, cordially. " There are many things I
should like to have a talk with you about."

The mission station business, for example,"
put in Kate, in her offhand way. " I don't think
you and Mr. Gilmore ever quite settled that affair.

*' N — no, I think not," answered Gilmore, hesitatingly,
somewhat put out at having the conversation
of the previous day brought back to mind.

"We shall give Mr. Gilmore time to consider the
scheme," said Mr. Kennedy. " I have no doubt it
won't be long before he brings us a favourable
decision. Good-bye, Mr. Gilmore, good-bj^e ; and
many thanks for all your kindness."

"Good-bye," answered Gilmore; and "Goodbye,"

echoed Kate, as, smiling and nodding
pleasantly, she gathered up the reins and turned
do^Ti the well-beaten path which led from the
gateway, her father stepping out briskly at her
side, and a couple of servants bringing up the rear.
For a minute or two Gilmore stood watching the
little cavalcade appearing and disappearing among
the bushes as it followed the windings of the pathway.
Once or twice Kate looked back and waved
her hand with an air of graceful coquetry that
became her well, and might have done credit to
the belle of a London season, Gilmore thought, ashe
slowly sauntered back towards the house, his
mind full of his newly departed guest. "Where
could she have acquired it, he wondered, as he
flung himself down on a low cane lounge, or rather
how had she managed to retain it ? For there
was too much genuine naturalness in her every
look and gesture to admit of their being regarded
as matters of acquirement or study. She was nota
coquette, and yet she coquetted. She was not a
flirt, and yet she used those big brown eyes of hers
in a way that would have made even a mere society
man give a patient hearing to her grave and rather
lengthy harangues. What had an incipient lady
doctor to do with so many little feminine graces
and charms ? It was against all precedent, contrary
to all one's preconceived ideas ; there must

be something wrong somewhere, Gilmore disinclined
to think.

For all that, Gilmore could not but admit that
Kate's visit to Pepo-ni had been a pleasant as well
as a novel experience — curious, too, in respect of
the strangely European influence that seemed to
cling about her presence. They had met in the
heart of Africa, yet they had talked together as
they might have talked in an English drawing-room.
Kate's every mode of thought, her every
topic of conversation, her whole attitude towards
whatever subject came within the range of her
consideration, was so thoroughly and so infectiously
European that in her society Gilmore had become
oblivious to his surroundings, and for the time being
was again in Europe. Moreover, it was not the
Europe he had quitted, full of indignant wrath at
its shams and shows and artificialities, but the
Europe of his predisillusion days, in which life was
still worth living because of its glorious possibilities
of work and achievement. Looking back upon that
golden time of promise, he felt once more the old
desire to do and to conquer strong upon him ; but
almost before it was formed he thrust it away,
telling himself with well-feigned cynicism that the
lessons of experience night be well worth having,
but they were not worth paying for twice.

*' Wait a bit, Miss Kennedy," he said, mentally

addressing that young lady ; " wait a bit, and you
will say with me, * Better Africa and freedom to
live according to nature, than Europe and compulsion
to live according to Mrs. Grundy.' Wait a
bit, until you see how much more anxious men are
to ' get on ' than to get better, and you won't take
quite such a rosy view of the possibility of their
improvement through the elevating influence of
women. Wait a bit, until you see in what paltry
interests women themselves can become absorbed,
and you won't feel so hopeful of their instrumentality
as social missionaries. Wait a bit, and

3'ouwill say, 'Better a wife like little Ulu than '

Whew!"

Here Gilmore broke off abruptly as he remembered
how, under the " European influence " of
the night before, he had admitted his preference
for a wife anything but like Ulu, and had, indeed,
entirely forgotten his plans regarding that young
damsel's future. For a moment he felt inclined to
laugh, his scheme appeared so intensely absurd.
Then, as the memory of the bitterest disappointment
of his life swept across his mind — disappointment
in her whom for years he had loved as his
ideal of perfect womanhood — his brow darkened,
and he went on —

"Yes; better a wife like little Ulu, whom her
father sells for a hundred bullocks, than one who,

professing to know a ^voman's ^YO^tll, sells herself
for money or position ; " and Gilmore suddenly-leapt
to his feet, and commenced pacing the bargain
intense agitation.

All at once he was arrested by an exclamation
from Uln, who for the last ten minutes had been
sitting in a corner, quietly amusing herself with
some object which evidently afforded her immense
satisfaction.

'' What is it, Ulu ? " asked Gilmore, as he crossed
to where she sat, and, kneeling down beside her,
patted her head caressingly.

Oh, Bwana, the spirit ! the spirit ! " was all she
could stammer out.

'^ Spirit! What spirit, child?" asked Gilmore
in a puzzled tone, unable to find a trace of anything
that might suggest the presence of a ghostly
visitor.

*^ The bibi's spirit, Bwana — in the little box.
See ! " and Uhi, with averted head, pointed to
where a tiny gold locket lay open, face downwards,
on the ground.

Gilmore at once recognized it as one which Kate
had worn among other trinkets at her watch-chain.
Picking it up, he found it to contain a photograph,
the cause of Ulu's alarm. The portrait was that
of a young man of Kate's own age or thereabouts ;
and as Gilmore scanned the handsome, candid

features it revealed, it struck him for the first time
that possibly Kate might have a lover, nay, might
even herself be in love. That would partly account
for her great opinion of the influence of women,
and for her intense desire to be back again in
Scotland. She had certainly spoken as if she were
fancy-free, however ; but, then, all women knew how
to play the ingenue in love affairs — women doctors
as well as the rest, most likely.

'well, I Hke the little blue-stocking all the better
that she has a soft spot in her heart for somebody,"
was the conclusion of Gilmore's new speculation
regarding his recent guest. '' I only hope she may
not be disappointed, as I was ; and if she is, I hope
she may be able to get over it, as, seemingly, I am
not ; " and, with an impatient exclamation, Gilmore
pulled himself together, and set about trying to explain
matters to Ulu, whom he this time succeeded
in convincing that a photograph was not a spirit,
but could not persuade out of the belief that it was,
at least, of spiritual origin. Then he bethought
himself to ask where she had found the locket, and
how it was she had not at once brought it to him,
and proceeded to read her a lecture on the duty of
honesty, which, if it was mostly lost upon Ulu, was
of great benefit to her instructor, inasmuch as, for
the time being, it diverted his thoughts from the
morbid channels in which they inclined to run, and

VOL. I. o

set them flowing in a healthier, because less self-centred,
direction.

It was strange how, in the short time she had
been with him, Ulu seemed to have become an
integral part of Gilmonr's life at Pepo-ni. Without
exactly knowing the reason why, he felt a certain
sense of satisfaction in her society, spite of the
failure of his more romantic schemes and the great
gulf he now knew to lie between them. Had
he set himself to analyze his feelings, he would
have discovered that this sense of satisfaction
arose in great measure from the fact that in Lu
he had discovered one on whom he could, in a
manner, lavish some of the strength of his pent-up
affections. He felt interested in the little thing,
and liked her — liked her more and more every day.
Yet with this growing liking came the growing
conviction that she could never be his wife — a
conviction that would force itself upon him in his
saner moments, spite of his determination to keep
it at arm's length.

More particularly was this the case in the days
which followed the Kennedyss' visit to Pepo-ni.
Believed from the charm of Kate's immediate
presence, Gilmore soon ceased to speculate about
her. Instead, he found himself looking back with
longing eyes towards that civilized, social life of
which she seemed the embodiment and the type,

and by contrast his savage surroundings seemed
coarse and unsatisfactory He tried his best to
wither up the impression left by his visitors ; railed
as wildly as ever at society and society's ways ;
nay, was even so ungallant as to talk in contemptuous
terms of the '' chit of a girl," the "little
blue-stocking," who ail-unconsciously had stirred
anew the smouldering fire of purpose within him,
and made him chafe at the life of isolation and inaction
to which he voluntarily, and, as he now began
to think, rather hastily, had condemned himself.

Bat memories, however painful and however unaccountably
awakened, are not to be lightly lulled,
and for days together Gilmore could think of
nothing but his old life and his old love, now
regretfully, now angrily, now tenderly, now bitterly.
At times he would seek relief from his unhappy
thoughts in the companionship of Ulu, and throw
himself with well-simulated enthusiasm into his
search for her soul. Results were seldom encouraging,
the almost invariable consequence of his
attempts being an increased fit of restlessness and
irritability, and a renewed desire to heap contempt
on everything and everybody, which he did in a
wide, impersonal way that harmed no one and
seemed to do him much good. He was never in
the same mood for ten minutes together, and continually
oscillated between the greatest extremes.

Needless to say, the turmoil of his soul soon
found expression in his actions, and those around
him suffered accordingly. On the slightest provocation
he flavoured his language to his men, or
testified the depth of his displeasure by the more
substantial symbol of a flying boot or camp-stool.
The Zanzibar, who had been accustomed to look
upon their master as, on the whole, good-tempered
and easy-going, did not know what to make of this
new and disagreeable phase of his character, and
wisely kept out of his way as far as possible, until,
as they put it, ^' the devil had gone out of him."
Gilmore was fully conscious of the change in his
men's opinion of him, but was too much bent on
being miserable to seek to alter it, or look upon
their avoidance of him in any light save that of
a further grievance, the blame of which lay at
other doors than his.

Gilmore's embarrassments at this time were
materially added to by the behaviour of the women
of Pepo-ni. They had never got over the slight
put upon them by the selection of the little mshenzi
(wild person) as their master's wife, for as suchlike
the Wa-Chaga, they regarded Ulu. They did
not dare to express their feelings openly, nor
directly annoy the favoured little maid ; but, none
the less, in a thousand petty ways they made her
feel that she was an intruder. They would have

nothing to do with her, and kept themselves
severely aloof. Ulu's life was thus at times made
utterly miserable, and more than once Gilmore
had found her in tears, but unable to give any
intelligible account of the cause of her distress.

At length, quite by accident, Gilmore discovered
the persecution of which his little toto was the
victim. Though not beyond the reach of his
wrath, the offenders, as women, were in Gilmore 's
eyes beyond the only punishment that would have
proved effectual, a severe thrashing. The only
remedy, therefore, was to place Ulu in a position
such as would render the efforts of her tormentors
unavailing ; in short, either he must marry her
himself, or find a husband for her among his men.
Just at present neither of these two alternatives
seemed feasible, and in his perplexity Gilmore felt
as if Kate were the only person to whom he could
appeal for help. That she could and would find
some way out of the difficulty, Gilmore felt certain.
Still, he could not make up his mind to go to see
her about it ; he dreaded too much a fresh inrush
of the thousand and one mingled memories that
seemed to link themselves inseparably with her
personality as a young and accomplished Scotch-woman.
Day after day he procrastinated; day
after day he gave himself up to the enjoyment of
endless fits of " the blues," stalking about Pepo-ni

like a caged lion, or swinging idly in a hammock,
as the best means he could think of for making
himself " comfortably miserable."

At length he could stand it no longer. This life
of indecision and inaction was maddening. If he
could do nothing better he would go and hunt —
buffaloes, for instance ; there would be both danger
and excitement in that. Well, the more the better,
he thought.

*' Perhaps I shall be killed. Humph ! a deuced
good thing, too ! " he muttered, as, happy in having
at last hit upon some means of distraction, he
hastily quitted the baraza for the compound, and
proceeded to give orders for the necessary preparations.


Chapter XV.

The announcement that the Bwan' mkubwa was
going buffalo-hunting diffused universal joy throughout
Pepo-ni. The kitiweo (Scottish, " kitchen ") of
its inhabitants depended altogether upon Gilmore's
shooting, and for days they had been compelled to
live entirely upon their insipid Kaffir-corn porridge.
Now, however, that he had thrown off his inaction,
they once more enjoyed prospectively palatable
meals, and smacked their lips in childlike abandon
as they thought of the buffalo ribs, or even elephant's
trotters, with which they would soon be
gorging themselves.

On the morning of the hunt, long before Gilmore
had finished his coffee, the Zanzibar who were
to accompany him were astir, seeing that their
weapons were in proper condition, or passing the
time and keeping themselves warm with mock onslaughts
on imaginary buffaloes. Ulu, too, was
up and about, evidently with the intention of joining

the party, the movement and excitement of
which suited her tastes better than the ordinary
humdrum life of Pepo-ni. Presently Gilmore appeared
and cast a look round his men to see that
all were ready. His eye fell upon Lu.

"Why, toto," he cried, "where are you going?
You can't come with us."

Ulu made no reply, but slunk away, abashed and
disappointed.

Touched by the girl's crestfallen look, Gilmore
changed his mind, and told her she might go, at
the same time bidding her make haste and change
her dress for one less conspicuous in its colour.

The change was soon effected. On her reappearance,
pleased and happy, she took possession of
Gilmore' s gun, as if carrying it where the matter-of-course
duty of a wife, women in these parts
taking the position of slaves or servants.

To this arrangement Uledi objected, he being
always the gun-bearer on these dangerous expeditions.
Ulu, however, was not to be so easily
ousted. In these last few weeks she had come
to have new ideas about women's position in the
world, and could muster courage to brave even
Uledi. She resisted him on this occasion with all
the air of one who had a right to command.

Deeply aggrieved, the headman had recourse to
his master, who, to the astonishment and indignation

of the girl, decided in her opponent's favour.
At once, all her old doubts returned with renewed
force, and she asked herself why she was thus continually
set aside and allowed to do none of a wife's
work. Could the Mzungu's real intention be to
prepare her for the coast slave-market ? More
frightful still, might he not be fattening her upto
eat ? and across her mind came the recollection
of all the horrible stories which were current
among the Wa-Chaga regarding the doings of the
mysterious white men. Seeing her disappointment
though not understanding the train of ideas
which ran through her mind, Gilmore, to please
her, gave his water-bottle into her charge, an act
of condescension which speedily brought back smiles
to her face.

'' Now then, Uledi," queried Gilmore, " are you
sure sou have everything we shall require ? "

'eyes, Bwana, everything."

Come along, then ; " and, leading the way, off
Gilmore started up the mountain. With every
step came a growing sense of exhilaration as the
blood began to course more merrily through his
veins and arteries, and the crisp morning air played
upon his flushed face. Beside him tripped Lu,
happy for the moment in looking upon herself as
at least the Bwana's handmaiden, if not his wife.

Over ridge and hollow, across plantations of corn

and sweet potatoes, through rich pasturage, where
knee-deep in the long grass goats and fat-tailed
sheep were quietly feeding, the hunting-party
moved in single file ; now plunging into deep bush
or groves of stately trees, again winding through rich
tracts of bananas. Far below glowed the luxuriant
plain and forest-clad valley ; there in glittering
reaches coursed the Kahe; further east gleamed
Lake Pipe, bright with the rays of the morning
sun ; beyond rose the dark-blue mountains looming
vaguely through the hazy sheen of distance. By-and-by
the vicinity of Serii's was reached, and fora
moment Gilmore thought of calling in for a
drink of fresh milk, an idea he speedily dismissed,
as he remembered the inevitable result of more
begging on Serii's part. In this respect Lu's
father had made himself an intolerable nuisance.
Almost every day he had flaunted his greasy nakedness
in the eyes of his supposed son-in-law. No
matter how well clothed he went away, in a few
days he was sure to be back in rags, with a
lugubrious face.

Gilmore saw that Ulu was no more anxious than
himself to visit her father, having learned from
dire experience that the greedy old chief let no
occasion pass without despoiling her of her most
cherished beads. On one occasion on which she
had paid him a visit, she had even been sent back

minus her clothes, and looking as arrant a little
savage as ever danced in an ngomma.

Soon after leaving Serii's, the party reached the
uninhabited zone, and found themselves among
clouds and driving mists. Their way now lay
through the most luxuriant tropical vegetation.
Gloomy shade replaced the bright and cheerful, if
somewhat too hot, sunshine ; the cool, fresh breeze
gave place to foetid exhalations and an unwholesome,
chilly dampness. Rotting vegetation covered
with fungi encumbered the ground, which, wet and
marshy from the almost incessant rains and the
absence of air and sun, made walking not only
irksome, but excessively disagreeable. The superabundant
wealth of vegetable life was also a
nuisance of no small magnitude.

After an hour's struggle through this forbidding
zone, the way began to improve. Soon with relief
Gilmore found himself in a drier and more open
region. Grassy spaces bright with gladiolus and
tritoma let in air and sunlight. The giant growths
of the cloud-zone were replaced by smaller trees of
European aspect. Conspicuous among these were
crescent heaths, looking weird and hoary in their
draping of grey lichen, which depended from every
twig and branch.

Gilmore was now near his hunting-ground.
Following for a short time an irregular pathway

through a thicket, he suddenly found himself on
the edge of one of the most enchanting rocky
hollows conceivable. The central feature was a
circular rock basin, rippling over with clearest
water, from which, as from a boiling cauldron,
rose constant clouds of steam, lending to the scene
an air of witch-like glamour. Eound this steaming
bowl grew an open circlet of beautiful tree-ferns,
their graceful crowns of fronds perpetually bathed
by the condensed moisture.

Some distance back rose an almost complete
circle of rugged precipices, the angular facets and
jagged projections of the black lava rocks peering
out grimly from among a sunny drapery of rich
vegetation. Ferns especially abounded. They
peeped coquettishly from beneath each projecting
ledge, and beautified every crevice, tenderly toning
down the hideous fire-glazed blackness of the lava,
or bringing into more picturesque relief its varied
angularities.

Needless to say, this romantic cup-shaped hollow
was an extinct volcanic cone, the sole evidence of
its former fiery character being the heated water
which bubbled up from beneath.

In this sheltered nook our hunters pitched their
camp. As the afternoon wore on they began to
prepare for the exciting work before them. And
everything being in readiness, Gilmore set out for

the hunting-ground. Only three men and Uledi
accompanied him, the rest being left to make the
necessary arrangements for passing the night.

Soon after leaving the crater, the shooting-party
changed their quick, careless pace to one of cat-like
stealth and watchfulness. In the dense bush which
they had to penetrate, their progress required the
most absorbing attention both of eye and ear. To
listen was especially necessary, as they could not
see a yard ahead. Every footstep must be carefully
considered, every branch turned aside with
the greatest circumspection. Full well they knew
that the least crackle of a dry stick, the. slightest
swish of a bush would send their wary game flying
beyond their reach. A look, an upraised finger,
or the faintest of whistles, was a sufficient signal
for all purposes.

Thus cautiously the four men were moving slowly
along, following the game paths, and, noiseless as
spirits, noting the numerous indications of. the
recent passage of buffaloes, when all of a sudden
i\iQj were brought to a standstill. The death-like
silence of the forest was unexpectedly broken by a
great crashing of branches, as if a whole herd
of buffaloes or elephants was bearing down upon
them. For a moment they did not know what todo,
because not knowing what to expect. Was
there one or twenty buffaloes ? Were they coming

straight for them, or running away, or passing
by? These unexpressed questions were speedily
answered. A shaking of bushes in the direction
from which they had come apprised them whereto
look for danger. Masters of themselves, the
moment they knew which way to turn, they held
their rifles ready. A dark hulk tearing through
the undergrowth towards them was barely noted
before the wood re-echoed with the banging of
their rifles. On came the buffalo, rushing furiously
towards them, apparently unhurt. It would be
useless to face that charge.

Into the bushes ! " cried Uledi.

In a twinkling Gilmore sprang back and disappeared
among the sheltering leaves. He was
just in time. Even as the branches received and
closed over him the buffalo came tearing past.
Next moment there was a terrified yell, and a
dark, heavy object went whirling into the air.
Gilmore uttered a startled exclamation. " By
Jove ! there's one of my men killed ! " he cried.

Gilmore was no coward, but for an instant an
irresistible desire came over him to remain quiet.
Then yell upon yell broke from the bushes a few
yards ahead, as if the man who had been tossed
was being torn to pieces. Indignant and ashamed
of himself, Gilmore jumped to his feet and hastily
crammed a couple of cartridges into his empty rifle.

The-whereabouts of the unfortunate man were
made evident by the efforts of the infuriated
buffalo, which was charging with tremendous force
into a dense thicket. At each rush the heartrending
cries broke forth with unabated lung power.
To all appearances the victim was being mangled
to death. Through the forest rang the report of
Gilmore's rifle. With a grunt the buffalo turned
round. A second and then a third report rang
out. Such a reception was too much, even for a
mad buffalo, and he turned and fled.

The outcries of the gored Zanzibar! had now
ceased, and fearing the worst, Gilmore and his
men scrambled through the bush, expecting to find
a mangled corpse.

With some difficulty the centre of the thicket
was reached, where lay what appeared to be a
tumbled bundle of rags, the only evidence of its
human contents being a couple of legs which projected
from it.

As the men tenderly proceeded to overhaul their
prostrate companion, their worst fears were dissipated
on hearing a low moan. The poor fellow was
not yet quite dead then! "Oh, Bwana, Bwana," he
groaned, '' I am killed ! The mboga has killed me."

Gently and with encouraging words they continued
their examination, expecting each moment
to light upon some fatal wound, or at least a

terrible gash. To their great relief, they found
nothing but a few bruises and scratches, the fact
being that, thanks to the density of the bushes,
the buffalo, after having tossed him, had been able
to do its victim no further harm. This piece of
good fortune the M-Swahili refused to credit, however,
and lay with shut eyes, moaning out that he
was a dead man.

"Fool!" wasUledi's curt comment; and, nodding
significantly to a companion, he and the other
twitched him to his feet, greatly to the man's surprise.


For the first time he now opened his eyes, and
proceeded to examine himself in a stupefied manner.

"Now, then, Barth; wake up, man, wake up,
and tell us how it happened," said Gilmore, briskly.

I don't know, Bwana."

Don't know ? Don't sou know where it
caught you ? "

He must have a skin like a kifaru (rhinoceros,"
suggested Ferhani.

Or is a lump of mpili (rubber," added Uledi.

"Won't you show us how to do that somersault
? " queried Eesazi.

A variety of minor jokes followed, each member
of the party relieving the tension of his feelings
at the expense of the discomfited Barth.

The true explanation of the man's lucky escape

was that the buffalo, in butting at its victim, had
only caught the flying skirt of his kanzu, which,
being new and strong, did not give way, but supplied
a sure and safe means of propelling its wearer
skywards.

In the midst of the teasing to which the hero
of the moment was subjected, Uledi suddenly
became grave. As he lifted up a warning hand
the fooling ceased. In the silence which succeeded
a low pain-laden moan reached their ears. Each
eye flashed in mutual intelligence. "What was to
be done ? Finish the buffalo oft' ? Evidently Uledi
thought so, for a savage gleam lit up his eyes, as
if already he felt the struggling brute underneath
him, and his knife buried in its throat.

The men stood expectant. Gilmore was loth to
venture after the wounded animal, knowing that
the hunter is never called to perform any feat more
dangerous than follow a wounded buffalo into the
bush. But he, like many other adventurous 3'oung
fools, could not endure to have his men imagine
that he shrank from any danger, however foolhardy.
Accordingly, he signified by a nod that he would
finish it, though across his mind came grimly the
remembrance of his half-affected notion of the
night before — ' I may be killed, and a deuced good
thing, too."

Clenching his teeth, he gave a final look at his

VOL. I. p

rifle, and commenced the process of stalking. The
bushes were found to be too thickly grown and
interlaced for walking, and the hunters had to
wriggle along on their bellies. Nearer and nearer
they crawled; more and more distinct grew the
moans, higher rose the excitement every moment.
A few more yards, and they knew they must be
close upon the wounded animal. Still nothing
could be seen. Worse than all, the moans ceased.
Could the buffalo have heard them ? Was it preparing
to dash resistlessly upon them ? With
straining eyes, Gilmore sought to discover the
quarry, listening breathlessly the while for some
guiding sound. In vain. He could see or hear
nothing. Yet he dared not move. Before a danger
so indefinite he felt his courage slowly oozing away,
though in all probability his life now depended on
his nerve and presence of mind. The bravest will
momentarily succumb before perils which cannot
be measured or even seen, and Gilmore was no
exception to the rule as he lay there spell-bound,
not daring to go either forward or backward.

A deep, long-drawn breath came from within a
couple of yards of him. Immediately Gilmore
was himself again, and he felt that at that moment
he could hold his rifle more steadily, and that eye
and finger would work more in harmony than if
danger was miles away.

By virtue of much craning of the neck, the
buffalo was at length discovered. Carefully noting
the shoulder-blade, our sportsman sank down
again. Putting his rifle to his shoulder, and
aiming in the direction noted, he fired. There was
a swish of bushes, and an eager, savage grunt.
Gilmore lay flat and motionless, awaiting his fate.
A momentary silence followed the re-echoing report.
Gilmore looked up. To his consternation
he found the buffalo's head towering almost directly
over him, its fierce eyes glaring like coals, its
mouth dropping foam and blood. Gilmore knew
that discovery meant certain death, yet, fascinated
by the character of his danger, he had no feeling
of fear; his only conscious sensation was one of
uncanny admiration at the splendid pose of the
maddened brute, and the concentrated fury of its
expression, as it stood, snorting out hot blasts from
its widely distended nostrils, its mouth hanging
thick with bloody froth.

Still the buffalo did not move ; statuesque it
stood, defying its enemy even in death. Then
slowly, almost imperceptibly at first, its great
unwieldy body began to sway, though still it held
its head erect. Gradually the swaying became
more pronounced ; its eye lost some of its fiery
brilliancy, its head began to droop, and finally,
with a long-drawn moan, it fell with a crash

among the bushes, within a j^arcl of where Gihnoin*
lay. Simultaneously Gilmore sprang to his feet.
His movement, however, was premature. Even in
its death agonies the buffalo perceived his presence.
With paralyzing rapidity, the sturdy old bull
gathered all its remaining energies together, and
with a snort literally threw itself forward upon
him. Fortunately the effort, however astounding,
was comparatively weak, else Gilmore had been
a dead man. As it was, he found himself on his
back, stunned and breathless, the buffalo almost
on the top of him. Unable to rise again, it made
determined attempts to screw round its head to
gore or toss him ; but before this fell purpose was
achieved, Uledi sprang forward to his master's
assistance, discharging at close quarters both
barrels of his rifle into the animal's heart. A
quiver shook its bulk' body; with one or two
spasmodic twitches the legs stretched themselves
out ; then all was still, and Gilmore, panting but
unhurt, dragged himself from beneath its enormous
head.

While Uledi, like a good Mussulman, proceeded
to cut the throat of the game, Gilmore stood by
and mused on the queer composition of sensible
human beings, among whom he included himself,
who in the name of sport would undergo the most
frightful sensations and even run imminent risk of

death. Then the pride of the hunter took possession
of him, and he proceeded to measure the
horns of his prize.

'five feet from curve to curve, and a foot broad
in the middle," he exclaimed, with an air of satisfaction.
'' Not so had that, Uledi, eh ? "

The man who had been tossed was sent hack for
help to carry the meat to camp, while Gilmore
and the rest continued the hunt, soon to bringdown
a second buffalo with little difficulty or
danger. Towards sunset, they were all back at
the camping-ground, to partake with appetite of a
plentiful if not savoury dinner, after which Gilmore
took to a hammock, as the best place in which to
forget that he had a body mortal, and therefore
subject to weariness. There, in a dolce far nicntc
mood, he surveyed his toes, or dreamily enjoyed
the romantic scene around him. Picturesque
enough it was, in all its various elements— the
blazing bonfires with their red reflections in the
spring, and the dark, half-naked Wa-Swahili clustering
about them in merry groups, and chewing with
gusto huge buffalo ribs, while Ulu moved about
from one to another like a ministering imp of
darkness, evidently in more congenial surroundings
than when under the eye of Gilmore at Pepo-ni.
From the camp Gilmore 's thoughts wandered
gradually to Kate Kennedy, and then from her

found their ways homeward, till at last, overcome
by fatigue and lulled by the soothing sough of the
mountain breeze through the trees overhead, he
fell asleep, cosily wrapped in his Austrian rug.
By degrees the voices of the men ceased, as, sated
with beef, they, like their master, one by one
dropped off to sleep, with no other covering than
their cotton sheets. Two sentinels alone were left
to keep watch and ward alike over master and
men, and ghost-like they moved about in the
darkness to keep themselves awake, now and then
adding fuel to the fires, which were kept blazing
all night, partly to temper the keen mountain air,
partly to frighten off wild beasts — ■

Then Ni^lit and Silence rejoined."

Chapter Xii.

Next morning Gilmore awoke feeling unusually
cold and sliiveiy. On opening his eyes, he found
the little crater enveloped in the rawest of Scotch
mists, driven pitilessly overhead before rude gusts
of wind. Peeping out from the comparative comfort
of his rug, he could not help laughing as he
remarked the woe-begone aspect of his men, who
crouched around the fires, shivering as with ague.
In a dry atmosphere the same men would have
felt no discomfort in lying naked with the thermometer
at freezing point ; but a raw, damp temperature
of 40^ F. was sufficient to render them
utterly wretched and helpless. So keen, however,
was the air that even Gilmore was glad to turnout
of his hammock, and, wrapped in his rug, draw
near the fire to sip his coffee. Almost immediately'
he was joined by Ulu, who seemed less affected by
the cold than any.

It had been Gilmore's intention to do some more

shooting that clay, if for no other reason than to
keep his troublesome thoughts at bay. With such
a dense mist, however, that was clearly out of the
question. Before it cleared away, and allowed his
men to get warmed up for action, all the big game
would have sought their forest fastnesses. What,
then, was he to do ? He might go home, and next
day try the Kahe valley for elephants — that was one
idea. Or what about climbing Kibo or Kimawenzi?
That was worth thinking about, for neither of these
summits had as yet been reached. No, that would
not do ; he had not come prepared for such a
difficult expedition. Why not go round by Pisgah
and see the Kennedyss ? was the next thought that
occurred to him. No, that wouldn't do either. He
did not set feel equal to explaining his embarrassments
to the stiff old missionary and his impulsive
daughter.

For an hour or more Gilmore sat gloomily considering
his domestic complications and mental
perplexities, always returning to the same point,
however — ought he not at once to go to Miss
Kennedy and confide in her ? Before he could
come to any definite decision, his meditations were
interrupted by Tubu, who announced that breakfast
was ready. By the time that meal was finished
the mist had cleared away, and the mountain-side
assumed a more pleasing aspect, as the sun shone

out between the heavy masses of fleecy clouds that
rolled and tumbled along its forest-clad slopes.

Refreshed and inspired, Gilmore began to take
quite a hopeful view of the future, and promised
himself that later on — in the course of a day or
two, perhaps — he hould see Miss Kennedy and hear
what suggestions she had to make regarding the
continuance of little Ulu's moral and mental education.
Meantime, he would go home to Pepo-ni
and see how things were going on there, and — well,
as he had plenty of time, and felt much in the
mood for a good walk, he might as well go by a
roundabout way, pass down by Mandara's district,
and take a peep at Pisgah in passing — just see
what kind of place it was, but not, of course,
go in.

As a significant fact we may note that, as Gil-your
came to this conclusion, his hand travelled
instinctively to the breast pocket of his jacket,
where he usually carried the little locket Kate had
left at Pepo-ni ; and that, on finding he had it with
him, he smiled with an air of supreme satisfaction.

His orders were soon given. Two men were to
proceed to Serii's to get help to carry the meat to
camp ; Ulu and two more would accompany him ;
the rest would remain to guard the game. These
arrangements made, Gilmore started in the direction
of Mandara's.

For some occult reason our hero took a more
than common interest in the flora of the region
that clay. As he went along he began picking
up specimens of the rarer sorts of flowers that
abounded in this part of the mountain — beautiful
gladioli from the ground, and delicate sprays of
orchid from the trees. With these he mingled
flowers and ferns of more familiar and homelike
aspect — anemones and heaths, maidenhair and
spleenwort, until he had gathered quite a magnificent
bouquet. " They look rather nice," he inwardly
commented, as he surveyed his collection
with a critical air; "I only hope they will keep
till I get down to Pepo-ni." But even as the
thought took shape, a vague suspicion floated
through his mind that it was not his sitting-room,
but Kate's, they might eventually adorn.

^' Here, Ulu," he said aloud, addressing his
swarthy little companion, who trotted as usual by
his side ; '' you carry these."

Ulu took the flowers, wondering not a little what
could be the Bwana's object in burdening himself
with a bundle of weeds. Her final conclusion was
that he meant to weave a charm or make medicine
with them, and she stepped along quite proudly,
elated by the thought that she was allowed to help
the white man in his magic, even in this faint and
far-off way.

still keeping down the bill in a slanting westerly-direction,
Gilmonr sauntered leisurely along, and
was soon across the dense forest zone and back
into the cultivated region, or Chaga proper. About
three in the afternoon he reached the vicinity of
Pisgah, and, led by Uledi, who knew the district
well, be soon found himself on a slight rising
ground, whence, unseen himself, he could survey
the little outpost of Christianity and civilization so-modestly
yet so boldly planted in the heart of the
realms of darkness.

Pisgah, as it had been called by Kennedy— or
Mkuyu-ni, the place of the sycamore tree, as it
was more pleasantly named in the soft language of
the natives — was a charming ridge cut out of the
mountain-side by two streams which here ran
parallel for a distance of some three hundred yards.
From where he stood, Gilmore could without difficulty
distinguish the missionary's house, with its
grass-thatched roof and clay-built walls, nestling
in rustic simplicity under the three giant sycamores
to which the spot owed its name. Some simple
attempts at flower-beds in front, and a kitchen
garden behind — all duly fenced to protect them
from stray sheep and goats — helped to give tha
house a pleasant and homelike aspect.

A little way further down the hill stood a quadrangular
building of somewhat more lofty pretensions.

Outside ^yas a bell, from wbicli Gilinour
guessed that this must be the cburcli of the station,
though no cross or other religious emblem marked
the edifice as sacred. Unusually well-built huts
peeped here and there from among the banana
trees ; while almost every available inch of ground
was under cultivation, and irrigated by an ingenious
system of canals which brought the water from the
streams to the requisite levels.

The whole settlement had an air of cleanliness
and industry, in striking contrast to the picturesque
untidiness of the ordinary M-Chaga village, though
Oilmour was unable to repress a smile as he remarked
the ludicrous appearance presented by
many of the converts, decked out as they were in
fragmentary portions of European costume, which
seemed strangely out of keeping with the nature of
the surroundings. x\s he surveyed the peaceful
picture, Gilmore could not help thinking with
admiration of the man who had voluntarily foregone
the pleasures of cultured society, and sacrificed
the best years of his life, with the single-minded
idea of doing good to his fellows, and imparting to
the heathen some of the sweetness and light of the
Christian religion. according to his light, Kennedy
was striving to do good in the world ; and yet he
(Gilmore), an idle do-nothing, had dared to set
himself up to revile and ridicule the worthy

missionary's work — nays had even cruelly wounded
the feelings of the good man himself. As he
recalled his interview with Mr. Kennedy at Pepo-ni,
he felt overwhelmed with shame at his thoughtlessness
and rudeness.

'* What a boor they must think me ! " he mentally
ejaculated as he turned sadly away. '' Come,
Uledi," he added aloud, 'rit's time we were getting
homewards. We shall scarcely reach Pepo-ni
before dark."

*' Oh, Bwana, listen ! " cried Ulu, who had been
sitting on the grass apparently as much absorbed
as Gilmore. '' Don't you hear that beautiful
sound?"

No," said Gilmore : '' what is it ? "

I don't know. Listen ! " cried Ulu again.

It must be a harmonium," said Gilmore, half
to himself, as softly to his ear came the sound of
far-off music. *' We might go nearer," he added,
turning to Uledi, '"' only I don't want to be
seen."

'' There is a pathway leading down through the
bananas to near the church," answered Uledi, who
did not want to go further that day, and shrewdly
suspected that his master was equally disposed to
remain where he was.

''Oh, is there?" cried Gilmore with alacrity.
Then by all means let's go down ; " and, following

Uledi, the little party crept stealthily along among
the trees, and was soon in the immediate vicinity
of the church.

At that moment the music, which had ceased
for a little, began again. With a start, Gilmore
recognized a hymn familiar to him in the dear,
sweet days of his boyhood, though almost forgotten
in these later sears of bitterness and sorrow.
Tremblingly the quavering voice of Mr. Kennedy
took up the sacred strain —

Lead, kindly Light, amid tli' encircling gloom,

Lead Thou me on ;
The night is dark, and I am far from home,

Lead Thou me on.
Keep Thou my feet ; I do not ask to see
The distant scene ; one step enough for me."

Had the missionary known who was listening to
him, and deliberately selected with a view to reaching
his hearer's heart, he could scarcely have made
a better choice. Gilmore was deeply moved. For
some time after the last note died away he stood
spellbound, lost in thought. A soft touch at length
recalled him to himself.

Was it the voice of Maungu (God) ? " queried
Ulu in a whisper, lifting her great awe-stricken
eyes to his.

"No, toto," he said gently; "but it was the
white man's salaam (teacher) speaking to Maungu "
a reply with which Ulu appeared well satisfied.

■J

Gilmore, bis meditations thus interrupted, did
not seek to resume them, but with a farewell glance
at village, chiux-b, and mission-house, turned his
back upon them all, and set out on his way homewards.


Chapter XVII.

As Gilmoiir, much to Uledi's disgust, slowly retraced
his steps up the hill, his ears were suddenly
greeted by a sound of much feminine chatter and
laughter, which seemed to come from no great
distance.

"This sounds cheerful," said he to himself.
*' Evidently the Pisgahites do not mope in melancholy.
Hullo ! " he exclaimed aloud, as some one
among the trees began to whistle ' The Irish
Washerwoman;' 'profane enough music this time,
surely ! Actually a jig, by Jove ! Has our reverend
friend imported an assistant ? " and, bidding his
men remain where they were, Gilmore stepped
aside from the path and softly began making his
way through the undergrowth in the direction from
which the jubilant strain proceeded. '' By Jove !
Miss Kennedy herself!" was his suppressed but
emphatic ejaculation, as, cautiously parting the
intervening branches, he caught sight of that distracting
young lady standing with scientifically

puckered lips and hands crossed behind her back,
critically superintending the operations of some
native women engaged in an attempt to wash linen
a la mode Anglaise. Apparently their efforts were
anything but satisfactory, for with an impatient
English " Bother it ! " uttered entirely for her own
edification, Kate abruptly ceased her music and
stepped up to the trough which did duty as a
wash-tub.

"Not that way, Filani," she said quietly in
Ki-Swahili, as she rescued a dainty pocket-handkerchief
from the hands of one of the women, who
had been rubbing away at it with a vigour that
threatened its immediate destruction. '^ See," she
added ; ''I will show you again ; " and, tucking up
her sleeves, Kate plunged up to the elbows in
soap-suds, and proceeded with the washing of the
handkerchief with as grave a face as when at
Pepo-ni she had lectured Gilmore on the social
mission of women.

A pretty picture ! " exclaimed that young man
enthusiastically, as he cast an approving glance
over Kate's supple figure and white, rounded arms,
and then stood watching her business-like movements
with an amused smile.

I wonder if I should speak to her ? " he went
on. "By Jove! I've a good mind to, just to see
how she'd look."

VOL. I. Q

By this time Kate had finished the handkerchief,
and set to work on some heavier article with increased
vigour.

'' Bravo, Miss Kennedy ! well done ! " cried Gil-mom*,
stepping out from among the trees and
waving his hat demonstratively.

'' Mr. Gilmore ! " exclaimed Kate, with an accent
of blank astonishment, as she let her dripping
burden fall back with a splash into the trough.

Even so. Miss Kennedy. I need scarcely ask
if you are well, I think," was Gilmore's rejoinder.

But when did you arrive ? Where did you
come from ? Have you seen papa ? Where are
your men ? " Kate continued breathlessly, hastily
drying her hands on the first thing she could lay
hold of — a kitchen towel, as she afterwards discovered.
" Oh, I am so glad to see you," she went
on, without waiting for an answer to any of her
questions. " I thought you were never going to
pay us a visit."

''Oh, but I've not come to pay a visit now,"
Gilmore began. Then, in answer to Kate's disappointed
look, he went on, "No, really; I can't
stay. I was passing, and I just looked in "

''A la Paul Pry," interrupted Kate, brightening
up again and smiling. " You've not tramped
twelve miles just to say how-do-you-do and goodbye
to us though. Come along down to the house
and have tea."

*' But my men," urged Gilmore in rather half-hearted
remonstrance; *they are waiting for mein
the wood."

Oh, Filani will take care of them," answered
Kate, turning away to give her orders to one of the
women. *' Is Ulu here too ? " she added, as she
came back. " You promised to bring her, you
know, the first time you came."

Yes, Ulu is here, but she can come on with
Uledi."

'' All right, then ; we needn't wait. This way,
please ; " and Kate took a bypath to the left, which
formed a short cut to the mission-house.

*miss Kennedy," queried Gilmore banteringly,
as Kate referred to the " moist welcome " she
had given him, ''do you always superintend the
family washing ? "

*' No, not always, but sometimes."

*regarded from an aesthetic standpoint, the
occupation is highly becoming."

"Regarded from a utilitarian standpoint, it is
highly necessary. Spite of hunting efforts, I have
as yet failed to impress the negro mind with the
idea that there is a distinction between lawn and
leather. I should soon have been in rags if I had
allowed my women to go on pommelling my linen
after the native fashion."

*' Oh ! So you are of a revolutionary tendency,

Miss Kennedy ? I dare say you would find plenty
of other things to reform out here besides the mode
of washing."

*' Oh, everything," cried Kate with emphasis ;
that is, everything domestic."

Who would have suspected you of taking an
interest in things domestic ? " said Gilmore, with
a mischievous look.

Why not, Mr. Gilmore ? " queried Kate, turning
a pair of astonished eyes on her interlocutor. " Oh,
I understand," she went on, with a slight air of
sarcasm. *you think because I am going to bea
doctor I must necessarily despise purely feminine
duties."

*' Well, most women who go in for study seem to
care for nothing else; at least, men all think so."

Behold a notable exception," cried Kate, with
a mocking little bow. " I confess I do like study
best," she went on, growing serious again; "it's
not so monotonous as housekeeping. Still, I'm
not above concocting a pudding or — or — or even
superintending a washing, as you have just seen ; "
and Kate smiled again as she thought how nicely
she had been caught in flagrante delicto.

' Oh, the lassie can bake, and the lassie can brew,' "

began Gilmore.

« And the lassie ' "

**'Is not yet twenty-two,' shall we say for the
sake of truth and the rhyme ? " added Kate, as
Gilmore stopped and looked to her to finish the
line. *' But she can't make herself into a mannor
set the Thames on fire — heigh-ho ! " and she
sighed with comic earnestness.

You are ambitious, then, Miss Kennedy ? "
queried Gilmore, secretly thinking she was much
better as a girl.

"Oh, tremendously so; but my ambition, like
myself, is toning down with age. At ten I
dreamed of writing plays like Shakespeare, and
singing like Jenny Lind ; at fifteen I think I had
come down to George Eliot and Patti ; and now —
well, now I am inclined to be content with a decent
mediocrity as the utmost I can ever hope to attain
to. There's nothing like knowing one's proper
level ; it saves one many a smart rap on the
head."

At this philosophic, though perhaps somewhat
well-worn observation, Gilmore laughed good-naturedly,
and so did Kate ; but nothing more was
said, for just at that moment they reached the
house, where Gilmore was received by Mr. Kennedy
with a cordiality that went far to intensify his
growing feeling of kindliness towards the stiff and
somewhat narrow old man.

As together they entered the sitting-room, Gil-your

was struck by the cosy, home-like, almost
English air that pervaded it. It was a room
much like Gilmore's at Pepo-ni, only rather larger.
There was the same light, simple furniture, the
same rug-strewn floor, the same lattice-work walls.
Improving on Gilmore's idea of the canvas curtain,
Kate had lined the walls with buff-coloured Zanzibar
mats, boldly painted by her own deft fingers
with tropical birds and wild flowers. Here and
there a dainty bit of drapery, a brilliant scarf
loosely knotted over the back of a chair, or a quaint
calabash filled with flowers and ferns, plainly spoke
of a woman in the house. Most eloquent of all
in Gilmore's eyes was the open work-basket, large
enough and untidy enough to suggest frequent use,
standing by a low wicker chair near one of the
windows, which commanded a fine view of the
surrounding country — the distant mountains, the
pleasant slopes of Chaga, and the quaint little
village nestling so picturesquely among the banana
trees.

On a small table in one corner stood the tea-tray,
temptingly covered with a snowy cloth, and laden
with a bright array of china and silver.

Kate, my dear, why do you always insist on
making tea yourself?" said Mr. Kennedy to his
daughter, as she busied herself over the table.
"You're not half lazy enough for Africa."

Wait a bit, papa ; I'm not yet half acclimatized.
Mr. Gilmore, do you take sugar and cream ? "

How deliciously home-like that sounds ! Yes,
please, both," said Gilmore, as he rose to take his
cup from Kate's hands. " China cups. Miss
Kennedy ! " he exclaimed. *' This is luxury ! "

Yes, Mr. Gilmore, isn't it ? " remarked Mr.
Kennedy. *' Kate would have it she couldn't stand
indies,' as she slightingly called my beautiful
enamelled ware "

'* So her indulgent daddy loaded up a boy with

crockery " explained Kate, regarding her father

affectionately.

'rand all the way up she nearly badgered the
poor fellow's life out of him," concluded Kennedy,
"with cautions to be careful not to let his load
fall."

"Papa, that is an unnecessary detail," cried
Kate, professing to look severe. "As it turned out
my cautions were by no means superfluous. More
than half the things were smashed by the time
they got here."

Then we had our enamels stolen," Mr. Kennedy
went on, " and if it hadn't been for your kindness
in replenishing our stock, Mr. Gilmore, we should
have been very hard up indeed."

"Oh, you mustn't talk about that, Mr. Kennedy,"
exclaimed Gilmore ; "I had plenty to spare."

Ah, here comes Ulu," cried Kate, as a little
dark face peeped curiously round the edge of the
doorway. " Come in, little one," she added in
Ki-Swahili; " come in, and have tea with the rest
of us. Oh, what lovely flowers ! " she exclaimed,
as Ulu shyly entered, her hands full of the splendid
blossoms Gilmore had gathered on the mountain-side.
" Where did you get them ? "

It was the Bwan' mkubwa," answered Ulu hesitatingly,
with a timid glance towards Gilmore, as if
asking him to continue the explanation for her.

*' Take them, Miss Kennedy ; they are for you,"
said Gilmore.

*' Oh, how kind of you ! Thank 3'ou so much.
I adore flowers," cried Kate in ecstasy, tenderly
taking the proffered bouquet as if fearful of destroying
a single delicate petal. " But where did you
get them?" she asked again. "I never saw any
flowers like those on the way from Pepo-ni."

No, they come from higher up the mountain.
I did not come from Pepo-ni this morning. I was
buffalo-hunting, and stayed all night at Mani-moto."

And you have walked all that way to-day !
Oh, Mr. Gilmore, why didn't you tell me ? " cried
Kate repentantly. " Why, you must be tired to
death, and starving too. Do let me order something
more substantial than tea for you ; " and she
rose to call a servant.

*' No, really ; you mustn't think of it," interposed
Gilmore. " I prefer tea to anything else at the
end of a walk."

*' But it's two hours yet till dinner-time," remonstrated
Kate.

I assure you I won't faint in the interval.
May I trouble you for another cup, and some more
of that delicious head and butter ? "

"But, Mr. Gilmore," said Kennedy, 'why not
have ' tea and billet,' as we say in Scotland ? "

Really, I'd much rather have the * tea ' without
the 'billet,' unpatriotic as it may appear."

Ah, here is something that will rouse the
Scotchman in you," cried Kate, springing to her
feet and darting into the next room, to reappear
almost immediately, carrying a plateful of genuine,
gritty, Scotch oat-cakes.

"Oat cakes!" exclaimed Gilmore, with unaffected
delight. " Well, this is a surprise ! Food
for the gods ! " he ejaculated, eagerly breaking offa
crisp morsel and applying his teeth to it.

And food for men," added Kate, pleased at her
guest's appreciation of the homely fare.

Ay, especially men of bone and muscle,"
cried Mr. Kennedy, rubbing his hands enthusiastically.
" There's nothing like oatmeal for
making bone "

Hard heads, hard knobs, and angularities of

all sorts, eh, papa ? " added Kate, laughing ; " also
porridge, cakes, and — and "

''Haggis," suggested Gilmore, coming to her
assistance.

'exactly, Mr. Gilmore; thank you — haggis.
Not that I ever tasted that ' great chieftain o' the
pudding' race,' though."

"And mine," gravely added Gilmore.

Oh, Mr. Gilmore, what hypocrisy ! " cried
Kate. " I do believe you are as innocent of haggis
as I am."

Miss Kennedy, I am surprised," returned
Gilmore with an injured air.

Well, now, tell me, did you ever taste it ? "

Taste it ? To doubt that is to doubt my
patriotism."

Oh, I did not know that there was a direct
ratio between Scotch haggis and Scotch patriotism.
Well, then, to jut my question differently, how
many pounds of patriotism have you consumed ?
Fifty ? "

Oh, scarcely so many as that."

Ten ? "

Scarcely."

One, perhaps ? "

I should think about a quarter of an ounce
would be nearer it," put in Mr. Kennedy, in his
quiet way.

"Yes, I think so," replied Gilmore ; '' and even
that I regretted."

Oh, shame, mr. Gilmore, shame ! You mighty
at least, have persevered until you acquired the
taste."

But the family doctor forbade," urged Gilmore
in self-defence.

Degenerate son of a noble race, I'm afraid
there's no hope for you. To think of your sheltering
yourself under the ignoble plea of ' doctor's
orders ' ! " and Kate shook her head hopelessly as
she rose and pushed back her chair. "Well," she
added, going towards the door, 'let us quit this
painful subject. Don't you think we might take
a turn outside ? Or would you rather stay indoors
and rest?"

*' Certainly not. By all means, let us go out ; "
and Gilmore jumped to his feet with alacrity.

'' Come, then, and I will show you the church

and Oh, but I had forgotten ; I must arrange

your lovely flowers first."

'' Oh, never mind the flowers just now. They
won't spoil by waiting half an hom"

I'm afraid they will. See, they are drooping
already, poor things. But don't wait for me.
Papa, you can take Mr. Gilmore over the place,
and I'll come on by-and-by."

"With pleasure; but, remember, I have the

men's English lesson at five o'clock. You won't
be long ? "

Not more than a quarter of an hour or so.
Wait for me at the church," cried Kate, hurriedly
commencing to undo the wisp of grass with which
the flowers were bound together. *' Ferjallah,"
she added, addressing a servant, " take Ulu round
and give her a ride on my donkey. First bring
me some fresh water, though. Quick ! " and Kate
turned to go indoors, while her father and Gilmore
took the nearest path to the house of one of the
village dignitaries, a pet convert and special
favourite of Mr. Kennedy's.

They found him arrayed in all the glory of a
cast-off clerical coat and hat, but did not stay todo
more than exchange salutations with him, Mr.
Kennedy adding a hope that he would not forget to
come to the English class that afternoon. From
house to house they passed, always with the same
message; while between times Mr. Kennedy, forgetting
for the moment Mr. Gilmore's expressed
views on missionary enterprise, talked earnestly to
his visitor of the work he had done and horsed todo,
of the progress already made at his new station,
and of the further improvements, spiritual and
material, he desired to effect. To all this Gilmore
listened attentively, but without saying much, not
being hopeful of the continuance of the reforms the

missionary had undeniably brought about, and
especially not being so much inclined as the latter
to believe in the permanence of the transformation
supposed to be effected in the natives' souls by
the preaching of the gospel.

At length it was time for them to seek the
church, and the conversation turned upon Kate.

It must be a great comfort to you to have your
daughter here, Mr. Kennedy," said Gilmore.

Oh, unspeakable. Now that she is with me, I
can scarcely understand how I managed to endure
the utter loneliness of the last twenty years. The
Lord Himself must have given me strength."

Twenty years ! " repeated Gilmore. '* Is it so
long as that since your wife died ? "

She died when her child was born," replied
Kennedy, a look of great pain and sadness on his
face. ** I sometimes wonder," he continued, after
a pause, slowly and with an accent of deep melancholy
in his voice — *' I sometimes wonder if I have
not done wrong in bringing Kate out here, too."

Oh, I don't think you need trouble about that,
Mr. Kennedy," cried Gilmore, cheerfully. 'i'm
sure she's all right. She looks healthy enough, at
any rate."

''My wife was just as bright and full of life as
she, and yet "

"Oh, but really, Mr. Kennedy," remonstrated

Gilmore, '' you mustn't allow yourself to take too
morbid a view of the possibilities of the situation.
It would, of course, be nonsense to deny that there
are dangers incident to the country and climate ;
but here, in Chaga, these are reduced to a minimum,
and, after twenty years' experience, you must know
perfectly how they are to be met. Then, after the
medical training Miss Kennedy has had, she must
be better able than most girls to take care of her
health."

'' True ; but it is also an additional element of
risk. She is so ardent and impetuous, she never
thinks of danger to herself. If any one is sick
within twenty miles of us, she must be off at once
to see Uhe case,' as she insists on calling it,
regardless of fatigue or the possibility of infection.
I wish I could persuade her to take as deep an
interest in the spiritual welfare of her patients,"
continued the missionary, half to himself. '' She
concerns herself far too much with their bodies,
and far too little with their souls. It all comes of
that impersonal way she has of talking about
cases,' I believe," he concluded, with a sigh and
a shake of the head.

Gilmore smiled, as he thought to himself that
possibly the fair delinquent's shortcomings might
be capable of another explanation. He wisely said
nothing on that head, however ; but, glad of an

opportunity of diverting his companion's thoughts
from the gloomy direction in which they had
threatened to turn, he gallantly took up the defence
on other grounds.

^'But, Mr. Kennedy," he urged, *' I am sure you
must often have found Miss Kate's ministrations
open an easy pathway for your own."

*'0h yes, indeed," cried Mr. Kennedy, with
enthusiasm. *' Kate has been nothing but a help
to me in every way, only she seems to put first
what I would put last."

I should think she would be a great favourite
with the natives," said Gilmore.

"Well, 'favourite' is scarcely the word for it.
She is beloved, no doubt ; but she is also revered,
and almost worshipped. Her cures are regarded
as something supernatural, as, of course, you will

understand from your own experience, and

Oh, here she is at last," cried Mr. Kennedy, interrupting
himself, as, panting and breathless, Kate
came running towards them. ^' Take time, my
dear, take time," he added, as she came up.
You'll hurt yourself running like that."

Oh, papa, I'm so sorry ! " exclaimed Kate.
'* Am I very late ? I stayed to change my dress,
you see," she continued explanatorily, 'rand it took
longer than I expected."

As usual, I may add," said her father, laughing

and pinching Kate's flushed cheek. " Women
are never to be counted on when there's a toilette
in question. Well, I must hurry off now, at any
rate," he went on. " Mr. Gilmore, you will excuse
me. I dare say Kate won't let you weary till I
come back;" and, so saying, Mr. Kennedy walked
briskly away.

*' Have you been over the church, Mr. Gil-your
? " was Kate's first question when they were
left alone.

Yes, thank you ; but I shouldn't mind going
again, especially if you would sing something.
The harmonium is fairly in tune, I think."

Oh, not now, please," cried Kate, in answer to
Gilmore 's request ; " I am too much out of breath."

"And all on account of this wonderful dress ? "

"Yes. By-the-by, what do you think of it?"
and Kate stepped back a pace or two to let her
companion have a better view.

The gown in question was not quite an ordinary
one. It was composed of soft white Indian muslin,
and fell about Kate's lissom figure in long, straight
folds, confined at the waist by a yellow ribbon,
except where in front a loose end was mysteriously
caught up and carried scarf-wise to the left
shoulder. Loose, wide sleeves, not unlike those of
a Roman tunic, added greatly to the effect of the
classic draping of the costume.

Think of it ? " repeated Gilmore. " I think it
charming. It suits you to perfection," he added,
as he completed his admiring survey. 'ris it
not something like what your women here are
wearing ? "

"Yes. Papa wanted them put into European
clothes right away, but I wouldn't hear of it ; they
seemed so conventional, and out of keeping with
the surroundings. Of course, they couldn't be
allowed to continue the native costume — or shall
we say want of costume?" queried Kate, parenthetically
— '' so, as a compromise, I invented this,"
and she indicated her own cool, graceful gown ;
and, to get the women to wear it, took to wearing
it a good deal myself."

Why didn't you invent something for the men
at the same time ? "

Oh, the men were beyond me. I did try to do
something with them; but the hereditary negro
bias in favour of tail-coats and second-hand tiles
was too much for me, and I had to acknowledge
myself beaten. Come, Mr. Gilmore," added Kate,
after making this laughing avowal; 'let's go back
to the house. It will be much nicer in the sitting-room
than here."

Just as they reached the porch, Gilmore suddenly
remembered the locket.

"Oh, Miss Kennedy," he cried, abruptly .

I. R

ing off in the middle of some remark he happened
to be making at the moment, and beginning to
fumble hurriedly in his pocket, *'I had almost
forgotten. Here is something you left behind at
Pepo-ni; " and, pulling out the missing trinket, he
handed it to Kate, with a curious look of inquiry
in his eyes, as if anxious to see what effect its
restoration would produce.

''My dear little locket ! " cried Kate, ecstatically
heedless of everything save her own delight. ''Oh,
I am so glad ! And my dear old Dodo's photo,
too," she added, as she touched the spring and
found that the portrait was safe. " Where did you
find it, Mr. Gilmore ? " she asked, still continuing
to regard the portrait affectionately, to the further
strengthening of Gilmore's suspicion that this
Dodo " was no ordinary friend. " I had quite
given it up for lost."

It was Ulu who found it, shortly after you
went away. I should have sent it after you, but
every day I intended to come myself and bring it
with me. I carried it about with me continually
for that very reason."

"And I, on my part, would have sent to inquire
about it ; but every day I thought you would be
here, or — or — perhaps, if you could not come yourself,"
Kate continued hesitatingly, "would have
sent it to me, had you found it. So I always put

off ; and when so many days went by, and I beard
nothing of it, I concluded I bad not lost it at
Pepo-ni, but somewhere on the road, and that now
I should never bear of it again."

"I am really very sorry," began Gilmore.

'' Ob, but you mustn't be," cried Kate, fearing
her words had sounded like a reproach. *' The
delay has only increased the pleasure of getting it
back. Of course, you saw the photo inside ? "

Yes. May I ask whose it is ? "

''Oh, Dodo's," explained Kate, vaguely, as if it
were a matter of course that Gilmore' should know
who '' Dodo " was. " But I have a much better
one than that. Happy thought ! " she exclaimed ;
"I will show you my album. Just excuse me
one moment ; " and, leaving Gilmore standing in
the porch, Kate darted away and disappeared
within doors.

Chapter XVIII.

*' Allow me, Miss Kennedy," exclaimed Gilmore,
as Kate returned, a large photographic album
under one arm, a couple of doubled-up folding-chairs
under the other.

With a smile, Kate permitted him to relieve her
of the chairs and set them on their legs. Then,
settling herself comfortably on one of them, she
drew the other towards her, and motioned to
Gilmore to sit down.

"That is uncle," she said, opening the album,
and pointing to a fine-looking man of sixty or
thereabouts. *' I lived with him all the time I
was in Edinburgh, you know," she added, by way
of explanation. "That is auntie," she went on,
turning the page. "And that's Grace, and that's
Dora, and here's Dodo. Now, isn't that much
better than the little thing in the locket here ? "
and Kate laid the smaller x^hoto on the open page
for comparison.

*' You forget, Miss Kennedy, that I am still in
the dark as to who Dodo is," said Gilmore, amused
at the eager way in which Kate passed from portrait
to portrait without stopping to comment on them
after the customary fashion of album exhibitors.

How stupid of me ! " exclaimed Kate. " Why,
of course you are. It seems so natural to me to
regard you as an old friend, that I always forget
this is only our third meeting, and that you don't
know anything about me."

'' I feel flattered, Miss Kennedy, I assure you,"
said Gilmore.

'* Oh, now, please, Mr. Gilmore," cried Kate,
mistaking the tone of this reply, " don't begin
making any of these funny little speeches one
hears so frequently ! They are so often unmeaning,
one feels tempted to think they must be always
so." Kate looked so genuinely distressed that
Gilmore could not find it in his heart to resent the
unnecessary rebuke, for he had been perfectly
honest in the feeling that had dictated the offending
remark, though, as he acknowledged to himself,
his way of putting it had been somewhat stiff
and formal. Something of this Kate must have
gathered from his silence ; for, looking up, she
added impulsively, '' But I do believe you did
mean it — meant that you were glad we already
seemed like old friends, you know."

'why, of course I am," returned Gilmore.
That was just the thought which struck me that
day after you left Pepo-ni."

"Come, then," said Kate, smiling again, "and
I shall introduce you to my other old friends ; "
and once more she opened the album at the
beginning.

As she turned the pages, this time in a more
leisurely fashion, Gilmore could not help mentally
remarking how lovingly she lingered to dwell on
this or that characteristic of the individuals she
described; how rapturously she spoke of their
doings, talents, and acquirements, as if, indeed,
they filled her whole soul. Her uncle was the best
and cleverest man in all the world ; her aunt the
dearest and kindest woman ; Dora, her eldest
cousin, was such a lovely girl; and Grace, the
second, promised to be such a splendid artist — she
was studying now in London, and already had had
a picture "on the line" at the Academy. And
Dodo — Donald was his right name, but she always
called him Dodo — Dodo was such a bright, handsome
boy. You could see that from his photo,
couldn't you ? He was only a few months older
than herself, and they had grown up just like
brother and sister ; they always called each other
so, indeed ; and they had studied together all
along, and — and Here Kate hesitated and

blushed, as she looked up to find Gilmore watching
her face intently, and from its expression guessed
that he was thinking of some deeper tie as existing
between her and Dodo than that of a merely
fraternal love. Hastily she looked down again,
and in silence turned over several pages.

These are all other dear friends of mine," she
said at length ; '* not relatives, j'ou know, but
acquaintances who belonged to our student circle."

"Mostly men, I see," was Gilmore's comment.
Were there no girls among the ' initiated ' ? "

No. I think there must be something wanting
in me," answered Kate, a grave, almost sad
expression on her face ; ''I never seemed to get
on well with girls."

'' Perhaps because you had not much in common
with most," suggested Gilmore, by way of
comfort.

Perhaps. That is just the trouble ! A girl
ought to have things * in common ' with other girls.
But there's no use puzzling over that at present,"
said Kate, with a sigh. " The fact remains that
I seemed to have more in common with men, and
more readily made friends of them. Then, of
course, Dodo's friends were all men," she added,
and naturally I came a great deal into contact
with them."

'' Of course you did not attend classes with them ?

Edinburgh University still holds out against the
fair girl-graduate,' I think. There were some
tremendous student rows on the subject in my
time."

*' Are you an Edinburgh student too, Mr.
Gilmore ? " cried Kate, in delighted surprise.
This is a fresh bond of friendship. How long is
it since you were there ? "

*' As a student ? Oh, nearly ten years."

How funny ! Why, I would be a little girl in
frocks then, still addicted to running races with
Dodo, and unconscious of any crime against
feminine proprieties in confessing myself a biped."

Gilmore laughed.

"How long did you stay in Edinburgh?" Kate
went on eagerly.

Nearly two years."

*' Did you know many people ? Perhaps we
may have mutual friends."

No, I'm afraid not. I lived very much alone,
visited by and visiting no one. Edinburgh people
are very reserved, as you know, and so was I. I
had no wish to court society, and, as I was not a
celebrity, of course society didn't court me."

'but students ? You must have known plenty
of them."

''No, not intimately; not beyond the exchange
of a nod or a greeting."

How frightfully lonely it must have been ! "
exclaimed Kate, with a little shiver.

*not to me. I had the companionship of my
own thoughts, and that was enough, for they were
bright and pleasant. I had hopes and purposes in
those days, was dreamy and romantic — oh, a very
different person to what I am now, I assure you ; "
and Gilmore smiled bitterly, and relapsed into
silence.

But, Mr. Gilmore," began Kate, as if she
would have liked to hear more of that solitary and,
as it seemed to her, terrible life. Then, noting the
strange expression on Gilmore's face, and fearing
the theme might be unpleasant, she stopped and
asked abruptly, " What did you go in for at the
university ? "

*' Science chiefly. Intuitively, I think, I had an
intense love of Nature, and even as a boy could
never see enough of her varying moods and aspects.
As I grew older the feeling increased, but with it
came more of the desire to know the how and the
why of things. In an amateurish sort of way, I
took up botany and geology, and finally became so
interested in my studies that, on leaving school, I
determined to devote a year or two to them, and
went to Edinburgh accordingly."

I know something of botany and geology, too,"
cried Kate, with interest. 'i'm afraid I never got

beyond the * amateurish ' stage, though," she added,
shaking her head.

'' Who was your teacher ? "

Oh, only uncle. We used to take long walks
together every Saturday. Sometimes we went to
the country and studied strata and natural orders ;
sometimes we went to the slums and studied
archaeology and ' life.' I think the last was my
favourite, and first made me turn from books to
humanity. It first made me think of going in for
medicine, too. I felt as if I must do something to
relieve the horrible suffering and misery I saw,
and which seemed so overwhelming compared with
the measures taken to alleviate it."

*' How very different our two ' environments '
seem to have been ! " said Gilmore, meditatively.
*you seem never to have done anything alone,
and I never anything in company."

'' But at home — had you no brothers or sisters ? "

'* Only one sister, and she married and went
abroad when I was seven."

'^ And at school — had you no companions ? "

*' Oh yes. There, like yourself, I was one of a
little set of my own — a very idle set, I'm afraid you
would have called it. Our first point of contact
was a mutual contempt for such commonplace
things as grammar and arithmetic ; our next, a
common admiration for whatever was brave and

heroic, especially if it appealed to the imagination.
We all took romantic views of life, and all dreamt
of one day making a name in the world, each in
our different ways. After the manner of our
favourite heroes, we all vowed eternal brotherhood,
but — but — somehow or another" — here Gilmore's
words came slowly, and he seemed to be speaking to
himself, forgetful altogether of his companion —
*' somehow or another, the vow has broken
through, like other vows one hears of in one's
time ; " and again came the bitter smile Kate had
noted before.

For a time there was silence, during which
Gilmore sat lost in one of his gloomy trains of
thought, and Kate busied herself afresh with
speculations as to what it could be that made Mr.
Gilmore so constantly tend towards melancholy,
and why it was he didn't rouse himself up and go
and do something, instead of settling down to
mope and brood in Africa, in the very place,
according to her idea, to make one sick of oneself
and sick of everything. Once, the inclination
crossed her to put some of her speculations into
words, but a glance at Gilmore's mournful face
and dejected air convinced her that to question
him then, at any rate, would only be to cause him
further vexation. For a minute or two she cast
about in her mind, trying to think of some cheerful

topic of conversation, or, at least, something that
would not too vividly recall things European and
painful.

What about Ulu, Mr. Gilmore ? " she exclaimed
at length, as a bright idea struck her. " Have you
found her ' soul ' yet ? "

Gilmore looked up and laughed, more at the
abruptness of Kate's question than anything else.
Not quite," he answered ; " but the discovery is
coming — coming. A little more polishing of the
husk "

'rand the kernel will peep through, I suppose,"
was Kate's laughing conclusion. ^' After that are
we to have the wedding, then ? "

Of course, as soon after as possible," replied
Gilmore, with assumed gravity.

Not really, Mr. Gilmore ? You are not in
earnest, are you?"

*' Certainly. Why shouldn't I be ? "

*but it seems so preposterous. The idea of
yom marrying a negress ! "

'why, Miss Kennedy, I am surprised at you.
When we spoke of it last you seemed quite
charmed."

Oh yes, it sounded very fine, you know ; but

when I got home and thought it all over "

Kate shook her head expressively, and left her
sentence unfinished. *' I can't see how it will

make either of sou happy," she added, resting
her chin on the allium she still held in her hands,
and gazing seriously at Gilmonr over the top of it.

*' Happy ! Who thinks of being happy ? " cried
Gilmore. '* Happiness is for gods, not for mortals.
Still, I don't see why we shouldn't get on very well.
Ulu is a dear little soul."

'* Yes ; but " began Kate, interrupting him.

'' There are drawbacks, of course," Gilmore went
on. " Every woman has her drawbacks. In this
case the complexion, for instance."

'' Now, Mr. Gilmore, you are laughing at me,"
cried Kate, hotly. '' That is too bad. I really
wanted to know about Ulu's progress."

"Well, I apologize, and will confess in all
seriousness that my quest for a ' soul ' has been
altogether a more difficult undertaking than I
could ever have anticipated."

*' You mean that you have failed, then ? " queried
Kate with her usual directness.

N — no, not ' failed ' exactly ; but it is uphill
work, and — and progress is so very slow ; and the
fact of the matter is, that having got so far, I don't
quite know how to proceed further."

This was a decidedly mild way of stating the
case. Yet it was very natural that Gilmore, in
his present changeable state of mind, should not
all at once care to acknowledge to Kate the failure

of the scheme of which he had spoken to her at
Pepo-ni-smith so much enthusiasm ; indeed, as we
have already seen, it was only at times that he
would acknowledge it to himself. Practically he
had all along acted on the assumption that
he would one day marry Ulu, with the result of
occasional moments of self-delusion. Now, in his
heart of hearts, there was a strong and constant
conviction that such a marriage was impracticable,
and only when the anti-civilization demon had
possession of him did it please him to play with
the romantic fancy as if there was still a possibility
of its becoming fact. But opposition is a stimulus,
ridicule a goad that often drives us to defence both
against reason and inclination ; and to suspect, as
Gilmore now believed he had cause to suspect,
that Kate guessed the true state of his feelings,
and was inclined to regard his project as an idle
and perhaps absurd whim which could not too
soon be relinquished, was in itself enough to rouse
the obstinate inclination to defend it. It was too
much at least to avow himself beaten, even in
what he had been accustomed to regard as merely
the preliminary stage to marriage — Ulu's transformation
from the real savage he knew, to the
ideal savage he had dreamed of. Yet he knew
that he had been beaten; knew that he had
despaired ; knew, too, that it was to Kate he had

proposed to come for help as regards Ulu's welfare,
both spiritual and physical. And now that he was
beside Kate, and could read the interest in her deep,
earnest eyes, he felt — just as once in her presence
he had felt before — the most unaccountable disinclination
to tell her all the truth, and explain the
embarrassments of his position at Pepo-ni. Was
he afraid she would laugh, or afraid she would
misunderstand, or was he only afraid to seek to
transfer to another the burden that had proved too
much for him ? He did not know, and there was
no time to discuss the matter then, for Kate was
sitting there, all attention, evidently waiting for
him to say more.

'miss Kennedy," he began again abruptly, after
a moment's hesitating pause, " I should like to ask
a favour of you."

** Yes ? " said Kate inquiringly, as Gilmore
hesitated again.

Do you think you would mind having Ulu to
live with you for a time ? "

Oh ! " exclaimed Kate, with a little gasp.
I'm afraid "

I thought," Gilmore went on, unmindful of the
interruption — " I thought perhaps you would be
able to make more of her than I can. You would
understand her better, and know better how to
appeal to her."

'^ Oh no ; indeed, I'm sure I shouldn't. You
have been longer in Africa than I ; you understand
the natives' ways better "

But you are a woman, as Ulu is."

*eyes, but I should be afraid — I mean, supposing
I did have some influence with her — she oughtn't

turn out exactly "Well, in plain English, I

don't like the responsibility of making a man's
wife to order ; " and Kate looked up at Gilmore with
a comical expression of mingled perplexity and
amusement.

*' Oh, I didn't mean to ask you to do that,"
exclaimed Gilmore, laughing in spite of himself.
'* Make Ulu anything you like, or perhaps I should
say, anything you can."

And you will be content to accept her at my
hands?"

Yes."

And marry her right away ? "

'well, that depends, you know."

Oh, Mr. Gilmore," interrupted Kate, '' I really
cannot conceive of you marrying Ulu, however attractive
she might become. Now, seriously, do
you think you ever will ? "

'' Sometimes I think ' yes,' and sometimes
'no.' On the whole, I think I incline towards
'yes.'

I don't believe it. You are just laughing at

me. If you do, 3^011 must certainly continue lier
education yourself."

'but, Miss Kennedy," urged Gilmore, 'that is
really impossible. Circumstances have arisen at
Pepo-ni — the women there, they are jealous of
Ulu. The poor child hasn't the life of a dog with
them."

Oh, that is another matter."

And a very serious matter ! If I don't find
a comfortable home for her, I must marry her at
once, which "

"Which, to say the least of it, would not be
advisable," exclaimed Kate, with an arch look which
seemed to say that Gilmore needn't make pretences
any longer, for he couldn't deceive her, nor shake
her conviction that he never would marry Lu
either " at once " or later on.

Well, we must ask papa about it after dinner,"
she concluded. " See, here he [comes; " and, with
a sympathetic 'poor old dear, how pale and tired
you look ! " Kate took her father's arm and led the
way into the house.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEK XIX.

The little party which assembled round the dinner -
table that evening was a particularly bright and
happy one. Over the social meal Mr. Kennedy
forgot the doubts and prejudices awakened in his
mind at Pepo-ni by the coldness with which Gil-your
had received his proposed scheme for the
extension of his missionary labours, and by that
young man's scornful criticism of the results of
mission work in general among the natives of
Africa. Though partly dispelled by Gilmore's
after-kindness and frank hospitality, these doubts
had from time to time recurred, always to be
ardently combated by Kate, who constantly maintained
that Mr. Gilmore's real nature came out,
not in his words, which were undeniably thoughtless
and violent, but in his acts, which, equally
undeniably, had been friendly and considerate.
Unconsciously, by his attitude of quiet attention
during their stroll that afternoon, Gilmore had

done much in the missionary's eyes to add to the
force of Kate's arguments; and now, as we have
said, all prejudices were for the time forgotten, and
Mr. Kennedy was simply and solely the cordial
host, anxious to make his guest feel at ease and at
home. Kate, on her part, felt quite in her element,
having some one to entertain. More especially
was it a pleasure to her to entertain Gilmore, on
whom she looked as a sort of protege, in virtue of
her by him unsuspected championship. As he
made himself agreeable to one and the other, chat ^
ting and laughing pleasantly over the missionary's
quiet jokes or her own more lively sallies, Kate was
conscious of a feeling of secret pride and triumph,
as if Gilmore were some one for whose good behaviour
she was in a manner responsible, and
whose credit in acquitting himself well redounded
to her own. As for Gilmore, he was sm-prised to
find how rapidly he was again thawing under *the
European influence," and becoming oblivious alike
of his troubles and his cynicism in the desire to
please and to be pleased which lies at the root of
all harmonious social intercourse. When he afterwards
remembered how he had actually been guilty
of recalling for Kate's benefit some of the more
pleasant, and even ludicrous, experiences of his
school and college career, he fairly blushed to think
how determinedly he had persisted in forgetting

them for so long, and looking Lack upon Its past
as if it consisted solely of bitterness and disappointment.


After dinner, the merry trio, all talk and laughter,,
adjoin-ned to the porch " to sip coffee and smoke
the pipe of peace," as Kate put it — '' ^vhich means,
you know," she added, handing Mr. Kennedy his-tobacco,
"that papa smokes, and we inhale."

Don't you object to the inhalation, Misi^
Kennedy ? " queried Gilmore.

'' Kate object ! " exclaimed the missionary, before
his daughter had time to reply. '' Not a bit. She
enjoys it as much as I do the smoking. I have all
the trouble, and the pleasure is mutual. Isn't that
it, Kitty? " and Mr. Kennedy gave Kate a knowing
little look out of the corners of his e^-es.

Kate laughed. "Are you shocked at my depraved
taste, Mr. Gilmore? " she asked. " I confess
to a decided weakness for tobacco."

Oh, Kate, Kate ! " cried her father, solemnly
shaking his head. " I tremble to think to what
nicotian depths you would have sunk had you been
a man ! "

No fear of that, papa. "What I like about
tobacco is its homelike fragrance."

"Oh, Miss Kennedy, what a libel on our Scottish
atmosphere ! " cried Gilmore.

"Bother the 'Scottish atmosphere,' Mr. Gil-mon

! I mean home really— uncle's home. See,"
Kate went on dreamily, leaning her elbows on the
arm of her father's chair*, and resting her chin on
her clasped hands, while with her eyes she followed
the blue smoke-wreaths as they curled upwards.
'' Whenever I see the smoke going up and
up like that, I seem to be back in the dear old
place, with uncle puffing away in his armchair by
the fireside, and acting as arbiter for Dodo and mein
some of our hot disputes as to whether the
bacilli of tubercle are the cause, or only tha
concomitant, of consumption, or • "

''My dear child," interrupted Mr. Kennedy,
'' this is positively gruesome ! I shall certainly
put out my pipe, if it is to conjure up visions of
dead arguments and dead bacilli, and "

''Oh, but we liked the arguments, and we liked
the bacilli; it was such fun hunting for them
under the microscope. Don't you see, papa, it's
all the old home life and the old home people
the smoke brings back to me. ' The Den ' was
always full of smoke. With uncle and Dodo and
the other boys all puffing away, what else could
it be ? "

By the other boys," put in Gilmore, '' I suppose
you mean some of those handsome young fellows I
saw in your album to-day. Miss Kennedy ? "

Yes. We were quite a little debating society.

No two of us could be together for half an hour
without getting into some desperate wrangle or
other."

No wonder you are so good at sticking up for
your own ideas, if that's the sort of training you've
had, Kate ! " cried Kennedy. " That old uncle of
yours was much too lax in his discipline, I'm afraid.
I must institute a sterner rule at once ; only there's
no one here for you to argue with, except myself,
and I have always to give in most ignominiously,
for the sake of peace. Perhaps Mr. Gilmore, now —
he needn't be deterred by fear of domestic broils ;
he might "

*'0h no, thank you!" interrupted Gilmore
hastily, with an assumed air of dread. " I absolutely
decline to enter the lists against a lady.
Man's clumsy weapons are of no avail — — "

'' ' Against th' all-conquering fire of woman's
eye '— is that what you where going to say, Mr.
Gilmore? " asked Kennedy, with a smile. "Kate,
my dear," he continued, turning to his daughter,
who still seemed lost in watching the curling smoke-wreaths,
and evidently had been paying no attention
to what had just been said, "here's an easy victim
for you, if you want one. Or does that rapt expression
mean that in fancy you are even now
fighting your battles o'er again ' ? Come, wake
up, little woman. If you want to indulge in a

home reverie, give us some home music, and put
us all in sympathy-with you."

'* Yes, please do, Miss Kennedy," urged Gilmore.
It seems an age since I heard any one sing ! "

With a sigh of regret for the airy vision the
request had dispelled, Kate rose and bade two of
the *boys" go down to the church and bring up
the harmonium.

*' Can I be of any assistance ? " inquired Gil-your.


'' Oh no, Mr. Gilmore, thank you ; don't trouble.
Ferjallah will manage it all right. The instrument
is neither very large nor very valuable, as you
would doubtless observe."

'' ' Be content with such things as ye have,'
Kate," quoted Mr. Kennedy, with a touch of rebuke
in his tone.

Oh, so I am, papa dear," answered Kate airily.
** Better is a portable harmonium and contentment
therewith, than a Bernstein grand piano without
means of transport. There's a new proverb for
you, now, to which I will add the confession that I
look upon the little instrument we have here as
our greatest domestic treasure. Indeed, I don't
know what we should have done without it, if only
as something for me to grumble at — eh, papa?"
and Kate looked mischievously at her father, as if
defying him to look grave any longer.

The missionary sighed and shook his head, \\'ith
a resigned air, which seemed to say he knew only
too well how useless it was to remonstrate with his
sprightly daughter in one of her wilful moods.
Then he applied himself to relighting his pipe,
which he had inadvertently allowed to go out ; and
Kate, without waiting to hear what would come
next, turned and entered the sitting-room to prepare
a place for the harmonium against the time
of its arrival. Gilmore followed ; and as soon as
the instrument had been brought in and placed in
the position Kate had selected as most suitable, he
settled himself comfortably in a low basket-chair
and waited expectantly.

'' What shall I sing, I wonder ? " mused Kate
aloud, as she seated herself, and pulled out one or
two stops. " Mr. Gilmore, have you any choice *? "

*none whatever. Anything that pleases you
will please me."

"Very accommodating. Hem ! let me see;"
and Kate's fingers wandered idly over the keyboard
in a series of disjointed chords of phrases.

At length, softly and as if to herself, she commenced
playing the air of *' The Auld House,"
and, almost before Gilmore had time to recognize
the simple strain, the dear old words broke
familiarly on his ears, borne low and sweet on
the wings of Kate's pure, full soprano voice.

Ob, the auk house, the auld house,

What tho' the rooms were wee ;
Oh ! kind hearts were dwell' there,

And barnes fu' o* glee.
The wiki rose and the jasmine

Still hang upon the wa' ;
How mony cherished memories

Do they, sweet flowers, rcca'."

So she sang, with an amount of feeling that
spoke volumes of her own intense fondness for her
childhood's home, and woke responsive echoes in
the heart alike of mr. Kennedy and Gilmore, who
sat mute and motionless in rapt appreciation.

Oh, don't stop, please," cried the latter, as,
after finishing the song, Kate ceased playing, and
seemed about to rise from the harmonium. ^' After
ao many months of silence, it's such a treat to
hear singing, especially such singing."

Kate smiled and bowed with mock courtesy in
acknowledgment of the implied compliment, and
had just settled herself back on her chair, when
her father appeared in the doorway, holding Lu
by the hand. Attracted by the music, the little
maid, who had spent the greater part of the afternoon
inspecting the wonders of the mission station
under the guardianship of a gul convert of about
her own age, had speedily found her way to the
porch, and now, under Mr. Kennedy's protection,
came shyly forward to take up her position on the
floor close to Gilmore' s chair.

Here is another listener for you, Kate' cried
Mr. Kennedy, as lie crossed the room. *' Now
let's have something more lively," he added, after
he had seen Ulu comfortably established ; " something
stirring — a Jacobite song, for instance. You'll
make us all homesick and youth sick together, if
you pour forth other people's memories so plaintively
; " and the missionary sighed rather sadly
as he threw himself on a lounge and wearily closed
bis eyes.

He, too, had his fits of restless longing for
home scenes and home friends, recently become
all the more intense from the constant presence
of his home-loving daughter. Not that Kate ever
spoke much to her father of her old life, incessantly
as it was in her thoughts. At first her conversation
had been of nothing else ; but she soon
noticed how, at the name of this or that friend, oran
allusion to this or that place, his eye would first
brighten and then dim, as if the memory of once
familiar scenes and faces brought more of shadow
than of sunlight in its train. Another, and perhaps
deeper, reason prompting her to silence lay
in the feeling that her father perceived the stronghold
which the keenly intellectual life and varied
interests of European society had upon her heart,
and, in his intense love and tender solicitude for
her happiness, was inclined to upbraid himself for

having asked her for a time to forego it. Once or
twice, when she had spoken regretfully of her
interrupted studies, she had marked the look of
deep self-reproach that crossed his face, and,
keenly alive to the possibility of wounding the
feelings of those she loved, she had secretly resolved
thenceforth to allude as little to her past life
as possible. On the whole, she had kept her
resolve fairly well, and latterly had even succeeded
in making her father believe that she was content
in her new surroundings. To-night, however, her
recent conversation with Gilmore — the contact with
a mind which, in some strange, undefinable way,
she felt was in sympathy with her own — had
brought an irresistible inrush of the old home
memories, to which she had given unconscious
utterance in the song she had chosen. Her
father's words, and the sigh by which they were
accompanied, at once recalled her to herself ; and,
all anxiety to atone for the pain she had unintentionally
caused, she sprang up to arrange the
cushions under his head, and imprint a little
penitent kiss on his withered cheek. Rewarded by
a grateful look and a pleased smile, Kate once
more resumed her place at the harmonium, wherefor
more than an hour she continued to sit playing
and singing as her fancy prompted, now some
gallant lilt of love or war, again a plaintive

ballad, a song of Burns, or a thrilling lay of the
plays of '^Eoyal Charlie."

The great charm of Kate's singing was that it
was not in any sense a performance. There was
no striving for effect, no attempt at display. She
had a fine voice, and it had been well trained ; yet
so simple and nati-al was her mode of expression,
that in listening to her singing one lost all sense of
its being an accomplishment, and thought of it
only as a gift. She did not sing for her audience,
it seemed, but for the soul that had yearned in
love or burned with loyalty, for the heart that had
broken in sorrow or leaped in eager anticipation of
joy, and, finding no outlet save in passionate song,
had placed its burden in music on her lips. Her
message was from the heart to the heart, and to
Gilmore it was as if she knew how to touch its
every string.

That evening she sang mostly songs of Scotland,
such as she knew her father loved and appreciated.
She had just concluded a soft, crooning Highland
lullaby, when, looking up, she perceived that Mr.
Kennedy, tired out with the various labours of the
day, had dropped off to sleep, and that Ulu, lulled
by the music, seemed about to follow his example.
Gilmore alone was wide awake, and he, to all appearance,
was not thinking of Kate, but was lost in
the thoughts her singing had awakened. For

some minutes, herself absorbed in sweet home
memories, Kate played on dreamily, heedless of
what she played. At length, almost unconsciously
it appeared, she broke into the air of '' Home,.
sweet Home," voice and fingers combining in subdued,
delicious harmony, to give expression to the
thoughts that overflowed her heart. Never had
Gilmore heard the song so well sung. The genuine
feeling thrown into the simple words and familiar
melody seemed to inspire them with new life and
a fresh power of appeal. He felt strangely moved
moved not to a mere passing wish to be once
more in Europe, but to a deed, true longing for
home, such, indeed, as he had never known it, but
many a time in his happier days had dreamed it
might be — a place of rest from care and trouble ;
a place of joy in Sympathy' and love ; a place of
strengthening for the weary, constant strife that
lay outside it.

The song finished, Kate sat silent for a moment,
with downcast eyes and fingers resting with a
loving, lingering touch on the concluding chord.

'soh, Mr. Gilmore," she exclaimed at length,
suddenly turning round, and speaking in a low
voice that trembled with suppressed emotion, ^' I
never knew how ^ sweet ' home was until I had to
leave it ! You, too," she went on, clasping her
hands and gazing with earnest eyes into her companion's

face — " you, too, must often have known
the bitterness of Heimiceh in this lonely land."

*' No, not often — not perhaps until to-night —
until your singing made me realize what home
really meant, and how much I lost by having
none."

'you don't mean to say you have literally no
home?" cried Kate, a look of intense pity in her
eyes, an accent of profound astonishment in her
voice, as if the boundless misery of such a position
were something she could not at once grasp.
'' Surely somewhere you have relatives or friends
to whom you can look for sympathy and interest ;
who think as you think and feel as you feel ; who
hope and wish and work with you in everything,
and so help you towards happiness and content ? "

"No," said Gilmore, with a heavy sigh; "I
have no such friends. Once I believed I had," he
went on bitterly, the old resentful feeling rising in
his heart ; "but I was disappointed. Now I am
content to be without them, knowing for what their
friendship is worth."

"Oh, Mr. Gilmore, that is not right," cried
Kate, a pained look on her face. "Have you lost
all belief in the possibility of genuine friendship
because you have once been disappointed ? "

Not once, but many times," corrected Gilmore ;
and the experience has been too trying for me to

care to risk a repetition of it. You have not come
through it, or you would feel as I do."

No," Kate answered ] ''1 have not come through
it, and I think I never shall — not, at least, with
those whose friendship I value most at present.
They could not disappoint or deceive me. But,
even if they did," she continued, with proud confidence,
*'I should still believe there were others in
the world capable of being sincere "

'you have not been tried; you do not know
how difficult it is."

"I should only know," Kate went on, heedless
of the interruption, 'there was less truth, less
goodness in the world than I had supposed ; and
though the discovery might sadden, it would not
embitter me. Perhaps," she added wistfully, " if
one has to make such a discovery in one's lifetime,
it is as well to make it soon, and get rid of one's
rosy suppositions ; they play havoc with all one's
happiness. We should get through life with fewer
disappointments, if we could enter it with fewer
preconceived ideas."

"Do you think so? Well, I say if yo\xx 'preconceived
ideas ' are at all pleasant, best continue
in them as long as the world will let you."

By which you mean that their existence would
be extremely brief, I suppose ? " Kate replied,
smiling, in spite of herself, at Gilmore's persistent

cynicism, which she had now quite made up her
mind was not natural to him. " Well, the
briefer the better, say I, so long as they are not
in accordance with fact. It is the arrogance of our
expectations that lies at the root of most of the
common talk about ' disappointment in life ' and
disappointment in human nature.' We enter upon
the world full of our own conception of what it is ;
and if the world does not exactly fulfil it — well, it
is the world, and not the conception, that is at
fault. In one sense perhaps it is ; conceptions
usually do not err in falling short of the reality ;
but, unfortunately, it is the reality we have
eventually to deal with, and the sooner we succeed
in making the one fit the other the fewer chances
have we of being disappointed."

But life would not be worth living, if we hadn't
our youthful illusions to cast a glamour over it."

"Well, no," answered Kate, rather hesitating,
with a half-arch, half-deprecating look; 'not, at
least, if their eventual dissipation were to lead to
the formation of such pessimistic views as you's,
Mr. Gilmore. But, to my mind," she went on,
'these are even more 'conceptions' to be got rid
of, than the too rosy illusions I spoke of a moment
ago. I don't know what has led to this development
of the pessimistic tendency in you; but of
one thing I am sure — it is not normal. I should

say your early views of life had been exceptionally
rosy. You over-estimated its possibilities and
miscalculated your own powers of achievement,
with the result that contact with reality has driven
you to the opposite extreme, and made you underestimate
both."

No ; I think that now I see things just as thej^
are — evil and false and hideous, for the most part
and plainly recognize that I am too weak to do
anything to make them better."

Oh no, Mr. Gilmore ; things are not ' evil and
false and hideous, for the most part.' Quite the
reverse ; only what is good and true, and beautiful
we take as a matter of course, and the other we
resent as an injury. Just look at the individual
life. We never count health and sunshine and
fresh air as special items in our sum of happiness.
We have such boundless ideas of our rights, such
limited conceptions of our privileges, that these
common ' things we take for granted. But let
any one of them be even temporarily withdrawn,
and what a misery we make of it. There is no
more any pleasure in existence; life is all black
because of the one black cloud. So, too, in regard
to life in the wider sense — social life. We take no
count of the general good faith and mutual helpfulness
that holds society together ; but let us
come across one or two instances of deceit and

VOL. I. T

strife and wickedness, and immediately we fasten
down on these, and raise the cry that society is
essentially false, and human nature essentially
corrupt; all is vice, all is vanity."

"In short," interrupted Gilmore, bitterly, "we
get into a mood of universal disgust with everything
and everybody, ourselves included ; and once
we've got in, there's no getting out, as I can vouch
from sad experience."

Oh, Mr. Gilmore, don't talk like that," cried
Kate, looking excessively grieved. " There is
getting out ; I am sure of it. I suppose it was in
some such mood as that you left Europe. It was
not right. You should have stayed and fought it
down. I don't believe the indulgence of such
moods is ever right, and yet — and yet," she went
on hesitatingly, "it seems to be only the best
sorts of people who get into them. They are a
disease ; but it is the disease of a sensitive, noble
nature — a nature intolerant of evil, capable of that
divine discontent ' of which we once spoke before ;
a nature "

"But the cure. Miss Kennedy, the cure! " interrupted
Gilmore, impatiently.

Work — effort," was the laconic response.

"Work! Effort! And pray where is one to
get work here ? I couldn't be a missionary, could
I?" and Gilmore smiled grimly, as if in moody

satisfaction at the utter hopelessness of the
outlook.

'* No, I certainly don't think you could," returned
Kate with emphasis, an odd expression of mingled
pity and amusement flitting across her face. " But
you could go back to Europe," she went on gravely.
*' You ought never to have left it."

*' And what could I do when I got there ? "

Strive towards the achievement of some of
those ideals of which you dreamed before the
despondent mood came upon you."

*' But did you not say a little while ago that we
should be content with the real, and not deceive
ourselves with ideals ? "

Certainly not. I said, or meant to say, we
ought to get a full and clear knowledge of the real,
and not cheat ourselves with any of our own
specious suppositions about it; my reason for so
saying being that I believe the recognition of the
real to be the only true basis for the realization of
the ideal. As for being content, that is something
very different. It is then a question of what things
ought to be, not merely of what they are. To
lessen the disparity that may exist between these
two conditions is the highest achievement of which
human effort is capable."

Yes, but how hopeless that is. One might work
a lifetime and never see any appreciable result."

That is no reason why we should not try.
After all, it is the effort, not the result, that concerns
us most. That we should strive is the main thing —
strive to do, strive to perform our functions as living
beings, as long as we claim the privilege of life."

'' Yes, but why ? What is the good of it all ? "

^' To prove that you are a man, and not a clod
or a parasite, if nothing more," retorted Kate
hotly, a little exasperated at Gilmore's persistent
objections.

Gilmore looked up sharply, astonished not only
at the somewhat incomprehensible answer he had
received, but at the tone in which it had been
delivered.

I'm afraid I don't understand."

"And I don't know if I can explain," answered
Kate, looking apologetic, and blushing brightly
under Gilmore's look of surprised inquiry. " What
I think is this," she went on, with grave earnestness.
" The capacity for doing, for work, for
activity constitutes the great distinction between a
living being and dead matter. In the social body
each member has its allotted place and function.
To refuse to fill that place and exercise that
function is to become as if paralyzed, atrophied,
dead. In other words, the man who recognizes
there is work to do, and yet puts forth no hand todo
it, is, as regards his usefulness in the world, no

better than a clod. Yet it is not possible for this
useless member absolutely to isolate himself ; and
inasmuch as he still retains some connection with
the social body, he shares in the results of the
activities of all its other members — preys upon their
life ; in short, is in this sense a parasite. He
takes the good achieved by others and gives them
nothing in return."

*' Well, at least my timely flight has saved me
from the latter form of degeneration. If I don't do
the world any good here, I certainly don't do it any
harm."

Are you quite sure of that ? You recognized
that there was work to be done, good to be effected ;
set, because the work was hard and you were alone
and weak, you put yourself beyond the possibility
of accomplishing even a little. The world is so
much the worse for want of the good you might
have poured into it, and for the presence of the
evil you might have filtered out of it."

Gilmore made no rejoly. This was an aspect
of bis responsibilities as a human being that had
not before struck him. For a few moments there
was silence, during which Gilmore lay back in his
chair, lost in gloomy abstraction, while Kate sat
watching him with troubled brow and doubting
heart, fearful that her words had wounded where
they were meant only to stir.

Have I offended you, Mr. Gilmore ? " she asked
at last, bending forward and lifting a pair of

beseeching eyes to his. *'I am afraid I " she

went on hesitatingly, a strange lump rising in her
throat — ^'1 am afraid I may have said "

*' Oh no, Miss Kennedy, not at all," interposed
Gilmore, rousing himself hastily, as he noticed
Kate's agitation. ** You have said nothing but
what you ought to have said. Don't imagine I
was offended. I was only set thinking. It never
occurred to me before that not to do good in the
world was to do evil. I prided myself on my

harmless passivity, and now — and now Oh,

what a fool I have been ! " he exclaimed, passionately
interrupting himself. "Loafing about here in
selfish idleness ; not only doing nothing for others
myself, but sneering at those who were honestly
doing their best ; not only "

'' Hush, Mr. Gilmore, hush ! " cried Kate,
touched by Gilmore's agitation ; and, stooping
forward, she laid a soothing hand on his arm, as
if thereby she would have stayed the tumultuous
flood of self-reproach now let loose within him.
'' See, you have awakened Ulu," she went on, as a
warning rustle reminded them that they were not
alone; 'rand papa, too," she added, almost with
an air of relief; for the tension was fast becoming
too great, and, if something had not occurred to

relieve it Kate felt conscious she must inevitably
have given way to her excited feelings in tears.

*why, Kitty, have you stopped playing so
soon ? " cried Mr. Kennedy, as soon as he was
rightly awake. *dear me ! I had no idea it was
so late," he added, as he looked at his watch. ^' I
must have been dozing."

"Yes, papa, sou have been sleeping as sound asa
top for the last hour and more," exclaimed Kate,
forcing a smile and a cheerful voice. " Don't you
think it's time we were all in bed ? "

Just one more song — ' Auld Lang Syne.' "

Oh no, papa. Not to-night, please ; I am too
tired," pleaded Kate. '' And Mr. Gilmore — I am
sure he is tired too," she went on, turning to
bestow on Gilmore, who now sat silent and distrait,
a glance of sympathetic meaning that seemed to
say she knew how much he wished to be alone.

Well, well, then, never mind a song," said Mr.
Kennedy, rising to cross the room and to take his
stand by the harmonium. "We'll have a psalm
instead. Play the ' Old Hundredth,' Kate, and
we'll sing it all together."

Kate obeyed. As her rich voice mingled with
the missionary's quavering tones in the solemn
invitation of the first lines, Gilmore instinctively
rose to his feet and joined in the singing with a
full heart. As he went on a peaceful feeling once

more stole over him, and when, at the end of the
psalm, Kate stood up and bent her searching eyes
upon him as she turned to say " Good night," it
was with a voice full of deep meaning that he said
in shaking hands —

'' Good night, Miss Kennedy ; and thank you —
thank you — very much."

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON : PRINTED BT WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

3 0112 056502757

cs

rv

MM

--'■■:■ ;

%3

.-.:■'■■

*;

m,u

2 198!

2 J ^

■

£<

r^

vl

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/uluafricanromanc02thom

K -

U L U

AN AFRICAN ROMANCE

BY

JOSEPH THOMSON

AUTHOR OF " THROUGH MASAI LAND," AND " TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
LAKES AND BACK ; "

AND

MISS HARRIS-smith

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOL II.

LONDON :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

LIMITED,

Sit, Dunstan's t)ousr,
Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, E.C.

1888.
[All Rights reserved.]

UNIVERSITY OF

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT URBANA-champaign

THROUGH MASAI LAND. With Illustrations.
Demy 8vo , 21s. Cheaper Ediii< n, Ts. 6(2.

TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN LAKES

AND BACK. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
•2 vols. 24s. Cheaper Edition, Illustrated. Crown
8VO., 7s. Cxi.

London :

Sampson Low, Marston, Seule & Rivixgton, Lti>

St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane.

London: printed uy wii.lt am CLOWES ani sons, limited,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

IjJL

T37L

IT LIT,

CHAPTER I.

At daybreak next morning the Kennedyss and their
guest foregathered to discuss an early cup of coffee,
in the cool, easy dress permitted by custom in
tropical climes.

Has any one seen Ulu this morning ? " asked
Kate, suddenly, in the midst of the light talk
which ensued. "Ferjallah, do you know where
she is ? " she continued, addressing the boy in
attendance.

Scarcely had the words left her lips when a
sharp, ear-piercing scream quivered through the
air. For a moment every one sat still, each looking
at the other in mute surprise. Again the
scream broke upon their startled ears.

"What is it?" cried Kate, springing to her feet

vol. n. b

and rushing towards the door, to be simultaneously
followed by Mr. Kennedy and Giaour, who feared
they knew not what.

Outside they found the entire settlement
assembled in bewildered, panic-stricken groups,
every one excitedly demanding of his neighbour
the cause of the agonized cry. "El-Masai!"
Robbers ! " " Buffaloes ! " " Lions ! " were the
terror-striking words that passed from lip to lip,
each new suggestion only serving to intensify the
general uncertainty and augment the hideous din.

On the appearance of the wazungu the clamour
increased tenfold.

"Kelele ! " (Silence) commanded Gilmore, sternly.
Is there any one missing ? " he asked, as soon ashe
had obtained quietness.

For a moment no one spoke. Then one of Kate's
small boys raised a trembling voice, and said that
Ulu had gone outside the village that morning, and
had not returned.

"Has no one seen her?" cried Gilmore, with a
scared look.

An eloquent silence told its own tale.

My rifle — quick ! " he went on, turning to
Uledi. "Come now, boys," he added, as the
weapon was promptly placed in his hand ; " follow

me. There's no time to Good heavens, Miss

Kennedy, where are you going ? " he broke off

abruptly, aghast at finding Kate, carried away by
a generous impulse to help, instinctively running
'with him towards the gate.

Gilmore's astounded look and question, added to
her father's exclamation of amazement and alarm,
at once brought the impulsive girl to a recollection
of her uselessness, and she stopped suddenly short,
not without a strong feeling of rebellion at her
woman's weakness and helplessness. " What
would I not give to be a man ? " was her mental
ejaculation, as she stood enviously watching
Gilmore's retreating figure and longing for his
power of action.

Meanwhile, following the direction from which
the shriek seemed to have proceeded, Gilmore
plunged into the banana grove, a number of men
close behind him.

Stop ! " cried Uledi, suddenly, before they had
proceeded many yards.

What is it ? " asked Gilmore, eagerly.

Look ! " returned Uledi, briefly, as he pointed
with his finger to the ground.

Simba ! " (lion) was the exclamation that broke
simultaneously from all as they recognized the
well-known footprints in the mud. A look of blank
consternation spread through the crowd — a lion ora
Masai were two things no M-Chaga could be
brought to face.

Go on, Uledi — quick ! " said Gilruour, in a low
tone of suppressed excitement. "We must make
haste."

"With body bent and eyes eagerly scanning the
pathway, Uledi took up the trail and moved swiftly
forward in the direction of the jungle. A few steps
further and all doubt as to Ulu's possible fate was
removed. First came traces as of a body having
been dragged along the ground ; next a prettily
beaded sandal was picked up and recognized by
Gilmore as one his little protegee had worn ; finally,
to inflame his already excited feelings still further,
several drops of blood were discovered on the fallen
leaves. Happening to look round at this point,
Gilmore found that the greater number of the
Pisgah men had disappeared. Calling a halt, he
sternly demanded of those who remained if any
were afraid, conjuring all such in God's name to
go back now.

The two Wa-Swahili who constituted Gilmore' s
own private following needed no words to express
their feelings in the matter ; their faces spoke their
eagerness to press forward. Encouraged by their
fearless demeanour, the Pisgahites assumed a bold
front, declaring that they laughed at lions and
would follow Gilmore to the death. Though somewhat
doubtful of the sincerity of their devotion,
there was nothing for it but to accept their

assurance, and once more Giaour gave the order
to go on.

So far their way had lain through the banana
trees, where they felt comparatively secure, it
being possible to see some distance ahead. Now,
however, the trail suddenly left the pathway, and
diverged into a dense jungle. This was more than
the Pisgah men had bargained for, and for a
moment even upset the equanimity of Gilmore
himself, the impossibility of keeping an effectual
look-out enhancing the dangers of the enterprise
tenfold. Nevertheless, he plunged boldly into
the tall grass, closely followed by the two 
and one or two of the less cowardly mission
men.

Now began the dangerous part of the chase.
The sole hope of succouring Ulu depended on the
possibility of advancing without a sound. There
were no longer any footprints to serve as a guide
to the whereabouts of the lion ; an occasional drop
or splash of blood alone told of the path he had
taken. Throwing themselves flat on their faces,
Gilmore and his little party wriggled noiselessly
along, with growing assurance that their game
must be near, and proportionate heightening of the
excitement. At every sound they stopped to listen
with bated breath and straining ears. Slowly and
with redoubled caution they approached the centre

of the jungle, prepared each moment to come face
to face with their expected prey. With a sudden
presentiment of evil, Gilmore looked sharply round
to see if his men were all right. To his unbounded
rage and dismay, he found that the men from the
mission station, utterly terror-stricken, were meditating
flight ; which would mean that the lion
would be immediately apprised of their presence.
Gilmore was equal to the occasion. With a look
that meant mischief, he whipped out his revolver
and made a significant motion. Helpless and
speechless, the cowards collapsed, and Gilmore, his
fears for the present allayed, ostentatiously handed
the revolver to Ferhani, with a silent hint how it
was to be used in case of need.

Once more the slow creeping was resumed. Inch
by inch they progressed, every sense on the alert,
every rifle held ready for instant action. The
moments seemed like minutes, and the excitement
grew painful to a degree. At any instant the little
band might be upon the lion, or, what seemed
equally probable, the lion be upon them. The suspense
became unbearable, and in the uncertainty
of his position Gilmore again felt that strange
impulse to inaction with which doubt can shake
even the bravest heart.

But the crisis of the enterprise had arrived.
Noiselessly pushing aside the tall grass, preliminary

to advancing the next few inches, Gilrnour found
himself face to face with the object of his anxious
chase. With a start he drew back, letting the
grass close over him again. An admonitory kick
served to apprise Uledi that the supreme moment
had come. Firmly grasping his rifle, Gilmore
cautiously rose to his knees, and once more parted
the grass in front of him. There lay the lion, in
all his tawny magnificence, couched in a small
open space not two yards away At first, Gilmore
could perceive no trace of Ulu. Then, half-hidden
by the brute's great heavy body, he noticed a dark
rounded arm, which the lion was licking with a
peaceful, satisfied air, apparently whetting his
appetite with the blood which trickled slowly from
an ugly wound a little below the elbow.

Boiling with rage and grief, our hero pushed his
rifle through the grass and took aim. Another
second and the lion would have been no more ; but
ere Gilmore could draw the trigger, a sudden swish
of bushes behind him, followed by a revolver-shot,
so disconcerted him, that off went both barrels at
once, unfortunately injuring nothing save Gilmore
himself, who received a severe shock from the rebound.
Startled by the report, the lion rose in all
its majesty, its grand, shaggy head erect, its eyes
gleaming with royal fire, its tail extended and
waving gently from side to side ; while on the

ground beneath lay little Ulu, all-unconscious — a
pedestal for the fore feet of the beast of prey.

In its first moment of startled indecision, as it
stood uncertain where to spring upon the intruder,
the lion presented a capital chance for a shot ;
but Gilmore's rifle was empty, and, spell-bound
by the spectacle before him, he neglected at once
to lay hold of the big elephant-gun Uledi promptly
pushed towards him. The lion's hesitation was
short-lived. Attracted by the movement of the
grass caused by the flying mission men, it rushed
towards them swift and straight as an arrow.
Housed by the sight, Gilmore sprang to his feet,
gun in hand. There was no time to raise his
weapon to his shoulder, or in any way to take aim.
The brute's hot breath almost reached him as he
simultaneously fired both barrels. In its recoil the
gun struck him right in the chest, laying him on
his back devoid of wind and senses. Missing him
in its spring, the lion rolled over him with a terrible
roar of rage and pain, knocking down Uledi, and
landing at the feet of Ferhani, who fell back with
amazement, but instinctively discharged shot after
shot into the dying brute, as it rolled about in
terrific convulsions, tearing up the ground with its
claws, and gnashing with its teeth whatever it could
lay hold of in its fearful agonies. The struggle,
however, was short. Before Uledi had time to

recover himself and seize his rifle, the lion lay
quiet in death. Assured of their safety, Uledi next
hurried to his master, though himself bleeding from
a wound made by the lion's claws as it threw him
down. He soon found that he had nothing to fear
on Gilruour's account. Almost before he could
reach him his master had recovered consciousness,
scrambling to his feet in a dazed sort of way, and
hastened towards Ulu, who lay apparently dead.
For a moment it seemed as if Gilmore's worst fears
were realized, and as he knelt clown to place his
hand over the little maiden's heart, he was conscious
of a strange lump in his throat and a strange dimness
in his eyes. To his intense delight, he could
still feel a tiny flutter of life.

Water — quick ! " he shouted eagerly, springing
to his feet and tossing his hat to Ferhani, who ran
with all speed to fill it at a neighbouring canal.
Again kneeling beside her, Gilmore dashed some of
the cool liquid on Ulu's unconscious brow. The
next moment a slight tremor passed over her, her
bosom heaved, and, with a low plaintive moan, she
slowly opened her eyes. Swallowing a little of the
water, she recovered still farther, bestowing a look
of mute gratitude on her preserver, who now busied
himself binding up her bleeding arm.

Just as Gilmore had successfully extemporized
a bandage with his handkerchief, a great commotion

arose outside the jungle. Emboldened by the
sound of the rifle-shots, and safe in the conclusion
that the lion was now powerless to do them hurt,
the mission men appeared in force, with renewed
display of wordy valour.

Where is the lion ? " they shouted as they approached.
" Show us the lion that we may kill
it ! " and on they rushed pellmell to where the royal
brute lay dead. Like curs they precipitated themselves
on the carcase, loading it with opprobrious
epithets and treating it with all the vehement
obloquy of which craven souls alone are capable.

With a look of disdain, Gilmore turned his back
upon the contemptible spectacle, and bade Uledi
and Ferhani carry Ulu to the mission-house without
further delay. Obedient to his orders, they gently
lifted their unresisting burden, and with firm,
regular tread began to retrace their steps through
the now well-trodden grass. Gilmore himself
walked alongside, ready to render assistance if
necessary ; while the noisy crowd, already tired of
their cowards' sport, quickly fell into procession
behind, and, dragging the dead Hon in their midst,
triumphantly proceeded towards the village with
much victorious shouting and singing of songs.

CHAPTER II.

As the jubilant crowd emerged from the banana
grove they were met by every woman and child in
the settlement, and by every man whom age, fear,
or weakness had forced to remain behind. Miss
Kennedy alone was absent. Disgusted with the
desertion of the mission men, whose untimely return
had proclaimed their cowardice, and impatient at
the conduct of the women, who were all more benton
selfishly knowing themselves secure from the
lion than ready to exert themselves on behalf of
Ulu or any who might have sustained injury in
going to her assistance, Kate had returned to the
mission-house, there to make such preparation as
she was able for the reception of possible sufferers.
Apprised of the return of the rescue-party by the
exultant shouting of the crowd, Kate hastened to
the porch, where she was in part relieved of her
anxiety on seeing Gilmore and his servants coming
slowly along the pathway towards her. Running

out eagerly to meet them, her heart beat more
anxiously as she perceived their apparently lifeless
burden ; for Ulu, weak from loss of blood and overcome
by the pain of her wounds, had again fainted.

Is she much hurt ? " asked Kate in a low tone,
her cheek paling with fear of what might be the
answer, as Gilmore stepped out in advance to
meet her.

Her arm is badly lacerated, and she has lost a
good deal of blood; nothing worse, I think."

Bring her to the house at once," said Kate,
addressing Uledi and Ferhani ; and, without stopping
to waste time on further questions, she turned
and made all speed towards the porch.

This way, please," she said, as, entering the
sitting-room and passing swiftly through it, she
raised the curtain which separated it from an
adjoining chamber — her own bedroom, as Gilmore
afterwards learned. "Now, lay her oq the bed,"
Kate went on, as the men entered and stood waiting
to receive her orders. "There, that will do," she
added ; and, only stopping to pull the pillows from
beneath Ulu's head, so as to facilitate her return
to consciousness, Kate hastily untied the bloodshed
bandage and proceeded carefully to examine
the wounded arm. " No bones broken, at any
rate," she exclaimed with an air of satisfaction,
raising her head for a moment and looking towards

Gilmore, who stood on the opposite side of the bed,
watching her absorbed face and unhesitating movements
with a feeling of surprise and admiration.
Will you please bring me that water ? " she said
next, pointing to a basin which stood in readiness
on a small table, together with a case of surgical
instruments and a roll of bandages. " If you can
move the table and all that is on it over here, so
much the better."

Gilmore lifted the table and brought it round to
where Kate stood, and then, in obedience to her
orders, held the basin for her while she carefully
washed the bleeding arm and adjusted the torn
parts.

By the time Kate had got the wound properly
bandaged, Ulu opened her eyes and looked round
her in dazed stupefaction at her unfamiliar surroundings.
Slowly recognizing the friendly faces
bending over her, she sighed as if satisfied, and
wearily closed her eyes again.

Take a little water, toto," said Kate, gently
passing her arm under Ulu's head, so as to raise
it a little. " There, do you feel better now ? " she
asked, as Ulu swallowed a mouthful from the glass
Kate held to her lips.

Ulu made no reply, but, with dumb, doglike
gratitude, wistfully raised her eyes to her benefactress's
face, and looked from her to Gilmore and

back again, as if she did not know whom to thank,
nor, indeed, how to thank them at all. Taking a
pillow which Gilmore held in readiness, Kate bade
the sufferer lie back on it, and once more gave her
attention to the wounded arm. In the absence of
proper splints, she adjusted it in a sling and pushed
a pillow under the elbow to rest and steady it.
That arrangement completed, Kate smoothed the
coverlet, and, stooping down to pat Ulu softly on
the head, laid strict injunctions on her patient to
lie very still and try to go to sleep.

Now, Uledi, it's time to attend to you," said
Miss Kennedy, turning from the bedside as soon
as she had seen Ulu comfortably settled. " I see
you are bleeding too."

Gilmore turned quickly round. In his anxiety
about Ulu, he had not noticed that his head-man's
dress was torn at the shoulder, exposing to view
some nasty scratches, from which blood was slowly
trickling down the arm.

Oh, bibi, it is nothing," cried Uledi, drawing
back abashed at finding himself an object of so
much solicitude.

"Better have it seen to, at any rate," replied
Kate, practically. " Sit down, though," she added,
pushing forward a chair ; " I can't reach so high."

"Oh, Miss Kennedy, don't you trouble ! " exclaimed
Giaour, assured from Uledi's expression

that there was nothing seriously wrong. " I'll look
after Uledi."

But Kate had already pushed aside the M-Swahili's
torn dress, and was busy washing the blood from
his wounds.

I see it's nothing very serious," she said,
pausing for a moment. " Just help me to adjust
a bandage, Mr. Gilmore, please ; " and Kate went
on with her work in a matter-of-fact fashion, Gil-your
lending her the desired assistance ; while
Ferhani looked on with wide-open eyes, and Uledi
sat in mute wonderment at finding himself the
object of such tender ministrations on the part of
a bibi mzungu, whiter than the Bwana himself, and
with hands so small and soft that to watch them
at work was to forget the pain their gentle touch
was bent on alleviating.

Just at the moment, perhaps, the embarrassment
of the bibi's attentions was harder to bear than his
physical pain, and, accordingly, it was with an
air of intense relief that, when Kate had finished,
he rose in obedience to her orders, and, along with
Ferhani, shamefacedly left the room. When they
had gone, Gilmore could not refrain from a teazing
reference to Uledi's evident confusion, and the
possible effect, not of music, but of medicine, as
practised by lady doctors in soothing "the savage
breast."

Seems to me, I've done more towards raising a
tumult than soothing him," answered Kate, smiling
good-humouredly, and indicating the "savage " in
question by a backward nod in the direction of the
door by which he had departed. " I may console
myself with the comforting reflection that it was
'for his good,' however," she continued, as she set
to work to put the room to rights, noiselessly
arranging the furniture and putting things back
into their accustomed places.

What can be keeping papa so long ? " she exclaimed,
as, order once more restored, she poured
out some fresh water and began washing her hands.
He said he would go down to meet you. Did you
not see him ? "

Yes ; he met us at the gate and bade us come
on here. He said he would follow us immediately.
See, here he comes ; " and Gilmore stopped to listen
as a brisk step at that moment sounded in the
porch.

"How goes the patient, Kate?" queried Mr.
Kennedy, cheerfully, as he entered and crossed the
room to where Ulu lay. " I met Uledi rejoicing
in a proud display of bandage, and he told me the
Bwana had said only Ulu's arm was hurt, and that
the bibi had bound it up and put it to sleep on
a pillow."

"You didn't think I had amputated it, papa,

did you ? " asked Kate, laughingly, as she dried her
hands. " I was sorely tempted to try — just for the
sake of practice, you know. But I was watched
by a jealous eye, so I had to forego the luxury of
an operation."

You haven't answered my question yet, Kate,"
replied Mr. Kennedy, looking up from an anxious
scrutiny of Ulu's pain-drawn lips and closed eyes ;
"but I suppose you have made Ulu as comfortable
as "may be under the circumstances, or you
wouldn't look so proud of yourself."

Miss Kennedy has every reason to be proud of
herself," put in Gilmore ; " she has done admirably
in every way."

Except in allowing so much talking in the
sick-room," interrupted Kate, unwilling to stand
and hear her own praises sounded. "Come, be
off, both of you," she added, with pretended
severity ; " my patient must have absolute quiet."

With a look of proud affection, Mr. Kennedy
fondly kissed his daughter's cheek, and turned to
re-enter the sitting-room, whither he was immediately
followed by Gilmore, who felt rather worn
out after the morning's excitement. In a few
minutes they were joined by Kate, who noticed
Gilmore' s tired look, and asked if he would not
like to lie down. Gilmore smiled at the typically
feminine suggestion.

VOL. II. c

Oh no, thank you," he said; " I shall do very
well where I am."

Well, we must have lunch a little earlier than
usual. You look quite exhausted. I'll tell Fer-allah
about it now. I'm going to get some milk
for Ulu, at any rate;" and before Gilmore had time
to remonstrate Kate was gone on her kindly errand.

Left alone with Gilmore, Mr. Kennedy very
naturally began to make inquiries as to the particulars
of Ulu's rescue, of which he had formed
a not very clear idea from the confused and exaggerated
accounts of the excited mission men. As
briefly as might be, Gilmore told the story, not
without some rather severe strictures on the
cowardly conduct of the Pisgahites, whose untimely
flight had nearly led to such disastrous consequences.
Mr. Kennedy listened attentively,
almost without comment, and for some time after
Gilmore had ceased speaking, he remained silent,
apparently lost in thought. It was not encouraging
to hear that his people had acquitted themselves
so discreditably.

"It is strange," he said at length, " how even
the Christian religion has failed to imbue those
men with moral force sufficient to overcome the
purely animal instinct of self-preservation."

"I think it is scarcely to be wondered at when
one considers their so very nearly animal brain."

The missionary winced. This was a way of
stating the case he did not much like.

"You don't take a very hopeful view of our negro
brother," he said, after a brief pause. " Has closer
acquaintance not convinced you of his capacity fora
higher and more enlightened life ? What about
Ulu, by-the-by?" he exclaimed with sudden animation,
rousing himself from his pensive attitude,
and drawing his chair closer to Gilmore's. " How
do you reconcile your low opinion of the capabilities
of the savage nature with your intention of marrying
her?"

1 do not attempt to reconcile them. I recognize
too clearly the impossibility of making Lu
other than she is, an out-and-out little savage,
childlike and simple, and lovable in many ways,
perhaps, but utterly incapable of assimilating any
of the higher thoughts and aspirations of the
civilized life."

"Ah, Mr. Gilmore, it is because you begin at
the wrong end," said Mr. Kennedy, earnestly.
41 You set to work from without inwards instead of
from within outwards. First touch the heart with
a live coal from the Lord's altar, and, its deceit
and wickedness consumed, the outer life will soon
become pure and holy."

The difficulty is how to touch the heart. You
can't reach it except through the brain, just as you

can't reach the brain except through the ear or the
eye. You must begin at the outside."

"But Christianity appeals directly to the
heart."

"Only through the understanding; and how is
the low, stunted brain of the negro capable of comprehending
and assimilating the high and complex
system of Christian morality, the slowly evolved
product of centuries of divine precept made visible
in human practice ? It took two thousand years
of obedience to moral precept — a palpable ' thou
shalt ' and ' thou shalt not ' — before the world was
ready for the new and higher revelation. It has
taken nearly two thousand years more of gradual
mental and moral evolution for that revelation to
become, even nominally, the acknowledged principle
underlying Western civilization. By what
miracle is it possible — how can any one expect,
in the course of a few months or years, or even of
a whole lifetime, out of the lowest animalism and
barbarism, to produce the highest purity and
spirituality ?"

' With God all things are possible,' " quoted
Mr. Kennedy reverently. " We do not enter on
the work in our own strength, else we should
speedily be crushed beneath the sense of its magnitude
and of our own littleness. God has sent
us into His vineyard. It is for Paul to plant, for

Apollos to water. In His own good time God will
give the increase."

Gilmore shrugged his shoulders. " I suppose it
is scarcely possible for you and me to look at these
things with the same eyes, Mr. Kennedy," he said.
To my mind the soil still wants a vast amount
of preparation before it can be ready for either
planting or watering. Of God the negro has but
the very crudest conception ; of morality absolutely
none. To develop the one and create the other
is as much as any religion need attempt in the
mean time. See what a vast influence for good
Mohammedanism is proving in Africa, simply
because it does not attempt too much. A clear
and constant iteration of the existence of one God,
a few simple rules for the guidance of conduct in
this life, with the assurance, according as these
are kept or broken, of a place in a very real heaven
or a very real hell in the next — these sum up the
teaching of Mahomet, and constitute a religious
system, the highest, it would seem, which the negro
mind is at present capable of grasping."

And you would say it's no good trying to teach
Christianity because it includes something higher
and more abstract, and is therefore less easy of
comprehension ? " said Mr. Kennedy, looking as
if he thought Gilraour's cool way of discussing the
relative merits of the Christian and the Mohammedan

religion as something little short of
blasphemy.

"Yes," returned Gilmore ; "just as I would say
it's no good trying to teach the differential calculus
to a child who doesn't know simple arithmetic.
We must progress step by step."

"What's that you were saying about the
differential calculus,' Mr. Gilmore? " asked Kate,
who had returned unobserved, just in time to catch
a word or two of Gilmore's last remark. " You're
not worrying papa with mathematics, are you?"
she went on cheerily, dimly conscious of an atmosphere
of trouble between the two men, and good-naturedly
wishful to dissipate it. "The science
has been his pet antipathy ever since his juvenile
failure to cross the ' asses' bridge ' at one step."

Mr. Kennedy smiled absently. Gilmore looked
up and smiled too.

No," he said, with an apologetic look towards
his host. "I'm afraid I have 'worried' Mr.
Kennedy about something that affects him more
deeply than mathematics. We were talking of the
possibility of elevating the negro. The conversation
arose, I think, out of something your father asked
me about Lu."

Did you tell papa you wanted us to have her
here for a time ? " interrupted Kate, eagerly, as Gil-your
hesitated and tried to recall what had passed.

"Wanted us to have her here ! " cried Mr. Kennedy,
suddenly startled out of the painful reverie
into "which he seemed to have fallen. -' Why,
Mr. Gilmore, after what you have just said, how
can you expect me to succeed where you have
failed ? "

Gilmore looked rather abashed. " It wasn't so
much that," he said slowly. "I thought Miss
Kennedy, being a woman, would know better how
to reach her than I. Besides, as I have already
explained to Miss Kennedy, the women at Pepo-ni
are jealous of Lu."

Yes, papa," said Kate, taking up the tale ;
"and they make it very hot for the poor little
thing. And, of course, in a little place like Pepo-ni,
Mr. Gilmore can't very well keep her out of their

way, and Oh, there are ever so many things

to make the situation extremely awkward both for
Mr. Gilmore and for Ulu, don't you see ? " she
concluded, rather vaguely, but none the less
sympathetically, her woman's instinct having
guessed how very much more " awkward " the
situation might be than Gilmore could explain to
her.

Mr. Kennedy still looked dubious. He could not
all at once reconcile the wish to place Ulu under
his care, which to him meant simply to bring her
within the sphere of Christian influence, with

Giaour's recently expressed opinion of the futility
of that influence to effect any deep and lasting-change
in negro life and conduct. For a moment
he almost felt inclined once more to doubt the
integrity of the young man's intentions towards
the M-Chaga maiden ; but he had only to recollect
Gilmore's honest, downright way of looking at
things, his direct, almost blunt, manner of speech,
to feel convinced that, whatever he was in religion,
he was in morals above suspicion. A time had
been when any one expressing the opinions Gil-your
had maintained in their recent conversation
would have stood condemned as capable of every
form of wickedness. Under his daughter's influence,
however, the missionary's views had lately
undergone considerable modification. From contact
with her, and from the effort to appreciate the
standpoint from which she viewed the world and
life in general, he had come to realize that, though
for him the world had practically stood still for
more than twenty years, it had not done so for
others ; that there were new ideas current in
society and new forces at work, which had revolutionized
thought, and, if they had made men less
full of unquestioning faith, had given them more
independence and more earnestness in the search
for truth, and more discontent with all that comes
short of it. Still, as regards Gilmore, there was

much that needed explanation. If the young man
had such an eye for the detection of social shams —
as Mr. Kennedy believed he had, judging from
remarks he had passed at various times — why had
he not stayed to do his best to eradicate them ?
Then, since he had, for some unknown reason,
chosen to make his home in Africa, why had he for
so long remained passive, making no effort for
either the spiritual or physical welfare of the
natives ? Above all, why, now that he had begun
to do something for at least one individual — why
did he want to shift the burden of the responsibilities
he had undertaken to other shoulders than his
own ? Had it been only a whim, and had he tired
of it? Had he tired of Africa, too, and was he
perhaps meditating a speedy return to Europe ?

Had he

Don't you think it would be for Ulu's good as
well as for her comfort," urged Kate, breaking in
upon her father's speculations at this point, and
passing round to the back of his chair to seat
herself on its arm, to be within better " coaxing

distance," as she was wont to put it.

"But " began Mr. Kennedy.

"Oh, blessed 'but,' herald of joyous 'yes'"

exclaimed Kate, interrupting him, and laying her

hand caressingly on his shoulder. " Now, daddy

dear, do just say 'yes' at once."

"Well, then, 'yes provided Ulu would like to
remain."

Oh, but Ulu must remain — at least, in the
mean time. She's a close prisoner here for ten
days, at the very least. After that "

After that," continued Gilmore, " you must all
come down to Pepo-ni to compare notes and make
final arrangements. Perhaps it will be better, in
any case, for Mr. Kennedy not to decide until he
has thought the matter over."

"Air right, then," said Kate; "talk it over
between you. I must be off now to look after my
patient ; " and she slipped from her uneasy seat
and disappeared into the sick-room.

One important result of the conversation which
ensued between Mr. Kennedy and Gilmore was to
bring about in each a better understanding and
appreciation of the other's character and modes of
thought. Without alluding to the causes which
had led him to seek the wild seclusion of Kilimanjaro,
Gilmore spoke frankly of the despondent and
dissatisfied mood in which Serii's proposition that
he should marry Ulu had come to him, and of the
specious reasoning by which he had deluded himself
into the belief that it was possible for him
seriously to entertain it. He told how gradually
and unwillingly the opposite conclusion had forced
itself upon him, as he saw how useless it was to

hope in such a marriage for even an approximation
to that companionship of soul which can alone
constitute any true union. He explained in detail
how the conduct of his women had rendered it
imperative either that he should marry Ulu or find
a home for her that would in some sort resemble
his own, since, having accustomed her to easier
and gentler conditions of life, he could not allow
her to return to the slavery and degradation which
is the accustomed lot of the ordinary M-Chaga
woman. He no longer pretended, as he had done
to Kate, that he still intended to fulfil his romantic
purpose, though, of course, he did not tell — he
scarcely yet acknowledged to himself — how much
the dissipation of his daybreak had been hastened
by his meeting with Miss Kennedy and the renewed
hold which, through her, the civilized social life
seemed to have gained upon his imagination.

Mr. Kennedy, however, though he did not suspect
the cause, was shrewd enough to guess, from the
fact that Gilmore no longer inveighed so vehemently
against civilization, and no longer desired to link
himself indissolubly with its opposite, that there
had been some new birth of hope and purpose in
the young man's mind. That in itself was enough
to lead him to listen attentively to all Gilmore had
to say, and to repress much of the question and
criticism that instinctively rose to his lips. Active

and practical, the missionary had but little sympathy
with morbid moods that led to months of
wasted life ; but, earnestly as he desired to see
Oilmour assume the role of a worker in the world,
he had tact enough to know that to advise or
exhort at the present critical juncture would only
be to call forth on Gilmore's part an obstinate
defence of the attitude of apathy he had chosen to
assume. He saw that Gilmore was passing through
some great mental and moral crisis, and he believed
that the best thing he could do was to let him
speak freely whatever came into his mind, hoping
at some future time to be able to give such counsel
as God might put it into his heart to offer.

Accordingly, Gilmore's confidences, if such they
might be called, were received with unlooked-for
tolerance and interest ; and when, in the afternoon,
our hero set out to return to Pepo-ni, he was surprised
to find himself taking leave of the missionary
with something very like regret. Both Mr. Kennedy
and Kate were most pressing in their invitation
to him to stay longer ; but he declined to
trespass further on their kindness, fearing that,
with Ulu an invalid and Miss Kennedy evidently
bent on nursing her as tenderly as if she had been
a sister, his presence in the house might only
prove an additional source of trouble. Kate undertook
to let him know from time to time how her

little charge progressed; and. with a promise on
his part to come again soon and see them all,
Gilmonr bade his hospitable friends good-bye, and
started on his way homewards.

Chapter III.

Gilmore had closed the idol of Pepo-ni. In committing
Ulu to the care of Miss Kennedy, he felt
that he had severed the one golden thread which
had become interwoven with the dreary dullness of
his life of exile. In the days which succeeded his
visit to Pisgah, he was surprised to find what a
strange blank the toto's absence left unfilled.
True, he no longer deceived himself as to the
nature of the bond which had united them. Lu
had been to him " a little dearer than his dog " —
no more ; but for a time, at least, he had been
able to toy with the idea that she might become
more, and the specious fancy had shed a halo over
his futile attempts to draw out the deeper nature
which as a human being he had supposed she must
possess. She had been a curious study to him.
He had found much food for thought in noting her
various moods, her simple method of looking at
things, her artless way of explaining the forces
which she saw in operation around her.

Still more had Gilniour been interested in observing
the manifestations of his little pupil's
purely animal nature, the utter absence of any
higher or more 'spiritual promptings beyond those
springing from mere family relationships. What
a contrast between her and the " white maiden of
Mandara's" — the one, with her low appetites and
passions, finding her paradise in plenty of food,
gaudy clothes, and idleness; the other, with her
noble aspirations " for the pure and the true, and the
beauteous and the right," dreaming only of satisfaction
in constant activity and earnest endeavour
for the welfare of humanity. Strange that such
opposite forces should have influenced him to such
similar purpose — both urging him back to his place
in the world, the one by the despair she had
finally intensified, the other by the hope she had
unconsciously awakened. Deprived of either, what
would Gilniour by this time have become ? Lu
had first supplied an object in his aimless life ;
had drawn him out of himself, and away from his
persistent, morbid contemplation of the more artificial
and disappointing aspects of human nature.
While yet under the inspiration of his fresh effort
and sanguine of its success, Miss Kennedy had
appeared on the scene, soon to become an important
factor in the working out of his spiritual regeneration
— all the more important that his effort had
ended in comparative failure.

To Gilmore Kate was Europe personified. She
embodied all that was best and sweetest and fairest
of its ardent youthful thought and active spirit.
In everything she said or did, or even looked, she
recalled to him the charm of the old life and the
freshness of his early hopes ; it seemed, indeed, as
if she had been specially sent to Kilimanjaro to
remind him how much of goodness and truth and
beauty still leavened the great body of humanity,
and prevented it from becoming an altogether
stale, sodden, unprofitable mass. Kate's eager
enthusiasm, her faith in man, her impulsive, uncalculating
manner of speaking out whatever
thought originated in her heart — all found a
responsive echo in Gilmore's own nature, and told
him that the old, impetuous, sanguine self was
only dormant and not dead, as he had fondly
endeavoured to persuade himself. Whenever in
Kate's presence he had tried to maintain his
assumed attitude of cynical pessimism, and she,
in her direct way of looking at people, had bent
her candid, heart-searching eyes upon him, as if
she would read his inmost soul, he had been
conscious of an uneasy conviction that she saw
through his affectation ; and even if she in some
sort sympathized with the despondency of which it
had been the outcome, she was none the less ready
to condemn the idle, contemptible life in which it

bad resulted. The suggestion of latent energy — of
will and capacity to do — which seemed to emanate
from her whole mental and physical bearing, was
in itself a rebuke to inaction ; and her spoken
conviction of the duty of work, and of its efficacy
as a remedy for spiritual distemper, Gilmore had
recognized and acknowledged as a direct appeal to
him to rouse himself from his lethargy, and once
more join issue on the side of right and progress.

Many a lonely hour Gilmore spent musing on
his strange experiences of the past few weeks, and,
what was better, dimly forming plans for the
guidance of his future. More and more his
thoughts tended towards Europe, his first half-formed,
hastily suppressed desire turning to persistent
yearning. He felt as if now he could
approach life with a clearer and more matured conception
of the possibilities it contained, with more
reasonable expectations, and a humbler and truer
estimate of his own rights and his own powers.
He would do. more and dream less, and, because
not attempting too much, might possibly achieve
more practical results. Already he saw himself
launched forth on the old strife, better equipped
for the rude tussle with the world, and better fitted
to do something which, in however minute a way,
would help to benefit his fellows, and contribute
towards the upward tendency of humanity.

VOL. II. d

It was not without much hesitation and regret
that Gilmore finally made up his mind to quit
Africa for home. In doing so, there would be
much left behind that he had become attached to
his charming model settlement, his faithful
followers, his little savage pupil — all these had
become part of his daily life, and could not betaken
leave of without a pang. More than all,
perhaps, he felt he would regret breaking off the
intimacy with Miss Kennedy, for whom a strong
feeling of friendship had sprung up within him.
They had found so much essentially in common
between them; while their surface differences
seemed only to form the complement one of the
other, and became, therefore, bonds of union rather
than points of separation.

Without the slightest vanity, Gilmore felt, too,
that Miss Kennedy would miss him almost more
than he would miss her. With her yearning for
the civilized life, her want of enthusiasm for the
work in which her father, and in a sense she herself,
was engaged ; with no one at hand to whom
she could freely unburden her soul, no friend with
whom to exchange thoughts, nothing but a few
books to link her mind with the enlightened world
which had her heart — would she not slowly wear
out all the fire and vivacity of her nature, chafing
at her uncongenial environment ? Much as she

loved her father, there were too many subjects on
which there was a tacit understanding of silence
between them for her ever to feel that his companionship
atoned for the want of all other society.
The missionary's life had been too isolated, his
thoughts too much concentrated on a single object,
for him to have much sympathy with many of the
aspects of his daughter's many-sided character.
Much that burned within her for expression must
thus of necessity smoulder as a secret fire, and,
finding no natural outlet, would prey upon her
inner life with, it might be, disastrous results.

Gilmore had not failed to remark how eager
Kate was to talk with him, and with what pleasure
she threw herself into the discussion of her favourite
themes, her ardour sometimes causing her to
launch forth at great, and what to many might
have seemed tedious, length, though Gilmore had
no fault to find with it. She expressed herself so
clearly; her thoughts, it seemed to him, were in
themselves so well worth hearing, and her enthusiasm
and fire so delightfully refreshing and invigorating,
that, as he listened, he caught the
infection of her mood, and, far from feeling tired,
took pleasure in inciting her to go on.

Perhaps it was purely out of consideration for
Miss Kennedy, perhaps because he still felt unable
to decide exactly when he would return to Europe,

perhaps from some reason altogether more subtle
and indefinable, that during the fortnight or more
Ulu remained at Pisgah as an invalid, Gilmore did
not once go to see her. Messengers frequently
passed between Pepo-ni and the mission settlement,
and more than once Gilmore sent flowers —
rare and splendid blossoms from high up the
mountain-side, such as had seemed to afford Kate
such intense pleasure on that day when he had
first seen her in her own home. Still Gilmore did
not go himself, a circumstance at which Kate
wondered not a little, especially after his parting
promise to come again soon.

Kate did not resent Gilmore's non-appearance,
however. He was her friend, and all Kate's friends
she was inclined to view through rose-coloured
spectacles. She knew, moreover, that Gilmore
was in a state of mental unrest and indecision that
excused unexpected actions, and demanded patience
and toleration on the part of those about him. As
day after day went by, she became more and more
certain that he was struggling towards some important
turning-point in his career, and in the
satisfaction she derived from the idea, she was
content to be without the pleasure of his society
until such time as he himself should feel in the
mood for hers.

Meanwhile, happy in the consciousness of having

a kindred spirit near her, Kate went about her
daily duties with more of interest than she had
ever before been able to take in things African, and
ceaselessly busied herself about Ulu, for whose
welfare — physical, mental, and moral — she now
felt herself to be responsible.

Miss Kennedy's painstaking kindness did not go
unrewarded. In the depths of Ulu's rude nature
there gradually grew up a deep devotion for her
untiring nurse and teacher.

The bibi's tender care, her soothing touch when
dressing her wounds, were a constant source of
wonder to Ulu. It seemed incredible that a being
so exalted, so rich, so beautiful, should care to
trouble herself about a poor little mshenzi. Vainly
she strove to find an explanation of her difficulty,
believing at first that under all the attention Kate
lavished upon her there must be an interested
motive, and that the time would come when she
would rue the hour in which she had fallen into
the bibi's hands. But day after day passed by,
and still the bibi looked upon her with the same
tender eye, still dressed her wounds with the same
gentle care, as if she — Ulu, the M-Chaga maiden —
were a queen and the bibi her slave.

Ulu gained confidence. After all, there was to
be no rude awakening, no evil outcome of the
present incomprehensible good. The bibi was a

ministering spirit — Ngai (God) Himself perhaps ;
that was the conclusion to which Ulu was forced to
come, and in her heart she worshipped Kate accordingly,
with a mixture of love, fear, and awe,
which robbed her of words, and found expression
in her great gazelle-like eyes and timid, submissive
manner.

In thus reverencing Kate as a deity, Ulu was, as
already hinted, by no means singular. More or
less the bibi mzungu was regarded in that light
throughout the length and breadth of Kindii, as
much from the idea of mystery and superiority
with which she impressed the native mind, as from
her kindness and success in treating disease.

At first the M-Chaga had looked upon Gilmore,
too, in much the same aspect ; but his disgust at
the civilization from which he had fled led him to
adapt himself in more rough and ready fashion to
the rude life around him, while his good-natured
habit of conversing with the natives, as if one of
themselves, soon served to dispel the primary awe
and fear his appearance had occasioned. Though
familiarity by no means bred contempt, it yet reduced
him to a much lower pedestal than that on
which the simple people had naturally been inclined
to place him.

With Kate, however, it was different. She had
no fault to find with civilization, and, bound up as

she was in all that pertained to the civilized social
life, Kate Kennedy on Kilimanjaro was the same
Kate who had been the presiding genius of the
student circle in Edinburgh. Without consciously
intending to hold herself aloof, she yet made little
or no attempt to get en rapport with the natives, as
Gilmore had done ; and thus, isolated and alone,
she moved a goddess among thousands, with kind
words, it is true, and speech adapted to their comprehension,
but always Kate Kennedy, always the
being whose thoughts were not their thoughts,
though herself in kind akin.

Never before had Kate been brought into such
intimate contact with a native as she now was
with Ulu, and for some time she was at a loss to
explain the girl's timid attitude towards her. She
had, she thought, done everything in her power to
gain the love and confidence of her little charge,
and it was disappointing to find that, spite of all
her efforts, Ulu still seemed half afraid to approach
or speak to her. It was only by accident that she
at length discovered the key to the mystery.

One day, by the hand of Uledi, Gilmore sent
Kate a magnificent bouquet of orchids, some of
which were so rare and so exquisite that she took
a fancy to perpetuate their loveliness on canvas.
She was just putting the finishing touches to her
study, when Ulu, by this time almost well, stole

softly behind her chair, and stood silently watching
her movements with admiring, wonder-stricken eyes.

Bibi, do you go in the night to Pepo-ni?"
questioned the little maid at length, her voice
lowered to a whisper.

Kate stopped her painting and looked round.
What could Ulu mean by such a question as that ?
"What did you say, toto ? " she asked, thinking
she had not heard aright. u Do I go in the
night to Pepo-ni ? "

"I never saw you; it must have been in the
night' said Ulu, hesitatingly, mistaking Kate's
look of bewilderment for one of displeasure. " Oh,
bibi, next time you go, will you take me with
you ? " she timidly entreated. " I want so much
to see the Bwana again."

More and more puzzled, and vexed by the child's
half-frightened manner, Kate put her arm encouragingly
around her.

Of course," she said, in answer to Ulu's request;
"but we can't go for a day or two yet.
You are not strong enough to walk so far."

"But the flowers will die," objected Ulu, doubtfully.


"Well, what if they do? Were not going to
take them with us."

"Where will you take them, then? Will you
plant them on the mountain ? "

No, of course not. I shall put them in my
own room. That was what the Bwana sent them
for."

For a moment there was silence, during which
Kate sat wondering what was to be the outcome of
all this question and answer; for, from Lu's
doubtful expression, she inferred they were still at
cross-purposes,

Why does the Bwana send you flowers ? "
asked Ulu at length, gazing inquiringly into Kate's
face.

I don't know. I suppose because he thinks I
like them."

"And when did you give them to him? Did
you take them yourself? "

Ulu, what do you mean ? " cried Kate, unable
to repress a smile at the evident misunderstanding,
which seemed never going to be cleared up.
"You know it was the Bwana who gave them tome."


"But you gave them to him first. You put
them where he could find them. You made them
for him."

I ? I cannot make flowers."

It was now Ulu's turn to look bewildered. " But
I have seen you," she said confidently. "I saw
you just now ; " and Ulu pointed to the canvas on
the easel before her.

Kate saw at once what she was thinking. To
Ulu the painted flowers were real.

Never had such a compliment to my artistic
efforts before ! " was Kate's mental ejaculation.
Aloud she said, smiling, "Ah, toto, I'm afraid
you won't find my flowers nearly so nice as the
Bwana's. You can't pluck them, nor smell them.
See, if you only do that, they are gone ; " and Kate
drew Ulu's forefinger across the wet canvas, and
remorselessly smudged out part of her carefully
finished work.

Ulu gazed at her aghast; she seemed more
dum foundered than ever. " But the salaam told
me you could make flowers," she stammered forth,
after standing for a moment looking from Kate to
the picture, and from the picture to her own paint-smeared
finger, and from the finger back again to
Kate's amused face.

Oh no, Ulu ; the salaam could not tell you
that," cried Kate, wondering what fresh revelation
was in store for her.

"Yes, he did," returned Ulu, with assurance;
he told me Ngai (God) made everything — the
flowers, the "

"Ngai! " repeated Kate, in blank astonishment,
scarcely able to believe her ears.

Did Ulu think that she was Ngai ? This, then,
was the explanation of the child's incomprehensible

timidity in approaching her ; of the awe and submission
with which she obeyed Kate's smallest
behest, and listened to her lightest word. It
seemed strange Kate had not thought of it before ;
but, as she told her father when relating the little
episode at dinner that evening, she had become so
accustomed to regard Ulu in the light of her intimate
connection with Gilmore, that she could
never class her with the other natives, as one
absolutely ignorant of even the primary conceptions
of a civilized religion.

As best she might, Kate set about trying to alter
the erroneous idea Ulu had formed regarding her.
The task was by no means easy. When Kate
spoke of her own limited capacity, and in a simple
way tried to teach Ulu something of the nature
and attributes of deity, the girl only looked at her
with troubled eyes that spoke her perplexity of
soul, and plainly showed Kate's efforts were futile.

Ulu's idea of a God was vague and undefined ;
anything wonderful and incomprehensible was to
her divine. Kate, in act and aspect, was the most
wonderful being she had known, and seemed to
realize the most wonderful she was capable of
conceiving. She was more than content with this
visible embodiment of power and beneficence, and
it seemed superfluous to try to substitute for it an
invisible spirit, who might be everywhere, as the

bibi said, but, as always unseen, appeared to be
nowhere.

Ulu had no words in which to express her
feelings on the subject — nay, could not well define
them to herself ; but, after a fashion, Kate guessed
the tendency of the girl's dim thoughts, and sympathized
with it. For the present, therefore, she
gave up trying to force upon Ulu's darkened mind
an idea it was incapable of grasping ; but during
the next few days she spoke much to her of the
God of the mzungu, and was rewarded at length by
finding that her little pupil had gained the idea of
a Being who was to the bibi what the bibi was to
her, though she did not on that account think the
bibi any less worthy her reverence and devotion. It
was not much, but it was better than nothing ; and
in the mean time Kate had to be content, and
await with what patience she might the development
of that " little soul," in whose progress she
now felt as deep an interest as had at one time
Gilmore himself.

CHAPTER IV.

On a warm afternoon, rather more than a fortnight
after his visit to the mission settlement, Gilmore,
arrayed in all the glory of a spotless drill suit and
crimson silk neckerchief, was restlessly pacing up
and down his baraza at Pepo-ni, awaiting with
impatience the arrival of Miss Kennedy and her
father, who on that day were to come on a short
visit to Pepo-ni. Ulu was to accompany them;
and Gilmore hoped that now final arrangements
might be made for his little toto's permanent
residence at Pisgah.

As he listened anxiously for the first signal of
the approach of his guests, Gilmore turned over in
his mind how he would tell Miss Kennedy of his
intended departure for Europe, and pictured to
himself the mingled expression that would passover
Kate's speaking face on hearing the news —
approbation of the step he was about to take, gladness
at the change of mental attitude it indicated,

regret for the loss of her newly made friend, her
only friend within thousands of miles.

"Dear me!" he exclaimed at length, " they
should be here by this time."

Looking out, he remarked that the sun was
within an hour of the zenith. With a gesture of
surprise, he was about to cross the compound to
the gate, when he suddenly stopped short in an
attitude of rapt attention. With body bent forward
and head slightly turned to one side, he presented
his ear towards the west.

Away in the far distance, a strange sound could
be faintly heard, ringing with a peculiar intonation,
which brought a look of intense anxiety to Gil-your's
face. Quickly the sound grew and gathered
force, taken up by an ever-increasing number of
voices, till it seemed to emanate from all directions
at once.

Onward, with astounding rapidity and ever-increasing
volume and area, the dread note which
betokens war came rolling towards Pepo-ni, passed
above and below it, and continued its startling
progress towards Machine and western Chaga.
Not a soul was to be seen, though in front and
rear, to the right and to the left, the cry was taken
up with deafening clamour, till the little settlement
seemed the centre of some vast battle-field.

The word which went most directly to the hearts

of those who heard was one which served to indicate
the nature of the danger. " El-Masai ! 
! " was the name which rang out upon the
startled air, with paralyzing effect.

No one stood more spellbound than Gilmore on
hearing that cry of bloody import. His friends,
the Kennedyss — where were they ? Something must
at once be done to save them, if, indeed, it were
not already too late.

"Bunduki, bunduki ! " (guns, guns) he cried to
his men, who stood expectantly, awaiting his
orders.

Tayari, tayari ! " (ready, ready) was the reply,
as, with convulsive grasp, the Wa-Swahili shook
their weapons in the air like spears ; while the
women shrank back in terror, and their children
cowered beside them, clutching at their mothers'
garments with nervous little hands.

Meanwhile, Tubu, divining the requirements of
the situation, had brought his master's rifle and
belt. Hastily Gilmore buckled on the latter, and
seized his gun.

"Now, then, boys, come along. There's no
time to be lost ; " and swiftly Gilmore led the way
to the gate.

Eh-wallah ! " shouted the men, following him
pellmell.

Once outside the stockade, they fell into single

file, and, headed by Gilniour, rapidly traversed the
outer bush tract. Soon they emerged upon more
open ground, where they were able to proceed more
freely.

Everywhere they encountered numbers of men
hurrying to join the fighters at Serii's, and others
flying, like cowards, to hide themselves in the
bush, or take refuge at Pepo-ni. More slowly came
groups of terrified women, every moment expecting
a Masai spear through their backs, or the crash of a
knob kerry on their skulls. But maternal instincts
rose superior to every fear, every danger, and babes
were clasped convulsively to breast, an aiding hand
held out to children, as one and all they toiled
gaspingly up the hill.

Of every one Gilmore asked, " Where are the
Masai ? Are there many ? Have you seen the
white people of Mandara's ? " but only senseless
cries were elicited in answer. His impotency made
him frantic. He knew not where to go or what todo.
There were several roads by which his friends
might come. He stopped to take counsel of his
men. All showed themselves eager to return.

"What can we do against the Masai?" they
asked.

What, indeed, could they do ? was Gilmore's
own despairing question. And yet — the Kennedyss !
Gilmore could not desert them without doing his

utmost, whatever might be the risk. He was just
on the point of going forward again on chance,
when one of his men attracted his attention to a
flying figure appearing * and disappearing among
the bushes.

Look, Bwana ! there is the mzungu," he cried.

With an exclamation of delight, Gilmore started
in pursuit. Soon it was seen that. the man was
only one of Mr. Kennedy's servants.

Ngoja ! ngoja ! " (stop) shouted Gilmore, some
of his men joining in the cry.

The fugitive only redoubled his speed. It was
evident, however, that he was rapidly becoming
exhausted; whereupon Ferhani forged ahead, and
seized the coat-tails of Jonathan Uledi. With a
wild scream of terror, the M-Chaga collapsed helplessly
on the pathway, pulling Ferhani over on the
top of him.

"Lord, have mercy upon me! Lord, have mercy
upon me!" he kept calling, as he lay face downwards
on the ground.

Kelele, mjenga ! " (silence, fool) cried Gilmore,
who arrived panting. " We are not Masai," he
continued in English, giving the fellow a shake.

Immediately Jonathan's clamour ceased, and,
scarcely daring to trust his senses, he raised his
head and took a timid glance at his captors. On
seeing the white man, the revulsion of feeling was

VOL. II. E

so great that he could only clasp Gilrnour's knees
and blubber and laugh hysterically.

Gilmore shook him off. " Tell me what has
come over your master and mistress," he said
impatiently.

Jonathan found his tongue at once. " Oh,
Bwana, Bwana, they are all killed," he stammered
out — " all killed by the Masai ; " and once more he
betook himself to his childish wailing, rocking himself
to and fro the while.

For a moment Gilmore was too much agitated
to speak. " Who are killed ? " he asked at length,
in a choking tone. "Not the Bwana and Bibi
Kennedy ? "

Yes, yes ; they are murdered. The Masai have
murdered them," groaned Jonathan, with another
outburst of lamentation.

Gilmore stared at the man helplessly. Mechanically
he asked where the tragedy took place.
"Quite near," sobbed Jonathan.
Were the Masai numerous ? "
Oh, Bwana, numerous as the ants ; " and
Jonathan, reminded of the dangers of his situation,
jumped hastily to his feet, and would once more
have taken flight, had not Gilmore laid a restraining
hand upon him.

"Not so fast, my man," he said; "you must
show us the place."

A cry of remonstrance broke from some of his
followers.

"What!" he continued, turning fiercely upon
them, " have I cowards among my watoto ? "

The stinging epithet had its due effect.

"We will follow you to death!" shouted someone
more brave than the rest.

"Lead on, Bwana ; our lives are in your hand,"
chimed in some of the others, becoming emboldened.

Ngemma ! now I recognize my men. You
would not leave my friends a prey to the hyaenas
and vultures ? "

"No, no! Let us go to them at once," cried
one and all, inspired by their master's fire.

Now, then, Jonathan, show the way ; " and
Gilmore grasped his rifle more firmly, as if to
prepare for whatever dangers might be in front of
him.

Keeping carefully in the depths of the wood, lest
any of the Masai should still be prowling about,
the little party soon reached the spot where the
attack had taken place. The first object which
greeted them was the frightfully gashed body of
Kennedy's donkey boy. Gilmore dared scarcely
look further. Every moment he expected to come
upon the mutilated corpse of the missionary or his
daughter. His men scattered to examine the
bushes, but for some time their search was fruit-library



UNIVERSE OF W m *

less. Gilmore began faintly to hope that, after
all, his friends might have effected their escape.
He was just about to ask Jonathan if he had seen
his master killed, when an excited shout froze the
words upon his lips.

"Bwana, Bwana," cried the men, eagerly crowding
around some object on the ground, "here is
the salaam ! "

Quick as thought Gilmore sprang to the place.
There, indeed, lay the missionary, without a sign
of life, a stream of blood slowly oozing from a
ghastly wound in his side. Mr. Kennedy had crept
into the bush to die.

Has no one seen the bibi ? " asked Gilmore, ashe
turned sadly away.

An expressive silence was his only answer.
Again the men scattered and resumed their
search. In vain ; not a trace of Miss Kennedy or
Ulu was to be found. The thought occurred to
Gilmore that they might have been made prisoners.
Ere he had time to utter it, a cry, with a curious,
unfamiliar ring about it, came wafted to his ears.
He looked inquiringly at Uledi, his usual oracle.
El-Masai," was the brief response.
A new idea crossed Gilmore's mind. He might
yet make sure whether Kate was a prisoner or not.
With quick decision, he gave his orders. So many
of his men were to make a litter and carry the

body of the missionary to Pepo-ni, while so many
more were to remain in the wood and continue the
search for Miss Kennedy. These arrangements
completed, he and Uledi hurried off in a southwesterly
direction at break-neck speed. In a
quarter of an hour they reached the base of a
steep, parasitic, volcanic cone, which rose at the
base of the mountain, and commanded a clear view
of the Kahe plain. Soon they were at the top,
and before them lay an open grassy glade, which
here extended through the forest, as if artificially
cleared. Panting, master and man threw themselves
flat on the ground, and with feverish expectancy
watched for the passage of the savages.
For some time it seemed as if they were doomed
to be disappointed. At length one dark figure
appeared from the forest, then another and another,
until by-and-by a file of warriors, dressed in all the
awe-inspiring fierceness of war-array, stretched
across the entire width of the clearing. Still there
was no sign of Kate.

Next a herd of cattle — part of the spoil of the
raid — appeared, guarded on all sides by agile
spearmen. That passed, and became lost to view.
The procession seemed to have ended; and Gil-your's
heart sank, as, full of dire forebodings, he
anxiously asked himself what could have become
of Miss Kennedy. But again the stream of savages

commenced. Something white showed itself among
the trees, and the next moment Gilmore saw Miss
Kennedy's donkey, Tanga, step into the clearing,
bearing on its back the object of his solicitude.
Kate looked dazed and stupefied ; grief and terror
had almost bereft her of her senses. One warrior
led the donkey; while half a dozen others surrounded
the captive, their swarthy figures throwing
her white dress into more marked relief.

The one feeling which overwhelmed Gilmore at
the sight was relief to find Miss Kennedy still
alive. Then he remembered his impotency to help
her. He felt a mad desire to shoot some of her
captors clown ; but he restrained himself, and
gazed on in a stupor.

Look, Bwana, there is Ulu ! " cried Uledi.

True enough, there was the little M-Chaga, jogging
along patiently behind Tanga. Gilmore was pleased
to observe that she, too, was safe for the moment,
and thought with satisfaction that probably she
would be able to make herself of use to Kate in her
present straits.

The little group had now reached the middle of
the clearing. A few minutes more, and Kate would
be hid from Gilmore's eyes, perhaps for ever. He
sprang to his feet, determined to signal to her as a
token that her position was known, and that she
was not deserted. He fired his gun. As the sharp

crack re-echoed on every hand, a great commotion
ensued, the Masai thinking they were about to be
attacked. Kate was the centre around which they
rallied, and in a twinkling she was hemmed in by
a hundred warriors, eager to meet the expected
enemy.

Again Gilmore fired. All eyes were turned
towards the hill, and a wild yell rang out, as the
white dress of the white man was easily discerned.
A hundred shovel-headed spears flashed in the air,
ready to do their bloody office. For a moment
Kate was hid from view ; but Gilmore knew that
her eyes would be directed towards him, as to her
only hope. Tying his handkerchief to his rifle, he
waved it high above his head. He caught a
glimpse of a responsive wave of something white.
That was enough ; it was time now to fly. A
dozen warriors had stealthily detached themselves
from the rest, and started in pursuit of him. One
last wave of his handkerchief, one last look at the
figure in the white dress, and Gilmore and Uledi
disappeared down the hill.

CHAPTEK V.

Miss Kennedy was very bright and radiant on that
August morning when she started with Ulu for
Pepo-ni. She was looking forward eagerly to the
prospect of another long talk with Gilrnour, whom
she had much to tell of her experiences with his
ex-pupil. She hoped, too, that Gilmore would
now tell her something about himself. Her
curiosity was piqued by the mystery which surrounded
him ; she felt as if she would like to know
what the " environment " had been that had produced
her new friend's mood of artificial cynicism,
and the sensitive, romantic soul which underlay it.
She felt, too, as if she would like to help towards
his conversion back to saner and less bitter ideas.
The task was one which suited her better than
the ineffectual endeavour to get in touch with the
low minds of the Wa-Chaga. She wondered if
he had ever thought any more of their last conversation,
wondered if the words which had then

so much moved* him had had any .lasting effect.
Somehow Kate was inclined to answer in the
affirmative, and perhaps there was not wanting a
tiny spice of feminine vanity in the pleasure the
thought gave her that she had been able to influence
Gilmore for good.

Mr. Kennedy was not less anxious than his
daughter to see Mr. Gilmore again. His darling
project of founding a station at Serii's was about to
be realized, Gilmore having promised to go with
him to the chief and make the necessary arrangements.


Ulu, too, was pleased. The life at Pisgah was
much more irksome to her than that at Pepo-ni.
She had found herself restricted in many new
ways. Especially she had grown impatient of Mr.
Kennedy's persistent dinning in her ears of moral
maxims which she could not understand. Even
the privilege of being allowed to listen to the music
of the harmonium, and the hope of being one day
able to join the children in singing hymns, could
not quite atone for the wearisome discipline to
which she was sometimes subjected. Then, much
as she adored Kate, the bibi could never be to her
as the Bwana mzungu, to whom she was now more
than ever devoted since he had saved her from the
lion's dreadful jaws.

As the little party moved westward in the

Lu.

direction of Kindii, each one silently followed his or
her own thoughts, or, when the nature of the
pathway permitted it, indulged in desultory snatches
of conversation. As they approached Pepo-ni, the
father and daughter fell to discussing the character
of Gilmore, and the chances of establishing a
mission at Serii's, just as they had done nearly two
months before at the same spot. Even yet Mr.
Kennedy and Kate could not quite agree on the
former topic. Though inclined to form a much
higher estimate of him than at first, Gilmore was
still largely incomprehensible to the missionary,
and, not being able to view him except through the
medium of his own practical nature, he sometimes
said hard things about him. On these occasions,
as already said, his daughter warmly espoused the
cause of her new-found friend. She admitted that
his present do-nothing life was indefensible ; but
then, she argued, it was only the symptom of a
temporary disease, not the outcome of a permanent
state of mind.

"It's only an unusually deep fit of 'the blues,'
papa," she said. "He is fast recovering. You'll
see he will soon go home."

It's all very well to talk about ' fits of the
blues,' " grumbled Mr. Kennedy. "For my part,
I don't profess to understand them. Nobody not
utterly devoid of common sense would allow themselves

to give way to your so-called ' fits.' Humph !
A nice plague such an atrabiliar temperament
must be ! "

To the owner of it in particular," said Kate,
laughing at her father's dissatisfied tone. " It
can't bring him much happiness. Or perhaps I
should rather say," she added, correcting herself,
it will bring him an ever-recurring round of
pain, discontent, and disappointment. Only when
his happiness does come, he will feel it, like his
sorrows, more keenly than other people."

Humph ! " grumbled Mr. Kennedy again.

You will see it's just as I say," Kate resumed.
Mr. Gilmore is extremely sensitive and very
romantic. He has had lots of grand dreams and
high aspirations, and somehow or another they've
been disappointed. Perhaps he expected too much
or attempted to soar too high. At any rate, he
has had a terrible fall."

What else could you expect ? A nature such
as you describe will always fail, because finding its
sole inspiration in itself and in the world."

Kate made no reply, beyond a scarcely perceptible
shrug of the shoulders, which eloquently
said that, however good might be the understanding
between her father and herself, there were yet
some things which they could not view from the
same standpoint.

The pathway now became narrow and difficult,
and Mr. Kennedy gradually fell some distance
behind. Kate grew flushed and tired, and silently
sighed a wish that she was once more in the cool
shades of Pepo-ni.

Ulu," she called, " where are you ? "
Iko (here), bibi," replied the girl, tripping
lightly to the donkey's side.

How far are we from Pepo-ni ? "

We shall reach it when the sun "

Well ? When the sun is — where ? " queried
Kate, looking round to see where Ulu would point
to. "Why, what is it?" she cried, suddenly
drawing rein, as she beheld Ulu standing rigid and
speechless, a look of horror on her face.

Her answer was a blood-curdling yell, as from
behind tree and bush sprang forth a horrid array
of naked savages. It was now Kate's turn to
stand mute and terror-stricken, a scream which
shaped itself in her throat dying away in a faint
murmur.

But if Kate and Ulu were dumb, not so the
donkey-boy. His hereditary instinct was a stronger
force than any fear, and the Chaga cry which
signals danger and calls to arms rang out through
the woods with thrilling effect, till transformed
into a death-groan as half a dozen huge spears
buried themselves in the boy's writhing body. He

fell at the feet of Tanga, who sniffed him wonder -
ingle ; while Kate, scarcely knowing what she did,
fumbled involuntarily in her revolver pocket for
the weapon she was seldom without.

At that moment her father's voice rang out
behind her in tones of wild alarm. " Kate !
Kate ! " he cried in agony.

Startled into new life, Kate turned with an
answering cry, only to see an upraised spear, and
hear the shout of triumph that went ringing
through the forest as the fell weapon did its bloody
office. Forgetful of her impotency, and heedless
of her danger, Kate jumped frantically from Tanga's
back to fly to her father's aid. A gleaming circle
of spears hemmed her in. To pass was impossible.
Wildly she looked around her. Useless ! There
was no loophole anywhere. The tension on her
feelings grew too strong ; her body was too weak
for the spirit it contained. She reeled a moment,
steadied herself, and looked round once more, then
staggered and fell fainting on the ground.

Meanwhile Ulu had narrowly escaped sharing
the fate of Mr. Kennedy and the donkey-boy, a
warrior having made a playful lunge at her with
his spear. Happily she was too quick for him,
and sprang aside in time to avoid the thrust.
Again, in more deadly earnest, he raised his
bloody weapon. Hurriedly Ulu gasped out something

in the Masai language. The warrior changed
his mind, and instead of killing made her prisoner.

For the moment Kate's safety was assured by
the astonishment evoked by her strange appearance.
Eound her prostrate body the warriors
crowded excitedly, expressing their surprise in
wondering stares and exclamations. Was she
some strange animal ? Was she Ngai (God) ?
Timidly they touched her clothes, every instant
fearing some dread manifestation.

Time was precious, however. The Masai had
none to waste on idle speculations. The war-cry
raised by the donkey-boy was being rapidly taken
up on all sides, and, their presence thus prematurely
discovered, they must beat a hasty retreat.

Kill it ! " commanded the lytunu (leader).

Eo," promptly replied his men.

Hai ! hai ! " (hold) screamed Ulu, as spears
and bloodstained clubs were ruthlessly raised over
Kate's prostrate form. " That is Ngai. That is
the god of Kibo ! " she added explanatorily.

With exclamations of amazement and awe, the
Masai shrank back in fear, their arms hanging
paralyzed by their sides.

Ulu was thoroughly equal to the occasion.
Struggling from the hands of her captors, she
sprang lightly to Kate's side, and confronted the
warriors with the air of a savage queen.

Renewed exclamations greeted this announcement,
and the savages looked on Ulu with additional
respect.

Go ! " continued the little heroine, with supreme
audacity. " Go, and leave Ngai to return to his
abode in peace, lest he cut off the rains from your
pastures and your cattle die."

Uncertain what to do, the Masai looked towards
their leader for orders.

No," he cried ; " if indeed this is Ngai, he
shall go with us. He will make us bold in battle,
and our spears shall continually drip with blood.
He will live with us, and our fields shall prosper,
and the udders of our cows shall burst with milk."
This audacious resolution was hailed with acclamations.
It fired the savage imagination to think
of taking home a god.

With quick perception, Ulu saw at a glance it
was useless to attempt to brave their captors, and
she turned to Kate, who now began to show signs
of returning consciousness. The warriors fell back,
fearing the possible consequences of their temerity.
They laid aside their arms, and would have thrown
themselves prostrate before her, but that, never
having known a superior being to whom to render

homage, they had not learned the significance of
bowed knee or faces humbled in the dust. In their
own rude fashion, however, they showed the feelings
which possessed them. Plucking up handfuls of
grass — their most sacred object — they held it
towards the supposed god, thus swearing in their
own way that their intentions were friendly. At
the same time they made a* slight sputtering noise
with their lips, as if they would spit upon her,
meaning thereby to deprecate her wrath and
solicit her goodwill.

Kate had swooned away surrounded by cruel-faced
savages and murderous spears — she awoke to
consciousness to find the same savages weaponless,
and holding tufts of grass in their black, oily palms,
while they went through the form of spitting upon
her. The oft-repeated word " Ngai ! Ngai ! " fell
upon her ear with no special significance for the
moment. She seemed to be in some terrible
nightmare that was never coming to an end.

Pick up some grass, bibi," prompted Lu
earnestly in Ki-Swahili.

Mechanically Kate obeyed, and immediately a
joyous shout burst from the expectant warriors.
Ngai had declared himself the friend of the Masai !
A new era of successful warfare, of blood flowing in
torrents, not to speak of abundance of meat and
milk, was about to commence.

It was now time to move onwards. Though five
minutes had not yet elapsed since the war-cry had
first been raised, Chaga was already alarmed, and
at any moment a fight might ensue. Tanga was
at once laid hold of, and passively Kate allowed
herself to be placed in the saddle. More dead than
alive, she was rapidly conveyed down the hill.
Once at the bottom and on safer ground, the
Masai gave vent to their feelings in a shout of joy
and victory, and pranced around the donkey in
jubilant delight. Group after group joined the
exultant throng to take up the cry of " Ngai ! " and
unite in the ecstatic dance. As the main body of
the Masai army was reached the shout went up
which had been heard by Gilmore.

With such a precious capture the warriors did
not dare to linger, thinking the Wa-Chaga would
certainly attempt the rescue of their god. The
camp, therefore, was struck at once, and the
march towards Masai-land resumed.

When at length Kate fully realized that she was
being carried away a prisoner, she was taken
possession of by a horrible fear of the possible fate
in store for her. For a moment every other
feeling was lost in horror. Then a strange, hard
light came into her eyes, and a look of proud
determination settled on her face. " Better death
than that I" she said to herself, as she felt

VOL. II. y

that her revolver was safe and loaded in her
pocket.

Kate's situation was sufficiently hopeless. What
had she to expect from these licentious, bloodthirsty
savages, the indulgence of whose brutal
passions was their sole rule in life ? Better a
thousand times have shared the fate of her father
than thus be reserved for worse. With the thought
of the old man murdered came a pang of keenest
sorrow, and the girl's surcharged feelings at last
found relief in tears.

She could not conjure up the slightest ray of
hope. There was no chance of escape, no third
course between death and dishonour. Even as
Kate came to this conclusion, the report of a rifle
rang sharp and clear from the side of the mountain.
A sudden wild thought of rescue flashed across her
mind, and eagerly she scanned the forest. Nothing
was to be seen. Another report followed. This
time Kate saw the rising smoke. ' The warriors, in
momentary confusion, crowded round her. A white
handkerchief was waved in the air.

It is Mr. Gilmore," she cried involuntarily.

A derisive shout rose from' the Masai. Plucking
out her own handkerchief, Kate gave it a single wave.
The next moment it was torn from her grasp.
What mattered that, however ? Mr. Gilmore knew
her position ; he would not desert her. There was
comfort in the thought ; she would not despair yet.

Chapter VI.

The Masai warriors among whom Kate Kennedy
had so disastrously fallen formed the main body
of a raiding army which had been to the coast.
There they had made great captures of cattle, and
as an incidental amusement killed a considerable
number of men, women, and children. Flushed
with success, they were on their way homeward;
and now, to give further eclat to their triumph,
they had, as they imagined, captured a spirit or
god.

We cannot attempt to follow Kate through all
the terrors, sorrows, and hardships it was now her
lot to experience. Her worst fears were dispelled
when Ulu explained in what light they regarded her,
while the killing march under the fierce sun somewhat
deadened her anguish of mind on thinking of
the terrible fate of her father.

In their own rough way the Masai showed themselves
full of consideration. They carefully led the
donkey by easy paths, and lent assistance at the

numerous streams and rivers which, with some
difficulty and danger, had to be crossed. More
dead than alive, Miss Kennedy reached the river
Kikavo, and there happily the Masai camped for
the night.

In the feasting which followed, the warriors did
not forget the necessities of their captive. They
brought her blood drawn from the veins of newly
killed cattle, and remarked with amazement her
shuddering repulsion of this their choicest drink.
Equally incomprehensible was her rejection of
their finest chunks of beef, which, half raw, half
charred, they proffered, spitted on spear-points, or,
worse still, in their filthy hands.

Happily Ulu came to the rescue, and sent the
well-intentioned but obnoxious savages to the right-about.
The little maiden now proved a veritable
god-send to Kate. Though so young in years as
compared with the latter, she was yet much older
in all the rude experience of life. She took the
bibi in a manner under her protection, and was
at once her friend, her guardian, and her handmaiden.
In her proud position as " slave of Ngai "
and interpreter of his wishes, she was obeyed by
the elmira (warriors) as they had never obeyed
woman before, and she took advantage of the
respect with which they regarded her to render
Kate's position as comfortable as possible, and

secure her from obnoxious attentions and repulsive
intrusions on her privacy.

Ulu herself, it must be confessed, rather enjoyed
the position in which she now found herself.

She felt at home and in congenial surroundings
among the Masai warriors, and, absolved by circumstances
from the irksome customs of Pepo-ni,
she gave free rein to her wild nature and instincts.
Indeed, during the continued captivity of the next
few weeks, the only check to a complete return
in every particular to the savage life was the
presence of Kate.

The second day's march lay through open wooded
country and proved somewhat more pleasant than
that of the day before. Towards evening a halt
was made near Kibo-noto, midway between Kilimanjaro
and Mount Meru, those two great mountain
masses fancifully regarded by the Wa-Swahili as
the pillars which form the gateway to Masai-land.

Here a couple of days were spent, so as to allow
a number of small flying parties to join the main
army and add to the pomp and circumstance of
the return home.

The district of Sigirari in which the Masai were
now camped lies at a height of nearly six thousand
feet, and is in consequence comparatively cold at
night. Here Kate would have suffered greatly had
it not been for Ulu, who at once, with trained

dexterity, set about constructing a dome-shaped
hut of bent branches, over which she threw the
hides of oxen. A couch of grass having been
placed in the extemporized dwelling, Kate entered
into possession, greatly to the increase of her comfort
in more ways than one. It not only proved
useful as a means of shelter, bat also served asa
refuge from the crowding warriors who hourly
pressed round their much enduring prisoner, and
sometimes would have invaded even the privacy
of the hut had not Ulu mounted guard over the
small hole which did duty as a door, and kept
them at a respectful distance, declaring that Ngai
was making macaw (medicines), and must not be
disturbed on pain of terrible consequences. Even
this excuse would not always serve, however, and
Kate, making a virtue of necessity, was fain to
appear at the door holding a tuft of grass in her
hand, in pledge of amity.

By noon of the second day all the elmira had
assembled at the appointed rendezvous. There
was, therefore, no reason for further delay, and it
was determined that the army should make its
entry on the following morning. As an appropriate
finish to the campaign a grand feast was
appointed for the afternoon.

To that end a number of the fattest cattle were
selected from the herd, and, with boisterous cries

and much pricking of spears, driven into camp.
With savage glee the warriors goaded the already
half-wild cattle to madness. Frantically the poor
brutes tried to escape or knock down their tormentors,
only to find their legs entangled in hide
ropes, and amid a general heightening of the
hilarious excitement sink exhausted beneath a rain
of cruel stabs and stunning blows from heavily
swung clubs.

The oxen, once bound and helpless, the butchers
emulated each other in trying the hardness of their
fists and their strength of muscle, in attempts
to fell the poor brutes at a blow. Where fists
were unsuccessful, clubs soon settled the bloody
business.

No sooner was a felled ox down than, like a
pack of half-starved hyaenas, the warriors threw
themselves upon it with fiendish cries, and cut the
veins open with their knives. As the blood gushed
out warm and red, they fastened themselves to
the cuts and sucked with horrible relish, making
inarticulate sounds expressive of their inhuman
satisfaction, while their bloodshot eyes glared ferociously,
and they clung with their hands to the
yielding skin of their victim.

Their enjoyment seemed to be heightened by
feeling the animal's still warm flesh quivering in
their mouths, and its last convulsive throes under

their naked, clinging bodies as its life-blood ebbed
away.

In the unbridled desire to drink many lost
patience and temper, and struggled with threatening
voice and gesture to dislodge those who had
secured a place before them. The men thus disturbed
turned upon the others like fiends incarnate,
and clubs were drawn and spears lifted with apparently
murderous intent.

Some of the warriors, however, proceeded in a
more methodical and dignified manner. The ox
being stunned, they skinned a large part of the
neck in such a way that the hide, when properly
held, formed a basin or receptacle for the blood.
The jugular vein was then severed and its reeking
contents allowed to gush into the extemporized
basin, to which the feasters applied themselves
with loathsome avidity.

The edge of their horrible appetite thus taken
off, they became possessed with a species of madness
or intoxication, dashing blood on each other
with fiendish hilarity, or bathing their faces in the
reeking fluid.

Ulu, from her post at Kate's house, watched the
scene with strange fascination. As the terrible
orgy developed, her dilated eyes glistened, her
heart throbbed with tenfold force, all the latent
savagery of her nature struggling up within her,

and urging her to join the feast. * For the moment
she forgot utterly her life of the past two months.
Gilmore, Pepo-ni, and the Bibi were alike nonexistent.
Her whole being was concentrated in the
scene before her, and she would have run to throw
herself among the brutal throng, but the very
strength of her feelings held her for a time chained
to the spot. At length, slowly and mechanically,
as if actuated by some will other than her own,
she rose from her sitting posture, and step by step,
began moving forward, drawn irresistibly towards
the bloody revel.

Ulu ! "

With a gasp and shiver, Ulu stopped paralyzed,
suddenly recalled to a sense of her position by the
sound of the Bibi's voice. She stood a moment
irresolute.

"Ulu! Ulu! Where are you?" cried Kate
again in a somewhat dismayed tone, at the same
time hastening to the door and looking out. Lu
turned shamefacedly, and, not daring to look up,
came back to the hut. Kate had seen enough of
what was going on in the camp to enable her to
guess correctly the nature of the temptation by
which her little handmaiden had been assailed.
Gently she drew the poor child away from the
sight of the ghastly carnival and into the quiet
and darkness of the tent, where for long she sat

talking to her of Gilruour, telling her, since she
could not make clear to the girl's unenlightened
intellect what there would have been wrong in
itself in joining such a feast, how much it would
have vexed both the Bwana and Kate herself, had
she done so.

All the while Kate was in a painful condition of
dread lest the warriors in their madness should
intrude upon her and insist on her joining them.
She had got one or two glimpses of the earlier
phases of the feast, and had sickened with horror
at the disgusting scenes. Happily, however, she
was too much feared, or else for the moment was
forgotten, and, to her intense relief, she was left
unmolested.

Meanwhile the brutal appetites of the feasters
took a new turn. The last drop of blood drained
from the cattle, they set upon the carcases with
renewed energies, hacking them with their swords,
tearing them limb from limb, and tugging and
quarrelling over the pieces like dogs, each one
anxious to secure the choicest parts, among which
was specially reckoned the fat.

Soon the camp had the aspect of shambles.
Bullock's heads, cut open to abstract the brains
and tongues, lay everywhere, mingling in ghastly
confusion with half-denuded ribs and disgusting
offal. Everybody and everything were bespattered

with blood and shreds of flesh. An overpowering
smell of roasting and burning beef permeated the
air.

Over the fires the yet hungry Masai sat impatiently
watching the cooking meat, or, unable
to restrain their appetites, gloated over half-raw
chunks, which they tore with their fang-like teeth.
A few, more epicurean in their tastes, broke marrowbones,
and sucked their contents with supreme
relish.

As their hunger gradually became appeased, the
warriors grew more expansive and genial, and
testified to their complaisant mood by playfully
snatching away the pieces of beef their neighbours
were bent on carrying to their mouths, or indulged
in the edifying pastime of bickering one
another with lumps of flesh. Picking up leg-bones
or ribs, they sparred with each other, or, using
them as drumsticks, whacked them on the burning
logs of wood in time to a howled out war-song.

Gradually the gorging began to tell, and, stretching
themselves out on the ground, the revellers oneby
one fell asleep, breathing with difficulty from
over-feeding, and snoring in sonorous concert, while
lumps of forgotten beef burned to cinders in the
fires.

As evening began to draw its shadows over the
disgusting scene, the herd of captured cattle were

driven back to camp by the herdsmen — mostly
weaklings and boys, who were thus compelled to
serve the stronger.

Snarling viciously at being disturbed, the warriors
bestirred themselves to make room for the cattle
in the centre of the camp. The poor brutes, with
finer feelings than their masters, required to be
driven with imprecations and blows among the
remains of their lately slaughtered kind. To
prevent them straying, and as a safeguard against
the numerous wild beasts, the Masai now disposed
themselves in a circle round the animals, and once
more settled themselves to sleep.

As darkness set in the feasting was resumed,
in a minor way. More than ever did the scene
resemble something not of this world. The lurid
glow of the fires, with their tongues of flame and
curling columns of smoke ; the half seen forms of
the warriors, looking preternaturally savage in the
uncertain light ; within the camp, the restless,
terror-stricken cattle, snorting and lowing; without,
the circle of intense darkness, lightened only by
the gleaming eyes of hyaenas, and vocal with a
continuous concert of howls, hardly distinguishable
from the utterances of the human hyaenas inside ;
all these made up a scene impossible adequately
to picture or describe.

There are limits to all human powers, even to

the eating capacities of Masai warriors. As the
night advanced, the feasters, gorged and surfeited,
arranged themselves for sleep. . Most of them
simply rolled over on their backs, regardless of
comfort ; but others, more luxurious in their tastes,
rolled up raw hides as pillows, or drew them, wet
and bloody, over their naked bodies.

Long before midnight the entire camp was
asleep, with the exception of the men who had
borne the heat and labour of the day, and who now
had to watch over the slumbers of their companions.

The medley of wild-beast cries became more
insistent than ever. Their appetites, whetted to a
painful degree by the scent of blood and flesh,
rendered the animals furious, and urged them to
make bold dashes towards cast-aside bones or offal,
only to be driven back by the flaring firebrands
hurled at them by the guards.

Worn out with the horrors of the day, Kate fell
at length into a troubled sleep. Suddenly she woke
with a painful start and sensation of fright, to find
herself in utter darkness and unable to see anything.
Had she only been dreaming ? she asked herself,
possessed nevertheless by a vague feeling that
some danger threatened. She held her breath and
listened, but she could hear nothing. With straining
eyes she sought to pierce the pitch darkness
of the hut. In vain; there was nothing to be seen.

Kate was about to lie down again when suddenly
something which had blocked the doorway moved
noiselessly aside. As the lights from the fires
streamed in, Kate saw with a shudder the vaguely
outlined form of what appeared to be a Masai warrior
in the hut. With a scream she sank back, and
hardly knowing what she did, fired off her revolver.
But even as she screamed the word " Gilmore "
reached her bewildered ear, and struck her dumb.

Oh, bibi ! bibi ! Silence ! It is I, Uledi," came
from the darkness.

Immediately Kate's fears were turned into
horrified anticipation of the consequences of the
precipitate alarm. There was no time to think
what was to be done.

Already the sentinels were at the door, desirous
of knowing the meaning of the unusual sounds,
and Kate and Uledi lay hardly daring to breathe,
crouched in the darkest corner of the hut. Lu,
however, with her usual promptitude, was equal
to the occasion.

Go," she cried, " and leave Ngai in peace.
He dreams and speaks with the spirits of Kibo."

The savages were quite well pleased to accept
this explanation, and, awestruck, resumed their
posts.

A rapid exchange of questions and answers now
took place. Her father only wounded and getting

better, and Gilinour following the Masai, waiting
his opportunity to effect her rescue ; nay, at that
moment not a hundred yards off; — that was, indeed,
news to reanimate Kate's heart and suffuse her
eyes with grateful tears. In addition to his reassuring
messages Gilmore, with the utmost forethought,
had sent Kate a small kid-skin bag,
containing a few necessaries, such as salt, an
article not used by the Masai.

Having gleaned from the bibi and Ulu all they
could tell about their destination in Masai-land,
and satisfied himself as to how they were being-treated,
Uledi prepared to leave. With grateful
warmth Kate grasped the hand of the faithful
Zanzibarii, but could find no appropriate words
in which to express her gratitude either to him or
to his master. " Tell the Bwana," she began, but
ere her quivering lips could complete this sentence,
Uledi had kissed her hand after the fashion of
Swahili slaves, and with a whispered "Please God,
we will rescue you," was gone. A moment's survey
sufficed to assure him that the coast was clear, and
he glided out and into a deep shadow unseen.

To the profound astonishment of Kate, who
watched him anxiously, Uledi did not make straight
for the woods. Under cover of the shadow and
then of a small bush, he approached one of the
fires where there happened to be no watchers.

Here he disposed himself as if to sleep. Some one
near him yawned and moved. Uledi, with a lazy
gesture, drew his kid-skin covering over his face.
Soon the savage snored. No one else was moving.
One, two, three minutes passed — hours apparently
to Kate. Then Uledi sat up. He also yawned,
and gave himself the air of being restless and
unable to sleep. Kate could hardly repress an
exclamation as she saw him at length stand up
and stretch himself. Instinctively she looked
around. No one seemed to notice him. Then
carelessly, without any concealment, Uledi walked
coolly out of the camp, Kate watching him with
palpitating heart and fascinated gaze.

A minute later, the tension of her feelings relaxed,
as, amid the howling of the hyaenas, she heard from
the forest three hoots of an owl, which told that
master and man had met ; and Kate, feeling a new
hope of life, turned in to sleep soundly till daybreak.

CHAPTER VII.

When morning broke after the eventful night we
have described, the Masai warriors were in no
hurry to bestir themselves. They awoke looking
weary and stupid, as even Masai will if they goto
sleep with overloaded stomachs. The chilly air,
however, had the effect of making them gather
round the fires, where, looking anything but warlike,
they shivered and crouched like any miserable
Wa-nyika.

Meanwhile, their captive was also awake, making,
for the first time since her capture, an attempt at
a toilette, and hungrily drinking some milk which
before dawn Ulu had been able to draw from an
old and somewhat subdued cow.

As the rising sun began to dispel the raw fogs
of morning and warm the atmosphere, the warriors
gradually acquired more life and began to prepare
for the march. To appear in good form before
the women and attract their favourable attention,
they rubbed themselves well over with hot pieces

VOL. II. o

of fat till their skins glistened again, after which
they painted themselves with various colours, till
they looked caricatures of humanity. To add to the
effect, they made various figures on their legs and
bodies, by drawing a finger through the paint. A
few dandies, better provided with the luxuries of
Masai cosmetics, plastered themselves thickly with
a stiff mixture of grease and clay, till, looking the
most repulsive of bloated beings, they stood, the
admiration and envy of the entire army. Thus
clothed, they next rolled up their small kid-skin
caresses — which usually ornamented rather than
covered their shoulders in times of peace — and tied
them round their waist like a belt. Monkey-skins
or capes formed of feathers were donned instead,
and their faces were framed in an elliptically-shaped
adornment of nodding ostrich plumes.
Down their backs hung the war-cloth, or liberi,
the dress being completed by the addition of
encircling straps of colour-skin round the ankles
and calves of their legs. At the* ankles the straps
bore small projecting wings forcibly reminding one
of Mercury's appendages. The sine, or sword, and
rung, or club, were next attached to the waistband,
and then, with his huge, device-ornamented
shield in one hand, and murderous spear in the
other, each Masai was ready for the road.

In the mean time, Ulu had captured Tanga, and,

amidst a circle of admiring savages, had contrived,
with the help of Kate, to put on the saddle. Her
mistress mounted, Ulu took her station by the
donkey's side, the warriors fell into marching
order, and the procession set forward toward the
interior of Masai land.

For a couple of hours the way lay through a
pleasant interchange of wood and glade, till the
forest was entirely left behind, and the army entered
a great rolling grassy plain, which extended away to
the far distance, where it was bounded by a range of
mountains that stretched, amphitheatre-wise, from
the pillars of the mango, Kilimanjaro and Mem.

At first this rich and fertile region appeared to
be given over wholly to big game. Rhinoceros,
buffaloes, zebra, wilderness, antelopes, ostriches,
were everywhere to be seen in astonishing numbers,
in herds, groups, or solitary, according to the
habits of the particular animal.

After a time evidences of other inhabitants could
be descried, in the shape of dark, circular objects,
from which rose curling smoke. These, Kate
speedily learned, were Masai kraals. At once the
warriors began to fall into more military order.
An advance guard was formed, having the captured
cattle in the centre, and headed by four small flying
parties ; behind came the rear-guard, with Kate
and Ulu in its midst.

As they approached the kraals of Kiraragwa,
a great commotion was observable among the
inhabitants. Old men and women gathered in
groups outside the gate, and men and boys ran
from place to place, eager to spread the news of
the warriors' return.

At a given signal the entire army struck up a
song of victory, which burst upon that silent plain
with a magnificently wild effect, and rolled to the
base of Kilimanjaro, to be returned in mocking
echoes. The chief lytunu, or army leader, led off
with a chanted recitative, which recounted with
much imaginative genius the great deeds of himself
and his followers. Each stanza was followed
by a chorus from the entire army, thanking Ngai
and Mbaratian (their chief medicine man) for
enabling them to kill so many miserable people.

Meanwhile men, women, and children were
hurrying out in great excitement to welcome their
returning kinsfolk.

No sooner had the home-staying el-moran
(warriors) arrived within a few hundred yards of
their more adventurous brethren, than parties of
the latter detached themselves and rushed at the
former in well-simulated fury. Shaking their spears
in the air, and nodding their feather headdresses
defiantly, they pranced and sprang about with
derisive cries, daring the pretended enemy to come

and fight. The challenge was taken up with
immense spirit, and as the opposing parties closed
the surrounding plain assumed all the appearance
of a battle-field, so great was the exciting clamour,
so numerous and deadly seemed the hand-to-hand
encounters.

In the midst of the mimic fights the women
painfully hobbled up, heavily handicapped by their
extraordinary leggings of thick iron wire, which
reached from the ankle to the knee, and by their
stiffness and excessive weight (frequently ten pounds
each) prevented their wearers from moving with any
degree of freedom. Joining the men, they added
their shrill and strident screams to the chorus of
welcome, and forming groups, advanced with
curious jerky movements, clapping their hands intime
to their song.

In the first general commotion Kate remained
unnoticed ; but speedily the news spread that Ngai,
the god from Kibo, had been captured. The cries
of incredulity which had at first greeted this
intelligence, speedily gave place to exclamations
of wonder and awe when attention was directed to
the rear, where, true enough, a something white
and marvellous could be seen amidst the surrounding
crowd. The excited clamour died into silence,
only broken by feeble, awe-struck ejaculations of
Hai ! hai ! " and sons or sweethearts were

deserted, as picking up tufts of grass, the women
painfully hobbled off to see this new phenomenon.

Not yet knowing how near it might be safe to
approach a god, they kept at a respectful distance.
Mute and motionless they stood gazing with dilated
eyes at this strange being of extraordinary shape
(Kate's dress, as usual, being at first taken for part
of herself), and riding an animal which resembled
a donkey, yet was so different from any they had
ever seen. Ngai, however, did not look terrible or
wicked, and gradually the spectators acquired more
confidence.

At length some one among the women, more
courageous than the rest, struck up a chanted
prayer in a shrill and plaintive voice. One by one
the others joined in, till from front to rear of that
savage array one mighty cry arose, which caused
even distant antelopes to cease their grazing or
their gambols, and turning, seek with head uplifted
and ears cocked, the cause of the unwonted volume
of sound which rolled over the usually silent plain.

After this unpremeditated demonstration, the
surging crowd, somewhat calmed down, once more
moved forward.

Somewhat after midday they reached the sparkling
Ngare N'Erobi (cold stream), where they halted
some time to refresh themselves, while the fighting
party gave an account of their successful raid to

the el-morus (elders or married men), This must
needs be done in decency and order, and not with
the noise and gabble of women and lajomba ().


The elders, comparatively decently clothed in
handsome caresses of grey monkey-skins or of skins
of the tree hyrax sewn together, ranged themselves
on one side, their bows and arrows — the weapons
of married men — lying at their feet. The warriors
placed themselves opposite, their spears sticking
in the ground and shields rested against them.
The women ceased their talk, or retired some
distance, and for a space there was silence.

Then a warrior rose. All eyes were turned
expectantly upon him, for the lygonani, or orator
of the army, was about to speak. Leisurely he
plucked his spear from the ground and his bloodstained
club from his belt. Then, striking an easy
attitude, he gave a final look around, as if he
would solicit the attention and the indulgence of
his hearers. In a low, quiet voice, so pleasant to
hear, so unlike the man who spoke, he commenced
to narrate the gathering of the clans, and the
march to the coast, their hunting ground. As he
proceeded, his delivery became more animated and
his voice more impassioned, while he described
the various daring feats they had performed in
capturing cattle and slaughtering Wa-nyika and

Wa-Swahili. The eyes of his hearers glistened with
the pride of battle as the various incidents of the
raid were vividly brought back to their memories.
Uninterrupted, however, the lygonani was allowed
to display his oratorical powers, and to give due
effect to his glowing periods with effectively wielded
club, till he reached his climax in detailing the
capture of Kate, and amid a variety of applause
grunts sat down.

Another pause ensued. An elder of importance
then took up the word. Speaking with even more
dignity and composure than the lygonani, he
welcomed the warriors home, and congratulated
them on their achievements. Coming, however, to
their striking feat of capturing Ngai, he doubted
the prudence of the step. The gods were not to be
touched with impunity. It might bring fortune or
it might bring dire calamity. That had still to be
seen. His advice was that Ngai should be treated
with the utmost respect, lest he turn against his
captors, and sweep off their cattle by disease, or
render them sterile and the warriors' arms weak.

Looks of profound dismay stole over the faces of
the el-moran, as the possible consequences of the
feat, which they now saw was foolhardy, were
gloomily depicted.

In the midst of the consternation which ensued,
a second elder rose and addressed the assemblage

in words of similar import. He revived the drooping
spirits of the warriors, however, by pointing
out, as a matter of hopeful augury, that Ngai must
have been willing to come thus among them, or
he would easily have scattered the warriors before
him as dust before the wind. What more probable
than that, sick of living among such slaves as the
TVa-Ckaga, he had wished to come among heroes
and bloodshedders like themselves ? He also drew
encouragement from the fact that in their kinswoman,
Ulu, daughter of Simba, they had one who
could speak to Ngai, and ascertain his wishes and
what he approved or disapproved. He — the elder —
therefore earnestly urged the importance of consulting
Ulu in all matters, lest in anything they
should offend the captured deity.

The warriors looked somewhat relieved, and
broke into muttered approbation as the elder sat
down.

Meanwhile, Kate was resting near at hand under
the cool shade of a sycamore tree. She was overcome
by fatigue, and would have slept, but for the
crowd of women and children who gathered around
her. Some brought milk, and gave it to Ulu for
Ngai ; but as the calabashes in which it was contained
had never been touched with water for years,
and had only been kept clean by a daily rinsing
with wood ashes to prevent the new supplies of milk

from being infected and soured, Kate's senses
revolted against the refreshment so served up.

Children were pushed towards her to be
"blessed" in the peculiar manner to which we
have already made allusion, and on Ulu's urgent
appeals, Kate reluctantly brought herself to go
through the form required, to the rapturous delight
of the highly favoured and happy mothers.

After a couple of hours the march was resumed.
Kate remarked with relief that the warriors were
more respectful, and Ulu was made still more proud
and impudent by having a donkey assigned to her,
to enable her to ride alongside her master, Ngai.

But for the dryness of the atmosphere, and the
elevation of the country over which they were now
passing, Kate could never have survived the burning
sun and the fatigues of the march. Happily also the
breeze from the mountains swept cool and refreshing
over the plain, scarcely less welcome to the
traveller, that it raised disagreeable clouds of dust.

Towards evening the army took possession of a
vacated kraal, which, having also been a huge fold
for cattle, had very much the appearance of a
gigantic dunghill. Luckily the weather had been
dry and scorching, and Kate was too much exhausted
to be fastidious or more than vaguely
observant of her surroundings, as she was conducted
to the best hut in the place.

Next day an equally fatiguing march lay before
them. But Kate began to be inured to the hardships
of travel, and, with mind more at ease, she
helped to pass the time and keep her mind occupied
by noting the strange scenes which passed
before her. Now and then she conversed cheerfully
with Ulu, and as it was to Gilmore they looked for
rescue, very naturally he was the most frequent
subject of conversation.

In one of these talks Ulu did not hesitate to ask
Kate in a very embarrassing manner why he treated
her (Ulu) as he did, being, as she was, his wife.
Kate, rather put out, tried to explain Gilmore's
intentions and projects, but failed even more signally
than that young man himself in making Lu
understand what it was to be " like the wives of
the white men."

"He wants to make you like me," Kate explained,
with a smile.

Ulu's only answer was to look up with wide-open
eyes and incredulity expressed in every lineament.
Become like the bibi ! Was such a miracle
possible even to the wonder-working white men ?
What macaw (medicine) would be given, or potent
uchawi (black magic) employed to transform her
into the semblance of her mistress ? No ; Lu
rejected the notion as impossible. But the conversation
had suggested a new idea.

Won't the Bwana marry you some day? " she
asked.

Marry me ! " exclaimed Kate. " Good gracious,
toto, what put that into your head ? "

"He is very rich. Oh, so rich! He will be
able to give your father plenty of goods in exchange
for you."

"But then, you see, I don't want to marry."

"Don't want to marry!" cried Ulu, astounded
at such an unheard-of notion. "Why, what could
you do without a husband ? "

"Oh, I shall do very well," was Kate's unsatisfactory
answer, puzzled how otherwise to reply to
the simple little maid.

But won't your father give you away, whether
you want or not ? "

Oh dear, no ! Fathers among the wazungu
never do that sort of thing."

Ulu remained silent, mentally contrasting the
ways of wazungu with those of Wa-Chaga, the
latter of whom only look upon their daughters as
marketable commodities, to be disposed of at the
suitable time to the highest bidder.

But if your father should die," she at length
resumed, " won't some white man seize you and
make you his wife or his slave, or sell you to
another ? "

Kate smiled good-naturedly, amused in spite of

herself and in spite of her surroundings, by the
girl's ingenuous ignorance. " No fear of that,
nitoto," she said. " White people never make
slaves, and therefore no white man would touch
me. Besides, the men in Ulyiah like to make
themselves the servants of the women."

Again Ulu was silent, partly with astonishment,
partly because she was pondering what could bethe
bibi's motive in telling such extraordinary lies.
That Ulu should suspect Kate of falsehood is not to
be wondered at, for the Frenchman's saying, that
"speech was given us to conceal our thoughts," is
something more than a phrase among all negro
tribes, among whom nothing is more admired than
the gift of skilful lying on all occasions. After an
unavailing attempt to imagine a state of society
in which women were the superiors or even the
equals of men, she resumed the conversation.

Well, I should like the Bwana to marry you."

Indeed ! " said Kate, amused at the girl's
notion, and anxious to hear more of marriage from
Ulu's point of view.

You would be his chief wife, you know, because
an mzungu, like himself. I would be the next,
because the daughter of the chief of Kincli, and
first married. We would make the other wives he
would marry do all our work and be our servants.
That would be splendid, wouldn't it ? "

The idea of becoming one among a host of 
wives was irresistible, and, for the moment
forgetting her situation, Kate laughed outright.
Despairing, however, of making Ulu understand the
impossibility of the proposed scheme, she remained
silent, and soon became absorbed in the train of
ideas aroused by the crude notions of her simple
companion.

Ulu, receiving no reply, and misunderstanding
the expression of amusement which still hovered
about Kate's lips, thought the bibi was nibbling at
the bait, and set herself to think out in more detail
the management of Gilmore's future harem. That
he would eventually marry a great number of girls
she could not permit herself to doubt. He, a man
so young and so rich, be content with only one or
even two wives ! Pooh ! It was inconceivable.
She would have little pride in being head of such a
pauper-like establishment. Was not a man held
in honour and reputed great in the land according
to the number of his wives ? And if the Bwana
never married any besides herself, would she not be
pointed at with scorn and laughter as the sole wife
of the mzungu ? But how different if she was the
next wife to the bibi mzungu, and an array of from
fifty to a hundred, or even more, wives beneath
her. To have plenty of gorgeous beads and nice
cloths was all very well in its way, but to bethe

second-best wife among a host was infinitely
better.

Her imagination warmed at the thought of the
delights of power. All unconscious to herself she
whacked her donkey vigorously, as if already she
had a refractory wife under her stick. At the blow
the half-tamed animal rebelliously kicked up its
heels in the air and incontinently landed Ulu on
the sand, dissipating her dreams for the time being.

On the evening of the third day from Kibo-noto,
the Masai reached the Guano X'Ebor (white stream),
at the base of Ndapduk. Here their countrymen
were congregated in great numbers, for, being the
height of the dry season, the springs on the plains
were dried up and the grass scorched. At the
base of the mountain it was different, the stream
affording an abundant supply of water, around
which and on many parts of the precipitous slopes
the grass still flourished.

It would be useless to relate the reception the
warriors received and the sensation Kate produced,
both being similar in kind to what we have already
described as marking their arrival at Kiraragwa.
Early in the night the captives heard three hoots
of an owl, and knowing by that that Gilmore was
near them, with a renewed sense of security they
slept in peace.

CHAPTER VIII.

It now behoves us to leave Kate for a time, while
we retrace our steps and follow the movements of
Gilmore.

On reaching Pepo-ni, after assuring himself of
the fate of Miss Kennedy, the first news Gilmore
heard, ere he had well passed the gate, was that
Mr. Kennedy, whom he had left for dead, was only
severely wounded, and had now recovered consciousness.
Joyfully Gilmore hastened to the
room where the missionary lay, eager to tell him
that his daughter still lived. As he entered the
house his ardent steps were arrested by the sound
of a low moan.

Oh, God, what have I done ? What have I
done ? " were the anguished words that fell upon
his ear, as the missionary turned uneasily on his
bed, and feverishly pressed his hands together in
an agony of grief and pain.

Come, come, Mr. Kennedy," said Gilmore 9
cheerily, as he crossed the threshold. " Don't

despair yet. Things are not so bad as they
might be."

At the first sound of Gilmore's voice, Kennedy,
heedless of the pain of his wound, half rose and
turned eagerly towards the door.

Kate ! Where is she ? " he gasped out, scarcely
able to speak from fear of what the answer
might be.

Safe — at least for the present," returned
Gilmore, briefly.

"Thank God for that!" was Mr. Kennedy's
pious exclamation as he sank back on the pillows,
and for a moment lay with eyes closed as if in
prayer. " But where is she ? " he asked again,
dread once more taking possession of him. " Why
does she not come ? "

Hush, Mr. Kennedy ; you must be more calm,"
said Gilmore, soothingly, wondering how he could
most gently break the news of Kate's captivity to
her almost frantic father.

Calm ? " repeated the sufferer expressively, ashe
again attempted to raise himself. " I have
killed her," he said stonily, after a moment's pause.
Quick, man ; out with it ! " he cried wildly,
paying no heed to Gilmore's repeated attempts to
speak. " Tell me the worst at once. She is dead.
I knew it ; " and, groaning heavily, he sank down
again and covered his face with his hands.

VOL. II. n

No, no, Mr. Kennedy," said Gilmore, talking
as quietly as he could, and laying a restraining
hand on his companion's shoulder. " She is not
dead ; she is only a prisoner."

Only a prisoner ! " exclaimed Kennedy, despairingly;
"only a prisoner! Worse, worse — a
thousand times worse ! " and, in the anguish of his
soul, the missionary cried aloud to God for help in
this his time of dire necessity.

Nonsense, Mr. Kennedy," said Gilmore,
assuming an air of cheerfulness, spite of the deep
misgiving at his heart. " You really take too
black a view of the case. Depend upon it, before
long we'll bring her back to you all right. She'll
be looked upon as a great lyon (medicine-man) ;
perhaps," he added, as a bright idea struck him,
"as Ngai himself. Look what the people here
thought about her. You told me yourself they took
her for a god. These savages all reason in the same
way," he went on consolingly ; " everything wonderful
is supernatural. You maybe quite sure a white
woman is too much of a novelty not to be treated
with respect, and by the time she has ceased to bea

novelty Well, we'll have her here by that

time," he confidently concluded, his effort to raise
the missionary's spirits having helped to lighten
his own.

Kennedy shook his head, refusing to be comforted.

He was too weak in body and too much prostrated
in mind, too determined to view everything in its
worst possible light, to pay much heed to Gilmore's
encouraging assurances. In a vague way, however,
he remarked the young man's expressed determination
to go to Kate's assistance, and acknowledged
it by a pressure of the hand, though
regarding it rather as an expression of goodwill
than a serious promise of effort.

For the time being Gilmore held his peace, while
he proceeded to examine and dress the ugly spear-wound
which had so nearly ended the missionary's
life. Relieved of all apprehensions on Mr. Kennedy's
account, he listened patiently to the narration of
all the circumstances attendant on the birth of
Miss Kennedy and the death of her mother, and to
the torrent of bitter words with which the missionary
reproached himself for having, as he said,
sacrificed both wife and daughter to his weak
desire for some sort of companionship in his
exile.

Happily Gilmore diagnosed Kennedy's morbid
mental condition correctly, and in his own mind
formed a more common-sense view of the circumstances
of the case. He felt strongly inclined to
tell the worthy man that it was little short of sin
to indulge such exaggerated misgivings, but the
memory of his own recent and similar shortcomings

kept him silent, as unworthy to preach virtue to
one in many ways so much better than himself.

The unrestrained outpouring of feeling seemed
to do the missionary much good. His tormenting
thoughts, once confessed to another, became less
intolerable, and he listened eagerly when Gilmore,
with intent to console, assured him that he was
not to blame for his wife's death or his daughter's
present position. As a more pleasant topic of
conversation, Gilmore went on to speak hopefully
of his plans for effecting Miss Kennedy's rescue,
and soon had the satisfaction of seeing his afflicted
friend reduced to a calmer and more settled frame
of mind. At last, utterly worn out both in brain
and body by the fatigue and excitement of the
afternoon, the worthy missionary gradually closed
his eyes and was soon fast asleep.

Left to his own thoughts, Gilmore did not long
remain in a state of inaction. If he was to follow
Miss Kennedy and once more restore her to her
father, it was clearly time for him to set about
making his preparations for the perilous attempt.
How was her escape to be effected ? Not by force
certainly ; that was out of the question. Strategy
and patient waiting alone could bring about the
desired result. He could not formulate any definite
plan of campaign, until he knew more exactly Miss
Kennedy's position and surroundings in the Masai

camp. But these things at least were clear — he
must get on the track of the Masai without loss of
time, find out where they were bound for, and if
possible communicate with Miss Kennedy to let
her know that her friends had not forsaken her.

Having made up his mind so far, Gilmore rose
with an air of decision, and left the house to
consult with Uledi. Calling his faithful headman
into the baraza, he unfolded his scheme, such as
it was.

Rapidity and secrecy of movement are the
main things, Uledi," he said in conclusion. " I
should say we couldn't venture on taking more
than four men with us. What do you think ? "

For a moment Uledi stood silent, staring at his
master in open-mouthed surprise. Enter the
Masai country with only four men ! That was a
proposal to take away one's breath.

Gilmore viewed Uledi's astounded expression,
and remarked his silence with apprehension.

Uledi, you are not afraid, are you ? " he asked
at length.

Uledi looked deeply hurt. " I afraid, Bwana ? "
he cried indignantly. " When have you known me
quail under the eye of the lion ? When have you
seen me show my back to the Masai? Truly I
thought not of the dangers, but only how they
might be overcome."

"Then you will go with me?" said Giaour,
briefly.

Bwana, I go wherever you may lead' was
Uledi's solemn protestation. "I know no danger
when you are with me."

"Now you are no longer my servant, but my
brother," cried Gilmore, touched by the honest
fellow's expression of devotion. " Come, though,"
he continued, suddenly recollecting the urgent
necessity for speedy action; "we have no time to
waste on words now. Call up the men."

In the shortest possible space of time the men
were assembled, and stood waiting to hear the
nature of the enterprise to be proposed to them.
Uledi stepped forward to address them. With the
oratorical skill of a Masai, and the circumlocution
and wordiness characteristic of his own race, he
very unnecessarily told his audience how the Bibi
Kennedy and Ulu had that day been captured by a
band of Masai warriors, and that the Bwana was
sore at heart for their loss. The Bwana was their
father, he went on to say. To him they looked for
protection, for food and shelter. From him, too,
came their dollars. Could they then sit idly by,
he asked, when their master was prostrated with
grief ? Did not their hearts urge them to do their
utmost for his relief ?

An unanimous shout here interrupted the perfervid

orator. They were one and all the Bwana's
wa-toto (children). They would do anything for
him. From him they derived their lives ; for him
they would give them.

Ngemma ! " (good ) exclaimed Uledi, with a
satisfied air. " The Wa-Swahili are not ungrateful.
Now, listen," he went on earnestly. " The Bwana's
thoughts are with the bibi and Ulu in Masai-land.
He cannot live here while his heart is with them.
He must go to them ; but he must go secretly,
even as the chi (leopard), which, unseen, unheard,
steals forth in the night to seek his food. He
cannot go alone, however, and he asks four of you
four of his wa-toto — to accompany him, and
assist him to bring back his friends."

An eloquent " Oh ! " burst from the assembled
crowd as Uledi made this astounding announcement.
But the wily headman was prepared for
the emergency. By a few telling sarcasms directed
against one or two well-known cowards, he called
forth several bursts of laughter from the crowd,
and succeeded in putting the men on their mettle.
One after another they volunteered to go, till even
the most cowardly came forward with loud protestations
of their eagerness to take part in the perilous
enterprise. To the well-acted chagrin of the others,
three of the bravest and most tried were chosen,
Uledi of course constituting the necessary fourth.

This important matter settled, the next consideration
was what to take. After much careful
deliberation, small loads were arranged thus : One
man to carry a small tin kettle and saucepan, with
one or two enamelled iron cups, some tea and
sugar, four pots of Liebig's Extract, two tins of
corn-flour, four pounds of rice, four tins of sardines,
a small tin of biscuits, salt, and a few other articles
mostly selected with a view to Miss Kennedy's
comfort ; the members of the rescue party having
to depend entirely for their own necessities on
what they could capture, shoot, or steal.

The second man carried two rugs, a waterproof
sheet of some size, a hammock, and a change of
clothes for the captives — a luxury Gilmore would
not have been able to provide had it not been that,
after the attack that afternoon, one of his men had
luckily discovered among the bushes a small bag
containing a dress and one orjwo toilet necessaries
Kate had brought with her for use during her
intended stay at Pepo-ni.

The third carried spare ammunition, a trap for
catching small game and birds for food, and a few
useful medicines — quinine, ipecacuanha, Dover's
powder, etc. Uledi carried Gilmore's Express
rifle, but otherwise was not burdened, as it was
necessary he should not be fatigued nor hampered
in his duties as scout and spy. Gilmore himself

took his repeating rifle ; while each man, in addition
to his load, carried forty rounds of ammunition for
his Snider, a palm-fibre sleeping-mat, a hunting
knife, and salt for his own use. A large pot for
general cooking purposes was also taken.

By the time the loads were made up and tied,
darkness had come on, and it was useless to think
of starting that night. Mr. Kennedy still slept
peacefully, and Gilmore took good care he should
not be disturbed. After a final look round to see
that all was in readiness for an early start next
morning, our hero threw himself down on a bench,
and, drawing a rug over him, was soon sleeping as
soundly as if he had not a care in the world.

At four in the morning, ere yet the first grey
streak of dawn had tinged the horizon, Tubu
brought a cup of coffee to his master's bedside and
softly awoke him. A few minutes later and Gil-mom'
stood ready equipped for his arduous march.
Mr. Kennedy was still asleep, and not being
desirous of going through any trying farewells,
Gilmore refrained from waking him to take leave.
Instead, he pencilled a hasty note, and left it to be
given to the missionary as soon as he awoke. He
briefly described the scheme he had ultimately
formed, and spoke cheerfully of his certainty of
final success. It might, he said, be some weeks
before he could achieve his purpose, as so much

depended on how far the Masai had taken Miss
Kennedy into their own country before he was able
to effect her escape. That he would find means of
effecting it he did not doubt ; and meantime he (Mr.
Kennedy) was to keep up his spirits and give himself
a proper chance to recover. " Of one thing
be certain," Gilmore concluded; "you shan't see my
face again until I bring Miss Kennedy with me."

By the time the letter was finished it was broad
daylight, and men and baggage were ready for the
road. There stood the select four — Uledi, Turn,
Eesasi, and Eerhani — surrounded by their stay-at-home
comrades, who bade them good-bye and
wished them god-speed with many pious expressions
from the Koran.

At length Gilmore emerged from the house and
gave his parting injunctions to the men left in charge
of the settlement. Then guns were shouldered and
loads balanced on the head, and, amid a volley of
Kwaheris " and much pressing of hands, the forlorn
hope left the snug quarters of Pepo-ni, and in
single file tramped westward through the dew-laden
grass and bushes.

In a couple of hours they had reached the plainly
discernible track of the Masai, and as nothing was
yet to be feared, they pushed along quickly till
they crossed the Kikavo river, and found the lately
vacated camp.

After a brief halt for rest and refreshment, they
once more pushed ahead, Gilmore in too feverish a
state of mind to allow of his taking things reasonably.
It must be remembered that Gilmore was
by no means so sanguine as he had represented
to Mr. Kennedy. There was, indeed, some hope in
the suggestion he had made, that in all likelihood
the Masai would look upon Miss Kennedy as a god ;
but, spite of himself, the worst fears would force
themselves upon him. The extraordinary communities
in which the Masai warriors live were
only too well known to him, and he found himself
giving way to the liveliest apprehensions. His
frequent appeals to Uledi only served to intensify
his misgivings, that experienced personage drawing
the most dreadful and depressing pictures of Masai
manners and customs. He did, however, admit
the possibility of the bibi's being taken for a lyon,
or even for Ngai, but was doubtful how long her
captors would remain under that pleasing delusion,
especially as Miss Kennedy, in her present position,
was bereft of all means of producing an awe-inspiring
impression on the native mind.

Besides the horrible fears by which he was
haunted, Gilmore was exasperated by the thought
that he could not hit upon any feasible scheme of
rescue. Even supposing he were in communication
with Miss Kennedy now, he had not the vaguest

idea how lie was to get her out of the hands of her
captors. There was nothing for it but to wait and
watch ; but that was an attitude of inaction which
did not suit his boiling temperament, and the sense
of helplessness it gave rise to nearly drove him
frantic.

Towards evening, after a killing march, the
pursuing party reached Kibo-noto. They had now
to be more careful in their movements, as they
rightly concluded the Masai would almost certainly
camp here for the night before entering their own
country, accordingly, they diverged from the plain,
and sought refuge in the forest region running
along the base of the western slope of Chaga. At
a deserted shamba, they found an old hut which
was sufficiently habitable, and here they took up
their quarters for the night. "While one man
gathered bananas, which here were to be found
in abundance, a second made a fire and prepared
to cook some food. Under cover of the growing
darkness, the three others ventured down towards
the plain, to see whether or not their surmises as
to the movements of the Masai had proved correct.
Soon the roaring camp-fires were to be seen glowing
brightly between the trees and reflecting a ruddy
glare on the overhanging clouds. Drawing nearer,
Uledi's sharp eye soon detected the little hut Lu
had built for her mistress, and before many moments

bad passed, Gilmore had the satisfaction of seeing
the M-Chaga herself emerge from it. After waiting
a little longer in the vain hope of seeing Kate, he
turned to go, obliged to be satisfied for that night
with the assurance that at least she appeared to be
unmolested.

Next day Gilmore was delighted to find that the
warriors were making every preparation to remain
in camp. It was now time to consider plans. In
the first place, it was imperative that either Din
or Miss Kennedy should be spoken to, so as to find
out how they were being treated and let them know
that Gilmore was in their immediate vicinity, only
awaiting a favourable opportunity to assist them
to escape. It would depend on the result of the
inquiries as to Kate's treatment whether the
projected rescue should be made without delay, or
postponed until place and circumstances were more
suitable.

The immediate question was how to reach Kate,
situated as she now was in the heart of the Masai
camp. Nothing seemed feasible but that one of
them should enter in the disguise of a Masai ; and
now came the difficulty — where were they to get
the necessary accoutrements ?

As Gilmore sat ransacking his brains for a solution
of this fresh problem, some one drew his attention
to the fact that Uledi had disappeared, leaving

his rifle and all his clothes, with the exception of
his loin-cloth. He had, however, taken the precaution
to retain his hunting-knife and revolver.

Gilniour noted these significant details with a
terrible feeling of fear and apprehension. Could
it be possible that his most trusted man had
deserted — the only one, too, who knew Masai-land,
the Masai, and their language as well as he knew
his own country and people ? He said nothing to
his other followers ; but as hour after hour went
on, and still Uledi did not return, a feeling of deep
despair took possession of him. If Uledi had really
run away, their enterprise was absolutely hopeless.
Distractedly Gilniour kept going in and out of the
hut, and looking about in all directions for some
sign of the fugitive's return.

At length, on one of these occasions, his attention
was arrested by a low, soft whistle, such as his
men were accustomed to use to attract each other's
attention when buffalo-hunting. Gilmore stopped
and listened wonderingly.

"Bwana," softly called a voice from the bush,
"look to your right, but do not shoot."

Gilmore obeyed, and attentively scanned the
undergrowth in the direction indicated. For a
moment he saw nothing extraordinary ; then, with
a violent start of sudden alarm, he instinctively
grasped the revolver at his side, as among the

bushes appeared the head and shoulders of a
ferociously painted and bedecked Masai warrior.
In the shock of the unexpected discovery the warning
voice was forgotten, and a bullet would in all
probability have abruptly terminated the masquer's
brief career, had he not again called out —

"Bwana, Bwana, do not shoot. It is I — Uledi,"
he added ; and out of the bush the trusty fellow
stepped, looking as fine a specimen of a Masai
warrior as ever brained an M-Swahili or stole his
cattle.

For a moment Gilmore stood astounded at the
metamorphosis which had taken place in his headman's
dress and appearance.

How did you manage it ? " he asked at length.

By way of answer, Uledi drew a blood-stained
knife from his rolled-up kid-skin, and proudly held
it up for his master's inspection.

Good God, Uledi ! " cried Gilmore. " Have
you killed one of them ? "

Yes ; and I hope it won't be the last," returned
Uledi, coolly wiping the dried blood from the haft
of his weapon.

Gilmore shrugged his shoulders. " I suppose
this is the sort of thing I must get used to," he
said to himself, " if I'm to go in for life and death
adventures among savages." Then he turned to
Uledi, and asked for fuller details.

At some length Ulecli explained how for an hour
or two he had watched the Masai camp and awaited
his opportunity. His patience was at length rewarded.
Observing a Masai wandering at some
distance from his comrades, he followed him unnoticed.
At the right moment he sprang upon
him and seized him by the throat to prevent an
outcry. Then, before the warrior had time to
recover from the shock, Uledi had stabbed him to
death. To strip him and despoil him of his paint -
bag was the work of a few minutes, to transform
himself into his counterpart the work of a few
minutes more. The body of the dead Masai being
disposed of in a dense piece of bush, Uledi had
leisurely retraced his steps, feeling perfectly safe
in his disguise and his ability to keep up the
character.

That very night the Masai camp was again reconnoitred,
but, to Gilmore's intense chagrin,
Kate's hut was found to be too well guarded to
be approached even under cover of the disguise.

Next day followed the grand orgy which we have
already described. A prey to the most painful fears
and forebodings, Gilmore viewed the brutal licence
of the savage scene from a neighbouring wooded
eminence. Hope once more took possession of him,
however, as he saw the gorged revellers fall one by
one into a condition of stupor, and noted the helpless

fashion in which they lay about among the
remains of their ghastly banquet.

Safe in the assurance of a careless guard for that
night, at least, Ulecli approached the camp and, as
we have seen, reached Miss Kennedy in safety.
When Gilmore, from the tree where he anxiously
awaited his headman's return, heard the pistol-shot
and saw the hurrying guard, he gave Uledi up
for lost. Another hour of uneasiness, however, and
Ulecli was again beside him, bearer of the joyous
tidings that Ulu and the bibi were well and well
treated.

Next night, by dint of herculean efforts, the small
party contrived to cross the district of Kiraragwa,
the western extension of the Njiri plain. At daybreak
they reached the mountain of Ndapduk,
where they found a place of concealment, whence
they could safely watch the arrival of the warriors
and note the kraal in which Kate was bestowed.

That night, in spite of blistered feet and stiff
joints — the result of their terrible forced march —
Gilmore and Uledi descended to the plain. Disguised
as hyaenas, they approached the kraal and
gave the three hoots of an owl, by which signal it
had been agreed Kate Kennedy should know her
friends were near. Then they returned to their
hiding-place to seek forgetfulness of their weariness
in sleep.

VOL. II. i

CHAPTER IX.

Although Gilruour had thus arrived in Miss
Kennedy's immediate neighbourhood, he was still
as far as ever from the end he had in view. He
could devise nothing — think of no practical scheme
to effect Kate's rescue. He was quite prepared to
risk his life in the attempt, but he had no intention
of throwing it away. Besides, death to him meant
lifelong imprisonment to the lady. He must see
at least a chance of success before he could stake
everything on any given venture.

Gilmore's chief difficulty was, not how to get
Kate out of the hands of the Masai, but how to
get her out of Masai-land. She could not cross
the plain in a single night as he had done, nor
could they attempt to carry her. At the same
time, every other route appeared even more
impracticable.

Tossed about between fear and hope, doubt and
despair, Gilmore was almost beside himself. In

the face of such terrible danger, it was maddening
to have to sit still and do nothing. Ever before
him floated the image of Miss Kennedy, piteously
imploring him to help her, or silently upbraiding
him for his inaction. He pictured to himself her
surroundings — her disgusting fare, her worse than
convict's couch, the evil-smelling hut, and the
brutalized men and women who from morning till
night crowded about her with their naked, clay-plastered
bodies and horrible faces. Then he recalled
the refinements of Kate's nature, the graces
of her person, her feminine delicacy, and her
abhorrence of every form of dirt and nastiness, and
thought how all these were being outraged in every
particular. The very thought was madness ; and
a hundred times a day he cursed what he called
his imbecility in being able to form no definite plan
of escape. He held long and frequent consultations
with Uledi, until even that stoical individual became
interested in spite of himself, and, though he could
not share his master's eagerness, looked with sympathetic
eyes on his constant anxiety and unrest.
Nevertheless, he had nothing to suggest. Indeed, the
whole enterprise appeared to him but an mzungu's
mad adventure, for which they would probably all
pay with their lives.

Uledi being a fatalist, however, he only shrugged
his shoulders expressively, and assiduously set

about making his preparations for heaven ; that
is to say, in accordance with Mohammedan rites,
he daily performed an extraordinary number of
ablutions, and morning, noon, and night said his
prayers with unusual diligence and fervour.

Meanwhile, with a ludicrous expression of sympathy
on his ugly face, he patiently humoured his
master, and listened gravely to all the latter's
impracticable schemes, only to quash them, it must
be said, by unanswerable arguments from his own
wider experience and fuller knowledge of the Masai
and their customs. Still, it was a certain comfort
to Gilmore to have some one to talk to from
morning till night about the Bibi Kennedy and the
manner of her rescue ; seeing which, Uledi heard
compassionately, inwardly wondering the while why
so much fuss should be made about a woman when
there were so many in the world. That any man
should risk his life for one was a matter passing
Uledi' s comprehension.

At times even Uledi's society grew irksome,
however, and, anxious to be alone with his own
thoughts, Gilmore would betake himself to a retired
though commanding rock, where, heedless of
possible sun strokes, he stretched himself out to
focus his glass on the kraal, and patiently watch
everything that took place within its precincts, in
the hope of catching a glimpse of Kate, or discovering

some movement of the Masai by which
the escape might be facilitated.

He was lying thus one day, with elbows on the
ground, chin resting on his hands, and toes idly
kicking the hard rock, when Uledi came to him
on some trifling errand or another. Seeing his
master's dejection, the man stood wistfully gazing
at him for a moment without speaking.

Ah, Bwana," he said at length, " I think if
you had wings you would fly."

If I were in Ulyiah, I would fly without wings,"
returned Gilmore moodily.

Uledi looked hurt. " Fly without wings, Bwana !
You laugh at me," he said.

"No, Uledi," replied Gilmore, rousing himself,
and for the moment forgetting his perplexities in
watching the man's half-injured, half-incredulous
expression. "I am perfectly serious. In Ulyiah
we have carriages that take us through the air
faster than a bird can fly."

If Uledi had looked half incredulous before, he
looked wholly incredulous now. He said nothing,
however, but expectantly awaited the completion of
the lie.

Yes," Gilmore went on; " we make a huge bag,
shaped like the papaw fruit, and as large as the
seyyed's palace at Zanzibar. It is filled with a
curious kind of air, and has a little carriage attached.

Then, when the cords by which it is tied to the
earth are let go, it flies upward, and sails on the
wings of the wind to wherever it is wanted."

Uledi tried to look believing, and professed to
appear vastly amazed. It was such a magnificent
lie, this of the Bwana's about the big bag and the
little carriage.

"Allah, what a marvel!" he cried. "Truly
the wazungu have all the secrets of the djins !
Can't you make one here ? " he added, referring,
of course, to the flying-machine, or balloon, as we
should simply call it.

I only wish I could. We should soon carry off
the bibi and Ulu, and if the wind were right, in
two or three hours we might have them at Mombasa,
or even Zanzibar."

The rapturous grin on Uledi's face broadened.
The invention was really superb ; and with all his
soul the man envied his master's gift of lying — an
accomplishment much coveted and greatly cultivated
among the Wa-Swahili. It was, indeed, one
of the great grievances among Gilmore's men that
the Bwana would not exercise his power in the
more ordinary affairs of life, when he had so many
opportunities of using it to advantage.

Already Gilmore had turned his eyes to the
plain below again. " Oh, Uledi," he cried, " can't
you think of anything ? "

But Uledi was still without resources. " Please
God, something will turn up," was all he said, ashe
went off to rejoin his comrades, and repeat,
with additions, the Bwana's latest display of inventive
genius.

Gilmore, once more left to himself, returned to
his scrutiny of the kraal and to his thoughts of
the English girl, who, for the present, was doomed
to share its miseries.

One day passed much the same as another on
the heights of Ndapduk. Unless some trivial little
incident or brief snatch of conversation, such as
that we have described, nothing ever occurred to
break the weary monotony of watching and waiting.
Every night Gilmore ventured down to the plain
in his usual disguise, and crawled with Uledi to a
large tree near the kraal, where he derived a certain
dismal satisfaction in sounding the melancholy
notes which served as a signal between himself and
Kate.

The kraal being occupied by el-morus, it was
protected by a stout thorn fence, in which there
was a single gateway, kept carefully closed all
night. In vain, in their character of hyaenas, and
imitating the ungainly movements of these brutes,
Gilmore and Uledi sniffed and peered about. Nota
hole or gap was to be found, and, after running
imminent risk of discovery through the furious

barking of the pariah dogs, there was nothing for
it but to return, wearied and disheartened, to the
mountain.

There was one result of all this ceaseless thinking
about Miss Kennedy of which Gilniour was as
yet unconscious. He became as much absorbed
in dwelling on the manifold excellences of her
character and person as in the question of her
rescue. He was always telling himself what a remarkable
girl she was — a girl who appealed to a
fellow's head and heart — none of your simpering
boarding-school misses," and so forth. Of course,
he never for a moment imagined that he was falling
in love with her. The love illusion, like so many
others, was dissipated for ever. Bachelorhood,
he had vowed to himself a hundred times, henceforth
would be his fate. And yet, in spite of this
forlorn and melancholy conclusion, Kate's image
continued more and more to usurp the place ever
held by that other, until his "intense interest " in
Kate held as complete sway over Gilmore's day
and night dreams as his "love " for the other had
done in earlier days.

Strange perhaps to say, this feeling grew and
flourished on an empty stomach and a daily
tightening belt. Not having been able to use their
guns, and their little store of European articles
being rigorously kept for Kate, the rescue party

had to depend upon what they could get by trap
and arrow, which was not only marvellously little,
but mighty tough and unsavoury. To make
matters worse, they were in continual danger of
being discovered by the Masai herdsmen, who were
encroaching more and more upon the mountain
pasturage as the dry season advanced. Another
disquieting circumstance was the non-appearance
of Ulu. " Could it be," Gilmore more than once
asked himself, " that Ulu had sunk back into her
old savage life, and preferred to remain where she
was ? Might she not have betrayed them ? Pooh !
What nonsense ! If she had done so, they would
have been hunted for long ago. No, no ; little Lu
would never do that ! "

Still her non-appearance was a worrying source
of inquietude. Situated as Gilmore and his men
were, it was difficult to maintain an attitude of
patient waiting on Providence, though, Micawber-like,
they daily hoped something favourable would
turn up.

At length Gilmore' s suspense was brought to an
end.

One day, as he lay on his favourite rock watching
the kraal, he was startled by the movement of
some branches in the neighbourhood. Instinctively
he dropped behind a boulder, and then, with revolver
ready, waited to see who or what would appear.

He was not kept long in suspense. The bushes
moved, some branches were pushed aside, and out
popped the head of a Masai maiden, eagerly peering
round as if in search of something.

By good luck Gilmore noted the age and sex of
the individual in time to repress his first impulse
to fire. He found himself, however, in a painful
quandary. To allow that girl to advance and
discover their hiding-place would be absolutely
disastrous to their projects.

For a moment he asked himself, What was the
death of a Masai ditto as compared with the life
and freedom of Miss Kennedy ? His fingers
twitched nervously over the trigger. A little more
of the same almost involuntary movement, and
the girl's life would have been at an end. Happily
he mastered his terrible desire to fire, as he thought
that there would at least be no harm in waiting to
see if she was alone.

Cautiously the girl advanced in the direction of
the improvised hut. Evidently there was no one
with her. Gilmore, noting that fact, resolved to
capture her. Taking advantage of her back being
turned towards him, he emerged from behind the
boulder, and with catlike steps followed. The distance
between them was noiselessly lessened, and
ail-unconsciously the girl stole onward, too absorbed
in her search to hear or see anything behind. At

length Gilraour was close to her. With a sudden
movement he grasped hold of her shrinking form,
and in a trice one hand was over her mouth and
an arm round her, pinioning her as in a vice.

With all the vigour and suppleness of a cat, the
girl writhed and struggled. In her convulsive
movements, to which fear of death gave extraordinary
strength, she contrived to get her face
turned toward her captor. In an instant the horrified
expression of her face changed. She remained
quiescent, though she tried to speak.

Gilmore, thinking he was suffocating her, removed
his hand from off her mouth.

Bwana, Bwan' mkubwa ! " the girl gasped out.

With an exclamation Gilmore let her go. " Good
heavens, Ulu ! is it you ? " he cried in amazement,
as she fell to the ground, panting and exhausted
by her fierce fight for life ; and hardly
believing his eyes, Gilmore surveyed her almost
unrecognizable figure, and tried to realize that this
was indeed the girl he had been educating to
make his wife.

Her face was thickly plastered with clay and oil,
and her formerly dainty dress, coloured by the
same materials, was not to be distinguished from
the bullock-hides which clothed the persons of
Masai women.

Ulu, remarking his astonishment, became suddenly

aware of her terrible backsliding into the
dear, delicious ways of her " days of ignorance,"
and lay terribly abashed, fearing some outbreak of
wrath from her lord and master.

But whatever reflections may have transiently
crossed Gilmore's mind, he gave them no expression.
On recovering from his surprise, his first
thought was of Kate, and he poured an eager flood
of questions upon Ulu regarding the welfare of her
mistress. Was she well ? How were the Masai
treating her ? What was she doing ? How was
she living ?

The bibi is well," Ulu stammered out, hardly
yet recovered from her fright. " She sends you
her salaams and compliments."

"Yes, yes! What else?" queried Gilmore,
eagerly.

The bibi looks continually towards the mountain,"
the girl continued. " She awaits your
coming."

"Would to God I knew what to do!" groaned
Gilmore inwardly. " Have you no other news ? "
he went on, addressing his companion. " Don't
you know what they are going to do with
her?"

"Oh yes," replied Ulu. "The el-moran and
the el-morus have consulted Mbaratian " (the
great lyon or medicine man of the Masai). " He

says she must be taken further into the country —
towards Naivasha, I think."

This terrible news fell like lead upon Gilmore's
heart, and he could only reply with a scared look.
If once Miss Kennedy was taken so far from Kilimanjaro,
then adieu to all hopes of rescue.

Do you know when she is to go ? " he asked,
recovering himself with an effort.

Bwana, I know not. Probably not for several
days, as the warriors who are to escort her must
go to the woods to eat meat."

Gilmore uttered an exclamation of relief, as if
some little ray of hope lay in this last piece of
intelligence. Then, with impatient energy, he
added, " Come, let us seek Uledi."

The new position of affairs having been detailed
to the assembled Zanzibar, Gilmore asked their
advice.

"We must rescue her at once," was Uledi's
sententious remark.

Bless my soul, of course we must rescue her ! "
cried his master fiercely. " But how ? how ?
how ? " and with baffled look and hands crammed
in his pockets, he stamped about in feverish excitement.


Uledi had no answer ready, and could only mutter
something about the pleasure of Allah, and chaw
his tooth-stick meditatively.

By Jove, I have it ! " cried Gilmore suddenly,
stopping short in his walking. " I see how it maybe
done now. We must find out a new place of
concealment on Donyo Erok there " — he went on,
pointing to a neighbouring mountain to the east.
That arranged, we must devise some awe-inspiring
means for effecting the escape of the
bibi, so as to make the Masai imagine she has
gone off by her own miraculous power. We shall
then all take refuge during the night at the new
hiding-place, and there lie hid for some days, till
we are sure there is no pursuit, after which we
may find a way to cross the plain to Kilimanjaro.
There ! What do you think of that, Uledi ? " and
Gilmore turned half joyfully, half imploringly
towards his headman.

Your scheme is very risky," commenced Uledi,
doubtfully ; then more resignedly, " But if it is
the will of Allah, we will rescue the bibi as you
suggest."

Then, let us set to work at once," cried Gil-your,
delighted beyond measure at having got a
plan at last. " Ulu, can you get back to-day with
the news?"

"If the Bwana wills it I shall return. But the
people of our kraal think I have gone to visit a distant
relative, and do not expect me till tomorrow."

Oh, then of course you must stop here to-night.

Now, Ferhani," Gilmore continued, " you know
something about Donyo Erok. You had better
come with me to-night to look out for our new
hiding-place."

No, no, Bwana ! " burst in energetic chorus
from all the men. " Your life is very precious ;
ours are those of dogs. Some of us will go."

Eventually Gilmore gave in, and allowed Ferdinand
Tubu to take the dangerous task in hand.

The night was spent with Uledi and Ulu in
sanguine discussion of the means by which the
rescue was to be effected, varied by eager questions
as to how the bibi endured this and how adapted
herself to that. Giaour also got time to read
Ulu a mild rebuke, but was prepared to overlook
matters a hundred times worse in consideration of
her devotion to Miss Kennedy. Indeed he could
have felt it in his heart to have given her a good
hug, even as she was, so grateful was he for all
her loving and faithful service.

In the morning Ulu returned, bearing with hera
note for the bibi, and having made an arrangement
to come every morning to the tree near the
kraal, in a rift of which she would find a note to
warn them when the moment for action had
arrived.

CHAPTER X.

While Gilniour thus schemed and fumed in his
concealment on the heights of Ndapduk, Miss
Kennedy's position at the base of the mountain
was by no means an enviable one.

To acquire a proper idea of her surroundings, let
the reader imagine a circular tunnel formed of interlaced
sticks, four feet high and from five to six feet
broad, the roof being only slightly curved. Further
imagine this tunnel of wicker-work partitioned off
into some hundred cells, each eight feet long, and
having a hole which did duty as a doorway towards
the inner aspect of the circle. Such was the
general aspect of the kraal in which Kate was
confined. Outside this continuous line of huts a
strong thorn fence gave protection against man
and beast, while inside, in the large open space,
eighty yards in diameter, the herds and flocks of
the inhabitants were secured each night.

As the kraal had only recently been built — the

Masai being migratory in their habits — the place
was fairly habitable, its sanitary condition being
improved by the hot sun and drying winds which
then prevailed.

In the wet season things are sadly different. To
keep out the heavy rains the huts are plastered
thickly with dung, over which dressed hides are
tied or loaded down with stones to prevent their
being blown off by the wind. It requires no great
stretch of the imagination to realize that the
huts thus protected become excessively odorous,
and harbour a myriad vermin of a troublesome
character. Outside, matters are even worse, for the
space occupied by the cattle becomes one gigantic
cesspool and reeking dung-hill, where during the
day clouds of flies find congenial haunts, forming
a pest not second, even to the mosquitoes
of the marshes of the coast lowlands, to such
travellers as have not hides proof against their
irritating attacks.

To add to the amenities of Kate's position, she
was given a large new hut somewhat apart from
the rest, and having a little courtyard of its own,
specially fenced off for the reception of the calves,
which as yet had not arrived.

At dawn on the morning following her arrival at
Ndapduk, Miss Kennedy awoke with a start, not
quite sure whether she was dreaming or waking.

VOL. II. K

A strange, unearthly chorus of noises sounded
through the chill damp air. The light was only
beginning to steal faintly through the interstices
of the wicker-work. Bewildered, Kate rubbed her
eyes, but could see nothing. Still at intervals to
her ears were wafted the unearthly sounds, coming
ever nearer, rising ever more shrilly and strangely.
That she was not asleep, however, became evident
when Ulu, waking up, rose and pushed aside the
hide which did duty as a door. With the inrush
of cold air came an intensified volume of sound.

Come, Bibi, come outside ; the women await
you," cried Ulu, at the same time creeping out
herself.

Kate shuddered. " More horrid sights ! " she
exclaimed. "When will this end, I wonder?"
But there was no help for it — she must place herself
once more on exhibition. Her wisest plan,
she recognized, was to humour her captors in
the absurd fancies they cherished regarding her.
Plucking up courage as Ulu again called her, she
wrapped a kaross of monkey skins about her, and
stepped out of the hut.

A strange sight met her eyes, made doubly
strange by the grey obscurity of early dawn. In
the centre of the kraal all the women and girls of
the neighbourhood were assembled. They presented
a very ghastly appearance, their faces being

painted with a band of white curving on each side
from the forehead round the temple to the cheekbone.
Their heads, bare and clean shaved, glistened
with oil, and all were adorned in their best, in
beads, iron wire, and hides.

This witching assembly, on seeing Kate emerge
from her hut, broke off their chant and burst into
a shrill, trilling cry of salutation. The greeting
over, a withered old dame quavered out in a weak
broken voice what we may have the gallantry to
call a song, to which the rest of the women kept
time with a curious mincing step, and at intervals
a general shaking up of the body, as they moved
slowly towards Kate. At the close of each stanza
they all stood still and raised their cracked voices
in chorus.

In this manner they gradually approached her
to whom they looked as their deity, till at length
they formed a circle round her, within which the
leading beldame moved about as if intoxicated orin
the last stage of idiocy. The song now rose
shriller than ever, as they dipped tufts of grass
into calabashes of milk which they carried, and
held them out dripping towards Kate. Thus employed
with voice and hand, the uncouth worshippers
slowly moved round in a ring, stamping
their feet as they went, so as to cause the little
iron bells on their ankles to tinkle. The evolution

was one not to be accomplished without pain.
Every now and then one or other of the crowd
might be seen stooping to twist round the heavy
iron casings of her legs, as if they chafed raw
sores, the common consequence among Masai
women of their martyr-like adherence to fashion.

Of the meaning of this demonstration Kate could
form only the easiest idea. For a time she stood
bewildered. Gradually, however, it dawned upon
her that she was being invoked for some special
purpose. " Poor creatures ! They must be praying
for my blessing on their grass and on their
cattle," she concluded, and for the moment her
natural enough repulsion at the women's degradation
was lost in pity of their ignorance and misery.

Having continued to circle round for some time,
the women proceeded to pass in line before Kate,
depositing the grass in a heap at her feet, and
emptying the milk upon it. Then they stood
silent, seemingly expectant of some favour.

Were they waiting for some special manifestations
of her supposed supernatural powers ? Kate
asked herself with inward misgiving. What was
she to do ? She looked towards Ulu as a probable
source of inspiration, but Ulu was nowhere to be
seen. For a moment she stood irresolute, unable
to think of any way out of the difficulty, yet dreading
the consequences of her inaction. Suddenly

she remembered the peculiar Masai form of benediction,
and stepping up to the grass she spat upon
it vigorously and perhaps just a little vindictively.
With delighted screams, the women immediately
rushed forward in a scrambling mass to secure
a little of the grass so blessed; and while they
worried like dogs, scratching, pulling, striking,
screaming over it, Kate turned away and sought
refuge in her hut, where for a time she was left
in peace.

As the sun appeared on the horizon the final
celebration and closing acts of the successful expedition
commenced. With almost every other purely
African race these would have taken the form of
a grand combe-drinking and ngomma, such as has
already been described in an earlier chapter. Not
so with the Masai. Singing and dancing as an
enjoyment in themselves are unknown among these
strange people. Song is only employed as a means
of invoking the aid of Ngai, or of celebrating a
victorious raid, while the dance is indulged in
solely by the women as part of their religious rites.
Musical instruments, likewise, are unknown, not
even a drum being found throughout the length
and breadth of Masai-land. Again, beer and other
intoxicating liquors are only rarely partaken of by
the el-morus, or married men, the diet of the
warriors being strictly confined to the flesh of

domestic animals and milk ; to taste any other
food would be to lose caste and be disgraced.
Hence the only forms of enjoyment left open to the
Masai are gorging themselves with meat, 
but admirably conducted debates, and
gratifying their passion for the fierce delights of
battle and cattle-lifting. To these may be added
various military displays in which they indulge
on important occasions.

It was one of these last exhibitions which the
el-moran now commenced, before the division of
the spoil and the final break-up of the army. A
chanted recitative, accompanied by a chorus such
as they had raised on reaching Kiraragwa, broke
the morning stillness, sonorously howled forth by
some hundreds of warriors who had collected outside
the kraal.

Kate, on hearing the song of victory, guessed that
some new torture was in store for her, and shrank
more than ever from showing herself. Ulu, however,
declared that she must humour the el-moran
on this their final clay in camp. Afterwards she
would probably be left in peace to the guardianship
of the elders, who would treat her with due respect.
Again Kate yielded to the stern logic of facts, and,
taking Ulu by the hand, ventured forth.

This time it was necessary to go outside the
kraal. The women, some of the older men, and

the children escorted her to the tree from which
Gilmore had signalled, and there under the shady
branches she was soon installed. The el-moran, in
all the terror of war array, exhibited their military
skill in various simple evolutions of such a nature
as showed they had learned the value of discipline
and united action. Now they advanced in line
in one direction, suddenly to fall into single file
and move at right angles. Next they dropped
into some half-dozen lines, the alternate ones going
in contrary directions, so that, moving in a maze
among themselves, they produced a bewildering
appearance as their bright shovel-headed spears
glittered in the sun. At a given signal they scattered
as if to hide behind bushes, or gathered to
dash forward in an irresistible rush.

This display over, they formed up in line again
and stood at ease. Resting the points of their
shields on the ground, and leaning partly on them,
partly on their spears, they commenced once more
to sing — whether something in their own glorification,
or a prayer to Ngai, Kate could not say.
Their facial contortions in this exercise were
ludicrous to behold. No note was dragged out
without a determined and seemingly painful
struggle, to judge from the manner in which their
necks were twisted, mouths screwed awry, and eyes
appealingly uplifted till only the whites were visible.

The warlike display was now brought to an end
by a performance which might variously be described
as a game, a dance, or simply a gymnastic feat.
The warriors still singing, one of their number
left the ranks and hopped like a bird in front of
his comrades. Here, with a face of portentous
solemnity, and with his arms closely pressed to his
side, he commenced to leap straight up in the air,
but without bending his legs to take the spring.
The difficulty of doing this till essayed is not
obvious. The height and number of times the
leaper can attain is the aim in this characteristic
feat of Masai athletics.

The more serious work of the day had now to
be set about. The cattle still remained undivided,
and the women and boys looked forward with joyous
excitement to some bloodshed over this usually
ticklish business. Rarely did a raid end without
the death of several warriors in the fighting which
commonly marked the division of the spoil. Not
unfrequently, indeed, more men were killed on
these occasions than during the raid itself; the
simple rule being recognized —

That lie may take-who has the power,
And he may keep who can.

In consequence, the weak, the timid, and the
very young had usually to be content with the
glory of the capture, and with little that was substantial,

except what might be contemptuously left
to them of the lean and sickly among the cattle.

The herd was now driven up to the kraal, and a
pretty fair division made, the cattle being allotted
to the various sections of the army according to
the number of warriors each contained. A vast
amount of angry shouting and disputing, with
some threatening movements, marked this primary
division, but beyond that nothing happened, to the
visible chagrin of the women who appeared to be
disappointed that matters did not come to a bloodier
issue.

Those sections of the army which came from a
distance drove their shares a little way off, and
afterwards gathered round to see if there would
be any fighting over the final division of the spoil
which remained to the warriors of Ndapduk.

The young women were especially forward in
making remarks tending to raise a row. They
hounded on their sweethearts to show their bravery
and prowess by seizing the lion's share. The
warriors, excited by the bloodthirsty cries, watched
each other's movements like dogs as they stood ina
circle round the frightened cattle. At length,
amid renewed clamour, the lytunu and the lygonani
of the section strode forth like men to whom none
would dare say nay. From the herd they separated
so many cattle and drove them to their friends to

guard. This much was conceded to them as their
right ; if they wanted more they must take their
chance in the general scramble.

The advance of the leaders a second time was
the signal for a general eager rush upon the herd.
With shouts and blows, each man selected particular
cattle, and in feverish haste drove them, bewildered
and half-mad, to the custody of ready hands among
the onlookers. The spoil being large and the party
comparatively small, even the more timid secured
a share.

But the tug of war was yet to come. Amid
immense excitement, the warriors hurried back,
each one bent on making the most of his opportunities.
Some of the more ruthless and reckless,
with threatening scowl and gesture, caused the less
hardy to give up their timidly asserted claims ; the
result being that a few retired from the melee emptyhanded,
amid the jeers of the onlookers.

For a time it seemed as if there would be no fight,
to the acute disappointment and disgust of all concerned.
Such a tame ending to the day's proceedings
would be a disgrace to the tribe. Accordingly,
the few bullies and hardy spirits who still disputed
possession of particular cattle were encouraged by
their respective friends to hold out. In several cases
this had the desired effect, and, to the delight of the
crowd, the arbitrament of battle was decided upon.

Amid a deafening uproar the ground was
cleared for the rights. The men were known as
the bravest of the Elgeji-Masai, and life and death
struggles were anticipated. The disputing parties
were taken by pairs, so as to lengthen out the
enjoyment of the occasion. With the sang-froid
proper to men to whom battle was the dearest
pleasure in life, they set themselves to examine
their arms. Their war adornments were laid aside,
as being only of use in frightening Wa-nyika and
other " old women."

The canine clamour of the onlookers was hushed
as Kombo and Simba, two of their most renowned
warriors, stepped into the arena. They took their
places a few paces apart, holding their shields
before their bodies in such a manner as to leave
only the head exposed. For a moment they eyed
one another critically, each taking the measure of
his man and forming his plan of attack and
defence.

Amid profound silence, the two el-moran at
length slowly began to move forward, their bodies
bent panther-like, ready to spring. A few steps
and they were within striking distance. But they
were in no hurry to commence. For a time they
were content to dodge about, awaiting their opportunity.
Apparently they were equally matched ;
no advance was made or bold stroke given. This,

however, did not suit the crowd. Becoming impatient
to see blood, they raised derisive cries and
mocking laughs. Ironically the ditties (young
women) asked to be allowed to do the fighting,
declaring that the men were no better than Lajomba.
Thus ridiculed, the combatants became infuriated,
more reckless in thrust, less careful in defence.
The interest rose proportionately, and encouraging
shouts goaded them on to bolder deeds. Delighted
applause greeted the infliction of some flesh-wounds.
Blood at last was beginning to flow.

Still no decided advantage was gained on either
side, though now the fight had raged for sometime,
and the combatants panted with their
exertions. At length Kombo essayed the hazard
of a dangerous stroke, one that few dared try.
Awaiting his opportunity, he gathered himself
together with a mighty effort, and rapidly aiming
for Simba's head, he drove his spear at the almost
impenetrable leather of his shield. The stroke
was magnificently given. Through the shield
clove the spear. Back staggered Simba. His
shield was driven against him, apparently nailed to
his skull. As he dropped on his knee a roar of
applause burst from every onlooker. But the warrior
only staggered for a moment, stunned, not dead.
The spear in cleaving the leather had slightly deflected,
and instead of splitting his skull it had

merely glanced along the bone, exposing it and
cutting off an ear.

As Sheba sprang to his feet, to the surprise of
all, he was received with a shout equal to that
which a moment before had greeted his opponent.
It was now Kombo who was in a desperate plight.
He had played his best, almost his only, card. It
had failed, and he was now in an infinitely worse
position than before, for so deeply was the spear
embedded in the thick, tough hide that it could
not be withdrawn. With the fury of despair,
Kombo tried to withdraw it, but to do so he had to
run backwards. To prevent this, Simba, his gashed
head all bloody and hideous, followed up, pushing
the shield as hard as the other pulled the spear.
Naturally in such an unequal race the odds were
against Kombo. At any moment he might trip, orin
watching his footsteps receive a thrust from
Simba' s spear.

Kombo, finding his efforts in vain, suddenly
changed his tactics. Putting forth all his strength,
he gave a tremendous tug and as suddenly let go.
Simba, thus taken unawares, stumbled forward,
temporarily exposing himself. Quick as lightning,
Kombo's knob kerry was whirled, with all the concentrated
fury of one who fights for life and
honour, at the exposed head of his enemy. The
gods, however, were against him, for the club

caught the edge of Sheba's slanting shield, and,
thus deflected, went flying harmless overhead.

Kombo was now both peerless and cloudless.
He had but to prepare to die. He scorned to
ask for quarter. He would die as became a Masai
warrior, fighting to the last. With clenched teeth,
starting eyeballs, and breath coming hard and fast,
he once more seized his embedded spear, while the
air rang with the admiring plaudits of the throng
that surged in irrepressible excitement around the
combatants.

Simba was rapidly becoming weak from loss of
blood. There was, therefore, a chance for Kombo,
if he could but hold out long enough. This the
former recognized, for, with desperate fury, he
pushed back his opponent, making at the same
time furious lunges with his spear. The end,
however, came at last. Kombo, running backward,
struck his foot against a stone and overbalanced
himself. As he fell on his back, Simba's spear
descended upon him with a horrible stroke, and
pinned him to the ground. There, as he lay
twisting in the agonies of death, the victor fell
fainting on the top of him.

The next dispute was settled in an equally bloodthirsty
manner. It closed, however, more speedily.
The spear-handle of one of the combatants broke.
His opponent, prematurely raising a cry of triumph,

jumped forward to take advantage of the accident.
But the other was even more quick to seize an
opportunity, and ere the confident shout was half
uttered, it was ended abruptly, as a club drove like
a bolt from a catapult against his skull, braining
him on the spot.

The other cases were finished after a similar
fashion, and by sunset half a dozen corpses testified
how the Masai arranged cattle-disputes. The
victors were received as heroes, and the vanquished,
looked upon as so much carrion, were dragged into
the bush, round which gathered in gross conclave
vultures and marabout storks. Later on, in the
murky gloom of night, the hyenas rendered a
ghoulish assistance, snarling and laughing in
horribly human-like manner as they tore the
bodies to pieces, till the morning sun shone upon a
few bloody bones and ghastly skulls, sole remains
of the lusty warriors of the previous day.

CHAPTER XI.

It must not be supposed that Miss Kennedy was a
spectator of the bloodthirsty fights we have just
described. She had seen the first furious scramble
for the cattle ; but, luckily, in the eager excitement
which ensued over the gladiator-like combats, she
was forgotten, and left free to follow her own
devices. Even Ulu had deserted her, fascinated
by the horror of the thrilling scenes.

Thus left to herself outside the screaming circle
of onlookers, Kate at first did not move, afraid lest
she should attract attention. At length, when the
excitement was nearing fever pitch, she slipped
quietly to the gate, and, unobserved, sought refuge
in her hut.

A considerable flutter ensued when, the disputes
finally settled, it was remarked that Ngai was
nowhere to be seen. The discovery that Kate was
still within the kraal, however, caused the panic
which threatened, to subside at once, and the

warriors and elders withdrew to consider in conclave
what was to be done with their captive.
Some held that she — or, as they styled her, he —
should be carried farther north ; others, that she
should remain where she was. The el-moran
eloquently stated their claim to have Ngai in their
keeping and in their kraals, that they might
become more bold in battle and more successful in
cattle-lifting. The el-morus were equally urgent
in asserting their fitness as men of wisdom and
counsel to have the god in their keeping, adding
that it was more important to their existence as a
people that families should increase and multiply,
and that there should be plenty of grass for their
cattle, and abundance of meat and milk for themselves.


The discussion continued till sunset, when it was
finally agreed to refer the matter to their great
lyon, Mbaratian, when they took him his customary
share of the spoil. In pursuance of this
mission, a party of warriors and elders started next
day for Nguruma, the home of the medicine man
for the time being.

In the days which elapsed before the return of
the messengers, Kate was little troubled except by
the elders, who in the cool evenings delighted to
gather round her, and feast their eyes upon her
with undiminished wonder. Usually they were

VOL. II. l

silent, but sometimes curiosity prompted them to
ask questions of Ulu, who was ever only too ready
to answer them in her own peculiar way. The
position of interpreter suited the little M-Chaga
immensely. Her imagination, though crude, was
exuberant, and she possessed in no small degree
the faculty of lying, so highly coveted by her race.
Nothing pleased her better than to cram her
audience with all sorts of astounding stories about
Ngai and his wonderful powers. She kept up
the mystery that hung about Kate's peculiar shape,
making the simple folks believe that her dress was
part of herself and grew with her, but that certain
portions — her boots, for example — could be taken
off and put on at will. Under this skilful treatment
it was little wonder that Kate's supernatural reputation
grew and flourished, the awe it inspired
fortunately exempting it from being put to any
severe test.

In no case did her worshippers become obtrusive
or too inquisitive, and Kate gradually became
accustomed to being perpetually gazed at from a
respectful distance whenever she showed herself
out of doors. It was, indeed, her only source of
amusement to watch the varying expression on the
men's tell-tale faces, and note the naive simplicity
of their ideas as far as these could be gathered
from their looks.

When alone, Kate's thoughts turned incessantly
towards Gilmore. He was her one comfort, her
one hope. She herself could think of no means of
escape from imprisonment, and, strong and self-reliant
as she had ever been, the sense of her present
utter helplessness constantly recurred to weigh her
down. Then, when her despondency was at its
worst, her mind unconsciously would turn to Gil-your,
and at once the outlook grew more hopeful.
She had the utmost confidence in him, and relied
on him implicitly, sure that he would find a way
of rescue, even though she herself saw none.

By what curious instinct Kate invariably arrived
at this conclusion it would be difficult to tell. She
herself puzzled over the matter a good deal in those
long, weary days of captivity — the feeling from
which it seemed to spring was so new, so unreasonable,
as she often told herself. She scarcely knew
Mr. Gilmore at all, she said ; it was not so very
long since he had been to her "the mystery of
Chaga." She was not sure, indeed, that he was
not now more of a " mystery " to her than ever —
there was such disparity between his present
manner of life and his natural tastes and sympathies,
such as these were by her conceived. Then
Kate would rehearse her various theories to account
for this disparity, and go over all the little discoveries
she had made that seemed to justify her

in regarding Gilmore, as she wished to regard
him, as the bravest, most noble, most generous
of men.

Of course Kate idealized. What woman under
the circumstances would not have idealized ?
Every idol is supposed to have a prejudice in
favour of its own peculiar set of worshippers, an
anthropomorphic conception of the ways of deity
which is based on universal, human experience.
Who could blame Kate, then, if, when she thought
of all Gilmore had done and was still doing for her,
of all he had risked and all he must yet risk — who
could blame her if she saw in him excellences of
character hitherto undetected, and ascribed to him
virtues he did not possess, or even pretend to ?

Apart though they were, the thoughts both of
Kate and of Gilmore were thus continually running
on very much the same lines. Both awaited with
impatience the hour of rescue ; both continually
wondered by what means Kate's escape was to be
effected. Each thought the other the most interesting
and likeable person he or she had ever
met ; each justified that conclusion by reference to
numerous mental and moral qualities of unusual
excellence.

Needless to say, it was all and only friendship.
His past, bitter disappointment had long ago led
Gilmore to accept the fate of prospective bachelorhood,

to which he constantly consigned himself, asa
matter of course. Kate, on her part, was a bit of
a cynic on the subject of love, and had early
determined to keep herself free of its fetters. Like
Beatrice, she looked upon all men as her brothers,
and — well, if she favoured one " brother " more
than another, where was the harm or danger in
that?

There was one question which continually came
athwart all Kate's more pleasing hopes and speculations,
and, spite of her faith in her daily more
trusted friend, filled her mind with ever-increasing
anxiety. What would become of her if Mbaratian
decreed that she should be taken further into the
Masai country? Gilmore did not know the new
danger which threatened her, and every attempt
Kate made to communicate with him through Lu
had in one way or other been frustrated.

At length the messengers returned, and before
many minutes were over Kate knew her doom.
She was to be conveyed to Naivasha, as soon as a
fitting escort could be got in readiness. As Kate
listened, a cold feeling of despair crept into her
heart. If she could only let Gilmore know, surely
he would make some attempt, however desperate,
to rescue her, rather than that she should be consigned
to a life worse than death in the heart of
Masai-land ?

She held a long consultation with Ulu, who hit
upon the plan of making capital out of their approaching
departure, and, devising the excuse of
going to visit a relative, succeeded in reaching
Gilmore in the manner already described. Left
alone for the night, for the first time Kate realized
how much she leaned upon Ulu, and what a feeling
of protection and companionship there was in the
girl's mere presence. She dared not allow herself
to sleep, fearful lest some new danger should come
upon her unawares. Slowly the weary hours crept
on, seeming as if they would never pass. Once or
twice Kate nodded drowsily, always to start up
again in sudden affright lest the darkness should
conceal some lurking foe.

Daybreak came at last, and with it a feeling of
greater assurance. The morning passed uneventfully
enough, and at midday Ulu returned, bringing
with her a note from Oilmour and the good news
that an attempt at rescue was speedily to be made.
The note was scribbled on a leaf from Gilmore's
pocket diary, and was commonplace enough ; but
Kate read it as if each word were inspired.

Dear Miss Kennedy" (it ran),

Keep up your courage. We have at
length devised a plan to get you out of the hands
of the Philistines ' in a sufficiently awe-inspiring

t

manner. We cannot be ready for at least three
days, however, and after that it may be necessary
to wait a day or two longer to be sure of a night
when there are no el-moran in the kraal. We
shall look to you to let us know when circumstances
are favourable. A white handkerchief tied to the
roof of your hut will serve as a signal. That night
we shall shake hands again, and you will be in
safety as far as stout hearts and good guns can
assure you of it. Till we meet

Sincerely yours,

Tom L. Gilmore."

The reading of this very practical epistle finished,
Kate listened with a full heart to Ulu's recital of
all that had taken place during her visit to the
mountain, and overwhelmed the little girl with
questions regarding the nature of Gilmore's present
situation and surroundings. To Ulu, accustomed
to the hardship and privation of a savage life,
there was nothing very remarkable in the position
of the rescue party beyond the shortness of the
commons. She certainly did think they were very
badly fed. But to Kate, the dangers of their
hiding-place and the semi-starvation they had to
undergo assumed appalling proportions, which
the recollection that it was all undertaken and
cheerfully accepted on her account served not a

little to enhance. Gratitude seemed a poor word
to express the feeling which filled her heart and
brought the tears to her eyes when she thought of
Gilmore and all he had done and dared for her.

"What the result of the new venture would be
Kate scarcely took time to ask. Again and again
she read Gilmore's letter, each fresh perusal giving
her new heart, until at length doubt seemed to be
forgotten, and already she saw herself safe under
the protection of him whom even now she delighted
to call her preserver.

So he is called ' Tom,' is he ? " she mused,
laying down the letter, after going through it for
the twentieth time. " Not much of a name,
certainly ; but short and convenient enough, at
any rate. There's a good, honest sound about it
too. What will the ' L ' stand for now, I wonder ? "
and Kate puckered her brow and looked meditative,
as if the question were one of the highest importance
and must be decided at once. Then she
bethought herself that the letter must be answered.
Ulu," she said, holding up Gilmore's note, " I
want to send a paper like this to the Bwana. How
do you think we can manage it ? "

Quite easily, bibi. I will take it to the tree
where he comes every night, and leave it there.
He will be sure to find it."

Of course. How stupid of me not to think of

that before ! " and Kate jumped up as if to go in
search of her writing materials. Then she remembered
that she had none, and her bright, happy
expression changed to one of extreme vexation.
If only Mr. Gilmore hadn't written on both sides
of the sheet! " she exclaimed, her eyes wandering
around the hut, as if possibly they might light on
something that might do as a substitute for paper.
They fell upon her saddle-bags. "Oh, I know! "
she cried joyously ; and, laying hold of the bags, ina
few moments she had their contents on the
ground, and had found the object she was in
search of. It was a small volume of Browning,
one she had been taking with her to Pepo-ni to
show Gilmore some of her favourite passages, and
claim his sympathy in those yearnings after the
ideal which were to Kate as the expression of her
own deepest longings.

Almost with a pang at the necessary mutilation,
Kate tore out the fly-leaf, and then found herself
confronted by a new difficulty. She had neither
pencil nor pen and ink. Once more she appealed
to Lu.

"Oh, toto, what shall I do?" she cried. "I
have nothing to — to — nothing to make marks with
on this bit of paper ; " and she turned a perplexed
face towards her attentive handmaiden, who had
been watching Kate's movements with interest,

wondering what new piece of magic she was about
to see performed. " I want to speak to the Bwana,"
Kate went on, in answer to Ulu's look of astonished
inquiry. " White people can speak to each other
even at a distance, you know, if only they have
paper and something to make marks with like
these; " and she indicated the writing in Gilmore's
note, the meaning of which Ulu had been utterly
at a loss to understand. "All white people know
at once what the marks mean, whenever they see
them."

Ulu could not make it out ; but one thing she
grasped clearly enough — the bibi wanted something
to make marks with.

Wait, bibi," she said ; "I think I can get you
something; " and she quitted the hut, and ran off
towards the kraal. "There! will that do?" she
asked, returning in a minute or two, triumphantly
carrying a tiny skin-bag of paint.

The very thing ! " exclaimed Kate, joyfully.
Now, toto, bring me some straw."

Ulu did as desired, and from among the coarse,
stiff stems Kate selected one, and with her penknife
fashioned it into a pen.

Now for the paint-bag ! " she cried ; and,
squatting on the ground, with the open Browning
on her knee for a desk, Kate dipped her pen in the
paint, and gravely set herself to write.

D," she commenced in the extreme left-hand
corner of her paper. There was no visible result.
She tried again. There was still no answering
sign. "Oh, bother! the thing won't write," she
exclaimed in a tone of vexation, narrowly examining
the point of her impromptu pen.

Kate could see nothing to amend, however, and
with another fierce little dip in the paint, she once
more essayed to write.

■" D . . . " It was no use ; the paint was too
oily. Kate could produce nothing legible. "I
don't care ; I'll manage it somehow," she cried
hotly, and, with a look of determination, she pulled
up the sleeve of her dress, so as to expose her arm.

What is it you want, bibi ? " asked Ulu, puzzled
what to make of her mistress's movement.

"Blood," was the laconic response.

Then, take mine ; " and Ulu offered her arm,
thinking from Kate's impetuous energy that some
quantity might be required.

"Thank you, toto, but I mean to have my
own ; " and, opening her knife, Kate made a vicious
little dab at her wrist with the sharp point of the
blade.

Shedding one's own blood is not so easy as
might be imagined, and it was not until after one
or two unsuccessful attempts that Kate at length
accomplished her purpose.

Now, I'll get along," she cried triumphantly,
as a crimson drop oozed out and lay, slowly
gathering volume, on the whiteness of her skin.
' D . . . " Yes, that's all right now. ' Dear Mr.
Gilmore ; ' " and, as if there were no time to lose,
Kate began to write a letter in which, in touching
terms, she expressed her heartfelt gratitude, and
characteristically entreated to be permitted to do
"something more than hoist a handkerchief"
towards effecting her escape from among the
Masai. With a final injunction to Gilmore above
all things to be careful of his life, Kate folded the
note, and gave it to Ulu to carry to the tree, where
the ingenious little damsel so bestowed it that that
very night it was in the hands of its surprised and
delighted recipient.

For the next three days Kate lived in a tremor
of agitated expectation. Her chief anxiety was to
form an accurate estimate of the number of
warriors still remaining in the kraal, and to that
purpose she kept Ulu incessantly on the watch for
the arrival and departure of el-moran. Not content
with second-hand information, she must needs,
from time to time, brave all the annoyances
attendant on her appearance abroad, and quit the
hut to make observations for herself. The result
was not encouraging. Though many warriors had
already taken their departure, numbers still hung

about, recruiting on a course of rnilk after the
hardships of the late expedition. There would have
been even more, but, as Ulu had surmised, those
who were to form Kate's escort to Naivasha had
retired to the woods to eat flesh, according to their
custom when about to set forth on any trying
venture.

On the fourth day there were still a goodly
number of el-moran about, and Kate's heart sank
as she thought how much their presence would
increase the danger of any attempt at rescue that
Gilmore might risk.

At noon Ulu came in radiant, bearing the 's
" fetish messenger " — a note, which had
been left in the tree overnight.

We have now everything in readiness," it ran,
and only await your signal. If I do not ask you
to co-operate with me in the work we have before
us, it is simply because there is absolutely nothing
for you to do. I cannot enter into the details of
our scheme here ; but, whatever happens, do not
leave your hut until I call you. In the midst of
the panic which we mean to raise send Ulu outwith
the cry, ' Ngai has fled.' Keep up your hope
and your courage ; I am most sanguine of success."

There was no chance of doing anything that
day ; but when Kate made her appearance out of
doors next morning, to her intense delight she

found that all the warriors had left the kraal. She
waited until noon, lest a fresh relay should come
to take their place. Then, with a throbbing heart,
she watched Ulu, as she took a wet pocket-handkerchief
and spread it on the roof of the hut
as if to dry.

The sultry afternoon hours dragged wearily
along, and still no warriors appeared to crush
Kate's rising hopes. Impatiently she watched the
sun nearing the horizon. How slowly it seemed
to her to descend ! In the cool of the evening
the cattle wended their way homewards to the
pleasant music of their tinkling iron bells, with
them a few herdsmen — cowards, and therefore
paupers — content to drag out an infamous existence
at the beck and call of their bolder brethren.

Among the cattle appeared Tanga, looking woefully
neglected and forlorn, his formerly well-grooved
coat now bedraggled and mangy. As she
remarked the donkey's subdued expression, Kate
felt a keen pang of regret at having recently paid
him so little attention, and at the thought that
now he must be left behind in the midst of such
uncongenial surroundings.

As he approached the spot where Kate stood,
Tanga recognized her at once, and, with brightened
eye and uplifted ear, trotted up to her, expectant
of the toothsome morsel which had usually been

his meed at Pisgah on similar occasions. But
Kate had nothing for him — nothing but a dainty
pat on the neck, a rub on the nose, and a sympathetic
look into his meek, intelligent eyes.
Tanga sniffed his mistress wonderingly when the
accustomed biscuit was not forthcoming, a mute
form of questioning which fairly went to Kate's
heart.

With a final pat and a silent adieu, Kate turned
away and re-entered her hut ; while the herdsmen,
unaccustomed to such passages, looked on silent
and wondering. Had the two been talking to each
other ? Why should Ngai be interested in a
donkey ? were the mute questions that looked from
every eye.

But Ngai's interest could not save Tanga from
the common lot of his kind among the Masai,
and, his mistress gone, he was driven, with cruel
blows, back among the donkeys of baser breeds.

At length the sun sank behind the heights of
Gelei, and darkness rapidly settled over the face
of the land. For a time there was a busy hum of
voices, and the characteristic charr of cows being
milked into calabashes. Then Ulu appeared, bearing
the usual copious supply of milk, of which the
greater part was set aside for use during the
approaching flight.

The gate of the kraal was now carefully secured,

and, dreading no enemy, the inhabitants sought
their huts, leaving only a number of boys to keep
watch and ward, as much to inure the lads to
warlike duties as from any imagined need.

Gradually the voices of men and women were
hushed, and the impatient movements of the cattle,
the occasional tinkle of a bell, the distant cry of
beasts of prey, or the snarling of miserable pariah
dogs alone betrayed the presence of life. The
night was dark and overcast, and there was no
moon. Through the intense blackness only the
vaguest outline of the kraal was distinguishable.

In the pitch darkness of their hut Kate and Lu
sat awake and watchful, each silently clasping the
other's hand. Every sound, every movement, fell
upon senses strung to the highest pitch of excitement.
Slowly the minutes crept on — minutes that
seemed like hours. The suspense was fast becoming
unbearable. Kate did not dare to think of all that
was staked on this venture. If successful, it would
give her back to life, her father, friends ; if not,
what other result could there be but destruction
sure and certain to all concerned ? Gilmore would
be killed. He would die for her. No, no ; not
that. He would succeed. They would soon all be
in safety. Backwards and forwards, so her thoughts
swung, between sanguine hope and despairing
apprehension. Was it to be life or was it to be

death ? Life or death — life or death ? Oh, would
the answer never come to that weary, terrible
question ?

As if in response to her unspoken thoughts,
there rang through the silent air the unmistakable
crack of a rifle.

The supreme moment, then, had come !

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XII.

Sharp, clear, and strong rose the warning voices of
the boy watchers. In thundering reverberations
the rocks and heights of Ndapduk responded to the
rifle-shot, and the echoes had not ceased before the
men and women in the kraal had scrambled out of
their huts and into the darkness of night.

In a hundred different tones they demanded an
explanation. The boys, as much amazed as any,
could give no intelligible answer. There was
nothing but a confused babel of voices, darkness,
and bewildering perplexity.

Again came the sudden flash from the murky
gloom ; again the unwonted sound thundered far
and near. There was a terrified silence. Shivering
with dread, each man stood staring into the surrounding
blackness, unable to speak or move.

Ere they had time to recover, lurid tongues of
flame shot upwards from the ground to the east,
and there was a repetition of the awe-inspiring

sounds, mingled with yet more deafening echoes.
The west and the north followed suit, making confusion
worse confounded.

The silence grew deathlike, with a dread too
deep for words. As the crowd stood listening,
mute and spellbound, to the reverberations once
more dying away in the distance, the same questions
hung trembling on every lip, "Was it Ngai
who thus spoke ? Were these the fierce scintillations
of his eye in anger — these the dread terrors
of his voice ? "

Then from the darkness came a piercing cry,
Ngai has fled ! Ngai has fled ! " A shuddering
gasp went through the horror-stricken crowd.
Involuntarily the}?- huddled closer together, to await
whatever new terrors were in store for them.

As Ulu appeared in their midst, the women
huddled around her, helplessly clutching her garments,
and by speechless gesture imploring her
protection. Unheeding the girl stood, wringing
her hands in an apparent agony of grief and fear,
and wildly repeating in anguished tones, " Ngai
has fled ! Ngai has fled ! "

The paralyzed crowd was not left time to recover.
Louder and nearer than before, the terrific noises
burst forth anew. In the lightning flashes which
accompanied them the figures of Gilmore's Zanzibar
were for a moment visible, appearing to the

excited imagination of the beholders as frightful
monsters— djins, servants of Ngai or Neiterkob
(the spirit of evil). The terrified exclamations
which rose to every lip remained unuttered. Clearly
they were surrounded. What unknown and horrible
fate was about to befall them ?

Suddenly the thorn fence which enclosed the
kraal was fired at three different points. Then
madness seized the assembled multitude. The
spell which held them mute was broken. Women
and children wildly screamed to Ngai for help, and
staid elders, losing all thought of self-possession,
added their cries to the general clamour.

At length one man, of stronger will than the
others, turned and fled towards the gate. Pellmell,
the rest rushed after him like sheep. The
gate was closed, and in the crush it was impossible
to open it or throw it down. But no power could
now stop the panic-stricken mob. A few managed
to shake themselves free, and, in their eagerness
to escape, plunged madly into the fence, only to be
torn by a thousand cruel spikes. The greater
number, however, were driven against the gate
with the united force of a hundred frantic human
beings. Unable to bear the strain, the gate at last
gave way, and out tumbled men, women, and
children in a horrible, writhing, screaming mass,
rolling over each other and treading one another

down. With desperate struggles, the stronger
scrambled to their feet again and continued their
flight, heedless of the fallen comrades they left
senseless on the ground.

With the roar and crackle of the burning thorns,
the cattle also caught the panic. Bellowing with
fear and madness, they stampeded, and dashed
through hut and fence, knocking down men who
ran, and trampling on others who lay prostrate.

Gilmore was now master of the kraal ; but there
was no time to be lost in taking advantage of his
successful ruse. Unable longer to bear the suspense,
Kate had quitted the hut the moment she
saw the Masai in full flight. By the light of the
fires, Gilmore could see her anxiously trying to
pierce the outer gloom in search of her preservers ;
while Ulu, intoxicated with the excitement of the
night, ran hither and thither like a limb of Satan.

"This way, Miss Kennedy," cried Gilmore, byway
of apprising Kate of his whereabouts, at the
same time springing right into the midst of the
thorns, his legs safe in the protection of skin
breeches.

Before Kate could reach him, he and Uledi had
spread a couple of large skins over the huge acacia
spikes of the fence, and scrambled to the inside of
the kraal.

Kate gave a little gasp of relief as Gilmore

jumped down at her side. " Oh, Tom ! " she began,
unconsciously giving him the name by which it
had pleased her to think of him ever since she had
received his first letter ; but the emotion of the
moment was too strong for words, and a grateful
pressure of the hand was the only conclusion of
her sentence.

Quick, Miss Kennedy ! Jump into the skin,"
said Gilmore, lending her what help he could.
Don't be afraid; it's only Uledi," he added, as
Kate started on noticing his hitherto unobserved
companion. " Give him your hand. There ! well
done. Now, Ulu, over you go."

Gilmore followed, and next moment they were
all safe outside the kraal. Not a minute too soon,
however ; for, the fence being like tinder, the fire
was already close upon them.

Though out of the kraal, they were not yet out
of danger. Their first consideration was to hurry
beyond the circle illumined by the blazing huts
and fence. A moment's halt was then called to see
that all were safe, and at the same time pieces of
skin were tied on over Kate's boots to prevent the
formation of tell-tale heel-marks in the sand.

That done, as swiftly and silently as might bethe
flight was continued. Behind, the kraal still
burned up in a lurid circle of flame, shedding a
bright light all around it for a considerable distance.

From the surrounding darkness came
hundreds of excited voices, some eagerly questioning,
others replying and spreading the dire intelligence
of Ngai's fearful and wonderful flight. At
any moment the fugitives might be met by alarmed
Masai hurrying to learn the meaning of the fires
and of the strange noises, or by panic-stricken
stragglers flying for refuge towards the mountain.
Led by Uledi, the little band first pushed towards
the base of Ndapduk, Kate deriving more encouragement
than assistance from Gilmore's hand,
which all the while she held firmly clasped in her
own. Not a word was spoken, save when the guide
from time to time turned to those behind, to warn
them in a whisper of a bush, a hole, a stone, or
other obstacle that must be avoided.

In ten minutes they reached the mountain,
where they could breathe more freely, for there they
were out of the line of kraals and possible fugitives.
The clamour of voices sounded far and feeble, and
only a glowing ring of ashes told of the scene of
the recent fire. But for Gilmore and his followers
there could be no rest that night. An arduous
march to Donyo Erok (black mountain) lay before
them, and it would go hard with them indeed if
they did not reach their destination before daybreak.
By the aid of a match they consulted a
compass, and their course being set, they swiftly

pushed on again. A strict silence was still maintained,
each one keeping eye and ear intently alert
for any sign of approaching danger.

From time to time they were momentarily
startled by the thunderous gallop of startled herds
of zebra, or the noise caused by other game rushing
recklessly through the bushes, disturbed by
their approaching footsteps. To these common
accompaniments of night marches in the wilds of
Africa, Gilmore and his men were well accustomed,
and only noted them to know them; but Kate,
new to such experiences, got many a sudden fright,
which her tightened clasp of Gilmore' s hand was
alone allowed to betoken.

With immense spirit, Miss Kennedy kept up the
unwonted exertion of the trying march hour after
hour. More than once Gilmore halted and urged
her to rest, only to meet with persistent assurances
that she was not in the least tired.

At last Kate was obliged to confess herself
beaten, and a few minutes' halt was called. The
tension somewhat relaxed, the men broke into
congratulatory remarks. Kate alone was silent,
held dumb by the very strength of her feelings.
Gilmore, she knew by instinct, would readily
understand her.

At this juncture Ulu's calabash of milk proved a
veritable godsend, and did wonders in refreshing

every one. But their halt must needs be of the
briefest, for time was terribly precious. A great
fear hung over them lest the mountain should not
be reached before daybreak. Happily Kate's
breakdown had been foreseen and provided for.
Gilmore's hammock was turned out and rigged
up on a pole carried for the purpose by one of the
men.

At first Kate declared that she was quite able
to walk again, but Gilmore would not hear of it.
"In she must go," was his inexorable reply to
all Kate's protestations that she did not require
the hammock ; and in she did go, to be borne off
almost at a trot, swinging between two stalwart
Zanzibar, and steadying herself by holding the
pole.

The pale light of the waning moon now shed its
mild effulgence over the plain, making walking
more easy, and at the same time bringing out
more clearly the dark outlines of Erok. From
time to time the men who carried Kate changed
shoulders, or stopped for a moment to allow others
to take their place. Gilmore began to look
nervously at his watch. There was no landmark
to indicate how near they were to their goal. As
seen it might be at any distance. Four o'clock
came, and still they seemed to be getting no
nearer it. In another horn it would be daylight.

Eesasi, one of Kate's bearers, stumbled
once or twice and nearly fell. He was clearly
played out. Gilmore ousted him from his place
and shouldered the pole himself, with all the
energy of a young athlete. As he trudged on in
feverish excitement, unconsciously skinning his
shoulder with the pole the while, he kept eagerly
looking alternately towards the eastern horizon,
and the hazy outlines of the mountain. But he
could get no satisfaction, and kept panting on his
way with contracted brow and clenched teeth, the
veins of his neck and face strained almost to bursting
by his unusual exertions.

It was now half-past four, and with an inward
cry Gilmore remarked — or did he only imagine it ?
the faintest possible streak of grey ; and still the
distance to be traversed was uncertain.

Uledi and Ferhani now took the pole, and, fresh
from a rest, they trotted along with such vigour as
almost to shake Kate out of the hammock. 4.40,
and there was no mistaking the terrible fact that
day was breaking, and all the men were exhausted.

Stop ! " cried Gilmore ; " we'll have to run
for it."

In silence Kate got out of the hammock, and
scrambled to her feet. Gilmore took her hand.
She was stiff and sore, and her feet were badly
blistered ; but as she warmed to her work the stiffness

passed off, and all consciousness of pain was
lost in excitement.

The imminence of the fugitives' danger was
startlingly illustrated by their finding themselves
running straight for a kraal. Another thirty yards
and the inevitable clamour of scores of pariah
dogs would have aroused the still sleeping inhabitants.


Unfortunately her first steady pace proved to be
but a spurt on Kate's part. She felt her head
begin to swim, and her legs to give way beneath
her. She tottered rather than walked, and every
moment it seemed as if she must sink down exhausted.


Gilmore remarked these symptoms with ever-rising
apprehension. They were still in the open
plain ; the mountain lay hid in mist and the day
had broken. Discovery seemed certain. Their
only hope lay in a raw fog, which providentially
began to rise from the marshes of the Ngare na
Lala and obscured everything. Suddenly they
found themselves between two kraals, which
loomed through the surrounding greyness, portentously
near. It was useless to turn back ; their
way lay straight on, and, keeping a watchful eye
on either hand, the little party pushed right ahead.
At any moment a Masai might emerge from his
hut, and then

Kate stumbled, and, but for the supporting arms
of Gilmore and Uledi, would have fallen.

See, Bwana, see ! There is smoke," half
whispered Ferhani.

Gilmore turned his eyes towards the left-hand
kraal. Sure enough, a column of smoke curled
slowly upward and mingled with the overhanging
mist.

"The game is up," he said to himself; "we
shall be seen immediately. — Quick, some of you;
bring the hammock again ! " he added aloud, a
baffled look on his face.

Allah ! some one moves ! " gasped Kesasi, his
eyes fixed on the kraal to the right.

"Never mind me," cried Kate, letting go 's
arm ; "run, and save yourselves."

"Miss Kennedy!" exclaimed Gilmore indignantly.


"Look, Bwana, look!" eagerly interrupted
Uledi ; " we are close on the forest ; " and he pointed
to the shadowy outlines of the trees, now looming
straight in front of them at no great distance.

By Jove ! so we are ! " and, heedless of hammock
or other assistance, Gilmore caught up the
half-fainting girl in his arms. Gathering his exhausted
forces together, with a powerful effort he
ran rather than walked with her across the seventy
or eighty yards of open ground that lay between

them and safety. Every moment he expected to
hear a Masai alarm sounding in his ears ; but
happily the mist veiled them in its protecting
wreaths. A minute or two of sustained effort, and
then, panting for breath and quivering in every
limb, Gilmore reached the sheltering confines of
the wood, where he sank down exhausted, and
deposited his precious burden on the ground.

For a moment Kate did not loosen her hold.
Slowly she unclosed her eyes, and lay looking at
her preserver in speechless gratitude. Then, unable
otherwise to give expression to the feelings
with which her heart overflowed, she suddenly
drew his face down towards hers, and impulsively
kissed him.

Chapter XIII.

That kiss ! What an unspeakable thrill it sent
through Gilmore's being — new, strange, indefinable,
incomprehensible. At first, as he lay upon the
leaf-strewn ground, slowly recovering from the
effect of his extraordinary exertions, he scarcely
seemed to realize that there was anything unusual
in Kate's impulsive embrace. He was too much
overcome by exhaustion, his brain too benumbed
from the severe strain he had recently undergone,
to be capable of even the mildest wonder at any
display of feeling, however unwonted. Gradually,
however, as he became more alive to his surroundings,
a sense of the full significance of what had
happened began to steal upon him, and thrilled
him with a vague delight. He did not in the least
misunderstand the feeling which had prompted
the sudden outburst on Kate's part, nor imagine
that it arose from anything save the passionate
desire to express an emotion otherwise inexpressible

; but it seemed worth all the anxiety and
all the effort of the past two weeks to know that
there was at least one soul on earth so genuine,
so free, as to be able, in supreme moments, to rise
above the common rationalism of custom and
convention, and trust simply to the guidance of
a pure and exalted feeling. He did not think of
the dangers that might arise from general following
of such a precedent ; he only thought that
here beside him was a natural, true-souled woman,

a woman with a heart, and

Here a stolen glance at Kate revealed the fact
that, however little he (Gilmore) might be inclined
to blame or misapprehend her impulsive action,
she herself had become distressingly aware of the
possibility of his doing both. A painful flush overspread
her cheeks and mounted to her temples asher
eyes met his and were immediately averted.

The sight of Kate's embarrassment made Gil-your
begin to feel embarrassed likewise. All of
a sudden he seemed to become conscious that there
was a palpable silence, and, much as he felt the
necessity of breaking it, he could think of nothing
coherent to say. Kate's fingers toyed nervously
with the dead leaves on the ground beside her.
Gilmore sat watching them with an interest as
absorbed as if his life depended on the number
they turned over in a given time. The silence

grew more awkward every moment. Was nobody
going to speak ?

Miss Kennedy," began Gilmore at length in
desperation, commencing a sentence for the sake
of saying something, and secretly trusting to Providence
to finish it for him.

"Bwana," interrupted Uledi, opportunely, "we
must be going further up the hill. We are not yet
out of danger."

Kate looked up inquiringly.

Gilmore started. " You haven't seen any one
coming our way, have you ? " he asked.

No, Bwana ; but at any moment they may
come. They are all astir now in the kraals down
yonder ; " and Uledi indicated the direction signified
by a backward jerk of the head.

By Jove ! yes. And how the fog is lifting,
too. They could almost see us if they knew whereto
look."

Will the bibi have the hammock, Bwana ? "
asked Uledi, as he turned to rejoin the rest of the
men. " Tubu says we can use it the first part of
the way."

"Yes, certainly," began Gilmore.

No, certainly not," interrupted Kate. " I can
walk quite well now. It was the excitement as
much as anything else that made me break down
before. I'm sure I shall manage all right now the

worst is over ; " and, in illustration of her renewed
vigour, Kate clambered stiffly to her feet, and
painfully limped a few paces.

I'm afraid that won't do," began Gilmore.

"Yes, yes," insisted Kate; "do let me try to
walk. The stiffness will wear off as we go along."

"Take my arm, then," said Gilmore, yielding
reluctantly. " See," he added, as he stooped to pickup
a broken branch that was lying on the ground,
"here is something that will do for a stick; that
ought to help you a bit;" and only stopping to
draw Kate's arm within his own, Gilmore called
his little party together and prepared to ascend
the mountain.

Tubu and Ferhani went first to act as guides,
they, it will be remembered, having been before
selected to seek out a hiding-place and prepare it
for Miss Kennedy's reception. Always keeping
within the confines of the forest, they held along
the base of the mountain for a little, and then
struck a game-path leading gradually upwards and
eastwards. After a quarter of an hour's easy climbing,
the ascent suddenly became more toilsome and
difficult, and several times a halt was called to
give Kate rest and breathing space.

"What a nuisance I am!" she said, as, after
one of these stoppages, she once more set her face
determinedly upwards. " Just look at Ulu — how

VOL. II. n

she trots along. It would be almost worth while
to be a savage to possess such powers of physical
endurance."

Kate's remark was not without justice. Throughout
all the breathless haste and agitation of that
exciting night the little M-Chaga had carried herself
with unflagging energy, showing a strength of wind
and limb not surpassed even by Gilmore himself.
She alone of all the little party seemed thoroughly
to enjoy the intense excitement of the more trying
episodes ; and now that it was nearly over, and
master and men alike felt the need of rest and
refreshment, she still appeared comparatively fresh
and lively.

Much of this arose, no doubt, from the implicit
confidence she had in Gilmore's power to bring
her safely out of every danger, and from the delight
she experienced in being once more beside her
beloved master. Beloved he certainly was by her,
in her own rude way, as was proved by her after
devotion to him in an hour of direst danger, and
under circumstances when all her savage instincts
would naturally have prompted her to think only
of her own safety.

Of the complex feelings he had awakened in
Ulu's darkened heart Gilmore suspected nothing.
In considering their respective relations one to
another, he had unconsciously laid more stress on

his feeling towards her than on Ulu's towards him.
As he had so often said, he liked her as a man
may his dog, she him as a dog may his master.
Thinking only how little such a liking is to the
man, who is capable of something so much better,
he neglected to consider how much it may be to
the dog, who is not capable of anything better.
As Ulu patiently traversed the rocky pathway,
Gilmore never dreamt of all the unspoken gladness
that thrilled that "little soul" of hers in being
near him, but in her buoyant step and elated
expression saw only her natural, savage delight in
any adventure that was stirring and unusual.

Truth to tell, he was not, that morning, thinking
much of Ulu at all. More and more he became
absorbed in looking after Kate, carefully piloting
her across marshy places, picking her way for her
where the ground was rough, and showing her a
thousand other little attentions, expressive of an
altogether new and more tender interest in her
comfort and welfare.

At any other time Kate would almost have been
inclined to resent such excessive solicitude on her
behalf, her childhood's companionship with the
boy-cousin with whom she had been brought up,
and whose education she had shared, having early
inspired her with a masculine dislike of being
"mollycoddled." As it was, however, she was

too utterly exhausted to take note with what
anxiety Gilmore guarded her every step. Once
or twice she acknowledged his timely assistance by
a faint smile, or a murmured " Thank you," but
for the most part she plunged doggedly on, intent
only on the effort to keep her muscles in motion
till her destination was reached.

At length, after about an hour's toilsome climb,
Tubu and Ferhani abruptly left the narrow track,
and entered a dense thicket. The rest of the party
followed. Ten minutes' struggling through the
bush and they suddenly emerged on a little woodland
glade, which it scarcely needed Tubu's satisfied
"Here we are, Bwana," to indicate was the haven
of refuge they were bent on reaching.

A single glance sufficed to show Gilmore that, in
entrusting to Tubu and Ferhani the task of seeking
out and preparing a safe hiding-place, he had not
made a mistake. The little glade was shut in on
every side by a leafy screen of bush and creeper,
one or two groups of graceful tree-ferns, which rose
from its midst, greatly enhancing the charm of the
scene.

The surrounding thicket was dense enough and
remote enough to ensure security from discovery
by adventurous herdsmen, the only people likely to
find their way so far up the mountain. The interlacing
branches of the trees and bushes formed a

pleasant shelter from the sun and wind, and a tiny-spring,
that bubbled and sparkled temptingly in
the morning sunshine, promised constant abundance
of clear, cool water.

On the day previous to the flight, all the goods
Gilmore had brought with him from Pepo-ni had
been removed from Xdapduk, and concealed at this
secluded spot. At the same time, Tubu and
Ferhani had run up two comfortable little huts,
one for Miss Kennedy and one for Gilmore, and,
in anticipation of a speedy return, had collected a
quantity of firewood, and laid it ready for lighting.

Bestowing a look of approval on his expectant
servants, Gilniour, with Kate still clinging to his
arm, at once made his way towards the larger of
the two huts and peeped in. It was empty, except
where in one corner lay a goodly heap of dry,
fragrant grass, to Kate's weary eyes looking the
sweetest, most desirable bed in the world.

Oh, Mr. Gilmore, how good — how kind of
you ! " she exclaimed gratefully, as Gilmore bade
her enter and take possession.

"Nonsense, Miss Kennedy; it's Tubu you have
to thank, not I. There now, sit down," Gilmore
added after a pause, in which he stooped down and
vigorously shook up the grass. " Wait a moment,
though ; I must get you a rug first ; " and, leaving
Kate to wonder vaguely in what way Mr. Gilmore' s

extraordinary thoughtfulness would manifest itself
next, he disappeared through the narrow doorway
in search of the article desired.

"When he came hack, he found Kate kneeling on
the ground, slowly unlacing her hoots.

"You might have allowed me to do that for
you," he said reproachfully, as he entered and
noted the weary manner in which Kate raised herself
from her stooping posture and, by the aid of
his proffered hand, dragged herself to her feet.

Oh no, Mr. Gilmore," she said, with a listless
smile and a pathetic attempt to look lively; "you
must really allow me to do something for myself.
Oh, I am so tired," she added, as, with a sigh, she
sank down on her grassy couch ; "I can scarcely
keep my eyes open."

Then don't try to. Lie down and go to sleep
at once," said Gilmore, cheerily. " Oh no, by-the-by,
keep awake just a few minutes longer. Tubu
is making you a cup of tea."

"Oh, I couldn't take it, thank you. I only
want to sleep."

"Well, you can sleep after it comes. Meanwhile,
I'll take myself off and leave you in peace ; "
and Gilmore quitted the hut, leaving Kate to wrap
herself in her rug, and settle down snugly for the
rest she stood so much in need of.

By the time he returned with the tea, Kate was

sound asleep and breathing quietly, oblivious of all
troubles, mental and physical.

Noiselessly Gilmore turned away and betook
himself to his own hut, first bidding Ulu find a
place for herself in a corner of Kate's, and leaving
his men to dispose of themselves as best they
might under the shadow of the trees. Soon all
were enjoying the most profound slumber, and
silence reigned throughout the little glade, unbroken
save by the constant trickle of the spring,
the occasional note of a bird, or the heavy sigh of
a sleeper as he turned in his sleep.

When Kate awoke, it was late in the afternoon.
For some time she imagined herself to be still in
her hut in the Masai kraal, and lay drowsily wondering
what could be the meaning of the painful
sensation of stiffness that pervaded her limbs. At
length, she sat up and rubbed her eyes. They fell
on the rug that covered her. Was she dreaming,
or was she awake ? She had no such rug as that
in the kraal. She looked round. The hut was
much larger than that to which she had been of
late accustomed. From without came a soft
murmur of voices, conversing in the pleasant,
familiar Ki-Swahili dialect. Where was she?
What had happened ?

"Ulu, is the bibi awake yet?" called some one
in accents that seemed familiar.

It was Mr. Gilmore. Yes, of course. She remembered
everything now — the sudden firing of
guns, the blazing kraal, the panic-stricken Masai,
the rescue, the flight. In a few seconds Kate had
lived it all through again, and, shuddering, started
up to dispel the unpleasant vision.

As she cast her eyes around the hut, the first
thing they lighted on was a large calabash, standing
on the ground ready filled with water, and
beside it (luxury of luxuries !) a cake of soap.
Hastily Kate undid her dress and flung it off.
Eagerly plunging her hands into the cool, refreshing
water, she splashed it over her face and neck,
and rubbed the soap to a lather in childish delight.

Spite of its limited extent and the limited
dimensions of the basin, Kate thoroughly enjoyed
her wash, the first she had had for more than two
weeks that could truly be so called. Bather imperfectly,
as may be supposed, she dried herself
with her handkerchief, and then cast a rueful look
at her sadly crushed and soiled white dress, the
original colour of which was now scarcely distinguishable
after the smoke and dirt of the Masai
camp. With an expressive little grimace, which
plainly signified that its appearance was not at all
in keeping with her dainty ideas of personal neatness,
Kate held up the offending garment to the
light, and critically examined it.

We must have a washing this very night," she
muttered to herself, giving the dress a shake
preparatory to putting it on.

She had just thrown it over her head, when she
caught sight of something black protruding from
under her rug, which, on rising, she had thrown ina
heap to the foot of her lowly bed. On examination,
the " something " proved to be a corner of the
little canvas bag Kate had been taking with her to
Pepo-ni on the day of her capture.

Where on earth could he have got it ? " she
said to herself, rightly concluding that the bag had
been placed there by Gilmore, but for the moment
forgetting that she had ever brought it with her
from Pisgah. As she opened it and discovered
the dress and other odds and ends calculated so
materially to add to her comfort, her eyes filled
with grateful tears at this fresh proof of her preserver's
kind considerateness.

He's the best fellow in the world," she exclaimed,
as she emptied the bag of its contents.
Dodo himself couldn't have been more kind and
thoughtful."

It was only the work of a minute or two to brush
out and coil the wavy masses of her luxuriant
dark-brown hair, and don the welcome dress.
Refreshed and smiling, she issued from the hut, all
eagerness to greet Gilmore and tender him her
heartfelt thanks.

Chapter XIV.

The little camp was now alive with preparation for
the evening meal. A huge fire glowed cheerfully
in the midst of the clearing, and round it squatted
one or two of the men intent on superintending the
roasting of some birds, which Uledi had succeeded
in bringing down with his bow and arrow. Under
one of the groups of the ferns, Tubu had already
displayed his scanty stock of enamels, and a small
kettle, which was " singing " inspiringly on another
and smaller fire, reminded Kate of the tea Gilmore
had promised to send her, and, now that she was
sufficiently rested to be capable of thinking, excited
her wonder as to where the tea was to come from.

Good evening, Miss Kennedy," cried Gilmore,
who, as soon as he saw Kate, jumped up from his
seat under an mule tree, and advanced to meet
her with outstretched hand. "I hope you have
slept well ? " he added anxiously, thinking that
Kate still looked a little languid.

Kate took his proffered hand, and for a moment
held it silently in both hers.

Oh, Mr. Gilmore," she began at length, in a
voice that trembled with emotion, " I wish you
would let me thank you for all you have done forme
— for the little things, such as this " — and Kate
indicated by a downward glance the dress he had
so thoughtfully provided — " as well as "

"Oh, but I won't," interrupted Gilmore hastily,
his heart aglow with feeling, as he watched Kate's
flushing cheek and swimming eyes, and felt as if
he could willingly have sacrificed his life for this
fair flower of womanhood, who ail-unconsciously
to both had gradually taken such a strong hold
upon him, and who now, as utterly dependent on
hire, as possibly owing him her preservation from
a fate worse than death, seemed in these last few
hours to have grown inexpressibly dear to him.
"There really isn't time, I assure you," he went
on, laughing, delicately taking no notice of Kate's
too evident agitation. " We are all starving of
hunger, dinner is ready, and we only wait ' the
sunshine of your presence ' to fall to."

Kate bestowed on him a speaking glance, and
smiled a little tearful smile, as he concluded his
playful speech with a bow of mock courtesy, at the
same time offering his arm to escort her to her
seat, much as he might have done had they been

chatting together in an English drawing-room
before going downstairs to dinner.

No sooner was Kate comfortably established in
the vicinity of the enamels, with her back against
a tree, than Tubu appeared, carrying a well-filled
plate for each of the two white people.

Scarcity of dishes compels us to the splendour
of a diner a la Russe, you see," said Gilmore, as he
seated himself Turkish fashion, with his plate
before him; "and scarcity of cutlery will necessitate
my using my pocket-knife, if you don't
mind," he continued, at the same time unclasping
the article in question. "We did have two respectable
table-knives once upon a time, but one
has been lost in transitu, it seems."

Don't apologize, Mr. Gilmore," cried Kate.
The marvel to me is not to find things missing,
but to find them here. How did you contrive to
bring everything? How could you so quickly
arrange what to take and what to leave behind ? "

Oh, one soon comes to know what can be done
without and what can't, when one is accustomed
to camping out. Buffalo-hunting has been capital
practice for damsel-hunting, I find."

Kate smiled. "But the idea of your bringing
tea," she exclaimed, as Tubu at that moment
handed her a fragrant cup of her favourite
beverage. "I'm sure that's one of the things we

might have done without. Aren't you going to
have some yourself?" she asked in astonishment,
as she observed that Gilmore was contenting
himself with water from the spring.

No ; we keep our luxuries strictly for our
guests."

Oh, but I am not a guest ; I'm a fellow refugee.
You must have some."

No, thank you."

"Yes," insisted Kate.

But we can't afford it," objected Gilmore.

Yes, we can. You shall have half of mine.
There ! " and before Gilmore had time to prevent
her, Kate had emptied his cup of the water it
contained, and half filled it with tea from her own.

"Well, I yield for once," said Gilmore, as he
reluctantly took the cup Kate held towards him ;
but, remember, it is the first and last time."

We shall see," said Kate, a look of mischievous
determination playing about the corners of her
mouth. " Scott," she cried, flourishing her tin
cup as if it had been a golden goblet, and clinking
it against Gilmore's ere she raised it to her lips,
I drink to the valiant Gilmore, and a happy
issue to his gallant expedition."

"Amen," cried Gilmore, with a smile, glad to
see Kate in such good spirits, and better pleased
with this laughing tribute to his services than

with a thousand more serious protestations of
gratitude. There were depth and seriousness
enough beneath all Kate's gaiety, he knew, and
that was sufficient for him.

"What has come oyer Ulu?" queried Kate,
suddenly pausing in her dissection of the rather
tough piece of wild fowl which had fallen to her
share.

"I sent her to my hut to make herself presentable,
just before you came out. "I should fancy
she would be here immediately."

Oh, Mr. Gilmore, she has been such a comfort
to me — more than a comfort, indeed, I should say.
If it hadn't been for her I should have been
killed. It was she who told the Masai that I was
Ngai, and then showed me what to do to personate
the character. She built a hut for me, and
brought me food, and invented all sort of stories
to keep me from being constantly tormented by
my well-meaning but decidedly dirty and disagreeable
worshippers. I was so dazed and helpless at
first, I didn't seem to be able to think or do
anything for myself, and Ulu thought and did
for both of us. I don't know what I should have
done without her."

Then you like her?" asked Gilmore, his face
lighting up with pleasure at Kate's unstinted
praise of his whilom pupil.

"Like her? I love her!" cried Kate, emphatically.
"I feel as if she were my sister. Ah, here
she comes ! " she continued, suddenly interrupting
herself as Ulu at that moment appeared, looking
once more the graceful ideal of savage girlhood that
had excited Kate's admiration and astonishment,
as the child burst into Gilmore's sitting-room on
that sultry afternoon when Mr. Kennedy and his
daughter had first visited Pepo-ni.

So my little toto has got a clean dress too,"
said Kate, affectionately putting her arm round
Ulu as she came running up, and gently pulling
her down beside her. " What a washing we shall
have, to be sure ! I shall show you how to rub
the clothes as you saw them do at Pisgah. I think
the Bwana has seen me at a similar task before ; "
and Kate looked smilingly towards Gilmore, to
find that he was forgetting to go on with his
dinner, and was intently gazing at her with eyes
full of admiration. "What is it, Mr. Gilmore?
Is anything wrong ? " she asked hurriedly, misreading
the look, and casting a hasty glance over
her shoulder to discover the cause of her companion's
inexplicable preoccupation. Those recent
days of constant dread and frequent alarms had
taught Kate to seek in the faces of those around
her forewarnings of danger rather than premonitions
of love.

"Oh, nothing— nothing," murmured Gilmore,
confusedly, as he hurriedly began to ply his knife
and fork. " I was only wondering what o'clock it
is. I find my watch has stopped."

Kate looked at him in amazement, almost inclined
to infer from his embarrassed manner that he had
seen some cause of apprehension and did not wish
to alarm her by telling her of it. She made no
further remark on the subject, however, thinking
that if there really was anything to fear she would
know it soon enough.

"It is a quarter to seven," she said, looking at
her watch, and professedly accepting the explanation
Gilmore had chosen to give, though every
moment she expected to see him rise on some
pretext or other and give orders to his men to
have their guns in readiness.

When he sat still and assiduously devoted himself
to the consumption of his dinner, Kate felt
reassured, and once more turned her attention to
Ulu, whom, spite of Gilmore' s remonstrances, she
insisted on supplying with choice morsels from her
own plate, while awaiting Tubu's arrival with one
for the little maiden's self.

The meal finished, Kate settled herself comfortably
for a long talk. Naturally enough, Gilmore
was anxious to hear all she had thought, felt, and
suffered during the clays of her captivity ; but not

one word would Kate speak of herself until he had
satisfied her regarding his own doings since the
eventful day when the Masai war-cry had thrilled
the woods of Pepo-ni with horror. In particular
she insisted on a full account of all that had
befallen her father up to the time Gilmore had
parted with horn. She had already heard from
Uledi all that he could tell regarding the missionary's
condition, and on the preceding night, before they
had well left the Masai kraal, she had hurriedly
assured herself, from Gilmore 's own lips, that his
wound was not dangerous, that there could be no
doubt he would do well, and that, though of course
distracted by the thought of his daughter's capture
and its possible consequences, he had been able to
pluck up faith and courage when Gilmore had
spoken of starting in pursuit.

But now Kate must needs hear it all over again,,
down to the minutest detail of what her father had
said and how he had looked. With professional
interest she questioned Gilmore as to how he had
dressed Mr. Kennedy's wound, and what orders he
had left for his treatment, nodding approvingly every
now and then as she listened to the patient recital.

Poor papa ! " she exclaimed, when Gilmore
had finished. "He will die of anxiety before we
get back. If only we could have let him know weare
at least so far out of danger ! "

vol. n. o

"I'm afraid that is impossible," said Gilrnour,
gravely.

"Oh yes, I know." "There's nothing for it
but to wait. How long do you think we shall
have to stay here? "

Until the Masai have somewhat got over the
excitement of your flight, I suppose. I should say
not less than a fortnight, at any rate."

A fortnight ? " repeated Kate, in a distressed
tone. " Oh, Mr. Gilmore, what will poor papa
do ? Couldn't we set out soon, and travel during
the night ? "

Gilmore shook his head. " I'm afraid not.
You couldn't cross the plain in one night, and we
should certainly be discovered if we attempted it
during the day at present. Then you couldn't
stand the fatigue yet. I don't believe the men
could either, after all they have just come through,"
he added hastily and perhaps not quite truthfully,
as he noticed Kate's disappointed look. "Be sure
we shall start as soon as it is at all safe."

With this assurance Kate was obliged to be
content. There was no use rebelling against Fate,
and Fate for the present seemed to have decreed she
was not to see her father for some time to come.
Meanwhile another hour was pleasantly spent in
hearing the particulars of Gilmore's journey in
pursuit, and relating her own experiences among

the Masai. Then Kate made Gilmore show her
his little commissariat, the discovery of each new
article provided for her comfort eliciting on Kate's
part fresh exclamations of wonder and delight at
her companion's extraordinary kindness and forethought.


"Oh, Mr. Gilmore," she exclaimed warmly, when
a little later she said " Good night," " I should be
quite happy now if it weren't for the thought of
papa ! If only I could know he wasn't worrying
too much ! " and Kate sighed heavily as she
entered her hut, where Ulu lay already buried in
slumber, and where she herself, spite of the trouble
at her heart, soon likewise lay sleeping soundly.

Tired as he was, it was long ere Gilmore fell
asleep that night. His anxieties forgotten, he lay
in a vague, happy dream, his mind filled with but
one image — the image of the woman to whom he
had that day given life and liberty. Her face was
yet before his eyes, her voice yet sounded in his
ears, her touch yet lay warm upon his hand. He
thought no more of this or that word she had
spoken, this or that deed she had done. It was
herself— all she was and all she might be, whether
that were good or evil — that possessed his soul,
and filled it with a dear, dim, sweet, unreasoning
delight. Ah, Tom Gilmore, what of thy dear-bought
wit, thine old experience of woman's fickleness,

thy vows of eternal celibacy now ? Forgotten
all forgotten. My young friend Tom, it is allover
with you — you are swiftly, surely, sadly,
madly, falling head over ears in love.

Chapter XV.

A fortnight passed by with surprising swiftness.
It was wonderful how quickly time sped in that
retired little nook on the lonely mountain side;
how happily, too, spite of the ever-present problem
which Kate and Gilmore discussed with each other
every day : How were they to get away from Donyo
Erok, and reach Pepo-ni in safety ?

It must be confessed that this question pressed
much more heavily on Gilmore than on his fair
companion. Like Ulu, Late placed implicit confidence
in Gilmore's power to bring her safely
through whatever difficulties might be in store for
them. Moreover, Miss Kennedy was naturally of
a buoyant and hopeful temperament, and, though
she clearly understood the nature of the dangers
they had mostly to fear, it seemed impossible for
her to look on them as more than incidental — as
obstacles merely, which might be altogether evaded,
and at the worst could but be met and overcome.

The thought that she might never reach Pepo-ni

at all was one which Kate never allowed herself to
entertain for a moment. Her one real anxiety was
for her father. Try as she would to believe Gil-your's
comforting assurance that Mr. Kennedy
would be " all right," as was Gilmore's broad way
of putting it — that he was prepared not to expect
their return for some weeks, and, from the fact that
he heard no news of the fate of the little rescue
party would conclude that the news, if he could
hear it, was good, Kate could not rid herself of the
idea that her father's anxiety on her behalf might
seriously retard, if not altogether hinder, his recovery
from his wound. Her only consolation lay
in the hope that, as Mr. Kennedy would be sure to
keep the neighbourhood constantly on the alert for
any news of their movements, he might at last
catch some vague rumour of " the flight of Ngai,"
and would construe it as meaning that his daughter
had made her escape from the hands of the Masai,
and was at least so far safe.

Though not quite so sanguine on this point as
Kate, Gilmore took good care to keep it constantly
before her mind, firmly believing in the Shakespearean
adage of the merry heart, and bent on
keeping Kate bright and cheerful whatever evils
might betide.

Thus constantly thrown together as our two
young friends were, they came to know and understand

each other better in a few days than they
would under ordinary circumstances in as many
years. They had everything and did everything in
common, and, finding each other more and more
congenial, their mutual liking flourished and grew
apace. Happy in each other's society, time never
hung heavy on their hands, though apparently life
at the Anchorage, as Kate had christened their
secluded retreat, presented but little variety. An
extra good "bag" made by Tubu or Ferhani, the
recital of Uledi's frequent reconnoitring expeditions,
a daily climb to some coign of vantage whence the
plain beneath could be closely scanned by the aid
of a glass — these were the only excitements which
varied the monotony of the long, quiet days.

But, then, that monotony — to two people who,
like Kate and Gilmore, were not dependent on
externals for happiness, how pleasant it was !
Meals not always plentiful, but eaten with good
appetite and good temper ; long rambles together
through the depths of the forest ; long talks in the
starlight or in shady nooks under the trees when
the afternoon sun made greater exertion impossible.
Of what they talked, what pen shall describe ?
Much of their situation, no doubt, and much of
other things in no way connected with it; much
also of themselves, as youthful lovers ever will, in
their eager anxiety to make themselves understood.

Lovers ! Ah, that was just what Gilinour would
have liked to know if they dared call themselves.
It had not taken him many days to discover in
what light he had come to regard the true-souled,
warm-hearted girl beside him, whose gratitude and
confidence found mute expression in her every look
and gesture, hut whose deeper feelings towards
him he could not surmise.

Much as he would have wished to believe it,
Gilmore could not think Kate was in love. The
easy, friendly manner in which she treated him,
her perfect frankness and openness, were too unlike
the shyness and silence that mark the dawn of a
deeper passion than mere friendship. And yet
who could tell ? One word from him, the faintest
whisper of his own daily deepening love, and might
not her sisterly liking change to love likewise ?
Yes ; hut if it were not so, if Kate did not reciprocate
his affection, what then ? To speak would
only be to bring their present happy, unembarrassed
intercourse to a close. Besides, was he not in
honour bound to wait until Kate was once more
back under the guardianship of her father, lest he
should seem to take undue advantage of her grateful
feelings, and of her dependence upon him in
their then position ?

Then what if Kate already loved another ? What
of this cousin of hers, this Dodo, about whom Gil-your

intuitively felt there was some mystery which
Kate had never explained to him ? He was the
only one of all her friends about whom she never
would talk freely, the one whose name soonest of
all made her grow sad and silent, and brought to
her eyes the wistful look Gilmore had learned to
connect with her passionate attachment to her
girlhood's home, and her longing for the life of
which it had been to her the centre. In these
days of constant companionship, Gilmore had come
to know what that life had been, down to its
minutest details. He had made the acquaintance
of every one of Kate's student friends, and knew
all the little idiosyncrasies of the various members
of her uncle's household — all but those of Dodo,
about whom Kate never got farther than that they
had been "just like brother and sister." It was
very unsatisfactory, very puzzling, Gilmore felt ;
and yet what right had he to seek to know more ?
He had always been extremely reticent in speaking
to Kate of his own former life; why should he
expect her to be more communicative in regard to
hers ? Perhaps some day he would tell her all
there was to tell about himself, and how it was he
had come to be the pessimistic, dissatisfied individual
she had first known ; and then perhaps he
would learn about her the one thing he most
wanted to know, which was also apparently the

one thing about which she at present chose to be
silent. Sooner than he expected, it came about
that Gilmore did both.

Though for the most part reserving his doubts
and perplexities for the privacy of his hut, and in
Kate's society giving himself up to the immediate
pleasure of being near her, he could not always
hide his trouble and smother care in smiles.
There were times when the desire to speak to her
and tell her of his love almost overmastered him,
and he would sit speechless beside her, not daring to
open his lips lest the forbidden words should pass.

Kate was not slow to note these frequent silent
moods, and the careworn expression which accompanied
them; but she attributed them solely to
his anxiety regarding the manner of their final
deliverance, and made a point of rallying him out
of his dejection, while expressing her cheerful
confidence in his ability to effect their safe escape.

They were sitting together at breakfast one
morning. Gilmore had had a bad night ; he looked
weary and down-hearted. Kate was all sympathy
and kindness.

"Tom," she began — they had long ago dropped
the formal Miss and Mr. — "you really let things
worry you far too much. I shall think you are
sick of me, if you look so gloomy because you
don't see your way to getting rid of me at once."

Getting rid of her ! Poor fellow ! Gilinour felt
at that moment as if all he wanted to make him
happy was to know that he might keep her by him
for ever. Kate's laughing words sounded cruel.

Tom, icill you wake up ? " she went on, bending
towards him, and tugging at his sleeve with pretended
impatience, as he sat gazing at her in
silence with absent eyes. "I never saw you so
persistently dismal before. What is the matter? "

"I am growing old," answered Gilmore, with a
little, wintry smile that somehow made him look
very old indeed.

"'A subjective fact of universal experience,'
Tom ! Don't let that trouble you. Like the way
to the altar, ' It's the road we've a' tae gang.' "

Gilmore smiled again, this time a little more
cheerfully. " To-day I pass a milestone then," he
said. " It's my birthday."

Your birthday, Tom ! Why didn't you tell
me ? " cried Kate, reproachfully. " May you live
a thousand years," she went on, shaking hands
with him by way of congratulation.

I don't want to, if the next nine hundred and
seventy are to be no better than the last thirty,"
was Gilmore's gloomy reply.

Bear ! " ejaculated Kate, with a smile and a
look that made the uncomplimentary epithet seem
almost like a term of endearment. "Whatever

your grudge against the world is, forget it for
to-day. We must celebrate your birthday. To
begin, you shall have one of my sardines."

No, I shan't," asserted Gilmore, decidedly.

Yes, you shall — you must," said Kate, with
equal decision. " Just this once," she continued
in a more coaxing tone; "this is a special day,
you know."

"You are always discovering 'special' days,"
grumbled Gilmore. " This is the third this week.
To-morrow you will want me to have something
else, because it's Friday, and not Thursday, and is
therefore a ' special ' day."

Kate laughed. " No ; my generosity comes to
an end now — like the sardines ; " and, with an air
of profound satisfaction, Kate fished the last
succulent teleostean from its bath of oil, and laid it
on Gilmore's plate.

She had always considered it a grievance that
Gilmore would not share with her the luxuries he
had been at the trouble of bringing from Pepo-ni,
and she hailed with delight each visible decrease
of the little store, as approximating the time when
she must be permitted to rough it with the rest.
Gilmore, on the other hand, viewed the daily
diminution of his supplies with ever-rising apprehension,
which on this occasion served materially
he alone knew how materially — to lessen his

enjoyment of the delicacy Kate, in her ardent
desire to fete him, had so wilfully insisted on his
accepting.

Loving her as he did, and anxious as he was to
save her from hardship, Gilmore could not share
Kate's cheerful indifference in looking forward to
the near possibility of discomfort and privation.
On this morning in particular he seemed unable to
enter into Kate's good spirits, her lively sallies
only serving to deepen the downcast mood in which
he had awakened. As the meal proceeded, he grew
more and more laconic in his replies, and finally
relapsed into absolute silence. For a time Kate left
him to his own thoughts, and sat quietly beside
him, watching his troubled face with anxious eyes.

Still nursing that grudge, Tom," she said at
length, purposely ignoring nearer sources of possible
disquietude, and looking up into his face with
a sympathetic smile. " Won't you tell me what it
is ? Perhaps it wouldn't look so grievous then."

Gilmore started. For a moment he did not
understand to what Kate alluded. He had not
been thinking of himself, but of her and of all that
lay between him and the time when he had made
up his mind he might venture to speak freely of
his feelings towards her. Then he recollected.

Tell you my grudge against society, you mean.
I haven't got any— not now, at least."

No ? Tell me what it was, then."

That would be a long story, I'm afraid. I
should have to go over my whole life."

"Well, why not? Time is no object with us
here ; " and Kate settled herself comfortably in her
favourite attitude for listening.

Why not, indeed? thought Gilmore, as he sat
for a moment with earnest eyes fixed on Kate's
expectant face. There was nothing in the record
that he need be ashamed of, except, indeed, his too
hasty flight to Kilimanjaro, and of that Kate
already knew, and liked him notwithstanding.
She might like him even better perhaps if she
knew of what terrible disappointment that flight
had been the outcome, and how his early environment
had fostered the feelings which caused him
to take his disappointment more bitterly to heart
than would most men who knew the world as he
knew it.

All his life Tom Gilmore had been a dreamer
and an enthusiast. Born in a peaceful valley
among the southland Scottish hills, his boyhood
had been spent among conditions tending most
effectually to foster his naturally poetic and
romantic bent.

The scene with which the uncomprehending eyes
of his childhood had gradually become familiar
was one of unequalled loveliness. Probably

throughout the length and breadth of Britain there
is no other spot so perfect in itself, so complete in
every natural charm, as that broad, lowland valley,
which Gilmore now described with a graphic
minuteness which spoke eloquently of his love for
its every well-known detail.

Far surpassed in any one feature by a score of
places, in its varied assemblage of pleasing characteristics,
the scenery of Carbonate stands alone.
Stretching away from the little village in their
midst, the fertile fields spread their rich mosaic of
gold and green around cosy farmhouses breathing
of peace and plenty. There the broad home-park,
with its stately array of oak and beech and broad-leaved
chestnut, gives added dignity to lordly
mansions, stern with the pride of high degree.
Beyond, the well-clad ridges lose themselves in
purple heath or desolate moorland, or rise into
swelling hills, over whose towering shoulders the
fleecy clouds linger in loving dalliance, to cast a
mantle of magic shadow athwart their hoary sides.
Below, in broken reaches, gleams the river, loitering
seawards between wooded banks or smiling cornfields.
Its tributary streams, in haste to join it,
rush headlong over riven rock, and linn, making
glad music in many a dim retreat, the sacred
haunt of poetry and love.

Every glen, almost every field, has its story of

the romantic, half-forgotten past. Yonder is the
still faintly traceable camp of the Pict ; further off
rises his grass-grown burial-mound. Many a hilltop
tells where Woman legions halted; the road
which they traversed still shows green against the
darkness of its heath-clad slopes. In such a linn,
the inhabitants love to tell you, the Covenanter
sought refuge from "bloody persecutors;" on
such a bleak ridge was he shot dead. Here a
monument by the wayside tells where a martyr
fell; there a simple tablet marks his grave in
some nettle-grown kirkland. Many an ivied ruin,
stronghold of the warrior lords and chartered
robbers of ruder days, speaks eloquently its own
dread tale of cruel encounter, stern resistance,
siege, surrender, and death.

What more could Nature afford or history supply
to fire the fancy and rouse the romantic instincts
of a lad naturally prone to poetic imaginings ?
Eagerly Gilmore drank in every tale of knightly
chivalry in love and war, every legend that
appealed to the imagination by its terror or its
pathos, supplying the gaps in the record by much
erratic reading of poetry and prose, better fitted
for the education of a Don Quixote than for the
training of the more practical knight of the nineteenth
century.

As the years passed by, however, he began to

think less and less of the romantic aspect of his
surroundings, and more and more of the wonderful
lesson they had to teach of Nature and Nature's
ways of working. In his attempts to decipher the
rock-told story, he was led into every secluded
corner of the valley, every wild nook of the hills
and moorlands. Nature became his religion. In a
sense, he was a Pantheist, worshipping everything,
from the storms to the sun and the hidden soul
which unites them.

Happiest when alone, he would climb to some
distant height, to revel in the glorious freedom of
the fresh mountain air, or gaze in ecstasy on all
the varied loveliness of the valley at his feet. Or
he would spend the long, slow hours of summer
noon lying among the heather, his senses lulled to
dreaminess by the far-off bleat of sheep, the whirr
of grouse, the mournful call of the curlew, as they
blended harmoniously with the restful sound of unseen
burn, or the distant sough of brawling torrent.

What longings and aspirations filled his soul the
while ! Vague and crude enough, no doubt ; but
all upward, all towards the light. His heart was
all in the future, all in the coming battle of life,
all in the strife against falsehood and wrong doing,
and on the side of truth and right.

Such friends as he had were no less imaginative,
no less enthusiastic than himself. He was one of

VOL. II. p

a little coterie of boys, no two of them with the
same ambition in life perhaps, but all with the
same ideals, the same aspirations. Vowing eternal
brotherhood, each in due time set out to pursue
the course he had marked out for himself, Gilmore
at length betaking himself to the university, in
pursuit of the scientific studies to which he was
devoted. In the midst of the city's thronging
thousands he was even more alone than among his
native hills. Reserved and happy in his own
thoughts, he did not court society, and, as he
made no special claim to distinction, society did not
court him. One or two of his former schoolfellows
still kept up the old, familiar intercourse, but new
friendships he neither made nor desired.

At the end of four years, Gilmore, his university
career completed, returned to his father's house
the same dreamy enthusiast he had quitted it, his
idealism intensified, his faith in man unshaken,
his theories of life as loftily impracticable as they
well could be.

The time had now come, however, when he must
do, not dream. Important business, undertaken on
behalf of his father, called him to the East. His
lot was cast in an out-of-the-way part of China,
where he had but little society. Such as he did
have consisted chiefly of men of the world, worshippers
of money and of pleasure mostly, with

none of his own high-flown notions regarding right
and wrong, virtue and vice, good and evil. As far
as he could, he held himself aloof, choosing to
regard his ill-assorted, but unavoidable, companions
as exceptions to the usual rule of human conduct
(which, indeed, to some extent they were), rather
than lower by a hair's breadth his own exaggerated
idea of what he conceived that rule to be.

After two years, Gilmore revisited England.
During his absence he had had but little communication
with his friends; but he thought of
them daily, and continually looked forward to the
pleasure of meeting them again. The meeting
came, and with it the first real chill in his life.
The greeting of former companions lacked its expected
cordiality. Gilmore seemed to have become
indifferent or but as other people to those who had
been wont to receive him with more than brotherly
warmth. Many of them, too, seemed to have fallen
away from the high ideals they had formerly held
in common, and, almost without exception, in
making their first great step in life, they had
altered the standpoint from which they viewed
men and the world.

It was a bitter disappointment. Gilmore was
unconscious that he, too, had altered and ripened,
and he made no allowance for the fact that, while
he had practically lived in isolation, and thus had

perhaps exaggerated the value of the former bonds,
his friends had continued amongst congenial
society, and formed new friendships to atone for
the interruption of the old.

Chilled and saddened, Gilmore hailed with relief
the time when he must once more go abroad.
Fortune now led him more into the highways of
life. In the rough push and jostle of the crowded
thoroughfare there was no more time for dreaming.
Gradually it dawned upon him that the real world
was not the world he had imagined, nor men the
high-souled, high-principled beings he had fondly
believed. Everywhere there seemed to be a compromise
between justice and truth, and what were
called the necessities of business, politics, and
society. Everywhere the tendency seemed to be to
sacrifice duty to self-interest, what was right to
what would " pay " financially or socially. Disinterestedness
was a motive unknown to all, incredible
by any. Money, position, and pleasure were
the goals of universal ambition and universal effort.

Before the enormity of the evil with which he
everywhere found himself confronted, Gilmore at
first stood stupefied. He felt helpless, and his
helplessness made him apathetic. At times he
feebly struggled, but, overwhelmed by the character
of his awakening, he could throw no enthusiasm
into his resistance. A dreadful feeling came over

him that he, too, would in time succumb to the
influence of his surroundings, and sink to their
low beastly level, till he could contemplate sin
with an easy smile or an indifferent shrug of the
shoulders, and devote himself heart and soul to the
world's hideous fetish, " Getting on."

Inevitably, like so many others, he would have
done so, had it not been for one dream he still
cherished, one influence which still held sway over
him, and, more than any other, served to hold
together the remnant of his faith in human nature.

That influence was one Gilmore could not well
trust himself to speak of even now — even to the
woman through whom, unconsciously, faith and
hope had once more been revived within him, spite
of the final dissipation of his last illusion. The
memory of that bitter disappointment still had
power to agitate him. He hesitated and paused
in his hitherto fluent recital, to which his companion
had listened almost in silence, content to
show her sympathy and interest by look rather
than word. Half guessing what was coming, for
some moments Kate still sat silent ; then, with
eyes full of mingled pity and tenderness, she leant
forward, and gently laid her hand on Gilmore' s.

"Never mind now, Tom," she said softly. "I
think I can understand. You will tell me the rest
some other day."

CHAPTER XVI.

Kate's kindly words and gesture touched Gilmore
deeply. For a moment he forgot himself, his past,
his resolution to be silent — everything but his love
for Kate and his longing to tell her of it. But the
power of speech seemed to have forsaken him.
He seized the hand she had laid on his and
fervently kissed it. Kate drew back in alarm,
too much astonished even to feel indignant.

Mr. Gilmore — Tom ! What is it ? " she began.

Her altered tone recalled Gilmore to his senses.
"Forgive me, Kate," he stammered; "I am not
myself this morning. Come," he continued more
calmly, as he pulled himself together with a determined
effort, conscious of Kate's wondering eyes
still fixed on him inquiringly, "let me tell you the
rest of my story ; " and, leaving Kate no time for
further conjecture, Gilmore plunged hastily into
the history of his ill-starred first love.

On the eve of his departure for the East the first

time, Gilinour bad one evening been casually
introduced at the bouse of a friend to a Miss Nina
Lindsay, the daughter of an Edinburgh advocate.
Tbe lady was young, scarcely seventeen, and gave
promise of being very beautiful. Gilmore conversed
with her a good deal, and felt greatly taken
by her simple, ingenuous manner and sprightly
talk. Going abroad, however, almost immediately,
he had no opportunity of seeing her again, and
had indeed almost forgotten her, when, on his
return to Scotland, they again met, this time at a
dance, where Nina was the observed of all observers.
She had grown very lovely — perfect almost in form
and feature, it seemed to Gilmore, who was not
long in reminding her of their former slight
acquaintance. She looked pleased to see him
again, and danced with him several times that
evening, to the undisguised chagrin of other
would-be partners, who considered their claim to
favour superior to that of the stalwart, sun-browned
traveller.

After that Gilmore and Miss Lindsay saw a
great deal of each other. He paid her marked
and devoted attentions, and she, on her part,
seemed nothing loth to receive them. Still, he
said nothing to her of love, fearing the results of a
premature declaration, and conscious that, even
supposing she loved him in return, it would yet in

all probability be some years before he could offer
her a home such as he conceived would be becoming
this bright, beautiful, dainty creature. When he
returned to the East, it was with a new object in
life. It was not for himself, not for his father
even, that he worked, but for Nina — Nina, who
was good as she was fair, noble and high-souled
as she was vivacious and fascinating ; Nina, his
love, whom one day he hoped to make his wife.

Suddenly his father died, and, sooner than he
expected, Gilmore found himself master of a considerable
fortune. He returned to Scotland and
hastened to Edinburgh. Nina was married — had
been married a year — married, too, to some
bantling millionaire whom she made no pretence
of loving, and who openly boasted that he had
bought her for the diamonds with which he strewed
her wedding-gown.

I could have forgiven her," Gilmore went on
bitterly to Kate, " if she had not seemed happy in
her degradation. It was that which made me
mad, and shattered the last fragment of my faith
in human nature."

Kate looked intensely sympathetic. "You saw
her again, then ? " she asked gently.

"Yes, once, at a ball. She looked perfectly
radiant. ' Glad to see you back again, Mr. Gilmore,'
she said lightly, as she passed me by, hanging on

her husband's arm. ' Come and see us soon. My
day is Wednesday.' After that I don't know what
would have happened. I should have gone headlong
to perdition, I suppose, had it not been for a
lucky chance. One day I was idly turning over
the leaves of a recent work on exploration in
Central Africa, when the idea to go there suddenly
flashed across my mind. The life seemed to
promise excitement, perhaps forgetfulness. I made
the necessary preparations and went. I came to
Kilimanjaro and settled down there. The rest you
know."

Yes, Kate knew. Already Gilmore had told her
how, in the loneliness of Pepo-ni, his soul had
craved for some one to care for, and how he had
hoped to find in Ulu some satisfaction for that
craving. How his failure had anew aroused the
desire for fellowship with his kind, and how that
desire had been stimulated by his meeting with
herself. How he had finally resolved to return to
Europe, and had but awaited her visit to Pepo-ni
to apprise her of his intention, when the fulfilment
of it had to be postponed on account of her capture
by the Masai. Kate knew it all, but at that
moment she did not care to recall it. Her mind
was busy over Gilmore's love trouble, the narration
of which had revived the memory of her own ; for
Kate, Beatrice-like as her attitude towards men

had ever been, and little as she had thought of
love and marriage, was too winning and winsome
not to have had many admirers — lovers even, chief
among whom had been her cousin Dodo. Upon
Dodo, who had been the constant companion of
her childhood and girlhood, Kate had ever looked
as on a brother. But to him Kate was more than
sister, and it was partly the discovery of this that
caused her to consent with unexpected readiness
to her father's request that she should quit Europe
and postpone the completion of her medical studies
till some future time.

It was strange, Kate thought, how love should
have brought both Gilmore and herself to Kilimanjaro
— he because he could not get, she because she
could not give, the satisfaction love desired. More
keenly than ever before she seemed to realize how
much her refusal must have meant to Dodo — how
terrible might have been its results !

"It was different with him, though," she said,
unconsciously thinking aloud. " At least, he
cannot have been disappointed in me. I have done
nothing unworthy of myself. Ah, Tom," she went
on sadly, becoming suddenly aware of Gilmore' s
inquiring look, " I have had love troubles too. It
was Dodo," she continued hesitatingly, her eyes
averted, her colour rising, as if she doubted her
right to reveal Dodo's secret. " He loved me — he

wanted roe to be his wife ; but I couldn't, you
know — I couldn't ; " and in her agitation a tear
trickled slowly down Kate's cheek and fell on
Gilmore's hand.

Gilmore started as if it had burned him.
Kate, Kate," he burst out passionately, " I too

love you — I too " Then he stopped, struck

dumb by the frightened expression in Kate's telltale
eyes.

Hush, Tom, hush ! don't say it," she gasped,
clasping her hands in an agony of entreaty.

"Oh, Kate, tell me "

"No, no, no! Don't ask me. I can't — I can't.
Oh, Tom ! " Kate broke off suddenly, and, burying
her face in her hands, she burst into a wild fit of
sobbing, all the more painful that she tried hard to
suppress it.

Before this vehement outbreak Gilmore sat helpless,
with drawn lips and cheeks white from the
effort to command himself. He tried to speak ;
but before he could say a word to comfort her,
Kate darted to her feet, and sought refuge in her
hut.

With a despairing groan, Gilmore turned over
on the ground, and hid his face in his arms. It
was out, then — the secret which had been trembling
on his lips for a week and more was out, spite of
his determination that Kate should not know it

until relieved of what she might consider the
indebtedness of her present position. It was out,
and with its revelation his hope had vanished, his
doubts had come to an end. As yet the agony of
disappointment seemed dull and dead ; the termination
to his uncertainty was almost a relief.
She does not love me ; she does not love me,"
he repeated to himself again and again, as if by
constant iteration his brain must at last realize
the full import of the words, and awake to the
anguish of their meaning. But no ; he could only
lie there on the grass, stunned and stupefied, a
strange, aching numbness at his heart, as if it
were wrung well-nigh to breaking.

By-and-by he roused himself. What was Kate
doing ? Crying her heart out for grief at the pain
she had caused him ? He must go to her, and try
to soothe and comfort her ; bid her forget what he
had said, and sue for the right to continue as her
brother, since he might be nothing more. He rose
and walked slowly towards the hut. As he approached,
he heard a low sound of weeping, and
caught a glimpse of Kate, seated in a corner, with
Ulu on the ground beside her.

"Bibi, speak to me," said the little girl, pulling
at Miss Kennedy's gown. " Was the Bwana
angry with you? "

The only answer was a stifled sob.

1 will go to the Bwana and tell him you are
sorry," said Ulu again, half rising and looking
wistfully at Kate, at a loss how to construe her
violent emotion. " He will not be angry anymore."


No, no, toto. He is not angry. Don't go
away ; you must stay beside me ; " and Kate threw
her arms around her humble consoler, and clung
to her, crying more quietly, as if she derived some
hidden comfort from the human contact.

Gilmore did not stay to see more. They seemed
to understand each other, the two women, great as
was the gulf which separated them, and he felt as
if it were better to leave them to themselves.
Hastily turning away, he plunged into the wood.
For long he wandered on and on, sometimes
sauntering along in gloomy dejection, sometimes
crashing wildly through crackling bush and breaking
branch, seeking an outlet for the stormy unrest
of his soul in fierce physical exertion. He did not
return to camp until late in the afternoon. As he
drew near, he could see Kate sitting with Lu
under the tree-ferns.

Kate's face wore a quiet, subdued look ; her eyes
bore evident traces of recent tears. She had fought
a hard battle with herself that day. In the shock
of Gilmore' s sudden and unlooked-for confession,
it had not at first occurred to her to think how

much or how little he was to her. He was a friend
merely, whom as a friend she dearly loved, and it
grieved her beyond measure to know him grieved.
There must be something fatal about her, she said
to herself. This was the second time now that
she had had to inflict a cruel wound on one who
had been to her as more than brother. " More
than brother ! " Kate started at the thought.
Yes, she did like Gilmore more than a brother,
more than Dodo even, than whom she had believed
she could never hold any one dearer on earth.
Was it because she owed him her liberty, perhaps
her life ? Was it because he was her protector,
her only companion ? No ; she felt sure it was
none of these. She liked him for himself, without
why or wherefore. But, then, that liking — it was
not love. Ah no ; for love ended in marriage, and
Kate did not want to marry. She felt quite, quite
sure of that. The very idea of it was distasteful to
her. Give up her freedom, her dreams of an
independent future, her schemes for wide, active
work in the world, and cramp herself to the narrow
sphere of a household and the dismal routine of
domestic duties ? No, no, no ; Kate certainly was
not in love. She could not make so great a
sacrifice, even for Tom Gilmore. And yet how
much he had done for her; how much he had
risked ; how good, how kind he had been ; and she

how very, very ungrateful she must seem to
him. Well, she could not marry him out of gratitude
; it would be unjust to Tom, as well as to
herself. Besides, it was not gratitude Tom wanted,
but love, and love she did not, could not, so long
as love implied marriage with all its fearful possibilities.
" I only wish I could fall in love," she had
sobbed out; "perhaps marriage wouldn't seem
such a horrible bugbear then."

Of course it wouldn't, little woman ; and by the
time you are a little older, perhaps you will discover
that independence does not necessarily imply
living alone in the world, and that our efforts to do
good are not rendered less effectual by the fact
that we share them with another. Love binds our
hands ; but it binds them not to fetter, but to stay.

As yet Kate did not know that, however, and in
her little hut on Donyo Erok there was no one to
comfort her with the words of wisdom and experience
; so she must needs sit sad and tearful
through the long hours of that summer afternoon,
inwardly sentencing herself and her lover to many
days of needless misery, all because she could not
read her woman's heart aright, through the mist
of warped ideas and grievous misconceptions that
filled her foolish little head.

As Gilmore approached the place where she sat,
Kate felt the tears start to her eyes again ; but she

resolutely choked them back, and managed to speak
to him, if not without a mental quiver, at least
with outward calm. Her voice was just a little
tremulous at first, perhaps. She seemed shy and
embarrassed all the evening, and for the first time
since they had come to know each other both
Gilmore and she had little to say. They neither of
them made the slightest reference to the events of
the morning — not until they were about to separate
for the night, and then Kate said, as she stood at
the doorway of her hut, holding Gilmore's hand in
hers —

We shall be brother and sister always, Tom —
always — shan't we ? "

And Gilmore bowed his head, and silently
accepted his fate.

Chapter XVII.

As yet Gilmore was still unable to see his way to
continue the flight across the Njiri plain back to
Kilimanjaro, although every day it became increasingly
evident that something must be done,
and that speedily.

The Masai herdsmen, forced by the failure of the
grass crops on the plains, were daily encroaching
more and more on the mountain pasturage, rendering
the position of the little party of fugitives
proportionately insecure. Food, too, was becoming
more scarce. The little stock of provisions so
thoughtfully brought from Pepo-ni was fast running
low, and the proximity of the Masai restricted all
trapping or shooting operations to an extremely
narrow area.

And now, to further enhance the uneasiness of
the situation, Gilmore's too hasty avowal had
raised a feeling of embarrassment between himself
and Kate, which they could neither of them over-vol.

II. Q

come. Try as they would to meet each other on
the old frank footing, there was always in their
minds the uneasy sense of a topic on which between
them there must be silence.

Kate, in particular, with her frequent doubts as
to what her feelings towards Gilmore really were,
or rather her inability to read those feelings aright,
felt shy and awkward. Her usual sprightliness of
manner disappeared, though, for Gilmore' s sake,
she endeavoured in his presence to assume a
cheerfulness she did not feel.

Gilmore was not to be deceived. He saw too
well that Kate was restless and unhappy. Frequently
her face showed traces of secret tears, and
sometimes when they were sitting together talking
her eyes would suddenly fill, and in the middle of
a sentence, perhaps, she would break off and relapse
into pensive silence. Then, with aching heart,
Gilmore would sit and watch her, his love the
deeper that it dared not express itself. A thousand
times he cursed himself for having raised this
tangible, though unacknowledged, barrier between
them, and ardently he longed for the hour when
the continuance of their flight would give them
both, in renewed exertion, a respite from their
mutual trouble.

The climax came at last. Uledi had been out
hunting all morning, and had returned emptyhanded.

The men looked sullen and dissatisfied,
and Gilmore began to fear they might be mutinous.
He called them together and held a shauri (palaver)
on the situation. While discussing whether it
would not be better to risk all and make the
attempt to reach Kilimanjaro at once, Resasi, the
sentinel for the day, suddenly appeared.

Habari gan ? " (What kind of news) queried
Gilmore, sharply.

They are good," was Resasi's somewhat deliberate
reply.

Allah be praised ! " piously exclaimed the
Zanzibar ; "Out with them, then," their more
practical and impatient master.

A caravan has arrived going homewards."

Allah ! " "By Jove ! " were the characteristic
exclamations of the various members of Resasi's
audience, each for the moment seeing a speedy
end to all their hardships and dangers.

Uledi alone remained silent and moody. Gil-your
noted his headman's attitude with a sudden
chill of apprehension.

11 Well, Uledi, what are your words ? " he asked,
still trying to look hopeful.

Bwana, I think Resasi speaks like a fool," was
the emphatic and gloomy response.

"Why? Don't you think it would be safe to
join the caravan?"

"No. The Masai will come to trade with the
caravan. They will demand the bibi back, and
you with her. The traders will not dare resist.
The bibi will be no longer sacred to them. She
will be treated with dishonour, and you will be
killed."

Uledi's logic was unanswerable. The men's faces
fell; Gilmore, too, looked downcast.

I suppose we must just wait on, then," he said
dejectedly.

No, that is the worst of it ; we cannot wait on.
The el-morus will tell the Wa-Swahili the manner
of Ngai's flight. The traders will laugh at them,
and explain how it was done. Then they will vow
vengeance. They will hunt us down, and "

"And?"

We shall all be killed."

This was a terrible damper to the men's newly
raised hopes. Not one of them had a sanguine
word to say in reply. Gilniour simply accepted
the situation.

"We must go at once, then," he said.

Not before the moon rises in the early morning,
Bwana," said Uledi. " It will be time enough
then."

All right. Get everything in order now ; " and
Gilmore turned away to apprise Kate of the fresh
complication, and bid her prepare for flight.

When he returned to his men, he found them
making their preparations in a dejected, half-hearted
way, which filled him with a vague fear
that they might be meditating desertion to the
caravan. It was some consolation, however, to
see Eesasi, usually the most cowardly and lazy,
now all energy and action. He seemed to laugh
at the coming dangers, and at his companions for
appearing to dread them.

What orders he had to give, Gilmore spoke in a
kindly, cheerful tone that had the effect of arousing
his men somewhat from their apathy. By-and-by
they set to work with a will, and by sunset Gilmore
had the satisfaction of seeing all his arrangements
completed, the greatly diminished loads tied and
laid ready for lifting, and every one apparently
disposed to face their difficulties with a stout heart.

As usual, Ulu seemed quite elated by the present
little extra excitement, and the prospect of more ;
while Kate, now that the moment of departure had
all but come, did not know whether to be glad or
sorry. But for the trouble of these last few days
she and Gilmore had been very happy together ;
and now that they were about definitely to begin
their homeward journey, for the first time the
possibility of their future separation began to dawn
upon her. She had become so accustomed to his
companionship, so used to rely on him for everything,

that she could scarcely imagine what her
life had ever been or would ever be without him.
She would be glad to be home again, glad to see
her father ; but, then, to have to say good-bye to
Tom — ah, how was she going to bring herself to
face that ?

Some such thought it was which brought the
tears to her eyes as she bade Gilmore good-night,
and kept her awake long after all the others had
gone to rest. Gilmore, too, was wakeful ; he, too,
was wondering what life would be like without the
girl who had grown so dear to him. More immediate,
however, was the thought of securing her
safety, and how it was to be accomplished. It
seemed to Gilmore that he had scarcely fallen
asleep when he was aroused by the voice of Uledi.

"Bwana, Bwana," whispered the headman,
hurriedly.

Yes. What is it ? Is it time to go ? " asked
Gilmore, wide awake in an instant.

"Yes. Be quick. Eesasi has run away."

Run away ! " repeated Gilmore, in a horrified
tone, as he started to his feet. " And the others ? "

"We are here, Bwana," cried the men, replying
for themselves from the door of the hut.

Gilmore uttered an exclamation of relief. " Is
everything ready ? "

"Yes."

Then up with your bundles. I shall go and
wake the bibi. By-the-by, don't tell her about
Eesasi; it would only frighten her."

Too late, Tom. The bibi knows already," said
that young lady herself, smiling a little as she
joined the group, and gently laid her hand on
Gilmore's shoulder.

In the dim light of the dying camp-fire, Kate
could see that Gilmore looked slightly taken aback.
He had not noticed her emerge from her hut, and
thought that she would be still asleep.

Now, don't look alarmed," Kate went on ; "I
am not a bit frightened. Is it time to go ? "

Gilmore looked at her. At that moment Kate
seemed more calm and collected than any of them.

"Yes," he said, "if you are ready."

Quite ready."

Come along, then."

In deep darkness they began groping their way
down the precipitous face of the mountain. Without
other accident than an occasional slip, or the
alarm caused by the noise of the stones their steps
sometimes sent rolling down the steep slope, they
reached the bottom. Assisted by the night fires of
the traders' camp, they were able to judge of their
exact position, and steer clear of the Masai kraals,
so that soon they were outside the circle of immediate
danger.

It being altogether impossible to attempt the
direct passage of the Njiri desert, there was nothing
for it but to take a long, circuitous route by the
Lingerinning Hills, "which, besides being out of the
usual road of caravans or Masai raiders, had
the further advantage of lying largely through
stunted forest.

The progress of the little party was necessarily
slow, and subject to the usual African night
alarms; but the darkness passed without any
disagreeable incident of a serious nature.

At daybreak the fugitives remarked with satisfaction
that they were already at a considerable
distance from Donyo Erok. With rising hopes of
passing unmolested, they found the country utterly
parched, and showing no evidence of having been
recently occupied by the Masai. Nor were their
hopes belied, for during all that day the only signs
of inhabitants they met with were deserted kraals
and disused cattle-tracks. So great was their
feeling of security that, during the heat of the day,
a halt was made in order to allow Kate to recover
somewhat after her fatiguing march. At the same
time, Uledi was fortunate enough to bring down
a fine gazelle with his bow and arrow, a most
welcome acquisition to them in their half starved
condition. What they did not use at once was
cut into strips, and partly smoked and dried over

the fire, to be carried with them for a future
occasion.

Returning their tramp in the afternoon, they
reached the Lingerinning Hills at sunset, to find
them, to their intense satisfaction, likewise deserted.
Next day the Njiri desert must be crossed, and
here came the most trying part of their journey.
It would be little short of a miracle if they could
traverse that wide, sandy plain unseen. Their
chief hope lay in reaching a small rocky hill which
rose midway in the flat expanse of shining sand.
If they could but manage that, they would be
comparatively safe. Everything depended on that
if, however.

The first part of the day's march lay through
open bushman, and was safely and easily accomplished,
the midday heat being again avoided by a
three hours' halt under a group of shady bushes.
Early in the afternoon our travellers reached the
edge of the sheltering strip of covered land, and
before them stretched the dreary waste, from which
the air rose as from heated metal. So flat and
even was the sandy surface, so utterly devoid of
rock or tree, that every square yard could be seen
as clearly as along the glassy surface of a lake.

Long and anxiously did Gilmore and his handful
of men scan the monotonous landscape. Not a
human being was to be descried, not a living

creature even, save one or two antelopes and
zebras moving leisurely about, or pausing to crop
the scanty herbage. The little party breathed
more freely, and regarded each other with
brightened faces as they hopefully resumed their
march. Silently they tramped along in single file,
the crunching of the sand under their feet alone
breaking the stillness. Ever as they went their
eyes sharply swept the horizon ; but no cause of
alarm was to be discovered, no enemy appeared.

The sun began to sink in the western sky,
surrounded by its halo of evening glory. The
sweltering heat and dazzling glare gradually abated.
A cool breeze swept gently over the land, and
fanned the dusty, travel-stained faces of the fugitives.
Another hour would bring them to the hill,
and next day they would be out of Masai-land.

The excitement grew less intense. Already
Gilmore felt as if they were safe, and began to
talk lightly and cheerfully with Kate, complimenting
her on her walking powers. Suddenly Uledi
stopped short.

Hullo ! What's up ? " queried Gilmore, stopping
likewise, and interrupting himself in the
middle of a sentence.

For a moment Uledi made no reply, but stood
as if deaf, a look of inquietude on his face, his eyes
riveted on some distant object. Every one halted,

alarmed by these signs of doubt. The eagle eye
of Uledi was known to be rarely at fault.

Bwana," he said at last, extending his muscular
arm towards the north-west, "do you see nothing
there?"

Gilmore strained his eyes in the direction indicated,
but could at first see nothing.

"Yes," he said at length, after a further anxious
scrutiny; "I do see something — some dust, I
think, raised by the wind."

"Look again, Bwana. See, something moves."

By Jove, yes ! There are zebras galloping

away as if frightened. What can have Good

God ! there are spears ! The Masai are after us."

Dumb with horror, Gilmore looked mechanically
at Kate, and from Kate to the still distant hill.
How was she to reach it before the Masai were
upon them ?

"Look, Bwana, you can see them plainly now,"
cried Uledi. "There are at least twenty. They
see us, for they run."

"We must run too, then," cried Gilmore.
Quick, Kate ! give me your hand. Uledi, you
take the other. Now, then, all of you— to the hill
as fast as you can."

The pursued had three miles to cover, the
pursuers six ; but on the one side was a half-exhausted,
delicately nurtured girl, on the other

brawny savages, inured to exertion and physical
endurance. Quickly the distance between the two
parties was lessened ; slowly — oh, so slowly — that
between the fugitives and the hill.

Dragged along by Gilmore and Uledi, Kate had
covered two miles, the warriors four and a half.
There was only half a mile between them now,
and steadily — not running their best — the Masai
were lessening the interval. Another few minutes
of desperate effort on Kate's part, and still half a
mile lay between her and safety ; only a quarter
between her and those gleaming spears. She
seemed ready to drop. Time must be gained
somehow, or all would be lost.

Ferhani, take the bibi's arm," cried Gilmore.

Tom, what is it ? What are you going to do ? "
gasped Kate, nervously, retaining her grasp of
Gilmore's hand, as she divined he was about to
attempt something dangerous.

Gilmore returned no answer. "Pom on," he
said ; " it's all right. Ferhani, why do you stand ? "
he shouted savagely to the negro, who stood gazing
at him stupidly, half paralyzed with fear.

Kate was too much exhausted to resist. Blindly
she allowed herself to be hurried along by Tubu
and Ferhani, her heart filled with a sickening dread
for Gilmore that deprived her of all other consciousness.


Gilmore, meanwhile, made good his opportunity.
"Now, Uledi," he said, "we must try to stop
them."

In a twinkling his rifle was at his shoulder.
Loud and clear the crack rang over the silent
desert, and down sank a warrior dead or dying.
For a moment the Masai stopped, amazed at the
result of a shot at what seemed to them such an
impossible distance. As they gathered round the
fallen man and discovered the wound, they raised
an excited cry of wonder, which speedily changed
into a shout of vengeance.

Gilmore and Uledi stood motionless. Their
object was to gain time, not to slaughter human
beings. Besting their guns on the ground, they
stood at ease to recover nerve and breath. Once
or twice they turned their heads to mark the progress
of the three fugitives.

On came the el-moran once more. With savage
whoop and brandished spear, they bore down on
their expected victims. Five hundred yards — four
hundred — three hundred, were quickly passed.
Once more it was time for Gilmore to act.

"Now, Uledi," he cried; and at the signal up
went both their rifles.

Even as the hammers fell, there was a cry from
the lytunu. The warriors sank flat on the ground,
and both bullets went ricochetting harmlessly over

the plain. Characteristic exclamations burst from
master and man, as, with a shout of triumph, the
Masai immediately sprang to their feet. But the
exultant savages had reckoned without their host.
They had yet to learn the value of a double-barrelled,
breech-loading rifle. Scarcely had they
regained their footing on the slippery sand, when
bang ! bang ! " went the rifles again, and two more
warriors rolled over. On came the rest, secure
that now their opponents were at their mercy.

In a twinkling the rifles were reloaded, and again
raised deliberately to the shoulder. As before, the
Masai threw themselves on the ground.

But Gilmore and Uledi were not to be caught
twice, and they lowered their weapons without
firing. Surprised at the silence, the el-moran lay
for a moment awaiting the expected discharge.
None came, and, ordered by their leader, up they
sprang. Immediately the watchful pair took aim,
and one more warrior remained behind. The rest
halted in dismay, with manifest inclination to
retire. Still it seemed disgraceful that they, Masai
el-moran, should be held at bay by two men, whoever
they might be, Stung by the thought, the
lytunu rushed madly forward, and, encouraging
each other with ferocious cries, the rest followed.

Again the same tricks were tried on both sides,
always to the advantage of the defenders. The

warriors, however, were now perilously near ;
another rush, and it would be a hand-to-hand
encounter. Gilniour glanced hastily round. To
his delight, he saw that Kate had all but gained the
hill.

"Run, Uledi," he cried, as once more the disappointed
savages started up in pursuit. " Don't
fire ; save your ammunition."

A yell of delight broke from their pursuers as
the two turned and fled. In the loose sand Gil-your
found himself heavily handicapped with his
big European boots; but he had plenty of "go"
and determination in him, and he kept on bravely.
Slowly and surely, however, the Masai began to
gain ground. Uledi could easily have kept ahead,
but, with rare devotion, he ran side by side with
his master. Matters began to look serious. Evidently
before Gilmore could reach the hill the
Masai would be upon him.

Leave me, Uledi," he gasped, fully alive to his
peril. " You must look after the bibi."

But Uledi apparently was deaf. What was the
bibi to him ? He only knew his master.

Go on, Uledi, go on," Gilmore urged again.

But still Uledi paid no heed, and kept his even
pace.

At that moment Kate reached the hill, and disappeared
among its rocks and bushes. Gilmore

had still a hundred yards to run; twenty only
separated him from his pursuers. Every nerve
and muscle was strained to the utmost ; still the
Masai gained. The respective distances became
forty and ten. Gilmore felt himself giving way.
He looked round, stumbled, and nearly fell. A
yell of triumph burst from the advancing savages.
With uplifted spear the leader rushed forward.
Uledi stopped and fired. The Masai fell, shot
through the heart. Steadying himself on his
knees, Gilmore also fired, and, cut short the race
of the second man. Wild with rage, the others
came on in full cry.

The rifles of Gilmore and Uledi were now empty.
They threw them aside, and drew their revolvers,
resolved to die like men. Another moment, and
the unequal contest would have commenced ; but
just as Gilmore fired his revolver, its feeble report
was drowned in a rifle discharge from the bushes.
This was more than the Masai had bargained for.
Panic-stricken, they turned, and took refuge behind
a neighbouring rock, leaving Gilmore and Uledi topick
up their rifles and stagger forward to the
temporary safety of the hill, as the sun sank below
the horizon.

Chapter XVIII.

The position of Gilmore and his little party was
now desperate. As they gathered together in a
little hollow among the rocks, their eyes looked
the question they none of them dared utter. What
was to become of them now ? There was a dead
silence.

Gilmore was the first to speak. " Ferhani," he
said, "you keep a look-out. The Masai may
surprise us."

"Eh wallah, Bwana ! " and Ferhani took up his
position on an outstanding rock.

Again there was silence. Once more it was
broken by Gilmore.

Well, what's to be done now ? " he asked.

No one spoke.

"Will they attack us again to-night?" Gilmore
went on, turning towards Uledi.

No, Bwana ; I think not. They have had too
sharp a lesson."

VOL. II. r

There was a general sigh of relief ; it was a
comfort to know they were to have some respite,
however brief.

"What do you think they'll do, then?" was
Gilmore's next question.

Wait for help probably. Already the firing
may have been heard by distant Masai, or they
may have sent for reinforcements. In the morning
we may have to face a hundred instead of fourteen."

"But why wait till morning?" interposed Kate,
energetically. " Can't we fly during the night ? "

Gilmore shook his head. " The moment the
Masai saw we were gone, they would be after us,
and in the darkness we should have a very poor
chance. Besides, how could you walk any further
to-night ? "

Oh, I think I could manage if "

"Bwana," interrupted Uledi, "do you know
that we have very little ammunition ? "

Gilmore started. "Very little ammunition!
How much ? " he asked sharply.

Immediately the pouches were overhauled. To
every one's dismay, they were found to contain not
more than six rounds each, with about double that
number for the revolvers. This was the worst
discovery yet made, and the fugitives sat gazing at
such other in silent consternation.

There's nothing for it but to risk a night

flight' said Kate at last. " We could hold our
own against fourteen ; hut if there are fifty in the
morning, we should have no chance'

Still there was silence. With their wider experience
of the difficulty of fighting under such
circumstances, and their more accurate knowledge
of the dangers of savage warfare, the men could
not so readily snatch at the grain of hope held out
to them in Kate's suggestion.

Don't you think so, Tom ? " she asked, after a
pause.

"Yes, it's our only hope — a very poor one,
too," said Gilmore, despairingly. "We can't all
go, though"' he added slowly, apparently talking
to himself.

Can't all go ? " repeated Kate. il What do you
mean ? ' '

"I mean that one of us must stay all night on
that rock in sight of the Masai. As long as they
see some one there, they will think they have us
all safe under their eye, and will make up their
minds to let us alone till morning."

And what will become of the man who stays ? '*
asked Kate, in blank bewilderment. " Why, Tom,"
she gasped, slowly beginning to grasp the full
meaning of the proposal when Gilmore made no
reply, " he will — he will be killed ! "

"Oh no," said Gilmore, speaking with affected

cheerfulness; "lie can run for his life in the
morning."

But Kate was not to be so put off. " Oh, Tom,
you know very well he wouldn't have the smallest
chance," she said reproachfully. "You couldn't
leave any of your men in such a horrible position."

No, I couldn't do that," was the decided answer,
spoken in a low tone of stern determination.

I knew it," exclaimed Kate, greatly relieved.
Then, we shall all go together, shan't we? "

Gilmore looked very grave. " No, Kate ; it is
impossible," he said.

"Then, what do you mean? What are we todo
?" cried Kate, in renewed alarm.

"I shall remain myself."

"Tom!" Words cannot describe the accent of
horrified amazement with which Kate gasped out
that one brief monosyllable, nor the wild pang of
agonized terror that shot through her heart as the
fearful meaning of Gilmore's words flashed itself
into her brain. For the second time in her life,
she seemed about to faint. Her head swam ; a
strange mist gathered before her eyes. She swayed,
and would have fallen but for Gilmore's supporting
arm.

Kate, there is nothing else for it," Gilmore
went on tremulously, deeply affected by her
agitation.

Kate drew herself together, and opened her eyes
with a little shiver. " Hush, Tom, hush ! " she
entreated, clasping her hands to stay their nervous
trembling.

But Gilmore paid no heed to the whispered
remonstrance. " You must go and lie down now,"
he went on with greater firmness. " You will
need all your strength for the journey you have
before you. Before midnight you must leave herewith
Ulu and the men."

Again Kate shivered, but otherwise she made
no sign of having heard. Gilmore gently laid his
hand upon hers ; it was cold as ice. For a moment
he bent over her with pitying eyes, his heart burning
with the desire to clasp her in his arms. It
was hard — oh, so hard ! — to see the loved one
suffering thus, and yet not dare to offer what of
solace love could give. Ah, if she had only loved
him in return, how much easier in one way it
would have been for both ! and yet, in another,
how much harder ! — harder to say good-bye, harder
to part, harder — ah, so very much harder ! — to have
to relinquish each other for ever.

For ever ? Yes, it would be for ever. Gilmore
had no hope of seeing Kate again, once they had
said good-bye to each other now. Still, he remembered
through all the agony of that thought, that
to let Kate know the truth would only be to seal

the fate of both of their. Her generous nature
would never deliberately accept the sacrifice of his
life for hers, he knew ; never agree to any proposal
that did not seem to leave him some loophole of
escape. Accordingly, when he resumed, it was ina
voice that showed no trace of the feelings which
agitated him.

"You should reach the other side of the plain
by daylight; and once at the mountain, you are
practically safe. Don't trouble yourself too much
about me. At daybreak I shall slip away and
make a run for it, and I'll back myself to run
against any Masai among them. Besides, I have
this to stop them, if they give chase; " and Gilmore
significantly tapped the handle of his revolver.

Kate let him go on to the end in silence. When
he had finished, she confronted him calmly fora
moment, her cheeks pale, her lips closely compressed.


Tom, I will not go," she said, in a low clear
tone of firm resolution. "I cannot allow you to
throw away your life for me. If you stay, I stay.
We must take our chance together."

Gilmore could make no reply. For the time he
was astounded, overwhelmed, at the calm decision
of Kate's voice and bearing. If she had wept, or
protested, or in any other way displayed the
slightest sign of feminine weakness, he would have

known how to comfort and persuade. But this
unfaltering aspect completely baffled him, and
rendered him speechless. Yet never had Gilmore
admired Kate more than in that moment when she
seemed to set him at defiance ; never so keenly felt
his love as now, when for the first time he clearly
realized of what noble stuff the woman he loved
was made.

"What arrangements will you make for passing
the night here ? " Kate continued, after a pause.

The matter-of-fact question recalled Gilmore to
himself, and to a sense of the necessity he and
Kate lay under of coming to an immediate understanding.


Kate, it is impossible. You cannot stay here''
he cried emphatically.

Kate's only answer was to look at him with a
further tightening of the lips.

"You must go to-night," Gilmore went on excitedly.
" I tell you there is a chance — a chance
for a man, but not for a woman."

I can use a revolver."

Yes, yes — I know that ; but you cannot run as
I can. Don't you see that, if I had you to look
after, you would only hamper me ? "

In the strength of her determination, Kate had
forgotten her woman's weakness. She showed
signs of wavering.

Kate, for my sake — as a favour to me," Gil-your
urged eagerly — " oh, Kate, you ivill go,
won't you ? "

For a moment Kate looked at him — looked him
full in the face, and read the pleading in his
earnest eyes. "Yes, Tom," she began, in a voice

that struggled to be calm, " I will do anything "

and then her lip quivered and her eyes fell, and she
turned quickly away to hide the tears which choked
and blinded her.

Before Gilmore could speak again, Uledi stepped
forward.

"Bwana," he said, "you cannot stay alone. I
shall stay with you."

You, Uledi ! " cried Gilmore, deeply touched
by the faithful fellow's devotion.

It is God's will," returned Uledi. " Allah has
fixed the day of our birth and of our death," he
argued, like the pious Mussulman he was.

"But I want you to look after the bibi."

"Ferhani and Tubu will be sufficient."

"You know the risk."

"We cannot flee from our fate," was Uledi's
resigned reply.

"It might be for the best," mused Gilmore.
Certainly it would double my chance of escape.
Do you hear what Uledi says, Kate ? " he asked
aloud. "He is going to stay with me. You need
have no fear for me now."

Kate looked up gratefully through her tears,
then seized Uledi's hand, and shook it warmly.
In her gratitude she could have thrown her arms
about the man's neck and kissed his black, ugly
face. But she restrained herself. As it was,
Uledi looked sufficiently embarrassed. Then Kate
remembered that this was only a single gleam of
light in a whole world of darkness, and her tears
flowed anew.

Gilmore looked at her with deep concern.
Kate," he said, laying a kindly hand on her
shoulder, " Kate, do try to compose yourself.
Remember, you have still a great deal to go
through. Come, lie down now and rest a little ; "
and, without waiting for a reply, Gilmore, as well
as he could, set about arranging a place for her
among the stones.

Half stupefied with grief, Kate allowed herself to
be led to it, and unresisting lay down as Gilmore
bade her. With a final injunction that she should
try to go to sleep, Gilmore left her and set about
making the last arrangements for the coming flight.
He tried hard to get Uledi to accompany Kate,
and leave Ferhani with him ; but the man turned
a deaf ear to all his persuasions, and reluctantly
Gilmore had to yield. He was just about to give
his directions to Ferhani when Ulu timidly approached.


11 May I stay too, Bwana ? " she asked.

"Good gracious, no!" was Gilmore's rather
sharp reply. " You would only be in the way, you
know," he added more gently. " Besides, the bibi
will want you."

"I do not know the bibi," urged Ulu; "you are
my master."

But I don't want my little toto to be killed.
You must go with the others."

Ulu did not argue or remonstrate further. She
had not become sufficiently like the wives of the
white men for that; but in her own mind she
made her own resolves. Without another word
she withdrew, leaving Gilmore overwhelmed by
this fresh proof of the girl's affection for him.

Other and less pleasant subjects demanded his
attention, however, and Gilmore turned to Tubu
and Ferhani to give such orders as occurred to
him for Kate's safe conduct across the desert, and
back through Chaga to the mission station. In a
jerky fashion he continued his conversation with
the men as long as he could, talking in a low,
subdued voice, so as, if possible, not to disturb
Kate. He had need of some distraction to stave
off the gloomy thoughts which threatened to master
and unman him. Time after time he enjoined
Tubu and Ferhani to guard the bibi like an angel
of Allah, and as they hoped for a place in paradise ;

and it afforded him a certain satisfaction to hear
them swear by the beard of Mohammed that, please
God, she should be safely handed over to the
salaam, her father.

As Kate lay on the hard ground close by, she
heard frequent snatches of the conversation. Every
earnest word of deep solicitude thrilled her with a
new pang. Worn and weary as she was, she could
not sleep. The memory of all Gilmore had done
for her, the thought of all he was about to do,
tortured and maddened her. How brave, how
good, how generous he was ! and— how he loved
her ! Why could she not love him in return ?
Did she not love him in return ? This anguish of
heart at the thought of parting, this feeling that to
stay with him and die would be easier than to
leave him and live — surely it was the outcome of
something deeper than gratitude and mere sisterly
liking ? Yes, she was sure of it ; she had made a
mistake ; she would go to him and tell him so, and
claim love's right to live or die with him.

But why should she be tortured with such
doubts ? All the people she had ever heard or
read of seemed to be able to distinguish quite
clearly between love and friendship, and she — she
could not, even now. Was it that her friendship
was stronger or her love weaker than the friendship
and love of others, or was she even justified

in calling by the name of love this feeling which in
her seemed but friendship intensified? Surely
there must be about love some visible mark that
from its birth would stamp it with a peculiar
sanctity? And yet, for her part, Kate could distinguish
none. Best be silent, therefore, lest she
should be deceiving herself, lest the desire to repay
one debt should engender another too great for her
to meet.

Again and again Kate was driven from one conclusion
to the other, until, at length, she could do
battle with her doubts no longer — there seemed to
be no solution of them. She must think of something
else, speak to some one to keep her from
thinking.

' Oh, the little more, and how much it is,

And the little less, and what worlds away ! ' "

she sighed, as she wearily sat up, and scrambled
painfully to her feet. At the sound of her footsteps
approaching the place where he sat, Gilmore turned
quickly round.

"Now, Kate, this is too bad," he began reproachfully.


Oh, Tom, don't ! I couldn't bear it any longer.
It's no good trying to go to sleep — I can't. Do let
me sit beside you and talk to you."

It did not need Kate's tone of urgent entreaty to
make Gilmore yield to her desire. He was only

too glad in this last hour together to have her as
near horn as possible. Silently he made a place
for her by his side, and hand-in-hand they sat in
the starlight, not talking much, but seemingly
understanding each other better than ever before.
Gradually a subdued feeling of pleasure and contentment
stole over both, and they sank into
silence. Kate closed her eyes and leaned her head
against Gilmore's arm. She seemed to be asleep.

But the moment of parting had come. Half an
hour more, and the moon would be up ; the fugitives
must be some distance from the hill ere its
betraying light flooded the surrounding plain.
Fortunately the night had become somewhat cloudy,
and earnestly Gilniour hoped that the cloudiness
would continue. Tenderly he bent over Kate, unwilling
to disturb her. It was so hard to have
to wake her, so hard to tell her she must go. He
took one long, silent, lingering look.

Kate," he whispered softly at last, almost
hoping that the sound of his voice would not reach
her ears.

Kate opened her eyes. " Yes, Tom," she said.

The moon will soon be up. It is time to go."

Kate shivered and closed her eyes again. For
some moments she lay quite still.

Come, Kate," urged Gilniour again; " there is
no time to lose."

Kate looked up at him mutely, incomprehensible.
Then she seemed to remember, and
staggered blindly to her feet. Gilmore gave her
his hand. She clung to it wildly with both hers.

"Oh, Tom, I cannot, cannot bear to leave you,"
she cried, in a broken voice.

Gilmore dared not trust himself to speak ; his
emotion choked and blinded him. Silently he
returned Kate's passionate hand clasp.

Good-bye, Kate," he stammered at length ;
good-bye."

Kate only tightened her grasp ; she could not
utter a word. A wild impulse seized her to throw
her arms about Gilmore' s neck and tell him that
she loved him with her whole heart and soul ; but
some hidden motive held her back.

Good-bye, Kate," Gilmore again murmured
brokenly, making as if he would lead her away.

Kate held him fast. " Oh, Tom ! dear Tom ! '*
she managed to say amid her choking sobs, and,
stooping down, she carried his hand to her lips
and covered it with passionate kisses. Suddenly
she let go her hold, and, not daring to look up,
she turned swiftly away and set her face towards
the dreary wilderness of Njiri.

"Ferhani, look after the bibi," were the last
tremulous words Kate heard, as she staggered
blindly forward into the starlit darkness.

With a warm pressure of the hand and a low
u kwaheri," Gilrnour took leave of Um and Tubu ;
then he sat down on a rock, and through the tears
which would not be restrained he sorrowfully
watched Kate descending the hill. On reaching
the entrance of a dry nullah she turned and looked
up towards him. Gilrnour detected a waving
handkerchief. He waved his own in return, and
then — then the darkness closed over her, and Kate
was lost to his sight for ever.

A few minutes later, the moon rose from behind
the Kyubu Mountains, and shed its mystic light
over the dreary landscape. The desolate watcher
strained his eyes, if possible to catch another
glimpse of the dear one. In vain. Kate was seen
no more. " God protect and support her," washer
lover's silent prayer.

In the midst of Gilmore's grief Uledi came to
him. With all the eloquence at his command the
man urged his master to take a little rest in preparation
for the trials of the morrow. At first
Gilrnour would not listen, but as he became more
calm he recognized the justice of what Uledi said,
and yielded at length to his servant's urgent
solicitations. Stretching himself out, Gilrnour,
more fortunate than Kate, soon fell into a peaceful
sleep, utterly worn out by the mental and physical
strain of the last twelve hours.

And statuesque Uledi sat upon a rock, guarding
the white man's slumber, while below lay the
wakeful Masai, keeping eager watch lest their prey
should escape them.

CHAPTER XIX.

Men situated like Gilmore sleep but lightly. About
two in the morning, aroused by some slight sound,
he suddenly awoke. Uledi was still on the watch,
but not alone. Gilmore rubbed his eyes, unable
to credit the evidence of his senses. There sat
Ulu, keeping Uledi company ! He started up in
alarm. Could some accident have befallen Kate ?

Ulu ! " he cried, after a moment's pause,
where is the bibi ? "

Ulu jumped to her feet with a guilty start, conscious
of having disobeyed her master, afraid of
the consequences, yet glorying in what she had
done.

The bibi is safe, Bwana," she stammered.

Then why have you left her ? " Gilmore asked,
his fear turned to intense astonishment.

Because I belong to you. I shall help you to
fight the Masai."

Gilmore was silent. Much as he regretted her

VOL. II. s

return, he could not help being touched by the
girl's devoted attachment. For a moment the
thought crossed his mind, " What shall I do with
her, if ever I get out of this confounded trap ? "
But the question was one which it was yet premature
to discuss, and he dismissed it with an
expressive shrug of the shoulders.

Then Ulu told how she had managed to runaway.
She had only accompanied Kate as far as
the end of the nullah, then, seizing her opportunity,
had slipped away. After remaining in
hiding for an hour, she retraced her steps, and
narrowly escaped being shot by Uledi for a Masai,
as she approached the rock on which he kept
guard.

With some difficulty, Gilmore now succeeded in
persuading Uledi to allow him to take his place,
and bade the man lie down for an hour or two's
well-earned rest.

The scene which lay outspread before him as he
sat upon the rock, Ulu lying at his feet like a
faithful clog, was one which accorded well with
Gilmore's present state of gloomy foreboding.
Beyond and below him stretched the flat, unbroken
expanse of Njiri, with here and there a bank of
fog hanging over it, shining weird and ghost-like
under the fitful rays of the moon. The air resounded
with the melancholy cry of night-jars and

owls, the strange whistle of zebras, the moan of
buffaloes, and the distant roar of lions. To the
south rose grim and dark the sombre majesty of
Kilimanjaro ; overhead glittered its snowy crown,
projected against the starlit sky like a bright
cloud of exceeding whiteness. To the east, the
mountains of Kyubu were faintly outlined through
the silvery haze. The atmosphere seemed heavy
with the presentiment of impending evil.

But Gilmore thought little of it. With eyes
riveted on the Masai spear-heads glittering in the
moonlight, he sat pensive and motionless, while
unnoted the twinkling stars silently moved westward,
their course telling of the passing night.

The thoughts which occupied Gilmore's mind
were melancholy enough in all conscience. As he
sat with elbow resting on knee, and hand supporting
head, it was in the full knowledge that he had
to prepare for death. Often and often he had told
himself before, and now sadly told himself again,
that if, indeed, he had to die, he would only be
leaving a world he was not in harmony with — a
world that to him had been one great disappointment.
What had he to look forward to but disappointment
greater still ? With Kate life might
have been different. With her to help him he
might yet have been able to find some meaning
in the tangled maze, some happiness, some satisfaction

in the world. As it was, to die for her was
better than to live without her.

And yet — it was hard to die. Face to face with
death men gain a clearer insight into the value of
life, and even in that moment of despairing acquiescence
in his impending fate, Gilmore, in the
pride of his strength and manhood, felt that life
was very, very dear. Something seemed to whisper
to him, too, that Kate had teen mistaken — that
love already lurked within her heart, though by
her as yet an unacknowledged presence. "What
a prospect of bliss that thought opened up to him
what anguish that it should meet him at the
side of a yawning grave.

At times Gilmore's fancy wandered to Kate herself,
one by one recalling her well-loved features,
or following her in her weary tramp over the desert.
It was a relief to think of her progress towards life
and liberty, a comfort to know that though there
might be no one else in the world to cherish his
memory, to her, at least, it would be ever sacred.

Meanwhile the night wore on. The moon had
long since crossed the zenith ; the air grew sharper
and more cold. Slowly the fog-banks spread
across the plain, creeping mysteriously towards the
hill, and threatening to enfold it in their damp
embrace. Everything betokened the approach of

With a start Gilrnour roused himself from his
gloomy reverie. He glanced quickly at the sky ;
then his eye noted the approaching fog-banks, and
across his mind flashed the thought that these
misty wreaths would give the enemy a terrible
advantage, by acting as a screen to hide their
movements.

Uledi ! Uledi ! " he cried. In an instant the
Zanzibarii was at his side. " Look."

Allah ! " Uledi took in the situation at a
glance. There was nothing more said. Both
understood the fearful significance of the approaching
fog-banks ; both foresaw that the coming
combat would be short and sharp, and a hundred
times more dangerous than even their worst fears
had anticipated.

Uledi," said Gilrnour, breaking the silence,
we will show them how we can fight and how we
can die."

Yes, by Allah ! and that we will not die alone."

Then, instinctively, the two men looked at their
rifles and ammunition, and saw that their revolvers
were ready for action. Another horrible interval
of waiting and inaction followed. Silent the
watchers sat, their rifles lying across their knees,
eye and ear on the alert for the first sign of movement
on the part of the enemy. Slowly, almost
imperceptibly, the mist came creeping on and

around them— the cold, grey mist, that for aught
they knew might be their shroud ; nearer and ever
nearer, till at last the hill looked like a rocky
island lapped around by silvery waters. Helpless,
despairing, like shipwrecked mariners, Gilmore
and Uledi sat watching the ever-rising tide, with
no means of escape before them — no distant sail on
the horizon — only the one dread certainty of slowly
approaching doom.

Smaller and smaller grew the hill ; nearer and
nearer drew the bank of fog, in whose fleecy folds
lurked bloody, violent death. It reached the place
where lay the Masai, but before it had altogether
enveloped them the warriors had grasped their
shields and plucked their spears from the ground.
Gilmore and Uledi looked at each other significantly.
Neither spoke, but with clenched teeth
and nervous hands they sat fingering their weapons,
ready for instant action. At any moment now the
Masai war-cry might sound in their ears, and the
hidden enemy be upon them. It behoved them to
make their final dispositions.

"You, Ulu, lie behind that rock and watch
towards the south ; you, Uledi, keep a look-out to
the east and north. I'll look after the rest."

Gilmore's whispered orders were at once obeyed,
and silently each took the post assigned.

Again there was a pause. The hearts of the

watchers beat audibly. The suspense was enough
to age a man ten years in as many minutes.
Gradually the pale moonlight faded before the
breaking day, a faint flicker of hope springing up
with the approach of morning.

At length, vaguely outlined in the mist, appeared
the figure of a warrior, creeping, cat-like, from
rock to rock. Immediately Gilmore fired, and
amid the multitudinous echoes which followed, he
heard an exclamation and a cry of pain. A dozen
Masai rushed forward. To their surprise and
dismay they found themselves out of the sheltering
mist. Bang, bang ! went the rifles of Gilmore and
Uledi. Unprepared for such a reception, the
warriors faltered a moment, then rushed backward
into the mist again.

With nervous haste the rifles were reloaded ; the
next attack would be more fierce and deadly. Foot
by foot the upper portion of the hill became
enshrouded; the clear area grew smaller and
smaller. At length the little trio were completely
enveloped — the cold, damp fog was all around
and above them. At ten yards' distance objects
were only vaguely discernible, and eyes were
despairingly strained in the direction of the looked-for
advance, expectant each moment of cold blue
steel and ferocious faces.

The end came at last. Suddenly, from behind

looming bush and rock, the bloodthirsty savages
leaped into view, looking through the haze more
like demons than men. Blood-curdling shouts
filled the air, now gleaming with the wicked glitter
of uplifted spears.

With a wild war-whoop Uledi sprang to his feet.
Simultaneously he and Gilmore discharged the
four barrels of their rifles with deadly effect.
Groans and cries of pain mingled horribly with
the clash of spears and shouts of battle.

There was no time to reload. Casting their
rifles aside, the attacked drew their revolvers.
Crack, crack, crack ! they went in rapid succession.
At every shot a warrior fell dead or dying. All
the foremost of the band were already down.
Those in the rear wavered, uncertain whether to
advance or retire. Gilmore took advantage of
their hesitation to rush forward and seize the
shield of one of their fallen comrades. The action
roused their wrath, and inspired them with fresh
courage. Once more they darted forward, shouting
their incentive cries. There must be no more
w T wavering. Victory or death was the alternative in
each man's thoughts.

Holding the captured shield in his left hand,
Gilmore again fired his revolver, and two more
warriors dropped out of the fray. Next moment
the rest were close upon him. A third time he

touched the trigger. There was no report. With
frantic energy he pulled and pulled. In vain — the
revolver was empty ! With a fierce exclamation,
he dashed the useless weapon to the ground.
There was a sudden onrush of Masai. Something
from behind struck Gilmore in the thigh. He was
aware of a sharp, stinging pain. A horrible
sickness seized him ; his head swam ; spears
glittered murderously before his eyes. Then all
was oblivion, as he sank unconscious to the
ground, his body half covered by the shield he still
firmly grasped.

Meanwhile, a smaller number had set upon
Uledi, only to meet a yet more deadly reception.
Every man fell dead or wounded before his rapid
and unerring aim. "With a wild caper, and a
whoop of savage triumph, the M-Swahili turned
to help his master. He was just in time to see
three warriors rushing upon Gilmore full tilt, while
a fourth poised his spear to deal a deadly blow
from behind. Ere the stroke descended, there was
a puff of smoke from the rock behind which lay
Ulu. The warrior staggered forward, and the
spear, intended for Gilmore's heart, glanced harmlessly
off a projecting rock which he struck ashe
fell. Simultaneously Uledi fired; and now
there remained only two Masai to deal with. Well
might Uledi, as they turned upon him, call aloud

to Allah and Mohammed ! When he pulled the
trigger, his revolver, like Gilmore's, was silent !
Promptly he drew back his hand, and, with a fierce
imprecation, dashed the weapon in the face of his
advancing foe. The Masai fell brained. With the
agility of a cat, Uledi dodged the spear of the deadman's
companion. Then, like a savage gladiator,
he bided his time. Again his assailant made a
desperate attempt to stab him,, and again Uledi
dodged. Then, quick as lightning, he sprang at
the warrior's throat. Unhappily, he miscalculated
a spear-thrust met him half-way. So great was
the impetus of his spring that the weapon went
clean through his body, bringing the warrior within
his desperate grasp. Thus horribly united, the
two rolled over in one last fearful death-grapple,
Uledi's fingers almost meeting through his opponent's
throat. In that moment of fiercest passion
and agony Ulu suddenly emerged from her hiding-place.
Without the slightest hesitation, she rushed
towards the struggling combatants, and, waiting
her opportunity, promptly blew out the brains of
the Masai, transfixing in death his distorted face,
protruding tongue, and bursting eyeballs. Even as
she fired, Uledi's convulsive grip relaxed, and with
a horrible laugh of fiendish triumph, which ended
in his death-rattle, the faithful Zanzibarii fell
backwards, dead.

CHAPTEK XX.

There was silence. Her revolver in her hand, Lu
stood alone in the midst of that scene of dreadful
carnage, proud in the consciousness of victory.

Only stopping to assure herself that there were
none among the wounded Masai whom she need
fear, the girl hastened to where Gilmore lay buried
beneath. one of the warriors shot by Uledi. With
difficulty she succeeded in dragging the yet warm
corpse from off her master's body. Anxiously she
examined his prostrate form, fearful of discovering
some fatal wound. To her relief, she found nothing-worse
than a spear sticking through his thigh. Her
first impulse was to withdraw it, but on second
thoughts she decided to leave the weapon where it
was. Picking up Gilmore's felt hat, and using it ashe
himself had done under somewhat similar circumstances,
she ran off to a spring at the bottom
of the hill. Returning with a supply of water, she
dashed some of it on his face, and soon had the

satisfaction of seeing her restorative efforts successful.


For some time after regaining consciousness,
Gilmore was too dazed to understand the situation.
Gradually the recollection of past events returned
to him. Looking up with a start, he tried to rise,
only to sink back moaning with pain. The memory
of the recent battle flashed across his mind.

"Where is Uledi? " he inquired anxiously.

A-mi-kufa ! " (dead) was the laconic response.

Again Gilmore tried to rise, and again he sank
back helpless, a groan of grief escaping him as he
thought of his faithful servant's heroic devotion.

"Where are the Masai?" he next asked, remembering
his own desperate situation.

Dead too. They are all food for the hyaenas."

Had corroboration been wanting, all around lay
ghastly enough evidence of the truth of Lu's
statement.

"Bwana," the girl went on, "shall I pull out
the spear? "

Slowly and painfully Gilmore raised himself on
his elbow. " Stop a moment," he said ; " we must
see what we are about first. There ! Take that
handkerchief and tie it above the spear-head. Now
put that stick in beneath and twist away as hard
as you can. That'll do. Now, out with it ! " and
Gilmore with difficulty repressed a cry of pain as

the huge weapon was promptly withdrawn. " Give
the stick another twist," he cried faintly ; and for
some moments he lay still again, trying to recover
himself. In a short time the bleeding ceased, and,
after swallowing a little water, he was able to have
the wound bandaged up as well as circumstances
would permit.

The sun had now risen, and under its influence
the mist was rapidly disappearing, revealing the
scene of the battle in all its horrible details.

'where was Uledi killed?" asked Gilmore,
sitting up.

Ulu pointed to where the man's dead body lay,
half across one of the Masai he had slain.

After a last sorrowful look, Gilmore bade Lu
cover Uledi with branches, and put the largest
stones she could move on the top.

"We must not leave him to the hyaenas and
vultures," he said.

This farewell tribute of respect paid to his dead
servant and friend, it behoved Gilmore at once to
commence the journey across the desert, though,
wounded as he was, there seemed but small hope
of his ever reaching Chaga. Partly supported by
Ulu, and partly by a stick, he contrived to struggle
down to the spring. There he drank long and
deeply, not only to assuage his burning thirst, but
also in preparation for the journey before him, he

having no water-bottle. The desperate tramp for
dear life was then begun.

But Gilmore no longer moved forward with the
light, springy step of his former vigorous manhood.
Slowly and painfully he hobbled along, reduced to
dependence on his little negro companion, who for
her part stepped out proudly and happily, carrying
the gun Gilmore could no longer carry for himself.
Ulu's heart beat high as she reflected that not only
had she — a mere girl — saved the Bwana's life, but
that she had also, with her own hand, killed two
Masai el-moran. That, indeed, was a feat which
would reflect on her, undying lustre.

As Gilmore trudged on, his wound became less
painful, his lameness less pronounced. He began
to step out more vigorously. Proportionately, his
first feeling of despondency disappeared. Hope
of life once more reasserted itself — hope of happiness
and love. There was Kate at his journey's
end — Kate, who had called him "Dear Tom!"
Might he not win her yet ? There was inspiration
in the very thought. He had something to live
for, and he would live.

Thus wilfully blinding himself to his desperate
situation, Gilmore held bravely on, with growing
determination. By this time the sun was well up,
and its fierce rays shot through the air with ever-increasing
brilliancy and power. From the white,

burning sands, the light was reflected in a blinding
glare.

Under the combined influence of the heat, the
exertion, and the pain of his wound, Gilmore's thirst
rapidly returned, and in that God-forgotten expanse
of desert there was no place to allay it. His recent
confident spirit began to give way. Only by sheer
force of will did he keep struggling onward.

And yet the worst had not come. Higher and
ever higher rose the blazing sun ; more and more
pitilessly it beat down upon the weary, wounded,
well-nigh exhausted traveller. The air rose in
furnace-like blasts around him. His parched
tongue clove to the roof of his mouth ; the momentary
relief afforded by sucking a bullet proved
useless. His pace began to slacken; he leaned
more heavily on Ulu ; now and then he had to stop
altogether, in order to recover himself.

Gradually hope faded within him ; he would
never see.Kate again. There was nothing for it but
to die — to drag out a slow, horrible, ghastly death
of thirst and weakness in the midst of that dreadful
desert. Better — better, a thousand times, to have
met fate swiftly, at the point of the Masai spears !

And yet — would death be slow ? Before the last
panting breath had left his tortured body, would
not the hyaenas be at his throat, the vultures at his
eyes ?

The thought was maddening, and, with fitful,
feverish energy, Gilmore pushed ahead, vainly
seeking to shut out the revolting picture.

At length the sun reached the zenith. Overhead,
the sky seemed made of brass ; around, the
atmosphere, like that of an oven, rose quivering and
lifelike from the scorching sand.

Gilmore felt himself growing weaker. A feeling
of extreme lassitude and oppression seized him,
accompanied by splitting headache, and by cramp-like
pains in every joint. Alternately, he seemed
to burn with heat and shiver with cold. His pulse
beat with alarming force and rapidity.

As these unmistakable symptoms of fever developed,
his last despairing hope gave way. " God
help me now ! " he muttered, " God help me now ! "
Then he thought of Ulu. However desperate his
own case might be, she still had a chance of life.

Ulu, leave me ! leave me ! " he entreated. " I
can go no further. Never mind me. Save yourself!"


The girl looked at him wonderingly, with wide-open
eyes. Then, as if she had not understood,
with all her strength she tried to pull him onwards.

Come, Bwana," she said, " Come."

My little toto, it's no use. Leave me !
leave me!"

But Ulu only answered, " Come ! "

Go," Gilmore urged again; "go, and be the
toto of the bibi. Tell her how I died."

I will not go to the bibi. The bibi left you.
Come ! "

Gilmore looked at the girl inquiringly, struck by
the tone in which her last words were uttered, and
full of wonder at her unflinching devotion. He
pressed his point no further, however, and once
more staggered forward with slow, faltering steps.

Soon his symptoms changed. Pain and fatigue
were felt no longer, and with surprising life and
energy he tramped onward through the sand. But
it was not now steady plodding towards Chaga,
towards the eastern shoulder of Kimawenzi. His
movements were jerky, aimless, uncertain. There
was a wild, unseeing look in his eyes. As he went
along he muttered strangely to himself, or addressed
others as if they were present. Gilmore
was delirious.

At first Ulu did her best to keep him in the right
direction, but it was no use. She was only pushed
aside and spoken sharply to in English, which she
did not understand. Gilmore no longer recognized
his faithful little companion. The events of his
past life seemed to be jumbled up perplexingly in
his fevered brain. At one moment he was talking
earnestly to "Nina," the next he appealed eagerly
to Kate. Then it seemed as if Kate and Nina were

VOL. II. t

but two forms of the same person, and he would
stop abruptly and stand still for a time, while he
painfully tried to unravel the puzzle. Again he
would be unable to attach any distinct individuality
to Nina. She was merely a creation of his fancy
Kate was the only certainty; and, filled with
pleasant thoughts, he would walk quietly on, till
once more the idea changed, and Kate seemed a
mocking phantom, ever beckoning him towards
her, yet ever eluding him.

At times some recollection of recent events
crossed his mind, and, greatly to Ulu's danger,
Gilmore was once again in fierce combat with the
Masai ; or he saw himself surrounded by ferocious
beasts of prey, met the gleam of their glaring
eyeballs, felt their hot breath on his cheek. They
were at his throat ! they were tearing him to
pieces ! and with terrible energy he sought to fight
the phantom demons, or, seized with ungovernable
panic, fled for his life. Up and down Ulu followed
him distractedly, ineffectually calling upon him to
stop. Then, when the dread hallucination left
him, and he dropped exhausted, she would be at
his side, urging him, helping him to rise, and perseveringly
pulling him towards Chaga.

As the afternoon hours wore on, the worst
paroxysm of the fever passed. Gilmore's unnatural
energy began to be played out, and exhaustion

reasserted itself. He reeled rather than
walked ; once or twice he fell. Through all his
madness raged his agonizing thirst. A consuming
fire seemed to be eating its way into his heart. As
if to mock him and increase his torments, Nature
spread out in the distance what appeared to be
limpid sheets of cool, refreshing water. Ever
towards them he madly struggled, heedless of Lu's
explanations ; but they either flitted on ahead of
him, or disappeared as he approached. Sometimes
the seeming lakes proved to be gleaming salt
reaches, mere efflorescence of the impregnated soil.
To Gilmore's fevered eyes, the flake-like crystals
seemed as snow, and taking them up in handfuls,
he swallowed them eagerly, only to add to his
tortures.

The day was fast speeding away, and still the
exhausted wayfarers were in the heart of the
wilderness. In vain Ulu scanned the horizon for
some sign of coming help. There was nothing but
the arid waste, in its grim monotony, its stern,
pitiless, death-like silence. Succour was hopeless,
death inevitable.

The crisis came at last. Gilmore could go no
further. His limbs tottered, his head sank forward
on his breast. " Water ! water ! " he feebly gasped,
with parched throat and cleaving tongue, as he fell
helpless on the ground.

Frantically Ulu pulled and tugged, urging him
by voice and action to continue the struggle for
life. Useless ; he only kept faintly muttering,
Water ! " Move he neither would nor could.

At length Ulu gave up her unavailing efforts.
Dazed and overwhelmed, she stood for a moment
gazing despairingly at her master. Once more she
turned her dust stained, suffering face towards
Kilimanjaro. Grief, hunger, thirst, and fatigue
had sadly changed her formerly piquant features.
What was she to do ? The Bwana lay at her feet
dying. She could be of no further use to him.

To save herself she must fly at once, but

Strong as was the instinct of self-preservation
within her, her dog-like devotion to her master
was stronger still. Ulu accepted her fate.

Mechanically she sat herself down by Grilmour's
side. Gently she raised his head from the burning
sand, and with tender solicitude placed it in her
lap, so as to shade it from the now almost horizontal
rays of the setting sun. Then Ulu waited
waited the approach of death — death for both of
them.

The vultures that till now had followed them,
wheeling watchfully in mid air, began to circle
downward. With noisjp swish they lighted on the
few isolated trees which, gaunt and leafless, reared
their skeleton forms in the desert. Expectantly

the repulsive creatures craned their hideous, featherless
necks, and gloated prospectively over the corning
feast. Ulu heeded them not, but with wistful,
tearless eyes kept her head bent over Gilmore.

Slowly the sun neared the horizon. For a
moment it seemed to linger ; then it disappeared.
The gold and crimson hues of sunset, which, while
they lasted, spoke of life and hope, faded into the
dusky tints of evening. From an adjacent mass of
rocks a couple of hyaenas crawled forth on their
nightly search for prey. Inquiringly they held
their horrid muzzles in the air, sniffing the evening
breeze. Startled by the sudden scent of human
beings, like wretched curs they fled instinctively
back to the shelter of their lair. Finding themselves
unmolested, and gathering courage with the
deepening shades of night, after a time they ventured
forth again, but watchfully, ready to fly on
the slightest alarm. Sighting at last the cause
of their primary fears, they began to reconnoitre,
circling round at a distance with ungainly trot.

Rapidly the darkness deepened. Still Ulu sat
motionless, her head bent close to Gilmore's, her
cheek almost touching his. Nearer and ever nearer
came the two pairs of fiendish eyes, nearer and
ever nearer the vaguely defined bodies of the
hyaenas. Eager whines, breaking into horrible
human-like laughs, burst from their ravenous

throats. But a little more whetting of the appetite,
a little more assurance that they might approach
with impunity, and they would spring upon their
prey. What was there to prevent them ? What
indeed? Only a little M-Chaga maiden, scarcely
more than a child, on whose knees lay cradled a
wounded mzungu, all-unconscious of his threatening
doom.

Chapter XXI.

Kate never knew how that fateful journey across
the Njiri plain was accomplished. At first she
felt neither weariness nor terror. In a stupor of
grief she plunged blindly on, Gilniour's last goodbye
ringing in her ears and heart, and shutting
out all other consciousness of sound or sight or
feeling. Once or twice Ferhani urged her to resta
while, but she only looked at him incomprehensible,
and mechanically kept on her way. Ferhani
saw with apprehension that she would soon exhaust
herself. He grasped the arm he held more firmly,
and, turning to Tubu, bade him take the other. It
was then that Ulu, seizing her opportunity, slipped
away to return to her master. The two men were
not long in becoming aware of her flight. By a
look they signalled to each other not to let Kate
know, and, bent on securing their own safety, held
steadily on.

At last Kate stumbled, and would have fallen
had not Tubu and Ferhani supported her.

Bibi, rest a little," they urged, setting her gently
on the ground.

Kate made no resistance, no remonstrance —
simply lay as she was placed, motionless, with eyes
closed. At length she looked up — looked round.

'where is Ulu ? " she asked with a start, as she
suddenly missed the girl.

Ferhani and Tubu looked at each other guiltily.
For a moment neither spoke.

She has gone back to the Bwana," said
Ferhani at last, selecting what he considered the
least alarming explanation of Ulu's disappearance.
In reality, both he and Tubu believed that she had
sunk down exhausted, and by this time had become
a prey to the hyaenas.

Kate buried her face in her hands. "Oh, she is
better than I," she moaned ; " more faithful, more
loving. Come, Ferhani," she added eagerly, as
she struggled to her feet; "let us go back, too.
We may yet be in time to help him."

"Impossible, bibi. We should all be killed,"
exclaimed the men in one breath.

Cowards ! " cried Kate, with an accent of ineffable
contempt. " Then I shall go myself."

"Bibi, you cannot," said Ferhani, resolutely.
"You do not know the way; you would only be
eaten by the hyaenas."

Kate looked wildly around. She had taken no

note of the way they had come. There was no
landmark to guide her. On every side the fitful
moonbeams revealed only a barren waste of shining
sand. The air was filled with the cries of wild
beasts. What Ferhani said seemed only too
true.

"Besides, we could not reach the Bwana intime,"
the man continued in self-justification.
"In an hour it will be daylight." This was not
strictly true ; but the men were now bent on saving
their lives at any cost, and they dreaded any attempt
on Kate's part that might hinder their speedily
reaching a place of safety. Indeed, they were only
prevented from deserting her now by the fear of
what the consequences might be should the Bwana
ever again reach Pepo-ni.

Kate wrung her hands despairingly. " Oh, will
no one do anything for him ? " she cried.

Bibi, I'll tell you what we'll do," said Tubu
consolingly, touched by the sight of Kate's anguish.
As soon as we reach the mountain, I shall
hasten forward to Mkuyuni, and the salaam,
your father, will send out men to seek for the
Bwana ; that is," he added hastily, seeing how
Kate's face, which had brightened a little on her
hearing that he had some suggestion to offer,
fell again as she learned its unsatisfactory nature
" that is, supposing the Bwana does not overtake

you, or reach the station before you by another
way."

Once more Kate put her arm within Ferdinand
resumed her way in the silence of utter despair.
Every step was now an effort, and more than once
it seemed as if she would break down altogether.
At length, after many halts, the base of the mountain
was gained, shortly after sunrise. Tubu and
Ferhani breathed more freely. They were among
friendly tribes, and their safety was assured.

Kate was indifferent. She did not care whether
she died or lived. With horror she thought of the
unequal conflict that even then might be raging on
that little hill in the desert. Already, perhaps,
Tom might be dead or dying, those black, hideous
faces bending over him in fiendish glee. The
thought was maddening, and Kate pressed wildly
forward, in desperate effort seeking to keep it at
bay.

In about an hour they reached a village, and
there Kate dropped down exhausted. Willing
hands carried her to a hut, where she was cared
for with rude kindness. The bibi of Mkuyuni was
well known throughout the length and breadth of
Chaga for her goodness towards the sick, and her
skill in healing them. The natives were glad to
have an opportunity of showing they were not
ungrateful.

After she had recovered somewhat, Kate drank a
little rail. Soon afterwards she fell asleep. When
she awoke it was afternoon. Her first request was
for Tubu; but the man, mindful of his promise,
had already started on his way to the mission
station.

Taking leave of her simple friends, Kate once
more resumed her way in company with Ferhani.
All that night and part of next morning they
journeyed on, Kate preferring, since rest she must,
to rest during the heat of the day and travel by
night. On the morning of the third day they were
met by the search party sent by Tubu from Pisgah.
Needless to say, Mr. Kennedy — iinpatient/to meet his
daughter — was at its head. In all the rapturous
joy of that meeting, Kate never for a moment
forgot her sorrow. As she lay with her head
pillowed on her father's bosom, her arms about his
neck, the first faint words she sobbed out were of
Gilmore.

Oh, papa — Tom — Mr. Gilmore — he is killed,
and it was for me."

The missionary clasped his daughter closer in
his arms. He had already heard the story of Gil-your's
sacrifice from Tubu.

Kate — my child," he said brokenly, " you do
not know. Please God he will yet be restored tous
safe and well."

But Kate did not hear. She only clung to her
father, weeping, unconscious of everything save
that this man who had died for her had loved her,
and that she had rejected his love. Ah, she knew
now that she loved him, taught hy the agony of these
last two days and nights. Oh, the anguish of the
thought that now she could never atone to him for
the pain she had given — that now he could never
know the depth of aching affection within her —
affection whose pent-up fulness seemed as if it
must break her sorrowing heart.

For some time Mr. Kennedy let Kate's grief have
its way. At length, gently disengaging her arms,
he begged her to lie down, making a pillow for her
of a rug which he carried. Kate yielded, after
having given some direction to the men who were
to go in search of Gilmore, and seen them safely
despatched. There was no need to hurry now, so
all that day and night Kate rested. She wished,
indeed, to remain where she was until the mission
men returned from their quest, clutching eagerly
at the hope her father kept constantly before her
mind, that Gilmore might, after all, have escaped
with his life, though, if wounded, he could not have
travelled so fast even as she had done, and therefore
could not possibly have been heard of. Mr.
Kennedy, however, was anxious to get her home at
once, particularly as he had himself but little faith

in the hope he held out to his daughter, and he
dreaded the return of his men with had news or
none. Accordingly, he earnestly urged Kate to
continue her homeward journey. Kate suffered
herself to he persuaded. Next day she wearily set
out again, and late the same evening reached the
mission station.

Three days elapsed, and still there was no news
of the search party. A fourth passed, and Kate
gave up all hope of its return that day.

It was late in the evening. Kate had gone to the
porch to take a last wistful look along the path by
which the men should have come. There was no
one to be seen.

Suddenly, there was a sound of voices — a word
or two of greeting. The men had returned. Had
they found Gilmore ? Kate dared not go to meet
them — she could scarcely breathe. Yes, they had
come. There were figures now advancing along
the path. Kate counted them. One — two — three
-four — five — six — only six ! They had not found
him, then ! With a kind of fascination Kate stood
gazing till the foremost man almost reached her.
Then she turned and fled to her room. What
need had she to hear his message ? There was
no hope now — none — none ! Stunned and helpless,
she sank down by her bedside, with clasped
hands and face buried in the counterpane, wildly

repeating to herself in an agonized whisper, " Tom !
My darling ! No hope ! No hope ! "

By-and-by her father came to her. He spoke no
word of comfort, asked no explanation. Already
he had guessed the secret of Kate's love. Gently
the good man took his daughter's icy hand ; gently
he stroked her hair, and kissed her bowed head.
But Kate neither moved nor spoke. The missionary
grew alarmed.

"Kate, my darling," he whispered, "trust in
God. Do not yet despair."

Kate raised her head wearily. Her eyes were
bloodshot, her face wan and haggard. " They have
not found him," she said, in a tone of reproach that
seemed to ask, " Is not that enough ? "

It was too true. They had not found him, nor
any trace of him. The missionary had no consolation
to offer. In silence he sat by his daughter for
an hour or more, holding her hand in his. At last
he rose. This mute, tearless grief was terrible to
witness. He called her by every tender name he
could think of, urging her to rouse herself, to be
comforted. In vain. Kate seemed to be turned to
stone.

"Papa, dear, if you would only leave me alone,"
was all she said.

Tenderly Mr. Kennedy raised her and laid heron
the bed. He covered her with a warm rug, and
kissed her again and again. Then he left her.

Through all that night, Kate never closed her
eyes. The lanrp burned low and went out ; the
dawn stole dimly into the darkened room, and filled
it with a cold greyness ; then the sun rose, once
more bringing light and gladness to the earth.
Not to Kate. To her no sun would ever again bring
gladness. Oh, how could it shine there so pitilessly,
smiling upon her grief !

Slowly she rose and arranged her dress. Once
or twice she shivered, and the hope sprang up
within her that she might take fever and die. All
that day and for many days after she lived in a
dull dream of sorrow — knowing nothing and caring
nothing for what went on about her ; her life grown
hopeless, dead.

One morning Kate awoke, feeling almost lighthearted.
She had dreamed that she was back
again on Donyo Erok, that Gilmore was with her,
and that they were united by the mutual happiness
of a mutual love, such, indeed, as they had never
really known. Tom had called her "Kitty, dear,"
and was holding her hand when she awoke.

The change to stern reality at first seemed but
as one of the startling changes in a dream, and fora
moment Kate lay expecting that her room's
familiar walls would vanish, and that she would
awake to find herself in the little hut under the
trees on the mountain-side. Suddenly there flashed

upon her the recollection of the truth, and for the
first time since all hope had deserted her, Kate
wept. It was a great relief, and at breakfast that
morning Mr. Kennedy noted with pleasure that if
his daughter was not more cheerful, she was at
least more resigned. For the first time since her
return to Pisgah, he thought he might venture to
leave her for a day, to pay a long overdue visit to
an outlying station.

Two hours after her father had gone, Kate was
sitting alone in the porch. Once more she was
indulging in " the luxury of tears," her head bowed
on her hands.

Bibi, come; the Bwana wants you," suddenly
said a voice behind her.

Kate started to her feet. Was she awake, or was
she dreaming again ? The voice was Lu's.

No dream this time, Kate. It is Ulu who speaks,
Ulu who stands beside you, looking ill and travel-stained
— the shadow of her former graceful, supple
self.

Kate had no time to note the change. " Ulu ! "
she gasped, almost fainting with joy. " How did
you get here ? Where have you come from ? Where
is he ? "

At Taveta. He is sick. He calls for you."

Kate did not wait to hear more. What mattered
it to her how sick she was ? — if only he lived it was

joy enough for her. Gently she pushed Ulu towards
the chair from which she had risen, and breathlessly
hastened off to send a servant to her with
some refreshment. Then she called together half
a dozen men, and bade them prepare to accompany
her to Taveta. When she returned she observed
that the good things she had sent to Ulu still
stood untasted.

"Eat, Ulu, eat," she eagerly urged ; "we must
start immediately, you know."

But Ulu was too ill to be hungry. She only
drank a little milk and nibbled at a biscuit.

Kate was soon ready. Hastily pencilling a note
to her father to tell him the glad news of Gilmore's
safety, and bid him follow her to Taveta, she took
Ulu by the hand, and together they set out towards
the place where Gilmore lay.

As they went along, Kate gathered the story of
the Masai attack and defeat — heard how Uledi was
killed and Gilmore wounded ; how he had wandered
delirious over the desert ; and how, guarded by Lu,
he had sunk down at length to die. Then Ulu told
how all night she had watched over him, keeping
off the hyaenas, even shooting one with Gilmore's
revolver. In the morning a Swahili caravan appeared
in the distance — the very caravan which
had hastened their flight from Donyo Erok. Once
more hope revived in Ulu's heart, and she fired the

VOL. II. u

revolver to attract attention. Her efforts were
successful. The traders halted, heard her story,
and, believing that Gilmore was a person of importance,
and that they would be well rewarded for
their trouble, took him up and carried him with
them to Taveta. There he had lain ever since.
Sometimes the fever left him ; but once and again
it had returned, until he was now in the last stage
of weakness.

Kate's gratitude to Ulu knew no bounds ; but
deeper than her gratitude was her anxiety for
Gilmore, and faster and faster she hurried on, sure
that her presence would work the speediest cure.

Ulu was very weary. It was hard work for her
to keep pace with Kate's buoyant step — under the
broiling sun, too, which Kate, in her impatience,
did not seem to feel. Fortunately, the road was
for the most part shady, and the poor little savage
struggled bravely on. At length she felt herself
giving way. Her head swam — she could not seethe
pathway in front of her. Gradually she lagged
behind. Already Taveta lay in sight. Kate was
lost in a happy dream of the coming meeting.
Not until she was close to the forest village did she
notice that Ulu no longer followed her. ,
she was about to turn back, but
remembering how perhaps Gilmore lay at the point
of death, and believing that, at the worst, Ulu was

only very tired, she contented herself with sending
two of her men, and herself hurried on through the
wood.

It was late in the afternoon. The last rays of the
setting sun lit up the huts of the traders' encampment
with a ruddy glow. Eagerly Kate asked her
way to the hut in which Gilmore lay. She bade her
men remain behind — she would enter alone. Fora
moment she paused on the threshold, her eyes
intently devouring the loved features of the invalid,
as he lay on a low camp bedstead, apparently
asleep. How pale and ill he looked ! One wasted
hand lay on the coverlet. Kate's eye filled with
tears as she saw how white and thin it was. She
stole noiselessly to the bedside, and gazed at
Gilmore long and earnestly, fearful of waking
him. Slowly his eyes opened.

Kate ! "

My darling!"

Not another word was spoken. Kate sank on
her knees by the side of the bed, and, seizing the
poor, wasted hand, kissed it again and again.
Another moment, and Gilmore, strong in a strength
that was born of joy and hope, had raised himself
on the pillow and drawn Kate towards him. Their
lips met in the first sweet kiss of love.

For long — they knew not how long — they sat in
silence, holding each other's hands. The hut grew

dim with the quickly deepening darkness of the
tropical twilight. Suddenly, there was a sound of
footsteps outside. Some one darkened the doorway
-for a moment, and the next, one of the mission
men stood in the hut, bearing in his arms the
unconscious form of Ulu. He laid her. gently on
the ground. Kate darted to her side in an agony
of misgiving.

Ulu, speak — what is it ? " she cried, tenderly
putting her arm under the girl's drooping head.
Are you hurt ? Are you ill ? "

Ulu opened her eyes. Already they seemed to
be glazing in death.

"Bibi, come; the Bwana wants you," she said
faintly.

Poor child ! she remembered her message even
in death. Gilmore struggled to rise, but sank back
exhausted on his pillow. There was a fearful sickness
at Kate's heart. Tenderly she pressed the
little Mshenzi to her bosom.

My little toto " she began, in a voice

that was choked with tears.

Ulu looked up at her wistfully, wonderingly.
"Ah, you have come," she said; "the Bwana
will not be sick any more. You will marry him
now, and you will be his chief wife, because an
mzungu like himself, and I will be the next because
first married. Oh, the Bwana is so good, so

rich "she murmured. Then she abruptly

stopped. For a moment a. great light illumined
her eyes as they fell upon Gilmore. " Bwana ! "
she cried, stretching her head eagerly towards him,
"Bwana! "

There was a great sigh, a quick sudden sob from
Kate, and Ulu fell back in her loving arms — dead !

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
STANFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
