m

m

V7-42t
v. I

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/twopardonsnovel01vinc

Jl iXcwel.

BY

HENRY SCOTT VINCE.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

<£onbon :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1889.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS. W.C.

CONTENTS.

prologue.

UNDER THE TREES AT CHAGRES.

PAGE



*\

^

IX.

X.

XI.

-Me. Abel Bompas sells a House, and the Purchaser

puzzles a Town . . • . . 16

-Guests at the Priory House . . .39

-The Stranger gives Mk. Alfred Sherman mobs

cause to love him 64

-A Discussion on an important Subject . . So

-The good Town of Avoniia,u is thoroughly excited 101

-The " Recluse " comes out . . . 127

-Friends from Far West . . . . 155

-Canvassing . 172

-Mr. Bompas notices many things . . . 192

-How Alfred Sherman spent a spare Afternoon 218

-Interviewing . 241

PROLOGUE.

Under THE TREES AT CHAGRES.

It is very early morning at Chagres, and those
who have any business to do (and no man has
yet been known to go to Chagres for pleasure)
are setting about it while they may. In one
of the temples of commerce in the city of
London, which I used to visit, was an inscription
in Latin with a merciful translation for
the benefit of such clerks and office lads who
had not made any portion of the ascent to
Parnassus. The English was, " Friend, despatch
thy business and depart." Whatever
temptations may exist in London for delay in
business, there are none in Chagres. He who
goes there takes pains to leave as soon as he
can possibly do so. It is not a health resort.
I do not think it will ever be one, not even
when M. de Lesseps has finished his Canal,

which is allowing time for development. If
vol. i. 1

there be on the face of the globe any spot more
unhealthy I have not heard of it, although it
boasts itself more salubrious than Panama on
the other side of the isthmus.

Senior," a Chagres host will tell you, " unhappily
our climate is not a favourable one for
strangers, but it is, at least, much more healthy
than Panama."

Our town has not a good reputation," says
a Panama man, " but think how very much
worse off they are at Chagres. Stow that is
really an unhealthy place."

When a Panama native meets a Chagres
citizen they agree in extolling their own towns
and pitying the fate of those unfortunates who
live at Colon. This place, they agree, is deadly.

They are all bad enough, in plain truth.
From the wet soil, on which every variety of
tropical water-plant grows in profusion, come
fearful malarious vapours which seize upon the
stranger and strangle the life out of him. The
country is a great hot swamp — a paradise for
vegetation, a hell for men. One might be
disposed to imagine that this would be the
Utopia of an acclimatized undertaker, but it is
not so. Your undertaker thrives upon ceremony
and display, and there is little of either

over a dead man in Chagres. In the time of

which I am writing very little notice was

taken of how a man died, none whatever of

how he was buried. Shot, stab or local fever ;

a trench in the sand, a hole in the swamp —

what mattered it ?

On this particular morning when Chagres

is just going about its work, at an unfrequented

spot situated some distance from the huddled

collection of houses and huts which made up

the Chagres of those days, three men are

assembled under the shade of some cacaos and

prickly pear trees. They are waiting for someone,

it is clear, and to judge by their faces the

business on hand is serious. Two of them are

leaning against the stem of a giant tree, whilst

the third is seated a few paces from them upon

a fallen loo;. All three are smoking contemplatively,

but are evidently doing so to while

away the time only. There is a difference

between the ages of these men ; of the two

leaning against the tree one is young, the other

of advanced middle-age ; the man on the log is

the youngest of all, if we may judge by his face.

He is pre-occupied and takes no heed of his

companions, and it is not often that you will

see on a face so young a look so hard and dour.

1—2

The eldest man speaks :
I reckon it'll pan out just as I said. We
may wait here till noon and be scorched up to
tinder ; they've got appointments somewhere
else. I know these Greater."

"The Greasers know that they haven't to
fight, and he thinks he's coming out here to
make the matter up. They'll come, captain.' 1

Well, I don't see why the matter can't be
made up. It's a pity to fight for a mistake ;
can't it be managed ? "

Look at his face."

Yes, I'll own it looks black. I haven't
seen such a sudden change in anyone. I never
took a greater fancy to a passenger, but I
scarcely recognise him as the same man."

He's not the same man."

"Is it an old quarrel ? "

It's an old quarrel."

Well, it's a funny one. I don't want to
pry into matters, but Frenchy swore last night
that he'd never seen him before and hadn't said
a word against him. Very well, says I, tell
him so tomorrow morning."

Yes, and he'll come out here to do so."

And what will happen ? "

"He'll stop here, I'm thinking."

Well, well. I shall stand by my own kind,
and it won't be the first time I've seen carving
done, but blamed if it isn't a mystery to me !
However, I've said that I won't pry into it and
I won't, though that's a good deal for a New
Enchanter to sav. You'll not refuse, after
this, to give us credit for being rather less

inquisitive than you usually Hello ! here

are our men coming after all, I expect."

The remark seems to be made, not so much
on account of the speaker having observed any
approaching forms, as because he sees the
youngest man spring up from his seat and
stand looking eagerly with shaded eyes towards
the town. In a moment he turns to his companions
and nods, then places himself at their
side, but without either speaking or changing
the stern, hard expression of his face. In a
few minutes the little group is joined by three
other men.

Two of them need little description or notice
save for the part which they are going to play.
They are of the plump-faced, fat-handed variety
of Mexican, and seem to think that by much
swagger they may be mistaken for Spaniards,
forgetting that calmness, dignity and grace
are as natural to a Spanish gentleman as dark

hair and bright eyes. But the third man is
of different mould. Tall, thin and strikingly
handsome, he contrasts strongly with his companions.
He does not swagger, but his manner
is bad. Whereas the Mexicans have evidently
put on airs of importance as though they have
dressed for their parts, he has not taken the
pains or has not the ability to conceal the
roughness of his nature and the coarseness of
his mind. As his friends approach the waiting
group they salute with all the pomposity of
which they are capable, and the compliment is
gravely returned even by the youngest member
of it. But the third new-comer makes no sign.
After whispering a few words to his companions
he walks to a tree against which he leans,
then rolling a piece of leaf-tobacco into a
rough cigarette he lights it, and, turning his
back to the party, looks towards the sea and
affects to pay no attention to their proceedings.
It is evident that no very peaceable motive
has brought these six men out of Chagres this
morning, and it is not difficult to discover who
is to be the adversary of this apparently indifferent
principal. The youngest man of the
other party never for an instant takes his eyes
from him. Every movement of hand or body

is watched and, if possible, the hard look grows
harder and the hatred in the face more and
more deejay marked. This man is neither
uninterested nor careless, if the other be. It
is a singular sight this of watcher and watched,
and, looking more attentively at it, one can see
that while there is no disguise of the deadly
purpose in the face of one man there is much
that is assumed in the apparent unconcern of
the other. The trembling of the hand, occasionally
caressing the dark beard, tells less of
excitement than of trepidation, and there is a
nervous change of the pose now and then
which betokens anxiety if not fear. You would
say. could you see the pair, that each wishes
the strife over, but for reasons as far asunder
as the poles.

The Mexicans approach the other two menthe
elder of whom regards them with great
disfavour. The faint wish which he just now
expressed, that some means might be found of
averting a "fight, vanishes when he reflects that
he will, in that case, have to treat with two
Greasers. He internally lumps all three together,
principal and seconds, hopes for a good
fight and for his man to win.

The first compliments having been paid in

Spanish, which it appears all speak, one of the
Mexicans comes to the root of the matter,
apparently with great vigour of speech and
certainly with abundant gesticulation.

Serious, our esteemed and most gallant
friend, who comes with us this morning, bids
us say to the friends of the caballero yonder
that he knows not in what he has offended the
proud spirit of their brave comrade. Behold,
what is done ! Our gallant friend reclines, at
the Hotel, against a post of the verandah.
Sees not the approach of the caballero ; hinders
him not from passing. Something has roused
the anger of this last one : certainly not the
act of our friend. Instantly, the verandah
being full of people, your companion and compatriot
hurls our gallant friend from his place,
strikes him — ah, Madre che Dios ! — on the
breast, and — assuredly in a fever of rage — calls
him ' Dog ! ' ' Hound ! ' ' Scoundrel ! ' Truly
this is much. What says the noble American
captain ? "

The noble American captain, without anymore
signs of respect for the speaker than the
strictest etiquette demands, replies :

Truly it is much. Is it not enough for
your gallant friend ? "

The word %i gallant " is perhaps a trifle
over-accented.

Enough ? " replies the Mexican. " Care
ml a ! has our friend the heart of a dog, think
you, Senior Capitan ? "

We have not thought about him," breaks
in the younger of the two seconds. " We are
wasting words and the sun is getting up. Do
you wish the whole rabble of Chagres to come
out here ? "

Senor," says the other Mexican, "my
compatriot has well stated that our gallant
friend has not injured your comrade
there "

But he has stated what occurred last
evening at the Hotel."

A thousand pardons, senor, I know it
well. Bat our gallant friend will not fight
with your compatriot till he knows the cause
of his attack."

He is a Mexican, I suppose," says the captain
irascibly.

Once more, pardon ; he is not of that great
and noble nation : yet he is brave, ah — brave
as a Hon."

Or a Mexican ? "

Or a Mexican," says the representative of

that lion-like race, with a grave bow and total
obliviousness of the irony.

"Well," says the younger second, "your
gallant friend shall know the cause of the affray
last night. My friend will tell him, himself."

Many thanks, senores," say the Mexicans,
and, with a profound bow, they return to their
principal.

The captain turns inquiringly to his associate
: .

He is to tell him, then ? "

Yes, and he will too. But when he speaks
to him, look you sharply out for treachery.
You are heeled, of course ? "

Navy, and know how to use her," says
the captain.

Good ! Watch that fellow, and, if you seethe
shine of a barrel or a blade before our man
is ready, drill a hole in him ! I'll answer for
another, and these two Greasers don't count
among men. Look out now ! "

And just as keenly as ever he watched the
weather does the captain look out, his fingers
clenched round the butt of his revolver.

The Mexicans speak to their man, who
shrugs his shoulders, throws away his cigarette,
and turning round towards his adversary

approaches him. Then, for the first time
that morning, he meets that look, so steadfast,
so full of hatred. His own face looks
troubled and he tries in vain to force a
laugh. It sounds too husky, when it comes,
to be mistaken for mirth. He makes, however,
an effort to appear at ease, and coming
up to his adversary raises his hat.

Senior, it is not my custom to submit
to either blows or hard words, nor my
habit to forego the punishing of those who
inflict them ; but the darkness of the evening
and of the verandah may be some excuse.
If you have that to urge in your defence you
are excused and I say no more. If not, I
demand, before meeting you, the reason for
your outrage of last night."

His adversary takes a step towards him,
and leaning forward so that none but he
may catch what is said, whispers a few words
in his ear.

Whatever those words may be, the effect
on him who hears them is as apparent as
though they had been accompanied by a
heavy blow. He fairly reels under them.
All vestiges of colour leave his face, and he
stands for a moment panting for breath.

Then a sudden despair seems to seize him ;
he gazes round as though to seek a means of
escape. The younger man comes a step
nearer as he shrinks back. There is no
chance. In a second he draws a knife — the
deadly Mexican machete — and turns to his foe.

The hand of the American captain comes
out of his pocket, swiftly but quietly, at
the gleam of the steel, but he sees that his
man also draws and he remains still. There
is no need of any further preliminaries and
one can guess what kind of a fight this will
be. The Mexicans mutter to themselves
and fidget uneasily ; the other seconds watch
intently every movement, and the combatants,
who are eyeing each other with looks
as deadly in appearance as their weapons,
wheel slowly round and wait the opening for
the blow.

It is not long in coming. With a spring
as of some lithe beast, the elder man makes
at his enemy. Instantly his right wrist is
grasped by the left hand of the other and he
sees the bright machete raised ; he makes a
convulsive leap and in turn seizes a wrist,
and then for a moment the two men look
each other in the eyes, their faces only a few

inches apart. Only for a moment, however.
A shadow of horrible pain crosses the face
of the elder man ; his wrist is wrenched
round so violently that his agonised right
hand relaxes its grip of the weapon ; a powerful
wrench frees his enemy, and deep down
into his breast plunges the machete, struck
home with a blow so fierce, so well-timed and
so true that there seems small need of
another. But the weapon has yet more
work ; it is withdrawn and once more
descends with all the might of the young
giant who wields it. Without a cry, without
a groan — so well have those fell strokes done
then work — an inert corpse falls to the
ground and lies there laving the ground with
a red stream.

The four seconds run forward as he falls,
but there is no help for one who has received
blows such as those two. There is only a
momentary investigation, no need of more.
The Mexicans hastily cross themselves and
look stupidly at the body.

Quite dead," says the American captain.

Senor," replies one of the Mexicans,
undoubtedly, quite dead."

And, as you saw, killed in a fair fight."

In most regular and honourable combat,
senior."

So much for that. What of the— body."

Senior, my illustrious friend will send
some 2 )eons to inter it — is it not so, Don
Leon ? "

It is so."

Very well then, gentlemen, we wish you
a very good morning."

Senores, we kiss your hands."

And with a solemn salute the three friends
leave them.

The Mexicans do not remain long on the
scene of the fatal duel. They are soon
making for Chagres, not without much
muttering and an occasional glance over the
shoulder at the spot which they have left.

The dead man is alone, lying with his face
to the sky, just as they turned him over.
That must have been a beautiful face once.
That of a lovely babe — a noble-looking youth
perhaps a handsome lover with flashing eyes
and honied lips. It is all over now.

A scarlet tanager hops on to a shrub and
looks at him with head on one side ; forms
his own opinion and flies away to his green
and yellow mate. A carrion bird, circling

high, makes a note of him and determines

that he will wait until there are not so

many people about. Presently arrives a

gang of labourers who approach the spot

half stolid, half frightened, custom having

bred in them certain superstition. With

scant ceremony they raise the body, deposit

it in a grave, easily dug in the yielding soil,

and having covered it up, shoulder their

spades and pace off with rather more of

content in their faces to claim the promised

wage and aguardiente.

And this is the last scene of a wicked

life.

*****

I said that I wouldn't seek to know
anything about it," says the American captain,
that evening, as they watch the receding
coast, " but I own that I'm more satisfied now
that I have heard the statement of our friend
here. You've no call to make yourself a
bit uneasy about that coyote yonder. If ever
an animal needed killing, he did. Xo, sir, his
ghost won't haunt you ! "

MR. ABEL BOMPAS SELLS A HOUSE, AND THE
PURCHASER PUZZLES A TOWN.

The town of Avonham in Marlshire was
having a day sleep.

This was common enough to the place.
When the sun was fiercely beating down on
the red roofs and pointed gables, blistering
the painted beams of the wood-frame houses,
bleaching the well-washed pavement and the
cobble stones of the old market-place, touching
up the face of the market clock with a blaze
of glaring gold, and making of the motionless
weathercock on the church steeple a
burning arrow pointing to the hills from
which no breezes came — when it drove the
masterless curs into doorways and under
garden bushes, and set prowling cats nodding
in sight of their natural foes, when it
fairly beat the inhabitants from the street,
then Avonham used to pull down its blinds
and indulge in a day-sleep. From the sixteen-arched

bridge that spanned its river, to the
Bear Hotel," that seemed to close in the end
of the town, and to keep a good look out down
the road for any customer approaching, no one
was astir in the street. Occasionally a white -
proved, shirt-sleeved tradesman came to the
door of his shop and gazed listlessly up and
down, then, yawning, went back to his trade-less
counter, and nodded himself to sleep
again ; the hum of the great mill-wheel at the
bridge alone broke the silence, and the town
seemed an appanage of the Sleeping Palace,
waiting for the Prince to come.

It was a pleasant place as it lay in the blazing
June sun. Planted in a valley, with tree-crowned
hills at its western end, and watered
by the pretty Avon, it stood in the midst of
a smiling land of plenty. Around it, and
bounded only by the wooded hills on one side
and the great downs to its east, were meadows
rich with waving grass, in which the feeding
kine stood knee deep. The river breaking
from the chalk was clear as crystal, and
sparkled through the valley in generous, ever-full
stream which turned countless wheels and
rushed over little weirs with pleasant plash —

little weirs at the foot of which lurked speckled
VOL. i. 2

trout and bold-biting perch ; at the town it
flashed under a sixteen-arched bridge, built by
some ancient Abbot of the Priory whose ruins
stood just outside the town, and whose Hospitium
was still the front of the old " Bear
Hotel." From this bridge to the hotel ran
the great broad street which formed the
principal portion of the town ; on the right
were the market-place and town hall, on the
left the local bank and the residences of the
magnates, the successful banker, the respected
grey-headed solicitor, and the flourishing old-fashioned
country doctor. Then, at the top
of the town, stood the old " Bear," snuggest
and cosiest of inns, with large yard still echoing
to the feet of post-horses and coach horses,
and the spanking tits that drew the traps of
the dashing commercial travellers, who still
drove their journey through pleasant Marlshire,
for there was no railway that had reached
Avonham, and the nearest station was five
miles away.

Now the " Bear," standing at the top of the
town, and having been the ancient gate-house
of the great abbey, had blocked the straight
street up, and, as the place had grown in size,
had caused the overflow of population to betake

itself to two side streets running left and
right of it ; one past the church, and round
by a small stream that joined the Avon here,
and the other branching down to the river
itself. At the head of one of these streets
stood the splendid Abbey Church of St.
Hildegarde, with its spacious churchyard,
crossed by a paved walk leading to the street in
question, which it reached by steps. Beyond
this churchyard were the Grammar School,
and some houses of the better class, and, backing
on to the little Marten, were the grounds
of the Priory House. This was a large and
imposing mansion, with finely wooded grounds
concealed from public view by high walls.
In the other side street were both private
houses and shops, together with some offices
and a brewery ; and lower down, and nearer
the river, stood a large modern villa, in some
grounds which ran to the Avon.

One of the houses of this street, called from
its direction South Street, was a combination
of private house and office, and in one of the
rooms of this house on this particular hot day
sat a highly respectable family, consisting of
father, mother, and three pretty daughters,
engaged in discussing the penultimate course

of an English middle-class mid-day dinner.
The buxom, smiling matron was seated opposite
a smoking pudding, of which she had transferred
a slice to a plate ; she was preparing to
pass it to her husband, who sat at the head of
the table, when that worthy man stayed the
progress of the dainty with an arresting wave
of the hand.

I thank you, Louisa, but I will not take
any.

Not take any, Abel ? "

"Xo pudding, papa ? "

Xo, Louisa ; no, my children. Pudding,
my dears — pudding is — (no more ale, thank
you, Jane) — is — as I may say, a — kind of provision
for the mind — I mean for the body —
yes, the body — it is the body that is benefited
by the pudding, but the mind, my dears, the
mind must work — must work with the body."

"Well, papa, what has that to do with the
pudding ? "

This, my dears — to cloy — or, as some
authorities (from whom I entirely disagree)
would say, to clog — to clog or cloy the body
is a — metaphysically speaking — to cloy or clog
the brain ; and the brain needs not that — shall
I say clement ? yes, clement — or rather

clement ; yes, certainly, clement. So that
if (as would be the case to-day were I not firm)
I cloy — cloy is certainly the better word — I
cloy the brain by this pudding — then it will
follow, as the night the day, as I believe is
remarked by Shakespeare — that the brain and
the mind, being cloyed by pudding, will not
be in — ah — apposition, may I say ? and they
will not work together. I make myself clear,
my dears, I hope ? "

My dear papa, is your brain called upon
for any very extraordinary effort to-day ? "

My dears, I may, without violation of any
of the more delicate secrets of my profession
of house and estate agent and auctioneer,
mention that the elegant and convenient villa
residence known as the c Coombes ,' together
with the modern and handsome furniture

My dear Abel, we have all read the bill —
what of the 'Coombes?'"

My dear Louisa — I am coming to it — -I
have received from Messrs. Goldings and West,
whose names as the — ah — solicitors to the
estate, are doubtless familiar to you "

Yes, papa, well ? "

An intimation, my dears, that I shall today

be waited upon by a gentleman who will
purchase the property as it stands."

Furniture and all ? "

Furniture and all."

What is his name, Abel ? "

My dear, I am not in possession of it. I
am to meet him, or rather he is to call upon
me here, at two pre-wisely, and as it wants
but five minutes of the appointed hour, and as
you are aware that anything approaching un-punctuality
is most repugnant to me, I will —
ah — retire to the office at once and await him."

Mr. Abel Bompas rose, puddingless and
imposing, and left the room, where, as soon as
his august back was turned, there arose the
usual Babel of speculation and wonder, as to
the coming stranger and his intended purchase.
For the " Coombes " was nearly opposite
Mr. Bompas' house, and of course a great
deal depended, so thought the Misses Compassion
whether the new-comer were married or
single, had daughters or sons in the family,
were hospitable or not ; in fact, whether they
were ffoinff to have as neighbours "nice"
people or the reverse.

Not that the ladies of our friend Mr. Abel
Bompas were more curious than their position

warranted. For you shall walk many miles,
my susceptible young bachelor friend, before
you shall find three prettier roses clustered
on one stem than Miss Adelaide, Miss Lucy,
and Miss Louisa, I promise you. Rosy with
health, frank and open, as sparkling as the
stream on which they rowed their skiff, and
as breezy as the downs over which they daily
galloped, they were of the fairest and best
type of good, honest, English girls. And if
you place these three young ladies in a dull
old country town, where a concert is a dissipation,
and a yeomanry ball a delirium of delight,
where the same " young men " are seen
disporting themselves in the same " best
clothes " Sunday after Sunday, in an age
before Volunteers, and when lawn-tennis was
not, and then confront them with the prospect
of fresh comers, residing in a house nearly
opposite, which has been untenanted for eight
months, and whose last occupant, Major
Currie, H.E.I.C.S., never showed, on account
of congested liver, was as yellow as a haddock
and as touchy as a squib, I think you will
allow that the conversation of the young ladies
was perfectly natural, and that even if Mrs.
Bompas herself gave way to the prevailing

feeling', and surmised and hoped as eagerly asher
daughters, the good lady in no way overstepped
the undoubted privileges of a true
British matron.

Meanwhile the head of the family crossed
the hall, with which high-sounding title a
three-feet-nine passage was dignified, and
opened the door of a small square room, fitted
with all the comfortless austerities of 
furniture, and bearing on its wire
blinds the title' and description of its owner,
who seated himself in an armchair, behind an
appallingly stubborn table-desk, and, opening
a tremendous volume, in which no man could
have written whilst seated, awaited the coming
of his expected visitor.

Mr. Bompas was by no means an ill-looking
house and estate agent. Prosperity and complacency
had so stamped their pleasing impressions
on his broad and fresh-coloured face
that even had not his features of themselves
been regular in outline he would have been
redeemed from anything approaching ugliness
; but they were, if not classically, at
least regularly, cut ; his forehead was ample,
his chin round and cleanly shaven, his hair
was carefully arranged, and his whiskers —

well, they were British ; and what is more
respectable per se than the British whisker ?
His business had been transmitted to him by
his father, and was an easy and pleasant one ;
he had married a pretty Marlshire lass, the
daughter of a well-to-do corn-dealer, who had
amply dowered his only child, and he himself
had been honestly and patiently adding to his
wealth for years, until it was pretty well
known in Marlshire that Mr. Bompas of Avon-ham,
the leading auctioneer and estate agent
of the county, a man employed and trusted by
all the family solicitors around, was one of the
warmest men of even that shire of flourishing
graziers, prosperous cheese factors and brewers
with purses deep. Twice had he filled the
office of mayor of his native town of Avonham
with a Roman Consul kind of dignity which
had filled the neighbouring municipalities with
envy, and his own Corporation with awe.
His movements were elephantine delicate
and his conversation was slow and stately to
a degree, being modelled, indeed, upon the
speeches of those exponents of the oratory of
the Georgian era, for the choicest examples
of whose glowing and burning words the
reader is referred to " Field's Speaker."

From the main street of Avonham a door
communicated with Mr. Bompas' offices, and
punctually as the clock of St. Hildegarde
struck two, it opened and admitted a stranger.
The clerk in the outer office, who was an
articled pupil of Mr. Bompas, slid from the
dizzy height of a most uncompromising office -
stool and faced the new-comer.

I am here by appointment with Mr.
Bompas ; is he in ? "

The gentleman about the ' Coombes ' I
believe," said the smiling youth, anxious to
have the first portion of a conversation with
a prospective buyer of a house, " furniture
and all."

The stranger immediately routed the astonished
pupil by frowning and replying :

I should think, my son, that if you
hunted through this town, you'd find about
enough churches and chapels to keep you
going without pushing your creeds into business
hours. If Mr. Bompas isn't in, say so.
I'm not here to listen to your Belief. It's nota
catechism class."

The articled pupil opened his eyes and
faintly gasped. The unexpected reply had
fairly taken away his breath. The farmers

and dealers who came into the office were glad
enough to stay and lightly chat with Mr.
Adolphus Carter, the son of a Marlshire
vicar ; the solicitors were always friendly, and,
knowing his father, and his prospects, extended
to him the right hand of fellowship,
comparative friendship, that is to say ; to the
clerks of other callings Mr. Carter was ineffably
condescending and sometimes overbearing, regarding
only articled pupils and bank cashiers
as anything like his equals, and here was a
perfect stranger answering a little surmise,
made in Ms liveliest manner, that which he
reserved for principals alone, as shortly and
sternly as he, Adolphus, would have answered
a grocer's boy who ventured to ask him of his
health. It was his first snub in that office,
and when he had recovered his wits, which
had suffered rudely from the shock, he registered
the assailant as a deadly enemy on whom
consummate vengeance must one day surely
fall, before answering in a feeble voice, and
with every trace of his usual vivacity eliminated
:

Mr. Bompas is in, sir ; please to walk in."

He was so completely crushed that although

he had been burning all. the morning to know

the name of the intended purchaser of the
Coombes," he did not now ask it, but, opening
the door of Mr. Bompas' inner private
office, ushered him in. Then he returned to
his desk, clutched his ruler convulsively, and
seemed as totally overwhelmed by the encounter
as though he had been worsted by a
Waterspout.

He who had temporarily obliterated this
aspiring youth, and who now stood in the
presence of the great Mr. Bompas himself, was
a young man of fair complexion, with a moustache
of that sandy shade which, albeit it
betokens Anglo-Danish blood, is so much
despised of maidens at first sight ; his chestnut
hair was short, his eyes were very blue and
bright, and saved his face from downright
plainness. His form was not cast in a particularly
elegant mould, nor were his hands
and feet especially suggestive of high-born
rank, but he was squarely and muscular
built, if anything a little too broad for his
medium height, his arms long, and his hands
large. In one hand he carried a pair of tanned
gloves, in the other a stout stick of some foreign
wood. He was quietly and well-dressed
in dark clothes, which assorted well with his

calm and apparently imperturbable manner.
He bowed to Mr. Bompas, who rose to meet
him, and at once accosted that gentleman,
speaking with an accent not to be identified as
belonging to any particular outlying portion
of the Anglo Saxon speaking race, but suggestive
of a long residence somewhere beyond
sea.

You've the selling of that house over
yonder, Mr. Bompas."

The ' Coombes,' my dear sir — the
Coombes.' I have. Pray be seated. I
anticipated your arrival from a communication
I received from my esteemed — a — correspondents,
Messrs. Goldings and West."

Yes, they told me the price at which you
would sell the house and land, but they
couldn't say anything about the furniture ;
said they thought there was to be a sale. Is
that so ? "

It was so intended, sir, but the lady who
owns "

Lady ! oh, a lady's the owner."

Mrs. Stanhope, a widow lady, is the
owner, Mr. "

Galbraith — that's my name."

Mr. Galbraith — Mrs. Stanhope had instruct

ed me to sell by auction, and I had, with
a view to that step, prepared a schedule or
inventory from which I should, in due course,
have compiled a catalogue as is — ah — customary
at such sales. But on receipt of information
as to your intended interview,
I — ah — suspended operations pending your
arrival."

Mr. Bompas appeared greatly satisfied
with the ring of this speech, for he softly
murmured the last few words over again to
himself.

AVell, I like the house and grounds,
and the furniture will do for a bachelor ;
what is the total price for everything, just
as it stands ? "

The house you are aware is "

Sixteen hundred pounds I was told, but
T want a lump sum for the whole concern."

I am not prepared as yet to give a
decided answer on that point, indeed I am
not quite — ah — authorised to do so, my dear
sir, but "

Does this lady, Mrs. "

Stanhope."

Stanhope, live here ? "

She resides, my dear sir, not three

hundred yards from where we are now
sitting."

Can you see her to-day ? "

At once, at once, if you wish it."

Very well then, Mr. Bompas, you will
find me at the ' Bear Hotel,' where I am
staying, and if you will go and see her I
will await your answer there. Tell her,
please, that I will give her two thousand
pounds — pounds mind, not guineas — that coin
is out of circulation — for the house, furniture,
and fittings, just as they stand."

Would you not — ah — prefer to see the
furniture and fittings before making an offer,
which you seem to wish to be a — ah — definite,
and — ah — decisive one ? "

Seen 'em, sir, seen 'em ; I walked in thereat
eight o'clock this morning, and went allover
the house."

Without an order, my dear sir ? " exclaimed
Mr. Bompas — " without my written
order ? "

Just that," replied the other, coolly.
I saw an old woman inside straightening
things, and I went over the house under
her guidance."

Mr. Bompas had no words with which to

express his horror at this breach of professional
routine ; he stared at his visitor, but made no
reply.

I'll wait at the ' Bear,' for two hours, for

Mrs. Stanhope's "

Stanhope, my dear sir, Stanhope."
Stanhope's answer — Good day, sir ! "
Mr. Bompas returned the salutation and
courteously escorted the stranger to the outer
door, passing through the front office, where
Mr. Carter, still more or less under the Waterspout
influence, glared fiercely at his foe, and
then, without noticing his pupil, betook himself
slowly and pensively to his private room.
His face wore a puzzled expression ; the coolness
with which Galbraith had made his offer,
and the — to him — unparalleled incident of the
morning visit to the house, a visit paid when
he who should have been all powerful in
the matter was comfortably breakfasting, had
somewhat disturbed his mind, and it was with
some slight perturbation and a little abatement
of his usual dignity that he sought once
more the bosom of his family. He paused a
moment at the door before opening it, and
softly enumerated to himself the heads of his
astonishment.

He — ah — walks over the house without
my written order — strange !

He — ah — seems most uncertain about Mrs.
Stanhope's name — curious !

And he — ah — makes an offer for a house
and — ah — furniture as though it were for a
ah — cow ! a cow in the market-place ! —
a most extraordinary young man ! "

Another few moments were spent with his
hand upon the handle of the door of his private
room, he then slowly and softly turned, and,
instead of entering, took his hat from a peg
and sallied forth on his errand.

Emerging from South Street, into the part

of the High Street immediately in front of the

Bear," Mr. Bompas perceived his late visitor

strolling carelessly across the path of the

churchyard and pausing occasionally to peruse

some inscription or observe some date. At

the door of the " Bear," lounged Mr. PimiiiFer,

the landlord, who apparently seemed no less

interested in the figure in the churchyard than

Mr. Bompas. This latter worthy was not long

in perceiving the direction of the landlord's

gaze, and, suddenly altering his route, walked

over to the door of the " Bear." Many a

time had his portly form filled the chair at
vol. i. 3

public dinners at the " Bear," many churchwarden's,
wayward's, charity, auditor's
accounts had been made up there after cold
lunch, passed over punch, and voted correct
at a dinner. He and Mr. Pinniffer were old
cronies, for there was not a more " responsible "
man in Avonham, not even excepting Mr.
Bompas himself, than Mr. George Pinniffer,
late Quartermaster Sergeant of Her Majesty's
Royal Marlshire Fusiliers, and now mine host
of the " Bear Hotel " of his native town,
whither he had retired with a good conduct
pension, a couple of medals, and many honourable
scars.

Terrible hot, Mr. Bompas, terrible hot to
be sure, sir," said he removing his stalwart
form from the doorway, and welcoming Mr.
Bompas in with a wave of the hand. " I
was a-thinking of seeing you this morning ;
but I had got my Markham brewer here, and
you know I must see the malt fairly cast,
lest the beer don't turn out like the last lot.
But if you'll step into my bar parlour —
there's not a soul there, sir — I'll bring you
in the rent, and take a receipt over as good
a glass of cold punch as ever you've had here,
sir, and that won't be a bad one, I'll pound it ! "

Mr. Bompas assented to the punch much
in the manner of Jove accepting nectar, and
the pair repaired to a cosy snuggery behind
the bar, where, after a short comparison of
papers, and an exchange of bank notes, coin,
and receipts, the two sat down to their punch
solemnly and sedately, as befitted men who
had just discharged an important portion of
the business of life.

It having been mutually agreed that the
weather was fine, that the hay promised welland
that most of it would be in in a week, if
the weather held, Mr. Bompas turned the
conversation slowly and deliberately to the
stranger. Mr. Pimiifier showed himself much
interested in the fact that his unknown customer
was a man of substance and house-buying
ability, and then confessed that
although he (Pinniffer) had seen many men
and many cities, he had never in his life seen
a cooler, offer-handed gentleman than the subject
of their discourse, seen by both of them
through a little window of the bar-parlour,
standing in front of the churchyard gate, cigar
in mouth, gazing down the silent and glaring
street.

He came over in the omnibus last evening

Z—9

about eight. He walked straight in and called
for a pint o' champagne ; had it put into one of
those tankards up there and took it off like a —
like — a — " Mr. Pinniffer hesitated a moment,
and then rushing at his simile, said, " like a
marine ! " He paused and sipped his punch
before resuming.

He sent his portmanteau up to his room
and stood at the door a bit, and then he turns
round and, says he, ' Landlord says he.
4 Yes, sir,' I says. c Landlord,' says heare
there any houses to let in this place ? '
Well, Mr. Bompas, of course I told him about
the ' Coombes ' and Mr. Miller's little cottage,
and told him your name, and where you lived
and that, and then he turned round and says,
Ah !' he says, ' I like the look of the town ; get
me some supper at nine, and I'll look at the
houses tomorrow.' With that he walks off,
comes back at nine o' clock, has his supper and
sits in the corner of the smoke-room for the
rest of the evening and never says a word,
points to his glass when he wants it filled,
and never says a word. Puzzled us all, sir,
all of us, none of us knew what to make
of him at all ; quiet enough, of course, and
seems a nice gen'elmarily sort, but no company,

not sociable like, you know, Mr. Bomb


Mr. Bompas acquiesced in this view, and, premising
that the secrets of his profession were
of peculiar solemnity and weight, gave the
history of his own interview with the stranger.

There, now ! " said Mr. Pinniffer, " look
at that now ! dear, dear ; well to be sure, he is a
terrible cool gen'elman, surely."

Mr. Bompas, having finished his punch, rose,
shook his head solemnly and dubiously, and
bidding farewell to the landlord, went on his
way to Mrs. Stanhope. Crossing the churchyard
he passed Galbraith, who was smoking
serenely, and who seemed quite oblivious of his
existence, in spite of the laboured and stately
salutation with which the ex-mayor deigned to
favour a prospective townsman, a circumstance
which, for the third time that day, caused the
worthy man much inward reflection. He pursued
his way, however, in his usual imposing
manner, and, having to deal with an ordinary
and well-known client, was able to effect his
business without any other mental shock.
After a somewhat long consultation, Mr. Bomb
returned to the " Bear," and finding Mr.
Galbraith standing on the steps and still gazing

down the street, w T as able to inform him that
his offer had been accepted, and that only the .
necessary formalities had to be gone through.
He was referred, to his great astonishment, to
the very firm in London who acted as Mrs.
Stanhope's solicitors, and in a few days the
Coombes," which had been empty long
enough to be an interesting topic of Avonham
tea-table talk, was occupied by the mysterious
young man, who added yet more to the wonder
of the town by bringing with him as his w r hole
apparent household, only one servant, that servant
a man, and that man a stalwart negro
with great filed teeth.

^3

GUESTS AT THE PRIORY HOUSE.

Mrs. Stanhope, of the Priory House, was
admittedly the leader of Fashion and Society
in Avonham. Her sway was undisputed, and
her power apparently limitless. There were
two sections of Society in Avonham, and there
was a Pariah Section which was not in Society
at all. There was no neutral ground ; to one
of the coteries everyone was bound to belong.
True, the exigencies of life sometimes made
it necessary that certain persons, by their
position, were received by both the Society
sections, but it was only in business hours that
there was familiarity — it ceased when four
o' clock struck and the professional business of
Avonham was over. And there was also one
thing which terribly exercised the minds of
Mrs. Stanhope and her immediate surrounding,
and that was the position in Society of the
Mayor.

Indeed it was embarrassing. For the Mayor,

by virtue of his office, was of course the leader
of all the public doings in Avonham, and on
him devolved the reception of any travelling
greatness who might be visiting in the neighbourhood.
He it was through whom was given
that great moral support which Avonham
has always extended to the Crown, and which
the occupants of the throne have esteemed so
highly, ever since the days of Queen Mary
who gave the town its charter. In the Town
Hall was the bust of Sir Jabez Potts, who on
being entrusted with an address to George III.,
on the occasion of the great defeat of the French
by Lord Howe in 1794, had been knighted by
the King, to his great elation and to the pride
and glory of Avonham, of which town he was
a cloth weaver. What had happened before
might happen again, and each succeeding
Mayor of Avonham felt, as he buckled on the
sword of office and donned the robes of State,
that he too might kneel before his Sovereign
and after a few sweet and ennobling words
might rise and return to his townsfolk and
family a full-blown doughty knight.

On the other hand, although at present the
state of Mayoralty in Avonham was satisfactory
so far as the position of the occupier of

the civic throne was concerned, he being a
solicitor and having succeeded Mr. Bompas,
who was presentable in " Society," yet there
were times when the gentility had been terribly
puzzled as to how to receive a Mayor
who was a butcher, who stood at his door with
his blue apron on, left the slaughter-house for
the Town Council, and exchanged the 
for the Chair. And then again,
although the Mayor might be tolerated in his
official robes and with the handsome chain of
office round his neck, yet, alas ! there was one
appalling fact to consider, which was that
there was neither chain nor scarlet robe of
office wherewith to deck the Mayoress. So it
came to pass that Society which, as we all
know, has its immense tasks forced upon, and
not sought by it, had to suffer greatly in reconciling
what was due to itself with what was
due to the town. Such sacrifices were, however,
made with that patience and courage
which has generally characterised all martyrdoms
; and the town and its gentility managed
to work together amicably and for the interests
of both.

There was a second section of Society, respectable
in its way, larger than the Gentility

section, and in reality the mainstay of Avon-ham
; from this class came more of the Mayors
than from the " upper-crust," as the youth of
the second section termed it. It had no regular
leader, the ladies being less amenable to
the rule of one person than the followers of
Mrs. Stanhope. It had one link and one link
only that bound it socially with the first class,
and that was the Church and its affairs. But it
was as exclusive towards its inferiors as if it
had been the highest society in the land ; stolid
respectability was its great characteristic ; its
female members exhausted much tea, its males
had their club at which they consumed much
tobacco, settled the affairs of the country-side
with solemnity, and observed towards the
Crown, the Church, and the Constitution, that
reverence and loyalty for which the little town
had long been noted, but into which reverence
a most curious anomaly crept, which was that,
though devotedly Protestant and unfeignedly
Evangelical, it yet respected and admired, just
as most other Protestant communities detested
and abhorred, the memory of pastor-roasting
Mary, from whom the place held, as we said
before, the charter which made it a town.
We mention the Pariah section as cautiously

as possible and with this saving clause for it,
that it consisted in a great measure of youths,
who, not having vet acquired any reverence
for the respectability, had not become attached
to either party, but openly held aloof
from both. These were generally reconciled
to one of the sections by the face and form of
some female member, whose influence induced
the youth, first to neglect his old companions
and pursuits, next to hover about the outskirts
of the section which held his charmer, and
finally, having attained the object of his affections
in the parish church, to settle down respectably
and quietly in the station of Avon-ham
life to which the young lady called him.
There were sometimes instances of an inverse
working of this rule, when a youthful member
of one of the great parties, having been rejected
by a lady, left his party in desperation and
joined the ranks of the Pariahs, but such instances
were rare, and the Pariahs, who were
not at all bad Pariahs, but some of the liveliest
youths of the place, were not fond of encouraging
these deserters, but more often insisted,
kindly and firmly, in being suffered to go their
own way alone. Many of these wild blades
were in the habit of making excursions to

Bristol and Bath for their pleasure, rejecting
the tea-tables of the Avonham matrons and the
long pipes of the fathers of the town, and some
had even penetrated to the arcana of London
itself, and spoke familiarly to awe-stricken
audiences of the delights of Remorse and the
chops of the " Cheshire Cheese."

But neither tradesmen nor Pariahs found
their way inside the Priory House gates on the
occasion of those special day-parties which Mrs.
Stanhope occasionally gave on the smooth -
shaven lawn of her beautiful grounds. And
to-day the notabilities of Avonham were assembled
there to welcome no smaller a luminary
than the Right Rev. the Bishop of the
Diocese. Seated in the most comfortable of
armchairs under the shadiest of trees, the
worthy father was chatting smoothly and
mellifluously with his fair hostess. On various
parts of the lawn, but for the most part under
the sheltering trees, for the day was hot, were
the heads of the gentility party of both sexes.
A little more decorum than even this decorous
society was in the habit of expressing was assumed
for the occasion and in deference to the
presence among them ; still there was no lack
of life and even mild gaiety in the picture.

The Bishop himself was a well-made portly
man, not at all averse to the good things of
this world and certainly not an unnecessarily
stern precisian, and he looked with evidently
pleased eyes at the groups on the lawn before
him. Standing beside his lordship and also in
conversation with his hostess was Sir Head-ingle
Cannn, Bart., Member of Parliament for
Avonham, which he represented entirely to
the satisfaction of his constituents, who had not
troubled themselves or him with a contested
election for eighteen years : a tall fresh-coloured
good-looking English gentleman withall
the precise and perhaps pedantic courtesy
of the good old school.

At a little distance from this group, an old
beau, with a most wonderful assumption of
youth, was chatting the smallest of small talk
with the three pretty daughters of Mr. Bompas
and with their mamma, whilst, some paces from
them, Mr. Bompas himself and Mr. Oldham,
the banker, were discussing some weighty
point of finance, which lifted them awhile from
the surrounding gaiety, and had involved them
in a stream of figures so inexplicably dense
that it made one hot to listen, for which reason,
probably, they were entirely alone.

Regarding the antique beau, whose name
was Trumphy, and who was the delight of all
the maiden ladies of Avonham, was a young
fellow of about twenty six, who was leaning
against the pillar of a verandah and casting
glances of excessive scorn from a pair of very
black eyes upon the unconscious little gentleman,
who was smirking and bowing and keep -
ing up a string of extravagant compliments,
and who was firmly persuaded of his ability to
hold entranced all the pretty maidens at the
party, but who was at present especially
devotion himself to the undoubted belle of
them all, Adelaide Bompas, whom we have
already described as a very pretty, merry
English lassie. There seemed to be no reason
why Alfred Shelman should not have joined
that or any other group that afternoon, but he
chose rather to stand by the verandah and
scowl at little Mr. Trumphy in a bellicose
and unpleasant manner. For he had not a
pleasing expression, this black-haired, black -
Whiskered, black - eyed, dark - complexioned
young man, and little white patches came and
went round his thin lips and nostrils in a
manner not good to look upon. He was
aroused from his meditation by a voice — a

lazy, drawling voice which seemed to express
half sloth, half contempt, and appeared to
have a pleasing effect on the person who
possessed it, and a most irritating one upon
him who heard.

Going to sleep, Shelman, or planning an
escape from this outdoor oven, eh ? "

What do you mean ? " said Shelman with
a start, "planning what ? going where ? "

"Oh, I see," drawled the other, "it's the
Bompas girls — Gad, I haven't seen 'em for an
age. Been in London, you know, with uncle.
I'll go and chat with 'em. See you presently ,
perhaps," and the young fellow strolled off
and joined Mr. Trumphy and his audience.

He was not so morose as Shelman, but had
an indolent, sleepy sort of face, which, in its
pink - and - whiteness, its regularity and its
want of expression, looked like the face of a
doll. He was curled and ringed and scented,
and on the best terms with himself, and was
as conceited a piece of vanity as any in Marl -
shire. He affected cynicism and was really a
Sybarite, professed contempt for field sports
for want of courage to share in them, and for
sheer lack of energy to face any difficulty
expressed himself careless as to the events of

life, taking care, however, to make his life at
the same time as easy and comfortable as
possible, and had that pleasant disregard for
the feelings of other people which generally
distinguishes those w r hose only thought is to
please themselves. He was the nephew and
heir of Sir Headingly Cannn, of w r hose sister,
now dead, he was the only child. Such was
Walter Rivers, with idiom our history will
have much to do.

Mr. Trumphy was visibly disturbed by the
advent of this gilded youth. For surely it is
not the sweetest portion of the experiences of
amorous age when youth comes and beauty
turns away towards it. He had had his
cheery little old-world gossip, had paid his
well-worn compliments and earned his meed
of praise, having really amused his good-natured
hearers, and lo ! his triumph was to
depart at the first words of the 
who was sauntering towards them. But
he had reckoned without his host ; the young
ladies certainly bowed, but immediately cast
little meaning glances at one another ; buxom
Mrs. Bompas was the only one who took the
outstretched hand, but a cloud passed over her
merry face as she did so, and Mr. Trumphy

could see with evident delight that the visitor
was not more welcome to the ladies than to
him. He recovered his vivacity as quickly ashe
had lost it, assumed his buckish demeanour,
and seemed to preen himself like an amiable
old swan.

Good-day, Mrs. Bompas, good-day, ladies ;
how d'ye do, Mr. Trumphy ; bless me, what
an age it seems since I saw you. I was just
telling Als Shelman that "

I thought he looked bored and cross about
something," said Adelaide.

Xow, Miss Adelaide, do let a follow alone
isn't she too bad, Mrs. Bompas ? " Mrs.
Bompas, who had given downright Adelaide
a timorous warning glance, responded only by
an uneasy smile. ki You really are so very
terrible, Miss Adelaide, that I'm quite afraid
of you."

Complimentary, Mr. Rivers, I must say, to
one of our sex. And pray, where have you
been this age as you call it ? London, I
suppose ? "

Yes, Miss Adelaide, London, with uncle,

and helping him in that awful parliamentary

work, you know. I'm quite knocked up,

now, really, I am ; I want some country air
vol. i. 4

and quiet, I really do. I can't make out how
it is fellows go on year after year at the
pace they do in London. I expect you do,
Mr. Trumphy — begad, I've heard you used
to do it yourself, but I can't stand it. It
knocks me up, you know. I like the
country. I like quiet and peace and all
that sort of thing, so I persuaded uncle to
come down here for a bit of a rest ; and
here we are."

Yes, and now you are here," said Mr.
Trumphy, with a roguish look at the girls,
"now you a re here, Mr. Rivers, for goodness'
sake do keep quiet."

Mr. Walter was rather discomfited at the
hearty laugh with which this sally was received,
and after a few commonplaces withdrew and
joined the young man to whom he had first
spoken, and who still remained leaning against
the verandah, wearing the same morose and
repelling expression of face. He sneered as
Rivers came up to him, and seemed delighted
at the shortness of his interview with the
Bompas family.

Well," said he, " you didn't stay long
with your friends, considering how long you've
been absent from them."

The other did not seem in the least degree
annoyed, but laughed and replied :

No, my dear fellow, I didn't ; why don't
you go and give them a visit ? Perhaps you'd
have better luck than I seem to get."

Adelaide snubbed you, I saw that."

I'm not the first or the only fellow she's
snubbed, I expect ; how is it you're not on
terms with the family ? "

Who said I wasn't on terms with the
family ? " said Shelman, the white marks coming
and going in his face, and with an uneasy
twitching of the fingers.

My dear fellow, it was the first thing I
heard when I came down to this hole ; Perry
and Watson were both at me as soon as I saw
them yesterday — they were full of it."

Perry and Watson are a couple of insolent

puppies, and know nothing about it. Because

the old man and I happened to disagree in the

Bank one day over a little matter of business,

is that any reason that the family should be*

brought into question ? People disagree about

money matters every day of the week, all the

year round. I do wish to goodness people

would either talk about what they understand,

and nothing else, or else not talk at "all."

4— 2

UNIVERSITY Of
ILLINOIS Library

We shouldn't get much conversation out
of Avonham under that arrangement, I'm
afraid ; and what we did wouldn't be up to
much ; but what was the row w r with Father
Pomp ; how did you manage to ruffle that
old Patriarch's feathers ? "

I didn't ruffle his, confound him, but he
put me preciously out, I can tell you. You
know the ' Coombes ? '

,; Old Currie's place that was ? — yes."

Well, I always said that if old Currie left,
I'd take that place. It would have suited me
admirably in every way with the alterations I
proposed making, and I wanted to settle down
in a house of my own, and — and "

And ask Addie Bompas to come and look
after it, eh ? "

Well, suppose I did, w r hat of it ? If I
don't very much mistake it won't be through
you if ever she did."

But she won't, my dear boy, she won't
come for either of us, so it's not a morsel of
use for us to quarrel over her. Go on about
the ' Coombes ' and the row with the old man."

There wasn't any row I tell you ; it was
this w 7 ay : —When Currie left, I went to Bomb
and asked him whether the house would

be to let. He said lie didn't know — Laura
hadn't made — Mrs. Stanhope hadn't made up
her mind whether to let or not."

Rivers glanced quietly at his companion ashe
substituted the hostess' surname for her
Christian one, and saw that a fierce flush had
swept rapidly over his face, as he made an effort
to restrain his rage.

So I went," Shelman proceeded after a
pause, " to her and asked her, and she wouldn't
let it to me. Said she didn't intend to let it
just then. It was to be done up, it was to be
altered, half-a-dozen things she told me about
it, and at last I gave the thing up, for the
present at least."

I went past there yesterday, and it seemed
occupied ; there were blinds up and old Duggan
was working away in the front garden. Who's
got it, then ? "

Now you're coming to what you call the
row," said Shelman, peevishly. " About three
weeks ago, when Mrs. Stanhope had just come
back from London, a fellow comes down here
one day, from goodness knows where, and puts
up at the ' Bear,' calls on old Bompas the
next day — I got that from Carter, who owes
him a grudge for some cheek he got from him

sees old Bompas, who immediately comes up
here, and, by Jove ! in a few days' time, this
fellow moves into the ' Coombes,' having bought
it — bought it, sir — not rented it — furniture,
land, house and every mortal thing. That's
what riled me."

Would you have bought it ? "

Bought it ! of course I would ; she must
have been mad to sell it for such a price.
Fancy, two thousand for the lot ; the furniture
was only four hundred, it's true, and the buyer
paid all the law expenses ; but just imagine,
sixteen hundred for the ' Coombes ! ' Why
it's absurdly cheap. I'd have given five hundred
pounds more directly, and so I told old
Bompas."

What did he say ? I thought Mrs. Stanhope
took his advice in everything ? "

So she does. I know she does, but in this
instance the old fool swears he knew nothing
at all about it. It was all done through Goldings
in London ; this fellow, it appears, is one
of their clients and they told him of the house.
All Bompas had to do was to actually sell the
thing and take the money. It seemed all cut
and dried, he says, and when I told him he
ought to have kept the first chance for me, he

declared that it didn't matter, for when he
mentioned my name to Mrs. Stanhope, she
shut him up at once."

That's rather a short expression for Pomp."
Well, then — she intimated her disinclination
to interfere with current negotiations,"
said Shelman, with a short and strident laugh ;
"it's about the same thing though, and so that
chance of getting a house is gone. I shall
build one, I think, on the Western Road. Will
you sell me that piece backing on to the river ?
I want a boat-house."

I'm not going to sell any Avonham land,
old fellow, thank you. Uncle's sure to get a
Railway Bill for the town, and you'll see howland
will be then. But who is the man who
bought the place ? What's his name, and
where does he come from ? "

His name's Galbraith, but where he comes
from goodness only knows. He's a most
extraordinary fellow, and no one in Avonham
seems to know anything about him. He's got
a confounded great hulking nigger for a
servant, a fellow six-feet high, with teeth like
a saw."

Sort of Misty, I suppose. Well ? "

I wrote to the man telling him I'd take

the house off his hands and give him a couple
of hundred for his bargain, but he sent me a
very short note in reply, saying he was going
to stop on, and so, as I told you before, that
chance is gone — here's the Bishop and your
uncle coming ; let's go and see if old Bowdby's
got any wine going "

Not now, old fellow, I want to see the
Bishop — always speak to Bishops, it gives one
tone."

Shelman turned moodily away and showed
(worst kind of angry man) no relief from
having told his grievance. Rivers looked
after him with a smile.

You're a nice young man, Alfred," said
he softly to himself, " a very nice young man
you'd make a charming husband, and I
envy the girl who marries you. So the
widow saw through the game, did she, and
wouldn't stand it. I don't wonder at it.
Why when I left, I thought she was going to
change her name again to Shelman. There's
only a half score years between you, and
there's plenty of money on both sides. Well,
there's only a half score years between another
man and your charming widow, and there
isn't an open attachment to another girl

between him and her ; and there's plenty of
money on his side and will be more. I
wonder how uncle would like it ? Hem ! I'll
see."

And here his uncle and the Bishop coming
up, he was soon in close converse with them,
showing marked ability in his piloting of his
uncle through devious ways of rhetoric, and
much skill in keeping him from falling into
pit-holes of doctrine or politics ; smiling and
winning, deferential and polite, the Bishop
was pleased with him, his uncle was grateful
to him, and he was self-satisfied to an inordinate
degree. And all through that afternoon,
as he went from group to group, there was
none of the silent distrust of him which had
been manifested by Mrs. Bompas and her
daughters ; indeed the matrons of the party
seemed charmed with him, the maidens neither
chiding nor coy in his presence. Where had
he been so honos ? and how £good it was of him
to work so hard for his uncle, and what had
the Bishop said to him ? and wasn't he glad
to get back to his Avonham friends ? — these
were the remarks rained on him from all sides,
and to all of them he gave light, chatty,
pleasing answers. He found himself at last

close to his hostess, who beckoned him to her
side with a smile.

Tall, dark, stately, well-preserved, with
much natural dignity and not a little grace ;
arm well shaped, hand and foot small ; eyes
black as shoes and bright and sparkling ;
somewhat low forehead, and a mouth whose
chief characteristic was the evidence of quiet
firmness which it gave — this was Mrs. Stanhope.


You have been at your best, I hear, Mr.
Rivers," said she, motioning him to sit by
her side. " You are getting quite a popular
character. Have you any design in it ?
Your uncle's seat is surely safe enough."

My uncle's seat is safe enough, no doubt,
but, you know, a young fellow may have
ambitions, and my uncle won't live for ever.
It's his wish that I make myself as agreeable
as possible in Avonham ; in case of anything
happening to him, he would like me to
succeed him rather than think of a stranger
coming to sit for Avonham."

Indeed ! is your lordship the only
resource of Avonham ? "

My lordship, as you are pleased to say, is
not the only resource of Avonham, but Avon-ham

likes an Avonham man to represent it,
and, since the Reform Bill, has always had
one — and, connected as I am with my uncle,
knowing all his parliamentary business, and
being entirely in his confidence, I have as
good a chance as anyone else."

Well, when the time comes you shall have
my interest, I promise you. Thank goodness,
they can't deprive us of our interest, even
though they won't let us vote."

I shall always be happy when our
interests are identical," said Rivers, with a
laugh, and a bold glance at his hostess.

She rose and made him a pretty bow.
Come and get me an ice, you forward boy ;
you learn the horridest things in London, I'm
sure."

Is there nothing to be learned in Avon-ham,
then ? " said Walter, laughing, as he
gave her his arm, " but I forgot to ask you
something. Are you losing your interest in
the place, or are you giving us faggot votes ? "

What do you mean ? "

Why, you've sold the ' Coombes,' I
hear."

Oh, yes, but my interest in Avonham
isn't diminished. I had a brood deal of

bother over it in Major Currie's time, for one
thing, and I had a fair offer for it without
taking any trouble about it for another, and I
had a third reason for selling it, which was
most important of all."

And that was ? "

I had a debt to pay."

A debt to pay, why, good agra "

Not a money debt, you foolish man.
When I want money I will come to either the
present or the future member for Avonham,
after my bankers and agents have all failed
me. It was another sort of debt altogether."

And you paid it by selling the house ;
ah ! I understand now. So you owed Sherman
a turn, did you ? "

Yes, and paid it too — you young men
want keeping in order sometimes. So he told
you of it, did he ? "

Only this afternoon. I saw him looking
very amiable about something, and got the
story from him after a little. He seems very
cross over it."

I meant him to be. I must keep my
subjects in order, you know."

I thought Shelman was your slave ? "

Maybe — but he escaped, and this house

was the only dog I could send to bite him — so
I sent it."

But did he escape ? If he did it was to
that horrid place that those misguided fellows
in America get to — the Dismal Swamp — for he
can find no shelter elsewhere, and he's as glum
as possible. I've been away, you know, and
didn't hear of it. Well, it doesn't break my
heart, for Shelman and I were never quite
David and Jonathan, although we were at
Eton together."

Besides which — I think I've heard so —
wasn't there a little rivalry between you
once r

Of course there was. I'm jealous of all
your slaves ; everyone in Marlshire is."

I don't mean that, you incorrigible fellow.
I'm talking about that pretty daughter of Mr.
Bompas. She's here to-day ; I asked them all
to meet the Bishop. Bompas is churchwarden,
you know."

Which of them ? Egad, they're all
pretty. No, there was never anything in that.
I never said anything but mere civility to Miss
Bompas, and, by Jove ! I never even got that
from her, for she's as sharp as a needle, and
drops down upon me awfully. Shelman was

hit, and still is, I believe, but I don't know
what to think of it, I'm sure. Indeed, I don't.
I've been away, don't you know. Let me
give you this ice."

Mrs. Stanhope could not hope that one of
her guests, however charming, could occupy
her longer. She had to full the thousand
little duties of a hostess, all of which she did
to perfection. When the episcopal chariot
came for the Bishop, he took leave of her in
the most fervent and marked manner. The
member, the banker, the family solicitor, the
magnates of Marlshire, and the great ones of
the West, all said their adieux, and praised
their hostess ; her graceful winning ways, her
hospitality and affability were lauded to the
skies. And when the last guest had departed,
and Mrs. Stanhope had had her quiet dinner,
cooked by the skilful hands of her chef, and
served by servants devoted to her, who only
asked to live and die in her service, she leaned
back in her armchair, and fell to thinking over
the events of the day.

Among these events had been the frequent
reception of some very prettily paid compliments,
and an amount of attention from Walter
Rivers in particular, which had not been misconstrued

by a woman well read in the Avays
of the world. It was perhaps natural that the
thoughts of the handsome widow took a matrimonial
turn. Mr. Stanhope was a wealthy
man who, eight years ago, had married her and
brought her to his house at Avonham, whither
he had retired, after realising a handsome fortune
as a London merchant. Their married
life had been perfectly uneventful, and had
lasted only four years, when Mr. Stanhope had
died, blessing her with his latest breath as a
hid and loving wife, and endowing her with
almost all his wealth. And yet, when Mrs.
Stanhope, after thinking of her admirers and
their compliments, began to turn her thoughts
to love and marriage, the family skeleton came
out of its secret cupboard, and held close communion
with her for an hour — and a very
grim and ugly skeleton it was.

<& * &

THE STRANGER GIVES MR. ALFRED Sherman
MORE CAUSE TO LOVE HIM.

Now that the first overwhelming curiosity as
to the new occupant of the " Coombes " had
somewhat subsided, on account of the apparent
hopelessness of discovering anything about
him, public attention directed itself with great
diligence to studying his domestic doings.
The only medium through which the good
gossips could find out anything about the interior
of the house was a stalwart charwoman,
named Hackett, who was an institution in
Avonham, and w r ho, it was speedily found out,
went to the " Coombes " for two hours in the
morning, to ply the art which she professed.
Even from her, the good ladies could make out
very little. The house, she said, was pretty
much the same as in Major Currie's time ; the
new tenant had purchased very little new
furniture ; some shelves had been put up, there
was a " sight o' books " in the front parlour, and

some new and incomprehensible utensils had
been added to the kitchen. The gentleman
was a real gentleman ; her money was always
laid regular on the mantelpiece for her every
morning, and she got as much for her two
hours as ever she'd got for a day anywhere
else ; sometimes it didn't take her two hours,
and then she just finished her work and went ;
the beer-cellar wasn't locked, she sometimes
pointedly remarked (in houses where it was
locked), and the tap was to be turned for the
turning, and no questions asked. The gentleman
seemed an early riser, and in general
walked about in the garden after breakfast
a-smoking, and he didn't smoke no Avonham
cigars neither, she knew the smell on 'em
better. She never had no cooking to do — the
coloured gentleman done all that. Well, some
people might call him a nigger if they liked,
but since she'd known him she didn't know
but what she'd a-changed her mind a bit about
it like ; anyways, he was always polite and
civil enough to her, and handsome is as handsome
does, and what was beauty but skin-deep
after all was what she wanted to know. All
she knew was that it was the best job o' charing
as she'd ever had since in this town she'd
vol. i. 5

a-bin, and how long it lasted she didn't care.
Thus spoke Mrs. Hackett, stalwart charwoman,
earning many a glass of pleasing and comforting
strong waters from her narration.

The tradesmen of Avonham regarded the
new-comer with respect as a gentleman who
paid for everything as he had it ; ran no bills,
all cash down on the nail, they wished everybody
were like him that way. He seemed to
live simply ; his servant was rather exacting
towards Mr. Killett (the ex-butcher-mayor)
in the matter of special cuts and small
dainties, but — there, foreigners, particularly
them of a different colour, were expected to bea
bit curious in their tastes and fancies, and
the man was a civil, well-spoken man
enough — the chief wonder in the minds of
the Avonham worthies being that neither his
speech nor his manner in the slightest degree
resembled that of the wandering companies
of Christy Minstrels who had occasionally
visited the town, and who were popularly
supposed to be faithful delineators of the
manners of the African race.

From the remainder of the town Mr.
Galbraith kept carefully aloof as it seemed.
Perhaps the feeling was slightly too strong on

that point, but it is certain that he sought no
introduction to any of the townsfolk, and had
a calm but startling manner of answering"
any questions, which we have seen brought into
play with Mr. Bompas's unfortunate pupil, and
which effectually checked any approach to
familiarity. By the time he had settled down
in his house he had had the usual call from
the vicar, whom he had received politely, whom
he had told, in the live minutes that the interview
lasted, nothing of himself, and whom
he had dismissed — politely, it is true, but still
dismissed — much puzzled by the cold and impassive
demeanour of a man, young and apparently
in full health and strength. So that
although Galbraith did nothing very strange
or eccentric, no thin g more strange, that is, than
to evince a desire to be left entirely to himself,
yet, had he been in the habit of launching out
into the wildest extravagances, had he at once
joined the very outermost circle of the Pariah
section, he would not have excited a tithe of
the gossip and curiosity which followed his
settlement in the town, and which lasted for
the first fortnight of his residence.

Then the subject began to drop a little ; interest
strained to its uttermost must relax at

5—2

last, and it was so in this case. The town had
to prepare for its great fair, held at the end of
July, and lasting three days ; two mill-owners
had a dispute about water-rights, in which
every male inhabitant (always excepting Galbraith)
took one side or the other ; children
were born in the families of two or three prominent
citizens ; Mr. Sander, the young grocer,
married Miss Salton, the veterinary surgeon's
daughter, who had thrown over Mr.
Speckled, the optician, whom everyone had
thought was to be the happy man ; and old
Mr. Rax, the senior member of the Town
Council, died, and was honoured with a public
funeral ; in a word, Time, which effaces the
deeds of the evil and the good alike in the
great w r old wherein we all toil and moil,
gradually wore away the impression which
the stranger had created on his arrival in the
quiet little town.

With Mr. Bompas alone had Galbraith kept
up anything like intercourse. It had arisen
very naturally out of the first arrangements
for the transfer of the house ; for in this land
of property, and among this nation of shopkeepers,
the sale and purchase of houses are
not conducted in dumb-crambo ; naturally

enough, also, they exchanged greetings whenever
they happened to meet. Sometimes Mrs.
Bompas leaned on the arm of her Abel, in
which case the hat of the young man was
raised with more formality ; it had happened
that Mr. Bompas had one of the young ladies
with him, in which case also we know it is
necessary to bow. Xow, to acknowledge the
salutation of a vouno; Gentleman, when leaning
on papa's arm, is undeniably correct, and
Prudery herself must countenance it ; also
when mamma receives the compliment, Miss
must also admit it, and having gone thus far
it would be hard-hearted to refuse to see the
gentleman's bow when two or three sisters are
together, and are saluted collectively, and soon
and so on, till you find that you will
naturally incline your head to a respectful hat-lifting
male, even when walking down the
street of a country-town alone. Of course the
Misses Bompas bowed to other gentlemen,
but they were the only young ladies in the
place who ever received any notice from Mr.
Galbraith.

From time immemorial Avonham had its
special trade in which it surpassed towns
twenty times its size, and for which indeed

it stood first in all the land. It had the
largest market for cheese in England. At its
great fair in October were " pitched," that is,
brought into the town and exposed for sale,
mountains of cheeses of all sizes and kinds, but
principally of those made in the district twenty
miles round, in the two greatest grazing and
cheese-making counties we have. On the
second Friday of every month the ordinary
cheese market was held, that of October being
the largest ; but in addition to all these cheese
pitching it had an annual fair lasting three
days, a fair which brought in all the countryside
for miles around, which filled the town
with horned cattle, rosy-checked farm hands,
and shows and stalls of all descriptions. To
receive the visitors took the town a week of
preparation, to get rid of their traces a w r week
of cleaning up ; it was the one great event
which really broke the routine life of Avon-ham
; open house was the order of the day,
and every outlying native made shift by hook
or by crook to get back to the home of his
youth on at least one of the three days.

On the first of these three days was held
the annual " Mop " or hiring fair. Scarcely
a farm servant for miles round but was engaged

in this way. Standing in the marketplace,
and lining the main street, were two
detachments of them, men in one, women in
the other, all waiting to be engaged for a year
from " Mop " day. Farmers in want of carters,
ploughmen, odd men, or shepherds ; their
wives seeking dairymaid, kitchen-helps, and
such-like," went amongst these two parties,
sacking persons looking likely to suit them,
making their bargain, and binding it with
earnest money, the passing of which makes
the contract good for eleven months. A
specimen of this kind of hiring would be about
as follows :

Farmer (speaking to a man who, from
having a piece of twisted whipcord in his hat,
is known to be a carter). " How many losses
thee bin a used to mind ? "
Carter. " 'Bout a ten, sur."
Farmer. " Where hast a bin a-livin' ? "
Carter. " Up to Master Dingle's, o' Lie
Milliner."

Farmer. " Be main heavy land, there-away,
eh ? "

Carter. " Sees, sur — a be terrible heavy to
be sure — 'twere shocking' work a cleaning o' en.
I be a aiming' for to get more downs way like."

Farmer. " Thee can'st gi' a loss a ball
now, can'st ? "

Carter. " Ay, sure, sur, an' never want
nur a doctor round my stable nether."

Farmer. i; How much dost 'ee ask, now ? "

Carter. " Fourteen zliillin', sur, an' I
don't aim to goo under it."

Farmer. " \Vhoy, livest skin' a zliillin'
moor nor any man i' tli' mop as I've a-spoak
too yit."

Carter. " Pack o' mackay moons ! Spoons
I be — I count myself' a jonik at it, sur —
not one o' they silly sort as look at a loss an'
think as hem dressed. You'll find I'll arn all
o' that, sur, an' save it thee aver an' aver in
oats an' iron."

Farmer. "Well, I've a heard on thee, ana
shilling' 'ont part us — there's thee earnest.
Come aver a Monday and make a start.
Long-bottom Warm, 'yond Rutherford Gate."

Carter. " All right, master ! Thank 'ee
kindly, sur. I'll be thur, sur, never year."

And the pair separate, well pleased, the
farmer going to look after his wife who is
chaffering over a pound a year with a red-armed
stalwart dairymaid, their business being
conducted very much after the same model.

The second day was devoted to cattle,
horses, sheep, and pigs, which swarmed in the
streets. The unfortunate bulls were tied to
stout posts in the upper market-place, and
at four o'clock were released to go plunging
blindly down the street, scaring the women
almost to death, and clearing everything before
them in their career. The sheep were sold by
auction in pens outside the " Bear," which was
thronged with visitors from morn to night ;
horses were found at the entrance to South
Street, and pigs everywhere.

It was of little use for the purveyors of
amusement to open their shows till the third
and last day, but then they reaped a silvern
harvest. Then the spotted boy, the pig-faced
lady and the knock-kneed giant drew crowds
to see them. Then was the gingerbread nut
hot i' the mouth, and the foaming sherbet
hissed in the glass ; then were the gathers
torn out of mother's dress as eager little ones
dragged her to gaily painted toy stalls where
the agile monkey climbed the yellow stick,
and popguns and side-drums, whistles and
humming tops made a display irresistible to
boyhood ; there on all sides were the " fairin' '
ribbons so dear to the female heart, cheap

jewellery, peep-shows, Punch and Judy, the
wonderful collection of wild and " fabulous "
animals, the five-legged horse and the .
The little place was in a whirl
of excitement for once, and the very nature of
the townsfolk was changed. Without entirely
throwing off the bucolic stolidity so welded to
the character of the Wessex county folk, they
ran riot with heavy humour ; the good old
jokes that had done duty for years w r ere all
cracked again, and, having received their usual
attendant guffaws, were carefully laid aside to
be produced again next fair — to be artfully led
up to in conversation, or lugged in neck and
crop at any and every opportunity. In many
a house, the parlours, the kitchen, the sacred
drawing-room or best parlour, only opened on
rare occasions, were filled with noisy, good-humoured
friends, bouncing lasses from country
farmhouses, boisterous bachelors making rough
love and meeting no reproof, all hoyderiish
or boyish misdemeanours being pardoned
on account of Fair Day, which, to say truth,
w r as the starting point of many a rustic wooing.
Of course, when everyone was entertaining
company, the house of Mr. Bompas, one of
the most hospitable of men as well as a county

magnate, was not closed. Indeed, the very
best of country-side society, the cream of the
landed interest, the golden youth of agriculture,
were cordially received by the genial,
albeit pompous, host. Mr. Bompas did not
sell in the market-place ; fair-tide was a holiday
with him, a season of feasting and meeting
country-side cronies, of hearing reports of
farms and land, crops and rents, prospects and
profits. For his wife it was a time to air the
newest dress, to produce the oldest wine, to
cut the richest cake, and to live again the days
of her youth in hearty communion with a
shore of matrons, her school-mates and girl-mates
of yore ; whilst for the Misses Bombast
was the occasion of receiving the undisguised
admiration and attention of half the youth of
the shire, some of whom hoped, some of whom
despaired, but all of whom were avowed admirers
of the three pretty sisters of Avonham.
Here they were now, the centre of a group of
young men, a group occasionally lessened by
the departure of one swain, to be speedily increased
by the coming of another.

Adelaide Bompas and her sisters were tall
and fair, with a great family likeness in all.
If there were any difference in their beauty it

was that the twenty-four years of Adelaide had
given a little more ripeness to her form than
the twenty-two years of Louisa, or the twenty
of Lucy. Why they had not married before
was sometimes a matter of wonder, sometimes
a matter for inquisitiveness and sometimes a
matter for spiteful rejoicing. But young
Grains, the brewer, had wooed Adelaide in
vain ; the Eevd. Adolphus Gran had fruitlessly
sought the hand of Louisa, and Lucy had
laughed so at the sight of Lieutenant Moody
as, arrayed in a tight shell jacket, he knelt at
her feet to propose, that the youthful warrior
had risen to his feet in dudgeon with all his
honied words unsaid. And rumour spoke of
others also.

Rumours said that Walter Rivers had been
also sent away by one of the trio, to which
statement was sometimes added the fact that
the young gentleman had been astounded
by getting that curious social entomological
specimen a " flea in his ear " from the lady
whom he supposed he was honouring by those
attentions so welcome to many, but so unrequited
where he most wished them favourably
received. It was a moot point as to how far
Mr. Shelman had gone, or was prepared to

go ; however, it was universally agreed by the
Avonham matrons, that however much people
may have thought he was smitten with Mrs.
Stanhope (and the very idea of him marrying
a women ten years older than he was), the
widow had had, whether she knew it or not,
or whether she cared or didn't, at any rate,
a temporary rival in Adelaide.

The mere mention of this purely supposititious
rivalry was at all times sufficient to
arouse the ire of these excellent women. Self-taught
to look on their Society leader as on a
being from another sphere, a daughter of their
own circle was to Mrs. Stanhope even as
Arachne unto Minerva. whatever the young
women wanted in the shape of husbands, the
matrons went on to observe, was more than they
knew ; that they were good-looking girls with
good figures nobody ever went to deny ; but for
being handsome — well, that was a matter of
opinion and taste — they were well off no doubt
(at least the father was), and rode their horses,
and had been to school at London — but after all
their father was in business just as the fathers
of their own darlings were, and they only hoped
their own girls would never look above their
stations, fur it was well known that pride often

had a fall, and it was also well known that
crows couldn't expect to live in eagles' nests,
and a great deal more proverbial wisdom to the
same effect was always quoted whenever the
question of the Misses Bompas and their
marriages cropped up at tea.

The three pretty sisters meanwhile went on
their way very much as they chose, and seemed
and probably were — entirely careless as to
the opinions of the self-appointed arbiters of
courtship and marriage. Not that the tea-table
forces were always permitted to make
hostile demonstrations without experiencing
a counter attack. All pretty women are
angels, but there is a great deal of human
nature in some of them. Sometimes it happened
that the feminine spite of some good
lady could not be restrained, but broke out in
sui>:ar- coated innuendoes made to one of the
young ladies herself. Whenever this occurred,
the attacked one w r ould take up the cudgels on.
behalf of herself and sisters so very efficaciously
that more than one mamma had retired from
the contest with the tables so completely
turned upon her and in such a routed and
demoralised condition that she herself could
not completely realise the extent of her overthrow

till an angry son, or a tearful daughter,
informed her that the sisters had carried the
war into the enemy's country by repeating the
facts of the encounter to a number of the youth
of both sexes and making at least a nine days'
laughing stock of the whole of the aggrieved
and innocent family.

The group in Mr. Bompas's handsome 
was one of the merriest in Avon-ham
that day ; from the host downwards, all
were full of fair-time fun and fair-time jollity.
Servants came and went with refreshments
solid and liquid, the windows towards the
garden were open, and the noise of the fair in
the main street was subdued and deadened by
the intervening trees. Conversation was therefore
easy, and it went on in one continued flow.
A the further end of the room near the window
looking on to South Street were the three
sisters and their attendant suite ; on the
heathrug was Mr. Bompas with a knot of his
particular cronies, and, at the garden end of
the room, Mrs. Bompas with her own especial
friends. A fresh-coloured young farmer was
endeavouring to interest the girls in a favourite
mare, the new curate was waiting to put ina
clerical joke warranted of the mildest and

purest Oxford brand, and Mr. Adolphus Carter,
who was, as every apprentice or articled
pupil should be, violently in love with his
master's daughter (in this case he never could
make up his mind with which), was gazing
fondly and earnestly at them all, when Adelaide
suddenly exclaimed :

Luce ! Lou ! whose horse is that ? What
a beauty ! Oh, he's for sale, I see ! "

Yes — he's good-looking enough — but you
should see this mare I was telling you about,"
said the young farmer. " I assure you, Miss
Lucy -"

Mr. Shelman seems to be going to buy
him," said Louisa. " Papa, is that one of
Dingle's men, with this horse here ? "

Mr. Bompas adjusted his glasses and approached
the window.

"My dear, I am unable to identify the
individual as being connected with Mr.
Dingle."

"It's a splendid horse, anyhow ; Shelman's
most decidedly smitten," said one of the young
men. " Ah, I see Dray is going to sell him by
auction ; there's the Duke's whip looking at
him now ; he'll fetch some money."

So he ouoTit," said Luc v. an enthusiast in

horseflesh, as every Amazon is ; "I wish papa
would go and buy him."

Xot a bit of use, Luce," said Louisa, " we
should only quarrel oyer him. I wonder what
he'll fetch."

I'll go down and see and bring you word
again," said the young farmer ; and he was
soon standing in the ring which surrounded

O o

the horse, in front of Mr. Dray's rostrum, a
kind of wheeled reading desk which was drawn
by a pony from point to point.

The bidding started briskly, and very soon
reached a hundred guineas, for the Duke's whip
made a sudden and bold leap when sixty was
reached and seemed to fancy that the horse
was his. Mr. Sherman, however, and a little
wiry local steeplechase jockey, still opposed,
and at a hundred and thirty he turned aside
with a sigh — he had really exceeded his limit,
but he said to his neighbour, " I know the
Duke 'ud a liked him, and it's a shame to lose
him, only I got my orders very particular
about price this early time."

The little jockey was still manfully bidding

against Mr. Sherman, to the latter's visible

annoyance, so he crossed the ring and went to

him.

vol. i. 6

Why the devil can't you let me have the
horse, Hart ? You don't want him."

I must have him, sir," said the man, touching
his hat respectfully, but speaking firmly.

Nonsense, you mean you want a tenner for
yourself. Well, you can have that to leave
him alone."

Any advance on one hundred and forty
guineas," said the auctioneer, raising his hammer,
for he noticed the conversation, and
guessed its import.

"A hundred and fifty," said Shelman.
Now, then, let the thing alone and you can
have ten for yourself."

Can't do it, sir ! A hundred and sixty ! "

Seventy," said Shelman, viciously.

Eighty," said the jockey, quietly.

; Hang you, take the brute," said Shelman,
scowling at the man, the horse, the auctioneer,
the crowd, and the surroundings generally ;
and elbowing his way out of the ring he
walked slowly down the street.

He paused at Mr. Bompas 's open door, and
twisted his glove, hesitatingly.

I haven't called, and I suppose I must :
it's best to keep in with these people. I'm
handed if I know what to do about the girls,

though. I've a good mind to make up to
Addie again. Curse that brute," and muttering
to himself he entered and walked upstairs.

He was cordially welcomed, of course, for he
was one of the first young men in the county,
a partner in the bank, a landed proprietor, and
a rising man ; but there was observable in his
greetings a sense of showing no desire of gaining
affection, but rather of exacting respect, and
those who saluted him and shook his hand did
so respectfully, yet not heartily, and spoke to
him as to a power rather than to a friend.

He had made his way to Mrs. Bompas, and
was greeting the ladies in her circle, when the
young farmer, who had volunteered to bring
back the news of the sale, returned. He saw
Shelman in the room and so told his tale in a
low tone of voice, but the news evoked an exclamation
of surprise from two or three of the
group.

Shelman turned and advanced towards them,
saluted the ladies, and shook hands with some
of the young men, amongst them the young
farmer, the son of one of his tenants.

I thought you meant ha vino: that chestnut

just now, sir," said the latter.

Ah," said Shelman, carelessly, " you were

6—2

there, Dwell, of course, I saw you — yes — but
he went too high. I don't mind wdiat fair
prices I pay, but I don't give fancy ones. I
suppose Hart will send him abroad ; I hear he
is picking up some horses for Germany."

Oh, no ! I asked him," said Hod well ; " he
bought it for a gentleman in Avonham here."

Who on earth is that ? " said Shelman,
flushing up with sudden anger, and then turning
pale ; " Mr. Rivers ? "

No, sir, the gentleman that's bought Mrs.
Stanhope's house, over here."

You look pale, Mr. Shelman," said Mrs.
Bompas, who had crossed the room to speak to
one of her daughters, " won't you take a glass
of w r fine ? Abel, give Mr. Shelman a glass of
wane ; why, you're as white as a sheet, sir ; it's
the weather, I suppose."

He took the wine and drank, in the countryside
fashion, to his hostess and her daughters,
but looking at Adelaide, saw that she was intently
regarding him, as if reading what was
passing in his mind. He recovered himself
with an effort and was soon engaged in county
small-talk with the other guests.

A DISCUSSION ON AX IMPORT Ant SUBJECT.

Sir Headixgly Calx and his nephew sat at
breakfast one summer morning, about a week
after the fair. The young day was so bright
and the interior of the room so hot that Sir
Headingly, who was a late riser, had given
orders that the table should be laid under the
verandah, and that the meal should be taken
in the open air. They were sitting there in
lounging; chairs before a low table covered with
materials for a repast altogether rather more
tropical in its nature than our ordinary English
feasts. We have so few opportunities for
eating out of doors, and such very conservative
notions of the viands which we consider
proper to a breakfast table, that a meal such as
Sir Headingly and Walter Rivers were now
engaged in discussing, might be considered
somewhat of a novelty in domestic life. Fruit
formed a considerable item ; the coffee-pot was
certainly present, but seemed neglected for a

long flask of hock flanked by a silver pail of
glittering' ice ; the table was bright with
flowers, and the verandah gay with clustering
roses ; the stately peacocks strutting on the
smooth lawn gave a lordly air to the scene, and
Sir Headingly surveyed it with an air of feeling
both eye and mind pleasantly relieved from the
turmoil of London and the labours of the session.
For though Westminster legislators
were still engaged in piloting the good ship
Britannia into shallow water and on to mud-banks,
in order, as it seemed, to have the gratification
of bringing her noisily into port afterwards,
yet this member of the crew was not at
present on board, and the good ship Britannia
had to sail on without him, a feat which she
managed very well indeed and without appearing
to be at all affected by his absence, so stupendous
are the resources of our great country.
Here he sat then, toying with some strawberries,
and opposite him his nephew, whom
this sort of luxurious ease just suited. Breakfast
was nearly over and hitherto had been
eaten in silence, for Sir Headingly seemed
buried in thought, and Rivers had lazily
waited for the outcome of his meditations ;
his uncle was, he knew, a slow thinker, and

that lie did not consult him at once with a
view of being extricated from a mental difficulty
showed him, as his experience bore him
out, that the subject of the Baronet's cogitations
was himself; this being so he waited
with apparent unconcern, but in reality with
some little anxiety, for the result.

Walter," said Sir Headingly, rousing himself
at last, " I want to have some conversation
with you this morning on an important
subject."

What is that, sir ? " said Walter.

The old man paused — the ice was broken, it
is true, but he was about to enter upon his
topic with a statement which few men like to
make for the first time.

Well, Walter," said he after a little, " you
see, the fact is, I feel sometimes, my boy, that
I'm — I'm not getting any younger than I
was."

"Xo doubt, sir," said his nephew, "no
doubt ; but you are very well, are you not ?
You don't feel ill, do you ? you have been remarkably
hearty down here this last month ;
nothing amiss, sir, I hope."

Xo, my boy, no, thanked ; I feel as welland
hearty as I have for ten years past, but

that doesn't alter the fact of my age, does it ?
I was just thinking, sitting here now, that I
shall be sixty-nine next Sunday, and that's
getting on, you know."

Why, sir, it's not a great age for a manlike
you who has passed most of his life in the
country."

And led a pretty easy life too you would
say. Xo, Walter, it's no great age, that's
true, but it's an age, my lad, at which, if a
man wants to see another generation springing
up round him, he must begin to think about
making arrangements for them, eh, Walter ? "

Walter opened his eyes, and slightly
changed colour. " You're surely not thinking
of "

Of marriage ? — yes, my boy, I am."

I — I give you joy, sir, I'm sure ! " said
Walter, suddenly holding out his hand, but
looking anything but joyful ; " who is the
lady, uncle, may I enquire ? "

Xo, no, my boy," said Sir Headingly,
laughing ; " I'm not going to take my first
wife at my age ; if I were thinking about
marriage, and I was, as I tell you, it was for
you I was planning."

Oh," said Walter, much relieved ; and

after a few seconds he added, " Have you found
a wife for me then, sir ? "

Xo, no, my boy," said the Baronet, looking
fondly at him, for he loved the child of his
dead sister ; " no, no, young men should
choose for themselves, Walter, and if I speak
to you now upon the subject at all, it is only
because I don't see any signs of your having
looked out yet. You're twenty-six, Walter,
aren't you ? "

Yes, sir, last birthday."

Well, twenty six is a good age at which
to marry — a good, sensible age ; boyish foolishness
is over, or ought to be, and you're a man
able to judge of a woman — that is so far as any
man ever can judge of a woman — by that time.
Walter, my boy, I should very much like to
see you engaged to a lady of good family ; it
would carry out one of the dearest wishes of
my life ; and if I saw you well married, and
could take one of your little ones on to my
knee before I went, there would be nothing
wanting to me then — I should be ready to
go, my boy, quite ready," and the good old
fellow's eyes twinkled and he used his handkerchief
to wipe them, quite unfeignedly.

The faults of Walter Rivers were mostly

those arising from an indolent and weak nature,
and want of heart could scarcely be alleged
against him. He really had for his uncle a
great affection, and would have been heartily
sorry to hear of any misfortune happening to
him. Had he died he would have mourned
him — his death would make very little real
difference to him, for to do the young man
some justice he was no spendthrift, and his
uncle's handsome allowance, together with the
comfortable property which he had inherited
from his mother, gave him an income so much
more than sufficient for his wants that he
never spent more than the half of it ; he was
already manager of all his uncle's affairs and
as much master in his houses as the old man
himself. And he was sincerely grateful to him
for Ms kindness, was old enough at his
mother's death to remember how she had
confided her orphan boy to the charge of her
brother, and was just enough to acknowledge
the faithful and generous manner in which the
trust had been carried out, so that it was not
without a share of the old man's temporary
emotion that he answered :

i; My dear uncle, you've always been most
kind ; I'm sure you know I'd do anything to

please you ; and if my marriage will make you
happy, why so be it — I'll be a Benedict tomorrow.
Only " — he added, laughing, throwing
himself back in his chair — " you must
pick the lady, uncle, for really I'm fancy free
myself."

Sir Headingly laughed in his turn, and then
said, ' ; Do you know, my dear Walter, that I
once fancied you were sweet upon — that's your
young men's expression, isn't it ? — sweet upon
one of those three pretty girls of old Bompas,
eh, sir ?"

Xo change of colour in the face of Mr.
Walter Rivers, as he answers :

"My dear sir, everyone admires them, of
course — why, they're the prettiest girls in the
county — but one doesn't marry a girl because
she's pretty, that is — well, she must have
some position, you know, sir — and the father

The father is a very worthy old fellow, as
I have known for many years ; but I'm glad
it isn't the fact that you favour the young
ladies — most charming and well-bred young
ladies, too, begad ! — in any very particular
way. I was at one time rather afraid of it,
and I had always made up my mind — I don't

mind telling you so now, Walter — to use my
influence with you against such a match —
mildly of course I mean, for I won't force you,
my boy, either to a marriage or against a marriage
; but that really was my fear ; I'm glad
to find it was ill-founded."

Quite so, my dear uncle, I assure you,"
said Walter, " there was never the slightest
fear of things going to any length there, and
there really isn't anybody else, I assure you,
sir — at least not anyone to whom I've ever
laid any matrimonial siege."

Well, my boy, you shall choose for yourself
when you do marry, but I shall be glad to
see you in the way of it, and there's one thing
I do want to say "

Walter waited with unmoved countenance ;
but the old man paused. He played idly with
a rose-bud blown on to his knee by the light
breeze, and plucked it from its slender stem
before resuming :

There is a lady — a lady for whom I have
the highest regard " — and he paused again.

Come, uncle," said the young man with a
tone of heartiness, but with a glance very
observant of the old man, " let me know the
lady : I assure you I'm heart-whole as yet,

and I promise you that you shall not be
balked in your fancy if it can possibly be
avoided. Is she young or old. rich or poor,
black or white ? "

She is older than you, my boy, but not
much — that is to say, not a great deal, not so
much as need — need — need interfere with
perfect happiness to both of you. She has
been — been married before ; but, dear me,
what is that ? She has no children, and her
fortune is in her own right — that is no slight
recommendation . ' '

Do I know the lady, sir ? " said Walter.
Yes, my boy, yes, you do. and the other
day — you dog ! — I thought she seemed — you
seemed — that is," finished the Baronet with a
laugh, as he also threw himself back in his
chair, " you seemed to understand one another
very well, at least I thought so."

I think I know whom you mean," said
Walter.

I won't leave you in any doubt, my boy —
Mrs. Stanhope is the lady — she likes you, I'm
sure ; you're a smart young fellow, likely
enough, as she knows, to get on, and she's a
woman just calculated to help an ambitious
man on his way. I won't say anything about

her money, though I happen to know that
that's not at all a trifle ; she's a most charming
woman is Mrs. Stanhope, and I believe,
Walter," said Sir Headingly, rising, and patting
his nephew on the shoulder, " that if you
choose to say the word you can make that lady
and a lady she is that any young fellow might
be proud of — you can make that lady Mrs.
Kivers, whenever you like. Think over it, my
dear boy, think over it," and having made his
point and disburdened himself of his opinion,
the fond uncle withdrew into the house and
left his nephew to ponder over his idea.

Walter sat for some few minutes in profound
meditation, and then rose, and taking a cigar
from his case, lit it and strolled across the lawn
and into one of the shrubberies. There was an
air of complete satisfaction on his face, he was
bright and radiant with delight, and laughed
softly to himself as he strolled to and fro.

By Jove ! " he said to himself, " it's
exactly my handwriting. I should have mentioned
it to the governor in a day or two, and
I was half-afraid he wouldn't like it : how
splendid, his hitting on the idea himself ; who
on earth ever could have dreamed of such
luck ? "

Backwards and forward she walked, exulting

o

in his youth, his health, and his fortune, with
the sun shining on him, the birds Ringing
round him, lighthearted, joyous, with no more
cloud in his life than he could have seen in the
sky above him. He fell to thinking over his
past career, and there was nothing in it that
he could recall (with the exception of his
mother's death) but was gay, cheerful, painless,
and free from all care, and now came this
crowning piece of good fortune. He liked her
very much, this stately beautiful widow, with
the shining black tresses which framed the
handsome oval face lit with those glorious
dark liquid eyes ; almost loved her ; would
not break his heart if she refused him, but
would go dutifully back to his uncle and be
sure of his sympathy ; thought she would
make him an excellent wife, and really
determined to be a good husband to her — if
if it came about ; stood a little in awe,
perhaps, of his splendid lady, and cared not to
risk the danger of making those dark eyes
light up with angry tire, quite honestly
resolving not to bring that about if it were
possible to avoid it.

"What will she say to me, I wonder," he

said, as the blue rings of smoke went curling
among the laurels : " most likely laugh at meat
first ; I know her little weakness for conquest
and empire. I wonder if there's any
fellow — I don't believe there is — I think Sherman
got his dismissal some little time back.
Yes, Mr. Alfred, I fancied I heard the knell of
your hopes sounding when you were telling
me of that little matter of the ' Coombes,' and
I'm not sorry for it, for you're an ill-conditioned
fellow at the best of times — and I'm
not — I think I can say without any self-causation
I am not. No, Madam, if you elect me
for your husband you won't get a bad-tempered
brute with a confoundedly murderous
twitching kind of a nostril and with a
vicious homicidal pair of thin lips. You won't
get that. Madam, as part of your bargain, and
I congratulate you with all my heart, and
when I thought you were going to get the
thin lips and the twitchy nostril, I was rather
sorry for you, I was indeed ; I may say I was
very sorry for you ; and I think I may also
say that you're about to have a much better
offer — a much more comfortable sort of offer,
Madam, much more comfortable, I assure
you."

He resumed his walk, which he had interrupted
for his soliloquy, and serenely and
calmly puffed away at his cigar ; he knew his
uncle would be pleased at his giving some
little time to the consideration of his weighty
scheme ; would think, perhaps, that he was
throwing over some pet plans of his own to
please him, and he could estimate to a grain
the value of such a thought in his uncle's
mind. When he had twice traversed the path
he stopped again, and his face became more
thoughtful.

I suppose there will be a scene between

us, Master Alfred, if she should say * yes ' —

yes, there will certainly be a scene ; well,

things must blow over. I don't much mind

you as a rival for the widow's good graces, my

dear fellow, but I don't want you for a rival

for the good graces of the borough. Uncle

has been lucky to have no contest for all these

years — precious lucky ; electioneering would

come pretty expensive in Avonham, I expect,

after so many years' quiet, and the Carlton

would expect the place to be kept at all

hazards. Well, it must all be risked, and by

Jove, it's worth risking, too. Uncle wants to

see me settled. I wonder if he'd agree to see-vol.
i. 7

ing me settled in Parliament. Does he fancy
the party will give him a Peerage ! / don't.
Xo, no, the baronetcy was his reward for
holding this part of the county so long. It
was a ticklish thing with a Radical borough
four miles off, but it's safe enough now, I
think. We'll see, we'll see ; there was no
hint that way this morning, but it might be
made a reward for obedience, too. It all falls
out as well as possible ; I must really be in an
up-stream of luck. "Well, now for uncle."

As he stepped on to the lawn he saw the old
man, seated in the chair which he had occupied
at breakfast ; he had ordered the table to
be cleared, and his newspapers and two or
three books were now on it ; he was composing
himself for his forenoon reading. He smiled
as Walter crossed the grass as though he could
see by his face that his wishes were in a fairway
of being carried out. Walter spoke first.

"Well, my dear uncle," he said, holding
out his hand, which the other clasped heartily,
it shall be as you wish, and without anything
but pleasure on my part, I assure you."

Right, my boy, right," cried the Baronet,
joyfully. " I'm glad to hear it — glad to hear
it, my boy."

We mustn't hurry matters though, you
know, sir," said Walter. " Ladies who have
so many swains at their feet won't be hurried
into matrimony by the first impetuous youth
who proposes it to them, you know."

'* Take your own time, my dear fellow, take
your own time, and your own method of wooing
; I don't understand the business at all ;
but, Walter," he added, looking up at him
rather seriously, " don't, my boy — don't marry
any woman or propose to any woman just
because you wish to please your old uncle ; let
there be love and respect and admiration in
the matter I pray, my dear fellow. If I
thought that I had induced you to ally yourself
with any woman with whom you didn't
live happily, I should be very miserable and
unhappy about it, I can assure you."

My dear uncle," said Walter, in a burst of
frankness, " you need not have the slightest
delicacy about that ; you said just now,
jokingly, that Mrs. Stanhope and I seemed
to understand one another very well. Well,
sir, there is a good deal of truth in your jest.
I think, without being in the least conceited
about it, that I have as good chance with the

lady as anyone else. I've a very great admire



action for her, and although it isn't the usual
thing for young men to marry women ten
years older than themselves, yet such a handsome
woman as she is never seems old to
anyone who admires beauty. I only hope,"
finished Walter, " that she won't upset your
plans by giving me a plump and plain ' No '
for my answer when I do speak finally ; but
of course you know I must take my chance of
that, and my word for it, uncle, I'll do my
best to win her ! "

THE GOOD TOWN OF AVONHAM IS Thoroughly
EXCITED.

Once a fortnight, not in solemn conclave,
but in conviviality and good-will, the fathers
of the township met. The oldest of all these
fathers could not remember the foundation of
the Club ; its early history was obscured by
fable and well-nigh legendary. Summer or
winter, wet or fine, the large oak-panelled
upper room of the " Bear Hotel " received on
Club nights the worthiest burgesses of Avon-ham.
who sat and gossiped, smoked and drank
together on every alternate Monday, and four
times a year dined in great state, having
previously ransacked the county for dainties
and delicacies of the season.

The Club was nameless ; this was a great
and solemn fact ; it needed not the bush of
a specific designation ; of itself and by itself
it was Good. It was select in the broadest
sense of the word : election to it was rare.

When some well-known face was missing,
when some town-worthy had smoked his last
pipe and eaten his last Club dinner, when the
remaining cronies had stood round his grave
and, as they expressed it, " seen the last of
poor old So-and-so," then, at the next meeting
it would happen that, after much reflective
smoking and meditative sipping of tumblers,
someone or other of the fathers would allude
to the loss they had sustained, and the Club
would proceed to fill the vacant chair. Or it
would sometimes chance that, some honour
being done to an Avonham man which transformed
him into an Avonham worthy, hew
r ould be told that the Club was willing to
receive him with open arms, and, this compliment
being most rarely paid, never failed to
overwhelm the individual (so he always said
when his health was first proposed at a Club
dinner) with so keen an appreciation of the
Honour done him, that he was utterly unable
to describe it in words. Thus the Club
flourished like a well-grown oak, never
perceptibly increasing in size, but maintaining
unimpaired its pristine vigour, and
standing the envy and pride of the country
round.

The room iii which these worthy men met
on Monday evenings was one of the fine old
oaken chambers which are, alas ! now giving
way before the cold encaustic tiles and maddening
minute mosaics of the railway-fed hotels of
to-day. But there are yet plenty of them in
England, mind you, for him who loves them
and looks for them. Down in classic Warwickshire,
merry Wiltshire, breezy Sussex, pleasant
Somerset, glorious Kent, they may yet be found
by the score. I used to know two in Bristol
are they yet there ? There is a glorious one
at Stratford and a model one in Gloucester ;
and one or two still resolutely hold out, like
the sturdy old tree from which their wainscots
are cut, against the improvements and changes
of house-levelling London itself. I swear that
in them the ale is stronger, the spirits have a
richer taste, the ghosts of countless bowls of
departed punch give a mysterious flavour to the
toddy of to-day. The old oak is impregnated
with the subtle spices and the piquant lemon,
and freely imparts of their aroma. Encaustic
tiles quotha ! What do encaustic tiles know of
Punch ? The making of Punch will be a lost
art soon, like the staining of glass or the reading
of the stars, and we shall hear some day a

lecture on a Punch bowl and ladle, as I once
heard a lecture on a Tinder-box.

But there was Punch enough in the world
at the time of our tale and maybe even a tinderbox
or two in some of the farm-houses roundabout
; and the bowl would have been smoking
no doubt but for the fact of its being summer,
one of the warmest too within the recollection
of old worthies. But the large windows at
the end of the room were thrown open, a
pleasant evening breeze was cooling the searched
town, Mrs. Pinniffer, who made the
Club her own especial charge, was as skilful in
the concoction of cold drinks as of hot ones,
and so it came about that, on this particular
evening, ei«'ht o'clock found the Club-room
pretty full, and the evening breeze had plenty todo
to dispel the fragrant blue clouds that rose
from the pure white bowls of twenty slim, wax-tipped
churchwarden pipes. The Club did not
meet during the week of the fair, so that it was
a month since it had assembled, and all present
knew that in addition to the ordinary proceedings
of the evening there would be some
mention made of the loss sustained by the death
of old Mr. Rax, and very likely another worthy
would be elected. The chairmanship of the

meeting was arranged by rotation, each of the
members in turn filling the office, and on this
evening Mr. Beadlemore Artoo, the corn dealer,
miller and straw salesman, after hanging up his
hat and giving a cheery " good-evening " to his
cronies, seated himself in the place of honour
at the head of the room, and calling on the
waiter for a large glass of cold gin, and receiving
from him a screw of mild Bristol birds-eye,
filled and lit a pipe which he took from a pile
before him, and, solemnly smoking, looked
round the room to see who were already
assembled.

Seated at his right was Mr. Abel Bompas,
who was a most respected and influential member
of the little circle, and who had scarcely
ever been known to miss a meeting ; next to
him was Mr. Christopher Baraty, the postmaster
of the town, learned in horse-flesh and
eloquent of the old coaching days when he
himself drove the Defiance a hundred and sixty
miles in eighteen hours, stoppages included ;
and then Mr. Barnabas Chickleholt, who was
rough of exterior and affected — only affected,
mind you — a grumpiness of manner which
caused strangers to look upon him as having
been improperly named by his sponsors, and as

being anything but a son of consolation. Then
sturdy John Rami, the market clerk, who was
the centre of all the political business of the
town. Next to him was the enormous form of
ex-Mayor Killett, most prosperous of sinecurists,
the only butcher in Avonham, as his
father and grandfather had been before him, a
giant with the carcass and strength of a raging
Bull, and the manners of a Southron Lamb.
As a contrast in size, but a counterpart in
manners, Mr. Reuben Matley came next to
him : the organist of the parish church and
teacher of music and drawing, a real genius
blushing unseen in this little Marlshire town
for sheer want of that impudence and dash that
had taken men with half his ability into the
front rank of native musical talent. Opposite
his burly son, to whom he had transferred his
business some years ago, was old " Master"
Killett, the Nestor of the country-side now
that Mr. Rax was gone, a hale, weather-bitten,
fresh-coloured man of over fourscore years, who,
sixty years before, had been the foremost man
at backsword and elbow and collar wrestling
for twenty miles around. And facing the chairman
was Dr. Mompesson, who used laughingly
to declare that there was no rest for him, for

his old patients would not let him retire ; lie
was the antiquarian authority of the place, and
was generally supposed, in his knowledge of
the Sarsen stones and Kistvaens on the Marl-shire
Downs, to be a very Druid. And beside
him was Mr. Sennett — Lawyer Sennett he was
generally called — who made all the Avonham
wills and injured his business but increased his
circle of friends by patching up half the countryside
quarrels, and on whose shoulders this year
rested the awful responsibility of being mayor.
On Mr. Artoo's left was Mr. Daniel Follwell,
the proprietor of the woollen factory of the
town, who turned out a small quantity of
cloth each year, but that of so rare a quality
and so precious a value that it was whispered
that the one great London tailor to whom it
was all sold reserved it entirely for the backs
of Dukes and Earls, and that an untitled dignitary
might pray for a coat of it in vain. Mr.
Follwell was a short man, who, to judge by his
dress, neither wore his own cloth nor employed
the great London tailor aforesaid, and whose
rebellious stubbly head of hair gave him the
uninviting appearance of an overgrown cloth-teazle.
Mr. Benjamin Pollimoy was his neighbour
: a man of mark in the Club, a travelled

man, a man who had seized the advantages
offered to all who would expand their minds,
and had expanded his by visiting the Exhibition
of 51, a man most loyal of the loyal, almost
royal indeed, he having once seen the Queen ;
he was not the rose exactly, but he had been
very, very near it, and was looked up to
accordingly.

Then came two brothers, the inseparable of
Avonham, \Volstenholme Pye and Hoppenner
Pye, fellmongers, two little wizened-faced old
men, who silently absorbed vast quantities of
liquor with no other effect than that produced
by the air-pump upon a wrinkled apple — the
good spirits seemed to smooth out the lines on
their faces by degrees, until at the close of
the sitting they looked quite sleek-faced for a
time. Next to Hoppenner was Mr. Timothy
Rapsey, an amiable Paul Pry, always burning
for information and utterly unable to resist the
temptation of diving into his neighbours' affairs
; a good-humoured little fellow, however,
and without the least grain of mischief in him.

Mr. Beadlemore Artoo surveyed the Club in
silence for some minutes, laid down his pipe,
buried his face in his goblet, which he replaced
on the table and <xa\e a siffh. This was a

signal thrown out to the Club, and was immediately
replied to by a universal shake of the
head and an answering sigh.

Well, gentlemen," said Mr. Artoo, ' ; I suppose
there ain't much need for me to say what
we're all a-thinking of this minute. Pore old
Mister Rax, he's a-gone at last."

Ay, ay, for sure he have," said old
Master " Killett, amid a soft murmur of
ah ! " from the rest of the Club.

Ninety - one years," said Mr. Rarity,
ninety-one years an' hearty an' well till pretty
nigh the last, wasn't he, Mas'r Killett ? "

Ay, sure he were," said the old man, " he
sent for I two days afore he died, an' he says,
Mas'r Killett,' says he, ' you'd my must pall-bearer
you know — picked un' all out a' had —
mind you see,' says he, 'as they don't carry I
no ways head must,' he says, ' n'yet contrariwise
again the sun,' he says. He were just as sensible
as that, you see, right up to the very last.
Why ! " said the old man, looking round, " we
was at school together, we was, nigh upon
eighty years agone. I was a little 'un then,
an' he used to look out an' see as t'other
chaps didn't steal my dinner, lor ! lor ! I can
mind it well."

Been a good man for this town too," said
Wolstenholme Pye, and was immediately followed
by his brother, who croaked in chorus,
A good man for this town."

Ah, yes ! " said Robert Killett the
younger, " and lived here all his life too — that
he have."

All his life, all his life ! " said Mr. Polls
the traveller — the royalist — " never went
above twenty miles from the town in his life,
I don't believe — : 'ceptin' to Bishopsbury when
he was vicar's churchwarden, times. Why,
when I was going up to London — just to improve
my mind, you know — he was one of the
very men I asked to go too — so he was — you
was another, Mr. Sennett, so you was."

Yes, I was, Ben, I was," said the Mayor.

"And you went up, Mr. Bompas, didn't
you ? Ah, so you did."

I visited the World's Fair in company
with Mrs. Bompas, Mr. Pollimoy ; your recollection
of incidents is unerring," said our friend
Abel, sententiously.

But you didn't see the Queen, you know,
did you, Mr. Bompas ? You wasn't there
whilst she come to the Great Exhibition, was

The felicity of beholding the lineaments of
my sovereign has as yet been withheld from
me," said Mr. Bompas. " Her Most Gracious
Majesty has no more loyal subject than myself,
Mr. Mayor, but I have never seen her ; I
believe our friend, Pollimoy, is alone in that
respect in the Club."

I am, I am ! " said Mr. Pollimoy, " and if
poor old Eax had only a' come with me he
might a' seen her too. Dear, dear, if he could
only come back again, and could only, so to
speak, go and see her — lor' ! what a comfort
that 'ud be, if it was for ever so little a time.
Ah, dear ! " he added, slowly, raising his glass
to his lips, and sighing profoundly, " what
wouldn't he give to be able to come back and
do so now ? "

The Club audibly sighed and replied — in
detachments — " What indeed ? "

Well, gentlemen," said the chairman,
what Mr. Pollimoy says is always ini-
proven,' and of course ef we could only see the
old gentleman back again, it 'ud be a great
comfort for us all. But we can't, pore old
fellow, and so it ain't a bit o' use talking' about
it. I was a thinking' as it's usual for us to
send as a Club a bit of sympathy like, nicely

wrote out and that, and I was a-going' to move
as it should be done, but you see there's no
one to send it to — old Mr. Rax he'd outlived
all his relatives, and, as we all know, left his
money, and quite right too, mind you, to
charities here, and down in Bath and Bristol,
hospitals and such-like, besides mourning rings
for this Club, which I daresay every gentleman
in this room's a-wearing his now."

General survey of hands.

Consequently I was thinking that as it's
sour rule — I won't go so fur as to say our invariable
rule, but at any rate, our very frequent
rule — to elect another member of this Club,
why I move as w T e set about it."

This proposition meeting the approval of the
Club, the election proceeded. It resembled no
other kind of election whatever. Mr. Chuckles
who had sat very quiet, grunted out the
name of an old Avonham tradesman, and his
neighbours said, " Ah ! he'd be a good man."
And after a pause Mr. Rarity mentioned
another name, and everybody else said, " Yes,
or him either ; " and then Mr. Matley mildly
suggested that Mr. Artoo should ask the first-named
gentleman whether he would like to
join them, and that if he would, why then perhaps

the other gentleman might — here he
made a pause, for he was about to say " wait
for another vacancy," but that miscalculated
to upset Master Killett. who, as the oldest man
in the room, was more likely to make the
vacancy than anyone else, he contented himself
with saying ;; that the other gentleman might,
if the first one consented to come anion £ them,
be elected as well as he, but that in case Mr.
Artoo's application to the first gentleman proved
ineffectual, then the second party might drop
in naturally to the vacancy." This, though
somewhat in advance of the ideas of the Club,
was well received, and the cronies said in
chorus, " Just so. first rate ! "

And then, as if by mutual consent, the subject
of old Mr. Rax dropped, and conversation
became general and was carried on in louder
and more cheerful tones. There was not a
wide range of subjects in Avonham, but to
wear those few threadbare was the delight of
the Club. These friends had met on hundreds
of nights and had talked the same small talk ;
the same subjects had lasted their fathers' time
and their own too, and it was only very rarely
that any matter of special import cropped up ;

but to-night the Club, which had already gone
vol. i. 8

a little out of its usual course, was to be still
more excited and interested by its interchange
of ideas. The talking had been proceeding for
perhaps half-an-hour and was pretty nearly in
full swing, when Mr. Robert Killett turned
suddenly to his left-hand neighbour and said :

Why, Mr. Rami, you're very quiet tonight ;
anything amiss, sir ? I don't think I've hardly
heard you speak yet. Nothing' wrong, is there ? "

The ex-mayor's hearty voice w r as heard
above all the surrounding hum of talk, and
everyone stared at Mr. Rami, who, slowly
taking his pipe out of his mouth, answered Mr.
Killett's kind enquiry.

Lor' ! no, Mr. Killett, what should be
amiss, sir ? I was just turning public affairs
over in my mind a bit, that's all — that's all,
sir."

Now Mr. Rami was, as we have said, the
centre of political life in Avonham ; he had
been bursting with desire to speak, but knew
full well that the best way of attracting attention
was to be conspicuous by silence, which
would lead to his being drawn out, and he
hailed the opportunity with quiet joy.

Anything fresh from London, Rami ? "
said the Mayor.

Well, Mr. Mayor," said Mr. Rami, " the
fact is that if it hadn't been for the very painful
opening part of this evening's proceedings, I
should have put before this meeting a proposition
for discussing the present po-liti-cal crisis,
but I thought it better not, sir — I thought it
perhaps on the 'ole better not."

I saw they were a bit at sixes and sevens
in Parliament House," said Mr. Rapsey.
Whatever is it, Mr. Rami ? what are they
going to do ? will there be a 'lection — has Sir
Headingly been telegraphed to ? I saw Mr.
Rivers in the street to-day, and I was just
crossing the road to see where he was going
to, but I saw Mr. Galbraith's coloured mango
into the grocer's, and I couldn't make out
what he was doing there on Monday, for he
bought three pounds of coffee and his usual lot
of butter and things on Saturday, and it seemed
so curious that he should want to go in again
on Monday, that I — ah — missed Mr. Rivers."

Ah ! well, Mr. Rapsey," said Mr. Ran,

sagely nodding his head, " perhaps Mr. Rivers

might have told anyone as asked him, perhaps

he might not — my opinion is that he wouldn't,

even if he knew — ah — half as much as I

expect /do."

8—2

There was an assumption of knowledge in
this last speech so impressive and interesting
that no one attempted to answer the politician,
but the entire Club kept silence for a space .

It's pretty well sure, mind you, gentlemen,"
proceeded Mr. Rami, " as Parliament
will be dissolved, for mind you also, the ministry
won't go on any longer as the country is
now, no, Mr. Chairman, they'll dissolve themselves
and go to the country, that's what
they'll do ; and then we shall have an election."

Xot much likelihood of one here, Rami,"
said the Mayor.

Begging your pardon, Mr. Mayor, but do
you know, gentlemen all, that I shouldn't be
so very much surprised if there was to be an
election here."

The sound with which the members received
this announcement was not a cry, nor a groan,
it was something like a gasp of astonishment,
and, being unanimous, was very impressive in
its volume. Mr. Rami was evidently elated
by it in no ordinary degree ; he laid down his
pipe, leaned a little forward with his hands
on his knees and triumphantly surveyed the
astonished room.

I opine," said Mr. Bompas, breaking the

silence, " that you have reliable information in
this matter."

Avonham won't know itself, having a
'lection, that it won't," said Mr. Artoo.

\Yake tidings up a bit," said the Doctor.
rubbing his hands ; he was a sturdy partisan
of his own side, and it is distressing to see the
camp in possession of the enemy for eighteen
years and no attempt made by your leaders to
take it from them ; there were one or two
more in the room who would welcome any
such attempt as well as he.

For eighteen years Sir Headingly Cannn had
been the member for Avonham, in the Conservative
interest, and his position had never
been assailed. He had been a steady voter for
his own side, a constant and regular attendant
at St. Stephen's ; he never gave the Whips
the least anxiety, and seldom troubled the
House with a speech, certainly never bored
them With a long one ; when he did lift up his
voice it was on some agricultural topic, and he
was admitted to be an authority on that point ;
he had never sought office, had no poor relations
to be provided for by the country, and
was altogether a model representative of high
character, and very much liked by members

on both sides of the House. In Avonham he
was generous to the poor, watchful over the
interests of the town, hospitable and affable,
and a general favourite in the neighbourhood ;
so it had come to pass that, for many years,
party politics had been a dead-letter in Avon-ham.
Contented with a member who was a
moderate and liberal-minded man, people w r ere
unwilling to run the risk of that upheaval of
society which takes place in a small town at
election times, and, when they read of scenes
of riot, of military interference, and damaged
property, they congratulated themselves upon
their immunity from such scenes, and were
entirely satisfied with the old state of things.
But all this time there had been slowly and
almost imperceptibly growing up in Avonham
that unreasoning' dislike to long continued
customs so characteristic of younger generations
; four miles from Avonham was the
borough of Dunstalne, which returned a very
advanced Liberal, with the same consistency
that Avonham showed towards its mild Tory ;
and the advanced Liberal member for Dun-stale
was one of the great lights of Parliament,
a brilliant speaker, an able statesman, who had
been twice a member of the Cabinet ; so that

Dunstalne was apt to be loud in praise of the
man it had chosen, and the praise reached four
miles, and excited interest in Avonham, so
much so that when the great man came down
to address his constituents, he would have fifty
or sixty of the younger politicians of Avonham
among his audience, and this fact was not unobserved
by the leaders, the great wire-pullers
>f the party, so that a kind of thumb-nail note
was made of Avonham at the Reform Club, and
it was hinted at as a place not unworthy the
honour of an assault. Still it was somewhat
hard to realise at first, particularly as not
half-a-dozen people in the town had really
seriously thought about the contingency at
all.

Why," said Hoppenner Pye, for once
startled into speaking before his brother,
whatever makes you think we shall have
an election, Mas'r Rami ? Who is there to
put up against Sir Headingly ? ,:

"Ah ! " echoed Wolstenholme, " who's going
up against Sir Headingly ? "

They'll send a man from London,"
grumbled Mr. Barnabas Chickleholt, " and a
fine chance hell have."

"Not they," said Mr. Rami, with great

scorn; "not they. There's one or two near
about here as '11 be chosen before any
Londoner."

We don't want any strangers here," said
Mr. Rarity, " nor yet we don't want any
election that I can see ; what's the matter with
our member, I should like to know; he's been
sitting for eighteen years, and nobody's ever
put up against him before. It seems pretty
late in the day to begin now, / think. Come,
Mr. Rami, you know more about these things
than we do — leastways you take more interest
in 'em ; who do you think' s going to oppose
Sir Headingly ? "

I'm not saying for certain that anyone's
going to oppose Sir Headingly, but this I do
know, that I've been told by three or four
Dunstalne men, aye, and good men too, that
Avonham's going to be fought for next election,
and I can see for myself, and so can anyone
here by just looking at the paper, that we
shan't be many weeks, no, nor not many days,
before the Ministers '11 go to the country, and
then we shall see what we shall see, you mark
my words if we don't."

In a few minutes all tongues were going on
the one topic. Every man in the room was, of

course, a voter, and although the majority of
them were " blue," there was a sprinkling of
yellow " material sufficient to cause just the
proper amount of friendly argument necessary ;
to the astonishment of the landlady, the Club
exceeded its usual time of rising by at least
half-an-hour, and the members left together,
and until midnight small knots of them stood
at street corners discussing eagerly the
astounding information conveyed to them by
Mr. Rami, who, perfectly satisfied of his own
importance in the eyes of his Club fellows,
went home by himself, chuckling

The next morning, Sir Headingly Cannn and
his nephew were seen by the indefatigable
Timothy Rapsey driving swiftly through
Avonham towards the railway station, five
miles from the town ; this event was duly
reported by him to those of his friends whom
he met during the day, and was at the present
stage of affairs much commented on. The next
morning's papers contained an account of the
Ministerial defeat in the House — and following
hard upon this came the dissolution. Then,
for the first time for eighteen years, was any
political excitement visible in Avonham. In
every public-house, at every tea-table, on the

market, in the street, in shops and offices, and
everywhere that men do congregate, nothing
was talked of for a week but the election.
For a day or two no sign was made, and the
old Conservatives of Avonham were just lulling
themselves to sleep again when a most
surprising event happened.

Sir Headingly had issued small and well-printed
handbills, which had been posted to
every voter on the register, announcing briefly
the fact of the dissolution and his intention of
offering; himself again for election, but had
made no other public movement. One Tuesday
night the little town went serenely to
sleep as usual, and when it was buried in repose
certain mysterious figures emerged from
the " Woolpack Inn," and, after a short consultation
at the door, separated and dispersed
in various directions. They travelled in pairs,
one of each couple bearing a large can, the
other a bundle of printed papers. For two
hours they were absent, and returned to the
"Woolpack" as quietly as they had left it.
When Avonham woke the next morning, it
was as though a shower of yellow bills had been
rained on it in the night ; some of these bills
called on the Men of Avonham to free themselves

from the political yoke which had too
long pressed on their necks, to protest against
vested interests, to demand correct representation
of themselves and their town, to be no
longer slaves, but to think, and act for themselves.
These were signed by "A Townsman."
Other yellow bills were more modest
in tone ; they set forth that the author had
been waited upon by a large and influential
deputation, and had been requested to offer
himself as a Candidate for the great honour of
representing the town in Parliament ; that he
thanked them for this mark of confidence, and
would so offer himself. They described his
principles ; assured the town that though
•• progress " was his motto, " loyalty " was his
text : that he pledged himself to spare no
efforts to obtain for Avonham a Railway Bill,
,: long promised, but apparently forgotten ; "
assured the electors that this and all other
matters affecting the town should be his peculiar
care, and wound up by hopefully and
trustfully committing himself to the hands
of his fellow townsmen, for Avonham had no
more sincere well wisher than its obedient servant,
Anthony HOIBERTON BoLDHAM. who

dated his address from the local bank.

"What did I tell you, Mr. Mayor ? " said
Mr. Rami to his friend next day. " We shall
have an election after all ! What chance has
Mr. Boldham against Sir Headmgly ?"

Xot much, I think" said the Mayor, who
had been rather anxious for the last few days
at the thought that he must venture into the
fray, whichever side gained.

"I don't know, Mr. Mayor," said the keen
old market clerk. " You see, Sir Headingly
hasn't got much Avonham property — hasn't
half-a-dozen voting tenants in the town, and
don't mix up with the trade of the place."

Well, what of that ? "

Well, sir, Mr. Boldham do. There's two
or three men — ah, a dozen or more — men of
influence that 'ud look very queer if Mr. Bold-ham
was to get away from behind 'em. And
we've been without any party feeling for so long
that there ain't much real politics in the town.
People '11 vote a good deal by interest, Mr.
Mayor."

Mr. Mayor walked slowly up the street,
pondering.

We must work hard, sir," said Walter
to his uncle. " We mast have a meeting

this week. Let me get the bills out tonight,"


kk I am astounded," said Sir Headingly, " at
the ingratitude of Boldham. A man whom I —
but there, Walter, do as you wish. It was my
desire, when I saw you settled, to have resigned
in your favour ; and really, I am too old for
such a strife as this is likely to be. I wish
you had to "

He paused, and Walter waited with beating
heart.

No," said the old man rising to his feet,
there's another fight left in me for the good
cause. Get out the bills to-night. I will meet
the electors in the Town Hall on Friday. I
will leave you to your work, my boy, and go
and prepare some facts for my speech."

Hem ! " said Walter to himself, as the door
closed behind his uncle, " this falls about badly :
no time for courting now. I was in hopes
that he — well, well, it can't be helped. I suppose,
Master Alfred, you're helping your uncle
over this. Come along, my boy, I think we
hold the winning cards. It'll cost money of
course, but we have as much of that as you."

Lawks a daisy how, Bill ! Fancy a 'mention

to Avonham ! " said Mrs. Hackett to her
liege lord. " Why, they'll happen get a vive-pound
note for thy vote, Bill !

Vive pound be dazed ! " said the free and
independent elector, laying down Mr. Bold-ham's
address. " No vive pound won't suit
me, I tell 'ee. I means to make thick-thur
'lection last me al clroo the winter time, see
now."

THE " RECLUSE " COMES OUT.

There was one point concerning Galbraith
upon which all Avonham was agreed. He was
a thorough horseman. In a county of hunting
men he was already distinguished for the grace
of his seat, for the fineness of his hands, and
for the dashing style of his riding. It was not
exactly the English hunting seat which he
adopted — there was a something in it, men
said, which told that the horseman had been
used to wilder scenes than an orthodox fox-hunt
; but it was certain that between horse
and man there was such a thorough understanding
that the two together might have
formed a Centaur. Riding seemed the chief
amusement in which the occupant of the
Coombes " indulged. Every fine morning saw
him mounted and quitting the town in some
direction ; already another fine animal had
been brought over by Hart, and the two horses
were regularly used. A middle-aged but well

set-up groom had made his appearance at the
Coombes," accompanied by his wife, who performed
the office of cook, and had ideas upon
the subjects of cupboard-locks, beer-taps and
the safe custody of groceries and spirituous
liquors much at variance with the notions of
Mrs. Hackett, who was greatly perturbed by her
coming. The negro, it was found, rode almost
as well as his master, and was not indisposed to
talk about horses to the grooms whom he met
at exercise.

One morning Galbraith, mounted on the
horse he had first purchased, rode quietly up
the street, and stopped in front of the " Bear."
Mr. Pinniifer saw him pull up, advanced to the
door and bowed.

Good morning, sir ! "
Good morning, landlord ! I'll get down
for a moment."

John, take the gentleman's horse. Walk
in, sir."

I suppose," said Galbraith, when they
stood in the old-fashioned bar-parlour, " you
could knock me up a dinner of some sort on
Friday?"

Friday, sir. Yes, surely, sir. For how
many, sir ? "

For six, landlord. I shall have some
friends down and shall want five beds here for
them, and a good dinner."

14 Yes, sir, five bedrooms, sir, and dinner for
six, sir. Xow, what would you like for dinner,
sir ? Would you like "

I should like the best dinner you can put
on the table, landlord. I leave the choice of
it entirely with you, and the price too."

The pleased Mr. PinnifFer bowed, and inwardly
resolved that the dinner should be
worthy of the reputation (the well-deserved
reputation too) of the " Bear."

You shall have the best the house can
give you, sir," he said. "I'll look after everything
for you myself, sir."

Thank you, landlord."

Hope you like Avonham, sir ? " pursued
the worthy man.

Very well, landlord ; it seems a healthy
place."

Very healthy, sir, very healthy," said the

landlord, with emphasis ; "as healthy a place

as there is in the county, built up and downhill

a bit, you see, sir, easily drained, generally

a breeze in the hottest o' times. My native

place, sir," Mr. PinnifFer said, drawing himself
vol. i. 9

up as if to confer honour on the town, " and,
as I say, one of the healthiest in England, I do
believe."

For such an uncommunicative man, as
Avonham regarded him, Mr. Galbraith seemed
very much inclined to chat this morning, and
Mr. Pinniffer felt extremely proud at having
engaged the quiet, somewhat mysterious
stranger in something like a conversation : he
now remembered the rites of hospitality, and
said, after praising his native place :

But won't you take a glass of something
this morning, sir ? "

Thank you, landlord, I was just going to
ask you," said Galbraith, seating himself and
laying his whip upon the table ; " let me
see what sort of champagne you intend to
give us on Friday."

The delighted host was not long in producing
a bottle of most excellent wine, and the bar-parlour
customers coming in for their various
morning drams were not a little surprised at
seeing the stranger, whose quiet and reserved
manners had been so often the comment of the
town, seated opposite to Mr. Pinniffer, listening
to his cheery town-talk, whilst both were
doing justice to the flask of champagne standing

before them. One or two had been in
the house during Galbraith's stay there, previous
to the purchase of the " Coombes," and
these, venturing on a " Good morning, sir,"
were so affably answered, that they took heart
and entered gladly into conversation with him,
to their great delight. Among these favoured
individuals was Mr. Timothy Rapsey, who
was quite unable to conceal his joy at having
at last got into conversation with the stranger
who had baffled his most determined efforts,
and about whom he had been able to learn
next to nothing during his residence in Avon-ham.
He knew not where to begin to tackle
him ; he wanted to know so much that he ransome
great chance of letting every opportunity
slip in his anxiety to put the question that
should tell him most ; the election was, of
course, the safest subject as being the most
natural at the present time, and so on that he
started ; but, alas ! he was foiled ; Mr. Galbraith
had no interest in it, did not possess a
vote, and said so rather curtly ; he seemed to
understand Mr. Rapsey pretty well, as that
gentleman was quite shrewd enough to perceive.
But, if Mr. Galbraith had no interest in

the election, others had, and to introduce the

Q 9

subject was like starting a fire in a straw yard.
Worthy Mr. PinnifFer, whose neat wines and
choice spirits were innocent of politics, was
the only other man in the room disinclined to
enter upon the topic, everyone else seeming to
fancy that the matter could be just as w r ell
settled then and there by his own individual
vocal exertions as at the hustings.

Galbraith lit a cigar and listened, making
no remark.

The chief interest of the election seemed to
be that it was less of a political than a personal
contest, and that, how r ever ardent a partisan
of one candidate a man might be, he was always
willing and indeed eager to admit the
virtues of his opponent ; it soon appeared that
the Church party would follow Sir Headingly
Cannn and the Dissenters Mr. Boldham ; that
the " gentlefolk " were supposed to be about
equally divided, and lastly, that Sir Headingly
seemed to have the better chance of winning,
but that Mr. Boldham would be sure to run
him pretty close and make a hard fight of it.

"Tell you what though," said Mr. Artoo,
who had " popped in for a small youthful,"
and who did not seem inclined to pop out
again, so engrossing was the conversation,

tell you what I thought we should a-seen,
instead of an election ; and that is, Sir Head-ingle
a-resigning and a-putting his navvy up
instead."

Ah ! yes, that was more like what everyone
thought," said Mr. Pinniffer, who could
safely agree so far.

"Well, then, I'll tell you what," said Mr.
Rarity ; " I'll tell you what you'd have seen,
you'd have seen Mr. Shelman put up against
him as sure as you're born, and all you'd have
had instead of a tight between the old gentlemen,
would a-been one betwixt the young
'uns."

Ah, and there ain't over much love lost
between them two now, mind you," said Mr.
Pollimoy, Who was also a morning customer.
You should see them scowl at one another
just now, in the market-place."

There wasn't much scowl about Mr.
Walter Rivers, I'll pound it," said Mr. Rapsey,
it's the other that's the "

;< Hush! " from two or three ; there seemed
to be a dislike to any direct personality.

"What's to hush about?" said Mr. Rapsey
; " why, dear me, dear me, it ain't the
election alone as makes the young men

enemies ; lor' bless me, I could tell you something
different from that," and the little man
pursed up his lips and looked most monstrous
wise. " Young men'll quarrel about lots of
things besides politics, mind you, and we all
know there's one subject that they'll very soon
fall out about, sooner than anything you can
name almost."

And what's that, sir ? " said Galbraith, as
the speaker looked knowingly round the room.

What's that, sir ? " said Mr. Rapsey,
why, sir, it's the ladies, sir, the ladies, that's
what it is "sand the little man rubbed his
hands and chuckled ; " that's what's the
cause of half the young men's quarrels in this
world, sir, you take my word for it, sir ! "

lyell, I've no doubt you're right, sir,"
answered Galbraith.

Right ! of course I'm right, sir," said
Timothy ; " why, my belief is, gentlemen all,
from what I've seen and heard in this here
town — ah — and from what I'm pretty well
sure is right, too, that if you were to look
down to the very bottom of this very election
business that's exciting this town now, you'd
find a lady in the case, you mark me if you
wouldn't."

Look here, Mas'r Rapsey," broke in old
Barnabas Chickleholt, who had entered a
moment before Mr. Rapsey 's knowing little
speech, " your tongue is running away from
your brains, as it very often does, I'm sorry
to say, when you get a-talking like that ; you
ought to have more sense than to do it ; first
and foremost, the two young gentlemen as
you're a-speaking of is in a measure bound to
be opposed at sech times as these, on account
of their uncles. Why, who'd a thought three
months, aye, or even three weeks ago, if you
come to that, that Mr. Boldham 'ud a put up
against Sir Pleadingly ? — tell me that. Well,
then, if it wasn't supposed three weeks back
that the old gentlemen were going to oppose
one another, why, who could have said that
the young gentlemen would ? As for any
young lady being in the case, if you can show
me any young lady in this town who's got
influence enough, or half influence enough, to
get up an election in a place where such a
thing hasn't been known for eighteen years,
why all I've got to say is you'll have to point
out someone that I've never seen, nor anyone
else either ! "

And pray, Mr. Chickleholt," said the busy

little gossiper, who had had a hard task to
keep from answering before the end of the
speech, " pray, Mr. Barnabas, what might be
your opinion of a young lady, now ? "

There was a pause. Each man looked at
his neighbour, and Mrs. Pinniffer stopped with
an ale glass half-filled, and turned from the
engine towards Mr. Rapsey. Chickleholt himself
stared, but it would never do to be disconcerted,
so he boldly and safely demanded :

"What d'ye mean?"

What do I mean, Mr. Chickleholt ? Why
I mean to say that I don't know whether you
heard me right, but I said ' ladies,' not ' young
ladies.' Xow the lady that I'm thinking of
isn't exactly what some people would call a
young lady, seeing that she's been married
before."

Mrs. Pinniffer handed to Mr. Earaty the
glass of ale that she had filled in a great hurry
(and not without spilling a little over her
wrist), and held up a warning finger to Mr.
Rapsey.

Mr. Rapsey," said she, " if Mr. Chickleholt
was to talk from now to tomorrow morning,
he couldn't say anything truer than what he
said just now."

And what was that, pray, Mrs. Pin-differ
? "

K Why, that your tongue runs away with
your brains when you get a-talking sometimes.
I know who you mean, Mr. Rapsey, and so do
everyone here, and I'll lay you a garden cake
and have the first bite of it, that she wouldn't
no more have either one of them young gentlemen
than what she would have you ; an'
what's more, Mr. Rapsey, it ain't your place,
nor no one else's that I can see, to go a-using
of ladies' names before people like this."

Mrs. Pinniffer," said Mr. Rapsey, " I
haven't mentioned any ladies' names, have I ?"

Not as yet, Mr. Rapsey, you haven't, that
I'll own."

'swell, then, Mrs. Pinniffer, why be hard
on me for what I haven't done ?"

If you haven't mentioned names, Mr.
Rapsey, you've pretty well hinted who you
mean."

There was a murmur round the room as the
company said softly, with many sage nods,
Aye, aye — we know pretty well — best let
names alone, Mas'r Rapsey ! "

Mr. Rapsey was discomfited and discomposed,
and silently buried his face in his tankard

; Mr. Galbraith rose, took up his whip,
and having paid for the champagne and given
a quiet "good day, gentlemen," to the room,
walked out, and, mounting his horse at the
door, rode off out of the west end of the town.
Those left behind had now a new topic of
conversation.

Don't see a many gentlemen about here
better mounted than what Mr. Galbraith is,"
said the host, returning from the door, whither
he had escorted his guest.

Fine horse that chestnut ; bought him
last fair day."

Yes ; Sam Hart bid for him ; Mr. Sherman
were purely vexed, for he wanted him
badly himself," said Mr. Earaty ; "heave
bought another one of Sam, just as good a one
as that one ; Sam got him from Melton ; must
a-got some money, I reckon."

Must have," was the opinion of the room.

Fine seat a loss-back," said a young farmer,
" and, lor', a' do goo when a' gets on
they downs. I see 'un last Tuesday, as I
were out beyond Merrill, galloping over the
turf just below the ' White Horse ' as hard as
ever a' could split."

Nice affable gent, too, he seems," said Mr.

Pollimoy ; "I never saw him here since he
stayed here before he bought the i Coombes ;'
don't come in here generally, does he, Pin-differ
? "

"No," said the host ; "heave been a pretty
good customer, though. Haves his spirits
from here, and a cask o' my beer now and
again. Got to get him a dinner for six o'
Friday ; leaves everything to me — no matter
about price. A good sort o' gentleman that
way — pays on the nail and don't grumble. I
wish I had fifty private customers like him."

Dinner for six," said Mr. Rapsey, recovering
from his late setting down ; " who's
coming, PinnifFer ? Avonham people ? "

"Don't think so," said PinnifFer ; "I've got
to get beds ready for them."

Beds for them ! Was this connected with
the election ? " thought the room. Mr. Rarity
opined not, as Mr. Galbraith had expressed no
interest in the proceedings ; Mr. Rapsey was
eager to know all about it, but Mr. PinnifFer
could give no information. Another strange
circumstance connected with the new-comer ;
it certainly was most curious. To have one
stranger in the town about whom he could
discover nothing was a source of great uneasiness

in Mr. Kapsey's breast ; to be suddenly
confronted with a projected invasion of five
more was almost too much for him, and he
hazarded fifty opinions upon the subject and
went home to his dinner in a very excited
state, the result of an inordinate craving for
news.

Meanwhile the innocent cause of all this
agitation was quietly riding along the Dun-stale
Roach and up the rather steep Berry
Hill which intervened between that town and
Avonham ; he cantered easily along, skirting
Dunstalne without entering it and emerged on
the high road wdiicli exactly divides the rich
tableland of the Marlshire Downs ; there is
scarcely another galloping ground in the kingdom
like this, as the four or five trainers who
daily use it know full well. More than one
Derby winner has set the Marlshire village
bells a-ringing ; many of the equine heroes of
Newmarket and Yorkshire have had to succumb
to Marlshire trained racers, and horses
who are not perfectly sound give their trainers
less anxiety on these velvety downs than at
any other horsey centre of England. Leaving
the road, Galbraith pulled his horse together
and sent him at a smart pace for about a mile,

then walked him quietly at the side of the
road, just on the turf, riding past barrows
where lay the bones of unknown heroes, unsung
dead, and boulders and stones whose use
and meaning have baffled sages of all times
and of which nothing certain is known even
now. He had proceeded in this way for some
two miles, when he saw in front of him two
horses, on one of which sat a lady, who was
watching with great interest the action of a
groom who was examining the foot of the
other. As he approached nearer he perceived
that the lady was Miss Adelaide Bompas, and
that the old coachman and groom of the
family was lamenting over his horse, which
was dead lame.

'Tes no good, Miss Addie," said the old
fellow, rising from his inspection, " you'll lev
to goo alone, uther back or forrard ; old
Brownie can't goo no further. I shall ha' to
lave 'un up to Mas'r Simmonds' and walk into
Dunstalne."

11 What a pity, Watts. Well, that's what
you must do ; give me the papers ; I must goon
to Beytesbury myself."

The sound of the hoofs of Mr. Galbraith's
horse as he came up caused her to turn round

and perceive the new-comer, who raised his
hat ; he drew up and looked at the groom's
horse.

Have you met with an accident, Miss
Bompas ? " he courteously asked.

Yes, Mr. Galbraith. Poor Brownie has
just fallen lame, I'm sorry to say."

Can I be of any assistance ?" he asked.
Take my horse, my man, and let me have a
look at yours."

'Afraid you can't do no thin', sir," said
Watts, touching his hat and taking Mr. Galbraith's
horse.

I'm afraid not either," said he, after a
brief investigation of the quadruped's foot.
You'll have a job to walk him home."

You must do as you said, Watts," said
Miss Bompas. " Leave him at Mr. Simmonds'.
Give me the papers, and I will ride
on to Beytesbury ; you must get a lift home
from Dunstalne or a horse from the ' White
Lion ' stables."

She took the papers from the groom, and
turning to Mr. Galbraith, thanked him for
his offer of assistance.

Indeed," he said, " I'm only sorry I can't
do any good. If you will allow me, though,

Miss Bompas, as I'm going the same road, I
will ride with you in case you want a groom."

Miss Adelaide was as frank a specimen of a
young lady as you would meet anywhere ; she
made no scruple as to this offer, but cheerfully
accepted the proffered escort, and they rode on
together.

He's not entirely a recluse," thought
Adelaide. " It's rather fun having met him
like this ; he rides well, too."

She's prettier on horseback than she is
afoot," was Mr. Galbraith's meditation. "I'm
rather glad we came across each other like
this. It's better than a formal introduction."

You know the country pretty well I suppose,
Miss Bompas ? " said he, after a little
silence.

Yes, pretty well. My sisters and I are
always out riding ; they've gone to Bath with
mamma this morning, though, and as papa
wanted some papers taken over to Beytesbury,
I said I would ride over with Watts. Brownie
stopped dead lame just now, and I didn't
know what to do, for Brunette here won't
stand very well, and is rather fidgety to
mount."

You're fond of riding, of course ? "

Yes, very. Papa was a capital horseman
when he was younger, and he had us all
taught when we were quite children. I can
remember my first pony as far back as I can
remember anything. You seem pretty well
accustomed to a horse, too, Mr. Galbraith."

Pretty well, Miss Bompas," said Galbraith,
with a quiet smile, " my recollection of
horses goes back like yours to very early
youth."

Do you like Avonham ? " said Adelaide,
as the next subject.

Very well," answered Galbraith. "It is
very prettily situated, and I suppose there is
some sport round here in the shooting and
hunting seasons ? "

Oh, yes, plenty ; there are three packs of
hounds, lots of shooting, and some of the
best coursing in the country, I believe, just
round about here. You hunt, of course ? "

I have very little experience in fox-hunting,
if you mean that."

Indeed," said Adelaide, opening a pair
of very bright blue eyes in astonishment.
Why, how is that ? "

I have lived very little where fox-hunting
has been a sport ; indeed only in my early

school life. I have hunted other animals. I

hope to have some sport with the hounds this

winter."

Then you've lived abroad, I suppose ? "

said Adelaide. " At least, of course you must

have done so ; I needn't ask, they don't hunt

anything in England but foxes — except deer

and hares, and otters, that is What have

you hunted ? "

Oh, all sorts of things," said Galbraith,

smiling ; " deer amongst them, but we didn't

gallop after them with hounds ; we shot

them."

As they do in Scotland, I suppose ? "

: I never was in Scotland, Miss Bompas."

This answer savoured rather to Adelaide

like a piece of word-fencing, and she looked

pretty keenly at her companion. He returned

the glance, and there was something so comical

in the situation that Adelaide rippled out a

merry little trill of laughter, Galbraith followed

with a hearty peal, and then Miss Bompas

slightly blushed and struck Damietta smartly

with her dainty whip.

Here we are," she said, after a short period

of silence. " That is Beytesbury House on

the green there."

vol. i. 10

You are going to dismount ? "

Yes, I must, I have to give these papers;
to Mr. Millard himself, and he, I know, can't
get out."

I will take care of your horse for you till
you return."

Oh ! thank you, one of the men will do
that, Mr. Galbraith ; pray don't trouble."

They drew up in front of a fine old-fashioned
house on the green. Galbraith leaped quickly
from his horse and assisted Miss Bompas to
dismount. A peal at the gate brought out a
neatly-dressed handmaid, who summoned a
man to take the horses.

I will wait for you here, Miss Compassed
Galbraith, and Adelaide thanking him,
went into the house.

Mr. Millard was an old friend of Mr. Bomb
and Adelaide was his goddaughter and
had been a great favourite of his for many
years. Now it is one of the privileges of old
friends of a family to be very facetious with
the daughters of the said family respecting
their admirers, and Mr. Millard, who had seen
from his window that Adelaide was accompanied
by a gentleman, was not slow in availing
himself of his rights. He listened gravely

to Adelaide's account of Brownie's lameness,
and of the meeting on the road, and then
laughing, said :

Well, my dear, it's an ill wind that blows
nobody good, and if poor Brownie got lame,
you see, you got rid of an old man and met
with a young one, so it's not so bad after all.
Ha, ha, ha ! "

"Well, I couldn't help that, could I?"
said Adelaide.

Why should you, my dear ? " said the
merry old fellow. " A good-looking young
gentleman's better company any day than an
old groom, isn't he, Martha ? "

Lor', Addie, my dear," said Mrs. Millard,
you mustn't mind John's fun ; it was very
lucky indeed that you met the gentleman ;
that mare of yours is so skittish you want
someone with you when you ride it. But
won't the gentleman step in and take lunch ? "

"I'm sure — I really can't — I don't "

said poor Adelaide, feeling very uncomfortable

at this turn of affairs. Mr. Millard laughed

again. Mrs. Millard was already downstairs

instructing the girl to ask the gentleman to

come in.

To Adelaide's intense dismay he came.

10—2

He gave her a quiet glance as he entered,
half embarrassing, half re-assuring, and, sitting
down, plunged at once into conversation
with Mr. Millard, by that means saving
Adelaide the task of introducing him, a task
she had been dreading ever since she came
into the house. After thanking Mr. and Mrs.
Millard for their hospitality and commenting
on the weather, he drew the conversation to
the surrounding country and its agricultural
resources. He talked easily and fluently, and
was an excellent listener. Mr. Millard, an
agriculturist of note, was struck with the
keenness of his remarks and the extent of his
knowledge of the subject ; he took his listeners
with him abroad to the laboriously irrigated
rice-fields of India, to the enormous grain -
fields of Iowa, to the vineyards of France and
the pear orchards of Jersey. He discoursed
with Mrs. Millard of the virtues of Annette
in cheese, and told her husband of a dressing
for sheep. His host and hostess were charmed
with him, and Adelaide sat in wonder at hearing
the man, w r hom she and her laughing
sisters had dubbed the "recluse," taking the
chief part of the talking on his own shoulders,
and bearing the burden so easily and so w r ell.

When she rose to go, Mr. Millard was most
pressing in his invitation to Mr. Galbraith to
come again.

11 Now mind," he said, shaking him cordially
by the hand, " I shall look for you very
soon. I shall be quit of this rheumatic
touch in a few days, I hope, and then I'll
show you round a good English Dairy Farm,
and see if any of your foreign ones can beat it.
Good-bye, Addie, my dear ; mind you bring
Mr. Galbraith again."

Poor Adelaide blushed and looked piteously
at her companion. He was quite calm, and
apparently unconscious that anything was
wrong.

Mr. Galbraith was very dexterous at assisting
a lady to mount, and his wrist was much
more steady than old Watts' Miss Adelaide
thought as she sprang to her seat ; after all,
what could possibly be said ? It had been
quite an accidental meeting — the result of an
accident, indeed. Mr. Galbraith was obliged
to offer assistance, of course he was ; any
gentleman must have done so, and how could
she have refused him ? Impossible. And he
was a very — what a shame of Mr. Millard to
have chaffed her so.

They rode along briskly enough, their
horses refreshed by the rest, and rapidly
approached Dunstalne. Now what was Miss
Adelaide to do ? She was almost as well
known in Dunstalne as in Avonham, yet she
must call and see that Brownie was all right.
It really was very embarrassing having this
escort with her. And yet she liked it too.

At Dunstalne Mr. Galbraith found old Watts,
who had had, he declared, " a terrible job " to
get Brownie to the veterinary surgeon's, and
who had only just arrived ; he had been going
to hire a saddle-horse, but had found a farmer
going into Avonham, and had got a lift
from him. Mr. Galbraith rode back to Miss
Adelaide with this news and they proceeded
on their way to Avonham. It was four o'clock
in the afternoon when they reached that town,
and almost the first person Miss Adelaide saw
in the street was Shelman.

He started as though a blow had been given
to him as he saw who her companion was ;
she rode rapidly past, giving her mare the
spur lightly, and swiftly crossing the marketplace
; as they reached her father's house Mr.
Bompas was just entering his office. He,
too, stared as he saw Galbraith, who again

jumped down ; and assisted the young lady
to alight.

Oh ! papa," she said, " pray thank Mr.
Galbraith for his kindness ; poor Brownie fell
dead lame at Rutherford, and Watts had to
lead him back to Mr. Simmonds and leave
him. He's coming home in a trap. Mr.
Galbraith came up just after the accident, and
was good enough to ride to Beytesbury with
me. I don't know what I should have done
without his help."

Mr. Bompas was most politely grateful.
My dear sir, I am most sincerely obliged to
you, I am sure — ah — will you walk in, Mr.
Galbraith, and — ah — take a glass of wine ? "

Mr. Galbraith would be most happy, it
appeared, and Mr. Bompas ordered his stableboy
to take the gentleman's horse home.

My dear," said Mr. Bompas, ushering Mr.
Galbraith into the room where Mrs. Bompas
was sitting, having just returned from Bath,
allow me to — ah — p reset rt to you Mr.
Galbraith — this, sir, is Mrs. Bompas — my
daughter Louisa — Mr. Galbraith — my daughter
Lucy — Mr. Galbraith."

Polite bows from all parties and much
curiosity on the part of the ladies.

Mr. Gaibraith, my love, was fortunately —
ah — most fortunately present to-day at Cum-perform
at the time when — ah — Brownie fell
lame — Brownie, my dear, is lame — and he has
been good enough to — ah — render Adelaide
the service — for which I am sure I am most
intensely obliged to him — of — convoying —
that, I believe, is a term more usually applied
to merchant vessels and — ah — frigates of war
but — let it stand — of convoying her home."

I'm sure it's very kind of you, sir," said
Mrs. Bompas, rather flustered at having in her
drawing-room this quiet young man whom
her daughters had been calling the "recluse,"
the " hermit," and various other disparaging
names.

I'm only too happy at having been of any
service to a lady," said he, quietly.

Whilst the wine was being poured, Miss
Adelaide, who had been changing her habit,
entered the room and told her mother and
sisters of the kindness of Mr. Gaibraith, saying
nothing, strange to say, of Mr. Millard's teasing
her or of her embarrassment on the journey
home. Mr. Gaibraith drank a glass of wine
and then politely took his leave, Mr. Bompas
accompanying him to the door ; Mrs. Bompas

proceeding to the lower regions to " see after "
her servants, the girls were left alone.

What a puss you are, Addie," said Louisa ;
fancy, Luce, hasn't she luck ? "

What sort of a man is the recluse, Addie ? M
said Lucy.

A very good sort, I think, Luce ; he's not
so very ' recluse,' when he begins to talk, but
he doesn't say much about himself either."

Fancy your meeting him like that," said
Lucy. " Lou, I see the hand of fate in this,"
said the merry girl, clasping her eldest sister
round the waist and kissing her ; " this young
woman is hooked at last, look at her blushes."

Nonsense ! " said Adelaide, blushing very
much, however. " Well, girls, I'll tell you
something."

Tel ! tell ! "

Well, he really is very nice ; he's not like
anyone else I've met at all."

How does he differ, dear ? " said Louisa,
laughing at Lucy, who laughed again at her.

He's more of a Man, I think," said
Adelaide. " Lucy, what on earth are you
making that horrid noise for ? "

Lucy, who had given a most unmelodious
bellow, as if the admission had hurt her, now

shook her head, and in a tone of mock sympathy,
replied :

"Oh, Addie, Addie, it's come at last !
You've got all the first symptoms, my dear,
as plain as Mumps ! The others will come
in time, my child, but these are as plain
as Mumps."

FRIENDS FROM FAR WEST.

Mr. Pixxiffer had not broken his word.
He had provided for Mr. Galbraith and his
guests a dinner, to which, he declared with
becoming pride, the Lord Lieutenant might
sit down ; it was being cooked under the
direction of his wife, and those who knew the
Bear " and its special dinners knew what that
meant ; he had himself superintended the
laying of the table, had looked after the wine
with the tenderest of care, and could at last
find time to step into the bar parlour and fill
himself a comforting dram, informing those
few friends who were there that everything
was off his mind now, and he had time for a
quiet glass before his guests came.

Generally speaking, there was no one in the
bar between five and six, for which latter hour
the dinner was fixed ; but this evening, at
least half-a-dozen, including, of course, Mr.
Timothy Piapsey, were present.

No conversation was passing, for no one
wished openly to evince the curiosity he felt,
but each man fixed his eyes on the door, toscan
every one who entered. At half-past
five, Mr. Galbraith drove up the street in one
of Mr. Rarity's dog-carts. By his side was
an elderly gentleman w r with a smiling round
face and white hair ; they alighted at the door
of the hotel, and the boots extricated from the
back of the vehicle a portmanteau, which he
carried into the house. Mr. PinnifFer met
them at the door, and they proceeded at once
to the room upstairs next to that in which
they were to dine.

The company in the parlour stared at each
other without comment.

In ten minutes' time, an open carriage, in
which two gentlemen were seated, drove to
the door of the " Bear." Mr. PinnifFer going
to meet it received orders to put the horses up
for the night. Mr. Galbraith's room was asked
for, and Mr. PinnifFer showed the way, the
boots again bringing up the rear w T with some
luggage. The driver of the carriage w r as
promptly interviewed by Mr. Rapsey, who
conveyed to his associates the intelligence that
the party came from Bath, and was to return

there tomorrow. Excitement was yet at a
high pitch when there came rattling up the
street the omnibus which was the means by
which the good folks of Avonham reached the
railway, which was yet fully five miles from
reaching them. From this alighted two young
men, one wearing a naval uniform, but not an
English one, as Mr. Pinniffer, who had seen
service, whispered, and the other the ordinary
frock coat of everyday life. More luggage,
more excitement. Next, Mr. Galbraith's black
servant entered the hotel, and, bestowing a
grin upon Mr. Pinniffer, passed upstairs. The
company could hear the sound of laughing,
talking and greeting as the door opened.
Then a waiter came down in a mighty hurry,
received a bottle of bitters from Miss Pinniffer,
and disappeared again. And now having seen
all they were likely to see, until the dinner
was over, having taken in the stupendous
fact that there were five gentlemen, entire
strangers to the town, dining with a resident
scarcely better known than they, the company
fell to smoking stolidly.

Upstairs the dinner proceeded merrily ; the
two waiters and Mr. Pinniffer, who superintended
them, attended assiduously to the

gentlemen, who seemed to have had their appetites
thoroughly sharpened by the Marlshire
air. Mr. Pinniffer's heart swelled with pride
as he listened to the encomiums passed upon
the cookery and the wines. The conversation
was disappointing in the extreme to the worthy
waiters, who had, like the Bath coachman,
been interviewed by Mr. Rapsey, before dinner ;
two of the gentlemen, the party from Bath, in
fact, had been making a tour of the Continent,
and imparted freely their impressions and experiences.
Mr. Galbraith was uniformly addressed
as " Harry," but as most people in
Avonham knew that he had signed the few
written notes and cheques which from time
to time he had sent his tradesmen " H. Galbraith,"
that did not seem very valuable
information to give to any enquirer. And
once, in the middle of the dinner, when Galbraith
had drunk most cordially to his friends
(as far as they could make out), the language
in which his short speech was made was entirely
unknown to the attendants, as was also
that in which his guests had replied ; and the
rest of the talk whilst dinner lasted had been
of things for the most part beyond their ken.
Hints they got that the party had been long

known to one another and that they had passed
through adventures, the recollection of which
caused sometimes laughter and sometimes sorrowful
murmurs of regret ; but as the dinner
drew to a close, and the wine was freely
circulating, the conversation was carried on
almost entirely in this " fortin' tongue,"
which the party all spoke, and which Mr. Pin-differ
was ready to avow was not French, nor
anything like it.

At last, the dinner was at an end, the cloth
was removed, and the wine having been set,
the waiters and Mr. Pinniffer, with many
bows, left the room. Cigars were lit and
the decanters were briskly passed. Galbraith
waited till all were primed and smoking, and
then turning to his servant, who had entered
the room, said :

Edward, you'll take a few cigars, and a
bottle of wine, and sit in the next room, so
that you can see if anyone comes to the door.
If anyone does, send him downstairs again ;
if I want you I will ring the hand-bell you
brought."

Very well, sal," said the negro, and
taking his cigars and wine he withdrew.

Now, boys," said Galbraith, turning to his

guests, " bumpers ! here's to the Old Squire
Gulch boys, and here's to the old Squire ! "

(Mr. Reuben Matley downstairs took his
pipe from his mouth and mildly observed that
the gentlemen upstairs seemed to be enjoying
themselves.

Drinking the Queen's health," Mr. Foil-well
supposed.)

"Well, boys," said the elderly gentleman,
who had first driven up with Galbraith ; " they
were good days while they lasted, and we
didn't do badly out of them, eh ? "

No, Squire, thanks to you and your iron
rule."

How many times I've thought over the
dear old place," said the young naval officer ;
"and the Squire and you, Harry, and old
Polecat who ran the saloon, and how he got
shot that time you fellows went over to Cinnabar
Mountain, and came back so deadbeat —
such a trio of scarecrows."

Served us right," said another ; " we
haven't forgotten how you took us back, and
never shook us, but chummed us in again as
if nothing had happened ; you haven't forgotten
that, Harry, have you ? "

No, Fred, and never shall, old fellow ;
here's to the stay-at-homes of Old Squire
Gulch ! "

(" They're going through the list of toasts
proper," said Mr. PinnifFer, downstairs, " that's
the Army and Navy, I repose."

Most likely," said the customers.)

How queer though," said Fred, " that we
should all be in Europe together, and that you
knew it, Harry."

Precious lucky, I fancy ; the sight of six
old Butchers, and the Squire one of them, is
a sight for sore eyes, I think. What have
we all been doing that we haven't met
before ? "

The speaker looked round the table, as he
made the enquiry. " Come, Squire, make us
all confess."

Aye, aye, well said," exclaimed the
officer.

Well then, boys, own up all of you, one
at a time. You begin, Lieutenant. Come,
Ralph Derring, tell us how you got those
clothes on your back."

Easily told, Squire. When we broke

camp at the Gulch and all came East. I went
vol. i. 11

home, found the old people glad to see me, and
more glad perhaps because I'd full pockets to
show for empty ones. The old man was on
the navy board. He soon worked me into a
ship, and here I am, second of the Santee."

"Pile gone ? " said the Squire.

No, Sir" said the young fellow, laughing,
pass the deal, Squire ! "

"Now, Fred Markham."

Not much more to say than Ralph had,
Squire. Came back to England ; folks glad to
see me ; old man found I'd sown the wild
oats ; took me into his business, and here /
am, at Harry's invitation."

Then your pile isn't gone ? "

Bigger than ever, Squire. I wish some of
you fellows looked poor ! "

"Now, Tom Reynolds."

Faith, I'm comfortable, too. I'd no
parents to go to when I left the West, so I
stayed in the East a while. I speculated a
bit in land, and had tearing luck, and I'm
living in Brooklyn, and very comfortable."

Married, Tom ? "

Yes, begad I am, this two years. She is
in Bath this minute. Walter and I came over
to-day together."

Bravo, Tom, good record ! Now, Bryce-son,
where 's your wife ? "

No, no, Squire," said Walter Bryceson.
I've kept my pile and swelled it somewhat,
but I've not gone so far as Tom as yet. I'm
down in Essex ; my father's been dead about
two years, and I'm a Squire, like yourself,
now."

Well, Harry, there's only we two — go on,
you first."

Much as you see, Squire. Pile all right
and health all right ; living here quietly ! No
wife as yet, and no thoughts of one."

Strong as ever, Harry ? " said Ralph.
My cats ! how you used to heft things."

Much the same in all ways, I fancy.
Boys, the Squire's going to give his experience,
and then we want to talk to you — so heave
ahead, Squire."

Bless your hearts, my boys," said the old

fellow, beaming round the table. "I'm just

the same as ever, only richer for the Gulch ;

living quietly in Concord, and just allowing

myself a scientific run over to Europe now

and again, as I am now. That's my tale, or

experience, as Harry puts it."

Well, then, boys, as we're all well," said

11—2

impulsive Irish Tom Reynolds, " here's the
old toast — ' here's to us.' "

(" Wonder what that one is," said Mr.
Rapsey.

Something popular, you may depend upon
it," answered Mr. Foil well ; "I wonder if
they're a-going to sing ? ")

Now, Harry," said Derring, after the toast
had been uproariously honoured, " what is
your news ? What have you and the Squire
to talk to us about ? "

I want to talk about my brother," said
Galbraith, after a short pause.

There was a dead silence, a sympathetic
silence, one such as falls on a circle of friends
who know that the next words which break
it will be fraught with unpleasant meaning,
leading to the opening of some hidden wound,
the marring of some dream of joy ; then
Walter Bryceson said :

Ah ! Reginald, poor fellow ! his was a sad
death."

Yes, Harry," said Fred Markham, " that
woman was the ruin of his happiness ; she
broke up his life ; it was a pity he ever saw
her ! "

Ah, indeed," said hearty Reynolds, " but,
Harry, my boy, you weren't to blame in the
affair. Faith, you were only a boy. Is it
good to grieve over it now ? Why that's
years back — before we first went West with
the Squire."

I know that, Tom," said Galbraith, " and
how you took me with you just because I was
his brother, and, out of your old friendship for
him, you adopted me, old fellows."

Of course we did, and a bright and
promising babe of grace you've turned out — a
credit to his foster-fathers, isn't he ? "

Fred, Ralph, Squire, you three were with
Reo-oie when he saw this woman first, weren't
you ? " asked Galbraith.

Yes," was the reply.

Would you know her again if you met
her ? "

I should know her anywhere," said Fred.

"fancy I should too," said the Squire.

I'm not very confident about it," observed
Tom, " but I think I should recognise her.
Bead, she was a fine woman."

Walter and Tom, you never saw her, did
you ? "

Xo ! "

You heard the tale of her and Reginald ? "

Yes, but you know it was always a
subject we hesitated to touch on."

Well, then, I'll tell it you again, that you
may really know the facts of it, and after that
I want you to hear what the Squire has to
say.

You must know that I have never seen
my brother's wife ; that's necessary in the
first place. Reginald and I are sons of the
same mother, but Reginald's father died when
he was quite a child, and mother married
again. My father was never particularly fond
of either of us, that I could see ; but he was
anything but kind to Reginald. That was the
reason of his going away from home ; an uncle
took care of him, and, when he died, left him
a very nice income, about £400 a-year.
Of course Reginald was under age, and so
he came home for a bit, and my father
managed his money. Well, they couldn't
agree, and one day, after a terrible row, Reginald
declared he would stay at home no
longer ; he was then eighteen years old, and I
was twelve. Mother was in delicate health,
or I believe Reginald would have gone before.
At any rate, go he did, and of course America

was his destination. When he had been there
three years, and I was only fifteen, mother
died, and I was left at home with father. I
believe he was fond of me in his way, but he
was a reserved kind of man, and whatever he
might have felt he kept pretty much to himself.
My youthful days at home were not my
happiest ones, and I was always glad enough
to get back to fagging at Rugby, I can tell
you. Reginald was twenty-one when he made
his appearance at home to claim the money his
uncle had left him, and was a fine, manly-looking
fellow. Father and he were no more
affable to one another than usual, and although
the money was scrupulously accounted for,
and father had really managed affairs in the
best possible way, yet there was a row over the
settlement, as indeed there was over almost all
that passed between those two. It was then
that Reginald conceived the idea of taking
me over to America with him. I had been
grumbling to him one day about some fancied
wrongs in home-life, and eagerly accepted his
offer. We left home on a visit to an aunt, my
mother's sister. We did not go there, but
went to Liverpool, and before father knew that
we had not paid our visit we were three parts

of the way across. Well, when we got there,
Reginald decided to put me to school, and I
went first to a tutor's, and then, as you know,
Walter, to Yale, where we were class-mates."

We were, for three years," said Bryceson.

It was during that time that Reginald
went West. It was there he met this woman,
who was singing at a theatre in St. Louis.
He was fascinated with her, and married her :
she was, as some of you know, a remarkably
handsome w oman . ' '

"She was indeed," said the Squire, "and
poor Reginald was very fond of her, and she of
him at first, apparently."

Well, you know how she treated him : how
she made him jealous with other men, how she
refused to come East, how her tantrums drove
him nearly wild, and how, one time when he
had run East to see me one vacation, she left
him for ever, and drove him to madness and
death."

The speaker's voice trembled, and he paused
and drank some wine before resuming :

I shall never forget how Reginald took
the news, how he rushed away from me — it
was the last time I ever saw him — quite frantic.
You know the rest of the tale even

better than I, for I did not know you then,
and had never set eyes on Constance — a
pretty name, forsooth — in my life."

Well, what we know of the matter," said
Fred Markham, " is just this. After Reginald
Wilding had gone East to see you, this
woman, as you say, left with a fellow from
Xew York. Reginald was of course told of
it by one of us. We'd no idea of anything
wrong until the mischief was all done. He
came back quite like a madman, refused all
offers of help, but traced the runaway couple
to Memphis and Baton Rouge. There, by all
accounts, he met them ; and there, as we
learned afterwards, was shot by the fellow
who had robbed him of his wife, and died ina
few days, delirious and unknown."

That's right, Fred," said Tom Reynolds,
we both tried all we knew to get hold of the
blackguard and have a shot at him, but he
got away to Xew Orleans, and from there to
Havana, as far as we could make out, and we
never set eyes on either of them — bad luck to
them."

But, Harry," said Ralph Derring, " why
is it, old fellow, that you bring this up again ?
Do you remember that when you came West

to St. Louis, where we all were, and whence
we had intended starting for Colorado with
poor Reginald before this affair happened, it
was agreed after we had, as Tom says,
adopted you, that we shouldn't let you brood
over these matters ? "

I'll answer that," said the Squire, breaking
in before Galbraith had time to reply.
The reason is one that Harry can hardly
give you. This is my hand. Harry brought
this up here because I asked him to, and
doesn't himself know the reason of my request.
Tom and Fred, you went down to Baton
Rouge after Reginald Wilding ? "

AVe did."

Where did he die ? "

In the Central Infirmary there, so they
told us, raving mad and shot through the
body."

You're wrong, my boys — sit still, Harry
Reginald Wilding is alive. He has been
under my care in Glenbrook Private Asylum
for four months past, and if you see him — and
see him you will, I know, as soon as you can
get to him — I'll stake my professional reputation
that he will be a sane man ten days after
you meet."

(" Well," said Mr. Timothy Rapsey, taking
his pipe out of his mouth and looking round
for corroboration, " Mr. Galbraith's one of the
very quietest gentlemen I've ever come across,
but his friends are making up for him tonight,
I'm blest if they aren't. There's the
bell, Mr. Pinniffer, again. They're not going
to spare the wine either, it seems. Ah, there's
nothing like youth after all ; it's the time for
diversion. Give me another little drop of
Hollands, Miss. We may just as well enjoy
ourselves downstairs as up, for all I can see")

CANVASSING.

How many 'sections have you seen in Avon-lias
in your time, father ? " said ex-mayor
Killett, grazier and butcher, taking his clay
pipe from his mouth and lifting a healthy-looking
brown jug thereto.

The pair were seated in the little summerhouse
which had been the work of the old man
in the first summer after his retirement from
his flourishing business in favour of his son.
There was no more affectionate and dutiful
child in the country side than the brawny
Hercules who had succeeded him : and no one
who paid him more deference. The old man
was the oracle of the neighbourhood, and the
son sat at his feet as at those of another Gama-lies.
It was acknowledged that no one could
compete with old Mas'r Killett in local lore,
and the evening of his life was spent in telling
the younger generations around him what had
passed and happened in Marlshire in its morning.

He now in turn removed his pipe, and,
taking a draught from his own especial brown
jug, conveniently placed at his elbow and filled
with his son's best home-brewed, proceeded to
answer his question.

Now when Mas'r Killett or any other Marl-shire
oracle spoke of the days of yore in reply
to any query put, a certain manual exercise
was gone through with time-honoured solemnity.
First, the capacious waistcoat was slowly
filled down until its wrinkles had well-nigh
disappeared, then the disengaged hand (i.e.,
the hand which held neither pipe nor tankard)
was rubbed slowly and softly up and down
the side of the leg a few times ; after that the
body was inclined forwards, and the pipe stem
pointed to the interlocutor (if there were no
pipe present the forefinger performed its office),
and lastly, the rubbing hand stopped and rested
on the point of the knee, emphasising the
answer by a series of taps or slaps, according
to whether the subject were being calmly or
excitedly discussed — and the first word of the
reply was " who ! " This was the cabalistic
forerunner of the speech of the average Marl-shire
oracle.

There were great advantages in this. In

the first place, you got your reply diplomatically,
and therefore trustworthy. Having
surrounded the desired information with all
the ancient ceremony and pomp due to its
merit, no Marlshire sage would think for a
moment of advancing anything but the best
at his command. Then, again, it w T as not a
hasty answer, but one which was being painfully
and carefully revolved in the mind
whilst the hands were gracefully preparing the
way for it. Lastly, it precluded heat and
anger, and showed that your question w r as respected
as it was expected the reply w r ould be.
All the appropriate manoeuvres having been
performed by old Mas'r Killett, and the preliminary
" who " having been produced, he
answered his questioning son.

Xot more than about a five, my son ; Sir
Headingiy (Mr. H. Cannn he were w r hen he
first come here), heave sat here for eighteen
year, and afore him was Mr. Meres, him as
is Sir John now, a notable old man he must
be, and lives somewheres abroad. Thirty-four
year he sat for Avonham. There was Mr.
Mathews sat w r with him till the Great Bill oi
'32. There was never any 'lection in those
days — the seat was the surest there w r as anywhere.

A real line couple of gentlemen were
Sir John and Mr. Mathews. Sir John never
gave up knee-breeches let who would. Mr.
Mathews was master of the hounds a many
years, and you must remember both of them
well — yes, surely you do."

"Why, surely, father. I mind Mr.
Mathews' funeral as if 'twas only yesterday.
Why, Sir John was member then, and it was
before Sir Headingly sat here at all."

To be sure, my son, to be sure it was.
Well now, before Sir John first came, there
was a lord sat here, a fine young fellow he
was, and was shot somewhere close to London
by one as cheated him at cards ; such things
young blood will do ; six years he sat, and
came in the first of the eighteen hundreds ;
before him was a very great General that
fought the Americans in his time, likewise the
French, at that great rock Gibraltar. One
arm he had only, and great doings there was
at his 'lection. I was but a lad, but I remember
it well. There was a banker gentleman
who was sitting member here then, and when
the 'lection time came, this General Hundred he
came down and beat him. Money was spent
in those times, and long purses were a snare

unto many. And that's all the 'lection doings
that's been in Avonham this eight-ands sixty
years, as many men could testify if so be as
they were alive to do so."

'Tis surely seldom a town does have so
few," said the son, reflectively.

Yes," said the old man, " and 'twill put
many good men into a quandary now how to
vote to save giving offence."

'Twill that, father. I wish the 'lection
were further ; we've been living quiet and
neighbourly for years, and had nothing' to
come in between friends 'kept maybe a bit o'
market-day trading that seemed to pinch one
side now and again. But lor', that was soon
settled and made up, and 'wasn't like these
political disputes. Why, dear me, Mr. Artoo
and John Rami were quite at words in the
shop yesterday morning when they were waiting.
Rami he's all for a change, and he's working
for Mr. Boldham. Mr. Artoo he's against
new measures, and don't seem to lay much
heart to the 'lection ; that's where Sir Head-ingle's
side are making a mistake, I reckon.
Well, they were quite sharp over it. Mr.
Artoo says he's none for upsetting a town this
way. ' Corn,' he says, ' is my occupation and

oats is my change of method.' Out comes
Rami with what I must say seemed rather
rough, and said as that was the sort of choice
and change a donkey or an unreasoning dumb
horse would make. And really, father, without
taking on me to measure Mr. John Rami's
words and meanings I believe he only put the
horse in to save Mr. Artoo being too raw over
the donkey. There was going to be words
over it I could see, only I hurried cutting
Rannn's steak and drawer Mr. Artoo oiF on to
a saddle of mutton and saved trouble so."

And the good-hearted giant shook his head
sadly as he thought of the division in the town.

He was not the only old inhabitant who

regretted the existing state of things ; the

younger men of the town delighted in the

contest, and went heart and soul into the fray

for their respective sides, but the seniors shook

their heads. Among them Sir Headingly Cannn

had a perceptible majority, although some

like Doctor Mompesson were in favour of a

younger and more energetic man. There was

no burning question of the day imported into

the election at Avonham as was the case with

larger constituencies. Mr. Boldham made the

Railway Bill his trump card, and twitted his
vol. i. 12

rival with, having so long delayed bringing it
forward. Sir Headingly again promised the
Bill and rested his claim on his long services,
on his Church and State proclivities, and on
his personal influence in the town. •

To say truth, the old man had a task before
him which was not only uncongenial but
repugnant to him. For eighteen years his
annual address had been for him only a small
part of a connection which long use had made
very pleasant. To reply for the House of
Commons after the great local banquets ; to
preside at the Agricultural and Horticultural
Show dinners, to see his name as patron or
president of almost all the societies or associations
in that part of the county, had been
the principal tasks imposed upon him by his
position, and he had fulfilled them with grace
and dignity. The sense of being guardian
over the public interests of his constituents
had gradually led him to adopt towards the
town a paternal and protecting air which was
eminently pleasing to him and not at all
resented by Avonham. So that now when he
came to face a meeting only half sympathetic
with him, when he was "heckled" by suddenly
sprung-up local politicians, and when his

bland and conciliatory responses were stigmatised
as " blarney " and " soft soap," the old
man, who was the soul of honour and tenacious
of it to a degree , felt almost inclined to choke
at what he called the " unthankful depravity "
of his constituents. Nevertheless, the very
meekness with which he bore himself was one
of his strongest recommendations. Many an
Avonham elector, who had felt aggrieved that
the Railway Bill had not been obtained for
the town and who had made up his mind to
show Sir Headingly that he individually would
submit to no further delay, came away from
the meeting fully settling in his own mind that
after all it was a shame to desert the old man,
and that he, for one, would stand by him once
more.

Much of Sir Headimdv's labour and anxiety
was taken off his hands by his nephew. For
no one in Avonham recognised more clearly
than this young fellow the exact position of
parties, and no one was more keenly alive to
his own interests in the matter. Defeat for
Sir Headingly meant just such a golden chance
for Boldham and Shelman after him as his
chance had been considered for the last few

years. He saw clearly that if his uncle lost

12—2

this seat his own political career would receive
a rough check from which it would not readily
recover. Sir Headingly would be so grieved
at the loss of the seat that he would doubtless
at once sever all connection with the town,
and retire altogether from political life. Where
then would be his chance of stepping into the
shoes which he had always considered such an
easy fit for him ? Gone, and nothing left for
it but either to wait a new election and fight
Avonham on his own account, or to seek
another constituency under the wing of one
of his uncle's political friends. Would he get
another chance ? Xot very likely, for he w r as
looked upon as being sure to retain Avonham
for the party after his uncle's career was finished,
and if this opportunity were allowed to
slip, farewell to political patronage for sometime
to come.

Thus urged on by self interest he left no
stone unturned to ensure success ; he w r as more
affable than ever ; even political opponents
were not made aware of the slightest change of
feeling. The younger politicians were keenly
argued with, but the argument was never
allowed to get to the length of a dispute ;
there was no fault to be found with him, and

he frankly told the " Boldhamites," as his
uncle's opponents were called, that he was
glad that the contest had occurred, as it gave
him an opportunity of showing his real feelings
towards all in Avonham. political friend and
political foe alike.

Alfred Shelman came out of the ordeal very
much less skilfully than his rival. Never
accustomed to conciliate, by nature rather
aggressive than yielding, with a hasty temper
under scarcely any control, and with an ill-disguised
contempt for the people whom he had
to visit and fraternise with, he compared most
unfavourably with the suave and courteous
Pavers. If the baronet were helped by his
nephew, the banker was rather hampered by
his. although Shelman worked hard and energetically
in his way, and took the greatest
possible interest in the conflict.

The Pariahs whom we mentioned before
were the ones who extracted the most enjoyment
out of the turmoil. Here was a legitimate
chance for a fling at respectability at last.
The heavy fathers of the town, the sobersides,
were set by the ears, the youthful spirits had
their turn. True, most of them had no votes,
but their fathers and uncles had ; their crusade

could be carried into every household. Mr.
Pinniffer and the " Bear " Hotel did not care
over much for the company of these young
men, but the Blues of them mustered at the
Great George " and the Yellows at the
Woolpack," and from these two strongholds
the warfare was waged.

Of course the first thing to be done was to
moralise the contest, so a soaring genius at the
Great George " decided. Having collected a
chorus of boys from the Church schools and
elsewhere, and enlisted them on the Blue side,
he supplied them with a soul-stirring election
song, which went to a popular tune of the day,
so that the youngsters, who entered hugely
into the fun of the thing and were made bold
by the unwonted license of the whole surroundings,
made the side streets, the smaller lanes
and the very churchyard itself echo with their
chant :

Vote boys, do,
For the old true blue ;
Blue is the colour of the sky ;
So vote every man
For Sir 'Edin'ly Cannn,
And we'll make old Body fly."

This, of course, was felt by the " Woolpack
" contingent to be a political movement
of very deep significance, and one against

which a counter mine must be sprung ; after
deep cogitation and much poetical outpouring,
another song was evolved from the inner consciousness
of a Yellow bard, and some Yellow
boys having been enlisted and duly trained,
the town was made hideous with another
song. The same tune was adopted, it being
considered that a monopoly was to be denied
the Blues, as it was an air well known to both
parties alike. So the Yellow side sang :

Cannnnnnn, Cannnnnnn, Cannnnnnn,
Will never be the man,
And the Tories '11 say he's sold 'em ;
And all the silly Blues
Will be shaking in their shoes
When we bring in Mister Boldham."

This second effort was voted weak, and the
singing boys complained that the extra feet
of verse fitted the tune but ill, and that the
Blue boys had the advantage. A few deserted
and sang the original chant, and altogether the
Yellow party had the worse of the poetry.
The Yellow poet, on being appealed to to
remedy this defect, waxed wroth, declared that
his version was infinitely superior to the other,
that a redundance of feet was a positive advantage
as giving the song more " go," and finally
threatened to transport his genius and efforts

bodily to the " Great George " if he were
bothered any more about it. His loss would
have been such a dire calamity to the party that
the bard was suffered to rest in peace.

Mr. Sennett, the mayor, had no enviable
position ; he, of course, in virtue of his office,
held the post of returning officer, and he
heartily wished the whole business at the
bottom of the Avon. The Club was excited
over it. Wolstenholme and Hoppenner Pye
were staunch supporters of Sir Headingly.
Dr. Mompesson and Mr. Follwell, on the other
hand, were just as keen for Mr. Boldham, and
the opposition of Mr. Rami and Mr. Beadle-more
Artoo was, as we have seen, pronounced
and spirited. So that the Club was not so
harmonious as usual, and Mr. Sennett was not
the only member who sighed for peace. Mr.
Bompas, Mr. Rarity, quiet Reuben Matley, all
hated the fuss and pother which had taken
possession of the town, and wished the business
well over. But in others the feeling was not
so pacific. John Rami was in his glory ;
Barnabas Chickleholt and he were political
cronies, and from Rami's office steps held forth
to all comers. Benjamin Pollimoy brought all
the vast experience of a traveller to bear upon

the election, and loudly upheld the Crown,
the living wearer of which it had been his
privilege to behold ; and Timothy Rapsey, in
his eagerness to know what was being done by
both sides, ran some risk of being trusted by
neither. So the contest went on, with both
sides confident of success, each party narrowly
watching the other and ready to countercheck
all movements which seemed likely to lead
to victory.

It was on one of the evenings when there
was no meeting of his uncle's supporters, and,
at the end of a day's patient canvassing of the
electors, that Walter Rivers, after standing fora
few minutes at the churchyard gate, looking
somewhat wearied, walked slowly across the
churchyard path, and, descending the steps at
the end, reached the gates of the Priory House.
Here he halted, and stood for a minute as if
debating some question with himself, and then,
having apparently made up his mind with a
certain amount of effort, rang the bell and was
admitted. In a few minutes Mrs. Stanhope
came into the room where he was standing,
and greeted him cordially.

Have you found your way here at last ?
Where is Sir Headingly ? I haven't seen

either of you once, since this election work
began ; how is your uncle ? "

"Fairly well, considering the worry he has
gone through ; he feels very much aggrieved
at having any opposition to him."

Didn't you expect any ? "

I did, certainly. I foresaw that Dunstalne
was likely, sooner or later, to influence Avon-ham
politics ; but I never liked to let uncle
think so. It would only have troubled him,
and I had some idea that if a dissolution came
this year " and he paused.

That he would resign the seat to you ; you
mean that ? "

Yes, I do ; it has always been understood
between us that it was to be so, and nothing
but the opposition of Boldham has made uncle
put up again."

Do you think you would have been sure
of your seat ? "

I think so. Boldham might have opposed
me, or Shelman, but I fancy I could hold my
own against either of them, backed up, of
course, by uncle's influence and help."

You are sorry, of course, that that didn't
happen ? "

Yes, and a good deal disappointed ; you

know that I have ambitions, and I was in hopes
of being able at once to begin Parliamentary
life ; yes, I am certainly sorry that things have
turned out so."

Mrs. Stanhope looked very kindly on this
good-looking young politician. It is not unpleasant
to a handsome woman to console a
man for disappointment.

It is a pity," she replied, with a little sigh ;
I am very sorry. I was in hopes, myself,
that you would have the seat."

I am quite consoled if you are sorry," he
said. " I am glad you take an interest in my
career."

An interest ? Of course I do — you know
that ; I've told you that before. I hope to see
you a Member of Parliament ; it would be ungracious
not to be interested in an old friend."

Boldham is an old friend too," said he,
laughing.

Yes, it's the worst of these elections, they
come in between people in several ways ; I'm
almost thankful I haven't a vote; indeed I am
quite glad ; I'm sure I shouldn't know what
to do with it. I should refuse to vote at all,
I think. Are you and Shelman friendly ? "

Oh, so so ; we met soon after the business

began and agreed that no private feeling should
be changed by it, but of course in the heat of
the contest one sometimes loses sight of that,
and we were never very attached to each
other, I believe. "

So I have heard. Well, two stars in the
same sphere are not well situated for ardent
friendship, I suppose."

Not when they both presume to shine on
the same fair object. You should be able to
read between the lines of our intercourse better
than anyone — as clearly as Ave do ourselves —
though neither would acknowledge it to the
other."

I ? "

"Yes, you ; will you be angry if I tell you
what I mean ? "

"I do not think you can offend me ; " she
said, and she coloured as she said it. Woman
of the world as she was, she was sensible that
her heart was beating more quickly. She
remembered their last interview and what
had passed between them on the day of the
Bishop's visit.

He saw the flush and saw his chance as well.
In the low, earnest tones which he knew how
to use so effectively, he led the conversation to

his uncle, thence to that wish of his which
we have heard expressed before ; he pleaded
earnestly and skilfully for himself, urging his
suit with modesty and warmth. She could not
but be nattered, the consciousness of triumph
was strong upon her. Here she had the two
foremost young men of her little world at her
feet, and the handsomer and more eligible of
the two was asking her to be his wife. She had
expected it ; she had guessed that under the
joking words of the hit er view at the party lay a
deeper meaning, and she had made up her mind
what her answer should be when the question
came. Yes — she would marry this man, she
would help him in the great world of London ;
he was talented, ambitious, and wealthy, so
was she ; they would be somebodies on a greater
scale than hi this little quiet country town ; a
bright career lay open to them, and the ball
was at their feet.

So Rivers found his task an easy one. She
accepted him with dignity and the grace that
was peculiarly her own ; there was something
almost protecting in her manner : she seemed
to devote herself to him as a guardian and a
help. There was a calm yielding of herself to
him, as of a strong nature unbending itself

and dedicating itself to the service of a weaker
one. He was very grateful ; his joy was unbounded.
He had won a great prize here ; he
would keep it and cherish it for its own sake
and his.

The moon was shining brightly when he
took his leave and walked down the quiet
street and up the churchyard steps to where
the white stones watched over the graves of
Avonham's dead. It w r as a night of peace,
and he was just in the mood to take in all its
beauties. A hard day's work had been succeeded
by an evening of inexpressible calm
and joy, and his cup of content was full.
Only let the election go right and all w r ould
be w r ell with him. Wealth, honours, rewards
were all before him ; there seemed no turn of
fortune's wheel which he had yet to desire.
He passed dow r n the High Street of the town,
exchanging cheery good-nights to those few
townsfolk yet in the street, and reached his
uncle's house. He would tell him the good
news before he slept. The old man had had
a wearying day, he would cheer him with his
tidings and share his joy with him. It did
cheer Sir Headingly greatly. It was touching
to see how the old man rejoiced in the young

one's love and happiness. The cares of the
election were forgotten, and the two talked far
into the night of the fortune that had fallen to
Walter.

I shall see her tomorrow morning," were
the Baronet's parting words, "and welcome
her as I would a daughter ; you're a lucky
fellow, Walter, and you deserve to be, for you
have always been a good boy to me. Goodnight,
my dear boy, God bless you."

She stood long at the window after he had
gone, and watched the moon silvering the
little stream, that ran to feed the river at the
town bridge, and as she turned away she
murmured :

Perfectly happy, but for the past — perfectly
— and the past seems far away. There
have been years of sorrow and years of doing
good. Surely they will atone. I will forget
the past ; there is a future coming now ! "

errand

dedicating itself to the service of a weaker
one. He was very grateful ; his joy was unbounded.
He had won a great prize here ; he
would keep it and cherish it for its own sake
and his.

The moon was shining brightly when he
took his leave and w r asked down the quiet
street and up the churchyard steps to were
the white stones watched over the graves of
Avonham's dead. It was a night of peace,
and he was just in the mood to take in all its
beauties. A hard day's w r work had been succeeded
by an evening of inexpressible calm
and joy, and his cup of content was full.
Only let the election go right and all would
be well with him. Wealth, honours, rewards
w r ere all before him ; there seemed no turn of
fortune's w r heel which he had yet to desire.
He passed down the High Street of the town,
exchanging cheery good-nights to those few
townsfolk yet in the street, and reached his
uncle's house. He w r ould tell him the good
news before he slept. The old man had had
a wearying day, he w r ould cheer him with his
tidings and share his joy with him. It did
cheer Sir Headingly greatly. It was touching
to see how the old man rejoiced in the young

one's love and happiness. The cares of the
election were forgotten, and the two talked far
into the night of the fortune that had fallen to
Walter.

I shall see her tomorrow morning," were
the Baronet's parting words, " and welcome
her as I would a daughter ; you're a lucky
fellow, Walter, and you deserve to be, for you
have always been a good boy to me. Goodnight,
my dear boy, God bless you."

She stood long at the window after he had
gone, and watched the moon silvering the
little stream, that ran to feed the river at the
town bridge, and as she turned away she
murmured :

Perfectly happy, but for the past — perfectly
— and the past seems far away. There
have been years of sorrow and years of doing
good. Surely they will atone. I will forget
the past ; there is a future coming now ! "

MR. BOMPAS NOTICES MANY THINGS.

Mr. Abel Bompas had very little of Mr.
Timothy Rapsey's curiosity in his composition.
He liked, of course, to know what was
going on around him, and took care to keep
himself posted in the affairs of the town, but
there was nothing obtrusive in the man. He
would chirp (if so venerable an old bird
might with propriety be said to chirp) at his
family table over the small talk of his neighbours,
would retail what he had heard in the
street, or at the Club, and would increase his
store of news from the gatherings of Mrs.
Bompas, who, as most plump, amiable, well-preserved
matrons do, dearly loved a bit of
gossip with a neighbour over the fragrant
Souchong. This was the extent of Mr. Bomb
share in the chatter and scandal of
Avonham. The confidential nature of much
of his business demanded a reticence which
had by degrees become customary, and the
good heart of the pompous but kindly old

gentleman shut out from his nature that spice
of malice which is indispensable to your well
regulated male town-gossip. So it came to
pass that Mr. Bompas at this stage of our tale,
being much exercised in mind respecting certain
occurrences taking place under his eyes,
did shut himself up within himself, and ceasing
to retail to others any of the observations
which he took by wholesale, gave his mind
solely to taking very particular notice of certain
events happening all round him.

About the election Mr. Bompas was quite
easy ; he had been duly waited on by both
candidates in person, and had frankly, and at
once, declined to have anything to do with
the matter at all. He would vote for neither
party, would attend no meetings, would have
neither lot nor part in it. Xever a politician
at heart and the very reverse of a noisy man,
he left the struggle to those who were interested
in it, and went on his own way.

But Mr. Bompas had matters nearer his

own household to attend to, and circumstances

affecting the well-bemo- of his own household

to watch ; and, first among these matters,

was the conduct of his articled pupil, Mi*.

Adolphus Carter.

vol. i. 13

From time immemorial it lias been accepted
as an orthodox state of things that the 'prentice,
articled pupil, or probationer of any merchant,
craftsman, or professional man possessing
any daughter with good looks as a portion
of her endowment, shall fall in love with the
said daughter. Whether the passion be requited
or not has nothing whatever to do with
it ; the young man must bow r to his fate, and
the young lady likes it — expects it — looks for
it as a perquisite and a right. She may not
definitely accept the proffered devotion, but she
would most assuredly feel that the foundations
of apprenticeship were shaken to their centre,
and that the fountains of the great deep of
romance were broken up, if she did not receive
it. Mr. Adolphus Carter had, of course,
followed orthodoxy as befitted the son of a
country parson, and had even exceeded the
prescribed limits of passion, for, whereas, it is
undoubtedly correct to attach oneself to one
fair object in a family, Mr. Carter had allowed
his tender heart to become enmeshed in the
toils of all three of his master's daughters.
Until lately this had been a position of great
comfort to him, and he complacently basked
in the smiles of the Misses Bompas, and was

not in the least averse to being gently rallied
by his companions upon the state of his heart.
"When all the country-side youth were sighing
for the fair ones, when schemes for gaining
brief entrance into the private apartments of
the house of the worthy auctioneer were laid
with a depth and circumstantiality befitting
a political plot, how blest was the lot of the
fortunate youth who met the charmers everyday,
who was frequently partaker of the
cheerful tea and the more jovial supper, and
who stood well enough in his principal's
graces to be able to indulge the not unreasonable
hope that he might effect in time a double
partnership, and enter the business and the
family at the same time. Winch of the ladies
he would honour he had not yet made up his
mind, but that was a matter which could be
decided upon at leisure or perhaps might be
better left to accident to determine.

Mr. Adolphus had, therefore, resented as a
personal injury to himself the escort which has
been described in a former chapter, and the
face and form of Mr. Galbraith were odious to
him. His nerves had been roughly shaken by
their first interview ; he had vowed vengeance

then, but his wrath had somewhat subsided

13—2

until the clay of the ride to Beytesbury, which
had caused it to burst forth affair with increased
fury. He grinned savagely at Galbraith when
he saw him in the street, and hinted mysteriously
to his friends of a dark and dreadful fate
overshadowing someone whom he hated, finding
in this that subtle relief which little men and
little minds feel in venting their spite on some
absent and unconscious person. But after the
dinner at the "■ Bear " his enemy had become
insupportable ; he could stand him no longer,
his very life was embittered, and made a burden
to him ; not alone through his first foe, but
through his friend.

And this friend was also the cause of much
heavy pondering to Mr. Carter's employer.

When Mr. Galbraith 's guests had consumed
Mr. Pinniffer's excellent dinner, and had tried
and approved of the luxurious feather beds
which were the pride of his worthy spouse,
had eaten a hearty breakfast and seen the lions
of Avonham, which were few, they had driven
away from the town in the highest spirits,
bearing with them their host, who went to see
then all off. Two of the party who were going
to Bath by road, parted from the rest at the
end of the town and the remainder proceeded

to the railway, being driven by Mr. Galbraith
himself in Mr. Earaty's dog-cart ; but only
two of the occupants of that vehicle quitted
Marlshire at that time, for Mr. Galbraith, and
a young friend whom he addressed as Walter,
returned to Mr. Earaty's stables with the trap.
The negro Edward had ni3ved a portmanteau
to the " Coombes," and the Avonham carrier, ina
few days, carried a portly looking and weighty
trunk there from the railway. This trunk at
once came under the scrutiny of Mr. Eapsey,
who announced that the gentleman staying with
Mr. Galbraith was a certain Walter Bryceson,
Esq., and Mrs. Pinniffer and Miss PinniiFer, her
rosy-checked daughter, declared that he was
as handsome a looking young man as anyone
might wish to see, whilst Mr. Pimiiffer gave
it as his opinion that Mr. Galbraith was a
quiet gent, a little too quiet for a young gent,
and that if there was a gent as was calculated
to wake a gent up a little this one seemed the
very gent to do it.

Indeed, Mr. Walter Bryceson, having seen
that he was in a goodly land, proceeded to
make the best of it, and amused himself
greatly with the town and its inhabitants; he
would stroll through the market-place, cigar

in mouth, and chat to the farmers ; he speedily
knew the face of every young lady who assisted
in the commerce of the town, from Miss
Pinniffer, at the " Bear," to the milliner's
apprentices at the bridge foot, and such an
admirer of the fair sex was, it may be sure, not
long in discovering the pretty faces and graceful
shapes of the acknowledged belles of the
town. Mr. Carter was agonised to find that
Mr. Bryceson had obtained an introduction to
Mr. Bompas, and was high in the good graces
of his employer's helpmeet. So his brow grew
darker than ever, he puzzled his friends by
hints still more obscure and deadly, and
startled Mr. Bompas greatly at times by a
snappishness and abruptness which greatly
discomposed him.

Mr. Bompas also noticed about this time
that Miss Adelaide was in the habit of blushing
in the rosiest manner whenever Mr.
Galbraith's name was mentioned, and he also
made the discovery that the name was mentioned
very frequently by the young lady's
sisters, apparently with the intention of
bringing about that pleasing state of confusion
; and finally the good father made up
his mind that something was amiss between

his family and Mr. Shelman, and that, in some
inscrutable manner, Mr. Galbraith and Mr.
Bryceson were concerned in this matter also.

One evening as the worthy old fellow was
jogging homewards, after a sale at an outlying
village, filled with that calm which comes of
a good day's work well done, he overtook on
the road his old friend and crony, Mr. Sennett.
Mr. Bompas pulled up, and offered him a lift,
which was accepted.

Not sorry to find a friend driving homewards,"
said Mr. Sennett, as he climbed to his
place.

I am returning from Mr. Poysener's sale,"
said Bompas.

"Ah, ha ! good sale ? "

Moderately so, mo-desperately so, Sennett.
Any news ? "

No, none particular ; the nomination, you
know, of course, takes place on Monday."

I shall be most remarkably pleased when
the contest, which I can only regard as a
Most Unfortunate Occurrence," said Mr.
Bompas, " is all over."

Yes," said his friend, " you won't be
better pleased than I shall."

I really think," said Bompas, " that I

shall send Mrs. Bompas and the girls down to
Weymouth, in order that they may be away
from the consequent turmoil and excitement."

Good plan. Are you going to stop at
Beytesbury ? I want to say half a word to
Millard if you are."

; I can easily do so ; Millard has just
recovered from his last attack, and I should
like to see him."

Mr. Millard welcomed his friends heartily,
and they were soon discussing the contents of
a cob webbed and tenderly-handled bottle which
he brought reverently from some dark nook.
Mr. Sennett's errand done, a general chat
followed.

That was a smart young fellow that Addie
brought over here with her the other day," said
the host, at last.

He is a young man of very pleasing and
quiet manners," said Mr. Bompas.

Anything up between him and Addie,
Bompas ? "

"My clear sir !" said Mr. Bompas, holding
up his hands in surprise ; " what ever induced
you to imagine that ? "

Imagine it," said Millard ; " come, Bompas,
you know what our fathers used to think about

us when we were young, and went riding about
the country with our present wives — what do
you say, Sennett ? "

Ah, you see you have the advantage over
me, Millard ; we bachelors "

Don't know anything about it of course, of
course. Well, Bompas, judging from what I
saw of the spark my pretty god-daughter might
do far worse. That young fellow has his head
screwed on the right way. Gael, he could
teach some of us something in farming even,
I think."

But, my dear Millard," began Mr. Compass
assure you I know nothing "

Xot yet, of course," said the hearty old
fellow ; " well, well, you'll know in time. By-the-bye,
Sennett, talking of young people and
their settling in life, young Shelman is at me
to sell him some of my land backing on to the
river, the Downholmes — you know."

Yes."

He wants to build and settle down, he
says. Do you know, Bompas, I can't quite make
that young fellow out. As an old friend I may
tell you in confidence, and Sennett here won't
say anything, I know, I once had a very great
idea that there was something between him

and one of your girls, I couldn't quite make
out which. And you and he used to be more
friendly than you are, usen't you ? What's
the matter ? "

My dear Millard," said Mr. Bompas, again
holding up his hands in astonishment, " your
power of observation appals me — really staggers
me. It is most undeniably true that —
ah — Mr. Shelman and I have lately been on
terms which have been — ah — less — well, less
cordial than usual ; but consider, my dear sir,
con-sister, I pray you, how very much engrossed
— yes, engrossed and engaged, Mr.

Shelman has been by this — this " (Mr.

Bompas paused and then reverted to his
original expression) " this Most Unfortunate
Occurrence

The election ! "

The election — precisely. I say he has
been so over-burdened with work and — ah —
anxiety that, doubtless, he has had but little
time to spend over one to whom the whole
affair is obnoxious, and who has refused to
take any part in the matter."

Come, come, that's not it, at least, not
entirely. Listen here. Wasn't there some
little disagreement about that house of Mrs.

Stanhope's that you sold for her to young
Galbraith ? "

There certainly was a modicum — a mere
modicum — of irritation shown towards me by
Mr. Shelman on the occasion of which you
speak, but it was — ah — transitory and was —
ah — easily explained away. Our mutual
friend Sennett here will bear me out when I
assure you, as I assured Mr. Shelman at the
time, that the sale of the house to Mr. Galbraith
was the— ah — outcome of Mrs. Stanhope's
own personal — ah — desire. His disappointment
was in no way attributable to me."

Xo, no, Millard," said Sennett, coming to
the assistance of his old friend, " Bompas is
right enough there ; that was entirely the
lady's doings. Why she did it, goodness
knows. I always fancied, and so for that
matter did many other people, that she and
young Shelman would have made a match,
but it seems otherwise now."

Well, well," said old Millard, after a pause,
and looking from one to the other of his
cronies ; " why Mrs. Stanhope didn't sell him
the house is very little matter of mine. If
Shelman wants Downholmes, and gives me my
price for it, he can have it ; it's an outlying

bit for me, and I had always intended putting
some houses on it to serve me as an excuse for
riding to Avonham now and again. But time
has gone on and I've never built, and I'm too
old now to begin ; so, as the lad seems to
want the land, why he can have it ; so if
he should call on you, Sennett, will you
arrange the business and let him see the
deeds ? "

Mr. Sennett assented.

By the way, Bompas," said Millard, when
two or three details had been settled, " I've a
letter here from Carter, the parson. He wants
me to meet him in Avonham next Monday,
but I shan't go into the place on the day of
nomination — there will be a great crowd, or
else I should like to see friend Sennett here
doing his duty at the head of things."

Sennett wishes he could stop away from
Avonham on Monday," said that worthy.

"So I shan't go. I've a gun of Carter's
which he lent me, and I want to return it ;
he'll want it for the first. Will you take it
into Avonham and give it to young Carter in
your office and ask him to hand it to his
father ? "

"With pleasure."

Thank you. How's that boy getting on
with you ? "

Mr. Bompas hesitated before answering.
There rose before his mind's eve the vision
of two Messrs. Carter in one and the same
individual. One, the brisk, chatty, familiar
Carter of yore, whose little airy quips and
cranks had given to his stately office just that
light and cheery tint which so admirably set
off and showed, in colours strong by sheer
contrast, his own stately port and solid gifts
of eloquence, and the other, Adolphus Carter
of the past few days, snappish, irritable,
incomprehensible ; the two characters were
as different to the puzzled Mr. Bompas as
though they had belonged to two individuals,
and it was therefore some moments before he
hazarded a reply.

What's the matter with him ? " said
Millard. " Have all the youngsters gone
wrong ? "

Do you know, Millard and Sennett," said
Bompas solemnly and deliberately, " do you
know, I really think they have" and he
proceeded gravely to inform his friends of
the altered maimer of Mr. Carter, of the puzzle
in his own family, of the strange way in

which Mr. Galbraith's name had been coupled
with Addie's, of Mr. Bryceson and his offhand
ways, and finally of the very cool
reception which Shelman always seemed to
get both from Mrs. Bompas and his daughters.

I really must confess," he concluded,
that I have been fairly — ah—puzzled by
many of these things. Of course I must have
anticipated, and indeed always have, the — ah
probability of having my children disposed of
in — ah — Holy Matrimony ; and I also look
forward — nature having blessed my girls with
ah — their share of good looks "

Which they inherit from both sides," said
Serpent.

Thank you — that their preference for one
ah — lover over another might lead to
some heartburning and consequences naturally
attending the — ah — rivalry of young men ;
but this seems to be most curious. I really
cannot say that my position, or rather the
position, has anything — ah — tragic in it, but
it has emphatically much — very much — that
is embarrassing. Here," said Mr. Bompas,
stretching out his hand and looking appealingly
at his friends, " here are three or four
young men, and three or four interests, all of

whom and which, I begin to think, are somehow
influenced by my — by the — by some
portion of my family, and yet there is no open
ah — statement — no — ah — patent fact before
me to enable me to deal with this most
pe-cu-li-ar state of things."

"Well, I don't know," said Sennett, "you
seem to be a very lucky man in one sense,
even if the position is a little queer. All the
gentlemen you have named are eligible sons-in-law,
and the only difficulty I can see in
the matter is which of the young ladies each
wants. One man can't marry them all. Now
do you really want a bit of advice ? "

My dear Sennett, my dear Millard, I was
hoping to get your advice when I told you of
my difficulty."

Well," said the Mayor, " the difficulty—
if there really is much difficulty beyond the
one point which I mentioned just now — lies
partly with yourself. You are fidgeting over
a state of things which there really isn't much
need to worry about ; now take a little
advice."

What is that ? " said Bompas.

You were saying this evening as we rode
over here that you had a good mind to send

Mrs. Bompas and the young ladies down to
Weymouth out of the way. Do so — a month's
absence makes a wonderful difference to a
young lover — it spurs him on remarkably. If
you were a match-making mamma, Bompas,
instead of an unsophisticated old dad — who is
not the first whose daughters' intentions and
likes and dislikes have puzzled him — you
would have hit on this scheme long ago.
What say you, Millard ? "

Of course, of course, best thing in the
world."

Mr. Bompas reflected sagely for some
minutes, and filling his glass from the bottle
which his host passed to him, sipped his wine
slowly and deliberately.

I trust," he said at last, " that I am in no
indecent hurry to "

To what ? To see your girls settled ?
Pooh ! nonsense," said Millard, "it's the first
duty of a parent. What else have the old
ones to live for ? Tell me, Bompas, what
makes you work as you do ? "

What makes me Work as I do ? " said
Mr. Bompas slowly, "well, I — I suppose — I
think I see what you mean, old friend — you
mean that I work for the children, and "

Of course I do. Well now, doesn't it
strike you that the mere money and property
which you leave your children is of very small
value compared with their opportunities of
enjoying it, and of living happily with it."

Most decidedly — what other opinion could
one form ? "

Very well, then, apply a little of the diplomacy
and energy which you devote to your
business to this object. You're sure to be as
straightforward and honourable in the affair as
you are in business. It will puzzle you very
little to clear up this tangle and set matters
straight. Take Sennett's advice. Send the
ladies away for a month, and, ten to one,
you'll gather — if it's only through their dutiful
enquiries and polite messages — from the lads
themselves who wants whom and how the
land lies. There, now we've threshed that
matter out for you — now for the other
bottle."

The bottle was fetched, and gravely discussed
as befitted its vintage ; and yet another
made its appearance, for the three old cronies
were noted for a rare and exquisite taste in
port, and had priceless wines in their yawning

old-fashioned cellars, so that the moon was
vol. i. 14

liigli as the Mayor and his charioteer drove
into Avonham that evening.

The hour of breakfast in a well-regulated,
well-to-do country family is, or ought to be,
one of the pleasantness of the twenty-four. It
was so at Mr. Bompas's house. The table
w r ould have groaned under the good things
but for its solidity and strength. The girls
in their morning dresses made a picture very
pleasant and pretty to the eyes of their proud
parents. The cares of the day had not yet
begun, and the troubles of the day before had
been got rid of in sleep. Mr. Boreas had
indeed not forgotten his perplexities, nor his
friend Sennett's advice, but he knew that his
scheme would result at any rate in giving his
womankind pleasure, so it was with feelings
of complete satisfaction that he broached the
subject on the day following.

He commenced by alarming Mrs. Bompas
by what he described as the immensely insecure
position of the non-voting inhabitants
during the election, and then proceeded to
express his wish that it were possible for him
to arrange for their absenting themselves fora
few days from Avonham. This, of course,
was well received, and following up this success,

Mr. Bompas suggested that a visit to the
seaside would perhaps be the best means of
flight. But here he had reckoned without
his host. Nothing but a trip to London
would satisfy the young ladies. They were
staunchly backed up by Mrs. Bompas, and
soon carried their point.

Well, my dears," said the father, " London
be it, then. When will you be ready to go ?
You will want new dresses, and "

Xew dresses ! The idea of such a thing !
As if they would take country-made new
dresses to London instead of purchasing them
there. What was papa thinking of ?

But I thought that you always wanted
new dresses to visit a place with ? " said the
strategist.

My dear papa," said Adelaide, " we'd shut
ourselves up in London for a week, surrounded
by no other human creatures than dressmakers,
rather than get things here. We're
ready to start tomorrow. You dear old dad,
how good of you to think of us. Won't we
start packing directly ! Just fancy, another
sight of London ! "

What about apartments ? " said steadier

mamma, her face, however, lighting up with

14—2

the prospect ; " and, Abel, my dear, it will be
no good going for a week. A week is no
good."

No good at all," chorused the girls.

Well, my clears," said Mr. Bompas, " do
not limit yourselves to time. I shall myself
be glad of a week in London, and will join you
there. I shall of course accompany you there
and see you settled, and then return." And
congratulating himself on his capital tact, the
worthy man left his family rejoicing at the
prospect of their holiday, and went to his
business with a serene mind.

Mr. Adolphus Carter and the other clerks
had arrived, but Mr. Carter had not yet commenced
business. He was standing at the
door of the office, scowling in a very dark and
unpleasant manner at two gentlemen who were
passing down the other side of the street, Mr.
Galbraith and his friend. Mr. Bompas had
taken his hat from the hall as he crossed it, and
he now tapped the unconscious articled pupil
on the shoulder to make him sensible that he
wanted to pass out into the street. Adolphus
started as he felt the touch of his employer's
hand, and then hastily gave him the usual
morning salutation as he made way for him.

Now the intention with which Mr. Bompas
went out on this particular morning was to
visit Mr. Earaty and engage a conveyance to
take his party to the railway on the morrow.
He had no sooner stepped out of his office
door, however, than the young men stopped
in their course and crossed the street to speak
to him. Mr. Adolphus Carter, with a darker
scowl than ever on his face, listened eagerly to
what was being said, still retaining his place
in the doorway.

The customary greetings having been exchanged,
the young men entered on their
business.

Mr. Bompas," said Galbraith, " I am
anxious to acquire, if possible, that meadow
next to my lawn hedge. Can you tell me
whose land it is ? "

It belongs, Mr. Galbraith," said Bombast
your former landlord, or, as may be deemed
more fitting, considering the fact that she is of
the opposite — ah — sex, landlady, Mrs. Stanhope."


She seems to own lots of land about here,"
said Mr. Bryceson, taking a cigar from his
case. " You smoke, Mr. Bompas ? — not so
early ? Cigar, Harry ? "

The late Mr. Stanhope, who was a native
of this town," sail Mr. Bompas, "but who
went from it in youth to achieve dignity and
wealth in the vast metropolis, on retiring from
business invested largely in land in the neighbourhood,
so that at his death his — ah —
widow, or, I may say, relict — relict seems more
legal and appropriate to a conversation having
a commercial, or at least a financial, end in view
became possessed, as your friend says, Mr.
Galbraith, of a considerable extent of landed
property in this immediate vicinity."

How long has this interesting widow been
a widow ? " said Bryceson.

Four years, my dear sir ; four years."

Harry, you haven't introduced me to this
lady. You really must."

I've never met the lady myself, my dear
fellow."

Dear me, Mr. Galbraith ; is it possible that
you have not yet been introduced to Mrs.
Stanhope ? "

Quite true, Mr. Bompas. You managed
the business between us, you know. No, I
never met her."

You have seen her, of course ? "

Oh, yes, I've seen her out driving two or

three times. By-the-bye, Mr. Bompas, I want
a loose box built. I must talk to you about
the plans of it."

I shall be quite at your service, my dear
sir. and glad to assist you."

Will tomorrow be convenient for you ? "

Why no, Mr. Galbraith, I purpose tomorrow,
if all is well, to accompany my wife
and daughters to London."

Mr. Carter perceptibly jumped.

I hope you'll have a pleasant journey, Mr.
Bompas. Do you stay long there ? "

Personally, I shall return after having — ah
safely bestowed my family, but they will
remain in London for some time and I shall
ultimately join them there and also — ah — recreate
myself for a week or two."

I hope you'll have a good time, Mr. Bompas,
and the ladies too. Well, I'll call in one
morning when I see that you have returned.
At the same time, I want to see if I cannot
obtain this field. Do you think if I saw Mrs.
Stanhope it would be of any use, or do you
transact all her business for her ? "

: Mrs. Stanhope is good enough to place the
landed portion of her property in my hands for
management, and would doubtless refer you tome

; I will, however, speak to her upon the
matter, for I have some accounts to submit to
her to-day, and shall see her most probably
this afternoon."

If you will do so, Mr. Bompas, you will
oblige me. I like your town, and I shall be
glad to invest money in it, for I fancy when
you get your railway it will improve."

Doubtless, Mr. Galbraith ; my own opinion
decidedly."

Well, good morning, Mr. Bompas, we're
just going for a gallop ; by the way, how is
your friend Mr. Millard ? I've some pamphlets
American ones — from the Agricultural
Department at Washington that I should like
to show him."

I was at Mr. Millard's last evening ; he has
recovered from his late attack."

Well, we'll ride over and leave these.
Good morning."

Good morning."

Mr. Carter went to his desk with conflicting
emotions ; he sat for some time moodily
regarding the West Country Fire Office
Almanac on the wall before him, and then,
rising; and taking his hat, said to the office
lad:

11 Tell Mr. Bompas I've gone out on some
private business," and as lie passed out into the
street lie muttered, " I must get away somewhere
and think this out ; if this fellow is going
to live for ever in the same town as I do, I
must strongly restrain my feelings or they will
end in

Ha— a— a— h ! "

He moodily shook his head, and hurried into
the High Street.

And the family going to London too !
What does that mean ? There goes Shelman,
canvassing I suppose. I wonder if he's got
time to spare — I'll see. I fancy I know his
feelings in a certain quarter and towards a
certain party. I don't see why I should have
all the worry and irritation to myself."

In an hour's time Mr. Carter returned to the
office, from which Mr. Bompas was still absent.
He was in high good humour, declined to
grovel in any way by attempting to work ;
whistled portions of popular airs, hummed
snatches of familiar operas, and in short
resumed the gay and carolling - lark - like
manner which had lately been changed and
supplanted by the moody genius of jealousy.

HOW ALFRED Sherman SPENT A SPARE
AFTERNOON.

Canvassing," said Walter Rivers softly to
himself, as he stood looking out of the window
of his uncle's committee-room at the " Great
George " on the day following, " canvassing
doesn't agree with Master Alfred, I can see."

He was alone in the room, for Sir Head-ingle's
committee had finished both their
business and their luncheon, and Sir Headingly
had gone home, so no one heard the soliloquy.

No, Master Alfred," he proceeded, looking
after Sherman, who was passing up the street,
it certainly doesn't do you good, and I'm very
far from certain that it does your worthy uncle
any good, the way you go about it ; and I'm
sure it doesn't do us very much harm, so canvass
away, my clear fellow ; we hold the winning
cards, however you play the game."

And Walter Rivers left the subject and the

window together, and soothed himself after the
work of the morning with a cigar.

Meanwhile his unconscious rival made his
way up the town, and, after calling at the
committee-room at the " Woolpack," and having
a brief interview with his uncle, proceeded
towards the churchyard path leading to the
Priory House. He had not reached the gate,
however, when he espied the Mayor, who was
coming towards him — to him of course he must
speak. The first words of Mr. Sennett did
not improve his ill humour ; they were words
of condolence on his appearance. The Mayor
thought he looked ill, supposed that it was the
effect of the election work, and threw in a
good-natured caution not to overdo matters.
To all this Shelman listened, chafing the while.
There was nothing specially irritating in the
remarks, and he was inwardly ashamed of himself
for allowing them to fret him ; so he
concealed his chagrin, confessed to feeling tired,
and smilingly promised to take care of himself.
To his great relief the conversation took a turn,
and the everlasting election topic was shelved
for a time.

I saw Millard the other night," said Mr.
Sennett, " and he was telling me that you

had made him an offer for the Downholmes

land."

Yes, I did. I want to buy some land to

build on, and enough to make a kind i >f park
on a small scale with two or three meadow?
and home paddocks. There is just about the
right quantity in Mr. Millard's piece, and it is

well wooded near the mad. and runs down to
the river, two very imp extant things."

Oh. yes, if you were thinking of building
you could not have a better site."

Millard is willing to sell. I believe ? "

Oh. quite, quite. Ho originally intended
to lay out a small estate there, giving each
house about two acres of land for garden and
small paddock, but the tit has passed off, and
you can have the land if you like."

•• I wish I could have b ought the * Coombes '
and Millard's land as well. I would have
built a wing on each side of the present house,
thrown a light iron bridge across the river, let
my garden and lawn run down t > the bank
this side, and had a stream right through my
property."

Why didn't you buy it ? " said Mr. Sennett.
for once yielding t i a little curiosity, for
he was really anxious to know.

I didn't know it was in the market, I
assure you. I had made Mrs. Stanhope an
offer for it at the time Major Currie left, and
she had declined to part with it then, or even
to let it. Its sale took me quite by surprise,
and I don't think Mr. Bompas knew anything
of it until he got instructions from Mrs. Stanhope's
London lawyers. I wish to goodness
she had put the matter in* your hands."

Messrs. Goldings and Mayest were Mr.
Stanhope's solicitors for many years, and it
would not he reasonable to expect Mrs. Stanhope
to change them. They stand extremely
well in the profession — at the top of the tree,
in fact. I can't expect to get all the clients
in Marlshire, Mr. Shelman."

The Mayor spoke rather stiffly. This
young man was evidently very peevish over
something, and, besides, was good enough to
assume that any matters left in the Mayor's
hands for management would have been subject
to his peculiar wishes and his particular
fancies. Shelman was decidedly unlucky :
somehow he did not make friends of people
whom he really needed.

"Well," he went on, " the property can't
be bought now. I offered the present proprietor

a good round sum for his bargain, and
was refused, and as there is no other house
in Avonham that I should care about for a
country seat, I must build one for myself,
and if Millard does not want too much for
Downholmes I shall be very glad to buy.
You have the management of this, at any
rate ? "

Yes, and full power to treat ; so if you
will give me a call tomorrow we can talk
the matter over. At present I am going to
a meeting of the Market Committee. Say
eleven o'clock tomorrow morning."

Very well. Good day, Mr. Mayor."

Good day."

Come, that's something done, at any rate,"
mused Shelman, as he turned into the churchyard
path. " And now for the other matter."

His ring at the bell of the Priory House
gate brought a servant, who ushered him into
the room in which, though he little dreamed
it, his rival had successfully pleaded his suit
but a few days before. Here he sat for a few
minutes toying with a paper-knife until the
door opened and Mrs. Stanhope entered.

She was dressed with even more than her
usual richness, and had jewels shining and

flashing back the sunshine from neck and
hand and wrist. Something more than her
usual stately grace there was about her that
made her more queenly than ever. She
greeted him with the brightest of smiles and
the gentlest of gentle hand-presses that sent
the blood coursing through his veins, and sig-nailing
his rapture from his cheek.

At last, then, you have paid me a visit.
I began to think I should never see you
again."

Shelman muttered something about " pressure
of public affairs " as he took his seat opposite
to her, and watched her jewelled fingers
playing with the fan she carried.

Another of the disadvantages of not being
the possessor of a vote. Had I been an elector
I should have had a call from your uncle
and you together long ago. But I suppose
you really have been very busy, and only able
to call on people who could grant you
favours."

i; I hope," said Shelman, rather nervously,
for the ring of satire was not to his liking,
that you don't give me credit for being
selfish or mercenary where you are concerned,
although I'm afraid, perhaps, you will think

so when I tell you that I am come now to ask
a favour of you."

Come, then, you must admit there was
something in my remark."

Your remarks are always to the point,
but you really must consider how very much
I have had to do. I should not be in Avon-ham
at all, and have had to give up a capital
trip to Switzerland and Italy with some
London friends solely on account of this election.
I assure you uncle has worked me like
a niffffer over it."

And I hear that your opponents are likely
to beat you, after all."

Indeed ! it's by no means certain. May
I ask who your informant was ? "

Mr. Kivers, of course. I have scarcely
been outside the gates since the affair began.
He seems to be very confident of Sir Head-ingle
Cairn's success."

Well, you know the wish is father to the
thought in his case ; no doubt he thinks a
great deal both of his chance and of himself,
but I can tell him "

Pray, don't tell me. As I haven't any
vote, for which I am sincerely grateful, do let
this house be the one spot in Avonham where

the different parties can meet on neutral

ground. Let us change the subject ; it was

my fault for starting it. What is this favour

you are going to ask me ? "

Shelman bit his lip and shifted uneasily in

his chair : then, after a few seconds' pause, he

said :

Do you know the land on the other side

of the Avon, opposite the back of the

1 Coombes ? ' "

Yes ; it is not mine, you know''

No, it belongs to Millard of Beytesbury,

who is willing to sell it to me ; but on this

side of the river, next to the ' Coombes,' there

is a meadow skirting the river which is yours."

Yes, that is mine ; it is called ' Pound -

piece ' in the old titles. It was part of the

Abbey lands, as all the land on that side of

the town was. I have, or rather Mr. Bompas

has, some very curious old title deeds relating

to it. My husband was interested in those

matters, and has often shown them to visitors

here."

I hope that you are not specially attached

to that meadow."

Oh, dear, no ; not specially. It is let to

Mr. Killett, the butcher, for grazing."
vol. i. 15

Is he a yearly tenant ? "
I believe so ; why do you ask ? "
Well, I want to build myself a house on
Millard's land ; it would be, perhaps, twelvemonths
in being built, but I should very much
like to buy i Mouthpiece.' I could throw a
light bridge over the river, and it would give
me an entrance into South Street, instead of
driving all round the Bath Road or trusting
to the wooden bridge, which is under water in
winter very often. The favour I was going
to ask was that you should sell me this piece
and farther my views that way."

She did not answer at once, but sat looking
at him smilingly, as if only to express the
necessary interest in what he was saying, and
toying still with the fan. In a minute or so
she said :

Mr. Bompas, you know, manages all the
affairs of my land and houses."

I know," said he ; " but I did not like to
go to Mr. Bompas first, as the land was not
announced for sale ; of course, if it had been it
would have been a different matter. I came to
ask whether you would consent, as a personal
favour to me, to part with it. It is so faraway
from your house that it could never be

of any use to you as a garden or home paddock,
and, as you let it to Killett, I thought
you would not mind selling it to me."

Do you know I have declined to sell it to
Killett ? "

u Xo, I didn't know that."

Oh, yes, a year ago ; and since then I have
had an offer for it. Well, will you see Mr.
Bompas about it ? I won't give you any
answer to-day. I must consult someone else,
too ; but never mind that at present. You
are not in want of an immediate answer, are
you ? "

Well, I am to see Mr. Serpent tomorrow
morning at eleven o'clock about Millard's land,
and I should have been glad to know, because,
of course, I should, perhaps, be influenced if I
could have it."

You shall have an answer by eleven : it
shall be sent to the Bank. By-the-bye, I suppose
your uncle is too busy to be able to call
on me, isn't he ? I want to consult him about
some securities and other matters. Perhaps
I had better come down to the Bank as an
ordinary customer would."

Why not tell me what the business is ?

My uncle will certainly refer the matter to me,

15—2

and, you know, I am just as much head of the
Bank now as he is, indeed more, for he is
gradually giving up the active share in the
concern. I shall be only too glad to serve
you."

There was an insidious tenderness in the
last words which she did not miss.

Is it judicious, think you," she replied,
casting down her eyes, " to trust one's secrets
to a young man ? My worldly wisdom is not
great, but it makes me doubtful on that point."

Ah," said he suddenly, and with fervour,
give me the right of being trusted by you in
all things, of serving you always, and of always
being with you. That is what I want ; let
me ask you for that."

They had both risen, he with flashing eyes
and burning cheeks, and trembling with excitement
; she was calm and stately, and the
hand which he took for a moment was cool
and steady. She drew it gently away, and
said, looking at him with a smile which he did
not care to see :

This is a new way of purchasing land and
asking simple favours, Mr. Shelman."

"It is an old way of telling a woman you
love her ; and you know that is true."

I thought so once," she said, in tones so
calm and cold that his heart died within him,
and he shivered as with a chill. " There was
a time when, if you had spoken as you have
now, you might have been answered differently.
It is too late now, Mr. Shelman. I
am sensible of the honour you have done me,
but my answer must be ' No.' '

How have I offended "

You have not offended. I have no right
to feel offended. There was never anything
between us ; how could you offend ? "

There is someone else in the way, I
suppose," he said, coarsely, for his temper was
no longer under control, and his face was livid
with passion.

Mr. Shelman," she said, quietly, " you
were imprudent just now in leaping before you
looked ; pray, do not add impertinence to your
imprudence. Remember that I am a woman,
and, in spite of your assertion, alone. You
will, I am sure, see the necessity of terminating
this painful scene, if only for your own
interest."

My own interest ! "

Yes," she said, her dark eyes kindling
with a dangerous fire, " do not make an enemy

of me ; go away and forget this affair, as I
shall, unless you give me cause to remember it.
You can find consolation no doubt ; you have
sought it before when you had little need of
it. You tired of me once and now you have
come back again. I am not a child's toy, and
if I were I am no toy for you. Remember
that I, too, have formed other ties since then,
as you have been graciously pleased to assert.
I make no denial of it ; you shot at a venture
but you have hit the mark. Let that be sufficient
for you, and do not provoke me against
you. There is no reason why we should not
part friends. I have told you that I am
sensible of the honour you have done me
and "

And you have told me something more,"
he answered, not violently, but with no less
rage, " you have also made me sensible of an
honour, which, six months ago, you would
have conferred upon me by your own showing.
Six months ago I might have had that dainty
hand, which you have refused me to-day."

Not a shadow on her face, nor a trace of
anger in her tone was apparent as she replied :

I did say so, and it is true ; I am thankful
that you did not throw me the handkerchief

then, and I am much too wise to pick it up
now. You do not seem at all a desirable
person with whom a woman would have to live
for ever. You are playing into my hands by
showing your temper now, and you are very
foolish. Since you will have war let it be
war ; and let me tell you how I am enjoying
my revenge."

Your revenge ! " he said, hoarsely.

Yes, my revenge ; do you think that I
do not know what happened last spring, last
spring when you might, perhaps, have had
what you have been asking for to-day ? Was
it on account of your great desire to serve me
always as you put it to-day — and really you
put it very prettily for such a sudden outbreak
was it on that account that you hovered
round Adelaide Bompas, the daughter of my
house-agent" (she sneered as she named her),
until your names were coupled together by
the idle gossips of this tattling place, and my
very housemaids and grooms were indignant
for me ? Ah, Mr. Shelman, you over-reached
yourself there, for I fancy you did not find all
that you wanted in the family of my worthy
agent, Mr. Bompas ; no, you only succeeded
perhaps that is what you wanted — in

alienating me from you, though I have concealed
it till now. I am not a perfect woman,
I am not above resentment ; my hour of
reprisal has come, as I knew it would, and I
am satisfied. Do you be satisfied too, and do
not provoke me. Sit down with your disappointment
and don't rise up against the cause
of it. And if you slight another woman and
then try to whistle her back, let it be one
With a shorter memory than mine, and with
a smaller knowledge of the world and of men.' ,

Choked by his wild rage, and with his brain
in a whirl with passion and disappointment, he
did not for a moment trust himself to speak ;
he laid his hand upon the handle of the door,
and turned to where she stood like a queen
dismissing some worthless follower. She had
never, he thought, looked so well. Her anger
had made her cheek flush, and her eyes were
ablaze with light — they twinkled and flashed
like the diamond which shone on her heaving
breast. What a fool he had been ! What a
woman he had lost, so fair in her moments of
loving, so fair in her moments of rage ! He
recovered himself with an effort and said :

Mrs. Stanhope, I have been wrong.
Allow me to take my leave."

I am waiting for your departure, sir."

11 When we are both a little calmer and
think over this short but highly dramatic
scene we shall both laugh "

At each other, very probably."

*' That even may happen, but it is not
exactly what I was going to say ; we shall
both laugh at the way in which we have
played at battledore and shuttlecock together,
with the pretty phrases of love and constancy
which we have been using to-day."

You are becoming sensible ; we shall part
with some outward show of respect after all."

*" Oh, believe me, I admire and respect you
very much : your character is one which commands
respect."

"And yours too, Mr. Shelman. You are
sure to make your way in the world — somehow."


I will try," he said, stifling his rage,
for he was getting much the worse of this
repartee, and he was thankful to see her hand
on the bell. ' ; I have your good wishes of
course ? "

Decidedly, now that you are sensible
again."

And I will ask my uncle to come up tomorrow

afternoon, if you will be at home," he
added, for the servant was in the room.

* If you please — tel him I will not detain
him long. Good morning, Mr. Shelman."

■• I > " l( l morning, Mrs. Stanhope ."

She heard the door close behind him, walked
to the mirror and looked steadily in it for a
few minutes, then turned away, murmuring to
herself :

He must have been a fool not to have read
my face better — well, at any rate there is an
end-.1'///'///."

And summoning her maid she left the room.

He walked unsteadily to the gate, and was
thankful that no one Baw him. When he stood
in Priory Street the ground appeared to heave,
and lii i eyed full of blood : he pa

a moment to steady himself, and looked up
and down the Street, uncertain which way to
take.

•• I must get away somewhere quietly and
think this over. I'm not tit to be trusted
among men. 1 should have murdered her
in ten minutes more."

He walked quickly down Priory Sri'
turned down a lane which ran past the back
of Mrs. Stanhope's stables, and reached the

hank of the Marten, which was crossed hy a
little foot-bridge ; here he sat on the rail at
the side, and drawing his case from hie pocket,

lit a cigar, and gave himself resolutely up to
getting the better of his rage.

There are some tempers which terrify even
those possessed of them ; such a one was
Shelman's. He had startled himself by the
violence of the passion which had torn his
breast, nor was that passion easy to quiet.
He had played hi cards bo badly, had blundered
bo egregiously, and had laid himself
so open to defeat that his reflections were of
the bitterest kind ; he railed against himself,
against hi lost love, and against hi rival unknown.
He gave no thought to Rivers ; the
idea that he was the man who had supplanted
him never occurred to him, and he puzzled
hi brains in vain to couple a name with
the widow's. And. again, the manner of his
defeat had been bo galling : what an ass he
had been not to take his rejection quietly
instead of letting hi temper get the better of
him. and run away with hi reason as it had.
It \\;i- an hour before he felt fit to move from
the bridge and enter the town. His cigar had
gone out. and had been crushed between his

fingers and plucked at and broken, and finally
thrown into the little stream to sicken some
nibbling gudgeon. He took another from his
case, lit it, and rising from his seat strolled
backwards and forwards across the bridge, and
then went slowly back towards the town.
His face showed clearly enough the effects
which the terrible mental struggle had had on
him ; it was white, and haggard, and drawn,
like the face of a death-stricken man. He
passed the gates of the Priory, mounted the
steps of the churchyard path and crossed it,
going tow-arts the Bank. As good luck w r ould
have it, there was no one in the street w r ho
noticed him, and he entered the Bank and
w r asked through into the room behind. Here
he touched the hand-bell on the table, and the
chief clerk came in.

Dear me, Mr. Alfred," said the old gentleman,
starting, as he looked at the ashen face
of his young superior, "how ill you look, sir ;
what is the matter ? "

He forced himself to speak calmly. "I am
overworked, I think, Norton, and I have been
walking in the sun, and feel rather faint. Is
there anything special to see after ? "

Nothing at all, sir, of any importance

We are just going to close, and the balance
is correct. If you would allow me to advise
you, sir, I should go home and lie down. You
look as if you were going to drop."

I shall be better presently, thank you,
Xorton ; if you have nothing for me I will
take your advice, I think."

The clerk withdrew, and Shelman rose and
turned to a looking-glass in the room.

"By Jove," he said to himself, "this has
told on me." The sight of his bloodless face
seemed to do more to quiet him than his previous
seclusion. He opened a cupboard in the
room, and taking a decanter of brandy from it,
mixed himself a glass, half spirit, half water,
and drank it hastily. He sat down again fora
few minutes, still smoking, until the Bank
doors were closed, and then went into the
street again, crossed the market-place, and
walked down South Street until he came to
the office of Mr. Bompas. Here he entered.
Air. Adolphus Carter was just putting on his
hat and taking an affectionate glance at himself
in a hand-glass which he kept in his desk.
He looked up as Shelman entered.

Good afternoon, Carter. Is Mr. Bompas
in ? "

Good gracious, Shelman, how white you
look ! " •

I've been walking in the sun with this
confounded heavy hat on, and it has turned
me sick. Is Bompas in ? "

In ? no. Didn't you see him yesterday ?
He's gone to London ! "

What a nuisance ! When did he go ? "

This morning at ten o'clock. They've all
gone. Mrs. Bompas and the girls have gone
for a month, and the governor took them up.
Why ever didn't you see him yesterday ? "

Why, w T hat difference does it make ? It
will do when he comes back."

But didn't I tell you yesterday that that
fellow was after the land, and had asked Bomb
to see about it for him ? "

Yes ; well "

Well, he's bought it, that's all."

Bought it ? "

Yes, sir, bought it. I never was more
savage in my life when I heard it. I would
have asked my father to buy it himself rather
than he should have had it, but I made sure
that if Mrs. Stanhope sold it at all she would
sell it to you."

Shelman stood astounded. " Bought it,"

he muttered two or three times ; " bought
it?"

The purchase isn't completed, but he has
paid a hundred pounds as a deposit ; not
that Bompas wanted it, but Geldings have the
deeds, and Bompas has written to them for
them. Of course that makes no difference ;
the land is his to all intents and purposes."

Well," said Shelman, making a desperate
effort, and speaking with a forced laugh which
had very little of hilarity in it, " this stranger
is too quick for us altogether it seems. We
must give up trying to outbid him ; " then
turning suddenly to Carter, he said, " Where
are you going this evening ? "

Nowhere in particular."

Come home and have some dinner with
me ; my uncle has gone to the meeting at
Dunstable,* and I'm all alone at home. Come
and keep me company."

With pleasure, my dear fellow. I'll be
with you as soon as I've dressed."

Oh, hang your dress ! Come as you are.
I'm too lazy to dress, come along now. I'm
bored to death up there alone."

The two young men walked along the street
together, one half cross at the failure of his

TWO PARDONS.

project, half proud of his company, and the
other turning over in his mind and murmuring.
to himself savagely :

Bought it ? She knew it when I went,
and mocked me with her pretence of consulting
and letting me know tomorrow. Well,
she has fooled me properly this time. I would
give all I have to be even with her. and I will
be yet ! "

It was not a peculiarly cosy dinner party.
Carter had been to many much more convivial
entertainments.

INTERVIEWING.

Mr. Walter Bryceson seemed very comfortable
in the snug quarters of his friend Galbraith,
and in no hurry to quit them. So
freely had he mixed with the townspeople
during the weeks which he had spent in Avon-ham,
that his intentions and opinions were
pretty well known there. His health, he
stated, was far from good, though he had rosy
cheeks, a pair of bright eyes, and a merry
laugh that smacked very little of the invalid ;
rest, he said, was what had been prescribed for
him — rest, country air, and pure milk. The
two former he partook of freely, the first from
choice, the second, as he spent much of his
time in the open, from necessity ; how much
of the last of his requisites he took no one
knew, as no one in the town ever saw him
drinking any, although it was rumoured that
he quaffed enormous bowls of it in private.

His looks, lie declared, were fallacious and de-vol.
i. 16

captive in the highest degree ; no tiling but a
long course of invigorating Marlshire air would
ever give him the use of his lungs and his
strength again. Having gravely told this to
good, motherly, sympathising Mrs. Pinniffer,
he would wind up with a laugh that made the
glasses ring in the bar-parlour of the " Bear,"
and emphasize his woes with a hearty slap on
her husband's back, which made the 
stagger.

In his visits to the town he was not always
accompanied by his friend and host. " My
friend, Galbraith," he would say, " is a devilish
good fellow, a devilish good fellow ; but he's
a little too studious and quiet for me — too
bookish, you know — bless me, my health
would never stand his amount of study. No,
sir, rest and fresh air is what I require, and
where could I get it better ? Your air round
here is pure and soft, your downs are breezy
and large and healthy, your town is quiet,
although it is, as you say, somewhat agitated
by the election, and of course in a grazing
country like this I get the richest and best of
milk. Pinniffer, my good fellow, if you have
any stock of this claret I wish to goodness you
would sell me some. You haven't a large

stock ? Pity ! pity ! Well, send as much as
you can spare up to the ' Coombes,' will you,
and charge it to me ? Upon my word, next
to milk I think this does me more good than
anything. Though, mind you," he would add
gravely, " I think, perhaps, I am injudicious
in drinking it in the morning. Champagne is.
much better for the lungs I really believe.
By Jove ! here's my worthy host come to look
for his patient. Galbraith, my dear boy, come
and take a glass of wine. Pinniffer, some of
that Piper, you know. Harry, let Ned bring
the nags round here. Sit down and make
yourself comfortable. I declare I feel better
in this beautiful air already."

It was not long, of course, before Mr.
Bryceson made acquaintance with some of the
leaders of the two political parties of the town.
His opinions were so broad that they at first
shocked the politicians, and his ideas of conducting
elections were startling in the extreme.
Although in those days there were* many old
parliamentary boroughs which now have to
watch the struggle from afar without being
able to participate in the fray; although the
Man in the Moon " was by no means unknown
in this country, yet some of Mr.

16—2

Bryceson's schemes were too much advanced
for any ordinary election agent, and the members
of committee to whom he explained some
of the most successful of transatlantic tricks
upon voters held up their hands in amazement
at the stories he told them. Even a royal
commission might have sat at his feet and
gained information. Getting thus into notice
as a gentleman of somewhat advanced views
but one who took a great interest in the coming
struggle, it was not very long before this
young fellow found, himself being introduced
to both the young men w r ho were fighting the
battle and bearing 1 the burden of the dav for
their respective uncles. Sherman was disposed
to treat him chiefly and with scant courtesy
as not being of much use to him, but Kivers,
whose plan it was to make friends of everybody,
took vastly to him, invited him to lunch,
laughed at his stories, and was not so shortsighted
as to miss any of the really good
suggestions for carrying on the election ; more
especially did he incline his ear to those
methods of annoying an adversary which
Mr. Bryceson had in plenty, and over which
the young men laughed heartily as they
smoked their cigars after lunch. Sir Head-ingle

Cannn coming into the room one day
when they were thus engaged was introduced
to the stranger, and, on learning
that he had spent some time in America,
was interested enough to put many questions
respecting some of the institutions of that
country, to which he received such bright and
amusing answers that he went away highly
pleased with his nephew's new acquaintance
and with a cordial invitation to his house so
soon as the now rapidly approaching struggle
should be over. Bryceson, who did not care
twopence which way the election ended, was
yet more favourably disposed toward the Cannn
faction than the Boldham. He accepted the
invitation and wished the Baronet success.

Meanwhile Galbraith went on in his old
quiet way ; of course the friends were often
together, but Bryceson was about the town
alone a great deal in search of that fresh air
which he averred was so indispensable to his
well-being. By alone is meant without his
host, for it was not in his nature to retire from
society, and he was generally found in company
somewhere, listening in an exemplary manner
to the fathers of the town, or giving the benefit
of his observations of men and things in a very

free and off-hand but still in a very popular
style. He seemed as much at his ease at the
Woolpack " with Mr. Boldham's party ashe
did at the " Great George " among the
supporters of Sir Headingiy Cannn, though his
favourite house was the " Bear," where he
made himself thoroughly at home .

It chanced one day that he was passing up
the street in company with one of the young
men of the town, with whom he had struck up
a friendship, when outside the shop of Mr. ,
the traveller, the Royalist, the stationer,
they saw the carriage of Mrs. Stanhope, the
leader of society in Avonham, as Mr. Bryceson
was informed by his companion. Mrs. Stanhope
was leaning back in the carriage, listening to
some explanation which Mr. Pollimoy, who
stood bareheaded by the side, was giving her.
After a few moments' conversation, the stationer
returned to the shop and presently
emerged with a specimen of the particular
article she was wanting, and handing it to
her explained that he had a variety within.
Bryceson left the arm of his friend for a
moment, and excusing himself walked into the
shop. He requested to look at some small
article, which he had noticed in the window,

and was examining it most attentively when
Mrs. Stanhope, having been coaxed out of her
carriage by the obsequious Pollimoy, entered
the shop. On that side of the counter where
Bryceson was standing there was only one
chair, which he immediately handed to the
lady with a bow. Mrs. Stanhope thanked him,
and taking the chair proceeded to explain to
Mr. Pollimoy how she wished her order executed.
Bryceson, who was waited upon by
Miss Ruth Pollimoy, a rosy-cheeked, bright-eyed
damsel, also busied himself about stationery,
and seemed absorbed in the business.
It was a business which necessitated a good
deal of search on the part of Miss Ruth, and
some apology as to giving trouble was needed.
Mr. Bryceson seemed to want a good many
little knick-knacks ; a card-case, a pocket book
(which took some little time to select), a
leather purse (several bead ones having been
inspected and rejected), and a pen-knife were
already marked down, and the young friend
outside, tired of waiting, had strolled up the
street, and still Mrs. Stanhope sat in the shop
or moved from side to side making selections
of small articles, or giving instructions for the
order of new dainties in leather and gilt-edged

paper ; still, also, Bryceson remained and kept
Miss Ruth employed. Mr. Pollimoy beamed
with joy and regarded both purchasers with
eyes of favour. A glass ink bottle, a hundred
envelopes, an ivory paper-cutter, and a pack of
playing cards were added to the gentleman's
list, when the lady rose to go. Mr. Pollimoy
accompanied her to the carriage, and bowed
profoundly as she drove off. Bryceson wanted
change, it appeared, wien he came back to his
shop — had nothing but a bank note for ten
pounds ; Pollimoy was sorry to keep Mr.
Bryceson waiting, but would have to send to
the Bank for the money. The customer was
perfectly affable and chatted agreeably whilst
waiting for his change. Mr. Pollimoy informed
him that the lady who had just gone out was
a widow, very well off too, nice lady and quite
the leader of the town. Bryceson listened
politely, but seemed uninterested in the subject,
and, the change arriving, took his leave,
ordering the goods he had purchased to be sent
up to the " Coombes." When he rejoined his
companion, however, he appeared to have forgotten
w r hat the stationer had told him, for he
asked two or three questions about the lady,
and on hearing that she was a rich w r widow,

declared he would make love to her himself.


I'm afraid you wouldn't have much
chance," said the friend.

Pooh, nonsense, my dear fellow," said
Bryceson, " these widows always want fresh
husbands."

Yes, and there are two or three who would
like to marry her too ! "

Humph, how long has she been a widow ? "

About four years."

Ah ! well, she's a good-looking widow, and
a rich one, and here's her very good health,
and her ' next wentur's.' "

Then you give her up ? "

Not a bit of it — Miss Pinniffer, aren't you
going to make me a rosette for the election ? "

What colours will you have, Mr. Bryceson,"
said rosy Miss Pinniffer ; " blue or yellow ? "

Both — both certainly — half blue and half
yellow. I'm on both sides." 4

Then you'll have both sides against you,
you'd better wear neither."

Quite right, quite right, I'll look on and
see the fun."

Mr. Bryceson had amused himself thus
until the Friday preceding the election week.

Friday was market day, and being the second
Friday in the month was also cheese market,
and consequently the town was full. The
pitch " of cheese w r as not large in this particular
month, and the covered part of the
market yard sufficed for that commodity. The
bulls as usual w r ere attached to stout posts in
the upper part of the market-place, where they
remained (unless sold and driven off) all day
with angry eyes and parched lips, until they
were released at four o'clock to go charging
down the street to the welcome water, where
they were reclaimed by their various owners
and were driven home. The sheep were
hustled into pens, and the poultry cackled and
screamed, the taverns reeked with hot brandy -
and water and tobacco, and the tables at the
farmers' ordinaries were heaped with solids and
fluids of the most substantial sort.

On this occasion Mr. Millard, of Beytesbury,
had ridden in on his rare old cob, and having
put up his nag, was wending his way down
South Street to call on Mr. Bompas, when he
met Galbraith, who, with his friend Bryce-son,
was going towards the market-place. A
cordial greeting took place between the three,
and when Mr. Bompas espying them came out

of his office and crossed the road to shake
hands, it needed very little persuasion to induce
the elders of the party to bend their steps
back to the " Coombes," and experience the
hospitality of its owner. Mr. Bompas had not
been in the house since he had sold it to Galbraith
; Mr. Millard had never visited it at all,
and both were somewhat glad of the opportunity
of seeing the interior of a residence of
which so much was talked, and so very little
known. Entering the dining-room by the
back way through the French windows that
looked out on to the lawn and the river beyond,
Galbraith summoned the black servant, who
presented himself to the eyes of the two visitors
clad in the white jean suit which is the usual
costume of the negro attendants in American
hotels, and' which set off the black face and
woolly hair of the African to perfection.

Bring some drinks, Edward," said his
master, without entering into details, and
shortly after, a host of decanters, large and
small, two flasks of champagne, ice, sugar,
soda-water, lemons, and iced water made their
appearance on a large tray.

Now, Mr. Bompas, what '11 you take, sir ?
Let Edward make you some juleps, or cup,

or something. Mr. Millard, have you any
choice ? "

Really, my dear sir, so long as the drink
is cool and refreshing, I have no choice, " said
Millard ; " there is such a large variety here
that I should have some difficulty in making
a selection."

Mr. Bompas was of the same opinion.

Very well, Edward, then go to work as
you like. We're all thirsty. Walter, reach
down some of those cigars ; come into the
verandah, gentlemen, it's cooler out there."

You have very much added to the natural
charms of this place, Mr. Galbraith," said
Bompas, as he sank into the cosiest of rocking
chairs.

It's a pretty place," said Millard, accepting
a cigar from Bryceson, and praising it even
before he lit it.

Yes, there are capabilities in it," said Galbraith.
" I'm very well satisfied with it, and
now that I have the extra land I shall do
something more to it, and have a real good
garden ready for next year."

Mr. Galbraith has bought the land next
to this," explained Mr. Bompas.

What, Mrs. Stanhope's ! oh, indeed ?

You seem to have got into her good graces,
sir ; it isn't everyone she'll sell land to, I can
assure you."

I think I must thank our friend here,"
said Galbraith, indicating Mr. Bompas ; "he
seems to be able to induce the good lady to do
anything."

I certainly pressed Mrs. Stanhope, on behalf
of our worthy host," said Bompas, u as I
perceived that he was somewhat anxious to
add the adjoining tract to his garden ground,
and I represented to her that the property in
question being remote from her residence and
separated from it by the entire width of the
town, it would be no deprivation of her own
private grounds, which, gentlemen, are extremely
beautiful — perhaps you have seen
them ? "

The two friends, it appeared, had not.

You have, if you are fond of gardening,
a treat in store — they are really beau-ti-ful.
AAYell, that argument — if that can be deemed
an argument in which one person puts forth
certain views and another accepts them — that
argument prevailed with the lady and I have
to congratulate you on the acquisition of a
piece of land which will doubtless add much to

the comfort and elegance of your home. Dear

me, your — all — the — ah your servant is

remarkably dexterous in the combination of
fluids."

Edward was fully engaged in putting the
finishing touches to the tempting drinks he had
been fixing, and was performing what seemed
to the astonished eyes of Mr. Bompas a conjuring
feat, tossing the contents of one tumbler
into another, juggling with ice, palming sugar,
and whisking herbs and essences about in the
most bewildering way. He then presented to
the two visitors a beverage in beaded glasses,
topped with glittering ice and fragrant as a
nosegay. Both the old fellows applied themselves
to the straws, and when their jovial faces
looked up there was on each that expression of
sweetly satisfied content that is best seen after
a cool draught on a broiling day.

Upon my word," said Millard, setting his
goblet down on the table beside him and looking
round as if to emphasize his speech — " upon
my word, Mr. Galbraith, I do not remember
that I ever tasted anything so capital in my
life."

Most admirable," chimed in Bompas ;
perfectly delicious. That is, I presume, a

luxury peculiar to America ? May I ask its

name r

What do you call this, Xed ; is it anything
special ? "

"No, sir ; ses' plain cobbler, sir."

The concoction must take a considerable
amount of practice, I should imagine," said
Bompas, looking fondly into his glass.

It seems to come to Xed by nature," said
Bryceson. " Xed. when did you fix your first
cobbler ? "

'Long time ago, sir," said Xed with a grin
" 'pears time you known Xed's fixing' 'longtime
too, sir" — and with another grin the
negro disappeared, tray in hand, to prepare
more materials for quenching thirst.

A truly valuable man," said Mr. Bompas,
with much feeling.

I'm glad you appreciate his efforts," said
Galbraith. '' By the way I've a cheque for
you, Mr. Bompas. whenever you are ready
for it."

I am not yet in receipt of the title-deeds.
I imagine that Mr. Goldings, who personally
attends to all Mrs. Stanhope's papers (except
such as are in my hands), is out of town ; there
is, however, no need for you to stand still, my

dear sir — any alteration you may wish to make
can be at once commenced ; you will find no
interruption."

Well, I'm very glad you persuaded the
lady. Your health, Mr. Bompas, and your
fair client's, too," said Bryceson.

With all my heart," said Bompas.

How long has Mrs. Stanhope been a
widow ? " said Galbraith.

About four or five years."

Was Mr. Stanhope a native of these parts ?
I think you w r ere saying something about him
the other day."

He was," said Millard, answering for his
friend ; "he and I went to school together, and
Bompas here went to the same school a few
years later. Nice fellow Stanhope was ; we
were always great friends. His father was a
miller in a large way, and did a good deal in
malt as well. Meant to bring his son up to
his own business, but George never seemed to
care to settle down to country life. He went
to London when he was about twenty and got
into some Indian house, proved himself a smart
young fellow, and traded a little on his ow r n
account ; got on well — old man backed him up
with a few hundreds — and he went into business

for himself. When his father died — he
was an only child — he dropped, of course, into
a very handsome sum of money, which he was
able to lay out to the very best advantage, and
so he went on gradually getting richer and
richer, until about eight or nine years ago,
when he met this lady in London, somewhere,
and married her. She was fond of a country
life, it appears, and he was always very much
attached to his native place and held then a good
deal of land and some houses here. Might have
been our member eighteen years ago if he had
wished. So they came down and bought the
Priory House, which was formerly the residence
of an old fellow whose will was disputed
and in Chancery for some years, and there he
settled down. Whether it was that his native
air didn't agree with him after so many years
of London, or whether it was that he missed
the business pursuits and habits lie had been
accustomed t< >. I d< on't know ; anyhow,, although
when he came here he was hearty and hale
enough to all appearance, he never seemed to
be well here, and about four years after he
came here, he died."

Suddenly ? "

Oh dear no ; he was ailing a long time.

VOL. I. 17

and confined to his bed for about three weeks
befit ore he finally went < off. ' '

Any cause assigned ? "

Wei], it was put down to some bronchial
or asthma tical affection. Dr. Mompesson here
attended him and Dr. Rep worth, from Bath ;
but they couldn't do anything, poor fellow."

Rather sad," said Bryceson. "Not much
time to enjoy his wife and his new home, had
he ? "

"No."

What aged man was he ? "

Sixty-one — he was a year my senior."

• Dear me ! no age at all for a healthy man."

"No, it is not. Perhaps London life is not
so conducive to longevity as the less tumultuous
existence which we enjoy amid more rural
scenes," said Mr. Bompas, who had listened
quietly to the narrative of his old friend's life
and death.

Bryceson muttered something about existence
and fossils which could not quite be
caught.

And since then the widow, I suppose, has
practised resignation on the old — on her — I
mean to say," he went on, " that she has since
then been living" on a good income."

With the exception of legacies to old
friends and servants, which probably did not
exceed five thousand pounds, including some
charitable bequests to this town and to some
London institutions, the whole of Mr. Stanhope's
property was left to his widow for her
whole sole use and benefit." said Mr. Bon pas.

•• And that, I suppose, was something handsome
? "

Extremely so, my dear sir. Mr. Stanhope's
will was proved under nine-ty-se-ven thousand
pounds personalty ! "

•• By Jove ! " said both the young men together.


•• So you sue. Mr. Bryceson," said Millard,
laughing, " if you have nothing else to do here,
you may do worse than induce Mrs. S. to
change her. name for the second time. Fine
chance, sir, fine chance for a smart young
fellow like you. I'd offer it to you, Mr.
Galbraith, but I've other views for you, ha, ha,
ha ! which I'll explain to you some other day.
Here comes this fine fellow of yours again.
Why, this is a different sort of drink altogether
; what do you call tins ? "

"Mint julep, sir," said Edward. "Tes' as
good as the other, sir. Trv him, sir."

By George! Mr. Galbraith," said the merry
old fellow, as he set down his glass after
following; Edward's advice. " if you change your
condition don't change your butler ; what say
you, Bompas ? "

Mr. Bompas took his lips from his straw,
and looked affectionately and gratefully at the
negro. ' ; A gifted man," he murmured. " A
highly endowed domestic, indeed."

"I like those two old boys," said Brycgson,
after the visitors had left. " Bompas is great
fun, and Millard is just one of those genial
cheery old fellows that might have walked
straight out of Drawbridge Hall. I say,
Harry, just fancy that woman having all
that money. Gad ! we've learned something
to-day."

The devil's own get the devil's own luck.
Walter ; you and I learned that over t'other
side long ago, old boy, didn't we ? "

That's so. 1 wonder when we shall get
news from the Squire ? "

'• Not for a month very likely. Let's go
into the market and see the animals."

- Which ? The bipeds ? "

Aye."

END OF VOL. J.

3 0112 056519272

^AiipojMa

c^^

Henry Scott Mm

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS



vr42t

v-2

|l slouch.

BV

Henry SCOTT YIXCE,

/ .V THE EE VOL UM E S
VOL. II.

^onbon :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

V2, YORK STREET, Covert GARDEN, W.C.

1889.

KELLY AND CU. . .MIDDLE MILL, KIXGSTON-OK-THAMES

Am GATE Street. LlXCOLx's INN FIELDS. W.C.

CONT Ends.

CHAP, PAGE

I. — The Election . . . . .1

II. — A Very ROUGH EvENING 27

III. — Lucy's Partner . . . . .55

IV. — A Meeting, a Talk an]» a Letter . . 81

V. — A Triple Alliance . 103

VI. — Ned's Hospitality and what came of it . 121

VII. — The Makings of a very pretty Quarrel , . 147

VIII-quite .against Law and Order . . . 173

IX. — The Murmur of the Hive 208

X. — How thk Current flowed . . . 226

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/twopardonsnovel02vinc

CHAPTER I.

THE ELECTION.

The important day arrived at last. The
nomination of candidates had but whetted the
appetites of the country-side politicians, and
they now made ready for the substantial dish
of the contest. Old elections are gone in the
Limbo of Days and Things, and our modern
ones have assumed a gravity and dignity much
at variance with the stormy saturnalia of bygone
struggles. For in truth, although men
of our land may turn with pride to the records
of our Parliaments and the wisdom of our statesmen,
for at least a hundred years our country
was in a sad condition whilst they were being
elected, when every place that was not led by
its owner to elect whomsoever he would (till
even a black footman was threatened as an alternative
to some temporarily stubborn borough,
VOL. II. 18

and would have been returned had lie been sent)
was a scene of riot and confusion that would
have put old Rome to the blush. It speaks
volumes for our old statesmen that, with such
material as they got sent to Parliament in those
days, they kept the good ship Britannia on her
course at all. And certain it is that those who
were seeking the suffrages of the electors paid
dearly for their victories or defeats, not in
money alone, but in dignity. To be for a fortnight
at once th-e host and the butt of all the
greasy vagabonds of. the town, to be cap m
hand and hand in fist with men from whom
at ordinary times the moth of the street was
scarcely division enough, to fawn on men
whose usual habits were to fawn, to put up with
the arrogance of a term, the importance of an
occasion, the haughtiness of an hour — and there
is no such arrogance, no such importance, no
such haughtiness, as that of your Jack in
office, your political pork-butcher, your vintner
with a vote — this was the way in which the
candidate earned his victory, if he gained it,
and with this was his defeat embittered tenfold
when he lost the day. And after all this
humiliation and unbending:, the candidate faced
on the day of the election about as much

actual danger as the leader of a cutting-out
expedition in a foreign harbour, and had
doubly to bend, first to the plaudits of his
friends, and next fi:'om the missiles of his foes.
Add t(3 this the knowledge that the mob
were, in those days at least, totally without
influence over the election, that the noisy,
unwashed, vicious crowd which made the town
hideous for a day had not a single vote to the
hundred of them. Xo, their suasion was that
of force, the argument of the bludgeon, the
logic of the boot ; and it was A^ith very small
satisfaction indeed that the good people of
Avonham saw that from early dawn there
poured into the town all the loafers and roughs
from the country round, eager for sport, as
they termed the day's proceedings, and, like
all bucolic roughs, ready in a moment to
exchange the stood bovine indifference of
every-day life for the cruelly unreasoning
bovine madness which, when it does break out —
which, thank God, happens but seldom — leaves
far behind in its vicious destructiveness the
hunger-spurred vengeance of the Lancashire
meal mob or the cowardly brutality of the racecourse
rough. Riot is short and sharp in the

North, desperate for an hour and then invisible

18—2

for a year, but though the West rises but
seldom, when it does rise it means blood — from
both sides too. The Western man Tvdll take
his opponent's by " fair fighting and no knives,"
and grudges not his own, fights best indeed
when a little is let out ; your ordinary mob
has no taste for defeat, and none but Western
men will stand against troops.

There was no election in Dunstalne. Their
business was done on nomination day, and the
former member had a walk over, but he had
not omitted to ranee himself on Mr. Boldham's
side at Avonham, and was here to-day with
many of his prominent supporters to help the
cause and strengthen the hands of his party.
Of course, the Dunstalne folk were here inforce
; they had had no fun in their own
town, it was obvious that they must patronise
the entertainment provided for them by their
neighbours, and as it would be unfair to come
without some addition to the performance,
they brought over with them a powerful but
roughly-trained brass band, which stationed
itself outside the " Woolpack " at seven o'clock
in the morning, and raised the hair from the
scalps of early breakfasters by its first terrible
blast. Forth salted at once the members of

the two bands already engaged by the rival
candidates, and, in ten minutes more, quietness
and peace were gone, at least for that day,
from the town. In half-an-hour the early
breakfasters were out in the streets, and the
late ones were eating in Pandemonium. The
polls were opened at eight. The Mayor was
in his place as returning officer, and already
the pubic-houses began to be patronised. The
quieter portion of the electors hastened to place
their votes on record, and the fray fairly
began.

Of course for such a small town as xlvonham
there was but one polling place needed, and
this was a wooden erection covered by a
sloping board roof, and approached by steps ;
up these the electors combed and recorded
their votes aloud for either candidate. Behind
the returning officer were the friends of the
two opponents, and from time to time during
the day the principals themselves looked in to
see how the parties were getting on ; saluting
one another courteously when they met, partly
from the innate respect each felt for the other,
and partly with a view of setting a good
example to the two mobs who, as the hour of
noon approached, began to get very noisy, and

hailed vvitli tumultuous enthusiasm the various
states of the poll as exhibited from the balcony
of the " George " and the window of the
Woolpack." These were received from the
checking clerks, who, posted behind the
returning officer, scored each vote as it was
given, and vociferously aided their party by
shouting : " Thank you for Mr. Boldham,"
Thank you for Sir Headingiy Cannn." These
gentlemen got hotter and louder and more
enthusiastic as the day advanced — munched at
sandwiches, quaffed bottled ale and sherry
provided by the candidates, and felt greatly
uplifted by being part and parcel of the election
itself, and second in importance only to the
two combatants themselves. Two hours after
the poll opened the first announcement of
numbers was made —

Boldham 97

Cannn 89

This was received by the Dunstalne contingent
and the Yellow party with great cheering,
replied to by the Blues with equal vigour.
Then an hour after came the second hist —

Boldham 173

Cannn 166

after which Sir Headingly took a drive
through the town and gave his followers
heart. There was as yet, however, comparatively
Httle excitement, and beyond being
made the peg on which to hang cheers and
chair, the figures roused but little real interest.
Walter Rivers was, however, busy, and had
promised his uncle that he should be ahead
at noon. He accordingly marched down from
the " George " a large number of voters,
and although the movement was vigorously
responded to by the opposite party, he was
able to keep his word, and shortly after twelve
o'clock the Baronet was received at his 
T\dth a hearty burst of cheers,
and saw to his great delight that he had
headed his opponent, the numbers shown
being —

Cami 246

Boldham 231

Of course the change of affairs gave new zest
to the struggle. The voters from the villages
immediately in the neighbourhood began to
come in. From twelve till two would be the
busiest part of the election, and both sides
girded up their loins for the encounter. Mr.

Daniel Follwell, an ardent supporter of Mr.
Boldham, escorted his own workmen to
the poll, and having seen that each man
registered for his candidate, he recorded his
own vote, and gave his men holiday for the
rest of the day. Most of the small shopkeepers
followed his example, not only as to holiday,
but as to voting, for the influence of the Bank
was o^reat, and none dared o^o against his own
interest so far as to run counter to a moneyed
man who had the A'oter in his power. It was
greatly on this that Mr. Boldham and Shelman
relied for their success. Mr. Rannn had spoken
truly when he said that politics in Avonham
had been dead so long that interest would
greatly influence the result of the election ;
and Sir Headingly felt somewhat this way
himself, for he said to his nephew as they took
a glass of sherry together in the middle of the
day, " Ye're beginning to find the Bank influence
now, Walter."

We hold them safe, sir," replied Walter,
though the fight will be closer than I thought
at first ; but I am sure of a hundred majority
I have very nearly that on the books. In
another election they wouldn't do so well as
they are doing now. Besides, we are fighting

two towns. Look at Wilmslow (the member
for Dunstalne) haranguing away there opposite
the ' Woolpack.' "

*• He has greatly influenced the villages
between here and Dunstalne. I'm afraid we
did not look them up enough."

'• AVe shall soon see theh^ effect. They will
all be polled by two o'clock. We're in the
thick of it now, uncle."

Yes," said the old man with a nervous
laugh, '' we're in for it now."

'' Yes, and we shall win, and win easily too,"
said Walter.

I hope so."

'' I am sure of it, uncle. Boldham can't get
a majority without bribery, and both he and
Shelman know that that won't pay. Come in
there I Who's there ? "

The door opened, and a head was slowly
put into the room. The eyes in the head
looked inquiringly at the two gentlemen, and
the mouth emitted a slight couo;h.

Come in, man," said Rivers impatiently.
Xow, Hackett, what do you want ? Outwith
it I "

Mr. Bill Hackett, the husband of the charwoman
before mentioned, shambled slowly into

the room and began twisting his rough moleskin
cap nervously round and round in his
fingers.

Xow^ then, Hackett," said Walter, signing
to his uncle to leave the conversation in his
hands, " what can wee do for you ? "

Well, gentlemen both," said Mr. Bill
Hackett, who eked out the earnings of his
better half — of whom he stood in mortal dread
^by a little poaching, a little fowl breeding,
a little gardening, a trifle of petty larceny, and
an infinitesimal modicum of honest work, " I
be onwdlhn' to entrust you when you'd so
busy, only you see, gentlemen, " he added with
a writhe m Sir Headmgiy's direction, " I bea
pore man I be, amazing' pore man I be for
sure."

That's your own fault for not working, my
man," said Walter, " and I don't see what it
has to do with us either."

Mr. William Hackett looked sheepish and
puzzled.

There's a main lot o' us pore chaps about,
gentlemen," he said. " ' Tes surely hard if the
gentlefolk can't gie 'un a tarn when they do
want 'un like."

What do you mean, sir ? " said Sir

Headingly with much stateliness. It was bad
enough to have been worried by this sort of
voter in public, but to be intruded upon
now and patronised by this fellow was too
much.

What du I mean, sur ? " said Hackett.
*' Who, what I mean is this here — what's the
use o' my vote to me, Sur 'Edin'ley ? I can't
eat 'un, can I ? I can't drink 'un, can I ?
Thick 'ere 'lection 'saint a groin' on right way
nohow as I can zee," he said, raising his
voice a little.

'' Do you mean to stand there and tell me,"
broke in Sir Headingly — " to tell me, you —
you — you vagabond "

Xow looked 'ere, Sur 'Edin'ley, vair words,
sur, vair words. I'm a 'lector, I am. I a got
my little bit o' freehold as my rather left I
jest so much as you've a got your big freehold.
D'ye zee that, sur ? — vair words vor I, sur —
I'm a 'lector, I am."

Xow just you Hasten to me, Mr. Hackett,"
said Walter, ao-ain motioning his uncle to
leave the man to him. '* I think I can understand
what you want."

'Tes likely, Muster Rivers, 'tes likely,"
said the man, with a grin.

How many voters have you brought round
here with you on this errand ? "

The man hesitated.

'^ Come, don't waste my time. How many
fellows did you leave at the bar downstairs ?
Tom Purcell was one, wasn't he ? "

Sees, sur, 'a wur."

Of course he was, and Edwardes, of
Sprightly, and his son-in-law Mackerel make
three. Xow who else was there ? — come, outwith
it ! "

Mr. Hackett, freeholder and elector, seemed
rather cowed by the younger man's bolder way
of taking up the running, and answered, rather
sheepishly :

Well, Muster Elvers, there's them three,
an' me an' Bill AVhiston, him as married my
niece, and Jack Onslow, my misses' brother-laws,
him as had her sister s'naa, an' wee all
come in town together, us six, an' there's Joe
White downstairs 'long wi' 'em, as ain't a voted
neither not yet. That's all, sur ! "

'' Oh, that's all, is it ? Well, that isn't much ;
stop a minute till I put their names down, and
yours at the head of them."

My dear Walter," began Sir Headingly, ina
hoarse whisper.

Walter answered rapidly in French, which
was not among the " 'lector's " accomplishments
:

"Let me manage this man, uncle — don't you
bother : he will o-et nothing from me."

Now, Mr. Hackett," he went on, " I've
got all these names down, and I make seven of
them ; what's the next thing ? "

Well, sur," said the poacher, brightening
up as he fancied he spied his expected reward,
the question be just thick-here-a-way, sur.
Be they there votes any good to you, gentlemen,
or saint they ? "

That's the question, as you say ; well,
suppose they're not, what then ? "

Spain' they'd not did you say. Muster
Rivers ? " said Hackett, wonderingly.

Yes, that's what I said ; you can have it
the other way about, if you like — you can either
suppose they are some good to us or no good
to us, just which you please."

Well, then, sur, I'll make zo bold as to
goo fur to say as how they he sum good to 'ee."
Go on ! "

Wel," said Bill Hackett, in a deeply injured
tone ; " sure-/?/. Muster Rivers, you don't
want I to say no moor ? "

Oh, no, you might have stopped some time
ago, if you pleased."

Well, then, come, sur," said the fellow,
with a sudden burst, " me an' my mates is
ready to goo and vote right straight vor Sur
'Edin'ly, see now."

Well, why don't you go ? "

But, Muster Kivers, saint we to get nothing'
for all these 'ere votes — why, look, see there's
seven on 'em."

How much do you want, Hackett ? "

Well, sur, I reckon as they'd with a vive
pound a-piece to me for a-getting' on 'em for
'ee — there now ! "

And that is what you want ? — five times
seven, that makes thirty-five. I suppose you
want eye pounds for your own vote ? "

Mr. William Hackett fairly laughed with
glee at his success. What a simple thing it
had been to manage "the gentle oak," and
how easy it was to get favours fi'om them at
'lection time " — why wasn't there a 'lection
every year instead of once in eighteen ? He
rubbed his hands, and answered the little query
with a chuckle.

Well, I spouse zo, sur."

Well now, Hackett," said Rivers, rising,

and placing one foot on the chair, and pointing
one finger airily at the chuckle, "just you
listen to me a minute."
Cer'nly, sur."

You've come here to-day nth your precious
seven votes and you expect us to give

you thirty-five ponds for them "

There was an unpromising tone to these
words, so Hackett listened open-mouthed and
very open-eared, and made no reply.

"Now you can just tm^n round and walk
straight out of that door, for you won't get
one farthing."

Mr. Hackett's fingers lost their hold of the
moleskin cap, and it fell to the floor.

And, another thing I'll tell you, now
you're here. You'll go straight to the other
side and make your offer there ; try it on —
you'll find when you do come to vote that you
are marked men ; the other side won't have you,
for I shall see Mr. Boldham's accent at once
and tell him of your offer, or at least my uncle
mil — you've made the offer to him, and I witness
it. Boldham's man will be afi:*aid to poll
you, for he knows that if you vote for him we
shall be down on them for bribery, and win
or lose, they get the worst of that. Try it and

see. How much are the seven votes worth
now, eh ? "

Mr. Hackett much chapfallen here.

And how much is your personal Liberty
worth ? Do you know what you've been doing
by offering to sell votes ? "

Mr. Hackett, much chapfallen still, gasped
out a negative.

You don't ; go and ask a lawyer then, or
wait till the assizes, for we shall prosecute you
and your mates for doing it, and you'll find
out then — you especially. Now you can walk
and tell your friends how nicely you've managed
for them. Come — pick up your cap and
march ! "

A more deeply disgusted elector than mr.
William Hackett, freeholder, has never gone
out of a committee-room, and never gone outwith
a more woebegone and forlorn appearance.

Sir Headmgly turned to his nephew with an
air of relief

Well, you certainly managed that fellow
remarkably well ; I was really half afraid atone
time, Walter, that you were actually going
to treat nth him. I wouldn't have missed
the vagabond's discomfiture for the world ; of
course, you intend t(j tell Boldham's man ? "

My dear uncle, I am in hopes that there
will be no need for doing so ; if I am not very
much mistaken, Hackett's terror, which I flatter
myself was genuine, will communicate itself to
his comrades, unless some D unstable man gets
hold of him first, and that's not very Hkely in
this house, and we shall have a deputation of
them here presently begging for mercy and
promising to vote for us. Hark, I can hear

someone stumbling up the stairs now

Come in ! "

Two of the companions of the discomfited
Bill Hackett appeared at the door and looked
pleadingly at Sir Headingly.

What is it, my men ? " said that worthy.

Ahoy," said the elder man Edwardes, and
then he nudged his son-in-law, and remained
silent.

Who," said thackeray, and also spake no
more.

You've come to ask for fifty pounds instead
of the thirty-five that yom precious friend
Hackett wanted, I suppose," said Rivers.

No-a, sur, us saint," said Edwardes, in a

kind of mild despair, " don't 'ee goo for to

mex us up along o' he, Muster Rivers, 'weren't

noo vault o' our, sur."

VOL. II. 19

Well, what do sou want to say ; are you
going to vote for us, or against us ? Xow,
come — sharp — out with it — do you think
I've got nothing to do but talk to you all
day ? "

We coom in town smarting," said the
younger man, elbowing himself past his father-in-law,
and standing sheepishly in front of him,
^' fur to vote fur you, sur ; well, on th' road
we meets Bill Hackett, an' he says as how we
got to zee you 'fore we good to vote. Well,
sur, he do leave we downstairs, and when he
do come back, he do tell we as how you be
going' to gie we all up to jail for hee's vault ;
well, us saint going' fur to ha' that, sur, zoo
ween come up here fur to tell 'ee as we be going'
right away fur to gie 'ee our votes, and then
we be going' whom like ; good martin' to 'ee,
gentlemen," added Mackerel, hurriedly backing
past his father-in-law, " an' good luck to 'ee,
don't 'ee goo fur to be hard wi' Bill Hackett,
gentlemen, he be a poor mackey moon, sir, and
I do think heave a got beer already this morning.
Good morning, gentlemen. Come on,
you ; " and clutching the arm of his father-in-law,
who was overpowered with respect at the
clever way in which his son-in-law had extricated

the party, he left the room, and Walter
and the Baronet were again left alone.

Walter laughed quietly.

I'll see that those seven votes are registered,
they may be useful ; here is the latest state of
the poll coming, uncle ; you must go out onto
the balcony and say a few words ; well,
Simmonds " (to a young man, who entered,
bearing a paper), " what news now ? "

'' Still ahead, sir ; still ahead. Sir Headingly.
Here are the figures, sir. They're pretty correct.
I've kept a careful check over the registering
clerks, and I think you will find this
right."

The new record showed that Sir Headingly's
position was still better than it had been at
noon. The numbers now were —

Cannn 406

Boldham 323

Singing cheers greeted this announcement

when it was displayed fit-om the balcony, and

Sir Headingly, in response to the calls of his

followers, stepped out and made a short speech.

The old man's mettle was up, and he was

elated with his success.

As he and Walter drove up the street to the

19—2

hustings they saw mr. William Hackett and
his fellow-electors standing at the polling place
and recording their votes. The clerks were
shouting '• Thank you for Sir Headingiy Cannn "
as each one gave in his adherence to the winning
candidate, but the voters seemed as though
they were not combining pleasure with their
duty.

We get those votes, thanks to your cleverness,"
said the Baronet, looking gratefully at
his nephew.

Oh, no, uncle ; it was Bryceson who put
me up to that trick. You must thank him
dien you see him. He was the man who
gave me that idea, and a capital one it was for
us. Look at that fellow Hackett's face."

And, indeed, ]mr. Hackett went home to his
better half in such a desponding, disgusted,
and petulant humour that she was compelled
to break a stave of a butter tub over his devoted
head before she could restore him to anything
like himself; and when she heard the result,
the barren result, of his negotiations with
the only candidate he had dared to interview,
she fell into so great a passion, and made such
determined preparations for breaking the rest
of the tub in the same manner, that the foiled

elector quitted his freehold in undignified haste,
and sought to dispel his chagrin and disappointment
by a course of strong Liquors and
smoke.

Meanwhile the hopes of the Yellow party
declined as those of the Baronet's rose. At
two o'clock the numbers were again exhibited,
and again the Blue candidate was seen to be
more than holding; his own. Good fio^ht as
Mr. Boldham was making, he had great odds
against him — the odds of prejudice and unwillingness
to bring about change, and well liked
as he himself was in the town, the personal
popularity of the Baronet was against him
as well. The state of the poll at two o'clock
was —

Cannn 534

Boldham 410

"Well, Wilmslow," said Mr. Boldham,
cheerfully, as they met in the private room at
the " Woolpack," where they were joined by
Shelman, who looked as amiable as usual, "we
seem to be out of it, eh ? The old influence
too much for us, I expect."

We have made a capital fight, for a first
struggle. You will have five hundred votes,

and that is wonderful for a little place that has
for forty years been represented by the other
party, and has gone eighteen years without a
contest at all. I feel much encouraged, and I
am sure you will receive the congratulations of
the party on your gallant battle."

Well, well, we mustn't despair. As you
say, wee have stirred up the other people a bit,
and they must know now that they can't
expect always to have matters their own
way."

We must have an Association as soon as
this is over," said Shelman.

Do you think Cannn's people are better
organised than ours ? " enquired the member
for Dunstable.

Oh dear no," replied Shelman, " they
never dreamed of a contest. The news was
like a thunderbolt in the market-place. We
posted our bills at night, you know, and next
morning we where canvassing. Oh, no, we had
rather the start of them, in fact. Rivers has
worked well, of course."

But not better, I am sure, than you have,
Mr. Shelman. I must felicitate you on yom
first effort as an electioneering agent."

Shelman bowed.

The town seems quiet, that's one thing
Fm very glad of," said Boldham.

'' It won't be very quiet after four o'clock,"
said Shelman, sharply. " There are a lot of
quarrymen in town, and they're drinking
pretty freely, and so are most of the country
people. The roughs about here, too, have got
the idea into their heads that there would be
plenty of occupation and heaps of money for
all of them if the railway came here, and that
Cannn is trying to keep it away ; and I shouldn't
wonder if they let him know it before the day
is out."

Mr. Boldham looked grave. " I trust not,"
he said. " I should be very grieved if there
were any violent scenes in the town after the
poll is closed."

"Well, we must hope for the best," said
Shelman, carelessly. " ]Now, uncle, I am
going round to the polling place again, and I
shan't return here till after four o'clock."

Shelman did not remain long at the polling
place ; he set off up the town in a few minutes,
and visited several of the houses. He had a
short interview with Messrs. Jack Onslow and
Bill Whiston, two worthy members of the
family of the henpecked Bill Hackett. These

two gentlemen lead imbibed just enough to
make them extremely cross with their disappointment,
and to have disarmed them of any
caution. He listened to their tale and then
condoled with them, recommended them not
to go home yet, but to wait till the evening,
and assured them that they had been shamefully
treated.

A little after three o'clock he mounted his
horse, which was kept saddled and ready for
him at the " Woolpack," and rode adam to the
market-place. The town was getting a little
tired of this election plaything, and the hoisting
of the last hour's numbers only partially
aroused the crowd ; they were —

Cannn 597

Boldham 459

There was some cheering as Shelman rode
up, and just at this time a large number of
voters where registering. All who had not yet
done so were pressing up to the poll, and the
agents were very sharply watching for any
last great move on the part of the enemy.
For the first time in the day Rivers and Sherman
met. They raised their hats to each

other at first "and then shook hands, at which
the friends of both parties cheered and commented
in various ways on the incident.

That's redit," shouted one. " Let 'un
shake hands afore they do might."

We'll put thee up next time, Muster
Shelman," cried another, and the Yellows
cheered.

So 'ee may," roared a brazen-lunged Blue,
*' an' we'll put Muster Rivers whur we be a-
putting' 's uncle now," which was the signal for
acclamation by the Blue party, and the Blue
song was loudly raised, to be replied to by the
Yellow version, when a line of it had been
sung and roared. The bands blared defiance
at one another, the banners waved and the
crowds hurrahed, as if noise and colour would
yet alter the fortune of the day.

But although the votes of the last hour
were pretty evenly distributed, and although
to make their minority as small and their
defeat as creditable as possible Mr. Boldham
and his lieutenants brought up every available
unit of their forces, it was of no avail. Four
o'clock struck, the Mayor declared the poll
closed, and the election was over. It was not
long before the official report was known, and

Mr. Sennett announced the result of the day's
struo'o-le —

5&^

Cannn 635

Boldham 482

But Avonham's troubles were not over for
that time ; the worst of the day was to come.

.^^m^
^^^p^-^

A VERY ROUGH EVENING.

The one inhabitant of Avonliam who was devoutly
glad that the business of the day was
done was the Mayor. He had discharged his
duties that day most ably and courteously,
and to the satisfaction of everybody connected
with the election ; he had been thanked by
both the candidates in the set speeches which
each had made on the declaration of the result,
and he sought his home self-satisfied, but
intensely weary ; never was man so glad of
sappers and loose coat ; he descended to his
cellar for a bottle of his choicest wine, and sat
down to his dinner with a feeling of intense
gratitude for his deliverance from the turmoil
of the day. His meal finished, and the bottle
half, or perhaps a little more than half,
emptied, ]mr. Mayor placed his legs on a chair,
carefully adjusted his silk handkerchief over his
head, and slept the sleep of the hard-worked
just man, after the manner of his forefathers.

Doubtless if lie could have removed the roofs
of the houses of the burgesses over whom he
that year held sway, and peeped, Asmodeus-like,
into their rooms, he would have seen
many a one just as tired of the affair as he was
himself, and seeking to forget the derangement
which the town had suffered in very much
the same comfortable way as his worship.
Had the place been left to its own devices, and
had none but the real electors been consulted
as to the way in which the rest of the evening
should be spent, there would have been little
difference between the close of that day and
the evening of any great market, and the
white boards of the polling booth, and the
election posters, still covering the walls in all
directions, would have been the sole remaining
signs of the bygone contest. Everyone would
have gone gravely and peaceably to his business
again, one to his farm and another to
his merchandise, as the good old Scriptural
phrase puts it, and the election would have
been comfortably stowed away in people's
memories, to serve, perhaps, as a topic of
conversation for many a future da', but to
trouble the town no more.

It would have been with it as it was periodically

with the river ; for eight months in the
year the Avon flowed peacefully over its
pebbly bed limpid and pure, for three months
more it was swifter, deeper, and, as the
country-folks called it, '* muddly-hke," and
very often during the one remaining month of
the year, or at any rate during a great part of
it, the Avon would assert itself, would come
plashing and tumbling into the houses in the
lower part of the town, driving the inmates to
upstairs rooms to be rescued in boats, swimming
the family wash-tubs and large crockery
merrily round the ground floor, and Anally,
leaving an inch deep deposit of mud on the
boards and the street pavement outside, return
to its bed for another eleven months. Nothing
was ever done ; the tom fathers did not
dream of raising the banks and keeping it out,
they were perfectly acquainted with its ways
and did not heed its winter vagaries ; you see
it was their own river and they understood it.
So with the election — for eighteen years the
tide of events had flowed on peacefully,
occasionally local excitement had raised ripples
on the stream, and now the election had come,
and the tide of events slopped over and flooded
the minds of the township, just as the river

flooded its houses. And just as the floods
were forgotten yearly, when the river resumed
its peaceable behaviour, so would the election
have been forgotten if the Avonliamites had
been left to themselves. But there were outside
influences at work and pressure from
without, and the town was destined to be
flooded this time in a manner which would
not easily fade out of the memories of its
inhabitants.

The inns, both great and small, were full ;
at the " George " there was jubilation, at the
Woolpack " irritation, and cogitation at the
Bear." The Blue party celebrated their
victory by much singing of songs, much
shaking of hands, and draining of glasses and
cans ; the Yellows were no less boisterous,
were, indeed, even louder, but not so hearty ;
and the customers at the '' Bear " were noisy,
but only conversationally so. The two parties
met there more ; the ground was neutral and
argument more rife, but the frequenters of
the hotel were of the better class, and whatever
discussion went forward was carried on
decorously and without heat. The general
feeling seemed to be that there had been a
much closer contest than was expected, that a

majority of no more than a hundred and fifty-three
was calculated to cloud the victory of
the Blues with some degree of apprehension
for a seat which had been deemed so secure.
However, the Blues did not seem cast down,
they took then victory as they found it, and
were quite satisfied. " So long as they won,"
their leaders said, " that was enough for
them." Mr. Boldham had been the strongest
man they would ever have arrayed against
them, and no other would have got the votes
he did. Meanwhile, in the small inns and
beer shops, the roughs of the town, the quarrymen
fi:'om the down, and the Dunstalne mob
had collected and were singing, and dancing,
and drinking, and fast working themselves upto
the point where mischief begins in these
matters.

It was about eight o'clock, and still
perfectly fight, when out of a beer shop in
the neighbourhood of the canal wharf, the
favourite resort of the bargees who worked the
fiy-boats, which brought Avonham most of its
London and Bristol merchandise, came pouring
a stream of half-tipsy roughs, who made
a ring and surrounded a Dunstalne man and
an Avonliam man, who having differed as to

the number of times Nelson defeated the
'' Emperor Bonaparte," or the age of the
"Duke" (there is but one Duke for West of
England men), were going to settle the matter
in the good old English fashion. Hot and
flushed with drink and excitement they came
rushing out into the open place next the wharf
and watched the varying fortunes of the
struofo^le, encouraging' each his man with loud
shouts, dancing, howling, disputing, but never
interfering with either of the two bruisers who
pummelled away at one another for half-anxious
until the Dunstalne man yielded and
was led away by his friends, whilst the Avon-ham
hero was seized by his own party, taken
ois in triumph to the house where the dispute
had originated, and regaled at the expense of
this adnnrini? townsmen. From that time and
from this slight incident was Avonham's peace
once more taken away. The Dunstalne men
Who had come into the town that day were all
on the losing side, the party they had assisted
had been defeated, and the tide of generosity
which would have flowed so freely from winners
was tricking from losers much too slowly
and in much too scanty a volume to please the
recipients, who lead imagined, the wish being

father to the thought, that they were coming
into a land of rejoicing and plenty, whereafter
assisting in beating the common foe, they
would be bountifully regaled at the expense
of the " emancipated slaves who had long
groaned beneath his yoke," to quote one
of their most prominent orators ; but the
Yellows in Avonliam were not dispensing
their favours as conquerors. The Dunstable
men found that the joyful libations of the
victors and the despair-begotten draughts of
the defeated were different things entirely.
It was therefore with a great access of delight
that a Dunstalne man who, having met in the
street three of his comrades tired and thirsty,
had taken them into the " Five Stars " to eat
and drink, received in response to his enquiry
as to what was to pay, the answer from the
usually gruff landlord, " Nothing' t'you, nur
noo one else as is on right side."

Right side's bin wrong side today," said
an Avonliam man sitting near.

'Won't be that thur way long, too,"

replied the Dunstalne man ; " here, coom,

drink you, sure, an' let t'other chap drink ;

there's nowt to pay, thee sayst, fill another

pot, then."

VOL. II. 20

The landlord readily complied.

Matey' said one Avonliam man to
another, up street, " dost know Sam Willis
be given away al lees beer fur nowt ? "

Xo ! " said the other, galvanised into
sudden interest, " whur ? "

Down to ' Vive Stars,' nun ; will 'ee
coom an' ha' a drop o't ? "

Ah, will I nether ? " said the other,
wiping his hips.

But they where disappointed, the landlord
was obdurate ; they where " dirty Blues," they
were informed, and they where expelled with
more force than politeness. Rejected in this
rough manner, they sought counsel and help
of their friends, and, collecting a force of their
allies, drove furiously at the " Five Stars ; "
the windows were broken, the Dunstalne men
inside roughly handled, the heads of two of
the landlord's barrels staved in, and the landlord
himself flung out into the street, whilst
the invaders ran riot in his bar and cellar.
Bitterly regretting his action in refusing
liquor which was so soon to be taken from
him, he sought aid of his cronies and of his
recently expelled customers, and having been
reinforced, made another attack upon his own

house and reinstated Ms free customers at the
expense of all his windows and bar-fittings.

This time, however, the combat was carried
into the enemy's country, and the Blues were
chased down the street, until they reached the
shelter of a little house called the " Swan."
Alas ! this proved the destruction of the
Swan," for although the fugitives managed
to make good their escape and flee through
the back way, yet the house was given up to
the vengeance of their pursuers, the blue flag
torn down, the whole of the windows broken,
and the bar wrecked ; and then the Yellow
mob, by this time a hundred strong, and
reinforced every minute, paraded the upper
side streets of the town, and saluted every
Blue house with a volley of stones which went
smashing through the windows, scaring the
inmates almost to death. Presently, not contented
with alarming this portion of the town,
they marched in fair order, but with immense
noise, into the open space in front of the
church, where they halted for a moment as if
irresolute, and then raised deafening shouts of
defiance of their enemies. In a minute or two
they were joined by all of the Yellow party

who were ready for mischief, a considerable

20—2

contingent who were of no party at all, but
ripe for any riot, and a sprinkling of Blues,
who discovered, to their great disgust, that
their hallooing and whooping on behalf of
their side had not been so productive of solid
and liquid benefits as they had anticipated at
the commencement of the day ; finding, then,
that nothing was to be gained by peace they
gravitated easily to the riotous faction and
were soon as prominent as any ; it is, perhaps,
unnecessary to say that Mr. Hackett and his
disgusted contingent, having drunk themselves
pot-valiant, were of this party.

Some unconscious road surveyor had aided
the Goddess of Discord, by leaving at the side
of the street three heaps of stones, with which
it was intended to mend the road at the top
of the town. Certain it was that their mission
to-night was not to repair the town ; the
mob armed themselves with the missiles, and
before the affrighted inhabitants had time to
protect their windows with shutters, the crashing
of glass and the shrieks of terrified women
proclaimed that the riot was assuming formidable
proportions. In five minutes the town
was in a state of panic, and the mob were
masters of the situation.

The Mayor, hastily summoned, showed both
courage and good sense ; he went at once
ito the street and endeavoured to reason with
the mob, but his eloquence was vain, he was
driven back to his house, but escaped by his
garden, and making his way to the marketplace,
surrounded by a few faithful followers,
there read the Riot Act, that ancient ceremony
which still ranks among our most cherished
and useless remedies against Force. And the
Mayor did better ; he sent his own man on a
good horse to the railway station, at which was
the nearest telegraph office, and despatched a
telegram for troops. All over the town the
householders were barricading their dwellings,
conveying their women and children into the
back rooms, and preparing to make what stand
they could against the mad crew, who were
wrecking the town. There was no time to
swear in special constables ; many of the
rioters were armed in some fashion with staves
and pokers, hatchets and stones, and it would
need a well organised and trained body to
cope with them ; the local police were so few
in number as to be helpless, though they did
their duty well, and so the work of destruction
went on, and the unimpeded ruffians were

going systematically through the town, breaking
the windows, and destroying, as far as
they could, all the property of the voters
for Sir Headingiy Cannn. The " Bear " was
attacked, and though the ex-soldier landlord
fought gallantly for his property and made
two or three of the party wish they had not
joined the fray, he was wounded by a stone
and dragged into this house bleeding and exhausted,
only just in time for his servants
to close the ponderous gateway door, which,
being built of massive oak planks and iron
clasping, resisted all efforts to break it down.
Foiled in this attempt, the rioters next
divided themselves into three portions, one
continuing down the main street towards the
bridge, one crossing into the churchyard to
attack the houses beyond, and the third, which
we will follow, to commence the destruction
in South Street. Acting under some instructions
from someone in authority, they passed
Mr. Bompas's house without injury, but
smashed in the panes of the two next to it,
and then, with loud shouts, crossed the road
to the gate of the " Coombes." It was known,
of course, that the proprietor had no vote, but
there seemed to be an understanding that

something special was to be done here, fur a
louder outcry than had yet been made was
raised as they halted before the gate. But
here, for the first time, they were confronted
and cowed. As Tom Purcell, the leader, a
brawny six-foot ruffian, thrust his hand
through the sate to o-et at the lock, he started
back with an awful scream of pam and fell
fainting into the arms of his nearest follower,
his arm broken at the wrist. There was a
moment of indecision and then a voice from
inside the gate, cried, in deep, firm tones :

What do you want here, you vagabonds ? "

There was a pause, and a silence, and then
someone who had made a strategic movement
to the rear on seeing the fate of the unlucky
ringleader said, " Look 'ow 'we've a served
pore Tom Purcell's arm."

'' I'll serve your head the same fashion if
you put it this way, young man," said the
deep voice again. The figure of the speaker
was not seen.

Break down th' gate," shouted someone
(also in the rear).

Oh ! you want the gate open, do }'ou ? "
said the same voice, and the gate swung
inwards on its hinges. " Xow then ! "

A man rushed forward, but in a moment
came flying back and crashed down on the
pavement as though a horse had kicked him.
Next, another peeping in cautiously to see
where the owner of this mysterious voice was
concealed received a rap on the head which
made him doubt for a minute or two whether
he had a head left to rap. This was a chilling
reception for the crowd, though a very warm
one for those who had sampled the fare which
the garrison of the " Coombes " was providing
for them. Obviously the only thing to do
was to let fly at the windows, and not to come
to close quarters with those at the gate, so
four or eve of the fellows drew back to the
other side of the street and threw. There was
a shiver of glass and a cheer from the crowd.
But it was rudely interrupted by a sudden
charge from the gate. Galbraith, who now
showed himself for the first time, came first,
followed by the negro and Bryceson. Dashing
at the men nearest to the gate, they struck
boldly and fiercely each at his man, and one
fellow was seized in the negro's powerful grip,
hauled half-way across the road, and flung
down into the garden. Then Galbraith and
Bryceson retired to the gate and waited for

the foe to advance. But the foe lead no
stomach for the fray. Evidently these were
not lono'-suiferinof citizens, but dangerous men
who meant lighting. There was an undignified
scuffle, and a great show of assisting off
their wounded, and, with a parting yell, the
portion of the rioters who had undertaken the
assault of South Street withdrew, taking with
them their unfortunate leader with a broken
arm, the inquisitive peeper with a " confused "
brain pan, and three others with substantial
marks and sanguinary proofs of the courage
and determination of the garrison. Entirely
occupied with their own safety, they forgot
all about the unfortunate prisoner, but left
him behind in a most uncomfortable position,
lying on the gravel path, with the heavy foot
of the negro on his chest.

Pick him up, Xed," said Bryceson, " and
take him into the house. We'll see who he is."

The victim was jerked upon his feet, and
hustled into the house with a roughness that
surprised him and took away all power of
resistance even if he had intended any. Ned
pushed him along the hall and into a room,
where Bryceson and Galbraith followed with
a light.

Now then, turn Inn round, and let's have
a look at him."

Ned twisted the captive round to face the
lamp, and there, banking and shivering with
light and fright combined, was Adolphus
Carter.

Galbraith looked sternly at him as he
crouched under Ned's powerful hand. Then,
turning to Bryceson, he said :

"Why, this fellow is one of Mr. Bompas's
clerks. What's the history of this ? "

Ask him," answered Bryceson, laying-down
his formidable club. " Now then,
sonny, speak up I Give him a shake up, Ned.
That's right. Now, then, what were you
doing out there Wrecking and plundering,
eh?"

mr. Adolphus had already expended all the
stock of courage Which he had ever possessed.
He burst into tears, and made no answer.
The only movement, either, of which he
seemed capable was that of flinging himself at
the feet of the two friends and grovelling on
the carpet before them. They looked at each
other for a moment, and burst into a roar of
laughter, in which the negro joined.

Get up, you unhappy little cur," said

Galbraith, contemptuously. " What harm
have I ever clone you or your ruffians that you
should attack my house ? Ked and Walter,
as the street's clear, just walk over to mr.
Bompas, oiler him any assistance, and if you
want me fire a shot, and I'll be with you in a
brace. If not ask Mr. Bompas to step over
here under your escort. I should like him to
see this object."

Mr. Bompas had been out to endeavour to
assist his friend the Mayor, and by dint of
much courage and moral suasion had persuaded
some of the crowd to disperse. He
had left the Mayor at the Town Hall, and now
came down South Street to see what had happened
there. The emissaries met him at his
own door. He came over at once to the
"Coombes."

'' Good evening, Mr. Bompas," said Galbraith,
as he met them at the open door.
Lively time, for a country town. Just come
in here ; we've got something belonging to
you, I think."

Something belongings to me, mv dear
sir ? " said Bompas.

Yes," said Galbraith, ushering him into
the room, and pointing to the pale-faced,

cringing wretch who was blubbering in the
corner. " That thing there's yours, isn't it."

Mr. Bompas held up his hands in astonishment
as his articled pupil again flung himself
down on his knees before his captors and
his master.

In the name of all that's unfortunate'
said Bompas, " what is the meaning of this ? "

This gentleman has turned rioter, it
seems, Mr. Bompas, and brought a score or a
couple of score vagabonds down the street just
now to wreck my house. My friend and I
and my servant have made our defence good,
and this is a prisoner wee took in a sally."

He was pickin' up a rock," said Xed,
and he's jus' done gone frown one. I picked
him up an' noted him in, and thar he is."

You unhappy boy," said Mr. Bompas,
what induced you to jon in this deplorable
and ruffianly riot ? "

ISo answer from the weeper.

How old is this interesting youth ? " said
Bryceson.

Between twenty-three and twenty-four, I
believe," said Bompas.

Ye — ye — ye — yes ! " sobbed the object.

"Now look here," said Galbraith, sternly.

Listen to me — get up oiF that floor, and stop
that hoTrUng." Carter slowly rose. " Xow,
you cowardly hound ! who put you up to this
outrage on me ? you haven't pluck enough,
you miserable cur, to have started it yourself
tell me that, and you shall walk out of this
house sith your employer, free ; if you don't
you shall spend your next night in jail, if I
drag you there with my own hands."

Carter looked piteously at his master, but
seemed unable to speak ; there was a pause
for a moment or two, and then Bompas spoke.

Was there anyone ? "

Xo — no — one put me u — u — p to it," said
Carter ; " I di— di— did it my— i— self."

"Whose windows did your blackguards
break up street ? " said Bryceson.

M — i — sister Regier's a — and Mr. Mo —
o dan's."

Are your windows broken, Mr. Bompas ? "

Xo, my dear sir, they are, I am happy to
say, intact ; if this misguided young man had
any influence over the crowd he may have
exerted it for my benefit. Had you any such
authority. Carter ? "

Yes," answered the prisoner.

And what was the reason for the attack

on Mr. Galbraith ? This is an election riot,
and he has taken no part in the election and
has no vote."

It was a mi — is — is — take of the mob. I
was try — i — ing to stop them."

That's a he," broke in Ned, " you jus'
done fro win' one rock, an' when I pick you up
'n run in de garden wis you you was pickin'
up 'rudder one. You bad scoundrel — what
you wan' interfere wi' my master fo' ! he nebber
interfere wi' you, you bad hel — hel — li'l — tater-buff."
Xed fished about for this word a few
times and brought it out with a scream that
made Carter jump again.

Mr. Bompas," said Galbraith, " there's
some mystery in this — this fellow's tale is not
true, and your suggestion as to my ha^dng
nothing to do with the election is a very good
one ; he has some motive which I don't
fathom. Where can I put him into a safe jail
for the night — this town's no good ? Ned,
saddle the horses, we'll start at once."

Mr. Galbraith," said Bompas, " will you
deiofn to listen to me for a few moments if I
venture to urge something in mitigation of
your suggested plan."

My dear sir, whatever you say will, I am

sure, from all I've ever seen or heard of you,
be straightforward and honourable ; you may
speak freely and with authority here, if you
choose."

I thank you, sir ! Gentlemen, I have
known the father of this unhappy lad for many
years ; he is a clergyman who is known and
respected all over Marlshire. The occurrence
of to-night, to find his son in this position,
would break his heart, and this young man's
mother's heart, too. The lad is but young,
gentlemen — he may have been led astray — his
bran may have been turned by the deplorable
turmoil of this lor — ri — able day, which I wish
the town had never seen. Xow, if you will
consent to release him conditionally on his
confessing to me the reasons which actuated
him in his insane attempt on your house, I
will use all my endeavours to induce him
to make them known to me or to his father.
My dear ]mr. Galbraith, I ask this not as any
favour to myself, but in mercy to my two old
friends, his father and mother, who would be
heart-broken if they knew of their son's
wickedness." The good old fellow's voice
trembled as he made his appeal. Galbraith
was moved by his plea.

God forbid, Mr. Bompas, that I should
add any sorrow to an old man's grey hairs ;
let it be as you say, with all my heart ; the
vagabond isn't worth the trouble of a goodman's
help, and perhaps he's not worthy an
honest man's enmity. Take my advice, young
sir, and go home to your father ; keep out of
Avonham for a week or two, I daresay Mr.
Bompas will give you a holiday, and keep out
of my sight for the rest of the century, if we
hive so long. Open the door, Ned, and let
him go." And Mr. Adolphus Carter, with
downcast eyes and abject mien, crawled out
of the room.

Mr. Bompas," said Bryceson, heartily,
you're a brick ! Harry ! Mr. Bompas and
the Mayor have been trying to restore order
in this place ; if they can get fifty fellows
together they can keep the peace — if not,
half the town '11 be down ; we must help,
too, old boy. We've seen many worse
troubles than this, Mr. Bompas. Ned, mix
us three stiff horns, and then come out and
fight."

Ned grinned at this, and speedily appeared
with the desired refreshments.

We none of us want Dutch courage,

Walter," said Galbraith, smiling, as he took
his glass.

Xo matter," said the irrepressible Walter,
we shall be none the worse for it any way.
Now, Mr. Bompas, we'll see you safe. Come
along, Xed."

They left the house perfectly deserted and
dark, at which Mr. Bompas made some demur,
but was answered that the house might look
after itself, and that they were not afraid that,
after their first reception, the rioters would
return. Mr. Bompas could not but admire the
calm and C|uiet manner and total absence of
fear in the young men. They walked swiftly
down to the Town Hall, where the Mayor and
his followers were.

Came to reinforce you, Mr. Mayor," said
Brycesun.

I am in hopes they have partially dispersed,"
said the Mayor.

Xot a bit of it," said someone ; "just hark
to that row ! "

A loud shout resounded up the street.

They've got to Killett's house," said a
young fellow, grasping his heavy stick ; " let's
go and help him."

Come along," said Galbraith, and he,

VOL. II. 21

Bryceson, the negro, and half a score young
fellows started up the street. As they arrived
on the outskirts of the crowd, they perceived
that a regular siege was being laid to the ex-mayor's
house ; that the besieged and two of
his men were holding out stoutly, and that
he had just saluted the mob with a pail of
scalding water ; this at first had provoked a
laugh, but the rioters were in an ugly temper,
and a quarry man, elbowing his way to the
front, shouted to one of his mates :

Gi' me hold o' thy crowbar, thee fool ;
doesn't thee see corner stwmi o' th' house here ?
gi' me hold, we'll ha' th' lot drawn in vive
minutes."

But as he dealt his third heavy stroke, trying
to wedge the point of his crowbar in
between the stone and brick work, a heavy
cudgel descended on the side of his head, and
he fell prone. At the same time a cheer was
raised, and the rescue party, attacking the
mob in rear, dashed through it, smiting right
and left as they passed, and facing them, fairly
drove them back. They were at once joined
by Killett and his men, who ranged themselves
alongside them. The giant forms of the
butcher and the negro, and the determined attitude

of the rest, made the crowd hesitate fur a
moment. Then, a man dashed out at Galbraith,
who was on the right of the party — he had
never made a greater mistake or a worse selection
in his life. Before he could strike a blow,
he was seized by the throat, flmig down on
the pavement, lifted up and held a moment
over his adversary's head, and then hurled
violently forward on to the heads of some of
the rearmost of the crowd ; a feat like that had
never been seen in Avonham ; she had had her
famous wrestlers, and was the centre of as tall
and stalwart a race as any that lives in England,
but never a man there had seen a show of
strength Hke that ; even for such a foe there
was for a moment a buzz of applause and a
murmur of commendation that almost drowned
the cries of the crowd. Xot a few were the
immediate deserters of the cause. Throwing
stones and breaking; Blue windows mic^ht be
very good fun, but to be dashed on to a pavement
and then sent spinning into the air at
men's heads was a little too cooling for the hottest
enthusiasm to resist ; and when the little
band, headed by the very man who had shown
twice this night that he would not be attacked
without sharp retaliation, dashed forward with a

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY.

cheer into the front ranks of the crowd, and by
dit of sheer strength drove them back across
the road, half the fellows felt the game was
getting too exciting, and fled. The rest of the
combat was short, sharp and decisive. Twenty
people, who had only before wanted leaders to
attack the rioters, now joined the fray, and m
a few minutes the largest of the three crowds,
which were doing so much damage to the
town, was dispersed. As they straggled past
the Town Hall, pursuers and pursued mixed
up together, the loud voice of the Mayor was
heard proclaiming that he had sent for troops,
and calhnof on all to o^o home. A sudden
thought struck Bryceson ; he whispered a few
words in the ear of Galbraith, who laughed
and nodded at his friend as he disappeared
round the corner of South Street.

Five minutes later, as a second crowd was
forming' in a threatening manner before the
Town Hall, high above all the storm of cries
and shrieks, rang out the sharp clear sound of
a bugle. It silenced the mob as if by magic ;
again it gave out its warlike message, and
that settled the matter. " The soldiers ! the
soldiers ! " was the universal cry, and one
wild rush was made to the top of the town.

where the leaders of the riot had determined
to face any troops which might be sent. For
an hour they stood on their guard, shouting
defiance, but doing no more mischief. It
was one o'clock in the morning, and all were
pretty well worn out, when the first troops
arrived in answer to the repeated appeals of
the Mayor ; without in the least exaggerating
the danger, he had made such alarming representations
that two companies of the Guards
had been hastily dispatched by a special train.
They marched into the town, and the riot
was at an end. In every direction those concerned
in the work of destruction and plunder
scattered ; a strong force of county police
followed the soldiery next day, and the magistrate
sat daily receiving information and
<i:rantino; warrants for the arrest of ringleaders.
The townsmen breathed freely once
more.

By Jove, sir ! " said an officer of the
Guards to Bryceson, as he laughed at the bugle
stratagem, and praised Ned's mixed drink, " I
never saw a town in the state this was ; what
a spitfire of a place it must be ; upon my word
it only wanted a little blood in the gutters and
a few broken accoutrements scattered about

here and there, to look like a street on the
north side of SebastopoL"

Thus was the Avonham election lost and
won, and thus did they fight after it was over.
It will be many a day before the memory of
that day fades from the minds of Marlshire
men, and over many a winter's fire the battle is
fought again. Sometimes the speaker waxes
indignant as he tells of the damage and plunder
done on that wild night ; sometimes he chuckles
as he relates how glass flew and woodwork
crashed in the houses of t'other side. In some
cases there are scars to show in proof of what
was done, and here and there a man may be
pointed out who suffered imprisonment or fine
for his share of the mad work. And for years
one man would scowl and frown and mutter
oaths under his breath as he passed a certain
gate in South Street, where rumour said some
of the fighting had taken place. He was a
tall, dark man nth a coarse and vagabondish
set of features, dio, when he came before any
magistrates in those parts, gave the name of
Thomas Purcell. He had only one arm.

Lucy's partner.

Profoundly grateful to the head of their
family were Mrs. Bompas and her three
daughters when the news reached them of the
stirring transactions which had been taking-place
in Avonham during their absence. The
country journals had been full of praise of
Mr. Bompas and the Mayor, both of whom,
it was stated, had acted most courageously
in the cause of order, and even the London
papers had followed in the same strain, but
with less diffuseness ; the little Marlshire town
had suddenly earned for itself a most unenviable
reputation ; really the quietest and most
decorous of places, it had been likened to a
volcano full of smouldering and dan onerous
atoms, liable at any moment to burst forth in
desolating riot and lay the country waste.
The young ladies waxed not a little indignant
over this comparison, and lamented the town's
disgrace, whilst they rejoiced in the praise of

their sire. When that worthy — who stuck
vacantly to his post beside his friend the Mayor
till all the results of the row were investigated ;
till the prominent rioters had been punished
and the town freed from the military control
which for two or three days was deemed necessary,
and indeed mitil Avonham, but for the
glaziers, was quiet again — when Mr. Bompas
joked his family in London he was received
with open arms, not only as one who had
escaped a great danger, but as one who had
comported himself right valiantly therein. He
found an auditory eager to hear all the news
of the fray, and encouraged, unchecked and
uninterrupted, he poured out his warlike tale.
To do Mr. Bompas justice, he was not given
to boasting of his own exploits ; he really and
truly had amply deserved the encomium which
Bryceson had passed upon him of being a
*' brick," and had acted Hke the stout-hearted
old fellow he was ; but he made no great
account of what he had done, and rather slurred
over those parts of the narrative relating to
his own share in the affray. He was full of compliment
towards his friend Sennett, and loud in
praise of his two neighbours ; he described the
repulse of the first attack on the " Coombes "

in glowing terms, and praised the coolness and
courage of the young men to the skies ; and
when he mentioned with the awe which the
recollection of the affair still imposed, the
Herculean feat which Galbraith had performed
with the unfortunate quarryman, his vocabulary
of commendatory phrases gave out,
and he could only say nth uplifted hands,
*' There, my dears, it was simply marvellous.
I could hardly credit my own eyes."

One matter the good old fellow did not
mention to his daughters, and that was the
ignoble part played in the disturbance by
Adolphus Carter. He had been sorely exercised
in mind about that unfortunate youth. He
had ridden over, in company with this crony
Millard (for he did not wish to let the Mayor
know of the matter whilst he was eno^ao^ed in
his official capacity in punishing other rioters),
to the father of the culprit, and the trio had
returned and called on Galbraith, who had
condoled with the father and promised to take
no more notice of the matter, so that Adolphus
was again seated in his employer's office, a very
sad and subdued young man indeed. ]mr.
Bompas, considering that sufficient had been
done to humble his pupil, did not attempt

to lower him still farther in the eyes of his
daughters. But, alas ! what human foresight
can prevent a woman from imparting her
ideas ? Mr. Bompas, who concealed the story
from his daughters, unfolded it to his wife, and
that good woman and mother hit the scent at
once. She poured into the astonished ears of
Mr. Bompas her elucidation of the mystery,
and he was forced to accept it. Jealousy, and
not politics, was at the bottom of the attack
on South Street.

My dear Abel," she said, " of course it
was nothing else ; you needn't go fishing for
motives when they're on the surface ; he was
jealous of those two young men coming to the
house, though, to be sure, Mr. Bryceson has
dropped in more often than Mr. Galbraith, and
thought he could annoy them in that way ;
what a mischievous, ill-natured, spiteful little
monkey he is."

Ah, luckless Adolphus ! hitherto so eligible.
It was an evil chance for you when this
stranger came on your happy hunting ground,
it was worse when you conceived your scheme
of revenge and failed so ignominiously, but it
was the worst of all when Mrs. Bompas took
up arms against you. Papa may forgive.

papa may forget, but with Mamma arrayed
against yon, farewell to yom hopes.

Great was the sm-prise, and great the indignation
among the young ladies next morning,
when sirs. Bompas, at the breakfast table,
told the tale of Carter's attack on the
Coombes " and his overthrow. Which predominated
it would be difficult to say, probably
the surprise. There was a feeling of pity as
the father described to his daughters the shock
which his conduct had given to his father ;
there was a comic side to the picture, as he
told them of the prisoner sobbing and grovelling
on the floor before his stern captors, and
a feeling of admiration for the forgiveness and
leniency exhibited by Galbraith. When the
girls were next together, in the absence of the
old folks, they discussed the matter at length
and with much spirit. Adelaide was specially
warm on the unjustifiable attack on the
Coombes," and declared that she would
never speak to Carter again.

A mean little rascal," she said, stamping
her pretty foot and looking the essence of
scorn, " what did he mean by it ? Mr. Galbraith
had done him no harm, and papa says he
doesn't believe he had been in the town all

day, so it couldn't have been connected with
the election."

And certainly," said Louisa, " he could
have no cause for injuring Mr. Bryceson."

Of course not," said Adelaide, " gracious
only knows what the little monster did mean."

Will papa keep him, do you think ? " said
Louisa.

]sot if I can persuade him to get rid
of him," said Adelaide, " an odious thing. I
always thought there was something monkeys
in the way he pranked himself up, and
chattered and skipped about ; I didn't give him
credit for so much mischief though ; I did
think he was harmless enough."

Papa didn't say anything of AYalter Rivers
or Alfred Shelman in this matter. I wonder
why these two heroes didn't distinguish themselves
in putting down the riot ? " said
Louisa.

I believe it was all the fault of those horrid
Yellows," said Adelaide, " and Alfred Sherman
didn't avant to interfere." She slightly flushed
as she mentioned the name.

And what about walter Elvers, dear ? "
said Lucy, demurely.

Adelaide flushed again. '' Papa didn't say

that either of them was in the riot. He
certainly said, though, that the Yellows began
it — why should the Blues have rioted ? They
hadn't lost the election — Mr. Rivers might

have tried to stop the disturbance but "

'' My dear," said Lucy, composedly, '" Walter
Rivers is not at all adapted for hurling people
over the moon, and I should think was
extremely averse to be made a missile of. I
can't quite imagine him interfering in a
row ; no, I expect the pair of them stayed
at home like good little men and took care
of their uncles, leaving our interesting neighbours
to do the fighting. Everyone to his
trade."

I'm very glad at any rate that we were
out of it," said Louisa. '* It was an excellent
idea of papa to bring us up here. I should
like to take a peep at the place, though, and
see the damage done."

Yes," said Lucy, '• and we missed the
officers too — not that it matters to you two
spoons, but there might have been a chance
for me."

What do you mean by spoons ? "

Whom are you calling spoons, Lucy ? "

This from both the elder sisters. Xot with

any irritation — oli, dear, no — only the pretence
of it. Lucy Alas " chaffing," but Lucy was
the privileged satirist of the family, and it is
not always unpleasant to be twitted in love
matters.

Oh, my dears," said Lucy, " do you think
your little sister hasn't eyes ? Mr. Galbraith
meets you, Addie, going to Beytesbury and
convoys you home, to use dear papa's phrase
well — what's the consequence ever since ?
Just let anyone mention the man's name suddenly
when you're sitting thinking — it's like
dropping a half-crown in a beggar's hand —
only the beggar doesn't blush and does thank
you "

Lucy, you're a goose."

And then there's Lou."

Now you let me alone. Miss Lucy."

Just ask someone to watch your face and
report on it the next time that ]mr. Bryceson
walks in — to see mamma, of course — to get
something for his lungs — his lungs, deed.
Louisa, my dear child, you're a much better
doctor than mamma is. You know his Imigs
are all right, don't you ? Of course you do !
It's the heart that's affected, and you're looking
after it very skilfully, my love."

Addie, what shall we do with this girl ?
she's incorrigible."

I don't know. Look at her now, Lou.
Lucy, who ever taught you to wink ? You'd
better not practise in London."

Miss Lucy slowly opened the eye which
she had really closed in a very knowing
manner at the end of her speech, and nodded
her head very slowly and sagely two or three
times, then she rose and clasping Adelaide
round the waist gave her a sisterly kiss, next
turned to Louisa and did the same for her, all
without speaking a word.

The two elder sisters turned very red, and
kissed each other. The sweet Httle secret
was out ; the thin veil was drawn aside by
the hand of this laughing sister. That golden
hour of life was begun which follows the first
confession of love.

Then came papa, eager for sight-seems, and
with many plans for their holiday together.
Papa was in the best of humours. Papa was
not at all afraid of the Regent Street shops.
Papa was eager to please his pretty daughters,
and ready to pull his purse-strings wide. If
the sisters did not describe their parent by the
epithet applied to him by the absent Bryceson,

yet surely they used the nearest feminine
equivalent when they were surveying his purchases
at the end of his first day in town.
Xor was he content to visit shops alone. It
was only necessary to mention a place of
amusement or exhibition, and the cheery old
fellow trotted ois to secure the best places and
the cosiest conveyances to and from the show.
My dear," he said to his wife, as they satin
the back of the box at the opera, and
watched their three girls entranced by the
music and spectacle, " we do not visit the
great metropolis every day, and it shall not
be my fault if the girls, aye, and you, my
dear, do not thoroughly enjoy yourselves. It
is many years ago since we first beheld these
scenes together."

More than I care to remember always,
Abel."

Well, my dear, they have been very happy
ones for me. If our girls only get on as well
as we have, they will have but little to
complain of. At present they are with us,
and we must make the most of them. We
must not look forward to many more years
of their society."

I suppose not, Abel, if everyone is going

to admire them as much at home as abroad.
If I've seen one opera glass pointed this way
I've seen fifty."

My dear," said Mr. Bompas, gallantly, " I
noticed the same thing with their mother more
than five-and-twenty years ago, in this identical
place."

Mrs. Bompas laughed, but appeared pleased
with her faithful spouse. The girls, engrossed
in the opera, had not caught their parents' conversation,
and she felt safe in proceeding.

Abel," she said, " do you know I fancy
Adelaide seems a good deal taken up with
young Mr. Galbraith."

Well, my dear, I have observed symptoms
of embarrassment when the gentleman's name
has been mentioned, which would seem to
confirm your idea."

'' Well, Abel, what do you think of it ? "

Upon my word, my dear, I have not
given the matter attention enough to say
what I really do think of it."

I suppose Mr. Galbraith is well ofi* ? "

That I suppose, but it is only a — ah —

surmise. He is purchasing property, which

ah— looks like it, and he is also — a — paying

for it, which again seems to hint at the posses -
VOL. II. 22

sion of money. Of course, if such a matter as
you seem to contemplate were to be brought
before me, why then — of course — as a father,
it would be my duty to — ah — de-h-cate-ly
investigate mr. Galbraith's position, but at
present, my dear, of course I can only guess at
his means from his manner of having, which
appears comfortable, and even, in some respects,
lux-u-ri-ous."

The thoughts of the delicious draughts which
Edward's deft hands had compounded rose up
before him and compelled the last epithet. He
seemed to scent the fragrant drink, and hear
once more the ice tinkle on his goblet brim.

Well, Abel," pursued the faithful mother,
our girls are very good girls, and ought to
marry well, and they're getting very much
admired here in London. Young Mr. Goldings
was most attentive to Adelaide the other evening,
and we go there tomorrow, you know.
The dear girl won't want for strings to her
bow, I can see. I'm very glad we've had
this Httle trip. It'll show them a little of
the world, and let them know there are other
places besides Avonham, and attractions outside
their own home."

Just then the crash of applause broke in at

the final chorus of the act, and conversation
in the box became general.

Mr. Bompas had, of course, correspondents
in London, and for the most part these were
men whose acquaintance and connection with
him were of many years' standing. Many a
cunning bottle of rare old wine made its appearance
in his honour and for his delectation in
Inn chambers, in old-fashioned taverns, and in
the barn-ike rooms of Bloomsbury houses, the
cosiest, handsomest and roomiest in London,
but now sadly fallen from their high estate, and
given up to lodgers, mysterious agencies and
money-lending offices dignified with the titles
of banks, and having an evil savour attached
to most of their names. In those old houses
twenty years ago were to be found dinners and
cellars of irreproachable excellence, and hosts
and diners hard to be equalled in these days
of barrack hotels on the one hand and tardily
repentant abstinence on the other. And the
ladies were as hospitable as the men, as Mrs.
Bompas well knew, and as her daughters were
to experience now ; and heartiest of the hearty
was the welcome extended to Mr. and Mrs.
Bompas and his family by old Mr. Goldings,

the head of the firm of family solicitors,

22 2

Goldings and West, of Lincoln's Ii Fields,
who inhabited a mansion in E us sell Square.
A dinner was, of course, the mode which
the solicitor adopted whereby to entertain his
friends ; and his womenfolk talked him over
into giving a dance afterwards, and to both of
these forms of entertainment our Avonham
friends were bidden. Two of the daughters of
the. host were school-fellows of the girls, and five
merrier, brighter lassies could nowhere be found.
At dimmer-time Adelaide went down with
young Goldings, a West - Central adonis,
marked as highly eligible by many a fond
mother. This young man was, as Mrs. Bompas
observed, very much smitten by the charms of
his pretty neighbour, to whom he paid great
attention. Adelaide remembered him as a
gawky boy of fifteen, home from Charterhouse
for his holidays ; he was now a rather good-looking
young fellow of twenty-six, the junior
partner of the firm, and with very pretty
tea-table manners, which became him extremely
well. Louisa fell to the lot of his
brother, an Oxonian, of mild countenance and
gentlemanly manners, who was to all outward
appearances likely to develop into a model
curate of the non muscular Christian school,

and who consequently cherished in his heart
Republican and freethinking principles and
opinions that would have made Thelwall
shudder ; these were not produced at table,
however. A father who is a family solicitor is
touchy on the doctrine of equality, and Republicans
are mild in the presence of a tureen.

Lucy's cavalier was the cheeriest of white-haired
old bachelors, who apologised for the
temporary absence of a favourite nephew, who
would, he said, join the party after diner, but
who kept Miss Lucy quite as lively as her
sisters seemed with their neighbours. The
dinner was of the florid English order, the
company the reverse of dull, the host seemed
really glad to see his friends, and took wine
with his guests in the cheery old-fashioned
maimer of bygone days that ought not, I think,
to have gone nth them. Perhaps it survives
somewhere, but it is drifting away on that sea
of innovation which has washed away the
country dance and the punch bowl — more's
the pity. But here, in those days, the custom
flourished, and no point of its jovial solemnity
was omitted. The challenge, the stereotyped
acceptance, the '* taking in," the beaming smile
contemporaneous with the courtly bow over

the brimming glasses, and the simultaneous
draughts, all was carried out that properly
appertained to the good old rite. Mr. Markham,
Lucy's partner, was especially selected asa
mark for individual challenges and he never
failed to respond. He was a source of great
amusement to Lucy, who described him afterwards
as the dearest old beau she had ever
met ; Mr. Trumphy was nothing to him.

How long do you stay in London, Miss
Lucy ? " said he ; " I'm not going to call you
Miss Bompas, for two reasons : first of all,
you're not Miss Bompas yet, and next the
name isn't pretty enough for you."

Thank you for the compliment, Mr. Markham.
We shall stop, I hope, for another three
weeks ; this is my first visit to London since
I was at school here."

Well, you must come out and see my place
at Hampstead ; I shall get your father to bring

you."

I'm sure papa wall be most happy."
Goldings was telling me about his j^luck
at that dreadful riotous place of yours. I
wonder you're not afraid to live there."

Indeed, it's the quietest place in the world,"
said Lucy, standing up bravely for her native

town ; " I can't make out how it happened ;
we've never had an election there, that I can
remember, and I don't believe it was our
townspeople who made the riot at all."

Quite right to stick up for your own town,
Miss Lucy ; I've a nephew who has been there
once, and he described it as a very quiet
place."

It's a very nice place."

Many young gentlemen there ? "

Oh ! I don't know ; about the average
number I believe. There is an average of male
population in the country, isn't there ? I mean
so many males to every female — two and a half
or something of that sort."

Mr. Markham laughed.

Oh, there is, I assure you ; I learned
something about it at school ; it's a horrid
thing for the men, you know ; they can't all
get married, of course."

'' Some of them don't want to. Miss. I've
kept away from it myself, and made room for
someone else, you see."

Haven't you ever been married, Mr. Markham
? I should have thought you had been,
you seem so nice."

'* My turn to thank you for a compliment,

now ; but I tliiiik you've got your statistics
wrong somehow."

'' How ? "

'' Ashy, if I don't mistake, there are more
women than men in this country."

'• Good gracious, that's worse ; why there
isn't a man apiece for all of us ; we can't all
get married then ? "

Well, there are old maids as well as old
bachelors, you know."

Yes, but if there aren't any more of one
than the other, that makes no difference to the
rest, you know."

Some men marry twice."

"So do some women — we're no better off
even then."

"AAYell, Miss Lucy, I venture to prophesy
that you needn't trouble about the scarcity of
husbands. Even if there aren't enough to go
round for everybody, there'll be someone coming
for you, I'm certain. Now, while you're
thinking over the one that's coming "

There isn't one."

How do you know ? "

"Well — how you tease — I mean I don't
know him, and he hasn't begun to come
yet" — and Lucy looked the old gentleman

saucily in the face, and laughed merrily at
him.

All I lieu come some day, perhaps tonight,
who knows ? I'm going to ask your
father to take wine with me."

Mr. Markham caught the eye of Mr. Bomb
without much difficulty, and the two
handsome old fogies hob-robbed with a courtly
grace that would put to the blush scores of
the youth of to-day — if youth blush nowadays,
which is doubtful.

When the ladies retired, and the gentlemen
closed up to their host's end of the table, Mr.
Bompas found himself next to Mr. Markham,
who complimented him first upon his daughters,
and secondly upon his conduct at Avon-ham.
Before they joined the party upstairs,
which was now numerous and ready for the
dance, Mr. Bompas had settled a visit to
H amp stead, and appointed a day for that
purpose.

On reaching the drawing-room, Mr. Markham
made his way to Lucy, and laughingly
asked her to pilot him through a quadrille.

That is my only dance except ' Sir
Eager,' " said he, " but I never like to admit
that my dancing days are quite over."

The first quadrille is a stately and solemn
affair which a Bench of Bishops might dance
with their Diocesan Secretaries' Amiss, and
Mr. Markham went through it as a matter not
to be irreverently handled ; at the conclusion
of it he gallantly escorted Lucy to a seat, and
thanked her for the dance. At that momenta
good-looking young fellow, who had just
been shaking hands with Mrs. Goldings, came
up, and, addressing the old gentleman as
*' uncle," grasped his hand and shook it
heartily.

Ah, Fred, my boy, only just arrived ? "
said the old gentleman. " Quite well ? That's
right. Here, sir, let me introduce you to my
first partner. Miss Lucy Bompas, this is my
nephew, Mr. Frederick Markham. Now, my
dear, I can leave you in the hands of a partner
who can dance ; take care of Miss Bompas,
Fred, and find her plenty of partners."

Lucy and the young fellow were soon whirling
round the room, and much as she had
liked the uncle, it must be owned that her
new partner was more to her king, so far as
dancing went. He put his name down three
times on her card, introduced her to fresh
partners, danced with her sisters and the

daughters of the house, but always returned
to her as often as he got a chance.

"What capital dancers all you sisters are,"
said he, when, having manoeuvred them all
to the same seat and got ices for them, he
lounged by them, much envied by the rest of
the young men in the room.

It must come by nature, then," said Louisa,
for we are terribly short of practice."

AAYell, I must ask you to spare me another
dance apiece after supper. Pray, are your
cards all full ? "

You can have a polka, Mr. Markham,"
said Adelaide. " I have one here — number 16."

Many thanks. Miss Louisa Bompas, have
you anything to bestow in charity ? "

A schottische. Is that o^ood enouoii for
you?"

'' Beggars mustn't be choosers. Number
18, isn't it ? Please give me your card.
Thank you very much. Miss Lucy Bompas,
my uncle told me to take care of you, please
give me the supper dance. I will forage for
you like a Cossack."

'• With pleasure, Mr. Markham. What are
you doing with my card ? You have put
down another astor supper."

I asked for one after supper. Here comes
someone to take you away. Don't forget the
dance before supper."

Lucy, my dear," said Adelaide, " how
many dances have you given that young man
to-night ? Six, I believe. Lou, I think the
next time this young woman ventures to read
her sisters lessons about blushing we must ask
to look at her programme."

Presently the supper dance arrived, and,
that over, supper itself, to which Lucy and her
partner went down in high spirits. Fred was
as good as his word, and provided most skilfully
for Lucy's wants. AVhen at last he had
leisure for conversation he said :

You are only on a visit to London then,
Miss Bompas ? "

That is all. We hive a good way down in
the country in Marlshire."

Marlshire ? Oh, indeed. I was down
there for a day not long ago, at Avonham."

*' Oh, yes, I remember your uncle told me
you were. Well, Avonham is where we live."

Is it, indeed ; how curious ! Why, one
of my dearest friends lives there."

Who is that ? "

^' Harry Galbraith. Do you know him ? "

Oil, yes, he's a neighbour of ours — and do
you really know him, and is he a great friend
of yours ? How singular. Do you know the
whole town is just dying to know all about
him. AVe used to call him the hermit, and the
recluse, and all sorts of names until we knew
him and his friend Mr. Bryceson."

Walter Bryceson is another of my friends."

Fancy that now."

And there aren't two finer or better fellows
in the world. We were together for many
years in America. It was to visit Harry that
I went to Avonham. We all dined at the
hotel there, and a capital time we had."

I remember the time you came. Everyone
wondered who you all were, and where
you all came from ; that is," she added, '' all
the gossips of the town, at any rate. Papa
knows Mr. Galbraith very well. He has done
business with him : sold him a house and some
land for a lady whose affairs papa manages.
Papa says Mr. Galbraith and Mr. Bryceson
behaved splendidly the other day in a riot at
Avonham. Do you know Mr. Galbraith threw
a man right over some people's heads ? He
must be very strong."

He's the strongest man I ever met in my

life, and as brave as a lion. It was not the
first row Harry and Walter have been shoulder
to shoulder in. We've seen some queer things
together, Miss Lucy. Do you know I'm so
glad you hive at Avonham. I shall have a
chance of seeing you again."

We shall be very glad, I'm sure," said
Lucy, casting down her eyes.

I shall make great use of Harry now,"
said Markham, laughing, " now I've a real
excuse for running down." He lowered his
voice and, bending forward, added, " I can kill
two birds with one stone."

The rest of the night was very sweet to
Lucy. Her programme was, as Louisa told
her afterwards, " a terrible tell-tale ; " and she
miblusliingiy sat out a dance with Fred in
the conservatory whilst the .would-be partner
whose name figured on the programme was
wildly hunting for her. Old Mr. Markham,
to whom she gave " Sir Roger," was very
funny over her system of averages and her
statistics ; her sisters very facetious in the
carriage going home ; that last hand pressure
was indeed sentimental, Adelaide declared ;
and even mamma had her little joke. But
the two elder sisters were vastly surprised

when Lucy told them of the old friendship
existing between young Markham and their
two Avonham neighbours. In due time, next
day, arrived ]mr. Markham and his nephew —

The ball's fair partner to behold,
And humbly hope she caught no cold'

as the old gentleman quoted. The two old
fellows made friends very rapidly, and the
young people were very merry. With a mischievous
hint or two Lucy contrived to give
Fred some inkling of the impression his two
friends had made on the hearts of her sisters,
and he discoursed in glowing terms of both of
them. He o-ave some bright sketches of their
life abroad, and from him the Bompas family
learned many things of the two strangers who
had pitched their tents in Avonliam. Mrs.
Bompas was gratified to learn that both Galbraith
and Bryceson were wealthy ; not really
mercenary or worldly, she was yet put greatly
at her ease by learning that in addition to the
fortune made in California, each had inherited
family property ; and Fred spoke so eloquently
of the bravery, modesty and large-heartiness
of Galbraith and of the unfailing good humour
and sterling good qualities of Bryceson, that

Adelaide and Louisa were delighted. When
the two took their leave of the country family,
and the girls were again alone, Louisa said :

Lucy, your admirer is very nice ; he's a
clever man, I'm sure, and I heard his uncle
tell papa that he was the best of good fellows
to his old father and to him, and he talks
wonderfully well — doesn't he, Addie ? "

" Capitally," said Adelaide. " I like him
very much."

Well, his subject was interesting to you
two turtle-doves," said Lucy.

Wait till he talks about you, my dear,"
said Adelaide, " you'll be more interested then.
How curious it all seems. Whatever is gong
to happen to us three girls ? At present we
seem like one joint stock company falling in
love with another one."

f-^-

A MEETING, A TALK AND A LETTER.

What a one-horse place this is, Harry,"
said Bryceson one morning at the breakfast
table, as he laid down a letter which Edward
had just brought him ; " my man m town
declares he sent off the guns four days ago,
and they must be at Avonham Road. Now
I've told that carrier to enquire always for
anything for us, and I'll go bail he's never put
himself out of the way to do it. What a place
of this size wants to be ^\e miles off a railway
station for is more than I can make out."

Well, let us ride over this morning and
see about them," answered Galbraith. " Ned
was at me this morning about some wine that
ought to have turned up on Saturday when
he was over there ; we may as well go in that
direction as another."

Very well."

I'm very anxious, too, to hear from the

Squire ; we must be getting a letter in a few
VOL. II. 2o

days ; and there's another thing — I've a letter
here from Fred Markham."

Fred ! how's Fred ? "

Oh, all right, he has met the Bompas
people in town and owns to being very much
taken with one of 'em."

Which one ? " said Bryceson very quickly.

With the youngest," said Galbraith,
laughing.

"Oh ! Lucy ; hem, well, I'm very glad of
it ; they're cut out for one another, those
two."

Galbraith laughed again : " You're quite
brotherly, old fellow ; there was a real family
air about that remark."

Pass me a weed, you old humbug, and
look at home. By the way, where did Fred
meet them first ? "

"At the house of Goldings — coincidence
number two. If wee don't hear fi^om Squu^e
this mail I vote for a run to town ; Fred will
be glad to see us and we shall be none the
worse for a nio^ht or two too ether."

Seconded and carried."

Well, let's have the horses and go off to
Avonham Road. I want to go over to the
builder's in High Street about the loose boxes.

and lie is sure to be half-an-liour before lie
understands what I want."

Let Ned bring them round to the ' Bear.' "

That house will close and Piniiiffer will
hang himself when you leave Avonham."

Suppose I stop here, then, and avoid a
catastrophe."

Let us see how things turn out, old boy ;
it's kind enough of you, goodness knows, to
be here with me noah."

I don't see it ; I'm in deuced snug-quarters
; a good deal cosier than my barrack
of a jDlace in Essex. But just fancy old Fred
running across the Bompas gulls."

The world's very small," said Galbraith
sententiously ; " come along to my 
friend. Xed, bring the horses to the
Bear ' in half-an-hour."

Do you knows anything of that man ? "
said Bryceson as they passed the Bank and
saw Shelman standing at the door in conversation
with a customer.

"Xot any more than I want to," said
Galbraith ; " he's an ill-conditioned, surly
fellow at the best. I had some communication
with him when I first came here — he wanted
the ' Coombes,' you know."

Yes, you told me."

Well, lie wanted that chestnut horse, and
didn't get it, and the other day he wanted
that land and didn't get that either, and to
tell you the truth, Walter, I've been putting
two and two together, and I fancy I can trace
the attack on the house the other night to
him."

Hallo ! "

I only want to get that ex-prisoner of
ours in a corner one day and I shall get it out
of him, I have no doubt."

And then ? "

And then I'll give the young gentleman
about as good a cow-hiding as he deserves.
I'll make sure first though. He's a nasty -
tempered brute, I hear, and very fond of
threatening people who offend him ; Iste has
heard some of his remarks about me at secondhand
in this tattling, gossiping, mischief-making
hole, and loves the fellow about as
much as I do. Have you run across him
much ? "

Once or twice — I'm not smitten with him
myself. If you're away at any time, and the
cow-hiding seems needful, I shan't have any
compunction in acting as your deputy."

Thank you, old boy ; it couldn't be left in
better bands. Come in with me now, and help
me make this architectural genius understand
what a loose box is. I believe he has a sort of
idea that it has hinges and a hd to it."

The local builder, however, was more enlightened
as to the edifice he was expected
to erect, and the friends, having interviewed
Mr. PinnifFer and tasted his cherry brandy,
mounted and rode oiF towards Avonham Road
Station. Neither the horses nor the riders at
the " Coombes " were in the habit of being-passed
on the road, and all vehicles and horsemen
going in the same direction were overtaken
and left behind as a general rule. About midway
between the town and the station, the
carriage of Mrs. Stanhope was seen ahead. It
was rapidly overhauled, and as Bryceson
dashed past in front of his friend, he saluted
the gentleman seated by the side of the widow.
The two friends had dismounted and handed
their steeds to a brace of rustics who were
hovering round the station on the look-out fora
job, when the equipage they had passed drove
up, and Mr. Walter Elvers alighting, gave his
arm, in turn, to Mrs. Stanhope and to his
uncle. As the two latter went into the station

Walter Elvers came up to Bryceson and held
out Ms hand.

How do you do, Mr. Bryceson ? I have
been anxious to see you. I didn't notice who
you were just now, until you had passed and
my uncle told me."

Let me introduce my friend and host, Mr.
Galbraith," said Bryceson.

The two young men bowed.

Mr. Galbraith, the town has to thank you
greatly for your exertions in the cause of order
the other night. I'm sorry to hear that your
property suffered. Will you come inside and
let me introduce you to my uncle, who is most
anxious to know you ? "

Galbraith and Bryceson followed Rivers into
the waiting-room, where Sir Headingly and
Mrs. Stanhope were standing. Sir Headmgly
shook hands with Bryceson, and was introduced
to Galbraith, whom he greeted cordially.
Elvers then approached Mrs. Stanhope and
presented the two friends to her.

Mr. Galbraith," said she, as she returned
that gentleman's bow, " it seems remarkably
strange that we have never met though such
important transactions have taken place between
us. It has really been through the

fact of all my business being undertaken forme.
I am very pleased to meet you now,
though ; you and your friend are quite the
heroes of the place. Did they damage your
house much ? "

Xo, madam," said he.

I hear that you requited your injuries on
some of your opponents, Mr. Galbraith," said
she, smiling.

Oh, yes, madam, I generally manage to
pay any little debt of that description in full."

Are you gong to town by any chance,
gentlemen ? " said Sir Headingly.

Xo," answered Bryceson, " we are only
lookmo; after some things which we have
ordered from London ; it is very awkward
having no station at Avonham itself."

I trust that that will be speedily remedied,"
said Sir Headingly, • rather stiffly (the confounded
railway had been dinned into his ears
a little too frequently lately).

'' I see you have your horses, or I would
place my carriage at your disposal," said Mrs.
Stanhope graciously, as her footman approached
Sir Headingly and handed him the tickets ;
good day, gentlemen."

The two friends bowed to the stately lady

as she moved oiF on the arm of Sir Headingly,
who shook hands with them, as also did
Rivers ; the party then crossed the hne by the
bridge and awaited the up train.

Bryceson invaded the booking office and
began stirring up the slow-going porter-clerk,
who presided luckily over the parcel department
; having succeeded in identifying the
gun cases and wine cases, which the sleepy
old local carrier had omitted to bring over to
the " Coombes," and having rapidly given the
officials at the station his opinions on their
method of conducting business, he rejoined his
friend just as the up train containing the party
moved oiF.

^' I wonder what that dear creature would
say and do if she had the slightest idea of who
and what I am, Walter ? " said Galbraith,
when they had ridden two or three hundred
yards from the station on their homeward way.

I can't say, old fellow ; of course there will
be a tremendous explosion when the exposure
takes place."

I don't know. I think, though, that
matters are likely to be precipitated."

How ? "

Why, I rather fancy — I've only taken the

idea into my head just now — that the amiable
lady intends to marry again."

The deuce you do ! Whom ? "

That young spark to whom you introduced
me just now."

What makes you think that, Harry ? " said
Bryceson, slightly checking his horse in his
surprise, and looking extremely astonished at
hearing his friend's opinion.

Frankly, old fellow, I can hardly tell you.
One of those impressions of mine, I think, that
used so often to come right over yonder ;
though, of course, there is more foundation for
this idea than there was for a good many of
them. The young fellow is a very eligible
match ; so is t'other party, if it weren't for
some circumstances which you and I know,
and there was a fatherly air towards the pair
of them about that baronet friend of yours
to-day which I didn't like at all."

AVhat would you do, Harry, if you
knew "

That they were going to be married —
humph ! I was just asking myself that question,
and be hanged if I shan't find some difficulty
in fishing up a satisfactory answer toit.
I'm in a quandary over it, I can tell you."

As how ? "

This way. Squire says that he is certain
Reginald will recover — recover entirely ; and
that time and his treatment have tended to
work a complete cure. Well, now who's to
know what his mind will be towards this
woman, idiom I believe, and you believe — and
with precious good reason — to be the very
woman who was his wife and drove him mad.
When I followed her trail (and I never worked
harder at anything) I was animated by a feeling
that I was going to get level with a woman
who had practically killed Reginald, and I felt
like the Avenger of Blood. When I had
tracked her down to this quiet little English
town, where no one would have dreamed of
finding her unless they had traced her step by
step as I did, I took the very best means of
concealing from her any suspicion, any thought,
of who I might be, by acting in what, when
the matter is all over, people wall say was the
most idiotic and short-sighted manner possible."


"That was ?"

Buying property of her — and just see how
curiously things turn out. Why, since wee
know that Reginald is alive, if things are as

we suspect, I have no title to the very house
which I bought and paid for, to the mere tables
at which we eat, or the beds we he upon. If
I had set myself to do this thing deliberately
as part of my plan, I could not have succeeded
better. When I found out that the Squire and
Tom Reynolds and Ralph Derring were in
England, and I had arranged with you and
Fred to come and meet them at Avonham —
you remember the letter — I went into your
favourite shanty here (the ' Bear ') to order a
dinner."

'' Dev'hsh good dimmer, too, old Pinniffer
p-axe us. Well ? "

o

Well, whilst I was there, that little prying,
sharp-eyed fellow came in — Rapsey — and
began talking scandal. The point turned upon
your friend Rivers and that amiable youth
Shelman, whom everybody seems to be afraid
of except old Bompas, who really is a good old
fellow and, I should say, came of a good old
stock."

Well, he's got a very good young stock
come of him, anyway."

Very true, Walter. However, to go on
with my yarn ; this little man dropped some
hints about som rivalry existing between these

two young men, apart from politics ; that is
to say, that there was a woman in the case ;
the Httle chatterton was pulled up very
sharply by some of the people there, and
particularly by Mrs. Pinniifer, for mentioning
names or even hinting at them. I took
an opportunity of having a chat with Mrs.
Pinniifer over it afterwards, and got at the
facts. It had been supposed, she said, that
Shelman and Mrs. Stanhope would have been
married, but whether she rejected him or he
didn't feel confident enough to propose she
couldn't say. About Rivers she had, or professed
to have, no idea m that connection ;
that, she said, was some nonsense of Rapsey's
imagination, though she admitted that the
little beofo'ar did at times set hold of some
extraordinary information. It was the meeting
to-day that jut it into my head, and of
course I may be wrong."

But if right ? "

Then comes in my difficulty " — his brow
darkened a moment, and he bit his lip before
going on. " If my original intention had been
carried out in its entirety, the revenge I would
have taken on that woman would not have
been checked by a smile scruple. I would

have set my heart as a flint, and have served
her as she served him, remorselessly and Without
pity ; and to let her marry again, to let
her enjoy her fancied triumph for a brief — a
very brief — time, and then to dash away from
her her new happiness would have been a
splendid return for her crime. I would, too,
have been as pitiless towards the object of her
love as towards her, and I would have flunsf
justice to the winds. When a man doesn't
study mercy he's bound to lose his grip of
justice, I thmk. He should have been involved
in her fall, and should have shared her
fate."

They rode on in silence for some time.
Bryceson had seen the grief of his friend for
his brother many times, and knew how his
bright manner and natural cheeriness was
often overclouded by this shadow of his life,
and what a different being he was under its
gloomy influence. Of the band of friends
who had clung so faithfully together in many
weary wanderings, and many wild scenes, no
one had taken more hold of the affection and
respect of them all than he. Strong amongst
giants, brave amongst heroes, quick and fertile
of resource among men of impulse who carried

every day their lives in their hands, Henry
Galbraith had shown himself one of those born
pioneers and leaders of men found in every
new colony, ruling unconsciously by force of
example, and looked up to in crisis and
danger, as men of old looked to their o-ods for
instant and personal aid. But ever and again
would return the memory of the brother he
had lost, and a paroxysm of rage or a tempest
of grief would sweep across his mind and
change his nature for a while, so that he
would leave friends and companions for a day
together, and, withdrawing himself from the
very sight and sounds of men, meditate his
wrong and brood over revenge, alone and
unlit for companionship. Since the news of
his brother being alive, and the hopeful view
taken of his condition by their old leader, these
moods had disappeared, and he was now looking
forward to their meeting with a keen joy
scarcely concealed under the calm and imperturbable
manner of his communication with
the outward world. Sometimes, however, he
would return to something of his old abstraction,
though it lasted but for a short while,
and at such times his faithful friend, who
well knew its cause, was silent until the fit

lead passed off, as lie was now for some
minutes, during which they covered a mile of
ground.

Those, you see, Walter," he went on presently,
" were the feelings with which I came
here, but since we had that meeting, and the
Square told us how he had fomid Eeguiald,
and how the dear old chap had tended him and
got him better, all the while afraid to let me
know in case his care was unavailing, somehow
I feel different about it. I don't feel any different
towards her," he said, raising his voice and
clenching his right hand as if he caught something
hostile and gripped it hard ; " she deserves
all the punishment she could ever have had at
my hands, and, by Jove ! if it rests with me
to administer it, it will be short and sharp ;
but it won't entirely if Reginald has really recovered
; and I've another thing to say about
it — I've no wish to drag anyone else in it who
isn't in already. ]So, if I were to hear for
certain that she were going to marry any decent
fellow, I would brig matters to a head at once.
It would be an instalment of punishment for
her, and, as you said just after we left her,
there will be a tremendous explosion when the
exposure does tjike place. Well, let it take

place without hurting anyone but her. I'll take
care it reaches her, at any rate."

Harry," said Bryceson, after a minute's
silence, " do you know, there's one thing that
just flashed across my mind when you mentioned
the fact of your bad title to the house
you have bought."

What was that, Walter ? "

Of course the title would be bad on account
of her not being legally married to Stanhope.'

Of course ; her husband was Having at the
time."

Harry, suppose that when she ran away
from Eeginald with that scamp — suppose, I
say, that she got a divorce over in the
States ? "

Galbraith checked his horse sharply, and
pulled up, as though he had seen a dead body
in the road. Walter stopped as well, and fora
minute or two the two men looked at each
other, Bryceson with a half-puzzled expression
as though uncertain how his companion would
take the query, Galbraith vdih a vide stare of
blank astonishment. Then Galbraith spoke
slowly, and as if with difficulty :

By heavens, Walter ! I have never thought
of that."

It is possible, though," said salter, walking
his horse on.

Yes'' said Galbraith, foUo^Tng his example,
and ranging up to his side, " possible
enough, and easily enough to be managed, as
Ave know, but is it probable ? "

Why not ? "

Well, so far as Tom Reynolds always said,
the chase was hot-foot after them. Reginald
was supposed to have been killed by that
scoundrel, and they left the States for savannah
from Xew Orleans. I^ow when the first
of the guilty pair met Ms deserts, they were
not together. She had been as fickle to the
scoundrel her lover as she had been to the good
fellow her husband. She would only get a
divorce for the sake of marrying the Frenchman,
and I know from the memories which I
made just before his death, that they were
never married."

What you say is true, but she may have

got a divorce for all that. You see she has

married again, and she may have taken the

precaution to secure her position although she

did not marry the man who first ran away

with her. Consider, old fellow, she left Reginald

in '46 ; in '49 we went to the Pacific Slope,
VOL. II. 24

and stayed there till '56; that's three years ago,
and here we are in '59. Now, it's thirteen
years ago since it happened. Mrs. Stanhope
was married, according to the statement of our
two friends, Bompas and Millard, about eight
or nine years ago. She was married about four
years, and has been a widow for about four
years — say nine years for the two states — that
leaves four years to account for between her
flight and her appearance as a decorous married
woman in Avonham. Now, Harry, I know
you've taken all the pains possible to track
this woman, but, of course, old fellow, you
found here and there an interval for which you
can't fully account. In one of those intervals
she may have gone back to the States and sued
out a divorce. By George ! it's done there
every day."

Well, the supposition is a staggerer, and
when I go over, which I shall do soon whether
I hear from the Squire or not, I must try to
find out. Of course there are records to be had
in every State, though some of them must be
very loosely kept and hard to get at. Anyhow,
Walter, we don't entirely lose our hold of her.
I'll not be baulked of my long-expected reckoning.
Her record won't bear repeating at any

rate, and, by Jove, the task of proving her
divorce shall be on her shoulders, and I'll make
this side of the Atlantic warm for her till she
does."

They rode on without farther conversation
until they reached Avonliam, which had resumed
the quiet and sleepy appearance common
to it. There were not a dozen people in the
street ; a few were listlessly standing at the
doors of their shops, as if waiting for a wave
of commerce to break on their silent shore. If
that wave had come it would have swept them
away, theol ideas could never have stemmed
it. John Emi, from the steps of the marketplace,
nodded to Mr. Polhmoy forty yards
lower down the street, who was standing" at
his door watching the two horsemen pass.
The worthy host of the " Bear " also lounged
in the gateway of his tenement, and from that
commanding position raked the town with his
glance. Him presently the two nodding friends
espied, and with expressive signs one to the
other disappeared each for a moment, Eann to
lock the inner gate, and PoUimoy to don his
hat. Then they sauntered up the street together,
like two cows who have for a moment

pretermitted the absorbing interest in 



scape possessed by their race, and wend slowly
side by side, apparently without any common
object or interest, towards the drinking place.
How often this had been done at nearly the
same hour every day by these two would be
hard to say. See them as they pass along ;
Timothy Rapsey comes across the churchyard
about this time — there he is ; Wolstenholme
and Hoppenner Pye leave their yard and should
be at the Canal Wharf about the same time
that the other three reach the steps of the
Bear." Occasionally a rainy day, or snow
lying deep in winter, will throw" one of these
old fellows back a minute, or goad him into an
increase of speed, which lands him at the bar
parlour door just that space of time ahead of
his cronies ; if this should happen he remarks
it ; explains the reason to his friends ; makes
an incident of it. Market day upsets these
arrangements entirely ; market day upsets
everything ; life on market day is passed under
conditions other than normal ; market day is a
vortex drawing in other than Avonham atoms
you cannot be methodical in a whirlpool.
But to-day all are punctual. All shake hands,
all wait at the gateway till the party is complete
(a rainy day alters this as well), and all

tramp stolidly in and greet Mrs. and Miss
PinnifFer, who are at their posts and waiting.
To them all presently enters Mr. Rarity, whip
in hand, and conversation is general.

They have chatted for half-an-hour, when
the far-seeing and sharp-eyed Timothy gives
notice that Mr. Galbraith's black servant is
coming up the street. Two or three of them
stroll to the large bay window, glass in hand,
and observe his movements. He crosses the
market-place and disappears for a few minutes.
The conversation turns upon his master, or
masters, for he seems to have two ; Mr. ,
still observant of the street, suddenly gives
a sharp " hush," and the negro walks in at the
front door, and puts this head into the room ;
he looks round and catches Mr. Rarity' s eye —
that worthy goes out to him and receives his
message.

Will you take anything this morning, Mr.
Edward ? " says Rarity, as he makes an entry
in his notebook.

mr. Edward is not proof against the invitation
and stays. Mr. Rapsey, desirous of information,
and guessing by Mr. Rarity's use
of his pocket-book that some posting business
is on hand, hazards the question :

"Mr. Galbraith going on a visit, Mr.
Edward ! "

Yes, sail," replies the negro, shortly.

London ? " Mr. Rapsey ventures mildly,
while the others mterestedly listen.

"No, sal," replies the negro, " dat place
what dey catch dem bloaters — what's dat ? "

Yarmouth," says Pollimoy, the traveller.

Yarmuf, dat's it, shah 'nus. Massa he
going' dal for to git some dey bloaters fo' de
rubber at de back heal ; he fink dey do fus'
rate in dat water. Morning', Massa Ra'ty ;
morning', gentlemen."

That afternoon Galbraith and Bryceson
drove in Mr. Rarity's dog-cart to Avonham
Road, and Edward brought back the trap
alone. After Mr. Rapsey's rebuff of the
morning, that sable retainer was not overburdened
with questions, it being felt that
there was an elaboration of answer about him,
which was apt to make the interrogator look
and feel somewhat foolish.

The letter from the Sqmre had arrived, and
Galbraith had started in response to it. Avon-ham
would not see him aii^ain for some time.

A TllIPLE ALLIANCE.

Harry, did you ever meet a man named
Jones ? "

Yes, three or foi' ; which one do you
mean ? "

Oh, the man I mean was hanged."

The deuce he was ! I don't remember
him ; what was he hanged for ? "

For not passing the bottle, old fellow, and
it served him right, too."

Galbraith roused himself with a laugh, and
passed the wine to his friend ]markham, who
had " sold " him with this old joke, partly to
obtain the desired wine, and partly to rouse
him from the profound reverie into which he
had fallen.

'' I beg your pardon, old fellow. I was
dreaming, I think ; Walter's yarn sent me
to sleep. Ring the bell, Walter ; buzz that
bottle and let us start a fresh one."

The three young men were seated in a

private room of the " Star and Garter ; " the
dinner was over and from the hips of two of
them light, citing, blue wreaths had for the
past half horn ascended in graceful spirals
towards the ceiling, fanning out as they
reached the upper currents of air into slowly
vanishing cloudlets ; only from Galbraith
'Came neither smoke nor sound ; he sat facing
the window, looking fixedly at that glorious
landscape of leafy sheen and silver stream that
is so familiar, yet so ever new, so hackneyed,
yet so refreshing to the smoke-dried, work-beaten
Londoner ; for a quarter of an hour, at
least, Walter had been chatting with Fred
upon various subjects, without the dialogue
being once interrupted by their silent friend,
-and, as we have seen, the bottle had been
reflected as well as the conversation ; but he
roused himself now at the cheery summons of
his comrades, and shook off the gloom that had
lately seemed to surround him.

I'm a pretty host, by Jove ! " he said,
rising after Walter had pulled the bell handle
and the soft-footed waiter had appeared.
another bottle of burgundy, waiter. What
a jolly view from this window, boys — I don't
know anything prettier. Yes, I do though,

by Jove ! and when old Ganymede comes
we'll drink to their pretty eyes, bless 'em !
Walter, if you weren't beyond blushing years
ago you ought to call some of Fred's colour to
your cheeks. Did you ever see a fellow harder
hit ? Well, she is a pretty little lassie — they
all are, in fact, and I expect you've chosen tomorrow's
visit to your uncle's for a declaration
isn't that so ? And Walter is just as bad.
Ashy don't we ask the old folks down here to
dinner ? I'll play propriety and keep them in
tow whilst you inveigle Miss Louisa and Miss
Lucy into snug corners, and learn your fate."

*' Listen to him, Fred," said Walter, holding
out his hand towards him ; " who would think
that civilisation and Europe could have made
such a hypocrite of our old Downright Dunstable
? He was just as solemn, I assise you,
the night we sat under the verandah at Avon-lias
and he told me how much he admired

Adelaide, and directly " here the speaker

paused and laughed.

Well," said Galbraith, laughing in his turn,
*' directly what ? "

Directly you suspect us of "

Suspect — oh my I "

'• Hold your tongue and don't interrupt,

Harry ; directly you get it planted into your
old head that Fred and I admire your —
your "

Future sisters-in-law," said Fred.

'' Thank you, Fred — directly you get that
in your venerable poll we have to put up with
fatherly counsel from a prospective brother.
Fred, we'll rebel — we won't stand it."

Well, here comes the wine," said Harry ;
we won't let this bottle stand at any rate ;
shall we drink papa and mamma first, or our
fairer Avonham friends ? Pity there isn't
another for old Ralph Derring — Tom Reynolds
is married and done for, so it's no use wishing
for a fifth for him, and the Squire is a confirmed
old bachelor. Come, boys — bumpers —
to their bright eyes, all of 'em — and now for
another cio;ar. I haven't much more time with
you, old fellows."

Nonsense," said Fred, " you'll be back ina
couple of months, and Reginald with you ;
don't think any more of your troubles and
things will turn out all right yet, I'll
warrant."

Let's hope so," said Walter ; " here's good
luck to tomorrow anyhow. How jolly that
river looks with the sun on it, and that avenue

of trees with the leaves just turning colour —
Harry, you'll just be in time for the Indian
summer over yonder. We shall thuik of you
down at Avonham, when we're ordering our
first fires to be lit."

AAYell, old man, you won't think of me
more than I shall of you. I shan't get far
enough Avert for the old places, but I thither
will be something in the very soil that
will remind me of old times."

Ah I we had some ups and doAvns there,"
said Fred.

Yes, but we had some rare luck too."

Ah, yes, we stuck to work and the luck
stuck to us," answered Bryceson ; '* we deserved
all we got."

'' I often wonder how it was we outstripped
every other party wherever we had a claim,"
said Fred. " I suppose it was because we
were always leal to each other and worked
for the common good."

'^ That's so, and we didn't fool around the
camps after work was done, card-playing and
drinking," said Galbraith.

'' AVell, they were grand times after all,"
said Walter.

They were," said Galbraith; '* by Jove, it's

the best way for a man to spend this young
manhood ! You've room to breathe, and you
can breathe all you want to. You must be
always on the look-out for the next thing that
turns up, and have your eyes and ears open
and your hand ready all day long ; you're face
to face with Nature hi her wildest mood, and
man in his roughest form. There's always
something to conquer every day when you getup,
and you've always done something tangible
when you he down at night. So much dirt
washed, so much rock holed, so many feet of
sluicing done, so many specimens assayed, so
many little shining lumps put away in the
little leather bag the dear old Squire used
to carry. And then the surroundings — who's
forgotten the smell of the pine woods ; who
doesn't remember the canon where we struck
our first pocket, and how we used to sit snug
dien the pack trains passed, and how we lived
at top and threw everyone off the trail by pretending
that fur and bear-meat was our little
enterprise ? Gad ! it's something to look back
upon that struggle with Mother Earth herself
to make her yield up the wealth that she has
been hiding up for so many hundred years.
She'll hide us at last, but we've had our good

turn fi'om her first. They won't come again ;
but they were glorious times. There have
been giants on the earth in our time, boys,
and we've done our share of their work ! "

Yes," said Fred, '' and now we are going
to settle down and live like good boys on the
proceeds of our toils. We're like Jack of the
Beanstalk ; we have ventured into the stronghold
of the giant, and brought away our
treasure ; now for the ' hved-happy-ever-after '
portion, which always winds up the tale."

There was much more chat of the same
nature between the friends before they returned
to London. Galbraith was to sail that week,
and this was a farewell dinner to his two old
comrades ; it was felt by all that the presence
of a fourth person, unless, indeed, he had been
one of the old band, would have been calculated
to throw a damper over the conversation and
party, and for this once the friends were
alone. The Avonham ladies had been considerably
fluttered dm^mg the past weeks by
finding that two of their neighbours had
followed them to town. Papa had gone to
call on ]mr. Goldings and had found them at
his office — quite by accident of course — and
they were invited to the house of old Mr.

Markham on the same day as that fixed for
their own visit there, and it would be hard to
say whether pleasure or surprise predominated
in the mmds of the three sisters when they
heard the news. Since then they were constantly
meeting. Mrs. Bompas looked fidget-till
happy, and the worthy head of the family
was evidently burdened with thoughts too deep
for. colloquial expression ; even the heavy artillery
of his grave eloquence failed to carry the
wordy missile of explanation along the whole
ranofe of cogitation.

It was, however, a very merry party that
assembled at Fairlawn on the following day ;
needless to say that the ladies looked charming,
that old Markham was boisterously hospitable,
and that the affair was not suffered to
drag for lack of light-heartedness. The day
was one of those bright September ones that
early autumn brings, as if to show how bright
she can be, and that her first resplendent dress
becomes her as much as the many-tinted robe
she will don when her longer life has brought
the shortening days ; and the evening had
that calm sweet influence that follows a rosy,
flaming September sunset, as the sweet voice
of the soprano follows the crashing chorus of

the men. Somehow — insensibly of comes —
the couples had paired properly off, the old
folks sat talking by the opened window, the
young ones strolled or sat in the gTomids.
Not a very long time passed before Fred and
Lucy began to speak in tones that were lower
and lower, though no one was there to listen,
and the pauses between the words were longer
and longer, and the words sweeter and sweeter,
till presently the dainty waist was encircled,
the dainty fingers pressed, the pouting lips
kissed, and the fair head drawn down till it
rested close to the faithful heart. This wild
bird came to the lure as readily and willingly
as the tamest of barn-door fowls. Then after
a short, delicious silence, there was some
pretty business with a ring, and a morsel —
just a morsel — of golden hair, and Lucy had
found fate and mate at once.

I wonder," said Fred, after awhile,
whether any more of this sort of thing is
going on anywhere else in the grounds."

I think," said Lucy, shyly, as if there
were any doubt about the matter, " I think
Mr. Bryceson and Louisa are in the conservatory
; shall we go and join them ? "

"Not for the world, dearest," answered

Fred ; " I wouldn't interrupt them on any
account. I think we can guess what is taking
place m there — eh, darling ? "

This is what was taking place :

Do you believe in the language of flowers,
Mr. Bryceson ? "

Xot a bit— do you ? "

I— I— don't know."

I think it is great rubbish, don't you ? "

Well — n-o-o — I can't quite say I think it
is rubbish ; it may be — perhaps some people
carry it — believe in it, I mean, too much, but
it's — oh, really, Mr. Bryceson, it's too pretty
an idea to be described as rubbish."

Well, perhaps it is. Maybe I don't understand
it enough, either to appreciate it or todo
it justice. But, do you know, I thuik if I
wanted to make love to anyone — I say if I
wanted to make love to anyone "

We-e-11 ? " (a very long word).

Well, I think I'd have sense enough to
set through the business without bothering
the gardener."

I'm afraid you're not fond of flowers."

Oh, but I am — you should see the magnificent
tropical fellows — have you ever seen a
magnolia — no ? what a pity I I don't think

anyone knows what floral beauty really is till
lie's seen a magnolia."

Indeed ? " (Xot an overwhelming interest
exhibited in magnoHas.)

Oh, yes ; I always went into raptures
over the tropical beauties — I mean of flowers,
of course. Now, Harry would sooner have
an English primrose or a violet than any
exotic."

Really ? " (with some farther loss of interest).
"Mr. Galbraith seems quite an important
person with you and Mr. Markham."

Important ! I should think he was — why,
he's the best and dearest fellow in the world.
Important ! I should just — why, do you know,
Lou — I leg your pardon — Miss Louisa " —
(both rather red here) — " neither Fred nor I
would be here to-day if it hadn't been for
him."

What a dreadful life that must be abroad.
Aren't you very glad it's all over ? "

"Oh, I don't know." {Oh!) "It was a
glorious life — Harry was sayuig so only yesterday
at Richmond. We went down to the
Star and Garter ' yesterday, and had dinner
with Harry."

On Sunday ? — you abandoned men ! "

VOL. IK



Well, you must eat on Sunday. Didn't
you eat yesterday ? "

Of course I did. We had dinner at
home."

'' Well, but we haven't any home to go to,
you know."

"No home?"

In London, at least. Of course, we have
homes, all three of us — Fred's in chambers,
but they're awfully cosy and comfortable ; my
house is in Essex."

I have heard you say so. You don't seem
to care for it much."

I don't — at least, the house is all right,
and is a very pretty old place, but then, you
see, I haven't anybody to look after it, excepta
housekeeper and some old servants of my
father. ]sow, if I were married it would be
different, wouldn't it ? "

I — suppose — it — would."

Of course it would ; it would alter things
entirely. I say. Miss Louisa, talking of being
married — becoming) — " talking of being
married, does your sister — your eldest sister,
I mean — gracious goodness whatever is
coming?) — "care at all for Harry, do you
think?" (Oh!)

Really, Mr. Bryceson, I can't sav. Suppose
you ask Mr. Galbraith to ask lier."

Oh, I expect lie's doing that now."

Do you ? "

Oh, yes. You see, he went down to the
lake with your eldest sister, and Fred went
into the shrubbery with your youngest, whilst
we — came in here."

The dark curls have touched the golden
curls ; the dark eyes are gazing very tenderly
at the downcast blue ones ; there is a silence
that is too full of sweetness for speech.

Yes, we came in here to talk of flowers.
See, here is a meek little one — it is not very
gaudy, not like my glorious magiioha, but
it has a lovely scent ; may I give you a
piece r

The little hand takes it silently, and the
blue eyes look up, full of love.

I said just now the language of flowers
was rubbish, didn't I ? Well, this little one
has converted me. Do you know what the
hehotrope means ? "

Yes " — (a very tmy yes — only just enough
to part the rosyhps).

"It means ' I love you' — take my spray,

my daring, and put it near your heart — and

25—2

give me a piece in return — and it will mean
that you love me, dearest, as I love you."

All tenderly the Httle hand plucks the blossom,
and her face is hidden for awhile.

Down by the lake Galbraith and Adelaide
strolled and talked in much the same manner
as the other two couples. The heart of the
frank girl went out to meet the great love
of this man, so brave, so strong and so true.
When the tender question had been asked
and answered, when heart had beaten against
heart, and hp pressed lip, then Adelaide had
to begin to bear her burden.

You know I am going away, dearest,
don't you ? "

Oh, Harry ! so soon ? "

My daring, it must be so, and I must tell
you why ; come, now, let us try whether you
can keep a secret."

And then he told her all.

Few indeed have been the girls who have
had to share in such a secret or to hear such a
tale. It was the shattering of one of Adelaide's
idols for her to be told that the woman to
whom of all women she had been accustomed
to look up with a reverence, partly natural.

partly the result of the surroundings and
traditions of years, was only on a level with
unhappy women the record of whose sins had
only reached the pure heart of the girl as
the sound of the surge on the beach reaches
the listener on the summit of the towering
chip. But when the first surprise was pasty
it filled the heart of her lover with joy
to see the calm way in which she received
the intelligence. This was a woman of
heart uideed. He well knew the courage
and endurance of these quiet souls ; there
would be no need to fear that she would fail
him in either.

Keep the secret, my darling, for my sake ;
I do not want my dear girl to be a spy upon
another woman, and I will only ask this. If at
any time Walter Bryceson should, during my
absence, be away from Avonham and should
any rumour of her approaching marriage reach
your ears you must at once let him know ; he
will act if I am away."

Oh, yes, Harry. Ill send for Mr. Bryce-son
immediately."

"I do not know whether it will be necessary.
My impression is that you are going to
see a great deal more of Master Walter than

you think fur. Xow, darling, let us join your
father and mother."

I shall see you before you go ? "

Every day till I leave London — that is,
if papa sill have me."

Oh, there is no fear of that. He is very
fond of you. Oh, Harry, I am so happy.
But I wish you weren't going away. Oh,
here are Lou and Lucy."

Louisa and Lucy, looking most demure
and unconscious, were standing at the open
window talking to Mr. Markham as unconcernedly
as if being engaged were a daily experience.
Adelaide joined the group, looking
as demure as either of her sisters. The old
gentleman's eyes twinkled.

Have you seen your mamma, my dear ? I
fancy she has gone out to look for you. Mr.
Bompas, let us go and hind some of these
young men and smoke a cigar with them."

When the old boys had left the room there
was a short silence, during which none of the
sisters ventured to look at one another. At
last Lucy spoke in a solemn tone.

Sisters," she said in a mock-tragedy tone,
I have a confession to make."

• " Well, dear," from the two others.

I confess to — lia^ino- wasted a in'eat deal
of time in church."

What are you talking about, Lucy ? "

'' Silence, Addie. Yes, my dears, I used to
while away the forty minutes of sermon time
by reading the service for the solemnisation of
holy matrimony — every Sunday regularly."

Well, madcap, what then ? "

Louisa, you are not respectful. I am
really the steady one of the family. Well, my
dears, I read there — bless you, I know it by
heart — that it is not by any to be enterprise,
nor taken in hand unadvisedly."

Whatever is "

Come and kiss me, my dears, and then let
us go and find mamma."

And, as the sisters embraced, a few tears
fell, soon dried, but still they fell. You see
marriage is an honourable estate and all that,
but it wrenches out some good strong roots at
times when it transplants young people.

When mr. ]markham and Mr. Bompas
encountered their young friends they found
them in a high state of spirits, shaking hands
wildly all round, and evidently much excited
about something. Said boisterous Walter :
Boys, this makes me feel good. Oh !

Fred ; oh ! Harry, let's get away somewhere
quiet and holloa ' Jake Keyser ' till something
breaks ! "

Here's mile with Mr. Bompas," said Fred.
Let's go straight to papa and out with it."

Oh ! my dears," said Mrs. Bompas, coming
in to her daughters half-an-hour after, " your
papa has told me all about it — I'm so happy,
my dearest girls — but please tell me once
more — or write it down, Addie, to make sure —
idIio's going to marry ichom. You really must
sort yourselves out, my dears, or I shall make
all sorts of blunders over it."

ned's hospitality and what came of it.

Before Galbraith took up his abode in Avon-ham,
the inhabitants of that quiet town had
held somewhat singular ideas respecting the
negro race, and, as opinions m Avonham
became, by dint of long holding, elevated and
exalted to the dignity of creeds, it was somewhat
of a shock to find that the preconceived
notions and beliefs which had passed current
for so many years were exploded, or, even in
the most conservative of minds, considerably
modified after personal inspection and study
of the specimen of the children of Ham now
residing there.

Mr. Timothy Rapsey was wont to speak of
himself as a student of human nature. With
curiosity the mainspring of his actions, and its
gratification the business of his Hfe, simple and
almost infantile in his manners, he resembled
a child in nothing so much as in the employment
of that characteristic of infancy, "taking

a deal of notice." He had the faculty of reception
in no ordinary degree ; liacl lie possessed
that of retention in the same ratio he would
have been a Marlshire Solon ; as it was,
although tolerated, and not refused the honour
of posing as one of the worthies and authorities
of the place, he was forced to admit to himself
that he had missed the dignity, the importance,
and the gravity which marked the fathers of
the tow^i, and. distinguished them from the
common herd. Yet the town could have better
spared a better man than gossiping, inquisitive,
prying but amusing Timothy Rapsey, who,
just at this period of our tale, was seized with
a burning desire to cultivate the acquaintance
of Galbraith's negro servant, ostensibly, as he
tried to assure himself, with a view of increasing
his ethnological knowledge, really, as his
mind told him, to gratify his curiosity respecting
the inmates of a house wdiicli he knew not
how to honestly enter and which was now in
the charge of Xed. And to know that Galbraith
had temporarily vacated his house was
not, in Timothy's eyes at least, to know enough,
he wished to acquaint himself why he had gone
and where he had gone to.

Whilst he was casting about in his mind for

the best means of arriving at this desired end,
and indeed he was not the only Avonhamite
who was curious on the subject, it happened
that the opportunity of gaining a footing with
Xed came about unexpectedly and with
scarcely much of his own seeking. It chanced
one morning, as he was passing the front gate
of the " Coombes," that its janitor, for so he
considered him, was standing at the top of the
steps engaged in paying the carrier, ayIio had
just delivered a parcel. Timothy greeted the
negro with effusion and paused to have a chat
with him, partly to further the great end he
had in view, and partly to find out what had
that morning been left at the house. To his
great gratification Xed entered readily into
conversation, and — the carrier having driven
away — to his still greater glee, after remarking
that the day was hot for the time of year and
that he felt very thirsty, the negro invited
him to enter and refresh himself, promising
him that he would provide him something
grateful and cooling.

When Timothy found himself fairly inside
the mysterious house — for the unknown is
always the mysterious to little minds — he was
fairly beside himself with joy. Everything

was new to him, for lie Ind never visited the
house in Major Carrie's time, and whilst Ned
was concerned about the preparation of the
drinks, he peered and pried into every
corner of the room. Books, pictures, weapons,
strange skins and savage trophies were all
reviewed and commented on in turn, and a
glittering mass of iron pyrites and mica which
Ned. produced from a drawer and gravely
assured him was a nugget of pure gold fairly
made him gasp. Such a cigar as the little
man found between his lips in a few minutes
had never come within his ken, certainly
never found its way to his mouth, and the
first sensation which came over him as he
drew Ned's seductive mixed drink through
the first hollow straw he had used since his
school days, when he had taken half-holiday
draughts from the Avon by means of a similar
apparatus, was akin to his notions of paradise
itself.

When the long tumbler was three parts
empty and the white ash of the incomparable
cigar half an inch long, Mr. Rapsey, according
to his usual custom, began to ask questions,
to all of which Xed, placidly smoking and
sipping, affably replied.

He'd been a long time with Mr. Galbraith
lie said — yes, lie had been a slave — no, not
kidnapped from Africa — born in America —
was born on a Southern plantation — run away ?
oh, no, never — his ole massa was too kind for
that — did Mas'r Galbraith buy him ? oh dear
no, Mas'r Galbraith didn't hold with slavery —
no, he'd been a free man many years —
been help in a big hotel — Mas'r Galbraith's
brother took a fancy to him and he left to go
with him — dead the brother was — oh, yes, he
was dead sure 'nus — yes, he was older than
Mas'r Harry — was Mas'r Galbraith good
master ? there wasn't such a master in the
world. Mas'r Bryceson was a very nice gentleman
— yes, the two were great friends — oh,
yes, they'd been abroad together — they were
both good men — Xed would chop off his right
hand for either of them — would Mas'r Rapsey
try this other glass ? It was a different sort,
but just the thug after the other.

Such was the nature of the first portion of
the conversation between these new boon
companions, and still the white ash gi^ew, and
still the drink was good. ]mr. Rapsey became
more particular and confidential in his enquiries,
but still his ebony host answered him fi-rely.

Was Mr. Galbraith rich ? Oh, yes ; as rich
as anyone in Avonham — richer indeed. Didn't
know how rich Mrs. Stanhope was. If she
were so very rich why did she sell her house
and land ? Why not let them ? Had seen
Mrs. Stanhope out driving. Mr. Bompas was
very nice man — didn't know much about the
young ladies' looks — of course he preferred the
black girls, or the yellow girls — where was
Mr. Galbraith?. Didn't he tell Mr. Eapsey
only a little while ago he was gone to Yarmuf ?
Well, he expected he was in London now.
What a brave man he was ? Mas'r Harry
one of the strongest men anywhere, and brave
as a lion — Mas'r Bryceson brave too ; had need
to be, both of them, where they'd lived. The
rioters hadn't hurt the house much — broken a
few windows — he expected some of them had
got hurt though — he himself had given one of
them a punch in the nose that he wouldn't
forget in a hurry — didn't know who set them
on to the " Coombes," wished he did know —
hoped it was the man whose nose he punched
didn't understand English politics himself —
thought England was a very nice place,
and liked Avonham very much — yes, Mas'r
Galbraith rode very well, so did Mas'r Bryce-son

— there were three horses in the stable
now ; would Mr. Kapsey like to look at them ?
Mr. PinniiFer's man came round twice a day
to help — the cook was the groom's wife. Oh,
yes, the girl Mr. Kapsey had seen was their
niece — yes, she was good girl enough ; she
and Mrs. Hackett did all the house work —
there were quite enough servants. Mas'r
Harry trusted everything to ole Xed, and ole
Ned didn't want a whole crowd of womenfolk
around : " don' lio-ht dat ar ses-ar 'o^ain, Mas'r
Rapsey, take 'rudder out'n dat box car, 'n let me
make rudder tumbler ' Port Royal Sangaree.' "
Mr. Rapsey's eyes twinkled as he ht another
famous cigar, after a mild protest, and watched
Ned's deft concoction of the delicious draught.
When had he had such a morning of delight ?
Both his palate and his curiosity gratified, his
eyes delighted by the sight of a lump of gold
as bios as an ostrich eg-cr his ears reo-alec with
more news than he had been able to extract
fi:'om anyone for a month, and his thirst
slaked with some celestial liquor unknown, he
told himself, to even the highest among' the
great ones of Avonham. Surely a day to be
marked with the whitest and largest of all
white stones.

And under the combined influence of good
spirits, good cigars, and Xed's wonderful mixtures,
the heart of the little man opened
wide, and with it his mouth. He found as an
additional pleasure that the negro made a most
excellent listener, that he replied to his local
wit with appreciative chuckles and grins, and
even with occasional African machinations,.
which not only gratified, but amused him very
much. The questions, too, which Xed interpolated
now and then proved to the happy
little chatterer how much his companion was
interested in his conversation, and he laid
himself out to repay, with local intelligence
and gossip, the sumptuous hospitality he had
received at the hands of his host. He gave a
description of the principal magnates of the
town and their families, considerably heightened
and full of local colour. He was not
deterred now, in his mention of Mrs. Stanhope,
by the restraining presence of Mrs. Pinniifer,
and he did not spare his opinion as to the
presumed relations between her and the two
individuals whom Avonham had set down asher
admirers. As a Blue, he hoped Walter
Elvers might wm the lady, and succeed his
uncle in the representation of the borough.

Kept some what in a groove by the questions
of the negro, he next touched upon the Bompas
family, and presented the young ladies with
prospective husbands according to his ideas or
wishes. It was uncertain which of them Mr.
Adolphus Carter was about to be engaged to,
he said. He had questioned Mr. Carter on
the subject chaffing only yesterday, and,
strange to say, had met with something like
a rebuff ; the tempers of young men on those
points, he said, knowingly, were uncertain,
but from the young man's important manner
he had reason to believe it would soon be a
well-known matter.

Xed grinned hugely at the profound knowledge
of human nature and local matters
combined displayed in this remark, and paid
Timothy a compliment on his shrewdness,
which pleased him highly.

Really," he thought to himself, '' the negro
race has been greatly underrated. This man
appreciates me a great deal more than half
the people in Avonliam, who call themselves
Christians."

At this juncture Xed changed the subject
to the recent election, and asked Timothy
whether Carter had had any connection with it.
VOL. II. 26

Mr. Rapsey believed that Adolphus was
very friendly with Alfred Shelman, and that
possibly he might have rendered him some
service in the matter, but that having regard
to his position at Mr. Bompas's, and the fact
that the latter had taken no part in it, he did
not think it probable.

Ned proposed another nice cool Sangaree —
or would Mas'r Rapsey like to taste some real
Bourbon whisky ; there was nothing like it
anywhere else in England, he said.

Mr. Rapsey jovially assented, and added to
his potations a Bourbon straight.

In about half-an-hour Timothy discovered
that he was mixing up the names of a good
many of the people of whom he had been
talking, and he admired more than ever the
great interest evinced in his conversation —
shown chiefly by the gentle way in which he
was every now and again led back into the
right train of thought and coherent speech
by the listener — he became confidential about
the riot, and waxed deeply indignant about
the attack on the " Coombes." Soon, he
found — with much the same sort of surprise
with which Monk Schwartz or Roger Bacon
discovered gunpowder to be explosive — that

Adolplius Carter's name was being connected
with the affair, and that he was passing from
a feeling of utter incredulity about his share
in the matter to a state of virtuous wrath
against him for injuring an inoffensive
stranger. He next became conscious that he
was, somehow, taking vast pains to connect
Carter with Sherman and Sherman with the
outbreak ; and, finally, that whatever information
he had, respecting either of the two
young men, was being heartily and effusively
placed at the disposal of his dear friend, Mr.
Edward — who had, he averred, been most
shamefully treated — but how, he was not
quite sure.

The little man, having taken his leave of
Iste as though he were parting fi^om his oldest
Mend for ever, made a bemused and rickety
progress home, and after a heavy sleep, fi'om
which his amazed landlady in vain tried to
rouse him for his dimmer — Timothy was a
bachelor — awoke with very little idea of the
main events of the morning's amusement —
save that his intimation had ordained him the
most thoroughly business-ike headache he
had ever experienced, and that his mouth was

very dry with over-much conversation.

26—2

But still, there remained stored up in his •
anything but lofty mind one fact, that somehow
or other, he scarcely knew how — having
regard to the deep affection for Need that had
suddenly seized him — it was incumbent on
him to consider himself greatly affronted with
both Carter and Shelman ; and when he had
refreshed himself with cold water, eaten the
late meal which had been saved for him, and
slaked his thirst and steadied his nerves with
a copious bowl of tea, he had fully settled in
his mind that, without revealing the source of
his knowledge, or betraying his new-found
friend, he would make it his special business
to reprove and punish — directly or indirectly,
or, indeed, both — the conduct of the pair.
Having made this resolution in the interest
of friendship and the preservation of public
and private morality, Mr. Kapsey salted
forth to spend the evening in his accustomed
manner.

The next morning, as Alfred Shelman was
leisurely eating his breakfast, Adolphus Carter
was announced and entered to him in a state
of great agitation. He waited until Shelman's
man had retired and then said, in a tone Httle
above a whisper ;

I say, Sherman, what on earth's to be
done ? "

Done ? what's the matter ? "

Last night," said Carter, wiping the cold
perspiration from this brow, " I was coming
home when I met little Kapsey. I've never
seen him so before, but he was about half
tipsy."

^^ Well ? "

He began to pitch into me about that —
that row after the election. You know."

Hang the election, and the row after it,
too," said Shelman, angrily.

Yes, yes, I know you must feel awfully
worried over it — but I mean," said Carter,
looking round nervously and glancing at the
door — as though to make doubly sure that
they were alone — "I mean about the
Coombes ' part of the business, you know."

Curse the ' Coombes ' and its owner, too,"
said the amiable Shelman.

'' AVith all my heart," said Adolphus, his
cheeks reddening ; " I'm sure I bear him no
good will. But do listen, for this concerns
you."

Me ? "

'^ Yes."

In what way ? "

Why m this : Kapsey's found out, somehow
or other — not through me, for I swear I've
never opened my mouth to a soul — that you
and I planted that affair together."

Together;" said Sherman," take care what
you're talking about, young fellow. Don't you
bring me into the affair, I warn you."

Not bring you in ? " said Carter ; " why,
who proposed the whole thing ? "

You did. You came to me burning with
rage against the pair of fellows who live there
and swearing you'd be revenged on them both.
What had I to do with it ? "

What had you to do with it ? Why, just
as much as I had. Didn't you say you hated
Galbraith yourself, and would like to do him
a turn for coming between you and Mrs. Stanhope
about the house, and for buying the horse
you wanted ? "

You fool ; if the man bought the
Coombes ' was that any reason for my smashing
the windows of it, or was I going to wreck
his house because he bid more for a horse than
I did ? You'll accuse me next of getting up
the riot ? "

And suppose I did," cried Carter in desperation,

as lie saw this ally preparing to secure
his retreat ; " how far wrong should I be ? "

Cornered cowards sometimes make bold
strokes. This was a bolder one than Shelman
had bargained for. He tried to parry it by
bullying.

By G — ! " said he, starting up and advancing
towards Carter, "if you dare to hint
that I had anything to do with it I'll break
every bone m your body."

I don't care," said Adolphus, now fairly at
bay ; "I won't stand this sort of life any
longer ; you can't kill me anyhow, and I don't
believe much in your thrashing me. You're
not Galbraith, or that cursed nigger either, and
if you put a hand on me I'll go straight to the
Mayor and tell him all I know, and I know
more than you think, too ; for one thing," he
went on, seems that the other made no attempt
to approach him, " I know who keeps Mackerel's
people now he's in gaol at Kingstown.
Aye, and more than that. I know "

Hush, you great ass," said Shelman,
peevishly, but with an abatement of his violent
manner ; "sit down and let us talk it over
quietly. We don't want all the town to hear
us. I was hasty, old man," he added, holding

out this hand. '' I know you're upset a bit,
too, or you wouldn't talk like that, but you
can't imagine how the whole affair has worried
me. Here," he went on, ringing the bell,
'' let's have something in, and have a quiet
chat over a pipe together. Bompas is away,
I know, so your time's your OAvn. And now
tell me all about it."

When the servant had placed the desired
fluids and tobacco, and cleared the breakfast
thugs away, the two conspirators sat dowai
together to smoke and to see how the land lay
with them.

To tell the truth Alfred Shelman was
supremely uncomfortable about the news his
visitor had to give him. It was true that the
riot had broken out in a great measure from
an accidental circumstance, but there had been
much m it that had been his doing, and it had
been only by the employment of a good deal
of tact and some considerable amount of
money too that he had been able to close
the mouths of two or three of the moving
spirits among the rioters who had been committed
to prison for their share m the work,
and now, if the news where in Kapsey's mouth,
he said to himself, it might as well be in the

town crier's ; so it was with more inward fear
than he cared to acknowledge that he listened
to Carter's narration of his interviews nth
Timothy.

That drmk-vahant little man, retm^nrng
from the "Bear," slightly the worse for his
modest potations, taken on top of Edward's
morning offerings, had encountered Carter,
who was also homeward bomid. Assmnmg an
air which he tended to be dignified, he had,
without mentioning the source of his intelligence,
terrified Adolphus by the formation
that he knew all about the source of the riot
and the attack on Galbraith's house. In his
sober moments, Timothy would never have
ventured to mention Shelman's name, nor had
he any real knowledge that the latter had been
concerned, but the two names where jingling
together in his brain, and it became impossible
to separate them. In common with most
chatterboxes possessed of scanty information,
Mr. Rapsey drew liberally on his owai imagination,
and, partly aided by the ejaculations and
exculpations of the astonished and terrified
Carter, and partly by one or two lucky hits
he succeeded in endowing that nervous youth
with a conviction that his crime and folly and

that of his associate were thoroughly known to
Timothy, who, in some vague and undefined
manner, meant to exact a stern penalty from
each of them for it. Carter had barely enough
presence of mind to extract from the proposed
avenger his promise that he would see him on
the morrow, and that he would take no steps
meanwhile.

Such was the story which he now related to
Shelman, who seemed almost as disturbed as
himself.

Various means of secm^mg their safety where
discussed at the sitting, but two alone seemed
to remain for choice : either to bribe the little
man to silence or to frighten him ito retraction.
It is needless to say that it was Carter
who suggested the former method, but it met
with Sherman's opposition.

The little beggar's got plenty of money
for himself," said he ; '' he banks with us, and
I know his affairs to a penny. He's had about
three hundred a year — of course I'm telling
this to you confidentially as we're m the mud
together — ever smce he was twenty-one, and
although he's never done a stroke of work
since he sold his business, he has never been
extravagant in anything, and hasn't lived upto

more than half his income. He's not at all
greedy for money, for he could get a good deal
better interest in twenty safe things than we
pay him on his deposit account, and a good
many people would open their eyes if they
knew how much that was ; no, money m this
case isn't any good, strange to say, and you're
never safe in the hands of a man you bribe ;
we must ride the high horse. Carter, and
frighten him."

How do you propose to do it ? "

Send him a lawyer's letter, threatening an
action for slander."

That'll frighten him. Whom will you get
to do it : not Sennett ? "

Semiett — nonsense ! There are more lawyers
in the world than Sennett. Leave that
to me. If he broaches the matter again, defy
him, dare him to prove his words, and before
he has time to take any steps, we'll be down
upon him with our threat of action."

'^ Yes," said Carter, doubtfully, '• I'll see him
at once."

Xo, no," said Shelman, " don't go a yard
out of your way ; indeed, try if you can to
postpone any interview, without, of course, appearing
to wish to avoid him. Together with

the lawyer's letter he'll get one from the Bank
callings on him to withdraw his account, and
in two days we'll have him on his knees."

AVith this pleasing hope the two parted.

As frequently happens when persons give
reproofs and assume indignation under spirituous
influences, Mr. Timothy Eapsey had no
intention, when he woke on the morning
after he had poured out his wrath on Adolphus
Carter, of carrying the matter any farther ;
without ha vino: forgotten the occurrence, he
had done with it and put it aside. On the
third morning after his visit to Ned, on descending
the street, he had just given the old
postman his customary morning salutation,
when that worthy, to his surprise, stopped
him as he was passing.

'' Hold on a minute, Mr. Rapsey ; I've got
two letters for 'ee."

For me ? " said Timothy ; " two letters !
Why, dear me, whoever can they be from ? "

*' Ah, that's moor than I do know," said the
postman, grinning, " but here they be."

Mr. Rapsey took the letters, and, adjusting
his spectacles to his nose, essayed to open
them. He Alas awkward at it though, with
one letter tucked under his arm, and the wind

was too high for comfortable reading ; so,
placing both epistles in his pocket, he betook
himself home to peruse them in comfort.

The first that presented itself to his astonished
gaze Alas couched in these, to him,
incomprehensible words :

84, Lincoln's Inn Fields,
'' London.
Sir, — AVe are instructed by om client,
Mr. Alfred Sherman, to enter an action against
you for slander, in which our client lays his
damages at one thousand pounds.

The slander imputed consists in an accusation
which you have thought fit to bring
against Mr. Shelman, to the effect that he had
conspired with another person to wreck and
destroy, or cause to be so destroyed and
wrecked, a certain dwelling-house, situate in
Avonham, and called ' The Coombes.'

We shall be glad to be favoured with the
name of the solicitor who will act for you in
this matter.

AYe are. Sir,

Your obedient servants,
Blackwell, Ridley and Groves."

To say that Timothy Eapsey was scared by .
the letter would be sufficient ; he was almost
paralysed with terror. He read the missive
twice and groaned over it dismally for some
minutes, with the cold sweat of fear pouring
from him. After some time, he remembered
that there was another. He opened this, and
read as follows :

Avonham Bank.
Sir, — We have to request that you will
have the goodness to withdraw both your current
and deposit accounts from this Bank, as
we must decline any further transactions with
you.

We are, Sir,

Your obedient servants,

Oldham, Cumbersome,

Oldham AND Co."

Goodness gracious me," moaned poor
Timothy ; " whatever shall I do ? "

He did the very last thing that his two would-be
persecutors could have imagined. He sat
for a few minutes to collect himself, and then,
with a beating heart and a pale face, betook
himself to the " Coombes."

It is a dangerous thing to over-terrify a
weak man. Dangerous for the actor as well
as the agent. The weak man is apt naturally
to look for help, and he goes to the strongest
help he knows of. In place of seeking the
advice of his friend Sennett, Rapsey determined
to find Galbraith and lay his trouble before
him. His house was the cause of the trouble,
he argued, and in his house had he conceived
the unlucky notion which had led him into
this scrape.

Mr. Adolphus Carter happened to catch sight
of the poor terrified little man, as with trembling
Hmbs and bloodless face he went past Mr.
Bompas's office window in South Street. It
was a welcome spectacle to him, for Bryceson
had, a few minutes before, driven past with a
stranger by his side, and Mr. Rarity seated at
the back of the dogcart. What a funk the
little man looked in to be sure, thought Adolphus
as Timothy passed down the street. This
would teach him not to interfere with his superiors
another time. His manner would be a
little more respectful the next time they met.
Adolphus was doubled up with laughter ; he
went to the door to gaze after him.

But when he reached the step all trace of

laughter vanished out of his face in an instant,
and he grew pale in his turn.

Good gracious, what's he going in at the
gate of the ' Coombes ' for ? " said he to himself.


Mr. Carter had not forgotten that Shelman
knew absolutely nothing of his own capture,
release, and pardon by Galbraith, and a horrible
thought stole over him that Rapsey did know
of it and would use the fact as a weapon of
defence against Shelman. And they had not
counted on resistance either.

Adolphus went back to his desk, smiling
no longer.

Meanwhile, Eapsey had entered the gate and
was tottering along the path to the door which
he had entered so joyfully and quitted so
jovially on the occasion of his last \dsit.
At the door was Bryceson, talking to a
stranger.

Good morning, sir," said he timidly, and
his voice sounded hollow and faint, and unlike
his own in his ears.

Good morning, Mr. Rapsey," said Bryceson
cheerily ; " what brings you this way ? What
can we do for you ? "

I was wishful, if you please, sir," said poor

Timothy, " to speak to Mr. Edward, if I might
take the liberty."

The terrified Httle man was quite beaten
down by his trouble.

Ned has just gone over to Avonham Road
for some luggage and things," said Bryceson.
Can I do anything for you till he returns ? "

I don't know, sir," said Timothy, with his
eyes fixed and staring. " I'm in — in great
trouble, sir — see Mr. Galbraith, su' — these —
letters "

And T^dth these wandering words, and with
a vain eftbrt to take the letters from his pocket,
he fell forward, fainting, into Bryceson's strong
arms.

That afternoon, as Adolphus Carter was
preparing to leave the office, a note was handed
to him by one of the ostler of the " Bear."
He opened it and read :

Bear Hotel, A'ham.
'' Dear Sir, — As I hear Mr. Bompas is
absent from home, may I request an interview
nth you here at your earliest convenience, on
important business ? — Yours truly,

Fred. R. Markham."
VOL. II. 27

Greatly impressed with a sense of his importance,
Carter at once proceeded to the
Bear," and on asking for Mr. Markham was
shown upstairs to a private room. He waited
alone for a mute or two, and then, the door
opening, the stranger whom he had seen that
morning seated by Bryceson's side entered,
followed by Bryceson himself.

For the second time that day Adolphus
turned pale, and his pallor was not diminished
when Bryceson locked the door, and, pointing
to a chair, said sternly :

Sit down, Mr. Carter. I thought we had
done with you the other night, but it appears
not."

Adolphus Carter sat down and waited events
in a state of agitation almost as great as that
of his victim Timothy Bapsey.

■^i

THE Making OF A VERY PRETTY QUARREL.

In very truth the present position of Mr.
Adolphus Carter was an unenviable one, and
he mentally cursed his fate for having led him
a second time ito a contest with the inmates
of the " Coombes." He sat white and shivering,
looking first at Bryceson, who was leisurely
sorting over a few papers which he had taken
from his pocket, and then at Markham, who
stood regarding him gravely and sternly.
Adolphus almost wished himself back in the
dining - room at the " Coombes," with the
negro's strong grip on his arm.

There is a certain feeling which comes over
the mind of a mean man when he is confronted
with courage, integrity and rectitude of purpose,
which is, perhaps, among the most painful
of all the experiences that can happen to wrongdoers.
That feeling is not one of hatred so
much as of envy, not so much of malice as of

admiration. Sitting there, awaiting his fate,

27—2

eagerly expectant of the opeimig words of a
speech and conversation the result of which he
could not foresee, he was as sincere an admirer
of the two young men who where about to apply
the torture to him as though he had been their
oldest friend. AVhat would he not give to be
able to stand in their position ? How could
he have been so mad — he, a puny, weak-headed
frivolous fool, as he told himself he was — as to
eno'ao'e in a contest with men who seemed to
him, as he thought of his own unworthiness,
like beings of a different sphere ?

Bryceson sorted his papers for a couple of
minutes, and selecting three from them, laid
them on the table and placed the others in his
pocket-book ; he then turned to Carter and,
speaking as though the matter in hand were
an ordinary business one, said :

Mr. Carter, you knows, of comes, something
of legal matters — of ordinary everyday
legal matters, I mean ? "

Yes," said Carter, in a tone as brisk as he
could assume ; he would make what fight he
could of it, he told himself.

You know what a power of attorney is ? "

"Oh, yes."

This," said Bryceson, handing him the

topmost of the three selected papers, " as you
will see, is a power of attorney from my friend,
Mr. Henry Galbraith, authorising me to act
in all matters for him during his absence."

Carter took the document handed to him
and glanced over it, principally because it was
handed to him, and he had no other course.

Thank you, Mr. Bryceson," said he, returning
it.

I should have acted in this affair myself,"
said Bryceson, " even if I had not held this
authority, but you will understand that as the
matter stands I am now proceeding on behalf
of my friend ]mr. Galbraith ; not from any
desire to avoid any responsibility, but because
I am sm^e it is what my friend would have
wished."

Adolphus inclined his head, having no words
with which to reply.

So much for the first paper, which I
showed you as a matter of form," said Bryce-son,
" now for the second. Do you know a
firm of solicitors in London named Blackwell,
Ridley and Groves ? "

"Xo."

Bryceson and Markham exchanged glances.

Do you know anything of this letter ? "

said Bryceson, handing him the document
wMdi had so terrified Timothy Rapsey.

The letter trembled in Carter's hands, as he
read it. He felt strong india-nation a chains t
Shelman for his utter want of tact in this
action. This was a pretty way of bringing
Timothy Rapsey to his knees in two days.

The letter took a long time in reading,
short as it was ; the two friends remained
silent, and Mr. Carter was uninterrupted ; his
eyes were on the words, but after his first
reading of them he saw them not ; he saw
through them the angry brow of Shelman, the
stern set features of Galbraith, the righteous
wrath of Mr. Bompas, his father's grief stricken
face and his mother's anxious eyes. The
silence grew painful to him, but he dared not
break it. Faintly in the street he could hear
Prosser, the bellman and crier, calling out
some announcement ; he wondered what it
was ; the clock above his head he noticed had
a loud tick and a slight irregularity in it ;
they had a clock at home something like it.
Downstairs somebody laughed in the bar-parlour
; he felt angry with him for indulging
in unseemly mirth ; how could anyone laugh
at such a time ?

At last he laid the letter clown on the table.

I have never seen it before," he said.

You misunderstand my question," said
Bryceson, quietly ; "I asked you whether
you know anything of it. Do you ? "

For a moment or two Carter hesitated, but
he felt the game was up ; he had played bad
cards badly, and the odds were all one way.

I knew it was o:oino; to be sent," he said.

Thank you," said Bryceson ; " now we
come to the last of the papers I have to show
you just now."

He took the Bank letter and handed it to
Carter.

"Do you know anything oi that? ''^

Hesitation was of no use now.

I knew that was going to be sent, too," he
said, and felt that he had indeed " burned his
ships."

It is a holograph, you will observe," said
Bryceson. " May I enquire whether you know
the handwriting ? "

I do," said Carter.

Will you tell me whose handwriting it is ? "

Mr. Alfred Shelman's."

This other letter, of course, was sent at
Mr. Shelman's instigation ? "

It was."

It mentions an accusation of conspiracy
with another person ; did you notice that."

Yes," said Carter faintly, for he felt that
the crisis was coming now.

I wanted to draw your attention to that
for a special reason," said Bryceson ; " and
now, Mr. Carter, I will tell you what you are
perhaps a little curious to know, and that is
how those last two papers came into my possession."


Carter murmured something inarticulate.

Mr. Kapsey," said Bryceson, looking
steadily at Carter, who quailed before his gaze,
'' of whom I know nothing whatever beyond
what little I have seen of him about the town
during my stay here, came to my friend's
house, which I am at present occupying, this
mornings to see ]Mr. Galbraith's servant, whom
I daresay you remember."

Would he ever forget him ? " Carter
thought.

Mr. Rapsey," Bryceson went on, " seemed
in trouble, and proved to be very much upset
by the receipt of these two letters. He could
only account fur them in one way, and that
was this. He and Edward had been gossiping

together a few days previously, and amongst
other topics they hit upon a certain Utile
episode of the night of the election day, which
I have no doubt you also remember. That
evening Mr. Rapsey had a conversation with
you upon the subject, I believe ? "

Yes."

And to that conversation he attributes,
whether correctly or incorrectly, these threatening
documents. Naturally he is much alarmed
at them. Mr. Rapsey does not appear to be
what you and my friend here would call a
business man, and he does not seem to be
possessed of the necessary strength of mind
which enables gentlemen Hke yourself to become
leaders of men in dangerous and sometimes
unsuccessful night attacks and riots."

The " leader of men " looked anything but
strong-minded as he moved uneasily in his
seat, as though Bryceson's speech had been
the lash of a whip descending on his back.

Mr. Rapsey's first visit," said Bryceson,
was to Edward. Xow, ]mr. Carter, Edward
is not an ordinary servant in any sense of the
word. Since Edward has been in Mr. Galbraith's
service, he has had a good many
masters, first and last. Xed has been servant.

companion and friend — yes, friend Mr. Carter.
to Mr. Galbraith, to my friend here, Mr.
Markham, to me, and to tln^ee or four friends
of ours, of whom neither you nor anyone else
in Avonham knows, or is likely to know, anything.
Mr. Kapsey, of course, was not aware
of this ; he went to Edward simply because
the conversation to which, as I say, he attributes
these letters, occurred between them.
Very fortunately I happened to be in Avonham,
having arrived here this morning, and have
taken the matter in hand. This is the reason
of this meeting this afternoon. You mil
excuse, under the circumstances, the little
scheme by which I was able to ensure your
presence here, and now having given you an
account of the matter so far, we will, if you
please, proceed to real business."

Fred Markham, as if to mark that a point
in the negotiations had been reached, took a
chair and seated himself astride of it with his
arms resting on the back

That business, Mr. Carter," pursued
Bryceson, still in the calm and quiet tone
which he had preserved from the commencement
of the interview, " may be very much
simplified by you. No one knows so well as

you the cause of the attack on mr. Galbraith's
house. You were, according to your own
confession to Mr. Bompas, the leader of the
mob on that occasion. I cannot see that Mr.
Galbraith has ever injured you in any way ;
and that it was a political matter is out of the
question. It is perfectly evident to me that
you were acting in concert with someone else,
if not at his instigation. Xow, Mr. Carter,
we must know, if you please, who that person
was."

Adolphus turned even paler than he had
been before ; he was between the devil and
the deep sea with a vengeance.

'• Suppose," he said, after a short silence,
'• that your surmise was wrong, and that it
was entirely my own doing."

We will not waste time by supposing anything
so foolish, if you please, Mr. Carter," said
Bryceson, quietly.

'' But," said Carter, hesitatingly, " you don't
know that I did not do it of my o^ti accord."

We have our own common sense in the
matter, mr. Carter, besides one or two little
pieces of evidence which would perhaps surprise
you if we used them. Do not, I beg of
you, waste our time, although it is not specially

valuable just at present ; let us know at once
who inspired you with the idea of attacking
Mr. Galbraith's house ? "

It's not fair — it's not fair to ask me," broke
out Adolphus in sheer desperation, and momentarily
rendered courageous by the sense of his
position ; " it's not fair for two of you to get
me in a room and lock the door and then
torture me with questions ; you'll thrash me
if I don't answer, I suppose ? " he said with
a snarl ; " it's cowardly ! "

Bryceson's colour slightly rose, and he bit
his lips before replying.

You are as safe from violence here, sir,"
he said, " as though you were in your mother's
arms, and I think you knows it," he added
pointedly. " Xow" let us distinctly understand
each other. Do you refuse to give us, for our
own satisfaction only — for we think we know
it already — the name of the person who instigated
the attack on the ' Coombes ? ' "

Carter paused again.

Suppose I refuse to answer any question
you put me ? " he said.

"We shall take very prompt measures to
compel you to answer to someone else," said
Bryceson.

How ? " said Adolplius, in a hoarse whisper,
this lips and cheeks ashy white.

In this way, Mr. Carter," said Markham,
speaking for the first time. ' ' We have strongly
advised Mr. Eapsey to defend the action with
which ]mr. Shelman threatens him, and you
will be a witness in that action on one side or
the other, I venture to say. In addition to
that my friend Mr. Bryceson will at once apply
to the Mayor or the magistrates here for a
warrant against you for attacking Mr. Galbraith's
house. It is extremely probable, Mr.
Carter, that you will give evidence in the
slander case, attired m an mibecommg and
not very honourable uniform. The whole
of the questions my Mend has asked to-day
mil be put to you then, and you will not be
allowed the latitude that he has shown you in
this room."

But," said Carter, " what better shall I be
off by telling you anything ? If the action goes
on I shall — so you say — be a witness, and
obliged to tell."

I fancy not," said Markham. " When my
friend asked you just now not to waste our
time, it was not merely our time m this room
that he meant. You will distinctly understand

that, as we shall have to deal with a second
party, we cannot make any definite and binding
promise about the matter, but if you supply
us with the information we require — and
really wee only require it of you to confirma
suspicion so well founded as to be almost a
certainty — I think that there will not be the
slightest chance of the action being carried on,
so that you need not dread your appearance in
the witness box, nor need you fear any further
proceeding against yourself on Mr. Galbraith's
part, or on that of his representative ? Am I
right in that last remark, Walter ? "

Quite, Fred," said Bryceson.

Carter saw that at any rate there was a
chance of safety from one of the dangers besetting
him, and made up his mind to surrender.

I must give way to you, Mr. Bryceson,"
he said, in a helpless tone ; " I will give up the
name on those conditions."

We can only make conditions with you
for ourselves," said Bryceson ; " we cannot absolutely
guarantee that the action for slander
will not be pressed. Don't give us credit for
anything but straightforwardness in the affair.
You must take your chance so far as the
slander is concerned."

I must do that, I suppose. I am Trilling
to give up the name of the person who got
up the attack on Mr. Galbraith's house, and
who set me on to do it."

*' Who was it ? " asked Bryceson.

Mr. Alfred Sherman," said Carter.

Thank you," said Bryceson ; '* he is just
the person we suspected. Mr. Galbraith,
whose judgment is about as keen as that of
any man I have ever met, told me before he
left Avonham that he imagined mr. Shelman
was at the bottom of it. AVell, Mr. Carter,
after your confession, I think it extremely improbable
that you will be troubled to give
any evidence in public. Of course," he added
hesitatingly, " we may rely upon your — your
information as being correct."

Quite," said Carter, in a low voice, but with
an evident sense of relief after his surrender.

I don't want to ask you anything more
compromising than the statement you have
just made," said Markham, " but can you tell
me what cause of quarrel this man Shelman
had with Mr. Galbraith ? So far as I can
make out, they have never even spoken."

Carter had given up the name of his principal
chiefly to place himself m a secure position

with regard to the two friends ; he was not
wholly displeased at the turn things had taken ;
it was obvious to him that if Rapsey's cause
were espoused by these young men it would
become a very strung one, and one that would
terrify even Alfred Shelman ; it was better,
perhaps, on the whole for him to enlist at once
on their side, at least so far as giving them all
the information in his power went, so he
replied :

Mr. Shelman always had a feeling of irritation
and jealousy against Mr. Galbraith ever
since he bought the ' Coombes.' "

Because he Avant it himself, I suppose,"
said Bryceson.

Yes, and he was disappointed by Mrs.
Stanhope's refusal to let him have the house
and land in preference to Mr. Galbraith," said
Carter, " and Mr. Galbraith bought a horse
that Shelman wanted, and "

And these," interrupted Bryceson, unconsciously
using the very argument which
Shelman had himself advanced to Carter at
the meeting which had led to all this trouble,
these are reasons for attacking a man and
making him the victim of an election riot !
AVell, for an old-fashioned town with a three-century

old charter, I must say you know how
to play it down low on a tender-foot. Old
Squire Gulch wasn't so very much ahead of
this place in smartness, was it, Fred ? "

Well, we'd Judge Lynch there for one
thing," said Markham, " and upon my word
his court wouldn't work badly here, I fancy.
Pray, Mr. Carter, can you inform us, without
very seriously compromising yourself, how
you came to be selected as the instrument of
this terrible man's vengeance ? "

If Markham had struck Carter he could not
have roused him by the blow as he did by his
question. Whether it was that he felt safe
from bodily harm after Bryceson's assurance,
or whether the sense of his injuries took away
his reason and made him reckless of consequences,
is not sure ; certain it is, however,
that he broke forthwith into a rage which,
without alarming either of his hearers, surprised
them extremely.

How ? " he screamed, " how ? Because I
hate your friend ; haven't I enough cause to ? "

To hate Galbraith," said Bryceson, astonished,
" why "

To hate him, yes, and you too," shouted

Carter, now quite beside himself.

VOL. II. 28

"Me ? " said Brjceson, opening his eyes to
their fullest extent, and touching himself on
the breast to make sure that it was really he
whom Carter meant and no one else, " me !
Why, you fool, until the night after the election
I had never even spoken to you ; what reason,
in the devil's name, had you to hate me ? "

Why did you come here at all ? " cried
Carter, foaming with impotent rage ; "I
never did a wrong tiling in my life till Mr.
Galbraith came to Avonham ; my employer
liked me and trusted me, and would have taken
me into his business in course of time ; my
father was proud of me — yes, proud of me, and
with reason, for if I haven't your strength and
your good looks, and if I am in your hands
now, I'm not a fool at my business, or anything
like one — and I was popular and respected
all over Avonham. What am I now ? I'm
in your power, and your friend has threatened
me just now with a jail and a convict's dress.
What does Mr. Bompas think of me now — or
my father ? You'll tell me that that change
came since the election row, and so it did ;
but I'd plenty of cause to hate you both before
that. The very first words Mr. Galbraith
spoke to me were insulting, and I have never

forgotten them ; but there's more than that.
If you want the real cause I'll tell you, and I
don't care what you do to me afterwards —
you may kill me if you like : since you came
to this town I've never had a kind word from
one of Mr. Bompas's daughters."

Markham gave a low soft whistle at this.

I had plenty before, Mr. Bryceson !
Which of the girls it is you are after and which
Mr. Galbraith wants I don't know, but I do
know," he added, clenching his hands and
tossing his arms with a gesture of supreme
despair, " that you two have come between me
and my love, and if my power had been equal
to my will on election night you would have
remembered it to the day of your death. That
was the cause, if you want to know it ; and
the scheme failed, and I'm ruined over it, and
I curse the day you came into the town ! "

He had risen to his feet to say all this
and stood facing the young men as a hunted
beast turns for a last hopeless death-struggle.
Bryceson and Markham remained seated, the
former evidently greatly astonished by what he
had heard.

Markham broke the short silence that

followed.

28—2

That's the secret of it, then ? Well, Mr.
Carter, we're very much obliged for your
frankness, and wee have no wish to detain you
any longer."

Carter seized his hat and turned to go.

There is just one last word I want to say,
Mr. Carter," said Bryceson, " don't you make
any use of the names of those ladies in this
town over this matter."

]Neo, I will not," said Carter, still hot, but
with returning reason. " I'm not quite such
a cad as that ! "

I will take your word for it," said Bryce-son,
rising ; " and hope one day wee shall
be able to agree to forget this affair. I can't
defend your conduct in your attack on my
friend and myself — for I suppose I must include
myself though I hadn't the remotest
idea of it till now — but I'm less angry with
you and more sorry for you than you think.
Good day, Mr. Carter."

Carter opened the door and passed outwith
a hardly audible reply to the salutation,
and the friends where left alone.

"Well, Walter," said Fred, "that's an interesting
young man ! It's a good job for
human nature round here that that fellow

hasn't an over-burden of pluck. He gives
me the idea of a man whose malice is only
bounded by his cowardice. If he had as
much courage as he has spite, he'd make it
nasty for his enemies."

Harry's right ; the dear old fellow has
often told us never to despise a fellow because
he's mean and weak. But I am sorry for him
too. He'll come an awful cropper over this
business."

What did you think of his excuse for
hating you ? " said Fred ; " complimentary
to us, wasn't it, to be told that he might have
had his pick of our lady-loves if you and
Harry hadn't turned up ? Of course he
knows nothing about me and Lucy, but the
principle's the same."

It don't quite bear thinking of," said
Bryceson ; " well, I've shaped out my course
with Shelman."

He won't bring his action against that
poor little man, will he ? "

I don't fancy he will, after I have done
with him."

Xed worked the little fellow beautifully,
didn't he ? "

'' Splendidly. I must write to Harry about

it. I don't see yet any connection between
this matter and the other, though."

Xor I ; unless indeed this man Sherman
has made it up with the widow, and she has
set him on to Harry, suspecting who he is."

You forget that she never saw Harry till
he came to hive here nor even heard his name ;
he always went by Reginald's until he came
to. us."

True ; I wonder whether she will recognise
me ? — it may spoil all if she should.
But I don't fancy she will. Ten years and
more make a difference, and we weren't so
very intimate after all. How carefully Harry
followed her uj^."

Yes, he did ; and if Reginald hadn't been
discovered by the old Squire, I wouldn't have
cared to stand in her shoes. Let us go downstairs."


Mr. Pinniifer and mr. Barnabas Chickleholt
were in the room when they entered, and both
looked somewhat curiously at them. They
had seen Carter's abrupt departure, for he had
gone straight out into the street, looking white
and ill, and without exchanging any greeting
with anyone, and they wondered what was
afloat. They got, however, no information

out of the two friends, who drank a glass of
^dne together and left.

Carter quitted the house burning with a
double rage — rage against both Bryceson and
Shelman. By one he had been made a cats-paw,
by the other he had been treated as a
cur. He felt that Bryceson must have been
sure all alone that he would divulge at once
the name of his principal, and that he would
betray him the moment pressure was put upon
him. He despised himself for being a coward,
but he did not hame himself. He even
caught at the fact of his ras^e against Shelman
as some sort of excuse for his having betrayed
him to his enemies. But, over and over
adam, as he went on his way, he was vowing
vengeance against all those whom he considered
arrayed against him. Xot only against
Bryceson for having brought him to bay, and
wrested his secret from him, but against
Galbraith for having come to Avonham at all,
against the Bompas family for having tolerated
him, against Shelman for hasting attempted to
interfere with him, against Edward for his
suspicions, and Rapsey for his garrulity ; he
inveighed against them all. One thing he had
made up his mind to do, and that was to have

it our wirli mr. AltVod Slu'linan as soon as
possible.

Ho hurst in upon tint u-ontl(Mnan that
evoniiiu' as ]\c was sitting" at ]u)nu\ ami broke
into a storm of reproach and imeetive, whelp
alarnieil and surprised Shelnian not a little.
Incoherently he poured out upon him a jeremiad
respecting their scheme, mixed with
bitter lamentations ibr his own position, and
warning's to him to avoid the fate which
lie had met. Sherman's was not the temper
to allow him to sit patiently inter such an
outbreak.

^' Sit down, curse you I " he shouted,
'' have you i^'one mad, Carter ? Either give
me a sensible account oi' what has happcMied,
or sto]) your blubbering and get out ! "

in presence o\' his ally Carter was a edward
indeed. The idea that had possessed him
after leaving the '' lu^u* " had been first to upbraid
Shelnian and next to terrify him by an
account of what he himself had had to undergo
at the hands oi' the two men who had just
]put him on the rack. lout Sherman was not a
edward. He rose to the difficulty, and seeing
plainly that his eonn-ade had been terrified
into divulging their secret, was determined to

extract from him the extent of hin confession
in order that he nii^ht frame s<jme plan
whereby he could avoid the consequences of
his own indiscretion and the cowardice of hLs
partner. Carter, an may be supposed, acted
as a weak mind will act when confronted with
a stronger one ; he partially recovered! his
senses, and putting a strong restraint u[Km
himself was able Ut let Shelman know approximately
how matters st<xid. It was Shell
turn to get angry now ; he fairly Exiled
over with rage and chagrin. For the third
time that day his cowardly associate was
panic-stricken ; he raved at him for his stupidity,
his bungling ami his cowardice ; he
cursed Kapsey for his tale-hearing, and the
very existence of Galbraith, Bryceson, and the
opposite political f>arty were sufficient ground
fair him Uj indulge in a torrent of vituperation
against them. The way in which he vowed
vengeance against them almost persuades
Carter that he was on the strong side after
all, and that this shouting, bullying, cursing
friend of his was a match f(jr his opponents
yet.

But all his raving and raging, though it
relieved him, could not conceal from Shelman

the fact that he had been outwitted, and that
his position was serious. He had compromised
himself in several ways. He knew, though
no one else did, the part he had taken after
the election, and how much of the riot was
due to him ; that was bad enough by itself.
In addition to that, he had, on his own responsibility,
and without the knowledge of his
uncle, who was away from the town, ordered
the closing of the accounts of a very good
Bank customer, not anticipating for a moment
that the said closing of accounts would ever
be likely to occur, and he had threatened with
an action for slander a man, who, instead of
flinging himself at his feet and praying for
mercy, had discovered, through his very weakness,
friends who not only were prepared to
resist him vigorously, but were in possession
of a fact, which of itself justified the so-called
slander. His political standing in Avonham
and his position as a partner in the Bank
seemed alike imperilled and threatened by
those whom he most hated and despised.

It is probable that the dreams of both Carter
and Shelman were troubled that night ;
but at any rate the night watches brought
consideration, and Shelman had something

like a plan in his head when morning came.
He had reflected that it was most probable
that Bryceson had obtained the information
respecting the riot simply with a view to use
it as a means of defending Timothy Rapsey
from the consequences of an action. Well,
the action would not be brought, of course,
and the necessity for using the information
having passed away, it was probable that it
would not be used. He would see Rapsey
himself at his house, and must make up his
mid to eat a little humble pie before him ;
his influence surely had not all faded in the
little man's eyes, and a little concession and
condescension would work marvels with Timothy.
He would put the action and the Bank
affair straight, and thus remove two great
stumbling blocks out of his way ; and with
respect to other matters, he must take the
risk. Only, he told himself, and his blustering
of the night before had not banded his eyes to
the fact, he must be careful how he went to
work, either now or at any future time, with
the young men at the " Coombes." Great as
was the opinion which he held of his importance
and abilities, he was unable to shut his
eyes to the fact that those gentlemen seemed

TWO PARDONS.

to be armed at all points and to be men of no
ordinary carre whom it were better policy to
leave entirely alone.

QUITE AGAINST LAW AND ORDER.

The morning commenced ^dth a little game of
cross purposes. Two persons were much disappointed,
too. In a small town like Avonham,
consisting, as we have seen, of one long main
street, a market-place, a churchyard, and two
side streets, to meet a man whom you want is
an easy matter, provided always that the man
is in town. The general mode adopted is this.
We will say, for example, that an Avonliam
Smith, ashes to meet, for business purposes,
an Avonliam Jones. Smith walks out in the
morning, and calls at Jones's house. Failing
to find him at home, he visits the office ot
White, the shop of Black, and the hotel ot
Robson. To each of these citizens he confides
the fact that he wants to see Jones ;
meeting two more acquaintances in the street
he delivers the same message " in case you
might see 'm." Then he trusts to chance and
his friends. Each of the latter tells a friend that

Smith wants Jones, and in half-an-hour's time,
half the town knows the fact. Jones will hear
that Smith wants him for hours after he has
seen him, and, grown callous by long custom,
will forty times re^lj to the question, " Have
'ee seen Smith ? "

But these two persons, each of whom was
seeking to find someone, did not employ this
time-honoured and well-nigh infallible plan
to-day. They had, it is true, reasons of their
own for not doing so, but the consequence was
that each was disappointed.

They were Alfred Shelman, whom, by this
time, we know, and Mr. Jared Norton, cashier
of the Avonham Bank, whom we have once
seen.

Alfred Shelman's object was to see Timothy
Eapsey ; Jared Norton's object was to see
Alfred Shelman, and each, that morning,
failed.

After a breakfast eaten rather more hastily
than usual, Shelman entered the dog cart
which was waiting for him by his overnight
order, and, driving past the just-opened Bank,
turned into the side street past the churchyard,
pulled up at the door of the house in which
Mr. Rapsey lived, and asked to see him. " Mr.

Rapsey ain't at home just now, sir," said the
landlady, with many curtseys and bobbins.

"Dear me, that's very mifortmiate," said
Shelman ; " will you tell Mr. Eapsey that I
want to see him very particularly ? "

Oh, yes, certainly, sir," said the dame.

Ask him, will you, whether he will step
up to my house and have a bit of Mich with
me at one o'clock. You won't forget, will
you ?

Oh, dear me, no, Mr. Shelman," said the
landlady, highly gratified, for to lunch with
Mr. Shelman was, m her eyes, to sit amongst
the great ones, and she felt that the honour
done to her looser reflected on herself.

Disappointment number one !

Shelman turned and drove back to the Bank.
He did not get down, but one of the clerks, a
junior, came out with a letter, which he handed
to him. Shelman opened and read it.

It is from Mr. Millard," he said. " I am
just going out to Beytesbury to see him.
There is nothing else, is there ? "

"No, sir."

Is Mr. :Norton in ? "

He has been, sir, and opened the letters,
after which he went out immediately, saying

he should not be long. He gave us the letters.
There is nothing special in them, sir."

Tell him I called."

Yes, sir."

Shelman gave the reins to the horse and
bowled away, leaving behind him the man who
was seeking for him in great uneasiness of mind.

The cause of Mr. Norton's perturbation was
this : he was accustomed to open all letters
received at the Bank, with the exception of
those addressed specially to Mr. Boldham or
Mr. Shelman. The correspondence that morning
had not been heavy ; the local farmers and
tradesmen, with whom the bulk of the business
lay, were fonder of transacting their affairs by
personal interview than by letter, but one of
the missives had greatly astonished him. Had
the spire of St. Hildegard walked into the Bank
and requested him to discount its weathercock,
he would have been scarcely more surprised
than he was by the receipt of a letter from
Timothy Rapsey, which stated that, in reply
to their (the Bank's) communication, he would
present himself at their establishment that day
for the purpose of withdrawing both his deposit
and current accounts, as requested. As requested
! Mr. Jared Norton called for the

letter-book ; there was no copy of any such
letter I He himself had heard nothing of the
matter, and it surpassed anything in his experience.
Mr. Rapsey, he reasoned, had banked
with them for years and years, and was just
the sort of customer with whom the country
banker delights to do business, a man with an
ever-gTOATOig deposit account, and one perfectly
T^'illmg to accept the Bank rate of interest in
heu of investing elsewhere. It was incomprehensible
to him ; perhaps Mr. Shelman might
know something of it. He would not even
wait for him to visit the Bank but would go
and see him at once.

Xow, had Mr. Norton unformed one of his
clerks where he was going, he would have been
told that the gentleman of whom he was m
quest had just driven past, but he kept his
own counsel and tinned ito the mam street
as Shelman turned ito the side one where
Rapsey Heed. AVhen he reached Sherman's
house the door was opened by a maid-servant,
ignorant that her master had left home, for he
had driven out the back way. He seated himself
in the doing-room and waited fully ten
mutes before the girl returned and informed

him that she had discovered that Shelman had
VOL. II. 29

gone. Making his way back to the Bank, Mr,
Norton, to his great chagrin, was made acquainted
with the young man's visit, and
retired to the Bank parlour lamenting his ill-luck
m not catching him.

Disappointment number two !
Mr. Xorton resumed his accustomed seat,
and waited the course of events.

At eleven o'clock Timothy Rapsey entered.


The double bidden of business which he did
not understand, and a secret which he must
not divulge, had changed the little gossip's
cheery birdlike face into a countenance of
sphinx-ike mystery and direful portent. Jared
Norton, who had known him for thirty years,
stared at him in amazement.

Will you step this way, Mr. Rapsey ? "
said he, not giving Timothy an opportunity of
stating his business before the clerks.

He led the way to the Bank parlour, where
he gave the visitor a seat, and waited in great
curiosity for his opening address.

I suppose you got my letter, Mr. Norton ? "
said Timothy.

Yes, Mr. Rapsey, I did, and I was nevermore
surprised in "

Surprised, Mr. Norton ! what, didn't you
know of it, then ? "

'' Xot one word, my dear sir, not one word,
I assure you," answered the cashier.

Well," said Timothy, taking a paper from
his pocket, " there's the letter that brought me
here, Mr. Norton ; maybe you know who sentit."


Norton gravely perused the letter, which we
have already seen, and handed it back to its
owner.

It is correct enough, Mr. Rapsey," said he,
although I knew nothing of it, and I'm very
sorry to see it now."

I've banked here a good many years, and
never thought to be served this way," said
Rapsey, ruefully ; " but," he added, perking
himself up like a bantam cock, " I ain't under
no obligation to the Bank so far as I can see,
and 'tis your loss, not mine."

But, dear heart alive, Mr. Rapsey," said
Norton, " is it well to fall out with us like this ?
Why "

Now, Mr. Norton, I ]3ut it to you. Is it

fair, after that letter, to say as I've fell outwith

you ? "

Well, well, perhaps not, Mr. Rapsey ; but

29—2

won't you see Mr. Slielmam himself about it
when he comes in ? "

Mr. Sherman was round to my place this
morning, about an hour ago, and I was out."

Why, that must have been whilst I was
looking after him about this very matter, Mr.
Rapsey."

'Tis likely. Mr. Shelman leaved a message
to my house for me to come up and have
lunch with him at one o'clock, d'ye see, Mr.
Norton ? "

Why, that's right," said Jared, much relieved,
" that's right ; you can talk it "

'' Ah, but look 'ee here see, Mr. Norton,"
said Timothy, emphasising his words with his
forefinger on the palm of his other hand, " I
won't go, y' know ! "

Jared stared.

Mr. Shelman," said Timothy, with the
same finger and palm play, " have a-threatened
me with an action "

Jared started and stared yet more.

And Mr. Shelman have written to me,"
pursued Timothy, " for me to draw all my
money away. Now, Mr. Norton, I ain't going
to be put upon by Mr. Shelman, n'yet no one
else, and so, as it sims likely as I shall want

my money to pay law expenses, I'm come for
it now, according to this letter."

Mr. Norton shook his head regretfully, but
saw no solution of the difficulty.

Will you take the money now, Mr. Rapsey
? " said he.

If you please, Mr. Norton. You've got
my pass-book, and I've brought my deposit
note and cheque-book, and if you'll let me know
what I'm to draw for, I'll dort at once and
take all away together."

Jared Norton gave up the business of persuasion
in despair. The whole thing was, sa
far as he was concerned, wrapped in mystery,,
and quite outside his banking experience. He
sent for the book, and carried out the calculations
necessary for a final closing of the accounts.
Having done this with the air of a
martyr, he informed Timothy of the amount
standing to his credit in their books under
both heads.

Timothy produced his cheque-book with an
air of great dignity and proceeded to fill in the
partly-written cheque which he had prepared
for the occasion. It was a tolerably large sum,
and, annoyed as he was, the little man could
not resist a feelings of satisfaction as he ^Tote

the three figures after the £. sot many menin
Avonham, he thought, as he gazed complacently
at them, would write such a cheque
for one sum at once. But the omit on
deposit, all of which Mr. Rapsey asked for in
notes, was something to look complacent over.
Shelman had not spoken lightly when he told
his confederate to what state of comfort Mr.
Rapsey's frugality had brought him.

He left the room and went to the front
office of the Bank itself to receive the notes.
As Xorton finished counting the amount of
the current account, Mr. Beadlemore Artoo
entered with a cheque. He shook hands with
Timothy, gave " good day " to the cashier and
clerks, and stood waiting his turn.

Mr. Artoo was not curious — oh, dear, no ! —
but he was not unwilling to notice, and Mr.
Bapsey was not unwilling that he should
notice, the amount which he received. Mr.
Artoo opened his eyes but said nothing.

Jared Norton then, with a face full of unutterable
things, handed solemnly to Bapsey a
second sheaf of notes, and held out his hand
for Mr. Beadlemore Artoo's cheque. That
worthy's eyes were dilated to their fullest
extent as he noted the sum that his crony was

telliiiof over. Alien lie had counted them
twice, Timothy put the notes carefully into a
large envelope which he had brought with
him, and, placing this in his breast socket,
carefully buttoned both his miner and outer
coats, and bade Mr. Xorton and the clerks
good-day. Mr. Artoo received the money for
the cheque which he presented and followed
him out.

Where be going' to ? " was his salutation.

Up to Chris Karaty's," replied Timothy.
I want to see 'm."

'• He's over to PmnifFer's," said Artoo. " I
see him going' in as I went into th' Bank just
now."

Ah, I do want him to let me have a trap
to drive over to Ridgetown on a bit o' business,"
said Timothy.

Be 'ee going' to buy the place, Timothy
Rapsey, that ye're taking all that cash over
there with 'ee ? T'ood be worth anyone's
while to fuller and stop ye on the road," said
Mr. Beadlemore Artoo, laughing at his own wit.

!N'o, I'm not," said Timothy, his face
lowering in spite of the comfortable feeling of
the notes in his pocket. " I've been and
drawer all my money out o' Boldham's Bank,

and rm going' over to middletown to put it iii
the North Marlshire."

Drawer all yer money out o' Boldham's ! "
said Beadlemore Artoo, stopping in his surprise
and staring hard at Timothy, as though he
were demented ; " why, what in the name o'
sense and patience did 'ee do that for ? "

I were told to," said Timothy.

'[ Why, who upon earth told 'ee ? " asked
Beadlemore, still staring, if anything, wider
than ever.

I mustn't tell 'ee," said Timothy, the
sense of his secret ao^ain weio-hino^ on him.
Now, don't ask me ; I really can't tell 'ee ;
'tis a secret, and don't for pity's sake say anything
about it ! "

Mr. Beadlemore Artoo resumed his progress,
and the pair entered the familiar room together
and found their cronies assembling pretty
much as usual. Mr. Earaty was, as had been
said, amongst the company, and Mr. Rapsey
was not an hour older before, seated in a dogcart
behind a good-looking but steady-going
mare, belonging to that gentleman, he Alas
well on the way to Bidgetown. He left
behind him in Avonham a very thoughtful
and puzzled man in Mr. Artoo.

That worthy pondered deeply over the
words which Timothy had let fall. Whence
he got his formation (for he had no idea of
the real state of the case, nor dreamed that the
Bank authorities, or one of them, at least, had
told him to withdraw his account) he could
not imagine ; it was sufficient for him that it
had been done under his eyes, and that there
was a screw loose somewhere. Was it with
the Bank ? Mr. Artoo's transactions in corn,
hay, oats, and straw were many, and his standing
balance was not large in proportion to his
trade ; nevertheless, it was large enough to
make him feel uneasy about it in the face of
what he had seen. He went home, took out
his cheque-book and drew a cheque which
reduced his balance to a very small sum
indeed. He took it into the Bank with an
excuse ready : a contemplated cash purchase
on a large scale ; he had sometimes had todo
so before. Xorton heard his explanation,
made no comment, but paid him the money
cheerfully enough. In half-an-hour, Mr. Foil-well
came in and drew five hundred pounds :
this was unusual. Following closely on his
heels came Wolstenhohne Pye, who was gong
to Bristol market on the next day, it appeared,

and who also presented a heavy cheque.
These were succeeded by ex-Mayor Killett,
Mr. Polhmoy and Mr. Barnabas Chickleholt,
Who all appeared constrained in their manner,
and were armed with cheques for somewhat
abnormal amounts, made payable to " Self."
By one o'clock, Mr. Norton was getting a
Httle fidgety. There was nothing like a run
on. the Bank, and, knotting the resources he
had at hand, he felt that even had that
happened no real harm could come to such
a steady and solvent establishment. But his
experience told him that, setting Timothy's
-matter aside, this was the heaviest morning's
draw he had ever had on a non market day,
and he shrewdly guessed that news of the
transaction of the mormon was circulation
the particular circle to which ]mr.
Kapsey was especially affiliated, that a mistaken
idea of its nature had arisen, and that a \Ndnd
of suspicion was beguiling to blow on the
credit of the Bank. He despatched an urgent
note to Alfred Shelman, begging him to come
to the Bank at once on most important and
pressing business.

Shelman's errand that morning had been to
Beytesbury to complete with ]mr. Millard the

arrangements for the purchase of the land
belonging to the latter, which Shelman wanted
for his new house. . All the points in question
having been amicably discussed, and actual
signature and transfer of deeds and payment
of money beg alone necessary to finish the
business, Mr. Millard had returned to Avonliam
with Shelman, and had proceeded to the office
of his friend Sennett to give him final instructions.
Alfred had meanwhile gone to his house
m the expectation of being shortly and punctually
waited upon by Timothy Rapsey, whom
a little condescension and a little champagne
would reduce to a peaceable and forgiving condition.
To his surprise, however, Timothy had
not been seen, and, in the midst of his wonder
at his absence, Norton's message came ; he
immediately proceeded to the Bank, expecting
nothing more important or pressing than that
his signature was required for some special
piece of business.

Old Norton met him, wearing an anxious
appearance, which he noticed as he passed
through the front office.

AYhat's the matter, Norton ? " he said, ashe
seated himself in a chair in the parlour,
whither the cashier followed him.

^^ I am old veni have come, Mr. Altered "
said Xorton : "I Alas getting oilier anxious
without Ycni. I have lead a very heavy mornings''


Alfred Sliehnan did not answer, hut awaited
the business for which it lead been deemed
necessary to summon him.

The old easier waited a nunnery for him
to speak ; but, receiving no reply, Event on :

'' Mr. Rapsey has been here this morning,
sir''

'* All I " said Shelman, suddenly evincing an
interest in Avhat was going forward.

^' I tried to see you at ten o'clock," said
Xorton, " but Ave unfortunately missed each
other. I got a letter from Mr. Rapsey, in
answer to one from this office, informing us
that he Avould call and remove his accounts, as
requested in our communication. mr. Alfred,
there is no trace of that letter in the copying
book, and, of course, I know nothing of it."

'' Xo, no, I know," said Shelman, hastily.
'' I wrote it myself and did not copy it — well,
Avhat did Rapsey say ? I invited him to lunch
to-day, tc^ tiilk the matter over ; I suppose he
didn't get the message in time."

He got the message, mr. Alfred," said

Xorton, hesitatingly, '' but — but he told me
that he — he should decline to accept the invitation."


He did ? " said Shelman, and his face
assumed a disturbed appearance.

He seemed very determined in the matter,
and spoke of scene action which you were
brinfidno; a^^-ainst him," said the old cashier,
with a questioning look which Shelman did
not regard, " and finally he drew a cheque for
his current account, and withdrew his deposit
as well."

Shelman sprang to his feet with an oath, as
the consequences of his folly flashed across
him. He would have a pretty quarter of
an hour with his uncle when he came to hear
of it.

Of course I had no alternative in the face
of your letter but to give him what he
demanded," said Xorton, " and I paid him. I
fear that is not the worst of it."

What else is there ? " said Shelman.

Why, Mr. Alfred," said Xorton, lowering
his voice and approaching nearer to Shelman,
I fear that some mischief may follow. Mr.
Arte was here when I was paying Mr. Rapsey,
and they went out together. Xot very long

after Mr. Artoo came back and drew a good
round sum, and soon after that Mr. Follwell
had ^\e hundred pounds ; smce then we have
had Mr. Pye, Mr. Killett, Mr. Chickleholt
and Mr. Polhmoy, all drawing, all cheques to
Self,' and all almost down to the lowest possible
balance. I don't like the look of it, sir.
They're all fi-ends of Mr. Kapsey and all in
one cheque, and it's hard to say what rumours
may get about in this place. It's not a good
town to keep a secret in and we may have a
run upon us at a moment's notice."

The old fellow looked grave ; Shelman
alarmed.

But we've nothing to fear from that," said
the latter, after a moment's thought. " We
could pay every current account five times
over."

If I didn't know that," said the elder man,
smiling, " I should be worse upset than I am.
But a run never did a bank any good yet, su',
and never will. People may say that the fact of
standing against a run is a good advertisement,
but I doubt it. There are always plenty of
people who'll declare you only pulled through
by the skin of your teeth ; most of them are
outsiders, it's true, who never had a banking

account in their lives, but talk's talk, and it
tells ; and, then again, you'll always find you
lose two classes of customers after a crisis ;
those who are afraid of you, and those who are
ashamed of themselves for having doubted you,
and don't like to come back to you. No, Mr.
Alfred, I'm not afraid of a run, but I don't
want to see one, and whatever this matter is
with Mr. Eapsey and you, I'm very sorry it
ever occurred, and I hope it's not gone so far
but that it can be put right."

The old man spoke firmly and looked as if
he were uncertain how his words would betaken.
Shelman, however, was too keen not
to see that he was talking sound commonsense,
and he received the counsel readily.

You're right, Norton ; the fact is I've
been over hasty with Rapsey about an election
matter, and I thought to give him a bit of a
scare — that's all, upon my word — and he has
taken the matter more seriously than I thought
he would." And he explained to Norton the
circumstances of the case.

Law's a funny thing to play with," said
the cashier, when he had heard the tale ;
take my advice, Mr. Alfred, make the matter
right with Eapsey, and get his accounts back

here again. It'll be better for all parties, I'm
sure."

I will take your advice, Norton," said
Alfred Shelman ; " I'll see the little ass at
once. You needn't fear," he added, laughing ;
I won't treat him roughly. I'll smooth him
down the right way."

I hope you may, sir," said Norton ; and
he returned to his duties whilst Shelman took
his hat and quitted the Bank in search of
Timothy Rapsey.

Mr. Rapsey was not at home, for the second
time that day ; his landlady was quite concerned
that Mr. Shelman had missed him
again ; perhaps, she added, Mr. Shelman, if he
didn't mind going there, might find him at
the " Bear."

To the " Bear " then, he directed his steps.

That famous hostel filled, as will doubtless
have been observed, more functions than that
of providing good cheer for the wayfarer ; it
was the Exchange of Avonliam, the local
Parliament House or talking shop of the place,
and half the business of the town was transacted
under the vaulted roof of its ancient
gateway or in its spacious panelled rooms.
Quarterly sessions, revising barrister's courts,

wolsey and brewster sessions, leet juries — all
had had, in past times, their headquarters at
the " Bear ; " and down to our own day was
held under its gateway, on Great Cheese market
day, one of the most curious remnants of
bygone times, a court of pie poudre which
does not, I believe, survive anywhere, but made
its appearance even down to a recent date once
a year m the Broadened at Bristol. So that
even so mighty an Avonham potentate as Mr.
Alfred Shelman lost none of his dignity in
repaying to the great meeting place of the
town in search of another citizen.

But, important as was his business, he little
guessed Avhat would be the termination of his
visit there that day.

The first person whom he saw was Miss

Pinniffer, seated at the window of the bar,

brave in lilac poplin and cherry-coloured

ribbons. In answer to his queries, Miss

Pimiiifer informed him that ]mr. Rapsey was

not there — had gone out driving somewhere.

Mr. Rarity was in the parlour and could tell

him where, no doubt. Shelman opened the

door of the apartment and walked in ; as he

did so, he heard from the lips of Mr. Barnabas

Chickleholt, who was gruffer than usual, the
VOL. II. 30

closing words of some oracular sentence that
lie had evidently been favouring his cronies
with, about matters at the Avonham Bank.

to look after his own interest, and,

break or not break, I'm very glad as I'm on
the right side of the hedge myself. They're
welcome to what I've left them."

Jack Eann took up his parable in a tone of
some excitement.

I believe— — " he cried.

What Mr. Kami's creed on the point under
discussion was will, perhaps, never be known;
for events crowded so thickly on the enunciation
of its first two words that it was never
finished. Shelman entered the room, and Mr.
Rami's mouth closed with a nervous snap.

Shelman took no notice of any of the words
which he had heard, although he had some
difficulty in restraining himself ; he looked
smilingly round the room and gave as near an
approach to a cheery " Good morning, gentlemen,"
as was possible from one of his unamiable
temperament.

Good morning, sir," replied the room, not
without a sense of guilt upon those who had
just been discussing the very man whom they
were saluting.

Can I have a word with you, Earaty ? "
said Sherman.

Certainly, sir," said the post-master, rising
from his seat with alacrity and advancing to the
door.

Do you know where Mr. Eapsey has gone
to?"

He's taken one of my dog-carts, and gone
to Ridgetown," said Christopher Rarity.

Ah," said Sherman, " I wanted to see him
before he went, but presently will do as well ;
would you be good enough, if you should see
him when he returns, to tell him I should like
to have a word with him up at my house ? "

Mr. Rarity promised to convey the message.

It was Sherman' s object to remain a few
minutes in the room, quite at his ease, partly
T\ith a view of reassuring the minds of the
assembled friends, all of whom he saw were
customers of the Bank, by his appearance of
unconcern, and partly to offer any one of them
an opportunity of speaking to him on the subject
which he knew was uppermost in each
man's mind, in order that he might be able,
without appearing to volunteer any information,
to set at rest any doubts which might

have arisen respecting: the stability of his firm.

30—2

He stood and sipped a glass of sherry and
chatted with one or two, but his object was
defeated ; his questions were answered, but no
more — a chill seemed to have fallen on the
room and an uneasiness in his presence, coupled
with an absolute disinclination to talk, totally
foreign to the nature of the gathered cronies
in the company of one of their local great ones.
On an ordinary occasion he would have had
everyone to reply to ; topics of all kinds would
have been started for the sake of getting his
opinion or his criticism, and little Timothy
Eapsey would have been present as collector -
in-chief of all his sayings, and snapper-up of all
the trifles of his conversation which might
appear likely to be of service at any future
symposium. But now the little man whom he
had barely tolerated, except at the Bank, and
whom he had looked upon merely as an
animated puppet who occasionally made him
smile, was all in all to him, and his absence
meant he knew not what evils and dangers,
while the rest of the men sat silent and glum,
with a silence and a glumness that were almost
threatening. He soon ceased the attempt to
engage anyone in connected conversation and
stood moodily drinking a second glass of wine,

for which he had called, in his usual sullen
manner.

When he had finished this, he laid down the
Has and a shillings beside it on the half-door
of the little bar which communicated with the
parlour, and went out, bestowing a parting
salutation on the company as gruff and ungracious
as Mr. Barnabas Chickleholt could
have feigned, and with an ill-temper very
foreign to the nature of that grim personage,
who like another and more celebrated man had
nothing of the bear about him except the skin.

The conversation did not at once re-commence.
Shelman had left the room but not
the hotel, as they could hear his voice in the
passage in conversation. John Rami was the
first to break the silence.

'' AAYell, that don't seem very much like
anything being wrong with the Bank, Mr.
Chickleholt," said he, in a low tone.

Rami, who had been one of the strongest
partisans of Mr. Boldham at the election, had
constituted himself the champion of the Bank
at this juncture and had, previous to Shelman's
entry, been ridiculing the idea of any suspicion
of its solvency and stability.

'• Xo one have said in my hearing," growled

Barnabas, " as there was anything wrong with
the Bank."

INTo, no," said Wolstenliolme Pye.

Oh, dear, no," chimed in Hoppenner Pye.

Well, you're mighty particular about
terms, I think," said the market clerk.

A man has to be cheerful nowadays what
'a do say," chimed in the Interior of Avonham,
old " Mas'r KiUett."

'Bhged to be," said Hoppenner Pye, turning
to Rami, as though to apologise for
Chickleholt.

Forced to be," said Wolstenliolme Pye.

Rami leisurely finished the loading of his
pipe, struck a villainous sulphur match which
made Hoppenner Pye splutter and his brother
cough, waited for the flame to brighten and
applied it to his pipe before replying.

If (jeff) what we were (puff) saying about
the Bank just (puff) now wasn't talking (puff)
against it," said he, " I'm no judge o' plain
speaking', that's all. Look here, Mas'r Killett,"
added he, pointing the smoking end of the
match at the old oracle ; " how many years
have this very Bank been in this very town
and in the hands of the same families ? Tell
me that, Mas'r Killett, will 'ee ? "

Who," said the old man, taking his pipe
from his mouth, pulling down his waistcoat,
rubbing his leg and posting with his yard of
clay, " there ain't noo one alive as could maid
the start of it. I'm the eldest man to Avon-ham,
'ceptin', perhaps, Daddy Prosser's father,
and hem a doting' even if 'a he as old as what
I be, and I can't mind it. I'll tell 'ee what,
tho' ! Looked you all here, now, and see
what I do say, for it's true if I nevermore move
out o' this here cheer. My granter * held lees
money isn't, that 'a did, an' 'a many years afore
I were bore too, that 'twere. See that,
now ! "

That's a very many years ago," said
Wolstenholme Pye, reflectively.

That goes back years and years," Hop-penned
assented.

'' Ah, you're right there, both of you," said
John Kami, with a half sneer, as though to
imply that it was an unusual matter ; " and
do you mean to tell me "

Emi's question shared the fate of the belief
he was enunciating before Shelman's entry,
and was never advanced a stage farther than
its commencement, for the sound of voices, loud

Grandfather.

in anger outside, broke in upon the low-toned
conversation and checked it in a minute.

Dear heart alive ! " said Mr. Beadlemore
Artoo, looking round the room in amazement,
why, whatever's to do ? "

The angry voices grew angrier and louder,
and Miss Pimiiffer who, within her bar, had
risen to her feet in evident alarm, gave a
frightened scream, called out some few words
in an appealing tone, and rang violently at the
bell which communicated with the back of the
hotel. Wolstenholme Pye, who was sitting
close to the window, got up and looked outwith
a loud, " Lawks a daisy how ! " and flung
the sash up, thrusting out his head, and as
much of his body as he could with safety
get through. Rami dro23j)ed his pipe, which
shivered to pieces on the floor, and Barnabas
Cliickleholt, who was nearest the door, threw
it open and rushed out into the passage followed
by all in the room, except the Pyes, who
fraternally shared the window. The sight
that met their eyes was enough to rouse all
Avonham.

When Alfred Shelman had taken his ungracious
farewell of the inmates of the parlour
of the " Bear," and closed the door behind him,

the first person who met this view as lie stood
moodily in the passage was our light-hearted
friend Walter Brjeeson, who was just mounting
the stone steps, accompanied by Mr.
]willard, with whom he was lauo^hino^ and
talking, and Fred Markham.

The fun went out of Bryceson's face the
moment he saw Shelman ; he had not expected
to meet him just then, but his mind was made
up with respect to him, and he determined to
bring him to book at once. Shelman was
not known to Markham by sight, and Mr.
milliard was, of course, unconscious of anything
wrong.

As Shelman was about to pass out at the
front door with an ordinary greeting to Mr.
Millard, whom he had not long ago left, Bryce-son
stepped right in his path and brought him
perforce to a standstill.

A word with you, if you please," said he,
sternly, laying his left hand on Shelman's
shoulder.

On what subject, sir ? " replied Shelman,
haughtily stepping back, and shaking himself
free of the other's hold.

On two, sir," said Bryceson ; " on your
plot to wreck my friend Galbraith's house the

other night and on your threatened action lor
slander against Mr. Eapsey."

And what the devil business have you with
either the house or Rapsey ? " said Shelman,
hotly, as he endeavoured to pass out.

Just this," said Bryceson, " as I happened
to be m the house when your vagabonds
attacked it "

My vagabonds ! " cried Shelman. " How
dare you speak to me in this way, sir ? What
do you mean ? Stand out of my path, or I
will stop your insolence in a way which you
won't like ! "

I mean exactly what I say, sir," said
Bryceson, " and it'll take a better man than
you to stop me. As I was just as likely to
suffer as my friend, that part of the affair is
my business, and as I intend to interfere between
you and Mr. Rapsey on account of a
certain interest I have in the matter, that's my
business too ; at any rate, I choose to make it
so. Now, sir, just explain your conduct in
the first matter, will you ? "

Mr. Millard had listened to this conversation
with feelings which it would be hard to describe.
He now interfered.

Mr. Bryceson — Mr. Shelman — for goodness'

sake — what does tMs mean ? Gentlemen,
I beg of you to be calm."

riltell you what it means," said Bryceson,
answering the question, but by no means
acceding to the request. " You were over atour
place a Httle while ago concerning a certain
young captive whom we took on the night of
the election — allow me to introduce you to his
employer," and he indicated Sherman.

Do you mean to insult me ? " shouted
Sherman, beside himself with rage. " Let me
pass, or "

What will you do ? Do you think you
are dealing with little Kapsey, you bully ?
Do you know that we've your confederate's
confession ? You scoundrel, I believe the
whole of the work of that riot was your
doing ! "

You are a har ! " yelled Shelman ; " stand
out of my way."

I won't ! " said Bryceson, as much roused
as the other.

Take that, then," shrieked Shelman, and
dashed his fist at the other's face.

Short but fierce was the fray that followed.
Both were powerfully made young men, in
the very prime of manhood, Sherman half mad

with rage and Bryceson roused in an unusual
devotee. But the latter was the stronger and
the more skilful, and when the first half-dozen
hot, wild, uncalculated slugs had passed, Sherman,
who, with all his faults, had not a particle
of physical cowardice in his composition,
discovered that he was unable to make any
impression on his foe, and that he himself was
being desperately punished. Three times was
he hit back against the wall, the narrowness of
the place in which, they were fighting precluding
a knock down blow ; at last he managed
to shift his position, and trusting to the moral
effect of a rush he dashed in to drive his enemy
before him, but was twice hit back again by
Bryceson's left, and, rushing in a third time
with head down, hoping to be successful with
the goat-ike tactics of the late Edward Stockman,
Esq., a distinguished and refined member
of the Prize Ring, better known to fame as the
Lively Kid," he was met with a fearful upper
cut and a straight hit from his opponent's right
that knocked him down in a huddled-up mass
at the bottom of the *' Bear " steps.

The scene that followed Alas as exciting as
any in the annals of the town. When the
paralysis of surprise was over, half a score

persons, headed by PinnifFer and ex-Mayor
Killett, threw themselves between the combatants
and prevented any further contest for
the present. Bursting through the crowd that
had speedily collected came the negro Edward,
with a war-gleam in his rolling eyes and a
display of teeth that was diabolical in the eyes
of the youths who flocked to the spot. The
hubbub that rose was fearful. Mr. Millard
was endeavouring to make peace, the spectators
all talking at the top of their voices, the negro
assisting his present master, Markham threat -
endings a Mend of Shelman's who had uttered
some words derogatory to Bryceson, and the
combatants themselves on the point of renewing
the battle in spite of the well-wishers, who
were respectfully but firmly endeavoring to
prevent it. In the midst of all this ]mr. Sennett,
the Mayor, came upon the scene and
forced his way into the middle of the crowd.

What is the meaning of this, Millard ? "
he asked.

God knows ! " said the astonished Millard.
I don't ! "

Gentlemen, have you taken leave of your
senses ? " cried the Mayor.

Neither foe replied, but such obviously hostile

preparations for renewing the fray went
forward that the Mayor's temper was roused
by the disregard of his authority.

Mr. Sherman and Mr. Bryceson," he cried,
if you do not instantly cease this disgraceful
struggle and depart quietly, I will issue my
warrant against each of you for a breach of the
Queen's peace, and imprison you both ! I call
on all present to assist me in the Queen's
name ! "

The sturdy old fellow meant what he said,
and a murmur of respect went up from the
crowd. Bryceson and Sherman scowled at
each other fiercely, and, if the truth must be
told, a little melodramatically ; then Markham,
seizing Walter's arm, pushed through the crowed
with him and entered the " Bear," followed bv
the negro. Sherman, bleeding profusely from
the face, and already sick and faint from the
fearful blows he had received, was supported
across the market-place towards his home by
Killett and one of the bank clerks who had
been present at the row.

How many venerable and respectable heads
were shaken over the news, how many pipes
were smoked over it, and from how many
points the fight was discussed, would be hard

to say. Two persons in Avonham, besides the
principals, each of whom next morning was
somewhat ashamed of the affair, were in a
sad state of mind over the matter. One was
Adolphus Carter, who could see nothing but
harm to himself ensuing from the occurrence ;
the other Timothy Kapsey, who paraded the
town like a discontented bee, extracting from
every possible source the countless descriptions
of the combat that were hying about the town,
and after every fresh piece of formation exclaiming,
with heartfelt and sincere regTct :

Oh, deary me, deary me, what a misfortune,
to be sure ! Oh dear, oh dear, why ever
wasn't I there ? "

-^

^=-T^—E(F5fe1— ^

^^

THE MURMUR OF THE HIVE.

nestor in Ms long and honoured life must
have met with novelty in the minds of men.
We may fairly imagine that he would sometimes
shake his venerable head over the changes
that were taking place in his latter days. Certain
it is that his representative in Avonham,
Master Killett, was compelled to own that he
had never known such all-absorbing interest
shown in the town of which he was the Nestor
as was displayed over the encounter between
Bryceson and Shelman. There was no getting
a word in on any other subject next market
day. Every farmer who attended market had
to be regaled with the news ; fifteen different
reasons were assigned for the quarrel ; partisans
were not wanting for both sides, and the town
was in a ferment. Those highly favoured
individuals who had been fortunate enough to
be actual eye-witnesses of the combat itself
found their company more eagerly sought after

than on any other market day in their recollection.
Generally speaking, they were to be
found in a group together somewhere in the
immediate neighbourhood of the battle-field,
for it was deemed almost indispensable to the
proper telling of the tale that the listener should
have pointed out to him the actual spot on
which the meeting took place, the very steps
down which Shelman had been propelled, the
exact square of stone on which Bryceson had
stood when he delivered his last and most
effective blow, and the precise course which the
Mayor had taken when he bore down upon the
combatants and prevented the affray from
going any further. So that the gateway of
the '' Bear," always the busiest spot in the
town on market day, was more thronged than
ever, and from early morning till late in the
afternoon the battle was fought a^-ain.

Attached in some mysterious manner to the
history was a rumour that there had been
some suspicion m the mmds of some of the best
men m Avonham as to the Avonham Bank.
Xorton had quite accurately foreseen that the
quarrel of his irascible young principal with
Rapsey was one which it would be well to

adjust, and that no good would come of it.
VOL. II. " 31

When the news of the meeting between
Bryceson and Sherman reached his ears, the
cashier was supplied with a reason for the
conduct of Timothy earlier in the day. There
was a gleam of comfort for him, however, for
it gave him the opportunity of explaining the
circumstances to other customers who might
otherwise have been tempted by rumour to
act m the same manner as others had done.
Towards one .or two of the townspeople who
had drawn heavily, Mr. Xorton was rather
sharp m his manner when next he met them,
and he had the satisfaction of seems Messrs.
Beadlemore, Artoo, and Follwell presenting
themselves at the Bank to pay m adam to
their accounts, and of hearing from Barnabas
Chickleholt that a knowledge of the real facts
of the case would have prevented the heavy
withdrawal that had alarmed him the day
before.

From the fact that the occurrence was one
for discussion in the Bank itself, it may easily
be supposed that public opinion was pretty
well settled as to the merits of the case.
Shelman had a minority of champions, actuated
chiefly by the fact that his opponent was a
stranger to the town, but on the whole the

verdict of all the informal juries in the place
was against him. There had been a rush
made for Timothy Rapsej, at once, by the
seekers for information, and to a knot of his
cronies the little man had imparted all the
story. It was received with amazement at
first and then with indignation. Be it remembered
that the glaziers had but newly finished
the renovation of the shattered window-frames,
that Avonham men — of the lower orders,
it is true, but still Avonham men for all that
were yet in middletown Gaol eating the
porridge of affliction for their share of the
riot, toiling painfully on the hated treadmill
and picking ruefully at the loathsome oakum,
for participation in a tumult which the town
almost unanimously decided was brought about
by the defeated one. It was useless to argue
that the commencement of the disturbance,
which had everywhere earned for xVvonham
such an unenviable reputation, a reputation
most bitterly resented by its really peaceable
habitants, was accidental — the scapegoat
had been found, and, despite his exalted
position in the place, he had many stones
fimig at him. It would have galled his fiery

spirit had he heard those who had been

31—2

accustomed to fawn on him now loudest in
their denunciations, and it was well for his
peace of mind that the injuries inflicted on
him by his stalwart conqueror were so severe
as to necessitate strict confinement to his
house, and even to demand medical aid.

During this period of excitement and universal
thirst for news and gossip, there was
one person in Avonham who was supremely
uncomfortable It was fortunate that the
principal portion of Adolphus Carter's work
was mere routine, or assuredly the interests of
his employer would have suffered from the
abstraction and preoccupation of his articled
pupil, who, ordinarily, could be trusted with
important affairs, and who had not m the
least exaggerated his abilities when he had
declared that he was not a fool in his business.
The worst result of his folly that he had
pictured to himself was that Shelman would
have been compelled to eat a little humble-pie
with Timothy Rapsey, and he had not comites,
as indeed his friend had not, on the vigorous
and forcible action of Walter Bryceson beg the
first outcome of his confession of his misdeeds
and the share that Shelman had had in them.
From a distance he had witnessed the discomfiture

of his associate, and had not dared to move
hand or foot m his service ; and now seated
at his desk he pondered ruefully over the
probable consequences to himself He found
no comfort from his meditations ; the more he
thought the matter over the blacker looked
the prospect to him. To add to his woes, too,
every one of the callers at mr. Bompas's office
seemed to imagine that he took the highest
interest m the affray, and plied him sith
awkward questions and distasteful chatter.
Perhaps the one slender piece of consolation
which came to him was the thought that
Shelman had met the punishment with which
he had threatened him m his irritation. But
it was scanty consolation, after all, and there
was no man m Avonham that day with
thoughts more bitter, and prospects more
gloomy, than Adolphus Carter.

It took him a long time to make up his
mind to visit the defeated man, and it was
more through fear of incurring; his ano^er
than from sympathy with him that he at last
determined to do so. He quitted the office
ostensibly for dimmer, and made his way
do^Ti the bustling and busy street, gi^^ng the
briefest returns to the various greetings he

received. The man who opened the door to
him, Sherman's own servant, looked doubtful
when he asked to see his master.

Master's very ill, sir," he said hesitatingly,
adding after a pause, " I suppose you know,
sir ? "

Carter nodded.

I'll take your name up, Mr. Carter,
and see if master will see you," said the
man.

Carter waited the man's return with some
trepidation. In a minute he came downstairs
and asked Carter to walk up.

"Is he in bed ? " Adolphus asked, as he
prepared to mount the stairs.

No, sir," answered the man, " he's in his
room, sir, but he is sitting up. Doctor
Mompesson wanted him to remain in bed,
but master was obstinate and would get up.
We've had an awful time nth him, sir," he
added, lowering his voice to a confidential
whisper, " there's no pleasing him or doing
anything right for him. I hope you've
brought no news to upset him, sir ? "

This intelligence was the reverse of soothing
to Adolphus' s already agitated nerves, and
he ascended to his friend's bedroom with a

hearty inward wish that he had never thought
of coming.

Alfred Sherman was not a pretty sight to look
at, certainly. His forehead was swollen and
discoloured, his eyes were almost closed, and
there was a cut milder one of them ; his nose
was as red as a beetroot, and his lips tlmce
their usual thickness ; there was a long strip
of plaster crossed with smaller sips, where
the back of his head had come in contact
with the stones ; where no marks were visible
his face was deadly pale, and his trembling
hands proved that the shock to his system had
been severe. Ko one would have doubted the
physical courage with which he had faced his
opponent after seeing the terrible results of
the battle. Adolphus was seized with new
terrors as he reflected on what might have
been his lot on the night of the election, and
what Fate might yet have m store for him.

My dear fellow," he said, advancing and
holding out his hand in token of sympathy,
I am awfully sorry to see you like this."

Are you ? " said Shelman, without taking
the proffered hand ; " you ought to be. Now
perhaps you will be satisfied, when you seethe
result of your cursed folly."

He spoke with difficulty and indeed with
pain, but even then his paled face flushed
with rage, and the distortion of his features
gave him so evil an appearance that Carter
felt mclmed to flee.

He stood his ground, however, and commenced
his exculpation.

I can't really see," he began, "how I am
to blame ; I would have suffered anything, I
am sure, to have prevented it."

I wish you had to suffer this ! " said
Shelman fiercely, striking his head, though he
winced and groaned from the pam the hasty
action caused him ; " but I'll be revenged on
the pair of you when I get about again. If
there is any law in the land, that brawling
bully shall suffer its penalties, and you may
look to yourself, Adolphus Carter, for I will
be even with you for your share in the affair,
trust me ! "

I declare," said Adolphus earnestly, " upon
my most sacred word of honour — "

Your sacred word of honour," said Sherman
with a sneer. " That will be a precious
guarantee for any asseveration you may be
eroinof to make ! "

My word of honour," said Carter, reddening,

" was as good as any man's in Avonham
till you and your uncle upset the town with
that cursed election, which has brought us
both into trouble ; and then, if it had not been
for our personal spite against those two, we
should not have had anything worse than the
regret of defeat. I don't defend myself, but
it is not very generous of you to throw all
the blame upon me. I have suffered quite
as much as you have, though in a different
way. You're not just, Shelman."

It's your turn to triumph over me now,"
said Sherman, viciously, " but you wait for
my turn ! Whether I'm just or not. I'll let
you know my power, at any rate."

'' I have not the least desire to triumph
over you," said Carter ; '^ you are very wrong
in thinking so ; and as for your revenge, your
sentiments on that head are positively wicked."

Are you o'oino^ to preach me a sermon,
you hypocrite ? " snarled Shelman.

No, I am not," answered Adolphus.
Perhaps you think that you are to be
allowed to threaten and bully without meeting
any retort or defence ; do you expect that
I shall permit you to injure me without my
ret aha ting ? Don't you drive to desperation

a man who lias been already driven hard
enough and far enough, through carrying out
your dirty plans."

Shelman's features became perfectly fiendish
with passion. He rose from the armchair in
which he was sitting, and made a half-step
towards Carter, who prepared for an attack.
The effort was, however, too much for him,
and he sank back with a groan of pain. Fora
minute or two he passed his hand over his
forehead, whilst Adolphus stood watching him
with a face full of alarm, and, to do him justice,
of sympathy'.

You are ill," he said at last — " let me get
you some brandy or something ; can you tell
me where it is ? "

Shelman's physical pain conquered his rage
for a time ; he pointed to a cupboard, from
which Carter took some brandy and gave him
some, mixed with water.

I won't agitate you by any more talk,"
said he, when he had rendered him this service
; " I really did not come here to quarrel
or to blame you ; my only object was to see
how you were."

Well," said Shelman faintly, but with no
abatement of his malice, " now you have seen

and feasted your eyes on my condition —
you can go."

I am oroinc:," said Carter, taking this hat
from the table, '' but before I do go I will say
one thing "

Say it quickly and go then," said Sherman.


You are very foolish to quarrel with me,"
said Carter impressively, turning as he spoke,
for I verily believe that I am the only friend
you have in Avonham at the present minute."

His hand was on the handle of the door,
and he was going, when Shelman cried out
hoarsely, " Stop ! come here, come back ; sit
down and wait a minute while I recover a
little." Adolphus turned back and sat down ;
Shelman struo;oied with himself, and drank a
little more of the brandy and water.

Tell me," he said, " what they are saying
about this affair in the town. I suppose the
whole place is full of it ? "

]mr. Carter owned that it had been the chief
topic of conversation that day.

Curse the cackling fools ! what are they
saying about it ? "

They put it down to the election and the
attack on the ^ Coombes,' " answered Carter ;

of course, sou know, Timothy Eapsey has
been talkmo-."

o

"Has he said anything against the Bank ? "
said Sherman eagerly, " has he done that ? "

I don't know that he has," said Carter,
I haven't been near the little brute all day
I only know what has passed from conversations
I have had with people in the office."

Find out, will you ? " said Sherman ;
"get to know all that he has said, speak to
him yourself ; don't frighten him, but get out
of him all you can and let me know tomorrow.
Hush I here is someone coming upstairs.
Don't say a word of this before him, whoever
he may be ! "

The servant knocked at the door, and receiving
permission to enter, announced Doctor
Mompesson, who followed immediately on his
heels.

The doctor gave a glance of displeasure at
the visitor, and shook his finger reproachingly
at the patient.

This won't do, Sherman, you know ; I
must forbid you to see any visitors for a day
or two."

I was so confoundedly hipped here all
alone, doctor," said Sherman, taking the

excuse out of Carter's mouth, " that when
Carter called I ordered him to be shown up."

I haven't been here ten mutes, Doctor,"
said Carter, and extending this hand to his
unfortunate friend, who, this time, did not
refuse it, he backed out of the room. Outside
the house he waited for the doctor, who made
his appearance m about a quarter of an hour.
He was not driving, so Carter joked him, and
they walked downwards together.

What do you think of him ? " he asked.

What do you ? " said the doctor drily.

I thuik he looks very bad," said Carter.

He is very bad," said Doctor Mompesson,
and your visit hasn't done him any good ; I
have given strict injunctions that no one is
to be admitted to see him yet, not even his
uncle."

I didn't think I was doing any harm by
calling," said Carter, penitently ; "of course
I was naturally anxious to know how he was
getting on."

Naturally," answered the doctor, '* but he
must be kept in perfect quietness."

I suppose," said Adolphus, hesitatingly,
'• he has been — been soundly — I mean very
severely injured ! "

He has been handled about as roughly as
ever a man was," answered Doctor Mompesson
gravely. " Before you were born, Mr. Adolphus,
and when I was a younger man, I
attended a good many prize-rights — it was
more the fashion then — and I don't think I
can remember the case of a man receiving
such an amount of punishment in so short a
space of time. If you have any difference
with Mr. Bryceson, don't attempt to settle it
that way, young fellow, I advise you."

Adolphus, recollecting how narrowly he
had escaped the same treatment, experienced
the sensation quaintly described as that of "a
person walking over his grave."

"Is he in any danger ? " he asked after
walking on silently for half a minute.

No immediate danger," said the doctor,
so long as he is kept perfectly quiet, as I
told you, and that is why I have put the veto
on any callers. Encephalitis is what I'm most
afraid of," he added, half to himself and half
to Carter, " but we can avoid that with care,
I think."

Adolphus had not the slightest idea of what
encephalitis might be, and was somewhat
alarmed at the idea that his confederate was

in danger of an ailment with so formidable a
name.

I hope lie will soon recover," he said, and
really meant it too.

I hope so," answered the doctor, '' for his
own sake and for other people's as well."

And with these parting words, which bore
no grain of consolation to Adolphus, the doctor
bade him good-day and crossed the road
to call on an old friend who would be treated
by no one else, although, as we have before
said, Doctor Mompesson had practically retired
from his profession.

Adolphus turned moodily into South Street,
but brightened up as he saw Timothy Rapsey
on the other side of the way. For a moment
he forgot Shelman's advice not to frighten
him, and determined that he should share
the unpleasant feelings under which he himself
was suffering. He crossed the road and
accosted the little man.

This is a bad business about Shelman,"
he commenced, carefully watching Timothy's
face.

Ah ! " said Timothy, looking wise, " perhaps
it will teach mr. Shelman a lesson, Mr.
Carter."

I'm afraid it will teach some one else
a lesson," answered Carter, lugubriously. " I
wouldn't be in your shoes if he were to die,
Rapsey ; you set Mr. Bryceson on to him, you
know. It's your fault from beginning to end,
and I only hope you won't have precious good
cause to remember it."

But," stammered Timothy, not attempting
to protest his guiltlessness in the matter,
but dreadfully alarmed by this speech, "Mr.
Shelman isn't m any danger is he ? "

Isri't he ? " said Carter, nodding his head
m the emphatic manner which generally accompanies
this question when put sarcastically.


Xo, but is he ? " said Timothy, much
alarmed, he scarcely knew at what ; " you
talked about his dying, Mr. Carter — he's not
gong to die you know."

Isnthe ?" said Adolphus, nodding again
m the same manner. " I don't know anything
about it ; all I know is that he's got
something I can't pronounce, and that Doctor
Mompesson is very doubtful how the case
will end, and I wish you joy of your interference,
Mr. Rapsey I "

So saying, Adolphus Carter flung himself

into his office, leaving Timothy, much disturbed,
to wend his way towards the marketplace,
shaking his head very solemnly over
the mysterious disease that ]mr. Carter could
not pronounce, and wondering how long it
took to kill a patient suiFermg from it. Mr.
Rapsey was so ill at ease that he did not, as
usual, join the busy throng in the streets, but
retired to his own quarters, where he passed
the afternoon reading a large illustrated edition
of the " Death of Abel." He met Edward
in the evening, and confided to him what he
had heard of Shelman's condition.

It ses' serves Mas'r Shelman right," said
the negro. " In de fus' place, car wasn't de
leas' 'souse for 'um int'ferin' wit our house
or de people in it. An', in de second' place,
Mas'r Eapsey, a feller 'at's got a head like a
bun ain't got no bizness gom' fighting."

^^

Pr

VOL. II. 32

Hoar THE CURRENT FLOWED.

Very demure looked the yomig ladies of the
Bompas family on their return to Avonham,
a week after the events last narrated. The
only outward signs of their London visit were
some sweet novelties m Regent Street dresses
and Bond Street bonnets, which so far as the
female portions of his congregation was concerned,
completely nullified any of the preaching
of the good old vicar, on the first Sunday
after their arrival, and caused many Avonham
young ladies to give way to outbursts of semi-hysterical
satire, and many matrons to thank
Heaven that their daughters were not as other
men's were. The young ladies themselves
were soon the recipients of feminine congratulations
couched in various shades of envy,
hatred, and malice, but to them, who could,
as we have observed, take their own part in
this phase of feminine warfare remarkably
well, these gave but little concern. They
were perfectly prepared for the satire, whereas

the resident maidens had not counted on
the bonnets.

Those who hastened to pour into the ears of
the worthy father of our fair friends the thrilling
history of the latest battle of Avonham
were a little disappointed at finding that their
news was stale. They were met on the
threshold of their story by the information that
the whole facts of the case were well known to
him. Xever suspecting the source fi:'om which
he had obtained his knowledge — for, like most
inquisitive people, they were unable to perceive
the facts that lay under their very noses — they
imagined that Mr. Bompas had been made
acquainted with all that had passed in Avon-ham
during his absence, fi'om correspondence
with his fi:"iends and his ofl&ce. They were
also disappointed at getting no opinion fit-om
him upon the subject, beyond the broad statement
that it was a pity for young men to
quarrel, that a personal encounter was at all
times a matter for regret and a thing to be
deplored by the friends of both parties, that
the whole affair appeared to be the result
of injudicious chatter, and that he, for one,
declined to commit himself to any other expression
of opinion about it.

32—2

Mr. Bompas oracularly delivered this opinion
at the first meeting of the Club which he
attended after his return from London, and
his ideas being warmly supported by Mr.
Sennett, and by peace-loving Reuben Matley,
who possessed that influence which a uniformly
quiet man of parts always has in a country town,
the matter, after a good deal of cogitation on
the part of those who had made it the leading
topic for a ^^ek, became unpopular and began
to lose interest in. Avonham.

During the period of Mr. Bompas's stay in
London, the town had been deprived of the
presence of three more of its shining lights.
Mrs. Stanliope had been absent and Sir
Headingly Cannn had been seeking relaxation
from his labours. Mr. Boldham had likewise
withdrawn the light of his countenance for
awhile, and therefore the interest of the town
was considerably whetted when, within a few
days of each other, all these notabilities returned
to Avonham. Old inhabitants began to think
that life in Marlshire was exciting for aged
nerves, and the middle-aged and young natives
would have, at this time, repudiated with scorn
any insinuation that the place could, with any
fairness, be described as dull.

Mrs. Stanhope returned for the purpose of
setting her house in order before her marriage.
She was going also to give another of her
receptions to the county magnates, and wished
her last independent fixture to be a success.
It had been agreed between the various parties
interested in the forthcoming marriage, that no
announcement of it should be permitted to
tickle the ears of the Avonham folk just yet.
There was no intention of concealing the
ceremony when it did take place ; on the
contrary, it was determined that all Avonham
should be gay that day, and that the affair
should be as brilliant as possible.

Sir Headingly Cami had returned for the
purpose of overhauling and hastening such
portions of the political rigging of the good
ship Britannia as were entrusted to his care.
He had to meet his constituents, to congratulate
them on the fact that the country, which had
been in such deadly peril whilst the opposite
party had been the Ins, was now saved by the
fact that the opposite party were now the Outs.
He also felt that, after the late contest, it
behoved him to keep a careful watch over the
town, so as to be able to hand over the political
succession to his nephew, when the time came,

unfettered by the unpleasant conditions of a
hard-fought election.

Walter Rivers accompanied Sir Headingly,
and was on the most excellent terms with
himself and the whole world. His suit was
prosperous, as it could not fail to be if there
were any sense of gratitude in woman, for the
young fellow left no stone unturned to please
and gratify the mistress of his heart. Anything
like youthful sentiment would have been
thrown away on a woman of the strength of
mind and force of character of Mrs. Stanhope,
and Rivers was not so shallow or so shortsighted
as to attempt it. But there are other
forms of adoration, more suitable for a woman
who confesses to having passed thirty-five, and
confesses it without making any bones about
it ; and Walter Rivers was quite man of the
world enough to know them. So it followed
that the course of this particular true love
commenced smoothly and fairly enough, however
it might be destined to end.

Mr. Boldham came back to see how much
mischief his nephew had done in his absence,
and to endeavour to patch up matters as best
he could. His was no congenial task but a
most difficult one, for, setting aside the

temporary scare about the Bank, at which he
could afford to laugh, the mismanagement of
Shelman occurring just at the time when he
was making his bow to the world as a politician
was vastly embarrassing to the ambitious man,
whom it injured most of all.

To Timothy Rapsey's great relief, Alfred
Shelman did not succumb to the pronounces
disease, and a few days after his uncle's
arrival was again about in the town. What
had passed between him and Mr. Boldham no
one knew, but it was surmised that it was nota
pleasant meeting for either of them. Those
who knew anything of the affairs of the Bank
were aware that it was impossible that Sherman's
position could be assailed by his uncle,
that he held too much influence and had too
much capital in the concern to be treated even
as an ordinary partner, and it was whispered
among a chosen and select few that at the interview
the younger man had more than held
his own against the elder.

The inhabitants of the " Coombes " went on
much as usual. It was a matter of great wonderment
to some of the townspeople as to who
was the real owner of the house, for Bryceson
seemed as much at home in it as Galbraith

lead been, and Fred Markham speedily occupied
in the place the position previously filled by
Bryceson. There appeared to be a good deal
of cordial intercourse between the two young
men and Mr. Bompas's family, and Mr. Millard
seemed to be on' excellent terms at the house,
which had been exalted into a veritable Aladdin's
palace of wonders by the graphic descriptions
given of the interior by Mr. Eapsey.

Two conversations which took place a few
days after Mrs. Stanhope's return would perhaps
have caused as much wonder if both had
been heard, as the display of a roc's egg on the
roof of the " Coombes " would have done. It
was a fine morning, and Bryceson and Markham
mounted their horses for a visit to Aylesbury,
where old Millard had offered them
some shooting. Crossing the market-place
slowly, they came upon the carriage of Mrs.
Stanhope standing, as on another occasion
which we have noticed, at the door of Mr.
Polhmoy's shop. Mrs. Stanhope had left the
carriage and was in the shop, waited on as
before by Traveller Polhmoy. Mr. Fred
Markham dismounted and entered.

I want a pocket-book, if you please," said
he to Miss Ruth Polhmoy.

Miss Pollimoy went to the back of the shop
to get the desired article. Fred stood with
his back to the counter for the two minutes
which she occupied in her search, and looked
round the shop ; Mrs. Stanhope, seated sideways
at the opposite counter, looked across at
him and noticed two things — one that he was
an uncommonly handsome young man, the
other that he was glancing at her in a manner
which she construed to be one of admiration.
She was not displeased, she was accustomed to
being admired ; there was nothing bold in the
glance either, and the man was evidently a
gentleman.

There was very little difficulty about the
selection of the pocket-book ; Markham handled
two or three, chose one, paid for it, left the
shop, and mounted his horse.

Who is that ? " asked the Queen of Avon-ham,
as he rode away.

I don't know the gentleman's name,
madam," said Mr. Pollimoy, " but he is staying
with Mr. Bryceson, the gentleman on the other
horse, at Mr. Galbraith's house, the one that
he purchased of you, madam."

Indeed," said Mrs. Stanhope, carelessly.

Yes, madam," said Pollimoy, " he has not

been here long, indeed lie only arrived on the
day " — here he gave a little cough — " previous
to the — the unfortunate encounter between
Mr. Shelman and Mr. Bryceson — of which I
daresay, madam, you have heard."

I have heard of it," said Mrs. Stanhope.

A very deplorable circumstance," ventured
Mr. Pollimoy, quoting Mr. Bompas at the Club.

In one way, certainly," said Mrs. Stanhope,
rising and unclasped her purse to pay
the bill which Mr. Pollimoy had deferentially
laid before her, " but as Mr. Shelman never
loses an opportunity of making himself excessively
disagreeable and obnoxious to everyone
around him, it is perhaps a very good
thing that he has found someone in Avonham
with spirit enough to refuse to submit to his
arrogance, and ability to give him a punishment
which he has thoroughly deserved for a
long time past. I am only sorry it was not
done before, and sincerely glad that it has
been done now."

Mr. Pollimoy' s astonishment fairly overcame
his obsequiousness ; he returned Mrs. Stanhope
her change with a wild stare, and without
a word of thanks, and completely forgot to
execute his little run round his counter to the

door, and thence to the carriage, as his patron
went away. For the first time Mrs. Stanhope
went out of the stationer's shop unattended,
and she left the proprietor staring at his
daughter in a feeble and foolish manner, and
with thoughts almost too deep for expression
m words.

Ruth, my dear," he said solemnly, " did
you hear what Mrs. Stanhope said ? "

Yes, papa."

Did you ever hear anything more astonishing
in your Hfe, Ruth ? "

Well, yes, papa, I have. I am not so
much astonished as you seem to be."

You are not so much astonished as I seem
to be," repeated Mr. Pollimoy slowly ; -' and
pray why are you not so much astonished as I
seem to be ? as I am, indeed ? "

Perhaps," said Ruth PolHmoy, laughing —
she was a merry girl, with more than the
average Avonham sense of humour — " perhaps
I could answer your question better if you told
me what there is in Mrs. Stanhope's last
speech that causes you so much astonishment."

My dear," said Mr. Polhmoy, " I don't
know what you have thought of it, but it has
been my idea, and the idea, too, of a great

many people who have more reason to know
than I have, that if there was a likely match
m Avonham, it was Mrs. Stanhope and Mr.
Alfred Shelman. Do you wonder at my feelings
astonished ? "

Xot milder those circumstances, papa,"
answered Miss Ruth, " but you were completely
wrong about Mrs. Stanhope and Mr.
Shelman. I never thought that would come
to anything."

Didn't you, my dear ? "

Oh dear no," said Ruth, laughing and
shaking her pretty curls, " and I'm very glad
for Mrs. Stanhope's sake that it isn't so, for
my opinion of Mr. Shelman is precisely the
same as hers is."

Well, my dear, it is not my place to say
anything against Mr. Shelman, but I must
say he has an unpopular manner with him.
Nevertheless with respect to Mrs. Stanhope's
words about him, I have never been more astonished
in all my life. N'o," he added reflectively,
out of the depths of his vast experience
of the world, " not in the course of all my
travels have I been more surprised."

Perhaps Mrs. Stanhope had calculated on
leaving some such astonishment behind her.

and lead reckoned on the fact that her opinion
of the man whose name had once been coupled
with hers, and whom she had so decisively
rejected, would, in gossiping Avonham, be
brought to his ears, for the leader of Avonham
society was not in the habit of taking her
tradesmen into her confidence.

When Markham had emerged from the shop,
and had vomited, the friends rode on together
until they were clear of the town, and out of
hearing of anyone. Then Bryceson, checking
his horse, said :

Well ? "

Well, I never had the slightest doubt of
the matter in my own mind, after Harry described
to me the way he had followed on her
track, but it's some satisfaction to have seen
her for myself," said Markham.

There is no doubt at all, I suppose ? "
asked Bryceson earnestly, and with emphasis.

There is not the shadow of a doubt,"
answered Markham, " I will swear it is the
same woman ! "

Has she altered much ? "

Less than you would fancy ; she is statelier
and looks quieter, and on the whole has
improved vastly in her appearance. Tom

Reynolds knew her a good deal better than
any of Reginald's friends, for Tom was always
round at Reggie's house. Of course you and
Harry where at college then ; Tom used often
to tell me that she would never rest easy unless
she had every man in the room dancing attendance
and making open love to her. It used
to drive Reginald mad, poor fellow ! and I
expect there where words about it when they
were alone, and that led to the other affair. I
don't knows whether she meant any harm at
first, but I suppose it's confoundedly hard fora
woman like that to pull up when once she
commences to take the down-hill road."

How do you account," said Bryceson,
when they had ridden a Httle farther, " for a
wild bird like that settling down comfortably
and contentedly in this sleepy old hencoop ? "

Women are strange animals," was the only
solution to the problem that Fred Markham
could find.

I shall be glad to see Harry back," said
Bryceson, "for if anything should take place
in his absence that made it necessary for
matters to be brought to a head, I should
find myself in the unpleasant position of setting
the town on fire for the second time."

"Yes, Avoiiliam will have something to
talk about if there is any exposure ; you'll
make a heroic figure jumping up m church
and forbidding the basis, if Harry's surmise
is correct and the dear creature thinks of venturing
her neck in the matrimonial noose for
the third time. Well, I'll stand by you, old
boy, and, mind you, we hold a very strong
hand in the o'ame."

And that, and the knowledge that I'm
serving Harry and Reginald, are my only
consolations, I assure you."

With that, the conversation dropped, and
the two friends were soon busily engaged in
discussing the capital lunch which Mrs. Millard
set before the young men, prior to their
making havoc among her husband's partridges.


Mr. PoUimoy was not chary of imparting
the news of Mrs. Stanhope's comments on the
late affray to his cronies ; and her opinion
was not long in reaching Mr. Alfred Shelman's
ears. The lines of this young man were not,
just now, cast in pleasant places. Baulked of
obtaining the widow's hand, made the object
of her open satire and scorn, thrashed like a
dog in the open market-place, terrified by the

probability of being made an accessory to the
riot, and conscious that, without possessing
the power of retaliation, he was the theme of
all the idle chatter of the town, it is certain
that for whomsoever the current of life was
flowing smoothly, it was the reverse of placid
for him.

To Walter Rivers, on the other hand, everything
seemed to be going well. A handsome
and wealthy bride, a parliamentary career,
which he felt would be an honourable one,
riches and influence were all at his feet. He
regarded both his past and his future with
complacency, regretting little in the former,
fearing nothing m the latter ; and yet both he
and his affianced wife, whilst dreaming that
they were simply floating down a limpid
stream, that led with easy gliding to happiness
and fame, were being imperceptibly swept
along on a treacherous river that had hidden
rocks and deadly depths, and led from peaceful
scenes and tranquil places to the roaring
and destroying ocean.

END OF VOL. II.

iBtsroitwsBWiiasKBS^^

^'J/fjvrv Scott Vinci

m.

€)

OF THE

UN IVLR.5ITY

Of ILLINOIS



^ Tiovcl

BY

Henry SCOTT YIXCE.

/ y THREE VOL U M E S
VOL. III.

Ward AND DOWNEY,
ll, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1889.

KELLY AND CO., Jumble MILL, KINGSTON-ON-TUAMES

AND GATE Street, Lincoln INN FIELDS, W.C.

CON TE Ants.

CHAP. PAGE

I.— Under the kindly Moon 1

II. — The Harvesting of the "Whirlwind . . 15

III. — A Bombshell in Mr. Bompas's Pew . . S'2

IV. — A Maid of the West Saxons . 51

V. — Crowner's Quest Law . . .78

VI. — "The Avonham Murder" . 88

VII. — The Footfall of Nemesis 112

Vni. — For want op an absent Witness 133

IX. — A Period of Suspense 153

X.— At the Sound of a well-known Voice . 174

XI. — After many Years . 186

XII. — Out of the Jaws of Death . . . 198

XIII.— Old Mas'r Killett sums up . . . 220

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/twopardonsnovel03vinc

CHAPTER I.

UNDER THE KINDLY MOON.

The storm had blown itself out. There were
no long scudding clouds driving across the
disc of the peaceful moon, hiding her cheery,
inquisitive, mischief seeing face. She had
come up in all her glory and thrown a shining
streak across the broad bosom of the long-waved
Atlantic, like a baldric of gold on the
breastplate of Thor ; the night was beautiful
with stars, and the wind was singing softly its
wondrous song of the sea.

The good ship " Scotia " ploughed her swift
way over the waves with flogging paddles and
straining sails. Her course for an hour had
led her right along the golden moon-track,
and, lured by the tales of the soft beauty of
the night, her passengers, storm-rolled and

wind-whipped for three days, were leaving
VOL. III. 33

cabin, saloon, and berth, to bask in the
glorious light that brightened all the deck,
save where it threw dark shadow of mast, or
spar, or sail. In couples, in knots, and in
rings, they grouped themselves, and some
with song or merry tale, and some with graver
talk, passed the hour before turning in.

Among the quieter passengers, who talked
unheedful of the gaiety and melody of the
larger groups, were two with whom we have
especially to deal.

They sat on deck chairs at a part of the
vessel not favoured by the more jovial companies,
Galbraith smoking, and both for a longtime
silent. Yet they where not sad. In the
heart of one of them was bounding a wild joy,
a sense of gratified desire and fulfilled hope
that made it surely one of the lightest in the
ship, and the other was happy in recovered
freedom, m regained manhood, in emancipated
mind and unrestrained limbs. But silence is
the luxury of joy, and their very happiness
kept them mute.

Harry Galbraith was bearing back to England,
to light, to life, the brother whom he
had mourned as dead.

Reginald AYildino: was leavings behind him

o o o

the horrid gloom of insanity, the lonely room,
the unsympathetic faces of his attendants, the
despair of his lucid moments, the nameless
horrors of a brain uncurbed by reason ; leaving
them behind him as we leave behind us a bad
dream, at the very um"eahty of which we
shudder when we wake. Every turn of the
mighty engines bore one farther away from all
that was most dreadful in his life, and carried
the other nearer and nearer to love, to friends,
to home.

Reginald Building was the first to break the
silence.

I think I laye found my sea-legs at last,
Harry," he said ; "I shall get used to it, and
be as o^ood a sailor as eyer : will you give me
one of your cigars ? I can venture on one
safely now."

Galbraith handed him his case, and the half-brothers
sat smoking; and talking

a glorious iwht I " said Reginald
Wilding, and added in a lower tone, " and how
sweet it is to be free. I never thought I

o

should see the Atlantic ao^ain. I laye been

buried for twelve years."

'• Forget them," said Galbraith, laying his

hand on that of his brother ; 'there is a new

33—2

life opening out to you now, Reggie ; you
must think no more of the old one ; please God,
that will never return, the old Squire says."

'' Tell me about Adelaide," said Reginald ;
you see, I am using her Christian name
already."

Galbraith laughed.

I haven't much knack of description, old
fellow," he said, " it will not be so very long
before you see her for yourself. She is tall
and fair, and has deep earnest blue eyes and a
sweet face that I know you will like. She
and her sisters are very much alike. I little
thought, when I went down to the quiet little
town I am living in, that I eras going there to
fall in love and find a wife in it."

Tell me about hei%^^ said Reginald, after a
pause.

Can you bear to hear much, dear old fellow
? " answered Galbraith. " I should never
forgive myself if I excited you again. And I
doubt whether I can bring myself to speak
very calmly of her. When I think what her
crime led to, and the long years that we have
both suffered, and the way in which twelve
years of your life have been, as it were, blotted
out, do you wonder at it ? "

Xo ; but I can hear about lier quite
calmly," said Reginald, quietly. " Ever since
I came to myself and knew the old Squire
again, and heard from him of you, and woke
more and more every day to my new life, I
have been preparing myself to hear of her.
At first I thought she might be dead, and I
reasoned nth myself whether that would be
well for me or ill ; then I pictured her as
living somewhere where I should never hear
of her or see her ; at other times I fancied
that we might meet by chance, and then I
scarcely dared to think of what might happen.
When I had shaped all these things out in my
mind in fifty different ways, I asked the old
Squire about her just before he started for
Europe. He told me that he should see you
there ; told me that you considered me dead,
and put new life in me by telling me that he
should tell you of me, and that in due time
you would come to me. I suppose that I was
not quite right in his eyes just then. It
needed the great joy of hearing of you and
looking forward to seeing you to complete my
cure. He said nothing of her. It was fit-om
you, dear old fellow, that I heard of the woman
who wrecked my happiness and spoiled my

life. How did you trace her to the met
English town which you have described tome?"


''Ah, Reggie," said Galbraith, "that's a
long story ; it took me some years on and off
and here and there. I got the first clue by accident
long after I believed you dead. Bit by
bit and time after time I got scraps of information,
but it was not until I had left America,
and after father's death, that I could settle
down to anything like systematic and deter -
meed investigation. Then I went backward
over the whole ground. The scraps I had
heard before all related to her life in the
States ; and when I had followed up that
scent — with immense difficulty, of course,
owing to the lapse of years and the space I
had to cover — it suddenly branched off at a
tangent and landed her in England."

The speaker paused and smoked in silence
for a minute.

When I again struck the trail," he went
on, " I found to my gTcat astonishment the
evidences, not only of a change of scene,
which was puzzling enough, but of a sudden
and complete alteration of her mode of life.
As you knew the worst of her years ago, and

before your illness, my poor fellow, you may
guess, of course, that her life had been, after
your supposed death from that duel, what
it would be charitable to characterise as a
Bohemian one. I am really using a mild conventional
word to describe the chequered
existence she led for two years after that
event."

Aye, aye, my dear brother, I understand."

^' From the moment of her landing in the
old country," Galbraith went on, " there was
a complete change of front in the woman.
She had thrown off the scoundrel with whom
she went away."

What became of that hound ? " said
Reginald, in a low voice. " I should Hke to
know."

It was his name that gave me the first
clue," said Galbraith.

Have you ever met him ? " said Reginald,
leaning forward and laying his hand on his
brother's arm.

I have," said Galbraith. " It was at
Chagres, where Ralph Derrmg and I were
knocking about one time. He had been down
with Chagres fever at an hotel there, and the
landlord, little thinking how much I was interested

in the matter, told us his story. She

had left him suddenly, much as " he

stopped.

As she did me, you would say, Harry,"
said Reginald Wilding, quietly ; "go on, my
dear old boy — I have told you that I can hear
quite calmly anything you have to tell me
about her. Say everything that has to be
said ; I assure you you will not excite or
injure me."

Well, she left him, as she had left you,"
said Galbraith ; " it appears that he had been
seeking for her haE over the South, having got
some clue that she had been down there, and
the disappointment at his want of success, and
an attempt to swamp it out with some fine new
Santa Cruz rum, had laid him on his back with
Chagres fever, as I said."

Did he recover ? "

Of the fever ? "

Yes."

Oh, yes, he got well of the fever ^' said
Galbraith, knocking the ash off the end of his

cigar.

Was anything else ailing him then ? "
asked Reginald.

Yes, my dear fellow," said Galbraith, a

little sternly, and with the clenching of the
riofht hand which was the usual sion of his
being under any strong feeling, " there was.
I waited until he was quite well, managed to
confirm what the hotel-keeper had told me,
and when I was thoroughly ceram of my man,
I told him one fine morning who and what
was.

There was a fight, of course," said Reginald.


There was a fight, of course," echoed his
brother, " and it was a perfectly square one. I
left him at Chagres as I thought he had left
you before at Baton Rouge — and he's there
now."

Again there was a period of silent smoking.

The history of that event has led us into
a little digression fi^om the main subject," said
Galbraith, after a while. " I was saying that
fi'om the time she landed in England a como



plate change came over her fife."

How ? "

From a type of the United States female
Bohemian she became almost at once, so far as
I can trace, an embodiment of all the British
female virtues. I schemed m twenty different
ways to get at the people with whom she took

up on her arrival in England. After a great
deal of trouble I succeeded. It was difficult,
of course, to get the subject dragged into conversation
without betraying the deep interest I
had in the matter, but I managed it somehow.
She began to put her shoulder to the wheel
and to earn her having quietly and respectably
as soon as she touched English soil. She was
a governess and companion in a very good
family, when she attracted the notice of a
wealthy merchant, who was a native of the
town where I am now living, and he married
her."

That man was Stanhope, I suppose ? "
said Reginald Wilding " Under what name
did she marry ? "

Under her proper name, Laura Constance
Wilding ; under your name, that is."

That does not look as though Walter
Bryceson's theory of her having obtained a
divorce were correct."

No, it does not."

A marriage under a wrong name would be
invalid in England, would it not ? "

Undoubtedly, but this was not her wrong
name. She never married the vagabond with
whom she ran away, and, divorced or not

divorced, Wilding was lier proper name. Sofar
she is on the rio-ht side."

And she lives now at this quiet Httle town,
Avonham, where you yourself are ? " asked
Eeginald.

Yes ; her husband was a native of the
town, which is a pretty little place enough,
with just enough fun going on at election
time to make existence endurable to a forty-nine."


And having, you say, as becomes her ? "

Living in all good report and conversation.
Her husband died some four years ago, and
she has, as yet, made no change in her position.
She is the leader of what is called fashion
in those parts, and entertains bishops. She is
vastly rich, and I bought the house I live in
from her. I have an idea in my head that
there is an understanding between her and a
young fellow who lives there, and who is the
nephew of the member of parliament for the
town, and, if report speaks truly, is likely to
succeed him in his seat. I say that I have an
idea of this, and it is an idea only, for I have
no facts to go upon, but I have left behind me
instructions that will put an effectual stop to
that project if my notion should prove correct.

That, then, is the way in which the whole
matter stands at present, failing one thing."

And that is ? "

That we do not knows, and I have as yet
been entirely unable to discover, whether she,
after leaving you, obtained a divorce from you
or not."

Have wee any means of ascertaining that ? "
asked Reginald.

I propose to find it out from her own lips.
That is to say, I shall, or rather — forgive me,
old fellow — we will together throw the onus of
proof on her, and if she claims to have obtained
a divorce we will make her prove her statement
by documentary evidence from the
court."

And suppose," said Eeginald Wilding,
that she has never been divorced in the
States ? "

Then," said Galbraith, slowly and deliberately,
'' in that case she is your wife still, and
her future is in your hands."

Reginald rose from his seat and leaned
against the bulwark, watching the flashing-sea
; after a while he said :

Thank you, my dear Harry, for telling me
all that you have to-night. It is very likely.

now that I know all, that I shall not ask you
any more about it, and I must think over what
I have heard. It won't upset me, brother," he
added with a smile, " and it has done me good
to have heard all to-night."

"Let us go into the saloon then, if you
have finished your cigar," said Harry. And
they left the deck.

The passengers, the ladies especially, took a
great interest in the close association of these
two young men. They were not aware of
the relationship existing between them, and
considered them merely friends. It was very
touching, said the sentimental young ladies,
to see how the younger of the two looked after
the elder, who was only just recovering from a
long and painful illness. And their interest
was vastly increased by the fact that the self-elected
committee of management, which on
every ocean-going ship regulates the morals
and the relaxations of the passengers, had
voted that the restored invalid was a " decidedly
hansom malin," and that the younger was
a 'cute hand at the ship's games, and not a
bad-lookin' fellah."

Reginald Wilding was taller and darker
than his half brother, and his pale, classical,

and delicately-cut face contrasted with the
bronzed countenance and firm-set features of
the other. In the lineaments of the elder there
was the beauty of form which is pleasing to
the eye, but a judge of character would have
had no hesitation in choosing which of the two
would better bear the buffets of the world.

So the " Scotia " ploughed merrily and
steadily across the deep, bearing her load of
hopes and fears and sorrows and joys, and in
quiet Marlshire the leader of Avonham's gTcat
ones smiled, and talked and walked among them
like a queen, never dreaming that far away
a mighty vessel was beating the waves, and
mocking the winds, and bringing Nemesis
nearer and nearer to her with every revolution
of her paddle-wheels.

For the patient, unvarying search of the
injured brother had hunted her down. She
had sat unsuspectingly in Mr. PolUmoy's shop
while the keen gaze of the stranger had rent
the veil from her secret, and, before long, the
grace of her presence, the lavish hospitality of
her house, the devotion of her admirers, and
the gratitude for her bounty, would all be
unavailing in shielding the faithless wife, the
degraded woman.

THE HARVESTING OF THE WHIRLWIND.

Before the " Scotia " lead put out from port
freighted with so many important matters,
a well-known face had disappeared from its
accustomed place in Avonham.

When Adolphus Carter left the room after
his memorable interview with Bryceson and
Markham, the former had remarked that he
would come an awful cropper over the
business. The picturesquely worded prophecy
had come true not very long after Mr. Bompas's
return from his visit to London.

When that worthy man on the night of the
riot had pleaded with Galbraith on behalf of
his captive, it was well understood that regard
for the father of the culprit had inspired his
request for the forbearance of those who had
him in their power. When the Reverend Mr.
Carter had driven over with Mr. Millard and
had interviewed Galbraith on behalf of his
graceless son, the freedom with which Galbraith

had forgiven the offence committed
against him had prevented Mr. Bompas from
taking any action with respect to his clerk beyond
the bestowal on him of a carefully studied
and elegantly rounded oration of the Georgian
Era order, couched in the most swelling of
periods and pregnant with ponderous advice.
Having done this, and being convinced that
the young man's escapade was not a matter of
public notoriety, and being, moreover, willing
to give him a chance of reiterating his character,
Mr. Bompas had allowed him to retain
his position in his office, and had departed for
London, trusting that the whole matter would
only be remembered, as time went on, by Mr.
Adolphus Carter himself, and that no one who
was not actually in the secret of the night
attack and the capture should be allowed to
become acquainted with any of its details.

In the settlement of this question, so generous
had been the conduct of Galbraith, moved
by Mr. Bompas' s eloquent appeal and touched
by the evident distress shown by the father,
who came over to intercede for his son, that
his frank and free forgiveness, delivered in the
brusque but not unkindly manner which was
the peculiarity of his address to strangers, prevented

any very searching enquiries being put
to the rioter as to the influences which had
been at work to induce him to act in so outrageous
a manner, and he escaped being cross-examined
to any great extent from the flxct
that when Galbraith made an end of the matter
by pardoning him, the two old friends who
were concerned in bringing that result about
had refrained from seeking for motives, and
had been more industrious in endeavouring to
discover excuses for his conduct.

Mr. Bompas urged that probably the '• most
unfortunate occurrence," in which terms he
never ceased to describe the election, '' and
the concomitant surroundings, had exercised a
deleterious influence on a youth, hitherto faultless
in moral conduct, and estimable in the
discharge of the ordinary duties of his avocation
in life."

Mr. Millard said he must have been drunk.

So Adolphus Carter escaped for that time.

But the latter affair was more serious.

In placing his trust on Shelman, and in

relying upon his influence to screen him from

the terrifying threats of Timothy Rapsey,

Adolphus had leaned upon a rotten reed. No

man in Avonham was less likely to protect a
VOL. III. 34

man at his own expense than Alfred Sherman.
When Carter had brought him the news of
Rapsey's vague threats, he had entered upon
the matter of aggression nth a sole view to
the screening of his name and the protection of
his own interests. When the jot scheme of
attack had failed, and Carter's generous ally
found that a vigorous war was beings carried on
against his territory, he was the first to turn
savagely on his humbler and weaker associate,
and to saddle him with his own sis and the
punishment that might await them.

He acted without any sense of shame m the
matter. The first time that he and Mr. Bompas
met he broached the subject of his own accord,
for Bompas was at heart a thorough gentleman,
and his natural delicacy prevented him from
touching upon a subject which, he was aware,
would necessarily give pain to the other.

But Shelman was not so reticent. In a
violent manner and with many expletives he
assailed Adolphus Carter, attributing the whole
occurrence directly to his jealousy and wounded
dignity. After this act of treachery towards
this quondam ally, he proceeded to abuse
Bryceson in no measured terms. At this "Sir.
Bompas, who was as free from double dealing

as the other was accomplished m it, interfered.


Mr. Sherman," he said, " I can listen to
no language derogatory of a gentleman who is
frequently my guest, who is frequently my host,
whom I am glad to welcome into my house,
and whose house I am glad to visit. If there
be any — ah — irritation remaining in your mind
and to have suffered castigation m public
may, perhaps, justify you in — ah — allowing it
to — ah — RANKLE, as I may say, in your injured
breast — let me rather act as the — ah — pacificator
and mediator between two persons for
whom, believe me, I have the sincerest regard,
than become the depository of any violent expressions
which one of them may, I thmk
unadvisedly — ah — employ towards the other."

I will answer for it," said Sherman, roughly
for it was a curious trait of this young man
that there was no interval of time appreciable
between his attempts to conciliate and his
attempts to bully — " I will answer for it that
when you are either Mr. Bryceson's host or
guest you have to listen to some pretty language
about me."

I must deprecate any such insinuation,"

said Mr. Bompas, turning a little red ; "if Mr.

M—2

Bryceson ventured, in my presence, to employ
towards you, in your absence, the language
which you have applied towards him in his
absence, I should administer the same — ah —
reprimand to him as I have just administered
to you."

You talk pretty glibly about reprimanding,"
said Shelman, his colour also rising.
Pray who are you that you take such a
liberty ? "

I am one," said Mr. Bompas, very firmly,
and with a dignity that the stout-hearted old
boy's handsome form and kindling face set off
very well, " who will never — ah — hesitate to
reprove any man, no matter what his position,
who dares to employ language m my hearing
concerning any friend of mine, which is not
only indecently vituperative, but utterly unjustifiable
and positively untrue."

This was positively the heaviest rhetorical
shot that Mr. Bompas had ever fired in his life,
and its effect was immediately apparent on the
person against whom it had been discharged.
It was no ordinary Avonham gossip who was
speaking. Shelman was not so blinded by his
anger that he failed to appreciate the character
and influence of the man who was thus

liberating this miiid." He drew in this horns
at once.

I think," said he, after a minute's silence,
it is a very hard thing that I, a native and a
resident of this place, can get no sympathy
over this affair from one of the most prominent
citizens of the town, who yet is ready to take
by the hand a man who hasn't been here any
appreciable time, who drops from the clouds,
who is not even hvmg in his own house, and
who may be, for all he knows, an adventurer."

•' Mr. Shelman," said Mr. Bompas, " I have
made no comment on your encounter with Mr.
Bryceson, beyond the very natural one that it
was a most unfortunate and regrettable circumstance,
but since you accuse me of — ah — undue
partisanship, I feel constrained to tell you that,
however much I deplore the method in which
Mr. Bryceson — ah — acted, whatever happened
was due entirely to your own — ah — imprudence,
to call it by no harsher term, and
that no peaceable citizen can sympathise with
you on the return that you met for your lawless
attack on ]mr. Galbraith's house and on
other houses in the town."

mr. Shelman was puzzled how to answer
this.

I am distressed beyond measure that that
unhappy boy" — so Mr. Bompas designated
Adolphus Carter — " had a share in the work,
for, in face of recent events, it will be necessary
for me to acquaint his father, who is an old
friend of mine, that a removal of his son will
be desirable."

This was one stumbling-block out of Alfred
Shelman's way, and he was glad to hear it.

Well, Mr. Bompas," he said, " I am sorry
I get no more sympathy from you."

I regret very much," said Mr. Bompas,
that I have no more to extend to you."

You will find," pursued Shelman, " that
you are excessively mistaken in Mr. Bryceson's
character."

I think not," said Mr. Bompas.

You may be sure of one thing, I can see,"
said Shelman, who thought he saw a chance
of wounding Mr. Bompas in his dignity, " that
Mr. Bryceson will not be long a visitor at your
house and your host in the house of that
precious friend of his, before he will be asking
you for one of your daughters. I should extremely
like to see in what light you will look
upon the fellow then !"

What you suggest," said Mr. Bompas with

a smile, " is not — ah — beyond the bounds of
possibility, and since you are curious on the
subject, I will — though I — ah — recognise no
right that you have to make the inquiry — I
T^dll inform you how, in that case, I shall
answer Mr. Bryceson. I shall — ah — thank
him for the honour he is doing my family and
my house, and shall — accede to his request
with most especial gratification. I wish you
a very good morning, Mr. Shelman."

And Mr. Bompas, favouring the discomfited
young man with a stiff* bow, left him
to his thoughts.

They were not pleasant ones. If Mr.
Bompas had slammed the door of his house in
Shelman's face, he could not have hated more
emphatically than he had by this conversation
that he forbade him any familiar intercourse
with his family. Yet, beaten as he
was at all points, one more blow was in store
for him.

A few days after this conversation Mrs.
Stanhope issued her invitations for her last
garden-party of the season, and did not include
Alfred Shelman's name in her list of
expected guests.

This did not surprise, although it irritated

Hm, but surprise and irritation were both lying
in wait for bim, and their attack was the more
formidable because it was unexpected.

Are you going to Mrs. Stanhope's fete f "
his uncle asked him the day before that event.
"]N"o," said he rather surlily, and then,
thinking it best to assume a careless, if not a
don't-care air, he added, " I'm not in the fair
lady's good graces just now, and she hasn't
done me the honour to invite me. I must
endeavour to bear up against the disappointment
as well as I can."

This conversation was taking place in the
Bank parlour, where they were seated alone.

Mr. Boldham sat tapping his blotting-pad
with an ivory letter-opener for a minute or
two after receiving this answer to his question.


Presently he broke silence.

Why don't you take a couple or three
months' run abroad somewhere ? " he asked.

Shelman looked up sharply from the paper
on which he was writing.

Take a couple or three months' run
abroad somewhere, did you say ? " said he.

Yes," replied his uncle, " why don't you
do it ? "

AVliy on earth do you want me to go
abroad at this time of the year ? " asked
Sherman.

His uncle coughed drily.

I fancy," he said, " that you would find it
greatly to your own interest to do so."

What do you mean ? " he said, ceasing his
TNTitinof and staring at his uncle.

I thmk that, if I were you, I should get
away from the town for a little time and let
things blow over," said Boldham.

Do you ? "

Yes," said his uncle, "I do. You look
at the matter in the right light, Alfred, and
you will see that my advice is good."

I shall be glad," said Shelman after a
pause, *' if you can show me how."

I should fancy," said Mr. Boldham, '* that
you must find things in Avonham rather unpleasant
just now."

'• They are not very cheerful, I admit,"
answered Shelman, '' but I will go my own
way about them."

Well," said Mr. Boldham, '^ I think, if you
do, you will be very foolish."

Pray," said Shelman, with a frown, " will
you show me why you think so ? "

I am going to endeavour to do so," said
Mr. Boldham, " indeed it is necessary for my
interests as well as for your own that I should ;
I will thank you, not only as my nephew but
as my partner, to give me your best attention."


Shelman laid down his pen and threw himself
back in his chair. He stared at Mr. Bold-ham
m some surprise. He had never heard
him speak like this.

I am entirely at your service," he said
after a few seconds' silence.

Everything that you have touched or
attempted during the last few months," said
his uncle, rising and planting himself on the
hearth-rug in the attitude usual with him
when addressing any of the bank clients, " has
been a failure."

Aren't you speaking a little without book
there ? " interrupted Shelman.

'' Xot in the least," said Boldham. " I maybe
generating things a little too much, that
is all."

I fancy you are," muttered the other.

You were speaking early in the year of
taking the ' Coombes,' — why did you not do
that ? "

Yes," answered Mr. Boldham emphatically,
"when you fail to turn those caprices
to your own advantage."

"Go on," said Shelman, "let me hear what
more you have to advance, uncle."

Failure number one," said Mr. Boldham
imperturbably. " You failed, I believe, in
much the same manner over some land which
you wished to purchase as an adjunct to your
new house."

From the same foolishness of a frivolous
and vacillating woman, be it remembered,"
said Shelman.

Failure number two," said Mr. Boldham.
*' Those two are, however, minor matters ;
number three is of a more important character."


Pray what is that ? " said Shelman, and
there was a flush in his cheek as he said it.

Alfred," said Mr. Boldham, " if I hadn't
known you for some years as a good man of

business and a clever hand at finance, I should
have put you down over this particular failure
as a born fool."

Alfred replied neither to the praise nor the
blame, but shifted uneasily in his arm-chair.

There has been scarcely a week," pursued
his uncle, " from the beginning of this year,
in which I have not expected you to come tome
— as a matter of courtesy only, of course,
for you are independent of me — and announce
your engagement to Mrs. Stanhope. If I
polled Avonham I could bring fifty men, and
goodness only knows how many women, who
have always had the same idea in their heads.
Why, in the name of Fate, haven't you asked
that woman to be your wife honos aa'o ? "

Shelman looked up with a short hard laugh,
not very pleasant to hear.

I have not been quite so neglectful as
you imagine," he said. '* I have asked her."

And she refused you ? "

Most emphatically."

Humph I " said Mr. Boldham, reflectively,
'' I did not know that. Failure number three."

Which," said Shelman, " if you consider
properly, will account for failures number one
and two."

That is true," replied Bolclham. " Well,
I should have thought, Alfred, that you had
been a match for that dandified young puppy
Walter Rivers in anything, even sith the
ladies."

Walter Rivers I " cried Shelman ; " why,
what has he to do with Mrs. Stanhope's
rejection of me ? "

Probably everything," answered Mr. Bold-ham,
with imitating calmness, " since he is
going to marry her."

Sherman sprang to his feet with a great
oath. " It can't be true ! " he cried excitedly;
who told you ? "

Sit down," said his uncle sharply. '" and
do not proclaim your feelings to all the clerks
in the office ; it is perfectly true. How came
you to let him walk off' with this prize from
under your very nose ? "

How did you learn that Walter Rivers
was going to marry her ? " asked Shelman, ina
low tone.

From Su' Headingly Cannn."

He told you it as an assuredly settled
fact ? "

Certainly ; he spoke of it to me as a
matter of business. We are Gently enough ;

I am not so foolish as to have quarrelled with
Sir Headingiy because he beat me in the election,
or rather because I failed to beat him ;
our opposition to each other ceased at the
declaration of the result of the poll, and our
relations have been uninterruptedly friendly
ever since. How have you acted ? You made
the election a stick to beat a particular dog
with and the dog has bitten you. Failure
number four. Next, to wind everything up,
you threaten a man with an action you dare
not sustain ; you lose a Bank customer in the
most ridiculous way that has ever been brought
to my notice since I have been a banker, and
finally you receive, in the face of all A^^on-
ham, a most tremendous thrashing through
meddling in a matter that should have been
beneath a man of your position, and attacking
a man who from Doctor Mompesson's account
must be possessed of the skill and strength of
a prize-fighter. Failures five, six, and seven,
and if you do not consider that your best plan
will be to try change of air for a while — I do."
So saying, Mr. Boldham, not waiting for his
nephew's reply, took his hat and quitted the
room and the Bank, leaving Shelman sitting at
his table, consumed with the same rage that

he lead felt at this rejection. Tins time this
passion was subdued a little by fear. He bad
chafed under his uncle's methodical enumeration
of his fail-es, but he could not help
feeling that luck had been against him, and
that he had brought his present position on
himself. But the sense of consecutive defeats,
and the remembrance of his personal chastisement,
were nothing in comparison Sith the
acute mental pain which he felt as he thought
of the man who had been his successful rival
in the widow's affections. He had almost
made up his mind to take his uncle's advice,
and for a time at least absent himself from
Avonham ; had his temper been less obstinate
he might have done so, and saved himself a
worse fate than any that had yet overtaken
him, but his stubborn heart refused.

I'll wait and see the end of it," he said ;
there is many a sip between cup and hp, and
if I can yet put a spoke in Master Rivers's wheel,
he may depend on my doing it."

So he mused and plotted against his old love
and her lover, little thinking what fate had in
store for them and for him.

A BOMBSHELL IX MR. BOMPAs's PEW.

Walter Bryceson and Fred Markham, liavino^
given a good account of a vast number of Mr.
Millard's birds ; having also accepted one or
two invitations from neighbouring landowners,
with the same end in view ; and having basked
for a month in the smiles of their lady-loves,
declared one day to each other that this sort of
thing was all very well, you know, but really
they must turn their attention for a little while
to their private affairs. Having said which,
they went on in their usual fashion for a week,
reviving the subject at breakfast-time regularly
every morning, and blowing it away altogether
with the smoke of their first pipes. At the
expiration of this period, having been rather
more solemn than usual one morning over the
matter, they broached the subject at the Bompas
mansion that evening at supper, which meal
very often found them at the well-filled board
of that hospitable house.

Bryceson's plea of having to set in order his
house and domestic affairs in Essex was confided
to Louisa privately, and doubtless met
T^dth her approval ; Markham's determination
to look after his business concerns and get them
into prouder shape in anticipation of a certain
event was cordially approved both by Lucy
and her revered progenitor, with whom the
possession of business-like habits formed a
virtue.

Adelaide laughed at her sisters and their
swains, and threw out hints concerning the
amusements and attractions of London, which
proved that the young lady had used both her
eyes and ears to the best advantage during her
recent residence there.

Howbeit, Bryceson and Markham departed
for a while from Avonham, leaving their ladyloves
in the parent nest, and the faithful
Edward in chare of the " Coombes."

The final adieux were paid the evening

before their departure, when Mr. Bompas

gathered some of his friends to this house, —

Not, I assure you, to make merry because

you are leaving us for a time," he told the

friends ; a jovial old-fashioned country-town

meeting, with substantial viands, a hearty
VOL. III. 35

welcome, a gay company, and a carpet dance.
Such gatherings were not at all infrequent
in Avonliam during the winter, and although .
Mr. Bompas and his womenkind issued their
invitations for an evening party rather early in
the season, so that the recipients wondered,
and blamed the Compass for anticipating the
winter, the unanimous acceptance of the invitations
proved how the Avonham folk hailed
the commencement of the homely festivities
with which they enlivened that season.

The behaviour of the young ladies who, for
the first time, found themselves within hail of
our two lively friends Bryceson and Markham,
was amusing in the extreme to the Misses
Bompas, who had, as we have seen, keen eyes
for the idiosyncracies of the females of their
circle, and no less so to the young men themselves.
Carte hlancJie for the evenings having
accorded them by Louisa and Lucy, they
took advantage of it to the fullest extent.
Two such masters of the art of dancing had
not been met before in these festive gatherings,
and the prettiest girls and the best partners
were at their service the whole of the evening ;
indeed, Fred remarked to his friend, as they
wiped their heated foreheads and cooled their

thirsty throats in one of the intervals between
the dances, it was rather a good thing they
were going away for a bit, for matters otherwise
might become somewhat complicated.
At any rate, he added, however safe they were
with the girls, it was pretty certain they were
not going to increase the nmnber of their male
friends in Avonham, either by their Terpsichorean
feats or the charms of their conversation
to the other sex.

You have been flirting disgracefully all
the evening," said Adelaide, as she came up to
where they were standing ; '' Lucy and Lou
were very foolish to have sanctioned such a
graceless proceeding."

"It's not unmingled pleasure, Adelaide,"
said Bryceson — they used one another's Charms -
tian names in the two houses now — " that has
to come in the next dance, which you have
promised me."

'• You shall do penance fur your sins, sir,"
said Adelaide, " and sit it out with me."

My dear Adelaide, I wish all my sins required
no heavier penance," answered Bryceson.

You won't mind it though, will you ? "
said Adelaide, " for I want to speak to you
seriously."

He gave lier this arm, and they seated themselves
in one of the comfortable window-embrasures
which are common in the good old .
fashioned country houses such as was Mr.
Bompas's.

You know," said she, when the next
dance was proceeding, and they were secure
from listeners, " that when Harry went away
he told me the matter that originally brought
him to Avonham ? "

Oh, yes ; he told me that on our way
down to Liverpool."

Then of course you know that he told me
to inform you, in case of anything happening
here, such as an announcement of her approaching
marriage. I dont know what put it into
his head that she was going to be married at
all, but he had the idea and seemed to cling
strongly to it."

Harry's ideas," said Bryceson, " have a
habit of turning out rather more true than
other people's facts."

Adelaide shook her head.

In this case, Walter," she said, " I think
Harry will find that he is mistaken. You
have been long enough in Avonham to know
what a place it is for gossip and tattle. Do

you think that such an important matter as
that would not be talked about ? "

There is good reason in that, but yet
Avonham does not know everything — take
your own case for instance. Neo one knows
that you sisters are engaged."

There have been plenty of hints about
that lately, though," said Adelaide, laughing,
^' and will be more after to-night. You little
know how you have compromised yourself by
sitting out a dance with me. People will be
horridly cross when we all pair off and they
find that you and I don't £ro together."

Well, Adelaide," answered Bryceson,
when we have paired off', if Louisa and myself
settle down here, people will have to bea
little less prying into my affairs than
they seem inclined to be about their neighbours."


My dear Walter, you mil never alter
Avonham ; and really it is a sociable and
warm-hearted place with all its faults."

Extremely warm-hearted ! Well, I've
found happiness here, so God bless it, I say.
I bless the day Harry came, I can tell you,
Adelaide."

Adelaide coloured, but looked frankly at

Bryceson with her beautiful eyes, and laid her
hand in his as a sister would.

And so do we all, Walter," she said, " weare
all very happy ; only I wish that Harry
where here, for I shall feel a great responsibility
whilst you are away."

My dear Adelaide, have no fear ; summon
me at once if anything happens. Do not delay
an hour even, and I will be with you as soon
as steam and wheels will bring me, and so
will Fred. Until there is some public announcement
of" her marrying someone we can
scarcely act. The one thing I was afraid of
was that a mine might be sprung upon us all
by a marriage taking place away from here,
and without our knowledge ; but I do not see
any danger of that, and I think we will leave
things as they are. Of course, if any definite
intelligence reaches you, you know what todo
— acquaint me at once."

I will ; ah I the dance is ending ; we shall
have to stop now for fear of being overheard."

"Tell me one thing. Have you ever mentioned
anything to your sisters ? "

Xot a word ; they are quite in the dark
about it ; it is the only secret we have ever
had from one another."

Let it remain one still ; I expect Louisa
will be in a fine way because I have not entrusted
it to her. !N'o, it must be kept quiet,
though, of course, if you want your father's
help, you must confide in him."

I will. AVe must not talk any more of
this now ; I am horribly afraid of letting even
a word be heard, and the dance will be over
in a minute. Look at poor Fred hauling Mrs.
Foil well romid the room — doesn't he look
happy ? "

Fred, with a seventeen-stone partner, whose
ideas of dancing were coeval with mr. Bomb
idea of oratorical examples, looked anything
but blissful.

Fred looks like a tug hauling a liner
out into the Mersey," said Bryceson. "Well,
remember what I have said about sending forme,
and before my arrival let no one know
anything with the exception of your father."

Almost as he spoke the dance stopped, and
they had no more chance of speaking of their
secret, for Adelaide's hand was claimed by
the fortunate youth who had engaged it, and
Bryceson himself was obliged to go and look
after his own partner for that dance.

The next morning the two friends left

Avonliam, being driven over to Avonham

Road by Mr. Christopher Earaty, who had

found the inhabitants of the " Coombes "

among: the best of this customers during; their

stay.

*****

As was natural in a town so respectable and
decorous as Avonham, Sunday was one of the
great institutions of the palace. If old Mas'r
Killett allowed his memory to stray as far backward
on the path of Hfe as it could go, it is likely
that he would find that the most vivid of all
Ms earliest recollections were the facts that
Saturday night was " tub night," and that he
wore his best clothes on the following day.
Since Ms early days indeed there had been one
great change ; when he was young all flocked
to the parish church, and such dissenters as
existed in those times were a feeble folk who
preached in holes and corners, and were greatly
despised and hated, except where they were
pitied as lunatics. Xow, though St. Hildegarde's
was the finest, it was not the only place of
worship in Avonham. Three chapels of as
many different sects attracted congregations of
their own, and though in so old-fashioned a
town the church held the pride of place, the

chapel folk, under wliicli title all classes of
dissent were grouped by the orthodox, were a
power in the place. However, the adherents
to the Church of England plumed themselves
when they considered that the old Abbey held
on Sunday the most prominent and wealthy of
the commonwealth of the town.

The church itself was a noble one. In its
crypt antiquarians gravely passed their hands
over the surface of the mouldings of three or
four arches, and murmured with gratification,
Hatchet-work — Saxon ; " the remainder of
the crypt arches were Norman, and early
Norman too — in the nave there was never
cavilling at the genuineness and beauty of the
Norman work ; there was good Transitional
work in the choir ; the west door was the
pride of the country round, and the workmanship
of the whole was so solid that the hand
of that Goth of Goths, the Gothic "restorer,"
had found no occasion for disfiguring the whole
pile by utilitarian windows or nondescript
strengthening ; and generation after generation
of churchwardens had eschewed whitewash.
And this, too, was a part of the country in
which there was not the all satisfying legend
of" Oliver Cromwell to account for any sad

traces of iconoclastic barbarity. So that the
church of St. Hildegarde remained, as its pious
builders had intended it, a grand monument
of men of whom it has been said :

They dreamed not of a perishable home
"Who thus could build."

Let me pause in my tale for a moment
solemnly to call down the curse of Ernulphus
upon the whole tribe of ignorant church de-faces
who, under the title of " restorers," have
done their best, are doing their best, and will
do their best to mutilate, destroy, and ruin
the noble shrines of our common faith all over
this land, so rich in them, and so proud of
them. Pace my uncle Toby, so mote it be !

The services at St. Hildegarde's were distinctly
Evangelical. The " doctrines and practice
" of the vicar had not been influenced by
the Tractarians. The worthy man had puzzled
over " Primitive Episcopacy," frowned a good
deal over " Rites and Customs of the Church,"
and refused to be moved from his beaten path
by " Via Media ; " he put back the tracts on
this shelf, where they accumulated much dust,
refreshed himself with a course of Barrow, and
went his old way, much to the content of his
congregation. Between the services which the

subjects of Good Queen Anne liearcl and those
attended by the Leges of Good Queen Victoria,
there were but two joints of difference — one
the change of words necessitated by the deaths
of the rulers of the land, the other the substitution
of an oro-an for the time-honoured band
of rustic instrumentality who formerly led the
singing. Mas'r Killett had played the fiddle —

For French of Paris was to him unknown,"

and he would have rejected the word ^dohn —
in the choir in his youth, and was years before
he could be reconciled to the change ; but the
feeling died out as one by one his fellow
musicians died oft' ; and he could listen, with
gratification now, to the tones of the instrument
which Reuben Matley handled with exquisite
skill.

For the congregation, it was appreciative,
easily pleased, and liked its religion soothing.
Its elders were gifted in slumber, its youth
decorous in behaviour. It had its signs and
portents, and the amatory contemporary history
of its members might be easily read by
the experienced. If a young member of the
male sex were observed to be gazing intently
at a fair worshipper during the singing or the

reading of the Psalms (he couldn't see herat
lesson or sermon times, the pews were too
high), the congregation knew that his hitherto
private admiration was now publicly declared.
If at a subsequent service the maiden bashfully
returned the gaze, it was taken as a token
that she had been informed of the homage
paid to her and approved of the same. Then
the good folk waited for the engagement and
weddings to follow. They had beofun courting
the same way themselves in the same place
years before.

This rule did not hold good with or apply
to the Pariahs. Those graceless youths —
when they came to church, which was seldom
stared at every comely damsel in St. Hides
and had been known to wink. There
were dark and time-obscured legends that
the ecclesiastical powers that be in Avonliam
(no one rightly knows whether it was the
vicar, the curates, or the churchwardens, or
all eye combined) once threatened open and
public reproof in church, and that menacing
hints were thrown out respecting penance
before the congregation ; a ceremony which
a Somersetshire divine revived in the year of
grace 1884, bless his archaic heart !

Mr. Bompas had been vicar's cliurcliAyarden
for years, and took a justifiable pride in this
position ; and in the years when he had
occupied the two posts of mayor and churchwarden
he had felt indeed that he was a pillar
both of Church and State. The office, which
he filled with all the zeal and integrity that
marked the whole of the transactions of this
worthy man, was in this eyes a vastly honourable
one, and the churchwarden's pew which
he occupied with his family was the most
comfortable in the church, and admirably
suited for that calm meditation and profound
repose of mind which should distinguish a
churchwarden. Mr. Bompas always reposed
his mind — from the middle of the sermon to
the benediction.

It was a fine November morning about a
fortnight after the party. Bryceson and
]markham, let us hope, were at service at the
parish church next to the residence of the
former in Essex ; they had been slaying
pheasants the day before, and, I say, I hope
they were at church, and that the parson
came home to dine with them, though I have
my doubts about it. Galbraith being in a
different longitude was most probably asleep

ill his berth. In Avoiiham the church and
chapels were full, and the pew occupied by
the Bompas family held its complement.

Sir Headingiy Cannn made a point of attending
church. It was a public profession not
only of faith, but of politics ; usually he was
accompanied by his nephew when that gentleman
was in the town, but this morning he
was alone. His quondam rival, Mr. Boldham,
was in a pew not far from him ; he was in
one corner, and Alfred Shelman in another.
It was not often that the latter was seen in
St. Hildegarde's ; he was not very constant in
his Sunday duties, but on this particular day
he had decided to be present ; public scandal
was dying out about him now, and there
was a kind of policy in his presence. He
voted the thing a bore, but it was judicious to
undergo the fatigue, and he was here, little
thinking, as people remarked afterwards, that
it was the last time he would see the inside of
St. Hildegarde's.

Mrs. Stanhope was absent, and her pew
empty. That Sunday morning had its results
for her also, though she little dreamed of them.

The bell ceased its summons, Mr. Reuben
Matley played a voluntary, the clergy took

their places, and the service began. There
were one or two persons in that church who
would remember that service all tlieh' lives long.

It opened uneventful enough. The latest
eno'ao'ed ^'ouno- lady came in late in the middle
of the Venite, followed by her blushing swain
carrying her books, and internally execrating
the whole affah' ; the Psalms were duly got
through ; the inevitable boy dropped the
customary marble in the middle of the first
lesson, and was poked by the beadle : the consternation
another Te Cum lustily (Jackson
in F\ and the younger of the two curates
read the second lesson.

Part of that lesson was the story of the
woman taken in adultery, and how she was
not condemned.

It was a peculiar flmcy of the good old vicar
to read the banns of marriage himself. This
custom was well understood in Avonham, and
the slight pause between the completion of the
lesson and the vicar's walking to the readings
fi'om his seat at the communion table,
which would have appeared to a stranger like
a hitch in the service, was familiar to the congregation.
The reaching of the banns was
always interesting. Some people cotild tell

you of banns put up once or twice and then
withdrawal ; there were one or two sad cases
Adhere death had caused this, and in one or two
cases there was scandal ; so that every one
always listened with great attention to the
announcements. This Sunday there where a
good many names on the list. People who
have been

Courting in the summer weather "

get married towards the close of autumn,
and thus have time to settle down a bit and
flxce the winter too-ether. First came thea



third time " people, two couples whose
names had grown familiar, and who no longer
blushed as they heard them read out ; then
followed the " second time " parties, three
couples who smiled at each other and blushed,
but did not tremble ; then the neophytes, dio
blushed and trembled, and thought how very
curious their own names sounded in church.

Last of all, and with some special emphasis,
the vicar read :

Also between Walter Cannn Rivers,
bachelor, and Laura Constance
Stanhope, widow, both of this
parish ; these are for the first time
of asking."

There was a sensible movement of astonishment
throughout the whole building, a rustle
as of every woman's dress and the scrape of
every man's collar against his cheek, which
almost drowned the remainder of the vicar's
address ; the sharp crash of a falling book was
heard in the orderly pew of Mr. Bompas, and
that worthy felt his wrist gripped hard and
convulsively ; turning sharply he saw his
daughter Adelaide staring with wide-opened
eyes at the vicar ; every vestige of colour had
left her cheeks, but now rushed back in a tide
that turned her fair face crimson ; with her left
hand still tightly clasping her father's wrist she
half rose from her seat, her mouth opened to
speak.

U J "

mr. Reuben Matley struck the first chord of
the Benedictus and the congregation stood up.

Adelaide remained seated, and only shook

her head at the whispered enquiry of her

mother as to whether she was ill. When a few

verses had been sung — feebly, for the people

were brimful of wonder at the announcement

of the approaching marriage of their Queen of

Society — Adelaide passed before her father,

opened the door of the pew, and walking down
VOL. III. 5g

the aisle, to the increased wonderment of the
ah-lady astounded church-goers, left the edifice,
followed by her father, whose face, fi:'om the
combination of anxiety, wonder, excitement,
and the results of a dangerous dive for his hat,
presented a compound of expression and colour
to depict which would have taxed the skill of a
Rubens.

A MAID OF THE WEST S Saxons.

Adelaide, had almost reached the gate of the
churchyard which was at the side of the
market-place, when she heard the voice of her
father. There was no one about ; the devout
were in church, the " careless " and the domestic
indoors, so that the churchwarden, who had
lost a good deal of ground at the start and was
not so agile as his daughter, called to her. She
turned at the sound, for she had no idea that
her father was following her, and waited for him
to come up.

''My dear girl," said he, trotting to her like
an anxious elephant, " whatever is the matter ?
Are you ill, my child ? "
"No, papa."

"My dear Adelaide, what can have possessed
you to leave the church in this — ah — extraordinary
manner ? Whatever icill the people
think?"

Adelaide made no direct answer to the

36—2

UNIVERSITY OF
laiNOIS LIBRARY

question. " Papa," she said, " I must go home
and write a letter at once ; it must be taken
over to Avonham Road and sent by train to
London, where it must be posted to-night. It
will be safer than telegraphing," she murmured
to herself.

Mr. Bompas began to wonder whether he
had really got up that morning, dressed, shaved,
breakfasted, and gone to church, or whether he
would not presently wake up in his bed at
home.

Has anything happened ? " he stammered.
Was it about— about the marriage ? "

There was only one marriage in Avonham' s
mind that morning, he knew very well.

Yes, papa," said Adelaide firmly ; "you
will have to know it sooner or later. The
next time those banns are published they must
be forbidden. If Harry or Walter or Fred had
been here to-day they would have been forbidden
; but it was too hard a task for me. I
must send to Walter Bryceson at once. Oh
that Harry were here ! "

Mr. Rivers' s banns forbidden I " said Mr.
Bompas, never giving a thought to Mrs. Stanhope.
"My dear Addie, what new scandal is
this ? "

It has no connection with Mr. Rivers that
he knows of, poor dupe ! " said Adelaide, in a
tone half pitiful, half scornful. " Papa, that
marriage can never take place. Mrs. Stanhope's
first husband is alive ! "

Mr. Bompas sat plump down on the flat
stone of a low family vault and stared at
his eldest daughter in a helpless and utterly
crushed manner. For a minute he was literally
stricken dumb with surprise. Then Adelaide
turned to the gate, and he mechanically rose
and followed her. They were halfway across
the market-place before he spoke, and then it
was almost in a whisper.

What are you telling me ? " he said.
'' Mrs. Stanhope's husband alive ! Something-has
turned your brain, Addie ! He was my
schoolfellow and my friend. I was in his house
at his death ; I saw him in his coffin on the
day of his funeral ; I helped to bear him to his
grave. Ave ! There are ^\e hundred people
in this town who know him to be dead."

I am not speaking of Mr. Stanhope, father,"
answered Adelaide, walking on and answering
in a tone as low as that which her father had
used. " It will be a great shock to you when
you know all the truth. Let us get indoors.

where no one may hear us, and I will tell you
everything. I have known of it ever since my
engagement to Harry ; it has been almost too
hard a burden to-day for me to bear."

The wondering servant who opened the door
to them had her curiosity appeased by Adelaide's
quiet remark, " I am not very well,
Jane, and had to come out of church," and
retired to the kitchen sympathising. Father
and daughter went upstairs to the drawing-room,
where, in spite of the cool air, Adelaide
opened one of the large windows. She seated
herself on the sofa, took ois her bonnet and
gloves, and gave a sigh of relief.

I should have choked in church," she said ;
the whole aiiair seemed to rush on my brain
at once, and I felt beside myself for a minute
or two. Give me a glass of wine, papa."

Her voice was calm and steady now, and the
trembling that had seized her in the church
had ceased. She drank the wine, and opened
a blotting case containing writing materials.

Now, papa," she said, " I must write to
Walter Bryceson, and the letter must be sent
as I said. First I will tell you my secret.
The woman whom everyone in Avonham has
known for years as Mrs. Stanhope, the woman

who married your old friend Mr. Stanliope, has
no more claim to the name she bears, or the
property she holds, than — than you have. She
is the wife of Mr. Galbraith's — of Harry's —
brother."

Mr. Bompas gasped. He was so moved that
he was obliged to sit donjon the nearest chap*,
into which he dropped much as he had dropped
on the flat tombstone in the churchyard just
before. He passed his hand feebly over his
forehead and head, as if the communication
had hit him and hurt him — which it had.

Mr. Galbraith's brother ! " he said at last ;
*' I have never heard "

'rit is only since Harry came to Avonham
that he knew he was alive. She thought him
dead as well, years ago. Harry told me this
the nio'ht we became eno-ao;ed," she said, and
blushed as she said it. " The secret is known
to Walter Bryceson and Fred Markham as
well, and Walter Bryceson must be sent for at
once. Dear papa, I can't help what scandal it
makes, or what people say ; I must do as I
have been told, and you must keep the secret
as I have kept it, until Walter Bryceson
comes, and then you shall know all. Forgive
me, my dearest whither, for having had a secret

from you so long ; it is the only one that has
ever been between us."

She kissed him, and a few tears dropped,
which in a weaker woman would have been
expanded into a fit of hysterics, then, drying
her eyes, she set about her task like the stouthearted
girl she was.

Adelaide had inherited her bravery. Her
father, pompous and stilted as he was, had
Nelson's knowledge of fear — which was just
none at all — and plenty of decision and action.
The news really was a blow to him, but the
sight of his daughter doing her duty roused
him to action, in which no man could be more
prompt or swift. He rang the bell, drank a
glass of wine to steady himself, and said to the
servant, as though he were giving the most
ordinary order :

Jane, tell Watts to put the brown mare in
the dog cart at once ; it must be at the door
in ten minutes."

Jane stared. Such an order had not been
given in Mr. Bompas's house since she had
been in it. She was too well trained, however,
to hesitate, and withdrew. All Avonham was
destined to be surprised that day apparently ;
certainly Watts, who had been in his present

post for twenty-five years, was when he
received the order.

Drat the fussy wench ! " he said, putting
down " Zadkiel's Almanac," which he was
reading in the harness-room — Watts preferred
that place to St. Hildegarde's on Sunday
mornings — "what do 'ee mean? Don't 'ee
play none o' yer kitchen wonderment on me,
s'naa. Master be to church."

Heave a comet home, tell 'ee," said Jane,
an' the dog-cart's got to be at the door in
ten minutes. What's the use o' flying' at I ?
Goo'n ask him herself ! " and she slammed the
harness-room door hard and brought down
the bin-dust on the harness — which always
pleases a groom.

Dal the young hussy ! " said Watts, taking
down the harness however ; " whatever
new game's this to play of a Sunday m church
time ! Happen someone's ill, and master sent
for too."

And muttering and grumbling, he proceeded
to harness the mare, and had the dog-cart
romid in the prescribed time. He was somewhat
disappointed too to find that it teas
wanted, and that he was not the victim of a
hoax. He went to the kitchen, made the

amende honorable to Jane and got a mug of
beer, over wHcli lie gossiped with the maids,
and made eleven guesses at the errand of
his master and young mistress, discussion on
which subject was carried on until the cook's
mind got confused with gossip and gravy
combined, and she cleared the kitchen.

The various congregations were streaming
homewards dien Mr. Bompas and Adelaide
drove back from Avonham Road, but the
mind of the churchwarden was too much taken
up by his daughter's communication to notice
the looks of wonder that greeted them along
the street. Adelaide had told him all, and he
had emphatically declared that, after that, he
was never going to be surprised again. Adelaide
sat defiant of all the glances. She had
need of firmness now, she said to herself, and
if people where talking about her to-day, as she
was perfectly well aware they where, they would
soon have such a theme as Avonham had never
enjoyed, and a scandal with a vengeance.

Arrived at home she ran upstairs to her own
room, avoiding the drawing-room, where she
heard the voices of her mother and sisters.
Mr. Bompas entered the latter apartment.

Mercy on us, Abel ! " said Mrs. Compass

her lord and master came in ; '* whatever is
afoot ? what made Addie rush out of church
like that, and where have you been ? "

'• My dears," said Mr. Bompas to his family,
uplifting a deprecatory hand, " Adelaide has
just told me the most astounding piece of
news I have ever heard. It is a matter confided
to her by Mr. Galbraith, and one that
she has been bound to keep from us all till
now, when she has told me. Louisa, my
dear, your sister has sent an urgent message
to Mr. Bryceson, and he will doubtless be
here with all speed ; he is also concerned in
the matter. My dear," he gravely concluded,
addressing his ife, ** I have never had a
secret from you, nor shall this be one ; but at
present the matter is one of such extraordinary
moment, and deals with such vast interests,,
that until Mr. Bryceson arrives we T\dll, if you
please, have no discussion about it ; and remember,
girls, you are not to question Adelaide.
The matter concerns us only indirectly,
aid you will know all in due time."

So Adelaide was not asked any questions,
and the dimmer being announced and served,
was eaten, though it was a very quiet meal.

My dear Laura — you see I am taking the
uncle's protege already," — laughed Sir Head-ingle
Cannn the next afternoon, '' you mustn't
be angry with Walter, or I shall be vexed
with myself for having told you. I remember
very well speaking to him on that very subject
— ah — some time ago, and he assured me
that beyond paying the natural tribute of
admiration to the young lady's good looks —
as one would admire a picture, you know — he
had never thought in any serious way of Miss
Compass

that it is a case of wounded vanity,
and not of blighted affections. Sir Headingly ?
Well, I'll promise you that Walter shan't
be scolded. I am just going to call on Mr.
Bompas ; will you give me your arm so far ?
How soon it gets dark now ! We shall have
Christmas on us before wee dream of it."

Sir Headingly had been regaling Mrs. Stanhope
with an account of the surprise with
which the publication of the banns had been
received, and had informed her of the abrupt
departure of Adelaide from the church. In
common with many people, he had assigned a
reason for this, very wide of the truth. Pride
in his nephew, belief in his powers of fascination,

and a remembrance of some idle tales
that he lead once heard coupling Walter
Rivers's name with Adelaide Bom23as's, had
led him to imagine that the announcement
of Walter's intended marriage had shattered
some illusions and given the girl a shock, the
force of which she had been injudicious
enough to confess to the world by her action
of the day before. This opinion he had confided
to Mrs. Stanhope, after an interview
with his nephew, dio, strangely enough, so
he thought, did not enter into his feelings, but
vehemently combated the idea he had formed.
Sir Headingly had laughingly put aside the
question, but had diplomatically determined
that he would smooth the way for his nephew
by being himself Mrs. Stanhope's informant.
He was delighted with his success. Pre-matrimonial
quarrels, the old bachelor knew, were
often very awkward things to adjust ; when
the couple were made fast in wedlock, they
might squabble as much as they chose without
any of his interference, but things had
better be kept agreeable until then. It was
the simple philosophy of a man who had
never himself ventured into the arena, but
who had observed from a safe height many

connubial battles and lovers' wars, and, if weare
to believe that lookers-on see most of the
battle, then we must venerate the judgment
of this old spectator.

Sir Headingly left Mrs. Stanhope at Mr.
Bompas's door, and took a courtly leave of
her.

It was very rarely that Mrs. Stanhope
visited her agent in South Street. She was
received at the door by Jane, nth respect
akin to veneration, and was ushered into the
drawing-room.

Mrs. Stanhope looked round the apartment
with some interest. It was as handsome in
its proportions, she observed, as any in her
own house ; and everywhere were evidences
of tastes more artistic, and accomplishments
more varied, than she had expected to find in
any family of the town. She gave up a few
minutes to a careful survey of her surroundings,
and was disagreeably impressed with the
fact that they gave unmistakable tokens of
taste and education, as well as of wealth.
Taste as correct as her own too. There were
one or two pieces of music on the open piano ;
she took them up and examined them —
Chopin, Schumami, Gluck ; she put them

down. She read the titles of some of the
books on the centre table — Ruskin (this is
not a tale of the present year), Tennyson,
Keble, Carlyle, Emerson, Lyell. She looked
around at the pictures ; she was not a bad
judge. Everyone was a water colour, and at
that time the "lot" would have "fetched"
eight hundred pounds ; now-a-days, fifteen
hundred. She resumed her seat, and, for the
first time since her husband's death had made
her the leader of Avonham, forgot that
she had been kept waiting more that ten
minutes.

Oh foolish woman, consider ; were you ever
kept waiting ten minutes before ? Is the
sign nothing to you ? Away, away, fly and
hide yourself, for evil is coming on you !

No, the delay is nothing ; the sign is
hidden ; she waits quietly and unsuspectingly
in the drawing-room of her house and
estate agent, and thinks of no evil, only
waits for the door to open.

She will see that door open and shut once
twice — thrice, and after the third shutting
there will be little peace or quietness for her
in this world. In the next maybe — for God
is merciful — but in this world — No !

The door opens. It is Mr. Bompas who
enters.

Oh foolish woman ! did your servant ever
look so grave, so solemn, so sad, before ? Up
and away, for evil is coming on you ! Can
you not read portents, you so clever, so worldly-wise,
so skilled in noting the looks and reading
the hearts of men ?

]Neo ; he is a servant of other people ; he
looks grave over other men's business ; he
has a pompous air with him always — overcomes
it sometimes — he is a faithful, honest, upright
man, with many affairs on his hands, enough
to make him look important ; this is no sign
to the Queen of Avonham. She greets him
laughingly, not heeding that he does not smile.

You did not expect to see me here, Mr.
Bompas ? "

No, madam, I did not. It is quite an
unexpected — ah — 'um — visit."

Not a pleasure you see, you foolish woman !
not the stereotyped phrase you hear so often,
in all sorts of country houses, where people
brighten up at the sight of you ; no, this is an
unexpected visit. And the honest man who
uses the word does not look as though it were
a pleasure at all. Can you not see that he is

strange in his manner ? that mixed nth his
customary assumption of dignity — not so much
of an assumption either, for he is an honoured
and an honourable man, and his manner is not
so skin-deep as you think — there is an undercurrent
of pity struggling to come to the
surface ? Xo, this clever woman sees nothing !

'' I mil not detain you long, Mr. Bompas ;
you got the papers from Goldings and West ? "

Mr. Bompas bowed in his stateliest manner,
but did not trust himself to speak.

The plans, of course, are accepted as
being quite correct," she said, in her queenly
manner ; " you are always so correct in all
that you do, Mr. Compass

trust, Mrs. — ah — Stanhope, that, whatever
may happen, you drill always have the —
ah — opinion that I have at all times acted —
ah — conscientiously and straightforwardly to

you."

"My dear Mr. Bompas," she said with a

merry laugh, " what an asseveration. Anyone

would think that my second marriage was

to be the signal for my dispensing with your

very valuable services. It is nothing of the

sort, my dear sir ; neither myself nor Mr.

Rivers will ever forget the patience and skill
VOL. III. 37

with which you have watched over my affairs ;
and the upshot of our marriage, for you, mil
be that you will have to manage two estates
instead of one."

Mr. Bompas bowed again, and, for the first
time in his life, wished that he hadn't a
conscience.

By-the-bye," said Mrs. Stanhope, " I was
sorry to hear that Adelaide was taken ill in
church yesterday. I trust she is better."

She is perfectly well, Mrs. Stanhope, I
thank you," said Mr. Bompas gravely.

A passing attack only," said she ; "I am
very glad to hear it. I have not met her for
some time. Is she at home, Mr. Bompas ?
I should like to see her. Of course you understand
what to do with the papers now that
you have the lawyer's letter. That was the
only business I came about. Let me see
Adelaide if she is really well enough."

I will send for her," said Mr. Bompas, and
rang the bell. " Will you tell Miss Adelaide
that Mrs. Stanhope wishes to see her," he said
to the servant who answered it.

Adelaide was close to the door, and on
being spoken to by Jane entered. Mr. Bompas
bowed to Mrs. Stanhope again, and went out

of the room. Adelaide closed the door carefully,
and advanced towards the chair in which
Mrs. Stanhope was seated.

The two women looked very firmly at each
other. Mrs. Stanhope had not intended that
it should be so. She had meant to kill Miss
Bompas's presumptuous mind with a stern
gaze, to trample on it with a few stinging
sentences, and, having received a tearful submission,
to magnanimously forgive her her
audacity in daring to love. But she was met
by a look as proud and high as her own ; and
a thought flashed across her, that whereas she
had hitherto looked upon Adelaide as a merely
pretty girl, she was in reality a beautiful one ;
as stately and commanding as herself, and, she
added mentally as she took a second glance at
the stern look and the set face, as strong and
as insensible to fear.

You wished to see me, Mrs. Stanhope ? "
said Adelaide.

Yes, Adelaide," said Mrs. Stanhope ; " I

heard that you were ill in church yesterday,

and as I was calling on your father on business

I thought I should like to know how you are

to-day."

'* I was not ill in church yesterday, Mrs.

37—2

Stanhope," said Adelaide, " and I am quite
well to-day. But it is very kind of you to
take so much interest in me as to enquire."

Mrs. Stanhope laughed.

Ashen young ladies leave church in a
violent hurry," she said, " neighbours naturally
imagine that they are ill ; or," she added,
"that they have some other cause for their
departure."

Adelaide laughed in her turn.

Yours is a beautiful system of generalisation,"
said she ; "it takes very little wdt and
very little wisdom to divide mankind into two
parts ; for instance, your two branches of
young ladies, dio leave church because they
are ill, and young ladies who leave for some
other cause, would include all young ladies
who go to church. In which of the two
classes does it please you to place me ? "

Xow" this speech was decidedly flippant, yet
Mrs. Stanhope, although in a great rage at it,
had sense enough not to show temper. The
tone of the girl showed that there was something
behind her words.

My dear Miss Bompas," said she — she
dropped the familiar " Adelaide," which the
other did not fail to notice — " do you know

what people are saying about your conduct
yesterday ? "

You mean people in Avonham, of course,
Mrs. Stanhope ? " said Adelaide calmly.

Yes, people in Avonham," said Mrs.
Stanhope, rather sharply ; " and with Sir
Headingly Cannn at the head of them."

Now Mrs. Stanhope had no right to bring
the affable Baronet into the conversation at all,
and she soon regretted that she had done so.

Poor dear Sir Headingly ! " said Adelaide,
actually laughing at that revered man's name ;
he's always on the wrong track. Yes, Mrs.
Stanhope, I can tell you what people in Avon-ham
are saying of me because I left church
hurriedly yesterday. I will not allow you the
gratification of forming me. They are saying
that I was overcome by the notice of your
approaching marriage to Mr. Rivers ; that is
true — mark me, that is true ! "

Mrs. Stanhope smiled in scorn, but the
uplifted hand of the young girl and the air of
determination in her attitude stayed her speech.

They are saying also that Walter Rivers has
jilted me, and that that is the real cause of my
agitation. That is not true ! Mrs. Stanhope
Mr. Walter Rivers has twice asked me to

become this wife, and twice I have refused
Mm."

Mrs. Stanliope half rose, but Adelaide's
gesture again stopped her.

I foresaw your coming here to-day ; I was
ready for you. Mrs. Stanhope, you have been
accustomed in the sphere in which you move
to have many people at your feet. In Avon-ham
especially, during the last eight or nine
years, that has been so ; it may be that you
have been led to believe that you will always
exist in that imperial capacity. Do not let
that idea possess you at all in your intercourse
with me to-day. Remember that this meeting
is of your seeking, not mine."

You are quite melodramatic. Miss Bomb
said Mrs. Stanhope, but she did not say
it easily ; this girl had given her two sharp
blows, be it remembered. " Your visit to
London has improved you immensely. Pray,
since Mr. Walter Rivers is not good enough
for your husband, may I enquire whether you
expect to get married at all — to a gentleman's''

I am engaged to be married, Mrs. Stanhope,
to a man whom I believe to be a gentleman
in all that is gentle and all that is manly —
Mr. Henry Galbraith."

I must congratulate you, Miss Compassed
Mrs. Stanhope. " Mr. Galbraith must bea
well-to-do man. Well, we have had quite a
delightful little quarrel ; but although I have
enjoyed it — you are really very graceful when
you are roused, my dear — I am rather tired of
it. Mr. Galbraith is away, I believe. I must
write and congratulate him ; you know we
have had some dealings together. You must
keep your temper with him though, for I have
heard that he What is it ? what is it ? "

For Adelaide had suddenly clasped her m
her arms, and held her as though shielding
her from some enemy.

Oh, Mrs. Stanhope ! don't talk like that.
Oh, do trust in me, and I will save you yet ;
we have quarrelled to-day, but I swear to you
that my woman's heart bleeds for you. Mrs.
Stanhope, go to London and leave me to meet
them. You have been so good here — so kind
to the poor — so different from — oh ! do listen
to me and do as I ask you ! "

You are mad ! " said Mrs. Stanhope,
striving to free herself.

!Neo, not mad," said Adelaide, " but a
traitor to my husband that is to be. But I
will intercede for you — indeed I mil."

For me I — intercede I " said the elder
woman, no longer struggling with the girl.

Yes, for you ! Mrs. Stanhope ! Harry
Mr. Galbraith — is now on his way home
from America."

America I " and she shrank back to the
mrl's arms, and the sound of the word was asa
cry.

Yes, America ! and do you know who is
coming with him ? "

Xo, girl, no ; what should I know of him
or his affairs ? AVho is it who is coming ? "

'this brother !"

Brother ! What is the man to me ?
AYhat is his name ? "

Reginald Wilding ! "

Eeginald— Eeginald Wilding I "

The name seemed to act upon her like a
blow. She shrank, and Adelaide felt that she
trembled as though in an ague fit. Then she
pressed one hand over her eyes as if she shut
out some horrid sight. In a minute her whole
manner changed. The stroke had reached her
brain. She tore herself from Adelaide's clasp
and flung one arm back, as seeking for something
; at last her hand reached a chair, which
she grasped and held, warning Adelaide away

with the other hand. It was a sight to awe
any but the stoutest heart, but the brave girl
never flinched. Xot a movement escaped
Adelaide's eye, not a sign of fear did she show
as the woman raved.

"Wilding I ha, ha ! A fool ! a fool !
Francois shot him I Don't bullets kill fools
then ? Francois sceleraf, fu Vas tue direst-ce
jKis ? Yes, yes, at Baton Rouge, and I crept
out one night to try if I could see his dead face

for the last Out of my sight, you hound !

You have killed one worth a hundred of you !
You he, girl, he never loved you ; you have
told me les. Francois ! he is alive ! gave a
toi, mon cher. I am a governess, Mr. Stanhope,
and should only disgrace — ah, my God I
have I not striven to make amends ? Walter,
we will ride them down and live them down,
and you shall God have mercy on me ! "

Adelaide laid her on the sofa, and restrained
the struo'o'hno' hands : then she rano^ the bell.

CO O ' o

*****
When Mrs. Stanhope had been restored she
was calm. The first effects of the blow having
passed away, she became again the haughty
proud woman she had always been. She
looked keenly at Adelaide's face as if to see

whether she had betrayed her secret, but there
were no signs there. Mrs. Bompas was lost in
wonder, and voluble in sympathetic phrases ;
if she had been silent and embarrassed, there
would have been danger. Mrs. Stanhope felt
that she had still time left for thought and
action. She drank some wine, and would have
sent for one of her servants but that Mr.
Bompas insisted on being allowed to see her
safely to the Priory House. She would walk,
she told Mrs. Bompas, it would do her good ;
she had not had one of these attacks for years,
and could not account for this one. So, resisting
all offers of being driven home, she left
with Mr. Bompas, giving Adelaide a parting
glance, half-terrified, half-defiant, as she went
out of the door.

They walked to the end of South Street, and
were about to cross the market-place, when
the din and murmur of a crowd broke on their
ears. A body of men, followed by shouting
boys and excited women, were bearing something
on a rough stretcher formed of two
hurdles lashed together. Every minute the
group increased in size, until when it reached
where they stood it had attained the proportions
of a crowd. ind floating the air from

the lips of half the awe-stricken throng, came a
word that none could remember to have heard
in the streets of Avonham — " Murder ! "

"What is it, Mr. Bompas ? " said Mrs.
Stanhope, clinging to his arm ; " what are
they saying ? "

My dear madam," said Mr. Bompas, " I
really do not know ; we will let them pass by."

But as he said it and the ghastly burden
came opposite where they stood, they heard a
name. Mrs. Stanhope broke from his arm
with a wild cry and rushed forward. The
bearers stopped as she did so.

Who is it ? " she cried ; " whose name did
you say ? Let me pass ! "

Her OT^m coachman stood before her, and by
the pale light of the lanterns carried by some
of the men, she could see that his face was
white, and that the tears were streaming down
his cheeks.

For the love o' God, my dear lady," said
he, gently restraining her, " don't 'ee look ; it
ain't no sight for 'ee, my poor dear soul.
Mr. Bompas, sir, for marcy's sake get her away
home ! "

Let me pass, Weldon ! Pinniffer, stand
on one side ! I will see it ! Oh my God ! "

And a great sob broke from the breast of
every man there as she knelt beside the figure
and drew back the coarse piece of sacking that
covered the head.

The bloodless, waxen face, with the hair
hanging: about the forehead, and wet and foul
with the water and weed of Avon, was yet
beautiful in death. The face of Walter Elvers.

She gave no cry as she rose to her feet.
Only those who caught her in their strong
arms as she fell thought they heard her whisper
something. They did not know what words
she spoke ; they were the words of Cain —
"My punishment is greater than I can bear ! "

Such of her own people as were there took
her away, and the dead body was borne off.
Mr. Bompas remained stunned at the sight
and news. Mechanically he made his way to
where Pinniffer stood and laid his hand on his
arm.

Pinniffer, in the name of Heaven what is
this dreadful thing ? What has happened ? "

Dreadful indeed, Mr. Bompas," replied the
landlord of the " Bear." " A cheerful, kindly
gentleman like Mr. Rivers shot down by a
jealous beast — I don't care who hears me say
so — it is dreadful I "

But," said Mr. Bompas, "is it known who
did it ? "

Known ? Yes, Mr. Bompas, and I wish
I'd the hanging of him ; but he's locked up
safe enough, and it's only a job for Calcraft."

Who is it ? "

Who is it, Mr. Bompas ? Why, that
vicious, sulky, ill-tempered, domineering hound
Mr. Alfred Shelman — damn him ! and I wish
I'd my hands on his throat this minute ! "

And the stalwart ex-soldier shouldered his
way aggressively through the crowd and
entered his own house.

% > C^^ i S

crowner's quest law.

Happy the man who, either by making interest
with Mr. PinnifFer or in virtue of Ms position
in the town, managed to obtain admission, next
day, to the large upper room at the " Bear," in
which the market ordinary was usually held,
and which was now transformed into a
coroner's court. Every available foot of the
room was occupied. It was a large apartment
stretching along the whole front of the house,
was built partly over the old gateway, and
had, no doubt, in bygone days, served as the
great guest-chamber of the hospitium of the
Abbey. Its windows looked out on to the
market-place, and the long table at which the
coroner and jury sat was placed so that the
coroner was immediately beneath the centre
one.

This was of immense advantage to the crowd
who were unable to obtain admission to the
court, as they could gather in the market-place

and watch the back of the coroner's head, and
that was something which in after years they
could tell their descendants. Besides that,
they had the opportunity of accompanying the
jmy as they walked down the length of the
town to Sir Headmgly Cannn's house to view
the body, and also the privilege of marching
back with them.

The jury was composed of fourteen of the
worthiest burgesses of Avonham. The Mayor,
Mr. Sennett, was entrusted with the task of
watching the case for Ali-ed Shelman, who
was m the room in custody. Many acquaintances
of ours were members — Rarity, Chuckles
Follwell, the brothers Pye, Polhmoy,
Timothy Rapsey (who had specially entreated
the inspector of police to select him), Killett,
and six others with whom our tale has had
nothing to do. Mr. Bompas was present, but
was a spectator only, and to judge by his face
a deeply grieved one. By his side was Fred
Markham, who with Bryceson had returned to
Avonham the night before. When the coroner
bade the jury choose their foreman, there was
a pause ; if Timothy Rapsey had been elected
he would have died happy, but no mention
was made of his name. At last ex-Mayor

Killett said, " Mr. Foil well's the agedest of us
Mr. Foil well, will you act, sir ? " and, Mr.
Follwell consenting, the others said, "Ah, yes,
]\lr. Follwell, do you act, sir," and the thing
was done. Mr. Follwell and his brother
jurymen where duly sworn, and the enquiry
opened.

The coroner briefly remarked that they had
assembled there on an enquiry of more than
usual importance, and one of the most painful
nature. He then called the first witness, Sir
Headingly Cannn.

It did not need a second look at the old
Baronet's face to learn the terrible grief that
had overtaken him. He had steeled himself,
however, and controlled his sorrow to give
evidence.

He identified the body as that of his nephew,
Walter Cannn Rivers, aged twenty-six. He last
saw the deceased alive at lunch on the preceding
day ; he was then in his usual health ; he next
saw him when this dead body was brought
home. He knew of no enmity existing between
the deceased and any other person likely to
have led to the murder.

Shelman stood up here, and in a firm voice
said, " Sir Headingly, your nephew and I had

quarrelled, but, before God, I swear that I
never killed bim ! "

Tbe coroner begged him to be silent. He
was represented, and bad better trust himself
to his legal adviser. Any statement he made
might be used against him.

The next witness was a labouring man
named Jacob Starer, who was much impressed
by the surroundings, and called the coroner
my lord." His story was extracted from
him nth some difficulty, owing to his confusion,
but finally turned out to be this : He
was returning' from work, and was making fora
footbridge across the river, over which he
had to pass to get to his home ; about five
minutes before he reached this, the time beings
three o'clock, he heard two shots fired
in quick succession. He thought it curious
that they came from the banks of the stream,
as the afternoon was misty and it was foggy
near the river, but concluded that someone
was after water-rats. A few yards before he
reached the bridge his foot struck something
which proved to be a hat. Naturally surprised,
he hunted about to see if he could explain its
presence there, and looking over the bridge

saw a dark object in the water. He climbed
VOL. III. 38

down the liigli bank and found the deceased,
who was lying head downwards, his face and
head behoof under water : he drao^o^ed him out
and got him on to the bank, and, being
greatly alarmed, shouted for help. Some
persons came from a neighbouring mill, and
having helped him to take the body indoors,
sent for the police. He thought deceased was
quite dead when he found him. So much
from Jacob, got with vast trouble, but evidently
true.

The next witness was a more important
one. He was assistant to a grocer in Avon-ham,
and was named Lightfoot. He stated
that on the preceding afternoon he was out
collecting accounts for his master, and had to
call at the mill. On the bridge over which he
crossed were the deceased and Mr. Shelman ;
they were quarrelling violently. Mr. Shelman
had a double-barrelled gun with him. It was
not in his hand, but leaning against the railing
of the bridge. As he came up he heard
Mr. Shelman say, " Curse you ! if I thought
you had any hand in that, I would put a bullet
into you ! " He was quite sure of the words,
and would swear to them.

The silence in the room was almost painful.

It was broken only by the voices of the
coroner and the witness, a fresh - coloured
young man of good reputation, well known
in the town. He gave his evidence clearly
enough, but \\ith evident distaste for the task.
Mr. Rivers had replied, he said farther,
*' Haven't you had enough of fighting lately ? "
Mr. Shelman at that flew into a o^reat rao^e,
and he thought would have struck Mr. Rivers
if he (witness) had not come up. He spoke
to the gentlemen ; he said, " Dear me, gentlemen
I " He knew them both. ]mr. Rivers
laughed at him, but Mr. Shelman told him to
go (somewhere) and mind his own business.
Mr. Rivers then said, " See what an exhibition
you are making of yourself ; the fellow is
quite right to speak, and you are a fool with all
your threats and bluster I " Mr. Shelman had
flown into a violent passion, and had threatened
to kick witness if he did not go on. Being
afraid to meddle with anyone of Mr. Shelman' s
standing, he left them and went on to the mill.
Before he got there he heard two shots. They
came fi^om the direction of the bridge. The
afternoon was rather foggy, and it was thick
near the river ; you could only see a few yards

ahead, say twenty — about a cricket-pitch —

38—2

but lie could tell from the sound. When he
had been to the mill, and the miller's wife had
paid him her bill for a month's groceries, he
was coming away, when he heard shouting.
He and one of the mill-hands ran to the
bridge, and found the last witness holding the
deceased. The gun produced was the one he
saw on the bridge ; he knew it to be Mr.
Shelman's : he had once brought it from
Avonham Road, at the request of Mr. Sherman.


Next a policeman proved finding the gun
in the bed of the river close to the scene of the
murder ; he had recovered it that morning ; it
was at the bottom of the river in the centre of
the stream, which there was shallow, and he
could see it from the bank.

Then the doctor described the state of the
body and the fatal wounds. Death must have
ensued directly, and was caused by the shots,
not by drowning.

The inspector of police proved arresting
]Mr. Shelman the night before. He was at
home ; he was highly indignant and violent in
manner. He had cautioned him in the usual
manner, and he had strongly protested his innocence.


The case looked very black, in spite of this
protestation. The coroner asked Mr. Sennett
if he shed to make any statement, and Mr.
Seemeth shook his head. Shelman, however,
rose again to his feet and spoke lonely and
clearly, but with visible passion.

I claim my right to speak."

What you say may be used against you,
Mr. Shelman," said the coroner. " You had
better be guided by your solicitor ; you are in
very good hands."

Mr. Boldham and Mr. Sennett both endeavoured
to persuade him to be still, but in vain.

I will speak," he exclaimed ; " I am perfectly
innocent of this crime. It is quite true
that we quarrelled upon the bridge ; but I
swear before God I had no hand in his death.
I left him on the bank of the river by the
bridge. I came away hurriedly, being very
angry, and left my gun behind. I do not
know how it came in the water. I swear I
did not kill AYalter Kivers, nor have I any
knowledge of how he met his death I "

Fifty heads were shaken over this statement,
and not a man in the room believed it. The
coroner turned to Mr. Sennett, and asked if
he had any desire to address the court. Mr.

Seiinett had none ; lie would reserve all
defence at present, he said.

The summing up was short, and the jury
withdrew, really more for form than because
their minds were not made up ; when they returned
in eve minutes' time it could be seen
by their faces what their verdict was. It was
soon made known — " Wilful murder against
Alfred Shelman."

A larger crowd than Avonham had ever seen
since the election waited outside the Town
Hall to see the prisoner, who was, immediately
after the inquest j committed for trial as well
by a magistrate as by the coroner, and was
driven off to Eidgetown Gaol in a closed
carriage, and in strong custody. There were
no harsh words or strong expressions used by
the crowd, and there was almost complete
silence when the carriage, driven by a police
officer, set out ; but when the townsfolk
had watched it out of sight there broke
out on every hand murmurs of pity for the
victim of the crime ; words of sincere condolence
with the lady who was to have been his
wife, and who was, as her servants reported,
stricken down by uncontrollable grief, and
fierce execrations against Shelman.

In all that town, where he had been so
powerful and so masterful ; among all those
people who six months ago would have been
proud to have a word thrown to them in the
market-place, there was scarce one to stand forward
and say one good thing for him. They
recalled his overbearing manners, they told of
his bursts of temper, they spoke with fierce
glee of the thrashing he had received, but the
other day, in the face of the town, and they
cursed him loudly and deeply as a cowardly
and brutal murderer for whom hanging was
too good.

THE AVONHAM MURDER."

Oh, dear ! oh, dear I " said old Mas'r Killett,
laying down the London paper, which, m virtue
of his patriarchal position in the town, was
always placed at his elbow before other eyes
(except perhaps Pinniffer's) had seen it ; " all
the years I've a-hved in Avonham, I've never
bin ashamed of it afore ; an' now look what
t has come to. Drat it if it ain't a hard thing
for the oldest man in the place — 'ceptin' perhaps
Daddy Prosser's father, and nobody don't comet
much o' how old he says a be — if he can't pickup
the paper for a bit o' quiet read-ike but
what he must have ' Th' Avonliam Murder '
stuck right afore his eyes. Oh, dear ! what a
disgrace for my poor old native place ! Do 'ee
take the paper now, Mas'r Matley ; I can't
abide 'un."

And the old fellow took off his heavy
silver-rimmed spectacles, wiped them carefully,
and then performed the like office for his eyes,

filled Ms pipe, and puffed away to get a light
from the burning spill which his dutiful son
held for him according to custom. Then he
leaned back in his seat and sighed heavily.
He was not the only old inhabitant of Avon-ham
who felt keenly the disgrace that had so
suddenly come on the place.

The murder which had roused such a sense
of horror and indignation in the quiet Marlshire
town had been committed on the afternoon of
Monday ; the inquest, fi:'om the fact of the
coroner for North Marlshire residing just outside
Avonham and thus being close at hand,
had been held on the following day, Tuesday ;
it was now Friday, but only a " little market
day," and the funeral was fixed for the morrow.
From the time that the body of AYalter Rivers
had been brought ito the town mitil now, the
place had worn a sombre and funereal aspect.
With the great bulk of people the unfortunate
victim had been extremely popular. Especially
during the last two or three years he had laid
himself out to be pleasing and well thought of ;
and that he had succeeded was fully shown
now : on all sides nothing but stood was said
of this dead man. To-morrow there would be
such a concourse at the funeral as the town

had never seen, for there was more than ordinary
attraction ; in addition to the sorrow
and respect which would have been shown if
the young man had died the ordinary death of
men, there where the surroundings, which would
draw the spectators into the region of the
horrible. Meanwhile the wiser heads of the
town grieved themselves sorely over the
scandal that had befallen it, and Master Killett's
desponding words found an echo in
many hearts.

The cronies had not met for two or three
nights, but gregariousness is strong, and they
had come together again, naturally and because
the doings of the morrow must be debated with
all solemnity, also because it was not natural
for them to be separated at a time when the
air was full of events and the very walls had
rumours in them. So they where sitting tonight,
not in the Club room, for it was not Club
night, but, much as they were wont to sit on
ordinary nights, in the smoking room. One or
two farmers from the neighbourhood were
there, in addition to the usual towns fathers ;
they had an excellent excuse ready for such of
their wives as had not themselves come in to
learn all the news. A good many had and

Mrs. Piiiiiiffer's teapots and toasting forks had
had a busy time of it.

Every man who came in did so with a subdued
and gloomy air ; the customary greetings
were given sotto voce ; no mention was made
of the weather or the land ; the price of beasts
was ignored, and yet no one approached the
subject which every one had at heart. Someone
was wanted to fire the train, and the
Nestor of Avonham did it.

Reuben Matley took the paper handed to
him by the old man, and, himself, shook his
head sympathetically.

It may be noticed here that there were some
absentees. Notwithstanding that the " Bear "
was very often the settling-place for him and
his clients on market day, Mr. Bompas was
not present to-day. Mr. Semiett, as everyone
knew, was in London, and all knew the business
that took him there. Rarity would send
to meet him to the last train calling at Avon-ham
Road that night. Doctor Mompesson, who
often smoked a pipe there after market day,
was also absent. It was understood that the
state of Mrs. Stanhope gave him much anxiety,
and that he had almost taken up this abode at
the Priory House. All Avonham was filled

nth sympathy for his patient, and those of
her household who came out into the towai
were eagerly questioned as to her progress.

Mr. Timothy Rapsey was in his element,
but not at his ease. There was one point on
which he was troubled, and that one point was
enough to cause him some mental discomfort.
He feared that his revelations respecting the
riot had reached Rivers's ears and had led to
the quarrel between the young men. However,
public opinion had not pointed that way, and
he was somewhat relieved. He took up Mas'r
Killett's parable as the latter put away his paper.

'Tis a great disgrace to us all, for sure,"
said he ; " Mr. Matley, read us out a bit of it ;
what do the London folk think about it ? Do
they think there's any cause for it ? What do
they say was the reason of 't ? Be they going'
to have it tried at Ridgetown, or be they going'
to take it up to London ? Lor' ! I'll go if
they do ; that I will ! "

What need for 'em to take it up to London,
Timothy ? " said Killett the younger, and his
voice had a shade of aggressiveness in it ;
'ain't come to such a pass yet but what a
Marlsliire jury can try a Marlshire murder, I
do hope I "

There have been cases where it has been
done, Killett," said Timothy, " on account of
prejudice, you know."

"What do 'ee mean by prejudice now,
Timothy ? " said Killett ; " agent the prisoner
r

Yes, I do ; I've read o' cases where it have
been said as a man couldn't get a fair trial ins
own county, and they've took it into another.
Why wouldn't they do it with Mr. Shelman ? "

He can get all the fair trial as he do want
without going' out o' ^larlshire, I reckon," said
Killett.

Xo one seems to know the cause of the
quarrel," said Wolstenholme Pye.

Xo," said Hoppenner Pye, chiming in as
usual, " no one don't seem to know that."

Timothy Rapsey laid down his pipe solemnly
on the table, then took a moderate pull at his
glass, and, leaning forward, raised his finger
impressively, and sat wagging it backwards
and forwards in the face of the company. This
was a well-known sign in Avonham, and betokened,
even in Timothy, the possession of
information peculiarly valuable, or the intention
of delivering something unusually weighty or
oracular. So, when the assembled party saw

this portent, they preserved decorous and attentive
silence and listened eagerly. Xo one
thought very much of Timothy's opinions, but
there was no doubt as to his ability and industry
in collecting facts and rumours.

I remember," he said, " ah, just so well as
if it were yesterday, in this very room, just
when the election coin's first come up, being
took very much to task for that very things.
Xow, Pimiiifer, I can mind you of it for this
very reason, if for no other ; there was a party
sitting in this room, just where you're a-sitting
now, Mr. Pye "

Mr. Pye looked grave — it was AYolsten-
holme — as though he were suddenly made
personally responsible for doings and sayings
of a person unknown, of which it was possible
he might not approve. His brother looked
grave too.

That party," pursued Mr. Eapsey, greatly
gratified by the attention which was beg paid
to his remarks, " was no less and no more, no
other and no one else but — who do you think ? "

The company had been so impressed by Mr.
Rapsey's affidavit-ike form of speech, that
when he wound up with a question, not to say
a conundrum, instead of a statement, they

were incensed ; in particular, old Mas'r Killett,
who had followed the speaker with all the
care that both the gravity of the occasion and
what Mrs. Thrace described as a " warning," in
the shape of a little deafness in company,
demanded, turned snappishly on him.

Od rot the meddlesome man ! " he cried ;
*' why ever don't a say what i've got to say,
'stead o' messina' about wi' a lot o' cross questions
an' crooked answers ? AVho, in the
name o' patience, were it ? "

Lor' I bless me, Mas'r Killett ! " said
Timothy, greatly startled, " don't 'ee be angry,
sir ; 'twas Mr. Galbraith, sir ; that's who
'twas."

Coming home tomorrow," said Christopher
Rarity, taking his pipe out of his mouth
and casting the sentence to the company, not
with any reference to the subject in hand, but
as a morsel of general and interesting news.

Timothy Rapsey, in his eagerness for information,
quite forgot old Mas'r Killett's crossness,
and almost the topic on which he had
been speaking.

'• Lor' I " he said, " coming' home tomorrow,
is he ? if it's a fair question, who told 'ee, Mr.
Rarity ? "

Mr. Bryceson," answered Christopher ;
I've got to send a carriage to meet him and
a cart for his big luggage."

Coming' home tomorrow, is he ? " said
Eapsey again ; " he's been away a power of a
time, hasn't he ? I wonder, now, where on
earth an' all he's been to ? "

You were going to tell us some tale or
other about him just now," growled Barnabas
Cliickleholt, from behind his pipe, " but I doubt
it's all fled out of your head — if 'twere ever in
there."

'Tis true that, Mas'r Eapsey," said a bm^ly
farmer, laughing at the very sound of his
own jesting voice ; " you do want more bring -
gain* in a tale than any man I ever seed ;
for sure you do I "

Timothy looked rather abashed, and laughed
a little dry, nervous, single-knock kind of
lauo'h.

'Twas your fault, Karaty," he said ; " you
interrupted me, right in the middle."

I didn't," said Rarity ; " 'twas you skipped
away ; but, lor' sakes, go on now, man."

Thus adjured, Timothy, resuming his former
important attitude and gesture, proceeded.

Helping or accompanying ou the road.

*' 'Twas one morning' when Mr. Galbraith
was sitting where Mr. Pye is now ; we were
all on to the 'lection news, and it was said in
this very room that what folk looked to see was
Sir Headingly gi\^g up his seat to poor Mr.
Rivers. ' Then says Mr. Rarity, ' you'd 'a'
seen Mr. Shelman putting up against him''
What was it I said then ? Xow, Mrs. Pinniffer,
you must remember it, an' how sharp you was
on me for saying of it. I said as there was
one thing as young men 'ud quarrel over
sooner than anything, and "

I know ye did, Mr. Rapsey," said Mrs.
Pinniffer, advancing from the shadow of the
little bar, and standing in its doorway. " I
remember it very well, and I mind what I said,
and, come to look at it all round, perhaps I
might go so far as to say, now, as you were
right and I was wrong over it. I only say
perhaps, mind, for I think, as Mr. Chickleholt
said that day, you were too fast in your talk,
Mr. Rapsey, an' I think you are too fast
now."

Mr. Rapsey stared.

Why, Mrs. Pimiiifer ? " he said in an

injured tone ; " wasn't I right ? "

Right or wrong, Mr. Rapsey, I don't say,"
VOL. III. 39

replied Mrs. PinniiFer resolutely ; " but fast
you were, and fast you are."

Pinniifer, whose face had expressed much
gratification when his vnfe had admitted the
possibility of her having been in the wrong for
once, now shook his head and chuckled.

Well," said Rapsey, a little crestfallen,
but not much, for his belief in himself was
great, " whatever you may think, I'll maintain
and stick to it as I named that day — at least,
not named, because I mind saying I hadn't
named no names, but I pointed out that day
the cause of the quarrel between those two
young men."

No one openly supported Timothy, but those
who had been present when the little man had
been "put down" by Mrs. Pinniifer felt in
their hearts that he was right. Perhaps even
Mrs. Pinniifer felt so too, and would not have
made any reply ; indeed a storm might have
been averted fi:'om Timothy Eapsey's head but
for the presence in the smoking room of an
inquisitive farmer to whom this conversation
was all Greek.

This man Im^ed the little chatterton to his
fate by the simplest and most natural question
possible.

An' what were that, Mr. Kapsey ? " said
lie cheerily and loudly, and felt that he had
done society a service.

Timothy rushed on his fate by degrees.

What's the cause o' half the quarrels in
the world ? " he said, with a grin.

Well," said the farmer, still cheerily, and
looking romid for approbation, " 'tis a woman,
nine times out o' ten they do say ! Ha ! ha !
ha ! " So old and crusted a joke demanded
his own laughter, but he was accompanied.

Yes," said Timothy, " you're right, and
that was so in this case. Both in love with
the same woman."

PinniiFer looked somewhat anxiously at his
wife. That good lady had friends at the Priory
House, and was a known partisan of that mansion
; but this time she was silent. She gave
a spiteful glance at Timothy, and her tongue
was very close to her hips, but she did not
speak. It was not at her hands that Timothy
was to receive his reproof. John Rannn had
been fidgeting about in his chair for the last
few minutes, evidently with something on his
mind, and he now broke forth.

What a mischievous, mischief-making man
you are, Rapsey ! " he said m a tone of great

39—2

wrath. " Drat it all, ye might leave the
poor woman alone in her trouble for a bit,
oughtn't ye ? I never saw such a man."

I'm not saying anything against her, John
Eann," cried Timothy ; " I'm sure I'm as sorry
for her as a man can be ! I didn't say it washer
fault, did I ? "

Her fault ! " repeated Rannn in a tone of
great scorn, ''^ her fault ! no, you didn't say it
was, and I hope you've got too much sense
for it. Fault I If you come to fault-finding,
and want to lay faults on people's shoulders,
I'll join ye. You've had your say, Timothy
Rapsey, and now I'U have mine. I'll tell ye
one or two things as 'U perhaps astonish ye.
First and foremost," said the sturdy little partisan,
bringing down his hand on the table
with a slap that made Timothy jump, " I don't
believe, and I ivont believe till he confesses it,
that Mr. Shelman did the murder at all "

To say that the company stared would be to
use a feeble word, and one entirely useless for
describing the expression of features that everyone
in the room put on.

and secondly, I'll say to your face,

Timothy Eapsey — and I don't make no bones
about it neither — that, whether Mr. Shelman

did it or not, it was as much your fault as anyone's
! "

Whack ! came Mr. John Rannn's hand down
again on the table, and he stared triumphantly
round on the most astounded set of faces he
had ever seen.

It is a mercy that Wolstenholme Pye did
not suggest that the company should put into
effect the wild notion which flew thi-ouofh his
astonished brain, of hanging Timothy Eapsey
at once and without any trial but a Bedford
one — which had its advantages, although criminals
were prejudiced against it — for if he had
formulated his idea, he would, most certainly,
have been backed up by his brother, and the
execution once moved and seconded, it is a
matter of considerable question whether public
feeling at that moment would not have been
strong enough to have ensured its beings carried
out. Pinniffer's military instincts might have
induced him to suofo-est a drumhead court -
martial, but it is doubtful.

Fortunately, Wolstenholme Pye, whatever
his ideas were, was too much paralysed to
enunciate them, and the moment passed.

But the shock on the assembled cronies was
a great one. Old Mas'r Killett couldn't jump

as well as he used to, but he jumped a good
deal ; Barnabas Chickleholt, who was given to
breaking pipes in moments of excitement, accomplished
a " best on record," and smashed
his churchwarden into more pieces than he
could have counted ; ex-Mayor Killett, who
would not have gone out of his way to harm
a hornet, kicked the cat half-way across the
room — spasmodically, of course. Beadlemore
Artoo poured the whole of his gin-and-water
over his legs, and Pinniffer rang the bell
sharply, without the least occasion. The rest
of the company were affected in divers ways,
and Timothy Kapsey's face could not have
turned more ashy-white if he had known of
Wolstenholme Pye's wild thought and feared
immediate action on it.

The first one in the room to recover was the
cat. That sagacious beast went out and sat in
the bar.

Then the nobler animals gradually came to.

There is no portrait extant which represents
the Emperor Napoleon Buonaparte menacing
the Allied Powers with a minatory long clay
pipe ; but Rannn, had he been painted sitting
as he sat dining this period of amazement,
would have approached the presentment of

that majestic figure as nearly as possible. The
Powers ill his case were represented by the
person of Mr. Timothy Eapsey, who quailed
before the stern gaze. Certainly no foreign
potentate could have terrified him more than
did the market-clerk of Avonham. Some reply
was, however, indispensable ; and, as soon ashe
was able to articulate, he gasped out his
remonstrance in the form of supplication and
question.

Good Lor' 'a' mercy on us all, Mr. John
Eann ! " said he ; •' what ever in the world do
ee mean t

Lawks a daisy how ! " said Beadlemore
Artoo, wiping his legs ; " what a dreadful thing
to say, Mr. Rami ! "

I mean it," said Rannn. " Xow look here,
Rapsey ; who was it stirred up all the strife
and mischief when that gentleman at the
Coombes ' and Mr. Shelman had that row
outside ? Why, you ! "

Mr. Rannn whacked the table ao^ain.

Now, as it happens," he resumed, " I know
the rights o' that. You took your money out
o' the Bank "

I was told to," interrupted Rapsey ; " that
weren't my fault at all."

It weren't your fault at all ? " said Mr.
Rami excitedly ; " yes, it cere your fault at
all, and no one else's ; you go a-talking to
Mr. Galbraith's servant about Mr. Galbraith's
windows being broke, as if his windows were
more than anyone else's ; next thing you seem
to make up your mind as that affair, and indeed
all the whole riot, was got up by our side,
with Mr. Shelman at the head of it. Pretty
charge to bring ! Then comes what you call
being told to take your money out of the Bank.
Of course you were told. Do you think a
bank's going to stand your scandalising one of
its chief partners ? Do you think the Bank
wants your dirty money ? "

Mr. John Rami banged his open hand on
the table again, and made the glasses dance ;
the company looked as though Mr. Rapsey's
money were really a disgrace to him, and its
possession a species of crime.

What's the cause of Parson Carter's son
leaving Bompas ? " resumed the peppery 
; " you, and nobody else ! Oh, you
needn't trouble yourself to deny it ; I know all
about it ; never mind how. You're going to
say that Carter was attacking Mr. Galbraith's
house, aren't you ? Hadn't that blown over ?

I don't know much of Mr. Galbraith, nor of
Mr. Bryceson either ; but I do know this, that
they wouldn't have said another word about
the matter more than they said to Mr. Bompas
and Mr. Millard if 't hadn't been for you.
You've stared up bad blood all round with
yom' nasty, inquisitive, prying, tattling ways,
and now you're not satisfied ! "

Tut, tut ! dear heart alive, Mr. Rami ! "
muttered ex-mayor Killett, " don't 'ee now goon
so at 'un."

"Let him deny it if 'ain't true ! " urged the
sturdy and solitary partisan of the unfortunate
Shelman ; " look at that row wi' Mr. Shelman
and Mr. Bryceson. I don't say who were
right, I don't say who were wrong ,* but 'twere
all his fault. I've always stood by Mr. Sherman,
and I always shall. I don't believe as
here a done this murder no more than I believe
Daddy Prosser's father done it ; but whoever
done it, it was through bad blood stirred up in
Avonham such as never was stirred up afore,
and all through you, Timothy Rapsey. You'd
an old neighbour o' mine, and I've alius wished
you well ; and if this here affau' don't forever
stop you from meddling' wi' other folks'
affairs, and don't keep that tongue o' yours

quiet behind your teeth, you take a neighbour's
friendly advice and goo home and cut
'un off ! "

Daddy Prosser's father couldn't do noo
murder," said old Mas'r Killett scornfully, as
the orator stopped to drink ; " can't scarcely
hobble to 's front door of a sunny day, a can't."

And now," said Rannn, as he laid down his
empty glass and rose from his seat, " now 'tis
all to be put down to a lady as can't help herself,
and ain't here to answer to it. Well, I'll
leave all my neighbours here to judge if I
haven't answered for her. Them as live in
glass houses shouldn't throw no stones, Mas'r
Rapsey ! " and giving the little man no opportunity
to reply, even if he had had the inclination,
which he hadn't, the champion of the
absent left the room without exchanging greetings
with anyone.

Mr. Timothy Rapsey did not remain long
after him. Although it was felt that Mr.
Rannn's partisanship and excitement were more
the cause of his outbreak than any facts he had
accumulated, yet the situation was decidedly
uncomfortable for Timothy, and the flavour
seemed to go out of his tobacco all at once.
Jle stood his ground for a little while, however,

but soon departed, leaving his character behind
him.

Mr. Rannn's speech, and the subject of the
murder generally, had been pretty well
threshed out, and two or three of the outlying-farmers
had driven away, when the lessening
circle was increased by Doctor Mompesson,
who had not been seen for a day or two.
When he was seated Beadlemore Artoo, after a
little meditative puffing at his pipe, asked :

How's Mrs. Stanhope, doctor ? Poor
thing, I suppose she's terribly upset over this
horrid affair."

Doctor Mompesson seemed unusually grave ;
he shook his head.

Very bad, very bad," he said ; " very
difficult case ; " and he continued shaking his
head as he ht his cigar.

I'm sorry for that, doctor," said Pinniffer,
speaking amidst a general murmur of regret ;
I thought the poor lady seemed to have
been driven half wild by the shock on Monday
night. Dear heart ! I don't wonder at it.
I'm sure we all feel it keen enough, and what
must her state of mind be, poor thing ? "

The doctor made no verbal reply ; he nodded
his head in appreciation of Pimiiffer's sympathy

with his patient, and went on gravely pulling
at his cigar ; usually he would chat cheerily
enough to any one, but to-night there was
evidently something on his mind, and nothing
could make him speak except in monosyllables.
Soon the conversation dried up altogether.
John Rami's outbreak on the one hand, and
the serious condition of Mrs. Stanhope on the
other, acted as a damper on the spirits of everyone
in the room. The rest of the farmers
wended their way homewards. Old Mas'r
Killett and his dutiful son went home together,
and still the doctor sat quietly smoking until
at last he was left alone with Pinniffer. The
old soldier-landlord was not naturally garrulous
; he was all things to all men in the
talking line, as every good host should be, and
would chat and gossip with a talking customer,
or placidly smoke with a thinking one, just as
the case might be, and put it all down in the
day's work. He sat puffing away opposite the
doctor for some time, until that worthy, who
had sat with an unfilled glass before him for
some time, and had been apparently obvious
of the fact that he had emptied it, stretched
out his hand, groped for it a moment or two,
raised it towards his hips, stayed his hand before

the glass reached his mouth, looked into
the tumbler as though it were a vessel of
surpassing interest which he had never seen
before, say a Druidical punch bowl, kept his
eyes fixed on it for a minute, and then gave a
short sigh and woke to a sense of the surroundings.
He looked over at PinniiFer and
laughed.

Going off to sleep, I think," he said ; " some
more sherry and cold water, Pinniffer."

This being supplied him, he sipped it once
or twice, nodded approval, and settled himself
for a quiet chat. PinnifFer told him the news
of Rami's attack on Rapsey, to which he
listened attentively, as though waiting to hear
some statement that would clear up a doubt
in his mind. Xot finding one in the landlord's
narrative, he shook his head again.

Bad job," he said, " bad job all round.
Rannn may be right ; Rami may be wrong.
Rapsey is a chattering little magpie, as everyone
knows, but I never knew any harm of him,
and I think the matter is rather exasperated.
But I'll tell you one thing, Pinnififer," said
the doctor as he threw away the end of his
cigar : " when we have buried that poor young
fellow tomorrow, aye, and when the law has

exacted its penalty from — whomsoever did kill
him, when all that is past and done with, we
shall hear something in this place that'll make
the ears of every man that hears it tingle.
Take the advice of an old friend, Pinniffer ;
don't encourage any scandal of that sort ; put
it down quietly — you know how, but put it
down. I don't know what it is, and if I did,
I am not at Kberty to say, but I'm as sure as
I can be that something is coming on people
in this town that we shall all be very sorry to
see and hear of; good-night, Pinniffer, and
remember what I have said."

And the good old man, whose voice betokened
the pain of his mind, went away, leaving
behind him a very much puzzled host
and hostess. For Mrs. Pinniffer had heard
every word.

What does doctor mean, Pinniffer ? " said
she to her husband when the doctor had
gone.

I don't know," said the ex-busier, " and
what's more, my dear," he added firmly, " I'm
not going to try to find out. There never
was any good came of meddling with great
folk for either soldier or publican. So I'm
just going to keep my house open and my

mouth shut, and let them as likes it laddie
over other people's affairs."

And the best way too," decided his trusty
helpmeet.

Doctor Mompesson walked home revohnjig
many things in his mind.

What parson or priest hears what the doctor
hears ? Mrs. Stanhope had been in delirium ;
and — though Doctor Mompesson did not
understand the whole of them, and could not
place them together in proper order — he had
heard some terrible things as he sat by her bedside.


->^'4I^

K*-

THE FOOTFALL OF NEMESIS.

As if to mock the sorrow of the town, the sun
rose glorious next morning, and made merry
all the day. His first business was to dispel
the hoar-frost that had gathered thickly en
every twig and spray and blade, and to drive
away the fog that Avon threw up. This he
did patiently, devoting an hour to it and
finishing his task completely in a workmanship
manner. After that, he gave up his mind
to being a bright jolly winter sun, and seemed
inclined to assert that if he did not often shine
on Avonham in winter, yet he could do so if
he chose, and could make a november morning
as bright and brilliant as any summer day
of them all. What if he shone on a sad and
mourning town ? He took no heed of that,
but gilded the streets and darted a ray of light
through every crevice in shutter or blind that
he could discover, and entered everywhere
he could, preaching of a Life which takes no

heed of Death, to those who could read the
sermon.

At this time Avonham buried her dead in
her churchyard ; they lay grouped together
neighbour by neighbour, family near family.
In many cases the father had lain for a generation
undisturbed till the earth was taken from
his coffin for a short time in order that his son
might join him in that long sleep of which no
man knows aught save that, whatever may be
its waking, it is hard to see our loved ones lie
down to it. They laid Walter Rivers with his
mother, who had died when he was a child.

Such an array of people had not been before
seen in the Marlshire town. It was a general
day of mourning ; closed shutters, drawn
binds, and suspended trade were universal.
From the country-side, hundreds came in to
swell the throng of townsfolk. What respect
or esteem might not have been able to effect
curiosity did, and the grief of the two great
houses of Avonham was shared, so far as outward
demonstration went, by all who from
town or country-side could reach St. Hides
that day.

The funeral itself was simple in the extreme.

True that the mournful procession passed from
VOL. III. 40

the house of Sir Headingly Cami to the churchyard
through hues of bareheaded men and
weeping' women ; true that the hands of the
most honoured men in Avonham received it at
the loch-gate, and bore the coffin first into the
church and next to the grave ; true that the
whole of the churchyard was one mass of silent
and sympathising humanity, but the outward
trappings of woe were plain and unostentatious,
and the rigid simplicity of the accessories,
combined with the solemn demonstration which
a silent crowd always makes, were fitting and
touching evidences that those assembled were
seeing the last of a young life which was not,
but might have been, a great one.

The chief figure among the mourners was,
of course, Sir Headingly Cannn.

The old man had borne up bravely under
the loss of him whom he loved as his own son,
but it was evident that the blow had fallen
heavily. He carried himself right nobly under
his grief, though, as became a high-minded
man such as he was. There was no faltering
in speech as he followed the splendid service
for the dead, no halting in his gait as he
walked behind the coffin that held his nephew ;
he had no tears in his eyes at the grave, and

he thanked, with a firm voice, those whose
position gave them the right of personally
offering sympathy to him after the last rites
were over. Perhaps he came nearest to
showing open emotion when, seeing Mr. Bold-ham
standing near the grave and looking, if
possible, more grief stricken than he, he made
his way to him and held out his hand, which
the other grasped in silence. An intuitive
feehno^ that this was a meetings whose words
and incidents were sacred things to all but
those two, kept everyone aloof, but it was
seen that Sir Headingly was the one who
spoke, and that the banker, overwhelmed with
grief and horror at the whole of the fearful
affair, was totally liable to stem the current
of his sorrow.

Slowly the concourse filed out of the churchyard,
and dispersed among the streets of the
town.

Among those who had joined in the general

expression of respect had of course been Mr.

Bompas, and those who took note of such

things observed that he stood between his

neighbours at the " Coombes," Bryceson and

Markham. People who saw them, after the

funeral, crossing the market-place together

40—2

observed to each other that Mr. Bompas
seemed a great deal taken up with Mr. Galbraith's
two friends, that the " Coombes "
appeared to have a good many owners, and
that Mr. Galbraith had been away a longish
while.

The group of three W' as a silent one. They
walked past Mr. Bompas's house and entered
the gate of the " Coombes." Arrived in the
drawing-room of that establishment, a room
which showed by its outward and visible signs,
by its pipe-racks, fishing-rods, boxing-gloves,
whips, guns, and other sporting paraphernalia,
that it was a room devoted to the use of
bachelors, Bryceson poked the fire into a blaze,
and drew up the blind at the back French
window, to admit light.

Xo one can see in from the back," he said,
apologetically, "and the house has been so
desperately gloomy all day, I really can't stand
it any longer. For goodness' sake, Fred, rin
for Edward or one of the women."

Fred did as he was requested, and the negro
appeared in answer to the summons. He had
apparently understood it, for he brought wine
and other cordials on a tray.

Edward," said Bryceson, " we are both

going over to Avonliam Road to meet Harry
and Reginald. Get a carriage and pair from
Rarity's, and you Avill drive us yourself."

"' Berry good, Mas'r Wal'r ; ]mr. Bompas
coming' 'long too ? " asked Edward.

Xo, Edward," said Mr. Bompas ; " I conceive
that these gentlemen would prefer to
welcome Mr. Galbraith and this — ah — brother
by themselves. I sill — ah — postpone the
great pleasure which I shall feel at seeing Mr.
Galbraith return safe and sound to his — ah —
to the — ah — place of his adoption and choice."

'• Dear old Harry," said Fred Markham,
we shall be glad to see him again, and fancy
having poor old Reginald among us once
more I Ah, but I'm afraid," he added, "it
will be with a broken heart, and only to spend
the fag-end of a ruined Hfe. Mr. Bompas, you
will have no idea what he was from seeing
him as I fear he is."

Sir," said Mr. Bompas, " let us hope that
a brighter close to his life will be granted to
him."

I say amen to that," said Bryceson, " but
what will happen, and how Harry will act, or
what Reginald will do, I don't know."

Does he know of the — of the terrible

occurrence of last Monday ? " asked Mr.
Bompas.

Xot a word, unless lie may have seen
an account of it in a newspaper by chance,"
answered Bryceson ; " we consulted together
and came to the decision that we would leave
all explanation till their return. This sudden
affair of the murder must of course make such
a difference in many ways, that it is impossible
for us to foretell how the matter will be conducted,
or how it will turn out in the end.
Besides, we may want to consult other people
yourself, for instance ; and again a letter
might miscarry and be opened. It is a chance
whether they get any information from the
papers, and we can easily explain why we were
silent. Also it will be necessary that Harry
shall know before Reginald does, and there
are many good reasons besides, which I need
not recapitulate."

Mr. Bompas sipped his wine in silence for a
minute or two, and then, laying down his
glass, said very gravely :

I have known Mrs. Stanhope — as from —
ah — old associations I must continue to call
her — for so long ; I have been so great an
admirer of her goodness, her charity, her whole

manner of life, and have been so long her — I
trust — faithful servant, that these things have
come upon me with a great shock. From
what you have told me, and from the result of
her interview with my daughter Adelaide last
Monday, I feel that I must accept these facts
that are — ah —-forced upon me by belief and
even by — ah — conviction ; but I assure you,
gentlemen, that I would fain disbelieve them.
Is there no doubt, no misapprehension, no
mistake ? "

The good old fellow's broken voice seemed
to plead for his old friend's wife as he put
his question.

Markham shook Ms head.

There is no mistake, believe me, Mr.
Bompas," he said ; " she is Reginald Wilding's
wife, beyond a doubt. I have seen her, and
am as sure on the point as I am sure of my
c«vn existence."

Gentlemen," said Mr. Bompas, " there
must be mercy shown. Being strong in your
position, you must be pitiful."

Very hrm and clear was Mr. Bompas's
voice now ; it sounded to himself almost
threatening. He was uncertain how his
remarks would be taken and his appeal

received ; but, like the stout-hearted man that
he was, he was without care on that point.
His task lay clear before him, to stand between
the wrath of an injured husband and the
person of a woman whom he respected from
custom, guilty though she might be.

Whatever were this lady's faults, or, if
you like it, crimes," pursued he, " you must,
in all justice, remember two things : first,
that she considered her first husband dead ;
secondly, her .blameless life of late years."

Years," said Markham quietly but firmly,
^' which our poor friend has passed — how ? "

The question was not answered. Mr.
Bompas remained silent. Bryceson slowly
cut and ht a cigar.

You may depend," said Markham, "' upon
all justice being done. It may be that Mrs.
Stanhope is Mrs. Stanhope, and that her
worldly position is unassailable. It may be
that Reginald will himself take views of
the position different from ours. But in any
case," he concluded, with a slight flush, " you
may be sure of this one fact, and be comforted
by it, that Harry is a humane man and a large-hearted
one, and also that there is some one else
now who has a claim on him, and who, if I do

not greatly mistake, will endeavour to divert,
and doubtless will succeed in diverting, much
of his anger from a woman who is undoubtedly
suffering terribly just now."

Mr. Bompas nodded his head gravely, but
with a gratified look. The last words greatly
reassured him.

He was about to express himself as being
wiUino' to trust to his vouno^ fi:-iends, and to
his daughter's influence, when Edward appeared
at the door, interrupting him in his
speech.

'* AVhat is it, Xed ? " asked Bryceson, who
was standing in front of the fire, looking
moodily at his friend, for the subject was a
painful one to all in the room, and puffing
slowly at his cigar.

'* Doctor Momp'son want to see you, sal,"
said the negro.

Bryceson looked fit-om Mr. Bompas to Markham
inquiringly. They stared at him in
return.

Show Doctor Mompesson in, Xed," said
he, then, turning to Mr. Bompas, said, " Do
you know why he has called ? "

Mr. Bompas shook his head.

Doctor Mompesson being ushered in, looked

anything but at this ease. He shook hands
with Mr. Bompas, bowed to the two friends,
and took the seat handed to him by Ked, who
then left the room.

Doctor Mompesson coughed slightly, and
glanced at Mr. Bompas with a constrained
air.

That gentleman at once perceived his embarrassment,
and rose from his seat.

You wish to speak to Mr. Bryceson privately,
do you not, Mompesson ? " said he.

"Well, yes," said, the Doctor hesitatingly,
I did ; but if I am interrupting any "

Into at all," said Bompas, taking his hat.
I shall see you all to-night, shall I not,
Walter ? "

Markham also rose from his seat as though
to leave the room, when Bryceson spoke :

One moment, Mr. Bompas ; wait a bit,
Fred. If I do not mistake the cause of
Doctor Mompesson's visit, I should prefer
that you remained. Unless I am greatly in
error. Doctor, your visit relates to Mrs.
Stanhope."

It does," said the Doctor, very much surprised
at being thus anticipated in his communication.


In that case, Doctor Mompesson, my old
friend Mr. Fred Markham here "

He indicated Fred, and the Doctor rose and
bowed to him.

is concerned m the matter equally

with myself. AVe are acting for our absent
friend, Mr. Galbraith."

The Doctor, who had resumed his seat,
nodded.

It was partly to question you respecting
Mr. Galbraith that I came here to-day," he
said.

Just so," said Bryceson. " Mr. Bompas,"
he resumed, " is in our confidence upon a certain
matter very much concerning Mrs. Stanhope,
and you may speak freely before him.
Indeed, in a matter so delicate, and in the
absence of my friend Galbraith, I should prefer
the presence of a gentleman my senior, and
one in whom I have every confidence and
trust."

The two old friends exchanged enquiring
glances.

I have no hesitation," said the Doctor,
after a short pause, " in speaking before my
old friend Mr. Bompas, though the matter is,
as you say, Mr. Bryceson, one of extreme

delicacy. Indeed, it is the most painful one I
have had brought to my notice during the.
whole of my medical experience and practice."

Mr. Bompas shook his head sadly. "It is
a sad one for me, my dear Mompesson, I
assure you," said he.

Let me ask you a question first, gentlemen,"
said the Doctor, turning to Bryceson
and Markham. " Are you, or were you personally
acquainted with a man named Reginald
Wilding ? " .

For many years," answered Fred Markham.
" We were comrades together in
America."

Is he not dead ? " asked the Doctor, looking
earnestly at the faces of all in the room.

He is not," said Markham.

But he was shot, was he not ? " asked the
Doctor, who evinced much surprise at Fred's
answer.

He was shot," said Markham, " and was
believed to be dead for many years, but he is
alive."

"Is he any connection of Mr. Galbraith ? "
asked Doctor Mompesson.

"He is this half-brother," answered Fred,
while Bryceson still stood before the fire

smoking slowly ; " they are children of the
same mother."

I am asking these questions from having
received some instructions from Mrs. Stanhope,
whom I am attending ; those instructions
are very incoherent, and almost amount
to ravings. As I told you just now, my position
is most painful. Tell me, gentlemen, how
is Mr. Wilding connected with Mrs. Stanhope
? "

There was a short pause. Then Mr. Bomb
spoke. He could not bear the silence that
followed the question.

"He is her first husband, Doctor Mom-person,
and he will arrive in Avonliam this
evening."

Good God ! " said the Doctor, and his hat
and Malacca cane fell with a crash on the floor.

The feverish ravings of the sick-bed, hitherto
almost unintelligible to him, Averse now explained.


Did you know of this before, Bompas ? "
he asked when he had recovered from his
astonishment.

On Sunday last, for the first time," answered
Mr. Bompas ; " my daughter Adelaide
told me."

Adelaide ? " said Doctor Mompesson, in
intense surprise ; " how ever came she to know,
anything of it ? "

She was informed of it by my friend Mr.
Galbraith," said Bryceson, taking the answer
out of Mr. Bompas's mouth.

The Doctor stared at him as though
this was more astonishing than anything
he had yet heard. He turned to Mr.
Bompas.

"It is so," said that worthy in reply to his
friend's mute enquiry ; " Mr. Galbraith and
Adelaide are engaged to be married."

There was a twinge of self-reproach felt ashe
said it. All Ms old friends had been kept
in the dark. Fred Markham noticed his discomfort
and came to his rescue, to the greater
edification of the puzzled Doctor.

We are astonishing Doctor Mompesson in
detail," said he. " Mr. Bompas, will you give
your friend an account of what we all know ?
As Doctor Mompesson has been let into our
secret, he may as well make one at our council.
The matter has gone farther, by a series of
accidental occurrences, than we had anticipated,
and, as it seems likely that it will all
gradually leak out, and will perhaps get a

great deal of embellishment from rnmom% it is
far better that Doctor Mompesson should learn
the truth from us."

Thus requested, Mr. Bompas informed the
Doctor of all the events which we have learned
of late.

Mr. Bompas did not fail, at the close of his
narration, to reiterate, and strongly impress on
the young men — whose relations with his
family were explained to the Doctor and astonished
him very much — the principles of
leniency and mercy which he had been inculcating
just previous to Doctor Mompesson's
arrival. With them the Doctor heartily and
cordially agreed. It was a sad tale to which
he had to listen, told fairly and with moderation
by Mr. Bompas, and not interrupted by a
word from either of the young men, but the
Doctor had the natural partisanship of a Marl-shire
man for Marlshire things, and, whatever
were the faults of this woman, she was the
widow of his old friend, and he was prepared
to defend her from oppression, even though he
could not justify her actions.

And there is one thing," he added as he
was going away, " about which you must not
misunderstand me. Your friends arrive tonight.

They will not be able to see Mrs.
Stanhope."

I do not think our friends are likely to
ask such a thing," answered Markham, who,
though he had kept strict silence whilst the
old fellow urged his plea, was somewhat ruffled
by one or two of his remarks, for the Doctor,
in his eagerness to support his crony's appeal
for leniency, had persuaded himself that injustice
and inhumanity were the characteristics of
the young men, and had spoken accordingly
once or twice.

"Even if they did," said the Doctor, "it
would be denied them. I am Mrs. Stanhope's
medical attendant ; she is in no condition to
be disturbed ; I shall allow no one to see heron
any business whatever."

Bryceson bowed. '* That shall be faithfully
reported to my friend Mr. Galbraith," said he.

Yes," said the Doctor, gruffly enough, "if
you please, and tell Mr. Galbraith, moreover,
that this town is full of Mrs. Stanhope's
friends — friends who have known her for some
years, and her husband for many ; we shall
require proof of what you allege, Mr. Bryceson
and Mr. Markham. A mere general statement
of an improbable nature, on the face of it, such

as has been made to me to-day, and such as
you have also made to Mr. Bompas, will not
satisfy us, I assure you."

For a moment Markham made as though lie
would have spoken, but he remained silent,
and the Doctor, without any attempt at bidding
anyone farewell, trotted out into the hall and
let himself out, leaving Mr. Bompas with his
hosts.

Mr. Bompas looked as though he feared
that the heightened colour of the two friends
betokened a coming explosion ; but he was
mistaken. As the door slammed emphatically
behind the Doctor, Bryceson smiled. He threw
away his cigar, which had gone out, chose
another, and passed his cigar-case to Markham.

Your friend is a warm-hearted man apparently,
]mr. Bompas," he said, '• and very much
in earnest."

Mr. Bompas muttered a few words, eulogistic
of the Doctor, but deprecatory of his last
remark.

Alarm-hearted he may be," said Markham,

pausing before striking a match, " but, if you

have any influence with him, Mr. Bompas, and

wish his patient well — which I believe you

sincerely do — I would advise you to recommend
VOL. III. 41

Mm not to take that ground with Harry Galbraith
when he arrives. It will not do with
him, I can assure you. Xor would much more
of it have gone down very well with me, or
with AYalter here. It must not be forgotten
that we three men, and three more, stand
shoulder to shoulder in this matter, as we have
stood shoulder to should er in even graver ones ;
nor must this be allowed to be overlooked :
that for many weary years the man whom all
of us loved as a brother has been passing his
life in a living tomb, whilst the woman for
whom Doctor Mompesson has been pleading
has lived in luxury and ease. Is it our fault
that retribution has come upon her at last ?
No, Mr. Bompas, it is not. Xot so many years
ago but that some of your old men could remember
it, your Law would have doomed her
to Death. Whatever it can do now, there is
only one chance between her and it, if we choose
to invoke its aid. For, trust me, we have proof
and evidence enough of her guilt to convince a
townful of pig-headed doctors ; and if we are
set at defiance, we shall bring it forward ! "

Mr. Bompas, who was wise in his generation,
did not reply to the young man, whose flushed
cheeks and flashing eyes showed that he was

speaking under a measure of excitement which,
to judge by the look on the face of Bryceson,
who stood by in silence, was unfamiliar even
to his familiar friend.

^ ^ ^ ^ ^

Xow I have told you all there is to tell,
Harry ; and you will see why we dine here
and drive home afterwards ; don't let us have
another word about it to-niofht. Reginald
looks wonderfully well, considering all things,
and a few days of quiet will do wonders with
him. But of all the o;ood things, meetings the
old Squire in Liverpool was the best. Let
us go in to dinner and be as merry as we.
can to-night, at any rate."

Despite the darkness of some of their
thoughts, it was a hearty party that sat down
to dinner at the Railway Hotel at Avonham
Road. At the top of the table was the old
Squire, on his left hand Bryceson and Markham,
at his right sat Galbraith, and next to him the
lost one found, the old comrade once more
among them, the dead restored to life.

Boys ! " said the old Squire, raising his
glass solemnly, " it is thirteen years since we
met like this. I thank God for our meeting
here now ! "

41—2

TWO PARDONS.

It was not an ordinary " sentiment," and
they drank in silence to it ; but none of them
had ever known a moment of greater joy, or
drunk with more relish of the wine.

Ah, there is never Joy like that great heart -
rush that sweeps away the memory of Pain.

FOE WANT OF AN ABSENT WITNESS.

^' I CAN add no more to what I have said.
That you, uncle, do not believe my words, I
know ; that you, Mr. Sennett, and you, Mr.
Sinclair, see in them no hopeful signs and no
materials for my defence, I am aware ; but I
am helpless in this fearful position ; I am as
innocent of the murder of poor Rivers as you
are yourselves, but I can advance no theory
to account for his death, and I swear that I
have consistently spoken the truth."

The scene was a cell in Ridgetowm Gaol, a
cell furnished plainly, but not without some
comfort. Alfred Shelman was the speaker
He was seated at a table on which were writing
materials and books ; his three visitors
were also seated : this uncle on a bed in the
room, Mr. Semiett and the third person on
two chairs. The Mr. Sinclair whom he now
addressed was his counsel. Interested in more
than an ordinary degree, he had sought and

obtained permission to visit the man whom lie
was that day to defend against the heaviest
charge which can be brought against man or
woman — the taking of human life.*

At every visit which either Mr. Sennett, in
his character of solicitor, or Mr. Boldham, as
the only relative of the prisoner, had paid him,
he had strenuously asserted his innocence.
He could, he declared, throw no light on the
unhappy affair ; there was no one whom he
suspected ; nothing could be gained from him
but reiterated protests that his hands where
free from blood-guiltiness, that he fully recognised
the perilous position in which he
stood, but that if the jury found him guilty,
and the law exacted her last stern penalty, he
should die an innocent victim to circumstantial
evidence.

Mr. Sennett had not at first believed his
asseverations ; but the young man had told
him the tale of his movements on that fatal
afternoon so clearly, so unswervingly, and so
consistently that, at last, and against his own
better judgment, he had fastened on his words

For an example of a counsel visiting' a client charged with
murder, the reader is referred to the late Mr. Serjeant Ballads
book, " Some Experiences as a Barrister."

as being true. For his own further satisfaction,
he had begged the counsel whom he had
engaged — one of the most emmet men on the
Western Circuit — to hear, from the prisoner's
own Hps, what he had himself stated to him
in his brief, and the counsel, impressed with
the pertinacity with which a hopeless hne of
defence was adhered to, and assured that there
was more in the case than senseless obstinacy,
had himself come to see him and hear him for
himself.

"Will you repeat to me," said he, "what
you have already told your solicitor and your
uncle ? "

Wilhngiy," answered Shelman ; " this is
my statement, and I declare that every word
of it is true."

The barrister leaned a little forward, and,
carefully observant of his face, listened attentively
to his words.

I went out from my own house at about one
o'clock to shoot on my land at Downholmes,
which I have quite recently purchased from
mr. Millard, of Beytesbury. It took me about
half an hour to get there, and I was either in
or on the outskirts of the wood at the back of
my land for about an hour. I say ' about ' —

I kept no reckoning — I did not even look
at my watch. I had poor sport, and the mist
rose very rapidly ; I was disgusted at my
want of success and knocked off, leaving the
few birds I had shot at the lodge, where Mr.
Millard's keeper and his wife were still living.
I had allowed them, at Mr. Millard's request,
to occupy the house until Christmas. I left
the birds there. I wish," he added, with a sad
smile and a shake of the head, " that I had
taken them home by the road, or that I had
left my gun as well."

'' I wish you had with all my heart, my
poor boy," said Mr. Boldham, with a
sigh.

Well," said Shelman, with the same smile,
and speaking in a resigned tone of voice — a
tone that his uncle had seldom heard him use
of late years — " I did not ; I left the birds,
intending to send my man for them that
evening. I took my gun, and went towards
Avonham across the meadows. On the footbridge
across the Avon I met Walter Rivers.
Up to that time I had had no open quarrel
with him ; indeed, I had scarcely met him
since the election ; but I was greatly incensed
at finding that he had forestalled me with —

with a lady. Do you know about that, sir ?
I would rather not repeat it if you do "

Mr. Sinclair referred to a slip of paper.
There is no need to go into it now," said
he gently.

Thank you, sir ! Well, I was incensed,
as I said, about that, I was altogether in a bad
temper — my temper has been a curse to me
all my life — and I passed him without speaking.
I had gone a foot or two on the bridge
when he spoke to me, and asked what was the
matter — did I mean to cut him ? I turned
and answered him roughly that I chose my
own acquaintance and had no longer any
desire for his. He laughed and said the
arrangement would suit him very well, and
then I o't into a o^reat rao-e with him, and
accused him of circulating a false report about
me in the town concerning the election riot.
I was half mad with rage, and scarcely know
what I said. He answered me, but was cool,
whilst I was boiling with rage. I put my gun
down against the railings, and we quarrelled
violently, though he kept his head. He
taunted me with having lost my chance of
marrying — the lady — and I retorted that if I
thought he had had any hand in maligning

me to her, I would put a bullet into Mm. I
only meant that I would have called him out."

'* You mean that you would have challenged
him to a duel ? " said Mr. Sinclair.

Yes, that was my meaning," answered
Shelman.

That, and no more ? " asked the barrister.

That, and no more," said Shelman ; " I
had no other thought in my head at the time."
" What happened next ? " asked Mr. Sinclair,
again referring to a paper in his hand.

"The young fellow Lightfoot, the grocer's
assistant, came up suddenly. He came out of
the mist, which was getting very thick, and
neither of us, I think, heard his footsteps ; at
any rate, I did not. His voice startled me,
and it was that, as much as the rage I
was in, which made me give him the answer
I did. What he said of my words and of
Rivers', at the inquest, was perfectly true.
He was frightened at my threat, and went
away pretty quickly. After he had gone
I think I was worse than before. I called
Rivers a cur, and a scoundrel, and vowed to be
even with him ; I rushed away from the place
more like a madman than anything else, quite
forgetting my gun until I was a good way on

the high road. I walked to Berry Hill to
walk off my temper and the state of
agitation into which it had thrown me, for I
was fearfully upset. I then turned and returned
home by the way at the back of the
churchyard. I had not been at home an
hour, and had just settled myself down for
the evening, when Inspector Grace came, and,
after some rigmarole, which I swear I could
make nothing of, arrested me for Elvers'
murder. I declare that my first feeling was
one of such indignation that I had almost
knocked him down. When I learned that
the dreadful news of Rivers' death was true, I
was horrified. I paid no attention to Grace's
threats of taking down anything that I said,
but protested my innocence as I do now. I
swear that I had no hand in that fearful crime.
The rest that happened you all know. There
is one thing, however, of which I am certain,
and that is that my gun was not loaded.
After firing the last shots, I drew the caps
from the nipples and threw them away. I did
not reload. I could not possibly have shot
him. Before Heaven I am innocent, and my
innocence will, one day, be proved. It maybe
when — when it is too late ; but I shall go

before the Judge of us all free from the crime
of having that man's blood on my hands ! "

Do you know any one," said the lawyer,
who had any grudge against Walter
Rivers ? "

No, I do not," said Shelman ; "he was
generally popular, I believe, all over the place."

In the whole course of this violent quarrel,
no blow was struck ? " asked Mr. Sinclair.

No, no blow was struck, though it would
have come to that if I had not gone away,"
answered Shelman.

I have nothing more to ask, Mr. Sennett,"
said Mr. Sinclair, and he folded his papers and
prepared to go.

When they were outside the gaol and the
two lawyers had shaken hands with Mr. Bold-ham,
the Mayor of Avonham said to the
counsel :

I wanted you to hear him yourself for my
own sake ; what do you think of his tale ? "

"It is incomprehensible," said Mr. Sinclair.
The evidence is almost overwhelmingly
against it. I should have imagined that there
had been a struggle at least, in which case an
accident might have occurred."

But he rejects any notion of such a defence

being set up, and clings to Ms statement, in
wliicli I am bound to say lie lias never
varied," said Mr. Sennett.

"I may be about to say something that will
surprise you," said Sinclair, " but, if I am any
judge of character, that statement is true. I
think he is a young man of violent temper,
indeed he has admitted it to us, but I believe
his tale is true. There is a mystery about
the whole case. On the evidence I should
say that there was not a doubt of his guilt —
any lawyer would say the same, and I very
much fear " and he shook his head.

What ? "

That the jury will think so too ! "
*****

There had been an emigration of Avonham
folk to Kingstown that morning. Xow-a-days
there is a railway service between the j^l^ces,
though the trains go a roundabout way, and
cover twenty miles in bringing together the
inhabitants of two towns only ten miles apart
by road, but at the time of our tale, the highway
was the only means of intercommunication,
and, on the morning of the trial, a string
of vehicles left the smaller town for the larger.
A few persons of position had managed to

secure seats in the court, but the majority, if
they could not crowd in with the general,
public, would have only the solace of getting
the news of the result a little earlier than those
who stayed behind. Beadlemore Artoo drove
Timothy Kapsey, Mr. Follwell, and Mr. Poli
in his high dog cart, and Wolstenholme
and Hoppenner Pye went fraternally in a gig
which only held two ; Karaty took a party ina
wagonette, and the three vehicles kept pretty
close together and stayed at the same halfway
house. In the street of Kidgetowai
which fronted the Guildhall, there were constant
recognitions passing between Avonham
men, and many where the tricks, shifts, and
manoeuvres employed by those who wanted
places.

Timothy Eapsey was delighted with a seat
in the very first row of the gallery, and exactly
behind the dock. From this coign of vantage
he stained the whole court, and gave his less
fortunate companions information concerning
any notable whom he saw.

Mr. Sennett's a-talkin' to a tall I'yer in a
wig ; I reckon that's him as is going' to
defend."

Killett ain't got no seat ; all have to

stand ; oil, no, a' won't ; i've found one at
last."

Look 'ee there now" ; there's Mr. Bompas
up behind, and Mr. Galbraith wi' 'un."

•' That's that old gentleman staying wi' Mr.
Galbraith o' t'other side o' Mr. Bompas."

'lor', what a voice that crier 'a' got, to be
sure ! Daddy Prosser ought to be here to
hear 'un."

Mr. Galbraith's other friend's just come in
and set next to 'mi. I don't see Mr. Bryceson
nowheres."

Poor Mr. Boldham ! they've give him a
place next to Mr. Semiett ; a' looks main
flurried."

Thus the little man chirped and chattered,
and peered about the court like an observant
magpie.

When the judge had taken his seat, and the
jury had been sw^orii, there was a stir in the
court as the prisoner appeared. He bore himself
well under the fire of eyes turned upon
him, though his colour went and came. His
plea of " Not guilty " was given in a clear
and firm voice ; but he seemed to pay little
attention to the speech of the counsel for the
Crown, occupying himself in looking round

the court and occasionally flushing as he
caught the familiar countenance of some
Avonham man among the spectators. He
saw the face of Galbraith, and sought eagerly
for that of Bryceson near him ; not finding it,
for Bryceson had too much manhood to be
present, he turned again and scanned Galbraith's
face. There was no hostility in it ;
turning again, he caught a friendly visage,
that of John Rannn, who smiled and nodded to
him as though to bid him be of good heart ; he
answered him with a smile. He heeded the
trial very little at first.

AYould that prosy man, heaping fact on fact
against him, never be done ?

There was Adolphus Carter sitting with his
father, close to Mr. Bompas. Pleasant for him !

Half Avonham was here to see Mm tried.
How many would come to see him when

That would be in the open air, too, and
there would be more room for them than in
the court.

Thank God ! there were no Avonham
women there to gloat over him in his misfortune.


Had Galbraith ridden over on the horse that
he bought in spite of him ?

He had seen him once riding with ; ah,

thank goodness the speech was finished at last !

Such were his thoughts after that first survey
of the court and the faces familiar to him.

They were succeeded by a kind of dull
interest in the evidence. It was so great a
nuisance having to stand there before all those
common vulgar people, that he might as well
try to get some amusement fi'om the witnesses.
He took notice of them as of the actors in a
slow play, he was anxious for the end of it to
come but the plot had little attraction for him.
Those busy men, writing just in front of him,
would describe him as being quite calm and
cool during the progress of the trial ; they
would praise his command of feature and his
courage. In reality he felt as unconcerned as
any spectator in court.

^ * # * *

The end was near now. The witnesses

had been examined and cross-examined, the

counsel for the defence had made what everyone

to-night and tomorrow would describe asa

grand speech, and the judge was calmly and

dispassionately going over the evidence and

summing up to the jury. The examination

both of Jacob Starer, who was terribly nere
III. 42

vous, and, even in this simple tale, contradicted
himself once or twice, and of Liglitfoot, who
had given some vague evidence as to the time
of his hearing the shots, had roused great interest,
and their testimony had not been so
unfavourable to the prisoner at the trial as it
had been at the inquest. The wisdom of a
reserved defence was seen, and Mr. Sennett
was praised for his tactical skill by all his
Avonham townsfolk during the interval for
luncheon. Lightfoot could not swear whether
or no the gun was capped or cocked when he
saw it on the bridge. Jacob Starer admitted
that he had been more anxious to get the body
of Walter Elvers out of the water than to
notice its position as it lay. These where points
in favour of the prisoner. The doctor's evidence
and opinion as to the cause of death
had not, however, been shaken. He did not
believe that the deceased in handing the gun,
perhaps with an idea of causing it to be
restored to its owner, had accidentally shot
himself ; the wounds, he thought, could not
have been self-inflicted. But the supposition
had been well handled in the defending
counsel's speech, and Mr. Sinclair had made
the most of it, and of each of the other points ;

there was much doubt now in the minds of
the spectators, and John Rami's face was
radiant.

But there was that violent quarrel on the
bridge to be disposed of, the wiser heads
thought.

The judge finished a masterly summing up,
the conclusion of which was solemn in its
mention of the issues involved, and of the duty
of the jury to their country and their fellow -
man alike, and the jury withdrew.

There was the usual buzz of subdued conversation
in the court during their absence ;
the judge left the bench, the prisoner was
removed from the dock.

A quarter of an horn — half an hour — an
hour passed, and the jury had not returned.
Lights were set in the cornet as the winter day
waned, and still they waited.

The issue of what was passing in the jury-room
we shall see presently. Let us look at
something which is going on in the court.
The actors are two, and their action is quite
silent and observed. It consists simply of
one man watching another. Candles have
just been brought, and the court is well lighted

where they sit.

42—2

The man who is watched holds a handkerchief
in his hands, and is twisting and wringing
it till its threads are giving way, and it is
full of holes, and shredded and torn in twenty
places ; from time to time he wipes from his
brow great cold drops of sweat, which stand
there in pearl-like beads. His hips are white,
and he rubs them furtively now and then, as
though he knew their pallor and sought to
give them colour. He has been taking notes
of the trial, but has crumpled them up in
his hand and is clutching them tightly ashe
wrenches and tugs at his handkerchief.
When he wipes his brow he shifts the paper
into his left hand, but takes it again in his
right, when that is done, and keeps it furtively
in the hollow of his hand. Ashen the lights
were brought he made a movement of impatience,
and, for some minutes, shaded his
eyes with his hand as though they were
affected by the glare. From time to time he
looks about him as if to see whether people
are observing him, more than to notice them
or their doings. Surely the prisoner himself
cannot be under stronger emotion, as he waits
for the verdict, than this man.

The man watching can only see one side of

his face except when he turns, but he never
takes his gaze from him and watches with
eyes well used to watch, and notes every twitch
and gesture.

There is a stn in the com-t, for the judge
has been sent for, and the prisoner is again in
the dock.

The jury enter, and their names are called
amid a silence deep and great, broken only by
the voices of the clerk and the jurymen. All
ears are opened for the verdict, all eyes turned
to the jury-box.

All save two ; the watcher never takes his
eyes from the face of the man whom he is
watching.

How say yoa, gentlemen ? Do you find
the prisoner guilty or not guilty of wilful
murder ? "

Guilty I "

A flush comes into the face of the man
watched ; then it dies out ; he half turns to
the one who sits by his side, his eyes close, his
hands relax their grip of what they have held
so firmly, his head bends forward, and he falls
with a loud crash on the floor.

There is confusion in the court as he is
removed, and a county magistrate whispers to

the sheriff, who whispers to the judge, that it
is a great friend of the prisoner, overcome by
the verdict.

Prisoner at the bar ! Have you anything
to say why sentence of death should not be
passed upon you ? "

The prisoner lifts his eyes towards the judge,
and there is not a tremor in this voice as he
says:

My lord ! One witness has been wanting
at this trial, the man who fired the shot
that killed Walter . Elvers ! That man will
be found one day, and the jury will hive to
see that their verdict was wrong. Before my
Maker, I swear that I am innocent! "

In a broken voice, and with great emotion,
the judge passes sentence of death. He feels
bound to say that the jury have done their
duty and that their verdict is according to the
evidence. He entreats the prisoner to use the
time remaining to him in repentance. His
own violent passions have brought him to this
position, a fearful one for a man of his station
in the world. He can hold out no hope ;
nothing remains but to pass the sentence of
the law. And the dread words are said in a
hushed and awestricken court.

Then the prisoner is removed and goes out
of sight, and the crowd file out into the street.

"I do not want to see another man
sentenced to death," says Mr. Bompas, as the
four friends are waiting for their horses at the
hotel after the trial.

"Xor I," said Markham. "Pah! this
sherry tastes of the gallows and the hemp ! "

"Nor I," says the old Squire. "I shall
dream of his face all night, poor fellow ! "

Nor I," says Galbraith last of all, " particularly
when he is not guilty."

The three others stare at him. " Not
guilty ! "

Yes ; I do not believe that man is
guilty."

Do you believe what he said about that
missing witness ? " says Fred Markham.

I do ; I believe he will be fomid and very
shortly too."

How will he be found ? Who will find
him ? " asks Mr. Bompas, astounded.

I wil ! "

^ # ^ * #

Mr. Bompas and the friends made no mention
of this conversation in the description of

the trial which they gave in Avoiiham that
evening. Of course the scenes of the day had
been of too grave a nature, and coming events
were too serious, for the party assembled at
Mr. Bompas's to be a very jovial one, yet
Adelaide noticed that Galbraith seemed more
than usually preoccupied, and asked him
somewhat anxiously, when he took his leave,
what had occurred to disturb him.

He kissed her, and laughingly said that
nothing was wrong, that he was a selfish
fellow and ought to be banished, but that he
had something special to think out by the
morning: and that he would tell her all in a
day or two.

He thought it out after his guests had retired
to rest. Thought it out long and painfully
into the small hours of morning. When
his task was done he locked two sheets of
torn and crumpled paper in a private drawer
and went to bed himself, perfectly satisfied
with the result of his night's work.

A PERIOD OF SUSPENSE.

In total ignorance of the far leader cloud
that hung over her, the good folks of Avon-ham
received with quiet joy the news of the
restoration to health of their chief Lady.
Doctor Mompesson's praises were sounded at
every tea-table in the place, and the good
Doctor was openly congratulated by every one
who met him. To him, who, as we know,
had his secret to carry about with him, these
demonstrations were awkward, and he went
about the streets looking so very grave that
folks wondered at it and said to one another
that the anxiety of the case had told upon
the old man. That it was anxiety which
made him so glum was true, but it was
caused by the downfall of an idol, the shattering
of an illusion. Doctor Mompesson had
lost no time in seeing Galbraith. The day
after the arrival of the latter in Avonham, the
Doctor had waited upon him, and what Markham

had prophesied to Mr. Bompas had come
true. No graver mistake could have been .
made than to attempt to assist Mrs. Stanhope
by attacking Galbraith. This is what the
Doctor had done. It went so against him to
have to believe anything against the woman,
that he turned blindly obstinate and refused
to believe. He went to Galbraith burning
with self-irritation. He demanded rather
than asked for proof ; he posed as the self-constituted
champion of a lady whom he alleged
to be lying under a false accusation, and he
started the war by what he considered a justifiable
raid on the enemy's country. Now, to
stir up strife is always dangerous, and to
attack a man who has a grievance, using
against him as a weapon a derision of and
disbelief in that grievance, is something like
arousing a rattlesnake. You may be able to
get safely away, but it is most certain that
you will have to move ! Doctor Mompesson
had to abandon his first position precipitately.
"I have listened patiently to you, sir,"
said Galbraith, " from respect for your age, and
your honoured and honourable position in this
town, but you are exceeding the privileges
both of your years and your station."

I have taken upon me," answered the
Doctor, " to speak on behalf of a lady whom
all Avonham loves and admires, and who, I
consider, is being most unjustifiably slandered
and abused."

Galbraith's colour rose and his temper with
it. This was hard for any man to bear.

You are speaking on behalf of a woman,"
he said, "whom I and my Mends know to
be an adulteress, and have good reason for
supposing to be a bigamist. You are the
champion of a worthy cause, I must say ! "

Sir," said the Doctor in a great heat, " I
do not believe one word of your accusation
against my friend and patient. From beginning
to end it's a cock-and-bull story "

Which you shall have speedy opportunity
for testing," said Galbraith. '* I will at once
apply for a warrant against your friend and
patient for having committed bigamy, and if
she can disprove the charge I will apologise
to you. I wish you good morning, sir."

And he rose from his seat and rang the bell
so sharply that Edward answered it at the
double.

Xow, the Doctor, though an obstinate, was
not an utterly pig-headed man, and he at once

saw that lie had gone too far with this young
man.

Stay one moment, Mr. Galbraith," said he,
swallowing his irritation and speaking more
calmly, " I am wrong to be hasty with you ; I
am sorry I was so ; let me have a little more
conversation with you."

Galbraith signed to Edward, who stood in
the doorway, and the negro withdrew.

Doctor Mompesson," said Galbraith when
they were alone again, '* I cannot blame you

for your championship of your friend's

widow . When this news was first conveyed
to Mr. Bompas he was as much astounded
as you can be, though" — he said nth. a smile
" he received the story with more equanimity.
I can assure you that he has been as
zealous in — Mrs. — in her cause as you could
be. My friends have done him every justice
in reporting that. The surroundings of the
case are very much altered from when I first
came to Avonham. My brother has been restored
to me as though from the dead ; I have
found happiness and love in a town to which
I came with hatred and revenge in my heart ;
and another hand has dealt to this woman a
blow so heavy that even I pity her. You

would, I am sure, give me credit for every
disposition to do right if you knew the state
of embarrassment into which events have
thrown me since my return home. Without
promising anything, I assure you, in all sincerity,
that the best thing will be to wait.
Wait only for the issue of this trial, wait only
for your patient's recovery. The secret is in
good hands. Trust me to respect your
motives and your partisanship, and forgive
any little angry speech that I may have
made in this interview — a painful one, I
know, to both of us."

"It is for me to ask your pardon, Mr. Galbraith,"
said the Doctor ; "I will take your
advice and will trust to you to do what is right.
Let us wait."

So they parted excellent friends, each with
a hearty admiration for the other.

For three weeks Mrs. Stanhope lay between
life and death, but at last the Doctor was able
to pronounce her out of danger, and, as we have
seen, there was universal joy in Avonham over
the fact. During those weeks no whisper of
anything beyond the fact of her illness had
leaked out in the town.

Avonham had plenty to interest it meanwhile

in the trial, the result of which we saw in our
last chapter, and also in the fact of the household
at the " Coombes " having increased in
numbers. Mrs. Hackett reported that Mr.
Galbraith had a housekeeper now and a hoity-toity
cook from London, if you please ; and
folks gathered that the alteration did not suit
her. Rarity had to put up three more horses
for Galbraith, who had purchased them of Hart,
and that worthy sent down with them a couple
of grooms, who lived in lodgings in the town
and patronised Rarity's stablemen with great
condescension. Mr. Pimiiifer's face brightened
when he mentioned casually the transactions
which the gentlemen in South Street had with
him, and the gossips of the Avonham tea-tables
began to throw out dark hints of the relations
between the three young men and the Misses
Bompas. The oldest member of the band was
speedily high in favour in the town, and Doctor
Mompesson and Mr. Millard when they heard
his name, received it with all the honors due
to it. It was not long before the county paper
informed its readers that the guest of the proprietor
of the " Coombes " was an American
savant whose fame had spread over two continents,
and so the house and its occupiers

became more important than ever. The minds
of the small fry were somewhat exercised by
the Squire's presence, as they looked on him
somewhat in the light of a new kind of bogy,
respectable but not the less dangerous. The
negro had been at first somewhat uncanny in
their eyes, and now that he was supplemented
by one whom they considered as a superior
wizard, their courtesy increased with their fear,
and no one was more respectfully received m
the streets by the schoolboys than Galbraith
and his friends.

So time went on and Mrs. Stanhope recovered,
and Shelman was tried ; with what
result we have seen.

The time of Christmas was approaching fast.
The town had had its Agricultural Show, at
which local fat oxen had been punched, pinched
and criticised, and root crops weighed and
poultry shown ; and after it meritorious farm
labourers had received sides of bacon or silver
medals, apparently as a reward for having been
content to ching to the same acres of soil for
their existence during five-sixths of their slow,
hard, dead-level lives, an existence scarcely
higher than that of the horses they drove or
the hounds their masters walked ; farmers

round had got their orders for Christmas turkeys,
and Killett's mind was weighed down by
the fact that oxen, even at Christmas, are not
entirely composed of sirloin ; PinnifFer's spirit
bottles had burst out with seasonable labels
representing a white-headed, snowy-bearded
Silenus, crowned with holly, discussing a bowl
of punch ; the grocers' windows were filled
with raisins and candied peel, and all the other
signs of the festive season were at hand.

I doubt very much, Walter," said Galbraith
to Bryceson, one afternoon, as they walked up
the town together, the three other inmates of
the " Coombes " having run 'over to Bath for
the day, " whether, with all this confounded
worry over our heads, I shall be able to offer
you fellows a very merry Christmas ; I wish
with all my heart that whatever is to happen
would happen soon, and that we knew the end
of everything."

And so do I, my dear fellow ; but at any
rate, let us be as cheerful as wee can until we
know the worst or the best of our troubles.
Thank God, we have Reggie with us, and the
Squire says he sees marked improvement in
him already. Then we're all going to be
married in the spring, so you see we are better

off in two respects than we ever thought to be.
Come ! throw away your cares for the thine,
Harry, and let us be gay. Look at Pinniffer
stand; at his door, bidding that old fellow
on the cob farewell. He looks positively
mediaeval. John Gilbert ought to paint him ;
I vow no one else could do him justice."

Isn't that Millard — the parting guest, I
mean ? Yes, it is ; I thought so."

Let us go over and see, I can't make out
in this dusk ; I think you are right, however."

The horseman proved to be our old acquaintance,
who had ridden in to execute some
Christina commissions. He was easily persuaded
to dismount, and the three ascended
the steps of the hotel together. There was no
one in the parlour when they entered, and they
were soon making merry over a small bowl of
punch of Mrs. Pinniffer 's own brewing.

When do any of you mean to pay me a visit

at Beytesbury?" asked Mr. Millard. "Mrs.

Millard is saving some cherry brandy for you,

Mr. Bryceson, which, she declares, shall beat

anything she has hitherto attempted in that

line and shall be the very best you ever tasted.

Come and sample it before Christina comes,

and bring your friends to lunch. Mr. Galbraith,
VOL. III. 43

you have not been our way once since your
return. How is your brother ? "

Mr. Millard, be it observed, was not the
possessor of the secret of Reginald Wilding's
illness. To his mind, he was a young man
just returned from America and recovering
from long continued sickness. The young men
made suitable reaches to the old fellow's invitation
and enquiries, and Mr. Millard resumed.

And so you were over at Eidgetown on
Tuesday at the trial, I hear," he went on.

I was not," answered Bryceson ; "I could
not have gone after what happened here."

To be sure," said Mr. Millard; " well, well,
a sad thing, a sad thing ; I was very much
upset over it."

You knew both men, of course, intimately
? " asked Galbraith, as he sipped his
punch.

Since they were boys, and boys together,"
answered Mr. Millard. " To my mind that is
the saddest part of the whole affair. It is as
horrible to think of as though they had been
actually brothers."

I suppose you have heard all kinds of
rumours as to the real cause of the quarrel
between them ? " asked Galbraith.

"All kinds," answered Mr. Millard, "and
don't believe one of them ; the whole affair is
a mystery to me."

Brvceson was just about to inform Mr. Millard
that his friend had a theory on the subject,
when he caught Galbraith's eye, and from the
look in it he remained silent. Galbraith did
not speak himself, but taking out his cigar-case
handed it to his friends. Both accepted the
proffered weeds, and during the process of
cutting, lighting, and starting his Cabala, Mr.
Millard did not resume. When he had seen
the first portion of white ash appear and was
satisfied that all was well, he continued his
remarks on the murder.

"I have always known," said he, "that
Shelman was a young fellow of imperious habits
and overbearing manners. What we call a
masterful man down in these parts. Added to
that, his temper was hasty, not to say nasty,
and he lost it very soon and sometimes over
very trifling matters. I happen to know, Mr.
Galbraith, for one thing, that from the first
day you came into Avonham, he bore you no
good will."

Galbraith nodded, but made no other comment
on the information.

43—2

"As for yourself, Mr. Bryceson, why you

know, you two well, you haven't forgotten

I daresay."

"Xo," said Bryceson, laughing, but changing
colour a little, " we upset the whole respectability
of the place, I know. Gad ! I
thought your friend Mr. Sennett would have
locked us both up."

'' Well," said Mr. Millard, drily, " I have
known Sennett for a good many years, and I
am extremely glad that the matter went no
farther than it did. It was sufficiently deplorable
without anything worse being imported
into the matter. I have always regretted that
fracas Mr. Galbraith."

It would most likely have fallen to my lotto
be engaged in it, had I been at home, Mr.
Millard," said Galbraith — a little stiffly perhaps
" and although viewed in the light of recent
events — with which however it has very little
to do — it does seem regrettable, yet I have too
much gratitude for my friend making my
quarrel his own to find any fault with him for
it."

Well," said Mr. Millard, " every one looks
at these things from his own standpoint, and,
from yours, you are undoubtedly right. Let

US say no more on that head, then. I was saying
that this affair of the murder is a complete
mystery to me. I will tell you why that is
so."

Galbraith nodded again, and settled himself
to listen, with every outward mark of attention,
to the speaker.

"I told you just now," said Mr. Millard,
leaning back in his seat and puffing slowly at
his cigar, ^' that I did not believe any of the
many rumours flying about as to the cause
of any very desperate quarrel between young
Shelman and poor Rivers. I know, of course,
that they were quarrelling violently just at the
time the affair happened, but I cannot for the
life of me see any cause for matters having gone
so far as that Shelman should shoot Rivers,
either in hot blood or cold blood, no matter
what was the subject of their dispute."

But what theory have you formed upon
the matter ? " asked Bryceson in a tone which
showed that he was not much impressed by
the depth or sagacity of Mr. Millard's remarks
up to the present.

"I believe," said Mr. Millard, "that there
was a struggle between the two young men
and that, in that struggle, the gun went off

and shot Walter Elvers. I wonder that that
was not the defence set up."

I don't quite see how they could set \ip
that defence," said Bryceson. " I understand
that, not only at the Inquest but at all times,
Shelman has strenuously denied struggling
with Rivers at all."

Well," said Mr. Millard, shrugging his
shoulders and apparently giving up the thing
as a bad job, "as I said before, the whole thing
is a mystery to me, although the facts seem
plain and on the surface ; if the theory of a
struggle and an accidental discharge of the gun
be not correct, I give up all hopes of ever being
able to explain the affair. Unless indeed,"
he added, " Shelman should confess to the
murder."

Men who have been together in wilder scenes
than the smoking of cigars, and the sipping of
West Country punch, have Httle ways unknown
to the natives of regions where those peaceful
pursuits are indigenous to the soil. Not a
man in Avonham could have seen that Galbraith
gave Bryceson a sign that he was to
pursue his inquiry no farther ; but the sign
was given and understood, for all that. There
was a pause in the chat for; a couple of

minutes, during wliicli Br jceson and mr. i\Iil-
lard smoked, and Galbraith seemed intent on
nothing more important than deciphering the
inscription on the William and Mary guinea
which was let into the bottom of the rare old
punch ladle.

By-the-bye," said he after he had replaced
the much cherished antique in its proper place,
'• I saw that interesting young gentleman
Carter in the court at Ridgetown last Tuesday.
What is he doing, now that he has left^Mr.
Bompas ? "

Ah ! " said Mr. Millard, " I heard that he
fainted in court when the verdict arts returned :
is that true ? "

Perfectly," answered Galbraith, " I was
sitting not very far from him at the
time."

He was very friendly with Shelman," said
Mr. Millard ; " the shock must have been too
much for him."

Ye-e-e-s," said Galbraith very slowly and
in a tone at which his friend looked somewhat
amazed : " that must have been it, I suppose ;
he seemed more upset than the prisoner."

He's not overburdened with courage, I
fancy," said Bryceson.

What is lie doing just now ? " asked Galbraith
again of Mr. Millard.

"He is at home with his father," answered
Mr. Millard ; " he is another young fellow who
has made a fool of himself. But you know
more about his misdeeds, Mr. Bryceson, than
I can tell you, of course. Ah, he lost a good
chance when he got out of Bompas's good
books''

For that I really can't blame myself," said
Bryceson ; " at any rate not entirely."

Xo," said Mr. Millard, " I think he must
thank his friend Shelman for that in a great
measure."

You think so ? " asked Galbraith.

Oh, yes, I am sure of it," answered Mr.
Millard ; " I had that from Bompas himself."

Galbraith nodded two or three times as
though the answer, in some way, were satisfactory
to him, and it had been what he had
been expecting.

But I must be getting homewards," said
Mr. ]willard, jumping up and shaking hands
cordially with the two friends ; " no, thank you,
Mr. Galbraith, this cigar will last me nearly
home ; good-bye to you both : now remember,
wx expect you to call as soon as you can, and

you can trust my wife, Mr. Bryceson, for
having some cherry brandy worth tasting, I
can assure you. PinnifFer, send my cob round."

The two young men stood at the front door,
as the old fellow mounted and rode away,
giving him a cheery farewell as he turned the
corner. As they stood a minute hesitatingly
on the steps of the " Bear," the obsequious and
observant Timothy Rapsey entered the doorway
and gave them an evasive " good evening."
Galbraith immediately turned back and followed
Timothy to the room they had just left.

Timothy's nature was elastic. Dashed as he
had been by John Rannn's vigorous denunciation
of his inquisitiveness, he had recovered
his perky manner and was just as eager for
any information as ever. Friends had intervened
between him and John Rannn, and the pair had
shaken hands with great formality alit solemnity
at their next meeting ; now he thought he
saw another chance of adding to his store of

o

knowledge of his neighbours.

Mce seasonable weather, gentlemen," said
he as the friends entered the room.

Very," said Galbraith.

I am glad to see Mrs. Stanhope out driving
again," said Timothy.

Oh, is she sufficiently recovered to be
about ? " asked Bryceson.

Oh, yes," said Timothy. " Indeed I think
she has been paying you a visit, Mr. Galbraith,
this afternoon."

Paying me a visit I " said Galbraith, looking
at his friend in surprise, " how do you
know that ? "

I was comines along: South Street about an
hour ago," said little Chatterton, " and Mrs.
Stanhope's carriage stopped at your gate. The
footman went in and came out again, by which
I presume you was out, sir : indeed I may say
as I asked 'un and he said you was."

Bryceson kicked a stool over and then apologised
to it ; his friend laughed.

Mrs. Stanhope drove on, sir, and I see
she's returned to South Street, and is over at
Mr. Bompas's now ; her carriage is a-standing'
at his door. You can see it come out o'
South Street if you watches through this
winder."

You seem to take a great deal of notice of
what goes on about here, Mr. Eapsey," said
Galbraith.

Yes, Mr. Galbraith, I do," answered
Timothy ; " you see it's my only occupation

nowadays. I suppose it was summit about the
'ouse as Mrs. Stanhope wanted to see you
about, sir ? "

For a moment Bryceson looked curiously at
the pair ; but Galbraith gave no sign of annoyance.


About the lower river, Mr. Rapsey," said
he ; " Mrs. Stanhope is going to give me the
right of fishing in it. But I must be going
now. Come along, Walter. Good afternoon,
Mr. Eapsey."

Mr. Rapsey watched the two Mends crossing
the market-place, and then gave his mind
to tobacco and ale.

Been to see me this afternoon, eh ? " said
Galbraith to Bryceson, as they walked along :
what does that mean ? "

Clear the decks for action, perhaps,"
answered Bryceson.

Very likely. AAYell, she will find us all atour
stations when she comes."

They passed the carriage standing outside
Mr. Bompas's door, and entered at their own
gate. At the door they met Edward, who
looked grave.

Dat ar woman been here skin' for you,
Mas' Harry," said he.

"So we hear, Need ; if she comes again show
her right in. Anyone at home ? "

No, sal, car ain't none of 'em come back,
but dey won't be long now."

Galbraith and Bryceson entered the room
and the negro brought them lamps. By their
light Bryceson noticed that his friend's face
was very set and stern.

When they had sat for about five minutes
quite silent and each occupied with his own
thoughts, there came a knock at the front door.
Galbraith turned and. pitched his cigar into the
fire. Then he looked at Walter and laughed.

Stand by to repel boarders," he said. " I
want you to stay here with me, old fellow
We are all brothers in this."

The door opened, and Adelaide Bompas
entered the room, followed by Mrs. Stanhope.

Both men rose. Bryceson handed a chair to
Adelaide, who took it without speaking. There
was no need of explanation. It wanted but
one glance at each of the other two to realise
the fact that they had met for strife.

And Adelaide, brave as she was, felt her
heart grow cold as she saw the two hard faces :
hers full of majestic, stately beauty, but showing
by the coming and going of her colour the

emotion lie could not resist ; his lit up with
the Hight of battle, and calm as the face of
a statue ; while Bryceson waited for the first
words with strained attention, as he had sometimes
Hastened for the word " fire ! " as he
looked on at some wild Western duel.

AT THE SOUND OF A WELL-known VOICE.

There was a difference in the maimer of each
of these duellists. Whilst Galbraith was really
calm, Mrs. Stanhope was only apparently so.
She had nerved herself for the encounter and
the effort had been a great one. She had been
forced to confess to herself that her enterprise
was desperate, and one thought troubled her
more than all. She had a hundredfold more
at stake than the man with whom she was
about to fight.

In the old wild days of her Bohemian existence
there would have been for her no such
thing as loss of station to dread. Her rare
beauty and her gift of song had been the
weapons wherewith she had faced the world,
and faced it successfully too. The surroundings
of such a life have a tendency to harden
the nerves and strengthen the heart of a
woman, though very often quite the reverse is
the result of their influence on a man. When

she had exchanged this life for the humdrum
existence of the married state, she had found
respectability and regularity intolerable. An
indulgent and fond husband had no attractions
for her. To a man who was stern, and even
harsh to her, she would have clunsf with all
the strength of her heart ; but she despised
the good-natured and easy-going Reginald, and
fled from him with one unworthy either to be
compared with him or to be associated with
her. The first rush of love for her deserted
husband had come over her after the deadly
injury she had done him, for she then first
knew that under his quiet nature lay the
highest courage and the firmest resolve. She
remembered now how her terrified paramour,
with face ever white and hand ever trembling,
had carried her from place to place, from town
to town, and how the injured husband had
followed like a sleuth hound, till, in spite of
every device, they had found no rest for the
soles of their feet, and a week's consecutive
residence in one place had been a matter of impossibility.
Then it had been that, amidst
this wild scurrying here and there, this constant
flight, those starts and horrid awakenings
in the night ; those terror-born glances right

and left and up and down before venturing
out by day, lie discovered that, after all, lie
loved the pursuing and bated the pursued.

She remembered bow, when at last news
was brought her that all was over and that
they need fear no more, the tide of revulsion
which had set in in her heart, now filled it with
loathing for the partner of her crime and pity
and affection for the dead. Francois Grenier
had but little cause to triumph after he had
told her the story. In a whirlwind of wild
regrets she had torn herself from his embrace
and loaded him with reproaches so bitter and
scorn so scathing that they rang in his ears
till he died : till the morning when he
faced Galbraith underneath the trees on
the low-lying shore on which the lazy
weaves were plashing, when he felt the
blue eyes, stern and pitiless, conquer his own,
when he gripped his knife and tried to feel
that he could win the fight ; when the face in
which he could see the likeness to the man
whom he had left at Baton Rouge, shot by
treachery, drew nearer and nearer and he could
mark the breadth of those shoulders, and guess
at the strength of that terrible right arm. The
words of his dupe, and the cry of his victim

were in the ears of Francois Grenier till his
last despairing stroke was stricken, till his
delicate wrist broke in the iron grip of the
avenger, and the requiting steel went down
into this black heart as he took the Ages of
Sin in full.

She knew nothing of his fate. She had
dreaded his reappearance at one time, but the
feeling had worn off since her husband's death,
and even had he appeared, she would have felt
secure in her knowledge of the man's character
and the easy manner in which she could have
silenced him. But this man was different.

How inexpressibly dear was her social
position to her now ! It had been but a little
kingdom over which she had reio;-ned, but her
sway had been undisputed and she had been
very happy there. Now there was this one
struggle to come, and then she must lay down
sceptre and robe and turn her back on her
subjects. Oh, for one hour of her old wild
courage ! Civilization had spoiled her for a
desperate moment like this. She went into
the contest with much of the same hopelessness
with which Francois Grenier had faced the
very man before whom she stood now. And
she could not quit her realm without a sigh.
VOL. III. 44

The thought of having to leave it had nerved
her to make one fight against fate and she was
here to-day to make it.

You are perhaps surprised to see me here,
Mr. Galbraith," she said, for she felt that she
must open the business, as he gave no sign of
doing so.

I am not surprised, madam," said he
gravely. " Will you be seated ? "

She took no heed of the invitation, but
remained standing by Adelaide's side.

Empty courtesies, Mr. Galbraith, will be
thrown away between us," said she ; " let us
come to the root of the matter."

I must decline to pledge myself to any
particular course of action, madam," said Galbraith,
" but since you are here and seem to
wish to speak, I will listen to anything you
have to say."

You are kind," she said with a sneer ; " I
could at all times have ensured your doing
that

I do not think so," replied he, " do not
assume too much. If we are to talk let us
have facts."

What do you mean ? "

'' Several things, madam," he said, sternly,

for one thing that I can cut short your power
of speech in one moment, by calling in the aid
of the law : for another that no amount of
sophistry or rhetoric shall move me from the
fixed purpose of my life, or destroy the fruits
of my patient labour in tracking you for years
as I have done. We are not on equal terms
here, madam, and you know it. Cease your
acting ; it will not serve you now ! "

'' Tell me," she said, " what it is that you
allege against me. Bring your accusations !
I dare you to shake me from my position, and
I warn you against the consequences of such
an attempt. It will ruin you ! "

I thank you for your warning. I do not
think you will be able to ruin me. Adelaide,
I do not quite understand your presence here.
Do you come by your own wish ? "

Yes, Harry," said Adelaide, " I promised
I would come over. Do you not wish me to
remain ? "

Remain," said Galbraith, after a moment's
pause, " yes, since you know the history, it
may be as well. You may hear some things
that I should not have told you otherwise,
and it is a dark business for you to be mixed
up in."

U—2

'' And now, Mr. Galbraith," said Mrs. Stanhope,
" will you deign me an answer to my
question ? "

Yes, madam," said he, timing to her
sharply, " by asking you another. What is
your name 1 "

She knew the import of the demand and,
steel herself as she might, she shrank from it.
She even fenced a little in order to put it by,
though for a minute only.

What is my name ? Well, that I suppose
is the orthodox commencement. Shall we
have the rest of the catechism to follow ?
Mr. Bryceson, do you know your catechism
?

Of all foolish speeches this was the most
foolish she could have made. But the question
and its gravity had unnerved her and the
words dropped from her lips half hysterically.
Her enemy was stronger than she.

Bryceson's face was as grave as that of his
friend. He was in no mood for trifling, but
he answered :

I know sufficient of it to be able to prompt
you, madam, in case your memory should
fail."

She looked fi'om one to the other and read

the significance of their faces. She must flee
or fight. Let her fight.

'' Such a question is absurd ; every one in
the town will answer it for you."

Madam," said Galbraith, " I will ask the
question in the town tomorrow morning, for
it is all important that I should know the
answer to it. It will set at rest a doubt which
has puzzled me a good deal lately — indeed
ever since the morning on which I was introduced
to you at Avonham Road Station. And,,
trust me, that when you learn the method in
which I shall pursue my inquiry, you will
regret that you did not answer me yourself."

She stood a few moments without speaking.
His eyes never left her face ; he rang the bell.

Stop ! " she cried moving a step towards
him. '' What are you going to do ? "

Madam," answered he, '' our interview is
at an end ; without a reply to that question I
can hold no further communication with you.
I will not be defied and I will have that
answer ! "

The door opened and Edward appeared.
Bryceson gave a glance at her face, and then
motioned him away.

'• I will answer you that question," she said

when Edward had retired, " and you will see
then that you have nothing to say concerning"
my position. I am Laura Constance Stanhope.
You are at fault at once ! "

That is the answer I expected to receive ;
I warn you that you will have to substantiate
it by evidence."

I am able to do so, Mr. Galbraith ; I can
bid defiance to you all. You are defied
now ! "

I accept" your defiance. You were
married in the name of Wilding ? "

That is true."

Laura Constance Wilding, widow, I read
in the register."

That is also true."

You believed Wilding, your first husband,
to be dead."

I still believe him to be dead," said she,
but her voice shook as she said it.

Oh, the wind sits in that quarter, does it ?
Well, you shall see him and satisfy yourself on
the point."

"It is false. I had complete evidence of his
death in America."

I will furnish you with satisfactory
evidence of his being; alive and in Avonham."

Her cheeks turned paler and her arm trembled
as she laid her hand on the back of the
chair which she had at first refused to take.
She sat down now and took a long breath
before she slowly said :

Even if that were true, it would not alter
the circumstances. He has no claim on me."

Xo claim to be your husband, do you
mean ? " asked Galbraith.

Yes, no claim to consider himself as my
husband," she answered.

'• You wish, then, to lead us to infer that
you obtained a divorce in America ? "

I will not leave you in any doubt upon the
subject," answered she in a low voice.

There was a pause of silence in the room,
and then Galbraith spoke.

We will then, if you please, leave the
matter where it is until we receive that proof.
When that is furnished we can consider what
to do. And, understand me, madam, I am
not pledged that the matter shall rest there.
You say you believe in Reginald Wilding's
death. Go home, and thank God that he is
alive and that you are in his hands as well as
in mine."

She rose from her seat and looked steadily

at idm without speaking. Bryceson stepped
to the door to open it for her to pass.

At that moment the front door was opened
and the joyous laugh of Fred Markham sounded
in the hal. In answer to some merry remark
the soft, half sad voice of Eeginald Wilding
eras heard. Mrs. Stanhope started back, with
a low cry, and clung to Adelaide.

Whose voice is that ? " she said in a hoarse
whisper.

Bryceson opened the door and beckoned to
the party. At the entrance appeared the clear
calm features of the restored man, and he came
forward, while the guilty woman started farther
away in dread.

He saw her ; and over his face rushed such
a cloud and such a surge of blood seemed to
sweep his cheeks, and such a deadly pallor
followed, that his brother started forward in
alarm and seized his arm. But he steadied
himself, and drew from his side, and stepped
in front of her.

Constance ! " he said.

And at the word the proud heart was
smitten, the lofty spirit was humbled, and the
imperious beauty flung herself at his feet with
a great cry.

Oil, Reginald I Reginald ! I have sinned,
but I have suffered ! When I lost you I loved
you first. I thought you dead, and dead
through me, and my wicked heart broke and
my new heart was born ! Oh, my husband,
come to my new heart, and do not send me
away ! "

AFTER MANY YEARS.

More persons were witnesses of Mrs. Stanhope's
humiliation than the party of the house.
Mr. Bomj^as and Dr. Mompesson had accompanied
the young men and the Squire across
the road, and were thus present at the scene.
It was a strange one to all, but to two members
of the company it was little short of marvellous.
All doubts were cleared up now : there was
confession in every wailed word that fell from
the lips of the woman up to whom they had
looked as up to a being of different mould from
themselves. All in the room were affected by
the sight, each in his own way. The laugh
died from Markham's hips ; Bryceson looked
sympathetic ; the tears stood in Adelaide's eyes
as she turned and laid her hand on Galbraith's
arm, and drew close to his side as if pleading
for mercy. The Doctor and Mr. Bompas
looked on with white and sorrow stricken faces,
whilst the old Squire seemed anxious chiefly

for Reginald Wilding's sake. Reginald, after
his first great heart-leap, was calm, his handsome
face was ht by a strange light, and once
more he appeared to his old comrades as he
was before the dark cloud came down over
his life. In his eyes his brother could read
more love than revenge, but so great was Galbraith's
command of feature that by looking
at him nothing could be learned of his inner
thoughts, save that the business on hand was
grave and serious to a degree.

After the wild outburst of the woman
brought to bay, there was a silence which no
one seemed inclined to break ; at last Reginald
Wilding spoke, and his voice was singularly
calm and sweet.

Rise, Constance ! come, I will not talk to
you unless you get up from the ground."

He raised her and she sat again in the chair
she had just quitted. Galbraith looked over
to the Doctor, who came across the room, took
his stand next to his patient and spoke a few
words to her in a low tone. She shook her
head and motioned him away. He did not
go, however, but remained beside her.

'' Do you know, Constance," said Reginald,
where I have been for the last twelve years ? "

She shook her head and raised her eyes to
his face, but made no answer in words.

Listen, and I will tell you, and then let
my friends and yours judge between us."

She cast down her eyes again, and waited
for his words without a sisfn.

I married you and loved you dearly ; how
dearly I think you will never know. How
you requited me you do know. God knows
I never made boast of myself, but I would have
held my own against Francois Grenier, in
aught but his treachery and vice. You left
me for a low gambler, a coward and a murderer
; left all my great love and threw away
your beauty and your soul on him."

She crouched in her seat as though his
words were physical blows and she were
shrinking from them.

Did you think that I would sit dowai with
my wrong ? or were you persuaded that I
Avould ? The race from which I spring has
not begun to produce cowards yet. I think
you found that my pursuit of you, during one
year, was as unremitting a chase as even
southern blood could have carried out. At
last I came up with the man who had wrecked
my happiness and broken up my home. I

should have known that lie who was a traitor
in one thing would be a traitor in all, but I
gave the man a meeting as though he had been
an honourable man. Did you hear from him
that he shot me as I turned to walk to my
place, and that he came and kicked my body,
as I lay there, as he thought, dead ? Did your
cavalier tell you that ? "

Aofain no answer : only she raised her head
as though about to speak, and then settled
back to her old position.

When I came to myself I was in a hospital.
That was not for long. I was to suffer far
worse than that for having loved too well.
For twelve years, twelve long terrible years, I
have been in the tomb of a having death ; I have
been a madman amongst madmen, an outcast
from the world, and it is thanks to an accidental
recognition, a circumstance so wonderful
in its bringing about, that I fear to speak of
it ; to the matchless skill of my dear old friend
here, and to the joy I felt at the sight of my
beloved brother, that I am here to-day. My
brother himself, who would have given his life
for me, and who, mark me, did in requital of
my wrongs risk it — my brother who is by my
side now, has mourned for me as one dead until

a few months ago. This has been my penalty
for marrying you ; this is the fate you dealt
out to one whose only crime was that he loved
you. Do you ask him to love you again ? He
has no second life for you to mar."

For the hast time, she answered him. " I did
not know" ; I thought you dead ; I even tried
to see you but I could not find you. When

that man told me of your death, the

words in which he told of it were the last he
spoke to me I cursed him for killing you,
Reginald, and I cast myself free from him forever
! "

The deep voice of Galbraith broke in here,
and the contrast with his brother's tones was
so great that it made her start.

Were you married to Francois Grenier at
that time ? " said he.

:^o."

She crimsoned as she spoke, and as she saw
Adelaide involuntarily shrink from her.

Yet you where divorced from Reginald ? "
said the stern voice again.

Yes."

He was silent.

I do not know," she said, " and I will
swear it by all that is sacred — I do not knows

what became of Francois Grenier after we
parted, in Baton Rouge. I have never seen
him since."

Well, I Thrill do you the justice to say in
the presence of these gentlemen" — he pointed
to Doctor Mompesson and Mr. Bompas — '' that
your asseveration tallies with his own story of
the matter."

'' You have seen him ? " said she with a
startled look at him — " you have seen Francois
Grenier ? "

I have seen Francois Grenier," said he,
with a look at her before which she quailed.

'• Where did you see him ? " this in a whisper
such as a woman speaks in when she names a
ghost.

It is enough for you that I have seen him,"
said Galbraith, with a glance towards Adelaide.

Is he ? " she did not complete the

question, for she saw his glance and understood
it.

"He is dead," he answered, " he died sometime
ago ; when I meet you again I will tell
you particulars of his end. Do not ask me anymore
concerning him now."

She shivered at the sound of the cold grave
words, for she knew their import well. This

man would not shock the ears of the woman he
loved by mention of the wild deed, but she
knew, as well as though she had seen the affray,
that he had done execution on the man who
had wronged his brother. Her helplessness
against these men struck her for the first time.
The man who had not spared her partner in
guilt had told her that, left to himself, he
would not have spared her. In utter despair
she rose from her seat.

'' Let me go," said she, " I can struggle no
longer against you ; I yield myself to your
hands ; what do you require of me ? Tell me
and I will do it."

For the first time she caught sight of the
flxce of the old Squire, dio stood with his
hands clasped behind him, a silent spectator
of the scene.

'' I remember you," she said ; " you are
Reginald's old friend. Is it you dio restored
him to health ? "

Under God's hand, madam," he said, " I
have been the humble means of his being free."

You are a good man," she said ; " you
always were. Are you so good that you cannot
feel any pity for me ? "

Madam," replied the old Squire, " I were

not a good man if I denied to any what I daily
need myself."

Have a little pity on me, then," she said
with a weary sigh, '* for indeed I need it
sorely."

She was quite broken now ; her face looked
changed and drawn and haggard, and the
light had gone out of her glorious eyes ; she
was pleading now, and Adelaide, touched as
she was by the scene of the woman's humbled
pride, felt a quiet joy springing up in her
heart, as she saw the faces of her lover and his
friends soften and fill with commiseration for
her ; she standing alone against them all.
They were noble foes, she thought.

These men are just," Mrs. Stanhope went
on, addressing the old Squire, " but they are
very hard. They do not consider the years
of suffering, they do not reckon the pain of
penitence."

She spoke as one whose sense was partly
deadened by some heavy blow, and her voice
was strange and hollow.

I think I must have been mad when I ran

away with Francois Grenier, for Reginald had

been very kind to me. I have often thought

of him and of the old days. ]sow I could be

VOL. III. 45

happy in that quiet Hfe ; but I was a wild bird
then, and my home was a cage in which I did
not care to stay. I was not all bad. I was
only weary, intensely weary of my life. He
was not a good man with whom I went away.
Not so good as he whom I left. When he told
me that he had been challenged by Reginald,
and that in a duel he had shot and killed him,
I drove him from me as I told you. I never
saw him again. I think he went to New Orleans.
He was a bad man, he tempted me
from my home. He got the divorce from a
court in Louisiana. A lawyer got it for him.
Then he wanted me to marry him but I
would not. Now you tell me he is dead."

She turned her eyes for a moment to Galbraith,
who silently bowed his head in sign of
acquiescence.

Bad as he was," she resumed, " he was the
only protector I had then, and when I turned
him away I was alone in the world. I had
three years of weary wandering and tiring
toil, until I had made and put by a little
money, and then I came to England to turn my
back on the old life and lead a new one here."

She spoke now in a firmer tone and with
some show of her accustomed haughty air.

I have done so. I have led a new life.
There is no man who can pont finger at me
or carp at the actions of one hour that I have
spent in England. I call to witness for me
the two gentlemen who stand by you now. I
think if you went into the streets of this town
the poor would speak for me. I think that
when it is known here how I have fallen,
many hearts will be sorry for me. That is
why I ask you for pity, and this is the thing
I ask. I will not resist you. But let me go
away quietly before you proclaim my shame.
Remember what a blow I have just received ;
though perhaps it was better for the poor boy
to die, than to hive to marry such a one as I.
And the memory of my last husband is dear
in this place. And one thing more ; it will
harden the hearts of those who would do good,
and the hearts of those who need help. They
will say that all charity is bad, and that it was
only my cloak. God knows I tried to be
good. God knows I have repented. Have a
Httle pity on me as you hope He will have
pity on you."

She looked round the room at the faces of
all there as though she would read her fate in
them ; she stood a minute, as if awaiting either

45—2

sentence or forgiveness ; then, with bowed
head and clasped hands she left them, her
faithful friend Doctor Mompesson going outwith
her, his face reflecting the horror and pain
he felt at the revelation of her guilt.

When the party in the room had heard the
door close behind them without the silence
having been broken, Adelaide went across to
Adhere Reginald AVildino; was standing;. All

o o o

in the room were under the influence of the
emotions which the statements of Reginald
and the appeal of Mrs. Stanhope had excited.

You will have mercy on her, brother,"
said Adelaide, laying her hand gently on
Reginald's own. " I know how much you
have suffered, but, remember ! she has suffered
too ; and we have seen her here so good to all
around her, that any harm to her would be a
great blow to us all. You have been mercifully
restored to us all, and out of gratitude
for that I would ask you to show forgiveness.
Do not refuse me, Reginald ! Harry will not
stand between me and my request, I am
sure."

"No, Adelaide," said Galbraith, "I will
even support you in your plea, and love you
the more for pleading."

Reginald took Adelaide's hands in his, and
kissed her on the forehead.

'' It shall be as you wish, dear sister," said
he in a low voice. " I will forgive her. She
shall never receive any harm at my hands.
AVe have, both of us, suffered enough ! "

OUT OF THE JAWS OF DEATH.

'' He lay for two days in a state of utter senselessness,
and now that lie is conscious lie
seems so weak and prostrated that the Doctor
is very anxious concerning him. It is very
good of you, Millard, to have come over, and
especially kind of you, Mr. Galbraith, after
what has happened. The result of the trial
was a great blow to him ; much greater than
I can quite comprehend, for, although they
were certainly friendly, yet I was not aware
that Adolphus and Mr. Shelman were on
closer terms of intimacy than that of companions.
Indeed I think I have heard Adolphus
say that Shelman held himself somewhat
above him."

The speaker was the Reverend Mr. Carter,
the father of Adolphus, and his auditors, somewhat
to his astonishment, had ridden over
together to see his son, whom we last saw
swooning in the court-house at Kingstown.

Mr. Millard seemed constrained in this manner,
and replied vaguely to the account of
Adolplius Carter's illness. He glanced at
Galbraith as though to seek instructions from
him. Galbraith turned to the father and
said :

I regret very much to hear that your son
is so ill. It is a matter of the very highest
importance that I should see him. I hope he
is not so bad that I cannot do so."

Xo, Mr. Galbraith, you can see him," said
Mr. Carter. " I trust, however, you have no
agitating news for him."

Galbraith did not answer ; he rose to his
feet and waited to be shown to the patient.

He is in the room behind this," said Mr.
Carter, ringing the bell. " Show this gentleman
in to Mr. Adolphus," said he to a servant,
who appeared in answer to his summons.

Galbraith bowed and left the room with
the servant, whilst Mr. Carter, turning to Mr.
Millard, said in an agitated voice, " Do you
know what Mr. Galbraith's business is ? "

Only partly," answered Mr. Millard, ina
hesitating manner ; "he wants, I know, to
question him concerning this unhappy affair,
but what his intention in doing so is I do not

know. He particularly requested me to ride
over with him and I did so."

Mr. Carter turned pale, and laid an unsteady
hand on his friend's shoulder.

I trust, in Heaven's name, that no heavier
blow is going to fall on us through my unhappy
boy's misdeeds."

What do you mean ? " asked Mr. Millard.
'" I hope things will turn out better all
round."

What unhappy affair do you allude to,
about which Mr. Galbraith wishes to question
Adolphus ? "

The attack on his house ; and your boy
having lost his place at Bompas's, of course ! "
answered Mr. Millard.

Mr. Carter laughed nervously.

I am a little upset, I think, Millard; I was
afraid you might mean something else."

No, certainly not," said Mr. Millard in
some astonishment. " What else should I
mean :

Mr. Carter made no answer to this, but
pressed refreshments on his friend, and entered
into ordinary conversation on countryside
topics, seeming somewhat relieved by Mr.
Millard's answer ; meanwhile Galbraith had

entered the room in wliicli Adolphus Carter
was.

He was seated in a chair, the back of which
was turned towards the window, so that the
hight did not strike his face, but was full in
that of anyone entering the room. Galbraith
noted, however, with those keen calm eves of
his, how he started at his entrance, and how a
look of dread of danger came over his face,
which was so white and hao^o^ard that it could
not be said to turn pale ; he noted, too, the
immense change that had come over the once
dapper, sprightly, fascinating articled pupil.
He seemed to have shrunk physically and
mentally. Sever commanding or striking in
appearance, he now looked abject, and the only
sign about him of mental activity was a look
of terror in his eyes, which his visitor had often
seen in those of a hunted animal.

Do not rise from your seat," said Galbraith,
as Carter made some movement as though
about to do so.

Thank you," said Carter, with a feeble
attempt at a smile. " I am not at all well."

So I see," said Galbraith ; " but well or
ill, I must have some important talk with you."

The mid hunted look changed to one of

deeper alarm, and a shiver seized the frame of
Carter. Daring the whole of the rest of the'
interview this never left him ; he sat trembling
and shaking in terror and with every sign
upon him of the most intense dread of his interlocutor.
mechanically he pointed to a seat and
moved his lips as though to frame a courteous
request that his visitor would take it. But the
lioiit was full on that stern face and he who
saw it could read what was in it. The words
died on his lips. Galbraith, still looking steadfastly
at him, drew nearer but did not sit down.
When he spoke it was in a grave low voice
that seemed to pierce the very soul of the
listener.

I have been away in America," he said ;
you know what has happened in Avonham
since I went away ? "

Yes," said Carter, in a hollow voice,
scarcely raised above a whisper.

I saw you in the court the other day,
when your friend Shelman was being tried.
Did you see me ? "

Yes, once." Still in the same tone and
with the same sense of horror on him.

I watched you very attentively during the
time that the jury were absent. I picked up

fi'om the floor a paper which fell from your
hand when you fainted. I have read that
paper. After reading it, I have formed a theory
about the death of Mr. Walter Rivers, and I
determined to ride over here and ask you a
certain question."

The look of dread changed to one of sheer
despair, and the unhappy young man made a
deprecatory gesture with his hands, as though
he feebly strove to ward off a blow that he
knew was beyond his strength to endure.

"I do not wish to agitate you unduly, or to
take advantage of your state, but the life of a
man is at stake ; the life of a man who is no
friend of mine, but whose affairs, through you,
have been interwoven with mine. A man,
too, whom I believe to be innocent of the crime
laid to his charge."

Xo change in the face — still despair ; the
hunted animal would not turn to bay.

This is the question I wish to ask you ;
listen to it ! For, as God is my judge, I
believe that you, and you only can answer it.
Who killed Walter Rivers 1 "

Then into the terror-stricken face and into
the wild-looking eyes came a great calm; came
a sense of laving down a heavy burden; came

the sio'ii of resignation to a fate against which
the man had been strugforlingr in a fiofht in
which he had been sorely beaten, and it was
with a softened face, the fiice of a child who
confesses to a mother, that he answered, with
a weak but steady voice, " I did."

Then he sank back in his chair, the weight
of his secret rolled from him and he smiled.
A sad smile. A smile that was ill to see.

Do not move from your seat," said Galbraith,
as he stepped backwards and opened
the door of the room. " Mr. Millard ! come
here."

In a twinkling Mr. Millard and the father
of the self-acknowledged murderer ran into the
room. The sharp tones of Galbraith's voice
had startled them both, and each had feared
that some alarming change in the sick man's
state had been the cause of the summons. But
when they entered, and saw the patient and his
visitor parted by almost the whole breadth of
the apartment, they knew that no physical
matter had called them there. The heart
of the father first felt what had occurred. Mr.
Carter looked at Galbraith with much of the
same light in his eyes that had been in those
of his son, and said :

'' What is it, Mr. Galbraith ? For mercy's
sake tell me what has happened! "

Galbraith turned to him and there was a
look of infinite pity in his eyes.

God knows," he said, '* I would have spared
you this. I call Him to witness I have not
brought this upon you willingly ! "

•' Sit dowai, father," said Carter, with a great
effort. '• I must have told you this, I think,
to-day, even if ]\lr. Galbraith had not come."

'' My boy ! " said Mr. Carter, seating himself
by his son's side, " what is it that you ha^'e
to tell ? "

Mr. Millard," said Carter, " you are a magistrate
; take down what I have to say ; for I
think I have not long to live. I am stricken
with death, and I must do right before I
die."

With a look of much amazement, Mr. Millard
seated himself at the table, on which there were
writing materials ; Galbraith remained standing
at his side ; Mr. Carter sat by his son,
looking at him with terrible earnestness. At
the first words his boy spoke he gave a sharp
low cry, and covered his face with his hands,
as though to shut out from his sight the guilty
one whom he had loved.

"I killed Walter Rivers. I shot him—I
shot him by mistake "

By mistake ? " said Mr. Millard, looking up
in great surprise.

Do you mean ' by accident,' " said Galbraith,
'' when you say ' by mistake ? ' "

Carter shook his head.

]^o," said he, " I do not mean by accident
I mean by mistake. I — I thought he was
Shelman."

Good God ! " muttered Mr. Millard below
his breath.

I Avill tell you all about it," said Carter,
nerving himself for the task, and speaking in a
firmer voice. " I was Shelman's tool in that
matter of the election riot. It was he, as I
have already told Mr. Bryceson and your other
friend, who planned, with me, the attack on
your house, Mr. Galbraith. It was really his
fault that any riot took place at all. He
started the idea of giving drink away for
nothing to our side, and refusing it to the
Blues. That caused the riot. Then I took the
men down South Street, and led them to the
Coombes.' You know what took place there.
You have heard also what passed between ]mr.
Bryceson and me at the ' Bear ' hotel."

Yes, I have heard all that," said Galbraith,
to whom Adolphus had addressed himself.

Then came the quarrel between Mr. Bryce-son
and Shelman, and, through what came
out afterwards, Mr. Bompas sent me away. I
had lost more than a mere chance, and had
more than a commercial position at stake at
Mr. Bompas's, and I think the knowledge of
what I had really lost drove me mad. At any
rate, I swore to be reveno-ed on Alfred Shelman
for my wrongs. I used to go about here brooding
over the injury he had done me, till my
brain was turned, I think."

He paused for breath. Galbraith lifted a
glass containing wine to his lips, but he put it
away with this hand.

On the afternoon of the — of the day when
when Rivers was shot — I was up at Down-holmes.
I had my gun with me. I had
walked round the hills. It was getting foggy
and I met no one. I was out trying for rabbits,
just to amuse myself, but I did not see one. I
heard some one shooting in Downholmes. I
knew it must be Shelman and I watched for
him. I saw him go to your keeper's cottage,
and when he went across the fields I waited
for at least a quarter of an hour before I followed

him. I wanted to avoid him. I could
not trust myself slice to face with him whilst I
had a gun. When I came ujd to the bridge I
saw him — as I thought — standing there with
his gun in his hand. I could not control myself,
and, as I came up and he turned round at
the sound of my footsteps, I raised my gun
to my shoulder and hired both barrels at
him."

Great beads of perspiration stood out on his
forehead as he told his horrible tale.

He threw his arms up and fell headlong
down the bank without a cry : I saw the gun
fall from his hands into the river. I turned
and went back tow arts Downholmes. When
I got to the path by the wood I heard someone
shouting; from the river bank. Then I
knew the body was found. I got on to the
Bath road and walked home as quietly as I
could, and even spoke to one or two people
whom I met near the village. I had not much
fear of being discovered ; I can hardly
describe how I felt after I had done it. I felt
as if a weight where off my mind and yet I
felt that I must go and look at the place where
I had seen him fall. I made up my mind todo
so next morning. I went to bed. I hope

1 iii i>\)ini>: to die, for I would not live through
the fearful nights I have had ever since."

He raised his hand to wipe his broad and
waited a little before resuming.

"The next morning I went into Avonham.
Then I heard the news. I never had any
idea that it was not Shelman whom I had
shot, and intended to pretend that I knew
outlying of what had happened, and that I was
going to call upon him. When I got into
Avonham I could not make out at first what
])e(^ple Averse talking over. I heard them
say that Shelman was arrested and Rivers
shot, and I did not believe my own ears.
Then my horror began. I have had that
dead man with me ever since. But you know
the truth now and he may leave me for the
little while I have to live, for this has killed
me. I was a coward not to speak, but I tried
to persuade myself that this was the revenge I
wanted, that I had meant to kill him and that
I could still kill him by keeping silent ; and I
did so. But the other man has been a dreadful
companion, and if they hang Alfred
Shelman there will be two of them. They
must not do that, though ; even though I
should get well and they should hang me, I
VOL. III. 46

must do liii riolit. Maw God forgive me fc»r

what I have done I Father, try to forgive me,

for my punishment has been very severe."
* # ^ *

In a few days he had gone before a higher
tribunal than we have here. But not before
right had been done. Working with secrecy"
but with enerofv they caused the confession of
the murderer to be repeated to men high in
authority, and the facts to be laid before the
Home Secretary. Before death chained Adolphus
Carter, he had, in the most soleil
manner, reiterated to his representative the
statement he had made to Galbraith, Mr.
willard and his father. He died without
ha^'ino^ fallen into the hands of the law. A
weak young man, made bad through circumstances.
That his secret would have been
sale is without doubt, and the best proof of
the truth of that is the unbounded surprise
with which the officials concerned in the
case saw the strong chain of circumstantial
ex-hence break, and the fabric of proof which
had been raised, tumble about their ears.
Even they, however, did not doubt the truth
of the confession, and Ali-ed Shelman, on the
day previous to that fixed for his execution.

'• received a free pardon," wych, considering
that lie was not guilty of the crime wdtli which
he was charged, showed great consideration
on the part of the advisers and law-officers of

the Crown.

# ^ ^ #

That afternoon Mr. Timothy Rapsey and
Mr. John Rannn — still on rather dubious terms
the brothers Pye, Mr. Polhmoy, and ex-mayor
Killett, were assembled at the "' Bear"
smoking-room, where also sat the landlord.
There was but one topic of conversation, and
that was the event which was to take place on
the following day ; for so well had the secret
been kept by Mr. Sennett, who had been at
once consulted by Mr. Millard, that no one
in Avonham knew what had taken place.
Twenty-hive years ago Avonham had no railway
station ; much less therefore had she a
newspaper train ; nor was the correspondent
so ubiquitous as at present ; so, as yet, none
but the officials concerned and the men who
had transacted the negotiations with the Home
Secretary knew anything of the efforts that
had been made to secure the release of Sherman,
or of the success which had attended
them.

• 4G— 1^

It had been generally agreed, much to the
secret dissatisfaction of Timothy Eapsey, that
the presence of any of the reputable denizens
of Avonham at the execution would be an
outrage on the feelings of the town. And,
now that the flitch hour was approaching,
public feeing' — the edo-e of its indignation
having been dulled by the lapse of time — had
begun to express itself in terms of pity for
the culprit. All admitted the justice of the
sentence — with the solitary exception of John
Ann, who still stoutly clung to his belief m
Shelman's innocence — all had sympathy with
the victim and with Mrs. Stanhope, and the
general sense of abhorrence for the crime was
undiminished ; but they had begun — now
that they could count the remaining hours
of the culprit's life — to show pity, and to
speak of him as " poor fellow." And, assuredly,
had any of the old cronies expressed
his intention of ffoino; to witness the last
scene in the " Avonham murder," he would
have had to slice the remonstrances of his
fellows, and, if he had gone, their indignation
at such callous conduct.

'' What time do 'em hang at Ridgetown, in
general, Mr. Rannn," asked Timothy Rapsey.

'^ I 'ain't never bin hung there," said John
Rami, snappishly ; " ask some one as knows."

^* I was told in London," said the wanderer
Pullimoy, " that there their time was eight
o'clock in the morning."

And it '11 most likely be the same hour at
Ridgetown," said Wolstenholme Pye, " ah, the
very same hour."

The same hour and no other '11 be the
time at Ridgetown," said Hoppenner Pye,
no other and no else."

"Tell me, Mr. Rami," said Killett, "for if
there be a man in Avonham as do know it '11
surely be you ; what do become of all Mr. Sherman's
money, and land, and houses ? Can 'a
leave it to whoever 'ave a mind to ? "

Smoking-room law is generally very bad
law, it must be borne in mind.

John Rami was greatly pleased at the component
paid him by the ex-mayor ; he took
his pipe out of his mouth, laid it down on the
table, and set himself to answer the question
right willingly.

Who ! " he began. " You'ni right, Mr.
Killett, about my been' able to tell 'ee ; and
tell 'ee I will. Mr. Alfred Shelman — poor fellow
— ain't o^ot no more of the coin's of his

money than what you and me have, sir. It do
all goo to the Queen, every penny of it, as sure '
as you set there."

'' 'Od rot it all," said Killett, " that do seem
]surely hard for sure. How be that, Mr.
Ann ? "

Because," said Mr. Rannn impressively
and slowly, and emphasising every word with
a little tap of his forefinger on the table,
because Mr. Shelman, in the eyes o' the
Liv, sir, is a dead man ! "

At the word " man," Mr. Eann gave a slap
of his hand that made Timothy Rapsey start.
Lord sakes, is 'a ? " said he ; " fancy a
sitting' an' a talking' about a dead man as is
ave. Lor' ! it do almost make 'ee feel as if
his ghost 'ud walk in at the door."

Nonsense about ghosts," said Mr. 
; "in all my travels did I ever see
one '? No ! "

Ah," said Timothy, looking Wondrous
Avise. " I wouldn't like to say as there wasn't
such things, mind 'ee. I've never seen one
myself, 'tis true, but there's never any known'
what might happen. 'Tis queer times about
for (piiet folk hereaway. Pinniffer, whatever
d(^ make that door swing open ? "

The wind, I reckon," said PiimifFer, getting
up to shut it ; "the lock do want seen'
to.

'' Ghosts I " resumed Mr. PoUimoj, " there
may 'a bin such things in times begone, but
if there were, they were ghosts o' dead men I
reckon. Xow this 'ere man ain't dead."

In the eyes o' the law he is," said Timothy
(quickly. anxious to propitiate his recent antagonist
: '• didn't 'ee hear Mr. Eann say
so ? If 'a 's dead in the eyes o' the law,
why can't a' ha' a ghost in the eyes o' the
law ? "

Mr. John Rannn, far from being pleased by
this speech, regarded Timothy Rapsey with a
look of great and lofty scorn, and was. apparently,
about to utter some scathing remark,
when Pinniffer hastily took up the conversation.


I'll tell 'ee something about ghosts," said
the ex-busier, " as perhaps '11 astonish 'ee, be
it who may ; it happened to a man as was a
great friend o' mine, and sergeant-major in the
eighty-first foot "

The evening was drawing in. The lamps
were not Ht. The mind of every one was full
of thoughts of death ; each man in the room

had been brought up in a country hill of ghost
stories, and each was as superstitious as could
be. These were the conditions under which
Mr. PinnifFer commenced a legend which he
was destined never to finish.

This man was serving in India at the
time," said he, " and one of the men under him
was a wild, fiery, bad-tempered fellow as never
had hardly a civil word for any one "

The brothers Pye got a little closer together
and laid their pipes dowai.

This ill-conditioned man one day was punished
by the captain of his company for some
offence, and confined to barracks. He made
as much fuss over it as if he had been ordered
out for fifty lashes, and one day when the captain
was a-crossing the barrack-compound, he
went in and got hold of a loaded musket and
let drive at him. My fi:'iend, Tom Floyd, was
standing close by, and just as he pulled trigger,
Tom jumps forward and catches him a crack o'
the side o' the head with his fist and spoils his
aim, so that he misses his captain ; then of
course Tom took him and called for help, and
the man was put in the clink. Of course he
was tried by court martial, and equally, of
course, the sentence was death."

Of course," said Rami, with the air of a
deputy -judge-advocate-general.

Well," pursued Pinniffer, " the thing that
preyed on this man's mind was that Tom had
prevented him from shooting his officer, and
Ashen the sentence was given, and Tom was
taking the man to the cells to wait his execution,
he said to Tom, ' You've baulked me o'
my revenge, sergeant-major,' he said, ' and it
shall be the worse for you. I'll haunt you
living, and I'll haunt you dead.' "

Lor' ! " said the brothers Pye simultaneously,
in an awe-stricken undertone.

The very night before the man's execution,"
resumed Pinniffer, '' which was to take
place the folio wig morning at six o'clock, Tom
Floyd and some of his mates were sitting together
and talking over the affair the same as
we have been doing now. All of a sudden the
door "

Ho-OH I " suddenly shrieked Timothy
Rapsey, springing to his feet and pointing
wildly to the door, " On, Lord ! look there ! "

The comrades sprang to their feet as Timothy
fell back in his chair, and not a man of
them but thought he felt his heart stand still,
as they saw the door open and Alfred Sherman

standing on the threshold. He was followed
into the room by Galbraith, who laughed as he
gazed at the startled group.

I cannot wonder at your surprise," said
Shelman, " for I am almost as much astonished
at my own deliverance as you can be. Pinning
I must ask you to put me up to-night, and
let me have a private room. My own house is
closed, and my uncle is out of Avonham. I
have been a great deal shaken by recent events
and can see no one, and I leave Avonham tomorrow
for a long time. Kami, I hear that
you have been the only one in the place to stand
up for me ; give me your hand. Thanks to
this gentleman," he concluded, turning and laying
his hand on Galbraith's shoulder, " and to
the efforts of Mr. Sennett and Mr. Millard,
I can stand before you a free man. An innocent
one I always was, but my innocence has
l)een proved and I am free once more, thank
Cod ! "

AVhen Pinniffer came down stairs from showing
Alfred Shelman his rooms, he found that it
had been absolutely necessary to give Timothy
Rapsey a glass of neat brandy to steady his
nerves. And in order that he mio-ht not

feel awkward, his cronies each had one as
well.

When he found this, Mr. Pinniffer murmured
that they had all been in the same boat for the
matter of that, and filled himself one for his
own use.

(9t)<^:I^=.

OLD MAS'r Killed SUMS UP.

The tea tables, the evening parties, the Club,
in fact all assemblies of the good folks of Avon-ham,
had no lack of topics of conversation that
winter. The ■ town had never been so amply
provided, in that respect, before. The excitement
dien the real murderer of Walter Rivers
was discovered and the unjustly accused Sherman
was released was intense, and the popularity
which Galbraith enjoyed when it was
made known that his discovery and acuteness
had led to this result would have contented a
man who was really seeking the good will of
the town, and was somewhat embarrassing to
the recipient.

Shelman did not remain in Avonham. The
day after his release he departed from the town,
ostensibly for the purpose of recruiting his
health, already very much injured by the fearful
ordeal he had undergone, but really to
return no more.

The year was yet young when Avonham
was called upon to mourn over her who had
been the leader and queen of her circle there.
She had crept home after that interview with
the husband whom she had wronged and had
laid her down to die. Her illness baffled the
skill of the physician whom Doctor Mompesson,
stanch friend to the last, called in. Before
lier death she heard from Reginald Wilkinson
lips that she was forgiven. And in good
sooth she merited mercy, for the last years of
her life were blameless and she had suffered
tor her sin. Her teat wealth went to relieve
suffering and want, and her story is unknown
in Avonham.

The gossips were greatly exercised in mind
when the news of the triple engagement reached
them. Mrs. Bompas was the cause of this
knowledge. After suffering severely for a
month from suppressed information that good
lady took her own case in hand, summoned a
(Coterie of her friends to tea and by telling
them the important news effected a complete
(sure.

The wedding of the three couples took place
at St. Hildegarde's on the self same day in
April, and the splendors of the ceremony is

talked of yet. The beauty of the brides, the
interest attaching the bride-rooms, the
events which had preceded the marriage and
the cloud of semi-mystery which had hung
over the "Coombes " — all lent a zest to the
iitfair apart from the proportions which the ceremony
assumed, and made the event the one
historical wedding of Avonham.

*' Who would have thought it would have
ended like this ? " said Galbraith to Bryceson
and Markham, as they waited for their brides
in the crowded church. " What a different
result from what we pictured."

Yes," said Bryceson, " out of e\dl has come
good in our case."

I wish," said Fred Markham, " that Reginald
had come."

It would have been an upset for him, I
think," said Galbraith. "It is better as it
is."

Their eyes were turned to where against the
wall had been placed by public subscription a
monument to the woman of whom they were
all then thinking. It was the figure of an
angel, which pointed to a tablet on which were
inscribed the names of George Stanhope and
Laura Constance Stanhope, and the virtues of

the latter were set out in terms wliicli are
usual in such productions. Galbraith shrugged
his shoulders.

"If people only knew Avhat we know'' lie
said.

•' Better that they do not, old fellow," said
l>ryceson ; "let that old life die. Hark at the
people outside ; ah I the doors are (opened.
Shake hands, Fred ; shake hands, Harry — here
conies the first of our new lives. Let all in the
past die, but our friendship and our love."

Five years had passed away since the last
incident of our tale. It was a fine spring
morning, and, on the bridge which was the
pride of Avonham, a little group of townsfolk
was gathered. There had been a freshet,
which for two or three days had swollen the
Avon till it had left its bed, and wandered into
the lower town, to the great discomfort of the
inhabitants of the quarter. Mr. Follwell, who
was Mayor this year, had, with what Avonham
considered great public spirit, consulted an
engineer, who had given his opinion that the
errant river could easily be restrained. He had
finished a short tour of inspection, and was

now standing on the bridge with the Mayor,
Mr. Timothy Rapsey (dio had been seeking
practical information), Wolstenhohne and Hop-penned
Pye, old Mas'r Killett and his son, and
Mr. Pollimoy. Business having been disposed
of, the visitor had been asking questions in his
turn. A gentleman rode across the bridge and
received a general salutation from the cronies.

Who is that ? " asked the engineer.

That's Mr. Galbraith," answered Timothy,
^vh(> looked a little older, but whose tongue
seemed as active as ever, " he's the richest man
about here anywhere. He lives in that house
by the river, the ' Coombes ; ' come from
America about six years ago. Married Mr.
Bompas's eldest daughter. There where three
friends — him and Mr. Bryceson and Mr. Markham
— and they married three sisters. Married
here at St. Hildegarde's — all on one day, they
was. Never was such a wedding' known in
Avonham, was there, Mas'r Killett ? "

Xever in all my days," said the old man,
still hale enough to walk about supported by

ins son s strong arm.

"' Do they all hive here ? " asked the stranger
'• They've all got houses here, and up to
J^mdon, too ; main rich they be, all of 'em."

"Ay, but mr. (galbraith '11 sure be the
richest ; look sit what Mr. »Shehnan left 'unsaid
Timothy.

•■ Who was he ? "

swell," said Killett the younger, "he was
the nephew of our banker here, and he had a
narrow escape of been' hung for murder, an'
this mr. Galbraith he found out the one as had
done it, and got Mr. Shelman off. Tt made a
great stir at the time here."

•• I remember it," said the visitor.

•• Lor', Timothy," said Wolstenholme Pye,
••you was frightened that afternoon Mr. Sherman
come into the ' lear,' after he was let out."

•• Timothy," said Hoppenner Pye, " you was
real terrified that afternoon''

•• Ah, don't 'ee bring up that uoav," said
Timothy, '• you was pretty nigh as bad."

Then," resumed Killett, " Mr. Shelman,
lu; left the place and went abroad ; but he was
a good deal shook by what had happened, and
he died about two year ago. He left a great
share of his property to this Mr. Galbraith, out
o' gratitude for him a-savin' his life ; and he
couldn't 'a left it to a better man, for if ever a
man made a good use o' money, 'tis Mr. Galbraith''


VOL. III. 47

'Tis, for sure," said old Mas'r Killett;
'lieve (suite took ^[rs. Stanhope's place'
since she died, pore soul. 'A never got
over Mr. Rivers being shot. broken-hearted
she were I reckon."

'* Mr. Galbraith '11 be our nieuil)er, 1 expect,
when Sir Headingly Cannn gi^•es up," said mr.
Pollimoy. " Well, in all my travelling I never
met a better man, an' he shall have mv vote,
which ever side he's on."

Xo, no," said young Killett, " Mr. Galbraith's
none for politics, 'twill be Mr. Bryce-son,
and a nice, merry, affable gentleman he is
too."

'• Thing's have altered since them gentlemen
came here first," said Wolstenholme Pye.

Since they came first there's been some
alterations here," said Hoppenner.

Ay, there has," said Timothy ; " hawk,
there's Mr. Galbraith's black gentleman gone
into the chemist's. Xow I Wonder if either o'
the children is ill ? "

^^ Ay," said old Mas'r Killett, ^^ there's
always changes going' on in life, and always
Avill be. Life's something' like this 'ere river of
our, my friends. Even that don't alius run
alike. Sometimes it's clear, and smooth, and

sparkling as can be, and sometimes it's all of a
moil and fret. Us old men can see it, and I
can tell 'ee I've often stood on this bridge and
thought it out. I saint a quick thinker, an'
my ideas is a morsel old-fashioned ; but I'll
pound it as the wisest 'U agree wi' me Ashen I
tell him that life good on pretty much as the
river flows."

THE END.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.O,
