OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

8^5

F2.49f

v.\

^ ^obel

BY

HUGH WESTBURY

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I

Mention

Macmillan AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved

V. X

i

')

<



TO THE FRIEND WHO TAUGHT ME

WHOSE COMPANIONSHIP

HAS BEEN MY PRIVILEGE AND ADVANTAGE,

E1}is Book

IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED.

This to a friendship which the years increased,
To it, and out of it ; for well I know,
If aught of craft and worth these pages show,

That it is yours as much as mine at least.

I am as one who long outstays a feast,

His guests have gone, the flickering lights burn low,
Upon his board the gold and crystal glow,

But laughter all is hushed, and song has ceased.

Now through the window of the silent room,

Across the vacant chairs, steals, cold and gray,
The tearful breaking of an autumn day,

And evening brightness dies in morning gloom.

The banquet-board is cheerless as a tomb,

The dust remains, the soul has fled away.

II

TVe two. long time, together sailed the seas,

I at the helm, and you, with hand on chart,
Laying our course, perfect in seaman's art,

To clear each rock, to catch each passing breeze.

To be your comrade, what could better please ?

Each striving hand to hand, and heart to heart.
Lightening the labour of the other's part, —

"Who tempts the ocean bids good-bye to ease.

Xow I alone must shape my course untried.
And all the past is but a memory fair ;

The good I learned of you, my only guide,

My sails of hope, my harbour from despair.

If so I float to port upon this tide.

Thanks to your skill, thanks to your friendly care.

Hugh Westbury.

Fehniarij 1887.

Do you believe in it, Fred ?"

"Do you believe in it, Kate ?"

An impatient pucker gathered between
Kate's black brows as she stepped round the
tennis net, vainly endeavouring the while to
shade her eyes from the setting sun with her
racquet. Kate was evidently lost in contemplation,
or she would have discovered that
the crossed strings of a tennis racquet make
a very ineffectual sunshade. Her opponent
was throwing all the energies of his mental
and physical nature into the work of keeping
three balls in the air together, and, in the

VOL. I. B

distraction caused by Kate's question and his
interrogative reply, had allowed one of the
balls to drop.

Why do you treat me like a child, Fred ?
If a man asked your opinion about anything
you wouldn't go on throwing those balls about
and thinking of nothing in the world."

The young man dropped the balls at
once, thrust his hands into his pockets, and
whistled softly.

"My dear Kate," he said, "don't consume
me with those blazing eyes of yours ; believe
me, I'm ready to investigate the miracles of
your friend, Mr. Arnitte, by the strictest
scientific methods." Then, seeing the girl was
really annoyed, he added, "But, seriously,
what do you think about them yourself?"

I think —-well, that I don't know what to
think."

"A very proper attitude of mind in which
to begin an inquiry into the supernatural," he
answered with assumed gravity. " If everyone
exercised your wise caution, Kate, half
the impostors who fleece mankind would find
their occupation gone."

Oh ! but I don't say that Mr. Arnitte is
an impostor."

Certainly not ; blind scepticism is even
worse than blind credulity."

Fred slung his flannel jacket across his
shoulder, and added, " Shall we walk down
to the bay to look at the Syl^jli ? You can
tell me all about it on the way, you know."

The dark little face, with its half-thoughtful,
half angry expression, brightened at
once.

"Oh yes, Fred. We'll go by the 'Apple
Walk;" and, evidently pleased to act as

cicerone, Kate took her cousin s arm and led
him across the lawn.

Before them lay an undulating stretch of
cornfields, covering the sides of the ravine, at
the head of which stood Lorton House. The
wooded grounds of the house, running along
the bottom to the beach, divided the fields
like a river. From the lawn, down an irregular
descent of a mile, you looked over a
meandering stream of dark foliage winding
its way to the shore through the lighter tints
of the cornfields, which lost themselves in the
sky line at the top of the slopes on either
side of the ravine. Beyond, to the west, were
the crooked channels and sandy reaches of
Lorton Bay, sparkling and glowing beneath
the gorgeous rays of a summer sunset. Lorton
Bay was famous for its sunsets, and this
evening there was an unusually fine one.

The sun was yet several degrees above the
horizon, but had sunk behind a narrow band
of cloud which floated in the west. Below
it was an amber lake fading away in infinite
distance into tender tones of emerald green, —
a glimpse of the regions of the blessed, beyond
the sea, beyond the falling curtain of cloud,
beyond the sun itself, a realm of peace, of
grace, of glory, revealed for a few moments
to human gaze. Above the cloud-band lay
another spectacle. The upper edge had been
tossed into a vast chaos, as if by the forces of
the passing sun. They had rent a mountain
chain, leaving behind ghastly chasms and
precipices, and piled-up confusion of rock and
ice. Over the scene was a lurid crimson glow,
and behind all shot up great beams of golden
light, crowTi- shaped, as though nature was
stamping upon her handiwork the symbol of

her strength and sovereignty. The clear
heavens above were of deepest blue, to north
and south played changing tints of purple,
and in the east a low line of hills faded in
darkening tones of gray into the evening sky.
Kate and Fred stood watching the glorious
picture. Presently, like children, laughing
"that their eyes were dazzled," they began
their pleasant stroll to the shore. At the
bottom of the lawn was the "Apple Walk,"
a narrow path completely enclosed by an arch
of ancient apple trees, which the patient hand
of some dead and gone gardener had trained
when Kate's great-grandfather lived in Lorton
House. The "Apple Walk" wound down to
the bottom of the ravine, and ended in a
mightier arch of elms, called in local speech a
"dingle." A low promontory of red sandstone
jutted out from the " dingle " on to the

shore, and at the seaward end of it was a
rustic seat.

'' So your magician read the inmost
thoughts of your soul," remarked Fred, as his
cousin ensconced herself in a corner of the
wooden seat, and the speaker found a place
at her feet, and began to toss fragments of
stone over the end of the little promontory.

I don't know what you call my inmost
soul ; but he told me to think very much of
some one, and then he took my hand and
looked into my face for an instant, and whispered
to me the right name. How could he
have told by mere guesswork, out of all the
world, the one person of whom I was thinking?


Fred turned his head sharply and threw
a keen glance at the girl, but her features
expressed nothing but quiet puzzled. He

failed to trace the faintest sign of self consciousness,
and muttering, '^Yery remarkable
indeed," returned to his stone-throwing occupation.


*' Of course, you asked him to perform the
same wonder for me ?" he carelessly inquired.

Oh yes. We were talking of your visit
over dinner, and after he had discussed his
wonders for half an hour, mamma told him
that he must convince you first, for we poor
women were under your very severe guardianship,
even in the matter of metaphysics."

This time Fred fancied he detected a
twinkle of malice under the simple demeanour
which this black-eyed young woman of three
and twenty had chosen to assume.

^ # # #

Fred's mother and Mrs. Wynnston were
sisters. When Fred Hazzleden was only five

years old he lost his mother, and then Mrs.
Wynnston, already a widow, had gone with
her only child to keep house for her brother-in-law.
Fred and Kate were inseparable
playmates. The girl, three years younger
than himself, ruled him with a rod of iron.
It wasn't that the boy was particularly
chivalrous or romantically attached to the
little gipsy. But he was constitutionally
indolent and fond of peace, and hardly had
he been promoted from petticoats when a
will, inflexible as fate, entered into his life.
Mrs. Wynnston used to say that when Kate
was in the cradle she invariably had her own
way. Certainly she was not unfeminine nor
unamiable. No one knew better how to be
winning and lovable. To look at her you
would have said she was a Spaniard with her
black eyes, her masses of dusky brown hair,

her dark complexion, through which you
could see a strong tide ebbing and flowing
with every impulse which moved her. But
with all the quick passion of the South she
united the steady determination of Northern
temperament. She was a queer mixture of
characteristics. Her smile was irresistibly
sweet, and her frown, puckering her brow
over eyes which reddened with passion, absolutely
repulsive. She was brave to a degree,
helpful to all whom she liked, a bright, interesting
little personality in the house, and
yet withal a cause of perpetual frictions and
anxieties. Every one loved her, and everyone
wondered how anybody could love such
a reckless, masterful child.

The escapades of her childhood had been
innumerable, and Fred remembered some of
them with rueful amusement. She inveigled

him into a hundred juvenile scrapes, and
always left him to bear the brunt of them.
Once her constant disobedience of her unfortunate
governess came to a serious crisis.
She did something which she ought not to
have done, or left undone something she
ought to have done, and committed one of
the unpardonable offences of school life. The
long-suffering governess presented a formal
ultimatum to the too indulgent mother, and
Kate, persistently recalcitrant, was sentenced
to twenty-four hours' solitary confinement in
her room. Fred, passing beneath her window,
saw her beckon, and ignored the signal. But
he did not go away. He felt no sympathy
with the stubborn child, for he knew that
she deserved her punishment. He wanted to
go and play cricket, yet lingered disconsolately
about the prison window. Then he

heard the sash raised, and a soft but imperious
voice call, " Come up here."

Fred knew that he was lost. With his
soul full of resentment against the little
tyrant he climbed up the roof of a low
outhouse beneath the window, and in a
moment two soft young arms were round
his neck, and the curly black head of the
sobbing child was nestling for comfort on his
shoulder. Fred was not a hard-hearted lad,
but he wanted to go and play cricket, and
besides, had a strong and active sense of
humour. So he said, in tones of not unkindly
remonstrance, " But you know, Kitty,
you ought to have said you were sorry."
Whatever Kate should have been, Fred was
sorry at once.

This strange little creature, called to the
remembrance of her fancied grievances.

dried her eyes, and commanded, '*' Help me
out"'

Fred had not bargained for this adventure,
but he was accustomed to give way, not so
much from weakness of character as from a
strain of philosophy in his disposition which
led him to imagine that to swim against the
stream was a waste of energy when one could
float comfortably along with it. He was as
active as a goat, and what Kate lacked in
physical strength and nerve she made up in
strong determination. She was, in spite of
her fixed will, a genuine little woman, with a
host of feminine weaknesses. She would cry
out if a frog jumped up at her feet, and
would run away from the mildest-looking
mouse that ever peeped timidly from the
dark recesses of a hearth. Yet, if any one
had induced her to promise such a thing, or

had disputed her courage to do it, she would
have walked across the paddock where her
uncle's black bull Rover reigned solitary
monarch of all he surveyed, and where the
bravest man in the village would not enter
without a pitchfork in his hand.

"Help me out," again came the quiet
words of command.

Fred at once held out his hands, and in
an instant the child, lithe and cool-headed as
himself, was sliding down the slanting slates.
To clamber down an old wooden spout was
a trifling feat for the boy ; for Kate it was a
more formidable adventure.

Help me," again she said, and Fred, by
the aid of an old tub, contrived to land heron
the ground, all grazed at elbows and
knees, and with torn and trembling hands.

'' What are you going to do ?" he asked.

We'll go away and be married, and
never come back any more, Freddy," was the
composed reply.

For once Fred rebelled. He did not want
to go away and never come back again ; he
wanted to go and play cricket, and had a
strong conviction that the situation was ridiculous.
As to getting married he had a still
stronger objection ; and the very idea brought
to his mind the little golden head and sunny
smile of Mary O'Connor, a juvenile playmate
of Kate, for whom he nourished, in the secret
recesses of his heart, a consuming passion.

Oh, we can't go away, Kitty," he protested.
'' I couldn't leave ' Nipper,' you
know, and besides, we've no money."

Kate's answer was practical. "Nipper,"
the companion of Fred's boyish frolics, was
asleep in his kennel close by.

The child ran, caught up the dog, and
brought him to Fred's feet. "We'll take
poor 'Nipper' with us, and I've ever so
much money, and you shall have it all;"
and she poured into her cousin's reluctant
hands a pocketful of hoarded coppers, interspersed
with odd sixpences and shillings, the
rewards of Kate's very few good and obedient
days.

Fred groaned in spirit. He was twelve
years of age, and old for his years. He
thoroughly realised the absurdity and inconvenience
of two small children, accompanied
by one cross-bred dog, and furnished with
three shillings and eleven pence, chiefly in
coppers, going away to get married. Kate,
serenely untroubled by any such considerations,
was already leading him by the hand
out of the yard gate, for they were at the

back of the house, and without more ado the
pair sauntered down the lane towards the
village. Fred was not cheerful. He was
dolefully speculating on the result of the
cricket match, and at the same time wondering
what in the world would become of his
obstinate companion and himself when it
grew dark. Kate, for her part, was revelling
in the bright sunshine, and thinking
how much nicer it was to be in a pretty
country lane on a hot summer afternoon than
to be shut up in one's bedroom.

Still holding Fred's hand she danced along
with a kind of shy dignity, noticeable in all
her movements. Her mother had taught her
some little French ditty, in which ma mie
was asserted to be everything, both in ma
mort and also in ma vie. This Kate, in her
tuneful voice, was humming to herself as the

VOL. I. C

pair approached the long village street. Fred
already had become an observer of human
nature, and one result of his observation
was the conviction that sugar is an infallible
solvent of feminine determination. He popped
into a little shop, the four-feet-square window
of which was employed to display a miscellaneous
stock, varying from finnan haddocks
to petroleum, and from lucifer matches to
sugar - candy. Drawing upon his store of
coppers, he furnished himself with a packet of
"acid drops," a packet of "London mixtures,"
and a stick of chocolate. He was tolerably
sure now that they would get home again
before very late. On the children strolled,
not knowing whither. Now in the open
fields, where the warm breeze danced across
the corn and frolicked round the whispering
branches of the trees. Now between shady

fern-grown banks, where their feet splashed in
the boggy soil, and where ancient, Tsdcked-
looking frogs popped their heads out from
beneath tufts of marsh grass and tangles of
reeds, and, sitting upon their haunches, surveyed
with an odious leer the little girl who
was running away to be married. But presently
the sight of Fred, and the intuitive
consciousness which frogs have when boys are
good shots with a catapult, sent them quaintly
grunting into the recesses of the dyke.

Again, the children's aimless path led them
into a fair highway, arched with chestnut
trees, between the broad leaves of which the
sun's rays glanced and sparkled, casting upon
the white road and the rich strips of green
turf which skirted it a shimmering fretwork
of golden lio-ht. The laughter of the children
resounded along the deep arches of foliage.

Burrs," as the natives called them, fallen
from the trees, strewed the ground, affording
a somewhat light but convenient missile to
restless boys, who find tempting marks for a
shot in all kinds of terrestrial objects, from
toties to haystacks. Fred made many an
earnest essay to do execution among the
hedge-sparrows and linnets which, twittering
their tails in the most provokingly impertinent
manner in the world, hopped on in front
of them, apparently little disconcerted by the
hail of " burrs " which fell around them.
Fred would have rejoiced hugely to hit a
sparrow, not that he bore the birds any ill-will,
or was inspired by any murderous impulses.
But Kate was at his side; and if
anything ever tended to make a boy try to
aim straight, Kate's black eyes and rare smile
did. He pictured to himself her unspoken

delight at his prowess and her spoken remonstrance,
"Cruel boy!" and with renewed
energy devoted himself to the utterly impossible
task of slaughtering a bird with a
chestnut " burr."

At last the road, after a sharp descent,
brought them to a spot some three miles
from the village, famous through the whole
midland district. The " Hano^inoj Eocks "
were the northernmost spurs of a chain of bold
hills, running diagonally across the country.
A bridle-path, well known to Fred, turned
from the highway, and led for ten minutes
up a steep climb through a wood of larch and
birches. Then suddenly one of the most
glorious panoramas in all England burst into
view. The " Hanging Eocks " were half a
dozen tremendous heaps of granite boulders
shot up, as it were, through the verdant slope.

and towering, gray and bare, in fantastic confusion,
above the tops of the wood. Behind
the stone heaps the path zigzagged twice or
thrice, then came a final scramble over a big
smooth block, and you found yourself standing
on the summit of the " Hanging Eocks,"
looking out over the undulating vista of the
shires. Just below, like a gem, in a rich
setting of foliage, was a tiny lake, on the
banks of which stood a quaint old manor
house, where in the days of Elizabeth a
famous poet had made his home, and where
the bearers of his name still live. Away
beyond, a running glint of gold, interwoven
into the scene, as patient Eastern potters lead
a glistening thread through the strange
medley of their decorative work, showed
where a river ran. In the cornfields the
greens had lost their brightness under the

summer sun, and a painter would have looked
for his " Naples yellow " to reproduce some
of the distant tones. Far off for thirty miles,
to right, to left, and in front, the rolling
panorama spread : farmsteads and baronial
halls, pheasant woods and noble park timber,
patches of moorland, vast stretches of corn-land,
broken by the dark line of hedges ;
white thirsty roads, minding away to the
vanishing point ; and over all, like a blessing
of God, lay the mellow glow of evening, and
up through the stillness, with a whisper of
peace, came the gentle breeze and a distant
music of the singing of birds.

Kate and Fred ensconced themselves in
the shade of a big block at the very top of
the 'changing Eocks," she seated in a comfortable
nook, he sprawling at her feet.
Children as they were, each in a different

way was susceptible to the influences of
lovely scenery. The lad, on such a day and
in such a landscape, would experience a sense
of almost sadness which, without understanding
it, he enjoyed. There was a strain of
poetry — sentimentality, if you will — in Fred's
nature, thinly disguised by his youthful insouciant
philosophy. Throughout his life a
very bright day always made him pensive,
and a beautiful landscape filled him with
vague dreams, in which he delighted more
than in the natural beauties themselves.

Kate, on the other hand, had a very keen
sense of colour. A bright flower or bird
would cause her to cry out with a strange
sort of physical pleasure. Intellectual delight
in a lovely landscape she had none, but she
would sit with dilated eyes drinking in
draughts of rich colour, and experiencing

much the same sort of satisfaction that a
gourmand feels in a very choice dinner.

Now both were looking out over the
rich midland country, and enjoying the scene
in their different fashions. But Fred was
unusually preoccupied. Mingled with his
day-dreams was the pressing practical consideration
where they were to go next.

He was the first to speak. " Have an acid
drop, Kitty," he said. Kate plunged her
brown fingers into the packet and extracted
a couple. Anxiously Fred watched her consume
them, as happy and unconcerned as
Nipper," who lay close by sound asleep in
the sunshine. He groaned very quietly to
himself and then said, " Have another."
Kate took two more. Fred helped himself,
and munched and meditated on the situation.

Presently, when the sugar-plums had had

time to exercise their soothing influence,
Fred inquired, " Where are we going when
it gets dark?"

I don't know," was the tranquil reply.

"Then we'll go home again. It will be
late before we get there, and aunt will be so
glad to see you again that she won't say
anything about what you did this morning."
The bait took.

Kate pondered awhile, and then returned,
"Mother said I was a bad, obstinate girl.
Will she be glad to see me back ? "

"Oh yes," returned Fred, "she'll be glad,
and I'll be very glad to take you back, and
Nipper ' wants to go too," he added, as the
dog frolicked backwards and forwards about
the rocks, calling his master with perky little
barks.

Then you don't want to go away and be

married?" The clouds gathered upon Kate's
features as she spoke.

Fred laughed a bright laugh and said,
Silly girl ! people can't get married till
they're grown up. When we are perhaps we
shall get married."

One of those vibrations of tenderness
which sometimes made her influence irresistible
stirred Kate's nature. "Freddy," she
said, leaning forward, her voice low and
earnest, 'mamma was crying the other day,
and I asked her what for. She told me
because she had found an old letter from
papa. But I didn't know what made her
cry; and she said that years ago, when I
was a baby, papa died, and now she had no
one to help her and be good to her, and that
made her sorry. She said papa was very
strong and brave, and wouldn't let anything

hurt her or trouble her; that he loved her
and made her life happy. Freddy, I'm not
very happy, and I want some one to love me,
and to be brave and help me when I get into
trouble, and there's nobody so good to me as
you, dear, and that's why I wanted you to
come away and get married." The child's
voice ended in a sob, and her head drooped ina
burst of tears.

Fred's eyes were moistened, and, getting
up, he kissed her and soothed her with awkward
boyish caresses, vowing to her that he
would love her all his life and marry her
whenever she liked. Kate was docile enough
now, and the pair walked home hand-in-hand
to find a state of domestic confusion which
Fred had shrewdly foreseen. Mrs. Wynnston
had gone into hysterics when Kate's disappearance
was discovered and the fall of

evening brought no sign of the fugitives.
The incidents of their return were no surprise
to Fred. Mrs. Wynnston seized her
daughter with foolish delight and overwhelmed
her with kisses and reproaches, all
of which demonstrations Kate bore with
perfect equanimity. Fred's father, on the
other hand, spluttering with hasty temper,
ordered him off to bed without any supper,
and threatened certain unpleasant consequences
if he appeared again at the family
table for a week. Fred knew that protest
was useless, so he picked up ^^ Nipper," who
was slinking at his heels, and made for the
door. But, just as he was going out, Kate
jumped from her mother's lap, scattering the
sweetmeats and cakes which had been produced
for her delectation, and, flinging her
arms round Fred's neck, kissed him and said.

'never mind, I love you and will make it
up to you, Freddy." Fred did mind, though,
and when he reached his room employed
himself for an hour before going to sleep in
feeding " Nipper " with scraps of biscuit, and
meditating on the injustice of the world to
boys who never did the world any harm and
only wanted to be left alone.

^ ^ ^ -^

"Tr TV' tI? 'TV*

The majority of men do not perceive the
connection between morals and physiography.
They wonder why B is so good and his twin
brother A so bad, and never take the trouble
to notice that A's house is in a valley and
faces the south, while B lives on the top of a
hill and his windows look north. Let them
change residences, and in twelve months A
will become the esteemed churchwarden of
his parish, a bright brand snatched from the

burning, while all the family will deplore B's
inexplicable falling away from grace. Depend
upon it, the atmosphere has more to do with
the conduct of mankind than philosophers
and theologians are willing to confess. Why,
for example, is St. John's Wood St. John's
Wood, and why is Stoke Lexington not St.
John's Wood. Go to live in the former
district, and if you are a thoughtful man you
will soon detect a curious relaxing of your
moral fibre. Perhaps you have observed all
the commandments from your youth up, and
have felt no spiritual pride in the knowledge
of the fact. Now you will begin to play
havoc with the Decalogue. Probably you
will break the last commandment first — most
men commence at the end and work backwards.
So far you have done nothing more
than covet your neighbour's house or your

neighbour's wife, and you will feel quite
virtuous because you have not infringed the
other two injunctions relating to your neighbour's
belongings. Not only do you slide
easily along the ways of vice, but you unconsciously
adopt a very paltry standard of
virtue. In Stoke Lexington you would
have been horrified if you had broken one of
the commandments ; now in St. John's Wood
you regard yourself as a most estimable person
because you have not broken them all.
These two districts serve as illustrations of
the atmospheric theory of ethics, but any one
may discover similar phenomena elsewhere.
The atmosphere of Paris, for instance, is
lowering to the moral system. One has
heard of dissenting deacons taking a holiday
in the French capital. The first few days
are spent in the Louvre, Notre Dame, and

the Javelin des Plantes. But before a week
has passed away these good men, who have
always spoken of the theatre as one of the
widest gates of Satan's kingdom, are found
surveying the ballet at the Opera House ;
and at the end of a fortnight have seen
without blushing the can-can at one of the
gardens of delight in the Champs filysee.
What another week of Paris air might bring
about one shudders to contemplate.

There must have been some influence
dangerous to sentimental young men in the
warm breeze which diffused itself, rather
than blew, across Lorton Bay this evening.
The waters of the rising tide plashed with
a soothing music against the foot of the
sandstone promontory. A quarter of a mile
away the Sylioh rode at anchor, motionless
in the calm summer sea. So great was the

VOL. I. B

stillness that the monotonous, soliloquising
whistle of the man on deck, who was Fred's
captain, mate, and crew, the silent cousins
could distinctly hear.

The light faded into that deep gray tone
in which a plain woman looks beautiful,
and in which a beautiful woman becomes
irresistible. Kate was communing with herself,
and Fred, who had lighted his pipe, was
flinging stones into the water. Two or three
times he glanced up in her face, and finally,
with a big sigh, got up, knocked the ashes
out of his pipe, and seated himself by her
side.

"Kitty," he said, with a laugh in which
there was a suggestion of embarrassment,
do you remember when we ran away to get
married ?"

Kate started a little, and in the dusk he

saw the colour deepen on her cheek. ''Oh
yes," she replied, " I can remember many
foolish things we did when children. But
shall we not go in ? it is a little chilly."

Fred took her hand in his and continued :
"You told me, Kate, then — I recollect as if
it was but yesterday — that you were not
very happy, and needed some one to be good
to you and help you, and that no one was to
you what I was. I was a child then, and
didn't fully understand what that meant,
nor did you in saying it. But I do now. If,
dear, you still feel that want in your life, will
you let me try to fulfil if? I've no great
talents, or station, or wealth to offer you ;
but I can give you a strong and faithful
love, and I can try to make you as happy as
you will make me if you will become my
wife. I've always loved you, dear, without

knowing it. Now I know all. Do you love
me, lassie?"

He believed it thoroughly. His voice
trembled, his band pressed hers convulsively,
bis eyes glistened. But it was pure delusion.
Until half an your ago be bad never
dreamed of marrying Kate Wynnston, and
bad any one suggested it to bim would bave
been amazed and even irritated. But there
was love in the air. His heart was full of
pleasant recollections of boyhood, and in a
moment be bad come to the conclusion that
bis sincere affection for bis cousin was truelove.


Notbinoj can deceive a woman wbo loves.
She is a most delicate thermometer, and
registers the fluctuating temperature of passion
with minutest accuracy. An inflection
of the voice, the turn of a sentence, are indications

to her of the growing or lessening
tenderness of her lover, which she will detect
before he himself is conscious of any change
of feeling. Her intuition is marvellous. It
may be true that men are deceivers ever;
yet women are rarely deceived. They are forsaken
and betrayed, because passion weakens,
not the judgment, but the will to act upon it.

Kate was silent for a few moments, and
then replied, in the low but clear and firm
tones which were habitual with her, 'rit
may be unwomanly to speak so frankly, but
I confess I do love you, Fred, as I always
have done, and always shall do."

Fred recoiled a little at the calm deliberation
of her words.

"You know," she went on, 'that my life
has not been very happy. I have experienced,
it is true, nothing which ought to

make one unhappy. But ever since I was a
little child I have craved for a warmer and
closer sympathy than those around me could
give. My mother is very kind to me, but
her ways and her nature are not mine, and it
is because you seemed to understand me best
that I have loved you so."

Her voice ended in a sob, and Fred, with a
lump rising in his throat, drew her towards
him tenderly.

But she quickly regained her composure,
and began again, "Now you will at least
believe that what I'm going to say to you is
sincere. I know you better than you know
yourself. You are, Fm sure, very fond of
me. But that is not enough. The dearest
wish of your heart is to enter public life, and
to win a great name for yourself. Your
father is trying to find for you a seat in

Parliament, and has built all his hopes on
your success as a member. Xow, no man
can serve loyally two masters, or two mistresses
either. You, Fred, have chosen
Fame, and you must serve her. We're
neither of us very rich, and if we married
you might be compelled to abandon your
ambition. I dare not put your love to such
a test."

Fred interrupted with a vehement protest.

She quietly stopped him. 'Tm quite
sure you would give up your prospects and
marry me, but, dear, Fm also sure that you
would live to repine. I am a hasty-tempered
and jealous woman, and if, as my husband,
you should reo-ret the sacrifice you made forme,
we should neither of us be happy. No,
Fred; if, by and by, when your position is
assured, you find that you've made no

mistake, and that you really do love me, I
will become your wife, for I shall never
marry any one else. But I love you too
much to run any risks."

At that moment Fred was nearer to real
love than he had ever been in his life. He
drew her to him, and passionately kissed her
lips ; nor did she resist.

Then, with a happy laugh, she disengaged
herself and said, " Let us go home ; it's quite
dark ; and, after all, I haven't told you about
my magician, Mr. Arnitte."

Mes. Winston sat in her low easy-chair
before the fire, and awaited the arrival of her
guests. She was tall and well proportioned,
and possessed what a brilliant novelist has
described as a *' presence." Perhaps she was
five feet six or seven inches in height, but if
you had seen her by the side of a lady with
half a head more you would have declared
her to be the taller. This was the effect of
the "presence." Like most wines, and unlike
most women, she had improved with age. She
had entirely outgrown an eailj penchant for
eau de Cologne and fainting fits. An interest

had come into lier life which, as a wife
and a young widow, she lacked, and that
interest centred in the ancient, dilapidated,
and ill-attended church in which such of
the rustic inhabitants as rejected the ministrations
of a Methodist tailor sought the
means of grace.

Ten years ago her father, the owner of Lorton
House, died, and, leaving no son behind
him, bequeathed his modest property to his
only surviving daughter. Mrs. Wynnston,
leaving the Midland house of her brother-in-law,
returned to the Northern home of her
birth. Then it was that an opportunity offered
itself to her such as a woman rarely neglects,
and she ceased to be hysterical and became
evangelical.

The estimable pagan whom Providence and
the patron of the living had called to be vicar

of Lorton was not in the best odour in Lorton
society. For one thing, he had quarrelled
with his wife— a terrible shrew— and Society
always regards a parson who lives apart from
his wife as a rather doubtful character. But
he might have lived down calumny had he
not been the brother of a baronet who owned
half the country-side. Now, the grandees of
Lorton had plenty of money ; but, alas ! what
they had they had made. The vicar of Lorton
cherished strong opinions on the subject of
wealth. On one occasion he preached upon
the difficulty which a rich man is said to experience
in entering the Kingdom of Heaven.
He began by delicately hinting that, so far ashe
was concerned, the acceptance of any kingdom
outside the realms of terrestrial experience
was a matter of professional rather than personal
belief. But, for the purposes of the

moment, premising the existence of a Kingdom
of Heaven, or, indeed, a celestial government
of any kind, he was fully convinced
that rich men would find it hard to secure
the approval of that administration, not
because of the evil uses to which they put
their wealth when they had acquired it,
but rather because of the contemptible tricks
they resorted to to make it. Hence, people
of birth, who enjoyed the advantages conferred
upon their ancestors, male and female,
by grateful monarchs for services rendered,
might possess their riches with untroubled
spirits, assured that they would find their
way into Abraham's bosom with as little
difficulty as the raggedest Lazarus ever
transferred to the paternal care of the
patient and somewhat to be pitied patriarch.
Incidentally the reverend gentleman remarked

that Dives was probably a Phoenician
shipowner, a Samaritan wine-grower, a Jewish
lawyer in large practice, or perhaps a Gentile
tax-collector. The one thing certain was
that he was not a member of an old family,
or he never would have found himself on the
wrong side of the gulf.

The vicar's theology was perhaps questionable,
but his astronomy was perfect. The
injunction to search the Scriptures he complacently
ignored ; but then every fine night
he searched the heavens through a six-inch
refractor. Nothing in the universe touched
his imagination and kindled his enthusiasm
like the study of the heavenly bodies. It is
reported that one Sunday morning he coolly
announced, after publishing the banns of
marriage between two of his parishioners,
"There will be an eclipse of the moon this

evening, and therefore no service will be held
to-night in this church, in order that the
congregation may have an opportunity of
witnessing a very interesting natural phenomenon."
Neither his want of reverence nor
his ill-disguised scepticism, however, offended
his congregation. They, good people, would
listen with a delightful shiver of apprehension,
an exquisite presentiment of spiritual
danger, to a plain intimation from the pulpit
that the book of Genesis was all nonsense,
that Adam and Eve were the rather weak
and somewhat improper creatures of barbarous
imagination, that Eden was about as real
as El Dorado, and Moses himself probably
nothing but a sun-myth. These things did
not distress the people of Lorton, who felt,
perhaps, that in the final arbitration any
little shortcomings of their own might be

successfully attributed to the evil example
and pernicious doctrines of their pastor.
What finally drove them away was the
reverend gentleman's intellectual pride. So
long as he contented himself with contradicting
the apostles and ridiculing the prophets
they pitied and forgave him. But they
could not pardon or forget his insolence to
themselves. He would insist on preaching
science to them instead of the gospel. When
they failed to comprehend him they were
secretly humiliated, and when, after laboriously
explaining some rudimentary proposition,
he would lean forward and remark, with
his sweetest smile, " Even you can understand
that," they felt openly insulted. Providence,
they plaintively declared, had not
bestowed upon every one the advantages
of a university education, and to sneer at a

man because tie could not sum x + 1 to the
n*^, or had never heard of Kepler's law, was
like casting an imputation upon the wisdom
and benevolence of Heaven. One by one
they dropped off, most of them transferring
their patronage to a church three miles
away, where the doctrine was more orthodox
and the parson more polite. The squire was
the first to go. He was not the real squire —
only a poor makeshift, a retired banker, who
rented the hall from its absentee proprietor,
and who had fondly hoped to take on hire
also the privileges and authority of a county
magnate. He was a disagreeable, purse-proud
person, and the vicar cordially detested
him. One Saturday they came to high words
on the subject of scientific rose-growing — a
matter on which the squire claimed to be an
authority, because he kept three gardeners.

Next clay the vicar preached an edifying discourse
on the ejection of the money-changers
from the temple, drawing the lesson that if
the Church acted in the spirit of her Divine
Master she would exclude from her communion
all who lived on usury and derived
a dishonourable income from compound interest.
The squire was never more seen
within the doors of Lorton Church, but, with
a fine sense of irony, he insisted that his
prominent square pew should be occupied at
every service by his kitchen maids and other
under servants.

When Mrs. Winston went to live at
Lorton the congregation consisted of a few
villagers and the servants of the departed
pew-owners. Mrs. Wynnston saw her opportunity.
Like Caesar, who preferred to be

first in a petty hamlet rather than second in
VOL. I. E

Some, she chose to rule in Lorton Church
rather than serve in a more popular and
important place of worship. She at once
assumed the position and the dignity of a
lady-patroness, and the first person she
patronised was the vicar. Of the true
beauty of holiness Mrs. Wynnston had
nothing, but she was a great stickler for
propriety. The vicar's surplice was decidedly
antique. Many washings had imparted to ita
subtle tone, in which gray, yellow, and
brown seemed struggling for the mastery.
Mrs. Wynnston suggested that a new one
would be an improvement. The vicar
blandly acquiesced, but appeared as before
in his venerable garment. Mrs. Wynnston
wrote to London for a surplice built on the
latest and most approved lines, and sent it
and the bill to the reverend gentleman. The

vicar wore the one and paid the other, and
from that moment was the conclave of Mrs.
Wynnston. He rather enjoyed his captivity.
It amused him. For the interests of his
church he himself cared little, and to be
driven into manifestations of consuming zeal
by a woman whose ecclesiastical enthusiasm
was only a hobby seemed to him charmingly
comical. In one way Mrs. Wynnstons
patronage was very congenial to him. To
her he tacitly consigned the spiritual and
temporal charge of the parish. While he, in
all contentment, shut himself up among his
roses and his telescopes, she gave alms to
the poor, visited the sick, sought out the
wandering, and, but for an absurd canonical
prejudice against women, would have taken
the chair at the vestry meetings. The vicar,
indeed, had once, with the gravest of faces,

n^^

hinted that a special episcopal dispensation
might open to her ambition the honourable
office of churchwarden. But nothing came
of the idea. She was successful in most of
her aims. The village lads touched their
caps to her, and the village girls dropped
curtseys. She disposed of the charitable
funds of the church, chose the hymns and
tunes on Sundays, frequently suggested the
texts, and might, with the vicar's great
goodwill, have preached on them too, if the
law had only permitted it. In one thing,
however, she completely failed. Her efforts
to brinor about a reconciliation between the
vicar and the righteously-offended magnates
of Lorton only involved her in the reverend
gentleman's unpopularity, and the circle
which frequented her drawing-room was consequently
limited in number.

The vicar was the first to arrive, and he
and Mrs. Wynnston at once plunged into
an edifying conversation upon the effeminate
affectations of the modern clergy.

"Now, you remember," said the reverend
gentleman, " the young fellow who came over
from Longdale to preach for me the Sunday
before last. He's six feet high, was stroke
in his college boat two years ago, and
thrashed every boxing-man at Oxford.
When he arrived on Saturday night he sat
up with me smoking his pipe and drinking
whisky until midnight, and would persist in
talking athletics — a subject which I detest.
When he went away on Monday morning
I am certain he ' chucked ' my housemaid,
Mary, under the chin, and indeed I suspect
that along with half-a-crown he gave her a
kiss."

Mrs. Wynnston looked appropriately
shocked.

"Yet," continued the vicar, "you saw
and heard the young donkey at morning
service. As soon as he was in his surplice
he put on a sweet and languishing smile,
just as a prima donna screws her face into
amiable contortions as she runs on the stao^e
to sing, and in a voice which seemed to
come down his nose from the crown of his
head he began his idiotic whining in the
vestry."

The vicar's pale face flushed with angry
contempt.

"And then," he went on, "what an
absurd performance he made of the lessons !
Why in the world it should be more respectful,
or more acceptable to Providence, to
sound the ' ed ' to every past tense and participle

in the Bible I never could understand.
I could scarcely contain myself as he read, or
rather snivelled, ' And he talk-ed with the
woman, and she pleas-ed Samson well. And
after a while he return-ed to take her, and
he turn-ed aside to see the carcase of the
lion.' Such affectations, both of tone, pronunciation,
and demeanour, are peculiar to
the English clergy. As far as my experience
goes, you never find them among dissenting
ministers, or Romish priests whom many of
our young parsons attempt to ape. There is
too much spiritual earnestness among the
former, and too much historic dignity among
the latter, to permit of such absurd displays."


Kate and Fred chatted at the other side
of the room, undisturbed by the vicar's
vehement denunciations — she, radiant and

happy, casting away, as only a woman can,
all her instinctive forebodings ; he, flattered
and contented by the undisguised affection
and admiration of a handsome and attractive
young woman.

"By the way," she said, "we have a
surprise for you. You recollect our old
playmate, Mary O'Connor? You should do,
for she was your little sweetheart."

Fred ventured to make a mild denial.

Nonsense ; any one who saw how red and
stupid you became whenever she was near
could have told it. Well, she and her
brother, whom we never knew, are staying
for the summer at a farmhouse near the village.
They called on mamma, and she
asked them to dine with us to-night.
Now, I wonder whether you'll blush and
stammer when Mary comes in, as you used

to do." Kate laughed, but Fred thought he
detected a trace of anxiety in her features.

"You're the only person now," he whispered,
" before whom I shall blush and
stammer."

"Humph," was the reply, "I haven't seen
much modest agitation about you so far. But
perhaps you'll improve. Who knows ?"

The arrival of the guests interrupted the
tete-astute, and when Mr. and Miss O'Connor
were announced Fred, under the mischievous
eye of Kate, conducted himself with becoming
composure. As for Mary O'Connor, no ordinary
event of life could have ruffled her serene
tranquillity. She had grown into an extraordinarily
beautiful woman. Her face and
figure were those of a Greek statue of the
best period. As she stood for an instant
talking with his aunt Fred's memory flashed

to a long corridor of the Louvre, and he
remembered how, one gray afternoon, he
found himself for the first time looking down
a vista of noble figures at the divine loveliness
of the Venus of Milo. An intense side
light and a dark background threw the statue
which faced him into strong relief. He walked
with hesitating steps towards it, fearing lest
a closer approach should dissipate the sense
of pure and perfect proportion which filled
him. He had never before experienced that
feeling of almost religious awe and exaltation
which perfection of form sometimes excites in
natures susceptible of artistic emotion. He
recollected how, after a long and reverent
survey of the Venus, the rest of the statues
seemed to him so clumsy and unattractive
that he speedily left the building. Now
he underwent a similar mental experience.

His eye fell upon Kate, and he suddenly
became aware that her fissure was somewhat
*' dumpy."

The last arrival was Mr. Arnitte, and Fred,
whose left - hand neighbour he was at the
dinner table, furtively studied the man of
mystery who had astonished his ingenuous
cousin. He was a slender man, of middle
height, with long limbs, loose joints, and a
certain awkwardness, both of action and
repose. His head and face proclaimed him
to be a man of no ordinary character. His
features were of a slightly Semitic cast. His
skin was extremely dark and sallow, but
clear. His wavy hair, worn rather long, had
the blue-black sheen of a raven's wing. His
forehead was remarkably high and broad,
with strongly-marked veins, and a portentous
knit between the brows. His nose was very

large and prominent, its shape suggesting
aggressiveness, and its dilating nostrils passion.
His constant expression was that
of carefully-prepared inscrutability, through
which a watchful self - consciousness showed.
He was evidently either an artificial man, ora
man playing an artificial part. His face
and figure reminded Fred of a well-known
English statesman, and Fred fancied, from a
curious curl which he wore, and from his
tricks of face, manner, and voice, that he was
conscious of, and cultivated, the resemblance.
His voice was as peculiar as his appearance.
It was rasping and unmusical, but extremely
expressive. Though not loud, it dominated
all conversation, and when Mr. Arnitte spoke
every one else stopped talking and began to
listen. He was a well-informed man, who
appeared to have been everywhere and known

everybody. His conversation was bright and
easy, and made piquant by an artistic dash
of cynicism. What he said was rarely brilliant,
but always so said as to seem brilliant.
Mrs. AVynnston, with the instinct of a hostess,
made a mental memorandum that Mr. Arnitte
was a man who earned his dinner. Down
the table he exchanged amusing banter with
the vicar, while Fred, watching, mechanically
noted that he had a large, dark, powerful
hand, with fingers of great length, gnarled
knuckles, and well - shaped filbert nails.
There was something remorseless and uncanny
about that hand, and it filled Fred with
an uneasy sense that he had somewhere heard
or read about one like it.

There was a pause in the conversation, and
Arnitte's eye glanced for an instant, with an
amused twinkle, on Fred. He immediately

bent forward and said " Wordsworth's line in
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner, ' Long and lank,
and brown, as is the ribbed sea sand.' " Then,
without noticing Fred's start of astonishment,
he went on : " Do you know that line is a
puzzle to me ? How ought one to punctuate
it ? Should it be ' Long, — and lank, — and
brown, — as is the ribbed sea sand,' or ' Long
and lank, — and brown as is the ribbed sea
sand ? ' The latter reading makes the simile
more strictly appropriate, yet, I think, somehow
it weakens it."

Before he ceased Fred broke in, " Really,
I don't know which is the better. But do
you mind telling me how you managed to
conjecture that I was searching about my
memory for that line ? "

Arnitte laughed. "If I were going to
found a religion, or intended to appear as a

public performer, I should say without hesitation
that I had read your thoughts. As I
have no such intentions, I don't mind confessing
that I'm as much in the dark as
yourself."

The vicar was heard dilating to Mrs.
Winston upon the curiosities of coincidence
and the mathematical principles of the rule
of '' Probabilities."

Arnitte interrupted. " Perhaps you're
right. Perhaps it was a curious coincidence.
Yet I know what you're thinking at the
present moment. The word ' charlatan ' is in
your mind now."

The quick flush which sprang to the vicar's
fresh face was a plain confession that Arnitte
had again hit the mark. But the reverend
gentleman looked frankly up the table and
replied, " Believe me, though the word may

have passed through my mind, my judgment
never applied it."

Arnitte courteously bowed.

"And if," continued the vicar, "I said
curious coincidence ' before, I am now
tempted to say, ' clever conjecture.' "

Well," was the reply, " I hardly know
myself. Did you ever read Edgar Poe's weird
story of the two friends who were walking
along the streets of Paris when one broke a
long pause by answering a question which
the other was mentally asking ? The mind-reader
afterwards explained the process by
which he had followed the thoughts of his
friend, and traced each step by which his
delicate powers of observation and quick
associations of ideas had produced the surprising
result. Yet, I don't know that the
explanation is quite satisfying. Now, I certainly

saw that Mr. Hazzleden was looking
at my hand, and in some way I felt assured,
from the expression of inquiry on his face,
that he was trains: to recollect Wordsworth's
line, which I must say is applicable," and he
laughingly held up his hand.

'•'Yet," he continued, ''I cannot trace, as
Poe does, the complete process which revealed
to me Mr. Hazzleden's thoughts."

The vicar quoted Hume on the antecedent
improbability of miracles, asserting, with evident
relish, that it was more prudent to
believe in the error or dishonesty of any
person or number of persons than in the
possession by any one of powers pronounced
by the general experience of men to be supernatural.
" Of course," he went on, '' the
theory doesn't quite meet your difficulty,
for you have fallen into no error, and made

VOL. I. F

no unjustifiable claim. But, if you read every
secret thought of every person here to-night,
I should marvel at the wonders of coincidence
and your acuteness in conjecture, rather than
attribute to you a faculty different in kind,
as well as degree, from those possessed by
myself and the majority of mankind."

"As a scientific man," returned Arnitte
thoughtfully, "you would be quite right;"
and, after a pause, — "Yet I sometimes think,
in a vague, half reasoning way, that modern
science is altogether on the wrong track."

The vicar raised his eyebrows, and almost
imperceptibly shrugged his shoulders.

Arnitte went on : "I cannot, I fear, make
myself perfectly clear. You are a distinguished
astronomer. Now, do you not think
that science takes too much account of the
heavenly bodies, and too little of the consciousness

of those who observe them ? There
is no worth or value, intellectual or moral, ina
star, or its properties, apart from the effect
produced on human minds. Is it not Arnold
who has pointed out that knowledge is useless
unless correlated with conduct?"

The vicar laughed unpleasantly. "I
thought," he said, " when you began, that
you were going to preach from the gospel
according to St. Matthew Arnold. It is
lamentable to contemplate the injury to
science which that man's ignorance and prejudice
have done."

"Please don't condemn me yet," pleaded
Arnitte modestly. " I was unwise to meddle
with the Arnold argument, inasmuch as my
personal objection to the methods of science
lies in another direction. Again, take the
case of your own studies. What are the

heavens really to you ? Certainly not billions
of miles of space and thousands of suns and
systems I They are an impression received
through two tiny specks in your eyes, and
registered in some form or other in your
mind. You cannot begin to prove that the
impression has any objective reality."

An ejaculation was rising to the vicar's
lips, but Arnitte hastily went on : "You are
going to say that I'm now lost in a quagmire
of transcendentalism. But I think
you're wrong. I neither dispute nor doubt
the reality of our impressions. All I do is to
point out that they are impressions, and that
science contemptuously refuses to study the
methods by which, and the medium through
which, they are received. Knowledge is not
external fact, of which we have positive
cognisance, but the reaction of external fact

upon human faculties. And yet men of
science think it unphilosophical to study and
endeavour to understand thoroughly those
faculties before professing to examine so-called
'natural phenomena.' It seems to me
that if we were half as ready to study and
develop our own powers as we are to acquire
what we are pleased to call * objective facts
our ideas in many ways would receive valuable
correction."

The vicar was preparing a crushing rejoinder
when Mrs. Wynnston rose, and the
conversation was broken off. Nor was it
again renewed. The departure of the ladies
was followed by that curious relaxing of
bodies and minds which is always noticeable
after a dinner-party. Man is a dual creature.
When seated by the side of a woman he
belongs to one species ; when the woman has

risen and gone away lie belongs to another.
The same change is rarely noticeable in the
female sex ; but there is something akin to it
in the change which takes place in a woman
when she puts off her everyday attire and
dons her ball dress. The hostess, however,
leads from the table to the drawing-room the
same beings who sat at it. Those who are
left behind are metamorphosed. There is an
apparent throwing off of restraint; the host
and his friends stretch their limbs and adopt
such attitudes as please them most. Cigars
are lighted, and wine is swallowed in greater
gulps. The whole atmosphere of the room
has changed.

Neither Arnitte nor the vicar was disposed
to revert to metaphysics. The former was
disputing with Fred the precise spot in the
Alps from whence the finest view is to be

obtained. The latter was speculating with
O'Connor upon the prospects of a dissolution
of Parliament, and of the effects which an
appeal to the country would have on the
question of disestablishment.

Presently the notes of a rich contralto voice
reached the room, and Fred began to fidget.
To his great inward satisfaction most of the
men threw away their cio-ars, and a move
was made to the drawing-room, where Mary
O'Connor, accompanying herself on the piano,
was singing an exquisitely sweet and pathetic
air from an oratorio. The intense
feeling which this girl manifested deeply
moved Fred, who thought he had never
heard anything so beautiful in his life. Kate
played badly and sang worse — a circumstance
which troubled him, for he was unusually
susceptible to the influence of music. It was

his comfort in grief, his occupation in idleness,
his friend in happiness. He sometimes, during
the few days of their dubious engagement,
had felt this deficiency in Kate very acutely.
If he asked her to play she would strum an
imbecile waltz ; if he asked her to sing she
would frolic through the latest absurdity from
a comic opera. Now the gracious tones of
Mary O'Connor's voice filled him with a
mingled sentiment of delight and distress,
which he carefully refrained from analysing.

Later in the evening some one asked
Arnitte to sing. He at once consented, and,
walking to the piano, rubbed his large hands
together, and executed a brilliant j)yrotech-
nicol prelude, which ended in a sequence of
chromatic harmonies. Then he began to
sing, in a strong and nervous baritone
voice : —

The morning comes, and the tempest

Roars from the wild North West,
And its moaning mocks the moaning

Of a heart that can find no rest.
Oh ! daylight, how fondly I seek thee,

While dashed on the window-pane
I see, in the first gray dawning.

The tears of a falling rain.

The broad noon comes, and the sunbeams

Sparkle on lake and lea ;
But the passing breath from the mountain

Whispers no peace to me.
The glare of the midday passes,

The fierce light fades at last,
But time cannot temper the memories

That beat from the pitiless past.

The faint eve falls, and a glory

Crimsons the glowing west ;
The sighing song of wind and sea

Hushes the world to rest.
Oh, darkness ! I call thee to cover

The phantoms of hopes long dead.
Till life's stem struggle is over,

Till Death's swift arrow has sped."

Fred fancied that as the song drew to
an end Arnitte's voice became very harsh, as

though proceeding from a dry throat, and
when the singer finished and swung round
on the piano-stool his face was paler than
usual; and Fred noticed, or thought he
noticed, that his eye rested with a strange
flash on O'Connor, sitting at the other end
of the room talking to Kate.

Fred mechanically wondered whether the
song was very fine or melodramatic rubbish,
but he said to Arnitte, " That's a very effective
song. Whom is it by ?"

I don't know who wrote the words," was
the reply ; "I found them in a newspaper.
The setting is my own. It seemed to me to
fit the words, and I wrote it down when it
occurred to me."

Again Fred was surprised, and a couple of
hours afterwards, when in bed, he tossed
about, wondering whether this man, who

seemed both to attract and repel him, was a
genius or a quack. Other doubts also would
creep into his mind, but he steadily refused
to consider them. All that was certain to
him was that he was physically and mentally
depressed, and that sleep would not come to
his relief.

DupjNG his residence at Lorton O'Connor
had struck up an acquaintance with a young
fellow named Phillips, the son of a farmer.
Richard Phillips, the girls of the village
always declared, "looked like a gentleman."
He himself was very much of their opinion,
and his father, sharing in the prevalent belief,
determined to make him one. The lad
was a weak creature, with a fair, pretty face,
languid, nerveless limbs, a flabby body, and a
flabby mind. He was ridiculously vain and
boastful; and, having by some chance penetrated
into the fringe of the " genteel society"

of Lorton, considered himself a great deal too
refined for the companionship of the sons and
daughters of farmers. He had served an
apprenticeship to a solicitor in a neighbouring
market - town. Now, nearly five and
twenty years of age, he was idling away his
time in his father's house, waiting for something
to turn up, and complacently assured
that fortune was secretly contriving for him
a very distinguished destiny.

Phillips was nearly enthusiastic over one
hobby, and that was boating. He was,
indeed, an expert amateur sailor, and it was
in some excursion on the bay that O'Connor
and his sister had first met him. O'Connor's
gray eyes were keenly observant. He
measured and weighed the young man's character
in the first week of their acquaintanceship.
Nor was he long in noting that

Phillips, with a weak man's timid audacity,
had fallen over ears in love with Mary.
O'Connor's private opinions as to the advisability
of transforming his new friend into a
brother-in-law he scrupulously kept to himself
But he manifested on all occasions to
the romantic Eichard a cordiality and frankness
unusual in a man of his sullen and silent
disposition, and appeared to seek opportunities
of cultivating the young man's friendship, and
of throwing him into the society of his sister.
O'Connor and his friend made many excursions
among the heather-clad hills around
Lorton. One morning the pair had climbed
an easy summit, and, sitting in a little hollow
sheltered from the wind, were looking down
upon a pleasant winding valley which lay
shimmering beneath them in the heat of a
noonday sun.

A poet has written of " the sleep that is
among the lonely hills." Viewed from the
hills the vales seem to sleep too. Below
there may be busy life and noise and bustle.
Yet, look down from heights above, so small
a thing is human action, and all seems still.
The worker in the fields, a tiny speck, is no
longer a conscious being, with parts and
powers and will, living and loving and toiling
; a troop of laughing boys, racing along
the fields yonder, are only as leaves dancing
before the breeze ; the country cart, creaking
along that white road, has ceased to be a
common and convenient contrivance for
carrying potatoes to market. The perspective
of things is changed. Man no longer
stands at the "point of sight," and life is
swallowed up in nature.

A stream ran along the bottom of the

valley, and O'Connor, directed by the outstretched
hand of Phillips, was trying to
discern a little white bridge, from the arch
of which his companion had hooked a five-pound
trout.

Presently a puff of steam floated lazily
from out of a line of distant trees, and a far-off
whistle announced the progress of the
mid-day mail speeding away to the north.
Only a railway can break the sleep that falls
on and from the lonely hills.

Phillips made some conventional protest
against the nineteenth century barbarism
which ruins the lovely valleys of England,
that directors may earn salaries and shareholders
draw dividends.

I never can see," replied O'Connor, '' that
railways detract from the picturesqueness of
a landscape. They make towns noisy and

dirty, but I rather like to see the track
stretching away through a pretty country ;
and I never think that a train, at any rate
seen from a distance, is an ugly object. I
have been in places in the west of America
where I should have thought a locomotive,
with all its suggestions of life and industry,
the most beautiful thing which could cross
the landscape."

Phillips had read Siskin, and looked
shocked.

'besides," continued O'Connor, his face
darkening, '' I am an Irishman. What would
I not give to have these engines, dragging
trade and wealth and happiness after them,
through the valleys of my own country?"

There was a pause. Phillips gazed down
the valley, and O'Connor dug a hole in the
turf with his walking-stick.

VOL. I. G

Presently he resumed : " Phillips, I know
I may trust you. My sister Mary and I " —
he stole a keen glance at the young man —
my sister Mary and I are here in England
on a sacred mission. We do not love you
English, though some of you we think not
unworthy to be our friends. We were born,
both of us, in Ireland, the children of a
farmer who drew from his land enough to
live honestly, to clothe himself and us, and
to pay a fair rent. It was rather poor,
stony land, and one winter, when Mary was
a very little girl, and I was just big enough
to do odd jobs on the farm, a bright idea
occurred to my father. Together we set to
work to carry it out. On bitter cold and
wet days we went out as soon as it was
light, and trudged over the rough land,
and gathered up all the stones we could

find, and carried them, and piled them up in
heaps at the back of the cottage. It took us
two months to clear the fields, which our
grandfathers for generations before us — sensible
men — had thought good enough as
they were. Then, for another month, in
every moment we could spare from digging
and sowing, we turned builders, and before the
spring was upon us we had run up a low wall
round the yard and a new place for the pigs."

O'Connor's voice grew harsher and louder
as he went on, and he beat the grass at his
feet with his stick.

In the spring the agent came for his
rent. We only saw him four times a year ;
he lived twenty miles off, and we were away
up in the hills. He collected money fora
rich nobleman — nobleman ! Phillips — the
owner of the soil which my fathers had tilled

for centuries. I never saw him, scarcely
knew his name. He was said to live somewhere
in England, in a palace built of gold,
and hung with silk, and sparkling with jewels.
As a lad I often wondered what this place
could be like, and how one would feel always
to have a fire when one was cold, and bread
when one was hungry, and a bed to sleep on
instead of straw. I have seen this great
mansion since, and found that it was built,
not of gold, but of human flesh, tortured
with human blood. I have seen the great
nobleman. He is a decrepit old drunkard."

O'Connor paused again, as if choked.
Then he went on : '' The agent came, and
my father proudly showed him our winter's
work. I can see now — may God Almighty
curse him I — the sly smile on the scoundrel's
face. He jingled the keys in his pocket, and

asked many questions : low long the work
had taken us, whether it was fatiguing, if we
found the new pig-sty convenient, and if the
land promised any great improvement. Then
he said, in his soft voice, 'swell, you seem
to have done a o-ood stroke of business. I
shall only double the rent, and charge you
a fair price for building materials. Of course
you had no right to use the landlord's stones
without his permission ; and if you don't like
to pay you can put them back where you
found them.' My father, soft-hearted fellow,
thought of his children, and began to cry.
My mother went down on her knees in the
mud of the farmyard, and prayed for mercy
from the saints and from him. The saints,
however, seemed to be otherwise engaged
just then, and the agent rode off, calling
back, ' Ta, ta ! I don't want to be hard on

you. I'll give you six months to pay for the
stone.' That year the blight fell on the
potatoes. All the crops were a failure. My
father sold the pigs to get money to pay for
the stone. But all his labour and all his
savings were not sufficient to pay the double
rent. In the autumn we were evicted. The
cottage was set on fire by the agent's orders,
and our little household goods — God knows,
few and poor enough ! — were burned. That
winter we lived and starved in a hut of
boughs and mud built in a ditch by my father
and me. Not a soul dared lend us a helping
hand, but on dark nights a neighbouring
farmer would steal up and leave us a bit of
turf and a few potatoes. In that hut my
mother was confined, and both she and the
baby died. My father begged, or stole — I
don't know which — a few boards, and made a

coffin for them, and a poor priest buried
them for a shilling, which our old neighbours
subscribed, on the edge of the bog, as the
nearest churchyard was seven miles away,
and we could get no one to help to carry the
coffin. Soon after Mary, my sister, took ill
with famine fever, and we were fast becoming
too weak to tramp ten miles to the seashore
and back to get seaweed to boil and
eat. One day, when we thought little Mary
was dying, an Englishman, a doctor, rode by.
What he was doing in that wild country in
the winter I never knew. He was a goodman,
and for his sake I hope that some maybe
spared from the curse which will pursue
the English nation in this world and the next,
if there is one. He stopped a whole week in
our hovel, and nursed the child himself till
she was fit to be moved. Then he gave

money to my father to take him and me to
America. But he had come to love the sweet
face of my sister. He was an old man, with
neither wife nor child. He offered to take
her to his home in England, and to love and
cherish her as his own daughter. My father
consented, and we found that there was one
true and tender Englishman, for he kept his
word till he died, and then left his little
fortune to Mary. They lived near to the
Hazzledens, and that is how my sister came
to know young Hazzleden. They were very
fond of one another as children," — he spoke
in a questioning tone, and again scrutinised
the young man ; " but Mary is a true Irishwoman.
Her whole heart is in the cause.
She has devoted all her means to it, and she
v/ill never love a man who is not one of us,
in sympathy, if not in birth."

"How did you get on in America?"
Phillips asked.

"Everything prospered with us. We
went West ; we obtained a large concession
of land, and our generous friend, to whom
my father had written, helped us to buy a
little stock. Money seemed to grow under
our hands. We paid our debt to our benefactor,
and I paid mine to our old agent."

"How' said Phillips.

Well, one fine evening he was found dead
on the road, with a bullet in his heart."

Phillips shrank away from the side of his
companion.

"Oh!" laughed the Irishman, "don't
think I shot the ruffian, though I would
have done so had I ever met him. I only
sent a hundred pounds to a certain society of
which I had heard while in New York, and

to an officer of which I told our story. I
have not the least idea who murdered the
fellow. But. to make a lon£^ tale short, in
eight years' time we were independent, if not
rich. My father died, and I sold off the
ranch at once, and went to Boston. I had
always felt, Phillips. that to influence one's
fellows one must have some education and
social culture. I had read as much as I
coidd, and was not absolutely ignorant of the
'humanities'" He laughed, as though the
word amused him. '' I entered at Harvard,
and my money got me into a fairly good set
in the city. A year later I travelled through
the South, to mend my manners, among the
Virginian aristocrats. Oh, I met plenty of
fine people, and had a Tery good time. Then
Mary's old friend died, and I came over and
taught her my plans, and inspired her with

my ideas. Don't you think we make a very
pretty pair of conspirators ?"

Phillips babbled some words of assent.

Yes," resumed the Irishman, " whatever
wealth and ability we possess we have devoted
to the service of Ireland. Your
country has shown no mercy to mine for five
hundred years. You have used it as a tool,
you have robbed it, you have oppressed it,
you have slaughtered its people, you have
crushed its trade, you have turned its fields
into a desert, you have never done one good
thins: to Ireland for Ireland's sake, and now
the hour of retribution has come, and we are
its ministers. Go and tell your police, your
magistrates, your rulers ; they will give
much for the bodies of Mary and me."

There was careful study in all this rant.
O'Connor, while seeming to open his heart to

Phillips, had really told him nothing, except
that he had been concerned in the death of
the assent. Into this confession he had
slipped unawares, and his subsequent wildness
was partly assumed in the hope of
blurrinor the recollection of that unfortunate
admission.

Phillips was simply dazed. He had come
to worship Mary with all the fervour of his
weak nature, and to lean with quite a fraternal
confidence upon O'Connor, — and they
were Irish revolutionaries, probably assassins
and " dynamitards." A stronger man would
have been troubled. But what to do? He
could not abandon his hopes of Mar' were
she ten times an Irish conspirator. Doubtless
she was under the influence of her
brother, and he, poor fellow, was clearly
a monomaniac. His early sufferings had

affected his brain. He must be humoured,
and, if possible, weaned from his mad projects.


They strolled down the zigzag hillside
paths, and Phillips, as he thought, with
infinite address, soothed O'Connor, and at
the same time drew from him his designs.

I know it is hard," the latter remarked,
'•'to compel justice from thirty millions of
people for the benefit of five. You have all
the warlike resources, the wealth, the numbers
; yet we are not quite helpless. I have
looked down twenty feet through the water
of an American bay to the white sand,
and I have seen a pulpy creature, which
somehow always reminded me of a fat,
over fed, apoplectic city man — perhaps an
alderman. It had no scales, no teeth, and
no powerful jaws. Apparently the Creator

forgot to give it either the means of fighting
or running away. Presently a fish, alert
and fierce, swift as a swallow and savage as a
vulture, would see, through its horrible cruel
eyes, the wretched alderman lying on the
sand. A dozen other ugly brutes, all with
murderous intent, would glide, from heaven
knows where, towards that big-bellied old
glutton. By the way, don't you think there
is something creepy about the noiseless
motion of a fish, especially when he is darting
down on his prey? Well, all these hungry
fishes would glide towards the alderman,'
who never moved a muscle, and you, of
course, expected in a few seconds to find the
assassins quarrelling over the pieces. Nota
bit of it. Before the swiftest of the
gang could reach our friend a dense black
cloud spread all round him through the

water. It looked very nasty, and you could
easily imagine that it smelled and tasted
very nasty. The first fish dashed quickly
into it, but dashed out again even quicker.
You could see that that fish was sick. His
stomach couldn't stand the black stuff". The
other fishes would try their luck, but all with
the same result. Some, desperate for their
dinners, would go into the nauseous stuff
three or four times, till they rolled over on
their backs and floated, either dead or
stupefied. By and by, when all was quiet
again, the old fellow would wobble out of his
abominable cloud and go, I suppose, off" home.
The illustration is not complimentary, but,
upon my word, Phillips, I never saw that fish
without thinking that Ireland is not so helpless
as people suppose. She has no teeth and
jaws — but muskets and ironclads are not the

only offensive and defensive resources of
civilisation."

They had reached O'Connor's door. "Won't
you lunch with us ?" he said to Phillips. The
young man hesitated, then with an embarrassed
smile plunged through the doorway.
O'Connor, who had closely watched his hesitation,
could not repress a sigh of relief as he
followed his friend into the house.

Feed was anything but happy. Lorton
House, with its low rooms, its heavy hangings,
and its ancient furniture, oppressed
him. The society of his aunt and cousin
wearied him. He would have started on a
cruise, or gone home, or gone anywhere, but
for two reasons. One was that he had
ens^ao-ed himself to Kate, and could not in
common civility cut short his visit without a
very good excuse ; and the other was that he
did not at the bottom of his heart desire to
leave Lorton just then. He was attentive
and affectionate to Kate. They strolled

VOL. I. H

about the lanes together, they made excursions
in the pony phaeton, Kate driving, Fred
lolling at once listlessly and restlessly at her
side. They played tennis together on the
lawn, but Fred never proposed another stroll
down the Apple Walk to the shore. He
knew that Kate's eyes would sparkle, that
she would nestle caressingly at his side, if
he suggested another evening chat at the
dingle. He secretly wondered if he should
ever again think Kate so irresistibly lovable
as he did that night when, with full heart
and honest conviction, he asked her to be his
wife. He constantly endeavoured to stifle
all such thoughts, yet sometimes the consciousness
would steal into his mind that down by
the shore in the evening light, with her full
eyes bent upon him, he should say and mean
once more, " Kitty, darling, I love you."

But he never asked her to go. Was he sure
that he wished to say and feel as on the
first evening of his visit ? Fred would have

o

found it difficult to answer this question,
and, after his wont, carefully abstained from
putting it to himself.

Arnitte remained in the neighbourhood
fishing, boating, riding, walking, and apparently
enjoying to his heart's content a spell
of outdoor life in glorious summer weather.
Fred frequently encountered him, and was
greatly attracted to him by his brilliant talk
and by a sweet and ingratiating manner
which he either manifested naturally or
assumed with great success. He felt the need
of male companionship to relieve the sense of
tedium which was overmastering him. He
would have preferred to be friendly with
O'Connor, but that gentleman, while always

studiously polite, contrived, in ways which a
man of the world is never at a loss to discover,
to check his advances. He had encountered
Mary O'Connor riding out in the
cool of the morning two or three times, and
had had several pleasant talks over old times.
Fred, never an enthusiastic horseman, had
begun to ride out regularly before breakfast ;
but at the end of a week Mary ceased to
appear in the narrow high-banked lane where
fern and bracken grew beneath the shelter of
the hedges, and which wound away down fora
mile to Lorton Church. Then Kate, who
could ride anything, and who only refrained
because her mother was nervous and kept
nothing in the stable but " a venerable family
pair," as Kate scornfully dubbed them, began
to hint at a morning gallop — " That is, Fred,"
she laughed, ^*if you can persuade mother's

fiery Arabians to go quicker than a walk."
But Fred's equestrian ardour had evaporated.
He said, " Oh yes, certainly," but the morning
was always too hot, or it was too late, or
there was something else to do. He had
written to invite the O'Connors to an afternoon
cruise in the Sylph, but as yet they
had sent no answer. Apparently they were
not eager to cultivate his acquaintance.

So he was thrown back upon Arnitte, and
a man more fitted to cure a friend of ennui
could not have been found. Arnitte fell into
the habit of calling at Lorton House in the
evening to play a set of tennis with Fred, or
perhaps against Fred and Kate, for he was
an expert at the game, and then to smoke a
cigar till dusk on a garden-seat which overlooked
the ravine and the bay beyond.

Insensibly Fred had been led to give his

new acquaintance a dozen little confidences.
There was his engagement to Kate, which
for some reason or other had not been announced.
Mrs. Wynnston was just then too
busy reorganising the church choir to think
of anything else. Kate, of course, could not
talk about it, and she had, moreover, no girl
friends. Fred felt that it was a matter
which in fairness to Kate ought to be made
known, and would resolve over night to tell
every one. But in the morning, if ever
he thought about it, he would soliloquise,
Oh, everybody can see we're engaged, and
besides, it's Aunt Wynnston s business to announce
it." As the result, none of the
friends who visited Lorton House had the
smallest idea that Kate and Fred were
enoraojed to be married.

But Arnitte found it out. Fred never

told him in so many words, and he, on his
part, never mentioned the subject. Yet Fred
knew perfectly well that Arnitte was aware
of his engagement. One evening Kate suggested
a set at tennis. Fred, who was ina
contrary humour, refused. Kate pleaded,
Fred grew sullen, and in a minute a very
sharp quarrel was raging between the cousins.
The ominous red glow showed in Kate's eyes,
and she ended the incident by tossing her
racquet over the net and marching off to bed.
Fred whistled defiantly ; and Arnitte, who
had been absorbed in the contemplation of a
common daisy at the far end of the lawn
which, alone out of all its family, the mowing
machine had spared, now slipped his arm
within Fred's and strolled to his favourite
seat. He chatted pleasantly, and soothed,
with all the art of a clever friend, the young

man's irritation. The conversation at length
drifted to the subject of marriage.

Fred, completely won over, blurted out,
The difficulty always seems to me that one
can never be sure a woman is — is "

Good enough for one," suggested Arnitte,
blandly. '^ That's vanity."

"No, I didn't mean quite that; rather,
whether she was suitable."

'much the same thug," muttered Arnitte.

Without noticing the interruption Fred
went on, 'perhaps it is vanity, or perhaps
humility, or perhaps both. But I've always
felt that to really love a woman a man should
think her perfect. She should either be perfect,
or his love should be strong enough to
create a perfect delusion. What I doubt is
whether some men — of course I am speaking
generally," he added nervously. Arnitte

nodded. — " What I doubt is whether every
man can submit himself to such a lasting
delusion. After marriage, or perhaps before,
he begins to find out little faults of disposition
and little blemishes of culture. He may
even criticise the very face which once seemed
nothing but beauty to him." Fred spoke
with warmth, and, meeting Arnitte's laughing
o- eve, coloured.

But the grave and kindly reply reassured
him. '' The moral of your observation and
argument is, Hazzleden, that men should live
in the world, and not in romantic visions.
I don't think that because a man loves a
woman he should take leave of his senses.
You may as well seek for the philosopher's
stone as for perfection of character. You
know it doesn't exist, and you're a fool if
you marry any woman with the expectation

or even the faint hope of finding it. You
and I have kno^Ti each other for two or
three weeks, and no doubt you, as a thinking
man, have noticed faults in me, as I may
have detected weaknesses in you. Do you
think, then, that we could, either of us, marry
a woman and go all through life under the
belief that she was an anselm ?"

'' That's just my point," interrupted Fred.
Of course I should find her out, and then I
should feel that I didn't really love her."

'but why," said Arnitte, "should you
ever begin the mistake ? For my part, I
don't believe in marrying angels. If it were
possible it would be extremely unsatisfactory.
A good woman is quite good enough for me.
Besides, what proof of love can there be
when the object is perfect? Now, my theory
is this. A man falls in love with a woman

partly through circumstances and partly of
his free will. He feels that he needs her
companionship and help and affection through
life. He sees other women and, as a reasonable
beinor he admits that this one is more
beautiful, that one better tempered, another
plays the piano better, a fourth is more
widely read or of keener intellect. He
recognises these things just as he would see
that this one is taller or that one darker.
It is when he knows that his sweetheart or
his wife has, like the rest of the world, faults
and shortcomings, and still knows that she is
necessary to him, that he is sure of the truth
and strength of his love,"

He rose and threw away his cigar. Fred
followed him, and the pair strolled towards
the house. Arnitte took his friend's arm
and, after a pause, spoke again. " Hazzleden,

when I was a youth my elder brother was
drowned. He was engaged to a sweet young
girl, and one day they went boating on a
river near our house. The boat, we supposed,
must have capsized from some cause
or other, and next day their bodies were
dragged up from the weeds at the bottom,
clasped in one another's arms. I remember
my mother's agony of grief, and how gray
and solemn for a while my own life seemed.
But my father never shed a tear, and when
some one spoke to him words of conventional
comfort only replied, ' Why should I sorrow ?
The lad is happy to have died before he
found the earthen feet of his golden image.'
' But do you think,' said his friend, * the
image had earthen feet?' — 'I do not know,
answered my father ; ' but I am quite sure at
some time or other he would have thought it

had.' The philosophy was false, Hazzleden,
false and yet true. Wise men do not
search for golden images, then it is false ; but
if they do, ah ! " — there was a quiver of pain
in his voice — '' then how true it is !"

Man is an abode of three chambers :
there is the outer hall, where casual callers
are received ; there is the inner reception -
room, where friends are welcomed and pass
hours of loving intercourse ; there is the
secret inmost apartment, where no foot, however
near and dear, ever may tread, where
the man sits with his owt soul. None else
may know its angles, its recesses, how it
is furnished, whether it is well appointed
or squalid, whether it is bright or gloomy,
whether it is garish or modest. Yet there
are moments when the curtain before the
door seems lifted for an instant and the

eye of a friend may see, or fancy it
sees, something of the sacred solitude.
Fred imagined he had caught such a
glimpse and unconsciously pressed Arnitte's
arm.

The latter went on : '' Don't dream dreams,
Hazzleden, for you are certain to awaken ;
and don't covet too much happiness. I'm
a heretic in most things, and I doubt whether
happy men are the happiest. That sounds
like a paradox, but it isn't. It's a good thing
to be ground in the mills of God ; to know
what heartache is ; to be crushed down — ay,
even into the mud of life. Those who feed
on sugar grow fat and stupid ; the soul needs
bitter tonics as well as the body. The men
to whom the world owes most gratitude
are not those who live in fairy gardens, but
those who have sinned and suffered and

sorrowed. A man shouldn't fret like a child
because the paint wears off his toys."

They had reached the house, and were
stepping through the open window. He
broke off with a short laugh, "Heavens! I
believe I've been preaching to you. Never
mind, the text was a large one, and my
homily was as useful as most sermons.
Good-night." He shook Fred warmly by
the hand and strode off home.

It was next morning that Fred heard from
the O'Connors. They presented apologies
and compliments ; they would be happy to
join him on the Sylph at twelve o'clock, and
might they presume so far as to bring with
them their friend Mr. Charles Phillips.

Fred read the note at breakfast. At the
first glance he was delighted ; at the second
he was profoundly embarrassed. He cracked

his eggs, munched his toast, and secretly
cursed his own want of courage and address.

Kate had awakened radiant. Her passion
was like the narrow partial cyclone, which
ploughs its way with fierce speed through
the fields, tearing everything before it. But
on each side of it the sun is shining, the birds
are singing, and all is peace. And when its
quick course is over the air is still and balmy,
and only scattered traces of destruction remain
to show that a whirlwind has blown
across the land. Kate's anger was cyclonic
in its sharp and transient fierceness. She
was seldom more winning than when her
tears of rage gave place to tears of regret,
and both to a sunny smile at once defiant
and appealing. In the earlier days of their
engagement Fred would mischievously provoke
her to wrath just to get the enjoyment

of a stormy " tiff," which he knew would end
after five minutes in the sweetest of reconciliations.
But the pastime had lost its
charms for him ; and to be perfectly frank,
it must be confessed that Kate's whirlwinds
came frequently enough to gratify any
curiosity without wanton provocation.

This morning she had marched into the
breakfast-room with a red rose in her dusky
hair and another in her hand. She had gone
straight up to Fred, put her hands on his
shoulders, and said with a shy audacity, which
was bewitching but not convincing, '* Freddy,
I am very sorry ; won't you forgive Kitty's
nasty tempers?" Then she kissed him,
fastened the rose in his coat, drew him to
the table, poured out his coffee — for Mrs.
Wynnston breakfasted in bed — and made that
display of domestic solicitude which, before

VOL. I. I

marriage, is perhaps the most delicate and
irresistible flattery that a woman can offer
to the man she loves.

Fred knew that Kate was looking forward
with pleasure to their cruise. His cutter had
been lying idle in the bay ever since its
arrival on the memorable evening of their
engagement. He had originally intended to
make only a short stay at Lorton, and then
to take a month's cruise among the Scotch
islands. But many of his intentions had
undergone a remarkable change, and he had
several times made up his mind to send the
Sylph back to the seaport from which she
hailed, and where she was laid up during
the winter. At Kate's suggestion he had
arranged for this afternoon sail, but he had
not mentioned to her the fact that he had
invited the O'Connors to join them.

Now he crumbled his dry toast disconsolately,
for he had prevision of a storm. He
called himself a fool for asking these people
without telling Kate, and wondered how
in the world he should get out of his
dilemma.

Presently he said uneasily, " I think it
will be a fine day."

Oh yes," said Kate ; ''I looked at the
glass this morning. It has been steady for
four-and-twenty hours. We shall have a
jolly time, shan't we, Fred ? "

That miserable young man rose and looked
out of the window. " There's a nice breeze
from the south ; if it holds we shall have a
smart run out and back again."

There was a pause, and presently he went
on with a nervous attempt at indifference
which a child could have noticed : "By the

bye, I told you, Kate, didn't I, that I had
asked the O'Connors to join us ? "

The blood leaped to Kate's face and the
flush was reflected in his own. " No, you
didn't," she replied. " Are they coming ?"

I've a note here from O'Connor accepting,
and asking if he may bring some fellow named
Phillips." He tossed the letter across the table
to her.

She sprang up, tore the luckless note into
fifty pieces and ground them beneath her
heel.

Do you think I'm blind 1 " she panted ;
do you think I've been blind all these
weeks ?"

"Kate! Kate!" he protested, "what in
the world do you mean ? "

Ah ! you never loved as I do, and you
think you can befool me. Did I not tell you

down there when you asked me to be your
wife that you didn't know your own mind ?
I knew it, though you didn't."

But, Kitty, I do love you," he feebly interrupted,
and drew nearer to her.

She raised her arm as though to thrust
him away. " Do I not know the secret of
your morning rides ? Have I not watched
you drift in 2" away from me ever since you
came to me ? You're tired of me and bored
with me, and you've seen some one you think
will make you happier. Oh Fred, I love
you, I hate you ! "

The storm was now over and the gentle
rain followed. Kate, sobbing as though her
poor little heart would break, fell into her
chair and covered her face.

Fred hated scenes. He knew in his inmost
soul that there was a good deal of shrewd

truth in Kate's passionate outburst. But she
was the attacking party ; she had flown into
a furious rage, a thing he never did, and he
began to feel himself a deeply injured person.

He stood before her with his hands in his
pockets and began in a tone of priggish virtue :
You're very foolish, Kate, to put yourself
into such passions. I suppose you can't help
being jealous, but that's no reason why you
should behave like this. You've made your
eyes all bloodshot, and your face isn't fit to
be seen. Such temper must be very bad for
you. You really should try to check it."

Kate's hands fell and her eyes blazed again
as she looked him in the face.

He went on : " You seem to have no regard
or consideration for me. Only yesterday you
greatly embarrassed me and shocked Arnitte
by your violence. Now to-day sou place mein

a most difficult position. I've asked the
O'Connors to spend the afternoon on the
Sylph — a most ordinary civility — and your
l:)ehavioiir makes me doubt whether I ought
to go. I don t see how I can stay away'
there was a tone of question in his voice, —
'•' yet it will be most painful for me to go."

A woman's tenderest pity often covers a
vein of scorn. Kate rose and, taking Fred's
hand, said, " I'm very sorry to trouble you
so, Fred ; my temper is as great a punishment
to me as it can be to any one else. Of course
you must oho. You can't do otherwise."

"When will you be ready?" returned the
young man, grudgingly.

'•' You must go without me. Fve made
myself ill, and, as you say, my face isn't fit
to be seen."

She hastily left the room, and Fred

lighted a cigarette and uneasily paced up
and down. Of course he knew he had behaved
as meanly as a man could behave,
and he was a good deal ashamed of himself.
He knew that he ought to send to the
O'Connors, and, pleading an accident to
the boat or some other reasonable excuse,
postpone the expedition. He debated the
point with himself, and apparently found it
hard to solve, for twelve o'clock drew near
and still he was smoking cigarettes and
fidgeting up and down. At length he
seized his hat and strode with hesitating
steps across the lawn down towards the
beach.

Ix the evening the vicar called at Lorton
House. Mrs. Wynnston was in distress
about her tenors. Basses were plentiful
enough, and she had installed half a dozen
young fellows in the choir whose trombone-like
voices made the old church shake.
Balance, she said, was now wanted. They
must strengthen the tenors. The tenors
indeed needed support. At present they
consisted of two mild youths, whose idea of
singing tenor was to squeak out on " dominant
sevenths " at the end of lines and verses,
and to patch up the rest of their parts with

snatches of bass, alto, and soprano. It did
not matter much, for no one could hear them
through the roar of the vigorous and as^erres-
sive '' basses." Still, from an artistic point
of view, Mrs. Wynnston was right in demanding
more tenors.

There was a dearth of them in Lorton.
The vicar had been commissioned by Mrs.
Wynnston to hunt up half a dozen, and he
had been inquiring through the parish for
likely young men. His mission had been
attended with indifferent success. He was
depressed. He was sorely tempted to blaspheme
all the four parts of harmony.
But Mrs. Wynnston encouraged him. She
pointed out the great necessity of a thorough
reorganisation of the musical portion of the
service. She enlarged upon the attractiveness
of good singing, held out a tempting

bait of increased offer tories, and hinted that
respect to Heaven urgently dictated a change
from the present slovenly arrangements.

The conversation, or rather the monologue,
for Mrs. Wynnston did most of the talking,
— was YJi'otracted, and the evening was
growing dusk as the vicar stood at the door
taking his leave.

"What a glorious evening it is!" he said.
By the way, I haven't seen Kate ; where
is she to-night ?"

That reminds me," said Mrs. Wynnston,
*' I wanted to consult you about Kate ; our
business drove the subject out of my mind.
I'm rather concerned about her."

The vicar wakened up to a more obvious
interest than he had shown during the "business
" discussion. " You alarm me," he said ;
is your daughter in ill-health ?"

Oh no ; she is well enough. What
troubles me is this. You see, she and her
cousin have gone and engaged themselves to
be married."

'' Indeed ! " ejaculated the vicar with a
long intonation, which expressed surprise,
contemplation, and something else not so
easy to discover.

Mrs. Wynnston was not quick of apprehension,
and without noticing the vicar's interruption
went on : " Fm afraid they've been
rather hasty. Of course, they're very fond
of one another, and I know Kate is devotedly
attached to Fred ; but for some reason they
don't seem to get on very smoothly together.
They had a quarrel this morning, I believe,
for Kate has been crying in her room all day."

A flush crossed the clear, fresh cheeks of
the vicar.

She continued : " Of course, mothers ought
not to interfere in such matters. It never
does any good. It's very difficult to know
what to do. I suppose all will come right
in the end."

Let us hope so," said the vicar very
gravely. '' But I must go now ; we will
talk of this another time. Good-night."

He walked out into the dusky lane
plunged deep in meditation. The evening
breeze across the fields stirred with a soothing
rustle the thickening ears of corn, and
here and there in playful sport bore down to
his feet from the treetops a leaf cut off
before its time. The birds twittered in their
nests, talking together, as it were, of the
adventures and enjoyments of another day.
Far away, below the church, from an old elm
by the brook side, rose up the strong, sweet

song of the nightingale — a musical ecstasy
of sadness. Above, in the larch woods,
sounded, like an echo of half spoken farewells,
the rich late note of the cuckoo.

But the vicar heard none of these things.
He was saying to himself with a maddening
mechanical iteration, " Little Kate is going to
be married."

He had known her from a child, and had
never seen that she had ceased to be a child.
She had plagued him, mocked him, mimicked
him, and had always been a tender, wayward
little friend. For ten years her dark eyes
had beamed affectionately on his life. Then
she was "little Kate," and until half an hour
ago he had never thought of her as anything
but " little Kate." She was warmly attached
to him. To the lonely passionate girl he
seemed the only lovable being in Lorton.

She had never known her father, and she
loved him as a father. The vicar was lonely
too. A hateful woman had chilled his manhood.
For years his heart had ached with
emptiness, and the child had crept into the
void. But he had never known it, never felt
it, and nuw it was surprise which stunned him.

'•' Oh dear ! oh dear ! I never dreamed of
this," he muttered ; and then the old refrain
rang again and again in his ears, '' Little Kate
is croino' to be married."

His head drooped, and he slowly paced
along like one who walks in sleep.

Presently he stopped, clenched his 
stick tioditlv. and drew himself up.
^'This will not do," he said. "AYhat am I
thinking; what am I daring to think? Old
fool ! old parson ! you are nearly sixty and —
married ! "

Married — the sweetest word of happiness,
the irrevocable knell of misery. God binds
chains of iron round men's lives, but men
bind chains of adamant round themselves.
The whole living creation craves for union.
The flowers mate and bloom ; birds, beasts,
and men seek and strive for consorts. If
conduct is three-fourths of life, love is the
other quarter. It keeps life living ; it sends
spreading and working through the centuries
the good and the evil that men do. These
are the chains of iron. But there are laws,
there are social requirements, there are
customs, which men have set up for themselves.
By them evil and good are linked
together in unbreakable fetters — wise and
foolish, grave and frivolous, strong and weak.
Hearts that love are severed ; hearts that
hate are doomed to beat each other to pieces

in enforced contact. These are the chains of
adamant. Conduct is good, conduct is needful,
but conduct is hard. Why should life
be made more difficult to live and no more
worth living by social fear and social folly ?
Why should men and women be tempted
from small irritations to great sins because of
Hebraic traditions and Philistine prejudices?
There are sins from which no one escapes ;
there are griefs which all must endure ; there
are weaknesses common to humanity; there are
pains which all must bear. Fate has so ordered
it, and the world must bow. The path of
life at best is rough, yet men seem to walk it
of their own free will in boots that pinch.

Thoughts such as these, wild and bitter,
coursed through the vicar's brain as he strode
on to his home. It was an old house bedded
in richest foliage. The ancient lawns were

VOL. I. K

soft as velvet. Over the walks old-world
gardeners had bent the trees into fifty
fantastic arches. Round the grounds ran a
high rubble wall, covered within by clinging
pear-trees. The house itself — a low, white
building — was almost hidden with ivy and
with creepers, and the wooden porch blazed
with the blossoms of the purple clematis. At
the side was a great rose-garden, where the
plants stood in rows, as vines grow in a vineyard.
It was the vicar's especial pride.
There were thousands of rose-trees, tens of
thousands of flowers; the garden gleamed
with mingled colours like an artist's palette
when his day's work is done. The breeze
passing over it came laden with a scent
cloying sweet, as is the breath of the Italian
fields when the summer moon shines and the
white mists rise from the plains.

The house was in darkness, and as he
pushed open the door and stood hesitating
for a moment within the porch an unwonted
sense of solitude stole over him. He was
alone in the world. No glow of domestic
tenderness brightened the evening of his
days. No whisper of peace came from above
to comfort him. His faith had long been
dead. The past was pain, the present weariness,
the future blank. There was nothing
but the dark house and the whisper of night
among the leaves. The stillness seemed to
rather round him and to choke him. He
stepped inside and hastily closed the door,
then climbed to his observatory, where he
was wont to pass silent hours searching the
heavens.

It was a small circular room built through
the roof. In the middle stood the great

telescope, its brass tube glittering like a
shaft of ghostly light in the rays of a tiny
night-lamp which the vicar carried in his
hand. A chronometer on the walls solemnly
ticked. On a shelf the spectroscope stretched
out its triple limbs. A dozen books stood
on a small shelf; one or two celestial charts
and a table of logarithms were hanging up.
An easy chair was fixed so that the observer
could use the telescope with comfort ; and a
couple of wheels and a lever enabled the
occupant of the chair to direct the telescope,
and to turn the entire room round in following
the motions of the stars.

This little chamber divided with the rose-garden
the vicar's keenest interest and ministered
most constantly to his happiness.
He would sit for hours peering into the
depths of space. His soul would expand

and exult in a sense of limitless and illimitable
freedom. He would pass in review the
hosts of heaven, would sweep from satellites
to planets, from planets to suns, from suns
to awful congeries faintly glittering on the
threshold of the infinite ; then, lost to time
and space, would plunge into misty nebulae
as the portals through which to seek on the
glowing wings of imagination new galaxies,
new universes.

For many years the vicar had lost all
spiritual emotion, and its place had been
supplied by the physical and intellectual
exaltation produced in him by the scent
and colour of his flowers and by the cold
beauty of the stars. To-night, all troubled
and dismayed, he flung himself down into
his chair to seek peace in the infinite
expanse and eternal calm of space. He

sought but found not. Instead of floating
through ether as was his wont, without
effort, even the effort of will, he found
himself toiling and striving through the
unending and everlasting towards a goal
which everlastingly receded. The stars
maddened him with their fixed stony eyes
he living, panting, struggling, suffering;
they lifeless, changeless, cold. He craved
for help, for solace, but none came. The
stately systems moved round him in their
majesty, and as he followed them with yearning
look he longed to say to them, "Oh,
greater than I, help me and save me!" But
the words died upon his lips. "No," he
thought, " they are dead ; I live and think
and suffer. I am better than a whole universe
of blind force."

The vicar could bear his loneliness no

longer. Just as he had sought refuge in the
house from the sweet stillness of his rose-garden,
so now he turned with a groan from
his telescope, eager to escape from the unbroken
silence of the night. He trimmed
his little lamp, took a book, and sat with his
elbows on the low shelf where stood his
spectroscope, his head resting between his
hands. He read of atoms clashing together
in the shimmering cloud of nebulous systems,
of planets glowing with fervent heat, of
whirlwinds of fire, and hail of molten metal,
of vapour, of rain, of seas and floods, of
earthquakes, of ice, and of great beasts
wallowing in the mud of mighty rivers. All
passed like a pageant through his mind, but
brought no peace. There was no point in
this spectacle of strength and duration on
which his human sympathies could fix.

The want was new to him. Formerly he
would follow with revelling imagination
the path of light flashing through centuries
from some far distant sun, or would trace to
its creation through ancient fires and floods
and glaciers some morsel of stone chipped
from the bare hillside. It never had seemed
to him that any element of satisfaction or
comfort or profit was lacking. Now he
was as one who watches a stage with its
scenery set for a great drama, where all the
appointments are present and all the lights
burn, but no player enters and no voice
sounds. He ceased to read, and his memory
by some unconscious operation called up
again the conversation he had with Arnitte
over Mrs, Wynnston's dinner-table. *' There
is no worth or value, intellectual or moral,
in a star or its properties apart from the

effect produced on human minds." The
transcendental mystic had said something
of this kind, and had flung at him a tag
of Arnold — that knowledge is useless unless
correlated with conduct. Well, was not all
knowledge inherently worthy ? He scribbled
logarithms on a slip of white blotting-paper,
tried to smile scornfully, and ended by smiling
painfully. In his heart he began to doubt
whether perfect peace could be drawn down
the tube of a telescope, and whether comfort
would come at the call of the integral
calculus. Then the old jingle came back
into his ears, "Little Kate is going to be
married."

The dim lamp shone on the vicar's gray
hair, and when he raised his head there
was conflict, manful strife, showing through
his firm set features. This was a weakness

which had come on him without warning,
all unexpected. It sometimes happens that
a man who seems in usual health and spirits
learns from his physician that fatal disease
has seized him, that the sum of his life
must be counted in months, perhaps in
weeks. The vicar felt like such a man.
He believed himself sound, and suddenly a
horror and an agony had fallen upon him.
But he would conquer. He was strong; he
would fight this thing.

His thoughts were brave, but in spite of
his self-reliance his whole being cried out
for help and strength. Where should he
go ^ where could he look ? He turned over
the pages of his book, and at length rose,
took his lamp, and went down to his study.
A low desk at which he wrote his sermons
was in the middle of the room. He placed

the light upon it and strode noiselessly up
and down over the soft thick carpet. Found
him were crowded shelves on which stood
brown volumes of theology and controversy,
the survivals of past years when, as a young
man, with living faith and enthusiasm he
had entered the church, passionately convinced
of the truth of what he preached,
and earnestly desirous of winning men to
the knowledge of his Master. Mingled
with these were the classics of his college-days
and works of history, of travel, and
of fiction. He seldom touched them now.
Horace indeed stood on his desk, and by
him Lucretius. In idle moments he would
snatch glimpses of sardonic enjoyment from
the Sybarite, or gain strength and conviction
in his materialism from the philosopher.
But to find well - fingered works

you had to seek the little shelf in his
observatory.

To and fro he paced between the desk and
the shelves till a great longing seized him to
look for comfort among his forsaken friends.
The idea was repugnant to him. It savoured
of weakness, of sentimentality. He '' wished "
to himself, turned his back on the brown rows,
and renewed his weary walking and his endless
self-searching. At last he took up the little
lamp, and, throwing the light forward with
outstretched hand, slowly passed along the
line of books. Three or four times, with uncertain
glance and step, he walked from end to
end, and finally pulled out a small old book.
Setting down the lamp, he knocked the thick
dust from the volume into the fireplace, then
seated himself at his desk. Doubt, shame,
and hope flitted across his face, and then, as

though he had found some expected, half-remembered
passage, his finger stayed upon a
page.

His lips moved, but no voice sounded as he
read, " When a good man is afflicted, tempted,
or troubled with evil thoughts, then he understanding
better the great need he hath of God,
without whom he perceived he can do nothing
that is good." He stopped, pondered, and
listlessly read on till another passage arrested
his attention. "Although thou shouldest
possess all created good, yet couldest thou not
be happy thereby nor blessed ; but in God
who created all things consisted thy whole
blessedness and felicity."

He leaned back in his chair, his hands fell
into his lap. The draught from an open
window blew over and over the leaves of the
book. An old chord had been sounded in the

vicar's heart, a long dammed-up spring of
memory had been set free. He was young
again, with life before him, with faith and with
love in his nature. Both had failed him. His
reason had rejected the dogmas of his childhood,
and the woman upon whom all the
tenderness of his youth was poured had filled
his life with misery. The remembrance vas
bitter, but it was good. Long he sat there
motionless, thinking, thinking, thinking. And
as he thought a barrier as of ice between him
and his soul slowly melted away. The light
of morning, gray and cold, showed through
the window's '^ glimmering square," and the
vicar's eyes were full, and tears were trickling
down his face.

He bent forward once more and read, "
Lord my God, be not Thou far from me ; my
God, have regard to help me ; for there have

risen up against me sundry thoughts and
great fears afflicting my soul."

Gently he closed the book, went to his bed,
and slept.

Another trial was before him. The morning
was Sunday, and the vicar rose tranquil
and composed. He breakfasted and glanced
over the notes of an old sermon, for he had no
inclination to prepare a fresh one, jotted down
in pencil one or two new points, and then, as
an hour remained before church time, strolled
out into his rose-garden. He drank in the
fresh air, the sweet scents, and the bright
colours, with something of his old exhilaration.
He had a secret sense of shame at his last
nio-ht's agitation.

The experience is not a singular one. How
many of us have composed eloquent speeches,
written scenes of heartrending pathos, or come

to heroic resolutions overnight, and blushed
to remember it in the morning. A cruel spirit
of common sense pervades the early hours ;
the morning light is remorselessly searching.
Nocturnal eloquence then seems absurd ;
pathos becomes bathos — heroism, imbecility.

The vicar struck his stick upon the gravel
paths, squared his yet straight and broad
shoulders, and inwardly desired to pick up
St. Thomas a Kempis, still lying on the desk,
and push him to the back of the dusty shelves.
Possibly he would have done it had not a
creaking gate in the wall swung open, and
Kate Wynnston hurriedly tripped along the
path towards him.

There was nothing unusual in her visit.
She was '' free " of the rose-garden, a privilege
only enjoyed by the vicar's first favourites.
She would come in at all times, would revel

after her sensuous manner among the flowers,

would wage deadly war upon certain little

green flies which grew fat in opening buds

and curling leaves, would deck her hair with

the choicest blossoms. There were many roses

in Mrs. Wynnston's garden, but they never

seemed so fragrant to Kate as her ^' dear old

vicar's." Often she would burst in upon him

on Sunday mornings before church, merrily

threaten him with ]airs. Wynnston's newest

scheme of church reform, walk across the

churchyard with him, and perhaps take her

place along nth his old housekeeper in his

square pew below the " three-decker " pulpit.

He was always glad to see her bright face,

but this morning his first impulse was to

hasten to the house and shut the door. He

obeyed the second, which was to swing round

and meet her. She came with both hands
VOL. I. L

extended, and, as he took them in his, he
noticed that her eyes were sunken and heavy,
and that her lip quivered a little. They
turned towards the house. What the vicar
said he never could remember ; perhaps it was
some comment on the weather or the roses.
But in his heart he was repeating, " Help me,
for there have risen up against me sundry
thoughts and great fears afflicting my soul."

There was a silence which Kate broke.

'' I — I want to speak to you," she said ;
'please will you help me if you can, and tell
me what to do."

They seated themselves, the vicar on a
garden-seat with an elm trunk for the back,
she on a log at his feet. They often sat there
watching," as Kate said, " the roses grow."

"Forgive me for troubling you," she continued;
"perhaps I ought not to talk even

to you. I don't know. I have nobody in all
the world to go to ; and oh I I am so very,
very unhappy."

There was a dry despair in her voice more
painful than tears. The vicar laid his hand
upon her head and caressed her dark curls.

It's Fred, my cousin," she said, as though
the vicar needed no further explanation.
He was so good to me when I was little —
better than anybody else ; we always said
we should be married ; and once, when we
were very little, we ran away together. I've
always loved him" (this very softly). " I never
could love anybody else in this world; and
now" (with a tearless sob) " he is tired of me.
I've driven him away with my temper and
jealousy, and he has seen some one he likes
better. What shall I do ? what shall I do ?"

Kate could not see the vicar's face, or she

would have forgotten her own troubles. He
was youthful for his years, and few lines of
care and age had marked his features. Just
now he looked a hundred. Several times he
tried to speak, but the words died away in
his throat. Kate must have felt the trembling
of his hand upon her head.

At length he said, " Poor little lassie !
Everything seems very dreary, doesn't it, and
life hard to bear, and hope all gone ? Yet,
my dear, you have not begun to know trouble.
In the spring there are cold, rough days when
the wind blows and the hail beats, but next
morning the sun shines, and the world is
bright and warm. And then summer lies
ahead, and every week brings fewer storms
and more leaves and buds. Such weather is
easily borne. It is when the leaves are falling,
and the nights bring frost, and the earth

grows harder, and the green things have gone,
and winter and darkness are before, that
storms are really searching. Do you understand
me, Kate ? "

*' I think," she said, " the storm m spring
is worst, for then we have a right to expect
sunshine."

'•' And there is sunshine, my little spring
iiower,'' he replied, " and there will be sunshine,
and the summer must follow. I do not
say your griefs are light, girl, but, believe meno
grief is mortal till the autumn has come,
till life's tree has ceased to shoot, till life's
course is unalterably fixed. Cheer up, lassie,
and be sure that whatever happens now these
clouds must pass away, for your summer has
not begun. Think of those for whom there
is never more summer, and be comforted."

She thought he spoke of his own short

and ruined season of happiness, and lie took
his hand and pressed it between hers. He
bent forward and kissed her forehead.

We must go to church now," he said ;
"it is time."

Kate sat in the square pew beneath him
and greatly wondered as he read the service.
He was never in earnest before, and never
seemed in earnest. Now his whole nature
quivered with fervour. The bumpkins around
saw and heard nothing new or strange. Kate
vibrated in sympathy with the poor unloved
parson. Who has not felt that splendid
crescendo of entreaty with which the Litany
closes ? Prayer upon prayer has floated upward
in the calm devout tones of the priest,
and the people have whispered their beseeching.
Then yearning grows and prayer
becomes passion ; the voices quicken, and at

last people and priest together besiege the
throne of God : " Lamb of God, that takes
away the sins of the world, have mercy upon
us." 'lord, have mercy upon us." " Christ,
have mercy upon us."

As he read his tones rose and rang above
the dull rustic voices, and the anguish of
them struck one hearer with pity and amazement.
Then the passion was assuaged, and
in quiet reverence the Lord's Prayer should
have fallen from the lips of the priest. But
for a moment he was silent, bent forward
on his knees. The vicar was praying.

Praying ! Yes, but to whom ? Was it
to an all-strong, all-brood Being watching from
afar over the petty lives and fates of men,
ready to bestow help and comfort upon those
who ask ? Or was the man appealing to all
that was best and truest in himself, drawing:

from fountains of strength hidden deep in
his own nature ? Who can tell ? Perhaps
he was not sure himself.

Enough to know that the vicar's prayer
was answered.

The war was followed by a truce.

Fred, somewhat ashamed of himself, and
really concerned by the obvious grief of his
cousin, grew kindly and even tender. The
vicar found an opportunity of speaking to
him, in the most delicate and affectionate
way, of his duty to Kate and of the great
trouble she was experiencing.

Fred would have resented this interference
if he had found a chance. But the vicar was
too clever a man of the world to give him
one, and besides, Fred could not but recognise
his right, as Mrs. Wynnston's nearest male

friend, to act in the matter. The conversation
was quite casual in outward forms and hypothetical
in its terms. But Fred recognised
its legitimate application, and at its close
shook the vicar's hand with the most friendly
goodwill and respect.

Kate, for her part, was much gentler and
more patient. She could not forget the
vicar's words in the garden and his tones in
the pulpit. She did not understand his
deep anguish, but she knew it existed, and
her own troubles seemed to grow trivial
before it.

A woman's life is to be glad and to be
sorry. Good women rarely know what agony
of soul is. Perhaps they do not know joy
of soul either. Hand in hand with a lover,
or chirruping to a first-born child, a woman
is happy with a happiness as bright as the

blitheness of a bird. The lover proves false,
the child dies, and see her tears, her wringing
of hands, listen to her cries of pain. The
trouble seems very real, and so it is to her.
But the cure is usually certain, often speedy.
Sometimes there is balsam in a black bonnet.
What would you ? For her the hidden things
of life do not exist. It is not her fault, but
the fault of social conventions which mould
her nature. She has learned that her functions
are to love, to marry, to bear children,
to dress becomingly, to go to church, to
curtsey in the creed to the Second Person of
the Trinity, to play the piano, to read the
last novel, perhaps to dance and to make
pastry. She goes through life smiling and
crying. Not for her are agonies of doubt,
searchings of spirit, high endeavour, divine
renunciation. Woman, indeed, is the sacrifice

of man, only she does not know it, and a
sacrifice made unconsciously is no sacrifice.
She bears the limitations of her existence as
she bears her children, patient in pain and
peril, believing that she fulfils her duty. It is
pitiful, not heroic. When our first parents
robbed the tree of knowledge. Eve but tasted
the fruit, Adam alone ate it to the core.
Yet there are women whose eyes have been
opened, who have peered into the heart of
earth's mystery, who have drunk deep the
sweet and bitter draughts of life. And what
are they "? where are they found ? Look at
their haggard faces, hear their hollow laughter,
seek them in dark corners. Shameless and
annexed you call them ; so some are, but not
all. Have you thrilled from head to foot
when that great actress as Cleopatra, clasping
her dying lover to her bosom, cries, with

an agony that stops the beating of your

heart —

Die where thou hast lived ;
Quicken with kissing ; had my lips that power,
Thus would I wear them out."

A schoolgirl could not have clone it. Nor
could your goodwife, who, sitting a little
shamefaced at your side, whispers, "How
very pathetic ! " You are glad that she
could not, and perhaps you are right. That
actress has felt the surge of passion. She is
only kissing a paid player to whom she will
carelessly nod as she passes him tomorrow.
See how her breast heaves, the blood mounts
to her face, she strains the body of her
Antony closer and closer, her voice is choked
in one long kiss. It is only acting. Ah !
but how did she learn to do it ? The world
applauds and admires the actress. In the
life of the woman there are passages which

men discuss with many a brutal jest, which
women whisper amid the clatter of the teacups,
and nod and wag their heads. If your
wife met her in the street she would gather
up her skirts. You are rather pleased; you
would be shocked if your wife clasped her
hand, kissed her polluted lips, and said, " Poor
sister." Don't fear. There is no danger.
Your estimable spouse is incapable of such a
breach of decorum.

Mrs. Wynnston having settled the great
tenor question more or less satisfactorily,
found time to devote some attention to Kate's
affairs. She did not understand her daughter,
and even Fred's simpler character perplexed
her. She reasoned with herself — " Here are
two young people, good-looking, comfortable
in circumstances, fond of one another, companions
from childhood, evidently destined

by fortune for one another ; why should they
not make love and get married like sensible
beings, instead of squabbling and sulking and
making themselves miserable ? In my time
boys and girls were made more reasonable.
What is coming to the rising generation I
don't know. What can a body do with two
such stupid lovers ? If I sympathise with
Kate she will fly at me ; if I remonstrate
with Fred he will think Kate has complained
to me and go into the sulks for a week.
Perhaps I had better leave them alone, yet I
feel it's my duty to do something. If I only
knew what."

She ended by writing to Mr. Hazzleden,
senior.

Three or four mornings after Fred found
the following letter by his plate at breakfast:—


"My dear Boy — What have you been
doing with yourself all these weeks ? It is
quite a month since you wrote to me. I
thought you were cruising among the
Hebrides, or gone in search of the North
Pole, and now I infer from that wonderful
woman, your Aunt Wynnston, who sends
me a beautiful letter three times a year,
that you are still at Lorton. What is the
reason of it ? From your aunt's account I
should imagine you had joined the church
choir and were singing tenor all day and a
considerable portion of the night. I admire
your aunt, Fred, but her letters are a little
confusing. Or is it black-eyed Kitty who
has kept you? Now dont write *yes' or
I'll disinherit you. I tell you I'm jealous.
I never think with patience of that bit in
the prayer-book about a man not marrying

his niece. The old buffers who wrote it
couldn't have been uncles. Anyhow, they
hadn't Kitty Wynnston for a niece. I only
wish she was here. That good soul, your
Aunt Maria, will drive me crazy. She's a
hyper-calvinist' now, she says. I don't
quite know what that is ; do you ? It's
something unpleasant, for yesterday I just
read her a chapter of Darwin (I do wish
you would read Darwin, Fred, the greatest
man of the century), and your worthy Aunt
Maria said it was all very fine, but she was
content to know she was preordained to
salvation, and I was preordained to another
action.' It's very consoling for her, no
doubt, but I say it's all confounded nonsense.
There are some new people, by the way, in
Dr. Gordon's old house. I suppose it belongs
to Miss O'Connor now. The man is

VOL. I. M

called Williamson, was something 'in shoes
made money, shaky on h's, and rather fat.
Your Aunt Maria and Mrs. W. have struck
up an acquaintanceship. She is an inoffensive
woman, young for her years, and as
amiable as she is ungrammatical. She too
has a turn for theology, and your aunt and
she make the evenings hideous with their
eternal chatter. Your aunt confided to me
that Mrs. AV. was 'a poor creature clothed
in the filthy rags of righteousness and preordained
to perdition from before the foundation
of the world.' I suppose Maria knows,
for she has gone deeply into the subject ;
but upon my word, Fred, I think it was
anything but kind of Providence to do such
wholesale preordination and not give men
and women a chance. I ventured to suggest
this idea to your aunt, but I was sorry

afterwards. She went off into a sermon
on free will. She said my doubts were all
the result of my stubborn belief in free will.
She wanted no free vriYl ; she knew where her
free will would lead her, — ' Free grace if you
like, John, but no free will.' I certainly
have noticed that your aunt has abundance
of will ; as she says it is not ^ free,' I suppose
it isn't. Darwin, my boy, is a great help
in all this nonsense. He never wastes his
time over such stuff. That retired boot-man,
W., is frightfully ignorant. I^just sounded
him the other day as to his views on the
origin of species, and he did not seem to
have any very definite opinions. So I
asked him what he thought of Darwin. He
said he didn't know much about it himself,
but he knew a man who had a mill there.
The idiot thought I meant some wretched

town where they make cotton or something.
We have a new curate here, a dear young
creature, whom your aunt immediately preordained
to a place with the patriarchs.
I've lent him * Natural Selection,' but I
don't expect it will do him much good. It's
very hard to drive sense into the head of
a parson. I was only arguing evolution
with him yesterday. He pretended that
he could never see any possible link between
vegetable and animal life. I took
him into the vinery, Fred. Any man who
has grown vines must know that plants
aren't half such fools as they look. The
vines, as you know, run along the roof One
of them has a branch hanging a foot from the
glass. Six inches above it a wire runs all
along. Would you believe it, in a fortnight
that vine had shot up half a dozen tendrils.

hooked them over the wire, and the branch
is now hanging as safely and comfortably
as possible. I pointed this out to our curate,
and he screwed up his eyes and said something
about the beautiful designs of Providence.
All bosh, Fred, and I told him so.
That vine has what Darwin calls a low form
of consciousness — just the same consciousness
as yours and mine, only less of it. If this
is so, where is the difficulty of the evolution
of men from plants, the lower forms giving
place to the higher ? For my part I should
not be the least ashamed to trace my
ancestry to a cabbage. Indeed, I've noticed
manifestations of practical common - sense
about several species of cabbages which
would really surprise you. But I must
tell you all about that another time, for I
am gossiping on and quite forgetting the

chief reason of my letter. Last week I ran
up to town and breakfasted with one of the
Whips.' He tells me the dissolution cannot
be delayed more than a few weeks. The
Government really is in a minority, and a
vote of censure may be carried almost any
night. The Premier has made up his mind
not to resign, so an appeal to the country
must be taken. The Whip was good enough
to say he knew a seat which would just suit
you, where you will have to fight, but with
an excellent chance of winning. I think
you had better come home tomorrow or the
day after, when we can talk the matter over.
The Whip expressed his great surprise that
I, a high and dry old Tory, should be anxious
to see my son a Liberal candidate. To be
quite frank, Fred, I am delighted that in
this respect, at any rate, you are a better man

than your father. You see, your sainted
mother had Conservative tendencies, and I
am a peaceful person. Has Kate any politics :
Ordinary girls call themselves Tories ; they
think it more respectable. But Kate isn't
an ordinary girl. Bless her bonny face, I
warrant she's a Republican, or something
equally dreadful. I remember once when
she was a little chit she refused to kneel
down to say her prayers. Her mother
punished her, and, of course, it was very
naughty, but I gave her a penny. Don't
tell your aunt or my character will be gone
for ever. I always think that Darwin
throws a strong light on party politics. You
see, there are two ways of looking at the
world. One is that it was made in six
separate pieces, and that the whole job was
completed when Adam lost that rib of his.

The other is that it slowly grew through
millions of years, that it is not finished yet,
that it is always developing and is always
capable of development. The first is the
Tory view. We think things are very good
as they are, always were as good as they
could be, and that it is our duty to do
nothing in particular. The other is the
Liberal view. You think that new forms,
new thoughts, new methods are always being
evolved ; that in society the less complex is
always giving birth to the more complex ;
that it is your duty to promote the process
in every way you can. We have an ideal
behind us, you have one before you. Perhaps
you don't quite know what it is, and
what it is worth. Still you are always
trying to get at it by steps of natural and
artificial selection. After all this you will

say I am a queer sort of Tory. I often think
I am ; yet I tell you, Fred, if I had a vote
in your constituency I would give it against
you. Ever since I married I have voted
Tory, and I'm too old to change now. If
I voted Liberal even for you, your poor
mother would not rest in peace. Now, just
one serious word. I have always hoped that
you would some day marry my little pet.
If you and she have arranged it I am very
glad. If not, I only wish she may get as
good a husband as I know my lad would
make. But you must be prudent. You
want to go into Parliament, and I should
like to see you there. It is one thing to
be a member as a bachelor and another as a
married man. We have not a great deal
of money, and when I am gone I expect
you will have to give up this place and settle

entirely in town. So, my dear boy, think
over all these things before you make up
your mind. You must remember Kate as
well as yourself # # # :^. That
man Williamson has just been here. It
seems he took his girls last week to see some
actor give a drawing-room entertainment.
Mrs. W. has strong views about theatrical
amusements and remonstrated. W. defended
himself and came to get my opinion
in the matter. ' I told Jane,' he said, ' the
man hadn't his play-latin' clothes on, and
that makes all the difference. Don't you
think it does?' I said the point was a
very nice one, but I thought that he had
very accurately discriminated between legitimate
and illegitimate theatricals. He has
gone away quite happy. Give my love to
your aunt and Kate, and with the same to

yourself, I am, my dear Fred, your affectionate
father, John Hazzleden.

Pes. — I have spent the whole day in
writing this and must run off to water the
greenhouse. I promised to read a chapter
of ' Darwin on Worms ' to your Aunt Maria
to-night, but I'm afraid there won't be time."

Fred packed his bag and asked Arnitte
to stay with him a few days at home, and
afterwards give him a lift with his election
business. Next day the pair started for Mr.
Hazzleden^s house.

South the travellers journeyed to Barkleigli
Junction, a great railway centre named from
the village of Barkleigh, and ten miles
from Soarceter, a thriving and populous
manufacturing town. Mr. Hazzleden lived a
couple of miles from Barkleigh, and when he
succeeded to his father's property thirty-five
years ago Soarceter was a quaint old place,
consisting principally of coaching inns and
churches, and remarkable for nothing except
some Roman remains, which the people would
tell you were built by Julius Caesar, who was
Pope of Rome many years ago, and who took

a great number of Englishmen prisoners in
battle, and set them free again because they
looked like angels. This tradition is supposed
to lack historical foundation, but the
people of Soarceter a generation back lived
and died believing it. They were moderately
happy and prosperous in their lives, and their
descendants are firmly convinced that they
ultimately achieved perpetual felicity. If so,
what reason have we for boasting ? We have
reached a high degree of culture, we know
that Caesar was not Pope, that he crossed the
Paibicon, and that Brutus killed him i' the
Capitol. Yet the old Soarceter folk earned
their bread with a little butter, and at last
went to heaven. At length a remarkable change
came over the spirit of Soarceter life. A
persevering cobbler in a cellar in the High
Street discovered a new and cheaper way of

making boots. For a few years he kept his
discovery to himself, but when he left his
cellar and went into the biggest shop in the
town the secret leaked out. The people of
Soarceter seemed at once to be inspired by
the genius of betaking. They worked in
'' soles " and " uppers " as poets work in
words and thoughts. They were born
cobblers, not made. They revelled in their
calling, perfected its smallest details, and
scraped together comfortable fortunes. The
cellars gave place to shops, the shops to big
factories. Every one prospered. The factory
hands saved money and eventually became
employers themselves. Five times over the
population doubled itself, and Soarceter became
one of the Teat towns of England.

Mr. Hazzleden watched this growth with
interest. Many of his friends became very

rich on the prosperity of Soarceter. They
bought up hind in the town when Lid
was worth little, and sold it again when the
industry of a hundred struo-oiins; shoemakers
had made it worth so much that if you had
covered it with a carpet of £5 notes you
would have hardly exceeded its market value.
Mr. Hazzleden had never increased his means
by speculating upon the success of his fellows.
He did not like the principle. " I don't make
boots myself' he said, "and I don't see
why I should put my hand in the pockets of
the man who does." Mr. Hazzleden drew
his income from his farm land and his
consols, and remained comparatively poor.
His friends and the world generally said,
"Serve him right." Soarceter had been a
fold mine to the industrious and the idle
alike, and the man who refused to dig for

nuggets, and who declined to permit other
people to pour them into his lap, deserved
to be hard up.

Mr. Hazzleden scorned the pity of his
acquaintances as much as he scorned their
means of making money. He watched them
heap investment upon investment and then
disappear — for Barkleigh presented few attractions
to the affluent. He himself was
happy enough. His only regret was that
Soarceter had spread over the hilltop, that
a cluster of distant factory chimneys was
visible from the dining-room windows, and
that the west wind was sometimes laden
with more smoke than was good for the
flowers and fruit. Accident, and to some
extent disposition, made him a solitary man.
His wife died when he was still young,
and he never married again. The growth of

Soarceter dispersed all gentle society in
which he miorht have found intimate acquaintances.
Walking through the old Soar-peter
market-place he sometimes pointed out
to Fred the occupants of the splendid carriages
which dashed about. " See that man," he
would say, as a pompous old fellow clattered
past ; " twenty years ago he sold pies from
a tray in this very market-place. I remember
when you were a little lad you
used to tease your mother for coppers to buy
his cakes. He was mayor last year and
entertained the Prince of Wales. He expects
to be knighted." Again he would
remark, " Look at that handsome woman
with the red parasol, the one behind the
green livery. You see her ? She was our
first cook at Barkleigh, before you were born.
She married a factory hand who invented a

VOL. I. N

new loop for pulling on boots, and I suppose
she's worth a hundred thousand pounds at
least. Her husband has been dead several
years, and I'm afraid there's some truth in
the scandal which has been talked of her."

So he reviewed the mushroom magnificence
of Soarceter. He was not envious or
contemptuous of it. His own equals and
companions had been enriched and driven
away by it, but he owed it no grudge. He
felt the enormous advantage which a community
possesses where the poorest members
may hope to raise themselves to comfort
and wealth by industry and ingenuity. Mr.
Hazzleden was not a man of high education.
He was a country gentleman, the son of a
country gentleman, bred in the tradition
that it is a much finer thing to take a five-bar
gate neatly, and to shoot straight, than

to read Homer, Virgil, or Milton. But he
was of singularly powerful mind, and looked
at all questions from a high, clear standpoint.
He felt his own limitations and regretted
them, and his son Fred he sent to Rugby
and Oxford. Of course he could not emancipate
himself entirely from the prejudices of
his class. That would have been superhuman.
He always refused the hospitality
of the pitman mayor, and shunned those
social circles where his ancient cook was a
great lady. Maybe it was weakness, but
it was natural.

Mr. Hazzleden's dogcart awaited the arrival
of Fred and Arnitte at the station. Fred took
the reins, Arnitte mounted beside him. They
drove past a dozen red brick villas, very new,
very respectable, and bearing an indescribable
appearance of awkward and unaccustomed

affluence. As they turned up the lane to
Barkleigh Fred heaved a sigh of relief, and
said, " Now we're out of the atmosphere of
boots."

You don't like the smell of leather," returned
Arnitte. " Ah, but if you want to get
into Parliament you must learn to relish worse
smells."

"I don't mind leather," said Fred; "it's
brass which smells so nasty. I wonder how it
is that a rich boor is so much more offensive
than a poor one. You can tolerate beneath
corduroy what is insufferable beneath broadcloth.
The people about here by industry and
skill have made money, yet they are much less
to my taste than the men who are still earning
a pound a week."

Arnitte laughed. " Your Radicalism is as
remarkable as what you tell me of your father's

Toryism. My dear boy, your stiff-wickedness
will some day get you into trouble. I shouldn't
be surprised if you so far forgot yourself as to
shake hands with a duke."

It was Fred's turn to laugh now. " Upon
my word, Arnitte," he said, " you can call a
fellow a snob as neatly as any one I know.
What I said sounded snobbish, I dare say,
but it wasn't meant so. I detest men whose
pockets are always bulged out, who seem always
to be saying, ' I began life as an errand boy,
and now I'm worth £10,000 a year.' Surely
it isn't always snobbish to despise the upstart
who has lived to make money ?"

"Yet," returned Arnitte, "I think it can
be argued that money is the only thing worth
living for."

Perhaps it can, but you are the last man
to do it," Fred warmly replied, for he was no

believer in the genuineness of his friend's
cynicism.

Don't be so sure of that. Remember what
your Political Economy handbook tells you —
Money is not wealth.' To suppose that it is
involves a moral as well as an economic fallacy.
The man who lives merely to get wealth is a
beast, but I don't think every eager money-better
is. You are going to say I am chopping
straws." Arnitte had an irritating trick of
anticipating his opponent's retorts in argument
; he was a thought-reader.

Fred nodded ; he knew his friend's unconscious
habit.

"It's not straw-chopping," Arnitte went
on. " Money is the greatest instrument of
enlightenment and civilisation in the world,
and those who have none ought to live to get
as much as they honestly can. Look at the

people in those hideous villas. Ashen they
were children they probably lived in ugly
squalid houses, grinding ten hours a day to
make a few shillings, and finding no pleasure
in life but beer and tobacco. Now they live
in comfort and in some degree of refinement.
The man perhaps buys pictures. He has no
more taste than a Hottentot ; still it's a shorn
of grace that he cares to have pictures on his
walls. His wife is dreadfully vulgar in her
silk gowns and jewels, but I believe she is a
more civilised creature than when she was a
slipshod factory hand finding no shame in her
dirty cotton rags. The bumptious vulgarity
of the pair fiends you. But what can you
expect ? Social refinement only comes with
breeding. You're not compelled to make
them your bosom friends. On the other
hand, you shouldn't despise them because

they ve made money and are proud of
it."

Fred meditatively flicked the horse with
his whip, and presently replied, " There's a
good deal of truth in what you say. I tell
you what it is," he went on, " it's a ]city you're
not going to try for Parliament instead of me.
We want men with ideas there. You have
plenty ; I've none."

Arnitte shrugged his shoulders. " I may
have some ideas," he said, " but I have no idea
of going into your Parliament."

The pronoun and the slight accent which he
laid upon it struck Fred as peculiar. Then
the Parliament was not his Parliament. Fred
remembered a discussion he had had with
Kate a few weeks before. Kate declared
that Arnitte was not an Englishman. Fred,
on the other hand, was of opinion that no

foreigner could be so thoroughly acquainted
with English affairs and so perfectly at home
in English society. As a matter of fact
neither of them could remember to have heard
him refer in any way to his past life. Who
he was, where he came from, and wdiat had
brought him to Lorton were mysteries. They
could only agree that he was a gentleman,
an accomplished man, and a very delightful
companion.

When they reached Mr. Hazzleden's door,
Fred jumped down to greet his father, who
came out to welcome them.

Well, Fred, my boy, how are you ? Mr.
Arnitte, glad to see you, sir. I've heard of
you from my sister-in-law, Mrs. Wynnston,"
and he shook his guest warmly by the hand.
sirs. Wynnston thinks there's something-supernatural
about you. She told me all you'd

done. Now, Darwin's a great help in these
matters. All natural enough. You're a fine
example of evolution, sir."

Arnitte knew from Fred of his father's
hobby, and gravely replied that he too had
found Darwin of great assistance in many
difficulties.

Mr. Hazzleden stopped to shake Arnitte's
hand once more. " I'm delighted to see you,
sir — delighted. You've read him, and of course
you've found him a help. The greatest man
of the century, sir. But we'll have a long
talk after dinner. There are several points
on which I should like to have your opinion."

Fred followed Arnitte into his room.
Dear old dad," he said, " I'm sure you'll like
him. Don't think he's a fool because he's
Darwin mad, for he's one of the shrewdest and
most observant men I ever knew."

Arnitte made some kindly reply.

King if you want anything. We dine at
six, and the first bell has just gone." Fred
went off to his own room.

A party of four sat down to dinner. There
were Mr. Hazzleden, Aunt Maria, Fred, and
Arnitte. The last quietly noted his surroundings.
It was an old-fashioned room with
three large windows. Two of them looked
out over flower-beds and a small lawn up to
an orchard. Seen out of the other a stretch
of cornfields, broken only by the red roofs of
Barkleigh cottages, extended to the distant
chimneys of Soarceter, a vanguard advancing
over the hill. The furniture was old and
something the worse for wear. A mahogany
easy-chair upholstered in some velvet-like
material of crimson colour stood by the hearth-rug.
On the back was a dark patch where

evidently for many years Mr. Hazzleden's
head had rested, as in the evening after early
supper he pored over the pages of Darwin,
and perhaps read a passage aloud to Aunt
Maria knitting stockings on the other side of
the fireplace. In a shallow alcove stood a
sideboard with a tall looking-glass back. On
it were a dozen quaint pieces of china. At
each side, on a crochet mat of red wool, was a
round ball of china, deep blue in colour,
with clouded markings. There were three or
four small teacups, some cracked, also a
flask-shaped object, which reminded one of
a powder-flask in blue china. Three large
vases stood at the back, very old and valuable,
and the middle one bore a great mass of
bright flowers. There were flowers everywhere
— on the sideboard, on the table, on
brackets on the walls. Some, especially the

pansies. were most unusual in shape and
colour. Mr. Hazzleden, who was very proud
of them, called Arnitte's attention to them.

'•' Governor s own breeding," ejaculated Fred
sith a twinkle.

Arnitte looked inquiringly.
Get up early in the morning and you'll
find him in the pansy-bed with a camels-hair
brush impiously interfering with the order of
nature."

Mr. Hazzleden laughed and explained that
by transferring the pollen from one flower to
another with a small brush it was possible
to blend shapes and colours in a very remarkable
manner. He had been most successful
in this method — thanks to Darwin, he
said, from whom he had gleaned many hints
as to the principles of selection. Mr. Dazzles
was now fairly launched upon a favourite

topic. He broached the theory of the consciousness
of plants and gave a dozen illustrations
in support of it. He was plucking
a large double fuchsia that morning when
his nail slipped and he accidentally inflicted
a long jagged wound on the stalk. " I was
sorry," he said, "because I hate cruelty."

But surely you don't suppose," interrupted
Arnitte, "that the plant was hurt
that it felt any pain ?"

Precisely what I do suppose, my dear sir,'
replied Mr. Hazzleden. " Depend upon it
that fascia is suffering from my carelessness
Now, if I scratched you perhaps you would
jump and cry out. Plants can't do that
their feelings are slower. But if you saw
that fascia now, if you noticed how it has
drawn up and contracted its wounded limb,
how listlessly the leaves hang near the

wound, you would believe that the plant was
suffering."

He went on with great earnestness, explaining
his theories of vegetable life. Plants
had some rudimentary social sense, he said.
Put two flowers side by side in the greenhouse
and both would languish ; move them
apart and both would thrive. Some people
were greatly perplexed to explain these facts.
To him they were simple enough. When a
man and woman of uncongenial dispositions
married they soon became unhappy. Now,
plants had their sympathies and antipathies
just like human beings. Condemn two antipathetic
plants to companionship and they
began to pine, and if not separated at length
died. In answer to a question from Arnitte
he declared that he had not been able to
imagine how and through what medium

plants formed their impressions and received
their sensations. Of course the had neither
eyes, noses, nor ears like human beings, yet
he felt sure they had some sensations corresponding
to sight and smell, if not to hearing
also. "This should be no difficulty to you
at any rate, Mr. Arnitte, for you can see into
men's minds with your eyes shut."

Arnitte was interested and amused. In
spite of the apparent extravagance of his
host's theories he was not disposed to assert
that there was no element of truth in them.
And then Mr. Hazzleden had such a wide
knowledge of plants, and for years had employed
such acute powers of observation, that
he could give plausible evidence in support of
all his propositions. Arnitte mentally decided
that Fred was right in regarding his father
as an unusually shrewd and observant man.

From the foot of the table Aunt Maria
talked to Fred. She was a little, thin-faced
woman of sixty, with a long, sharp nose,
straight lips and high-arched eyebrows, which
made her always appear as though she had
just thought something very astonishing.
Inward surprise was her constant expression.
In this respect, however, her face was deceptive.
Aunt Maria was too much engaged in
the contemplation of those celestial duties and
delights to which she believed she was preordained,
to wonder greatly at any mere mundane
matters. In truth, she was a kind-hearted
old maid who cheerfully occupied her hands
with the domestic concerns of Mr. Hazzleden's
house while her mind was revelling among
the golden streets of the New Jerusalem.
But for an occasional touch of rheumatism

she might have imagined herself bodily there.
VOL. I. o

At such times she would rub the afflicted
part with a decoction of her own manufacture
and earnestly murmur, " Ah, there'll be no
pain there." What with the lotion and what
with the thought, Aunt Maria contrived to
endure her aching, and even to extract some
subtle enjoyment from it. She was a rather
provoking controversialist. From incessant
brooding, matters of faith had assumed a
concrete reality in her mind which admitted
of no discussion. It seemed foolish to dispute
whether there was such a place as
Heaven when Aunt Maria could give you
the carats of the golden pavement and the
tide times of the Jasper Sea. She was
equally well acquainted with the duties of
the future life and the services required to
attain it. In all these matters she was
placidly certain, and would no more doubt

the reality and truth of her convictions than
she would doubt that King John signed
Magna Charta, or that Paris is the capital of
France. She was not self-righteous or uplifted
; she simply regarded her preordination
as a divine mystery to be accepted without
question. It did not confer upon her any
sense of personal superiority. She was a
humble little woman, who, in spite of her
grotesque creed, lived a useful, self-sacrificing
life. She was full of pity and charity to all
mankind, except indeed the Jesuits, whom
she regarded as incarnations of the evil one,
and whose handiwork she saw in every crime
committed in the country. For those who
differed from her she had a gentle toleration
which was sometimes rather irritating. Fred,
out of mischief, would argue with her such
momentous questions as whether the saints

are now in the enjoyment of full bliss or
awaiting in a middle sphere the final accomplishment
of the prophecies, or whether the
service of Heaven is all praise, or praise and
prayer combined. This latter was a favourite
topic of Aunt Maria. She held strong views
upon it, and defended them with a dexterity
and a knowledge of the Scriptures bearing on
the problem which were most formidable.
"No prayer, Fred," she once said, "no prayer.
It's all praise there." Fred, with the levity
of youth, expressed some heterodox opinion,
but Aunt Maria was not 'shocked. She
had too much confidence in her religious
convictions. She knew that he was preordained
to salvation, and his theological eccentricities
gave her no trouble. Every argument
she closed with " Ah, my dear boy, you'll
know some day," and then she smiled, nodded,

twiddled her thumbs, perhaps dropped a tear,
and sat silently staring into that eternity
which had become as familiar to her as
church on Sunday. There was no shaking
her serene confidence. Sometimes, when
she had lightly brushed aside the dicta of
Darwin, Mr. Hazzleden impatiently retorted,
"Maria, you know nothing about it. You
never read him, and I can't make you understand
his first principles." Then the dear
old thing, forgetting her sixty years, answered,
•'' Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings,
John, out of the mouth of babes
and sucklings ; ah ! you'll know some day."
A part of the future great reward for which
Aunt Maria looked was, evidently, the confusion
of those who encountered her in
argument. Whatever doubts may rest on
her creed, none can be cast upon her fidelity

to duty. She managed Mr. Hazzleden's house
with firmness and skill, and exerted a controlling
influence felt in every corner of it.
Mr. Hazzleden often said in simple admiration,
'maria, it's a pity you never got
married. You'd have made a splendid wife."
Then she would sigh, perhaps simper, and say,
Who knows, John, maybe it's all for the
best'' When a young girl Maria had been
engaged to a curate. He jilted her, and
the affection which she bestowed on the individual
seemed to spread over the whole
class. She had a weakness for curates ; she
subscribed to their benevolent societies and
made them slippers. In her heart, it is probable,
she still cherished a faint, tender hope
of making happy the home of some parson.
Old maids have a curious power of self-deception
; the older they get the bigger does

the possibility of marriage loom in their
minds. The handsome woman of forty, when
rallied by some intimate friend on her singleness,
will laughingly reply that she is too old
and ugly to find a husband. When the same
woman is fifty-five the same jest will call
up a flush of self - consciousness and a disingenuous
answer that she "doesn't want
to get married." The explanation seems to
be that so long as marriage is quite within
the bounds of probability, a woman regards
her future with easy indifference ; but as soon
as age has put it out of the question her
thoughts brood on matrimonial companionship
with morbid intensity, and she begins
to persuade herself that more unlikely things
have happened than that she should find a
husband. Thus it occurred that Aunt Maria,
if not absorbed in devotional meditation,

treated with an attention almost coquettish
any young men, especially curates, who
visited Mr. Hazzleden's house.

It was not until dinner was over, and
the three men were smoking their cigars,
that the subject of the election was mentioned.
In a pause of the conversation
Fred said, '' Well, dad, what about the
constituency V |

^' Bless me," said Mr. Hazzleden, ''Mr.
Arnitte and I have had such an interesting
chat that I forgot all about business. It's a
seat at Dockborough, and is now held by a
Tory. But he's not a popular man, and
besides, has given great offence to the Irish
electors. If you can please them without
offending the Whigs you're sure of a small
majority. Have you, by the way, any views
on Irish policy ? "

'fred is partial to the Irish," said Arnitte,
cracking a nut.

Fred could not tell why a flush, half of
anger, half of shame, burned in his cheeks,
for there was no spark of malice in the clear
eyes which met his across the table. He
answered with embarrassment, " Of course
I think the Irish have been very badly
used for hundreds of years, and we ^ owe
them every reparation. Besides, the Prime
Minister knows better than any one else what
to do, and I'm quite ready to follow him."

Mr. Hazzleden impatiently strummed on
the table, and Arnitte quietly remarked,
You have a great deal to learn in politics."

Fred was beginning to resent his friend's
calm assumption of superiority — an assumption,
he thought, hardly warranted by the
difference of their years. He answered

warmly, '' I don't profess to be an experienced
politician, but all my life has been passed
in England, and I've thought a good deal
about affairs. It seems to me, if I pledge
myself to support every just measure of relief
for Ireland, and to follow the Prime Minister
faithfully, the Irishmen will be satisfied, and
the Whigs ought not to quarrel with me."

"You really suppose," asked Arnitte, "that
justice and faith count for anything in
politics? My dear fellow, you are fitter to
be a minor canon than a member of Parliament.
Except by exalted enthusiasts, such
as the Premier, these considerations are never
thought of. At the present time your Irish
friends want reform, partly for revenge and
partly to spoil the landlords. The fact that
their cause is that of justice is only an accident.
The Whigs and Tories care nothing

about the question for itself, but they know
that while this Irish question blocks the way
they are safe. All they want is to dish the
democracy. The masses are puzzled and are
waiting to discover which side pays best
before they make up their minds."

I don't believe it," said Fred. " If I did
I would take to cabbage-growing rather than
enter public life."

"You'll find out before your election is
over'' Arnitte grimly rejoined.

Mr. Hazzleden, to his son's surprise, intimated
that Fred was evidently a baby in
politics, and that Arnitte was right.

The latter exclaimed again, '* Why, when
we were at Lorton I picked up a local paper
with a speech by the Tory who is going to
contest the county. What did the fellow tell
the agricultural labourers ? Not that Irish

reform was right or wrong, or good or bad
for the empire, but that if it was passed Irish
labourers would flock over here to all the
farms, and wages would go down. I don't
defend it. I say it's thoroughly contemptible.
But he'll go in, and he wouldn't
if he had taken any other line. My contention
is that English politics is a mixed business,
and that, if you are going in for it, you
mustn't be too nice."

Fred eagerly replied, "He was a Tory;
that's what the Tories always do. They
appeal to the basest passions of the mob.
But I am a Radical ; I believe in the justice
and honesty of the people, and the only
appeals I will ever make to them shall be on
grounds of justice and right."

'' I admire your enthusiasm," said Arnitte,
'but you'll never be member for Dockborough."

The evening was hot, and Fred, rising,
threw open a window and stepped out on to
a small verandah. He called to Arnitte, and
the pair, lifting out their chairs, sat down to
finish their cigars. Mr. Hazzleden slipped
away to join Aunt Maria.

Fred was saddened. Here was a young
man, with little experience, but high ideal of
public life, hearing upon its threshold that
the only means of entering was to fling away
his ideal. The game already began to seem
not worth the candle. He was in the habit
of bringing all problems before the bar of
reason and conscience. He imagined that
other people did the same, and that ina
constituency, as well as in an individual,
the judgment of this tribunal must be
supreme. The gospel of pocket versus principle
always seemed to him too base to

be influential, yet if Arnitte and his father
were right it was the one thing he was to
preach. He was half inclined to abandon all
idea of Parliament. Would it not be better
for him to marry Kate and settle down at
Lorton ? This last thought left him more
perturbed than before.

Arnitte sat by, his chair tilted back against
the wall, his feet on the railing of the
verandah, puffing out the smoke in rings,
and silently reading the troubled questionings
of Fred's mind.

"You're disgusted with the whole business,"
he said.

Fred, half angrily, grumbled an assent.

'' I'm pretty quick at understanding character,"
replied Arnitte, " but there are some
things about you, Fred, I admit I can't make
out. You aren't fickle or weak, yet you seem

to keep no grip on your convictions. One
moment you think you're in love, the next
you think you're not. Then you're consumed
with political ambition, and now you
find it a mean passion. Forgive my frankness
; I know our short friendship scarcely
justifies it."

Manifestations of personal interest always
touched Fred, and he replied, '^ I believe
you're right, Arnitte. I haven't understood
myself of late. I seem to have no roots at
all."

Arnitte swung round. " Let me try and
give you one. Don't fling up public life
because the way to it isn't as pleasant as you
hoped. Stick to your ideals all you can, and
remember this : methods which the best menin
your country — the Prime Minister, for instance
— don't shrink from adopting, can't be

wholly bad. You're dealing with an uneducated
democracy and an intensely selfish
aggregation of classes. You must make some
concession to their fears and prejudices, if
you want them to give you the opportunity
of doing any good at all. If I were standing
for Dockborough I would learn to
catch votes without abating a jot of my
self-respect."

Fred was consoled without being convinced.
They rose and went into the house.
In the drawing-room they found Aunt Maria
with Mrs. Williamson, who had called to pay
an evening visit. Mr. Hazzleden, in his easy-chair,
his head tipped back, his elbows on the
arms, and finger-tips meeting, was meditating
on the origin of species. An open volume of
Darwin lay upon his knee. According to his
wont he had set the women chattering, and

then, tired of their talk, had gone off into a
dream.

After the introductions Mrs. Williamson
continued with great earnestness, " I were saying
to your Haunt Maria, Mr. Fred, that this
here evolution theory won't do."

"Contrary to the revealed word of God,"
said Aunt Maria. "Oh, fools and slow of
heart to believe all that the prophets have
spoken." She looked affectionately towards
her brother, and Mrs. Williamson shook her
head and sighed dolorously.

"Is it not written," continued Aunt Maria,

' Man was made upright, but they have

sought out many inventions ' ? Yet, Mrs

Williamson, they would have us believe that

man was made on all fours, and only learned

to stand upright by his own cleverness. In

the pride of their stubborn free will they
VOL. I. p

seek out many inventions, which do but
humble them to the level of the beast that
perished." Aunt Maria raised her eyebrows
until her forehead seemed gradually to fold
itself up into the roots of her hair, and she
gazed at Mr. Hazzleden as though she expected
him to frisk barking round the room on
his hands and knees, or to squat jabbering like
a monkey on the floor.

It's an insult to us," said Mrs. Williamson,
taking up the parable. " My family was
most respectable people, and never 'ad no
relations with hopes or any other disgusting'
beasts." When Mrs. Williamson's shallow mind
was stirred up her aspirates were tremendously
emphatic. It was consequently a pity
that, as a rule, they fell in the wrong places.

It's all nonsense and 'ordines of 'art, as
you say, ma'am," she went on. " Besides, are

we to think that the patriarchs and apostles,
and even 'older ones than them, was descended
from the ugly reptiles as origin-grinders carries
about with them ?"

"That is conclusive," said Aunt Maria;
"the same thought has occurred to me.
Explain it away if you can, John. By your
irreligious theories you would compel us to
believe that the Being whom we worship was
descended from the beasts. Could anything
be more shockingly blasphemous?"

I can't explain anything," said Mr.
Hazzleden ; " I'm sleepy and going to bed,"
and with brief "good-nights" he retired.
Aunt Maria folded her hands and smiled
triumphantly. Fred, who, like his father,
was utterly bored, would have been glad to
escape, but Arnitte, with the manner and
tones of deferential courtesy which were

usual in his conversation with ladies, had
taken up the discussion and was leading the
pair of theologians through the most grotesque
dilemmas. There was no suggestion of irony
in his demeanour. A man of coarser fibre
would have "drawn out" Aunt Maria and Mrs.
Williamson for his own amusement. Fred
was quite sure Arnitte had no such intention.
He had the art of finding pleasure in all
subjects and all persons. He had discovered
two types of character new to him and was
studying them with grave interest. Fred at
once acquitted him of all discourtesy, but he
was thankful when the discussion ended and
Arnitte condescended to go to bed.

The following day a deputation from the
Dockborough Liberal Association waited upon
Fred. It consisted of Robert Davies, Esq.,
merchant, the President, and Arthur Bradley,
Esq., solicitor, the Hon. Secretary. They
were an interesting couple. For many years
past, over daily lunch in the local Reform
Club, they had settled the political affairs of
Dockborough. Every one distrusted them,
every one abused them, yet every one appeared
to believe that they were essential to the
Liberal party. The Dockborough Liberals
had an elaborate representative organisation.

and at committee meetings fiery Radicals
thundered out denunciations against the
"hole-and-corner" management which was
ruining the prospects of the party. There
was an epithet of local significance which
was frequently applied to them. They were
called the chiefs of the *' strawberry jam"
clique. Who invented the term and how it
was derived no one knew; perhaps it was
adopted because of its subtle suggestion of
social superfluity. At any rate, to have a
banking account and pretensions to refinement
were to be " strawberry jam." If Lord Dock-borough,
the president of the club, gave a
dinner to the heads of the party, or if the
newspapers reported the presence of Messrs.
Davies and Bradley at a reception at the
Foreign Office, or if a rich Liberal was made
a Justice of the Peace, the sturdy Radicals

muttered, "strawberry jam again," and
felt greatly relieved by the scornful ejaculation.
But Messrs. Davies and Bradley
kept their places and continued their oligarchic
rule. The reasons were, that they
were the only men in Dockborough able and
willing to pay for their political hobby, and
that they were really the ablest and most
experienced party tacticians in the constituency.
The imputation of "strawberry jam"
they bore with tranquil resignation.

A short time before their visit to Fred
the pair met at the lunch table. Mr. Bradley
had just returned from a business mission to
London.

Hullo ! " he said ; " how's things ? "
Pretty well, thank you ; how are you ? "
replied Mr. Davies, who had a weakness for small
jokes. This was their customary salutation.

Got hold of any one yet ? " inquired Mr.
Bradley as he studied the bill of fare.

No," grumbled Mr. Davies ; " we've got
such a beastly bad name nobody worth having
will look at us. Tell you what it is, Bradley,
we shall have to put you up to give Lawson
a run."

Mr. Lawson was the sitting Tory member.

*' Not good enough, Robert," replied Mr.
Bradley. " Prophet in his own country, you
know."

Mr. Davies disconsolately consumed his
mutton cutlets and a half-pint of thin claret.

Presently Mr. Bradley carelessly remarked,
I saw the Whips on Friday."

Of course you did," retorted Mr. Davies
irritably. " I wish you'd drop those lawyer
tricks and speak out. I knew you'd heard
of some one when you came in."

Mr. Bradley was moulding a piece of
bread into a large pill, his eyes were fixed
CD. a gilt star in the decoration of the ceiling,
and he seemed to hear nothing.

One of the Midland members has recommended
to them a young chap named Dazzles
who lives near Soarceter," he continued.
I knew his father years ago."

*not a philanthropist I hope, Bradley''
said Mr. Davies impressively.

Mr. Bradley winced slightly. At the
last general election he had a brilliant idea.
He secured a worthy man who knew nothing
about politics, but whose lavish charity made
him very popular in the constituency. The
worthy man recited half a dozen speeches
which Mr. Bradley wrote for him, and won
the election. But a month or two after
he was unseated on petition. The costs were

heavy, and they came out of the pockets of
Messrs. Davies and Bradley.

He's only a lad," resumed the latter,
not long from Oxford. He spoke well at the
Union and took a good degree. That's
about all you can say of him. The old man,
who's a Tory by the way, wants to send him
into the House and will pay up, which is the
main point, Eobert. You know as well as I
do that there's precious little chance of anyone
turning out Lawson, and we only fight to
save our credit."

Not much left to save," Mr. Davies
blandly interposed.

true enough. But, you see, we're between
two fires. I wasn't very cordially
received at headquarters I can tell you, and
if we don't fight we're done there. Then the
Association will be turning up rough again."

Think we can get the Association to take
this young sprig ? " inquired Mr. Davies.

"Oh, damn the Association," said Mr.
Bradley.

Wish I knew how" piously murmured
its president.

Look here, Robert," said his friend, " if
you won't be serious I'll chuck up the whole
business."

Mr. Davies raised his hands in affected
consternation.

Taking no notice of the grimace Mr.
Bradley proceeded, '' You can lead them by
the nose if you like. If I were you I'd
quietly spread it about that the Council is
thinking of selecting him, and, by the way,
you might get a puff in the papers — member
of old family, brilliant young man, distinguished
university career, strong Liberal

convictions, and all that. We can easily
make them think that they've discovered
him themselves, and then they'll jump at
him."

Mr. Davies smiled sweetly and stroked
his curly brown beard.

But for goodness' sake say nothing about
the money. Those fellows take a delight
that's positively devilish in bleeding us."

Mr. Davies smiled again, and remarking,
You're a nice man, Bradley," sauntered
away, devouring with apparent relish the
pointed end of a wooden toothpick.

It was a foible of Mr. Bradley to coach
his friend, who, to use an expressive colloquies
often applied to him in Dockborough,
knew his way about " as well as most men.
Within a week the members of the Libera]
Executive were running everywhere dropping

mysterious hints that an absolutely invincible
candidate was shortly to be produced, and
the principal local paper one morning " understood
that negotiations were in progress with
Mr. Frederick Hazzleden of Barkleigh, one
of the rising hopes of the Liberal party, a
gentleman of high social position, brilliant
university career, and unusual oratorical and
political attainments, with the view of inducing
him to contest the seat." Whereupon
Mr. Bradley addressed an indignant letter to
the editor, intended for publication, inquiring
on what authority a statement was made
which was, to say the least of it, premature.
This was the final stroke. The " General
Council " of the Association assembled next
evening, and Mr. Davies warmly protested
that the members, in unofficially considering
the question of a candidate, and communicating

with the newspapers, had not treated
their officers with becoming courtesy. A
chorus of deprecation and denial followed,
and then, without a single dissentient, Mr.
Frederick Hazzleden was invited at an early
date to address the Association. Messrs.
Davies and Bradley, who always paid their own
expenses on such expeditions, were deputed
to visit Barkleigh, and make the necessary
representations to Mr. Frederick Hazzleden.

A certain sect of Dissenters has the
custom, when any one wishes to join the
denomination, of despatching to the "candidate,"
as the aspirant for admission is called,
two members of the church, selected for the
occasion, and known as "messengers." These
messengers examine the 'candidate" in the
articles of faith and belief, — especially those
articles which constitute the peculiar distinction

of the denomination, — and subsequently
make a formal report to the church in meeting
assembled, as to the candidate's fitness for
communion with the saints. One may well
wonder how the numerical strength of the
sect is maintained in spite of an ordeal so
severe. Fancy a trembling young housemaid
called upon to demonstrate her Scriptural
information and doctrinal soundness, beneath
the cold eyes of a brace of deacons in the
solemn privacy of the back-kitchen ! How
any one can manifest creditable theological
attainments under such conditions is a
marvel.

Fred felt a good deal like the young housemaid
when he entered his father's little
library and discovered two gentlemen drinking
port wine with Mr. Hazzleden. One was
a big loud-voiced man ; the other a slight.

short individual of subservient tones and
gestures, and a face which reminded one
slightly of the Christ's head in the Leonardo
fresco. The big man, Mr. Bradley, was
smiling on Mr. Hazzleden, but as Fred
walked in he turned his smile upon the son.
It was a remarkable smile, and people in
Dockborough said it was worth £3000 a year
to its owner. It produced under and at
the side of the eyes, a series of transverse
wrinkles, and it drew the mouth up at the
corners, showing the side teeth as an angry
dog does, while concealing the front ones.
It had no meaning which any human being
had ever been able to discover. It was not
Mr. Bradley's natural laugh, which was simple
and jolly enough. He only used it in business,
and then the person upon whom it was turned
began to feel a sort of hypnotic helplessness.

Mr. Bradley directed upon Fred his
business smile and shook his hand. "Glad
to see you, Mr. Hazzleden. And how are
things ? "

It was a peculiarity of the honorary
secretary of the Dockborough Liberal Association
that he rarely waited for an answer to
his questions. Until you got accustomed
to it the habit was annoying. Now, he was
paralysing Fred's faculties with his smile,
and furtively measuring the future candidate
from head to foot, little concerned about his
opinions on the state of things.

"How d'ydo?" said Mr. Davies ; "hope
you're all right and hope you'll be right
honourable some day." The president laughed
softly and rubbed his hands.

Fred remembered the first time he stood
before an awful apparition in cap and gown

VOL. I. Q

after he went to Rugby, how very small he
felt. Until the present moment he had
never felt so small again. His first thought
was that his visitors were drunk, his second
that he himself had gone mad. Mr. Dazzles
senior, who understood the situation
much better than his son, at last came to
the rescue.

Sit down, Fred," he said, '' and take a
glass of wine."

Fred mechanically obeyed.

Mr. Bradley relaxed his smile, and remarked,
'* Now we can get to business."

*'Weve heard, Mr. Fred," he said, "that
you wish to fight a seat this election,
and were come to ask you to address the
Dockborough Liberal Association. They told
us great things of you at headquarters, and
the constituency is just the place for a

clever young man who wants to make a
beginning."

Mr. Bradley began to smile again, and
Fred turned hastily to his companion. " The
present member is a Tory ? " he asked.

'well, you see," said Mr. Davies, 'ewe
were rather unfortunate. We fought last time
with a capital candidate — a very good man,
very good indeed. But there was great indiscretion
somewhere, wasn't there, Bradley ?
Lawson petitioned and the case went against
us."

"What was your majority?" inquired
Fred.

"Two hundred and forty-seven," said
Mr. Bradley, who had a head for figures.
Small, perhaps, but sufficient."

Some of your people were scheduled,
don't you call it ? " carelessly remarked

Fred. "Doesn't that mean that they can't
vote this time?"

The deputation opened their eyes. This
was more than they had bargained for. They
expected to meet a green college lad who
knew no more about schelling than about
sheep-stealing. As a matter of fact Fred had
had a long conversation with Arnitte that
morning, who, with the help of Dodd's
Parliamentary Companion, had posted him
in the recent political history of Dockborough.

"Ahem," ejaculated Mr. Bradley, "we
did unfortunately lose a few voters. But
Lawson is very unpopular — a member who
wins by petition always is. Then there's a
considerable Irish population which will move
heaven and earth to get you in. Of course
we can't promise you a safe thing, but if you
work you'll stand a frustrate chance."

And about expenses ? "

Seven fifty," murmured Mr. Davies.

Well," said Fred, '' I think I understand
the situation. A young man ought to fight
a doubtful seat for a beginning, and if my
father consents, and the Association will have
me, ril stand."

Mr. Davies and Mr. Bradley rose and
shook him by the hand, assuring him that his
sentiments did him honour, and that the
Government would be grateful to them for
introducing such a candidate to public life.

Mr. Hazzleden expressed his approval of
the arrangement, and invited the deputation
to remain to luncheon.

At table, aided by Arnitte, Fred cross-questioned
the deputation as to the state of
parties and opinions in Dockborough.

'* We're a little mixed, it is true," said Mr.

Bradley, who had just begun his second
pint of champagne, and was growing confidential.
" First, there's the Whigs. Davies
has always been able to manage them before,
and I hope will do so again, but we must
confess they're jibbing. They're chiefly the
shipping people — men who have made money;
some have been made knights and even
baronets, and they're very respectable. Oh
yes, damned respectable."

Aunt Maria dropped her knife and fork
with a great clatter and rolled her eyes
wildly, but Mr. Bradley was a man upon
whom delicate hints were wasted. He was
absorbed in Pompey and politics, and continued
serenely :

"Then there's the Irish — a rum lot, who
all went Tory last time. They made things
very lively, I can tell you. They called

Davies ' buckshot spouter ' on his own platform."


And they dubbed our friend here ' the
devil's attorney,' " interrupted Mr. Davies.

"They're penitent now, and will vote
straight to the last man. You can't get both
the Whigs and the Irish, I'm afraid, though, of
course, the AYhigs will find it hard to desert a
country gentleman. But our main trust must
be in the great mass of the people. The
heart of the people nearly always goes right,
doesn't it, Eobert ? "

Yes'' repeated Mr. Davies, solemnly filling
his glass as though for a toast, '* the greatheart
of the people nearly always goes right ;
and the great vote of the people," he added,
sotto voce, " nearly always goes wrong."

** Now you know the difficulty of the
situation," resumed Mr. Bradley. " The

seat is Liberal without a doubt, and if the
fight went on strict party lines Lawson would
lose by at least a thousand. But the Dock-borough
Liberals, especially the leaders, have
peculiar views, and you'll have to humour
them. For instance, there's old Sir Alexander
Blio^h, who's withdrawn from the Association
because the Daily Gazette argued that men
with more than a million were a public
nuisance, and ought to be suppressed. Little
Alec, who'll come into the money when the
old man goes, has put up for the Tory
Club."

*' Little Alec's a fool," said Mr. Davies
with quiet decision.

*' Damned fool," said Mr. Bradley fiercely.

Aunt Maria had retired, so the expletive
didn't matter.

Would it not be best," asked Fred, *for

the candidate to go his own way, saying what
he thinks and believes, without trying to
humour anybody ? "

'' Best for Lawson, decidedly," said Mr.
Davies.

"But," continued Fred, "even if it were
dignified or honest to trim, it would be
useless. For instance, if I win over this man
Bligh, I shall lose five hundred of the people
in doing it."

My dear boy," replied Mr. Bradley as he
pushed the bottle across the table, "you'll
learn a great many surprising things in the
next few weeks. Old Bligh is a popular man.
He pays his clerks as much as £250 a year,
and his work - people get fair wages and
constant employment. Of course they've
helped to make the baronet's two and a
half millions. Now, if you proposed to do

something which would take away some of
his money-bags, and distribute the contents
among his employed, Bligh would raise Old
Harry to get you defeated. He'd tell his working
men that you were a communist, socialist,
and perhaps an atheist, and they'd all go
against you. If you get Bligh on your platform,
and talk of the commercial glory of
Dockborough, and say a judicious word for
existing institutions, Bligh will call you a
safe and enlightened Liberal, and the voters
will shout themselves hoarse for you. Of
course I don't mean to imply that the greatheart
of the people isn't sound "

He only means," said Mr. Davies, " that
the great head of the people is devilish soft."

"Don't be flippant, Eobert," retorted Mr.
Bradley. " I want our candidate to have
a good idea of the constituency. It's a

great help to a man to understand the
people he's fighting among. By the way,"
he continued, "you're not married, are
your's

Fred answered that he was not.

"Pity," said Mr. Bradley.

"But he's going to be," exclaimed Mr.
Hazzleden.

"Ah," was the languid rejoinder. Outside
politics Mr. Bradley's sympathies were
dull.

"What advantage would it be to me to
be married ? " asked Fred. " I mean," he
added, reddening, " as far as my election
prospects are concerned."

Well, you see," Mr. Bradley explained,
"nothing goes down with a public
meeting like a young wife, pretty and well
dressed. And then in canvassing she's invaluable.

All she has to do is to smile and
look nice, and the effect is enormous. Ten
years ago young Douglas, who's now gone
to the Upper House, poor fellow, carried the
seat, and his wife did it all."

How ? " inquired Fred.

"How? Why, by sitting next him on
the platform, and looking as pretty as paint —
that's all. On the polling-day, during the
dinner hour, we made her drive to the booth
through the labouring quarter with a very
dirty working-man in the carriage beside her.
It was a fine touch, and served us splendidly.
Davies made her do it, and she never forgave
him. She vowed that she didn't feel clean fora
fortnight."

"Well, I fear," said Fred with a little
sigh, "that I shall have to do without such
pleasant assistance."

"Couldn't Kate go with her mother to
Dockborough ? " said Mr. Hazzleden. "My
niece," he explained, " the lady to whom my
son is engaged to be married."

Not nearly so good as a wife," said Mr.
Bradley. "People aren't sentimental and
make fun of engaged couples. Smoothness
is no good in politics. You couldn't get
married at once, I suppose now ? — archbishop's
license, private ceremony for family reasons,
and that sort of thing."

Fred feared not.

In the end it was decided that if Mrs.
Wynnston was willing, she and Kate should
visit Dockborough during the election and
work for Fred.

After the deputation had gone Fred felt
sick at heart. He rushed out to avoid
Arnitte, whose cool sarcasms would have

driven him mad. He found a shady spot
at the top of the orchard, and flung himself
down on the grass and lighted his pipe.
This was his introduction to public life ;
this was the avenue to the honourable career
which his imagination had pictured. Why !
the dirt of the few paces he had gone would
stick to him for ever. What would he be
when he had waded on to the House of
Commons? Then he was ill at ease about
the invitation of Kate to the election. He
had been more tranquil since his departure
from Lorton. He had begun to consider his
marriage as a distant event which must be
regarded as a matter of course. He had even
learned to think with warm affection of Kate.
But he was not eager to see her again so
soon ; he had had sufficient experience of the
region of storms for a while. Musing thus

Fred let his pipe go out and at last fell
asleep.

The deputation were driven to Barkleigh
station in Mr. Hazzleden's carriage.

On the way Mr. Bradley remarked,
Good Pompey that ! "

Seventy-four, I think," said Mr. Davies.

There was a pause, and at length Mr.
Bradley spoke again. "Young man isn't
altogether a fool. He'll make a good fight
when we've licked him into shape."

Poor devil ! " said Mr. Davies, and the
pair relapsed into silence.

END OF VOL. I

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

University OF ILLINOIS-URBAN A

3 0112 045831986

^ ?

1> <

/ J

LI b Fiery

OF THE

U N IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS

8^3
TZASf

^ gobtl

BY

HUGH Wesley

VOL. II

Lotion

MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved

CHAPTER IX

It was evening when Fred drove up in a
hansom-cab to the door of the Dockborough
Reform Club. The club was housed in a

heavy-looking four-square building in one of

•

the main streets. The entrance was imposing.
A broad flight of stone steps led up to a large
and lofty hall, where a liveried servant flung
Open the massive folding-doors. Fred noted
that there was money among the Dockborough
Liberals, that they had large ideas of comfort
and of sober, solid display.

Mr. Bradley was waiting to receive
him, and exclaimed after his wont, " Well,

VOL. II. B

how's things ? " and without stopping for a
reply continued, *' The committee's sitting
upstairs ; I'd better introduce you at once,
and you might say a few words, and then you
can get something to eat."

They mounted the great crimson-covered
staircase, and on the second landing Mr.
Bradley pulled himself up. •' By the way,"
he said, *' I might as well tell you the
people you ought to be civil to. Let me see :
there's Pugh Jones ; he's a Welshman, and a
beast of a fellow. Ask him to join us at
dinner. He's debating whether he should go
over to the Whig deserters, and he'd take a
lot of the Raffles with him. Be very
polite to him. Then there's young Harris,
the editor of the Gazette, He's a harmless
creature ; if you take his arm and call
him ' old man,' after ten minutes he'll be

all right. He'll be very useful. On second
thoughts I think you'd better ask him to
dinner, and have Pugh Jones to breakfast in
the morning. Dickson, the vice-chairman's
a very hard worker, and Blake, the treasurer,
can do a lot of mischief if he likes. You
needn't bother about any of the others."

As they stopped before a door at the top
of the stairs an idea struck Mr. Bradley.
Of course, you know," he said, " these fellows
are only little 'bugs,' the busybodies of the
Association. The ' nobs ' don't belong to it —
only Davies and me," he added modestly.
We shall have to work ' Society ' later on."

They stepped inside, and Mr. Bradley exclaimed,
" Gentlemen, Mr. Frederick Hazzleden ! "

There were fifteen or twenty gentlemen
present sitting round a green baize table, and
each of them had a small square of blotting-paper

before him, and the blank side of a
printed circular for scribbling purposes.

As Fred entered they all rose to their feet,
clapping their hands — all except one, and he
was on his feet already, making a speech. Mr.
Harris, the orator, looked round reproachfully
at the cause of the interruption, and for a
moment seemed inclined to conclude his remarks
at all odds. He altered his mind,
however, and after performing a small salvo of
applause on his own account, subsided into
his seat along with the rest.

Bradley introduced Fred to the chairman
of the committee, a red-faced, fussy little
man, who firmly believed that the Dockborough
Liberal Association was the peg upon which
the British Empire hung. He in his turn
introduced the future candidate to Pugh
Jones, Harris, and the other members of the

committee to whom Fred remembered he must
be civil.

An awkward pause followed, during which
Fred looked at the committee and the committee
looked at Fred. At length he got up,
and very briefly expressed his pride and
pleasure in being requested to address the
Liberal Association of so important a city as
Dockborough, and his hope that if selected as
candidate he might carry the Liberal flag to
victory and be of some service to the constituency.
The speech was a sort of solo with
chorus, for the ^' hear-hears" from the committee,
and especially from Mr. Bradley,
who nodded and smiled down the table at
every sentence as though he would say, " Fine
fellow, isn't he ? " occupied quite as much time
as Fred's observations.

At the end the chairman winked violently

in the direction of Mr. Harris, who occupied
a place half way down the table ; but Mr.
Harris was sitting with folded arms and
knitted brows, absorbed in his own thronging
thoughts. A little note folded into a pellet
and skilfully propelled by the chairman struck
him on the nose, and recalled his soaring soul
to terrestrial affairs.

Mr. Harris evidently was accustomed to be
summoned to the performance of political
duties by pellets aimed at his nose, for he
caught the missile, deliberately unfolded it,
read its contents, and then rose to move a
vote of thanks to Frederick Hazzleden, Esq.,
for accepting the invitation of the Dockborough
Liberal Association to place his views before
them.

This formality over, Fred intimated that
he was hungry and would be glad to be

released at the convenience of the committee.
A few formal arrangements for the meeting of
the general council, which Fred was to address
next evening, were made, and then the committee
adjourned.

Fred drifted to the neighbourhood of Mr.
Harris, slipped his hand upon the arm of
the editor, and whispered, *^ Mr. Bradley and
I are dining downstairs. Will you do me
the pleasure to join us ? "

Delighted, delightedly returned the young
man, 'but must get rid of these fellows first'

Ten minutes after he was seated opposite
Fred at the dining-table.

Mr. Harris was a man verging upon thirty,
but looking older than his years. His hair,
doubtless from profound contemplation, was
growing thin on his temples, lending additional
height to his high, narrow forehead. His

features were coarse, and over them was spread
an habitual expression of self-complacency,
mingled with round-eyed wonder. He seemed
always to be thinking, " Dear me, what a
clever fellow I am ! " His friends were of
opinion that he believed himself to be consumed
with the fire of genius, and the
prevalent opinion among those who knew him
was, " Harris is a decent little chap, and has
got brains ; but, by Jove, doesn't he fancy
himself ! "

An old friend once said to him, '' Harris, I
wish to heaven you didn't look so infernally
clever."

To which Mr. Harris meekly responded,
I'm very sorry ; I can't help it, I'm sure."

As a pressman he was accustomed to sit in
judgment on all persons and things, and the
temptations of his position had been too great

for his unstable character. He had forgotten
how to discriminate between the respective
claims of himself and his office-stool to public
consideration. Had Providence called him to
be a linen draper perhaps he would have been
a better man.

Bradley and he talked incessantly — the
lawyer loftily condescending, the pressman
perkily patronising. Fred wearied of their
chatter, filled as he was with a Coldstream-
like conviction that " there was nothing in it."
Perhaps he did them injustice, but he suspected
that neither of them cared anything for him
or the principles he represented, and that each
would have worked as heartily for a broomstick,
if a broomstick had been the Liberal
candidate for Dockborouo^h. He honored to
hear something which should sustain and
strengthen him, which should confirm him in

his political beliefs, which should afford a
worthy cause of conflict. Nothing of the kind
fell from the lips of his new acquaintances.
Harris had just hit on an idea for dishing Sir
Alexander Bligh and the Whig clique. Bradley
suggested an improvement, and the pair
were busily concocting a leading article for
the Gazette which should spread terror in the
hostile camp.

This done, Mr. Bradley turned to Fred
and said, " By the way, Hazzleden, have you
drawn up your election address yet ? "

Fred replied that he had not.

'* Better do it at once, then, for of course
you're sure to be chosen and you must have
it in the papers on Friday. If you don't
mind, Harris and I will give you a hint or
two. Now, what shall we say, Harris ? "

Mr. Harris drew from his pocket a sheet

of blue foolscap, for a moment or two sucked
the point of his lead pencil, stared fiercely
before him, and then began to write. Mr.
Bradley read over his shoulder, emitting
grunts of doubt and of approval. Presently
he interrupted angrily, " What the devil are
you about, Harris ? do you want us to lose
every Catholic vote in the place ? "

*' I was thinking of the Dissenters," said
Mr. Harris, " but perhaps it is too direct."

Direct, indeed ! I should think it was,
and on the education question of all others.
Harris, I thought you knew better."

Mr. Harris blushed, and Mr. Bradley
continued, " We must avoid speaking out at
all costs, and the nuisance of it is that we're
bound to say something."

He turned to Fred. " You'll have some
bother over this education business ; both

the Catholics and the Dissenters are as nasty

•J

as they can be, and some fellow is sure to
ask awkward questions. We must coach you
up before your first public meeting."

Fred assented wearily; he was getting accustomed
to the methods of Dockborough politics.

Another half-hour was spent in debating
the points of the address, while Fred smoked
and ruminated. He had a wild desire to be
out at sea in the Sylph in a hurricane, the
fierce salt wind roaring round him and the
spray dashing in his face. His system needed
a violent tonic.

There ! " said Mr. Bradley, as he scribbled
a verbal alteration in the draft. " That'll do
very well, I think."

Fred took the paper, glanced down it, expressed
his thanks, said good-night, and drove
to his hotel.

Mrs. Wynnston and Kate had arrived, and
with Arnitte, who had joined them, were
waiting for him.

Kate was bubbling over with the delight
of a new excitement. Her black eyes were
dancing and sparkling, and even Fred felt
the contagious influence of her radiant happiness.


Tell us all about it, Freddy," she said, ashe
seated himself beside her on a couch.
Isn't it good fun ? shan't we have a jolly
time '? "

Fred's weariness returned as he narrated
his evening's experiences. Kate's quick sympathy
soon detected it. She furtively stole
his hand and patted it tenderly behind the
artfully arranged screen of her fan.

"Poor old boy's she said, ^'he's tired out."

Fred was tired out. He was almost ready

to cry from fatigue and mental conflict. Kate,
when she was at her best, exerted a strange
magnetic influence over him. He felt it for
the first time down at the " dingle," and now
it moved him again. When he looked at the
bright, loving, little woman beside him he
had a yearning to take her in his arms and
hide his face upon her shoulder.

Pleading sleepiness he rose to go to bed.
He kissed Mrs. Wynnston, shook hands with
Arnitte, and yielding to a strong emotion,
as he bent over his cousin and kissed her,
whispered passionately in her ear, " My lassie,
my lassie ! "

There was a soft light in Kate's eyes which
haunted him many a day afterwards. He
knew that the happiness and the very life of
a true-hearted woman were in his keeping,
and the knowledge was not the lightest

of the troubles which afterwards fell upon
him.

Next morning Fred was occupied with a
round of introductions under the wing of
Mr. Bradley. Mrs. Wynnston and Kate,
accompanied by Arnitte, drove out to view
the sights of the great city. In the afternoon
Fred shut himself up to prepare his speech.
He was not nervous at the prospect, for in
Oxford he had considerable practice in public
speaking. He knew from past experience
that when he had overcome the first few
heart-beats and inevitable trembling, his
ideas and words came readily enough. He
was sure he should not disgrace himself. He
was not a born orator, a fact of which he
was perfectly well aware, but he had ranked
among his undergraduate friends and rivals
as a confident and telling speaker, who never

got up unless he had something to say, and
who, when he did get up, always said something
worth listening to. His trouble now
was the extent of the field over which he
was at liberty to range. It was one thing
to prepare a speech on a set subject, and
another to compress into an address of thirty
or forty minutes his views on all the topics
of current politics. He lighted his pipe and
set to work, however, with determination,
and before the dinner - gong sounded had
arranged the heads of a speech which he
thought would be fairly successful.

The meeting was held in one of the public
halls of Dockborough. It was a dreary room,
occupied during the daytime by an auctioneer ;
and in evenings when political meetings
took place the chairman sat behind the high
desk where lots were wont to be knocked

down, and preserved order with a hammer
considerately left behind by his predecessor.
When Fred entered he found himself facing
about five hundred men of all ages, drawn
chiefly from the lower middle classes, who
rose and cheered and waved their hats.
Fred thought it more generous than discriminating
of them to bawl themselves hoarse
in honour of a young man about whom they
knew absolutely nothing. He was not then
aware that two months before, the general
council of the Dockborough Liberal Association
had shouted themselves just as hoarse
in presence of a well-known barrister who
came down to address them, and was on the
point of being adopted, but who, after examining
the register, politely thanked the
council for the unmerited honour they proposed
to do him, packed his bag, and went

VOL. II. c

back to London. Three months before that
again the vice-president proposed at the
quarterly meeting of the council that
the Association should "lie low" and not
fight the coming election at all. He justified
this policy with many ingenious arguments,
and tore to pieces with terrible
ridicule the rash Liberals who wished
to fight and be beaten. The Association
cheered these sentiments to the echo. In
fact they always cheered ; it was their especial
function. They never did anything else.
To Liberalism they contributed neither wise
words nor money; but of "hear-hears" they
gave plentifully. When Fred stepped upon
the platform the vice-president, who sat ina
prominent seat, led the cheers with his
umbrella.

Mr. Eobert Davies occupied the chair ; on

his left was Mr. Bradley, and on his right,
Fred. The two officers watched the members
as they slowly came in.

A pale-faced man, looking tremendously
in earnest, entered.

Blazes ! there's Blizzard," whispered Mr.
Bradley, who was fond of striking alliterations.

** Nuisance!" returned Mr. Davies, and,
turning round to Fred, explained that Mr.
Blizzard at the last annual meeting of
the Association was left off the executive
committee, and that since then he had shown
an unsuspected facility in the manufacture of
amendments.

"Can't you choke him off?" inquired Mr.
Bradley.

"Don't know. How would it do to get
him to propose the resolution 'i " replied the
chairman.

"Might try," said his colleague, and then
Mr. Davies pencilled a little note, which was
handed down to Mr. Blizzard, who read it
and glanced up. At that moment Mr. Davies
and Mr. Bradley, as with one mind, bent
forward over the desk and beamed on him.
Mr. Blizzard hesitated and was lost ; half an
hour after he was eulogising the executive
committee for the great energy and efficiency
it had shown in obtaining the services of such
an excellent candidate.

Fred's speech was well conceived and well
spoken. Arnitte's advice was not thrown
away, and the speaker touched with judicious
delicacy on dangerous subjects. In the
matter of Ireland he was adroitly frank. He
was firmly in favour of reform, he said, but
he should refuse to commit himself to anything
but the main principle ; details would

have to be considered and decided upon in
Parliament. Delivered with all the fresh
ingenuousness of a young politician, the
address made a very strong impression on
the meeting.

Messrs. Davies and Bradley, smiling
serenely, sat watching both speaker and
hearers out of the corners of their eyes.

Presently the latter muttered, " Damned
smart speech." •

"Devilish," said the chairman.

Fred made some good hit and the meeting
cheered, the chairman and honorary secretary
raising their hands above the desk to applaud.

We've made a stroke this time, Robert,"
whispered Mr. Bradley. "They'll swallow
him whole, buttons and boots ; and when he's
licked we can blame Bligh and little Alec."

Mr. Bradley was right. After his speech

a resolution, declaring Frederick Dazzles
Esquire, of Barkleigh, to be a fit and
proper person to represent the borough of"
Dockborough in Parliament, was moved,
seconded, and, as the chairman announced
with tremendous emphasis, carried nemine
contradicente.

The meeting was over at nine o'clock, and
Fred, declining an invitation to supper with
Mr. Davies, strolled back to his hotel, where,
lounging in the doorway, he found Arnitte.
Fred was elated at the success of his speech.
He was very much tempted to shake hands
with himself. His doubts and distaste were
fast disappearing, his conscience was beginning
to work with delightful smoothness. In
fact, he was in the early stage of a sharp
attack of election fever. The disease is as
insidious as it is malignant. Its first

symptom is a not unpleasant moral drowsiness.
The patient, who, perhaps, for weeks
has suffered from depression and distress,
suddenly finds himself on the best of terms
with himself. He discovers within him an
unexpected capacity of ironic humour. He
remembers how close he shaved the breakers
of untruth in his last speech, and chuckles at
his own adroitness. He thinks of the chairman's
" tarradiddle " about the opposition
candidate's treatment of his workmen, and
laughs outright. These symptoms intensify
during several days until the acute stage is
reached, when the patient becomes delirious
and usually very violent. During this crisis
the sufferer labours under the delusion that
all his opponents are Judas Iscariot's legitimate
descendants, and in his ravings he constantly
expresses his conviction that the fate

of the father would be rather too good for the
children. Few constitutions are able to withstand
the frightful virulence of the acute
stage. Taken earlier, however, the disease
yields readily to proper remedies, unless,
indeed, the system of the sufferer has been
greatly lowered already.

Fred had caught the infection at the meeting,
and Arnitte's quick perceptions soon
informed him of the fact. The candidate,
puffing a cigarette, stood at the door of the
hotel with his friend, refreshed by the cool
breeze which blew up from the sea over the
city. He described the meeting and its
cheers, the chairman and his wiles, with much
glee. He repeated one or two passages from
his speech, and invited his friend to admire
the astute ambiguity of his reference to the
education question.

Arnitte laughed, half bitterly. " You're
improving," lie said; 'another week and
you'll be a full-fledged politician."

Fred was pleased. He set his hat at a
knowing angle and broached a dozen schemes
for "dishing" this faction and capturing
that. Every moment he showed himself more
eager to fight and win and less scrupulous as
to the weapons he employed. Arnitte felt
with alarm that his lessons had had an unexpected
result.

Presently he said, " Will you come out for
half an hour ? I know this place pretty welland
can show you some things worth seeing."

Fred assented, and arm in arm they strolled
out.

Arnitte quickly secured Fred's attention by
his bright talk and led him up and down in
front of the hotel. The street was broad and

brilliantly lighted. Stately buildings on
either side stood out in bold relief against
the clear autumn sky. There was a ceaseless
rattle over the stone pavements. Cabs
dashed hither and thither, tram-car bells
jingled, drivers shouted, street traders cried
their wares, and little knots of purchasers
surrounded the vendors of hot potatoes,
photographs of celebrities, porcelain cement,
and india-rubber dolls. A theatre was pouring
out its crowds, a policeman was leading away
a drunken woman from the door of a public -
house, a horse had fallen on the smooth dry
road. On all sides there rose up the low hum
of human voices and the roar of human
action.

Talking and unobservant, Fred strolled to
and fro with his friend till a woman touched
him on the sleeve and leered in his face. He

shrank away and mechanically brushed his
arm, — they were talking of Kate. A few
paces farther on a young girl clutched him,
and in a dry hoarse voice called him her
darling. He flung her off, and, awakened from
his conversation, looked round him. The broad
pavement was thronged with women, young
and old ; some flaunting in silks, others unabashed
in rags. Singly and in pairs they
walked up and down stalking their prey.
Here was an old hag leading ofl" a bright-faced
young boy ; there a girl, whose elder
sisters might well be praying at their mother's
knee, hastening away, arm round the waist of
a gray-haired man. Two youths in evening
dress, just come from the theatre, followed a
couple of the miserable sisterhood, and Fred's
gorge rose as their filthy pleasantries fell
upon his ears.

He was a young man who had passed
through a public school and a university, and
neither was ignorant of the ways of the world,
nor was he of a Puritanical disposition. His
opinions were free and broad, more so, indeed,
than he would have cared to admit to every
casual acquaintance. Yet this sight utterly
revolted him. It was not the moral heinousness
of mercenary vice which disgusted him,
but a sickening sense of its coarseness. Then
he had never lost a boyish feeling of chivalrous
regard for women. The mystery of sex was
a source of reverence, not of ribaldry, to him.
Woman, he loved to look upon as a something
not himself which made for sweetness and
purity in the world; a something weaker than
he to be cherished and guarded ; a something
stronger to be sought for comfort in distress,
for help in difficulty.

He was a sentimental young man, and
exposed to dangers which rougher natures
could easily overcome. What was vile repelled
him more strongly than what was
wicked.

Two poor painted wretches blocked his
way. One with mad effrontery threw up her
arms and tried to kiss Fred on the lips ; a
breath reeking with drink crossed his face.

He thrust her roughly away, and, turning
angrily to Arnitte, asked, "What are we doing
here?"

This street at night is one of the sights of
Dockborough," Arnitte carelessly replied. ^* I
thought you perhaps would like to see it. If
you've had enough we'll go somewhere else''

They turned aside from the main thoroughfare
and passed along several dark and deserted
side streets. Arnitte threaded his way confidently

to left and right. Evidently he knew
the place. It was a peculiarity of the man
that he seemed at home everywhere.

Presently they entered another great
thoroughfare, and Fred was at once struck
with the contrast between the street they
had left and the one they were now in. One
was the scene of well-to-do vice, the other
of squalid dissipation. It was a long, straight
road stretching in both directions as far as
the eye could reach. It was ablaze with
the lights of the gin shops. Every alternate
building seemed to be a tavern. In some
places there were groups of three or four together,
and each was crowded with customers
eager to secure a final drink before the hour
of closing sounded. At the street corners
stood sullen men who lounged and smoked,
but never talked or smiled. They had nothing

to talk about or smile at. The man, who from
the age of fifteen has been carrying bales of
cotton ten hours a day for as many shillings
a week, has little more capacity for thought
and conversation than a steam winch. In the
archways of dark courts were women, bareheaded,
brawny, dirty, who held their hands
folded beneath their aprons. They talked
loudly enough and emphasised their observations
with the most complex and original
profanity and obscenity. But they meant
no harm — perhaps did no harm ; to them
filthy oaths were only as the impatient '' Dear
me ! " of a well-bred woman. From a court,
as Fred and Arnitte passed, a child ran
screaming, and in an instant a huge uproar
arose ; two men, struggling together
and striking furiously at one another, tumbled
out and rolled into the gutter, biting,

tearing, kicking. The entire population of
the court followed, some half-naked from their
beds. Found the combatants a tumult of
cries prevailed ; the men shouted encouragement,
the women wept and entreated. But
it was only for a moment. A shrill whistle
sounded; half a dozen policemen trampled
through the mob, dragged apart the brawlers,
and carried them away. It was the work
of an instant, and the crowd quietly drifted
up the court again. The fight was over, and
the only trace left was a blood-stain on the
curb stone.

"Let us go in here," said Arnitte, and
he entered a large public-house which occupied
an entire block. You went in at one
corner, passed along the counter resplendent
with brass and the white handles of beer
engines which strong-armed potion incessantly

pumped, and emerged from the place
at the opposite corner. It was crowded
with ragged people. In the middle of the
counter, with his back resting against it, was
a pitiable object. It was a man whose arms
and legs peeped through his rags. He wore
a greasy black coat which had come unbuttoned
at the top and revealed his chest
almost to the waist. His features were lost
in a mass of putrid-looking bluish flee.
His mouth was enormous, and his great
underlip hung down palsied. He was reciting
one of Hamlet's soliloquies with the
accent and pronunciation of a gentleman.
When he finished the crowd addressed him
as '* Shakespeare," and loudly applauded.
A few coppers were collected and put into
his hand. He bowed, and said " William
Shakespeare thanks you, gentlemen." Then

VOL. II. D

he turned to the barman and asked for
"Another gin, if you please." There were
seats in recesses against the wall. On one
of them was a woman with an infant. She
had been suckling the child, but its head
had fallen back over her lap and she clutched
it with one hand by its legs. There she sat,
all dishevelled, with a glass of spirits in her
other hand. She was too drunk to lift it
to her lips, and when she tried the stuff
spilled over and ran all down her bare
breast. Opposite her was a vendor of
cats' meat. He had propped himself into
an angle of the seat, and his basket was
on the floor. A little cur had discovered
it and was gorging itself and growling over
its ill smelling feast. The air of the place
was foul with the presence of hot unwashed
tipplers and the odour of fiery liquor.

'you're a cheerful 'guide to Dock-borough,'
" said Fred as they stepped out ;
but I can guess why you wanted me to
come to these places."

Shall we go and see some of the houses
where these people live?" asked Arnitte.

Fred nodded assent.

They turned up a narrow court in which
stood ten little cottages. In its dismal
depths the sun never shone and the wind
never blew. Fred picked his way daintily,
for by the dim light of a gas lamp at the
top end he saw that the ground was covered
with refuse and dirt of all sorts. The atmosphere
was indescribably foul; he wondered
how any one could live in it for half an
hour. Once the windows of the houses had
been glazed, now they were stuffed with
rags or covered with sacking. In one house

an inhabitant had made a rather ineffective
blind of an old pair of trousers. Some
of the houses had no doors, one had no
window-sashes. Years ago the tenants had
used them up for firewood, and the landlord
had not thought it worth while to
put in new ones. Everything was ugly,
dirty, squalid. In the whole court there
was not a sign of grace or sweetness of
life — not a green leaf, not a picture, nota
single book. Fred peeped into one doorless
house. A little child was shivering in
its shirt on the step. In a corner of the
bottom room was a heap of rags ; on it lay
a man. By the fireplace was a half naked
woman sitting on a box and leaning against
the wall, either drunk or asleep. On the
mantelshelf stood a beer bottle, and in ita
tallow candle was burning. There was

nothing else in the room. Fred questioned
the trembling child, who said his '*dada
and mam " had had a drop and been quarrelling,
and he was afraid to go in. He had
no bed ; he generally lay on his dada's
coat on the floor. But dada was drunk
and he could not get the coat. He would
sit there till dada woke up.

Fred turned hastily and ran out of the
court. "My God! Arnitte," he said, *T
can't stand any more of this. It's past
belief. It's like a foretaste of perdition.
I suppose you wanted me to see people
who may be my constituents, but I've had
enough for one night's

wanted you to see them," said Arnitte,
"because I thought the sight would do you
good. You were on the point of making
a great mistake in life. A week ago you

were tempted to abandon public life because
the way to it seemed so dirty and the
principles of those in it so unworthy. Tonight
you were beginning to think politics
an amusing game, like your friends Davies
and Bradley."

'yet why did you bring me here?"
asked Fred.

*sto show you what great work and
high duties are pressing on men who enter
the legislature."

*' But if I enter the House of Commons
I can't clean out that court. You can't
make men sober or prosperous by Act of
Parliament."

"I know that," Arnitte replied; 'but I
am quite convinced also that you can't
make men sober and prosperous without
Acts of Parliament. Your whole social

mechanism is an antiquated contrivance
which works at a frightful waste of material.
In front of the hotel you saw a shocking
waste of womanhood. Here you see a
constant waste of manhood. In England
laws have been made for centuries to keep
the rich, rich, and the poor, poor, to keep
the cultured, cultured, and the vile, vile.
There are millions of human beings in this
country whom your laws deprive of eveo^y
chance of comfort in life. They cannot,
strive how they will, be good or happy ;
they have no opportunity of doing any
good in the world. Wise laws may greatly
alter these conditions. Let no man then
think slightingly of political ambition while
such work as this remains to be done."

Yet politics is, after all, to a great extent,
a game, and a cheating one too," said Fred.

'' Do you understand the theory of music?"
asked Arnitte abruptly.

''A little," returned Fred.

*then you know that no keyed instrument
and no wind instrument ever made
is perfect. Few of the intervals are consonant,
only two or three notes in the
octave give the proper number of vibrations.
Yet Beethoven thought the piano, and Bach
the organ, worthy instruments to write for.
Imperfect as they are they have called
forth a hundred great sonatas and stately
fugues. From them you've heard the noblest
harmonies which the mind of man ever
conceived. The political instrument is
imperfect, yet great men think it worthy
to work with. Depend upon it, Fred,
though in politics you have to make concessions
to ignorance and prejudice, there

is scope for the most useful of all work,
and there is a possibility of results most
closely approaching one's ideal."

They were walking along a narrow gloomy
street where the houses had seen better days.
White cards in nearly every window revealed
the realm of lodgers and of landladies.
Their footsteps echoed on its silent pavements.
A man coming towards them passed
beneath a distant lamp. Arnitte broke .off
suddenly with an exclamation and pulled
Fred into the shadow of an entry.

The man passed with rapid steps, and,
as they renewed their walk to the hotel,
Arnitte said, " That was our friend
O'Connor."

DocKBOROUGH is a great centre of Irish
population, and the English inhabitants are
consequently very hostile to the Irish people.
An enterprising ethnologist has proved, to
his own satisfaction, that the English are the
descendants of the lost ten tribes of Israel
and the Irish the children of the Philistines.
Some such theory is almost necessary to explain
the race antipathies prevailing in Dock-borough.
Certainly the Irish population was
a constant thorn in the flesh of their English
neighbours, and the English Protestants
(Dockborough is a very Protestant city)

had a confirmed habit of assailing Irish
Catholic Goliath s with slings and stones and
other convenient weapons whenever they got
the chance.

Nothing is more unreasonable than the
propensity of men to despise their fellows
who belong to other families of mankind.
But it is almost universal. The Turk considers
the Englishman an unclean dog ; the
Chinese calls him a barbarian. The American
white man looks down upon the black ; the
red savage considers himself the superior of
both. In every age and every place hatreds
have sprung out of the colour of a skin and
the inflections of a voice. Vanity is the
spark which has ignited them ; selfishness is
the fuel which keeps them alive. Once begun
such hatreds soon justify themselves. The
Irish in Dockborough were the most disorderly,

drunken, and poverty-stricken of the
inhabitants. Their quarter was a continual
source of danger and expense, and from it
fatal diseases frequently spread. All the
hardest and worst-paid occupations were filled
by them, and in distress and age they flocked
to the workhouses and gaols. The English,
on the other hand, reviled them, and refused
to them the simplest claims of justice.

It must be confessed that the Irish population
did not make many attempts to conciliate
their English neighbours. On the
contrary, the weakness, the sentiment, and
the truculent of their national character were
manifested in frequent irritating demonstrations.
The great '' Irish Reform League "
had a dozen branches in the city which were
very active in meeting and passing resolutions
denouncing men and things. The League

was great at denunciation. Thus Mr. Davies,
at a Liberal meeting, expressed some doubts
as to the justice of the bill compelling landlords
to pay rent to tenants for tilling the
soil, which the Irish party in Parliament were
then promoting. At meetings of the various
branches of the League in Dockborough the
following resolution was unanimously carried :
'^ That this council holds up to the execration
of the civilised world the base and bloodthirsty
Saxon, Robert Davies, upon whose
brazen brow is the blood of butchered babes
of Erin ; that this council pledges itself to
everlasting war for the redress of Irish grievances,
believing that only by this method will
peace speedily be restored."

The "base and bloodthirsty Saxon" was
as mild a man as ever presided at a public
meeting. He subscribed to the funds of

needy Woman Catholic chapels and a score of
charities by which the Irish benefited. He
employed five hundred of them himself, and
paid most liberal wages, and in several cases
the resolution was proposed by his own foremen.
Things of this kind annoyed English
people of all parties, who knew that Mr. Davies
was neither base nor bloodthirsty. Irishmen
seem never to learn that the English are
more incensed by abuse than by injury.
When a landlord is shot public sentiment is
outraged, but an opinion gains ground that
there must be something calling for wise
reform in a state of society which breeds
such crimes. When an Englishman hears his
trusted guides and leaders reviled as brutal
British butchers, his only desire is to catch
an Irishman and break his head.

Mr. O'Connor, when Fred and Arnitte

stood aside for him to pass, was hurrying
away from a meeting of the O'Connell branch
of the League. This was the chief and
central lodge of the local organisation. All
questions of importance were referred to it
for decision, as it was in intimate relationship
with the heads of the parliamentary party.
On this particular evening a meeting had
been called to decide, subject to the approval
of the Supreme Chief, the policy to be pursued
at the coming election.

Fifteen persons were present, representative
of various types and classes of Irishmen.
The League was truly democratic, and the
working bricklayer rubbed shoulders with the
merchant and the professional man. The
strength of the organisation in Dockborough
resided in the fact that rich and cultured
Irishmen were members as enthusiastic as

the poor and ignorant. The place of meeting
was a committee room of the Irish National
Hall — a building bought and maintained out
of the funds of the local League.

The chairman, Mr. Timothy Brady, was
one of the most distinguished lawyers in the
country. He was a square-built, determined-looking
man, with typical Hibernian features.
He was a somewhat remarkable personage,
who, during a long public career, had given
abundant proof that in his disposition he
united with the suppleness of the Irishman
the steadfastness of the Englishman.

The honorary secretary. Dr. Murphy, a
medical man with a large practice among the
poorer classes, and of reputation in his profession,
was a striking contrast to his friend.
The lawyer seemed all will, the doctor all
nerves. He was a tall, slim, dark man, with

a great mass of black hair slightly streaked
vvitli gray, large sparkling eyes, and a pale
sallow face. His voice was low and musical,
and the sombre passion of his eloquence was
marvellously effective. The lawyer, on the
other hand, had a voice as pleasant as a
creaking wheel, and in his constitution there
was not a grain of sentiment.

The meeting had been sitting for half an
hour when O'Connor entered. He was introduced
by a working-man member of the
committee as "Mr. Brown, a delegate from
America," and, presenting letters of introduction
and other credentials to the chairman,
he quietly took a seat near the bottom
of the table.

The chairman's keen eyes searched " the
delegate from America " through and through,
and that gentleman bore the ordeal with

VOL. II. E

perfect composure. He was a rather noteworthy
figure. Tall and well-formed, he
always dressed with scrupulous care and good
taste. A very fastidious observer might,
indeed, have objected that his hat was a trifle
too shiny, and his spotless linen just one
degree too obtrusive. His features were
refined and regular, and his pale face was as
stolid as a mask. He looked, and evidently
desired to look, a gentleman. Only his large
red hands, with their crooked, knotted fingers,
betrayed his peasant origin.

Mr. Brady was a passionate man, and ashe
read the papers O'Connor had placed in
his hands the blood sprang angrily into his
face. The letters and certificates simply
stated that " Mr. Brown " was vice-president
of the '' Emmet Lodge " of the Hibernian
League of New York, that he was bearer of

a contribution of a thousand dollars, and that
his services were at the disposal of the cause
in Ireland. Mr. Brady had seen documents
of this kind before.

He turned to the secretary, sitting beside
him, and hoarsely whispered, *^ Who is this
scoundrel. Murphy ? "

The doctor slightly raised his eyebrows
and pursed his lips in reply.

The chairman groaned and muttered 'behind
his hand, "Oh, that the steamer which
brought him might have sunk!"

Dr. Murphy shrugged his shoulders.

Many Irishmen just then would have
echoed Mr Brady's terrible prayer. Mr.
Brady, like many a man of his class, felt
acutely the violence and crime which tarnished
the cause. He was a law-abiding
citizen, bred in the best traditions of his

UNWL.-o'.iV OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

profession. Against outrage of all kinds he
set his face, and strenuously laboured among
his countrymen to discourage it. Yet he
had never on the platform, or from his place
in Parliament, openly denounced it, and
bitter were the taunts which Englishmen
levelled against him. His whole nature was
filled with a sense of the wrongs under which
his country groaned. Their removal was the
first object of his life. His sense of duty was
painfully divided. He knew outrage to be
wrong, but he also knew from past experience
that outrage is one of the strongest, if not
the only means of compelling the British
public to consider the grievances of Ireland.
He tried to comfort himself with the
thought that Italy had her Mazzini, and
that political violence, and even assassination,
have played a part in the liberation of every

subject people. Yet he was a very unhappy
man.

Dr. Murphy, more emotional, less reflective,
took a different view of things. He
never directly or indirectly encouraged agrarian
and political crime ; neither did he ever
raise a finger to discourage it. He looked
upon dynamite and daggers as necessary
weapons in the warfare — weapons which he
himself would under no circumstances employ,
but which were perfectly justified by
the exigencies of Ireland's cause. Common
report attributed to him intimate relations
with the dynamite faction. This was not
true. He was a Fenian, had been concerned
in several desperate undertakings, and
was still in constant communication with the
exiles in France and America. At that very
time he was discussing the chances of a rising

in the south and west during the winter
months, for, in spite of the most strenuous
efforts of the Government, arms and ammunition
to a large amount had been smuggled
into the country, and midnight drill parties,
under men who had acquired experience in
the American and French wars, were held in
many secluded districts. But with the shooting
of landlords and the blowing up of public
buildings he steadily refused to have anything
to do.

The League, in spite of its appearance of
unity and authority, was really torn and
hampered by internal dissensions. The most
influential leaders were men of Mr. Brady's
class, the rank and file were mainly of Dr.
Murphy's, and there was a dangerous residuum
who held the opinions and accepted
the methods of Mr. O'Connor. Like every

Irishman, not a landlord, a Castle official, oran
informer, the leaders disliked the English
nation, and distrusted English statesmen.
But they were indissolubly wedded to constitutional
action. They believed in it, they
had proved its past efficacy, and they loathed
the vile outrages which had brought shame
upon themselves and their cause. They were
further influenced by a new-born regard for
the Prime Minister, the first British statesman
since the Union '^ to offer a cup of cold
water to Ireland." On the other hand, they
could not but feel that the mass of active
political opinion among Irishmen was against
them. The people in Ireland, indeed, were
theirs body and soul. But then the people
in Ireland were too poor and inexperienced
to maintain any political cause. The actual
work of the organisation was done by Irishmen

in England, and the money was found
by Irishmen in America. Now, the Irishmen
in England were largely Fenians, and the
Irishmen in America were largely dynamite
conspirators.

Thus three factions existed in the League,
and only the wonderful skill and authority
of the Supreme Chief, a born leader of men,
and the unselfish patriotism of his principal
lieutenants, kept the organisation
together.

At the present time a dispute of some
bitterness was raging in the lodges. The
parliamentary chiefs were very anxious that
the entire weight of the League should be
thrown into the Liberal scale. In this desire
they were generally supported not only by
their own immediate followers, but by the
Fenian section — for the most part simple,

straightforward enthusiasts, who neither understood
nor tolerated crooked methods.

But the dynamite faction — mostly rogues
and ruffians — who dreaded any constitutional
settlement of the Irish question, were making
strenuous efforts to obtain for the Tories the
support of the League. Great pressure had
been brought to bear from America, and a
stoppage of supplies had been threatened.
Only a counter-threat of resignation and
retirement from the Chief had saved the
League from utter disruption, and even now
the Extreme Left were quietly continuing their
underground work to defeat the intentions of
the leaders.

No wonder, then, that Mr. Brady, who
presided over the most powerful branch of
the organisation in England, looked worried
and irritable. Instructions were to be issued

to the Irish voters next day, and after half
an hour's heated conversation the meeting
was as far as ever from deciding what those
instructions were to be.

Dr. Murphy whispered to his friend,
Ton my soul, Brady, I don't see what it
matters ; if they want to vote for Lawson,
why the blazes shouldn't they?"

For heaven's sake don't talk like that,"
replied Mr. Brady ; " it's a matter of life and
death. If these fellows get the whip hand
were done for."

It was at this point that " Mr. Brown from
America" entered. There were only two
members of the extreme faction on the committee
; eight others were Fenians, and five
belonged to the official party.

The Fenian element was apathetic. Like
Dr. Murphy they could not imagine what

all the fuss was about. It was a matter of
supreme indifference to them whether they
voted for an English Whig or an English
Tory, or whether they did not vote at all.

The two advocates of supporting the Tories,
a pair of rather dirty and very voluble working
men, redoubled their efforts when "Mr.
Brown" came in. At length one of them
requested the chairman to ask their visitor,
as a representative of the party in America,
to express his views. The chairman with
obvious reluctance complied.

O'Connor, who completely understood the
situation, coolly remarked that he thought
the whole discussion a waste of time — an observation
which drew loud cheers from the
Fenians and struck his two friends dumb.
It had always been his opinion, he continued,
that Irishmen had no business to meddle

with English party politics. (More Fenian
applause.) Whenever they had meddled,
they had come out the worse for it, and for
his part he cared very little whether the
next Government was Whig or Tory. He
thought the point might safely be left to the
feelings of individual Irishmen for decision.
As far as he was concerned (this was spoken
with an air of light indifference), if he had
a vote and recorded it at all, which he
doubted, he should be disposed to cast it
for the Tories. An open enemy, in his
opinion, was better than a doubtful friend.
(Loud Fenian applause.) He would remind
the committee that the present Prime Minister,
of whom certain gentlemen were so
greatly enamoured, had, within a short period,
broken up their organisation, arrested their
leaders (their own chairman, Mr. Brady, had

been imprisoned), and had filled the gaols
with patriotic Irishmen, unaccused and untried.
What guarantee had they that the
Prime Minister would not act in the same
way again ? He (the speaker) mistrusted
sudden conversions. (Renewed cheers.) Asa
matter of policy, he thought, though again
he repeated it did not much matter, that it
would be better to have the Tories in office.
They knew what to expect from a Conservative
Minister and could make their arrangements.
But from the Liberals they received
peddling little reforms which appealed to a
too emotional and grateful people. When
Ireland had been lulled to a sense of false
security, then Liberal Governments always
crushed her beneath the iron heel of coercion.
He had come over to bring supplies and not
to meddle in policies, but as he had been

asked to speak lie could not help saying that
he thought the parliamentary leaders were
making a mistake, and he knew that view
prevailed in America.

This little speech produced a great effect
upon the meeting, and already one of the
Fenians was upon his feet preparing to move
a resolution. Mr. Brady's face grew very
white, and he muttered between his teeth,
God help Ireland now." Then, taking a
desperate resolution, he asked the would-be
speaker to wait for a moment, and, turning
to Dr. Murphy, said sternly, " If that resolution
is carried, Murphy, you and I are friends
no longer."

An Irishman's heart is much more easily
touched than his intellect or his conscience.
Dr. Murphy had been deaf to his friend's
arguments. He could not be made to see

that it was right or politic to support the
Liberals. But he did see that Mr. Brady
was greatly agitated. He hesitated for a
moment, and then replied with a look of
comical resignation, " Begad, Tim, I don't
know what all the pother's about, but sure
we'll vote for the civil if it'll please ye."

Dr. Murphy rose and begged his follower
down the table to permit him to say a few
words before any resolution was moved.
For ten minutes he strove, with all the resources
of his sweet and persuasive eloquence,
to show how good a thing it would be to
maintain the Liberals in office, thus acting
upon the known wishes of their trusted and
able leaders. Had Dr. Murphy been speaking
on the other side he could not have been
more effective. An expression of assent stole
over the faces of his adherents, and at length

the man whose rising had so alarmed Mr.
Brady furtively tore up the resolution which
he had scribbled on the back of an envelope.
Dr. Murphy, in conclusion, expressed his
desire to move '' That this committee, believing
in the wisdom and discretion of the
leaders of the Irish League, earnestly invites
all Irishmen to vote for Liberal candidates
at the coming election." The author of
the torn resolution jumped up and seconded
Dr. Murphy's proposition amid general
applause.

O'Connor saw that the game was up, but
not a muscle of his impassive face moved.
He bent down and whispered something to
his two neighbours, and the three quietly
slipped out of the room.

Mr. Brady, who could not disguise his
delight, put the motion in a voice of thunder.

and the entire committee, springing to their
feet, carried it with acclamation.

Fred Hazzleden, seated at a dinner-party
at Mr. Davies's house, little thought how
deeply his future had been influenced by the
speech of an Irish doctor at the National Hall.

O'Connor visited several other committees
that night. They were branches of an
organisation which despised and hated the
League, and to them he presented vei;y
different credentials. The meetings were,
for the most part, held in public-houses of
bad repute, and were attended only by the
poorest and most ignorant of Irishmen, and
by American visitors, who always arrived
when any outrage of importance had been
decided upon. In these meetings O'Connor
was received with respectful enthusiasm, and
greeted as " Letter A " — a position of high

VOL. II. F

authority to which he had succeeded shortly
before leaving New York. The man's talents,
his nerve of iron, his lack of scruples, and
his considerable means, had commended him
to the attention of the shrewd organisers of
the conspiracy, and he had been promoted
to one of the three chief offices. He had
then been despatched to England to conduct
another attempt to terrorise the English
people. On reaching England he found
the conspiracy broken up by the successful
efforts of the police after the last
dynamite explosions. He first set himself
to work to reorganise and restore the confidence
of the scattered members. This
done, as the time did not seem propitious,
and as his sister's health was giving way
under the strain of intense excitement, he
took a prettily-situated but lonely farmhouse

near Lorton for a two months' holiday,
and there, when the weather was wet, conducted
a series of delicate experiments to
discover the properties of various explosive
materials.

The holiday was now over, and O'Connor
and his sister were occupying apartments in
Dockborough, which city, from its easy communications
with New York, O'Connor had
decided to make his base of operations.

On this particular evening he returned
home depressed. The conspiracy was still
in a very chaotic condition. The League
was everywhere in the ascendant, and the
policy of working cordially with the English
Liberals was recognised by most Bushmen.
It was the hope of inflicting a blow upon
this policy that induced him to risk a visit
to the O'Connell Branch, and to present his

forged letters of introduction. How he
failed we know. During the evening a
dozen schemes for destroying the alliance
flitted through his mind. The one which
seemed most likely to succeed was the " removal"
of the Liberal candidate a day or
two before the election. Here again he
encountered difficulties. Had the Liberal
candidate been any one but Frederick
Hazzleden he would not have hesitated a
moment. But his one weakness was a
genuine and deep affection for his sister,
and he more than suspected that Mary
continued to cherish in her heart a sentiment
of affection for her old playmate. Her
health, never very robust, was now worse
than ever. O'Connor sometimes looked with
anguish upon her pallid and almost transparent
face, and noticed the slow straightening

of the exquisite curve of her cheek.
The sight of a healthy woman often plunged
him into fury or despair. At Lorton, Kate,
with her round face, plump figure, and
exuberance both of good humour and bad
temper, excited in him something like
hatred. Had he known her relations with
her cousin the feeling would have been so
intense that the "removal" of Fred would
certainly have been attempted. As it was,
he wished to spare a pang to Mary, and
when the " removal " of Fred was proposed
cheerfully suggested, as a more desirable
alternative, the "removal" of the Home
Secretary, and one or two other members
of the Cabinet.

Mary O'Connor was secretly oppressed
by doubts. She was sure of the justice
of her cause, but not quite so sure of the

justice of all the methods used to promote
it. She was not entirely in her brother's
secrets. Of the dynamite conspiracy she
knew nothing, but in some vague way she
realised that her money was to be employed,
and, if need be, her hands too,
in striking a blow against the power of
England in Ireland. She was a patriot ;
but, alas ! she had a conscience. Not
that it greatly influenced her action,
otherwise how could she have been a
patriot? She nursed two sorrows in her
heart, which were gradually eating away
her life, and this was one of them. Yet
she never left her brother's side, and,
had he permitted it, would have plunged
deeply into doubtful designs for his
sake.

A woman is always a more dangerous

conspirator than a man. A man conspires
to gain his own ends, a woman for the sake
of the man she loves. Look at Lady Macbeth
! What a wealth of comminatory
epithets have not the critics heaped upon
her ? They have called her murderess, tigress,
fiend, and have taken her own ravings for
gospel ; while, as a matter of fact, she was an
excellent woman, who, if she had lived in
the nineteenth century and married a curate
would soon have made a bishop of him.
Depend upon it, Lady Macbeth had no personal
desire to kill Duncan, no natural inclination
to play nasty tricks with the
boneless gums of her infants. Her miserable
cur of a husband wanted to be king ; she was
far too fine a woman to care anything about
being queen. From first to last she never
betrayed one symptom of personal ambition.

She seems to say, " Dear husband, you want
to be king, and nobody has a better right to
be king than you. You suggested to me in
your last letter that we should kill old
Duncan. I'm sure I should never have
thought of such a capital idea. He's now
upstairs asleep, and the men are very drunk,
and why in the world don't you go up and
make an end of him ? I shall really lose my
temper if you dawdle about any longer.
Surely you can't be afraid ? When I say I'll
do a thing I do it, and not all the world can
stop me. Now, sir, if you're not off at once
I'll go myself and attend to it." This is the
way of every woman worth having. She
encourages, persuades, chides, and even taunts
the man she loves when anything has to be
done. Whether the thing is good or bad
depends on the man — the woman offers the

strength of her love just the same. When
the end is gained, if the way is evil, it is
the woman who dies of remorse. Macbeth,
who comes in with murder in his heart, goes
out with an oath on his tongue. There is
not a moment at which he is sorry. The
poltroon whines and trembles because he has
the nightmare, then rouses himself up and
kills some one else. Lady Macbeth, with
death in her soul, ever shows him a brave
and loving face. At the same time it is
far more desirable in the interests of society
that she should be hanged than he.

Mary O'Connor was not a Lady Macbeth,
and she had neither lover nor husband. But
she had a high admiration for her brother.
She dreamed of him as the God-sent, high-souled
liberator of Ireland ; she thought of
him as a Leonidas, a Brutus, a Winkelried,

a Kosciusko, a Washington. The habit of
projecting virtues into a friend is the commonest
folly of enthusiasts. In private life
it is a useful folly. Who would get married
without it ? Nothing is commoner than to
hear men say, "What in the world did so-and-so
see in that woman to make him
marry her ? " My friends, he saw a great
deal more than you or I can. Perhaps his
eyesight is better than ours, perhaps he
only labours under pleasant delusions. Never
mind, he sees beauties and qualities which
delight him, and so long as he continues
to see them it does not matter two straws
whether they are there or not. Our vision,
without doubt, often seems to our friends as
untrustworthy as his. Mary O'Connor, despairing
of kindling the love for which she
hungered, took refuge in the tenderness of

her brother and repaid it with worship. She
would have loved him for himself as he
seemed to her, but she worshipped him because
he was devoted to the service of his
country. He was indeed devoted, but his
patriotism was hatred of England ; Mary's
was love of Ireland.

She faintly remembered the miseries of her
childhood ; the sweet suffering face of her
peasant mother would come to her in dreams.
She knew that thousands of tender mothers
were starving by the waysides in Ireland,
that the great moan of anguish which for
centuries had risen to Heaven unanswered,
if not unheard, was still going up from the
land. Her ears were attuned to the voice
of suffering. She heard the cry of strong
men driven by pride and greed from
the homes of their fathers, the sobs of

women over their dying children, the bitter
laughter of sweet girls swept into sin on
the streets, the wails of puny infants. And
she thought that if Ireland were free all this
would be changed, that sin and sorrow would
fly away, that happiness would smile on the
people. And she raised her face and prayed
that her brother and she might be the means
of lifting this load of woe from a nation.

Poor Mary, poor Ireland, God pity you !

It was after midnight when O'Connor
entered their sitting-room and flung himself
wearily on the couch.

You have had a tiring night, John," said
Mary, as she busied herself with a spirit-lamp
to make his coffee and quietly arranged his
supper on the table.

He assented somewhat gruffly.

Mary stood silently until the little kettle

bubbled and steamed. Then she deftly prepared
his coffee, and O'Connor placed himself
at the table and ate his supper without
speaking, while Mary, seated in a low rocking-chair,
read a book.

Presently she looked up and said,
'you have not found affairs as we could
wish?"

True enough," was the short reply.

*' Tell me, then, all about it," pleaded Mary.
^' What has gone wrong ? "

Everything has gone wrong," he answered
irritably. 'ras if the British Government
was not hard enough to fight, the League
must go against us, and now they're working
day and night to checkmate us. Their
pottering tactics are enough to drive one
mad. How in the devil's name do they
expect to get anything out of this accursed

country by their everlasting speechifying 1
Even supposing that conciliation is necessary,
they are making a mistake. Asses ! they
ought to know that by turning Parliament
into a laughing-stock they are setting the
English more bitterly against us than they
would do by blowing up Windsor Castle."

But, John' she protested, " if we can
free Ireland peaceably, would it not be better?
Ought we not to try peaceful methods first ?"

"AhT' he said bitterly, 'even you shrink
at the critical moment. Yet you know as
well as I do that all the blather of the League
is worse than useless. But I am glad you
have given me an opportunity of saying
something which has been on my mind for
some days. I find we can do no good here.
The Government is well served, and there
are informers at every turn. Then the

League has swallowed up all the money, and
the best men have left our committees. The
disorganisation is worse than when I landed.
I have determined to go to London and begin
the campaign single-handed. But I think
you had better leave me. It is no woman's
work, and a single false move would mean
death. I wish you would settle down somewhere
for the winter and let me shift for
myself. Indeed it will be safer for me to be
without you. I should go tomorrow but unfortunately
I must stay until the election is
over. There are some fools here who threaten
to do a mischief to young Hazzleden, and that
I will prevent at all costs."

Mary's pale face was contorted with
anguish ; all the sorrow of a lifetime seemed
reflected in it for a moment.

O'Connor jumped up in alarm. But her

fortitude was equal even to this trial. She
rose and met him, seized his hand and kissed
it, and with a glow of high enthusiasm shining
on her features whispered, " Whither thou
goes I will go, where thou longest I will
loose, where thou dies will I die, and there
will I be buried ; and thy people shall be my
people, and thy God my God."

O'Connor gazed upon her mutely, and the
pain was transferred to his own face. Then
he whispered back, " So be it, my comrade."

As they parted for the night he said,
'*By the way, did I tell you that I asked
young Phillips from Lorton to join us in
London. He writes promising to come."

The nomination took place three days
before the election. Fred was proposed
by Eobert Davies, merchant, and seconded
by Arthur Bradley, solicitor. Among the
assenting burgesses was Mr. Timothy Brady,
who at his own particular request was permitted
to sign the paper. Mr. Bradley
was a little doubtful of the policy of this
move, fearing its effect upon Sir Alexander
Bligh and the Whigs ; but he was overruled
by Mr. Davies, who pointed out that
they were certain to be thrashed, that the

Irish were much more numerous than the
VOL. II. G

** strawberry-jam" faction, and that the
effect at headquarters would be good if
they were not beaten by a very great
majority. Mr. Bradley, still dubious, gave
way, and intimated that Mr. Davies must
conduct all the negotiations with the Irish,
while he (Mr. Bradley) tried to work the
Whigs. Mr. Davies, nothing loth, invited
Mr. Brady to appear on Fred's platform,
and actually, at a meeting in the Irish
quarter, induced Dr. Murphy to make a
fiery and eloquent speech in favour of the
Liberal candidate. This oration, however,
did not appear in the newspapers. By
means of a method of persuasion of which
he knew the secret, Mr. Davies induced
the reporters to suppress it. He thought
this course more prudent. Even, the Conservative
organ simply recorded the fact

that " Dr. Murphy supported the resolution
" ; and the representative of that
journal was heard to declare the same
evening, over a bottle of champagne in a
bar-parlour which he frequented, that
"Davies was a damned good fellow fora
Radical."

Fred found the nomination an uninteresting
affair. His proposer handed in the
requisite papers, and he was introduced
to the Mayor, with whom he had five
minutes' exciting conversation on the subjects
of the weather and the beauties of
the river at Dockborough. During the
proceedings his antagonist, Mr. Lawson,
entered the room, and some mutual acquaintance
introduced the rivals to one
another. Fred bowed and smiled pleasantly,
Mr. Lawson nodded stiffly. He

was a great man in Dockborough, and
was highly displeased that his position
should be challenged by this young fellow.
*just one of Davies's tricks," he grumbled
to his agent ; " knows the Rads. have no
chance, yet can't leave me in peace." Atone
of his meetings he roundly abused the
Liberal Association for putting the constituency
to the expense of a contested
election, and invited the pity and even
the prayers of his hearers for the poor
misguided young man who had fallen among
the Radical thieves of Dockborough.

Mr. Lawson was a gray-headed, benevolent-looking
man of about sixty. He never said
an original thing in his life, but he repeated
the commonest commonplaces of politics
with such tremendously sententious gravity
that his supporters would wag their heads

and congratulate themselves upon the masculine
intellect of their representative.
He lived a few miles from Dockborough,
upon that doubtful borderland which surrounds
all great cities. He never failed,
however, to speak of himself as a '' county
man," and to claim all the respect and
reverence due to that social status. Mr.
Lawson was a very good man and an
enthusiastic Protestant. He had late, in
life married the niece of a great local
brewer, with the happiest financial results.
His bread he owed to beer, his position
to piety. Consequently he was a very
strong candidate for Dockborough. The
publicans to a man were for him, because,
although he spoke with much unction, at
election times, of the beauties of temperance,
he always voted in the House against

licensing reform. The evangelical clergy
were equally in his favour. He took the
chair at Protestant meetings where God-fearing
parsons often referred to their
Woman Catholic neighbours as devotees of
the harlot of Babylon, and devised schemes
for the benefit of their precious but at
present imperilled souls. Mr. Lawson
always stirred his audiences down to the
tips of their toes by fervently professing
his determination to spend his energies
and, if need be, to sacrifice his life for
the preservation " of our glorious constitution
in Church and State." What that
glorious, etc." was, and why Mr. . Lawson
should be prepared to go to such fearful
extremities to preserve it, nobody stopped
to inquire ; but every Tory felt that the
cause must be good which enlisted the

services of such a man, and that the
man must be good who devoted himself
to such a cause. This method of reasoning
is not peculiar to the Dockborough Tories,
or indeed to Tories anywhere. Patient
and prolonged investigation revealed the
fact that Mr. Lawson's principal idea of
preserving " our glorious constitution in
Church and State " was to compel all the
clergy to preach in black gowns. Now,
there was an incumbent in Dockborough
who was a bold bad man. You would
never have thought it to see him. He
was a genial, hearty fellow, and a friend
to every human being who wanted one.
He built schools and conducted them,
day and night, Sunday and week-day.
He started penny banks and a score of
organisations to promote self-help among

the poor. He arranged free-and-easy
concerts in his schools, and sat among
his lads and lasses smoking his black,
burnt, meerschaum pipe, chattering and
laughing, like the great boy he was, in
the intervals of the music. He strove
with all the strength of his true-hearted
manhood to teach by example and precept
the beauty of truth and purity and
honesty. To the destitute his ears were
always open. No one knew how much
of his magnificent stipend of £300 a year
he spent on himself, but one or two very
close friends did know that he had a suspicious
habit of frequently borrowing sixpence
to buy an ounce of tobacco, because
"he had left his purse at home." To be
quite candid, it must be admitted that this
bad man did not always remember to pay

the sixpences back. It was also remarked
as a curious fact that his servants rarely
stayed in his house more than a month,
and it was reported that one saucy young
hussy declared that "if master and missus
liked to live on bread and praying' she
wasn't again' to put up with such mean
ways." This was outside the church. Inside,
the incumbent was a different man.
He lost all his genial heartiness. .He
decked himself out in as much finery asa
faded beauty going to a ball. He had
pretty little boys to carry his train, and
meek-faced youths to stand at his side.
He screwed up his features into an expression
of absorbed devotion which would
have been comical had it not been painful.
He carefully placed his fingers in the
position which good little children adopt

when they say their prayers, and walked
about the church for his flock to admire
the magnificence of their shepherd. He
bobbed, he bowed, he gesticulated, he
reflected, he whined, he snivelled, sometimes
he sobbed. Then with assistance he
got out of some of his finery, entered the
pulpit, usually preached a sensible and
useful sermon, and was a reasonable being
until next service time came.

Mr. Lawson held very severe opinions
about this wicked parson. He declaimed
for hours together at meetings of the
Protestant Defence Association upon the
enormity of the rev. gentleman's proceedings.
He fervently prayed that Providence might so
overrule the course of affairs, that the evil
designs of such false teachers upon the souls
of men should be brought to naught. The

Protestant party for years conducted a fierce
agitation against this church and its incumbent,
but the latter pursued his tranquil way
utterly indifferent to the clamours of his
brethren, equally rejoicing in good works in
the parish and embroidered satin in the church.
At length he increased the display of candles
on the altar to a number which was absolutely
intolerable to all decent Protestant feeling.
The new large-sized " spermaceties " were
clearly contrary to the rubrics. Mr. Lawson
could bear the illegality no longer. He
applied to the excellent Protestant bishop of
the diocese for permission to prosecute. Leave
was granted, privately accompanied by an
episcopal blessing, and after prolonged litigation
Mr. Lawson had the satisfaction of seeing
the refractory cleric safely lodged in gaol. The
church was handed over to a zealous evangelical

curate, who quickly stopped all the schools,
banks, concerts, and other pernicious organisations
of his predecessor, and read the service
twice every Sunday, particularly the psalms,
to congregations averaging ten, including his
own wife and three children.

But this was not all. At the time of the
dissolution Mr. Lawson was conducting a bill
in Parliament, one effect of which would be to
compel the incumbent on his release to convert
his Sunday finery into evening dresses for
his wife ; and the retiring member promised
faithfully if returned again to give not a
moment's rest to the Government until his
vitally important measure was placed upon
the Statute Book. Hence it arose that Mr.
Lawson was exceedingly popular with the
most demonstrative section of the Dockborough
electors.

Mr. Bradley noted these facts with apprehension.
He did not expect Fred to win —
indeed, for some reasons he did not wish him
to. As he remarked to his friend Eobert, " If
the young sprig should slip in, the Association
will be so damned cock-a-hoop we shall never
be able to hold them in again." To which
Mr. Davies replied, " You needn't fear; he's no
more chance of getting in than you'd have."
But both gentlemen were exceedingly anxious
to avoid a disastrous defeat. They yearned
to be restored to favour in Downing Street.

"If we could only run him within two
hundred of Lawson it would be grand,"
earnestly remarked Mr. Bradley.

'well, it won't be easy," returned Mr.
Davies. " By the way, have you tried to
nobble old Bligh yet ? I met him yesterday
in the club and he cut me dead."

I haven't had time yet," said Mr. Bradley,
*rand, to tell the truth, I don't much like the
job. The old man's as savage as a bear, and
swears he'll vote for Lawson. Little Alec,
too, is playing the very devil. Suppose I runover
with Hazzleden tomorrow. Yes, that'll
do ; he's nothing else to do in the morning.
But I'm sorely afraid, Robert, we shall only
make bad worse."

Early next day Bradley and Fred strolled
over to the office of " Sir Alexander Bligh and
Son," neither of them with very pleasant
anticipations. The baronet and little Alec
received them in the private office with stiff
courtesy.

The former was a tall, well-built man,
scarcely stooping under the weight of seventy
years. His hair was snowy white, his head
nobly formed, and his features wore an expression

of exquisite sweetness and dignity.
There was a commercial aristocracy in Dock-borough,
and he was the chief of it. He was
the sixth baronet — the title was conferred at
the beginning of the last century, and they
were a long-lived family. Each of the three
last baronets had, at least once in his lifetime,
refused the offer of a peerage. They had
enormous wealth, but they stuck to the old
firm. Sir Alexander worthily bore an historic
name untarnished by a breath of public or
private dishonour. He was a specimen of the
finest class of English commercial men. The
long high fame of his house was an infinitely
more precious possession to him than his
millions. His name was a blessing to him ; it
ennobled his nature and expanded his mind.
His millions were a curse ; they cramped his
opinions and fettered his action. Even a god

if he made money would become less godlike.
Sir Alexander and his ancestors helped to
make Dockborough. Every one of them lived
well, worked hard, and died in the hope of
heaven. His grandfather, it is true, made
a large fortune by certain transactions in
niggers." But the good man only did what
all the world believed to be right and honourable,
and, when the heinousness of slavery
was made manifest by great philanthropists, he
was perhaps the first business man in England
to perceive its wickedness. He abandoned
the business at an enormous monetary sacrifice,
and lived to make it his proudest boast that
he was a friend of Wilberforce. The house of
Bligh received not a farthing of the millions
voted by Parliament for the emancipation of
the slaves, although they had large West
Indian estates.

Little Alec was a great contrast with his
father. He had all the good instincts of the
family, but none of its dignity. His heart
was sound, and in business matters his head
was hard. Every one had a good-natured
liking for him, and the recording angel had
many a good work to his credit in the great
account. But he was a fussy little fellow who
was at once weighed down and uplifted by
the consciousness that he was born to be a

•

baronet. He never could understand why
people did not burn incense to him in the
temples as they did to his father. He was
five feet six and haughty. Had he been taller
it would not have mattered. What is condescension
in a giant is something else in a
dwarf. Alec was unfortunate in his stature,
but he was all the same a good fellow, and his
shrewd old father never had a moment's fear

VOL. II. H

for the credit of the family name when the
sixth baronet should follow his ancestors.

Mr. Bradley explained the object of their
visit, and Fred, who saw that frankness was
the best policy in dealing with the baronet,
bluntly declared, '^ I have come here, Sir
Alexander, to fight for your party. I hear
that some differences have arisen which
threaten to deprive us of your support, and I
want to persuade you, if possible, to give me
your vote."

I wouldn't, father," interrupted little
Alec.

The baronet smiled pleasantly, and without
noticing his son's fussy intrusion, replied,
Nothing would give me greater pleasure, Mr.
Hazzleden, than to vote for you and with my
party. I never gave a Tory vote in my life,
and I don't believe that any member of my

family ever did. To separate myself from the
Liberals will be very painful "

Very painful ! " murmured little Alec,
eyeing Fred from head to foot with languid
hauteur.

I was saying," continued Sir Alexander,
that my present position is extremely painful
to me, but I cannot be false to my conscience
and my sense of public duty."

Of course we can't," echoed little Alec.^

*' Heaven forbid, sir, that I should ask you
to do such a thing," said Fred warmly. '' But
is it quite certain that in going with ninety
per cent of the Liberal party and supporting
me you would betray your conscience ? I
should imagine that our principles do not
differ very widely, and we are agreed in
honestly seeking the good of our country."

Little Alec sniggered audibly.

*' Do shut up, Alec," said Mr. Bradley, who
never called a man by his surname after he
had known him for a week. '^ Go over to the
Tory Club and let us settle this business with
your father."

Little Alec rolled his eyes wildly, and the
baronet's cheek flushed. "I think," he said,
"Mr. Hazzleden and I can settle it for ourselves.
I fear," he continued, turning to Fred,
"that our differences are wider than you
imagine, judging, that is, from the speeches
you are reported to have made. I tell you
plainly I will never give my vote to a candidate
who supports the Prime Minister's Irish
scheme. Party allegiance is a good thing,
but the unity of the British Empire is a
better."

May I ask you to explain the points to
which you object," said Fred.

'* I wouldn't, father' ejaculated the irrepressible
Alec.

Alec, go to your lunch," angrily ordered the
baronet. " I'll follow you in a few minutes."

I fear discussion between us would be
useless," he continued.

"But, sir," remonstrated Fred, "is this
giving me quite fair play? It is of the utmost
importance to the party to obtain your
support. I am not committed entirely to
the Prime Minister's scheme. On all its
details I retain the right of independent
judgment. My position is merely this. Ireland
demands a large measure of reform.
The welfare of the Empire requires that such
a measure should be granted. All I maintain
is, that the Prime Minister should be permitted
to try his hand."

You are too enthusiastic, Mr. Hazzleden,

to make a clever casuist," said Sir Alexander
with a pleasant smile. " I will speak plainly.
I object to the scheme entirely, to its principles
as well as to its details. I will have
none of it. And what is more, I object to
the man as well as to the measure. We
Whigs have faithfully followed the Prime
Minister for many years, and our loyalty
has often been greatly strained by his extreme
courses. But the time has come when
we must leave him. He is a dangerous and
misguided man, and we are determined to
save the Empire at all party costs. We shall
vote with the Tories, not merely to defeat
his bill, which we believe no Parliament
would be mad enough to carry, but to turn
him out of office ; and we fervently hope he
will never again delude the people into entrusting
him with power."

Fred rose and said firmly, " If that is your
position, Sir Alexander Bligh, we do indeed
waste our time. I do not wish for support
from any man who holds such opinions. The
Prime Minister is my chief and leader, and
if I find my way into Parliament I will give
him my respectful and affectionate support,
and will do whatever a young member canto
make his office secure."

Sir Alexander bowed silently, and .his
visitors left the room.

In the street Bradley burst into a
loud laugh. "By Jove, Fred," he said,
you're a caution. I knew the old man had
made up his mind before, or I should have
been ready to strike you. We've lost nothing
as it is, but you'll really have to stop your
trick of flying at people's throats. Old Bligh
isn't used to be lectured by candidates."

Fred laughed too. "Well," he said, "perhaps
I was a little hasty, but I can't keep
quiet when sensible men talk such inexplicable
nonsense. I can't for the life of me, Bradley,
understand why the Whigs make such a fuss
about the Irish business."

I thought I explained it all to you down
at Barkleigh," replied his mentor.
I don't remember," said Fred.
Well, my boy, they don't care a damn
about the Irish business," was Mr. Bradley's
characteristic reply.

How do you make that out ? " inquired
Fred. " If they care nothing about it why
are they going to vote Tory ? "

"Because, sweet youth, they care a great
deal about their own position and their own
pockets."

I don't follow you. They must lose

position and influence by going over to the
Tories," objected Fred.

"This is how it is," continued Bradley.
They've been restive for a long time under
the ' socialistic ' policy of the Government, as
they call it. They're deeply attached to the
laws of political economy. Men who have
money always are. They cram the whole
Decalogue into the principle of freedom of
contract, which to them means freedom, to
earn thirty per cent. The State has lately
been interfering in their affairs. Then that
confounded idiot, the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
must go and talk to them about
'ransom.' It put them in a devil of a
funk, and they've been looking out for an
excuse for a split ever since. The Irish
question turned up handy. You can almost
always stir up prejudice in an Englishman

over Irish affairs, and my belief is we shall
be handsomely thrashed in the country,
thanks to our good Whig friends. They
think they see a chance of dishing the
Radicals, and believe that things will goon
beautifully under a Tory Government,
governed by a Whig clique."

Fred was silent for a while. The old
feeling of repulsion returned to him. It was
all such a dirty game — every man scheming
for his own interests, and no man faithfully
acting on his convictions and seeking the
good of the country. The remembrance of
Sir Alexander Bligh's fine face, however,
came to comfort him. " I cannot but think,"
he said, 'that the baronet is an honest man."

Honest ! " exclaimed Bradley, '' honest !
of course he's honest ; we're all honest.
Honesty's the best policy, my boy."

At last the day of election came and Fred
was heartily glad of it. He was tired of
making speeches and receiving votes of confidence.
He felt as if he had not an idea
left ; he had presented his whole stock to the
electors of Dockborough. And they were
not likely to prove grateful. The true state
of affairs, which Messrs. Davies and Bradley
had so carefully concealed, was no secret to
him. He was a young man who used his
eyes and ears, and before he had been in the
constituency a week he discovered that the
brilliant prospects of the Liberal party, which
had been painted in glowing colours by the
deputation, existed only in the imagination
of those ingenuous gentlemen. There was
no organisation, no cohesion, no spirit, and,
as he greatly feared, no genuine desire to win
in several influential quarters. Arnitte, who

had worked for him morning, noon, and night
with the energy of three men, entirely shared
his opinion.

I'm afraid we're in for a thrashing," he
said ; "but never mind, better luck next time;
and, after all, we've had a splendid time here."

Fred looked with envy upon the exuberant
enjoyment with which his strangely
reticent friend threw himself into the contest,
and he was touched by the frequent proofs
of kindly consideration and solicitude which
he received from him. On the whole, the
young candidate was resigned to what he
believed to be his fate. From the first he
never nourished any very bright hopes.
The ill fame of Dockborough Liberals was a
byword in the country, and the split in the
party which , Messrs. Davies and Bradley
admitted at the outset seemed to place success

out of the question. After his interview
with Sir Alexander Bligh he gave up the
game as irretrievably lost. Yet out of pride
he did not relax his efforts. Only three
persons made any pretence of believing he
would win. One was Kate. At night, when
he got back to his hotel tired out, she pressed
his hand and whispered, *' Never mind, old
boy ; we're going to get in."

Strange to say her sanguine affection
rather irritated than comforted him. He felt
she knew nothing about it. She seemed like
a cat who purrs round the legs of her master
when she sees him silent and distraught.
One evening he greatly hurt her by curtly
replying, "Oh, don't bother me, Kate. I'm not
going to win, and I don't believe that I want
to." By a tremendous effort she restrained
the burst of wrath which rose up within her,

and rushed off to lier room to find relief in
passionate tears. After this relations between
the cousins were somewhat strained.

The second confident individual was Mr.
Harris. The editor never met him without
exclaiming with great gusto, 'you'll win,
Mr. Hazzleden, you'll win — I feel it."

Inasmuch as Mr. Harris always " felt it "
about a candidate on his side, Fred was not
much impressed by his presentiments. Besides,
it was the editor s business to say smooth
things.

He was a little encouraged, however, by
an incident which happened the night before
the election. He met Mr. Brady at the
door of his hotel, and, shaking hands with
that gentleman, inquired how the work was
going among the Irish voters.

"Perfectly' replied Mr. Brady; "we have

traced every Irish elector in the constituency.
We were never so splendidly organised
or so enthusiastic. You'll get at least
ninety per cent of the nominal Irish strength
tomorrow. The rest have left the place,
and there's a handful of mad irreconcilable
who'll vote for Lawson."

Fred expressed his satisfaction and
pleasure, and Mr. Brady, as he turned to
go, said, " By the bye, how many of your
party will rat with Bligh ? "

*' Our estimates vary," replied Fred ; " they
can't be fewer than five hundred, and we don't
think they can be more than a thousand."

Ah ! " said Mr. Brady meditatively ; ^' if
they're not over eight hundred there'll bea
surprise for some of our friends tomorrow
night."

Fred, in spite of himself, gained a spark

of confidence from this conversation, as he
knew the Irish canvass was simply faultless.
But he tried to persuade himself that Mr.
Brady's observation was the outcome of
Hibernian enthusiasm.

The election day afforded him no clue to
the result. The ballot is remorselessly uncommunicative.
He drove about with Mrs.
Wynnston and Kate, and in one street was
cheered, in the next hooted. As he passed
the polling booths he saw crowds of the
free and independent electors streaming in
and out. He mechanically noticed that most
of them looked very stupid creatures. Many
were very dirty and some were drunk. As
the day wore on his committee were able to
inform him that the poll would be a heavy
one. From this circumstance some drew
favourable conclusions, others unfavourable.

After the active work of the past weeks,
Fred found the passive ordeal of polling-day
very trying. He seemed as though he
was dreaming, and leaning back in his
open carriage several times almost dozed in
reality. At length the poll closed ; he went
back to his hotel and dined ; then, with his
aunt and Kate, hurried to the Reform Club,
there to await the result.

On important political occasions, ladies
were admitted to a very handsome upper
room in the Club, and this evening there
was a large gathering of the great dames
of Dockborough. They drank tea, chattered
together, and even indulged in a little
mild flirtation with the committee men and
other exalted personages, who fidgeted about,
examined their watches, ran up and downstairs,
and wondered twenty times an hour

VOL. II. I

when the news would arrive. The ladies
were more or less polite to Mrs. Wynnston
and Kate — Dockborough had its own theory
and practice of etiquette. But they were
effusive in their behaviour to Fred, and the
wife of a rich American - bacon importer
spoke of him, in his hearing, as '' our dear
young candidate." Fred exchanged small
talk with as much tranquillity as he could
muster, till an opportunity of escape occurred,
when he found refuge in a seat in a corner
beside Kate, and silently listened to the
roaring of the crowd outside.

Ten o'clock struck and Fred's pulse began
to quicken. The mob grew less boisterous
and gradually became altogether quiet. But
the ladies gossiped more gaily than ever.
Kate's hand trembled a little as she held
her teacup, but Fred noticed that her face

was bright and calm. His own was becoming
pale, and he knew it. He was fully
prepared to be defeated and expected to be,
yet that last half-hour was a terrible trial.

A few minutes before half past ten he
could hear a bustle among the men waiting
down below in the hall, followed by a strange
abrupt cry, and in an instant Mr. Bradley,
all grimy and dishevelled, burst into the
room and shouted, " My God ! he's in. These
Irish have done it ! "

Fred felt a paper thrust into his hand
and slipped it into his pocket. He scarcely
knew what he was doing. The crowd outside
were bellowing like bulls, the people
inside were cheering and waving handkerchiefs.
They crowded round him, and some
of the ladies almost kissed him in their
delight. He managed to learn that his

majority was 198, and that he must say a
few words to the people outside. He was
pushed on to a small stone balcony, where,
surrounded by a blazing band of gaslights,
he looked down, as it seemed to him, upon a
ghastly surface of white, featureless, expressionless
faces. What he said he did not know, nor
did any one else, for the din drowned his voice.
Then he bowed, slipped in through the window,
and escaped to his cab by a back entrance.

When he reached his room and was undressing
he remembered the paper which had
been given him.

It was an envelope addressed to " Frederick
Hazzleden, Esq., M.p," and in it was a card
with the words, " With Kate's dearest love."

She always believed he would win, and
she was first to address him as a Member of
Parliament.

The morning after the election Mrs.
Wynnston and Kate went home. Fred remained
a couple of days to settle the
financial business with Mr. Bradley, who
acted as his agent. On the second day,
as he was strolling along a street filled with
fine shops, which served as an afternoon
promenade for the wives and daughters of
well-to-do men in Dockborough, he saw
Mary O'Connor approaching on the other
side of the way. He dashed across the
road to meet her, holding out his hand
and saying, " You here. Miss O'Connor ! "

A faint colour stole into Mary's pale
cheek as she replied, "Yes, I have been
here with my brother for several weeks,
but we leave for London this evening."

"We shall meet there, then," eagerly
interrupted Fred.

Mary made no reply, but, with some
embarrassment, congratulated him upon his
victory. "You must be very happy," she
said, "for you used to play Parliament
when we were children. You always were
Prime Minister, I was Speaker, and little
Kate, don't you remember, always insisted
on being a policeman." She laughed a sad
little laugh and continued : "It must be
very delightful to feel that one's highest
aspirations are fully satisfied. I wonder
what it's like."

"I don't know," said Fred gloomily; "I

haven't had that experience yet. Though,
of course, I'm delighted to get into Parliaments'


They walked along in silence for a few
moments. Then Mary glanced at his face
and remarked, *'I think you are not very
well, Mr. Hazzleden. You are overworked,
and I don't believe this place agrees with
you. You should get away as soon as you
can."

Oh, it suits me well enough," returned
Fred, " but I'm rather tired."

No, no ! " said Mary with unusual
vehemence, " what you need is a change ;
you oughtn't to stop here any longer."

"Well, I'm not going to," said Fred; "I
leave for Lorton, where I shall stay a week,
this evening."

Fred saw with surprise the expression of

intense relief which crossed Mary's face.
For some reason, which he could not even
faintly guess, she was anxious for him to
leave Dockborough. Mary saw his questioning
look and turned away her head.
When you see Kate," she said, " give her
my dear love, and say I hope she will be
very happy ; " then softly, " and I'm sure
she will."

Fred thus learned, to his dissatisfaction,
that Mary knew of his engagement to
Kate. Why he was displeased he could
not tell, for Mary, as the friend of their
childhood, had surely a good right to know.
Sooner or later she must have known, for he
was engaged to be married ; there was no
mistake about that, and he told himself
that he was the happiest of men to have
the love of such a woman, and that he

would not exchange her for an empress.
He may have been the happiest of men,
but he did not look it. On the contrary,
his face was the picture of despondency,
and he answered Mary gruffly, "Thank
you ; yes, I'll tell her."

Rousing himself from his thoughts, he
said, "By the way, what is taking you
to town at the fag end of the season ; have
you any business there ? If you'll Jet
me know where you are going to stay, and
will allow me, I should like to call on you."

Mary struggled painfully to disguise her
embarrassment. "My brother has business
in London," she said, "and I can't tell you
where we shall stop, for I don't know myself."

Fred secretly wondered at the obvious
constraint of this usually calm, strong woman.
Her serene dignity even as a child had been

remarkable, and he never remembered an
occasion on which her fine gray eyes (they
were blue when she was a little girl) had
failed to meet his. With his customary
philosophy he shrugged his shoulders and
gave up the riddle. He said, *' I had forgotten
to ask after your brother ; how is he ? "

Mary answered that he was very well.

''I suppose," continued Fred, "that he
came over here for the election ; Arnitte
saw him a day or two after we arrived.
Do you know," he went on, " I can t help
thinking that I am indebted to your brother
for coming to Dockborough ? "

He did indeed try to serve you," said
Mary earnestly.

"Now I've found you out, you dreadful
conspirator," said Fred blithely, without
noticing that Mary absolutely reeled as she

walked. " Of course I knew that he was
a Nationalist ; every Irishman who is worthy
of the name is. I might have known that,
with his brains and ample means, he would
be a big man in the party. And so you
persuaded him to come here to use his
influence for my sake, and," he added
quickly, " for Kate's."

Mary panted out some words of denial.

'* Oh, you needn't try to deny it. I see
everything now. It's no mystery why the
Irish all supported me, and why Brady
believed I should win. With a Great
Panjandrum of the mysterious League at
my back I might well win. Well, I'm very
grateful to you for your remembrance of
*auld lang syne,' and when I meet your
brother, which I hope will be in town, I'll
thank him also."

Mary tried desperately to turn the conversation.
She directed his attention to
some paintings in the window of a picture
shop, feverishly criticised the execution, and
inquired whether Fred painted now — for
in his youth he had spoiled a few canvases
and privately confided to the worshipping
Kate and Mary his fixed determination to
be President of the Royal Academy as well
as Prime Minister.

Fred's mind, however, was not running
upon palettes and pigments. He was filled
with a delight, which he never for an instant
admitted to himself, by the belief that
Mary had been the chief cause of his success
in the election.

"Well," he persisted, "it's a great responsibility
to wield the almost absolute
power which the League has acquired. But

I believe that, on the whole, the power has
been wielded for good. Of course mistakes
have been made, and great ones, but, considering
the difficulty of the situation, and
the provocation which has been offered, we
ought to be surprised that they have been
so few. By the way," he asked, " why does
not O'Connor go into the House ? I suppose
he could find a score of safe seats if he
wanted them ? "

■r

Mary faltered out that her brother
thought he could be of more service to
his country outside the House than in it.

Ah ! I see," said Fred ; "a Moses behind
our four-score loquacious Barons. Perhaps
it's best. I say," he laughed, " what
a lucky thing for us your brother came
back from America a Nationalist instead of
a Fenian or a Dynamite like some Irishmen

! Such a conspirator as he would make
would indeed be formidable.'^

Mary gasped for breath, and Fred, forced
to perceive her intense agitation, stopped,
swung round, and said eagerly, "Miss
O'Connor — Mary — what have I done ? — are
you ill ? ' For pity's sake take my arm and
forgive me. You can't be so cruel as to suppose
that my stupid jest was meant seriously.
Do you imagine I could believe the brother
of my old playmate a member of a brutal
gang of cowardly murderers, and that brother,
too, the man to whom I owe my seat in
Parliament? Don't think so ill of me, Miss
O'Connor."

Mary was leaning heavily on his arm, and
he feared she would fall. Presently, as they
approached the end of the long street, she
withdrew from his side. Then she stopped

and held out her hand. " I do not believe,"
she said, " that you think anything unworthy
of us, and I want you to promise me, dear
friend, that you never will''

Fred was hastily avowing that he could
not if he tried, but she stopped him. " Our
ways are different," she went on, ^* so are our
countries. It may sometimes happen that
our duty will be to oppose you and to cause
you pain and anxiety. I want you always
to think that I am only trying to do my
duty, and that I am living for my country, as
I am willing — Heaven knows how willing —
to die for her. It is quite possible that we
shall never meet again, and a time may come
soon when you will not wish to meet me, and
I wanted to say this to you before we part.
Good-bye, Fred ; God bless you."

Fred took her hand mechanically and

pressed it. He was stupefied, and let her go
without a word. He stood vacantly watching
her tall figure as she swiftly passed out of
sight, and left him with the trembling tones
of her voice haunting his ears, and a glint of
the sunlight upon her golden hair dazzling
his eyes.

What did she mean? He told himself
that it was an unfathomable mystery.
Certainly it was a mystery which he did his
best not to fathom. The mere thought of
what he might find beneath the surface made
him shudder. But for this dread he would
have followed her and demanded some explanation
of her words. Now she was gone,
and to trace her in the great city to which
he was a stranger would be well-nigh impossible.
He hurried to his hotel, and there
found Arnitte.

The thought came to him to take his friend
into his confidence. He acted on the impulse.
I'm glad I've found you," he said nervously.
"You remember Miss O'Connor — she was a
friend of ours when Kate and I were children,
and you know that I feel an interest in her ? "

'^ Yes, I know," said Arnitte.

"Well, I've just met her and had a most
extraordinary conversation with her. We
talked of the election, and I found out that
O'Connor was a great man in the League."

Did she tell you so ? " asked Arnitte.

No, but it's quite plain. He came down
to work up the Irish, and he's really the man
who put me in. Then I made some stupid
joke about his being a dangerous conspirator
and she nearly fainted, and told me we should
never meet again, and asked me to think well
of her. What in the world am I to think ? "

VOL. II. K

Well, I think you always may think well
of her, for I believe, from what I saw of her,
that she's a very fine character. But it is
highly probable that you never will meet
again, and very much for the good of both of
you that it should be so."

What do you mean ? " asked Fred.

'^I suppose you will see Miss Wynnston
this evening," said Arnitte with stern abruptness.


Fred flushed to the roots of his hair.

"Don't be angry with me," continued
Arnitte. 'i'm much older than you, and,
what's more, deeply attached to you. I
always tell a man what I think when I see
him making a great mistake. As to the
O'Connors, I know something of them. Did
I ever tell you I've been in America ? I
heard a good deal of the man there" — the

bitter frown which Fred had noticed on his
forehead after the dinner-party at Lorton
House crossed his face again — " and I'm not
in the least surprised that Miss O'Connor was
agitated when you called her brother a
dangerous conspirator."

This is dreadful," groaned Fred. ** Can
nothing be done to save her ? "

"I don't think so," returned Arnitte, 'rand
my belief is that Miss O'Connor would decline
to be saved by you. However, you'll have
the consolation of knowing, whatever becomes
of her, that she is guided by a pure and
unselfish love of her country. Now get off"
to Lorton as quickly as you can. If you
don't make haste you'll miss the last train."

Fred felt that Arnitte was giving him
sound advice — indeed was pointing out the
only honourable course open to him. " I'll

be off at once' he said. '' Will you go with
me for a few days ? you know my aunt will
always welcome you."

Arnitte excused himself on the ground of
certain business engagements which would
keep him in Dockborough for a few days.
But he promised to join Fred either in the
following week at Barkleigh or else afterwards
in London at the opening of Parliament.

Fred caught his train, and as he travelled
by express to Lorton he ruminated. For the
first half-hour his thoughts were all behind
him, for the rest of the journey they were
running on ahead. Accidentally he pulled
out Kate's note, in which, on the night of
the election, she addressed him as *'M.P."
Then he read the card, '* With Kate's dearest
love." "What a warm-hearted little lassie
she is ! " he said to himself. Presently he

recollected how he had repulsed her when
she tried to cheer him by telling him he
would win. His conscience smote him
heavily. " Can I wonder," he thought,
that she gives way to temper when I behave
so brutally towards her ? " He reproached
himself, told himself that he was not half
good enough for his black-eyed little cousin,
and actually, before he reached Lorton, was
congratulating himself that he had a sweetheart
without a taste for conspiracy and high
treason. His disposition was a strange
mixture. It is lucky he was not a sailor, or
quite possibly he would have had, like the
mariner in the song, a wife in every port, and
would have been devotedly attached to each
of them — within the distance of ten degrees.
The affections of men are more divisible than
perhaps most of us are willing to admit.

Kate was waiting on the platform for Mm.
She had driven over in her pony-phaeton.
As he leaped from his carriage she made him
a saucy bow of mock respect and inquired,
How is the honourable gentleman ? " All
the cobwebs in an instant blew out of Fred's
soul, and he caught her in his arms and
kissed her half a dozen times. When he released
her the little woman cried in tones of
huge indignation, " Upon my word, sir, this
is a nice display before a train full of people —
you, the member for Dockborough, and I, the
daughter of the lady patroness of the parish."
But her eyes were dancing with wild delight.
It was the first demonstration of lover like
passion she had seen in Fred. She felt as if
she would like to hug him as he had hugged
her, and it was a fortunate accident that she
did not, for Kate Wynnston had a habit of

doing things first and thinking about them
afterwards.

As Mrs. Wynnston's groom was bringing
the luggage Fred and Kate stood by the
phaeton and patted the little gray ponies.

'' Oh, Freddy," she said, " I'm so happy
about you and about everything that I don't
know what to do. I think I shall have to
cry ; and we'll go down to the dingle again,
won't we ? and you'll stay a whole week with
us, and — oh, here's Edwards with the bags !"

As they got into the phaeton she said,
'* Let me drive, Freddy ; I can't sit still today."
He smiled and ensconced himself at her
side in the left-hand seat, and she took the
reins. Those kisses were a misfortune for the
ponies, for their mistress shouted at them,
whipped them, and stormed at the fat little
animals because they could not fly instead of

run. The girl was in such a state of excitement
that Fred began to fear she would land
her cargo in the ditch. The ponies tore along
the narrow lanes where the autumn leaves
were already covering the ruts with a brown
carpet, rattled over the white highway, narrowly
escaping disaster as they passed clumsy
country carts, and at last pulled up panting
before Mrs. Wynnston's gates.

"Here, mother," she said, as that lady
walked down the drive to meet them, "here
is the honourable member for Dockborough,
all safe but nearly frightened out of his wits."

The vicar came to dinner, and a bright
party of four sat down. Fred was elated at
the thought of his victory and at the wealth
of affectionate congratulations which were
heaped upon him. Kate's gaiety was irrepressible.
She was saucy to her cousin.

demure with the vicar, and rebellious against
her mother. Fred watched her with a contented
sense of ownership. His demeanour
plainly said, "This is my property, and I
hope you admire it." One cloud alone
darkened the happiness of the vicar and Mrs.
Wynnston. There was a movement among
the farmers of Lor ton parish to resist the
payment of tithes. Mrs. Wynnston was furious.
She argued that such wretches ought
to be hanged, and she ordered the vicar to
denounce them from the pulpit. That worthy
divine, who was at the time engaged on a
treatise to prove that consciousness is only a
molecular phenomenon, complied, and on the
following Sunday deplored the anti tithe
agitation as a manifestation of the godlessness
of the present day. In his earnestness he went
on to speak of the causes of the falling away

from faith, and attributed it without hesitation
to the scientific literature which was flooding
the country. Even children at school, he
said, were imbued with the principles of
materialism, and people of all kinds saturated
their minds with infidel theories. Thus it
happened, he continued, that the Church was
robbed of her lawful dues, and the ordinances
of God were despised by men. He implored
his hearers to beware of infidel literature, and
as his congregation was chiefly composed of
small farmers and villagers, there is every
probability that the lambs of Lorton escaped
the wolf of agnosticism. He declared that
the Church had made ample provision for
the enlightenment of her children in all
needful knowledge. It was the duty of her
priests to examine carefully the specious
reasonings of the men of science and to refute

them. He himself had read many modern
materialistic works, and they might trust to
him to keep them informed of such parts of
present day controversies as it was desirable
for them to know. If they put away the
accursed thing from them and their households,
then tithes would be paid once more
to the glory of God and the welfare of the
Church. The vicar repeated the ascription,
left his benediction with the people, and went
home to write a very learned chapter on
Clifford's theory of molecular ** mind-stuffs.'^

He was sincere enough. Clergymen are
not to be judged as ordinary mortals. They
have accepted a brief for the Church, and
they honourably appear in the court of the
nation on her behalf. Most of them, whatever
their private theological opinions maybe,
are sincerely convinced of the necessity

of religion for the masses. Then they have
a remarkable art of rationalising any doctrines
and historical assertions which do not, in the
ordinary interpretation, fit in with their own
beliefs. Most pagan parsons can demonstrate
the desirability of men, who believe in neither
God the Father, God the Son, nor God the
Holy Ghost, repeating the Apostles' Creed as
frequently as convenient. There is a good
deal of priestly astuteness among the spiritual
pastors of the Church. Clergymen are often
orthodox from interest, and dissenting ministers
are often orthodox from ignorance.

The vicar was disposed to discuss the election
with Fred, but Mrs. Wynnston's mind
was too deeply occupied with the stupendous
question which was shaking the fabric of
society in Lorton, to permit of frivolous
chatter on the subject of politics. Kate too,

who in some of her moods was a sprite of
mischief, lured her mother on to tithes.

At length Mrs. Wynnston, who could control
her impatience no longer, inquired, *' Has
Farmer Ball paid yet ? "

Paid ! " ejaculated the vicar, ^* paid ! My
dear Mrs. Wynnston, am I Moses that I
should bring water from a rock ? I had a
letter from him this morning in which he
kindly offers to ' compromise ' by accepting
fifteen per cent reduction instead of twenty."

Of course you indignantly refused," said
Mrs. Wynnston.

"No, I didn't," replied the vicar; "I
thought I should like to talk matters over
with you before I answered him. You see,"
he continued, turning to Fred, " this is a
matter of principle with me. I don't want
the money, and as far as I am concerned

would gladly remit the whole of the tithe.
But my successor, if you don't disestablish
and disendow us, may need it very much,
and I feel I shall be acting as a dishonest
trustee if I do not compel payment of at
least a reasonable proportion."

I can quite understand your feelings,"
said Fred, " and if I were in your position
1 should be a good deal perplexed. Yet
you will admit it's natural that the tenants,
especially the dissenters, should object to this
tax."

Dissenters, Mr. Hazzleden," said the
vicar ; " I'm surprised you should have any
sympathy with them. The Church is the
Church of the nation ; its doors are open to
all ; and if any misguided persons refuse to
avail themselves of her ministrations surely they
should not be relieved of their just liabilities."

*' But are they just ? " inquired Fred.

** How can you doubt it ? " answered the
vicar. '* The tithes belong to the Church by
right of gift and of parliamentary enactment.
If you encourage the people to resist her
claims all security of property will disappear."

*well," returned Fred, with a good deal
of hesitation, " I suppose you'll think me a
thief and a robber, but I'll confess I don't
regard the doctrine of the inviolability of
property as the basis of society."

Mrs. Wynnston, who had not the remotest
idea of what he meant, said reproachfully,
Oh, Fred ! " The vicar shrugged his
shoulders despairingly, and Kate, laughing,
cried, " Shall I make a red cap for him,
vicar i

What I mean," continued Fred, " is this.
The good of the State is a consideration which

should take precedence of the convenience
of the individual. Even in regard to property
this is a principle which is widely
applied. Look at the income tax and the
land tax. The State claims each year a
portion of the property of the people, and in
so doing asserts its right to control over the
whole of it. If we only knew it we are
Communists already, for we have given the
community the only absolute right in all
our belongings. Now, I contend that there
is no difference in principle between confiscating
two and a half per cent of my income
next year and confiscating the revenues of
the Church. You enjoy your tithes only by
the goodwill of society, and I think you'll
find it very hard to prove that you ve a
right to their because an old priest-ridden
baron made a bequest to the Priory of

Lorton seven hundred years ago. The sacredness
of bequest is all nonsense," he went on
warmly. "Every vested interest, which has
been interfered with, has always talked the
same thing, and I tell you plainly, if it is
shown that ancient endowments can be put
to a better use, I'll vote for disendowment."


Mrs. Wynnston wailed, *' This is dreadful,"
and the vicar said quietly, " Mr. Hazzleden. is
young and ardent. We are all in youth
inclined to tilt against windmills. For my
part I do believe that the sacredness of
property is the basis on which society rests,
and that it is impossible to tamper with it
without doing irreparable harm. Like you,
I rest my political system entirely on the
good of the community, and it is because I'm
so convinced of their hurtfulness that I resist

VOL. II. L

these crude revivals of ancient and discredited
heresies'

Kate saw that both gentlemen were becoming
warm, so she hastened to inquire
after a pet of hers, a half-witted little village
lad generally known as " Laal Paul." Laal
Paul was ill with a severe attack of measles.
He was an outcast, a child of whom the law
recognises no father, and his broken-hearted
mother, a young farm-servant, was dead.
Laal Paul, when Kate took him under her
protection, was six years old, and lived
on the coarse charity of the farmer in whose
outbuildings he was born. The farmer's
eldest son, a wild youth of two and twenty,
lived at home, and people did say that Laal
Paul had claims to kinder treatment than
he received. Kate begged the little creature
from the willing farmer, put him to lodge

with a good-hearted old widow in the village,
and sent him to the church school. He was
body and soul the slave of his friend. He
would slip out of school whenever occasion
offered, and hang about Lorton House for
half a day for the mere chance of a word
from '^ Mittie Kaate," as he called her in his
broken speech. He generally received a
good scolding for his pains. Kate, catching
sight of him from the windows, would Eun
out and seize her delighted protege, shake
him and cry, " You little villain, are you
playing truant again? What do you want
here"— "Me want you, 'Mittie Kaate,'"
Laal Paul would reply, whereupon "Mittie
Kaate " would give him a slap, haul him by
the collar into the kitchen, and feed him on
bread and jam until he could eat no longer.
She would lecture him on the enormity of

playing truant, to which exhortation Laal Paul
would listen in an ecstasy of awe and delight.
Sometimes she would give him a penny, with
the remark — "There, if you're a good boy
you'll give that to the missionaries on Sunday,
but if you're a sensible little chap you'll buy
a peg top from Widow Brown."

Kate had a huge contempt for little boys
who are concerned about their precious souls,
and who, in later life, often prove to have
nothing in the way of souls worth troubling
about.

Laal Paul did neither one thing nor the
other. Kate only learned afterwards that
everything she gave him he took home and
carefully hid under the mattress on which
he slept, on the floor of his attic. He had
contrived to pull ofi" surreptitiously some
loose beads from her mantle ; once in the

kitchen she put clown a thimble, and Laal
Paul promptly transferred it to his pocket.
On another occasion after breaking the point
of a lead pencil three or four times she flung
it out of the window in a tantrum. Laal Paul
was present and groped about on the lawn
for half an hour in the dark until he found
it. These treasures, with other odds and
ends, he added to his store beneath his bed,
and at night would tenderly take them outspread
them before him on his mattress, and
lie down by them, patting them, handling
them one by one, and murmuring " Mittie
Kaate, Mittie Kaate." Kaate's trivial gifts
and the products of his little larcenies
served as helps to the child's feeble memory.
Each one of them was a reminder of some
joyful moment when he had seen and heard
his " Mittie Kaate," and perhaps, to be quite

sincere, when the bread was thinner and the
jam thicker than usual.

But he worshipped her as whole-witted
persons worship Heaven, or are supposed to.
He would have trudged for a day just to see
her face, and would have been rewarded
without any bread and jam. Once he was
trotting by her side along a lane, about a
mile from Lorton village, when they meta
tramp, who begged with menacing importunity.
Kate sharply refused, and the fellow,
as if meditating violence, stepped forward,
when Laal Paul sprang at him, like a furious
dog, screaming his idiot scream. The child
bit and tore and scratched, and clung to the
astounded loafer with a clutch of desperation.


'come here, Paul, come here," cried Kate
in an agony of apprehension. Obedient to

her voice the lad let go and, nimbly dodging
the blows of the tramp, sprang to her side.

With a volley of oaths the man moved
towards her, his fist upraised.

Kate frequently carried on her walks a
dog switch, and with this she gave the beggar
a smart cut on the hand, saying, " You
coward ! " The fellow stopped and looked
at the little woman with her blazing eyes,
her head thrown back, and her agile figure
drawn to its full height. "Well'' he said,
"you're a nice pair of devils, you are," and
turned on his heel and disappeared.

When he was out of sight Kate threw
herself on the bank and shrieked with laughter.
"Oh! Laal Paul," she said, "you desperate
little character, whatever will become of
you ? " Shocking to relate, whenever they
were walking together she would say, " Well,

Laal Paul, we're a nice pair of devils, aren't
we ? " Still more shocking, she encouraged
the child to repeat the words, and once, on
a Sunday morning too, when her mother and
the vicar overtook them on the way from
church, she said, '' What are we, Laal Paul ? "
And when the child replied, ^* We're a nice
pair of devils, we are," the wicked girl laughed
aloud, and only laughed the more at the
vicar's astonishment and her mother's horror.

A few days before Fred's visit Laal Paul
had been taken ill, and as he grew worse the
widow sent a message to Kate, who looked
at the lad, saw that the matter was serious,
and went off at once for the village doctor.
The medical man pronounced the case to be
one of measles, and of a rather virulent sort.
Kate, who had never had the complaint, he
ordered out of the place, with stringent instructions

not to return until he gave her
permission. But Laal Paul became delirious
and continually called in pitiful tones for
*mattie Kaate," and, what was worse, stubbornly
refused to take any medicine. The
widow, in despair, went up to Lorton House,
and Kate five minutes after was on her way
to him. Mrs. Wynnston remonstrated and
implored. Kate only said, " It's no use,
mother; I shall go. Poor little chap he
wants to see me." And then more kindly,
'' Don't be frightened, mother ; I'm all right,"
and with a laugh, ^*It won't spoil my beauty
if I do get it."

Twice every day Kate had gone and knelt
on the floor by the mattress in the garret,
and given the little sufferer his medicine, and
soothed him with her loving voice and gentle
hands. But on the day of Fred's arrival

she had only been able to visit her patient in
the morning.

Now she inquired of the vicar, " Have you
seen Laal Paul this afternoon ? "

The vicar, who would cheerfully have
visited ten cases of black plague in a day
if Kate had been interested in them, had
been assiduous in his attentions to the lad,
and, as it happened, had called to see him
on his way to Lorton House.

I fear," he said, '' the poor little fellow
is in a bad way ; he seemed dreadfully ill, and
the doctor isn't very hopeful about him, but
we must hope for the best."

Kate looked very grave, and Fred asked
what the matter was with ^'Kaate's urchin,"
as he used to call the boy.

Then the vicar told him all the story,
and Fred felt quivering through him the

old thrill wliicli had stirred his nature on
the memorable night down at the dingle.
Kate was sitting near him, and he furtively
pressed her foot with his beneath the table.
The girl's moistened eyes spoke her thanks.

It was later in the evening, when the
party were sitting in the drawing-room,
that a messenger came from the widow to
say that Laal Paul was very much worse,
and was calling pitifully for Kate. " Mrs.
Crank wants to know wouldn't you not mind
coming', Miss," said the lad who brought the
message, "for she can't bear to hear him
any longer."

Kate rose at once, and her mother hastily
begged her not to go. "You can't think
of going down to the village at this time,"
she said.

The vicar asked if he might not go for

her; he would return and tell her how the
patient was.

No, no," answered Kate ; " the child cares
more for me than anybody else ; I must go."

Fred stepped to her side and said, " You're
right, Kitty, and I shall go with you."

She took his arm, and in silence they
hastened down the dark road to the village.

The widow met them at the cottage
door. " He's near his rest, poor lamb'' she
said.

They climbed the steep and narrow stairs
to the loft, where on his pallet in a corner
lay Laal Paul, painfully breathing out his
poor little life.

By his side stood a candle, and round
it on the floor were plates of grapes and
jelly, which Kate's kindly remembrance
had supplied. There was nothing else in

the room. The girl knelt down beside him,
and Fred stood at his feet. A draught
from the skylight blew the flame about,
and its flickering light danced on the face
of the dying child, and sparkled on the
tears which were falling from Kate's eyes.

A wakeful sparrow chirped under the
eaves, and a passing shower pattered on the
roof. The boy's breathing grew harder and
weaker, his lips moved convulsively, and he
uttered moaning sounds. Kate wiped his
brow, and raised his head on her hand.
Presently his eyes opened and fell on the
sweet face bending over him. He struggled
to lift himself, and gasped out " Mittie Kaate,
kiss Laal Paul."

The girl stooped, and pressed her lips
upon his forehead.

Laal Paul's eyes were brighter than they

had ever been before, and they rested fora
moment with a look of childlike awe upon
his friend.

His lips parted again, and, raising himself,
he whispered, 'mattie Kaate, Laal Paul
loves."

His head slowly drooped upon the pillow.
Kate laid her hand upon it, — and then gently
drew the coverlet over Laal Paul's face.

Not a word was spoken until they were
in the road, when Fred uncovered his head
and said, " My darling ! my darling !
God, make me worthy of such a love."

Fred spent one of the happiest weeks of
his life at Lorton. He had never before
quite understood all the breadth and depth
of Kate's character, or realised all the devotion
and tenderness, which were united with
quick anger and jealousy, in her tempestuous
nature. The death of Laal Paul exercised
a sweetening and restraining influence upon
her, and the whole of his visit passed without
a single storm. He knelt by her side
in the church as the vicar read the solemn
words of the burial service, and with her
he cast a flower into the child's grave.

That afternoon, again, they strolled together
down the Apple Walk to the dingle.
The foliage was now thin and brown upon
the trees, and the gnarled branches stood
out black and weird above their heads.
Under their feet the dead leaves rustled,
and a chill autumn wind sighed in the
tops of the elms. Both were thoughtful
but happy. Fred was reviewing the history
which had been crowded into the few months
since he last walked with his cousin to the
dingle. He had become engaged to be
married, he had experienced very painful
doubts, he had encountered Mary O'Connor,
and had heard a whisper in his heart to which
he had tried hard to be deaf. He had
accomplished the great ambition of his life
and become a member of Parliament, and
finally, he had found out for the first time

how precious a prize Kate's love was. Ashe
thought of all these things his hand
clasped her arm more tightly, and he drew
her instinctively to his side.

In Kate's satisfaction there was that little
vein of melancholy which is, perhaps, the
most exquisite element of happiness. A
sad joy is infinitely more delightful than a
boisterous one. It was not her custom to
analyse her feelings. She had no habit,
nor indeed capacity, of introspection. She
was an instrument of sweet and varied
tone, played upon by the myriad influences
of human life ; she heard the music and
rejoiced in it, but it never occurred to her
to count the vibrations of any string, or to
test the pitch of any note with a moral or
intellectual tuning-fork. There was something
alien to modern civilisation in Kate

VOL. II. M

Wynnston's passivity. Her mechanical subjection
to the influences surrounding her
had a trace of the barbarous in it. Her
mental states produced by colour and by
climate, for example, must have had a
curious resemblance to those of the savage
in the gateways of the day, who basks in
the sunlight and crouches from the storm.
That her sensations and emotions were finer
and more complex was due to the inheritance
of the ages which she had received.
Now her soul was making mournful yet solacing
music. It was as in some grand symphony
when the chords sweep onwards in
wild and solemn harmonies, rising in passion,
falling in grief, ever lamenting, ever bewailing,
while the heart of the hearer sinks, and
sinks, and sinks. Is there any hope, any comfort
left ? he asks, and the stern answer falls

in pitiless minor tones. There is no hope,
not any. Ah ! but listen again ; what voice
steals from under the measured music of
despair? It is small and faint, but you can
hear it. Has heaven opened ? Do the angels'
chants echo through earth's discords ? It
grows, it swells, and now the harmonies of
anguish are but the setting of the song of
hope. Louder and louder, rippling of harps,
ecstasy of flutes, pealing of bells, triumph pf
silver trumpets, and the world is filled with
seraph strains. •

Kate loved, as she hated, with a whole
heart, and the dead child was dear to her.
She had heard that day the thud of earth
as it fell upon his coffin, and had scarcely
heeded the words of comfort which the vicar
read. She was saddened, solemnised, and
troubled. But Fred was with her, and

thrush lier grief she heard his words of
deep earnestness, when for the second time
he had called her by the fondest name of
love. The music grew as they walked down
to the bay, and presently it filled her heart.
When they reached the old seat Fred bent
down and kissed her.

They stood looking out over the bay — a
gray sea under a gray sky. Long waves,
tipped with white, swept majestically towards
them, and, dashing against the rock, flung up
the spray in showers. A mile to the west
was a fishing fleet, and the black hulls tossed
about until the grimy close-reefed sails seemed
to touch the water. Beyond them, off the
mouth of a deep water channel, a trading
steamer was coming up with the tide towards
her port. Now and again a puff of
steam rose behind her funnel, and a moment

or two after the sound of her whistle came
faintly across the water. Then the experienced
eye of Fred detected a little flag which
had been run up to her foremast. She
was signalling for a pilot. To the left, along
the shore, just on the horizon, they could
see the pier of a small watering-place jutting
out into the sea, and, watching intently,
thought they could observe the waves
tumbling over the end of it. Northwards
a high coast stretched for a couple of miles,
then trended to the west, thus forming Lorton
Bay. The wind was cold, and Kate and
Fred started to walk along the brow at the
bottom of which the tide was running. The
breeze blew salt and moist upon their cheeks,
and Kate's brown face was touched with a
tint of dusky-red. It was too boisterous for
talk, and indeed they were not greatly inclined

for conversation. They panted along,
hand in hand, glowing with healthy exercise.
A moment's halt at the crown of the brow,
behind the partial shelter of a rough stonewall,
enabled them to watch the play of a
single truant beam of sunlight which had
wandered between the banks of heavy cloud,
and was lying away out on the open sea like
a lane of emerald green, fringed with pale
gold, through a wilderness of gray. Above
their heads a solitary sea-gull was breasting
the wind with powerful strokes of his white
wings, and calling with his mournful note to
comrades who never answered. The cousins
turned inland, and, after a rough walk of half
a mile across the fields, over stiles, through
gaps in hedges, and over ditches, reached the
main road a little way above Lorton House.
As they passed through the gates Kate

said, " I think, Fred, our second visit to the
dingle has been happier than the first."

And Fred replied, '' I've been very happy,
lassie, and hope always to be happy with

you."

The remainder of the visit was occupied
with calls, tilts with the vicar, the correspondence
which Fred at once found out is one
of the greatest and most irksome of the
demands on the time of a member of Parliament,
and, best of all, in cosy evening chats
at the fireside with Kate. She was not a
good conversationalist. For one thing she
did not read much, and it was contrary to
her nature to think. She would sit looking out
of the window or into the fire, and you might
imagine she was brooding upon some momentous
problem. But she was not ; she was not even
dreaming ; she was simply enjoying the light

or warmth, much as a rose blossom enjoys
an hour of sunshine after a period of dull
chilly weather. Her talk was redeemed
from commonplaceness by a very active sense
of humour and a quaint power of mimicry.
Fred noticed it as a curious fact that, while
in her personal dealings with people she
seemed almost without the sense of humour,
and would seriously resent an obvious and
harmless jest, in her observation of men
and things she invariably detected any
ludicrous element. He half regretted her
want of power or of inclination to sustain
a serious conversation, and her apparent
aversion to solid mental food ; but he found
compensation in her brightness and vivacity,
and at her grave moments in the intense
devotion which showed in her every word
and action. Kate kept her temper for a

whole week, and Fred was, as lie assured
her, as 'happy as a sandboy." She drove
him in her phaeton back to the station.
This time she invited him to take the reins,
but he preferred to watch her deftly guiding
and urging her ponies. She stood by his side
till the train was moving away from the
platform. Then he kissed her, jumped into
his carriage, and settled himself down for the
long and tedious journey to Barkleigh.

Fred found himself a great man at Barkleigh.
His father shook him warmly by the
hand when he alighted at the station, and
Aunt Maria congratulated him, and hinted
that his success was another proof of the
soundness of her scheme of preordination.
As a lad he had belonged to the village
cricket club, and his easy-going manners and
generosity made him very popular with the

village boys. Fifty or sixty young men
whom he had known as children were
present to greet him, and, with the stationmaster
and porters at their head, welcomed
him with hearty cheers. Fred bowed his
acknowledgments. Then some one in the
crowd called for a speech, and the cry was
taken up with enthusiasm. A porter ran fora
wheelbarrow, and the new member, mounting
it, addressed his friends. He told them
that his pleasure in his victory was greatly
increased since he knew that it pleased them.
He said if he had a regret it was that he
did not represent their constituency. But
that was impossible, as most of them were,
he feared, of his good father's way of thinking
in politics — (loud cheers) — while he was a
Liberal — (cheers) — a Radical if they preferred
it — (renewed cheering) — and however much

they liked him personally they would not, he
feared, return such a desperate character for
their old county. Well, however much their
principles might differ, they were united in
the bonds of long-standing friendship. (Great
cheering.) It was one of the good features
of English public life that men might take
opposite sides, and yet remain the best of
friends. Indeed, he thought that political
differences often made men respect and
appreciate one another more. English politicians
were something like English boys who,
the more they fought, were the better friends.
That reminded him of a fight he once had
with Billy Chambers. (Much laughter.) He
saw Billy Chambers there in the second row,
and he must say that when he looked on
Billy's chest and arms he was glad the fight
had not to come ofi" now. (More laughter,

and cries of " Bravo, Billy") Billy was
wicket-keeping while he was batting, and they
had a difference of opinion as to whether
he was stumped or not. He recollected that
they went to a corner of the field, and there
they argued the matter out. He thought,
but he was not quite sure, that he had the
better of the argument. (A voice from the
second row, " New, Mr. Fred, I whopped
yow") Well, he could assure them he should
take very good care not to argue any more
points with Billy, in that way at any rate.
But he was going to say that after their little
encounter he and Billy were sworn comrades,
and would cheerfully have fought for one
another any two lads in Barkleigh. (Thunders
of applause.) Now, he hoped that when he
came to settle his differences with opponents
in Parliament the consequence would be the

same, and that though, like him and Billy,
they might continue to disagree as to the
result of the bout, they would always give
one another credit for sincerity and honesty.
(Hear, hear.) He thanked them with all his
heart for the reception which, for '^ auld langsyne,"
they had given him, and he could
assure them that though he did not directly
represent them in the House of Commons, if
ever he could be useful to them his services
would always be at their command. (Prolonged
cheering, during which the honourable
member got down from the barrow, having
spoken about ten minutes.)

During the next few days Fred endured
many torments from the "smell of leather."
The footmen of Barkleigh, who had never
before come nearer a member of Parliament
than the width of a platform, were anxious

to make his acquaintance. As Arnitte had
predicted, he felt it in some sense to be his
duty to suppress his distaste for leather. To
represent the people he must know the
people, even if they made boots. Mr. Williamson
made bold to ask the member to take tea
with his family, and to meet a few neighbours.
Fred consented, perhaps because he
wished to see, once more, Dr. Gordon's house,
where Mary O'Connor spent her childhood.

It was an old house, but the furniture was
new. Through the door you stepped from
the past to the present. Mr. Williamson was
a thorough-going Radical. He had no respect
for antiquity. Even his pictures and his port
were produced the day before yesterday. He
liked to have everything nice, he said, and,
to a blind man, the appalling jumble of furniture
and decoration with which he had filled

his house, might have been *'nice/' for the
chairs were comfortable, the carpets soft, and
thick curtains excluded draughts. Although
from an artistic point of view Mr. Williamson
was a failure, as a host he was a success, for
he made his guests feel at once that he was
glad to see them, and that the resources of
his establishment were fully employed to promote
their comfort. Mr. Williamson had not
an '' aitch" to his back, and if he forgot his
company manners quite possibly he would
shovel potatoes into his mouth with his knife.
But he was a gentleman all the same, and
Fred was sensible enough to perceive it at
once.

A gathering of ten or twelve " footmen "
and their wives was assembled in the drawings
when Fred arrived. Mr. Williamson
found occasion to whisper that they were '' all

wholesale," from which Fred gathered that
he had entered a social sphere which shopkeepers
may imagine but cannot approach.
His ideas were enlarged by a conversation
between two of the ladies, which he overheard.
A draper who had made money, it seemed,
had taken a house in Barkleigh, and endeavoured
to enter the Barkleigh community.
The men chatted with him on the road, and
finding that he was a clever flower-grower had
extracted many useful "wrinkles" from him.
Emboldened by this condescension the poor
draper had ventured to call at one of the
"wholesale" houses, and the two ladies were
discussing his temerity.

"Fact is, my dear," said the first, "he
wants to be one of us."

Impossible, my dear," said the other.

I assure you he does."

"Mercy me, well I never!" and the
lady in amazement called to a friend across
the room, "Mrs. Turner, did you ever
hear of such a thing? — that man Smith as
called on you last week wants to be one
of us."

Conversation was not quick nor brilliant.
Fred thought a council of Need Indians must
talk in much the same way.

I see this morning," said Mr. Williamson
after a pause, "Duggle's got the bricklayers
in again."

Who's Duggle ? " asked a man.

Why, him as has the big 'ouse at the
corner of Kepworth Lane."

There was an interval during which the
company digested the information about
Duggle, then some one asked, " What's he
building' ?"

VOL. II. N

^' Peach 'ouse, I think' said Mr. Williamson.


There was another pause till a voice
remarked, " Them was storm in' peaches
you grew last year, Williamson."

"Wasn't they clinkers?" said Mr. Williamson.
"I 'ad one as weighed over three-quarters
of a pound."

Silence again, then another voice, " I
'ad a ' crysanthum ' year before last — a
Been de Ark,' I think, as measured over
thirteen inches across."

Didn't you grow it, Jackson, on the
same tree as Williamson's peach ?"

It was the wit of Barkleigh who made
this crushing inquiry, and the company
laughed immoderately. *swell, I never,"
said the ladies ; " Good again, Blackball,"
said the gentlemen, and then they all

laughed more. One thing, which struck
Fred as most remarkable about these people,
was the ease with which their risible
faculties were excited. He could scarcely
open his lips without sending them into
ecstasies of mirth. The ladies in particular
seemed to possess an extraordinary sense
of humour. At first Fred was disposed
to be gratified by the gracious reception
given to his little efforts, more especially
as several of the ladies were extremely
pretty. He began to think that he was
pouring out a stream of good things and
was quite a witty fellow. But when he
noticed that Mr. Lacksall's sallies evoked
just as much laughter, his admiration of
the "wholesale" ladies of Barkleigh began
to diminish, and at last, during their perpetual
cachinnation, he found himself muttering

something about the crackling of thorns
beneath a pot. Then he relapsed into
silence and let the conversation take its
own course.

"Horton's burnt out again, I see by the
papers," said a lady.

*' How many times is that ?" asked Mr.
Williamson.

'four, I believe," said Mr. Jackson.

He must be fond of a blaze," chuckled
Mr. Lacksall, and the company laughed for
three minutes, and the ladies repeated,
"Fond of a blaze, deary me!" in every
tone of the soprano register.

'' I should think the insurance won't pay
this time," said Mr. Williamson.

"A gentleman as I know saw him a-comin''
out of the warehouse an hour before the
fire," remarked Mr. Jackson, shaking his

head, and most of the company shook
their heads too.

They do say as he only got four
thousand last time, and I know his claim
were ten," said Mr. Lacksall, and some of
the ladies laughed and said, 'well, I never."

*'He spent a pile o' money on them new
building's, though," observed a man in the
corner.

"Wonder if he moved the pictures 'fore
the fire," said some one else.

"What pictures?" inquired Mr. Williamson.


"Why," replied Mr. Jackson, "he'd a
regular show up at the top o' the ware'us'."

What is Mr. Horton ? " asked Fred.

He's in hosier," said Mr. Jackson,
"but, law bless you, he can turn a penny
at any think."

"Even at fires," interrupted Mr. Lacksall
amid great laughter.

I believe he made more out o' his
pictures, though," resumed Mr. Jackson,
than he ever made out o' 'osiers. He
had some sinners. I remember one ashe
showed me last year — my here ! it were
a * clinker.' What were the artist's name,
blest if I ain't forgot ? "

Were it Gainsborough ? " suggested
Mr. Williamson, wildly speculating; *hewers
a chap, he were." Mr. Williamson
had a large green atrocity in his diningroom,
which a dealer had assured him was
a Gainsborough. Hence the happy possessor
took a personal interest in the
painter of the '' Blue Boy."

"No, that weren't it," answered Mr.
Jackson.

Eennulls, perhaps," hazarded Mr. Lacksall.

My dear' chimed in Mrs. Jackson, ^' I
believe it were * Kafeel/ or something ; I
remember you a-telHn' me at the time."

Nonsense," retorted Mr. Jackson ;
' Rafael ' were a Italian ; I seed I should
think a score o' this fellow's pictures in
the National Gallery when I took the wife
up to London. They was sunsets like all
in a fog, for I'm blest if I could mek out
anything else in 'em. You must know
who I mean ; he were no end of a swell."

Do you mean Turner ? " said the man
in the corner.

Turner, that's the chap," exclaimed
Mr. Jackson. '^ Well, Horton had a big 'un
and it were a ' clinker.' Horton told me
himself as he wouldn't tek a thousand pound
for it."

'' Law," said the ladies, and then the
conversation languished again. Presently
a mild-looking young man, who hitherto
had said nothing, timidly asked, "Did you
get that parcel, Lacksall, you was a-biddin'
for at Rickety's sale a-Tuesday ? "

I ain't going' to talk business before
ladies," returned Mr. Lacksall with great
severity. There was another outburst of
laughter, and the inquirer, covered with
confusion, turned his blushing face to the
window.

Fred was wondering whether he might
venture to suggest a topic when Mr. Williamson
broke the silence, "Have you had many
plums this year, Jackson ? " he asked.

Strikes on 'em," returned that gentleman.
"You know that little tree a' top o' the
harding ; I never see such a show in my life."

Them was ' Victorias wasn't they ? " remarked
Mr. Lacksall.

No ; ^ Golden Drops and they was
prime. Our tells had such a go at 'em T
thought they'd a made their sells ill."

"Law, Tom' ejaculated Mrs. Jackson,
*' I'm sure you eat more nor them," whereat
the company exploded, and Mr. Lacksall
gallantly observed, "One too many for you,
Jackson, that time."

Mr. Williamson came to the rescue : "I
ain't 'ad many plums," he said, "but I
should think we got a wagon load o'
pears."

Have you got — what's their name ? —
Fondanty de autumn,' Williamson ? " said the
man in the corner.

Ain't I just," replied the host ; " they
ain't quite ripe yet, but if you'll come in

next week I'll gie you the best pear you
ever tasted i' your life."

I'd as lief 'ave ' Cont de Lainey,' "
said Mr. Lacksall with an air of profound
indifference.

'not likely, lad' replied Mr. Williamson
; '^ ' Cont de Lainey/ indeed ! why,
they're not a patch on ' Fondanties.' Remember
that one I showed you last week,
Jackson ; it were a picture, and as mellow
and rich as a peach."

I were over at Soarceter yesterday," remarked
a lady, " and I see pears in the
market at tuppence a pound." This lady
had no garden ; her claim to admission in
Barkleigh society was the possession of a
fine pair of gray carriage horses, and a
husband who manufactured woollen jackets.
Her title, however, was not recognised as

absolutely perfect, and Mrs. Jackson returned
icily, *' I can't bear market fruit."

*' No," continued a stout dame in crimson
plush ; "I alius say give me fruit and
vegetables as you pluck fresh from your
own harding. Stuff as bas been lying' fora
week in the shops is only fit to feed pigs
on."

There was a general chorus of 'every
true, Mrs. Blackwell."

Fred was getting very much bored. He
tried to maintain on his face a smile of
serene contentment, but every now and
again, when he forgot his features, it would
fade away. Then there was a struggle to
get it screwed back again to the proper
pitch of intensity. In spite of all his efforts
to seem pleasantly and gracefully " at home,"
he began to fidget. Mr. Williamson, with

the true instinct of a host, detected his
uneasiness. " We're a wearying' Mr. Dazzles
wi' all this clack," he said. " Let's have
a song."

There was a pause. '' Come on, Lacksall,
gi' us a tune, lad," he continued ; '' Matilda '11
play for you."

Matilda, a pretty young woman who was
Mrs. Williamson's sister, seated herself at
the piano, and Mr. Lacksall, remarking, 'all
right, I'll do a shout for you, but I've got
a bad cold," proceeded to turn over the
music. He was a young man who wore
very low collars, and Mr. Williamson
whispered to Fred, "You could tell by his
throat as he were a singer."

Mr. Lacksall evidently found it difficult
to make a selection from his extensive
repertory, and Mr. Williamson called impatiently,

'^ Gi' us the * Friar Ted'— ^' Oh
yes' said the ladies, *' do, Mr. Lacksall/'

That gentleman cleared his throat, expanded
his chest, stuck his thumbs into
the armholes of his waistcoat, and began
to roar the experiences of the " Holy Friar "
in a voice at least half a tone sharp with
the piano.

Fred's ears were delicate and he was in
agony. Only with the utmost difficulty he
resisted the temptation to thrust his fingers
into his ears and exclude the fearful din.
But the chorus came to his relief. Mr.
Lacksall swung round, faced his hearers,
and avowed his distinct preference for the
life of " ay-oh-oh-woh-woh-oh-ly-oh-woh-woh-
oh-oh-ly friar," emphasising each " oh " and
woh " with a beat of his forefinger.

Fred forgave him on the spot. The

horrors of the verse were amply atoned forby
the exquisite comicality of the chorus.
He had never heard anything like it before,
and his only regret was that Kate was not
present to share his amusement. She would
have caught up the voice and manner in
an instant, and for a month after would
have astonished her friends by expatiating,
in a ludicrous imitation of a bass voice
which she managed in some way to produce,
on the manifold delights of the career of " 
friar." The member
for Dockborough joined in the chorus with
a vigour scarcely less than that of Mr.
Lacksall himself, and by the time the last
verse was reached had the satisfaction of
hearing the entire company "oh-working"
in all the voices known to music, and inmost
of the keys.

Amid the ripple of '' thank you's " which
followed the conclusion of the song, Mr.
Williamson said to Fred, " Ain't he a voice ? "
to which that young gentleman replied with
exceeding emphasis, " He has."

^^ Reminds me," said the man in the
corner, " when I were a lad father took me
to London, and we went to Her Majesty's
to hear the great Tambourine. He were
a stormed." ^

"Ain't no such singers now," observed
Mr. Jackson.

The ' speeches ' is * distinct,' " continued
Mr. Williamson gloomily, and most of the
company sighed and shook their heads.

I reckon there's as good as old ' Tamb,' "
said Mr. Lacksall haughtily.

After the laughter had subsided the man
in the corner, with some fierceness, inquired

Who ? " and Mr. Jackson and Mr. Williamson,
more in sorrow than in anger, echoed
'' Who ? "

"Well," replied Mr. Lacksall, ^^ there's
Sig-ner Basso — you'll judge him a good 'un,
and there's others as wouldn't give in to
'im on a straightforward shout."

Thinks himself better nor Sig-ner Basso
and ' old Tamb ' put together," murmured
Mr. Jackson into Fred's ear, and the member,
to whom neither of those worthies was known
personally or by repute, replied sotto voce,
Good gracious ! "

Another pause ensued, and, when the
company had completed their mental comparison
between " old Tamb," Sig-ner Basso,
and others unnamed, Mr. Lacksall exclaimed,
*' I believe the call is mine. Perhaps Mr.
Hazzleden, M.P., will favour us with a song."

Fred went to the piano and, accompanying
himself, sang : —

The light has gone out for ever,
And the pathway I walk alone
Is cold as the clay which covers
My own, who was never my own.

There are many the world calls better,
And some perhaps fairer to see ;
But she loved me, oh ! how she loved me !
And that was enough for me.

You may say her faith was dishonour,
You may call her love her shame.
Ah me ! it is hard to pardon, •

It is easier far to blame.

And who are you who condemn her
So calmly from passion aloof ?
I pray that all-merciful Heaven
May put our love to the proof.

She sullied her soul and I know it,
(Now cease all your idle demurs),
But one day, at God's tribunal,
I will offer my soul for hers."

The song was Arnitte's. He had composed
the music, and Fred suspected him of

VOL. II.

having written the words too. The verses were
irregular and not very suitable for musical
treatment, but Arnitte had managed in someway
to fit them. Fred was struck by the deep
passion of the song, and Arnitte taught him
to play and sing it. For the most part it
was a kind of wailing recitative, but in the
second and last verses it burst into a storm
of passionate melody.

Fred had a fair tenor voice and knew how
to use it. His effort was received with
moderate approval. Some of the ladies,
however, thought the song a trifle improper.


Mr. Williamson walked with Fred towards
Mr. Hazzleden's house. On the way he remarked,
" That were a tearing' song o' yours ;
how did the words go ? "

Fred repeated the verses.

Like his blooming' cheek ! " observed Mr.
Williamson at the end.

Cheek ! What do you mean ? " asked
Fred.

'' Why * offer his soul for hers,' " explained
Mr. Williamson, ^' when he know'd as he were
going to the devil along wi' her, and serve
him right too. I'm a 'husband and a father,
Mr. Fred, and a deacon in our chapel besides,
and I say they both deserved all they got.
That sort o' thing may go down among the
monsters,' but it ain't no go in this
Christian country."

Fred, slightly abashed, made the mental
note that sentiment was wasted on the boot-men
of Barkleigh.

The week before Parliament assembled Fred
returned to Dockborough to fulfil an old
engagement. He had promised to open a
bazaar held in the interests of the '' Bible
Mission" in connection with Mostyn-Mount
Chapel. Now Mr. Bradley was an elder of
Mostyn-Mount, and might have been even
a deacon had it not been for his unfortunate
habit of saying " damn " in moments of excitement.
His weakness was well known,
and the members of the flock felt that his
election to the higher dignity might be productive
of scandal. He bore his exclusion

with much resignation, and when his Mostyn-
Mount clients (who were numerous) called for
legal advice or to settle their bills, Mr.
Bradley would remark, with a sad little
smile, " I can assure you I have never sought
any personal advancement in the church, but
only the good of the cause."

Mr. Bradley was a great man in the
church all the same. He was of ample means
and of higher social position than most of
his fellow-worshippers. His influence with
them was extensive, and Mr. Robert Davies
sometimes enthusiastically declared that
Bradley carried four or five hundred
Mostyn- Mount votes in his pocket," — at
which soft impeachment Mr. Bradley smiled
sweetly and jingled his keys, as though
they were the aforesaid votes.

Mr. Bradley was not a hypocrite ; he made

no pretensions to piety, but lie helped both
with his brains and his purse the Mostyn-
Mount church; and if, in return, clients
flocked to his office and supporters to his
party, he felt that, in seeking a lawyer so
experienced and a leader so astute, they
were doing the best possible thing for themselves.


During the election Arnitte had worked
among the " Mostyn-Mounters," as they were
always called, and had found a satisfactory
and solid determination to support his friend.
He had been greatly interested in all he had
heard of the people and the place, and his
accounts had awakened in Fred a desire
to visit Mostyn - Mount. Hence his ready
acceptance of Mr. Bradley's invitation to him
to "inaugurate" the bazaar, as the street
posters grandiloquently put it.

Mostyn - Mount was a fashionable chapel,
or, at any rate, it loved to consider itself
fashionable, for it stood in a residential
park in the suburbs of Dockborough. The
chapel was a big, rambling building, the
front of which no one could distinguish
from the back; indeed it is a matter of
some doubt whether it had any back or
any front, for wings were stuck on here
and corners chopped off there in its various
enlargements and alterations, until it became
the most shapeless and bewildering
pile which the mind of dissenting architects
ever imagined. The congregation were
happy in the possession of their building.
Within the place was reasonably comfortable.
The pews had stiff backs, but then they corresponded
with the backs of their occupants.
In winter the chapel was warm, in summer

cool, and the susceptibilities of the people
were not offended by its ugly galleries, its
bare walls, its vulgar pulpit, or its fearful
and wonderful stained glass windows.
Stained, gentle reader! this dissenting congregation
enjoyed the elevating influences
of stained-glass windows ; but of them more
anon.

The people were just what one might
expect to find in such a building. They had
a Puritan simplicity corresponding with the
white walls, and a secret hankering after
ritual, suggested by their coloured glass.
But the hankering was well kept under. It
went to the length of stained windows and
no further. Indeed in that development it
was regarded as a dangerous weakness to be
watched and prayed against, rather than asa
manifestation of spiritual sweetness and

culture to be encouraged. The most notable
characteristic of the congregation was its
liberalism — theological, political, and general.
It was a very enlightened congregation, and
scorned, with an abiding scorn, all the superstitions
of popery, prelacy, and priestcraft.
Its faith was a simple one, composed of three
main articles — belief in the Eev. Samuel
Robinson, its young pastor, belief in the
infallibility of the Mostyn- Mount church
meetings, and belief in the absolute Scriptural
validity of the Mostyn-Mount denominational
shibboleth. " The Church and Congregation
worshipping at Mostyn - Mount," as they
called themselves, were not superlatively rich ;
on the other hand, they were not inconveniently
poor. Every year, in response to the
appeals of the Eev. Samuel Robinson, they
contributed a considerable sum of money to

the local charities, and, besides this, they
freely supported all kinds of " mission rooms "
and evangelical enterprises. They were an
assembly of prosperous Philistines, somewhat
uninteresting to an unregenerate observer, but
at bottom a good-hearted and, in mundane
matters, intelligent class of people. They
had, however, one unpleasant delusion : they
were firmly convinced that Mostyn- Mount
Chapel is what Americans call the " hub of
the universe." They had scarcely an interest
in life which was not associated with their
chapel, and if ever you saw two of them
talking in the street you might wager any
amount of money that they were discussing
either last Sunday's sermon, or else the
prospects of a large attendance at the
approaching congregational tea-meeting. It
was doubtless a useful idiosyncrasy, and one

which tended to promote the interests of
the church, but it was a little wearisome to
those who found, upon this petty planet,
more engrossing subjects for thought and
topics for conversation than the worldly welfare
and the spiritual success of Mostyn-Mount
Chapel.

The Rev. Samuel Kobinson was a remarkable
young man. He was only five and
twenty years of age, tall, fair, soft spoken,
with a long - suffering look which melted
the hearts of the most uncompromising
deacons. He succeeded a brilliant and distinguished
preacher in the pastorate, and
the skill with which he drove a very
awkward team of " professing Christians "
was the envy and wonder of his ministerial
brethren. He was popular, partly
because of his '' pulpit power," and partly

because of a worldly wisdom unusual in
one so young. Mostyn- Mount Chapel was
crowded with earnest Philistines Sunday
after Sunday, while Mr. Kobinson, with a
gentle and insinuating eloquence, expounded
the doctrines of Philistinism. By sheer
force of character he made his congregation
what they were. He was their model and
their hero. It followed, of course, that
the strength and weakness of the pastor
were reflected in the flock He, too, was a
liberal theologian. In the course of a sermon
he was once heard to say, " Paul remarks,
but I do not fully agree with him," and a
thrill of pleasure and admiration ran through
his silent hearers. They felt, no doubt, a
delightful sense of the naughty daring of
the observation ; they knew that if Mr.
Kobinson and they had not been "broad,"

it would have been downright wicked to
dispute the ex cathedra declarations of an
apostle ; but being " broad," they recognised
their full right to argue a point with the
prophets, the apostles, or even the evangelists,
and yet at the same time nursed the conviction
of their own temerity. Mr. Robinson
probably entertained no such ideas and sensations.
He was fond, in his quiet way, of
calling a spade a spade, and if an unfortunate
apostle had happened to make
a feeble observation, Mr. Robinson would
bestow upon that unfortunate apostle a
severe castigation. He had his favourites
and his pet aversions. At one time
he was very hard upon David, and the
deacons and the elders and the adult
members of the congregation were also
very hard upon David. Wherever you

went, for weeks and months you heard
nothing but stern reprobation of the peccadilloes
of the Jewish monarch. No one
had a good word to say for him, and
outside hearers, in the end, began to excuse
the little weaknesses of David, out
of sheer weariness of hearing them condemned
from the pulpit on Sunday and by
the people all week.

It was a pleasant change when sympathy
succeeded antipathy. Melchizedek was the
hero who succeeded David. The characteristics
of this mysterious personage occupied
the congregation for a long time. One
Sunday the remarkable circumstance that
Melchizedek had neither' father nor mother
suggested itself to Mr. Kobinson in a
pathetic light. The congregation were
greatly touched, and during the following

days the miracle which brought Melchizedek
into this wicked world without even
one parent to look after him was feelingly
discussed by the Mostyn - Mount
people. They were very " broad' but
they were sympathetic also, and Melchizedek's
predicament continued to stir
their emotions until their attention was
diverted to the Mosaic account of the
creation.

This subject was a crux which promised
trouble. The Mostyn-mount people were
always glad to have a sly hit at the " literal
interpretation" theory, but they knew that
the line must be drawn somewhere. Many
of them had heard of Tyndall and Huxley,
and most of them had some idea of the
theories of Darwin. They knew that if
Mostyn-Mount was to thrive, and appeal to

the affections of the rising generation, no
encouragement must be afforded to the pestilent
heresies of these scientific men. They
would have liked much to give up Adam
and Eve, but when they felt that the alternative
was to receive Darwin, they came to
the conclusion that the sacrifice would be too
great. A few of them entertained no doubts
from the very first. There was the venerable
Deacon Roberts, for example, who maintained
that all these troubles came of reading secular
literature. He declared that the only book
which they ought to read was the Scriptures ;
for weaker vessels who loved variety he
might pitch in the 'pilgrim's Progress," but
even that was undesirable. During his life
he had never read anything but the Bible,
and he had not the shadow of a doubt of
the perfect correctness of the Mosaic account.

Deacon Dennie, on the other hand, regarded
this position as an intellectual insult. In
him a love of scientific investigation had
been kindled by a youthful study of " Hang-nail's
Questions." He was not a bit afraid
of consequences ; he had read a few chapters
in one of Darwin's books, and really did not
see that there was much in them. If it
were necessary he would prepare a lecture
on the subject, and he thought, after that,
Darwin would not have the ghost of a chance
of perverting the intellect and corrupting the
morals of the frequenters of Mostyn-Mount
and the various mission stations.

Meanwhile the Rev. Samuel Robinson
was taking his own course. Mr. Robinson
had been glancing through his Milton, and
it flashed across his mind that Genesis
might possibly be a Hebrew " Paradise

VOL. II. P

Lost." Mr. Robinson was a man of fine
literary taste, and did not conceal his
opinion that the English Milton had much
the better of it. At a moment when
the congregation was depressed and the
deacons were disputing, this happy thought
was invaluable to Mr. Robinson. He
asserted 'that there need be no more difficulty
in the matter. It was as plain asa
pikestaff that Genesis was a poem.
Whether it was a poem based on fact, or a
purely imaginative work, he did not know,
and really did not care ; but a poem it was,
and there was the end of the whole business.
Of course nothing more could be said ; the
depression disappeared from among the congregation,
the deacons ceased to dispute, and
if you went to tea with a Mostyn- Mounted
he would tell you that he had discovered

a marvellous poetic charm in one of the
genealogical tables of antediluvian worthies,
and would probably add that Darwin might
be hanged, for his peace of mind would
never more be perturbed by difficulties connected
with the Mosaic cosmogony.

But to return to the stained-glass windows
and kindred topics. These windows were originally
inserted by generous Mostyn-Mounters
who perhaps had not sufficiently considered
the insidious approaches which Popery makes.
There were no saints on the panes — that
would indeed have been too much — but there
were diamonds and squares and circles of
various colours which produced quite a remarkable
effect. If you studied them attentively
for five minutes the patterns began to
move, and very soon you enjoyed all the
prismatic pleasures known to children as

magic - lantern fireworks. Now, one prominent
brother, who sat in a prominent place,
strongly objected to the innovation. When
the sun shone during morning service it
struck a crimson pane, and a highly-coloured
beam was projected full upon the prominent
brother's face. His countenance then glowed
as not even the oldest, the crustiest, and the
richest of port wine could tint it. But this
was nothing. He argued that appearances
should not be thought of in a place of worship.
As far as that red ray was concerned
he was perfectly willing to bear it ; but he
did contend that no one could properly appreciate
the preaching of the Gospel with a
stained-glass window staring him in the face,
and instilling into his mind the influences of
Papistry. This problem created a serious
difficulty, and for some time an open rupture

was threatened. The camp very nearly
divided itself into stained-glass and white-glass
factions ; but once more Mr. Robinson,
who was nearly worried to death with these
eternal disputes, came to the rescue and
suggested, as a compromise, a good thick
blind. The Mostyn- Mount people were all
very reasonable, and saw at a glance the
value of this proposal. Forthwith blinds
were provided, and were carefully drawn
down on Sundays during service. Thus the
devotions of the white-glass party were no
longer disturbed, while the other side had
the consolation of knowing that, at the back
of the blinds, the aesthetic charm and consolation
for which they had struggled really
existed.

This was not the only trouble of a ritualistic
nature suffered by the congregation.

One gentleman who sat in the chapel, a
Mr. Ellis, unconsciously provoked a tremendous
uproar. The pulpit in course of years had
become rather dilapidated. Once it had been
resplendent in gold and crimson, but the
colours had worn away with time, and bits
of wood and plaster here and there had been
chipped off to the great detriment of the
complete work of art. Mr. Ellis, in a moment
of inspiration, offered, at his personal expense,
to decorate the pulpit. The proposal was
gratefully accepted; Mr. Ellis obtained des
owns, and set the decorators to work on the
plan which seemed to him most effective.
At the back were two plain panels, and it
occurred to him that these spaces might
appropriately be occupied by an illumination
of the Ten Commandments. To try the effect,
he made the workmen paint in part of the first.

When the congregation assembled the
following Sunday they saw before them in
richly-coloured old English letters the words,
Thou shalt have none other." Several
hymns had been sung before the full significance
of this illumination dawned on the
minds of the members present. Mr. Jones,
a very active Sunday-school teacher, and "a
butcher by profession," as he himself was in
the habit of saying, first perceived its meaning,
and, with a glance full of horror and
indignation, directed his wife's attention to
the panel. As he said afterwards over dinner
to his awestricken helpmate and children,
"It flashed across me all in a minute, and
I made up my mind at once to put my foot
down. This shall be stopped. I could never
have believed that my eyes would see in
Mostyn- Mount chapel such a proof of the

growing power of Ritualism." That dinner-time
was an exciting period for most of the
Mostyn- Mounters, and the atrocity was discussed
in all its aspects. In the evening the
congregation assembled for service in a very
stormy mood. Mr. Robinson, who had an
inkling of what was coming, preached a short
but pithy sermon on the text, " Oh ! generation
of vipers, how long shall I be with you,
how long shall I suffer you ? " and then went
home at peace with all men.

The battle followed. After service the
Sunday-school teachers held their monthly
meeting. Deacon Russell took the chair.
Deacon Russell was a man of business, and
was the mainstay of the chapel. He did
not like Ritualism, but he would willingly
have seen the whole Pentateuch engraved
on the back of the pulpit if the inscription

would have helped the finances of the
church, or promoted the efficiency of its
work. He opened the meeting with the
usual devotional exercises, and then nervously
sat down, wishing in his heart, as he
subsequently confessed — might Heaven forgive
him — that the Ten Commandments were
at the bottom of the sea. Mr. Jones rose
to the full height of his five-feet two, and
opened the discussion in terms similar to
those which he had employed over the
dinner table. The debate was long and impassioned.
Deacon Russell tried to pour oil
on the troubled waters, but found that he
was only dropping it into the fire. At a
late hour the discussion died of sheer exhaustion,
and a resolution, proposed by Mr.
Jones, was unanimously adopted, sincerely
thanking their generous friend Mr. Ellis for

his kindness in decorating the pulpit, but
respectfully requesting him to erase the
fragment of the First Commandment, and
to substitute, if possible, one of the spiritual
songs of a famous American evangelist.

Mr. Ellis acceded to this urgent request,
and if you attend a service at Mostyn-Mount
Chapel you will see, on the tablets on the
back of the pulpit, the beautiful stanzas
which begin, "Hold the fort, for I am coming."
Peace was thus re-established, and
less than a week after the incident here
related, a congregational meeting was held
in the chapel, and a very profitable evening
spent. A magic-lantern, conveniently placed
on the communion-table, threw views of an
amusing and instructive description upon a
sheet hung down from a gallery ; several
ladies and gentlemen sang, with great sweetness

and effect, a few excerpts from an
operetta very popular at that time ; and
every one went home rejoiced to think that
Mostyn- Mount Chapel had been happily
saved from profanation by Mr. Jones's well-timed
denunciation of the illuminated Decalogue.


While Fred was opening his bazaar in
Dockborougli, Mary O'Connor was sitting in
the parlour window of a house in which she
and her brother occupied rooms. The house
was at the south-east corner of Silverbridge
Square, London — a square which, as every one
knows, or ought to know, is rather more north
than west. It is not a square where countesses
play lawn-tennis, and where dukes, earls, and
stockbrokers smoke half-crown Savannahs in
the cool of the evening. Still it is a very
nice square, and west enough for a woman to
live in and feel virtuous.

Mary sat in her low rocking-clair, knitting
coloured wools, and dreamily watching
the rain as it dripped from the bare branches
of the trees in the square. O'Connor was
writing at a table behind her, absorbed in
his work. The afternoon slowly passed, and
scarcely a word was exchanged. Presently
the leaden dusk of late London autumn fell.
O'Connor could see to write no longer. He
carefully gathered up his papers, locked tljem
up in a strong box which stood at his side,
lighted a pipe, drew his chair in front of
the fire, and sat with his feet on the
fender.

Mary had dropped her work and was rocking
and reflecting.

What a vile climate this is ! " said
O'Connor with a shiver. " Providence can
never have meant England to be inhabited."

What about Ireland then ? " inquired
Mary.

'sto tell the truth, Mary," replied her
brother, ^* I don't feel quite sure about Ireland
either. If England were a desert I should
be in favour of moving the entire Irish population,
and colonising some South Sea island."

Listen to the Sybaritic patriot," laughed
Mary O'Connor. " John, I believe if there were
not an Englishman in the world you'd have
very little interest in Irishmen."

•^Many a true word's spoken in jest,"
muttered O'Connor.

I am sorry if this jest is true," replied
Mary earnestly, "for I don't think senseless
hate is a right motive for patriotism, and
I don't think any good can come of it."

I told you, Mary," interrupted her
brother with obvious impatience, "that you

were out of your element with me. I suppose
you get your milk-and-water notions
from your English bringing-up. Great deeds
only spring from great motives, and when
you've seen as much of the world as I have,
you'll know that hate and vengeance are the
strongest of all motives. Love is very well
for girls, but men do little out of love. I
don't believe women do much either. Which
does a woman try harder to do — to win a
lover who pleases her, or to win a breach-promise
case against a lover who has jilted
her?"

*john, you're an incurable cynic," said
Mary.

I know it," was the reply ; " if I were
not I should be smoking cigarettes on my
Californian verandah instead of risking my
life in this accursed London. Even cigarettes,

however, and a blue sky are not worth
living for. The only things which make
life tolerable are good, honest hate and constant
excitements

It's a good thing you're so much better
than your word," said Mary. " To hear
you any one who didn't know you might
think we had no high principle guiding our
work, and that instead of wishing to bless
Ireland we only wished to curse England.
Great heavens!" she continued with unwonted
animation, "if we acted on your wicked
theory, which I know you don't believe in
yourself, we should strike at the innocent
as well as the guilty, we should abandon
all the restraints of humanity — to say nothing
of the precepts of religion — and become
wretches whom the world would unite to
extirpate."

O'Connor knocked the ashes out of his
pipe, shrugged his shoulders, and lazily-replied,
'^ My dear Mary, you're an anachronism
; you should have been born five
hundred, or perhaps five thousand, years ago.
You would have made a fine Joan of Arc,
or with your temperament, better still, a
Naphtha's daughter. Only in these days the
character has ceased to be serviceable except
to poets."

Mary O'Connor grew angry. ^' I almost
hate you when you talk like this," she said.

O'Connor for the first time was touched.
^^ Don't hate me, Mary," he exclaimed bitterly.
*^As it is, you are the only living creature
who doesn't."

Tears sprang to Mary O'Connor s eyes, and
she rose and laid her hand on her brother's
head. "Forgive me," she pleaded, "for my

VOL. II. Q

petulance, but I grow irritable when you
talk so wildly; and then you know it's very
hard to devote one's life and money to a
cause and not to know what is being done,
what steps are contemplated, or anything
about it. You shouldn't treat me so, John.
We're comrades, and I'm as ready as you
to sacrifice all I have, even to my life, for
Ireland, and I don't like to be kept in ignorance
of what our friends are devising."

O'Connor took her hand in his, and pressed
it warmly. " You must trust me a little
longer, Mary," he said. " You may be quite
sure, if I conceal our plans from you, it is
for the good of the cause as well as of yourself."


I try to think so," she answered, '^ but
it isn't easy, and waiting is wearisome. Here
am I pining to serve our country and spending

my days in knitting antimacassars."
She flung her woodwork down on the table
with a gesture of disgust.

O'Connor picked it up. '^ Very pretty
work it is," he said. ^' You've a good eye
for colour, Mary ; those crimsons are very
cleverly blended."

Yes, yes, I dare say," returned she ; " but
is this all I am fit for? Am I to pass my
life knitting because I'm a woman ? Js
there nothing I can do ? "

What do you think you could do ? "
inquired O'Connor abstractedly.

*' That's what I want you to tell me. I
don't know what designs you have, and
why we're here in London. I should have
thought that Ireland was the place for us."

O'Connor shook his head.

Of course, you know best," she went

on ; " but I imagine that our work is to
organise the people to resist the landlords
and the Castle tyrants — to arm them, to drill
them. Oh, for the day," she cried passionately,
" when our people can strike one good
blow for freedom on the battlefield. We
might at least frighten our oppressors into
doing justice, if we could not compel
them."

You've hit it, Mary," O'Connor answered;
'that's our work. We're too weak to force
the English ; we can only frighten them."

And is there nothing I can do ? " she
asked.

'well, yes," said O'Connor thoughtfully;
there is something you might do, but I
doubt whether you'd like the job."

What is it ? what is it ? " she exclaimed.
I should like to do anything for Ireland —

anything that an honourable woman may
do," she added, as a shade of distrust crossed
her features.

I've often told you," O'Connor coldly
replied, "that your ideas are too Quixotic
for a conspirator. Of course, I should never
dream of asking you to do anything which
my sister ought not to do. You joined mein
this work against my strong wish, and I
feel that no good to either of us will come
of it. You beg to be of service to me, and
when I hint that there is a matter in which
you may be of use you add a reservation
which is a reproach to me."

'' I'm very sorry, John ; I meant no reproach,"
she said, "and I'll try not to set up
my own ideas so stubbornly, but to be guided
more by you. Whatever you ask of me I'll
do. But, my brother," she sobbed out, " I

fear for you sometimes. When men give
way to hatred they forget what is right."

O'Connor paced uneasily up and down the
room. " There — there," he said, " don't cry,
Mary. You're a good girl — too good for
our work. My God ! I wish you'd gone to
your own house at Barkleigh and left this
business to me."

The man was torn by conflicting desires.
His great passion was to inflict some deadly
injury on England, and he was restrained
by no pricking of conscience or promptings
of humanity. All the better part of his
human nature died out when he saw his
mother kneel and pray to the land-agent
before the door of their cottage in Kerry.
One strain of tenderness alone remained in
his disposition, and that was love for Mary.
It gave him so much trouble that sometimes

he wished it was not there. It weakened
his resolution and hampered his action. Men
should be guided either by love or hate ; to
mix the emotions is a blunder. He had
sketched out his life as a sort of "junior"
avenger. "Heaven first and I afterwards"
was the pious idea which pervaded his nature.
He was not theatrical nor personally malignant,
but in his mind the idea of slaying
and destroying dwelt with as much quiet
complacency as the idea of becoming Lord
Chancellor does in the mind of every briefless
barrister. It was his metier, his function,
his fate, to be dreamed of, to be striven for,
not to be moralised over. Cruelty was a word
expunged from his vocabulary ; kismet had
taken its place. Especially was this true in
his dealings with women. His instincts were
strongly sensual, and his favourite theory was

that women are divided into two classes —
those who will yield anything to every man,
and those who will yield nothing to any
man. The latter class he held to be very
small. He acted boldly upon his theory,
and not a few women lamented the hour in
which they had seen his cold masterful face.

But Mary stood alone outside all his evil
distinctions. She was a part of his old and
better nature. We are very much what wee
make of ourselves. God makes fibre, bones,
and brains ; man himself makes the man.
O'Connor as a lad was shrewd, industrious,
persistent, and faithful. He had a strong
craving for sympathy and admiration. Little
Mary worshipped her strong-armed, firm-featured
brother, and he repaid her with a
love which was real if patronising. He might
easily have become a reputable, perhaps distinguished,

member of society. He had made
himself a wild and wicked outcast instead.
Mary was a link with his past self before
he had shaped his life-course, and he found
in her a somewhat embarrassing exception
to all his rules.

Now, he did not know what to do with
her. He was maturing a dynamite plot,
which for its success required the assistance
of a companion whom he could absolutely
trust. At one time the idea of employing
Mary crossed his mind, but, to do him justice,
he rejected it immediately. She was in complete
ignorance of his designs, and from both
affection and prudence he carefully kept her
in the dark. He was perfectly assured that
she would never lend herself to the commission
of such a fearful crime. She was dreaming
of glorious fields of battle, of the thunder

of artillery and the flashing of steel, of
desperate charges, of the prayers of dying
martyrs, of the shouts of exulting victors.
She saw, across the wasted plains of her
country, the banner of England trampled
under foot, and the green flag of Erin proudly
floating over the land. She saw the conquering
battalions closing round it, and by
it stood John O'Connor, while ten thousand
voices proclaimed him ^' Liberator of Ireland."
It was a woman's dream, foolish and impossible,
but she would have died a hundred
times rather than sully its pure patriotism
with cruelty and violence. O'Connor knew
this well. To have taken Mary into his
confidence would have been to ruin all his
plans, hence his original anxiety to send her
away. But a second motive induced him
to accept her companionship. His natural

shrewdness taught him to distrust purchased
fidelity. He needed a confederate bound to
him with a stronger tie than chains of gold,
and it occurred to him that Mary might help
him to secure such an assistant. During his
visit to Lorton, where he had gone to escape
suspicion after an abortive plot in London, he
had fixed upon the youth Eichard Phillips asa
likely assistant. Phillips was one of those
weak, vain creatures who are easily beguiled
into trouble. He was an Englishman, of
good reputation and considerable physical
courage. No one would suspect him of complicity
in dynamite outrages. To O'Connor
he seemed in every way an excellent instrument.
His intense admiration of Mary was
no secret to her observant brother, and in it
O'Connor thought he had a guarantee of
fidelity much better than any money bribe

could offer. He played upon the young
man's vanity and tenderness with malevolent
adroitness. He drew vague pictures of the
eternal fame and the commanding position
which any man might obtain who should
strike an overwhelming blow in the cause
of Ireland ; and he spoke of the love, the
reverence, the gratitude which Mary would
manifest towards such a man. So foolish
was his victim that the tempter ventured to
refer to the monarchical preferences of the
Irish people, and to insinuate that, after the
great work was accomplished, the hero of the
struggle and Mary might get married, and
become by popular choice king and queen of
Ireland.

The young fool, reared among milkmaids,
ignorant of the world, and flattered to the
verge of insanity by his friends, strutted

along the lonely lanes of Lorton dreaming the
wildest day-dreams. He pictured himself
in regal halls, where mellow lights played
upon fair faces, upon nodding plumes, upon
gleaming jewels ; where warriors unbent their
stern features ; where statesmen whispered
dark enigmas ; where sages prattled with
lovely women ; where all was a pageant of
power and intellect, of affluence and beauty.
And he was the centre of it all. And ever
by his side was one sweet stately form, with
golden crown outshone by golden hair, brave
as the bravest, proud as the proudest, meek as
the meekest, fairer than the fairest, and better
than the best. The poor dreamer smote
his breast in ecstasy, and cried aloud, "My
Queen, my Queen!" Then his visions
changed, and he saw himself, with Mary seated
by him, drawn up the broad streets of his

capital. He read upon a hundred banners
'' God save the King" ; he saw a sea of faces,
he heard a whirlwind of cheers, and, mixed
with all, the pomp of soldiery, the clank of
sabres, the glitter of lances, the prancing of
horses, and the blare of trumpets.

O'Connor fooled him to the top of his bent,
and subtly conveyed to him the impression
that Mary was favourably influenced by his
pretty face and his protestations of sympathy
with the Irish cause. He always led his victim
to suppose that she was acquainted with his
designs, and fully approved of them. Little
by little, without confessing anything of a
compromising character, he brought Phillips
to understand the general nature of his
schemes. The youth's moral sense was
blunted by his vanity. His narrow mind
was filled with love and ambition, and no

room was left for common sense. Mary saw
that he admired her. A woman knows instinctively
when a man loves her, and the
dullest of her sex could not have mistaken
Phillips's demonstrations. She was half
amused by the undisguised worship of the
poor weak creature, and perhaps, for Mary
was a woman as well as a patriot, she felt
a little flattered. She never gave him the
smallest intentional encouragement, but he interpreted
her gentle pity to mean admiration.
At first he shrank from O'Connor's dark plans,
until he assured himself that Mary participated
in them. He argued that any cause in which
she laboured must be great and good, and
finally resolved that he would shrink from
nothing which might help him to gain Mary
for his wife.

His struggle was watched by O'Connor

with cynical interest. That careful student
of character never had any doubt of the
result, and, when he found that Phillips was
entirely in his toils, he proposed a meeting
in London. The proposal was joyfully accepted,
and a date was fixed upon for the
young man's visit.

'^ What can I do ? " repeated Mary
O'Connor.

^'Do you know that young Phillips is
coming to town tomorrow ? " observed her
brother.

Mary coloured slightly. '^No," she said;
what has that to do with it ? "

'' A good deal," returned O'Connor. Mary
picked up her woodwork and, pressing her
lips, knitted vigorously.

"He's not a bad fellow," resumed
O'Connor.

Mary dropped her needles and burst into
a laugh. " I know he isn't' she said; "poor
creature ! "

O'Connor frowned and strummed irritably
with his fingers on the table. " I don't think
you should speak of him so," he continued ;
he's a useful lad, with plenty of pluck, and
I think we may recruit him for the cause."

Mary opened her eyes. " Why, John," she
exclaimed, "you can't possibly want silly
romantic boys for our work ? "

Romantic or not, I do want him," replied
her brother.

Well, if you want him, get him if you
can," she said ; " it's no concern of mine,
except that I think it a pity to involve a
foolish young man in a business which may
lead him into trouble."

But it is some concern of yours," he

VOL. II. R

persisted. " I can't get him, however much
I want him, and you can'

Mary's lips were set very tightly again,
and again she knitted fast. At last she said
rather feebly, " I don't see what influence
I can use with your friend." Mary felt that
she was being pushed into an unpleasant
corner by her brother, and rose to leave the
room.

He stopped her. '^ Why do you beat
about the bush like this, Mary?" he exclaimed.
Surely there should be no false delicacy
between us. You know as well as I do what
is bringing Phillips up to London."

No, I don't," said Mary resolutely,
and I don't want to ; " but her face was
scarlet.

That's an untruth," returned O'Connor
with equal determination. " You know perfectly

well that he's coming in the hope of
seeing you, and for nothing else."

Mary's embarrassment gave place to anger,
and she looked her brother full in the face.
"John," she said, "I'm sorry I said what
wasn't true. I did know that Mr. Phillips
was good enough to think well of me, and
your hints made me suppose that possibly
he was coming to see me. But I don't see
what good is done by talking about it. Yeu
can't suppose that I — I was anxious to see him."

O'Connor was somewhat disconcerted.
How was I to know ? " he muttered.

Mary laughed merrily. " I didn't think
you were such a stupid fellow," she said ;
and after a pause, and with obvious effort,
I don't mean ever to get married ; I'm very
happy to be always with you, dear brother,
and to help you to work for Ireland."

The man, struggling between shame for his
sister's sake and determination to persist in
his purpose, rose and paced up and down
the room. " I see," he said at last, " that
I must speak plainly. I never was fool
enough to suppose that you cared anything
about Phillips," — and he looked with admiration
in his eyes upon her noble face and
figure, — " but I could clearly see that he
cared a great deal about you. Now, I must
have him to help me. Without him all my
work will be thrown away, and the sooner I
get back to America and leave Ireland to
fight her own battles the better for me. I
did think that when you knew this you
wouldn't refuse to secure this young man
for the cause."

Mary's face had flushed before — now it
paled.

"You thought I would be a decoy, and
trap this man' she said very slowly.

O'Connor swung round and faced her.
Have you not pledged yourself to the cause
of Ireland?"

"Yes," she answered.

"Have you not vowed to spare no personal
sacrifice in the cause ? " he persisted
vehemently.

"Yes," she returned again, but this tone
with reluctance.

And is it a great sacrifice I now ask
of you ? Is it a mighty matter, that you
should draw yourself up and glare through
your eyes ? "

It is a great sacrifice," she pleaded; "you
ask me to give up my self-respect."

Why ? " he asked impatiently. " Mary,
in many ways you're like these English ;

you've no sense of proportion. I suppose
it's the fault of your bringing-up. Here's
an issue upon which the welfare, perhaps the
final freedom of our country depends, and you
stand balancing against it some petty womanish
prejudice."

You don't understand, John," she urged
again. " I would give my life — ah, God
forgive me ! I would lose my soul for my
country — but I can't, I can't do so mean a

thing."

O'Connor was in despair. " Well, if that's
so," he said, " I must throw up the business
and get off to the States, for it's quite certain
I can't go on without Phillips. You see, 1
must have a man I can trust, and you can't
buy such with money."

"I'm sorry," Mary sobbed, but her eyes
were tearless.

I never expected that the cause of Ireland
would be ruined by you," groaned O'Connor.
I can't make it out ; by all the saints, it's
incomprehensible. I don't want you to marry
the man ; I don't want you to promise to marry
him. I don't even want you to make him
think that you'll marry him."

What do you want then ?" she asked.

"All I ask is that you won't drive him
away for a few weeks. It's no good mincing
matters ; he's madly in love with you ; he
absolutely worships you, Mary, and if you
show yourself friendly towards him he'll be
very happy while he's here. Of course, it
isn't pleasant to use a man's affection in this
way ; but neither is it pleasant, I can tell you,
to go about from day to day feeling that
one false step will run your neck into a
noose."

"You keep your self-respect," she said
bitterly.

Small compliment to me then," he muttered
to himself. He continued aloud, " 1
wouldn't have you lose yours, nor do I see
why you should ; though, for my own part,
in the service of Ireland, I would give up
even that."

What am I to do if — if he asks me to
marry him ?" objected poor Mary.

Great heavens ! " he cried ; " what a
question to ask a man ! I thought women
were never at a loss in such predicaments ; I
know from a pretty wide experience that men
usually are."

There was silence for a few moments and
Mary struggled with herself. At length she
spoke: "Listen to me, John. I'm going to
yield to you against all my judgment and

all my instincts. But I've prayed that I
might make some great sacrifice for Ireland,
and perhaps this is it. Only I never expected
anything so hard. I will do nothing
to send Mr. Phillips away so long as he is of
use to you, and if any friendliness on my
part will help to keep him, I will not spare
it. But I won't practise any deceit, not
even for Ireland and for you. I will rather
die and leave God to judge between us."

The solemn dignity of her gestures and
tones moved O'Connor greatly. He raised
his hands in protest.

Hear me out," she went on. '' If this
man asks me to marry him I will tell him
plainly, without a word of prevarication, that
I would rather jump into the Thames than
become his wife."

"Oh, that can be easily arranged,"

O'Connor blurted out, then checked himself
and bit his lips.

Not heeding the interruption she proceeded,
" If he even hints to me his feelings
I will speak out just the same. Nothing can
move me from this determination. But if
Mr. Phillips, while in London, cares to seeme
as he did at Lorton, and if he takes any
pleasure in my society, I won't refuse to
see him, nor will I make him understand
that his company is distasteful to me. This
is all I can promise you, and this is too
much, for I shall never respect myself anymore."


Mary's lips quivered, and she covered her
face with her hands. On O'Connor's features
a pleasant sense of triumph was expressed.
He stepped to her, put his arm round her
waist, and kissed her forehead. "You're a

good girl, Mary," he said; "and, remember,
patriotism wouldn't be a virtue if
it cost nothing' With this encouraging
and highly moral observation he left the
room.

END OF VOL. II

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh



C 1^

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

0112 045831994

r 1?

ccrtc r (

4 C v C ^ >
- t CA ,<■ C ( (

■ i a c ( < (

< X c ■cc;;^-^- /

■,<-> c «:r<c to

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS

V.5

^ Hold

BY

HUGH AYESTBUEY

VOL. Ill

Mention
macmillan' and co.

AND NEW YORK



All rights reserved

F 2.1- 3)4^

V.5

Chapter XVI

Richard Phillips duly arrived. He had
never been in London before, or, indeed, in
any great town. The place was one vast
wonder to him. The throng in the streets,
the appearance of being in a hurry which
Y every one had, the little affectations of the
men, the smartness of their clothes and
the easy confidence of their manners, the
daintiness of the women, the piquancy of
their dress and demeanour, — all these
things were subjects of bewilderment to
the young countryman. He wandered into
fashionable drinking-bars, and observed with

VOL. III. B

something like awe the long irregular line
of glossy hats in front of the counter. He
had never seen hats so glossy before, and
marvelled greatly what their owners did
with them when it rained. Numerous
visits were required before he could call
for a *' sherry and bitters — orange, please,"
with satisfactory composure. Then there
were the parks, the cathedrals, the picture
galleries, the theatres, which he " did " with
all the vigour and fidelity of an unsophisticated
sight-seer. But, best of all, there
was Mary. He dined with the O'Connors
on most evenings, and now and then had
the ecstatic delight of a little chat alone
with her. He was a good deal perplexed
by her demeanour. She seemed to have
grown older and sadder since they went
boating on Lorton Bay. At one time she

was gentle almost to the point of tenderness,
at another distant to the verge of
haughtiness. One change an observer, so
self-absorbed as Richard Phillips, could not
help noticing. She had lost her repose
of manner. She seemed nervously anxious
for him to see her, and then nervously
anxious for him to be gone. Whenever
he was alone with her these symptoms
were intensified. He fancied that her
spirit had given way, and that she was
dreading some catastrophe. Then he would
try to be affectionate and sympathetic, but
every effort which he made only increased
her perturbation. Evidently she was unhappy.


He mentioned his distress on Mary's
account to O'Connor, who, with a look of
sly intelligence, observed, " You know, girls

will fret and worry themselves about stupid
things. For instance, when a girl's in love
with a man she always behaves in an insane
fashion ; she thinks that it's proper and
womanly; — eh, Eichard the First, Ex
Hibernise, isn't that your experience V

Phillips blushed furiously, and in trying
to look like a gay young dog succeeded in
looking like a sheep.

O'Connor grinned wickedly and went on,
'but, my dear fellow, as a man of the
world such as yourself must know, there's
only one way to deal with women in these
humours, and that is to let them alone.
If you go spooning after them it only
tickles their vanity and makes them more
unreasonable. What women like is manly
strength and firmness of character, and if
you show yourself indifferent to their whims

and fancies they always come round. Of
course it has to be done with judgment, and
they often get into the deuce of a rage
with the happy man, but they get over that.
Now, if I were in love with a girl who
moped and fidgeted I should feel quite
sure of her. I should solemnly resolve to
say nothing to her, for at least a month,
which would in any way indicate my feelings,
and I should be quite sure that at
the end of that time if I didn't propose to
her she'd propose to me."

Phillips looked with admiration upon his
friend. "' What a knowledge of the world
you have !" he said.

"Wel," O'Connor replied, 'i've seen
something of women in my time, and," he
added with an ill - concealed sneer, 'soften
too."

Eichard was too deeply absorbed in his
own contemplations to notice the tone or
the glance. He was making up his mind
to bring the queenly Mary to her knees by
dignified reserve. He would assume a very
frigid air. It might be cruel, no doubt she
would suffer, yet in the end how great
would be her joy. Some day, wounded by
his coldness, she would burst into a flood
of passionate tears, then he, Eichard L,
Ex Hibernise, would gently raise her
golden head and say, " Mary, dearest, I
know the cause of your tears, but dry them
and smile once more, for indeed I love you."
And for him too how delirious would bethe
moment when he drew her to him,
when he pressed her warm body to his,
when his hand caressed her tresses, when
he stroked her pale cheek, when his lips

met lies in one close long kiss. From
which vision it will appear that Master
Richard Phillips, for a provincial rustic, was
a very promising voluptuary.

Poor wretch, had he known how Mary
O'Connor dreaded his pink paltry face, how
she would have loathed him for his amorous
dreams could she have discovered them, his
complacency would have been rudely shaken.
He could not tell that every moment he
spent with her was a humiliation to Mary
O'Connor deeper than his shallow nature
could feel ; that her proud heart was breaking'
beneath the burden she had undertaken ;
and that ever in her imagination one face
and voice were present, and that in dry
despair she was saying in her soul, ''Ah,
how he would despise me ! "

O'Connor left him to his sight-seeing and

clumsy philandering. He wished him to be
wound inextricably in the toils before he
explained his projects. Never did spider
entice a more unsophisticated fly. The
atmosphere of London acted as an intoxicant
upon the country youth. His imagination
was depraved to begin with, but he
had never before come into contact with
the wickedness of a great city. He lived
in a continual sensuous dream. The splendid
figures which he saw in the Now, bold and
coy, haughty and alluring, and all surrounded
by the aid of wealth, of art, and
of refinement, kindled his imagination; and
he would gaze with a hungry eagerness
upon the luxurious dames as they rolled
past him. His senses were exalted ; the
rustle of a silk dress, the faint odour from
a scented handkerchief, troubled him. Then

there were the lights, and the colours, and
the limbs at the theatre, and afterwards
the foetid delights of the supper-rooms and
the streets. O'Connor, whose one human
weakness was voluptuousness, accompanied
him frequently, till the feverish craving
and the reckless self-abandonment of the
pupil affrighted the master.

With alarm O'Connor saw that all this
dissipation was slackening instead of tightening
the chain by which he held his victim.
Even the influence of Mary upon him was
fading before the charms of his new life.
O'Connor felt that he had made a mistake,
and at once set to work to rectify it.

Over breakfast with Mary he remarked,
'' I'm a little concerned about young
Phillips."

Indeed," said Mary wearily.

Yes ; you see, it's not a good thing fora
country lad such as he, with a few pounds
in his pocket, to be wandering over London."

Mary made no reply, and after a pause
O'Connor proceeded : " It's bad in every
way — bad for him and still worse for me.
He's going to the dogs apace, and I don't
see that I can trust a man so weak and
reckless."

I always wondered that you ever
thought of trusting him," said Mary, "and
I'm glad you now see the foolishness of
your intention. Can't you get the silly
fellow packed off home again ? " she asked,
brightening up.

Well no, not yet," replied O'Connor,
and Mary's face darkened again. "The
prize is too big to be abandoned without
another effort. Besides, I feel some responsibility

for his folly. He came here at my
invitation to see us, or rather, to put it
plainly, to see you, and I don't think we
should let him sink in the mud."

Can you not remonstrate with him ?"
she inquired.

I had made up my mind to do so,
though I don't suppose my influence will
do much. But can you not do something
with him ? I really think it's your duty
to try, for you're partly to blame for the
trouble. Of course you can't talk to him
about his escapades, but you might at least
encourage him a little more to seek your
society."

I told you, John, before he came that
I would not, and could not, give him any
encouragement."

I am not asking you now to give him

anv encouragement. in the sense you mean.
It's no longer a question of his wanting
to marry you — I fancy you've effectually
cured him of that weakness. What I want
you to do is to use your influence over
him, if you have any, to keep him out of
harm's way. Surely you can reconcile such
encouragement as that with your tender
conscience."

He spoke brutally of design. He wished
to make her angry with him, and to remove
any suspicion that he was acting with crafty
intent. Besides, as he had boasted to
Phillips, he understood women.

His plan was perfectly successfuL At
first Mary was wounded and indignant.
Then she fell a-thinking. There is much
greater uniformity in the characters of women
than in those of men. You may easily find

two brothers who, except in the fact that
they are both males of the human species,
have absolutely no points of resemblance.
Between a Hottentot woman and a duke's
daughter, between a concubine of the Grand
Turk and a Girt on girl, the dissimilarity is
not so great. In temper as in stature, in
passions as in complexion, women differ; butin
the whole sex there are certain characteristics,
certain idiosyncrasies, which never
vary. Men have no universal instinct, such
as that of maternity, operating to shape
their natures in a uniform mould. Probably
round this primary instinct secondary tendencies
gather, and thus it happens that a
part of a woman's character is the possession
of her entire sex. In commonplace women
this uniformity is largest, until, at the
bottom of the scale, it is found that one

mistress of the Asian sensualist, one wife of
the African savage, is very much the same
as another. They differ in face and form,
and in animal propensities, and that is all.
In the finest of the sex these general instincts
are less marked, but they are undoubtedly
present. Varius et mutable a
woman may be, yet, in spite of all the poets
and philosophers, it is much easier to predict
what a woman will do under most circumstances
than to foretell the action of a man.

Through Mary's distrust of young Phillips
there ran a strong vein of pity. He was
so weak and foolish, she was so strong.
Then it was quite certain he was very much
in love with her. He had come up to
London merely to see her, and now he was
losing his soul because she had slighted
him. Not for all Ireland would Mary

O'Connor receive Phillips's advances — not to
save her brother's plots would she pretend
to take an interest in him which she did
not feel ; but she was a woman, and could
not resist the temptation to seek out and
save a wandering sheep of the male sex.
O'Connor watched her as he munched his
toast, and resolved to hand over his victim
to Mary's treatment as speedily as possible.

Next day O'Connor met the young man.
What have you been doing ? " he said ; " we
haven't seen you for nearly a week."

Phillips blurted out something about
*' sorry," " many engagements," and " didn't
wish to intrude."

O'Connor turned round fiercely and replied,
" Oh, come, that sort of thing won't
do. The fact is, you're going to the devil
apace. And you're not giving us fair play

I don't care for myself, but, by God, I won't
see my sister trifled with."

The young man shrank back terrified at
this well-acted pretence of rage.

*' You've been received at all times in
our house," he went on. 'seven at Lorton
your intimacy with us was a matter of remark,
and now you throw us over like a
pair of worn-out gloves. I won't stand it,
Eichard Phillips," he shouted.

*but, you know, I thought you wanted
me to be indifferent, to — to say nothing,
and to bring her round," faltered the young
man, now thoroughly terrified.

*' Ha ! you admit it, do you ? you confess
that you've had the presumption to aspire
to my sister's hand, and yet you wallow in
all the filth of the London streets ? Truly
a fitting mate for Mary O'Connor ! Eichard

Phillips," he hissed, '' if we were west instead
of east of the AtLantic I would pistol
you."

Phillips, whose nerves had not been
strengthened by his recent experiences,
trembled violently. He began a grovelling
apology, vowing that he would be crucified
head downwards for Mary's sake, that he
knew he was a fool and a beast, but that
Mary was the pole star of his life (this
poetical sentiment, chopped out between
chattering teeth, sorely tempted O'Connor
to laugh). If she would only give him one
more chance, and if O'Connor would only
forgive him this time, he would prove the
sincerity and intensity of his devotion.

That's all very well," returned O'Connor,
but there is another thing to be considered.
I've been as big a fool as you. You see,

VOL. III. c

I've treated you like a brother and confided
to you my most dangerous secrets. You're
really a great danger to us." The conspirator
glared upon the young man in an
ogrish fashion which increased his discomfort.

*' You don't think so badly of me as that,
O'Connor," he whimpered.

'^ I don't know. The man who leads the
life you've been leading for a fortnight is
never to be trusted. You mio^ht throw
away our lives by a drunken word in a
supper-room, or in the stews. There are
spies everywhere — women as well as men.
Besides, I don't think you have ever given
me reason to believe that you have the cause
at heart."

Eichard broke into an impassioned protestation.
He would amend his life ; he
would be guided in everything by his friend ;

he would devote himself entirely to the
cause, and ask as his only reward a smile
from Mary ; he would die for Ireland if
only Mary would think well of him''

I take you at your word, Richard
Phillips," said O'Connor. " I enlist you as
my sworn comrade. Give me your word
that, as you hope for Mary's favour, you
will be true to her and to me, and that
you'll fail us in no possible service."

Phillips held out his hand and said
vehemently, " I swear it."

O'Connor took his hand and cried gaily,
'now we understand each other, Richard I.,
Rex Hibernise, and may God confound all
traitors. I think you had better come
home with me to dinner. Poor Mary, how
happy she'll be when she knows of our
conversation."

May I tell her ? " asked the young man.

Why, certainly not, my modest ally.
It becomes a lover who has played the devil
in your agreeable fashion to be humble, and
to obtain forgiveness gradually. Mary pities
you greatly, and probably will show herself
less indifferent to you than before. But
you'll make a nice mess of it if you try to
rush into her arms. You must prove your
repentance and amendment first."

I shall be very humble, O'Connor," replied
Phillips ; " I'm sure I feel humble
enough."

"All right, my dear King Dick," chuckled
O'Connor, and the pair walked arm-in-arm
to Claverbridge Square.

During the evening O'Connor found occasion
to leave King Eichard with Queen Mary.
The latter anticipated this move on the part

of her brother and was rather annoyed.
However," she soliloquised, " if I can give
him a hint, perhaps it's my duty, and here's
a chance."

There was a pause for some time, during
which Mary's long ivory needles clicked
rhythmically, and Eichard twisted into hopeless
confusion a couple of skeins of wool.
Mary, looking up, observed his inconvenient
occupation. "Mr. Phillips," she said, "please
give me that wool."

Phillips looked despairingly upon his mischievous
work, and exclaimed with such
genuine penitence, " Oh, I'm so sorry ; I
don't know what made me do such a stupid
thing," that Mary laughed aloud.

Never mind," she returned, " I'll forgive
you. You've only given me a little
trial of patience, and that's good for me.

for I'm not a very patient person, Mr.
Phillips."

The young man seated himself before the
fire, close to the little chair in which Mary
rocked and knitted. He could talk now
without meeting her eyes. This was an
advantage ; and she could only see his profile,
which he knew, from the testimony of two
looking-glasses arranged at the proper angle,
was a good one,

Miss O'Connor," he observed.

Mr. Phillips ? " she returned interrogatively.


'' Aren't you very patient ? "

Here's trouble," thought Mary ; " when
men begin by asking such ridiculous questions
they get much more absurd before they
finish."

Aloud she said, " There are some things.

Mr. Phillips, with which I have very little
patience."

He moved nervously in his chair. "For
instance," she went on, " I never have
any patience with stupid frivolity. Ita
most grievous thing to me to see men
and women frittering away their lives in
folly."

Her anxiety was disappearing ; she was
growing warm in her argument ; you would
have imagined her to be a wise and solicitous
mother chiding an errant child. "There's
so much to do in the world," she continued,
so much wrong to be set right, so much
suffering to be alleviated, so much weakness
to be strengthened, that to trip through lifelike
a girl at her first ball seems to me most
contemptibly wicked. It's bad in a woman ;
in a man it's infamous."

Miss O'Connor," he exclaimed, " I think
I've been a great fool."

It's well to know one's folly," she said
bluntly.

One would never do mean and foolish
things if one were always with you," he murmured.


'^ Mr. Phillips," she replied, determined to
keep the conversation as much as possible in
the region of abstract ethics and to avoid
all personal applications, " Mr. Phillips, one
should not do good to please any one, not
even to please one's self, but because it's good,
and because it's our duty to leave the world,
if we can, better than we found it."

*' That's all very well for great natures such
as yours," he interrupted. 'weak creatures
such as I am need a different stimulus. We
want the approval of those we care about.

If nobody cares for us and tries to keep us
riorht, then we go wronoj."

This was a flank movement for which
Mary was unprepared. She had not given
Phillips credit for so much wiliness. She did
not know how crafty young men in love
usually are. She had promised to give a
word of warning to Phillips, and now she
found him putting upon her action the very
interpretation she was most desirous of guarding
against. She stopped to think, and at
length observed, " You're going to join my
brother in the dangerous work which he has
undertaken. I should feel greatly interested
in any one who devoted himself to the cause."

I knew you would," he declared ; ^' that's
why I promised."

Mary bit her lips in annoyance. It was
not fair play to her. She conceived it to be

her duty to enlist this young man in the
service of Ireland, and equally to be her duty
to give his preference for herself no encouragement.
Yet, from craft or vanity, he
persisted in regarding her approval of his
patriotism as an encouragement of his passion.
What was she to do? ^'Mr. Phillips," she
said coldly, "if the man I most disliked gave
faithful help to my brother, I should show him
all the gratitude in my power."

I hope I'm not that man," he persisted.

The man to give faithful help to my
brother ? " she inquired, wilfully misunderstanding
him, and hoping every moment that
O'Connor would return.

"No, the man you most dislike."

*' I fear if I said so it would be a poor way
of securing your services for Ireland*' she
replied, with a desperate attempt at gaiety.

The moment the words passed her lips she
reproached herself. There was a suspicion of
coquetry in them. It was absolutely necessary
to turn the conversation. " Have you
seen anything of the "Wynnstons lately ? " she
asked.

No," replied Phillips ; "young Mr. Dazzles
was down at Lorton after the election.
Of course you knew he had been returned ? "

"Yes," said Mary; "we were at Dock-borough
during the election."

Oh ! " exclaimed Phillips abruptly ; " did
you see much of the member ? "

Very little," she answered.

You did see him then ? " he continued.

Mary was embarrassed. " I met him once
during our stay," she replied, bending her
head over her woodwork.

I hate that man' said Phillips.

Why should you ? "

'because lie's such a smug, respectable,
successful fellow. I don't see what there is
in him to make people like him. I believe I
could do as much as he can, yet he goes into
Parliament, and every one thinks him a very
clever fellow; while I've been trying for
years to get a chance of making a name, and
never one has turned up."

'' Perhaps your turn has come now," she
suggested.

''I hope it has, but I detest that fellow
all the same. I suppose he'll get married
soon."

I suppose so," said Mary faintly.
''He was driving about every day with
Miss Wynnston, and seemed very happy.
Every one can be happy except me," he added
gloomily.

Mary sighed. " Do you see much of Miss
Wynnston ? " she asked.

"No, and I don't want to. I dislike her
almost as much as Hazzleden. She's as proud
as Lucifer, with her stumpy figure and blackface,
and you never know that she isn't
making cr o-ame of you."

It may be explained that in days gone by
Mr. Eichard Phillips had ventured to try the
effect of his charms upon Miss Wynnston.
That young lady, who had none of Mary's
objection to frivolity, flirted furiously with
him. She spoke softly to him, and whenever
she looked at him put into her black eyes
the most comical expression of languishment.
He used to hang about the lanes to meet her
in her walks, and wait for her coming out of
church on Sundays. This went on for some
weeks, when she managed to extract an indirect

declaration of undying devotion from
him, at which Kate gave way to a fit of immoderate
laughter, and Mr. Richard Phillips
never dared to look her in the f^ice again.
To do Kate justice it must be said that she
understood Phillips thoroughly. She knew
that his vanity and not his heart was concerned,
and she thought him fair frame for
fun. Lie was as frank and true a little
woman as ever breathed, and would never
have permitted any man who really cared for
her to mistake her feelings. She loved Fred
with all the intensity of her fervent nature,
and had loved him from her childhood. Poor
Richard's theatrical egotism, however, was a
temptation she could not resist, and as she
said to Mrs. Wynnston, when that lady remonstrated
with her, " It's no harm, mother ;
it amuses me and it doesn't hurt him a bit.

Besides, you know, I got all my wickedness
from you." Whereat Mrs. Wynnston smiled
complacently and shook her head.

Mary O'Connor, who was entirely ignorant
of this little piece of secret history, was indignant
at Phillips's sneers at Kate. " I
won't allow you to speak so of Kate
Wynnston," she said ; " she's one of the
best girls on earth. We were children together,
and I know it. Bless her l)onny
face ! There is nothing; I wouldn't do for
Kate."

Phillips plucked up courage. '' And there's
nothing I would not do for you," he said.

A declaration so direct could only be met
by a direct reply. Here was no opportunity
for feminine fencing. Mary replied with
grave deliberation, " Please don't let us
have any misunderstanding, Mr. Phillips. I

don't want you to do anything for me. My
brother believes you can be of great service
to him, and I want you to join him for
Ireland's sake and for your own. You
spoke a moment ago of wishing to distinguish
yourself. Here's an opportunity
for you. If you can reconcile it with your
sense of duty, and you have the courage,
accept it. But please do nothing for my
sake. I needn't tell you that whatever
you do to forward our cause I shall be very
grateful for. You've come to our help
in our hour of need, and I shall never forget
it, but I can't allow you to enter this
work under any mistake."

"I'll do whatever your brother wishes,"
replied Phillips.

Thank you," said Mary.

At this moment O'Connor entered. " Hail,

Kino* Eicharcl ! " he cried. Then turning; to
Mary, " The work goes gloriously. "With
the help of his Majesty here we'll give the
world something talk of before honos."

Shortly after the two men went out
together.

VOL. III.

At the opening of the session Fred Hazzleden
established himself in London. He found
bachelor chambers in a street off Piccadilly,
where he was near Westminster and the club
to which his brilliant and unexpected victory
at Dockborough procured him admission. It
was a big block of buildings, inhabited for
the most part by young fellows in comfortable
circumstances ; but he saw little of them,
for it is one of the peculiarities, some people
say the charms, of London life in chambers
that you scarcely know by sight the man
who lives on the other side of your partition

wall. Sometimes he is a musical enthusiast
who plays sonatas on a loud-toned grand
piano. Then you hate him. Or it may be
he is a city man who spends his leisure in
perusing share-lists and the sporting papers.
Then you are indifferent as to his existence.
Nothing inflames the savage breast like music
in the next room. Fred was at the end
of a corridor, and the suite next to him
was unoccupied, so that he neither gave nor
received annoyance. Arnitte had come to
town in accordance with his promise, and
was living in an hotel close by. But he
spent much of his time in Fred's chambers,
strumming on a fine new Broadsword, a present
from Mr. Hazzleden, senior.

Fred was charmed with his new life. It was
like being at Oxford again, only much better.
There was an interest in the affairs of the

work-a-day world infinitely more fascinating
than he had found in the politics of Plato and
the arguments of Aristotle. Then he was
a man, relieved from the surveillance of
proctors and bulldogs, and, above all, he
had achieved an honourable position in his
country. He was very proud of his membership.
It was with a new and delightful
sensation that he read in the newspapers
on the morning after the opening of Parliament
— "Among the earliest arrivals were
Sir William Watson, Civil Lord of the
Admiralty, who by a strange coincidence
entered the House at the same moment as
Lord Fits-Edwards, the occupant of the same
office in the last Conservative administration.
Immediately following them came the Eight
Hon. James Black, and the public will be
gratified to learn that the illustrious orator

has entirely recovered from his recent indisposition,
and appeared to be in excellent
health and spirits. As usual, the new members
were early on the scene, and among
them was Mr. F. Hazzleden, the hero of
the most brilliant victory of the campaign.
Mr. Hazzleden was warmly congratulated by
the Ministerialists, among others by the Prime
Minister, who shook hands with him after
he had taken the oath." Here was fame
indeed. To be coupled in the newspapers
with great ministers, and to be recognised
by the foremost Englishman of his generation
— these were rewards worth having. Fred
resolved to give all his energy and brains
to his parliamentary work, in the hope that
some day new members might feel it an
honour to shake hands with him.

He was struck by the easy and pleasant

relationships existing between the members.
Two speakers who had been hurling thunderbolts
at each other across the floor of the
House would be found an hour afterwards
peaceably discussing a couple of chops and
refreshing themselves out of the same bottle,
while perhaps some mutual friend "chaffed"
them impartially upon their oratorical performances.
Political differences, except in
the cases of a few of the foremost men,
were no obstacle to private acquaintanceship.
Then there was another circumstance
which greatly struck him. The House was
the place of all others where merit obtained
the readiest recognition. It had its aristocracy,
but the aristocracy was one of brains,
not of birth. The Prime Minister was the
son of a merchant, and the Leader of the
Opposition had made his money as a wholesale

tradesman. Of course, there were men
of high birth in the House, and there, as
elsewhere in England, it was easier to get
on if you were the clever son of a peer
than if you were the clever son of a publican.
But the House estimated them by the bigness
of their brains rather than by the purity
of their pedigrees. There were one or two
heirs to dukedoms who were haughty. This
was natural. If a duke in embryo may not
be haughty, who in the world may? But
the House was little impressed by their
hauteur. If the Marquis of Melton and Lord
Percy Poindestre, looking down from the
rarefied atmosphere of their six feet odd
inches, were unable to see, crawling along
the ground, little Mr. Smith, the successful
joiner whose fellow-artisans had elected him
and paid him two hundred pounds a year to

represent them in Parliament, why, nobody
minded much. Certainly little Mr. Smith
did not. On the contrary, he did not care
a button for all the peers in Burke, but he
made himself so useful that at last the
Premier took him into the Government.
Then it so fell out that the Marquis of
Melton and Lord Percy were obliged to
discover the existence of Mr. Smith, for
they had questions to ask concerning his
department. In reply, Mr. Smith blandly
snubbed the noble lords, and the House
laughed and cheered. Fred found that the
House was almost as easily provoked to
laughter as the "boot" community of Barkleigh.


At first he limited his parliamentary work
to the careful watching of all debates, and
to making friends with all the members who

pleased him. There were plenty of good
fellows in the House, and round the fire in
the smoke-room was always assembled a jovial
group, telling stories (often very naughty
ones) and exchanging quips and jests, whenever
the Estimates or Scotch questions, or
other subjects to which the minds of English
members could not be expected to devote
themselves, were on in the House. Fred
found the ways of the place amazingly
pleasant. Whenever word went round that
the " old man," as these juveniles irreverently
called the Prime Minister, was up, they
flocked in to hear him, and flocked out
again when he had finished. Whenever the
division bell rang they sought out their
whips, and obediently went into whichever
lobby they were ordered, with the utmost
indifference to the question upon which they

were voting. It must not be imagined, however,
that Fred fell into an utterly careless
set, and used the House of Commons, as
some members do, merely as a club. He
attended faithfully, followed the business intelligently,
and fully realised his responsibilities.
But he was young, and the social
advantages which membership conferred, naturally
loomed large in his mind. In his set
were several very able and hard-working
men. Chief among these was young Edward
Spencer, who, though only four or five years
older than Fred, was Under-Secretary at the
Home Office. He was a younger son of an
old family, and an especial pet of the Prime
Minister. But he was a remarkably brilliant
man, and fully deserved all the favour shown
to him.

He and Fred struck up a close .

They had been, it seemed, at the
same college in Oxford, and Hazzleden as a
freshman had come into Spencer's rooms,
when the latter left after taking a first.
Then Spencer had a cousin whom Fred had
met at Dockborough, and an uncle with whom
he frequently hunted in the country round
Barkleigh. Both members were earnest
Radicals, anxious to learn and anxious to do
some good work for the people.

Spencer, in right of his official position,
was the centre of a group of young fellows
who alternately chaffed and pumped the
Under - Secretary of State. It was less
thoroughly understood in the House than it
is out of doors that the subordinate members
of an administration know as little of the
plans of the Cabinet as the omnibus drivers
in the Strand. When they visit their constituents

they all "show off" a great deal,
and talk of all the fine things " we " have
done or "we" intend to do. The Prime
Minister, glancing rapidly over his Times,
mutters, " Humph ! smart fellow that ; believe
I'll give him the Board of Trade when
old Rustics retires." The smart young
fellow is promoted to the Board of Trade
with a seat in the Cabinet, and finds that
he knows as little of the inner policy of the
Government as before. He does the work
of his department and sits at the green
table, but he is never present at those little
chats between the Prime Minister, the Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, and the War Secretary,
when all the real decisions in matters
of high policy are arrived at weeks and
months before they are declared to the
Cabinet.

Spencer's little circle thought him very
"close." "Sly dog," they would say; "you
can't pump him." They were ignorant of
the material fact that Spencer was a dry welland
that the main reason of his secretiveness .
was the smallness of his information. Of
course he was not fool enough to proclaim his
ignorance to the little circle, who, knowing him
to be an especial favourite of the Premier,
imagined him to be also the repository of all
the secrets of State, all the wiles of diplomacy,
all the devices of party politics known
to that experienced and astute statesman.
The Premier was indeed fond of him, and
had hopes that some day he might make a
Postmaster-general, perhaps even a First
Lord of the Admiralty. The Premier seldom
took a sanguine view of young men's
capabilities. He distrusted them ; they were

always so cock-sure, and the Premier held
the theory that no one should be cock-sure
under seventy. Once Spencer, dining at his
table, airily settled in half a dozen sentences
one of the most difficult political problems of
the times. The Prime Minister urged one
or two objections. Spencer returned to the
charge with even greater confidence. " Ah
me ! " murmured the Premier with an abstracted
air, ''I knew a great deal myself
when I was young." Spencer blushed and
abruptly ended his harangue, resolving
in future to keep a tighter bit upon his
tongue.

A few weeks after the opening, one night
when the debate on the Address was expected
to close, for the principal members of the
Irish party had left for Dublin to attend a
conference there, Edward Spencer, with an

unusual air of official importance and anxiety,
made his way to the little group by the smoke-room
fire.

•• Hullo; Ned," said a cousin of his, a
Tory who represented a southern county
division; •'has the 'old man' made war on
Prussia?"

'•' Don't be flippant, Tom," returned
Spencer.

'' I say, Spencer, it ain't a dissolution
— oh ! say it ain't a dissolution," said
another.

A chorus of sympathetic groans supported
this prayer.

•'As far as I know," returned Spencer,
'there's no likelihood of a dissolution for
many a long day to come. So you may
keep your minds and your pockets at rest."

"What meaneth, then, this tragic air, oh

most illustrious Edward ? " exclaimed his
cousin, striking an attitude.

"Spencer's going into the Cabinet," suggested
Fred.

The Under-Secretary shook his head.

*' I know," the fourth member of the
coterie broke in ; " the Chiefs caught a
dynamite.'

"Wish he had," muttered Spencer.

The group bent towards him with
interest.

Blow all your mystery, Ned," said his
cousin ; "if we're all to be elevated higher
than the Upper House, give us warning."

Look here, you fellows," replied Spencer,
"I'll tell you what's up. But mum's the
word. If the Chief knew I'd opened my
mouth I should get a jolly wigging. Yesterday
Hamilton of the Secret Department was

with the Chief for an hour. To-day Chief's
laid up with gout, so he had to tell me all
about it."

"Blue funk !" ejaculated Tom.

'' Shut up, Tom," said the Under-Secretary,
and went on, " Hamilton's got hold of a
pleasant thing in conspiracies. A fellow
whom we heard of in America has come over
here, and Hamilton believes that he's now
in London, but so far his fellows can't lay
their hands on him. Were been warned
that they've slipped a lot of dynamite
through Dover, and we may have a blowup
any day. He's got a woman with him,
we hear, and Hamilton thinks that's our best
chance of potting him."

Fred felt the blood leave his face, and his
heart seemed to stand still.

Spencer turned to him. " By the way,

VOL. III. E

Hazzleden, our people report that they were
in Dockborough during your election."

Fred went whiter than before. '' Lucky
they didn't experiment on me," he said, with
a desperate attempt at jocularity.

Just then the division bell sounded, to
his intense relief, and the party hurried off
to the House. "By Jove, Ned," whispered
Tom to his cousin as they strode along the
corridor, "Hazzleden's like your Chief; he
don't like dynamite. I thought he was a
better plucked 'un."

That evening Fred had determined to
snatch a couple of hours from his parliamentary
duties, to visit one of the theatres
with some friends of the Wynnstons, to whom
he had presented letters of introduction. He
was in a whirl of terrible excitement, and
any distraction was welcome to him. Half

dazed, he dressed and drove off to the theatre,
where he found his acquaintances already
in their box awaiting him. The piece was
Hamlet, and the greatest actor of the day
was to play the Prince of Denmark. The
curtain had risen, and Horatio and Marcellus
were discussing the reality of ghostly apparitions.
A low buzz of whispers and restless
movements rose up from the pit. Fred, in
the deep shade at the back of the box, leaned
his aching head against the partition, and
scarcely heard or saw anything. Presently
a great roar burst from the house. The
famous actor had glided from behind the
scenes and stood in the council chamber of the
king. The cheers died away, and with them
the whispers and the shuffling of feet. An
intense stillness prevailed, broken at length
by cacophonous tones, which fell like a voice

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

of doom upon the ears of the listeners, ''A
little more than kin and less than kind."
The player had struck at once the keynote
of the tragedy. The anguish, the irresolution,
the passion — above all, the fateful forebodings
of the *' son of a dear father murdered," were
breathed forth in those few solemn accents.
The voice found its way into Fred's troubled
mind ; he roused himself with some curiosity,
and, before the actor had finished the soliloquy
in which Hamlet bemoans the weariness,
staleness, flatness, and unprofitableness of all
the uses of this world, had forgotten, at least
in part, his own sudden troubles, and was following
with interest the action of the tragedy.
The play appealed to him with a new
power. The actor's genius and his own
mental state combined to make the performance
more affecting to him than any stage

play had been before. He watched Hamlet's
awakening in the presence of the ghost ; he
heard his fierce vows of vengeance, his banter
with Colonies, his scornful sallies with Rosen
grants and Guildenstern, his wild agony with
Ophelia. He noted point by point the maddening
effect which an awful secret and a
still more awful sense of duty had upon the
Prince's highly strung nature, and he wondered,
half mechanically, if the secret he had
heard that day and the duty which had fallen
upon him would make him 'mad nor'-nor-
west." In the interval between the acts, a
place had been made for him in the front from
which he could see more at his ease. Two
brio-ht young girls sat beside him, and their
whispers, both naive and shrewd, amused
him. " I've no patience with him," said one.
"If I'd been Hamlet I'd have killed that

king instead of talking about it so much,
and been king myself." — " I wouldn't' said
the other ; "I'd have married Ophelia, and
run away and been happy somewhere else.
What's the good of killing people ? The best
thing is to get married and be happy." — " If
I'd been Ophelia," returned the other, " I
wouldn't have had you. Would any girl
have such a coward, after his father had
made him promise too ? " — " Hush," was the
answer ; " here's Hamlet again." This little
conversation was conducted across Fred, who
found it very difficult to decide what he
would have done. On the whole he was
inclined to think that he should have been
disposed to make an elopement of it had
Ophelia been willing.

As the tragedy progressed Fred became
more and more absorbed in its stern story

of sorrow and of sin. His pulse beat quicker
as the pageant of the " play scene " passed
before his eyes, and as the passion grew to
a grand climax when Hamlet, with a wild
scream, flung himself upon the vacant throne
of the kincr. Then, almost holding his breath,
he followed the "mad scene," played by an
actress whose tearful tones went straight
through to the hearts of the hearers. At
last the burial of Ophelia was reached,
and a mournful procession of nobles, priests,
and maidens passed through the churchyard
gates, amid the tolling of bells and the
strains of solemn music. Hamlet, wrapped
in his cloak, stood apart with his friend. Of
course every one in the house knew the
tragedy — most of the audience probably had
the greater part of it by heart ; many had
seen the famous actor before in the same

character, yet a thrilling hush of expectation
fell on the people, who waited for the
moment when the prince should spring forth
crying, *' This is I, Hamlet the Dane." Fred,
deeply moved, held his opera-glasses with a
tremulous hand. He watched intently as
the brother leaped at the throat of the lover,
and here he ceased to watch or to know,
or to care anything. The overwhelming
anguish of Hamlet finds issue in the words —

I loved Ophelia : forty thousand brothers
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
Make up my sum."

The sob with which these words were
spoken was terrible, and the moistened eyes
of many a man fell from the face of the actor.
It was at this moment that Fred, looking
down below him, saw Mary O'Connor and
the young man Richard Phillips seated beside

her. The theatre swam round him, and
he sank back in his chair. He whispered
a hasty apology to his friends and, pleading
an attack of faintness, which his white face
vouched for, left the box. The cool air of
the corridor revived him a little, and he
came to a swift decision. He dashed into
the street, and stood by the door out of
which he knew Mary must pass. Soon the
crowd began to pour out, and Fred saw the
tall form of Mary lightly leaning on the arm
of Phillips. He shrank back until they had
passed, watched them enter their cab, then,
springing into a hansom, cried to the driver,
*'A pound if you keep that cab in sight."
We'll do wot an 'loss and a man can,"
replied Jehu, as he peeped curiously through
the hole in the roof Like most London
drivers he was accustomed to "fares" of

this kind. '' Ain't a embezzlement," he soliloquised,
"cos he ain't a cop. 'Ain't a runaway
marriage neither, cos he ain't old enough
to be the father. Might be the brother,
though. Most likely it's a elopement, and
he's after little wife wot's been, oh ! so
naughty. Well, I'm sorry for 'em, poor devils,
for 'e's got a nasty look about 'im. 'However,
a quid's a quid." All this time Jehu was
steering his vehicle with infinite skill through
the crowded traffic of the Strand. He had
easily caught up to Mary's cab, and his
horse's nose was touching the back of it.
The stoppage of an omnibus almost ruined
him, for Mary's driver slipped past while
Fred's angry charioteer was blocked out and
left for a few moments blaspheming the
whole order of nature, and consigning to
deeper depths of perdition than Dante ever

dreamed of, the 'bus driver who had stopped
him. By good luck he caught sight of his
quarry again just as the cab turned into
Trafalgar Square. Jehu lashed his horse,
and in a moment was trotting behind once
more. All was now plain sailing. Jehu
permitted the chase to gain a hundred yards
on him. " 'E won't want to come outer 'em
a getting' lout. P'rap's 'ed liefer leave 'is
pasteboard wen they're a kissing' in the 'all."
Mary's driver pulled up at the south-east
corner of Claverbridge Square. At the same
moment Fred's pulled up at the north-east.
Fred thrust the promised coin through the
round space above his head and jumped out.
I'll stop and see the fun," said Jarvey to
himself. But he was disappointed. His
fare " strode across the street, and hurried
along by the palings of the square past

the house which the lady had entered, and
then out of sight. *' Eum," murmured Jehu ;
*'mebbe 'e's a imbecile. I 'ave it," he
continued as he let down the window, and
flicked his horse on the neck as a hint to
go on, "I 'ave it, 'e's a young lover, and
it makes 'im 'happy to see her windows, even
wen the blinds is down. Dear spree for a
quid, though."

Fred made his way back to his chambers.
He was almost beside himself. This was the
first great trial of his life, and he felt that it
was heavier than he could bear. He cursed the
fortune which had put him in possession of this
fatal secret. Of course O'Connor and Mary
were the man and woman of whom Hamilton's
department was in search. There could be
no doubt of it. Their presence at Dock-borough
was sufficient proof ; besides, Mary's

own admissions made it certain. And here
they were in London, bent on a fiendish
work of destruction. And he knew it, and
more, — knew where they were. The young
man pressed his hands to his head and
groaned in agony. His duty was plain.
Every moment of delay was dangerous.
Even then they might be attempting some
murderous outrage. He should go at once
to Spencer and tell him all he knew. But
Mary, golden-haired Mary, his little sweetheart,
so noble, so pure, and so good, — could
she be guilty of a crime so cowardly, so cruel ?
It was impossible. Yet her own words, how
else could he interpret them ? and her agitation
when she leaned on his arm, what else
could it have meant ? But even if she were
guilty, could he give her up to shame and
lifelong punishment ? Duty ! what was

duty ? Surely not to destroy such a glorious
being. Yet if that night some innocent
victims were lying dead, or tortured with
poor mangled limbs, would not the blood,
the guilt, be on his head ?

He flung himself down on his bed, and
tried to tear all these thoughts from his mind.
He would be better able to decide tomorrow.
He would sleep on it — ah ! if he could only
sleep.

A low light burned within his room, and
fell upon the drawn features of the young
man as he tossed upon his pillow. Presently
he dozed. A cart rumbled past in the street,
and he awakened with a start and leaped
upright, cold perspiration standing on his
forehead. " It was nothing," he muttered ;
oh, Heaven help me ! " Soon he slept
again, but the twitching of his face and

muscles showed that sleep was no rest to
him. Again he roused himself and bathed
his temples with cold water. " What have
I done to be tortured so ? " he moaned, and
paced feverishly up and down the chill room.
Always he saw Mary before him. Now she
seemed as a destroying angel sweeping in
calm passionless majesty over the land, and
then — " God ! no, no, it is too horrible," he
cried, and, clutching his throat in frenzy, he
fell upon his bed.

The morning broke gray, then golden, and
the spark of gaslight in the room burned
yellow and yet more yellow. Fred Hazzleden
at last was sleeping the deep sleep of exhausted
body and exhausted mind.

Fuel awoke calm, if not refreshed. He
was a little ashamed of his paroxysms, for
it is much easier to be philosophical at midday
than at midnight. Some one has said that
every living being comes nearest to death
between the hours of twelve and six. Certainly
during the hours of darkness trouble
seems heaviest and strength least able to bear
it. Fred reproached himself for his panic,
and looked with dread upon his untouched
newspaper. He feared to open it lest he
should find that his cowardice had been the
indirect cause of some calamity. He turned

over in his mind all possible courses of action.
He felt that if it should be necessary he could
go to Spencer and make a clean breast of all
he knew. But there seemed to him to be
another alternative. When he followed Mary
in the cab his intention was to see her, to
remonstrate with her, to warn her of the
danger she was running, and to implore her
to leave the country with her brother at
once. But his nerve failed him, and then
he was perplexed by the presence of Phillips.
What was he doing with Mary O'Connor ? It
was surely impossible that such a milksop
could be engaged in a dynamite conspiracy.
Farther, he could not fully persuade himself,
in spite of all the evidence, that Mary, whose
fine qualities were well known to him, would
lend herself to anything so base. He now
regretted that he had not acted on his original

VOL. III. F

impulse. That O'Connor was engaged in
some desperate schemes he was certain, and,
whether Mary kijew of them or not, it was
clearly his duty to warn her before any actual
crime was committed.

He resolved that he would, if possible, repair
his error by going at once to Claverbridge
Square and telling Mary that, in twenty-four
hours, he should feel compelled to inform the
Government of their whereabouts and of his
suspicions regarding them. This time, he
thought, would be ample for so experienced
a man as O'Connor to get over to France,
whence he could at his leisure make his way
to America. Fred found that this course
commended itself both to his inclination and
his conscience. As yet, so far as he knew,
O'Connor had been guilty of no actual outrages
; he was only planning them, and if,

on fair warning, the conspirator abandoned
his schemes, he did not feel that patriotism
made it necessary to betray him. The only
fear Fred had was lest he should be too
late, and the mischief should happen before
he could give his warning. He made a
hurried breakfast, and drove off to Claver-bridge
Square.

Mary was sitting in her window when Fred
reached the house. Few vehicles drew up at
their door, for they were the only lodgers, and
neither of them had any acquaintances in London.
She was peeping curiously when her eyes
met those of Fred Hazzleden. He saw her,
and recognised her — that she knew. She felt a
thrill of mingled pleasure and alarm. Mary
summoned the little housemaid and said, '' A
gentleman is at the door ; you needn't say
Im out; show him in." She did this because

there were standing instructions that
Mr. and Miss O'Connor were " not at home "
to any callers. Fred hurried into the room,
and Mary stepped nervously to meet him.
He was labouring under very strong excitement
she could see. What could it be
about? Had he and Kate quarrelled? the
thought sent a blush to Mary's cheek. Then
how had he found her out ? Was it accident
or design which had brought him to Claver-bridge
Square ?

Aloud she said, " I'm very glad to see
you, Mr. Hazzleden, but how did you know
I was here ? Won't you sit down ? "

Mary was dressed in a plain frock of dark
gray, with no ornaments of any kind. Round
her shoulders was cast a little shawl of some
light material, and the golden hair which she
usually wore in classic plaits fell in two large

loose ringlets upon her neck. In one hand
a kerchief was tightly clasped. Have you
ever seen Paul Delaroche's picture of the trial
of Marie Antoinette ? If so, you know how
Mary O'Connor looked as she stood before
Fred ; only, instead of the clenched lips, the
stubborn defiant eyes, the expression of undying
pride and hatred, there was in Mary's face
a look of keen anxiety mingled with delight
and tenderness. Then, again, the head which
Fred saw was that of a Greek statue instead
of a German Frau.

He feebly parried her questions, saying,
I'm glad to see you seeming so well. Miss
O'Connor ; have you been long in London ? "

Ever since the day after I parted with
you at Dockborough. I suppose you came up
for the session ? "

She had quite regained her composure, and

Fred began to realise the difficulty of his
mission. It seemed so absurd to address a
solemn warning, in an issue of life and death, to
a beautiful young woman who sat trifling with
ivory knitting-needles, and talking easy small
talk, and who was besides extremely pleased
to see him. Either she was in entire ignorance
of O'Connor's business in London — and
this Fred most firmly believed — or else she did
not understand the great danger she was
incurring.

I'm sorry my brother isn't at home,"
she said ; "he would, I'm sure, have been glad
to meet you again."

Fred plunged at once into the heart of his
subject. " I don't think he would," he replied.

Mary opened her eyes and, meeting his,
coloured. " Why should John not wish to see
you ? " she asked.

Because he wouldn't wish to see any
Englishman here."

Mary sat irresolute for a moment and then
said, "Mr. Hazzleden, we've been friends for
more than twenty years, and I think we should
be able to trust one another. It's true that my
brother has reasons for wishing to avoid
notice, but I'm sure he would have no fear
because you were acquainted with his whereabouts."


This frank statement was a relief to Fred's
mind, as it conclusively proved that Mary
was a victim, not an accomplice, of O'Connor.

She went on, "As I told you in Dock-borough,
ideas of duty differ. We don't
belong to your race, and we've never given
willing allegiance to your Government. It's
no disloyalty on our part to strive for the
freedom of our country. You're very much

stronger, and probably can crush us. We do
you no wrong in making the attempt. You
may be quite sure we shall do nothing of
which our consciences disapprove." Mary
uttered this last sentence with hesitation.
She was thinking of Richard Phillips, and she
was far from sure that her conscience approved
of her behaviour to him. She consoled
herself by reflecting, " I never encouraged
him, I never deceived him, I've done nothing
wrong." " Then," said crafty conscience,
ever expert in tripping up a complacent sinner,
'then tell Mr. Hazzleden all about it." The
blood rushed to Mary's face at the thought,
and she turned to the window in great ems
embarrassment.

Fred, who was perplexed by her agitation,
was about to speak, when she resumed,
I've trusted you, Mr. Hazzleden, because

I know you're worthy of trust. You wouldn't
betray to slime and suffering a woman
who is trying to serve her people. I'm
willing to endure both if need be ; but it
would be a great pang to me if my oldest
friend were the cause of them."

There was a pathos in her voice which
Fred could not resist. He took her hand
in his and pressed it warmly. To squeeze
the hand of some women means to run the
risk of an action for breach of promise. All
the world feels that if the man did not mean
to marry the woman he had no business to
squeeze her hand. There are other women
with whom such demonstrations seem only
tokens of regard and esteem, who are no
more compromised by them than a queen
is by the kisses which her hand receives
on state occasions.

Mary O'Connor belonged to the latter
class. She knew that Fred was engaged
to be married to her friend Kate, and though
in her heart she loved passionately the man
who had been her boy-playmate, and for
whose juvenile affections she and Kate used
to compete, she would have despised him
had he shown her any preference involving
disloyalty to Kate.

She left her hand lying in his, and he,
with intense earnestness, asked, " Do you
know what your brother s plans are ? "

No," said Mary; '' and if I did I shouldn't
think it right to tell you."

''I believe it from the bottom of my heart,"
replied Fred ; " but I know what is a secret
from you, and I've come to warn you that
you're lending yourself to a great crime, and
that you're running much personal danger."

Mary answered coldly, " I think we had
better not discuss these things. You, as
an Englishman, cannot understand our feelings,
and, as I told you, our ideas of duty
differ. Your duty is to your country — my
duty is to mine. AVe shall never agree ;
can we not discuss some more agreeable
subject ? A propos, how is Kate ? "

The compliment to his fiancee was delicate,
but Fred was not in a humour to bandy
pretty trifles. "For heaven's sake, Mary,"
he said, " be reasonable. I want to spare
your feelings. I don't want to overthrow
your confidence in your brother "

'you can't," she interrupted.

But I want you to see that you're both
in great danger, and that to avoid it your
brother must give up his schemes at once, and
you must both get out of the country."

There's always danger," answered Mary.
I've learned to hold it lightly. My brother
will never abandon his work while he has
life and strength."

But he must, he ought, for the sake of
everything," urged Fred vehemently.

"For the sake of England, perhaps," said
Mary.

For the sake of humanity."

"Why?"

Because, since you compel me to say
it, your brother is the enemy, not of England,
but of humanity. He is a dynamite."

"It's a lie! it's a lie!" she cried. "Who
told you so ? How dare you say this thing
to me ? "

She had sprung to her feet, and was standing
before him drawn up to her full height.
Fred, in spite of his anxiety, found himself

admiring her beauty of form and. pose, —

A daughter of the gods divinely tall,
And most divinely fair."

The lines flitted through his mind. He
had read Tennyson of course, and thought
him supremely great, from which it
vnll be seen that Fred's sentiments were
of a strictly proper " English fireside,"
no blush to maiden's cheek " order, and
that his literary taste was unsophisticated.
This by the way, however. The present
moment was hardly suitable for the consideration
of literary questions. Mary
O'Connor, very angry and deeply wounded,
stood before him. Her breath came and
went, her hand was clenched and raised as
though her first impulse had been to strike
him, her head was thrown back, and her
gray eyes, turned from the light, were black

and stern. Fred thought she had never
before looked so magnificent. Unconsciously
he contrasted her with Kate in her "little
tantrums," as that young lady herself was
in the habit of calling her ebullitions of
temper. Kate would rush about, Mary
stood still ; Kate would find relief in breaking
something, Mary clenched her hands ; Kate
would storm, Mary was silent ; Kate's eyes
sparkled, Mary's were sternly fixed ; Kate's
anger always ended in sobs and kisses, Mary
did not seem disposed for either form of solace.
Mary's wrath was perhaps finer as an artistic
spectacle, but there was something delightfully
human in Kate's "tantrums," — and then the
subsequent kisses counted for much.

Men in moments of supreme peril are said
to review every detail of their past lives.
Fred's mind and imagination must have been

greatly stimulated, for all these thoughts
flashed through his brain as Mary O'Connor
stood before him waiting an answer to her
questions.

How dare you ever think it ? " she added.

Miss O'Connor," said Fred, " I have come
here to save you from grief and shame, and
to save your brother's liberty, perhaps his
life. If you won't hear me I can't help you."

^' It isn't true ; it can't be true." But
her voice was weaker, and as her passion
ebbed her face grew white, and she sank
back into her chair, overcome with a ghastly
apprehension. Fact after fact came before
her memory — her brother's reticence, his
doubtful words, his sneering cynicism, above
all, his sleepless hatred — to shake her belief,
to confound her resolution, to break her
heart.

Fred rose in alarm ; he thought that she
was fainting, but she motioned him away.
By a tremendous effort of pride and will,
she flung off the deadly torpor which was
.stealing over her. She rose, and, leaning on
the mantelshelf, spoke again, "I know you
didn't come here to grieve me so without
cause, or what you thought to be good cause.
Tell me, dear Fred, all you know ; tell me
what I am to do."

'* The truth is this, Mary," he answered.
'^ At Dockborough, the day I saw you, Arnitte,
who seems to know everything, gave me
the first hint. What he knows and how
he got to know I've no idea, but he led
me to believe that your brother was engaged
in some desperate business. I remember now
he said that whatever happened I was to
think well of you."

'' Oh, thank you ; thank him ! " moaned
poor Mary.

"Since I've been in town I've been very
uneasy about you, and have been hoping
every day that we might meet. I watched
for you everywhere that I thought it likely
you might be, but never could find you. I
was beginning to hope that your brother
had changed his plans, and that you were
not in London, after all. Yesterday afternoon
at the House some of us were talking round
the smoke-room fire, when one of the Under-secretaries
came up and said that the Government
had heard of another dynamite conspiracy.
He told us that a man of whom
they had heard had come over from America."

'john came from America," she said,
'but that's no evidence."

He told us that a woman was believed

VOL. III. G

to be with him, and that this afforded their
greatest chance of catching him."

That's not enough proof," she whispered.

'' The Government had learned that the
man and woman were in Dockborongh during:
my election."

Mary's lips moved, but Fred heard nothing.

They had also found out that a quantity
of dynamite was landed at Dover last week
from France."

Mary fell back into her chair again, and
her hands lay helpless in her lap. " It's
true," she said with a stony deliberation
that horrified Fred, " it's true, then. Phillips
went to Dover last week. I heard him say
so. I've ruined his life too."

"You knew nothing of it, Mary," he
answered, trying to console her.

Ah, you don't know, you don't understand,"

and she wrung her hands in an agony
of grief. " I knew I was doing wrong ; no
woman should have done it. I said I should
never respect myself any more ; but, as God
is my judge, I never dreamed of anything so
bad as this."

"What is it, Mary? tell me," he said kindly.

'•' I can't ! I can't ! " she cried ; " and yet
I will — perhaps it's my punishment. You
know young Phillips, — we met him. at
Lorton. He often used to come to see us,

and he — and he " Her voice choked,

and her face grew crimson with shame.

Fred smiled. 'rand the young man fell
over head in love with Mary O'Connor. I
see nothing surprising in that."

She gave him a glance full of gratitude
and went on : " John asked him to come
here, but I knew nothing of it, and before

he came my brother told me he must have
the young man's help. He didn't say why

or how. Of course, he knew that Phillips "

she hesitated, unable to say the word, then
with a great effort — " that Phillips thought
well of me — every one could see that — and
John begged me, for our country's sake, not
to send him away. But, believe me, Fred,"
she implored, " I never deceived him."

"I do believe it," he fervently replied.

•'^Yet I can never forgive myself, for I
didn't tell him to go away. Indeed, I
asked him to join us, and to serve the cause
of Ireland, and I've brought him to destruction."


It's not too late, Mary," he returned,
*' to save him and your brother also."

How ? What can I do ? " she asked.

You must warn him ; you must tell him

the danger he runs. You have some influence
with him. Can you not o-et him to leave
England at once ? "

'rand what effect would anvthinoj I mio^ht
say have on him? Do you imagine that a
man, who has for months carried his life in
his hand, would be influenced by a woman's
entreaties? Then you don't understand my
brother ; you don't know what hate is. I
suppose you never hated any one in your
life. Xow, my brother hates England with a
bitterness you can't even imagine. His only
wish in life is to injure her, and to do that
he would risk his own safety and mine too.
When people hate they never think. It's
worse even than when people love," she added
with a wan smile.

"Still, he won't run to certain destruction."
*' If all you say is true, he knows already

the danger he incurs, and is willing to take
his chance."

'but he doesn't know all the danger,"
objected Fred.

"If I tell him that I suspect him, what
will the result be ? Supposing that what we
fear is true, he will hasten to do what we
dread before he is prevented."

"Then, Mary, leave him," said Fred;
"leave him now. You have money and
friends. Come away, come now," and Fred
rose and took her hand again.

The temptation was tremendous, but she
conquered. "No," she said; *^I can't do
that. I've pledged my faith to my brother,
and I can't desert him."

Fred was in despair. " You won't go 1
You can't do any good if you stay. What
will you do ? "

I don't know," lie answered.

I'll tell you what to do. Say that I've
been here, that I've found him out, and
that if he wishes to escape he must go at

once."

'•'No; I won't do that."

Whv ? "

Because I don't wish to bring misery to
any one else, and it might cause great danger
to you."

You must say so, Mary," he urged. " I
know how to take care of myself. You must
say that I have been here to give you fair
warning, and that at noon tomorrow I'll goto
the Home Office and. tell them all I know ;
and, by heaven, I'll do it ! "

Will you ? " said a voice at the door.
I don't think you ^dlL" O'Connor stood
before them, and peering from behind him.

convulsed with rage and terror, was the pink
face of Eichard Phillips.

Fred was no coward, and he had himself
habitually under control. But he never felt
less at ease in his life. He realised the
absurdity of expecting any mercy from
O'Connor. The man who was plotting to
blow up half a city was not likely to spare
an individual who came in his way, if he could
wipe him out with safety. The point was
whether it could be done with safety. Fred
shrewdly concluded that it would be a very
risky business to attempt violence there, ina
front room, at midday, and with, for all
O'Connor was likely to know, a dozen people
in the house. He saw the conspirator's hand
fumbling in his pocket, but he did not greatly
fear that he would bring his Porringer into
play.

''To what am I indebted for the honour of
this visit ? " O'Connor asked.

'' To my regard for your sister," Fred
answered sternly, facias him.

*' May I further ask how you obtained my
address ? "

'•' I saw your sister at the theatre Last
night, and I followed her here."

'' You seem interested in my sister s affairs,"
said O'Connor with a sneer.

I am," returned Fred.

"Pity," said O'Connor. 'Tm sorry for
you," and he stepped towards Fred.

Mary O'Connor, pale as death, sprang between
them. " Stand back ! " she screamed.

'•'Out of the way, girl," the man called ;
this is no business of yours."

'•' It is ! it is!" she cried, " for I love him ;"
and she drew him to her with the infinite

tenderness of a mother soothing the fears of
an only child

A flush crossed O'Connor's cheeks.
Shame on you, Mary," he said ; " leave
mr. Hazzleden alone ; fool, I mean no harm
to him."

But she clung; to him, trembling with
bitter shame and apprehension. Fred gently
disengaged her hands, and, moved by a great
thrill of emotion, touched her forehead with
his lips.

Phillips, with a yell, leaped upon him, his
fist upraised. O'Connor caught the infuriated
lover by his collar and flung him down upon
the couch as easily as a terrier tosses a rat.
Then he threw himself into a chair and burst
into a loud laugh.

"By the Lord," he cried, "you're all
mad, and I'm as mad as any of you."

Fred still stood facing him. Mary had
covered her face with her hands and was
sobbing aloud. Phillips, lying in a heap
where he had fallen, was gaping on the
couch.

Sit down, Mr. Hazzleden, for pity's sake,
and let us end this melodrama ; I'm not
accustomed to heroics," said O'Connor.

Fred sat doAAOi, and he went on, "I
heard you say that tomorrow at noon
you would communicate with the Home
Secretary."

I did say so," replied Fred, " and I
meant it."

I may rely upon it, then, that you will
take no steps for four and twenty hours ? "

You may," Fred answered.

Then I take you at your word, Mr.
Hazzleden ; and now, as we shall have some

parting arrangements to make, I will wish
you good-morning."

He opened the door. Fred turned to the
sobbing girl, " God bless you and help you,
Mary," he prayed, and then he posed out
into the street.

When the door closed behind Fred, O'Connor
turned bitterly to Mary and said, "Well,
madam, you've done a nice day's work ; I
hope you're satisfied."

Mary only sobbed, and he went on, " Oh
yes, you're a nice, modest, mealy-mouthed
miss, but you weren't so bashful when you
were hanging round your dear friend's neck."

Kate Wynnston would have clenched her
little fists and struck him in the face, but
Mary's proud heart was broken. An eternity
of shame and despair was crowded into one
hour. She had saved his life, perhaps, but at

what a cost! How could he ever think of
her as what a maiden should be? Yet, had
she known it, every chord in his soul was
vibrating with the memory of her heroism,
and the blood was coursing swiftly in his
veins as her cry "I love him" echoed in his
ears. But Mary saw a wall of tempered steel
built between her and her love. On the
farther side were hope and happiness, on the
hither side darkness and disgrace. In it was
no door ; she knew that she might never pass
the barrier.

What, crying still ! Shall I bring him
back for a farewell kiss ? " sneered O'Connor.

She could bear her agony no longer ; casting
on him a glance of unutterable reproach,
she rose and left the room.

I wanted to get rid of her," said
O'Connor, half to himself and half to Phillips.

'' Poor Mary, she's a good girl ; it's the
kindest thing to do now."

Phillips had pulled himself together, and
was sitting on the sofa hugging his knees and
swinging backwards and forwards. There
was a curious gray look in his face which, at
any other time, O'Connor must have noticed,
and his weak, womanish mouth was tightly
closed.

O'Connor walked up and down the room.
"This is a bad business," he muttered, "and
to have come now ; another week and we
should have startled the whole world."

What are you going to do ? " asked
Phillips.

"Well," returned O'Connor grimly, "since
we can't have a farewell banquet we may as
well leave our cards, and then hey for sunny
France."

Do you mean to-day ? "

Of course I do ; tomorrow we shall either
be in Paris or in prison."

'* Where is it to be?"

''I should like to drop a ^RRC at St.
Stephen's, but I'm afraid it can't be done.
They've watching too closely. This morning
the Hall was full of their men. I saw a
couple of well got-up rustics and a butcher's
boy, and a long-haired artist, all from Scotland
Yard, gazing at Rufus's roof. What
delicious simpletons these English are ! Their
spies are as well known as the face of Big
Ben, yet they think that a blue apron and
a curly wig can deceive us. By Jove,
Phillips, they manage these things differently
in France ; however, we're political offenders,
my boy, and their orchards won't trouble
us."

'where else, then, is it to be?" asked
Phillips.

''"What do you say to the Abbey? The
effect will be almost as great. If we hoist
the Confessor's coffin thrush the roof there'll
be a lovely panic in the morning."

This ghastly pleasantry provoked a ghastly
smile from Phillips.

O'Connor looked at his watch. '' There's
no time to lose," he said ; " it's two now ;
prayers begin at three. The best time will be
just after the service. I'll go and get the
things."

He left the room, and Phillips sprang to
his feet and beat his breast wildly with his
fists. " She's fooled me," he hissed, " and
you struck me ; but, by God, before to-night
I'll be even with you both." Then he sank
back on the couch and moaned, " Oh ! it's

VOL. III. H

hard to lose everything — her and a good name
and perhaps life. My poor father ! " The
wretched youth buried his face in the cushion.
He saw his quiet home on the valley slope ;
he heard' the cattle lowing in the fields and
the evening song of the milkmaids. His
father's sturdy form, his dead mother's face, —
all his high hopes, his ambitions, his dreams
of greatness, — rose up to accuse him.

O'Connor had entered quietly. ^'What,
King Dick, funking already?" he exclaimed,
looking down on his victim.

Phillips jumped up and faced him. "You'll
funk before I do," he answered ; ' " does that
look like fear?" and he held up his hand
without a tremor.

No, it doesn't," replied O'Connor, scrutinising
him with some distrust. "I don't
know what it looks like. Remember, friend

Richard, no pranks. You and I are in the
same boat, and a desperate man isn't to be
trifled with."

What, funking already ? " said Phillips,
repeating his sneer.

O'Connor's eyes fell for an instant, and his
mouth twitched. But he recovered his self-command
by a great effort. " My dear King
Dick," he said, " I do believe there's madness
in the air to-day. Here are you and I glaring
at one another like a couple of maniacs instead
of doing our work." He was carrying
two large bundles and a basket. " The
groceries' are in here," he said, tapping the
latter. ^' You managed the business at Dover
splendidly. I laugh, even now, to think how
John Bull was fooled. But no one would
have suspected a smart young bagman with
samples of beet sugar. Besides, your innocent

face would put a bloodhound off the scent.
I fancy some of them won't care for the taste
of that sugar."

He unrolled the bundles and laid out two
suits of clothes such as prosperous artisans
wear. " Let us get into these things," he
went on. " Phillips, I'm afraid you'll look
too romantic for a carpenter."

Saying this he turned the key in the lock
of the door, and the two men donned their
disguise. " Am I all rio^ht ? " asked O'Connor.
"Pity I haven't a plane and a saw; it would
heighten the effect. Phillips, you look like
the poet of the workshop, the gentlemanly
apprentice who married his master's daughter
and spent the old man's money. What am
I like 1 The faithful foreman who worked
for twenty years, then broke his leg and
went to the workhouse ? Here, let the

groceries ' alone' he called, for Phillips
was fumbling with the basket. " Sugar of
that sort wasn't made for lapdogs to play
with."

The young man's face grew livid again.
It was a flaw in O'Connor's character as a
conspirator that he could not control his
bitter humour. He took the basket from
Phillips's hands and opened it with great
care. From it he lifted a can such as workmen
use to make coffee. Removing the
top, he said, " That's for you to carry ;
you must be fond of strong coffee, Eichard,
for there's a powerful lot of grounds
in your can. There, don't hold it as if it
would bite you ; it's harmless at present.
Swing it about, man, as if you'd carried a
can since you were a good little Sunday-school
boy, and when you get to the door

give me a tap on the back with it. There
are sure to be some sly dogs on the watch,
and little impromptu effects are useful. Now
for my dinner-basket."

He commenced to lay a number of packets
on the table. " Here are the sandwiches, a
little stale with keeping; would you like one?
No; well, they don't look tempting. If they
overhaul us I don't think any one will get
beyond this ham. Phew! it is strong," and
he wiped his fingers on his handkerchief.
Then there's a nice little half-pound packet
of tea, and here's the sugar, blue paper and
all, and a little of the genuine article on the
top ; this. King Eichard, will slip easily into
your can when we get inside. And here,
greatest triumph of all, are two dirty plates
wrapped up in a red handkerchief. Most
mighty monarch, there isn't a nose in all

Scotland Yard keen enough to smell us out.
Now, we'd better get off."

O'Connor opened the door, and the two
men, carrying their deadly burdens, slipped
quietly along the passage, down a dark flight
of stone steps, out into a little yard, through
a back-gate which O'Connor opened with a
key from his pocket, and into a narrow entry.
They did not look behind them or they might
have seen Mary O'Connor, pale as death and
dressed for the street, stealing after them.
The girl's reason had almost given way beneath
her awful agony. Her mind, indeed,
was active, but her will had ceased to control
it. She knew that the greatest crisis of her
life had arrived, and that the two men were
bent on the work of destruction. What she
meant to do she had no idea, but the impulse
came to her to watch and follow them.

Unconsciously she braided her hair before
the glass, touching with deft hand a lock
here, smoothing a ripple there. But she
knew nothing, saw nothing of this. It was
the automatic working of her woman's instinct.
Galvanise a dead woman and she
will brush her hair. Then she dried her
eyes and wiped the tear-stains from her face.
There was a speck upon her cheek ; her eye
saw it, though her consciousness did not, and
she carefully removed it. Next she drew on
her mantle and arranged her hat upon her
head, and sat down waiting and listening.
At length she heard the opening of her parlour
door, and, peering over the balusters,
saw the two men. She might have called
and stopped them had she thought, but she
could not think. She was like one in a
mesmeric trance, and the single idea to follow

them filled her mind. She clasped her hands
and, with an unspoken prayer to Heaven,
which rose from out the anguish of a breaking
heart, she crept after them. Far behind,
but always keeping them in view, she followed.


The busy traffic of the London streets
rattled round her, but she neither saw nor
heard. One moment she was almost beneath
the wheels of a heavy van. The driver
tugged at his horses and swore. Again,
she jostled against two overdressed youths.
Handsome girl," said one ; " wonder if she's
ill." — 'drunk more likely," said the other,
twisting his feeble moustache. " Let us see,"
returned the first, and they swung round and
walked after her. At first they passed her,
then slackened until she had repassed them,
each time leering in her face. Mary was blind

to their existence ; her eyes were fixed on two
figures far up the street. " No go," said the
second youth, and they turned again and sauntered
along until another girl should afford
their vacant minds something to reflect upon.
Man is the noblest creature upon earth, and
he is the most contemptible besides. The
peacock who expands his tail before the
eyes of his envious mate is at least a beautiful
object ; but the brainless fops who ogle
women in the streets, into whose soulless
carcases the idea of sweet pure womanhood
never penetrates, cannot even boast of iridescent
feathers to distract attention from
their empty skulls. They serve but one
purpose — they are useful to keep us humble,
lest in the pride of intellect or of bodily
strength we should forget what infinite capacity
of pettiness there is in man.

Across the broad thoroughfare of Lowborn,
down a narrow lane of tumbledown little
shops and musty offices, where men with red
and green bags bustled about, and where
you might sometimes meet imposing beings
striding along in the awful majesty of gray
wiors and Geneva crowns, the two false workmen
went, always watched by the girl behind
them. At an ordinary time she could never
have kept them in view amid all the hurry
and scramble of these business streets. But
as sleep-walkers will lightly trip across a
narrow ledge unconscious of all danger, so
Mary O'Connor, her whole soul bent upon
her quest, seemed to follow in their footsteps
by instinct, to see them through all intervening
obstacles. At last they turned into
Fleet Street and quickened their steps. On
through the Strand they passed, crossed the

Square, where they hesitated a moment,
glancing towards the National Gallery, but
went on. Through Whitehall and Parliament
Street they hastened, coming to a standstill
once at the corner of a little street on the
right, where they appeared to be discussing.
A couple of policemen strolled towards them,
and they resumed their walk. Mary noticed,
though she was not conscious of doing so,
that the little street was Downing Street,
where she knew the Prime Minister lived.
The dusk was now falling fast, and Mary ran
that she might not lose them ; as they crossed
before the Houses of Parliament the great
bell struck four and the electric light flashed
from the tower. From the dark walls of
the Abbey faint rays of coloured light played
through the windows upon the foggy air.
O'Connor and Phillips had turned towards

the door of the north transept, and Mary's
eye for an instant wandered to the sombre
pile before her. When she glanced away the
men had disappeared.

Through the minster the sweet, low diapason
tones of the organ were floating. No
one knows the organ who has not heard it
at dark in a cathedral. In splendid halls
and concert-rooms you admire the musician,
you don't drink in the music. You speak of
the crispness of his touch and the cleanness of
his recalling in Bach's G Minor Fugue, or
the originality of his reading and the effectiveness
of his registration in that Concerto
of Handel. When, in the dim nave of a
cathedral, all alone, you have stood while the
gracious tones of the organ, touched by the
hands of a poet-player, have floated above
you, and fallen upon you like unspoken

words from heaven breathed straight into
the soul, then you say nothing, for it is impossible
to translate the message of music
into terms of our own consciousness. From
his place above the screen the organist was
playing that lovely air of Handel known in
English as " Silence and Sorrow." First the
melody sounded forth in clear flute-like notes;
then followed bars in rich devotional diapason ;
and then, again, came quivering through nave
and aisles, chancel and chapels, rising and
falling, sobbing and swelling, the old melody
on the vox human.

O'Connor and Phillips, standing at the
corner of the nave and the north transept,
listened.

*' By Jove, that's fine ! " whispered the
former. " I don't half like to spoil such
music. I can play the organ myself"

We'd better take the ' groceries' to Paris
or to prison, the," sneered the latter.

"What a little devil you are to-night,
Phillips ! No, we won't take them away. I
should dearly like to bring down old Billy
on his arch," and he peered down the nave
towards the monument of Pitt.

'^ Ashy not, then ? " asked Phillips.

Can't get out that end. Too far from
the door. Not safe. Hush, here's the melody
again ! "

The last strains softly died away, and
Phillips exclaimed impatiently, " Well, aren't
we going to begin ? "

Damn it, no ! " answered O'Connor ; "let
the people get away if possible."

"But think of the effect."

"The effect will be anything but pleasant
when you dance upon nothing," was the angry

retort. " Just opposite there, at the back
of that big monument, is the place, Phillips,"
he went on. '' The south transept would suit
us better, but I've a whim to let the poets
alone. Poets are generally decent fellows, so
we'll bowl over the lawyers and the admirals."

'^ Get ready, then," urged the other.

Look here, Phillips, I'm not a rustic
barbarian like you, and I tell you I'm not
at all happy about damaging this place. It
belongs to the world as well as England,
and we shall be execrated everywhere. I'd
much rather send the Prime Minister on a
higher flight of eloquence than he ever soared
before."

I told you you'd funk before I did,"
returned Phillips. The young man was surprised
at the hesitation of his companion,
which he hastily attributed to fear. As a

FREDERICK HAZZLEDEN 113

matter of fact, O'Connor was unconsciously
moved by the music. He had an artistic
sense, though his moral one was dead.
There were several groups of persons in the
cathedral listening to the organ and admiring
the building, and, thanks to " Silence and
Sorrow" and the clever fingers of the organist,
O'Connor wished to spare them. When the
music was ended the hearers slowly moved
away, and, shortly after, O'Connor and Phillips
found themselves alone, and, to all appearances,
unobserved.

Xow, then," said O'Connor, " we'll sweeten
your coffee. Give me the can." Raising the
lid of his basket he took out the blue packet
he had called 'sugar." "Take the basket.
You may go now, if you wish to. The ' sugar '
melts in three minutes."

We'll go together," said Phillips sullenly.

VOL. III. I

All right ; as you will' and lie strode
across the transept followed by this accomplice.
Leaning against the tomb which he had indicated
he forced the lid from the can,
remarking, "The place, the hour, and the
man." Then he carefully slipped the blue
packet into the can, placed it gently by the
side of the monument, whispered to Phillips,
'make for the bridge," and walked rapidly
towards the door.

As they passed out Mary entered the
cathedral. She did not see them though
she almost touched them. O'Connor, bent
only on escape, did not notice her. But
Phillips recognised her gray dress and tall
figure as she swept by. He was a pace or
two behind the other criminal. In an instant
he turned into a pathway to the right, and
was lost in the fog. O'Connor hastened

on, not knowing that Phillips had ceased to
follow him.

Mary stood for a moment on the threshold
of the Abbey, then stepped towards the nave.

There was a vivid flash of light and a fierce
roar, the crashing of falling masonry, and the
ringing of broken glass. Mary saw the light,
but that was all. Then she fell prone upon
the pavement. For a few seconds she lay
stunned and motionless. When she opened
her eyes she was in darkness, and the air
was full of sickening smoke and choking
dust. She thought herself a child again,
and it seemed to her that she was alone and
falling through a vast midnight void, while
formless, lifeless horrors crowded round her.
She stretched out her arms and feebly cried,
'' Help, Fred, Fred ! " With her own voice
memory returned to her, and the real horror

was more terrible than the vision. She rose
to her feet and staggered towards the nave,
where far away faint lights still glimmered
from the west.

Through the gloom she saw a great crevice
in the ground with jagged edges, and from
it a wide crack in the stone pavement ran
into the darkness. A huge statue all dismembered
had crashed into the masonry of the
wall, and strewn around were fragments of
marble and of wood.

Where the dim light fell from the nave her
foot struck something soft, and she almost
fell again. She stooped and touched it. It
was a little child with maimed and bleeding
limbs. Her cup of woe was full. Not even
the moaning of the little sufferer could adda
new pang to her agony. It is a boon of
God's good providence that mortal pain is

often painless. The martyr at the stake
may soon feel less heat than those who
feed the fire. And so it is with the mind.
There is a merciful limit beyond which suffering
may not pass. " I did not know
how easy a thing it is to die," said one in
the dull glow of death, and there was death
in Mary O'Connor's soul. Yet her tender
woman's nature still lived, and she stooped
and raised the head of the dying boy, and
fondled him to her breast.

There were loud shouts, and the gleaming
of lanterns, and the tramp of heavy feet.
Up the long aisle they came, and there by
the shattered screen they found a woman
seated on the ground with a dead child in
her lap.

From the group sprang Richard Phillips.
Seize her ! seize her ! " he screamed.

"She's guilty — I'm guilty; we'll die together
! "

They dragged her from the ground and
bound her hands to the hands of her captors.
Outside, a mob of men and women had
gathered, and when they saw her a shout
of fearful execration arose. " Kill her ! kill
the fiend ! " they yelled, and rushed upon
the little band. She was covered with dust
and blackened with smoke. Her mantle
was stained with the blood of the child. A
man leaped towards her and struck at her
face ; the sergeant at her side warded off
the blow, and the heavy fist crashed down
upon her shoulder. A ragged woman clutched
her hair, and the sergeant drew his staff*
and beat the hand until it dropped. Her
guardian captors fought desperately, but the
furious mob drove them backwards. Then

the cry of " Stone them ! " rose, and a heavy
missile struck Phillips on the head.

Help arrived at last. A strong force of
policemen with truncheons drawn came running
across the road, and the crowd scattered
before their charge.

That night, in prison, sat Mary O'Connor
on a wooden bench, and a drunken harlot
slept at her feet.

After his strange interview with the O'connor
— he was almost inclined to say his fortunate
escape — Fred was too excited and
fatigued to go to the House of Commons.
He walked to his rooms and, seated in his
easy-chair before the fire, soon went to sleep.
He was aroused by the entrance of Arnitte,
who exclaimed as Fred rubbed his eyes,
*' Aren't you well ? " for he knew that Fred
rarely slept in the day.

'eyes," replied Fred, "but I felt awfully
tired. I scarcely slept at all during the
night."

'' You look a little ' off colour.' "

Why, Arnitte, you look a great deal ' off'
colour ' yourself ; whatever is the matter, my
dear fellow ? " He now observed for the first
time that Arnitte's face was pale and drawn,
that his eyes were sunken and unnaturally
bright, and that in the man's demeanour was
a tremulous unrest most remarkable in him.

'' I'm all right, except here," and he drew
his hand across his forehead. " It's like a
ball of red-hot metal rolling about in one's
brains."

Fred jumped to his feet thoroughly
alarmed. '^ Are you ill ? can I do anything
for you?"

I shall be better in a minute ; it never
lasts long, thank God," and he swayed to and
fro in pain, resting his head on his hands.
Presently he said, " It's gone now. Fred, do

you know I think I shall go mad ; sometimes
I wonder if I'm not mad already." His eyes
flashed so wildly that Fred had an uncomfortable
suspicion that his friend might really be
insane.

"Lie down, old fellow," he said kindly,
and pull yourself together a bit. How long
have you had these attacks ? Have you seen
a doctor about them ? "

*' They're getting worse now," Arnitte replied
; " nothing can do any good for me,
except music. Let me try to exorcise the
evil spirit ; " and he sat down at the piano
and, with eyes closed, struck wandering, consequential
chords. As he went on an idea,
vague at first, seemed to glimmer through the
formless harmonies ; round it the chords
gathered in ever-growing symmetry, till
Arnitte was playing a well-marked, mournful

melody. Then he began to murmur, rather
than to sing —

We stood by the sea at evening

And we watched the flowing tide,
While the summer breezes kissed the cheek

Of the loved one at my side.
Then I whispered to my darling,

Who was fair as morn to see,
Nothing in the world can ever

Part my own true love and me.

But one all unseen was near us,

And a cloud passed over the sky,
And I knew, when its shadow touched her face,

That he was stronger than I.
Then he snatched her from my bosom,

And he bore her far from me.
And I only heard the night wind.

Only saw the sobbing sea.

I stand on the shore at evening

And I watch the ebbing tide.
While the summer breezes play around,

And the rippling waters glide.
But I know that she shall never,

Never more come back to me ;
There is nothing but the night wind,

Nothing but the sobbing sea."

Arnitte," said Fred, when lie had finished,
fate meant you to be a great man."

Fred," he replied, '' I've noticed that we
have a fine capacity for disappointing the
good intentions of fate. Yes," he went on
bitterly, " I might have been a successful
drawing-room entertainer. Heavens ! I believe
I might almost have written a comic
opera."

*you might have been anything you
wished," said Fred, " for you seem to be able
to do, without trying, everything which most
men try to do and fail. By the way, who
taught you music?"

"No one," he answered; "I have always
been able to strum melodies and to string
rhymes. I suppose I've inherited the trick,
for my grandmother was an Italian woman
they say, though I believe myself she had negro

and not Italian blood, and she was able to do
just the same things. Her talent captivated
my grandfather, who, as a youth, married her
and ran away from his home. He had money
of his own, and they travelled about Europe
together till she died in a madhouse at Paris.
Then he came back with my father, a child
four years old."

Fred looked uneasily at his friend. He
was thinking of the poor mulatto in the madhouse
and of her descendant's strange character.
'"'You get your dark complexion from
your grandmother, then ?"

"I suppose so," replied Arnitte, "though
my father was a great fair-haired Saxon, and
my mother was fair too. Types recur in a
strange way, as Mr. Hazzleden would tellus.
My sallow face and black hair cost me
dearly when I was a child, for every one

kicked about the ' little nigger ' as they called
me."

You are an American, then?" said Fred.

'' Yes," he returned abruptly, and began
again to play the piano.

There was a mystery about this man which
none of his acquaintances had penetrated.
He was like the wind — whence he came and
whither he went no one knew. He moved
about in the circle of their lives — in it but not
of it. With all their little joys and troubles
he showed kindly sympathy, and often betrayed
a knowledge of the affairs of those
about him which was almost marvellous. His
own history was locked up in his breast.
Fred obtained for him, as a non-resident, the
temporary enjoyment of the privileges of his
club. There, Arnitte made himself a general
favourite. He possessed a power of winning

men which Fred compared to the influence
some trainers have over the horse. A pat on
the neck, and a whisper in the ear, and the
most stubborn animal is subdued and docile.
No one could resist him, and yet he never
appeared desirous of winning any one ; all
seemed to approach him of their own freewill.
The men whom he best knew called
him " the wizard," because he sometimes
amused them by his trick or faculty, whichever
it was, of thought-reading, and because
he knew so much of everybody. Men distinguished
in politics and literature would listen
with respect to this unknown visitor, though
often inwardly piqued by his quiet air of authority.
Usually they were compelled to admit
that he was right, and events almost always justified
him. One day Fred introduced him to
two members of the Government, one of them

in the Cabinet. The latter, who was fond of
Fred, said laughingly, '' Well, how about the
Irish bill? Will the Opposition move an amendment,
or will they obstruct us for three
months, or both ? " Then, turning to his colleague,
he added, "These young fellows always
know more than we do, eh, Wilson ? " Fred
replied, " This young fellow don't know, so
you're wrong for once." Arnitte remarked,
They'll do neither." The old Minister raised
his eyebrows and asked with a patronising
smile, "What will they do, then ?"—" Nothing,"
said Arnitte; "they'll sit still while
your Whig friends tear you to pieces and turn
you out. They're not such fools as to risk
burning their paws while the Whigs are willing
to reach the chestnuts for them." — " Sit down
here," said the Minister, "and let's have a
chat. Hazzleden, you want to play billiards,

don't you? How frivolous young men are nowadays."
Fred took the hint and went. As
the Minister was leaving the club he asked
some one whom he knew, " What's that man
Arnitte?" — "Arnitte? why, he's a devilish good
fellow." — "Yes; but what does he do? who is
he ?" — " Blest if I know, unless he's a fortuneteller.
Last night he told Brooks of Beeby
his mother-in-law's maiden name. Poor devil
nearly fainted. Even the name was too much
for him." — " He's a very remarkable man," said
the old Minister as he pulled on his overcoat.

Arnitte was more popular with men than
women, possibly because he was completely
indifferent to the little allurements of the
latter. Fred never knew him, by a glance of
the eye or an inflection of the voice, to lead
any woman to think she had so much as
scratched with a bodkin his impenetrable

VOL. III. K

mail. In his dealings with the other sex
he exercised none of that magnetic power
with which he always fascinated men. The
fact is, he rather shunned female society.
Even those little relationships in which the
man and the woman are perfectly conscious of
a mutual interest, but never betray it to the
end of time, — relationships so much more
delightful than the coarser delights of avowed
flirtation, — had no charm for Arnitte. His
handsome face and flashes of humour, still
more his prevailing melancholy, at first
interested women, then piqued them, and
finally annoyed them. Kate Wynnston was
the only girl in whom he ever showed
the smallest interest. Towards her he
manifested a kindliness and even tenderness
which were almost paternal, yet he
always appeared to be glad to get away from

her. Kate and Mary, on the evening when
Fred met Hni at Mrs. Wynnston's, discussed
him. " He's been crossed in love when
young," said Kate ; ''' poor fellow, that's what
makes him so mournful."

'' Nonsense, Kate," said Mary ; " young
men who are crossed in love always get
married before they're five and twenty. Love
in youths is like fits in puppies — if they have
them once they're sure to have them again."

Kate laughed. '^ What makes him so cold
and solemn, then ? "

"Men suffer worse things than jilting from
women," was the reply, and the conversation
was interrupted.

While Amitte played snatches of Beethoven
on the piano, Fred was thinking. Arnitte had
been his confidant and ^dse counsellor before,
and he had a strong desire to tell him the

whole story of the O'Connors, and seek his
advice. He hesitated, however, feeling that
there are some things which a man has no
right to tell, even to his closest friend. In
trouble it is a great relief to pour one's
difficulties into an attentive and sympathetic
ear.

Presently Arnitte asked, aren't you
going to the House to-night ? "

^'No," said Fred; "I'm too tired. Stop
and dine with me."

"Thanks, I think I will." Then he sat
playing for a few moments and continued :
I saw your friend Spencer at the Club this
afternoon, and we had a chat. He's a very
clever young fellow."

Fred coloured. " Arnitte," he interrupted,
can you really tell what's going on in
other men's minds ? "

*' I can tell when a man wants to tell me
something."

Perhaps you know what he wants to tell
you," returned Fred.

*' I haven't the remotest idea what you
want to tell me ; if you're in any trouble and
I can help you, you know how glad I shall be."

Fred still hesitated.

Is it about Miss Wynnston ? "

''No," answered Fred with a great effort.
I saw the O'Connors this morning."

The effect on the man was electrical. He
sprang to his feet, and the stool on which he
had been sitting clattered over on to the floor.
The veins in his forehead stood out and his
eyes gleamed. "Where?" he called; "where?
tell me."

Fred was amazed ; whatever could this
excitement mean ? For an instant the idea

crossed his mind that Arnitte must be a
Government spy in pursuit of the conspirators,
but his common sense rejected it as too
absurd. '* I saw them at their lodgings, but
I don't know why you should be so excited
about it."

Arnitte quickly mastered himself. " I was
only surprised ; " but his voice was hoarse.
Go on, you may trust me ; you know I'm
not a man to betray confidence."

"Well," said Fred, "I will tell you, for
Tm sorely in need of a friend to advise me.
But, Arnitte, I expect you will deal frankly
with me in return. There's some connection
between you and the O'Connors which I don't
know, and which they don't know, I believe,
and it's of some importance to me to have this
mystery cleared up."

Arnitte was silent, and Fred went on to

narrate to him his experiences of the past two
days. He told him how his suspicions had
been awakened by Spencer's revelations ; how
he had seen Mary O'Connor in the theatre,
and had followed her ; how he had gone to
the house and warned her; how O'Connor
had interrupted them ; and how he had
pledged himself to give the conspirator
twenty-four hours to escape.

Arnitte, with his hands tightly clenched
before him, listened attentively. When Fred
had finished he said, "You've done very
wrongly and very weakly, though it doesn't
become me to rebuke you. Ah," he added
with a bitter laugh, "we can all discover
the mistakes of our friends. But you shouldn't
have delayed ; you should have gone at once
to Spencer. Heaven grant you mayn't have
cause to regret it."

He paced up and down the room, and at
length continued : " I didn't think I should
ever tell my story to a human being, but I'll
tell it to you, Fred, if I can, and then, as a
true friend, tell me whether I'm mad or sane."

Fred motioned him to a chair, and he
began in hesitating sentences as a schoolboy
recites a half-learned lesson. 'you guessed
I was an American. I suppose what I said
of my grandmother suggested it to you. No
one suspected it before, not even my own
countrymen. My place is in Louisiana, in the
pine woods, about a hundred miles from New
Orleans. I was born there, and, as I said,
I believe my grandmother was partly African.
My father had no remembrance of her, for she
died when he was four. But he hated her
memory. He was a fierce Southerner, and
had a brigade under Lee in the war ; he was

shot through the head on the second day at
Five Forks. My mother was an Englishwoman.
When I was a child I was very
like my grandmother. They had a medallion
portrait of her on silk in a little gold frame.
My father kept it locked up, but I got hold
of it once and was thrashed for doing so. I'll
show it you some day. They neither of them
cared for me. My father absolutely disliked
me, and my mother was indifferent to me.
I had a brother older than myself, a fair
young fellow, as all our family had been, and
a younger sister. My brother was the pet of
the house, and he deserved to be, for he was
a fine, manly lad, and I had the temper of a
fiend. Perhaps it wasn't my fault, for they
never taught me to control it, but left me
to an old slave woman who had been the
servant of my grandmother. My face reminded

them of the family disgrace, and they
saw as little of it as they could. You often
wonder at the strange ways I have. I learned
them from the negroes as a child. You may
forget everything else, but you always remember
things which make a great impression
on you when you're young. This faculty of
reading or guessing thoughts, I don t know
which, that English people are talking of just
now, is no wonder to the blacks. I've seen
two of my father's fellows sitting smoking
together and just slightly touching one
another's hands. They were communing with
one another, and yet never Speaking a word.
I'm a great believer in evolution, like your
father, and I think that whenever urgent need
of a faculty arises, it's sure to be developed
sooner or later. The negroes for a century
were treated with the greatest cruelty. A

hasty word overheard would sometimes be
punished with a fatal flogging, and my impression
is that they discovered, in time, a
way of exchanging ideas without speaking.
Anyhow, they're saturated with mysticism.
My old nurse was a weird creature. She
could always tell if I wanted anything before
I spoke, and at length I found I knew her
thoughts as well as she knew mine. If I were
to tell you the queer things I've seen among
the negroes you wouldn't believe me."

Tell me some," said Fred with curiosity.

Well, it hasn't anything to do with the
story of my life, but I'll describe to you a
scene I once saw when I was a little lad,
and you must explain it or disbelieve it as
you will. I went with ' Old Chris' — that
was the only name I ever knew her by ; I
suppose it was short for Christina — to many

meetings of the slaves. They called them
religious meetings, but I don't know where
the religion came in. They had some maniac
dances which used to frighten me almost
out of my senses. A man or a woman, or
both, would enter a ring of squatting blacks
humming a kind of incantation between their
teeth, and the dancers, almost entirely naked,
would fling about in the most awful fashion
till they dropped senseless in the circle.
Then the audience would wail something
which sounded like a dirge over them. I
can tell you these midnight gatherings in
the forest, in the flickering light of firewood
fires, with the fearful paroxysms of the
dancers and the crooning of the watchers,
were likely to affect an imaginative child.
I used to be ill for a week after going to
one of them, but ' Old Chris ' made me go.

Once lie came and roused me out of bed,
wrapped me in a big shawl, and bade me
go with her. We slipped out of the house,
which I can see now with its broad verandahs
gleaming white in the autumn moon. Behind,
the woods almost touched the house ; in front,
there was an undulating country, which, in
the moonlight, seemed covered with snow,
for the cotton crop was ripe. I've never
seen a country so beautiful to my eyes, but
then I was born there. Well, ^ Old Chris'
and I turned up a path in the woods and
trudged along for a quarter of a mile. There
were a good many rattlesnakes about, buta
negro going to a camp meeting would walk
up to a man-eating tiger. Several of my
father's fellows lived in the woods, and I
wasn't astonished when we came to a
large hut standing back a hundred yards

from the path, and hidden in the trees.
VYe pushed open the door and entered. A
bright fire was burning on the ground, and
before it about twenty men and women were
silently crouching. At first they didn't
see me clinging to ' Old Chris's ' side, but
an instant after, a woman noticed my pale
face and leaped up with a scream. In
an instant the whole body of them were
yelling like demons, and evidently threatening
something very unpleasant for ' Old
Chris' and me. She was shouting remonstrances
at the top of her voice, but in the
din no one could hear her. The men now
moved towards us with menacing looks. ' Old
Chris' caught me round the waist, and
dragged me through the midst of them into
the light of the fire, tore off the blanket,
bared my shoulders, and, shouting something

I couldn't understand, pointed to a strange
black mark I have on the left shoulder.
An old negro, who seemed the ringleader,
advanced, glanced at my shoulder, seemed
for an instant stunned with amazement, then
knelt and placed his forehead on my feet.
Each man and woman present followed him,
each looked at the mark, and each knelt at
my feet. Not a word was spoken till the
last had passed. Then they put me, sitting
in front of all, before the fire, and a chaunt
was begun. I never heard anything like it.
They sang sith closed lips and all in unison,
as far as I can remember. Even then I
was a musician, and noticed such things.
Beginning on a very low note and very
softly, they ascended the scale in chromatic
steps, swelling the sound all the time.
Then they came down again in similar intervals,

letting the sound die away altogether.
This was repeated several times.
When the music was over, the leader of the
blacks came and knelt at my feet again;
then he flung something into the fire, and
retired. Soon, a thick white smoke spread
like a curtain between us and the fire, but
the rest of the hut remained perfectly clear.
Don't you laugh at me, Fred, for I swear
that out of the smoke steeped a huge negro
perfectly nude, hair as white as cotton, and
bearing in his hand a wooden club studded
with nails. The blacks set up a great clatter
and bent their heads to the ground. I
didn't ; I was too frightened — not at the old
African, but because there was something in
his face which reminded me of my own.
The old chief raised his club thrice over
my head, and thrice the blacks set up a

wail like the caterwauling of a score of
cats. Finally lie drew this great black finger
round my right waist, and I remember no
more till I woke up next morning and found
myself in bed. There's the mark on my
wrist now," and he showed a fine purple
line below the root of the thumb. " What
do you think of that ? "

Why, my dear Annette," said Fred, " you
must forgive me, but I believe you dreamt
the whole story. It's the sort of thing which
would make the plot of a ' shilling dreadful,'
or even of the more extended ' seven and sixpenny
rather terribles,' which, fortunately for
authors, have become the fashion. Told more
artistically than you can tell it, with a weird
introduction, a thrilling description of the
scene, and some blood-curdling catastrophe
to follow, it would become the success of

VOL. III. L

the season. Yet, if you do go into fiction,
for pity's sake let the niggers alone ; were
had enough of them of late."

"Do you really think I dreamt it all?"
asked Arnitte.

"To be sure you did. You'd had cold
plum-pudding for supper, and as a natural
consequence the ghost walked. Nothing like
cold plum-pudding for making you pay the
piper. But go on with your own story."

"I don't think it was a dream. 'Old
Chris' always told me never to mention it
while I lived, and you're the first man I
ever spoke to about it. However, it doesn't
much matter, for I'm not superstitious. Well,
to go on. When I was twelve years old my
elder brother was drowned. I think I told
you that at Lorton. I became my father's
heir, and he was very rich. Even the war

didn't impoverish us, for we had large
English investments. I don't know to-day
what I'm worth. My parents took me out
of the custody of ' Old Chris ' and got a
tutor for me, as then I could neither read
nor write. I was a rather apt pupil, for
before I was seventeen I had picked up a
good many scraps of information, including
a fair knowledge of Latin and Greek and a
smattering of French and German. A great
desire seized me at this time to come to
England and study at Oxford. My father
was unwilling to part with me, for I was
now an only son, but my mother persuaded
him to let me have my way. I came to
England and entered at Christ Church, and
there I passed the three happiest years of
my life. The war broke out when I was
in my second year, and my father wrote forme

to return. I refused, for I would have
shot myself rather than strike a blow on
the side of the South, and I couldn't bring
myself to join the North and fight against
my own father. So I stayed at Oxford and
got my Bea. Then I went over to the
Sorbonne and stayed a couple of years, and
from there to Heidelberg. So, you see, I had
some opportunity of making myself acquainted
with European affairs. All through the war
I stayed away. My father was killed at
Five Forks just before Lee's surrender, and
my mother, who lived on in the old place,
died less than a year after. Then I went
back and found the slaves freed, and myself
probably the richest man in the State.
Strange to say, I was rather a favourite
with both sides. The blacks had a reverence
for me which I've never been able

to comprehend. There's some strange freemasonry
existing among them. What happened
in the hut that night I'm certain
was spread through all the black community
in their mysterious way. It reached even
England, and here I've met a negro in
the street who, to the best of my belief,
never cast eyes on me before, and he has
taken off his cap and bent nearly double as
I passed. It's very strange. Of course, the
whites knew nothing of all this. The memory
of my grandmother had died away, or, if it
lingered anywhere, it was a tradition of a
lovely Italian countess who had eloped with
my grandfather. People are great fools.
They never stopped to ask what in the
world an Italian countess would be doing
all alone in the backwoods of Louisiana.
The whites knew that I had been away in

Europe during the war, and they were better
disposed to me for that reason. I knew
nothing of their factions and intrigues —
scarcely anything of their party distinctions.
But I was a well-educated and, I hope, fairly
intelligent man. Both sides trusted me,
and I was elected to Congress without
opposition. During the next two years I
was tolerably happy, though the crudeness
of American politics and the want of finesse
among politicians rather bored me. But I
made a position in the House, and had the
Democrats been in office I should certainly
have obtained a Legation, or some other
good post — possibly, for the ways of caucuses
are strange, might have been run for Presidents
It was after I had been a member
two years that I met my wife."
Your wife ! " ejaculated Fred.

Alio was my wife ? " he calmly repeated.
'•' I had been speaking at a meeting in New
Orleans, and I went with others to her
mother's house. She was then eighteen, a
girl of pure French blood, and the loveliest
being I had ever seen or ever shall see in
this world. I can't describe her, but I can
give you an idea of what she was like. If
Eaffaelle and Rembrandt had painted from
the same model, the former's picture would
have been my wife, the latter's your cousin,
Kate Wynnston. Do you understand me ?
She had the same glorious eyes, the same
dusky hair, the same sweet smile, and the
same tempestuous nature. But she was more
slim, and her features were much more
regular. I had never loved a woman in
my life, and I loved her from the first
moment I saw her, and I shall love her till

I die. She sinned and lie suffered, but lie
was my wife, flesh of my flesh, bone of my
bone, and her soul is mine still." His voice
rose, and the old gleam shone in his eyes.
Fred's suspicions that his friend's reason was
shaken were renewed. " I married her, and
never did any man receive a purer or stronger
love than she gave to me. For a year I
lived in one long dream. I can't remember
it now, even. It seems to me as if I had
some faint consciousness of another existence
when I was a better and happier being.
But my duties in Washington took me
much away from her. She was very young,
and she was a woman, with all a woman's
passions. My house was very lonely, and
my wife pined in her solitude. She had
been trained in the gay French life of New
Orleans, and her spirit rebelled against the

Frederick HAZZLEDEN 153

weary monotony of the backwoods. She
wrote me girlish appeals to come to her, or
to let her come to me. But I thought lightly
of her whims, and only preached patience to
her. Her letters grew angry and cold, and
I didn't disguise my displeasure from her.
At last a whisper came to my ears which
sent the blood rushing to my head as sometimes
it rushes now. That day I started
for my home, and travelled night and day.
The house was twenty miles from the railway
station. I got a horse and galloped
through the dark with something clutching
at my heart and whizzing through my brain.
It was nearly midnight when I reached my
door. I swung myself on to the verandah,
and burst through the window into my wife's
room. I heard a scream, and a man leaped
up before me. Then I drew my revolver

and fired. A figure bounded through the
window, and when I looked again my wife
was lying dead on the floor with a bulletin
her heart. I wasn't sorry ; I'm not
sorry now. It was better she didn't live,
for I can love her dead. As for him he
escaped me, but I saw his face. It was
your friend O'Connor."

O'Connor !" gasped Fred — " Impossible!"
It was O'Connor. I traced him north
step by step, each day hoping that I might
overtake him and kill him. But in New
York I lost him, and there I broke down,
and for a month lay in delirium. When
my reason returned I gave up my position,
ordered my house to be closed, and took
steamer for England. For years I've
wandered about Europe, and sometimes my
wounds would seem healed, but I've always

been tortured by the wish to kill the man
who killed my happiness. I met him last
year in the street in London here, and I
followed him about until in Dockborough he
escaped me again. He little knows who I
am, for he never saw my features, and in
America I was known by another name.
Twenty times he has been within my reach,
and always some power I cannot control has
stayed my hand. Hazzleden, I can see her
now as she stood before me the day we met,
and I love her now as I loved her then ;
and I sometimes think that my love is keeping
her from worse evil, and that her soul's life
hangs upon it. And I shall love her, and one
day I shall see her again purged of earth and
sin, and then she will be all mine for ever."

Fred was moved almost to tears, and the
most pathetic lines of his favourite poet rose

in Ms memory. " 'Not Lancelot nor another'"
he murmured.

Yes, mine," repeated Arnitte ; " and yet
I ought to kill him."

At this moment Fred's man entered the
room, and, saying 'sad news, sir," handed
his master an open copy of an evening
paper. Fred only saw the "heading," and a cry
of horror broke from his lips. Arnitte snatched
the paper from his grasp, glanced at it, flung
it on the floor, and in an instant was gone.

Fred trembled so that he could not hold the
paper. He laid it down on the table. He read —

THE DYNAMITE DEMONS.

FEARFUL EXPLOSION IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

GREAT DESTRUCTION AND LOSS OF LIFE.

TWO ARRESTS.

ALLEGED CONFESSION.

This afternoon, a few minutes after four o'clock, a
terrible explosion occurred in Westminster Abbey. A
large quantity of some explosive material, believed to

be dj-dynamite, was placed at the corner of the nave and
the north transept. Prayers were over, and most of
the people had left the building when the explosion
occurred, otherwise the consequences must have been
too awful to contemplate. A child ten years old was
killed, but at the time of writing no further casualties
are reported. The damage done to the venerable pile is
considerable. Several of the monuments are entirely
wrecked. One of them was driven bodily into the west
pier of the transept for nearly a foot. The choir screen
and organ are much injured. It may be mentioned
that the organist left the loft only a few minutes before
the explosion. The police were speedily on the spot,
and two persons, a man and a woman, were arrested.
A determined effort was made by a large crowd to lynch
the two fiends, and in many of the clubs, and even in
the House of Commons, regrets were expressed that the
mob was unsuccessful. A rumour prevails that the
man has made a full confession implicating himself, the
woman, and other persons not yet in custody. We
shall publish full details in our later editions.

Fred thought the light was growing very
dim, then he slipped prostrate on the floor.
He had fainted.

When Fred recovered consciousness lie sent
for a hansom and drove to the House. Everything
was excitement and confusion there.
The Leader of the Opposition, eager to catch
every breath of popular favour, had given
notice that he would introduce a bill making
the unlicensed possession of any explosive
material a capital offence, and had asked fora
day to debate it. The wily Prime Minister, in
reply, had assured the right honourable gentleman
that the Government fully recognised the
importance of the subject, and that it was
their intention to do with all due promptness

whatever might be found necessary. It was
for the Ministry to determine the requirements
of the present serious occasion, and
he was sure the House would have no cause
to complain of either want of promptitude
or energy on the part of the Government.
Perhaps he might be permitted to say (this
with outstretched forefinger pointing at the
Leader of the Opposition) that he did not
consider a moment of great and general
excitement to be a fitting time to devise
important schemes of legislation. The House
laughed, and the Leader of the Opposition
mildly blasphemed into the ear of a sympathetic
colleague. The Prime Minister added
that, before sitting down, he was glad to
announce the arrest of two persons supposed
to be concerned in the inhuman outrage of
that afternoon. One of these persons had

made a full confession, and other arrests
might be expected.

The lobbies were thronged by members
scanning the latest editions of the evening
papers and worrying Ministers for authentic
news. Spencer was nearly crazy. His chief
had had a relapse that afternoon, and he
was left in charge of the department. A
dozen times he had been called for consultation
with the Prime Minister, and a hundred
times he had been button-holed in the lobby.
All this consulting, coaxing, wheedling, and
bullying made poor Spencer wish for the
moment that the conspirators had blown up
the House instead of the Abbey.

Spencer was threatening his cousin Tom
with personal violence if he didn't get out
of the way when Fred approached. *' Great
heavens, Hazzleden, where have you been ? "

he cried. ^' I was on the point of sending
to your rooms."

Been unwell," said Fred briefly. " I
want to see you. Can you give me five
minutes ? "

Come alone; here " returned the Undersecretary,
and they mounted a flight of stairs
and passed along a deserted corridor.

Spencer stepped into a dark window-niche.
"We're safe here. Now, Hazzleden, what
in the devil's name had you to do with
this dynamite business ? "

'nothing," replied Fred; "why should
you think I had ? "

Because the man they've caught mentioned
your name, and declared you were
with them an hour before the explosion."

So I was," Fred answered.
" The deuce you were ! You're mighty

VOL. III. M

cool about it. I think perhaps you'd better
not tell me ans more."

I came to tell you," resumed Fred, " and
I hope you'll listen to me for a few minutes."
Then he told the Under-Secretary a plain,
straightforward story of his relations with
the O'Connors, and of the events of that
and the previous day.

Spencer listened attentively, and replied
with some irritation, "Why the devil didn't
you come to me last night ? I suppose
you wanted to get the girl off, and a nice
mess you're both in. It looks uncommonly
like being accessory before the fact."

Fred was silent, and he continued after
reflecting, " The worst of it is, this fellow has
mentioned you in his confession, and has
suggested, if he hasn't said outright, that you
knew all about the business. We needn't

arrest you, because of the improbability of
the informer's story and your public position,
but I don't see how we can avoid putting
you in the box to clear yourself. If we don't
call you, the defence most certainly will."

What must be must be," said Fred
desperately.

The nasty part of the business is," continued
Spencer, " that you heard from me
of our suspicions and went straight off and
told these people. That would have a very
bad effect on the jury. No one knows I
said anything but ourselves and Tom and
Hamilton, and I'll shut their mouths. You'd
better go to a good criminal lawyer and tell
him the whole business, and get his advice.
Thank you," answered Fred.
Look here," observed Spencer as they
moved away, " I'm not a Joseph myself, but

I do think you're to blame. These entanglements
are always foolish in a public man."

"Don't think it, Spencer, don't think it,"
cried Fred hoarsely. " Mary O'Connor is the
purest woman upon earth."

'^ Whew ! " muttered the Under-Secretary ;
"it's worse than I thought. Now," he said
kindly, " go into the House, and mind, if
any whispers should get out, come and goas
usual, and hold up your head and look
every one in the face. You're a good fellow,
Hazzleden, and I'll stand by you."

Whispers did get out, but none which
caused Fred any inconvenience. It was
rumoured that the member for Dockborough
had made some very important discoveries,
that he would be called at the trial, and
that his evidence would lead to the break-up
of the dynamite gang in England. Fred

acted as well as he could on Spencer's
advice, and curious persons who tried to
draw " him obtained very little in return
for their trouble.

Though he preserved a good front to
outsiders, he was almost broken down with
distress. Spencer was very kind to him, and
only once lost his temper.

Would it look bad if I went to see
her ? " asked poor Fred.

Oh, damn it, the man's mad ! " roared
Spencer in a rage. " If you're going to
play the fool like this I'll have you locked
up to keep you out of harm's way."

In excuse for Spencer it must be pleaded
that his patience had been sorely tried. Fred
in his present state of mind would have
taxed the amiability of a saint. Then the
Under-Secretary was worried with his work.

All the newspapers attacked his department
and talked gloomily about the inefficiency
of the public service. They intimated that
a Home Office was not worth paying for
if it could not prevent dynamite explosions.
The Cabinet Ministers also were anything
but agreeable in their demeanour towards
him. His Chief was still in bed, so he was
the recipient of their pleasant comments.
Nice thing you've let us in for," said some
of them. " All the papers are calling us
fools. Opposition never had such a plum."
'' The worst of it is, Spencer," said the
Prime Minister to his young favourite, " that
it's spoiled all the chances of my Irish bill.
I may as well put it back into the pigeon-holes.
The people are clamouring for coercion
instead of conciliation."

There was another trouble on his

mind. He had unravelled a large part of
the tangled skein of conspiracy, and had
satisfied himself beyond all doubt that
O'Connor was the very heart and life of
the dynamite gang, and O'Connor was the
one man who had slipped through his grasp.
All the efforts of Scotland Yard were fruitless.
The ablest detectives in the country
were put on the scent, and every village
constable poked the hedges on his beat with
his stick, in the hope of finding a head which
the Government had formally pronounced to
be worth £5000. O'Connor apparently had
melted into thin air. Almost at the moment
of the explosion a man answering to his
description bumped against a policeman on
Westminster Bridge. From that point no
skill and determination seemed sufficient to
trace him. Scotland Yard arrived at the

conclusion that the conspirator had jumped
from the bridge, preferring death by drowning
to death by hanging, and that his body
would be found in the mud down the river.
Spencer irritably called them a pack of asses.
Because they can't find him it doesn't follow
that he's gone to glory," and, wishing to guard
against all possibility of contradiction, the
Under-Secretary added, " or to blazes either."
Mary and Phillips were several times
brought before the police magistrate and
remanded, while the authorities endeavoured
to piece out the scanty scraps of evidence.
It was a great tribute to O'Connor's genius
for conspiracy that they entirely failed to
construct a reasonable case, and the magistrate
began to throw out hints that he would
discharge Mary and commit Phillips on the
strength of his own confession. The only

independent testimony forthcoming was to
the effect that May was inside the Abbey
and Phillips just outside at the time of
the explosion. The landlady in ClaTerbridge
Square was produced, and testified that Mr.
and Miss O'Connor had occupied rooms in
her house for nearly three months. She
had never seen anything suspicious about
her lodgers. They were quiet, respectable
people. She had heard that this was a
Treasury prosecution. She didn't know who
Treasury was, but he ought to be ashamed
of himself for keeping that poor, dear young
thing in prison. Phillips sniggered aloud.
Xow, landladies are like Providence — they
look not on the outer man, they look upon
the heart. If two pitch-pine floors, the usual
accompaniment of rafters and lath and plaster,
not to speak of whitewash, intervene, they

see just the same. The only difference is
that while Providence looks down through
the slates, landladies look up through the
kitchen ceiling. Mrs. Macpherson was perfectly
well aware of Phillips's former partiality
for Mary O'Connor. She turned on
him and said, " I hear ye, ye pink-faced
villain ! " Then she observed to the bench,
And it's him, your worship, that's the
cause of all this, and him coming' every day
and western' the poor girl that couldn't
bear the sight of 'im." — ^' That'll do, Mrs.
Macpherson," said the magistrate, and the
good lady swept from the box, remarking
to the Court generally, '' 'Angina's too good
for 'im, gentlemen."

The law officers were perplexed, and the
Home Secretary was furious. " Surely," remarked
the latter to his subordinate, "they

won't let them slip off uow." — "You see,
there isn't much evidence," replied Spencer,
'•' and perhaps they're not guilty after all."
'•'Oh, don't be a fool, Spencer; they ought
to be hanged, and they must be hanged !
Public security demands that an example
should be made," and the Home Secretary
waved his hand, as one who intimates that
a discussion is finally closed.

Spencer was not so sure as his Chief of
the merits of the case. He was more influenced
by Fred's story than he cared to
admit. But then he had seen Mary O'Connor
in the dock, and he was only two and thirty.
He was quite convinced that O'Connor was
the man they had long been in search of.
But," he added to himself, '' she's a fine
o-iid, hano- it ! and it o-oes against the grain
to see her there." The Crown Solicitor was

less influenced by Mary O'Connor's pale face
and golden hair. He would have indicted
Cleopatra for keeping a disreputable house,
and followed up the case with enthusiasm.
He kept his heart in a green bag, and the
brightest glance never made its way through
the baize. The Crown Solicitor reported to
the Home Office that if more evidence was
not forthcoming it was really no use to goon
with the case. Even if the magistrate
could be induced to commit the prisoners,
no twelve men in England would convict
them. It was at this point that Phillips,
whose desire to go to the gallows had been
diminished by a fortnight's experience in
gaol, offered himself as Queen's evidence. He
had already confessed, but his confession was
worth little unless tested by cross-examination
in the witness-box. His proposal was accepted,

the Home Secretary remarking to
Spencer, "If we can t tang them both, the
next best thin 2; is to hang; the woman.
Public feeling's always strongly moved by
hanging a woman. Our Irish brethren will
save us the trouble of dealing with the informer,
Tve no doubt." — '' I hope to God
they will," said Spencer hotly. — " Hush, my
dear fellow," returned the Chief, " you are
blasphemous ! Besides," he added with something
like a grin, '' such sentiments are criminal.
If you were in Ireland, Gresham (the
Viceroy) would lock you up."

Spencer was only a young official, and
he was revolted by the idea of convicting
one culprit by the purchased treachery of
another. He had not discovered that Justice,
being blind, requires the eyes of informers
to help her along in Ireland. In England

a little pup and a long string are often
sufficient to keep her out of the ditch. If the
person chiefly concerned had not been an
exceedingly beautiful woman, Spencer, who
in most matters of life was very English,
would have felt less indignation. As it was,
he went to Fred Hazzleden boiling over with
wrath. " Damn it ! I can't stand this," he
said. "If I had the chance I believe I
should make as big a fool of myself as you
did. It isn't because the girl's good-looking,
but she isn't getting common justice."

Fred could only groan. "What are they
doing for the defence ? " he asked.

Oh, George Harris has taken up her
case, and that's one reason why our people
are so anxious to secure the informer. Harris
has a beastly knack of running off with
murderers, burglars, conspirators, and other

pleasant people under the very nose of the
judge. That's in her favour certainly."

'•'Is it settled who'll appear for her ? "
inquired Fred.

I believe they've offered the brief to
young Leslie. By Jove, Hazzleden, it'll bea
grand sight. Leslie, with his poetry and
his pathos, will have the whole Court in
tears half a dozen times. They say he made
the Chief Justice weep) like an infant by
the picture he drew of the grief - stricken
home of Price the burglar. However, they
hanged Price," he added reflectively.

Fred was tortured by these well-meant
confidences. He could not banish the thought
of Mary O'Connor for an instant from his
mind. In the day he brooded over her
terrible plight, and at night she haunted his
dreams. He looked upon his own pleasant

surroundings with many a manifestation of
culture, affluence, and the affectionate regard
of friends ; and then he pictured her in her
cell, without a friend in all the world to
counsel and console her, delivered into the
coarse hands of gaolers, and — waiting. Waiting
for what? The question, unbidden, rose
a hundred times, and then the sweat would
stand upon his forehead, and he would clench
his hands until the nails entered his flesh.

It is hard to hear that a woman, whose
voice has thrilled the chords of one's being
as the wind vibrates the strings of an soliman
harp, lies dying. Byron once wrote, as he
looked at the skull of one who was in life the
loveliest woman in Bologna, "It is little
matter what becomes of us bearded men,
but I don't like the notion of a beautiful
woman's lasting less than a beautiful tree,

than her own picture, her own shadow, which
won't change so to the sun as her face to the
mirror." The triumphs of man's intellect are
eternal ; the triumphs of woman's loveliness
are as fleeting as an actor's fame. It is seen,
and the world worships ; for a while its remembrance
lingers in the regrets of the old
and the doubts of the young, then it sinks
into the forgotten.

Alas ! that all we loved of her should be,
But for our grief, as if it had not been,
And grief itself be mortal ! "

It is hard to know that any beautiful woman
is dead ; it is harder to know that a beautiful
woman who has stamped her image on
one's heart is dead ; it is hardest of all to
feel that the woman one loves is dying.
Yet there are consolations. It is a mournful
solace to feel that the deathbed is lightened

VOL. III. N

by loving faces, that pain is assuaged by
loving hands, that the soul is sustained by
the prayers and tears of those who watch and
wait.

But Fred? If he did not love Mary
O'Connor, she was none the less dear to him,
the sweet companion of his childhood, the
noble woman whose worth and beauty quickened
his pulse when he thought of her. And
she was trembling between life and death.
The whole ghastly scene passed before his
eyes. The instrument of death, the tolling
bell, the prayers over the living dead, the polluting
touch of the wretch, and she — shamed,
accursed, forsaken, without one heart's prayer
offered to Heaven for her — going to her death.
His anguish was greater than he could bear,
and, clasping his hands, he cried, " God,
if there be a God, help her and save her !"

And Sandalphon, the angel, pitying heard.
And the prayer he bound into his garland
to lay before the throne ; but the doubt he
left below in the heart of the man.

Fred would have been comforted had there
been any one ^Yith whom he could share his
grief. He was as lonely as Mary herself. He
sought for Arnitte everywhere, but his strange
friend had gone. At the hotel where he lived
they knew nothing of him ; he had packed
his bag and disappeared. In the club no one
had seen him. Some of the men shook their
heads and whispered, " Queer fellow that
friend of Hazzleden's ; wonder if he had any
hand in the explosion." His sudden flight on
the evening of the outrage was regarded as
very suspicious. Then other veiled rumours
crept about, and mysterious hints appeared in
the newspapers. Who can tell how rumours

find their way into the public prints 1 Journalists,
it may be, know as little as other
people, the obscure sources of the rills of news
which flow into their channels.
One morning Hazzleden read —

We understand that some remarkable revelations
may be expected at the coming trial of the dynamitards.
At the present time we are not permitted to enter into
details, and it must suffice to say that a very romantic
turn will be given to the whole affair.

A day or two after he saw the prominent
announcement set out in all the dignity of
pleaded bourgeois" that

In reference to the Dynamite Trial, we are enabled
to state that among the witnesses for the prosecution
will be a gentleman well known in political circles, who,
by an extraordinary concatenation of circumstances, became
aware of the nature of the plot and the identity of
the culprits.

Still later it was declared that

One of the chief witnesses for the Crown will be Mr.

Frederick Hazzleden, the talented young member for
Dockborough, We believe that, while the Scotland
Yard authorities, as usual, were searching everywhere
but in the right place, Mr. Hazzleden actually traced
the conspirators to their den and narrowly escaped with
his life. In well-informed circles it is thought that
Mr. Hazzleden's testimony Till complete the chain of
evidence against the accused. We may mention that
one of the prisoners has been accepted as an informer,
and wil be placed in the witness-box at the Police
Court to-day.

Phillips gave his evidence, and the circumstances
of Fred's visit to Mary O'Connor,
invested with every vile suspicion that
malignity could suggest, were published in all
the newspapers in the country. The prosecution
announced that Mr. Hazzleden would be
called at the trial. Fred became a choice
morsel for all the gossipers in England to
discuss with relish. Men looked at him with
curiosity, and winked behind his back.
Spencer's first worldly suspicion was generally

entertained. 'sly dog," said one man at
the club. "But these good, quiet-looking
young men are always warm members." — " It
ought to make us all very careful," said
another. '' Cheerful thing it would be to find
out that one's chere amie slept with a pound
of dynamite under her pillow."

Fred thought that his cup of misery was
now full. But he found that there was room
for another drop, and it was soon poured in.
Two days after Phillips had appeared in the
witness-box, Fred received a letter from Kate.
It was as follows : —

My DEAR Fred — I see from the newspapers
that you have become quite a public
character. Even the people here talk of nothing
else but you. It was such a surprise tous
all. And so you have found out your old
friend J Miss O'Connor ! How delightful it

must have been to chat with her about old
times. No wonder you liked living in London
with such an attraction. I'm sorry your
friend has been so imprudent, but no doubt
you will be able to comfort her, and with all
your grand acquaintances in Parliament to get
her free again. It will be quite a romantic
wedding. I suppose it will come off as soon
as possible. I am sending with this a small
parcel, with some rings you once gave me.
Perhaps the future Mrs. Fred will not mind
wearing them, though I expect you will have
to get them made larger. You needn't
trouble to answer this, for I don't want to
hear of you or see your deceitful face again as
long as I live. I hate you, and always shall.

Kate Wynnston.
"Pes. — If you write I shall burn the
letter."

Fred sat with his head resting on his hands.
A wild thought came into his mind, and for
an instant his eye rested on a knife lying by
him. But he drove the evil impulse away,
and, trembling with the supreme effort he had
made, rose and drew a portrait of Kate from
its frame upon the mantelpiece. Lingeringly
he gazed upon it, then touched it with his
lips and dropped it into the fire.

I SUPPOSE I must tell Hazzleden," muttered
Spencer, " but I don't like the job a bit." He
walked over from the Home Office to Fred's
chambers and learned that Mr. Hazzleden
was within. It was a mild morning, but
Fred was sitting over a large fire, and when
the door was opened he shivered. Spencer
was shocked by the young man's appearance.
He had not shaved for several days, and his
thick wavy hair, which in the past had been
Kate's especial joy and pride, was all tangled
and unkempt. His eyes were bloodshot, andover
his features was spread an expression of

blank despair. He was sitting in his dressings

fire.

inor- grown doings nothing but sfazins^ into the

"This won't do at all," thought Spencer.
'' I shall have to rouse him up somehow, and
when he hears, the Lord knows what he'll do."
Aloud he said to Fred, who turned to greet
him, "Where have you been, Hazzleden?
Didn't I tell you to come regularly to the
House ? "

I've been nowhere," Fred answered.

So I should think from your looks. My
dear fellow', you must try and pull yourself
together. Be a man, Hazzleden ; you're not
the first fellow to get into an awkward corner,
and you won't be the last."

I'm all right," protested Fred.

Of course you are," his friend returned.
Get up, Hazzleden, and come out sith me

Things will look quite different after you've
been to a barber's."

Hazzleden made no answer. Presently lie
inquired, " When will they call me ? "

"Now for it," thought Spencer. "You
won't be called at all," he replied.

"Not called!" repeated Fred, his interest
awakened. " I've been subpoenaed to give
evidence at the trial."

There will be no trial."

"Why, Spencer, has Phillips retracted?
Has she been set free ? "

Spencer answered solemnly, " She was set
free early this morning — she is dead."

Thank God ! " was Fred's reply.

Yes, it's a lucky thing for you ; saves
a lot of nasty bother," said Spencer. It was
cruel, but Spencer was cruel only to be kind.
He saw that some sharp method was needed

to cut through the stupor of despair which
had encompassed his friend. His thrust was
successful ; Fred's eyes sparkled with indignation,
then his lips quivered, and he turned
away his face. The Under-Secretary suddenly
saw something of interest in the street,
for he swung round and gazed out of the
window.

Tears are the surest solvent of sorrow.
Those who can weep do not die. How
strangely intertwined in life is the trivial
with the sublime ! A little drop of briny
water, welling up in the eyes and overflowing
into the face, may still the ferment of an
anguish deep as the ocean. It is only a
simple secretion, designed to purify the eye
from dust. Yet it purifies the soul from
rebellion and despair. Pain indeed remains,
but pain tempered by resignation.

The tears sprang from Fred's eyes, the
first he had shed since he was a child.
Slowly and reluctantly they fell as he fought
to force them back. The attempt was useless
; kindly nature conquered, and Fred
abandoned himself to an ecstasy of grief.
His body shook with the sobs he tried to
stifle. All the bitterness and the cruelty he
had endured, dammed up, as it were, in his
nature, burst the barrier and rushed out ina
torrent.

Spencer at the window heard him. " Poor
devil ! " he soliloquised ; " must take a lotto
make a fellow cry like that. Wonder if
I should blue — never did that I can remember
— suppose it isn't manly. All the same,
Hazzleden's gone through enough to make
a rhinoceros cry. Hang it, I feel a lump
in my throat myself when I think of that

girl. Mercy she's gone, for the Chief would
never have reprieved her."

Fred grew more calm. Shame came to his
aid — a sure sign that the bitterness of grief was
past. " Spencer," he said, '' I — Fm not very
strong or I wouldn't have given way like this."

Spencer, still fearing to be sympathetic,
returned, "You're all right now, old fellow —
at least you will be when you've been shaved."

His voice faltered again as he asked, " Tell
me, how did it happen ? "

There was little to tell. Mary O'Connor
died to this world when she sat by the
dying child on the floor of the Abbey. The
sound of the explosion awakened her from
her dreams of great and noble enterprises.
Life is at best half delusion. In Mary the
proportion was much greater. Her delusions
were swept away, and little was left of life.

She saw and spoke and moved, but she never
seemed fully conscious of all the trouble which
had befallen her. Sometimes she had a confused
remembrance of her room in Claverbridge
Square where she waited and listened. Then the
incidents of her feverish chase to Westminster
flitted across her mind, and she heard the
sound of the great bell and saw the dim
lights through the minster windows. But
that was all. The rest was a blank. Not
even the flash of light, the moaning of the
child, or the yelling of the mob, did she
recall. Time after time she stood by Phillips
in the dock. At first some unconscious
repugnance made her shrink, but that passed
away. All recollection of him had faded,
and with it all fear. When at last he left
the dock and glared upon her from the
witness-box, his face was as strange to her

as though she had never seen it before. The
trial she did not understand. All she knew
was, that she was kept alone in a cold,
dreary room, that no one ever came to see
her, and that sometimes she felt a dragging
pain at her heart, which made her moan.
With a woman's instinct she looked at
her face in the glass, and saw her lips
dark and discoloured, and her face a dreadful
bluish white. She smoothed her hair
and whispered, 'Tm looking ill to-day.
I'm glad Fred won't be here." Little by
little, consciousness of the present and the
recent past left her. She saw nothing and
no one about her; she was living her child
life at Barkleigh over again. Kate and
Fred were with her, and their childish joys
and sorrows and jealousies moved her. She
and Kate sat in the meadow on the spinney

slope, beneath the shade of the hawthorn

hedge, and plucked the petals from the

daisies. " He loves me ; he loves me not,"

they cried, as each white fragment fluttered

away. And to Kate the message "He

loves me " always came, but to Mary it

was always " He loves me not." Of course,

Kate didn't play fair. She always was

a little cheat, and plucked two petals

together, singing " He loves me." Then

Kate said, " He loves me, not you, so you

mustn't play with us any more." Mary, too

proud to show her grief, stole home ; and

there in tears, murmuring, "He loves me —

he loves me not," she fell asleep.

And in the morning they found her

sleeping the sleep which the good God had

sent to her. A tear stood upon her lashes,

but there was a smile upon her lips.

VOL. III. O

Spencer told him all he could — how the
doctors said her heart was affected, and that
the shock of the explosion and her arrest
hastened the progress of the disease. ^' Poor
girl!" he added; "no one who saw her face
could believe that she was guilty of such a
crime." Then with some hesitation he asked,
Would you like to see her before ? "

No," replied Fred ; " while I remain here
I want to think of her as I knew her. She
will always be alive to me, and I don't
wish to see her dead."

Well, you're right," said Spencer. " I
only asked you because I thought you might
wish it. Now do try and brace yourself up,
and come out with me."

Fred yielded to his kind-hearted friend,
and they strolled together into St. James's
Park. Every soul which fights a great battle

wonders that the sun and moon do not
stand still. But the earth has aged since
the war rolled by Ajalon, and the orbs sweep
on through the day and the night, the world
revolves unchanged, and the soul learns that
a drop may be dipped from the ocean and
the tidemarks remain unmoved.

It was a bright morning, and as they
crossed the famous bridge the sun frittered
on the distant palace, and the heavy front
of the India Office stood in deep gray shade.
Even the roar and rattle of London, all around,
could not reach them. Before them lay the
long reach of shining water, green lawns,
and bare brown trees. Upon the gravel
paths the slow footsteps of idlers sounded
through the stillness, and the plash of a
bird's wing stirred the water. Fred could
not feel sure that it was not all a dream.

The world was bright and beautiful ; a
schoolboy whistled as he passed ; a young
man and maiden cooed together beneath the
trees. Yet Mary O'Connor was lying dead
on her prison pallet. Ah me ! it is hard
to learn how small a thing a life is. A
warrior, the saviour of his country, — a
statesman, the sagest of his race, — passes
away, and the land is filled with woe. But
before the echo of the minute guns has
ceased, before the passion of the funeral
psalm is cold, the vacant place is filled, and
men begin to ask, '' Who was he ? " And
yet the dead live ever, though their names
have crumbled from memorial marble and
faded into eternal forgetfulness. They live
in great deeds which can never be undone —
in great thoughts which stand like angels'
ladders between earth and heaven ; they mould

the minds which make the future ; they are
the creators of the world. And who shall
say that the sweet womanhood of Mary
O'Connor was wasted ? It may be that some
woman in the years to come will be true
to a high ideal, brave in friendship, patient
in trial, pure and unspotted from the world,
because she lived and died.

The day after his walk with Fred, Spencer
was in consultation with his Chief. '' By
the way," said the latter as Spencer turned
to go, " what's being done about the dynamite
woman ? is any one going to bury her ? "

I am," said Spencer.

'•'You!" ejaculated the Chief; "what in
the de\drs name has it to do with you ? "

She seems to have had no friends or
relatives, but George Harris, her lawyer, believes
she had some property, so I told him

to make arrangements for the funeral. It's a
shame to leave the poor thing to the parish."

'' Perhaps you mean to attend as chief
mourner ? "

I intend to go."

The Chief hit his gouty foot on the floor,
and then swore a good deal. When the
Chief wanted to swear he always hit his
gouty foot. Perhaps he thought that the
twinge atoned for the profanity.

''By God!" he groaned, 'the man's mad.
Spencer, my good fellow, go and see a doctor."
Another twinge shot through his foot. " Damnation,
everybody's mad ! Next thing, the
Speaker '11 give a dinner to Donovan
Fossa."

It's this way," explained Spencer. " Young
Hazzleden knew the girl from her childhood,
and they were greatly attached to one another."

The expression of the Chiefs face was
significant.

"No," continued Spencer angrily, "nothing
of the kind. I believe the girl was every
inch a lady; and what's more, she had no
more to do with the dynamite business than
you or I. Those fellows at Scotland Yard
are born fools."

Perhaps," said the Chief.

Well, Hazzleden's quite broken down
over this business, and he wants to see the
girl buried, and I promised him I'd go with
him."

"Oh, very well, please yourself; but I
wouldn't stand in your shoes if the Opposition
get hold of your little romance.
Why, man, it's enough to wreck a dozen
Governments. The ' Old Man ' will be
simply furious." Saying which the Chief

picked up his despatch - box and hobbled
away.

Spencer did go with Fred, and stood
by his side while what had been Mary
O'Connor was enfolded in " the wardrobe of
God's saints whose bodies lie therein buried."
And the careless young minister felt his eyes
moistened as he heard, " Man that is born
of a woman hath but a short time to live,
and is full of misery." " Poor girl ! poor
girl ! " he whispered.

When they left the grave, Spencer strongly
urged Fred to go home for a few days. He
was evidently very ill, and Spencer felt
alarmed at the idea of his lying alone in
his chambers.

Fred was impassive. He had ceased to
have any will of his own, and, a couple of hours
afterwards, Spencer saw him off by train.

Fred lay in his own room at Barkleigh — the
room to which he and Nipper had been
ordered in disgrace after he and Kate had
run away to be married. Nipper had lain
for many' a year, through winter frost and
summer shine, under a corner of the lawn ;
and his master, in the bitterness of his soul,
wished he was lying with his old dog, whose
love never failed till the end, who died with
a fond look upon his face, whose tail stopped
wagging at the moment his heart stopped
beating. Poor Fred's aching head pressed
his own pillow, and Aunt Maria sat by his

side and held his hand in hers. He had
no mother; she was the only woman he could
go to for comfort, and he poured into her
ear the story of his woes.

She listened silently, pressing his hand
and stroking his hair back from his brow.
Heaven tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb," she whispered when he had done.
Dear soul ! she thought the sentiment was
from Isaiah. Probably she had never heard
of Sterne.

Then she hushed him as one soothes a
child to sleep, and Fred was soon lying in
an uneasy doze. The twitching of his face
and hands showed how troubled were his
dreams.

When Aunt Maria quietly slipped into
his room in the middle of the night, she
found him sitting upright and talking wildly.

His eye met hers, and he flung out his arm
shouting, " Stand back, for she loves me ! "
Then he burst into a laugh which ended
in a sob. " Here are the rings ; Kate doesn't
love me, and Mary's dead, ha ! ha 1 ha ! "
Shouting thus, he beat his head with his
clenched fists. Aunt Maria's gentle hand
and voice soothed the delirious man, and,
when he was still again, she called up help,
and sent off for the village doctor. That
functionary looked at his patient, — who had
roused himself again, and was re-enacting
his painful scene with Spencer in the corridor
of the House of Commons, — and pronounced
the case to be one of brain fever.

Morning came and the delirium increased.
Fred was now raving incessantly. The country
doctor grew alarmed, and Mr. Hazzleden
telegraphed to London for a specialist. Ice

was placed on the patient's head, but he
always tore it off and flung it about the
room. Xor could they persuade him to take
the remedies prescribe He showed a violent
aversion for Anni Maria, " Old witch ! '' he
shouted, and struck feebly at her whenever
she approached his bed. She noticed
diet he called more and more frequently for
Kate.

'Unless you can quieten him,* said the
great London physician, 'rit will go hard
with Hni : he s wearing himself out. Who
is • Ki^Tr :. .boni whom he talks ? "

*• They vere engaged to be married,* said
Aunt Maria's''

said the doctor, "'I understand.*
It was his business to understand, and such
hints were never thrown away on him. " Will
she come ? ^ he asked.

'' I don't know," replied Aunt Maria with
some hesitation.

"Well, you'd better write to her, and
say that if she doesn't, he'll die. I can do
little for him, and your only chance is to
get him quiet. If we can give his brain
a few hours' rest he may recover, otherwise
" and the doctor stroked the nap

of his hat with his sleeve. "I'll run down
again tomorrow evening. Till then go on
with the treatment."

Ten minutes after, Aunt Maria sent a
man on horseback to the telegraph office, two
miles away.

All day Fred wandered in his mind, and
as night came on his ravings grew more
violent. At one time O'Connor was standing
before him, revolver in hand. Then the
conspirator's face began to change, and his

form to grow, till before him towered Arnitte's
gigantic, gray-haired negro, who beat him
on the head with a huge club. Every blow
made him scream with pain. Again, he was in
some dark, vast room, filled with the murmur
of voices. Before him were Mary O'Connor,
walled in with iron bars, and a stern-faced
man in scarlet robes. There was a great
stillness broken by one low voice, which
spoke a single word, and the stern -
faced man covered his head with an awful
black drapery. " No ! no ! " shouted Fred ;
Help ! Mary ! " and he struck out, scattering
those around him, until he flung himself
upon the iron bars. He sank back
stunned ; he had struck his head against
the foot of his bedstead. Presently a new
horror haunted him. He was standing on
the brink of a fathomless precipice. His

feet rested on a sloping ledge of clear blue
ice. Above towered a wall of polished rock.
Below were clouds and darkness and the
beating wings of ghastly birds. Slowly,
slowly his feet slipped. He clutched at the
rock with nails and teeth, and sank and
sank. But the void was lighted up, and
the horrors fled away, and two soft arms
were round him, and his head was pillowed
on a gentle breast. Upwards they soared
together, the south wind played upon
his face, and there was music in his ears.
Then Fred Hazzleden knew no more.

Hour after hour Kate sat motionless while
he slept like a child upon the bosom of its
mother. And, when the slow winter morning
crept into the room, he was still sleeping,
and she laid his head upon the pillow
and knelt beside the bed. Aunt Maria

came and knelt at her side and prayed.
Dear Lord," she said, " spare to us our
boy, for we love him so. But if it be Thy
will to take him, help us to trust Thee just
the same."

The great doctor returned at night to see
him. He was tossing restlessly till Kate
took his hand in hers, when he sank back
to sleep. The doctor glanced at her and
said, " I think the medicine is beginning to
tell." With a kindly smile he added, "Leave
him as little as you can, and always hope."

To Aunt Maria he said as he was going,
The crisis of the fever is over. So far
she has saved him. If she hadn't come he
would have died last night. But his whole
system is shattered, and it'll be a long time
before he's out of danger."

Mr. Hazzleden wandered in deep distress

about the place. Even Darwin and the
greenhouse were neglected. The chrysanthemums
drooped for want of water, and
a sharp night frost cut one of the vines.
Red was his only child, his pride and his
hope, and the old man felt as if all the
brightness of life had ozone out.

Trust in God, John," said Aunt Maria.

Of course, Maria, of course," he replied ;
'but he must get better. The fittest, you
know, always survive. Ah, Darwin's a great
help in these matters. I wish you'd read
Darwin, Maria."

Darwin's comfort, however, did not seem
to run very deep, for Aunt Maria heard her
brother murmuring, as he paced up and
down his garden paths, " My boy ! my boy !
why should the young flower be taken and
the withered plant left ? "

VOL. III. p

Mr. Williamson called daily to make inquiries,
and did his best, in his clumsy way,
to cheer the anxious father. " Keep up, Mr.
'Azzleden," he said ; " every think as skill can
do is a-bein done;" and he added, with a
confidential look, " We're a - going' to lay
his case before the Throne, at the meeting'
to-night."

*' Thank you," said poor Mr. Hazzleden,
grateful even for the intercession of the
Barkleigh boot maker. '' I don't know
whether Providence is particular about h's,
but Williamson has a good heart," he thought.
Mr. Hazzleden was not aware that Mr.
Williamson and his wife had discussed the
matter that morning.

^' I ain't easy in my mind about young
'Azzleden," said Mr. Williamson to his spouse.
^' Pore young man," replied that lady ;

'•' I heard from Aunt Maria as the doctor
were very low about 'im."

It were his spiritual condition I referred
to, Jane," explained Mr. Williamson.

Law, W. ! " ejaculated that lady.

'' I doubt me if that black-eyed young
woman is preparing' 'im for the great change.
I 'heard her myself a-floggin a dog as 'owned,
and sin' language as wasn't scriptural. I
fear that she 'asn t the grace in her 'part."

*' Aunt Maria '11 look after that," returned
Mrs. Williamson.

"Well," said Mr. Williamson dubiously,
"you see, she's only 'Established'"

"Law, W. ! " exclaimed his wife again.

"That'll she do?" he resumed; "perhaps
read a collect, or mebbe a psalm over 'im.
But it's wrestling' he wants, Jane — wrestling."

Pore soul !" said Mrs. Williamson, shaking

her head and dropping her voice about an
octave between the words.

^' We must 'ave the prayers of the congregation,
Jane," he continued. "As a
deacon I feel it's my duty to get 'em. I'll
mention it to Brother Jackson. 'E's very
'powerful'"

Indeed, Andrew, you ' engage ' as powerful
as 'im," returned Mrs. Williamson, her
wifely pride aroused. " If it's any one's duty,
it's the senior deacon's, I should think."

Perhaps it is, Jane," he replied ; " but
it's a great responsibility for any one, for, if
the papers speak the truth, the young man's
wandered far from the path."

Good simple-minded man, he "wrestled
powerfully" that evening. The prayer put his
hearers into a highly devotional mood, and
him into a profuse perspiration. He himself

called it a ''•' muck o' sweat." Mr. Williamson's
prayer floated upwards while his sweat rolled
downwards, aud the meetiiiQ; ao-reed that the
senior deacon had never been more '• powerful"
He told the Lord a good deal of
Fred's history, mentioned apologetically that
the patient was young, and London a sorely
wicked place, and threw out one or two very
valuable hints as to the better protection of
youth from the fiery furnace of temptation.
He offered up a fairly accurate diagnosis of
the patient's disorder, and concluded with
a declaration which, though respectful, was
very firm, that he should feel compelled to
detain the Lord until they secured the '* blessing
" they were assembled to request.

Aunt Maria was only '' Established." She
was a Calvinist to boot, and divided the
sheep from the goats as easily as she sorted

out her black Spanish cockerels from the
ragged-legged cochin. Yet every night she
stood by the sick man and whispered, " Unto
God's gracious mercy and protection we commit
thee ; the Lord give thee peace both now
and evermore." Mr. Williamson would have
called it a " collect," and doubted its efficacy.

Many men, many opinions ; and to some
it will seem that Aunt Maria's ^'coUeck," to
others Mr. Bradley's perspiring petition, was
the more effective febrifuge for Fred. It
may be that each, was heard by all-seeing
Heaven, and that through Aunt Maria's
schemes of preordination, and Mr. Williamson's
theories of " particular baptism," honest, loving
hearts showed fair and bright, an acceptable
sacrifice.

Fred slowly recovered, but the winter had
passed away, and the elms across the field,

which he saw from his bedroom window,
were green, before his strength returned.
Kate was his nurse, his companion, all through
the weary time. The girl seemed absolutely
tireless. Morning, noon, and night she was
alert, watchful, and gentle. She sat by his
bedside, hour after hour, with her arm beneath
her patient's head, unable to move
lest she should wake him. As the young
man grew stronger he grew fretful also. The
irksomeness of his position, cooped up in
his room, and still too weak to stand,
irritated him. But Kate was always bright
and patient, and humoured and soothed
him.

Mr. Hazzleden was amazed. He did not
understand the newfound patience of this
headstrong girl. Only Aunt Maria knew
that she was making a great atonement.

Black eyes, you're a little angel ! " he said
to her.

Then there's hope for Old Nick yet," she
answered.

What do you mean, Kitty '? "

Well, you know, you used to say I was
a 'little devil,' and I believe most people
agreed with you," and off she ran, laughing,
to her post by Fred.

It was one mild May morning that the
sick man, with Kate, sat by the open window,
and the scent of the spring flowers floated in to
him, and the music of birds and the humming
of bees filled the air. They were in the
room where Kate had been regaled with
cakes on their return from the expedition
to the Hanging Rocks, and from which he
had been thrust by his father. It was here
that the child had flung her little arms

round his neck and cried, "Never mind,
Freddy, I love you, and I'll make it up to
you." There was the child sitting at his
feet — the same honest face, the same passionate
eyes, the same saucy mouth, but all
glorified by a woman's love, sweet as springtide,
strong as death.

He saw her lip tremble as ghosts of their
past selves rose before her eye. Then came
at last a pitiful appeal, ''Freddy, forgive!"
and Fred drew her face to his.

It was months afterwards, when he was quite
well again, that Fred was sorting out some
old papers which had accumulated during his
illness. Amonsf them was an American newspaper
addressed to him in an unknown handwriting.
In a corner was a paragraph marked
in blue pencil. It ran : —

Mysterious Occurrence on an Atlantic
Steamer. — The Mail Steamship Carnatic, which passed
Sandy Hook at seven o'clock yesterday morning after a
fast passage of six days, fourteen hours, reports a
singular occurrence at sea. On the night of the 17th
inst., when in lat. 44.17, long. 46.12, an alarm of "man
overboard " was raised ; the ship was stopped and a boat
was lowered. As, however, the vessel was travelling

at her normal speed of seventeen and a half knots, the
search from the first was hopeless. It subsequently
transpired that about 10.30 in the evening, as Mr.
Philip Mason of Pine County, Louisiana, who has returned
home after a prolonged residence in Europe, was
standing by the companion-door smoking his cigar, he
perceived a man creep towards the rail. At this
moment the vessel lurched and the man disappeared.
Whether he jumped or fell overboard Mr. Mason was
unable to say, and no one else was on the saloon deck
at the time. Mr. Mason at once raised an alarm, but
as already said the search was fruitless. The man
booked in the name of William Smith, but it is suspected
by the police, who were on the look-out for the
steamer, that he was one of the dynamite gang who
caused the recent explosion in Westminster Abbey.

Fred never saw or heard anything more
of Arnitte, and for O'Connor, Scotland Yard
ceased to seek. On his head is still the price
of £5000, but no one has ever claimed it.

Kate and Fred had not long been married
when the former, reading her letters at breakfast,
burst out, " Fred, what do you think ?

The vicar's wife's dead;" and then she added,
"Poor fellow I"

"Well, I'm sure it's nothing to pity him for,"
said Fred; "she must have been a vile woman."

"I was thinking of his second wife," she
returned.

Kate, you're incorrigible," he laughed.

But Kate was right, for when a year had
passed away Mrs. Wynnston moved to the
vicarage, and now the vicar has a clean surplice
every Sunday, and it is generally believed
that his doctrine is becoming more sound. He
has been reconciled to the Squire, who again
slumbers on the Sabbath in his high-backed
pew, and the vicar's wife hopes that, in time,
all the fashion and wealth of the neighbourhood
will be attracted back to Lorton Church.

When Parliament was sitting Fred and
Kate occupied their pretty house in Lex-bridge

Gardens. South Kensino-ton ; during
recess they lived at Lorton House,
or with Mr. Hazzleden at Barkleigh. They
were happy, as happiness goes in this world.
Little tiffs, little troubles, little reconciliations,
and through all, strong trust, strong affection.
If Fred failed to gain his '' fair ideal love,"
well, he grew old enough to find out that such
things only exist in the poet's fancy, and that
the man who has buttons on his shirt should
be grateful to his Maker.

As for Kate, she too grew older and wiser,
but sometimes, when she saw reflected in
her husband's eyes a pale shadow between
him and her, a spark of the old passion would
how itself.

It was one nio-ht, when Fred was late at
the House of Commons, that Kate "forged,"
as she called it, about his library to find a

postage - stamp. She opened a little drawer
in his desk, and, lying there, saw a lock of
golden hair. Kate clutched it in her hand
and ran towards the fire. But she stopped,
then laid the lock back again and closed
the drawer. She sat down and turned over
the pages of a book. Something caught her
eye and she read, " One knocked at the
Beloved's door, and a voice asked from
within, ' Who is there ? ' and he answered,
'It is I.' Then the voice said, 'This house
will not hold me and thee ; ' and the door was
not opened. Then went the lover into the
desert and fasted and prayed in solitude,
and after a year he returned and knocked
again at the door ; and again the voice asked,
Who is there ? ' and he said, ' It is thyself,'
and the door was opened to him." And Kate
sat a-thinking.

o

When Fred returned she was waiting foro



him with kisses and caresses.

Why," said he, in pleased surprise,
what's all this about ? Is this Kitty ? "

'•' It is thyself," she whispered.

And the door was opened, and in her husband's
heart, Kate dwells for evermore.

THE END

Printed by R. & R. Ci.ark, Edinbr

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois





Cm: c; -v

CC (X:^
/ C <. (

cc CC

C C CY

CC «

< c c

cc <j

c CO.

C C Cor

CCCx

ccc-
cc

c c c

r •■."'^'.C.<

^ cc: c c

< »r<3: c <
C^ CC <

c< cc

cc^c c

c: tac t- c-

cc", ' I

c f<f C<^<

c cc: •CCC 'sci

C cc CC<C :-^
•.c cC; oc—

vcCOC c«c'-
