'3 r>C7"'

'^j^.i

%:\SfM

M W\

tTFTTs «?•■! FiJ^ A

OF THE

UN 1VER.SITY

or Ill N015

Wb2.\K

r. I

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, London,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

NOVELS Ari la^UBD T;3Aivm-B^CEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

<>

sr

FOR

SUBSCftlBtfiS.,OBTXlNING-^TH^R ^pOK|| Emma

COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—
f-i i-\xTT-i TT 1 — -m M. 6 Months. 12 Months.

For ONE Volume at a tiiir©- ^r^^ £0 12 1 i o

(Novel tn more than One Vclutne are rtoiovatlabU /or this class of Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes „ 17 6 1 il 6

(Novels m more than Two Volumes are not available /or this class t/ Subscription J

For THREE Volumes „ 13 2 2

For FOUR „ „ j g \. 2 10

For SIX „ „ 115 3 3

For TWELVE „ „ 3 5 6

<>

IN TOWN AND COUNTRY.

A MODERN MAGICIAN. By Fitzgerald Molly.
3 vols.

GRETCHEN. By Rita. 3 vols.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.
1 vol.

JOHN 0' LONDON. By Somerville Gibney. 1 vol.

SCHEHEREZADE: a London Night's Entertainment.
By Florence Warden. 3 vols.

A SECRET INHERITANCE. By B. L. Farjeon.
3 vols.

THE STORY OF ANTONY GRACE. By George
Manville Fenn. 1 vol.

A MODERN CIRCE. By the Author of "Molly
Bawn." 3 vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

WILLIAM WE3TALL,

Author of

Red RYnNGTON," "The Phantom CiTr," "Two Pinches of
Snuff," etc.

I.Y THREE VOLUMES.
YOL. I.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN, W.O.

1887.
[All rights reserved']

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES

(CONTENTS

THE PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF THE
DUG DE BROGLIE. 2 vols.

VERDI, MILAN, & 'othello." By Blanche
Roosevelt. 1 vol.

IN FRENCH & RUSSIAN PRISONS. By Prince
Krapotkine. 1 vol.

ANCIENT LEGENDS OF IRELAND. By Lady
Wilde. 2 vols.

A NOVELIST'S NOTE BOOK. By D. Christie
Murray. 1 vol.

Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY.

By O'Neill Daunt. 2 vols.

THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE. By
J. F. Keane. 2 vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

A Terrible LEGACY. By G. W. Appleton. 6s.

JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. By G. W. Appleton.

35. 6cL

TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. By William
Westall. 35. 6d.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. By B. M. Croker. 6s.

IN ONE TOWN. By E.Downey. 35. Gd.

ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. By E. Downey. 35. 6d.

A HOUSE OF TEARS. By E. Downey. l5.

A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of " Molly
Bawn." 65.

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G.

M. Fenn. 65.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON

CHAPTER I.

AN Arrival.

It is past midnight. A serene moon, set in a purple
sky, shines over the Lago Maggiore, crowning with
a golden aureole the snow-crested peaks of the
Helvetic Alps, and beaming benignly on the towers
of Locarno and the shores of the Lake. But
Locarno sleeps, the streets are deserted, and a
small boat, which follows swiftly in the wake of
the moonbeams, approaches the jetty unperceived*
It contains four men ; two are rowing, the third is
steering and minding the sail; the fourth lies
huddled up in the bottom of the boat, his bandaged
head resting on a cushion, his pale face
streaked with blood.

When his companions, all of whom wear red
shirts, have made fast the boat to the jetty, they
lift him tenderly out, and two, placing themselves
on either side of their wounded comrade, half lead,
half carry him to an inn a few hundred paces from
VOL. I. 1

the landing place. The doors are closed and all is
silent within, but a strong pull at the bell brings a
head speedily to one of the upper windows.

"Who is there?"

"We, and Leonino is hurt. Come down and open
quickly."

The next moment the doors are thrown open and
a stout little man, with nothing much on save a
white shirt, appears at the threshold in a state of
great excitement.

Dreadful, dreadful ! " he exclaims. " Poor
Signor Leonino, is he much hurt ? How did it
happen ? I knew it would come to this at last. Yet
better so than that he should fall into the hands of
those thrice accursed Tedeschi. But tell me how it
happened afterwards. Let us get him up-stairs at
once. And here, Maximilian (shouting), fetch the
doctor immediately. Go, running ; tell Dr. Fadio
to come quickly. I hope you are not in pain, dear
Leonino. You can walk just a little — a very little
and we will support you up-stairs."

I can get one leg before the other, if that is
what you mean, Martinoo," gasps Leonino. " But
stand I cannot. Yes, I shall be glad to get to my
room and lie down. My head pains me terribly,
and that bullet in my shoulder burns like fire. I
shall never get over this, Giacomo."

Don't say that, Signor," says one of the resisted
ones. " Dr. Fadio shall dress your wounds,

and in a month you will be as strong as ever.
Come, now, lean on me, put one arm round
Umberto's neck — thus, and we v*'ill carry you to your
room. It is not far off. Courage, steady now ! "

The room to which they took him was on the first
floor, large, airy, well lighted, and handsomely
furnished. In one corner stood a bed on which
Leonine was laid. The man whom he had called
Martinoo, the keeper of the inn, took off his shoes
and was proceeding to undress him.

Don't," murmured Leonino. '' I feel very much
exhausted, let me rest a few minutes''

At this moment a woman en deshabille, and with
a scared face, glided into the room.

"il/o'/i diei! onondieur' she exclaimed in an
intense whisper. " What is this which has taken
place ? My poor patron I Is he killed ? "

Not at all," answered Giacomo sharply. " Dr.
Fadio will soon put hmi to rights. But had you
not better go? The less he is disturbed just now
the better — and see, he sleeps."

Is that Grabrielle ? ' asked Leonino feebly,
opening his eyes.

Yes, monsieur, it is I, Grabrielle."

"Vera!"

She is quite well and very happy. She is in
bed ; shall I bring her ? "

My poor Vera ! Yes, bring her. But stay, it
is a pity to wake the child"'

1*

Do not bring anybody at present, if you please,
mademoiselle. Bring rather sponges, hot water,
and towels. When I have dressed monsieur's
wounds then he may perhaps see his daughter."
This in French.

The speaker was Dr. Fadio, a tall, middle-aged
gentleman, leathern-skinned and lantern-jawed,
with bright black eyes and a pleasant smile. He
was an old army surgeon, and without more ado he
began, deftly and tenderly, to examine his patient's
wounds.

Grabrielle and Martinoo stood by to help him.
The one held a lamp, the other a basin of water.
Near the window, and in the light of the moon,
stood the three red-shifted men, with folded arms,
looking sadly and sternly on. They were pale,
seemed almost overcome with fatigue, and the head
of one and the arm of another were bandaged, as if
they too had been wounded.

The wound in Leonino's head was long and
deep, and as the doctor examined it his face grew
very grave. When the hurt had been stitched and
plastered he extracted the bullet which was lodged
in the shoulder, an operation that did not appear to
be attended with any great difficulty.

Who swill watch with him ? " asked Fadio in
Italian, when all was finished.

I will," s lid Gabrielle and Martinoo. " We will,"
chorused the red shirts.

"Nonsense," answered the doctor, "you three
are fit for nothing but bed. What is the matter
with your head, Lambert ? I must see to it
presently. Let Grabrielle watch. I shall return at
sunrise."

Whereupon Fadio beckoned them all to leave the
room, and after giving a few directions to Gabrielle,
and casting a last look at his patient, he followed
them.

Well, Signor Doctor, what do you think ? "
asked Martinoo, drawing him into a room near
the foot of the staircase. " Can you pull him
through ? "

*' I am not sure. He is very badly hurt ; still,
neither of his wounds is mortal, and if he had not
lost so much blood I should have little fear. The
question is whether he can rally. A few hours will
tell. How was it, Giacomo ? Another brush with
the Austrians ? "

Si, Signor Doctor. It was an attempt to
rescue Silvio."

A rash undertaking."

"True; but he and Leonino are great friends,
and Leonino risked his life to save a friend, as he
has done many a time before. Pietro went in
disguise the other day to Laver, and contrived to
communicate with Silvio and convey to him a file and
some cord. It was arranged that he should make
the attempt last night. We were to be there with

the boat, and ready to give him a helping hand if
he should be pursued by the guard. That was the
chief risk, for with a file and a cord anybody could
get out of the fort. But the night was too light.
Silvio was seen before he had got well out of the
dry ditch, followed and recaptured. We tried to
rescue him; shots were exchanged; Beppo was
killed, Leonino wounded, as you see, and all of us
are in want of a little plaister, I think."

Grood ; I will plaister you, and then you must
each take a glass of wine and go to bed. Yes, a
rash undertaking indeed. The idea of five Red
Shirts trying to carry off a prisoner under the very
noses of an Austrian demi-brigade ! Nobody but
Garibaldi — or a mad Englishman — would have had
the audacity to concoct such a scheme, much less to
execute it. The wonder is, you were not all killed
or taken."

We were beaten ; but we made them pay dearly,"
broke in Giacomo fiercely. " We killed four ; Leonino
ran the sergeant of the guard through, just ashe
got that cut on the head. If it had not been
for that we should have been taken. But the
sergeant's death seemed to confuse his men, and we
profited by their hesitation to shove off. The bulletin
Leonino's shoulder was a parting shot. Fortunately
nobody else was hit, or we should not be here.
The soldiers did get a boat out and chase us ; but
we ran close to the bank, under the shade of

some trees, and they shot past us. Leonino is a fine
fellow, doctor, and a true friend to Italy. It would
be a thousand pities if he were to die."

I will do my best to keep him alive, Giacomo,
both for the sake of Italy and that dear little dark-eyed
Vera. But man proposes and Grod disposes,
and Leonino is badly hurt and very weak."

A DEPARTURE.

Three hours later Dr. Fadio was again with his
patient.

Has he slept ? " he asked Grabrielle, who sat by
the bedside.

'' A little," said Leonino, opening his eyes. He
was a man in the prime of life, with blue eyes,
tawny hair and beard, and a bold, handsome face,
but its general expression was that of one who is
oppressed with care or cherishes the memory of a
great sorrow.

And how do you feel ? "

A wistful smile was the answer.

Not very well, I am afraid ? "

*' Very ill, I never felt like this before. I have
got my death-stroke. Poor Vera I no mother, no
father."

The doctor counted his patient s pulse and watched
him attentively several minutes.

He must have a little beef-tea every hour,
Gabrielle, and when he feels faint give him a spoonful
of cognac."

Oui, ondiisieur"

Vera ; may I see Vera ? "

Yes, if you will not let yourself get excited ; but
only for a few minutes. You can fetch her, Gabrielle,
I will wait."

In a few minutes Gabrielle returned, leading by the
hand a little girl of some seven years old. The child
had a wonderfully sweet face, and though her eyes
were dark, her curls were chestnut, and she bore a
striking resemblance to Leonino.

A smile of deepest love lit up the father's face.

Darling Vera I " he said. " Lift her up on the
bed, Grabrielle ; place her near me."

We will leave you together for a few minutes,"
said the doctor, glancing at the nurse, and then the
two went out of the room.

Are you ill, papa dear ? " asked the child in
English, as she nestled up to her father, and placed
her cheek against his.

Very ill, darling," answered Leonino in the same
tongue ; " I have been badly hurt."

Hart ! Oh, dear ! Who hurt you r "

*' The Austrians."

*' Those wicked Austrians ! How I hate them !
Why does not somebody kill them all ? Why don't
you kill them, papa ? "

That is not so easy, my pet. I am afraid , they
have killed me this time."

No, no, no, papa ! It is not possible. You must
not die. If you die, Vera will die, too."

I will do my best to live for your sake, darling.
But it may be a long time before I am better — and
if — Grabrielle will take care of you. She is a good
woman, and I think loves you, and you love her, do
you not ? "

Yes, dear papa, next to you ; but a long, long
way after. I have nobody like you, dear papa."

Well, she shall be your bonne always, if she will,
and I think she will. How would you like to go to
your grandpa ? "

No, no ; I never saw him. I love no one like
you, dear papa. Let me stay with you always —
always."

God Almighty bless you, my darling ! and may
the pure spirit of your mother watch over you I "
murmured Leonino in a broken voice. And then
he drew the child closer to him, and there followed
a long silence.

When the doctor and Grabrielle re-entered the
room Aera was fast asleep, and Leonino's eyes being
closed, he too seemed to sleep. They made a striking
picture. The child's bright, rosy face touched one
of her father's pale and hollow cheeks, her chestnut
hair mingled with his tawny beard, one dimpled arm
was round his neck, one little hand was pressed in his.

Let US leave them for a little while," whispered
P^adio. " No harm is being done. But prepare
the beef-tea. He does not rally much, and unless
we keep up his strength he will sink."

In half an hour they returned, and at the doctor's
suggestion Leonino reluctantly allowed the child
to be taken away to her breakfast.

"But you will let me see her again?" he said
imploringly.

Certainly, when you have taken your beef-tea
and rested awhile. I want you to sleep ; there is
no medicine like sleep."

The beef-tea taken, Leonino sank wearily on his
pillow, shut his eyes, and tried to sleep, and the
doctor left him for a while to Grabrielle.

After an hour's uneasy slumber Leonino awoke.

Grabrielle I "

Old, monsieur. How do you feel yourself? "

Bad. Grive me a taste of that brandy. Ah,
that gives one a little strength ; but it won't last
long, I fear. I have something to say to you,
Grabrielle."

Vii, monsieur J*

You love Vera ? "

As if she were my very own. Have I not
brought her up ? Since her poor mother died has
she not been everything to me ? "

And you will be kind to her ? "

Oh, monsieur ! " said the bonne in an injured

tone, " how can you ask ? It is doing me a
wrong."

Well, listen. I don't feel as if I should get
better, and I judge from the doctor's manner that
he thinks as I feel. I have made no will ; but I
shall write a few lines to my father, asking him to
take charge of Vera, and that you and she may
never be separated. You will take this letter and
the child to London, first writing to tell my father

what has happened You are paying

attention, Gabrielle ? "

Old, monsieur" said the bonne, wiping her
eyes, which were red with weeping.

'' My father is a hard man ; but he will be good
to you and Vera for my sake. I have made no will,
and shall make none ; but, to prevent the authorities
troubling you afterwards, I will give into your
possession now all my money and papers. If I
should get better you can give me them back.
Open my trunk ; you will find the keys in my
pocket."

Grabrielle took the keys and unlocked a large ironbound
trunk, which stood in one corner of the room.

"Bring my portfolio and the little iron box,
which you will find at the bottom, right under my
clothes," said Leonino.

Gabrielle took these two articles, laid them on
the table near her master's bed, and at his request
brought writing materials and sealing-wax.

Then Leonino, sitting up in bed, wrote a letter
to his father, enclosed with it several papers, made
the whole up into a packet, and sealed it carefully
with his signet ring.

"These," he said, taking a packet from the portfolio,
" are letters from Garibaldi, Mazzini, and
other friends engaged in the revolutionary movement.
Destroy them all. But these " (pointing
to a second packet) " are family papers of importance.
Be sure you give them all to my father.
You may also find a few bank-notes in the portfolio.
1 have always been careless about money —
pera] ;'S that is the reason I was never robbed. In
the little iron box is also money, both gold
and notes — several thousand lias, I think ; never
mind counting it now. If I don't get better you
will, of course, pay Martinoo and the doctor, and
everybody else, and you must give the men
who were with me, Giacomo, Graiseppe, and Umberto,
each two hundred and fifty lias. Then, after
paying your expenses to England and taking five
hundred lias as a present for yourself, you will give
what there is left to my father, together with the
packet. Give it to him with your own hands. Do
you understand, Gabrielle ? "

Perfectly. But pardon me, sir, don't you think
this should be put down ? It is a serious charge.
Suppose anybody should say that you did not give
me this money, that I stole it ! "

I have thought of that. We must have a
witness. Call Martinoo ; but first give me another
spoonful of cognac, I feel faint again."

When Martinoo came Leonino explained to him
what he had done.

It is better so," said the landlord ; " all the same
I think you will recover ; but should you not, I can
testify that you gave Mademoiselle Gabrielle this
portfolio and this iron box."

And the big box and all there is inside, Martinoo,
I give to you, and this watch. It is not a very
valuable one, but it has accompanied me in all
my wanderings and may serve to remind you sometimes
of your old friend."

Martinoo, who was an. Italian refugee and deeply
engaged in the revolutionary movement, silently
pressed Leonino's hand. He was too much affected
to speak.

My wife's watch, Gabrielle," said Leonino, after
a short pause, " her miniature and mine you will
keep for Vera and give them to her when — when
she is older."

Gabrielle bent her head in token of assent.

"Poor Vera, poor child ! I am trusting you withall
that is most precious to me, Gabrielle, but you
are a good woman ; you will be faithful to your
trust, and Vera will not be ungrateful. And — and
tell my father how I died, and give him my love.
We did not always get on very well together, but he

is an old man, and this-will be a great shock to
him."

A few minutes later Dr. Fadio came. "When he
had examined his patient he looked concerned.

You have been letting him talk too much," he
said, turning to Grabrielle. " Did I not tell
you "

Don't blame her," interrupted Leonino wearily,
'' it is all my own doing. I do not know whether I
shall live, and 1 had instructions to give her and
something — a mere trifle — to write."

You have actually been writing ! The worst
thing you could do."

Never mind, doctor ; my mind is easier now, and
that must be better for my body, you know, and I
promise you that I will sin no more."

If you do I shall not answer for the consequences.
And now, Gabrielle, we must dress his wounds."

When this was done Leonino asked if Vera might
come to him again.

"You need not be afraid," he remarked, seeing
that Fadio hesitated ; " her presence does not excite,
it soothes me."

"Very well, let her come. But except for a
word or two now and then when you want something,
I must absolutely forbid talking. See that
he obeys. Mademoiselle Gabrielle, quietness is
essential."

Don't fear, doctor," said Leonino, with a melancholy

smile, " you may count on my obedience. I
shall be quiet enough, soon."

Fadio glanced at Grabrielle, and she went with him
to the door.

"I fear he is worse — decidedly weaker," he
whispered. "You should not quit his bedside without
leaving somebody in your place. You had
better " (raising his voice) " fetch Mademoiselle
Vera at once. I will wait until you return."

In a few minutes the bonne returned with the
child, who crept to the old place by her father's
side. Leonino looked at her lovingly, put his arm
round her and laid her face close to his. Grabrielle
told her little charge that papa's head ached and
she must not talk, and then sat down. The bonne
was tired with watching and heavy with loss of rest ;
before long her eyelids closed with their own weight,
and she sank into a sound sleep.

A few moments afterwards, as it seemed to her,
though in reality two or three hours, she was roused
by a touch on the shoulder ; looking up she saw the
dark face of Dr. Fadio.

"A nurse should not slumber at her post," he
said sternly. " Take the child away."

Vera was sleeping by her father's side, and the
father slept the sleep of death.

The nurse gently disengaged the girl from the
dead man's grasp, and took her into her arms.

Come with me, manilla cherie, papa is tired'*

'• Yes, Gabrielle, but I must first kiss Mm. Do
let me kiss him." And then the child pressed her
warm and rosy mouth to the cold and pallid cheek of
her once father. She raised her head with a look of
affright. " Oh, what is it ? " she gasped ; " what is
it ? He does not look at me — he is cold — he does
not open his eyes ! Papa ! papa ! Oh, Grabrielle,
he does not speak to me, and his mouth is open ! "

Come with me, my poor motherless darling ;
your father will never speak again. You have only
me now. Oh, my poor master ! he was so good, so
good to everybody, and everybody loved him."

VOL. I.

ANOTHER DEPARTURE.

Three days later Leonino was buried. All the
Italian exiles in Locarno and many of the townsfolk
followed his body to the grave, for though not
Italian born, he had fought and bled in the cause
of Italian liberty, and lost his life in a bold attempt
to free from his bonds one of the most eminent of
Italian patriots.

Gabrielle carried out faithfully her late master's
wishes — saw him buried, discharged all his debts,
and paid the two hundred and fifty lias apiece to
Leonino's three companions in the unfortunate expedition
to Laver. She was making preparations
for departure, and meant, a day or two after the
funeral, to leave by the diligence for Pluelen, en
route for England. As yet, however, she had not
written to apprise Leonino's father of his son's death.
She had been too much occupied ; and the disposal
of the money she had found in the portfolio and
the cash-box gave her great concern. There were
many bank-notes in the portfolio, mixed up with

sundry political papers, whose existence Leonino had
apparently forgotten. The sum in her hands was
large. To her, who reckoned in francs and lias
it seemed enormous. She did not know how she
should secure it on the journey, and was in
mortal terror of being robbed. Had she consulted
Martinoo he would probably have advised her to
buy a draft on London or Paris ; but she was
peasant-bred, and having all a peasant's shrewdness
and distrust, kept her own counsel, and even told
the landlord that the disposable balance, after all had
been paid, was not very much. After much cogitation
she hit upon the ingenious device of stitching
the bank-notes inside her stays and putting the
gold into her boots, which she hid among her clothes,
and placed in the very bottom of her trunk.

This done she proceeded to write to Leonino's
father. Gabrielle was a young woman of fair education,
rather a nursery governess than an ordinary
nurse, and she spoke English fairly. But speaking
is one thing, writing quite another, and the framing
of the letter cost her both time and trouble.
She had hardly finished and addressed it
when a letter was brought to her. It was rudely
sealed, and the direction was written in a large,
sprawling hand, but it bore a post-mark Grabrielle
well knew, and she opened it with a feeling made
up of pleasurable expectation and self-reproach, for
it was a longtime since she last wrote to her people.

0*

The letter was long, and as she read it her face
grew graver and graver. The tidings it brought
occupied her mind to the excision of everything
else, and the letter to Mr. Hardy was never
finished.

She was roused from her reverie by the entrance
of Vera, who, like herself, wore deep mourning. The
child's pale face and the dark circles round her eyes
showed how sorely she grieved for her dead father.
Throwing her arms round Grabrielle's neck, she
sobbed as if her little heart would break. The bonne
took the child on her lap and soothed her.

When are we going, Grabrielle ? " she said as
soon as she could speak. " It is dreadful here now
poor papa is gone. I went past his room just now ;
they are taking out all the things, and he is not
there — he is not there ! Oh, Grabrielle, my heart is
breaking ! Let us go ! let us go ! "

'' We will go tomorrow. I did not think of leaving
until Thursday; but it will perhaps be better
to start tomorrow. Come with me to the postoffice,
and we will take our places. The walk will
do us both good."

Martinoo and several other of Leonino's friends saw
them off.

You will write from London," said the landlord,
as he wrung Gabrielle's hand, " and tell us of your
safe arrival ? It is rather a long journey ; but you
have travelled before, and are quite able to take

care of yourself and the little one. If you should
ever need a friend do not forget that Andrea Martinoo
holds all that he has at the disposal of Leonino's
daughter. Bon voyages'

And then, amid a babel of stamping horses,
cracking whips, tinkling bells, and shouting stablemen,
the huge diligence, with Grabrielle and Vera
weeping in the copes moved off towards Bellini


I shall never see them again," muttered Martinoo,
as he walked with sad eyes towards his house. " Poor
Leonino ! poor little girl ! "

TEN YEARS AFTERWARDS.

A MEETING in the club-room of the " Cock," in the
town of Calder.

The inn was old, and — though an attempt had
been made to modernise it by substituting plate-glass
windows for the more picturesque if less light-giving
diamond-shaped panes of other days — so was
the room. The ceiling was low, and ribbed with
oaken rafters, the oaken door black with age, and
there were oaken settles and chairs that a collector
would have been glad to buy with money and fair
words. Many a feast and dance and merrymaking
has there been in the old club-room ; its rafters have
rung with the shouts and songs and laughter of
many generations of fostering Galleries ; and as
much drink has been " consumed on the premises,"
as would float a fleet of ironclads. But the present
meeting, as the absence of glasses testifies, is not of
a festive character. Neither is it a meeting of
creditors, nor of pothouse politicians, nor of any local
society ; and being held in a public-house it cannot

well be either a religious assembly or a teetotal
gathering. The people present number about a
score and a half, and among them are all sorts and
conditions of men— and women.

The chairman is a portly, well-dressed, well-fed
personage of some sixty years old. His fat, clean-shaven
face wears a stereotyped smile ; his little
eyes are sharp and deep-set, and his head is fixed in
an enormous black stock, from which it seems to
have recently emerged. He carries his watch in a
fob, and sports a heavy chain and a still heavier
seal. Whatever else he may be this gentleman is
evidently well-to-do, and knows it. Not far from
him is a man the cut and appearance of whose
garments proclaim him a calico-weaver. Among the
others are a shoemaker, a blacksmith, a waggoner, a
butcher, a baker, several farmers, and three or four
women, one of whom carries a market-basket, and
is probably a farmers wife.'

I don't know as I am called upon to make any
particular remarks," said the president without
rising from his chair. " You all know what has
brought us here, so I think as the best thing as I
can do is to call on Mr. Ferret to explain it, and
tell you what he advises about this 'ere fortune."

The individual thus addressed was a broad-set,
swarthy little man, with a thick nose and heavy
chaps, and a look more suggestive of a bull-dog
than of the animal whose name he bore.

I think you are all Hardyss ? " said the
lawyer — for such he was — as he rose to his
feet.

Or akin to 'em," answered the chairman,
except you and your clerk, and Mr. Blaine
here. We must keep friends with the press, you
know ; and he'll print nowt without showing it tome
and Mr. Ferret."

'* What good will that do ? " put in the calico-weaver;
"th' job will be done then."

Publish, I should say ; he'll publish nowt as we
don't sanction."

"Aye, that's summit like. Yo' speak when
your mouth opens, Mr. Hardy."

Will you please go on, Mr. Ferret," said the
chairman tartly. "These — these interruptions are
unseemly."

"I am quite ready, Mr. Hardy," began the
lawyer, who spoke fluently and easily, though in
rather Yorkshire English. " You all know, I think,
as I was the first to find out that the Hardyss of
this neighbourhood are probably entitled — in my
opinion certainly entitled — to a very large fortune,
I cannot say exactly how much, for them as has it
in hand are very close, but it cannot be far short of
two millions of money."

By gum, that's a corker ! " broke in the calico-weaver.


*' Order ! " exclaimed the chairman. " Really,

Tommy, you are behaving very badly. Will you
please go on, Mr. Ferret."

I say two millions at least," continued Ferret.
Why, John Hardy's personalty was sworn under
£800,000; he had lots of land in the most
improving parts of London, and then there's ten
years' accumulations. Well, as I was going to say
for it's best to begin at the beginning — John
Hardy died ten years since, and left all his estate,
both real and personal, to his only son Philip — to
his only child, I should say, for he had no other.
Well, it has never been claimed, and I do not
believe ever will be claimed, for we may be quite
sure as if he was living two millions would fetch
him; and though he has been advertised for and
sought out all these years nothing has been heard
of him. The presumption therefore is — any Court
of Equity in the kingdom would presume it — that
Philip Hardy is dead; and if he is dead the
property goes to the heirs-at-law and legal representatives
— which in this case are them as was
nearest akin to him. Do you follow me ? "

'' Ay, we follow you rest enough," observed the
shoemaker ; *' but was not this Philip wed ? Didn't
he leave no heirs, and if he did, wouldn't the
property go to them ? "

He was married — to an Italian woman I think
but his wife died and left him with a little lass,
and as nothing can be heard of her neither, it is

supposed that she predeceased her father. If she
did not, we may be quite sure as she would have
come forward to claim her inheritance before now.
The same argument as I have just used applies to
her ; the courts will presume as she is dead, and
you have only to prove that you are the next-of-kin
to get all this brass."

Who has it now ? "

'" John Hardy's trustees. But if we establish
our claim they will have to give it to the rightful
heirs, and, to do 'em justice, I don't think they
want aught else. The estate is at present managed
by Artful and Higgins bottom, highly respectable
London solicitors, I dare say, but as they make a
nice penny out of it every year, they will naturally
keep it in their hands as long as they can. They
reckon to believe, and they have persuaded the
trustees, as there is still a possibility of Philip
Hardy or his daughter turning up. But that is all
nonsense [with a knowing smile] ; we know what
that means. It means as Artful and Higginbottom
don't want to lose a business as brings 'em in a
thousand or two a year. Just keep) these two facts
in your mind : that there's two millions of money
in London, and that if you can prove that the John
Hardy as left it is the same John Hardy as left this
town a young man sixty-five years since it is
yours."

Can that be proved ? " asked the blacksmith.

I have not the least doubt it can, with a little
patience, and, considering the amount involved, at
a very trifling cost, too. There is only one difficulty
in the way — that of identifying the Calder John
Hardy with the London John Hardy."

You'll find that rather a hard nut to crack, ]Mr.
Ferret, I'm thinking," observed one of his listeners.

Not at all ; anyhow, not as hard as you may
think. To begin with, they bore the same name
and were born in the same year. That is beyond
dispute. Then we know that shortly after John
Hardy left Calder, a John Hardy got a situation ina
London wholesale warehouse, and got on so well
that it was not long before his masters took him into
partnership. Then he rose to be head of the firm,
and made a large fortune by speculations in land.
But he never told where he came from, nor acknowledged
any kinsfolk, and till he married lived in
lodgings. You will happen say that is against us.
But wait a minute. The John Hardy that left
Calder sixty-five years since went away in a hurry.
He had good reasons for not coming back or letting
on where he had gone."

What had he done ? " asked one of the farmers
wives.

Well, it is a long time since," said the lawyer,
and I don't like raking up old scandals ; but I
could tell you, and I may have to do before we have
done."

I know what it wor, though nobody never told
me," put in the calico-weaver, with a smile and a
wink. " It wor a woman. Whenever owt goes
wrong you may mak sure as a woman's at bottom
on it."

Well, I believe it was something of the sort,"
said Ferret, when the laughter which this sally
provoked had subsided. " I shall name no names,
but his sweetheart played him false, and a man he
looked on as a friend did him an ill turn. John was
high-tempered, and he gave his treacherous friend
such a beating that his life was despaired of. If
he had not gone away, or if he had come back or
been caught, he would have been transported assure
as a gun. So you see everything fits in, and
if I could get access to John Hardy's private papers,
I am sure that something might be found as would
stamp him as the real Simon Pure."

Simon Pure ! " broke in the shoemaker indignantly;
what's the use o' stamping him as
Simon Pure ? We want to stamp him as John
Hardy o' Calder, and get his brass. That is what
we want ; isn't it, chaps ? "

The audience greeted this observation with loud
applause ; and Ferret, to the satisfaction of everybody,
explained that he had spoken in metaphor,
and that Simon Pure was in no way connected with
the Hardy fortune. That done, he was allowed to
proceed.

When I file my bill I shall of course demand
copies of all documents bearing on the case. That
will be the first step. At present the trustees
deny me access to the documents. It is for you to
say whether I shall act or not, and how soon.
Another point : As most of you know, John Hardy
was the youngest son of Nathan Hardy, who died
nearly seventy years since. He left seven other
sons, all of whom are deceased. All here, I think,
are their children, or wives or husbands of their
children. Most of them are in humble circumstances,
I believe ; but a few, like our worthy
chairman here, are well off. Among the poor ones
are the descendants of John Hardy's eldest
brother, Samuel by name, and they, according to
law, would be entitled to all the real estate. But,
as I have said, they are poor, and so are willing to
enter into a binding arrangement to put the whole
of the fortune into a common fund and divide it,
share and share alike, among all Nathan Hardy's
descendants. The question now before us is the
raising of a sufficient sum to make good your claim.
We may want two thousand pounds, but one
thousand will be enough to start with. As the
claimants number fifty that is not much ; only
twenty pounds a-piece ; and we propose to form a
limited liability concern, to be called *' The Hardy
Fortune Company," with two thousand shares of
a pound a-piece, first issue one thousand ; and we

propose further, with the concurrence of all concerned,
to pay each shareholder, on the realisation
of the fortune, a bonus of ten pounds a share. I
have so much confidence in the thing, gentlemen,
that I am prepared to take some shares myself,
unless you want to keep 'em all in the family."

And I," said the chairman pompously, '' I shall
take two hundred and fifty shares, a fourth of the
entire first issue. Now, we are not all rich, as Mr.
Ferret lately observed, but I know as there's some
of you as has got something nice laid by, and I am
sure of this, as you could not have a better investment
than these 'ere shares."

How much will it mak' a-piece ? " asked the
woman with the market-basket.

"That depends on how many shares you take, Jane."

I mean th' fortin, not th' shares."

«' Well, as there's fifty of us, and th' fortune is
about two millions, that will be forty thousand
a-piece ; but, to be on the safe side, say thirty
thousand."

*' And how much is the shares, sayer yo' ? "

"A pound a-piece."

** Well, yo' see, my mon couldn't come — he's
most terrible throng spreading muck just now —
but I'm his woeful wife, and he said as I could act
for him."

Nobody better, I am sure, Jane," put in the
chairman gallantly.

He said as I could act for him, and we are
willing, him and me — how much did yo' say them
there shares wor? "

Twenty shillings."

'« Well, put us down for loaf a one— and here,
yo' had happen better tak' th' brass while you're
at it."

And with that she clapped down on the table
four half-crowns."

All laughed, save the lawyer and the chairman,
one of whom was highly indignant, the other
enraged almost past speaking.

Ten shillings for a chance of getting thirty
thousand pounds ! " exclaimed Ferret. " Why it is
perfectly ridiculous. Besides, you cannot have half
a share."

Of course she cannot," said the chairman.
'' Ten shillings ! Why, what are you thinking of,
Jane ? You have hundreds of pounds laid by ; I
know you have."

Well, I will not deny as we have a bit o'
summit, and we mean to keep it, my mon and me.
A bird i' th' hand is worth two i' th' bush, you
know. But do you really think now, Sammy, as
this is a gradely good thing ? "

The chairman winced. For a man of means and
a justice of the peace to be called Sammy in
public by Abel Hardy's wife, although she was " a
bit of a relation," was an indignity which in other

circumstances he would have felt bound to resent.
But as things were, he thought it his duty to
pocket the affront and answer the question.

Do I think it a good thing ? Of course I do.
Do you suppose I should put £250 into a thing as I
didn't think well of?"

"No, to do yo' justice I don't think you would,
Sammy, nor yet 250 farthings, and yo' wi' moor
brass than yo' known what to do wi'. "Well, mak'
it thirty shillings moor, Mr. Ferret, and if my mon's
willing we'll put wer names down for four pounds."

Encouraged by this beginning most of the
Hardyss present subscribed something or another,
the total amounting, as the lawyer presently
announced, to £500.

We shall make it up, I think," observed Mr.
Samuel Hardy.

Not a doubt of it," answered Ferret briskly.
There's ever so many more I have my eye on as
are good for a twenty pun note a-piece, and some
of them here as have not subscribed to-day are sure
to come forward later on. And there's many an
outsider as would be fain to have an interest in a
promising speculation like this. We could get the
money twice over, I do believe, Mr. Hardy. Yes "
(to the blacksmith), " business is over for to-day.
When there is anything further to report you will
hear from me. I am in daily communication with
Mr. Hardy on the subject, and I almost think we

should form a standing committee. We will talk
about that another time. Sufficient for the day,
you know. Here, Wanton ! " (to his clerk). *' Oh,
you have entered up the minutes, I see. Take
these papers, will you ? Mr. Hardy has been good
enough to ask me to tea. Good evening, gentlemen,
good evening."

As Wanton left the room he was joined by
Blaine.

What do you think of it all ? " asked the clerk
in a whisper. " Come down with me into the bar ;
the governor will not be at the ofl&ce again to-night
and I have something to say to you."

VOL. I.

wanton's proposal.

The bar of the Cock was no less quaint and old-fashioned
than its club-room. It had a low, raftered
ceiling, recessed windows, fitted with settles, and
wainscoted walls, round which ran a broad red-cushioned
oaken bench. A bright copper kettle
hissed on the hob-end of a wide-throated grate of
ancient make, and on the lead-lined counter was
marshalled a formidable array of crystal tumblers,
pewter tankards, and portly decanters, above which
rose a tier of brass-bound barrels, which proclaimed
in big fat letters the nature of their contents. The
pervading odour of the bar was whisky and lemons,
with a strong dash of tobacco ; for the " Cock's "
customers made it a rule never to drink ale when
they could afford anything stronger.

At one end of the counter sat the landlady, Mrt.
Juniper, short, broad, and rosy-cheeked. Several of
the Hardy family were taking a glass to help them
on their way home, and talking noisily, and
generally all at once, about the late meeting, and
the Hardy fortune.

What a gabble ! " observed the lawyer's clerk
to his companion, as they stood at the bar door.
'* There's no talking here, that is clear."

I think there's a great deal of talking,"
returned his companion with a smile.

I mean there's no chance of our having the
quiet talk I was promising myself. However, I
dare say Mrs. Juniper will let us go into her
parlour. I'll ask her."

Grood evening, Mrs. Juniper" (addressing the
landlady). " Mr. Blaine and I have a bit of
private business to talk over, and if your parlour is
not occupied, I thought, perhaps, you would let us
sit down there a few minutes."

Certainly, Mr. Wanton ; go in and stop as long
as you like. You are quite welcome, I am sure.
Sally will take your order."

What will you have, Blaine ? " asked Wanton,
as they stepped into the cosy little parlour behind
the bar, which Mrs. Juniper reserved for her own
particular use, and occasionally for that of a favoured
guest. " Whisky ? "

No, I thank you ; whisky is a bad thing to work
on, and I have work to do. I think I should prefer
tea. I have some proofs to read, but they will not
be ready for an hour or more, and the paper to makeup
before I go home."

*' All right ; tea let it be then. Tea and toast.
And look here, Sally, give us some of the Cock's

3*

dead pig — a collop of your famous home-cured, you
know. No objection to a bit of broiled ham, have
you, Blaine ? "

None whatever. I vote for ham."

"Proposal carried nem. con. Tea, toast, and
broiled ham as soon as you can, Sally, if you please.
I am most terribly sharp set."

"Well, what is it all about, Wanton?" asked
Blaine, when they were alone. "Something I
can use for the paper ? "

Not exactly. That is always the way with you
journalists. You never see, or read, or hear anything,
that your first thought is not whether you
cannot turn it to account for your paper. It is a
good sign, though, and you will make your mark asa
journalist, mark me if you don't. Here the clerk
laughed as if he thought he had made an excellent
joke. " But about your question. Before I answer
it, let me ask you one ; — What did you think of our
meeting ? "

What does my opinion signify ? However,
Ferret's theory, assuming his statements to be
accurate, struck me as being rather plausible, and
a fortune of two millions — can it really be so much ?
is certainly worth looking after. But do you
think the Calder Hardyss will be allowed to have it
all to themselves ? Hardy is not a very uncommon
name, and when the facts become more widely known
there will be as many claimants as there are pounds."

*' Exactly. And that is not all. 1 do not believe
in the governor's theory, and I am not sure that he
believes it himself."

"Xot believe it himself! What does it all mean
then? Why is he getting up this company ? "

I suppose because he wants to turn an honest
penny."

"An honest penny!" exclaimed Blaine indignantly.


Perhaps I ought to have said a lawyer's honest
penny. You see, we have a big office — four clerks
besides myself — and Ferret has a big family — nine
sons and daughters — and they cannot be kept for
nothing. We are bound to have business, and
prosecuting claims and filing bills help Ferret to
pay his bills."

Well, you may say what you like, Wanton ; but
if Ferret is getting up this company, and taking
these people's money to prosecute a claim he knows
to be illusory, it is nothing less than a downright
swindle. By Jove ! I'll expose it in the paper."

Confound your paper I you have got it on your
brain, I think. Xo, no ; you must not do anything
of the sort, Blaine," broke in the clerk, whom his
friend's threat seemed greatly to alarm ; " that
would be a slander, and Ferret would both prosecute
you criminally and sue you for swinging damages ;
and I don't know, you know, that he is not sincere.
It is only a case of suspicion, and I may be mistaken.

Even if the chance of getting these two
millions is ever so remote, it may be worth spending
a thousand pounds or two to try. And really, old
Ferret is not so bad, after all. Many a one would
have asked for five thousand, and got it. He has
formed one theory, I have formed another ; that is
all."

That means, I suppose, that Ferret is not
quite as big a rogue as he might be. And what is
your theory. Wart on ? "

I am going to tell you, and I am in a better
position to judge than anybody else, for I went to
London to look into the thing, and it is really on
my report, though not on my opinion, that Ferret
is acting. He will have it that Philip Hardy and
his daughter — I forget what her outlandish name
is (looking at a memorandum book) — Vera, yes,
that is her name, Vera — he will have it that Philip
and Vera Hardy are dead. Now, I am not at all
sure of that. Where is the proof ? That is what
I say — where is the proof ? "

'' Ten years' silence and the impossibility of finding
them, the absence of any news whatever about
them, are as strong presumptive proofs as you
could well have, I should say."

Not in the circumstances. This Philip Hardy
was one of those wild, harum-scarum fellows that
never do anything like anybody else. He was a
bit of a poet, and a bit of a painter — a terrible

Eadical and Red Republican, and hand and glove
with Mazzini and Garibaldi and that lot. He
might have lived like a lord in England ; his father
would have bought him an estate, or done anything
for him in reason, if he would only have stayed at
home and settled down. But he preferred to ramble
about the Continent, especially Italy, conspiring
against the Austrian?, and organising revolutionary
societies. And, queerest thing of all, he did not
care a button-top for money ! When he married
that Italian woman, and his father told him he
would cut him off with a shilling, he just wrote
back to say as he was very glad to hear it, that it
would relieve him from a great responsibility.
What do you think of that now ? He must have
been mad, don't you think ? "

Decidedly — as a March hare," returned Blaine
with a smile. " A man who refuses to be a millionaire
deserves "

"To be milled," suggested the clerk with a laugh
at his own pleasantry.

"To be put in a lunatic asylum, I was going to
say. But where did you learn all this, Wanton ? "

From Artful and Higginbottom, and Bags,
their head clerk. They don't show any unwillingness
to give information — not they ; but I thought
it might be as well to supplement it by a talk with
old Baggs, so I stood him a dinner at the Bull's
Head in Lowborn, and it was worth while. You can

talk more freely to a man across a dinner-tables
when there is nothing between you and him but a
bottle of port wine, than when he's sitting on an
office stool with a pen behind his ear. I did not
try to pump the old boy, I let the wine do that ;
and when he warmed to his work he told me all he
knew, and as he has been in the office over forty
years, and was well acquainted with both the
Hardyss, and all the correspondence about the
estate passed through his hands, he knew a good
deal."

^'Does he think the father and daughter are
dead?"

*' Bless you, no ! That's not the theory of the
office at all. You see, Philip Hardy, when he went
about Italy, conspiring and that, did not always go
under his own name, and Artful thinks — and Baggs
thinks as he thinks — as he must have been caught
by the Austrians just about the time of his father's
death and sentenced to a long term of imprisonment
in a fortress — as likely as not for ten years —
and they would not be surprised if he turned up
any day. But not a word of this to anybody else*
Ferret would knock my head off, and worse, if he
knew."

What could he do worse than knock your head
off ? " asked Blaine, with a laugh.

*' Give me the sack. If he knocked my head
off, Mary and the children would get my insurance

brass — that's a thousand pounds ; but if old Ferret
gave me the sack, there would be nothing for any
of us, don't you see ? "

Perfectly. All the same, I hope you will keep
your head on your shoulders. But tell me now, do
you think that Philip Hardy is really a prisoner in
some Austrian dungeon ? "

It's possible — everything is possible in this best
of possible worlds — but not, I should say, very
probable. Artful and Higginbottom think so, of
course, for reasons aforesaid, assigned by old Ferret,
They say they have made every inquiry and advertised
no end. All the same, I am strongly of
opinion that if a right sharp fellow were entrusted
with the job, he would find a clue to the mystery."
Yourself, for instance ? "

Why, yes," said the clerk. " I think I could
manage it as well as most folks. But wait a minute.
You must not think that all this talk is to lead to
nothing. I mean business, Blaine. That girl,
you know — where is the girl ? A girl with two
millions is worth finding. And she is about seventeen
now and, I dare say, as handsome as paint.
Old Baggs says her father was as fine a looking
man as you would wish to see. Gad ! if I was
only single ! But I am not, and I cannot stir out of
Calder— got too many clogs on my feet for that.
Look here, Blaine, you are the man that must
find Vera Hardy."

I ! What on earth do you mean, Wanton ? "

I'll tell you ; but you must know that I am
most terribly anxious to increase my income. My
Mary is a very good wife, and it isn't her fault, poor
lass ; but three children in less than two years is
rather hard on a chap, isn't it now ? If we go on
at that rate I don't know whatever we shall do.
It's awful to think how many of us there will be
in, say, ten years. And there's as many as the
pasture will keep already. If I could only find this
Vera Hardy ! "

How would that help you ? You could not
marry her."

I know that ; but don't you think that if I let
her know what an heiress she is, and helped her
to her property, she would stand a handsome
commission ? "

"That's very likely, I think. I 'know I should
be very happy to pay anybody who put me in the
way of getting two millions a very handsome
commission indeed. But what can I do in the
matter?"

You are going to take this situation in Switzerland,
are you not ? "

"The assistant editorship of the Helvetic Nemus,
you mean ? Yes, I think so. The pay is no better
than I am getting here, but it will be a new experience
for me, and perhaps lead to something better
later on."

Quite right. You are at the top of the tree
here. You can never be more than editor of the
Caller Mercury. If you keep pegging away till
you are a grey old man you will never make more
than three or four pounds a week, and yet you
have it in you to be a slap-up journalist. Well,
when you go to Switzerland, I want you to find
Miss Hardy."

"You are joking, Wanton. What chance shall
I have of finding the poor girl ? '

A good many, I hope. Philip Hardy was
sometimes in Switzerland — that we do know — and
when not there he was in Italy, and they are about
as close together as Lancashire and Yorkshire, they
tell me. You are sure to be going about, and when
you do you must just ask questions and keep your
eyes open. I will post you up before you set off,
and — who knows ? you will maybe light on her.
And if you do we will go snacks at the commission.
Suppose she stands five per cent., why that would
be a hundred thousand pounds ! Fifty thousand
a-piece ! I would not object to a baby a twelvemonth
then, and they might keep on coming for a
quarter of a century, bless 'em, if they liked !
What do you say ? "

About the babies ? "

No, about finding this girl."

^'I fear the chance of my finding her is very
remote ; but I will keep the matter in mind, and

do my best. I don't think, though, I should like
to ask her for a commission."

Why ? Isn't it business ? "

"Perhaps. I was not thinking of that. But
I could not fancy myself going to a young girl
saying, ' You are heiress to a fine fortune, promise
me a commission of five per cent, and I will give
you all particulars.' "

'' But you might tell her first and claim the
commission afterwards."

I could not do even that, Wanton."

The clerk's countenance fell.

Why ? What is there wrong in it ? A ship
captain who takes a derelict vessel into port gets
salvage, and the finder of a purse is rewarded
by the owner."

Do you think I would take a reward for finding
a purse ? " asked Blaine indignantly.

Perhaps not ; but I'll take all the money I
can get hold of as is honestly come by. However,
if you won't ask her yourself, you will
perhaps not object to my asking her, on the
ground that I am a professional man, and put you
up — gave the information that enabled you to
find her."

None whatever ; that would be entirely your
own affair. But this is very absurd, you know. I
shall never find the girl. Remember, it is ten
years since all this happened."

At any rate you can try, if only for the poor
girl's sake. Who knows where she is ? "

Precisely ; who knows where she is ? "

"That we must try to find out. After all, the
world is very small. How often we run against
people we least expect to meet ! Why, when I was
in London the other day I ran into the arms —
literally ran into the arms — of my old schoolfellow,
Harry Welsh. He went to America seven years
since, and had landed only three days before !
What do you think of that now ! "

"But, you see, the misfortune is," laughed
Blaine, " that if Miss Hardy were to run into
my arms I should not know her."

I wish she would run into your arms ; you
would soon identify her, I'll be bound, and — what a
happy thought! — perhaps marry her. Then you
would be paid for your trouble, and no mistake, and
could afford me a swinging commission."

Rubbish ! May I beg of you not to talk such
nonsense, Wanton. I have not the least hope of
finding this girl, and I am sure I shall not marry
her."

Perhaps you are bespoke," replied the clerk,
eyeing keenly his companion, who had spoken
somewhat warmly, and seemed rather taken aback,
And that reminds me. I have heard a bit of a
whisper, but I did not believe there was aught in
it. I would not if I were you, Blaine. 1 "

Here is the tea," interrupted Blaine coldly.
Put the tray opposite Mr. Wanton, Sally, and the
ham at this end of the table."

How confoundedly touchy he is ! " thought the
clerk. " But it looks like being a true bill, and if
it is I shall be sorry. Blaine should do better
in every way than marry Lizzie Hardy. I don't
like the lot, and if I see any chance of stopping it,
by Jingo, I will."

Take some ham, Wanton ? " asked Blaine
when Sally had taken her departure.

Thank you, I will take some ham. A 'cute old
boy is Saintly Sam. Don't you think it's right I
am?"

Why, what put him into your head ? " said
Blaine with a rather forced laugh.

'' Ham — don't you perceive that it rhymes with
Sam ? "

You should not speak evil of dignities, Wanton.
Mr. Hardy has been three times mayor of Calder,
remember, and is at this present moment a justice
of the peace, and otherwise a man of importance in
the borough."

Exactly ; and does not that make his conduct
on the present occasion all the meaner ? "

*' In what way ? "

"In what way! Why, don't you see that he
doesn't more than half believe in this Hardy
fortune, and yet he is persuading his poor kinsfolk

to lay out £750 in trying to get it ! You will say,
perhaps, that he goes in for £250 on his own hook.
But what is that for a man like him, when there is
a chance of getting forty thousand ? Wouldn't it
have looked a fine sight better, think you, if he had
spent a couple of hundreds or so in preliminary
inquiries before sending the hat round ? — for that's
what it amounts to. And I am by no means sure
that he means to find the two-fifty after all."

You surely don't mean to say, Wanton, that he
will attempt to back out of a promise so publicly
made ? "

Not he ! Saintly Sam knows a trick worth two
of that ! He'll take the shares, right enough ; but,
unless I am mistaken, he has an understanding with
old Ferret to allow him a commission of five or ten
per cent, on the amount subscribed, or to do his
own business on special terms for so long."

Come, come, Wanton, you* let your dislike of
the man carry you too far. Hardy has his faults, I
admit, but he is not a miser."

*' I never said he was. A miser does not spend
money on himself. Hardy does ; he likes to live
well, and be a big pot. To hear him talk you would
think he was generosity itself; but just you try
him ! Anybody that has aught to do with Saintly
Sam is pretty sure to get hold of the dirty end of
the stick. However, as he's a friend of yours I
won't say aught against him."

Not say aiiglit against him ! I don't know
what you could well say more ! Anyhow, he has
always behaved well to me."

'' Of course he has. You are the editor of the
Mercury, and have been useful to him, and may be
again ; but just you try the other tack and you'll
see. But let us drop the old beggar and talk about
something else. You will not be setting out for
Switzerland just yet, I suppose?"

Oh dear no ; I only sent in my acceptance today,
and until it is acknowledged, and the appointment
confirmed, I cannot very well give Grrindleton
notice, you know ; and that reminds me (looking at
his watch), it is quite time I went to the office and
made up the paper."

Well, we must have another talk or two about
this Hardy business before you set sail. The
subject is far from being exhausted."

Whenever you' like. But as to my obtaining
any information about Philip Hardy, or finding his
daughter, I really don't think there is a vestige of
hope."

Hope be hanged ! " returned the clerk, thumping
a fat fist on the table. " I have made up my
mind to bottom this business, and bottom it I will
if you will help me."

Of course I will. Have I not said so ? "

Energetically ? "

"•' Energetically."

It's a bargain, then," exclaimed the clerk,
slapping his hand into that of his friend. " And
look here ; I'll put it all down on paper — write you
out a brief, in fact, embodying the latest information
on the subject. I don't mean to let the thing slip
out of your mind, I can tell you."

Then, after an amicable contest as to who should
pay, which resulted in favour of the clerk, they
went into the bar and settled with Mrs. Juniper.

VOL. I.

BAR CRONIES.

The Hardyss had gone, and the " Cock's " regular
company of gossips and topers were dropping in
and settling down to their usual drinking bout in
the bar.

In an arm-chair by the fireside sat Humphrey
Sutton, one of Callers most remarkable citizens, a
big, stout, florid man, with great red whiskers and a
ruddy countenance. Every evening of his life
Humphrey (who was a miller by trade and looked
well after his business), when he had taken his tea
and had washed and dressed himself, walked up to
the " Cock," took his accustomed place near the
hearth, and stayed there until he had drunk his
allowance." And as he seemed none the worse
for his libations, and looked the very picture of
health, people naturally thought his potations did
him more good than harm ; and as he died at last
by falling into his own mill-dam when he was perfectly
sober, nobody could say that whisky had
shortened his days, or that, if he had not swallowed

more water than agreed with him, he might not
have lived as long as anybody else.

Another faithful frequenter of the " Cock's " bar
was Bob Eogers, plasterer and house-painter. His
jovial face beamed with good-humour ; he sang a
good song, told a good story, and, though he liked a
glass, never got drunk, which was more than could
be said of his wife. Once upon a time, after she
had been indulging overmuch, she ran away, fearing
her husband's wrath. When she returned. Bob took a
stick to her. " I am not licking thee for running
away," he exclaimed between each thwack ; " I am
licking thee for coming back ageean."

Bob's inseparable companion was Kit Brown,
master blacksmith, a man of means and a churchwarden
— though if you had seen him shoeing a
horse, and heard him damning a hostler, you would
not have thought so. He made a capital foil to his
friend Eogers. A giant in bulk. Kit had a saturnine
face and an aquiline nose, could no more make
a joke or sing a song than his own bellows, was shy
in company, and rarely ventured beyond an occasional
" Well, I'll be d d " when anything

particularly pleased or surmised him. But he could
drink even more than the miller ; and though from
motives of economy he did not often take above
half-a-dozen glasses at a sitting, he had been known
to " knock off " a score without any other visible effect
than making him a little more silent than usual.

4*

"Why, here's Mr. Blaine and Mr. Wanton,"
exclaimed Rogers. " Good-day to you. Willet you
sit down and have summit ? "

Thank you," said Blaine ; " I have work todo.
I cannot stay. Goodnight, Wanton."

Well, you'll take a sup o' summit with us, Mr.
Wanton ? "

The clerk, thinking of Mary and the children,
hesitated, shook his head, and made as if he, too,
was going away.

Sit down, man, sit down ; you're not i' that lorry,
I know. Make him sit down, Kit."

The blacksmith laid his huge hand on Wanton's
shoulder, whereupon the clerk, although he was a
stout little fellow enough, dropped Ion the oaken
bench as if he had been shot.

I'll Stan," said Kit.

That is because you have made me sit, I suppose,"
laughed Wanton, who never lost a chance of
making a joke.

What mon it be ? " asked Kit solemnly. He
never took a joke in, however palpable, under five
minutes.

If I must put myself outside something, let it
be whisky."

A whisky for Mr. Wanton," shouted the smith,
and then relapsed into reflective silence.

Young Blaine seems throng just now,"
observed Flip, the auctioneer, a little old fellow

with a cracked voice and an inflamed face, who once
in his life, and once only, had put on a pair of
trousers, but not being able to abide " them things
dangling about his legs," he speedily doffed them and
resumed the breeches of his forefathers. Flip, it
need hardly be said, was as conservative in the
domain of politics as in the matter of costume, and
never went to the " Cock " without expressing the
opinion that the country was going to " rack and
ruin along o' these 'ere Radicals."

"Yes," said Wanton, "he finds plenty to do, for
when he is not editing the Mercury ^ he is writing
for other papers — not always in them, though, I am
afraid."

A terrible incoming for that family," put in
Ward, the vet. — an observation which he had
probably made five hundred times before in the very
same place.

It is that," said Bob Rogers sympathetically,
** and I feel right sorry for 'em. How nobody suspected
owt o' th' sort, afore old Mr. Blaine
died, caps me. We could all see it plain enough
after."

Ay, after-wit is a complaint as most Englishmen
is troubled with at times. And how well them lads
faced it."

They did that, and a most terrible knockdown
blow it was, too. So did Miss Blaine."

Ay, she' a rare fine lass, and gradely good to th'

owt woman, they tell me. Has owt been heard of
Bradley yet ? "

No ; and he'll tak good care as there isn't. He
was not called Billy Deeper for nowt. What a
scoundrel that chap turned out to be sure ! Mony's
th' time as he has sat i' that their cheer scratching
(boasting) how well he was doing, and what good
investments he was making for Mr. Blaine and
a twothry more on 'em ! It is my firm opinion
as "

Well, I'll be d d ! "

And as the blacksmith uttered this not very
original, or, on the face of it, particularly funny
speech, he indulged in a peal of Homeric laughter
that shook the glasses on the table, and so startled
Sally that she dropped her tray, and half-a-dozen
whisky tumblers and a jug of hot water went crash
on the floor.

Why, whatever's to do, thou great crazy beggar ?
What is there to laugh at ? " exclaimed Bob Eogers,
looking angrily at his friend.

I wor nobut thinking," answered Kit, struggling
with his mirth ; " I wor nobbut thinking o' what
Mr. Wanton said just now, when I said as I'd stan'.
Gradely good, won't it ? Sup up, Mr. Wanton, and
I'll stan' another. It is with two glasses, that is.
Sup up ! "

And the smith, thinking, probably, that example
was better than precept, suited the action to the

word ; but resuming his laugh rather too soon, the
consequences were disastrous in the extreme, and
Kit narrowly escaped being choked.

While the company at the " Cock " were discussing
his family and their affairs, Blaine was walking
rapidly down a steep street towards the ofl&ce of
the Mercury. " Calder," as a local rhymester wrote,
crowns a rocky height," and, in truth, there is nota
level street in it. The town, which clusters round
the lofty ruins of a mediaeval castle, though it
figured in the Wars of the Roses and the Great
Rebellion — has a history which dates back to the
times of Alfred and Cnut, and has returned great
statesmen to Parliament, is looked upon by its more
enterprising neighbours as effete and played out.
It has no coal-fields, is a long way from seaports
and markets, and albeit there are three or four
cotton factories and bobbin mills, turned by waterpower,
which seem to do pretty well, the new men
don't take to Calder, and the population, which was
never great, rather diminishes than increases. But
it lies on the borders of two counties, in the midst
of a rich agricultural district ; its corn and cattle
and hay markets are important and largely frequented,
and its weekly newspaper, though the circulation
was not very extensive, had sufficient
advertisements to make it a profitable enterprise.

The editorial offices were in a side street off the
main thoroughfare, and to reach them Blaine

had to go up a dark entry and mount a flight of
wooden stairs. The room into which he entered
and where he did most of his work, was as gaunt
and bare as an anchorite's cave or a monk's cell. The
walls were papered, and the floor was black with
the ink-slinging of a century of editors — for the
Mercury had lived a hundred years. A big, square
table, littered with copy and proofs, a few chairs and
a book-case, made up the furniture. The table was
lighted, but not the room, by a couple of gas-burners
under green shades, and on one of the
chairs sat a small boy, with an extremely dirty face,
and wide-open mouth, fast asleep.

Hallo, Jeremiah ! " shouted Blaine, at the
same time throwing a folded paper, with aim
so accurate, that it dropped into the lad's
mouth like a ball into a socket, making him
look as if he were developing news from his inner
consciousness.

Yes, sir," said Jeremiah, opening his eyes and
spitting out the newspaper.

Is anything wanted ? "

Yes ; they want them proofs ; and • Methuselah
has been here — he waited ever so long, and said as
if you wanted him, he'd be round at the *Lord
Nelson'"

Go to the * Lord Nelson ' and ask Lin to come
here, and then run down to the post-office for the
letters."

Then tie sat down to his proofs. A few minutes
afterwards the door opened.

Is that you, Methuselah ? "

I believe it is."

He was not a very old man, not more than fifty
probably, but when he came to Calder, a dozen years
previously, as reporter for the Mercury, he persistently
refused to disclose [his age — a point as to
which the Galleries were very curious. To punish
his obstinacy they called him Methuselah — a name
which in the end so completely superseded his own
that he was hardly known by any other.

Have you extended your notes of last night's
ratepayers' meeting ? " asked Blaine.

Certainly. Here are the proofs," said the reporter,
who had brought into the room a powerful
odour of tobacco. He was a tall, angular man, with
lantern jaws, a purple nose, and a snuffy voice.
Would you like to cast your eye over them ? "

Do they contain anything libellous ? Speakers
at ratepayers' meetings don't always use the most
measured language."

Well, nothing exactly libellous was said, but
something not very pleasant was."

About whom ? "

About us."

What was it ? "

Somebody quoted the Mercury and mentioned
Mr Princeton and you, and Horseback — the Eadical

toffee-dealer, you know — and said if there was a
bigger fool in Calder than the editor of the Mercury
it was the proprietor."

Not complimentary, certainly, but hardly actionable,"
said Blaine laughing. " Have you got it
in your resort ? "

Yes ; but I will strike it out if you like."

No ; let it stand. Editors should not be thin-skinned
; we must give and take, you know. Ah !
here comes the letters."

There was quite a bundle of them. Some were
thrown into the waste-paper basket as fast as they
were read, others were placed under a weight on
the table, and one, the perusal of which seemed to
give Blaine considerable satisfaction, and contained
a slip of printed matter, found its way into
his pocket.

Then followed two hours' hard work and a visit to
the printing-office, and shortly before eleven o'clock
the editor wended his way homewards

CORA.

The night was fine ; a bright moon shone in a clear
sky, and a brisk walk of twenty minutes, on a limestone
road shaded by trees, brought Blaine to a
bridge that spanned a broad and babbling brook.
Here he turned down a lane running between tall
hedgerows until he came to a little white gate.
This he opened, and the next moment was at the
door of an ivy-mantled cottage with a wooden
porch over which grew a climbing rose-tree. There
was an odour of southernwood and mignonette, a
scent of new-mown hay ; the pebbled music of the
brook, as it coursed through the meadows below,
was borne faintly on the dying breeze ; and, bathed
in the golden moonlight, the cottage, with its fruit-trees
and roses and cascades of ivy falling over
quaint dormer windows, looked like a little paradise
whose inmates must needs be free from sordid wants
and corroding care — the abode of peace, contentment,
and love.

Before Blaine set his foot on the threshold the
door opened.

** I knew your step," said a low, sweet voice. " I
have been expecting you nearly an hour. Are you
not rather later than usual on a Friday night ? "

Yes ; I went to the Hardy meeting, and had a
long talk with Wanton, and I had more proofs to
read than I expected."

You must be hungry, then. Come in and have
your supper."

The room into which Blaine entered, though
small, low ceiled, and simply furnished, bore
evidence in all its arrangements of refined tastes
and gentle culture. The white window curtains
were gracefully disposed, colours harmonized ; in
the middle of the table, which was laid for supper,
stood a vase of flowers, and opposite to it were a
little jardiniere and an open cottage pianoforte,
whereon Jay a book of Mendelssohn's music. There
was also a small bookcase, and the walls were
adorned with several water-colour sketches — of no
great merit, perhaps, but pleasant to look upon for
all that.

Between the young girl and him idiom she so
graciously welcomed there was so much likeness as
to leave little doubt that they were nearly akin.
Cora Blaine, though "of attractive appearance,
had a head and face rather too small for her height ;
yet the head was shapely and the face comely — the
hair dark brown ; long lashes shaded eyes of bright
hazel, which, together with her slightly aquiline

nose, square jaws, full red lips, and broad white
brow, suggested a character at once tender and
strong, and a sweet and womanly temper. Her
kinsman, albeit his features bore a general and
unmistakable resemblance to hers, was far from
being cast in precisely the same mould. Being
much larger, there was not the same disproportion
between the frame and the head ; the nose was,
perhaps, more aquiline ; the jaws, though their
contour was somewhat disguised by a short curly
beard, seemed squarer ; the hair was slightly darker,
and while her complexion was high his was almost
colourless ; but the eyes were of the same shade,
and the face of one, as well as of the other, wore
an expression of gravity, almost of sadness, that
hardly befitted their years, for neither could be much
more than twenty-three or four.

How has mother been ? " was the young man's
first question.

"As usual, very low, and sometimes suffering;
but she seems a little better this afternoon, and
Dr. Foster thought he could see a slight gleam of
improvement."

"Poor mother! I wish she could be herself
again. What a relief it would be for us all — for
you especially, Cora ! It is very hard on you, and
even yet I do not feel quite satisfied that I have
acted rightly in taking this situation. It looks like
deserting one's post."

But you have written to accept it, Alfred ? "

Yes ; as we agreed yesterday. I was bound to
write to-day, but I wrote very reluctantly."

The reluctance is natural, and I shall be very
sorry to lose you, but I have not a doubt that you
are right. You may never have such another
chance, and it would be one of those blunders that
are worse than a crime to let it slip. Here at Calder
you are simply wasting your time, and I want you,
Alfred — I want you to be somebody, as I am sure you
will if you have a fair chance. We have a stimulus
others do not possess ; they are merely struggling
to rise, we are struggling to rise again — to retrieve
a lost position."

What pluck you have, Cora ! " was Alfred's admiring
comment on the lady's little speech.

So have you. I would not give a fig for a spiritless
man."

Well, whatever other faults I may have, I do
not think I am without pluck. But you and George
beat me in that respect, though."

Dear George ! Yes, he is a dear, good,
noble boy. I wrote to him to-day such a long
letter."

Talking of letters, here is something that will
please you, I think."

What is it about ? "

That story I sent for you to the Piccadilly
Magazine

And have they — have they accepted it ? " demanded
Cora eagerly.

They have. See, here is the proof."

My first proof ! " exclaimed the girl, unfolding
the slip with trembling fingers. "My first proof!
Yes, here it is—' The Broken Tryst,' by Cora Bal-maine.
I never saw my name in print before,
never. Oh, Freddy, I am so glad ! " And Cora,
who a moment before had looked so grave, broke
into a ringing laugh, and clapped her hands, as she
had used to do in her girlhood when anybody gave
her a new toy. "But," pouting, "' here are some
dreadful mistakes. I am sure I never wrote this —
nor this. And, if I know myself, I can, at least, spell."

And dear me, how short it is ! Surely my twenty
pages of manuscript cannot be compressed into these
six pages of print ! "

Very easily, I should say. It is astonishing to
what an extent you can boil down copy by putting
it into type. Few of those who ' glance over ' an
article or a story think that what they devour in five
minutes, and forget in three, may have taken somebody
as many hours to write."

"I hope nobody will devour my story in five
minutes, and forget it in three ; that would be too
bad," said Cora warmly. " Why, I spent days on it,
and wrote it out at least three times."

That's always the case with young writers," replied
Alfred sententiously. " They give themselves

an infinity of trouble, often to little purpose. But
you will become wiser with experience ; * pas trop de
zele,^ it does not pay."

** How you talk ! You might be an author of
experience, yet you have never written anything but
newspaper articles and reviews of second-class books."

At any rate newspaper articles deal with facts ;
and as for second-class books — well, that is a matter
of opinion. But don't you see, you foolish girl,
that I was only teasing. you ? You do well to take
pains ; but I am afraid that it will hardly pay —
from a pecuniary point of view — to write a story for
shall I say a second-class magazine ? — three
times over."

I was not thinking of that ; and do you know,
Freddy, I could not help doing my best, even if I
were to get nothing for it. But, perhaps, as I
acquire more skill I may be able to write more
rapidly. How much do you think they will give
me for this ? "

Three guineas, perhaps. I do not think the
Piccadilly is precisely the most liberal of magazines."


Three guineas ! But that would really be very
nice, you know. If I could only earn that much
every month ! We should be positively rich,
Alfred ; I could do all sorts of things. We might
keep a little pony carriage to drive your mother
about in, or go to the seaside, or engage another

maid, and then I should have more time for writing
and that ; and, yes, I would have a new carpet for
the drawing-room, and a new coal-scuttle."

Castles in the air, Cora — castles in the air,"
said Alfred mock-seriously. " Don't indulge in
extravagant dreams about fresh carpets and new
coal-scuttles. You will only be disappointed ; and
all moralists agree that it is a very pernicious
habit."

I don't care one bit for the moralists. I must
and shall build castles in the air. It is one of the
few pleasures I have ; and I am quite sure of this,
that nobody can write stories who does not build
castles in the air. And that reminds me. You
have not told me anything about the meeting. Is
the Hardy fortune a castle in the air or a fact ? "

« A fact."

« The Hardyss will get it, then ? "

Some Hardyss may ; but I am not sm'e that
these Hardyss will."

And then Alfred told Cora all that had passed at
the meeting, and been imparted to him by the
lawyer's clerk.

It is a strange story," said Cora musingly ;
** but truth is often stranger than fiction, and many
things happen in real life which, if they were put
into novels, people would say were too extravagant
to be true. You will do as Wanton suggests, won't
you, and try to find this girl ? "

VOL. I. 5

I certainly mean to do so, as far as my limited
opportunities will allow. When Wanton first
mooted the idea to me it seemed as if nothing
could be more absurd ; but the more I think of it
the more it takes hold of me. Yes, I should like
to ascertain Philip Hardy's fate, and find out
whether the child is dead or alive."

Poor girl ! Supposing her father is in an
Austrian dungeon, where can she be ? Could not
somebody apply to the Austrian government for
information ? "

"I have thought of that already; but the
difficulty is that he went under several names — in
order to deceive the police, I suppose — and even if
the Austrians said they had no such prisoner as
Philip Hardy, it would not follow that he was not
in one of their dungeons. What I mean to do is
this. Wanton will give me a written account of all
the circumstances so far as he knows them, and as I
pass through London I shall call at Artful and
Higginbottom's office and make a few inquiries
on my own account. Then, when I get to
Greneva I shall take the advice of somebody experienced
in such matters as to how I ought to
proceed."

The police ? "

No ; that would cost money, and I have none
to spare. Some non-official person, I mean — when
I can find one. But that will necessarily be

after I have been there a while and got to know a
few people."

How soon do you think you shall go ? "
That I cannot tell, until I receive my answer."
Have you said anything to jNIr. Grrindleton ? "
"Not yet. I must not give up one situation
before I am sure of the other."

Cautious Alfred ! You are learning wisdom in
the school of experience. Does Lizzie know that
you contemplate leaving Calder ? "

This was said not unkindly, but there was a
pointedness in Cora's manner, a slight touch of
sarcasm in her voice, that called the colour to the
young man's cheeks, and he answered rather
abruptly, " Not yet ; I suppose I must, though."
He had evidently been hit in a weak place.

Yes ; I think she has a right to expect that
attention from you. But I hope she will not find
it difficult to console herself — after you are gone."

The words were hardly out of Cora's mouth when
she regretted having uttered them, for this time
Alfred looked really annoyed, and she felt that the
fact of his having acted unwisely conferred on her
no right to give him pain, was, indeed, rather a
reason why she should not give him pain.

Forgive me, Alfred," she said, speaking soft and
low, as she put her arm round his neck and looked
her most bewitching look, " for being so unkind. I
am so sorry ; but "

I am sorry, too, and vexed — with myself, not
you. Yes, I have been a goose, and you are quite
justified in telling me so."

I did not tell you so."

"You meant it, and you think it. But never
mind ; let us say no more about it. Gro to bed ; it
is quite time, and " (smiling) " dream about your
new story. I suppose you will put that proof under
your pillow ? "

*' Of course I shall. And in the morning you
shall give me a lesson in proof-reading."

THE BALMAINES.

Although they bore the same surname and were
so intimate, Alfred and Cora Blaine were not
brother and sister. His father, her uncle, had been
Rector of Calder. The living was one of the best in
the county, and as Mr. Blaine possessed private
means and his wife a small fortune, they were in easy
circumstances, spent freely, and kept up the style
of a county family of the lesser sort. Their two
sons, George and Alfred, between whom there was
hardly a year's difference in age, were sent to a
public school much affected by the aristocracy, and
had each a pony, which, when they grew older,
were exchanged for a couple of hunters. George
was destined for the army, Alfred for the bar, and
in due time the one went to Sandhurst, the other
to Oxford. A few years before this came to pass
their uncle Hugh, an officer in the army, died,
leaving his little motherless girl alone in the
world, and the Rector his sole executor. Mr.
Blaine, who had loved his brother dearly, took
Cora to his own house, with the full concurrence of
his wife. She was treated in every respect as their
own child, and found these foster-parents as fond
and devoted as her own had been. As the young

people grew older it came to be understood that in
the fulness of time George and Cora should make
a match of it, and, contrary to the general rule
in such cases, the parties chiefly concerned cordially
fell in with the wishes of their elders. Childish
affection ripened into ardent love, and while still in
their teens they were formally engaged. There
were none of the usual motives for delay. When
his son should come of age and get his lieutenant's
commission, the Eector proposed to assign him an
allowance, which, together with the income arising
from Cora's fortune, would make them a good income.
The arrangement pleased everybody, and
the Balmaines were one of the happiest, and, to all
seeming, one of the most prosperous families in the
country-side. They had only one trouble, and that
was fast passing away. Alfred had not been many
weeks at Oxford when he was badly hurt in a
scrimmage at football. The doctors feared at first
that his back was permanently injured, and that
he would be a cripple for life. But with careful
nursing and long resting — for more than a twelvemonth
he could not rise from his couch — he grew
gradually better, and by the time George received
his lieutenant's commission Alfred was almost as
strong as ever. In one respect his illness, which
lasted several years, had been to his advantage.
He read and studied more than he would have
done at the university, and learnt several modern

languages which were afterwards of great
use to him. He also sent several contributions,
both in prose and verse, to the Calder Mercury,
and his effusions were always welcomed by the
editor and admired by his readers. It thus came
to pass that Alfred Blaine, though possessing
more book-learning than most young men of his
years, was also more unsophisticated. His life had
been passed nearly altogether at home and at
school, and his experience of the world was confined
to Calder and the neighbourhood. His father, who
was easy-tempered and good-natured to a fault,
treated him, in consideration of his illness, with
unusual indulgence ; yet in some things the Rector
was as firm as a rock. He would on no account
tolerate falsehood or meanness ; his ideals were
high almost to Quixotism ; he always impressed on
his sons that a clear conscience was far above either
wealth or position ; that it was better to endure
calamity than suffer dishonour, and that a true
gentleman should be " sans peur et sans tache,"
principles to which he himself so steadfastly
adhered, and gave so wide an application, that some
people considered him a nincompoop. It was a
common saying in Calder that, though unexceptionable
as a parson, Blaine was a fool in business,
and often allowed himself to be egregiously taken
in, for he invariably treated a man as honest until he
was shown to be a rogue — an interpretation of the

golden rule that did not always turn to his advantage,
nor, as the result proved, to that of his
family.

The day had been fixed for George and Cora's
marriage, and preparations for the happy event were
in active progress, when one evening the Rector
came home from visiting a sick patient, looking ill
and flushed, and complaining of headache. The
next morning he was worse, and the doctor pronounced
it to be a case of typhoid fever. When
typhoid fever attacks elderly people, it often proves
fatal, and a week later Mr. Blaine slept his last
sleep under a cypress-tree in his own churchyard.

Before the bereaved family had time to realise
the full extent of their loss, another blow, hardly
less crushing, fell upon them.

MORE TROUBLES.

If sympathy is often expressed without being felt,
curiosity, on the other hand, is often felt without
being expressed. The friend who condoles with you
on the death of a near kinsman of reputed wealth,
may or may not be sincere in his assurance of sympathy
, but of a surety, he is burning to know how
much the deceased has left, and for how much you
figure in his last will and testament. And so at
Calder, after people who met casually in the street
or elsewhere, had told each other what a bad job the
Rector's death was, and how greatly he had been
respected, one would observe in a tone of indifference
:

You have not heard how much, I suppose ? "
"Not exactly. About. fifty, I fancy. Some folks
say as he had a deal of money out at interest; but
Bradley is very close."

When the Eector had been laid in the ground,
there was less reticence, and on the evening after the
funeral, the question of what he had died worth was
keenly discussed in the " Cock " bar. The estimates

varied from forty to sixty thousand, and when
Horseback, the Eadical toffee dealer, who had no
great love for " church parsons," suggested thirty,
he was laughed to scorn.

"Where's Bradley?" asked Bob Rogers, "he'd
know to a penny. He knows how much everybody's
worth i' this town."

But Bradley was not there — never, in fact, entered
the " Cock " again. The next day it began to be
rumoured that he had not been seen for three days,
and was nowhere to be found, and that the Rector's
executors could make neither head nor tail of his
affairs. Bradley, the land agent, had been his man of
business, looked after his glebe, kept his accounts,
and invested his money. Then the people who
were always wiser than anybody else — after the
event — hinted that they had suspected all along
that the land agent was no good, and should
not be surprised if he had run away. And
so he had ; and when the fact became generally
known, great was the consternation in Calder, for
many of the townsfolk had intrusted him with
money, and all who had trusted him were betrayed.
Some were ruined outright. Among these was the
Rector, albeit he had died in the full assurance that
his family were amply provided for. His trust in
the defaulting land agent had been boundless. He
held him to be not only an honest man, but a
financial genius of the first order. And financial

genius of a certain sort Bradley had indeed shown
himself. He had deceived shrewder and less trustful
men than Mr. Blaine, and so contrived matters,
that until the Eector's death and his own flight, nobody
suspected that he had been paying interest out
of his clients' capital, and that the local companies in.
which he had persuaded the Eector to take so many
shares were bogus concerns of his own creation.
When the promoter disappeared, the companies
collapsed, and the liabilities arising out of them
swallowed up all the assets which Bradley had not
previously reduced to possession. Cora's fortune,
which the Eector had allowed Bradley to invest for
him, was engulphed in the general ruin, and she,
like her cousins, was left literally penniless. It was
only by the forbearance of the creditors, that Mrs.
Blaine was allowed to receive the value of a life
assurance on her husband's life ; and a few of his
parishioners bought for her, out of her own furniture,
enough to furnish a small cottage in the outskirts
of the town. George sold his commission, which
had been paid for only a few weeks before his
father's death, and the proceeds of the sale, added
to the value of the policy, made about £2,000,
which was sunk in an annuity for his mother's
benefit. Then the young fellow, who would neither
abandon the career of arms, nor be beholden to
friends, took counsel with his sweetheart, and with
her full concurrence, enlisted in a regiment under

orders for India. Cora, indeed, showed rare courage
and resource ; but Mrs. Blaine, whose married
life had been almost free from care, who had never
known what it was to want money or have a reasonable
wish ungratified, was utterly crushed. Her
health suffered, her temper became querulous and
exacting, and she thought herself the most unfortunate
woman in the world. Cora, although her
own sorrow was heavy and hard to bear, tended her
aunt with untiring care and devotion, and did much
to keep up the courage of the brothers.

It is very bad," she would say. " There is no
question about that. But I have read somewhere
that the best way to meet trouble is to look it in
the face ; and there is really no cause for despair.
We three are young and strong, and if we help ourselves
God will help us. We can at least earn our
own living, and though poor mother cannot have all
the luxuries she has been used to, she can live
decently and without troubling anybody. And
think how much worse it might have been. Suppose
this had happened when we were all children,
or there had not been enough to pay your father's
debts I "

Yet the parting with George tried her courage to
the uttermost. Nobody — not even he — knew how-much
she suffered. He was going to a country
where war was always possible and danger ever
present, and she knew that before they could

meet again she must endure long years of apprehension
and suspense. But Heaven had blessed her
with a brave heart and a sanguine temperament ;
she had been bred in the belief that an Infinite
wisdom orders everything for the best, and though
her heart was torn her spirit never faltered.

You are going away," she said, smiling through
her tears, " and it may be long before we meet
again. But we are both young and can wait and
hope. And you will get your commission, I know
you will, and come back a captain at least, and it
will be ever so much more creditable to rise by
merit than be promoted by purchase."

The evening before he left to join his regiment at
Portsmouth, though a sore trial, was not without a
certain melancholy satisfaction. The brothers
seemed to be more drawn to each other than they
had ever been before, to see further into each
other's hearts than they had ever yet seen, and to
love one another with a deeper love than they^had
yet known.

Before they separated for the night, Cora opened
th piano and played, and they all sang, the
brothers with an arm round each other's neck,
L-^rd, abide with me." Their voices were half-choked
with tears, and the same thought was in the
minds of all, " When and where shall we three meet
ao^ain ? " But the beautiful hymned prayer, so full
of trust and devout feeling, brought comfort to

their souls, and they did not sorrow as those
without hope. In the years to come, though
they brought new trials and vicissitudes, the
memory of that last evening at Heathbeck Cottage
never faded from the minds of the brothers and
their cousin. It marked a turning point in their
destinies.

S A I X T L Y S A M .

Alfred had of course abandoned all hope of returning
to Oxford, and if it had not been for his mother
and Cora, he would have followed George's example
and accompanied him to India. He had not
acquired a profession, and knew that he had no
aptitude for business. But it was necessary for him
to do something, and he gladly accepted the editorship
of the Calder Mercury, for which he was indebted
to Wanton, who had been concerned in the
winding up of his father's affairs, and was on friendly
terms with Princeton, the proprietor of the paper.
The post was not a very lucrative one, the pay being
only three pounds a week, but the duties were
neither heavy nor uncongenial, and three pounds
a week, added to his mother's income, made £290
a year.

Cora declared that they were positively rich, and
as the emoluments of a private soldier are not
exactly princely, it was resolved to spare George £20
a year. But this George positively refused ; he
would take only a pound a month so long as the
regiment was in England ; his pay and allowances

in India, he said, would amply suffice for all his
wants there.

For a while all went smoothly, and though the
trials they had undergone made them look older and
graver than quite beseemed their years, the young
people were not unhappy. True, Mrs. Blaine's
health was always a source of anxiety, but the anxiety
was not of that acute or agonising sort that renders
life almost or altogether a burden. Then their income,
though small, was sufficient, and George was
able to give a good account of himself. Before
leaving Portsmouth he had become a corporal, and
a few months after the regiment landed in India,
he got the much-coveted stripes.

If we could only have a war," he wrote home,
^^ I should get a commission in no time."

Cora was naturally greatly delighted, and Alfred's
mind began to be much exercised as to how he, too,
might better himself. Grrindleton was not likely to
raise his salary, and even if he were, he could not
remain editor of the Calder Mercury to the end
of his days. He had offered several contributions
to the London papers, and some had been accepted,
but on the whole he had not been very fortunate,
for Calder, as may be supposed, was fertile neither
in incidents nor topics. The idea of trying to
obtain a situation in London had occurred to him,
but the Mercury London correspondent, whom
he consulted on the subject, told him that competition

for employment was so keen among^press-
men on the spot that his chances of success
would be extremely remote. One paper alone
that he mentioned had the names of more thana
thousand applicants on its books. It was from
the same correspondent that he heard of the
situation in Switzerland. The pay offered was
poor — no more than he was getting in Calder —
but there was a possibility of advancement, and a
certainty of enlarging his experience, both of
journalism and of life. On these grounds his friends
advised him to accept the appointment, and on this
advice, as we have seen, Blaine resolved to act.
A few months before this came to pass, he had
enlarged his experience in a way which was now
causing him an infinity of embarrassment, and his
cousin no little annoyance. The original, if indirect,
cause of the trouble was a change of creed on
the part of the gentleman whom Wanton had irreverently
denominated " Saintly Sam," and stigmatised
as a rogue. Mr. Hardy was the owner of the
biggest factory in the borough of Calder, part proprietor
of a print works, and principal proprietor ina
brewery. He liked to boast that he was a self-made
man, and was fond of pointing a moral with
the tale of his own rise in life, which he ascribed to
perseverance and integrity, and, above all, to a
strict observance of the Sabbath. Some of his
neighbours thought otherwise. They said he owed
VOL. I. 6

this prosperity chiefly to cunning and ; cupidity. Be
that as it may, he was a shining light in a small
sect of Dissenters ; and ran a Sunday-school in connection
with his cotton factory. It was attended by
the children of his work people, and taught by his
overlooker, a good deal against the will of most of
them. The functions of superintendent were undertaken
by Mr. Hardy in person, and when he was
present, all went well, but when he was absent —
and that happened pretty often — the school became
a veritable pandemonium. The scholars mutinied,
and the teachers lost their tempers. Forcing his
people to attend his own conventicle, and paying
them a minimum of wage for a maximum of work,
did not tend to make Mr. Hardy either respected
or beloved, and as he wended his way homeward on
a winter's night, he was often greeted (generally
from behind a hedge) with a cry of " Sunday saint,
work-day devil." This it was that led to his
being called " Saintly Sam," and the nickname
stuck.

Another good work which he undertook, or rather
promoted, was the building of a new chapel. He
subscribed, and persuaded-others to subscribe, and,
as a further help, offered the stone (at a reduced
price) from his own quarry, and engaged to buy the
timber at Liverpool,lwhere he bought his own, and
so saved a dealer'? profit. But a jealous and disappointed
contractor, who had a good head for figures,
and a shrewd knowledge of prices, protested, one
night in the " Cock " bar, and offered to prove, that

Sam had put the dealer's profit into his own pocket,
and made a good thing out of the stone. The
saint, when he heard of it, denied the imputation,
but a good many people did not believe him, and
there was a terrible rumpus among the chapel folks,
ending in a serious split. After an angry war of
words, out of which Mr. Hardy did not come with
flying colours, he went over, bag and baggage, to
the enemy, or as they put it in Calder, he " turned
Church."

The event caused as much excitement in the
town as a contested election, and Mr. Blaine, on
the principle of rejoicing more over one repentant
sinner than over ninety-and-nine just men, received
Saintly Sam with open arms and made much of him
in every way.

With the proverbial zeal of a new convert, Mr
Hardy became as strenuous a supporter of the
Church as he had previously been of Dissent ; and,
to " make things look fuller," as Bob Eogers said,
or out of pure spite, as his former co-religionists
averred, he followed up his change of creed with a
change of polities. His secession played havoc with
the Liberal party. At the preceding election they
had returned their man by a majority of ten votes ;
at the next the Tories won by a majority of fifty,
for Saintly Sam had many electors in his employ,
and their suffrages, as well as those of his tenants?
were always at his disposal.

6*

The Rector could not, of course, do otherwise
than offer hospitality to his new convert (whose
change of politics, as he flattered himself, was due
to his influence). He invited him to dinner, and Sam
asked Mr. and Mrs. Blaine to tea. In this way, a
certain friendship was established between the two
families, but their ideas and ideals were too divergent
for them ever to become intimate. Sam could
talk about little else but business ; and his wife, who
was not a lady, had hardly a thought beyond her
house and her children.

The loss of fortune and position did not deprive
the Balmaines of any friends they cared to keep ;
and as for the Hardyss, they showed so much sympathy,
that Cora, though she could not " cotton " to
them, thought better of the Saintly Sans than she
had ever thought before. To give Sam his due, he
rather liked to be magnanimous when it cost him
nothing, and he gave Alfred much fatherly advice,
and asked him often to his house. In other days
the young fellow would probably have accepted
neither Mr. Hardy's patronage nor his invitations.
Seeing, however, that Mr. Hardy was one of Calder's
biggest men, and the most influential members of
the party of which the Mercury was the organ,
Blaine found it expedient to accept both, and to
treat his host with a great deal more respect than
the latter deserved.

LIZZIE HARDY.

Now it SO happened that Mr. Hardy possessed a
daughter, who, a few months before the meeting at
the " Cock," had rounded off her education at a
flashy finishing school in the neighbourhood of
London. Lizzie was about nineteen. She had a
shapely figure and a pretty face, large brown eyes
and pink cheeks, well-cut lips, and a nez recrossed
a shallow nature, and a head full of romantic
notions. She read three novels a week (not always
of the right sort), besides sundry serial stories, and
was quite ready to fall in love with any suitable hero
whom destiny might throw in her way. Destiny
threw in her way Alfred Blaine, and he seemed
to be endowed with every qualification she could
desire or that a model lover ought to possess. He
was poor (she hated the sordid rich), handsome (she
could not bear ugly people), of gentle birth (the
Balmaines were one of the oldest families in the
county), and a writer (she adored literary men). So
she decided to fall in love with Alfred, and without
much effort succeeded in conceiving for him a
strong fancy, if not a really warm affection. But

she had studied her favourite romances too closely
not to know how a heroine should behave, and she
tried, not unsuccessfully, to let her preference be
felt rather than seen. Alfred thought her a very
nice girl, and as he had a great liking for music and
she was a clever performer on the piano, he began
to call at Waterfall House (as Mr. Hardy called his
place) rather oftener than he need have done. Cora
judged Lizzie less favourably ; thought her designing
and insincere, and said so ; but Alfred ascribed
the remark to prejudice and want of knowledge, and
its effect was to make him think more about Miss
Hardy than before. As time went on, it more than
once occurred to him that the pleasure which she
seemed to take in his company might be due to
something more than mere liking ; but the idea,
though flattering to his self-esteem, did not take
root in his mind. Miss Hardy was not of a sort to
fall in love with a poor man ; and even if the way
were made smooth for him, he did not feel that he
should like to become Saintly Sam's son-in-law. All
this time Lizzie was studying him like a book, and
though he was much slower in succumbing than she
expected, she was quite confident of bringing him
eventually to her feet and playing a leading part in
one of those scenes which she had so often in imagination
rehearsed.

At length her opportunity came. She and Alfred
were asked to a picnic. Cora had also been invited,

but she did not like picnics, and sent an excuse.
Had she gone she might have saved her cousin some
embarrassment and no little anxiety.

The scene of the picnic was in a romantic valley,
through which ran a swift river, bounded on one
side by wooded heights, on the other by green
meadows. There were the usual al fresco banquet,
the usual dancing and champagne drinking, and a
good deal of fun and laughter. Lizzie looked remarkably
well, and was more than ordinarily affable.
Once, when she and Alfred were whirling round ina
galop, he (quite involuntarily, as he thought)
squeezed both her hand and her waist more than
was absolutely necessary. The pressure of his hand
was returned, and when he looked down at her face
her eyes drooped, and a bright tell-tale blush
mantled her cheeks. How pretty she looked ! For
the first time he felt himself in danger of falling in
love; and if circumstances had been different — if
that scoundrel Bradley had not robbed his father,
and Saintly Sam had not been hers, he might have
yielded to the impulse. But prudence and conscience
bade him beware, and he was careful not to
squeeze his partner's hand a second time.

After the dance a walk in the wood was proposed.
\Yhen they were half way through, drops
of rain began to fall, the trees swayed ominously to
and fro, and a loud peal of thunder roused the echoes
and startled the ladies. Then followed a general

stampede for the nearest shelter, as to the exact
locality of which nobody seemed quite sure. Some
ran one way, some another, and by the merest
chance Blaine and Miss Hardy found themselves
running in the same direction.

Where shall we go, Mr. Blaine ; where shall
we go ? " cried Lizzie.

I think we had better get back to the ' Rowley
Arms,' and unless I am mistaken, it is nearer this
way than by the footpath."

Oh, but I shall be quite wet through, and I am
so much afraid of the thunder. Can we not shelter
somewhere ? Oh, did you see that flash ? "

Perhaps we shall come across a farm-house or a
labourer's cottage. Let us run as fast as we can.
Take my arm."

I am afraid I could not run as fast then. Would
you mind giving me your hand ? " *

Alfred gave her his hand.

It is good fun after all," she exclaimed merrily ;
don't you think so ? "

Do you like it ? "

"Yes; don't you?"

Certainly ; " and he did rather, though he was
not without misgiving as to what might come of
it all.

Is not that a cottage ? "

It looks like one."

It is one ; don't you see the walls ? "

It was a ruined keeper's cottage, picturesquely
situated in a glade of the wood; and though the
walls were bare and the roof had fallen in, there was
a dry corner where one, and possibly two, could comfortably
shelter. But it was a very little corner, and
when Alfred had arranged a seat for Lizzie he moved
a little on one side.

The rain came down more heavily.
Oh, Mr. Blaine," exclaimed Lizzie looking up,
you are getting wet ; won't you sit down ? "

There is no room, and if I do get a little wet it
does not matter."

It matters a great deal, and there is room ; look
here ; " and she drew aside her skirts and shrank into
a smaller compass. " I should be sorry for you to
get wet."

Alfred, feeling that it would be ungracious to

*refuse so kind an invitation, sat down on the log,

but it was so tight a squeeze that he had to put his

right arm behind her, and her head almost touched

his shoulder.

A decidedly dangerous position for an unsophisticated
young fellow with a soft heart and a weakness
for a pretty face ! And Lizzie looked particularly
piquant just then. Her cheeks were flushed with
exercise, her eyes bright with excitement, and a stray
lock which had escaped from its fastening floated
across Alfred's shirt-front, and even brushed against
his beard.

Suppose some of the others should come here
and surprise us ! " was his thought.

He must pop now. I wonder how he will do it ? "
was hers.

Then followed a rather long silence, which was
broken by Lizzie asking Alfred if he had enjoyed
himself.

Awfully," was his reply.

"I am so glad," she murmured ; "I have enjoyed
it too. I do not think I ever enjoyed a picnic so
much. That run through the wood was so exciting
and this old cottage is so romantic."

Alfred said something, but his answer was drowned
in a terrific peal of thunder and a frightened
scream.

Oh, 'Mr. Blaine ! " and if his arm had not
promptly encircled her waist Lizzie must have fallen
backward on the grass. Her eyes closed, and with a
deep-drawn sigh her head dropped on his shoulder.
Her cheeks were blanched, for though the faint was
a feint the fear was real.

Alfred never exactly knew what he said or how it
came about, but the next moment Lizzie was clinging
round his neck, whispering how happy he had
made her and how much she loved him. His heart
was touched and his amour propre flattered, and he
felt that he could do nothing less than return her
embrace and press his lijos to hers.

Dear Alfred," she murmured, " you love me.

What happiness ! But — but well keep it a secret ;
we won't tell anybody yet."

Not even your father and mother ? "

Oh, no. I am afraid that papa might be disagreeable.
And it will be ever so much nicer and
more romantic, don't you think, to keep our engagement
a secret?" — and deceive them all, she was
going to add, but an instinctive feeling that the
suggestion might not commend itself to her lover
arrested the words on her lips.

This was a relief to Alfred, for although he did
not like concealments, he shrank from asking Saintly
Sam for permission to court his daughter. Though
poor he could not forget he was a Blaine ; to
sue for the hand of a vulgar manufacturer's daughter
would not be pleasant ; to be refused would be bitter
humiliation.

As you like," he said. " I shall not mention it
to your father until you are willing that I should."

Nor to anybody else."

Nor to anybody else ; and it is only fair that I
should tell you now that I am not in a position to
marry, nor for a long time to come, likely to be. My
salary is very small, and I have to share it with my
mother and aunt."

How noble of you ! But that is nothing ; we
can wait ; and if you leave it to me to manage papa,
I am sure he will do something for us."

In her heart she did not believe he would do anything

of the sort, and Alfred thought that almost
any alternative would be preferable to living on Mr.
Hardy's bounty ; but not wanting to hurt Lizzie's
feelings, he kept this thought to himself, and returned
an irrelevant answer.

By this time the storm had begun to abate, and
shortly afterwards the rain ceased, and shouts were
heard in the near distance.

We must not let them find us together," cried
Lizzie, starting up. " I will go to them, and you can
join us in a few minutes."

No sooner said than done. She went one way, he
another ; and nobody either suspected that they had
been together or asked awkward questions.

As Alfred wandered through the wood alone,
thinking over the events of the day, he felt anything
but satisfied with himself, and subsequent reflection
served but to deepen his discontent. It was not
merely that long engagements were proverbially objectionable,
and for all that appeared to the contrary,
years might elapse before he could afford to keep a
wife ; his first duty was to his mother and to Cora,
whose fortune had gone down in the general wreck.
Circumstanced as they were, it seemed selfish and
almost cruel for him, the stay and support of the
family, even to think of marrying. The very fact
that he was engaged, when it became known, would,
he felt sure, be a new source of anxiety both to his
cousin and his mother. Even if there were no other

objection — if his income were multiplied by ten —
they could neither approve of his choice nor of the
Hardy connection. If he had a real love for Lizzie,
such love as he had heard and read of, this objection
might not amount to much; they would
waive it for his sake. But he could neither deny to
them nor hide from himself that his fancy was far
from being an absorbing passion. He had yielded
to a momentary impulse, and he had an unpleasant
sense — which, however, he soon dismissed as an ungenerous
suspicion — that Lizzie had twisted a few
hasty words into an avowal which deliberately and
in cool blood he would never have made.

Of a surety he had not done wisely. Some may
use a stronger word and say that he acted like a fool.
If he had been older or less impulsive he would probably
have told Lizzie that she had made a mistake.
If he had been less scrupulous he would have got
out of the difficulty by ignoring the incident — said
nothing more about it either to Lizzie or to anybody
else. But Blaine, though he was a young man,
had old-fashioned ideas. He held that a promise
once given, even by implication — above all to a
woman— should be faithfully observed, and this
method of extrication never so much as occurred to
him. Lizzie loved him ; and he had led her, or allowed
her to believe, that he loved her. That was enough.
To say now that he did not love her would be both
cruel and unmanly.

All this came to pass only about a month before
Alfred heard of the situation in Switzerland, and
though in the interval he received a good many
letters from Lizzie, and answered some of them, and
they had several times met, they had not yet been
able to contrive a second tete-astute. Although his
frequent visits to Waterfall House had begun to
excite some remark, nobody ^ suspected that they
were secretly engaged, but a mistake of Lizzie's revealed
their secret to Cora. She inadvertently put
a letter intended forhimlinto an envelope addressed
to her.

So Alfred had to make a clean breast of it.

Cora was terribly annoyed ; but after the first outburst
she said very little, showing only by an occasional
remark, either sarcastic or sorrowful, how
deeply she was vexed and grieved. If the fiancee
had been worthy of her cousin, some sweet girl
whom she could have taken to her heart and cherished
as a sister, she would not have cared — would have
been rather pleased, in fact — for, like all truehearted
women, she took a warm interest in lovers'
troubles and thought none the worse of a man for
cherishing an imprudent passion. But Lizzie
Hardy ! She could not have believed that Alfred
could be such a simpleton. Her only consolation
was a strong conviction that sooner or later Lizzie
would jilt him.

Not all this did she say to her cousin, but he

guessed her thoughts, and in one way and another
was far from happy. So the chance of going to
Switzerland came most opportunely ; for though he
did not like to say so, there was nothing he so much
wanted as to get away from Calder.

FAREWELLS.

The confirmation of Blaine's appointment came
sooner than he expected. The proprietors of the
Helvetic News informed him that, owing to the illness
of one of the sub-editors, they were short-handed,
and offered, if he would enter on his duties
before the end of the month, to pay his travelling
expenses to Greneva. That meant in a fortnight, and
he resolved to profit by the opportunity. Mr. Grains
made no difficulty about releasing him, and a
week later he had engaged a new editor.

Before this was done Blaine had informed
Lizzie of his approaching departure. In doing so,
he laid particular stress on the fact of their engagement,
and the necessity thereby laid on him of
trying to better himself. "While he remained at
Calder, he said, there was not the least prospect of
his being able to marry, and until he was in a position
to keep her as she would like to be kept, without
troubling anybody, he could not ask her to be
his wife.

This drew from Miss Hardy a letter, in which she
said that, although his going away would almost

break her heart, she could not deny that he seemed
to be acting for the best. She wished him good
speed, vowed that she should think of him every
minute and pray for him every night, implored him
to write to her very, very often, and said so many
tender and gracious things that Alfred's heart was
touched : he accused himself of misjudging her, and
regretted that he could not return her affection with
a more ardent love.

An evening or two before he went away he was
invited to take tea at Waterfall House. It was a
somewhat extensive establishment, about a mile
from the town, which Saintly Sam had got as a great
bargain, but the outlay in furniture and repairs
made it, as he observed to his wife, " a very dear do."
It was considered at Calder that Mrs. Hardy had not
risen with her husband. This meant that she made
no attempt to be other than she ever had been, preferred
living in a plain way to inhabiting a grand
house, and never looked or felt comfortable either
in her carriage or her drawing-room. She was nota
little afraid, poor woman, of her stylish daughter,
and sometimes wondered how she had come to have
such a child, for they did not seem to possess an idea
in common. Lizzie detested the kitchen as much
as Mrs. Hardy detested the drawing-room, delighted
in fine clothes and fine company, and often used language
that her mother only half understood. Miss
Hardy, on the other hand, found her mother a sore
VOL. I. 7

trouble. She would do servants' work — bake and
cook and make beds — and sometimes when visitors
called, Lizzie found her " throng " in the wash-house.
And then her language ! She spoke with a strong
Yorkshire twang, and scattered her witches about in
lavish profusion. Mr. Hardy was at least consistent
he had never used the aspirate in his life — but his
wife used it indiscriminately ; she could not be
brought to see the difference between an H and any
other letter. When they made calls or received
visitors the daughter passed many a " bad quarter
of an hour," and sometimes almost wished that her
mother would stay in the kitchen altogether.

Saintly Sam, as usual, was very patronising. " I
hope as you'll prosper in your new undertaking,
Blaine," he observed, as they sat at tea, " and bea
credit to your native place. Everybody thinks
highly of you here. You have edited the Mercury
uncommonly well, and your articles have been extensively
read. Some folks thought you were too
young ; but I did not, and I was never deceived in a
man yet. You were the right man in the right
place, and I am sorry, for th' sake of th' town and
th' cause of loyalty and religion, as you are going
away. That leader of yours, last Saturday, agen th'
Government was a nipper — it was nowt else. It
spoke my mind to a T, and I am seldom wrong
about them things. I hope as th' paper as you are
going to be connected with is on the right side."

The Helvetic News tries to be neutral in politics,
I think. At any rate, it does not seem to take
strong views either way."

That's a pity, that's a pity. I like folks to be
summit — either fish, flesh, fowl, or good red herring.
You know what they're made on then. Everybody
knows I am a Conservative. I belonged to th' tother
side once, its true ; but what could you expect ? I
was brought up Liberal, and most folks sticks to the
faith of their fathers, both in politics and religion.
There's very few as thinks for themselves, but I did ;
and I am of opinion as I came to a right conclusion."


You were a long time about it, though," thought
Blaine, who was no great admirer of the " prop
of his party," as Mr. Hardy was designated at
Calder.

And it's pretty generally known now what my
sentiments is," continued Saintly Sam, with much
complacency, " they're them of loyalty and religion
our beloved Bible and our revered Queen, as Mr.
Pike said last Sunday — and I command eighty votes
in this 'ere borough. You uphold 'em, Mr. Bal-maine,
and keep the Sabbath, and you'll prosper.
It is to keeping the Sabbath as I owe my success in
life more than to owt else, I do believe. And we
shall always take a warm interest in your welfare,
wherever you are ; shall not we, Jane ? "

That we shall," said Mrs. Hardy heartily. " I

7»

always thinks well of young men as is good to their
mothers. You'll ten to one be living in lodgings
where you're going to, Mr. Blaine."

Certainly," answered Alfred with a smile, " and
a pretty cheap lodging, too. An hotel would be
quite beyond my means."

Lodgings or hotels, they're all the same.
You'll have to see as your bed sheets is not damp, or
you'll be getting your death. Many a one has got
their death by sleeping in a damp bed. My poor
brother Tom did. He took a rheumatic fever, was
in a agony three weeks and died striking."

Screaming, mother," put in Lizzie indignantly,
why will you use that horrid word ? "

Mr. Blaine knows what I mean, and I never
could talk fine, I nun aether talk my own way or
how my tongue. Mind what I say about damp
beds, Mr. Blaine, and take warning by my brother
Tom. And always count your shirts and things
when they come home fro' th' wash, or else you'll
be losing summit. Some o' them strange washerwomen
is most terrible rogues, not to speak of
knocking your things i' pieces and burning 'em into
rags wi' chemic."

Lizzie looked daggers, but fearing that if she
spoke she might make matters worse, she averted
her gaze from Alfred and, as her mother would have
said, " held her noise."

'^ Here's a bit of a present as I've bought for you,

if you'll kindly accept it," Mrs. Hardy went on ; " it is
a housewife, and you'll happen find it useful o'er yon.
There's needles int', and there's pins int', and a
thimble and a bit o' cotton and a twothry shirt
buttons. There'll ten to one be nobody to mend
you where you're going to, and you'll tint it handy
if you want to stitch a button on your shirt or mend
a rent i' your trousers."

Mother I " shrieked Lizzie, her face aflame, and
almost choking with shame and vexation.

*' Well, what is it, child ? " said Mrs. Hardy looking
innocently at her daughter. *' What have I
said wrong this time ? "

Nothing at all, I am sure," interposed Alfred.
*' Thank you very much, Mrs. Hardy. You are very
kind, and I have no doubt I shall find the housewife
exceedingly useful."

You'll be getting a wife yourself one of these
days," said Saintly Sam, with a laugh at his own
joke. *' I like young fellows to get wed — it steadies
'em. You look out for a wife, Blaine."

I must first make my fortune, Mr. Hardy, or, at
any rate, an income sufficient to keep a wife."

You must marry a girl with an income, that's
what you must do — not with an income to come, but
an income as has come. Marrying a forte is th'
finest way of making money I know — you make so
much in one day. And that reminds me of th'
forte as us Hardy s is after. It looks decidedly

hopeful. I really begin to believe we shall get it,
after all."

I thought you believed that already, Mr.
Hardy ? "

So I did, so I did," replied Saintly Sam, rather
confusedly ; " but there is degrees, you know, there
is degrees, and I believe in it now more than ever.
All the shares is taken up, and we have got power
to issue another thousand, so we shall not want for
powder and shot. And that is not all. Ferret has
heard of an old fellow at Halifax — he left this
country thirty years since — as saw John Hardy in
London about ten or fifteen years after he left Calder,
saw him and spoke to him. He was then partner in
the firm of Birkdale, Bickerdyke, and Hardy, of
which he afterwards became the head."

How is it that old fellow you speak of did not
mention the fact sooner ? "

Hardy asked him not, and the thing passed out
of his mind till t' other day, when somebody here ashe
is akin to sent him word about the meeting at
the * Cock.' Ferret thinks it very important, and he
is going over to Halifax express to see Murgatroyd
that's the old fellow's name. He's very full of it.
Ferret is."

a Very important evidence, I should say," observed
Alfred carelessly ; " supposing Philip Hardy and his
daughter are really dead."

Dead ! why they are as dead as door-nails ; they

must be dead*' returned Saintly Sam, almost angrily
The suggestion that either the missing heir or
heiress might possibly still be living made him
quite angry. " No no my lad, that would never
do, to go and spend a mint of money and then
one of 'em to turn up and bag the lot. Them two
millions must come to Calder, Mr. Blaine — and
will. I mean to go on with this job and I never
yet failed in owt as I undertook."

Alfred wondered what his host would say if he
knew that Wanton and himself were engaged in an
attempt to find either Philip Hardy or Vera, and
how a revelation of the fact would affect his relations
with Lizzie.

Shortly afterwards he took his leave. When he
shook hands with Lizzie she gave him a significant
look. It had been arranged that they should meet
for a farewell interview in a sequestered part of the
grounds, and Alfred, instead of passing out by the
lodge gates, turned aside and went by a devious path
to keep his tryst.

He had not been there long when Lizzie came
running.

I have not many minutes to spare," she said
breathlessly, and then she threw her arms round
Alfred's neck and fell a-weeping, for albeit she
consciously posed as an afflicted heroine, and rather
over-did the part, she cared so much for Blaine
just then, or thought she did, that his departure was

a real grief to her. " You will write to me very
often," she whispered as they were about to separate ;
and — and I hope you will excuse my mother. It
is her way. She means no harm."

The remark was indiscreet; it undid all the
effect of her weeping, which so touched Alfred's
heart that he had felt for a moment as if he really
loved her.

She is ashamed of her mother, he thought. She
has a good deal more reason to be ashamed of her
father.

The interview lasted only a few minutes, for
Lizzie feared that her absence might be remarked.
After a few more words and a farewell embrace she
ran towards the house, and Alfred leaped over the
garden wall into the road.

Hallo ! " cried a voice he knew ; " do you always
come out of Mr. Hardy's garden that way, Bal-maine
? "

The speaker was Wanton.

I have done so to-night," said Alfred coolly ; " it
is rather nearer than round by the lodge gates."

And less likely to attract attention, I suppose —
unless you happen to jump on some unfortunate
passer-by, as you nearly did on me just now. However,
I have no wish to pry into secrets. A nod is
as good as a wink to a blind horse, you know. Has
the Saint anything fresh about the fortune ? "

Alfred told what had passed.

I don't think much of that tale," observed the
lawyer's clerk. " It's a case of the wish being father
to the thought, I expect. And if we cannot find
either the girl or her father it makes no odds to us
who gets the fortune. But there's no doubt that
Hardy is getting hotter. When a man lets his mind
dwell on a thing of that sort, he ends by losing his
judgment altogether, and becoming as credulous asa
gambler. Sam is an uncommonly smart man of
business in his own line, but fortune hunting is not
in his line, and I should not be a bit surprised if he
sacrificed the substance to the shadow — lost one fortune
in trying to get another."

But you said he did not more than half believe
in the Hardy fortune."

1 don't think he did at first ; but the hope of
pocketing forty thousand pounds is getting the upper
hand of his judgment. The gambling spirit in him
is roused, and the more money he spends the harder
it will be for him to draw back. But never mind
Sam, now. Did you get that paper I sent you this
morning — your brief in the matter of Philip and
Vera Hardy, you know ? "

I did ; but I have not had time to read it."

Read it at your leisure. It contains nothing I
have not told you before ; and is merely to refresh
your memory and serve as a reference when you are
over yon. You will see Artful and Higginbottom,
of course."

Of course ; I am too much interested in the case
to omit so essential a point."

All right. And if you keej^ your wits about you
we shall find our heiress before Sam finds the forty
thousand he is after. But I must be off : Mary will
be wondering what has become of me." And after
an exchange of " good nights," the clerk went one
way and Blaine another.

Alfred walked thoughtfully homeward. The
conclusion to which Wanton had evidently come,
that he and Lizzie were courting, did not trouble
him much ; the clerk could be trusted to keep
his surmises to himself. Alfred's chief present
concern referred to his mother and his cousin. Mrs.
Blaine's health was slowly improving, and that
was so far satisfactory ; but her mind had not recovered
its balance, and her temper was as querulous
as ever. A little while ago she had reproached him
with want of energy, and told him to follow the example
of his brother George, and seek his fortune
in a foreign land. She looked upon his connection
with the local press as a sort of degradation, and
wondered that he should have so little spirit as to
accept the wages of a vulgar tradesman like Princeton
; yet now, when he was actually going away, she
said he was deserting her in her old age, and that
she should have to end her days in the workhouse.
This was hard to bear, but Cora's sympathy and
counsel, and his conviction that he was acting for

the best, enabled him to bear it with patience ; yet
he felt sorry to leave his cousin to sustain the heat
and burden of the day alone, and he proposed, in
order that she might be free from anxiety as to
money, to remit her half his salary. This she positively
refused.

That would leave you only £75 sl year," she
said ; " and you cannot live at Geneva on £75 a
year. We shall manage very well. One hundred
and fifty pounds and my literary earnings (proudly)
will be quite enough for two women."

Alfred smiled.

Your literary earnings ! You talk as if you
were a swell author with a princely income. It
will be quite time enough to reckon your literary
earnings when you get them. In the meanwhile
you must consent to share my literary earnings."

So it was agreed that he should send them £50
a year.

That will be a fair division," observed Cora. " If
you were to send us more it would be unfair, and
I will not have anything unfair if I can help it."

ARTFUL AND HIGGINBOTTOM.

Mr. Artful, senior member of the firm of Artful
and Higginbottom, was a gentleman of sixty, with
white silky hair, a complexion like a piece of
crumpled brown paper, little keen grey eyes, and a
wonderfully urbane manner ; almost too urbane in
fact, for it was hardly in human nature to take the
very close personal interest in his clients and their
affairs, which he made it an invariable rule to display.
He could scarcely have manifested greater
delight at seeing Blaine if the latter had been a
son of his own, upon whom he had not set eyes for
many years. He probably saw in him a possible
client ; and when he learnt the nature of his visitor's
business his smiling face was clouded for a moment
but only for a moment — by a slight shade of disappointment.


Ah, that is it ! You want information about
Hardy trust. Well, I shall be most happy to
tell you anything I know, and if you can help us
to find a clue to the fate of Mr. Philip Hardy or his
daughter we shall be very much obliged to you. It
is a troublesome affair, and the executors, both

gentlemen of high position in the city of London, ,
would be only too glad to get rid of it. It is solely
from a sense of duty and a strong conviction that
the heir will sooner or later appear, or be heard of,
that they refrain from washing their hands of the
matter, and asking the Court of Chancery to relieve
them of their responsibility, under the Relief of
Trustees Act of 1851 ; and unless we have news of
Mr. Hardy before very long, say, within a twelvemonth,
this is the course we shall advise our clients
to follow, and then the estate would probably escheat
to the Crown. A great pity, but what can we do ? "
Unless some heir-at-law were to turn up ? "
Of course ; but so far as we know the late Mr.
Hardy had no relatives except his son Philip. Those
who knew him best think that he was an illegitimate
son, and for that reason kept silence about his origin.
If that be so, nobody save his son, or other issue,
could inherit. Still, nothing certain is known, and
it will, I think, be very difficult for any of the
claimants of whom we have heard to prove their
relationship to the late John Hardy. As you come
from Calder, you, of course, know all about the
Hardy Fortune Company (Limited). Very ingenious,
I am sure ; and the story of ]mr. Hardy's
supposed flight from Calder is romantic in the extreme,
and does Mr. Ferret great credit. But we
shall throw no impediments in the way. Let him
prove that Philip is dead without issue, and that

his father was the veritable John Hardy who ran
away from Calder fifty years ago, and the estate will
subject to the sanction of the Court of Chancery
be handed over to his clients. But we are a long
way from that yet, Mr. Blaine."

Alfred thought it best to tell Mr. Artful frankly
how he came to be interested in the matter, and
why he sought for information.

The lawyer smiled until his little eyes almost disappeared.


I am very glad to hear it," he exclaimed warmly.
I fancied you might be an emissary from those
fortune-hunting people. I know what they say —
they say that we want to keep the estate in our own
hands (qui s' excuse s' accuse, thought Blaine). It
is false, we want to do nothing of the sort. You
may depend on our hearty co-operation. I am glad
you have taken the matter up. Your connection
with the Press will count greatly in your favour.
Yes, Philip Hardy was frequently in Switzerland.
You may find some trace of him. You will doubtless
travel about a good deal, and if you should be
successful you may depend on being handsomely
remunerated. I do not mean in merely finding Philip
Hardy, but in finding a clue to his fate and that of
his daughter.

Do not mistake me, Mr. Artful," said Blaine,
slightly colouring. " I am not an amateur detective.
Consider that I take an interest in the case — that is

all. I am poor, as I have said, and if I incur
expense in my search I will ask you to recoup me.
But for myself I do not ask reward ; if, however,
anybody should aid me I might ask "

Yes, I understand. By-the-bye, you know our
theory, that Philip Hardy is immured in some
Austrian dungeon, probably in [the North of Italy.
If you can throw any light on the mystery we shall
be glad, very glad. And now I must pass you onto
Mr. Baggs. You will find him in the next room.
Grood day, sir, good day. I hope you will have a
pleasant journey, and return with Mr. Hardy and
his daughter."

And Mr. Artful smiled a gracious smile, and bowed
a courtly bow.

Chivalrous young fool," he muttered, as the
door closed behind Blaine, " pretends not to care
for money ! "

Baggs was a very pleasant old fellow, and, if
possible, more affable than his master ; but he had
little to tell Blaine that the latter did not already
know. He showed him copies of Philip Hardy's
letters to his father, written out fair in a book which
had evidently been frequently consulted. They all
referred to business, and contained little more than
formal advice of drafts which Philip had passed on
his fathers firm ; but, as in one or two of them he
mentioned having written fully a few days previously,
it was evident that their correspondence

had not been limited to business communications,
and the last of all, dated from Lugano, said that he
had just had Vera's photo taken, and would send it
in a subsequent letter.

Have you got this photo of Miss Hardy ? " asked
Blaine.

1 am sorry to say we have not, sir. I question
if it ever came. The letter from Lugano, as you
will perceive, was written only a few weeks before
the old man died, which, as we think, was about the
time his son fell into the hands of the Austrians."

Can you show me the originals of these
letters.? "

Certainly," answered the old clerk, looking
somewhat surprised ; " but I assure you they are
faithful copies ; not a word has been altered or
added."

I am quite sure of that. I should like to seethe
originals, nevertheless, if only to acquaint myself
with the character of Philip Hardy's handwriting."


By all means, I will get them."
As he spoke, Mr. Baggs went to a big japanned
tin box, marked " John Hardy's Trustees, No. 2,"
and after fumbling a few minutes among a mass of
papers, produced a bundle of dusty letters. They
were tied together and carefully docketed, generally
with the words, " Philip Hardy, advising draft for
." All were written on foreign post, and

having been folded in the | old-fashioned way, the
direction and post-marks were on the outer sheet.
They had been posted at sundry places, and showed
what a wanderer the man was, and that he had
never remained long in the same locality. Although
most of them were written in Italy, many were
dated from Switzerland, but only two from France,
from which Alfred naturally concluded that Philip)
Hardy's wanderings had been almost altogether
limited to the two former countries. One, dated
from the Baths of Lucca, mentioned briefly, and ina
postscript, the birth of Vera. It was probably
written at the time when father and son were
estranged, owing to the latter's marriage. The last
letter of all, though dated from Pallanza, bore the
post-mark of Lugano, and the half-erased imprint of
an hotel at Locarno, the Hotel Martinoo.

Of all these things Blaine took careful note,
especially of the dates of the letters, the places from
which they were written, and the names of the
bankers or others to whose order Philip Hardy
had made his drafts.

Is there anything more I can do for you ? " •
asked Baggs, as Alfred closed his memorandum
book.

Yes, tell me what like a man was Philip Hardy
when you last saw him."

That was the last time he was in England,
thirteen years ago. Dear me, how time flies ! Let
VOL. I. 8

me see — yes, I remember him very well. He did
not stay very long ; he said he must hurry back
his wife and child, whom he had left at — where was
it ? Let me see."

Somewhere in Italy ? " suggested Alfred.

*' No, not Italy — Switzerland, near some lake, I
think. There are lakes in Switzerland, I suppose ? "

Only about a thousand," returned Blaine
gravely.

Bless me, what a country for water it must be.
Well, I cannot for the life of me remember the
name of the lake, but I can tell you what Mr. Philip
was like. Height about five feet ten, long-limbed
and slim, but strong, I should say, very strong.
Laughing blue eyes with long lashes ; I remember
telling my wife what beautiful eyes he had. Light-complexioned,
chestnut hair and beard, and a
pleasant manner. We used to say that everybody
liked him but his father. Did not seem to care
much about money, as different from the old man
as chalk from cheese, and no more idea of business
than a child. Quite a gipsy sort of man. The
father must have wondered — I am sure other people
did — how he came to have such a son. He had
out-of-the-way ideas, too, and was always doing out-of-the-way
things. That's why I sometimes think
he may still be living in some out-of-the-way place,
if not in Europe, then in Asia, Africa, or America."

*'I should think that is very likely," observed

Blaine, amused by this rather comprehensive
suggestion.

Anyhow, sir, I hope you will find either him or
the little girl, or ascertain what has become of
them."

I mean to try," said the young fellow, and with
that he took his leave.

8**

A SUCCESSFUL JOURNALIST.

Why am I giving myself so much trouble about
this affair ? " was the question Alfred asked himself
as he strolled through Lincoln's Inn Fields ; " and
why should I take so much interest in the business
of people I never saw, probably never shall see ? "

A very pertinent question, to which there was
more than one answer.

First of all, from a desire to oblige Wanton, who
had behaved so well at the time of his father's
death, and who, though rather a rough diamond,
was a very good fellow. If there was any chance of
doing the clerk a good turn — and the finding of the
missing Hardyss might conceivably put money in his
pocket — it was his duty to do it. Wanton, moreover,
had contrived to communicate to Blaine some of
his own eagerness and enthusiasm, and the letters
curiosity was thoroughly roused. What could have
become of Philip Hardy and his daughter ? Had
the former, as was surmised, been immured in some
Austrian dungeon, or, as was equally possible, if not
more probable, shot by order of a drum-head court-martial

? In that case what had become of his
child ? Perhaps some good soul had adopted her,
perhaps her mother's relatives (who were her
mother's relatives ?) had found her out, and were
bringing her up. It might even be that she was
working for her living, or begging her bread, or
(horrible thought !) trudging through England or
France as the companion of some villainous Italian
organ-grinder. It was conceivable, too, that she
might be living near the fortress in which her father
was confined, waiting patiently for his release.
Hardly probable, however. In that event, Philip
Hardy would surely have communicated with his
friends ; he would want money, and he would not
let his child waste her life in the wretched monotony
of some Austrian garrison town, away from all
the advantages of education. There were other and
darker possibilities. Italy was not the most secure
of countries, and it was quite conceivable that
Hardy and his daughter might have been murdered
by brigands, drowned in crossing a lake, or destroyed
by an avalanche in some Alpine pass.

All these suppositions added piquancy to the
mystery, about which there was enough of romance
to tire his imagination and suggest a great variety
of possible solutions. And what were his chances
of success ? He could not think they were very
brilliant, yet he did not despair, and the more he
thought the stronger grew the conviction that,
VOL. I. 8

sooner or later, and somehow or other, he should
find Miss Vera Hardy — if she were alive.

As Blaine reached this conclusion he arrived at
the office of Mr. Furbey, the newspaper correspondent,
to whose influence he was indebted for his
appointment on the editorial staff of the Helvetic
News. Furbey was a middle-aged man with long
sandy whiskers tipped with white, a big face, and a
complexion which suggested that he had a weakness
for good living. He dined Alfred at his club and
gave him some good advice.

It is a queer sort of paper, the Helvetic News,^
he said ; " it has had some ups and downs already,
and will have more before it has done, I expect."

Before it has done ! " exclaimed Blaine, looking
rather unpleasantly surprised. I hope you don't
think it is near its latter end."

*' No, not quite so bad as that. Before its prosperity
is really assured, I ought to have said ; for I
have seen so many papers start up and go down that
I am never quite sure about anything that has not
three or four years behind it, and not always then*
But just now the Helvetic seems to be in very good
feather. I get my cheque every month, and I used
to be glad to get it every three. It is by no means
a bad opening, if you want to acquire experience in
your profession."

*' That I do, most decidedly. But there is one
thing that has rather been weighing on my mind

(io you think I shall be able to do the
work ? "

*'0f sub-editing the Helvetic News?" said Furbey
with an amused laugh. " Of course, you will.
You are too modest, Mr. Blaine. Why, I do not
think there is a pressman in Fleet Street who would
not undertake to edit the Twines at a minute's
notice, with the full belief that he could do it
better than Delane himself. But you will mend of
that — modesty and journalism are a contradiction in
terms. If you want to get on you must assert yourself.
It did not use to be so, but the most important
qualifications of a journalist now-a-days are impudence
and push."

*' In that case I am afraid I shall not become an
ornament of my profession, for I fear that I am
sadly lacking in both these qualifications."

*' Most men are at starting, and you have not had
much chance of developing either impudence or
push down there at Calder. You will find your work
at Greneva a good deal more interesting, I fancy, than
chronicling sma'.l beer at Calder.

Alfred winced. He did not like this belittling of
the paper he had edited and the place where he was
born.

Don't be vexed," continued Furbey, who had
detected the young fellow's annoyance. " You will
be of the same opinion yourself before we meet
again. I have gone through the same thing myself.

I received my first training in the office of a Catholic
paper in the south of Ireland."
You are an Irishman then ? "
I am, or as I once heard a countryman of mine
say, who had been a long time settled in England, I
was originally. Well, when I was about twenty I
went north, and got a berth on a Tory Protestant
paper in Belfast, and one of the first jobs I had was
reporting the speeches of a lot of Presbyterian
parsons at a religious meeting. You may imagine
my feelings. But it was a useful experience. It
taught me a lesson in tolerance I shall never forget.
I learnt for the first time in my life that there are
two sides even to a religious question, and now I
have no religious opinion left worth mentioning.
And does your indifferentism extend to politics ? "
I am a Liberal if anything ; most pressmen are
I fancy. But I cannot afford to let my political
opinions interfere with my professional duties."

You mean that you are for the side that pays
the best?" said Alfred with a slight touch of scorn
in his voice.

I mean that if I was offered a berth — and
wanted one — on the staff of a Tory paper I should
take it, and write what I was told to write. You
are shocked, I dare say ; but that is a feeling you
will get over by-and-by. Do you think the fellows
who do the leaders in the dailies believe one half
they write ? They are not such fools."

They are not high-principled journalists, then,"
was Blaine's thought, but not wanting to offend
his host he said, " Perhaps you are right as to your
facts — though I confess I am very much surprised
but can a man heartily and effectively advocate a
cause in which he does not believe ? ''

Certainly. You know the True Blue?"

Alfred knew it very well. The True Blue had
been his fathers favourite weekly paper, and he
used often to call attention to the vigour of its
literary style, and the soundness of its political
views."

Well, I know the editor of it, and a very clever
fellow he is, but a Radical and Freethinker."

Am I to understand, then, that London journalists
as a class are ready to prostitute their pens to the
highest bidder ? "

You put the case too strongly. All that I say
is, that most pressmen, being dependent on their
pens for their daily bread, cannot be choosers ; they
must take such situations as they can get, and
write — if it be their function to do original articles
what they are ordered to write. I get my living
by writing London letters for country papers. I
work with the advertising agent whose name is
over the door. You know the arrangement. We
give a letter a week for a column of space, which
my colleague fills with advertisements, and between
us we make a very fair thing of it. The letters I

write are, of course, pretty much alike as regards
gossip, but when I touch on politics or political
personages I must, of course, adapt my remarks to
my audience."

Which means, I suppose," laughed Blaine,
*' that when you write for the Calder Mercury you
praise up Disraeli as a heaven-born statesman, while
in the Bradford Blazer you denounce him as an
unscrupulous charlatan."

No, no ; I never use unparliamentary language.
I don't think it pays. 15 ut don't you think that
promiscuous advocacy is far worse that mercenary
journalism ? Whether this or that government is
the better: whether this or that measure is wise or
expedient, is merely a matter of opinion ; whether
you are right or wrong nobody is much the worse ;
and whatever you may yourself think, your paper,
at least, has the courage of its convictions, and, as a
rule, sticks to the side in which it professes to believe.
But a barrister is always ready, for a certain
number of guineas, to plead for a murderer or defend
an oppressor of the poor. Advocacy is the most
immoral of professions. Nothing would persuade
me to become a barrister, yet barristers are esteemed
honourable men, and the one who most successfully
perverts justice and prostitutes his talent becomes
the keeper of the Queen's conscience and a
great peer."

You forget," said Blaine, surprised alike by

Furbey's views and by the bitterness with which he
expressed them : " you forget that unless both sides
of a contested case are effectually stated essential
facts may be forgotten, important considerations
overlooked. And how is a barrister to know beforehand
that a client is in the wrong — how, until he
has heard what the other side has to say, know the
weakness of his own ? "

*' To such cases as that my remarks do not apply ;
but there are cases in which counsel must know that
they are pleading for an unrighteous cause, and that
they can win only by imputing baseness to their
opponents and practically bearing false witness
against their neighbours, and yet if they do win they
get high praise and more business."

But don't you see that if the law be right in
regarding an accused person as innocent until he is
proved to be guilty, advocates cannot be wrong in
acting on the same principle ? There is something
in what you say — the system has its drawbacks;
there are unscrupulous barristers, as well as unscrupulous
journalists, but taking it all round you
must admit that it does not work badly."

I admit nothing of the sort," said Furbey?
thumping his fist on the table ; ** I would abolish it
utterly. But let us drop the subject; it always puts
me out of temper. I think I did not tell you that
the editor of the Helvetic Neivs is a connection of
mine, a half-cousin in fact."

Xo, I was not aware. Mr. Gribson, you mean.
I have had a letter from him."

Yes, I mean Mr. Gribson ; Ned Gribson, we
generally call him. I will write and ask him to do
for you what he can. He is a very decent fellow,
as you will find; but he has his fads, as you
will also find. He fancies he has an awful lot of
work to do, and it is to that idea, I imagine, that
your engagement is partly due. He pretends to
want more help. ^^Tiy, I could edit that paper on
my head. I do almost as much work in a day as he
does in a week. But you keep in with him ; he maybe
very useful to you. Another thing ; if you keep
your eyes open you may fake up a letter now and
again for one of the London papers."

Yes," said Blaine, to whom the idea was by
no means new, " I intend to do so. Which of them
would you recommend me to try ? "

I really cannot tell you. One is about as good
as another, I fancy, for your purpose. Try one, and
if that is no go, try another. You should not have
much difficulty in writing something worth printing.
Accounts of Alpine accidents, especially if the
victims happen to be English travellers, always
make good copy. I should think you might
easily pick up fifty or sixty pounds a year in that
way."

'' I am afraid that is too good to be true," said
Alfred ; " but I shall do my best, and you may be

sure that if I fail it will not be for want of perseverance."


Fifty pounds, or even half of it, would make a
nice addition to his slender income, and without
some such help it would be impossible for him to do
much towards solving the Hardy mystery. He felt
encouraged by Furbey's opinion that he should be
able to do so well, but for the rest, the conversation
had been rather an unpleasant surprise. He was
disillusioned. He had thought that London
journalists were a class apart; that the men who
every morning weigh statesmen in the balance and
instruct the nation in its duties — who write as if
their judgment were faultless and their knowledge
unlimited — were of a morality beyond reproach, and
would rather perish than express opinions which
they did not entertain or advocate a cause in which
they did not believe. But if Furbey was right
their knowledge was empiricism, their morality a
fraud, and their opinions a pretence. He could not
credit it. Furbey was a cynic, and thought that
others were as destitute of professional honour as
himself. At any rate, if journalists were no better
than their kind they were surely no worse, and there
must be among them men who would scorn to say
what they did not think, and rather starve than
prostitute their pens for money and place.

A LARGE room on the first floor of a house in a
leading street of Geneva, known as " La Rue de la
Montague." Though lofty and well lighted, this
room is of somewhat barn-like aspect and barely
furnished. There is neither carpet on the floor nor
paper on the walls. In the centre is a big table
littered with unopened journals in various tongues.
In the neighbourhood of the windows are three
small writing-tables and as many chairs. What
the original colour of them may have been it would
be hard to say, but they are now black with ink
stains and polished with much usage.

At one of the tables sits a man busily writing ; as
it would seem from frequent references to a foreign
journal before him, translating. At another table
sits another man : with a big pair of scissors he
makes cuttings from an English newspaper and with
a big brush pastes them on a sheet of foolscap.
When he has done with the newspaper he drops it
on the floor, and as there are about fifty papers there
already he looks as if he were being gradually engulphed

in a sea of news, or preparing to make a
holocaust of himself, for a spark from the cigar he
is smoking would almost certainly set the pile in a
blaze.

The room is the sub-editors' den of the Helvetic
Keivs, and the two men are the sub-editors. For
some time neither of them looks up, the only sounds
heard being the scratching of the pen and the click
of the scissors. They are " making copy " with an
industry begotten of the consciousness that it is
wanted, and that they are rather behind with their
work.

A knock at the door.

"That will be Lud," says the scissors-and-paste
man. " Have you any copy ready, Oglethorpe ?
Entrez ! "

Whereupon there enters a stout, good-looking
young fellow in a drab blouse. He has a pleasant
smile and holds in his hand a number of printed
slips.

Honour, messieurs" says Lud, as he goes briskly
up to the scissors-and-paste man's desk.

This is what I have over, Mr. Delane," he says
in very fair English, at the same time showing his
slips.

Why, what a lot you have ! Chauncey's letter,
too, that Mr. Gribson said had to go in anyhow. My
eye, won't there be a row ! "

Another knock at the door, followed by the

entrance of the knocker, a tall, well set-up man, with
a game leg and a walking-stick.

After casting an angry glance at Lud, as the latter
withdraws, he greets the sub-editors with easy
familiarity and seats himself unceremoniously on
the big table.

The new-comer may be twenty-eight or thirty
years old; he has well-cut features and a healthy
complexion, albeit the squareness of his jaws and
the thinness of his lips, which are unadorned by
beard or moustache, give him a somewhat hard,
and, at times, a cynical expression. His brown hair
is closely cropped, and his general appearance that
of a man who has undergone military training.

Any news ? " he says, drawing a cigar-case from
his pocket. " I'll thank you for a light, Delane."

Nothing very important, I think. Have you
brought any copy with you ? "

"Of course I have ; that is what I came for.
Here it is. Give it to Lud yourself. If he mauls
any more of my copy, as he did last week, I'll wring
his neck for him."

I would not try anything of that sort on if I
were you, Corse. Lud is a sturdy fellow, and not so
much to blame as you think. His compositors don't
know a word of English, remember."

'^ I know that ; but you forget that I both corrected
the proof and looked over the revise. If the
mistake had occurred in the text I should not have

cared ; but to see an article you have taken pains
with headed * A Remarkable Rope,' instead of * A
Remarkable Pope,' is more than flesh and blood can
stand. I cannot go to the Cafe du Roi without
somebody asking me if I have not got a bit of that
remarkable rope in my pocket. Nothing will persuade
me that Lud did not do it on purpose, and, by
gad, I'll be even with him. Has the new boy come ? ''

"You mean Blaine. He was to come last
night, but I have not seen him yet. I suppose he
would first pay his respects to Leyland and Mayo in
the office below."

Do you know anything of him ? "

Nothing ; except that he has been on a country
paper."

'* They should have given me that place."

You don't know German, and they want somebody
who does'*

Grerman is not so necessary as they make out,
and I would have undertaken to learn it, and I know
Italian. But Mayo is no friend of mine, nor Gribson
either."

Hush ! that is Gribson's step on the stairs."

Whereupon Delane betakes himself to his scissors
and paste, Corse becomes absorbed in a copy of the
Journey de Lacustrie, and silence reigns once more.
The next moment the door opens again and the
editor-inches, followed by Blaine, advances into
the room.

VOL. I. 9

Let me introduce you to your new colleague —
Mr. Blaine," he says, after an exchange ot
greetings.

Whereupon Alfred is presented in form to Delane
and Oglethorpe and to Mr. Corse, " one of our contributors."


Any letters for me ? " asks the editor.

You will find several in your room," says Delane.

Has Lud plenty of copy ? "

Enough for the present, and we are making
more. What time will your leader be ready, Mr.
Gibson ? "

"I have not thought of a subject yet. About
six o'clock, I hope. Will you step this way, Bal-maine
? '*

As the editor spoke he opened an inner door,
which led into his own sanctum. It was much
better furnished than the sub-editors' apartment.
The chairs, as well as Mr. Gibson's desk, were of
mahogany ; there was a well-filled bookcase, and,
ranged in a long rack, were files of the Helvetic
News and of several English and other journals.

"I am glad you called on me first," said the
editor, a big-boned middle-aged man, with an intelligent
and kindly, though not very well favoured
face, as he glanced through his letters. " It is
always pleasant to be introduced than to introduce
yourself. You were not aware, I suppose, that we
had got a second sub-editor ? "

'' Xo ; the last I heard was that you were short-handed."


So we were. Delane and I had to do all the
work, and at the best I have my hands quite full.
This is a very arduous position, Mr. Blaine —
a very arduous position, full of anxiety; and the
worst of it is that I hardly ever get a moment's
leisure, — so very much to do." (Alfred thought of
Furbey.) " Xow you have come I shall not be so
tied. But I have not told you about Oglethorpe.
He came here a fortnight since, poor devil, begging
for something to do. I felt really sorry for him and
persuaded Leyland and Mayo to let me try him as
second sub-editor, at thirty francs a week — that is
all he gets — thirty francs a week. And he is really
working very well, translates with facility, and
seems to have that journalistic instinct without
which nobody can become a pressman worth his salt,
let his other qualifications be what they may.
And now about your own work. You will look
through the Grerman and the Grerman-Swiss
papers and turn into English whatever you may
find suitable, boiling down or padding out at your
own discretion. You have studied the paper, of
course ? "

Of course, Mr. Gribson."

Well, you will see the style of thing we want.
The details — the make-up of the paper and so forth
you had better leave to Mr. Delane ; he is a very

9*

clever young fellow and I want you to work with
him. You understand ? "

*' Perfectly."

And do you think you will be able to do me an
occasional leader or leaders ? "

I think so. I will do my best."

'• Thank you. It would be a great relief. You
have DO idea how much I have to do. When you
see your way to a subject let me know. As to
politics, we ought to be neutral, but at present our
proclivities are Liberal."

*' At present ? " said Blaine with a smile.

Yes," returned the editor gravely. " I said it
advisedly, for a short time ago our proclivities were
Conservative, and for ought I know they may be
Conservative again. T^eyland and Mayo, our proprietor
and his manager, are sometimes parish up
this is, of course, in confidence, though you will
probably find it out soon enough yourself — and
require financial help. In plain English, they have
to raise the wind, and we trim our political sails so
as to catch, or shall I say encourage, the favouring
breeze. We are trimming just now. Our financial
ally — I ought almost to say co-proprietor, for I am
by no means sure that he has not bought a share —
Is an American banker, who lately opened an ofiSce
here and is carrying all before him — a man of
immense energy. He is a Liberal — all Americans
are, I think — and for that reason we are rather

patting Liberalism on the back. Three months ago
we were doing the other thing."

I understand," said Alfred gravely, though
inwardly much amused ; '• and yourself, Mr. Gibson,
are you Conservative or Liberal ? "

Neither, or both — just as you like to put it. In
other words, I am a Liberal-Conservative, and I
make a point of avoiding extremes. It is bad policy
for a paper like ours to take strong party views.
However, as we make a speciality of social and continental
subjects, you will have plenty of scope without
touching on politics, and I shall do all the
political leaders myself."

I think that is about all I have to say at
present," resumed the editor, wetting his pen and
shuffling his " copy " paper, as if he had hit upon a
suitable subject for a leader and was anxious to
begin. " There is no hurry about seeing Leyland
and Mayo to-day ; I will introduce you to them tomorrow.
By-the-bye, I forgot to ask you how Kit
was looking. I have not seen him for an
age."

Kit ? "

I mean my kinsman, Kit Furbey."

I thought he was looking very well, and he
seemed to be in excellent spirits."

And well he may be. He makes a capital thing
out of that letter-writing business, and with very
little exertion, too. I wish I had such a nice

easy job. Did he say anything about law and
lawyers ? "

Eather. He said a good deal."

Denounced all lawyers as rogues and vagabonds,
and called English law an ungodly tangle, didn't
he ? " said Gribson with a laugh. " He always does ;
do you know why ? "

I suppose because he thinks so."

ti Very likely he does ; but he did not always. It
is not very long since he wanted to be a barrister
himself. After eating a lot of dinners and paying a
lot of fees, he got ignominiously plucked — twice
over. What could you expect? He would not
work, and when he wanted his fees back — something
like forty pounds, I think — they would not
give 'em him. And now he never loses an opportunity
of abusing lawyers and all their works.
Eather absurd, you know, for everybody knows
about the plucking. Still, Kit is a very decent
fellow, and always ready — God bless me, what is
that?"

That " was a tremendous uproar in the next
room, whither the editor, followed by Blaine,
excitedly rushed. Delane had set his newspapers
in a blaze, and he and Oglethorpe were trying to
stamp the fire out, looking, as they danced among
the flames, like a couple of lunatics. Corse was
making play with his stick, but taking care, as
Alfred noticed, not to go near enough to hurt

himself. Gribson trampled among the burning
embers like a hero, and his feet being of abnormal
size, the fire was soon got under, but not until
the pile of journals had been reduced to charred
morsels.

Now, look 'here, Deane*' said Gribson, as soon
as he recovered his wind, '* no more smoking, if you
please ; at any rate, when you are making copy.
It is a wonder you were not burnt to death. Send
for the boy to clear up the mess."

Delane looked very wild and a good deal scared.
He could hardly be more than twenty, and was
decidedly good-looking — curly black hair and a
silky moustache, a dark oval face, and deep blue
eyes with long lashes. Oglethorpe was at least ten
years older, light-complexioned and lantern-jawed,
and his long serious face was so rarely relaxed by a
smile that Delane, who, like so many other journalists,
was an Irishman, had christened him the
Knight of the Rueful Countenance."

A dear smoke, that," said Delane, looking sadly
at his foot gear as Gibson withdrew to his own
room. " Spoiled me a new pair of boots. They
cost me eighteen francs only last week. That would
keep me in Veveys fins for a twelvemonth — four a
penny, aren't they, Corse ? "

You ought to know better than I," returned
Corse, rather sneeringly. *' I never smoke them."

'' I beg your pardon. I was forgetting you were

a swell, and smoked nothing under a penny. I hope
your cane is no worse. I saw you pottering about
with it," said Delane with a smile.

Pottering about with it ! Why, if I had not
scattered the paper with my stick you would not
have been able to put the fire out with your feet.
But you look thirsty, and I feel half stifled. Come
and have a drink."

"Won't I just! I Will you bear us company,
Blaine ? All right ; come along. I shall be
back in ten minutes, Oglethorpe, and there is
enough copy for the present."

Core.

CoRFE ordered absinthe. Blaine and his colleague
drank beer.

How do you like Greneva ? " Delane asked.

Alfred said he liked it very well ; and well he
might. The cafe garden in which they sat commanded
a magnificent prospect. On one side of
them, far away, towered the storm-swept peaks of
the Pennine Alps, on the other rose the wood-crowned
heights of the purple Jura, while, almost
at their feet, flowed swiftly the arrowy and amethystine
Rhone, bearing on its bosom the tribute of a
thousand glaciers. Hard by was a broad boulevard,
fringed with trees and lined with handsome
shops, the windows of most of them resplendent
with gold and precious stones. People were sitting
under awnings outside the cafes, sipping coffee and
absorbing ices, and the streets, though sufficiently
thronged to be lively, were not unpleasantly
crowded. What a change from Calder ! Blaine
could hardly believe that a week had not yet elapsed
since he left home. And a corresponding change

had been wrought in his spirits ; never since his
father's death had he felt so free from care and so
full of hope.

*' Is this your first visit to Switzerland ? " asked
Corse, as he carelessly sipped his absinthe.

Not only that ; it is my first visit to the Continent."


*you are like me, I think, not much of a
traveller," put in Delane. " I had never been on
the Continent before I landed at Calais on my way
here. I suppose you have spent half your life on
the Continent, Corse ? "

A good deal of it, at any rate," said Corse, complacently,
as if to spend half one's life in foreign
countries was something to be proud of.

** Do you prefer it to England ? "

That depends on circumstances. If I had ten
thousand a year, I should probably prefer England ;
but as I have a good deal less than ten thousand
shillings, I prefer the Continent. You can get far
more enjoyment out of life on a little abroad than
you can at home. I wonder poor people don't emigrate
from England en masse, by gad ! "

"That would be a bad job for the rich, though'*
observed Delane, " they would have neither servants
nor tenants."

'' Serve 'em right."

'« Why, Corse, I thought you were a Conservative
! "

If I were rich I probably should be, but being
poor, I ani naturally a Eat," returned Corse, with a
pleasant, almost gay laugh, which showed a set of
strong white teeth. " But, really, I have been so
long abroad that I have ceased to take any interest
in home politics.

At this moment a white-faced little man, with
little black eyes, came up, and, after making a profound
salute, exchanged a few words with Corse in
Italian.

'* You know Italian, then," said Blaine, when
the newcomer was gone.

I should do," replied Corse. " I received half
my education in Italy. Yes, I think I know Italy
and the Italians better than I know England and
the English. And I like the life there. Geneva is
all very well, but give me Florence or Milan, Naples
or the Baths of Lucca."

The Baths of Lucca ? " said Blaine. " What
are they like ? "

The mention of the place made him think of the
lost Hardyss. It was at Lucca that Philip Hardyss
had negotiated several of his largest drafts.

Lucca is an awfully nice place, I can tell you.
We used always to go there for the season ; my
father goes there still."

How long is that ago, j\Ir. Corse ? "

Why, were you ever there ? "

Have I not just said that this is my first visit

to the Continent ? I take a great interest in
Italy, and long intensely to see it, though."

"I almost forget how long it is since I was last
at Lucca — perhaps ten years. But we used to
live there part of every year. Per Banco I I wish
I was there now."

If you like Italy so much, why don't you go
back there ? " Delane asked.

For a very good reason ; because I am under
the necessity of living, though, 'pon my word, I
often think it is not worth the trouble. And if
life is easy in Italy, it is far from easy to make a
living there. Greece is not a bad country, but it
has the same fault."

You have been in Greece, then ? " said Blaine.

Yes ; 'Hellas is one of the countries I have
lived in. Egypt is another. I am a rolling stone,
Mr. Blaine, a fact which probably accounts for
my having gathered so little moss. It is your
stop-at-homes who make money."

I must not stop here any longer, though," exclaimed
Delane, rising from his seat, " or I shall
make no copy. I suppose we shall have nothing
from you for a few days, Blaine ? "

"Mr. Gribson said there was no hurry, that I
might take a day or two before buckling to ; and I
must look out for lodgings. But I don't like being
idle, and as Mr. Gibson has so much to do, I must
do my best to help him."

** He said so, did he ? " asked the sub-editor,
with a significant smile. '^ I wish — however, you
will see for yourself. As for lodgings, I think I
can put you in the way of finding a pension that
will suit you. Can you look in at the office about
nine o'clock to-night, and I will take you to my
place ? Madame Richard will find you quarters on
reasonable terms."

Alfred thanked Delane for his offer, and agreed to
meet him as proposed, whereupon the latter, who had
outstayed his ten minutes by half-an-hour, ran back
to his work.

I live quite alone," said Corse. *' I have a
room for which I pay fifteen francs a week, and
I cook my own breakfast. My other meals I get
at first one place, then at another. It is quite as
cheap, and I don't like pensions. You have to pay
for your dinner whether you eat it or not, and
you get the same dishes and meet the same
people every day. But you may perhaps prefer it ;
chacun a son gout, you know. If Madame Richard
asks you too much, try my plan. I know where
you can get a good room for fifteen francs, perhaps
less, if economy is an object with you ? "

Alfred said that economy was very much an object
with him. He thought it best to make no
disguise on that score, but he observed that, before
trying Corse's plan, he would like to see what
Madame Guichard could do for him.

I guessed as much," went on Corse, *' economy
is an object to everybody on the Helvetic, I think,
except the swells — Leyland, Mayo and Gribson.
But as for us moneyless folks, we are beggars ; weare
even worse — we are slaves. For what is a man,
placed between the alternatives of work which he
detests and starvation, but a slave ? "

At that rate," replied Alfred with a laugh, " weare
all slaves, and slavery is a condition of life.
But, for my part, I see no hardship in work."

You misunderstand me. I said work which you
detest. There are some sorts of work I like — writing
for the Helvetic, for instance — though they do give
me [so little for it. But I hate giving lessons. I
can make my copy when and where it pleases me ;
but teaching must be done at the time appointed,
whether you are in the humour or not ; and it is
always the same infernal round. Pupils are so
awfully stupid, too, and mine being mostly grownup,
I cannot relieve my feelings by telling them so.

Oh, I did not know you gave lessons."

I am obliged, or you may be sure I would not.
It is a case of force majeure, Mr. Blaine. Won't
you have another glass of beer ? No ! Well, then,
if you have nothing particular to do, I will show
you a few of our principal buildings and streets, so
that you may know your way about."

The offer was accepted, and the two walked about
for an hour or more. Corse talking pleasantly about

the countries he had visited and the people he had
met. Before they separated Blaine accepted an
invitation to "take a bit of supper" with him on the
following Saturday evening.

Alfred did not quite^know what to make of Corse.
Gibson and Delane he liked, and felt sure that he
should find in them agreeable colleagues ; but Corse
was less easily read, and his cynical remarks, an
occasional hardness of tone, and an indefinable
something in his manner, made Blaine suspect
that he was selfish, and might be insincere. But he
could be extremely pleasant when he liked, and it
was possible that he might improve on further
acquaintance. He was a likely man, too, having
been so much ' in Italy, to ask about the missing
Hardyss. But that would come later ; it was too
soon yet to begin making inquiries.

THE PENSION Richard.

After dining at his hotel — a very modest one, near
the station — Blaine strolled over the Pont du
Mont Blanc to the Jardin Anglais and listened to
the martial music of a band while the sun went
down behind the Jura and the crescent moon rose
above the Savoyard hills. The scene was lovely, the
time be twitching and propitious for thought ; and if
it had not been for a neighbouring clock striking
nine his appointment with Delane might have been
forgotten.

A few minutes later he was at the office of the
Helvetic News. He found the sub-editor all by
himself reading proofs.

All right," said Delane, when he saw Alfred, " I
have just finished. Here comes the boy for the
last slips. Gibson went away an hour ago. He
always hooks it when he has seen a pull of his
leader — sometimes before — and Oglethorpe is let off
evening duty in consideration of coming so soon in
the morning. He does the telegrams, you know —
cribs them from the Journal de Lacusfrief an

ingenious arrangement which renders it unnecessary
for Leyland to subscribe to the Agency Lavas."

The Pension Richard was on the edge of a
green in the outskirts of the town — a low, old-fashioned
house, in a little old-fashioned garden,
which, for some not very obvious reason, was below
the level of the road. You had to go down to it
by steps. In the middle of the garden was a large
mulberry-tree, and the stuccoed front of the house
was covered with a trailing grape-vine. When
Blaine returned-to the Pension on the following
day, he saw that the garden stood in sore need of
weeding, and the woodwork of paint.

As Delane opened the door, their noses were
greeted with an odoriferous smell of roast meat
and onions, with a dash of garlic and old clothes.

We are just in time for supper," said the subeditor.


As they take their seats in the little salle a
manger, half-a-dozen pensionnaires file into the
room. One, as Delane whispers to Blaine, is a
Polish prince ; another an Italian count ; a third a
German baron. Alfred had never been in such
aristocratic company before. There are also three
ladies — one youthful and not ill-looking, one
moustached and middle-aged, one very old, with
painted cheeks, false teeth, and a most palpable
wig. The conversation was, naturally, in French,
and Blaine had a difficulty in following it ; for,
VOL. I. 10

146 Her TWO MILLIONS.

though he read it with ease, and wrote it fairly,
his ear had not yet become attuned to the music
of the language, and he expressed himself with
difficulty. But the three men talked so loudly and
incessantly that even if he could have spoken with
facility he would not have found it very easy to
make himself heard.

They are a queer lot," whispered Delane ; " they
carry on like that every night, and sometimes make
such an infernal noise that anybody outside might
think they were Irishmen waking a corpse. There
are two or three others, but they are out, and there
are changes pretty nearly every week. It is no use
telling you their names — you would forget them in
five minutes ; but, if you decide to come, I'll introduce
you in form. It is not a first-class pension,
by any means, but it is cheap and clean, and that's
more than you can say of some pensions that are
the reverse of cheap."

The supper, though composed of several courses,
was very simple and quickly despatched. A vegetable
soup, some boiled meat, which neither Delane
nor Alfred could christen, and baked veal made
three dishes, spinach a la heure made a fourth,
and for sweets they had stewed prunes. Everybody
drank wine; but this, as the sub-editor informed
Blaine, was an extra, and not included in the
pension price.

When the prunes appeared, and the men began

to smoke, Delane introduced Alfred to the landlady.
Madame Richard was a stalwart, rosy-cheeked,
middle-aged Vaudois. She did nearly all
the household work with her own hands, and had
both cooked the supper and served it ; that was the
reason why she could not see Alfred sooner. Delane
inquired if she could give his friend a bedroom. Perfectly
; she would do anything to .oblige a friend of
M. Delane. She had a pretty little chamber, overlooking
the garden, altogether at the disposition of
Monsieur. Would they give themselves the trouble
to mount on high and look at it ? So up they
went, Madame leading the way, and discoursing
with much animation on the manifold advantages
offered by her pension — its salubrious situa ion,
vast garden, and its contiguity to the common.
And then its quietness for men of letters, like Monsieur
Delane and his friend, could not be too highly
extolled. They might write all day long without
being disturbed by a single discordant sound. As
for the bedroom, it was simply delightful — there
was hardly such another chambre che jargon in all
Geneva. The bed in so charming a little alcove,
the window so nicely draped, the floor so brightly
waxed, the little secretaire, which would be so convenient
for the writing of Monsieur. What could
one wish for better ? It was a bedroom and a
workroom rolled into one.

The room will do, though it might be bigger,"

10*

observes Blaine ; " but how about the
terms ? "

Madame, with Swiss keenness, guesses what Bal-maine
is saying, and smiles pleasantly.

"I will make Monsieur very favourable conditions,"
she says. " For the sleeping chamber, which
is good enough for his Highness the Prince of Wales,
and the pension of two repasts daily, the use of the
salon and the enjoyment of the garden — everything
comprised save wine and candles, I ask Monsieur
only the insignificant sum of four francs. If Monsieur
had not been introduced by M. Delane, for
whom I have a perfect esteem, I should be obliged
to charge five francs or, at any rate, four francs
fifty."

Delane opens his eyes with astonishment.

Four francs a day, without a second breakfast !
You forget that M. Blaine will get his second
breakfast in town. Four francs is much too much."

But it is such a charming bedroom," pleads
Madame. " It is really the best chamber in the
pension, and Monsieur will have the enjoyment of
the garden (it was about thirty feet square), and
though nourishment is so frightfully dear, I keep a
good table, as Monsieur has seen. No, M. Delane,
I cannot accept Monsieur for less than four francs."

I shall not let him pay a centime more than I
pay, Madame Guichard," answers Delane resolutely,
and that is three francs fifty."

But your chamber is au troisieme ; that makes
a great difference."

Well, give me a room on the third floor also,"
puts in Blaine. " I think I would rather be a
little higher up ; it will be ever so much
pleasant."

But, sirs, unfortunately I have not a chamber
au troisieme free."

"In that case Monsieur must look for lodgings
elsewhere, Madame Richard. I am very sorry, but
it is impossible for him to pay so much as four
francs."

Oh, but he must not go elsewhere," exclaims
Madame eagerly. "I do not like to separate
friends ; and though it is a great sacrifice I will
make a little diminution. I will consent to take
three francs fifty if Monsieur, on his part, will
consent to pay a franc a week for service."

I think that will do, Blaine," says Elaine,
twenty two francs a week, all comprised, except
wine and candles, is not bad. You will not do
better, I am sure."

All right," replies Alfred, " I agree."

We are in accord then ? " asks the landlady
with a smile of satisfaction. " It is a thing
agreed."

It is a thing agreed," answers Blaine, and it
was arranged that he should take possession of his
room on the following morning.

I don't think I should come to the office this
week if I were you," said Delane as he walked with
Alfred across La Plaine. " This is Thursday ; on Saturday
there is nothing going on, and we might make
the tour of the lake. I can get ajpermis, so that it will
cost us nothing but our grub. What do you say ? "

I should be delighted, and I think I might.
Gibson said there was no need for me to begin work
for a day or two. But then he is so busy."

I know he is fond of saying so, but — well
then, look here, I have a happy thought. He does
nothing on Saturdays, of course, and likes to take it
easy on Sundays. You write a leader tomorrow,
and let him have the copy when he drops in during
the afternoon. He will be delighted, and you will
be secure in his good graces for ever."

As you say, a happy thought, and I will try to
profit by it ; but what on earth must I writeiabout ?
I am forbidden to touch on politics ; and if I were
not, my political opinions are not those of the
Helvetic News''

What does that matter ? " said Delane, in a
tone which implied that he did not quite see the
relevancy of Blaine's observation. "You can
easily fake up something. If you do not look in at
the office tomorrow, we shall, at any rate, meet at
Madame Richard's. Meanwhile I will get theperniis.'^

As Alfred wended his way homeward, he entered
into a mental calculation about ways and means.

His salary was to be seventy-five francs a week, equal
to three pounds, so, after deducting the pound he
had to send home, he would have just two to live
upon. His lodgings would cost him twenty-two
francs ; as he had to provide fire and lights, and
there might be other extras, it would not be safe to
call it less than twenty-five. Dinners in town and
odds and ends would run away with at least ten
francs more, so that for clothing, travelling, and
the unforeseen, he could not reckon on more than
fifteen francs — twelve shillings and sixpence a week
enough for his own personal wants, perhaps, and
he must cut his coat according to his cloth, but not
enough to make any long journeys in search of Vera
Hardy. Still, as he had a fairly stocked wardrobe
to start with, and three or four pounds in his pocket,
he might, by practising a rigid economy, possibly do
something, when he had got to know people better
and ascertained which way the land lay. For the
moment he could only watch and wait : later in the
season, if he could obtain a holiday, he would cross
the Helvetic Alps — if need be, on foot — and make
inquiries at every place about the Italian lakes and
in Upper Italy, which Philip Hardy's letters to his
father showed he had visited, provided he had the
wherewithal. In the meantime he would work very
hard at Italian, the study of which he had already
begun, and try to turn an honest penny by doing
something for one or other of the London papers.

Leland AND MAYO.

Mr. Leyland, the proprietor of the Helvetic News,
was a tall, good-looking man, with a heavy moustache,
dark hair — which he parted in the middle —
an imposing presence and a plausible tongue. He
neither wrote for the paper nor paid much attention
to the details of the business, but he was great at
giving orders, drawing cheques, entertaining people
of distinction, and giving the coup de grace to hesitating
advertisers ; yet he did not commit the error
of making himself too common, never interfering
unless " some big thing " was at stake, when his
grand manner and amazing statements about the
circulation of the paper were generally successful.
He was equally clever at raising the wind, and on
several occasions, when the paper seemed to be at
the last extremity, had contrived, by some bold
stroke or ingenious combination, to keep it on its
legs. His latest feat of the sort was persuading the
American banker mentioned by Gribson to take an
interest in the paper (albeit the fact was not generally
known), and grant the proprietor an almost
unlimited over-draft.

Mayo, Leyland's manager and second in command,
was a slightly built young fellow with sharp grey
eyes, blonde complexion, and a quick, vivacious
manner. He was full of fire and energy and as
industrious as Leyland was the reverse, conducted
all the business correspondence of the paper, looked
after the accounts, and kept his eye on everything.
Like his chief, he was nothing if not enterprising,
and their enterprise generally took the form of
spending money. If profuse outlay could ensure
success, then might the Helvetic Neivs count on a
brilliant future.

On the day after Blaine's first appearance in
the office, Leyland and Mayo were engaged in conversation
in the former's room — a handsome, luxuriously
furnished apartment, one side of which was
covered with a great map of Europe, the other
adorned with valuable engravings.

Has anything come in this morning ? " asks
Leyland, as he leans back in his fauteuil and lazily
smokes a fine Havana cigar.

Nothing to mention — orders for a thousand
francs from Parisian eight hundred from Baden."

Nothing from Bevis ? "

"I did not expect anything — he has only just
got to work."

Late, is he not ? "

Very. I have been urging him to start for a
month past, both by letter and telegram ; but when

he once gets down to that villa of his in the Elvira
he is hard to move, and whatever you say or do he
always takes his own time."

Always ; but for all that he is the best canvasser
we have."

Eather. I don't know what we should do
without him. I wish he was not quite so expensive,
though. I have just been looking up his
account, and his commission last year amounted to
fifteen thousand francs, and his travelling expenses
to eight."

Nearly a thousand pounds sterling — rather stiff
that. But he gets more advertisements than all
the other fellows put together, so we must not complain.
Where is he now ? "

*' At Florence. It is no use going farther south
at this time of the year — hardly any use going
even to Florence, I am afraid. Then by Milan and
Turin to the Italian lakes, Locarno and Bellinzona,
and over the Grot hard to Lucerne. Then he will do
the Bernese Oberland, call at Basel and Berne, and
be here, I expect, in about six weeks."

A good programme. He should do a lot of
business."

Sure to do. He always does. He has three of
the best qualifications for an advertising canvasser
a man can have — fine manners, ready tact, and
a tongue that would almost talk a knot out of a
tree, as Herman would say. I know nobody to be

compared with him, except you, Leyland — if you
would work."

1*11 take care I don't," answered Leyland with
a laugh. "I know a trick worth two of that,
Mayo. I would rather watch others work. That
reminds me, though I really don't see why it should,
that I had a question to ask about finance. How do
we stand with Harmans ? "

"Sixty thousand francs to our debit. Will they
stand it do you think ? "

What a question. Mayo I They have stood it,
or we shouldn't have got the money."

Will they let it stand, I should say ? "

What else can they do ? And if we want more
they will let us have it ; and the more we owe
them the safer we are. They cannot afford to pullus
up, and we cannot afford to pay them off."

*' That is quite true ; especially the latter," returned
Mayo with an amused smile, '' and I assure
you I never thought of anything so absurd as paying
them off. I only feared that they might possibly
bother us with questions and request us to
reduce the account."

Not they ; there is no reason why they should,
at any rate at present ; and I have got the length
of Eobert Herman's foot. He called last night."

About business ? "

"No; he wanted to introduce an American
general and his wife to our family circle, as he put

it; and we asked them all to dinner for next
Monday. By the way, have you seen the new
assistant editor yet? Herman was asking about
him."

Not yet. The fellow may be useful if he has
anything in him."

Of course he may, but now we have got Oglethorpe
we might have done without him."

That is true ; but don't you see what a pull it
gives us over Gibson ? This new fellow, Blaine,
will always be ready to step into the other's shoes ;
and, to tell the truth, I am getting rather out of
conceit with Gibson. He is lazy, his leaders are
stale, and Blaine would do the work for half his
screw."

I dare say. But you forgot that Gibson has a
three years' agreement."

No, I don't ; but it is a queer agreement that
one cannot get out of, and I have no doubt we shall
find a way of getting out of this when the time
comes. Halloa ! there's a whistle, put your ear to
the spout, Mayo."

"Mr. Eobert Herman would be glad to see Mr.
Leyland," says Mayo, still holding the tube to his
ear.

The next moment the door opens and in walks
the American banker. A large man all over — hair
long, hat tilted back on his head, eyes all aglow
with excitement, clean shaven fresh-coloured face

and an eager look, as if he had just conceived some
new idea and was burning to give it birth.

Grood day, gentlemen, good day," he exclaimed,
in a loud and hearty voice, shaking hands with both
Leyland and Mayo at the same time, "how is the
Helvetic News to-day ? "

First rate," says Leyland with his most urbane
smile. " We had several thousand francs
worth of advertisements this morning, and the
season is only just beginning. Now Bevis has got
to work we shall have as many every day."

Glad to hear it. Nothing like going a-head,
and you do go a-head, there is no mistake about
that, we cashed drafts yesterday that make your
account more than sixty thousand on the wrong
side."

So Mayo was saying just now," quietly
observes Leyland, " and to tell you the truth, I am
surprised it is not more. You have no idea what
the expenses of a daily paper are ; and we are only
just emerging from winter, which, as you know,
is our worst time, a great deal going out and very
little coming in. But now the tide is turning, and
in a few weeks we shall be flash. I dare say,
though, we shall have to ask you for another ten
thousand francs or so in the meantime."

The devil you will ! Well, draw it as mild as
you can, for though we want to give your
enterprise all the support in our power we are not

quite made of money, and I have partners. So far
as I am personally concerned I look on a daily
paper here as a grand fact, and the Helvetic Nemus,
properly worked, is destined, I do believe to become
a great power. It will help in the realisation of
my design to make Greneva the centre of
European travel for the English-speaking people of
three continents. We are adding a large news-room
and lounge to our offices, which will be open
free to all travellers. I want to get up a company
for building a Casino ; we will undertake to place
half the shares ; and I mean next summer but one
it is too late for this — to get up an international
boat-race on the lake here — between English and
American amateur crews, of course — and in the
autumn we must have both flat races and steeplechases
; and I am organizing a system of circular
notes and cosmopolitan credits that will place us incommunication
with every respectable banking
house in the civilized world. We must spare no
effort to attract attention to the place, and make it
so fashionable and attractive that no traveller can
feel that he has done the continent at all unless he has
spent a few days at Greneva. It is a big enterprise,
I know, but I am determined to carry it through,
and I attach great importance to your co-operation
and the influence of the Helvetic Xews.^^

All this was said with great energy and rapidity,
and almost in a breath.

"We will do all we can, you may be sure of
that"' Leyland answered warmly, " your interest is
our interest, more travellers mean more money-changing
for you, more subscribers and more
advertisements for us. You may count on our
hearty co-operation in all these schemes you have
been mentioning, Herman. The paper is always at
your disposal for paragraphs and articles — anything
you like, in fact. But then you must not talk of
stopping the tap, you know."

I was not talking of stopping the tap. I was
only asking you to draw it mild, and be as moderate
as you can. I am quite satisfied ; but our New
York and London houses may not se*^ matters in
precisely the same light, remember."

'• Halloa I the whistle again ; what is it, Mayo ? "

Mr. Gribson and Mr. Blaine would like to
know when they can see Mr. Leyland and Mr.
Mayo."

Say we are engaged, and tell them to come in
an hour."

Let them come in now," interposed the banker.
I have very little more to say, and I want to
speak to Gribson and make the acquaintance of his
new assistant."

So the newcomers were ushered into the room
and Blaine was introduced in due form to the
assembled trio, who gave him a gracious reception,
though Leyland's manner was marked by a certain

condescension, as if to signify to Alfred that the
proprietor of a newspaper was something very
different from its assistant editor."

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr.
Blaine," said the banker warmly. " I hope we
shall be good friends, and if you will let me, I may
sometimes profit by your literary skill. I have
bothered Mr. Gibson occasionally, but now, when 1
want an article put into shape, I shall come to you.
An editor-inches ought to write very little. His
business is to supervise others, revise what they
write and furnish them with ideas. Is not that so,
Gibson ? "

It is exactly what I have been saying ever since
I came here ; and I have no doubt that with Mr.
Blaine's help I shall be able to give more time
to the general supervision of the paper ; and I
hope we shall succeed in making it even brighter
and better than, as everybody admits, it is at
present."

That is hardly possible, I think, Gibson," said
Herman, the suspicion of a smile playing about the
corners of his mouth. " Considering the means at
your disposal, the Helvetic Neius is admirably
edited. And now I want all of you to lunch with
me — second breakfast they call it here — at my hotel
on Sunday. I mean the entire editorial staff, and
Mr. Leyland and Mr. Mayo. Can that be managed,
Gibson ? I mean with reference to the duties of

the paper, for you unfortunates have to work on
Sundays."

Gibson declared that it could be managed very
easily, and accepted the invitation on behalf of
Delane and Oglethorpe. Alfred accepted it on his
own, and it was accepted as a matter of course by
the manager and proprietor.

I like your Mr. Blaine," said Herman, when
the former and Gibson had taken their leave, " he
has a good face, and is of better breeding, I should
say, than either the chief or his subs."

Ye?, he seems a likely sort of chap ; I dare say
he will do," answered Leyland carelessly. ''I say,
Herman, it's awfully good of you to invite those
fellows to breakfast."

Not at all. I honour writers of every class,
and like to stand well with them."

*' That is all very well ; but I cannot say that I
honour newspaper writers much — I know too much
about them. They have no principles ; they write
anything you tell them. Take Blaine now; I
know absolutely nothing of him, but I would bet
my bottom dollar that I could make him write a
Tory leader one day and a Radical leader the
next."

I don't believe you could, Leyland ; he is not a
man of that sort, and I would back my opinion with
a bet if there were any way of bringing it to a
test."

VOL. 1. 11

Which at present there is not," said Leyland
half jestingly, " unless we become Conservative."

Which you won't," returned Herman, who did
not seem to appreciate the joke, " unless you want to
forfeit my support."

That settles the matter," laughed Leyland, " for
we don't want to forfeit your support ; anything but
that. And we will assume, if you like, that Blaine
is that phenomenal being, a journalist with principles."


You may say what you like about him," said
the banker, who appeared just a little huffed by the
other's chaff; "I have taken a fancy to that young
man, and, if he can write a smart letter, I will try
to throw something in his way."

Those are the three men who control the destinies
of the Helvetic Neius, and, to a certain extent, our
destinies," said Gibson to Alfred, when they were
outside ; " what do you think of them ? "

I will tell you when I know them better," was
Alfred's cautious answer ; " you cannot learn much
of people's character in a casual interview of a few
minutes. What do you think of them, Mr. Gribson ?
You have had far more opportunities of judging
them than I have."

That is quite true. Well, I will tell you my
opinion when you have had an opportunity of forming
yours."

Blaine had called at the office a few minute

previously to ask if lie would be wanted before
Sunday. Gibson replied in the negative, and, as we
have seen, took him below to pay his respects to the
proprietor and manager. As they passed through
the spacious and well appointed offices, Alfred noticed
with some surprise how large was the staff of clerk?,
all of whom seemed to be fully occupied ; but the
most prominent object was a huge thief-proof, fire-resisting
safe that could hardly fail to impress
casual visitors, paper merchants, type founders, and
others with a sense of the importance of the
Helvetic News, and of the vastness of the cash and
other securities that needed so much safe-guarding.

II*

ON THE LAKE.

In after years a great many things both grave and
gay befell Blaine ; but the impression of his first
sail round the lake remained ever green in his
memory. The day was perfect, the early morning
air fresh and elastic, the scene about the port striking
and animated. The shore lined with fresh-leaved
trees and handsome buildings, the quaint
houses of the old town, climbing up the heights
crowned by the grey towers of St. Peter and the
golden cupolas of the Russian Church — all was new
to him ; and although the picturesque never palls
on the lover of nature, the sense of novelty and the
gratification of long-cherished desires add piquancy
to enjoyment. The reality, too, exceeded his expectation.
The hour being early the Alps were not yet
visible, and on the rugged sides of the Jura were
reposing masses of cloud so white, so still, and inform
so fantastic and weird, that they might have
been vast snow-fields, icy crags, and tremendous
glaciers, blocking up the horizon and reaching high
as heaven. Yet, still as they seem, the clouds move.

They creep slowly up the gullies and roll back from
the pine forests, and then, between the white mass
and the dark back-ground, mountain and forest show
a tint of blue so deep and tender that it might
be one of heaven's own windows, or the way into
fairyland. Now to the south the morning glory is
retreating before the advancing day, and th<^ diademed
peaks of the Pennine Alps, emerging from a
silvery sea, stand revealed in all their beauty and fill
the sky with their majestic presence. A few minutes
later and all the vast stretch of country, from the
mountains of Savoy to the Dent du Midi, from the
snows of ^Nlont Blanc to the gorges of ]Mont Esculent,
is bathed in brilliant sunlight, and the crystal waters
of the lake sparkle like liquid diamonds in a setting
of azure.

The region round about is, moreover, rich in
historic associations. Westward, the Fort de Recluse
guards the famous pass, cleft un-numbered years ago
by the great Rhone glacier, and through which, by
comparison only the other day, the greatest of the
Caesar followed on the traces of the flying Helvetia.
At ilia and his Huns wasted the land with fire and
sword, Teutonic tribes marched along the shores of
the lake to the sack of Home, and the valley once
echoed to the tread of Napoleon's legions as they
marched to the conquest of Italy. Yet, charmed
with the beauty of the landscape as Blaine undoubtedly
was, and delighted as he might be with

the clearness of the sky and the serenity of the
weather, I would not aver that all these reflections
were suggested to his mind or that he gave
much heed to the historic associations of the
scene before him. For he had more companions
than he counted on, and was too much disturbed
with questions and exclamations to give himself upto
thoughts of the sublime or contemplation of the
beautiful.

In the Pension Richard, as the reader is already
aware, were three lady lodgers, each of whom, as
Alfred, when he took up his quarters there, speedily
learnt, bore the name of Yon Schmidt and represented
a distinct generation of that ancient and
respectable family. There were Madame von
Schmidt, the grandmother ; Madame Karl von
Schmidt, the mother ; and Mademoiselle von
Schmidt, the daughter. Being Germans, they
naturally all played on the piano. Madame von
Schmidt had been a teacher of music, Madame Karl
was a teacher of music, and Mademoiselle, a pretty
little blonde of seventeen, was learning to be a
teacher of music. Except early in the morning, before
the other lodgers went out, and in the evening
when they had come in, Madame Guichard's piano was
seldom silent, for when Madame Karl was not giving
lessons her daughter was generally practising with
preternatural energy. A distracted neighbour, who
stayed at home all day long and was writing a book.

had threatened Madame Guichard with an action ;
but Switzerland being a free country, she defied him,
and bade the Von Schmidt, with whom she was
very intimate, to play on.

On the Friday evening Delane told Alfred, in a
sheepish sort of way, that he had invited Madame
Karl and her daughter to go with them round the
lake.

Ii will not cost us anything," he said. " I have
got free tickets for all."

This announcement did not seem very greatly
to delight Blaine. He foresaw that he should
have to escort and entertain the elder lady, who
happened to have a very decided moustache, a very
loud voice, and rolled in her walk like a sailor,
while Mademoiselle would fall to the lot of the subeditor.


They are very nice," urged Delane deprecatingly,
and not too rich, and have to work hard all day
long. The trip will be a great pleasure for them
and do Mademoiselle a power of good ; she is looking
very pale, as you may have noticed."

It was impossible to resist the young fellow's
appeal. " By all means let them come," Alfred
said, *' and we will do our best to make the trip
pleasant for them."

It was pleasant for all. Madame and Mademoiselle
were in ecstasies of delight, and Alfred
found the elder lady a much more agreeable companion

than he had expected. Despite her
moustache and ungainly walk, she was a highly
cultivated woman, and had a frank matronly
manner, which at once engaged Blaine's liking,
and her story won his respect. He had already
heard something of it from Madame Gfuichard
and Delane. Her husband, much older than she,
was an Austrian officer of high rank, who had died
a few years previously at Vienna very much in debt,
owing to some unfortunate speculations in which he
had embarked. All that he possessed did not suffice
to discharge his liabilities, and Madame Karl found
herself utterly destitute, with her old mother and
a young daughter absolutely dependent on her. A
brilliant pianist, she might possibly have earned
a livelihood in the Austrian capital by giving
lessons, but the humiliation was greater than she
could bear, and, having a few friends at Geneva,
she went thither and set up us a teacher of music.
Her undoubted ability soon brought her some good
paying pupils, and she was earning an income that
would have made them very comfortable had she
not thought it her duty to pay off her husband's
debts. All that remained, after providing for their
modest wants, was, every quarter, remitted to his
creditors at Vienna.

"As I helped my poor husband to spend his
money," she said, '* it is only right that I should
help to pay his debts."

And then she spoke of her life in Austria, Milan,
and other places.

So you have not only visited Italy, but lived
there ? " asked Alfred.

"Certainly. During the occupation we lived in
Northern Italy many years. Ida, my daughter, was
born at Venice."

It struck Blaine that Madame Karl could, perchance,
give him some information about the
Hardyss. She was evidently a woman whom he
might trust, and he proceeded to give her an outline
of the case, without, however, saying anything
very definite about the fortune. It was not necessary
that he should, and both Wanton and Artful
had warned him that to make much noise about it
would almost certainly bring forth false claimants.

Madame Karl listened to the tale with great interest.
" I wish I could help you," she said ; " but
I don't think I ever heard of this man ; at any rate,
under the name of Hardy. It is not likely that I
should. I was on the other side, you know."

If he was taken prisoner or executed, I thought
you might possibly have heard some mention of
him."

It is not likely, there were so many of them ;
and if I did, I have forgotten. If we had not been
turned out of Italy, I have no doubt I could find
out whether he was taken by the Austrians. You
may, however, be sure of one thing — he is not in

prison now. Why should our Government care to
keep Italian prisoners after we left the country?
They were all released."

That is a new light," answered Alfred musingly.
I never thought of that before ; it knocks Mr. Artful's
theory on the head. Well, if Philip: Hardy is
not in prison where can he be ? "

"Dead, I should say," returned Madame Karl
promptly ; " conspirators and soldiers of fortune
have short lives, and your Monsieur Hardy appears
to have been both. But why don't you ask Colonel
Be vis ? If anybody can tell you he can."

« Who is Colonel Bevis ? "

Why, don't you know ? It is he who keeps
the Helvetic Neivs going — the best advertisement
canvasser, they say, on the Continent. He has
served in the British army, I think. At any rate,
he was one of Garibaldi's men, and deeply implicated
in every revolutionary movement in Northern
Italy."

How did he come to be an advertisement canvasser
? "

By being poor, I suppose. Men like him
generally are poor. We cannot always choose our
destinies, or I should not be a music mistress.
He is very fortunate in having secured such a
position. ]M. Delane says that he makes very
much money, and he spends his winters in the
Riviera and in Italy, and his summers in Switzerland

and South Germany. It is, perhaps, not so
fine a thing to be a canvasser as to command a
regiment, but I am sure Colonel Bevis is better off
now than when he was organizing secret societies
in Lombardy and Venice, or fighting with the Need
Shirts in Naples. He is the man for you ; he knows
Italy well. So does 31. Corse ; but I would rather
speak to the Colonel if I were you."

I am much obliged to you for suggesting the
idea, Madame von Schmidt, and I shall certainly
profit by it ; but you do not tell me where I shall
find this remarkable colonel-canvasser. Is he in
Greneva ? "

"Not at all; he is probably on a journey. I
dare say M. Delane will tell us."

Delane, who was promenading round the deck
with Ida, being called, informed them that Colonel
Bevis was travelling, and would no doubt, in accordance
with his usual custom, be at Greneva some time
during the summer.

And then the subject dropped, and Blaine
occupied himself with contemplating the scenery,
while Delane and Ida resumed their walk round
the deck.

Journalism is a very honourable profession, M.
Blaine," observed Madame Karl, apropos of
nothing in particular.

Unquestionably," answered Alfred.

*' But not a very profitable one, I fear."

I beg your pardon, Madame Karl, for some
people it is very profitable."

Ah, yes, but not for such people as you and our
friend, M. Delane."

Not at present, perhaps ; but there is no telling
what the future has in store for us, and Delane
is a very clever young fellow, I think."

The future ! No, as you say, there is no telling
what the future has in store for us. You think
it has something good — young people always do —
but those who are verging on fifty know that it
must have some evil, and may have much. Make
the most of your youth, M. Blaine ; it will not
last too long. Do you know I am rather anxious
about Ida ? "

Why ? She looks very well."

And so she did, for though she was rather petite
and her face somewhat too broad, Ida, with her
flaxen hair, dreamy blue eyes, cream white neck
and pink cheeks dii not come very far short of being
an ideal Teutonic beauty.

She looks very well," repeated Alfred.

*' Yes, the child is pretty, is she not ? " said the
mother, proudly, " but she is excited and flushed
now. Poor girl, I can neither give her a dot
nor leave her a fortune, so she must work — perhaps
I make her work too hard. But she is very
clever and ardent, and besides singing and the
piano she learns the modern languages, so she is

sure to get her living, don't you think so, M.
Blaine ? "

Very sure, I should say ; and with that face of
hers, and so many accomplishments, she is sure
to get a husband."

So much more reason why she should learn
to make money, M. Blaine," returned Madame
Karl, with rather a bitter laugh, " she may have
to keep her husband — some women have — or to
pay his debts. I was a music mistress's daughter,
and teaching music myself, when General von
Schmidt — he was captain then — became my husband.
It was a love match, though to look at me now you
wouldn't think so. But what would have become
of us if I had not been able to turn an honest
penny ? "

Alfred inferred from this conversation, and even
more from Madame Karl's manner, that she had
some fear that] Delane and her daughter might
become too fond of each other. The vigilance
with which she watched them was amusing; she
seldom let them go beyond earshot, never out of
sight.

herman's breakfast.

Corse's supper was a decided success ; none the
less so, perhaps, owing to its somewhat Bohemian
character, for his rooms were on the third floor of
a ramshackle shabby-looking house, in an unfashionable
quarter, and his guests were far from
belonging to the crane de la crcrae of Genevan
society. They were very merry fellows, however,
and one of them, whom from his long dishevelled
hair and generally harum-scarum appearance Alfred
took to be an artist, kept the table in a roar.
Corse did the part of host to perfection, sang a
good song to his own accompaniment on a guitar,
told some excellent stories, and his manner was as
genial and agreeable as it had been unpleasant
and repelling on the day Blaine first met him.
He seemed to be quite another man, yet the hard
lines about the mouth, and a fleeting frown that
once or twice overshadowed his face, showed that
he had it in him to be as cynical and ill-humoured
as he was now amiable and good-tempered.


What do you think of Corse ? " asked Alfred
of Delane, as they walked home together across
the plain. " He rather puzzles me."

He puzzles everybody, I think. He was very
nice to-night, wasn't he ? He has two quite opposite
humours, and you have seen him now in
both. I sometimes think that he is one of those
fellows who have missed their tip somehow, and
come down in life. And that's what Gibson says,
and Gibson is uncommonly shrewd. He says if
ever he saw a disappointed, discontented man,
that man is Corse. All the same, some people
like him and speak well of him, and in spite of
his ill-temper and that, I fancy he is a very good
fellow at bottom. Only he is very ready to take
offence, and when he falls out with anybody he
lets 'em have it hot."

"You think he is a sort of man that one ought
to keep on good terms with, then ? "

I am sure."

Well, then, I will try to keep on good terms
with him, and if he continues to be half as amiable
as he showed himself to-night I shall have no
difficulty."

Herman's breakfast was not nearly so pleasant
as Corse's supper. The wines were exquisite and
the viands everything that could be desired ; but
the meal was intolerably long, and as the banker,
Leyland, Mayo, and Gibson kept the conversation

pretty much to themselves, and Delane and Oglethorpe,
awed by the presence of their superiors,
never opened their mouths, except to eat and drink,
Blaine did not find it very lively, and felt ita
decided relief when the senior sub-editor, speaking
for the first time, suggested that it was about
time they went to the office.

Indeed it is," said Gibson in a rather thick
voice, for he 'had taken very kindly to his wine;
why it is actually after three o'clock. I must go
too and get my leader done. I shall be over ina
few minutes, Delane. I will just stay and finish
this cigar."

If you think this suitable," observed Alfred in
an undertone, drawing some " copy " from his
pocket, " it may perhaps save you the trouble of
writing a leader. It is an article on the Eastern
Question."

"Thank you very much," returned the editor
with a gratified smile ; " will you let me cast my
eye over it for a moment ? "

"It will do very well, Mr. Blaine" (turning
over the leaves); "just the thing we want — crisp,
lively, and not too long. You can let Lud have
it. But you need not go just yet. If Lud gets
the copy in an hour it will be quite time
enough."

"Yes, stay a few minutes longer," put in Har-man,
who had overheard the conversation, " anti

won't you take another cigar? I have something
to say to you."

Thus pressed Alfred took another cigar and resumed
his seat, and the banker, after a few indifferent
remarks, asked him if he would like to
sprite some letters for an American paper. Alfred
said he should very much like to write some
letters for an American paper.

'' I thought so," said the banker. *' Well, you
call at my office tomorrow about eleven and I
will introduce you to the editor of a paper at
Pitsburg, who, I think, on my recommendation,
will be glad to make an arrangement with you."

Blaine replied that nothing would give him
greater pleasure, and shortly afterwards he took
his leave and betook himself to the office of the
Helvetic News.

During the week that followed Alfred got fairly
into harness, and for some time afterwards his
life, so far as appeared, was regular and uneventful.
So far as appeared, because, as a matter of
fact, no life can be really uneventful. Every day
brings its incidents, and, though we know it not,
any one of them, even the most commonplace, maybe
big with fate. What, for instance, can be more
ordinary than going to bed and getting up, admiring
a landscape or watching a sunset ? yet we must
all, sooner or later, go to bed and get up for the last
time, and take our last view of earth and sky. A
VOL. I. 12

casual introduction to a stranger may lead to momentous
consequences, and a chance meeting in a railway
carriage form a turning point in a man's destiny.

But though Blaine settled down to steady
work, and the days went on unmarked by any
startling event, his life at Greneva was decidedly
interesting. If there had been nothing else he
would have found amusing occupation for his leisure
in studying the characters of the people he met,
and watching the little intrigues and comedies that
were always going on about him. At the office
there was jealousy between upstairs and down, for
the clerks were allowed to canvass for advertisements,
and paid a commission of twenty-five percent,
on all they obtained ; the sub-editors were not,
and this was a sore grievance with Oglethorpe and
Delane. Gribson was both able and shrewd ; but,
as Alfred soon found out, he liked to take things
very easy, and make-believe that he worked very
hard. Delane, wiio was full of energy, did more
real work in a day than the chief did in a week.
He did not do much before you came," the sub
one day observed to Blaine, " now he does next
to nothing."

This was quite true. There were at least three
days a week on which Gribson did not write a line
for the paper — did nothing, in fact, but answer a
few letters and look over a few proofs.

Between ourselves," went on Delane, " I don't

think it was very 'cute of him to let you come at
all ; there really isn't work for more than three, and
being by far the best paid of the lot, if there should
be a change, he is the most likely to have to go.
At any rate I should think so."

How much has he ? "

Three hundred and fifty francs a week."

Fourteen pounds."

Yes ; nearly twice as much as you, me, and
Oglethorpe get, all put together. Isn't it a shame ?
I have no respect either for Leyland or Mayo : they
are unmitigated ruffians, both of them."

If they are such a bad lot why don't you leave
them ? " asked Alfred, who began to think that he
had got into rather queer company.

Because I don't want to. The private character
of the men and their management of the paper are
nothing to me. I do my duty, and that is really all
I have to care about ; and then Geneva is an uncommonly
nice place. I like the life here; and
there are other reasons."

At this point the young fellow blushed a little,
and Ealmaine thought of Ida von Schmidt ; so, byway
of changing the subject, he made an inquiry
touching the circulation of the Helvetic Neius.

You asked me that once before, I think," said
Delane dryly.

So I did, and got no answer," said Alfred,
smiling. " Is it a mystery ? "

12*

(( Very much so. To be frank, I don't know what
it is, and don't want to know."

Why ? "

So that I may be under no temptation to tell
lies. That is what old Bevis does."

Does he tell lies then ? "

He does not profess to do. I mean he does not
know and won't be told anything about the circulation.
When anybody asks him he says, in his
loftiest manner : * That is not in my department,
my dear sir, and the circulation varies so much,
according to the season, that I should not like to
risk telling an untruth by going into details ; but I
can assure you with the utmost confidence that it is
large and influential.' He calls that diplomacy."

And there are people," said Alfred, " who say
there is very little difference between diplomacy and
artistic lying."

He made no further inquiry about the circulation
of the paper.

Oglethorpe was rather an enigma. He did his
work, chiefly translating, slowly, but well, had
very little to say, seemed depressed, and nobody
knew where he lived. Delane thought he did not
like to expose his poverty by associating with his
equals, for he could not be persuaded to enter a
cafe, and never smoked unless somebody gave him a
cigar.

In addition to his office work, which he did not

find very arduous, Alfred worked at home. He
wrote a series of letters for the American editor — to
whom Herman so kindly introduced him, a certain
Dr. Pilgrim, a tall, spare man, with a white choker,
a soft voice, and an unctuous manner — of the
Pitsburg Patriot. The Patriot, as the doctor
informed him, was a semi-religious, high-toned,
first-class paper, circulating among first-class families.
He wanted some articles on the graver aspects
of Swiss life, on the religious views of the people,
the character of their Protestantism, and, above all,
on the Old Catholic movement. At the same time
the letters, though weighty with facts, were to be
lively in style. For as the doctor rightly observed,
if newspaper articles be not readable they are of
very little use, and to be readable they must be
lively. When he asked Alfred if he thought he
could write him a few such letters as those he had
described, say four or five, the young fellow modestly
replied that he thought he could, and would do his
best. As for remuneration, the editor of this serious,
semi-religious paper remarked, with one of his
sweetest smiles, that first-class journals like the
Patriot paid twenty dollars an article irrespective
of length, "which we don't want, for everybody
knows that it is easier to pad out than to boil
down."

After thanking Dr. Pilgrim "very much," Bal-maine
went home rejoicing, and feeling almost as

if he had a hundred dollars (five letters at twenty
a-piece) in his pocket. He gave several days to
reading up the subjects suggested and making
inquiries, and a fortnight afterwards forwarded his
first letter to the high-toned Patriot. Nor did his
good fortune end here. No American journalist could
possibly pass through Geneva without calling at the
editorial offices of the Neivs, to look over the files
and have a talk with the staff. Some of these
gentlemen made themselves very much at home,
and seemed to consider the sub-editors' room a
public lounge and their waste-paper baskets public
spittoons. Others were very nice fellows indeed,
and one of them, the representative of a Boston
daily, Sunday, and bi-weekly, invited Alfred (one of
whose articles in the Helvetic had attracted his
attention) to contribute an occasional letter "on
any darned subject he liked," and assured him that
he wrote well enough for the London Times, " or
any other sanguinary paper."

With these two strings to his bow Alfred came to
the conclusion that it was not necessary to make
any offerings to English papers for the present ;
they might be refused ; it would be better to send
his communications where they were sure of acceptance.
The reception of his first letter by the Pits-burg
Patriot was gratifying in the extreme. The
acting editor (Dr. Pilgrim not having yet reached
home) bespoke for it the particular attention of his

readers, described the writer as one of the most
rising and successful of the younger generation of
English journalists, and promised them further
effusions from the same brilliant pen. Alfred sent a
copy of the paper to Cora, whom it greatly delighted ;
it was, moreover, seen by many people at Calder, and
made the subject of a few complimentary remarks
in the Merciioy.

Another agreeable incident was the receipt of a
letter from Artful and Higginbottom, inquiring if
he still thought he should be able "to find a clue to
the mystery that enveloped the fate of the unfortunate
Mr. Philip Hardy and his daughter," and
offering, on the part of the trustees, " to defray any
reasonable charge to which he might be put in
prosecuting the investigation which he had so
kindly promised to make." This meant that they
would pay his travelling expenses, so he should now
be able, when he got a holiday, to make the
journey across the Alps from which he hoped so
much.

Everything seemed propitious, and the rupture of
his engagement with Lizzie Hardy, which took
place about this time, left him almost without a
care. Although the affair had once caused him so
much concern, he could now hardly think of it
without laughing at his simplicity in attributing to
a foolish flirtation the character of a solemn
betrothal. Shortly after his arrival at Greneva he

received from his sweetheart a long letter, to
which he replied in due course, but not being able
to make passionate protestations of love he contented
himself with descriptions of the country and
the people, and of his own doings and experiences.
To this, rather to his satisfaction, there came no
answer ; and then there ensued a long silence which
Alfred, whose too tender conscience began to
suggest that he was treating the girl badly, was the
first to break by a second letter in the style of the
first. Lizzie replied in a missive which she meant
to be freezing and dignified, but which (after his
first surprise) Blaine found intensely amusing.
She could not imagine, she said, what induced him
to write to her in the way he had done. It had
never occurred to her to consider the innocent
familiarities which at one time she had allowed him
as implying an engagement, even if their relative
positions had not rendered such a thing impossible,
and she desired that the correspondence might cease
with the present communication.

"Innocent familiarities! our relative positions!
by Jove, that's good," soliloquised Blaine, and
though he was glad to be set free, it was some alloy
to his satisfaction to think that Saintly Sam's daughter
had so completely fooled him.

COLONEL BEVIS.

So soon as Blaine had got fairly into harness
Gibson took his holiday. He had worked so hard
during the previous twelvemonth, he said, that a
period of relaxation was absolutely necessary for his
health. Before going away he gave precise instructions
about the editing of the paper. All the
leaders were to be written by Alfred, and none were
to touch on English politics. With this exception,
he was to have full scope. " And if you are ever
pressed for time or do not see your way to a subject,"
added the chief, " you can always get one of the
least read of English or American papers. The
Saturday Sentinel, for instance, is a capital paper to
quarry from. Its sub-leaders are often very good,
and there are always one or two that by running
through with a wet pen you can make to look as if
they were written purposely for the Helvetic."

Alfred modestly replied that he thought he would
rather trust to his own unaided resources ; and when
Gibson returned from his holiday-making,he congratulated
the young fellow handsomely on the diligence

and ability with which he had discharged his duties.
Another success scored by Alfred was the reproduction
of one of his articles by a London paper. Delane
said this was a feather in his cap. Mayo came
specially into the editor's-room to inquire by whom
it had been written, and said a few gracious words
to Blaine on the occasion ; for incidents like this
were not alone flattering to the amour propre of all
connected with the Helvetic Neivs, they made the
paper more widely known, and so helped canvassers
in their quest for advertisements.

On entering the sub-editors' room one morning,
Alfred was informed that Mr. Mayo wanted to see
him downstairs. In the manager's room was a fine
soldierly looking man, whose age might be from
forty-four to fifty, but by reason of the uprightness
of his carriage, the freshness of his complexion, and
the lightness of his hair and moustache as yet un-frosted
with white, he looked younger than his years.
He was dressed with great neatness, wore the badge
of some military order, and, as Blaine subsequently
heard, had a right to call himself " Chevalier."


This gentleman was Colonel Bevis, and Mayo,
after introducing them to each other, mentioned
that the Colonel wanted a special article written,
and asked Alfred to take his instructions and put it
into shape for the printer.

It is about Eothenkirschen, Mr. Blaine," said

the Colonel very graciously, " the new place in the
Oberland, you know. They have found some dirty
water, built a Kursaal and several hotels, and want
to attract English and American visitors. I have
taken a very good advertisement from them on
condition that we reciprocate by doing a little
reclame, and give a special article about the place.
And I can personally testify that it is most charmingly
situated — on that score you can hardly exaggerate
— and several highly respectable doctors are
ready to take oath that the mineral waters are good
for every ill that flesh is heir to. You will find all
the facts in this newspaper cutting — you read
German, of course — and a few observations of my
own in this paper. Do you think you can shape
these materials into a readable article ? I shall be
very much obliged if you can, because 1 promised
the people, you know."

Alfred answered that he would do his best, and
asked the Colonel if he would like to see a proof of
the article in order to make sure that it was quite
to his mind. The Colonel said, "Very much," and
asked Alfred to be good enough to send the proof to
him at the Hotel de la Grande Bretagne, where he
should be visible at five p.m.

It was the first time Blaine had done any
puffing, and he hoped the description of Kothen-
kitchen, given in the Grerman paper, was true, for
in that case the earthly paradise was only about a

hundred miles from Geneva. The magnificent
scenery, the fine climate, and the mountain air
alone made the place worth a visit, while the charming
grounds of the Kursaal, morning music, daily
excursions, evening concerts, and congenial society
rendered life in that favoured spot beyond expression
delightful, and by drinking plentifully of the
waters you might live for ever and never be ill.
Alfred did not say quite all this, neither did he set
forth all the maladies for which a sojourn at
Eothenkirschen was recommended as a specific ;
nevertheless he produced a really brilliant article,
and one that could hardly fail to prove satisfactory
to all concerned. As he wanted to cultivate Bevis's
acquaintance he took the proof to him instead of
sending it.

Thank you very much, Mr. Blaine," said the
Colonel, whom he found smoking a cigarette in the
corridor of the Bretagne ; " it is very kind of you
to take so much trouble, and you add to the favour
by being so prompt. Promptitude in the eyes of an
old soldier is a high quality. This will do very
well — very well indeed : — ' In the whole of Switzerland
there is no spot on which nature has showered
so many blessings as the valley and village of Eothen-
kitchen. Whilst its great altitude insures the
purity of its invigorating air, the huge mass of
mountains to the north and east shelters it from
every inclement wind, and renders the climate as

balmy and enjoyable as that of the land in which
it seemed always afternoon. The thermal establishment
is begirt with fragrant fir-trees, and the
gleaming glacier-born river, which rushes in tumultuous
route past its walls, flows between fair gardens
and green meadows into the Kitchen lake, a mile
farther on.' Really, Mr. Blaine, nothing could
be better. I do not see how anybo iy can help
going to Rothenkirschen after reading this description,
and, better still, it will be sure to bring us
another advertisement. There is only one thing
wanting."

And that is''

The name of the resident physician, Dr.
Schlachtermann. Don't you think you could bring
it in somehow ? It would please him immensely,
and make the advertisement quite sure ; and he is
really a clever fellow. He gave me a prescription that
has quite cured my sciatica — 'pon my word he did."

How would this do ? " said Alfred, taking out
his pencil. " Put it in after ' patients,' you know.
The sentence will now read thus : ' The invaluable
qualities of the mineral waters have been proved,
as well by chemical analysis as by the testimony of
hundreds of patients, who, under the skilful treatment
of Dr. Schlachtermann, one of the most
eminent of Swiss bath physicians, have recovered
health and strength, even when recovery had been
deemed hopeless,' &c., &c."

"Just the thing, Mr. Blaine, just the thing
You understand exactly what I want. A few articles
like that will increase our advertisements by twenty
thousand francs. I have often suggested to Mayo
that he should have somebody on the staff with a
knowledge of Grerman, and able to write an attractive
article. Your help will be invaluable. I shall
have to apply to you again. Will that appear tomorrow
? "

Certainly," said Alfred, putting the proof in his
pocket, and making as if he meant to go.

Must you go already ? " said the Colonel, taking
his hand. " I know you are a busy man, but if you
can stay and have dinner with me I shall be very
glad. It will be ready in half an hour, and I will
release you as soon afterwards as you like."

Alfred accepted the invitation ; it was what he
wanted, and he did not find it difficult to lead the
conversation to the subject of the Colonel's adventurous
life, on which he was as loquacious as veterans
are wont to be, yet at" the same time very entertaining.


BALMAIXE LEARNS SOMETHING.

Colonel Bevis related his reminiscences at great
length, but after he had run on for some time Bal-maine
took advantage of a pause to inquire how he
had become connected with the Italian revolutionary
movement.

"Easily enough," was the answer; " after the Crimean
war was over, I wanted something to do, chance
took me to Italy, and there I became acquainted
with the chiefs of the party. They employed me in
various capacities. I took service with Graribaldi, and
fought through the campaign of 1860."

You were one of the famous thousand of Marsala,
then ? "

Yes," said the Colonel drily, lighting another
cigarette. " I was one of the thousand of Marsala ;
the Chief made me a Colonel, and on one occasion I
commanded a brigade."

*' You mean Garibaldi ; what a fine fellow he is ! "
exclaimed Blaine enthusiastically. "And you
were really a friend of his, Colonel ? "

"' I had that honour," replied the Colonel, rather

coolly, " and I think I was more friendly to Mm
than he was to me."

Do you mean that he did not treat you well ?
no, that is impossible."

I do mean it. But for me he would have
lost one of the most important battles of the
campaign. I landed at Naples in command of
reinforcements from Sicily. My instructions were
to hasten to the front as quickly as possible, an engagement
being momentarily expected. But we
were short of supplies, and quite without money.
My men wanted shoes, bread, and powder. To requisition
the inhabitants would have been the worst
possible policy ; it might have turned them against
us. What was I to do ? I had, fortunately, the reputation
of being a rich Englishman, so I ordered
what I wanted, paid for it in drafts on my
London bankers, and reached the front just in time
to turn the tide of battle. If we had been only an
hour later it might have gone ill with the cause, for
the Chief was over-matched and hard pressed."

And were the drafts paid ? "

Ultimately they were, of course, but if we had
not won they would not have been. What I complain
of Graribaldi for is that he did so little for his
followers. He told the King that he wanted nothing
for himself, yet he might easily have stipulated
something for us — either moderate pensions or positions
in the Italian army. As it was, we were just

turned adrift with next to nothing. I fought in
every battle, and was twice wounded, yet all they
gave me was the Order of the Iron Crown and
about five pounds a year! And here I am, an old
soldier, one of the thousand of Marsala, drumming
for advertisements."

And you drum as well as you fight, I believe.
Colonel Bevis. People say you are the best canvasser
in Europe, which, after all, is something to be proud
of. You must have met a great many people in your
wanderings — did you ever meet in Italy, or elsewhere,
an Englishman of the name of Hardy ? "

Hardy, Hardy ! " said the Colonel thoughtfully.
As you say, I have met very many people in my
life, so many, that a name may easily slip my
memory. Still, my memory is very good. Hardy,
Hardy ! Do you mean Philip Hardy ? "

'eyes, I mean Philip Hardy ! " answered Bal-maine
eagerly ; he felt as if he were on the track of
a discovery.

Did you know him ? "

No, but I am very anxious to find out something
about him, and if you can help me I shall feel
greatly obliged ! "

He was engaged in the revolutionary movement,
wasn't he ? "

Yes, and disappeared about ten years ago ! "

Did he ? " said Bevis absently. " Yes, I knew
Philip Hardy ; and, though I did not meet him
VOL. 1, 13

often, I liked him well. He married an Italian
wife and had a little girl, I think ! "

"That is just the man!" exclaimed Alfred
excitedly.

But he did not always go under the name of
Hardy. He had reasons, reasons of state let us say,
for taking an alias occasionally. Is that another
characteristic ? "

It is, it is. The Philip Hardy you know is the
Philip Hardy I want to find, or, at any rate, a clue
to his fate ! "

Is he a relative of yours, Mr. Blaine ? "

No, he has few relations, I think ; but a friend
of mine, at Calder, is very anxious to find out what
has become of him, and I was asked by some people
in London to make inquiries. They want to have
proof of his death — if he be dead ! "

Property, I suppose ? "

Yes, there is some property. And I have heard
so much about the case, that I would like, as a
matter of personal feeling, and for the gratification
of a legitimate curiosity, to discover a clue to the
mystery ! "

I think I understand. But what about the little
girl ? I remember seeing her at Pallanza, and a
pretty little thing she was."

She has disappeared too ! "

By disappearing, you mean that nothing has
been heard of her ? "

Exactly ; nothing has been heard of her since
old Mr. Hardy's death, ten years ago ! "

*' And for more than that time Philip Hardy has
been out of my mind. So many things happen
nowadays, that out of sight is literally out of mind.
Yet, now, when I think of it, I have an indistinct
recollection of hearing that something had happened
to Hardy — or was it that he had gone to England,
he and his daughter ? "

Blaine shook his head.

*' They never came to England ! "

You don't know that they never started though.
As for that, I don't know either. But I know a man
who can give you the information if anybody can I "

And that is "

Andrea Martinoooo. He kept the Hotel Martinoooo
at Locarno, but that was only a blind. His house
was really a rendezvous for revolutionists, and after
1866 he gave it up. But he knew everybody
engaged in the revolutionary movement, and if anything
happened to any of us he was sure to hear of
it. Yes, I am certain that Martinoo could tell you
what became of Hardy."

Can you give me his address, Colonel ? "

Unfortunately, I cannot. I have not seen him
for two or three years. I met him accidentally at
Naples, but though I did not ask him where he was
living, I know he is not living there. I can get to
know, though."

13*

"If you would kindly do so, Colonel Bevis, I
should be very much obliged," Alfred said earnestly.
You will have to write to somebody, I suppose."

I don't think writing would be any use. It must
stand over until I make another trip into] Italy."
Blaine looked disappointed.
When will that be ? " he asked.
In the winter ; I am not sure what month's But
you may be sure I shall not forget your commission.
If you think there is any danger of my doing so
(smiling), drop me a line about November. Here
is my card."

The address on the card was Villa Italia, Nice.
One question more, Colonel Bevis," said Alfred,
putting the card into his pocket, " and I will cease
troubling you. Do you know what nom de gueiTe
Philip Hardy was in the habit of using ? "

I tout. I think he told me at Pallanza what he
called himself just then, but I have quite forgotten
whether it wasAmelio, Fama, Frascati, or Leopardi.
I rather fancy it was Leopardi. Martinoo will tell
you in a moment."

"I wish I could see Martinoo a moment," muttered
Blaine despondingly. " I am going to have
a short holiday, and almost think I shall cross the
Alps and make some inquiries on my own account.
Where would you recommend me to go ? "

About the Italian lakes and North Italy, I
should say. That was generally Hardy's beat, I

think. And he was very fond of the Baths of Lucca.
The Baths of Lucca would be a likely place. But
unless you know under what name he went I don't
see what you can do. Better wait, and keep your
money in your pocket, until I can place you in communication
with Martinoo."

You could not possibly do that at once, could
you. Colonel ? "

How can T, when I have not the most remote
idea where the man is ? I can find out from one or
other of my old comrades either at Turin or Milan,
or elsewhere ; and if the man I ask does not happen
to know, he will certainly be able to tell me who
does. But as for writing, there is one absolute rule
these fellows make about letters, and that is never
to answer them."

Alfred, seeing it was useless to press the matter
further, let it drop, and shortly afterwards took his
leave, feeling both discouraged and disappointed ;
for though the information he had obtained from
Bevis was good, so far as it went, it did not go far,
and it might be six months before he could be
placed in communication with Martinoo. Bevis
might surely get his address before that time if he
liked ; and why did he not like ? Then he was disappointed
with the Colonel himself. Graribaldi was
Alfred's model hero, the type of all that was noble,
unselfish, and loyal. With that splendid disinterestedness
he had given up his conquests to the

King ; and, asking neither riches nor honours, retired
to his island home and resumed the cultivation
of his garden and the care of his cattle. The companion
of such a man, " one of the few, the immortal
few that were not born to die," ought surely to have
imbibed something of his spirit, and to find in the
consciousness that he had followed a heroic leader
and fought in a great cause a reward far above decorations
and pelf. And yet here was Bevis grumbling
because Graribaldi had not done more for him than
he had done for himself, because he had not stooped
to entreat the Italian Government to recompense
the men who had redeemed a kingdom with their
blood ! To blame the Liberator for this was to surpass
in meanness the Government which had failed
to perform so obvious a duty.

Yes, Alfred was disappointed with Bevis. The
fine old soldier, whom he had pictured in his imagination
as a hero, was merely a smart and not very
scrupulous canvasser for advertisements, and now that
the novelty of the thing was wearing off he began to
perceive that most of the people whose acquaintance
he had lately made were, more or less, humbugs.
Furbey, Corse, Gibson, Lapland, Mayo, and Bevis
were every one humbugs, and the Helvetic Neius was
probably the biggest humbug of all. A few days
later, however, he saw reason to modify this judgment
and assign the bad pre-eminence to the
Fitshurg Patriot He had sent his bill to the proprietor

when he sent his last article to the editor ;
and Dr. Pilgrim (who was a shining light of the
denomination to which he belonged) in acknowledging
receipt of the two documents, wrote as follows :

I am quite at a loss to understand how you can
have conceived the idea that we pay for contributions.
If I may trust my memory (and it never yet
deceived me) nothing whatever was said about payment,
and our friends are generally more than
satisfied with the consciousness that in writing for
us they are promoting a good cause, and the pleasure
of seeing their compositions in print. Moreover,
the Society which runs the Patriot is just now
far from rich, and cannot afford to use paid articles.
But as I cannot bear even the implied reproach of
having misled you, however inadvertently, I shall
send you in the course of a few days the sum of five
dollars, being at the rate of one dollar an article,
which I trust you will deem in the circumstances a
fair equivalent for your trouble''

This was a bitter disappointment to Alfred in
more ways than one, for counting confidently on
getting his money from the Patriot, he had spent
rather more freely than he otherwise would have
done, and had hardly any money beforehand either
for holiday making or contingencies. To make
matters worse the Boston With, for which he had

written three letters, paid him in the same coin as the
Pitsburg Patriot. In reply to his request fill up the
blank bill " he sent them, with whatever amount
they thought he deserved, the proprietors observed
that, having a good many amateur correspondents
in Europe, they were not in the habit of paying for
foreign letters, but if he would continue his contributions
(which seemed to please their readers)
they would be happy to mail him regularly a free
copy of their bi-weekly edition.

What a mean lot of beggars they are ! " was
Blaine's exclamation as he tore up the letter
with unnecessary energy, and threw the bits on the
floor. " This is my first experience of American
papers and, by Jove, it shall be my last."

But he found that if an American journal can bemean,
an American gentleman can do all that the
most scrupulous regard for honour requires. A few
days afterwards he met Herman, and the banker,
who was always very friendly, after asking about
himself and the paper, inquired how he was getting
on with the Pitching Patriot. For reply Alfred
showed him Dr. Pilgrim's letter.

"The wretched old skunk ! " exclaimed Herman,
giving the letter a blow with his fist, as if it were
in some way answerable for the dishonesty of the
writer. " Why, I heard him say myself that he
would pay you at the rate of twenty dollars a letter.
But look here, Blaine, I introduced this fellow to

you, and recommended you to write for him, and I'll
see you paid."

He was as good as his word. The very next day
Alfred received a letter from the bank, enclosing a
bank note for five hundred francs, and this sum, ashe
afterwards learnt, Herman's agents succeeded in
recovering from Dr. Pilgrim.

Of all his new acquaintance Blaine liked best
to talk with Madame Karl von Schmidt. She had
seen a good deal of the world, possessed a shrewd
wit, the vicissitudes she had undergone made her
sympathetic with the troubles of others, and she
took a motherly interest in his welfare. Delane,
however, she generally kept at a distance, perhaps
because she wanted to keep him at a distance from
her daughter.

Madame Karl took hardly less interest in the
Hardy mystery than Alfred himself, and he had to
give her a full account of his conversation with
Bevis, which had so greatly disappointed him. She
hinted, much to his surprise, that if he offered to
pay the Colonel for his trouble he would probably
find him more communicative. It was not very
noble or chivalrous on his part, she said, " but you
must take people as you find them." And Beds
knew the value of money — a good many people did
not.

I am learning," laughed Blaine. " I have
learned a great deal since I left home. I get more

disilhisione every day. I shall think soon, with
Napoleon, that every man has his price."

*' Then you will be wrong. Most men have — but
not all. As you say, you are learning, and there is
no teacher like experience. But as for this mystery
of yours I must tell you frankly. Monsieur Bal-maine,
that I think you are making very good
progress. You have met a man who knew Monsieur
Hardy and his daughter, who confirms that they
were in Italy at a certain time, and who promises to
give you the address of a person who can give you
his nom che guerre, and tell you what became of
him. 1 do not see what you would have more —
unless you expect to read all about it in the
Journal de Lacustrie, at a cost of fifteen centimes.
A mystery that can be solved by asking six
questions, ma foi, I would not give a fig for."

You are right, Madame Karl ; I am too impatient,
and I was so much annoyed at not getting
Martinoo's address that I overlooked the importance
of the information I have actually acquired. I
must now see what I can do about offering Colonel
Bevis something for his trouble."

The next day Alfred wrote to Artful and Higgins
announcing his intention of making a
journey across the Alps in quest of information.
He told them, too, what he had learnt from
Bevis, and asked if they would permit him
to offer that gentleman an Jiooiorarium for the

trouble he might incur in obtaining Martinoo's
address.

The answer was a letter highly commending
his exertions, and urging him to persevere, and
to spare no effort to procure Martinoo's address.
A draft for fifty pounds was enclosed, " to be
used for travelling expenses, or otherwise, at
your discretion."

But before the letter came Bevis was gone ; and
though Blaine wrote to him at once his movements
were so uncertain, and he was so bad a
correspondent, that, as likely as not, the reply
might be delayed for weeks.

MADEMOISELLE Leonine.

'* Who will go to the inaugural fete of the Hotel
Rousseau ? " said Gribson one morning, as he came
into the sub-editor's room with two large, gaily got-up
cards in his hand. " That big hotel at the other
end of the lake, you know. I dare say it will be a
very grand affair. The proprietors want something
saying about it, I suppose ; and as they have given
us a good advertisement we must try to oblige them.
Will you go, Blaine ? "

Certainly," said Alfred. '• It will be a new
experience, and, I have no doubt, a very pleasant
one*'

I am sure it will ; and as these people want a
notice they are sure to make much of you. But
here's a second ticket. Will you go too, Delane ?
I dare say we can spare you both for a day."

No, I thank you, Mr. Gribson. There will be
dancing ; I don't dance, and, to tell the truth, I
have not such a thing as a dress-coat."

Would Oglethorpe go, do you think ? "

I am sure he wouldn't. I don't think he has

more than one pair of shoes, and they are bursting
in all directions. You must send somebody who will
be a credit to the paper."

But Oglethorpe is not so desperately poor as all
that comes to. I have got his salary raised to fifty
francs. It is not much, perhaps, but it should
afford a new pair of shoes."

I cannot make Oglethorpe out," observed
Delane thoughtfully. '* From the way he lives,
he should not be spending more than twenty
francs a week. He is saving money ; that's what
Oglethorpe is doing. I wish I could save some."

As this remark was made the door opened, and
Corse appeared on the scene.

Perhaps Corse will have the second ticket," said
Gibson. " Will you, Corse ? "

** If it's anything very jolly, I say yes, with
thanks," was the answer.
Gibson explained.

I cannot do much dancing with this game leg
of mine, but I suppose they will put us up and give
us something to eat and drink ! "

*' Not a doubt of it — something very good too, I
should say."

Then I will go. I dare say I can while away
the time somehow while Blaine is doing the
light fantastic," said Corse laughing at his own
conceit, " and a fellow can always smoke, you
know."

It is understood that we go together, then," put
in Alfred ; " by water, of course ? "

Of course. Going by water is a delight, by rail
an infliction — heaven and hell. I vote for heaven.
We meet at the emharcadh^e — at what time ? "

I think we had better go by the two o'clock
boat."

I shall be there. It will bring us just in time
for the table d'hote. And now I must be off and
arrange about my lessons. Au revoir

Corse seems to be in good spirits to-day,"
remarked Gibson as the door closed.

Very much so. He is rather freer with his
money, too, than he was a little while ago. Perhaps
he has got another good paying-pupil. I wonder
who that ill-looking Italian is that he talks so much
with at the Cafe du Eoi ? "

Why don't you ask him ? "

** No, thank you. If you show too much curiosity
about Corse's private affairs he has a way of dropping
on you that is not very agreeable, and I don't want
to fall out with him."

Whatever may have been Corse's faults of temper,
or otherwise, he showed none of them on the
voyage up. the lake. He chatted pleasantly all the
way, and his manner to Alfred was so cordial that
the latter almost resolved that, as they went back,
he would ask him whether, during his travels in
Italy, he had heard or seen anything of the Hardyss.

His family had been in the habit of visiting the
Baths of Lucca every year. Vera was born at Lucca,
and, as appeared from Philip's letter, they had often
been there since. What more likely than that Corse
should know something of them? At any rate,
there could be no harm in asking him, and if a
good opportunity offered, he could put the question
as they returned. He might put it now, but
experience was making Alfred cautious. He did not
want to take Corse too much into his confidence, or
let him know the extent of the Hardy fortune. It
would be better, he thought, to introduce the subject
as it were accidentally, and apropos of something
else. To lug it in by the head and shoulders might
excite Corse's suspicion, and cause him to keep
something back, as Bevis had done ; for, besides
being half Italian by education, Corse was quite as
sharp as the Colonel, and probably less scrupulous.

They arrived, as they expected, just in time for
dinner, and were treated by the proprietor of the
hotel with a politeness so excessive, with so much
bowing and scraping and offers of this, that, and
the other, that Alfred was half amused, half
annoyed ; but Corse evidently liked it, bowed
condescendingly to the master, and ordered the
servants about as if he owned them. Everybody
thought he was the proprietor of the Helvetic News
and Blaine his secretary.

At dinner the head waiter asked Corse, with

much deference, what wine they would have,
whereupon Corse ordered first a bottle of old
Margaux and then a bottle of Napoleon Cabinet.
This annoyed Alfred.

'' These people are giving us a good dinner," he
said, " and treating us otherwise very handsomely.
It seems hardly fair to drink their most expensive
wines."

They will respect you all the more for it,"
replied Corse with an air of calm superiority. " I
know these people better than you do, my dear
fellow. If we ordered vin ordinaire and Swiss
gooseberry they would set us down as fools. And it
is a good rule to take of the best when you have
the chance. You remember the Irishman's advice
to his son — ' Never drink water when you can drink
wine, and never kiss the maid when you can kiss
the mistress.' This Margaux is a very fair wine.
We shall be able to tell our friends, Jules " (turning
to the head waiter), " that the Hotel Rousseau is
starting with an excellent cellar."

Oui, monsieur, we have some very good wine
It is only old-established hotels that can afford to
give their guests inferior crues. We have also some
superb liqueurs — cognac fifty years old. Would
monsieur like to have a petit verre of it ? "

I think I would. Bring me one after the fish.
Will you have one, Blaine ? "

Alfred declined. He did not know whether to be

amused with Corse's aplomb or vexed with his
assurance.

After dinner they went into the garden and
watched, while they smoked, the completion of
the preparations for the fete. The Hotel Rousseau
was finely situated in the grounds of an ancient
chateau, of which the central part had been preserved,
and ingeniously incorporated into the new
structure, built in the same style of architecture,
and the old tower being covered with ivy, the
general effect was pleasing and picturesque. The
house was long and double fronted, approached on
one side by a magnificent double avenue of chestnut-trees,
and on the other by a broad flight of steps,
which led directly from the lake. On the opposite
shore a huge mountain, its black and splintered
summit powdered with fresh-fallen snow, rose sheer
from the water, while behind it Alp was piled
on Alp, each loftier than the other, until the last
was lost in the evening haze. The landward front
faced a range of vine-clad slopes, dotted with
fairy-like villas, green meadows sweeping upwards
towards dark pine-woods, and naked promontories
of rock, which seemed to be hanging
in mid-air.

Then the curtain of night fell ; the ivy-clad tower

glowed with hidden fires, the entire front of the

hotel was illuminated, the Chinese lanterns that

hung among the trees were lighted up, some of the

VOL. I. 14

larger trees carrying a lantern on every branch.
There were fountains in which Neptune and mermaids
bore flaming torches above fleeting rainbows
; and two lines of boats, each with a lantern
fore and aft, and rising and falling with the
swell of the lake, made a waterway nearly a mile
long. The effect was weird, charming, and fantastic
; the Kousseau gardens had been converted
into fairyland, and " when music rose with its
voluptuous swell," Blaine felt like dancing allover.


Come along ! " he exclaimed with honest
enthusiasm ; " let us walk round. I never saw
anything like this before."

It's not so bad for Switzerland," returned Corse
with a half-sneer. " But you should see the fetes
des fleurs at Nice, or Versailles illuminated, and the
grand fountains playing."

*' Bother Versailles and its grand fountains !
What is Versailles, with its stucco and paint and
square-cut gardens to compare with those mountains
and this lake ? The Chinese lanterns don't amount
to much, perhaps ; but the scene altogether is
superb."

Are you going to dance ? " asked Corse, who
seemed rather taken aback by this outburst.

If I can get a partner I will, certainly. WYio
could resist that music ? "

I'll get you a partner fast enough. Come

this way. Isn't that Fastnacht (one of the
managers) ? "

Can I do anything for you, gentlemen ? " said
Fastnacht, rubbing his hands deferentially and
making a low bow. " I hope you like the illumination."


My friend " began Corse.

The illumination is superb, M. Fastnacht,"
broke in Alfred — he was beginning to resent Corse's
continual patronage. "I think I never saw anything
so beautiful. I have been watching it for
some time, and now I feel as if I should like a
dance. Do you think you could find me a
partner ? "

'' Perfectly, M. Blaine, as many as you like.
Will you give yourself the trouble to step this
way ? "

The avenue of chestnut-trees was fitted up as a
ball-room. Boards were laid on the space reserved
for the dancers, the orchestra being partitioned ofi*
by a low curtain of red drapery ; and the flags of
Switzerland, England, the United States, and other
nationalities, were festooned in graceful folds from
tree to tree.

Fastnacht led Blaine to a group composed of a
middle-aged lady and gentleman and two or three
young girls.

How do you do, M. Senarclens ? " said the
"Behold M. Blaine, an English

14*

gentleman from Greneva ; he would very much
like to dance. Perhaps one of your young ladies
would oblige him ? "

** Not a doubt of it," returned M. Senarclens
pleasantly. "Here is Mademoiselle Leonino;
I am sure she will be happy to dance with
monsieur."

Blaine, bowing to the demoiselle thus designated,
asked in his best French if she would do
him the pleasure. The demoiselle smiled, rose,
bowed, and the next moment they were whirling
among the Chinese lanterns at the rate of ten
miles an hour. Alfred had seen at once that his
partner was a sweet and graceful girl ; but it was
only when he was leading her back to her friends
that he had an opportunity of examining her in
detail, waltzing not being favourable to minute
observation.

Mademoiselle Leonino was tall, slim, and well-shaped,
but perhaps rather too square-shouldered.
Her oval, slightly olive-tinted and sunburnt face
was mobile and expressive, lighted up with a pair of
bright black eyes, and surmounted with a mass of
golden hair — some would have called it red ; but red
or golden, no fitter setting could have been desired
for the girl's winsome and intelligent countenance.

But she seemed to have no tongue, and though
he asked her several questions and made sundry
remarks, she answered nothing save yea and nay.

That is a deuced nice girl you have been
dancing with," said Corse, \Yhen he next met his
companion ; " who is she ? "

"Except that she is with a certain M. Searches
and that her name is Leonino, I cannot tell
you."

Leonino is an Italian name, and she has an
Italian look, too. But there are lots of people in
this part of Switzerland with Italian names. I
know half-a-dozen myself. Yes, she is a very
pretty girl. I like red hair, don't you ? "

'* If you call that red hair, I don't ; I call it
golden."

Blaine danced with several other demoiselles in
the course of the evening, but he liked his first
partner so well that he danced with her twice again,
and would have danced with her a fourth time if
she and her friends had not suddenly disappeared.

On the second occasion she was less reserved.
She answered some of his questions, and even made
one or two original observations. On the third
occasion he ventured to ask her, in a roundabout
fashion, where she lived.

I suppose you live in this neighbourhood ? " he
said.

My home is up there in the mountains," she
replied, pointing towards the Waadtland Alps.

It must be very lonely. Do yoa like your life
up there ? "

"I love the mountains, oh, so much! What
would life be without them ? " she answered
eagerly. " Even in winter they are glorious ; more
glorious, I sometimes think, than in summer. But

mountains are not all ; there are other things "

and then a shadow fell over her face, and she
stopped abruptly, as if she feared that she might
be committing an indiscretion.

Alfred would have liked to ask her what the
other things were, but that, he felt, might be
presuming too much, and he asked her instead
whether she ever went to Greneva.

I have only been there once," was the answer.
I rarely leave home, and should not have come to
the fete if M. Senarclens had not asked me."

M. Senarclens ! Is he the great M. Senarclens
of whom one has heard ? "

Yes, he is the great French historian. He lives
down there by the lake, but in the summer he
comes up to the mountains."
But you are not French ? "
No, I am not French. I don't know exactly

what I am. My father was "

"Pardon, Monsieur. I hope you have enjoyed
yourself, and you also. Mademoiselle. The fete is a
great success, I think. The dancing will now cease
for half an hour for the display of fireworks. You
will see it best from the terrace."

The speaker was the indefatigable Fastnacht, and

almost at the same moment Madame Senarclens
came up, and Alfred saw no more of Mademoiselle
Leonino that night, nor for some time thereafter.
Another moment and she would have told him that
her father was English and her mother Italian, and
he would have known that the girl by his side washer
whom he sought — Philip Hardy's daughter.

In the rush for the terrace, Blaine lost sight of
the Senarclens, and though he sought for them
afterwards they were nowhere to be found. He
danced a few times more, but with little spirit or
enjoyment. The glamour of the fete seemed to be
passed, the candles in the Chinese lanterns began to
gutter and go out, the music grew less lively ; he
noticed for the first time that some vulgar men and
tawdry-dressed women were among the dancers, and
that several of the guests appeared to have taken
more wine than was good for them. So without
saying anything to Corse, who was playing at cards
in the hotel smoking-room, he went quietly off to
bed, wondering what Mademoiselle Leonino would
have said if she had not been interrupted, for the
expression, " I am not French ; I don't know exactly
what I am," was too singular to be easily forgotten.

Corse came down very late to breakfast next
morning, but in excellent humour, due probably to
the fact, which he imparted to Alfred, that he had
picked up " several napoleons at play. But as he
did not want to impress the young fellow unfavourably,

or have it known at the office that he had
been gambling, he said whist, albeit the game was
baccarat.

Did you see any more of that pretty girl with
the red hair and black eyes ? " he asked. " Leonine
isn't she called ? "

a Very little," said Blaine, rather coldly,
She went away early. I saw nothing of her after
the fireworks."

I should not wonder if she belonged to one of
those Swiss families of Italian origin that settled in
Switzerland about the time of the Reformation,
She has evidently both Northern and Southern
blood in her veins. I do not think I ever saw such
a combination of blonde and brunette in the same
person. Yes, Mademoiselle Leonino is very good-looking.
I wish I knew where she lived."

There was something in the manner in which this
was said, even more than the words themselves,
that grated on Alfred's feelings. He did not like
to discuss Mademoiselle Leonino with Corse, but ashe
had no right to resent the remark, even had it
been expedient to do so, he said something about
its being nearly time to start, lighted a cigar, and
strolled out on the terrace.

Half an hour later they were speeding towards
Greneva. The sun was right above them, and Bal-maine
was watching the effect of light and shade
on the hills and dales of the Savoyard side, and

wondering when — if ever — he should have the
opportunity of climbing the glaciers which crowned
the summits of the Pennine Alps, and looking down
from them on the historic land of which he had
heard and read so much.

'* I wish I were on the other side," says Corse,
pointing to Mont Blanc.

You like Italy ? "

Better than any other country. If some good
soul would leave me five hundred a year — a fellow
may exist on five hundred a year in Italy — I should
live nowhere else. You have not been to Chamouni
yet?"

"No."

You must go. I have been there several times.
I once crossed over the Col du Gfeant to Courmayeur,
and then footed it to Turin. That was one of the
pleasantness tramps I ever had. You should go to
Italy, Blaine."

*' I am going."

Soon ? "

In a few days, I think."

It is a bad time now ; too hot. You should
wait till September, or better still, October."

I must go when I can get off, and I rather like
heat."

You will get what you like, then. You won't
take much harm, though, if you keep about the
lakes."

That is what I mean to do, but I should like to
see Turin, Milan, and one or two other places. I
want to make a few inquiries about a missing
Englishman, though I do not suppose it will be of
much use."

A missing Englishman ! Who is he — a relative
of yours ? "

Oh, dear, no. Some people I know are anxious
to ascertain what has become of him. He lived in
Italy, and has not been heard of for ten years or
more."

What is his name ? I may perhaps have met
him or heard of him. I used to meet a good many
English when I was in Italy."

His name was Hardy."

Was he married ? "

*' At one time ; but when last heard of he was a
widower, with a little girl about seven years old."

Alfred said, further, that Philip Hardy went sometimes
under another name, mentioned the places he
was in the habit of frequenting, and a few other facts.

"Hardy!" said Corse thoughtfully, "I don't
think I ever knew anybody of that name, at any
rate in Italy. I suppose the aliases he used were
Italian ? "

I should think so."

Is there money in it ? " asked Corse abruptly,
after a long pause, which seemed to be grave and
reflective.

Alfred looked as if he did not quite understand.
Corse was drawing conclusions much faster than he
liked, and he wanted time to think.

I was merely thinking why these people you
speak of are so anxious to find him. I have lived
long enough in the world to know that when a man
who has been missing ten years is wanted, money is
generally at the bottom of it."

*' Money is not my motive, at any rate. It is
partly curiosity, partly a desire to oblige a friend.
Whether Philip Hardy be alive or dead I am not
likely to profit a penny. Most people think he is
dead."

And if he is, who will get his money ? "

It is a question whether he had any money. If
he died before his father he had none."

*' Did these Hardyss live in London ? "

"Yes."

*• When did the old man die ? "

John Hardy died about ten years ago. But
I really don't see what all this has to do with
it, Corse. I don't want you to take any trouble
in the matter. I thought you might possibly
shave met Hardy somewhere, more especially
as the Baths of Lucca seem to have been a
favourite resort of his, and you were often there,
you say."

I don't think I ever met anybody called Hardy,
either at Lucca or elsewhere, and you don't know

his Italian name. Have you any idea what he was
like ? "

I never saw him, or even a portrait of him ;
but he has been described to me as a handsome,
powerfully-built man, rather above middle height,
with reddish hair and beard, light complexion and
blue eyes, and a look half-soldier, half-artist."
And he had a little girl with him ? "
Yes, but what she was like I have no idea."
No," said Corse, slowly, as if he was searching
every nook and cranny of his memory. " No, I
cannot tell you anything about them. Never meta
man and a little girl like that, I am sure ; and I
don't think there is the least chance of finding a
clue — unless you can ascertain by what name they
generally went."

So Blaine learnt nothing whatever from Corse,
and he could not help thinking that he had possibly
made a mistake in mooting the matter to him ; yet
why should he think so ? Albeit Alfred had
told him more than he intended, Corse had, after
all, not got to know very much ; moreover the facts
concerning the Hardy fortune were no secret ;
whoever chose to take a little trouble could easily
learn all about the case. If Corse thought he had
some sinister motive in making the inquiry, what
then ? He cared nothing about Corse. Yet though
Blaine argued thus, he could not shake off the
vague feeling of uneasiness with which the conversation

had inspired him. He did not like the
keen way in which Corse had questioned him, and
his eagerness to know if '' there was money in it "
was not pleasant. No harm might come of it — he
did not see how there could — but for all that he
wished he had kept his own counsel.

Core IS CURIOUS.

Ten days later Blaine started for Lucerne, en
route for Italy, and almost at the same hour Corse
called on an avocat who was much consulted by
members of the English colony. His object was to
inquire if the avocat had an agent in London, and
on receiving an answer in the affirmative, he instructed
him to obtain an abstract of the will of
John Hardy, who had lived in London and died
there about ten years before. If the will of more
than one John Hardy should be found at Doctor's
Commons, the agent was to send abstracts of each
of them.

I am sure that beggar Blaine did not tell
me everything," muttered Corse, as he left the
avowals etude. " We shall soon see whether there
is money in it or not — money is at the bottom of
everything in this world I think, or ought to be.
If there is, I shall try to profit by the opportunity.
No, no, Mr. Blaine, you don't pick my brains for
nothing — not if I know it. I do believe it is the
same. That description answers perfectly to the

Leonino we knew at Lucca — little girl and all. If
it had not been for that girl Blaine danced with,
though, I should never have known. The moment
I heard her name it seemed to recall something,
but I could not tell what — one may forget a good
deal in twelve years. But when Blaine described
what sort of fellow. Hardy was it all came back tome.
He was rather friendly with my father, I
remember, and one evening when we were leaving
the Cafe Carton — that was in Lucca itself — the
governor whispered to me, as a sort of secret, that
Leonino, in spite of his Italian name, was an Englishman,
and member of a revolutionary society, and
afterwards I saw him and his little girl and her
bonne walking on the ramparts, and again at the
baths. I have not a doubt he is the very man
Blaine is inquiring about, any more than I have
that he is as dead as Moses. I suppose they want to
prove the fact in order that somebody may get hold
of his leavings. Well, if they want my help they
must pay for it, that is all. I shall know more
when I get a copy of the old man's will, if he
made a will. By-the-bye, Blaine said very little
about the girl — she must be a woman by this time.
If the father is dead she will inherit, naturally.
Oh, oh, Mr. Blaine, I see what you are after ; you
are after the daughter. But after all this time you
won't find it easy to trace her, I'm thinking. I did
not ask him her Christian name, that was a mistake.

I wonder — no, the thing would be too absurd, and
Leonino is not an uncommon name. Mademoiselle
Leonino is a very fine girl all the same, and I mean
to cultivate her acquaintance. Fastnacht asked
me to go down again and spend a few days at the
Rousseau. I have half a mind to go on Saturday
and stay till Monday. And when I get the abstract
of the will what shall I do ? — write to the trustees
or heirs-at-law, or whoever they are? — they can be
found out, I suppose — and ask them to give me the
job of finding out what has become of this man —
and I'll make 'em pay too."

On this idea Corse acted ; the following Saturday
he revisited the Rousseau, and for two days lorded
it over the servants and lived on the fat of the land.
He liked hotel life, and had it been in his power
would have lived in hotels altogether. When he
asked Fastnacht about Mademoiselle Leonino the
manager gave him a knowing look.

A fine girl, isn't she ? " he said ; " a very fine
girl. You're not the first man by any means, Mr.
Oorfe, who has asked questions about Mademoiselle
Vera Leonino."

She is called Vera, is she ? "

'' Yes."

And she lives at Cares, I suppose, or is it
Vevey ? "

Neither ; she lives up in the mountains, near
a village called — let me see — I forget just now.

but I shall remember afterwards, and if I don't I
can get to know for you."

Who are her people ? "

Peasants."

Nonsense. She has quite a lady-like air and
good manners."

It does seem rather strange, doesn't it ? But it
is what M. Senarclens was telling me on the night
of the fete. I am afraid, though, I had my head
too full of other things to pay proper attention to
all he said. But the peasant family she lives with
are no relatives."

No ! "

**No, the daughter was her bonne when she was
quite a little thing, and Mademoiselle Vera's
father left her in the bonnets charge, and money
enough to pay for her bringing up."

A strange story," said Corse, who began to see
that he was in a fair way for making an important
discovery. '' "What is the bonnes name ? "

That I forget, too ; but if you like I will inform
myself."

Thank you," said Corse carelessly. " I wish you
would — when you have an opportunity — if it is not
too much trouble."

Corse's idea in going to the Rousseau a second

time had been simply to spend a day or two

pleasantly and, if he could, make the acquaintance

of Mademoiselle Leonino, a design that boded the

VOL. I. 15

girl no good, for he had strong passions and few
scruples. But the story told him by M. Fastnacht
suggested quite a new order of ideas. The theory
which he had conceived, only to dismiss as absurd,
that Mademoiselle Leonino was the daughter of
the man he had met at Lucca, and whom Bal-maine
was so anxious to find, seemed now plausible
enough. The girl lived with a family of peasants,
to whom she was in no way akin ; her father had
left her in charge of her bonne, probably the very
bonne that he had seen at Lucca ; and, finally, her
name was Leonino. True, these might be merely
fortuitous coincidences, and Mademoiselle Leonino
not the daughter of Philip Hardy after all. •- On
the other hand, the matter was well worth inquiring
into, and when Fastnacht had got to know
with whom the girl lived and where, he would go
forthwith and look her and the bonne up. But he
was too crafty to press Fastnacht — he did not want
the manager to suppose that he had any other
motives than idle curiosity and admiration of the
girl's beauty ; and as Fastnacht, being much occupied
with his own affairs, quite forgot to make the
promised inquiry, Corse, much to his chagrin, was
obliged to leave without learning anything further.
But he resolved to return on an early day and by
hook or crook find out what he wanted to know.

Shortly afterwards the abstract of John Hardy's
will arrived. The reading of it seemed to set

Corse's brain on fire. When he saw that the
personalty had been sworn under £800,000, and
that there was much landed property in addition, all
left to "my son Philip," and that Philip being
dead, his daughter would inherit all this wealth, he
felt for a moment as if the emotions that swept
through his mind, and the golden dreams which
rose tumultuously before his mental vision would
suffocate him. This vast fortune was before his
eyes — nearly within his grasp !

Why," he almost shouted, " why should I not
marry this girl before she knows herself how rich
she is, and so become at one stroke a millionaire —
a millionaire, not in beggarly francs, but in pounds
sterling ! Heavens ! what might not a man do
with a million — twenty-five million, perhaps fifty
million francs ! "

But was this girl he had seen at the Rousseau
really and beyond any sort of doubt Philip Hardy's
daughter? That was the question. If so, why
should she be living with a family of peasants in a
remote Swiss village ? There was a story behind all
this ; what could it be ? He must ascertain, and
he could only ascertain by personal inquiry in the
place where Mademoiselle Leonino lived. Not yet,
however; circumspection was now more necessary
than ever, and to present himself at the Rousseau
before a reasonable time had elapsed, and without
any other apparent motive than to ask where the

15*

girl lived, might excite suspicion, and his game
was to keep the facts, his suspicions, absolutely
to himself. If Mademoiselle Leonino were to find
out that she was a great heiress it might not be so
easy for him to marry her. The foster child of a
Swiss bonne was one thing, a millionaire maiden
quite another. There were good reasons, moreover,
why he should keep himself in the background and
his whereabouts unknown. Yes, he must remain
in Geneva and keep quiet until, at any rate, that
beggar Blaine came back. He was a straightforward,
unsuspicious young fellow, and it would not
be difficult to ascertain from him the Christian
name of Philip Hardy's daughter, without letting it
be seen that he had any particular object in making
the inquiry. If it were " Vera " there could not bea
shadow of a doubt that Vera Leonino and Vera
Hardy were one and the same person. His next
move would be to find out where she lived, and
make her acquaintance. It would not be difficult,
he thought, to persuade a girl in her position to
accept an English gentleman of good family,
willing to take her without a portion. As to that
he had no fear; he was always successful with
women, and girls of seventeen or eighteen were
great fools; they believed everything you told
them.

So Corse awaited with what patience he might
Blaine's return but there was hardly a day on

"which he did not call at the office of the Helvetic to
inquire when the assistant editor was likely to be
back, hardly an hour that he did not mentally
curse the young fellow's dilatoriness. The prospect
of coming into a million sterling, possibly twice as
much, for in the circumstances there would naturally
be no question of settlements, excited him almost
beyond endurance. " To miss it," he said to himself,
grinding his teeth and clenching his hands at
the mere thought, " would be hell."

How, meanwhile, was Balinaine faring? As
touching the main object of his journey badly
enough, yet hardly worse than he expected, for he
did not disguise from himself that, after so long a
time, and ignorant as he was of Hardy's aliases, the
chance of finding a clue was exceedingly remote.
On that chance he went, and if it failed him he
should be in no worse position than before. He
would still have Bevis and Martinoo to fall back
upon, and in justice both to Wanton and Artful
and Hiorcrinbottom he was bound to do his best.

After walking over the St. Grothard, as well for
reasons of economy, as the better to survey the
scenes of the campaign of 1799 in which he took
a great interest, Alfred changed to wheels at Airolo,
and descended the gorges of the Ticino to the
shores of Lago Maggiore on the top of a diligence.
It was one of the pleasantness bits of travel he had
ever enjoyed, and when the lake in all its unmatched

loveliness rolled out before him he was in
an ecstasy of delight. He saw evidence everywhere
that he had crossed the Alps. Though the mountains
were the same, the landscape was softer, and
the vegetation different. The vines were trained
in another fashion, the hills were rounder and more
wooded, the buildings more spacious, the people
more picturesque. At Locarno he stayed all night,
and made a few fruitless inquiries. The Hotel
Martinoo no longer existed ; the money-changer
who had cashed Philip Hardy's drafts was dead,
and when he asked mine host of the inn at which he
put up, if he had ever heard of an English gentleman
of the name of Hardy, who frequently visited
Locarno some ten or twelve years previously, the man,
who belonged to canton Uri, told him that he had
lived in Locarno but six years, and recommended
him to see the postmaster, an old fellow who had
lived there all his life. The postmaster, whose
temper seemed none of the sweetest, said that
during the last thirty years he had seen and spoken
to about a hundred thousand Englishmen, who were
either staying in or passing through Locarno, that
he did not remember the name of one of them, and
had never heard the name of Hardy before.

Blaine almost laughed at himself for asking
so absurd a question, and only the feeing that it
was his duty to make an effort to earn his travelling
expenses induced him to go on. But it was the

same everywhere else, and at Milan he came to
the conclusion that unless he could obtain an
introduction to some old revolutionist, and devote
months to the task, it would be useless to persevere.
He even abandoned his intention of
going to Lucca, which in one respect was a misfortune,
for if he had heard nothing about Philip
Hardy he might have heard something about
Vernon Corse which would have been almost as
valuable.

He returned over the Simplon, and from Domo
d'Ossola wrote to Artful and Higginbottom, apprising
them of his failure, expressing the opinion
that until he could see Martinoo there was no use
attempting anything anything further, and adding
that he expected to have news of him through
Colonel Bevis on his arrival at Greneva. He did in
effect find a letter from the Colonel at his lodgings,
but it contained nothing very satisfactory. Bevis
said he was much obliged for Alfred's offer to defray
any expenses he might incur in prosecuting the inquiry
about Martinoo, and that he would forward particulars
of what he might spend in due course. As
for obtaining his address, he could only repeat that
it was quite impossible for him to do so until he
went to Italy. He would if he could, but it was
really quite out of his power.

With this assurance Alfred was obliged to be content.
There was nothing for it but to possess his

soul in patience and wait. The day after his return
he met Corse on the Island Bridge.

When did you get back ? " says Corse in his most
affable manner.

Last night."

I hope you enjoyed yourself."

Thank you. I enjoyed the journey immensely,
though it was so warm."

Did you go to Venice ? "

« No."

What a pity ! You should not have missed the
Queen of the Adriatic on any account. However,
you are sure to go to Italy again. Nobody ever visits
Italy once without wanting to see it a second time.
How did you succeed with your quest ? "

'' Not at all."

"You have heard nothing of the missing Mr.
Hardy, then?"

«' Nothing."

Nor of his daughter, the missing Miss .
You did tell me, I think, but I forget."

Vera."

'' Ah ! " Try as he would, Corse could' not keep
down that exclamation, nor prevent the blood from
rushing to his head and suffusing his face.

What ? " asks Alfred, with a look of surprise.

I was struck with the coincidence, that's all,"
returns Corse with admirable presence of mind.
One of my sisters is called Vera ; strange, isn't

it. I was afraid you wouldn't succeed when you
told me about it. So many things may happen in
ten years, you know. In my opinion, both father
and daughter are either dead or lost for ever. However,
if I can do anything to help you have only to
speak. I will do my best."

Alfred thanked him, and then each went his
way.

It is all right, no mistake this time," thought
Corse exultantly, as he leaned on the parapet of the
bridge and watched the Rhone as it swept clear and
blue towards the rapids of St Jean. " She is the
Vera, my Vera, for she shall be mine, let who
wil say nay. I'll go to the Rousseau on Saturday,
and make old Fastnacht tell me where she is, and
before two months are over I'll marry her; and
then won't I astonish some of their weak nerves ? "

But there was a mistake this time, and before
two days were over Corse experienced the truth of
the adage that there's many a slip between the cup
and the lip.

AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL.

What sort of a post had you this morning ? "
asked Gribson one afternoon, as he passed through
the sub-editor's room to his own. This was a more
important question than it may seem, for the extent
of an editor's correspondence is no bad sign of the
influence of his paper.

Very fair," answered Delane, whose duty it was
to open all .letters directed to the editor ; " but there
is a letter here which I did not venture to open.
It is marked private."

From a woman," said the editor, tearing open
the envelope. "Poetry, I suppose, with a private
appeal for favourable consideration. No, it isn't.
Queer, this ! What do you make of it, Delane ? "
(throwing the letter on the sub-editors' table). "It
is about your friend Corse."

The letter, which was dated from London, ran as
follows :

Dear Sir, — May I ask you to do me a slight
favour, for which I shall be greatly obliged, and

tender you my best thanks beforehand. I believe
that Mr. Vernon Corse is at present in Geneva and
a contributor to your paper. If he is not, kindly
let me know at your earliest convenience. If, on
the other hand, he is at Geneva, you need not take
the trouble to write. I shall consider your silence
as equivalent to a reply in the affirmative.
Yours faithfully,

Esther Corse."

What do I make of it ? " replied Delane. " It is
from somebody who wants to know whether Corse is
here or not."

How very sharp we are ! You should have been
a detective, Delane. Your talents are quite thrown
away as a journalist. The fact is, I suppose, you
don't want to give an opinion. But have you no
idea who this Esther Corse is ? "

His sister, I should say, or his mother."

Is it possible, do you think, that his people are
ignorant of his whereabouts ? "

I should not wonder. Corse is rather a strange
fellow, and from hints he has occasionally dropped,
I fancy he is not on the best of terms with his
family."

That is likely enough, I should say. He does
not seem to have a very angelic temper. Or this
lady may be his wife."

*' Oh no, that is out of the question."

Why is it out of the question ? "
I never heard him say that he was married."
That proves nothing. Many a man has runaway
from his wife before now, and if it be so with
Corse he is not likely to tell you anything about it.
I shall watch for the denouement with curiosity."
Will you take any notice of the letter ? "
Why should I ? Corse being here no answer is
required."

You won't say anything about it to him ? "
Certainly not ; why should I ? Nor to anybody
else, and I would not advise you to do
either."

I shall take care I don't. He would very likely
take it amiss. Not that 1 don't always get on very
well with him, but he is a very nasty fellow to fall
out with."

The denouement anticipated by Gribson was not
long in coming to pass.

A fortnight later, that is to say, exactly two days
after Alfred's return from Italy, a voiture, with a big
box outside and a young woman inside, was driven
up to the office of the Helvetic News, whereupon the
cocker, descending very deliberately from his seat
(he was rather fat) opened the carriage door.

'avoid, madame, le bureau du journal anglais!"
he says in a husky voice, and his breath is unpleasantly
suggestive of absinthe and garlic.

On this his fare, gathering her skirts about her,

alights cleverly on the trottoir and enters the business
department of the paper. She is perhaps
twenty-five years old, and neatly, but far from extravagantly
dressed. The cast of her features is
Jewish, and though her cheeks are hollow and her
expression careworn, she has evidently been a handsome
woman and is still eminently good-looking.
Those large and occasionally flashing dark eyes, that
mass of lustrous black hair would redeem any face however
insignificant from the charge of plainness, and
this young woman's face is both intelligent and refined,
a face that wins on you, and, when she smiles,
of a Madonna-like sweetness.

Pushing open the great swinging door of the oSice
rather timidly, she finds herself before a wide mahogany
counter and in the immediate presence of a
hairy-faced and spectacled young man, who is smoking
a cigarette and turning over the leaves of a very
big visitors' book.

I beg pardon," she says timidly, " do you speak
English ? "

Dees is an English newspaper, Madame, and we
all naturally speaks ze English langvidge," answers
the young man feelingly, as if he was hurt by the
implied doubt of his linguistic capacity. " Vod can
I do for zu ; would you like a paper ? "

Xo, I thank you, I bought one at the station. I
beg pardon for troubling you, but can you tell me,
please, if Mr. Vernon Corse is here ? "

I do not think he is ; he does not call everyday."


Then he does live here ? — he is in Greneva now ?
He — I can — " she exclaims eagerly, almost breathlessly,
and then comes to a full stop.

Yes, he does live here ; he is in Greneva," answers
the Grerman stolidly, but staring at her wonderingly.
Vod zu like me to shout up ze shout and ask if he
is in ze sub-editor's room ? He is sometimes."

Thank you very much, please do," returns the
lady ; on which the German goes a few yards away
and applies his hairy mouth to what he called the
shout." " 1 do hope he is not in, though," she
murmurs, with trembling lips ; " it would not be
nice to meet him here before so many people."

By this time all the clerks are staring at her.

No, he is not ub-stairs, Madame," says the
German, returning from his excursion to the spout.
Can I do anything else for zu, Madame ? "

Thank you very much. If you could give me
Mr. Corse's private address I should be much
obliged. The fact is, I omitted to write to him, or
he would have met me at the station."

1 am sure he vod have done — anybody vod have
done," answers the youth gallantly. "I do not
know Mr. Corse's brivat address, but I can get it for
you in a wink."

As he speaks he goes away to the other end of the
office, and in about five minutes comes back with

a piece of paper, which he hands to the lady. On
it are written the words, *' Chez Madame Marcquart,
rue du Chat Rouge 17, au troisieme."

If you will show this to the cocker" says the
polite Grerman, "he will take you direct to M.
Corse's lodgings."

The rue du Chat Rouge was some distance away,
on the other side of the river. It ran at right angles
to a main thoroughfare, and though the buildings
were ancient and lofty, they were not inhabited by
old or high-class families. The house before which
the carriage stopped was large, slab-sided, and
pierced by a large archway. The ground-floor rooms
were used as shops ; one was a cafe ; the upper floors
were dwellings, and as largely populated as a small
cotton factory in full work.

*' Aio troisieme" says the cocker, pointing upwards,
" that is very high ; shall I mount your
box ? "

The lady nods assent, whereupon the man,
shouldering the trunk, precedes her up a wide stone
staircase, the worse for wear, and neither very clean
nor very well-lighted. There are two doors on
every landing, and on reaching the third the cocker
deposits the trunk before a door which, as a brass-plate
over the bell-handle denotes, belongs to
Madame Marcquart. Then, opening his right hand,
and holding up his left with finger and thumb outspread,
he says in a hoarse whisper :

Gino[ francs, madame ; je demande cinq
francs

'•' Trojp^^ answers the lady ; and compressing her
lips firmly, and putting on a resolute look, she lays
three francs on his extended palm.

*' Sot at all," returns the man, breathing defiance
and absinthe, and then, firing off a volley of sacres,
he points to the big box.

This appeal produces a fourth franc in coin, and
'* Not another penny ! " in words, whereupon the
driver, who, though he understands them not,
understands the gesture by which they are accompanied,
pockets his money and goes away sorrowful,
for he has got only double his legal fare.

When Madame Marcquart, a tall, dark-visaged
woman of a certain age, found at her door a young
lady, with a big box, who asked for Mr. Corse, she
looked very much surprised, and answered that he
was not in.

"/e Vattendrai, 1 am a near relative, and
have come from England to see him," said the
stranger, slowly and hesitatingly, as if she had got
off the sentence by heart ; and without waiting for
Madame Marcqaart's answer, she backed into the
corridor, dragging after her the box.

Madame eyed this proceeding askance, and looked
as if she thought her visitor more free than welcome
; but instinctive courtesy overcoming momentary
distrust, she opened the door of her salon and

invited the owner of the box to give herself the
trouble to enter.

The room was comfortable and much better
furnished than, from the outside appearance of
the building and the condition of the staircase,
might have seemed likely. The floor was highly
polished ; there were two or three fauteuils ; a vase
of fresh flowers adorned the old-fashioned table, and
the window commanded a fine view — over chimney
tops — of lake, mountain, and forest.

At last ! " moaned the new comer as, with a deep
sigh, she sank into one of the fauteuils.

"La louvre petite'' exclaimed Madame Marc-quart,
compassionately, as she looked on her visitor's
weary face and dusty dress. " Madame must be
very tired — she has travelled far. Shall I get her a
cup of tea ? "

M. Corse's near relative bowed her head in token
of grateful acquiescence, and then, leaning back in
the fauteuil, closed her eyes.

When her hostess returned with the tea, the
stranger inquired, in set phrase, as if she had learnt
it out of a conversation book, how soon M. Corse
would be in ? Madame Marcquart was not at all
sure. It might be soon, it might not be soon.
When M. Corse had writing to do, he often came in
about this time ; when he had not writing to do he
was generally very late. He had been her lodger
only a week or two. She had no other lodger. This
VOL. 1, 16

was her salon, but she allowed M. Corse, when she
had not need of it herself, to use it as his workroom.
That was his sustain on the table. M. Corse was
very gentil, she liked him much, and he spoke
French extremely well, almost without accent. His
chamber was there, on the other side of the passage ;
would Madame like to go in and arrange herself
before he came ?

Of this offer the young woman gladly availed herself,
and after a while came out of the chamber
feeling very much better, and looking, as Madame
Marcquart put it to her solitary domestic, " altogether
ravishing." Then, resuming her seat on the
fauteail, she tried to brave herself for the coming
struggle, and listened with beating heart for the
footstep which should announce the arrival of
Vernon Corse. But she had been travelling for
twenty-four hours, her eyes were heavy, and after an
hour of strained expectation she fell into a doze from
which she was roused by a sound of voices in the
corridor.

Madame Marcquart was telling Corse that somebody
waited for him in the salon.

Who is it ? " he asked carelessly.

'' Go in, and you will see."

The next moment the door opens, the stranger
rises from her fauteuil, and the two are face to
face.

If he had beheld a ghost, Corse could not have

been more surprised, and he would much rather
have seen ten ghosts than this woman of flesh and
blood.

Oh, Vernon ! " she exclaims, stretching out her
hands beseechingly towards him, " At last ! "

D — n you ! What fiend sent you here ? " he
hisses fiercely, his eyes gleaming savagely and his
face purpling with rage.

Vernon, Vernon ! you will break my heart. Oh,
this is a cold welcome after so long a separation,"
and the poor thing presses her hands wildly to her
head and the tears start to her eyes.

Serve you right. I did not ask you to come.
Why the devil have you come ? "

'• Out of love for you. For, oh ! in spite of all
that has passed, I love you still ; I love you with all
my heart, Vernon! "

That's all stuff I Anyhow you will have to go
back. I cannot do with you here."

I shall never go back alive, Vernon," she
answers, looking strangely into his eyes, which
lower before hers. " Yon may desert me, as you
have done before, but I shall never desert you."

But I will make you go ; do you hear ? I will
make you go," and he raises his hand menacingly,
as if he were minded to put his threat into instant
execution.

Ob, no, Vernon, you don't mean that ! You
cannot turn your wife from your door."

You are not my wife."

"In the sight of Oodlam;;'

I don't know anything about Grod. But you
are not my wife in the sight of man, and that is all
I care for. Will you go, I ask again, or shall I
make you ? "

No, I will not go ! and you shall not make
me ! " she cries, raising herself to her full height,
and eyeing him almost with scorn. " I am a fool, I
know, for caring for you — for pleading here for the
love you once vowed to cherish for me all your life.
But there are limits even to my endurance. Dare
to send me away, and I will tell everything. I will
go to the British consul, the British chaplain, and
the editor of the Helvetic Neivs. They shall see my
marriage lines, and know who you are and what
you have done. How will that suit you,
Vernon ? "

And then, with head thrown defiantly back, she
paused for a reply. A great many thoughts passed
through Corse's mind just then. He was weld with
rage at the shattering of his scheme to marry Vera
Leonino ; but to let Esther carry out her threat
would be worse still — he should lose all his engagements
; Greneva would be too hot to hold him.
Whatever happened there must be no exposure, and
perhaps — who could tell? — there might still be a
chance. And Esther, her cheeks flushed and her
eyes bright with excitement, looked deuced pretty,

almost as pretty as she looked the first time he saw
her in the goldsmith's shop at York.

Can it be true — can you really, after all that
has passed, still love me, Esther ? "

^' Some natures love only once, Vernon, and they
love for ever. Mine is one of them. Even when
they hate they love, and I felt just now as if I could
hate you. It is cruel — cruel — to threaten to send
me away."

Do you believe I could, Esther — that I was in
earnest ? "

This in a voice. so changed, so soft and caressing,
that it seemed hardly possible it could be that of
the man who a moment before had so brutally repulsed
her. But Corse understood women, and the
pluck with which Esther had met his menaces, her
beauty and her distress were rekindling his passion,
if they had not touched his heart.

You looked as if you were in earnest," she
answers hesitatingly, " and I did think you
meant it."

"No, I did not. I spoke to you like a brute, I
know. But I could not believe that you still loved
me. I thought you had come to annoy me, reproach
me, and perhaps to importune me for money,
and I lost my temper, for I am very poor.
Esther ! "

"Yes, Vernon."

Can you forgive me ? You are a good

woman, and I am a very bad man, and I have
treated you abominably. But, if you will give me
another chance, I will try to love you as I did long
ago. Will you ? "

And then he draws her to him, kisses her fondly,
and she, throwing her arms round his neck, lays her
head on his shoulder and weeps. Her foolish
woman's heart is won once more, and, forgetful of
her sufferings and his perfidy, she feels that she
loves him as much as ever.

We shall be married over again, shall we not,
Vernon ? " she murmurs, looking up at him through
her tears ; " so that it may be quite — quite legal,
you know."

'' Nay, that would never do, Esther. I can only
account for your presence here by saying that weare
married, and that family circumstances compelled
us to separate for a time. But don't you
see that to be married afresh would be equal to
saying we were never married before ? Some time,
perhaps, but it cannot be done now."

Well, never mind. If you'll be kind to me, I
don't much care, and if anybody says anything, I

can show my marriage lines. And Vernon "

looking up at him archly.

'^ Yes, Esther, what is it ? "

'^ You said just now you were poor."

So I am. I have only what I make by giving
lessons and writing for the Helvetic. When I earn

eighty or a hundred francs in a week, I consider
myself very fortunate."

Well, I will help you ; I can give lessons, too.
I do not mean to be a burden to you. I ask only
your love ; can you give it me ? "

I think so. Now I have you in my arms all
the old feeling seems to be coming back. Yes, I
can love you " (kissing her) " but you must not tell
any tales, you know."

Trust me for that. Fancy a wife telling tales
about her husband. And, Vernon "

Yes, Esther, what is it now ? "

I have some money."

Ah ! "

"Yes, five hundred pounds."

Five hundred pounds ! Where the deuce did
you get it ? "

I will tell you. "When we were married, or
when I supposed we were, my father, as you know,
cast me off altogether, and said he would never seeme
again, and I knew he would be as good as his
word ; and when you so cruelly left me "

I was obliged. They threatened to prosecute
me," interposed Corse sharply.

But you might have let me know where you
were. However, I will neither reproach you nor rake
up unpleasant memories. I was going to say that
after you left me I was obliged to earn my own
living. I might have given lessons in music and

paintings but I could not afford to wait for pupils,
so I took to dressmaking, and being a good cutter-out,
I did pretty well, though I could not save
much. I was always wondering where you were,
and I waited and longed for news of you until I
almost fretted myself to death, and then ray Aunt
Ruth died, and, to my great surprise, left me five
hundred pounds, and almost at the same time I
heard that Mr. Joseph — he was my aunt's solicitor
— had heard that you were at Greneva, doing
something for the Helvetic News, so I came."

So you came ; and how did you find out this
place ? "

*' By calling at the office of the paper and asking
for your address."

The deuce you did ! And what have sou done
with your fortune ? "

Brought it with me. Here it is," taking from
the inside of her dress a roll of notes and handing
it to him.

You don't mean — you cannot — all this
money ! "

I mean to give it all to you, dear Vernon, and
I wish I could give you as much every year — yes,
every day."

Corse was visibly touched ; his lips trembled,
and drawing the girl closer to him, he kissed her
passionately.

Jewess though you are, Esther, you are the

best Christian I ever knew. You do return good
for evil, and no mistake. You are an angel, and I
am — well, the other thing."

*' Xo, no ; don't say that, Vernon. I will not let
even you slander my husband. There is room for
improvement, perhaps, and I shall try to improve
you ; but you are not the other thing, not by any
means, iron onari — that is proper French, isn't
it ? And if you were a very, very good man
there would be no merit in loving you, would
there, now ? As for me being an angel, nous
verrons'"

Not a bit of it. You are one, and of a good
sort, too. Anybody who thinks differently had
better not say so to me."

As Corse spoke he put the notes into his pocket,
and a spasm of disappointment darkened his face,
for the thought crossed his mind, '* What are these
compared to two millions ? "

But Esther saw not this portentous sign, and if
she had seen it, might not have guessed its cause,
or known how ominous it was of evil.

END OF VOLU:\IE I.

VOL. I. 17

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

iHil

3 0112 056531921

iillM

%^M

mim,



Ui^I

mm

ii

Hi

immmm

iiplif

iiiii

OF THE

UN verity

or ILLINOIS

i^M^

W. H. SMITH & SON'S

SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND PvECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

6 Months. 1" JiloBtiiB.

For ONE Volume at a time •• £0 12 1 1

(Novels in more than One Volume are not available for this class o/SubscrxpHon.)

For TWO Volumes „ °1' f c l* \P- ^

(Novels in more than Two Volumes are not available for this class subscription.)

For THREE Volumes „ 1 3 2 2

For Four „ „ 1 8 2 10

For SIX „ „ 115 3 8

For TWELVE „ „ 3 5 5

*cp ^

•^d-

^1^

i>^^'

'^m

IN TOWN AND COUNTRY.

A MODERN MAGICIAN. By Fitzgerald Molly.
3 vols.

GRETCHEN. By Rita. 3 vols.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.
1 vol.

JOHN 0' LONDON. By Somerville Gibney. 1 vol.

SCHEHEREZADE: a London Night's Entertainment.
By Florence Warden. 3 vols.

A SECRET INHERITANCE. By B. L. Farjeon.
3 vols.

THE STORY OF ANTONY GRACE. By George
Manville Fenn. 1 vol.

A MODERN CIRCE. By the Author of "Molly
Bawn." 3 vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

WILLIAM \yESTALL,

Author of

Red Kyvixgton-the Phantom City," " Two Pinches of
Snuff," etc.

I.Y THREE VOLUMES.
YOL. II.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN, \Y.(^

1887.
[All rights reserved']

KEIiLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES

(CONTENTS

PAGE

CHAP.

I. A Baseless Slander . . . . i

n. Murder as a Fine Art . 13

III.— News from Calder 25

XY. CoRFE makes Himself agreeable . 31

V. — Among the Mountains . 40

YI. The Seeacs du Geant . 49

Iii. — Crumbs of Comfort 61

Viii. Three Misses and a Hn- . . 07

IX. CoRFE ON THE QuEST . . • .7/

X. — Found out 91

XI. — At La Boissiere 99

XII — A Catastrophe 113

XIII. — Corse in a Corner 121

Xii.— A Smart Move . . . . 127

XY. Tempter and Tempted . . . .139

Xii. — News at Last . . . . . 154

Xiii. — Raising the Wind 1G6

XVIII. — M. Senarclens is Surprised . . 175

XIX. — A Recognition 185

XX.— Gabrielle's Confession . 193

XXL— Blaine's Defeat 204

Xxii — Catching at Straws . . • 21 l

Xxii — Corse gets his Cone . . .224

XXIV.— A Girl of Character . . • 232

XXV— The Leytons . . . • .241

THE PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF THE
DUC DE BROGLIE. 2 vols.

VERDI, MILAN, & '' OTHELLO." By Blanche
Roosevelt. 1 vol.

IN FRENCH & RUSSIAN PRISONS. By Prince

KliArOTKINE. 1 vol.

ANCIENT LEGENDS OF IRELAND. By Lady
Wilde. 2 vols.

A NOVELIST'S NOTE BOOK. By D. Christie
Murray. 1 vol.

Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY.

By O'Neill Daunt. 2 vols.

THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE. By

J. F. Keane. 2 vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON

A Terrible LEGACY. By G. W. Appleton. 6s,

JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. By G. W. Appleton.
3s. M.

TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. By William
Westall. 35. 6c/.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. By B. M. Croker. 65.

IN ONE TOWN. By E. Downey. 3s. M.

ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. By E. Downey. 3s. 6d.

A HOUSE OF TEARS. By E. Downey. Is.

A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of " Molly
Bawn." 66-.

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G.

M. Fenn. Gs.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

CHAPTER I.

A BASELESS SLANDER.

When it became known that Corse was a married
man, and that his wife had joined him, the staff of
the Helvetic Neivs, both upstairs and down, as well
as the English colony generally, were a good deal
surprised, and not a little excited. For several days
nothing else was talked about, and the rumours
concerning the cause of their separation and his
reticence on the subject, were many and sundry.
Corse treated the matter very cavalierly. When
the head book-keeper told him that an English
lady had been at the office asking for his address,
he said he was quite aware of the fact, that the
lady in question was his wife, and that it was only
owing to the delay of a letter that he had not met
her at the station.

"She would have joined me sooner," he added,

only we could not afford to keep house, and she

has been nursing an old aunt from whom we had

expectations. The other day the old lady died and

VOL. II. 18

left Mrs. Corse a little legacy, which will help to
keep the pot boiling, so she came to me at once,
and I am deuced glad to have her. You have no
idea how fond of each other we are."

He gave no other explanation, and when anybody
suggested an inquiry as to why he had kept
the fact of his being married so close a secret, he
would either give a laughing reply, which meant
nothing, or hint that his domestic affairs concerned
only himself — according to the humour he was in.
A few days after his wife's arrival, Corse gave
another supper, and to it were invited, besides
Blaine and several other of his men friends,
Mrs. Gribson, Mrs. Mayo, and the head bookkeeper's
wife, Madame Bland, a little French
brunette. All these ladies had their doubts as to
the propriety of complying with the invitation, but
all ended by accepting it, for like everybody else
they were dying with curiosity to inspect Mrs.
Corse. The supper, supplied by a neighbouring
confectioner, was quite connie il faut, and INIrs.
Corse came out of the ordeal with flying colours.
The men admired her, and the women could not
deny that she was a lady. She played and sang so
well, moreover, that nobody ventured to follow her
except Corse, who sang both to his wife's accompaniment
and that of his guitar. All remarked how
fond they seemed of each other, and how greatly
Corse had improved. He seemed quite gay and

showed none of his old moroseness of manner. The
ladies were charmed with him, and on the very next
day, the Corses received an invitation to supper
from Mrs. Gibson, and to afternoon tea from Mrs.
Mayo.

But the invitations were hardly despatched when
there came to the ears of these ladies a tale that
wrung their souls with anguish and made them
bitterly rue that they had ever taken the Corses up.
It was rumoured that they were not really husband
and wife, and that Mrs. Corse, or whatever might be
her name, was no better than she should be.

I wonder how he dared ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Gribson. *sit was a piece of gross impudence to
ask us to go at all, and to think, to think — why,
it's positively insulting. You will surely resent it,
Edward ! The least you can do is to discharge him
at once."

She was a large woman with a red face, high
cheek bones, a Roman nose, lofty eyebrows, and
severe lips, the very picture of outraged propriety ;
and she quivered with indignation to her very cap
strings.

*' What on earth is the matter ? " asked Gribson,
looking up in wonder from his Journal de
Lacustrie.

Matter ! everything is the matter. Those
people — I can hardly bring myself to name them —
those people are not married."

18*

What particular people have you in your mind,
my dear ? I believe a great many of our fellow-creatures
are in that unhappy condition."

You know quite well, the Corses."

Who says so ? " .

Who says so ! why, everybody says so. Mrs.
Hodgkinson told Mrs. Carver, and Mrs. Carver told
Mrs. Hart, and Mrs. Hart told Mrs. Mayo, and Mrs.
Mayo has just told me. What would you have
more? And they actually went to the chaplain's
afternoon reception yesterday ! "

What all of them ? "

Why will you purposely misunderstand me,
Edward ? You know quite well what I mean.
Corse and — and that woman had actually the
audacity to present themselves at Mrs. Hart's
reception yesterday. If it had not been for you
I should never have gone near them, and I shall
regret having done so to my dying day. I'll take
very good care not to be taken in that way again,
I can tell you. Poor Mrs. Mayo is in a dreadful
state. I left her just now quite in tears ; she is so
sensitive, poor thing, and feels the disgrace keenly."

What rubbish ! how can she be disgraced ? But
tell me, first of all, how you know the Corses are
not married ? "

Have I not told you ? Everybody says so."
But how does everybody know ; who told them,
Corse or his wife ? "

"I should think not indeed! Do you suppose
that Mrs. Hodgkinson, or ]airs. Carver, or Mrs. Hart
would speak to either of them ? "

'' How do they know, then, that Corse and this
lady are not married ? "

Lady, indeed ! don't call her lady to me if you
please, Edward. Do you suppose for one moment
that Mrs. Hodgkinson and Mrs. Carver and Mrs.
Hart wcTaid say what they did not know, and go
about telling untruths ? "

And ]airs. Gibson threw back her head with an
air of triumph, as if she had delivered a very telling
stroke indeed.

But Gibson came up smiling.

I do not think they would go about telling
untruths if they knew it," he said, " but there is
such a thing as being deceived. Do you know
whether Mrs. Hodgkinson has seen Madame
Coquetage lately ? "

Madame Coquetage was an Englishwoman, the
widow of a Swiss gentleman, and she had spent
the greater part of her life in Geneva.

"Yes, I believe she was there on Tuesday. But
what has that to do with it ? "

A great deal. Madame Coquetage is the
wickedest old woman in Geneva."

"Madame Coquetage a wicked old woman.
What will you say next, Edward ? It is really
dreadful, the way you go on. Why, she is of

the highest respectability ; her maternal grandmother
was a nobleman's daughter; she goes to
church twice every Sunday, and gave a hundred
francs towards the new organ. Nobody could
behave with greater propriety. You may say what
you like, I call her a nice, good old lady."

Good people don't slander their neighbours."

*^ I wish you would not be so obscure. What do
you mean, Edward ? "

I mean that Madame Coquetage has a passion
for saying people are not married. Perhaps she was
never properly married herself. And she does it in
such a way that nobody can tackle her for it. ' Very
nice people, I dare say,' she will say of new comers ;
but I wonder if they are really married.' And
then she will go on to tell how, some years ago, a
couple came to Geneva with good credentials and
were well received and asked everywhere, until it
was accidentally discovered that they where not only
not married, but that she had been a defendant
and he a co-respondent in a divorce suit."

Good heavens ! " interrupted Mrs. Gibson, with
a look of horror, " suppose — suppose the Corses are
in that position ? Nobody knows much about him,
and she — she looks capable of anything."

Nonsense ! She is one of the nicest women I
ever met, and, unless I am greatly mistaken, as
good as gold."

"And you actually dare say to me, Edward

Gibson, that a hussy who is mixed up in a divorce
suit is as good as gold — which means, I suppose,
that she is a good deal better than I am. I never
presumed to be as good as gold. Thank you,
Edward," and Mrs. Gribson, rising from her chair,
smiled scornfully and made a majestic courtesy.

Don't make a f , don't be absurd, Penelope,"

returned Gibson sharply. " I did not say that Mrs.
Corse was defendant in a divorce suit ; but that
Madame Coquetage tells a story of somebody who
was, and that she never loses an opportunity of
suggesting that all the English and Americans
who come here are pretty much in the same
case."

So you think ; but will you permit me to
observe that I doubt the accuracy of your information
? I know better. Madame Coquetage is not a
woman of that sort."

You think not," said Gibson quietly, yet with a
humorous twinkle in his eye that boded mischief.
** But what would you say if I told you that
Madame Coquetage said, some time ago, that we
were not married."

*' Edward, it is not true. I — I — don't believe it."

I can prove it though. She said it to Mrs.
Leyland ; Leyland told me, and if I had not taken
prompt measures the story would have run all over
the town. 1 wrote her a letter which rather
astonished her I fancy, for until she began to talk

about the Corses she does not seem to have
slandered anybody for a month or two."

The wretched, wicked, bad, lying old hypocrite''
cried Mrs. Gribson passionately. " She deserves
putting in prison. I'll go to her and tell her what
I think of her, the false, deceitful old slanderer.
You must send for our marriage certificate, Edward.
I will show it to everybody in Greneva."

'' Better not, I think, Penelope, qui s excuse
s\cccuse, you know. I stopped Madame Coquetage's
tongue in time or it might really have been necessary
to do something of the sort. She made it so hot
for the Wainwright once — Wainwright was the
chaplain before Hart came — that they had actually
to leave their marriage certificate on view at the
English pharmacy for a whole week. And all
because Mrs. Wainwright had not returned Madame
Coquetage's call quite as soon as she should have
done."

'^ What a horrible woman ! "

"Rather. I shall give Corse a hint of what is
going on. If he does not shut her up it may be
very unpleasant for his wife. People seem more
prone to believe evil of each other here than they
do even at home— probably because they are so
ignorant of each other's antecedents — and it must
be confessed that some very queer folks do occasionally
take up their quarters in the place. That's
what makes some of the Swiss so shy of associating

with US. They have entertained black sheep unawares."


And you really think these Corses are not in
that category, Edward — black sheep, I mean— and
that I may continue to recognise them ? "

I am sure you may. Mrs. Corse is a charming
woman."

Charming women are not necessarily virtuous,"
interposed Mrs. Gribson sharply.

Nor are virtuous women necessarily charming,"
thought Gibson, but he judiciously kept the sentiment
to himself.

You seem to admire Mrs. Corse very much,
Edward?"

Oh dear no, at least not particularly. I thought
she had a pleasant expressive face and nice manners,
that is all," was the rather evasive answer.

Well, I cannot say that I admire your taste.
If it were not for her hair, and her eyes and her
mouth and her complexion she would be quite plain,
while as for her manners she is a great deal too
forward and Frenchy for my liking."

Mrs. Gibson was quite right in thinking that her
husband admired Mrs. Corse. He admired her very
much; and it was bis admiration for her, quite as
much as any kindly feeling for Corse, that caused
him to communicate to the latter the rumour he had
heard from his wife.

Corse was quite equal to the occasion. He thanked

Gibson for his kindness and even showed him the
marriage certificate that Esther had brought with
her.

I shall show it to nobody else," he said. " I
don't care for this old woman ; but I thought I
should like to let you see that your confidence is not
misplaced — and if you hear anything you will know
what to say."

*' And I shall say it, you may be sure of that,
Corse. But I should certainly advise you to shut up
Madame Coquetage. If you don't, your wife may be
exposed to some unpleasantness."

If you think so, Mr. Gribson, I will certainly
make an effort to her shut up. I should not like my
wife to hear anything of this abominable slander.
Women are so sensitive about these things."

*' More sensitive than sensible sometimes," returned
the editor, laughing at his own joke. " Will
you write to Madame Coquetage ? "

No ; I shall see her."

And see her he did, though not without difficulty,
for Madame Coquetage by no means wanted to see
him. He did not say many words, yet they
answered their purpose so effectually that the old
gossip took care not to mention his name again in
any connection until — but I must not anticipate.

Altogether Corse came well out of the affair. He
made a friend of Gribson, and silenced his detractors
at the same time. He did his best also to secure

the friendship of Blaine and Delane, was always
particularly gracious to them, inviting them often
to his house " to smoke a cigar and drink a
friendly cup of tea"; Esther did the rest. She
was always bright, and — Mrs. Gibson to the contrary
notwithstanding — her manner was thoroughly
ladylike ; she could moreover converse intelligently
about politics and some other things concerning
which most women know little and care less.
Corse seemed proud of her ; and her love of him,
without being obtrusive, was palpable, and pleasant
to see.

What I like about Mrs. Corse," said Blaine
one night, as he and Delane walked home together
from the Corses' lodgings, " what I like about her is
her unexpectedness."

Yes," put in the sub-editor warmly. *' The very
first word she speaks she makes you feel at home.
Why, 1 have only seen her twice, and I could almost
fancy that I had known her for years. Did you hear
her ask about my mother and my sisters ? And how
well she sang that Irish song ! I know now why
Corse used to be so gloomy and short-tempered
sometimes."

You think it was because of domestic trouble ? "

I do. It's no business of mine, perhaps, bat I
would give twenty francs this minute to know why
they were separated."

Yes," said Alfred pensively, *' it is rather a strange

case, and the way in which Corse explains his wife's
sudden appearance is "

'' Made up. Of course it is ; but I don't know
that you can blame him much for that. He cannot
be expected to take all the world into his confidence
in a matter of that sort. Some unfortunate misunderstanding
probably."

'' Or jealousy ? "

I never thought of that. Yes, I should think
Corse could be jealous if he tried. But I always
said he was a good fellow at the bottom, and this
proves it. I once heard my father say that a good
husband cannot be a bad man, and I believe it's
true. And nobody could be more devoted to a
woman than Corse is to his wife. You remember
my saying that he seemed like a fellow who had
missed his tip ? "

Yes, I think I do remember you saying something
of the sort."

Well, I was not far wrong," said Delane, laughing,
" for if he did not miss his tip he missed his
wife, and that is pretty much the same thing I
take it."

MURDER AS A FINE ART.

Mrs. Corse had asked the two young fellows to
call without ceremony whenever they felt disposed,
assuring them that they would be quite welcome,
and saying, with a pleasant smile, that as they
seemed fond of music she should always be glad to
play for them. There was policy in this as well as
kindness, for Esther wanted Corse to stand well with
the Helvetic Nepos people ; she . had an idea, suggested
by himself, that in the event of the editorship
becoming vacant he would have a good chance of
obtaining the situation. Corse, who was especially
gracious, cordially seconded the invitation, pressing
Blaine to come on an early day and have a game
at chess with him. So one evening, about a week
later, Alfred looked in at the Corses' lodgings a
second time. The little domestique a tout faire
who opened the door told him that Madame was out,
but that if he would step into the salon, Monsieur,
who was in his own room, would join him in a few
minutes.

There were some books on the salon table. One
was a rather elaborate work on toxicology — Corse,

as Alfred knew, had some knowledge of chemistry —
but not finding the subject very interesting Bal-maine
put the book down and took up one entitled
Our Mountains," in which were related many
moving incidents and wild adventures among the
peaks, passes, and glaciers of Alpine regions. He
was deep in a story about a man who, while crossing
a glacier, slipped down a crevasse into a sub-glacial
stream, and, after sustaining severe injuries
and undergoing terrible hardships, crawled down the
icy torrent, and nearly frightened his wife to death
(who thought him dead) by appearing before her
with pale and blood-stained face, and clothing all in
tatters, when Corse entered the room.

Hallo ! " he said — as it seemed to Alfred rather
more abruptly than he need have done — '* what
have you got hold of? I see, 'Our Mountains.'
There are some good things in it, and some awful
crams. That tale about the guide who fell down a
crevasse and turned up after many days cannot be
true. If he had escaped being killed on his way to
the bottom he would certainly have been drowned in
the water or frozen stiff by the ice."

As Corse spoke he took up, with seeming carelessness,
the book on toxicology, and put it, upside
down, in the highest shelf of a little swing case
that hung on the wall. Then he expressed his
regret that Mrs. Corse was out; she had gone to
take supper with Mrs. Gibson, and he had engaged

to fetch her home. On this Bahnaine made as if
he would take his departure, but Corse pressed him
to stay, saying that as it was a "hen party"
to which his wife had gone he had no wish to present
himself at the Grisons' pension before ten
o'clock, and when it was time to go they might
walk up the street together. So cigarettes were
lighted, and Corse produced a chess-board. As a
rule he played a very good game, but on this occasion
he seemed to be thinking about something
else, and Alfred check-mated him easily, twice
running.

It is hardly worth while beginning another
game," Corse said somewhat testily. " I shall have
to start in less than half an hour." And then he
enquired if there was any further news about a
sensational poisoning case which was being tried in
London. He had not seen an English paper for
two days.

Alfred told him the latest news, from which it
appeared that the case was going very much against
the prisoner, and that he would almost certainly be
found guilty of the crime laid to his charge.

Serve him right for being such a bungler," said
Corse. " He deserves to be hanged, if only for his
stupidity."

"That's one way of looking at it certainly,"
answered Blaine; "but don't you think that
there is a Nemesis which always waits on murder —

that the mere contemplation of crime upsets the
balance of a man's judgment, and converts him into
a bungler ? How else can you account for nearly
every murder that is committed being sooner or
later detected ? "

"A great many are not detected, mon ami.
When the police are successful they make a big
noise; when they fail they preserve a judicious
silence. But if the truth were known I daresay
they reckon as many failures as successes. Even in
this little place two or three murders are committed
every year to which no clue is found ; and nobody
knows how many people are secretly poisoned or
otherwise made away with without anybody being
the wiser."

Do you really think there are many cases of
secret poisoning ? " asked Alfred.

I have not a doubt of it, especially on the Continent,
for I fancy that in England the inquest acts
in some measure as a check ; and Continental
doctors — at any rate French ones — are much more
afraid of responsibility than English doctors. They
must have something like proof positive before they
open their mouths. Look at the affair of Marie
Jeaneret, which occurred here only a few years since.
She poisoned a dozen people, and nearly all with a
very common drug — the effects of which are well
known and easily recognised — before any doctor
dared to denounce her."

Twelve persons ? "

'' Yes, twelve, and seven of them died. She was
a sick nurse, and poisoned her patients because she
took a morbid pleasure in seeing them die."

She must have been mad."

I'm not so sure of that. But I quite admit
that she was a fool ; if she had done her poisoning
with a little more circumspection she might have
been poisoning yet."

It is a very good thing she was not circumspect
then ; but don't you see that this very case confirms
the theory that murder will out — that a murderer is
ipso facto a fool, and that nineteen times out of
twenty he commits some mistake, or omits some
precaution, that is sure to find him out ? "

Nineteen times out of twenty ? No, I don't
think that. Nobody can of course say for certain ;
but I should certainly not think so," returned Corse,
who spoke with great animation and appeared to be
much interested in the subject under discussion.
"Nor can I admit that a man who commits what
society has agreed to call a crime is necessarily a
fool. I suppose the greatest murderer of modern
times was Napoleon Bonaparte, but you would not
call him a fool."

"I am not so hereabout that, and he was fearfully
punished."

Not so much as Louis XVI., and he had not the
spirit to hurt a fly. If he had been a worse manse
VOL. II. 19

would have been a better king, and might have died
in his bed. It is all very fine, my dear Blaine,
talking about high morality and that, and virtue
bringing its own reward. That may do very well
for women and children ; but with men who know
the world it won't wash. People do not get
punished or rewarded according to their deserts ;
and a mere mistake — an error of judgment — often
entails worse consequences than a crime. A ship
captain in a moment of confusion gives the order
hard a-starboard,' instead of ' hard a-port,' and two
vessels go to the bottom and hundreds of lives are
lost. An engine-driver mistakes a signal, and a
train, freighted with passengers, is wrecked. Two
such accidents cause more suffering than a whole
century of murders."

But you surely don't mean to say, Corse, that
murder is therefore justifiable ? "

Of course not. I merely wanted to point out to
you the fallacy of the assumption that bad actions
always entail evil consequences on those who commit
them, and vice versa. If it were so, all the world
would be virtuous. It seems to me — and I have
seen a good deal of life, that the men you call
unscrupulous — provided they have their wits about
them — generally get the best of it."

I don't agree with you," interrupted Alfred
warmly ; " I don't think it is in the nature of things
that evil should triumph ; and I do most sincerely

believe that honesty will beat the other thing in the
end — and even though it were not so it would be

o

better to be true than false."

^' As to that I quite agree with you, Blaine,
but I would just observe that if honesty be the best
policy, there is no merit in not being a rogue. It
is one of those sayings that people accept as a
matter of course, without thinking whether they
are true or false. Just like that other adasje we
were speaking of, ^ murder will out.' They say so
because they have no idea how often murders
don't out. Look at the case of this Dr. Samson, for
instance. He poisoned his nephew to get his
money; but if he had wanted to be found out he
could not have done it more clumsily. He buys
aconitine in a shop, puts it into a powder and gives
it to the boy, who is an invalid, in the presence of a
third person. Before Samson leaves the house
almost, the nephew falls ill, and he dies the very same
night. Twenty four hours later Samson is in custody.
The remains of the powder are analysed and
found to contain aconitine, and the incident is
adduced as proof that murder will out. Now suppose
that Dr. Samson, who, remember, is a physician,
instead of committing such a betide had prescribed
some pills and put his aconitine into only one of them.
What would have happened ? The nephew would
either have taken one of the harmless pills or the
poisoned pill first. Suppose that he had done the

19*

latter, though the chances are against it, and the
doctor who was called in had suspected poisoning,
which is by no means certain, and caused the pills
to be analysed, they would have been found perfectly
innocuous, and nobody could have said how the
poison was administered. If, on the other hand,
he had taken three or four of the harmless pills
before swallowing the poisoned one, the case against
Samson would have been still weaker ; and had he
used the precaution to distil his aconitine from the
roots of the aconitum apelles, common wolfsbane,
not even his worst enemy would have dared to
breathe a word against him."

Upon my word, Corse, you make my blood run
cold," said Blaine, half in jest, half in earnest.
I shall begin to think soon you are a dangerous
man. I hope you won't take it into your head some
day to poison me."

"No fear of that, my dear fellow. But my father
thought at one time of making me a doctor, and I
attended a course of lectures at an Italian university.
Ever since then medical jurisprudence has possessed
a singular fascination for me, and I sometimes
let the subject run away with me. Nothing interests
me more than a poisoning case, and I cannot
help looking at the matter from what you may callan
artistic point of view, just as De Quince did.
You have read his famous essay on ' Murder Considered
as one of the Peine Arts,' of course."

*' I began it once, but somehow I did not like it,
and did not read on to the end. You would niake
a good detective."

That does not follow. They say that Gaboriau
who wrote such wonderful tales of crime, and whose
detectives are simply masterpieces, once tried his
hand at unravelling a real crime and signally failed.
Still I fancy the metier of detective would suit me —
if I could stoop to it. I think, though, detectives
fail quite as often as they succeed. With a really
clever murderer they have no chance, for he does
his work so skilfully that nobody knows a murder
has been committed."

Then he must be a poisoner ? "

Well — yes, he must be a poisoner, or a 'poisonous,
as the French say. The commonly received
theory is that women are more prone to poison than
men. I don't think so."

Why ? "

*' Because, in my opinion, women are oftener
found out than men. Being more nervous and
emotional they are more apt to betray themselves
and to make mistakes. It is so easy to draw a false
inference. I have always contended that the number
of crimes discovered is no criterion of the number
committed."

You think very badly of human nature then ? "

I do. Anyhow it has behaved very badly to me.
But I say (looking at his watch), it is time to be

going. Light a cigar and let us be off. But stay,
I must take my wife a shawl. The night is rather
chilly, and she is thinly clad. Here it is. Allons"

You are very thoughtful for your wife," observed
Blaine, who was rather struck by the
inconsistency between this proceeding and the
cynicism of Corse's sentiments.

I ought to be. She is as good as gold. You have
no idea how much better I feel now she is with me
again. I often wish "

"What?"

That I were worth a hundred thousand pounds

for her sake. Then I should . They say

money is the root of all evil, Blaine. It would
be a good deal more to the purpose to say the want
of it is. But never mind, I suppose we shall rub on
somehow, poor as we are. By-the-bye, how are you
getting on with old Gibson ?"

Very well."

You like him ? "

"Yes."

'* I don't think Mayo and Leyland do, though. I
should not be surprised if there were a row one of
these days. Who would succeed him, do you suppose,
if he had to go ? "

Really, Corse, I don't know. And do you think
it is friendly to Gribson to discuss the contingency
of his being dismissed? For that is what it
amounts to."

Well, if you look at it in that way, you know
But I confess, I do not see any harm in putting the
question, and you cannot feel better disposed towards
Gribson than I do. If he has to leave, it won't
be our doing, and talking the matter over cannot
hurt him."

I do not think it can. All the same, Gribson
has behaved well to me, and I have a strong feeling
that it would not be good form to assume that he
is going to be dismissed, nor begin speculating as
to who is likely to succeed him."

You are perhaps right," returned Corse, coldly ;
so let us drop the subject. I should not have
mentioned it, only I have heard hints, and thought
you might like to have an idea of what is going on,
and likely to happen. Of course all this is entirely
between ourselves."

Of course," said Alfred, and shortly afterwards,
having reached a point where their roads diverged,
they separated.

Corse's feelings, as he went on his way alone, were
not of the pleasantness, and he was much less satisfied
with himself than usual. Besides saying more
than he meant to say, he had failed to ascertain
whether Blaine aspired to become Gibson's successor.
"When a vain man is full of a subject, it is
apt to run away with him, and Corse feared that he
had revealed his theories on artistic murder and
some other things rather more fully than was

altogether prudent. Still, he did not think any
great harm was done. Blaine was too open, too
frank, too green, in fact, to be dangerous. But for
that he should have attributed his reticence on the
subject of Gibson's dismissal to craft, and concluded
therefrom that he meant to get the place if he
could. As it was he gave him full credit for
sincerity.

The fellow is a fool," he muttered, as he passed
swiftly under the sycamores that lined the road.
I do believe he is quite capable of refusing
Gibson's place if it were offered to him. All the
same, I must talk no more about that
And it must not be poison. Poor Esther ! I do
wish it could be avoided. If that money had only
come to her ! Ah, how intensely respectable and generous
1 could be ! I'd build a church, subsidise the
parson, and keep the Ten Commandments ; and Ward
and those other fellows who cut me dead in Pall Mall
would offer their congratulations, the confounded

curs 1

t "

NEWS FROM C A L D E R .

As for Alfred, he was rather at a loss what to think.
Corse's theories about murder, and his cynical remarks
generally, were reviving his former distrust.
He did not know whether to set him down as unprincipled
or merely eccentric. On the whole,
being of a charitable disposition, Blaine inclined
to the second alternative ; nevertheless, he felt that
Corse was not a man that he could greatly respect,
or whom it would be prudent to trust. That
was one reason why (although the reason he gave
was quite sufficient) he had declined to hold
any conversation with him about Gribson. At
the same time, it could not be denied that Gibson
was acting very unwisely. He left the paper
almost altogether to Alfred and the two subs, did not
come to the office until late in the evening, and
came sometimes the worse for drink. He seemed
to be doing his best, in fact, to show that he was
not necessary, and that his services might be spared
without detriment to the interest of the paper.
Blaine and Delane saw this with regret ; Gibson
had always treated them with the utmost kindness,

and, had it been possible they would have warned him
of the danger he was running. But their relative
positions rendered any such proceeding on their
part impossible ; a hint even would probably have
been resented as an impertinence, and might have
done no good; hence, as Delane put it, they were
compelled " to let things slide."

A few days later Alfred had letters from Calder,
The first was from Cora.

His cousin told him, among other things, that
George was in good health and spirits, and the confident
hope of speedy promotion, and that his
mother was somewhat better. As for herself — well,
she had a secret, a great secret to tell him, and she
warned him to prepare for a great surprise. She
had begun to write a novel. The editor of the
Piccadilly Magazine having accepted a second
short story from her and complimented her thereon
(he wants to get another at the same price,
thought Alfred,) she was encouraged to try a bolder
flight.

But neither your mother, nor anybody else in
Calder," she wrote, " has the least idea of what I
am doing, for I have two great fears — that I shall
stick fast ignominiously in the middle and never
get any farther, and that even if I do finish the
story, I shall never get it printed. And I get on
awfully slowly. I wrote the first page ten times,
and the first chapter three, and still they are not

what they ought to be, so please don't say anything.
I have told nobody but you and George."

Not long after he received this letter there came
one from Wharton, evidently written in rather low
spirits, though he did his best to keep up Alfred's.
That fellow Murgatroyd, from Halifax, he said, was
making things look rather fishy. He told a very
straightforward story, and though the clerk did not
believe a word he said, it was impossible to prove
that the man lied. If Blaine could only " let on "
(find Vera Hardy), it would not, of course, matter
what the fellow might choose to say; he might
perjure himself until he was black in the face, for
anything Wanton cared. But unless she or her father
(and of the latter contingency there was precious little
chance) was found — and that soon — it would be all
up a . tree, for Ferret and Saintly Sam meant
business, there was no mistake about that. Supported
by Murgatroyd's testimony, they were going
to file a bill for accounts. Much, of course, depended
on whether John Hardy's trustees resisted the demand
or consented to a friendly suit. He hoped
the former, for in that case the affair might be
prolonged almost indefinitely, and if there was any
chance of the heiress turning up they would be encouraged
to fight, as he knew for a fact that Artful
hated Ferret like poison, and thought the Hardy
Fortune Company nothing less than a public
scandal. It therefore behoved Blaine to see

that Martinoo quickly and get to know whether the
girl was alive or dead, and if alive, what had become
of her.

If I only could," thought Alfred. But Bevis as
yet had made no sign, and until he did there was
nothing for it but to wait. Not, however, for long. In
two months at the outside the Colonel must be in Italy

I am thinking less about the money now,"
Wanton went on, " though a few thousands, even a
few hundreds, even a few score pounds, would be
extremely acceptable to yours truly, than of taking
the shine out of Saintly Sam. How I hate the
smug-faced, sanctimonious old beggar ! He has the
devil's own luck, and nobody could deserve it less.
What do you think now ? He has bought that
outlying estate of Lord Lichfield, at Leadeth.
The trustees under the settlement had power to
sell it and invest the proceeds in land elsewhere ;
but they knew nothing of the value of the property,
and Sam has got it for an old song. It lies
between the railway and the river; there is both
coal and limestone in it, and for building purposes
it is worth almost anything. Sam has let sites for
two mills already, and goes about talking of " my
estate at Leadeth " as if it had come to him through
a long line of acred ancestors. And that is not all.
There is a talk, though I'll be shot if I can believe
it, that Lord Lichfield's second son, the Honourable
Tom Towns, is to marry Lizzie and be our next

member. (I once thought you had a weakness in
that quarter.) Sam could return him, of course
or anybody else, and I daresay would be willing
enough to have a peer's son for his son-in-law, but
he would have to make settlements, and old
Saintly is awfully fond of his money; he would
think pretty often before paying down — say ten
thousand pounds — for the honour of being allied
with a sprig of nobility. And then, from an aristocratic
point of view, the Dainties cannot be
considered an altogether desirable connection.
Everybody in Calder knows that Sam is a rogue,
and Mrs. Sam, though a decent enough old body,
is — well, not the most eligible mother-in-law
imaginable. So, taking one thing with another, I
don't think Miss Lizzie is likely to become the
Honourable Mrs. Tom Towns just yet.

Did I tell you that Sam is buying up all the
shares in the Hardy Fortune Company he can lay his
hands on ? He has also bought up the claims of
the poorer Hardyss ; and one way and another, if the
fortune comes to Calder, Sam will get a good half
of it. Another reason for finding that young
woman ; and even then I expect there will be a
fight. The Saint has backed himself too heavily
to win, to yield without a struggle, and if he is
beaten you may be sure it won't be for want of hard
swearing. Murgatroyd won't be the only man that
knew the late John Hardy ; there are more where

he came from, and we must not forget that finding
Philip Hardy's daughter will not end the matter.
We shall have to prove his marriage with his Italian
wife, also Miss Yera's identity, and that may not be
so easy as we should like. But this is neither here
nor there. It is like counting chickens before they
are hatched. The thing is to find her."

Exactly," was Blaine's mental comment
First catch your hare. I only wish I could catch
mine. The bother is that I don't know the name
she went by. Until I do know I cannot move.
Confound that Martinoo — when will he turn up, I
wonder ? If I don't hear from Bevis before October
I shall just write again to jog his memory. And
so Lizzie has found another sweetheart already ;
for I do believe it is a true bill, in spite of Wanton's
doubts. Sam Hardy likes being important, and if
he made settlements, would get value for his
money in more ways than one, and I suppose it
would suit Tow^nson very well to get into Parliament.
But I don't envy him, and he is quite welcome
to Lizzie. She is not fit to be named in the
same day as Mademoiselle Leonino. As if I had
anything to do with Mademoiselle Leonino ! I must
make a fortune before I marry a wife. I wish Cora
had not put her into my head, with her absurd sentimentalism.
I was forgetting all about her. But
she has really the finest eyes I ever saw. I wonder
whether we shall ever meet again."

Core MAKES HIMSELF AGREEABLE.

September for the most part had been a bad raonth
showery, at times even cold — and the great
majority of tourists had either hurried homeward,
or betaken themselves to the more genial climates
of the south. But October, as it often does in
Switzerland, opened splendidly. True, the nights
are lengthening, the lakes show by their waning
volume that the glaciers are gaining on the sun,
snow flakes repose on the rocks of the Salve and
whiten the peaks of the Jura, yet the days are
bright and balmy, the trees still rejoice in the glory
of their autumnal foliage, and th Alps, sharply
defined in the clear air, are clothed with all the
splendour of their beauty and their majesty, grand
as the ocean, mysterious as eternity.

Calm, too, is the lake ; its azure surface, unruffled
by the faintest zephyr, reflects in its gentle bosom
the smiling villages on its banks, just now gay with
frolic and song, for it is full vintage, and great
pains are carrying to the wine-press loads of luscious
grapes, gathered by lads and lasses to the music of
their own laughter. A few days more and the Alps

may be shrouded in storm clouds, and the lake torn
by a furious lise, but this is St. Martin's summer,
the last bright time of the dying year, and everybody
seems to enjoy it to the full. The Grenevans
still live mostly in the grande air — under trees, in
gardens, at the doors of cafes, and open windows.

None enjoy this second summer more than Esther
Corse ; it has all the charm of novelty for her, she
is sensitive to external impressions, and Vernon,
though subject to occasional fits of gloom and bursts
of temper, is almost everything she could wish, and
a great deal more than she expected. The time is
afternoon ; he is smoking a pensive pipe and she is
sewing ; but every now and then she raises her head
and looks towards the mountains, now radiant in the
golden light of the sinking sun.

What is the name of the mountain there, that
looks so grand and solitary, sloping upwards and
crowned with trees ? " she asks.

That — that is the Poisons," says Corse, rousing
himself.

'^ And that far away mountain with a double peak,
like two horns — what is that ? "

The Dent d'Oche. It is a long way off, and if
the horns as you call them, were not powdered with
fresh fallen snow you could hardly see them."

How beautiful it all is ! It seems like a dream.
What is a glacier like when you are close to it ? "

« Awfully dirty."

Impossible ! See how beautifully white Mont
Blanc is."

That is the snow. You cannot distinguish the
glaciers from here. But you shall see one if you
like. What do you say to going to Chamouni ? "

What do I say to going to Chamouni ? I feel
as if I would give something very precious — a part
of my life even — to go there."

A part of your life ! Why — why — there is no
danger in going to Chamouni, you know. What do
you mean by saying that, Esther ? " almost
stammers Corse, and he is not a man much given to
hesitation in speech.

I only meant that I would like to go very,
very much," returns Esther, looking rather surprised.


Why didn't you say so before ? You shall go.
We will start to morrow."

Are you in earnest, Vernon ? "

Never more so in my life."

"You are a dear good boy. There" (kissing
him). *' I thank you with all my heart. But can
you get away ? "

Easily. The schools have all a fortnight's holiday
for the vantage. We need not be away more than
five or six days, and I can do my copy for the
Helvetic before we start."

Shall we leave first thing in the morning ? "

<« Certainly, by the first boat. We will take the
VOL. n. 20

steamer to Villeneuve, rail to Monthly, and ride on
muleback from Yernayaz to Chamouni."

Oh, how delightful ! You are kind " (kissing
him a second time). '^ I will go and get our things
ready at once. We have to go out this evening,
and there will be no time in the morning. What
time does the steamer leave ? "

Seven-fifteen, I think."

Hang it all ! " mutters Corse, when he is left
alone, " I wish she would not be quite so kind and
loving. It makes it so confoundedly hard. Shall I
do it, after all ? I must — there is no help for it.

No, I won't. I Anyhow, there is no harm intaking

her to Chamouni, and then, pious verrons.
She would give a part of her life to go there !

That was rather startling. Little she knows

It is an awful shame. I wish I could get rid of her
without — hang me if I don't. She is as good as
gold, that's true ; but she isn't worth two millions.
Am I sure of getting two millions, though ? That
is the question. I'll think it over again. To do it
and get nothing ! That would be a hard case. Come,
come, this won't do. I'm losing my courage ; letting
I dare not wait on I would. And yet everything
is in my favour. If I cannot make that girl marry
me I am a duffer, and don't deserve her. I shall
pose as a man of fortune, and she has been brought
up like a peasant. . I must go through with it
must — must — Ah ! what is that ? "

And Corse started as violently as if a pistol had
been fired off at his ear. But it was only Madame
Marcquart wanting to know what Monsieur and
Madame would like for supper.

Corse answered rather shortly that they were
going out to supper; and then he informed Madame
Marcquart that they proposed to start early next
morning for Chamouni, and should be away perhaps
six or seven days.

I am very glad to hear it, for the sake of the
lady," said Madame Marcquart ; *' the excursion will
do her good. She is hen bonne, is Madame Corse.
The possession of such a wife ought to make you
very happy, M. Corse. You must well take care of
her, and see that she does not fall down a precipice
or get lost on a glacier. Bon soir, Monsieur."

And with a little cackle of a laugh, to show that
she was only making a jjlaisanterie, the landlady
left Corse to his reflections.

Confound the old hag ! what can she mean ? "
Corse asked himself. " Nothing, of course. A
chance shot. But how she startled me ! Grad, I
must watch myself, or I shall be getting nervous
and making some confounded mistake, like those
duffers I was talking to Blaine about the other
day."

They left Geneva in the grey of the morning.
There was a chilly feeling in the air, a fog veiled
the mountain-tops and brooded over the town, and as

20*

the boat swept over the dark blue lake, the water
rose and fell smoothly, and rippled noiselessly, as
if kept down by the weight of the mist.

It is confoundedly foggy. Are we going to have
bad weather, I wonder ? " asked Corse uneasily, as he
made a vain effort to scan the horizon.

Oh, no, I am sure we are not," answered Esther
eagerly. " The glass is rising, and and I heard the
captain say just now * il va s' clair cir J It is only
the morning glory."

Confound the morning glory ! I wish there
was not quite so much of it. It's awfully cold," said
Corse peevishly. He was always in a bad humour
when he rose early. " Let us go below and
have some coffee while it clears itself — if it's going
to."

Esther acquiesced, though she would rather have
remained on deck.

A cup of excellent coffee and a couple of feras
(little trout) cured Corse of his moroseness. To use
a simile of the ring, he came up smiling ; a cigar,
and the gleam of sunshine which saluted them as
they reached the deck, restored him to a serene
temper, and he chatted so pleasantly with Esther
that an American, who was one of the few passengers,
remarked to a travelling companion what a
nice fellow that Englishman seemed to be, and how
very fond he was of his wife ; and when he heard
Corse address a few words to the captain, expressed

a wish that he could speak French half as
well.

The lake seemed to smoke, the mist was moving
over the face of the water and melting in the sun,
and soon the picturesque villages, the graceful villas
and sloping gardens, the gleaming meadows and gay
vineyards that gem the shores of the Leman were
revealed in all their loveliness. The higher valleys
were still hidden, but above the billowy clouds that
hung between earth and sky the sombre summits of
the Jura and the glittering peaks of the Alps rose
like islands in a silver sea.

Esther was greatly delighted, and expressed her
admiration in the effusive language of an excited
girl; but Corse cared more for the sunshine than
the scenery, with which, as he observed, he was too
familiar to go into ecstasies about it. Being, however,
in a genial mood and disposed to be chatty, he
pointed out to his companion various places of
historic interest on the shores of the lake. As they
passed the ivy-mantled keep of the Chateau of
y voice he related the legend of Iron-fisted John.
How a certain Baron of Yvoire, who belonged to a
race that claimed descent from the god Neptune,
returned home after a long absence in Eastern
lands with a black horse and a Moorish servant, and
how the country people gave him the name of Jean
au Bras de Fer, because he had lost part of his
right arm and wore an iron one in its stead — and a

great deal more, including Jean's love story, which
though it greatly interested the travellers, would
probably not be found very entertaining by English
readers.

How much of it is true ? " enquired one of the
Americans, both of whom had listened to the story
with great attention.

About a tenth, I should say. Bras de Fer is
an historic personage, but the exploits attributed to
him are mostly legendary.

The interest shown by Esther and the Americans
flattered him ; he liked being a centre of observation
; and he told two or three other stories, and
gave useful information concerning the places they
passed — lore that he had picked up at odd times,
and more than once turned to profitable account by
acting as amateur cicerone to parties of distinguished
foreigners.

Before the steamer reached Villeneuve the Americans,
who were also bound for Chamouni, proposed
that they should travel thither in company. Corse
objected that they had Cook's tickets, and were going
to Martin, while he and his wife were going by
Vernayaz.

Hang Cook's tickets," said the older and the
burgher of the tourists ; " we would sacrifice them
twice over for the pleasure of travelling with a
gentleman like you, who speaks the language like a
native, and knows the country better than Baedeker."

Corse hesitated. He lead reasons for not wanting
company, but the compliment pleased him — it maybe
that a good impulse moved him — and he closed
with the American's proposal.

They all alighted at Yernayaz station, rode up
the tremendous and almost interminable zigzag,
which the burly American declared to be a thousand
times higher than Jacob's ladder, to a little inn,
where they spent the night. It was agreed that
they should start at seven on the following morning
for Chamouni. But a few minutes after the time
appointed, and when all was ready for departure,
American number two appeared on the scene, said
sorrowfully that his friend had been taken ill in
the night, and would probably not be able to leave
until the next day, and suggested that Mr. and
Mrs. Corse should go on without them. After a few
expressions of regret the Corses went on alone.

Among THE MOUNTAINS.

It was a fatality. Had the Americans joined them
the terrible event which shortly afterwards befell
might never have come to pass. Corse, by
one of those inconsistencies to which human nature
is prone, though in the first instance he had
been annoyed by the Americans thrusting their
company upon him, now almost regretted that they
were staying behind. It is possible that he wanted
saving from himself, for there must be times when
a man who is planning a deed of horror — unless hebe
already brutalised by crime — would fain be
hindered by some external influence from carrying
his design into effect. Corse had experienced several
of these lucid intervals; from time to time he half
renounced his purpose : and the nearer he came to
its accomplishment the greater became his hesitation.
He never looked at Esther without feeling
how hard it would be to act when the moment
arrived for which he had been so long preparing.
Lie was so bright; she enjoyed life so much, and
seemed so happy. And he liked her : she was a
pleasant companion ; she never bored him, and
her love was gratifying to his self-esteem. Yet he

always came round to the same point. Even in the
agonies of irresolution Vera Hardy and her fortune
lured him onward. And he had dwelt so much on
the idea of murder, brooded over his project so often
and so fondly, that it had come to have a positive
fascination for him. It was so clever, so original,
and did its author so much credit, that it seemed
almost a shame not to carry it into effect. Sometimes
he was in one mood, sometimes in the other;
yet even in his better moments, when pity and such
conscience as he had left fought most strenuously
against the evil influence that was dragging him to
his fate, he had always, deep down in his mind, a
foreboding, amounting to conviction, that he should
return to Geneva alone — that this was the last journey
he and Esther would ever take together.

This was his thought as he helped her to mount
her mule at the door of the Hotel de Sylvan, and in
spite of himself he shuddered.

You are cold, Vernon dear," she said caressingly.
Here, let me fasten this wrap round your neck,"
and suiting the action to the word, she stooped from
her saddle and folded a soft white shawl about his
throat.

It is rather chilly," he replied in a husky voice,
but the sun is rising and I shall be warm presently;
and yes " (drawing a flask from his pocket), " I will
take just a soup(;on of cognac."

He took a good deal more that a soupcon, and,

as Esther observed with some misgiving, he had
lately drunk more both of wine and cognac than
could be good for him ; but she made no remark,
and they rode on for some time in silence, for the
air was so sharp and keen that she covered up her
mouth with a muffler, and Vernon did not seem ina
mood for conversation. His mind was agitated
though his face was calm, and just then talking
would have been painful to him. Had he been in a
more observant temper, he would probably have
noticed that his companion was quieter than usual,
and that her countenance wore an expression pensive
even to sadness. Something troubled her. Whether
some old memory, a feeling that she was lavishing
her love on a man unworthy of it, or a foreboding
of evil, who can tell ? But as the sun rose higher
and the morning mist faded in his beams, and range
after range of Alpine giants, draped in dazzling
white, uprose around her, their brows crowned with
icy rocks, silent as the dead yet resplendent in the
pride of their beauty and their strength, her melancholy
followed the vanishing mist, and she became
as excited and enthusiastic as before.

Her exclamations and remarks rather amused
Corse, but he showed only a languid interest in the
Alpine world around them.

You have seen it ail before," she said pettishly,
*' and don't care. But however often I were to see
them, I do not think these mountains would lose

their charm for me. You have no poetry in yom'
soul, Vernon, or you could not look unmoved on a
scene like this."

They are in a wild valley strewn with erratic blocks.
Its rugged and storm-rent slopes are dotted with
two or three solitary chalets, and down the middle
of it dashes and boils a mountain stream, as yet, for
the day is young, unmixed with " glacier milk," and
as clear as crystal. Patches of pines silvered with
hoar frost fringe the lower heights, and between
them and the advancing snow-line may be discerned
oases of green pastures, veritable emeralds of the
Alps in a setting of winter.

Hark ! " exclaimed Esther, reining in her mule,
what is that ? "

It is a sound overhead, as it seems from the
snow; at first a confused murmur, then swelling
into a diapason of shouting and " modelling,"
mingled with the music of bells, the lowing of cattle,
and the blast of an Alpine horn.

The muleteer pointed towards the pine woods.

They are bringing the cattle down from the
Alps," said Corse.

And Esther, turning her gaze in the direction
pointed out by the muleteer, saw emerging from a
clump of trees a long stream of cows, goats, and
young horses, followed by men, and lads and lasses,
the latter in gay folks' dresses, all carrying something
: — milking - stools, pots, pans, kettles, and

other household gear, either on their backs or their
heads.

I know, I know," almost shouted Esther, dropping
her reins and clapping her hands. "I have
read about it in books; I have seen it in pictures.
They are bringing home the cattle from the Alps.
How picturesque it all is ! Oh, Vernon, I never
felt before that I was really in Switzerland ! "

You are not in Switzerland now."

What do you mean ? "

I mean that we have crossed the border, and this
is Savoy."

Never mind that ; I don't care about political
divisions. This may belong to France, but we are
in a mountain land all the same, and you must let
me call it Switzerland, Vernon dear. Do you know,
I feel as if I should lille to stay in it as long as I
live ! I wonder if I shall ! What do you think,
Vernon ? "

I think — if you do — 1 hope you will live a longtime,"
answered Corse with outward calm, though
with inward effort. The question was too suggestive
to be pleasant.

You would wish that in any case, I hope,
Vernon ; but I mean, do you think we are likely
to stay in Switzerland a long time ? "

"Tell me how long we shall remain poor, and
I will tell you how long we shall stay in Switzerland."


"In that case I almost hope we may always
remain poor. I think I would rather be poor in
Switzerland than rich in England."

By Jove ! but I would not," said Corse, abruptly.
If I had ten thousand a year, London or Paris
should be my home, Esther."

Ten thousand a year ! " laughed Esther.
What a prodigious sum ! Wouldn't five thousand
satisfy you, moon cher?^^

On the principle that half a loaf is better than
no bread, certainly. Yes, I should be mighty glad
of five thousand a year; but really to enjoy life
nowadays you should have ten thousand."

Well, there is no telling. Perhaps somebody
will leave one of us ten thousand a year, or I may
die, and then you can marry money, you know."

Nonsense ! " exclaimed Corse, with an abruptness
that startled and surprised his companion.

Then the subject dropped, and they rode on in
silence. The conversation evidently disturbed
Esther, for, much as she loved Corse, she was
neither blind to his faults nor, remembering what
had happened in the past, without misgivings as to
what might befall her in the future. If her jest sofar
became earnest that he should have a chance,
even in her lifetime, of marrying money, what
would happen ? The question was a painful one,
for her hold over him was limited to Geneva, and
depended entirely on what he called his poverty.

Were he by any means to become independent of
the goodwill of his patrons, he might set her at
defiance.

As for Corse, the mention of money had set him
a-thinking once more of Vera Hardy, her millions,
and the pleasures they would purchase. Vera was
a fine girl. He knew that he should sooner or
later get tired of Esther — on las de manger toujours
diomede pain — and there was a touch of raillery in
her tone just now which he did not at all like.
Yes, the game was worth the candle. To funk it
now, at the last moment, would be the merest
poltroonery and a great mistake. Never would he
have such another chance. No risk, and — if his
scheme succeeded — hardly an effort. A touch,
possibly a scream — but that would not matter — and
all would be over as quickly as a flash of lightning.
And then, for the hundredth time, he mentally rehearsed
the scene to its minutest detail. Yet,
though he hardened his heart, he could not repress
a great inward fear.

'' I wish it were over ! " he muttered, through
his set teeth.

When they reached the Argentine glacier, it
was in deep shade, for the sun was low.

And that is a glacier ? " said Esther, stopping
her mule. " Well, I am disappointed. How stern
and gloomy it looks, as if some terrible crime had
been committed there, and it was for ever accursed."

The scene almost justifies Esther's description.
A half darkness, rendered ghastly by looming
masses of corpse-like snow, broods over the upper
part of the ravine from which the glacier descends ;
on either side rise black and splintered rocks ; the
broad ice-stream is strewn with huge blocks of
stone, like the fragments of a blasted planet, and
ever and anon can be heard the boom of a rolling
boulder or the crash of a falling avalanche.

For a few minutes Esther gazed on the wild waste
of snow and ice and wreck as if fascinated. " It's
awfully grand," she said at length, drawing a deep
breath ; '* but there is something in it that almost
frightens me. Let us go on, Vernon."

I do not see anything awful in it," answered
Corse, in a matter-of-fact way. " I thought you
would be disappointed ; people always are the first
time they see a glacier. But wait until you see
another or two, and by daylight. To-morrow or the
next day we will go to the Mer de Grlace. It is not
like this."

*' I am very glad, for if all glaciers were like this,
I should never want to see another. It is horrible
enough to be one of the ways into Hades and
peopled by ghosts and hob-goblins."

That's all nonsense," returned Corse. '^ Allan !
let us push on ; it's past dinner-time, and I am
getting awfully peckish."

An hour later they were in the salle a manger of

the Hotel du Mont Blanc, and Esther, fortified by an
excellent meal, quickly got over the impression
made on her by her first glacier, and declared
herself eager for an excursion to Montanvert and
the Mer de Grlace.

THE Seats DU Grant.

It was late on the following morning when Corse
and Esther came down to breakfast. The long ride
and the keen air had acted as an anodyne, and they
slept both soundly and long.

When Esther spoke of the proposed excursion,
Corse, who seemed to be in a lazy mood, said it was
almost too late to start on so long a journey, and
suggested that they should put it off until the
morrow.

Esther looked disappointed. She little guessed
that the change of plan gave her an additional
twenty-four hours of life.

The Mer de Grlace is not the only thing to be
seen at Chamouni," he observed, with a smile ; " we
can make some shorter and easier excursion."

Very well ; let us set out then," she returned,
rising from the table. " The sun is bright and
the day is getting on. I can be ready in five
minutes."

"All right," said Corse, lighting a cigar; "get
ready ; you will find me at the door. I'll ask one
VOL. II. 21

of the guides about the condition of the mountains
and what excursion he can recommend."

Esther was nearly as good as her word. Her
five minutes stretched only to fifteen. She found
Corse in conversation with a guide, whom he called
Valentine. He had come to the conclusion that
the pleasantness excursion they could undertake
would be to the Col de Brevent. They might make
the greater part of the ascent on muleback ; and
though snow had fallen on the summit, they would
be able, thought Valentine, to reach it without difficulty,
and the view it afforded of the chain of Mont
Blanc and the valley of the Sixt was superb.

In this proposal Esther acquiesced with alacrity.
She would go anywhere Vernon thought best, she
said, only she should like to see the Mer de Grace
before they went back.

Of course," answered Corse ; "nobody comes to
Chamouni without seeing the Mer de Grace. We
will go to Montanvert tomorrow, and if you like,
make an excursion to the Jardin or the Seracs du
Geant."

Esther said she should like very much, and the
mules being brought round, they started for the Col
de Brevent. When they reached a hut, near the
top, they dismounted, for the track had become impracticable
even for mules, and snow lay thick in the
hollows.

Is that a glacier ? " asked Esther, pointing to a

wide stretch of snow which lay between them and
the summit.

Not exactly," returned Corse, rather loftily, for
even in trifles he was never above the vanity of
showing his superior knowledge. '^ That is merely
snow, which has probably fallen during the last few
days. The Brevent is clear in summer. A glacier
is ice, as you will see tomorrow."

Esther was in great spirits.

This is really mountaineering," she cried to
Corse, as the guide stamped steps for her with his
feet, and helped her up the snow slope. " I do so
enjoy it ; don't you, Vernon ? "

Very much, indeed. I like it immensely,"
answered Corse, ironically, and with a half groan ;
for his game leg was troubling him a little, his
wind had suffered from his life in Geneva, and he
had quite lost his taste for mountaineering. If he
had yielded to impulse he would have been very
cross ; but he kept his temper from policy, and
Esther was too much occupied with her climbing to
observe the shade on her companion's countenance.

Void! " exclaimed Valentine at length, pulling
her on a ridge free from snow, " we are arrived at
the summit."

And then Esther looked round and saw before hera
sight the like of which she had never yet beheld.
From the coign of vantage where she stood her eye
took in the entire range of Mont Blanc, now white

21*

from base to summit, except where some dark
pinnacle of rock pierced the sky or the ice of a
glacier gleamed like an amethyst in the sun.

'* So white, so still, and so solemn," she said
slowly, after a long pause. " It makes me think of
death, Vernon, dear ! "

Why — why of death ? " stammered Corse, who
stood beside her leaning on his alpenstock.

Because it seems to me that up yonder, on
those serene heights, there can be no life, and the
stillness must be as complete as that of the
grave."

Come now, Esther, do let us discuss something
more cheerful than death and the grave. You
make me feel quite uncomfortable."

<« Why should mention of death make you feel
uncomfortable ? When you left me, and I was in
such sore trouble, I often longed for death. And
there may be more trouble in store for me yet —
who can tell ? I once heard Rabbi Simeon say that
it may be a greater misfortune to live than to die ;
and I have sometimes thought that it is best to die
when you are happy, and before fresh troubles come
if it please God to take you."

What strange ideas you have, Esther ! Why
should you have such gloomy thoughts ? You were
cheerful enough just now."

And shall be again presently. It was the sight
of those mountains. How like eternity they are ! "

Eternity ! " said Corse, with a half sneer. " What
will you be saying next, I wonder ? Let us change
the subject. Do you see that great mass of white
streaked with blue ? — a little to the right there,
like a great frozen cascade ? "

Yes."

lyell, about this time tomorrow we shall not
be far from the foot of that cascade," said Corse,
with a curious glance at Esther.

I hope it won't tumble on us," returned the girl,
pleasantly, for she was now as cheerful as a little
while before she had been sad.

*' No fear of that. I have too great a regard for
you — and myself, too, for that matter — to run into
danger. And we shall take Valentine with us, of
course."

Then they descended the mountain, Vernon
holding Esther's hand and paying her great attention.
Once, however, she slipped, to Corse's dismay,
and if the guide had not been in front and stopped
her by running diagonally across the snow slope,
she might have gone over a precipice. Corse's
anxiety on this occasion was quite touching. He
could not run very fast on account of his leg, but
when he came up to Esther he took her in his arms
and kissed her. The incident impressed Valentine
greatly, and when he was talking matters
over in the evening with the guide-inches, he
expressed the opinion that the English gentleman

and wife were newly married, Monsieur
seemed so fond of Madame.

Before they separated it was agreed that the guide
should be at the hotel door with two mules at eight
o'clock next morning.

Valentine was true to the tryst, though he had
not the least expectation that his voyageurs would
be, and nine o'clock had gone before Esther and
Corse appeared on the scene, alpenstocks in hand
and ready for a start. Corse was in one of his taciturn
humours and had very little to say ; but even
if he had been in a more genial mood, it would not
have been easy to hold a conversation while riding
up the steep ascent, several yards behind his companion.
But by the time they reached Montanvert
he had grown quite amiable, and repeated sips from
his brandy-flask (furtively taken) so effectually
loosened his tongue that he became both talkative
and jocular.

At Montanvert they leave the mules, and after a
light repast, which Corse washes down with the
greater part of a bottle of Bordeaux, they begin the
second stage of their journey ; keeping the vast ice
stream to their left they follow its course along the
mountain side until a spot is reached where it is
possible, though not very easy, to descend on the
glacier. For the bank of the moraine, worn by the
weather and undermined by the pressure of the ice
stream, has fallen in, so they have to climb over

and double huge boulders, and Valentine has to
stamp steps for them in the friable earth, just as he
had done the day before in the soft snow. At
length the glacier is reached, but its surface is so
thickly covered with stones and soil that were it not
for the occasional crevasse they would hardly know
they were walking on ice. But the path is so rugged
and the boulders are so big and so numerous that
the climbers are compelled to take once more to the
mountain side ; yet only to go down a second time
on the glacier, which is becoming gradually smoother,
cleaner, and more ice-like. Above them towers the
dark and majestic Aiguille Noire, before them rises
the white and blue fissured crest of the Glacier du
Great, like some mightier Niagara, arrested in mid
career and turned into ice by the touch of an
Almighty hand. Above the glacier stretches a wide
expanse of glittering snow. Before them are splintered
peaks, wild ravines, and savage precipices ;
below them the icy sea crawls like a gigantic snake
towards the valley. The wild scene is lighted up
by a brilliant sunshine, and a cloud banner floats
from the Aiguille du Dru in a sky of clearest azure.

But hark ! What is that ?

It is the crash of a stone falling from the Aiguille
Noire, followed by the thunder of an ice avalanche
from the Glacier du Geant. And then Esther learns
that the serene heights of the Alpine world are
neither so silent nor so devoid of life as she had

thought, for she hears the sound of running water,
and Valentine points to an eagle flying between the
snow and the sun.

The guide holds Esther's hand to steady her footsteps,
sometimes lending a hand to Corse as well, for
they have many ugly ice hummocks to surmount,
and some awkward crevices to double. After an unusually
hard scramble Corse calls a halt, whereupon
they sit down on a boulder and eat some sandwiches
and Corse refreshes himself freely from his flask.

'* Are there any moulins about here ? " he asks
the guide while offering him a cigar.

Yes, we shall pass a big one in a few minutes —
don't you hear it ? "

I think I do ; not very distinctly though. But
it appears to come from under the glacier."

One can hear nothing under the glacier. It is
too deep."

Those moulins go to the bottom of the glacier,
I suppose ? "

Of course ; where else could they go ? "

'^ How deep are they ? "

Who knows ? Perhaps a hundred feet, perhaps
more."

What is it all about ? What is a moulin ? " asks
Esther.

Tell madame what a moulin is, Valentine," says
Corse, as he takes another sip of brandy.

On this the guide explains that they are coming

to a part of the glacier which is almost unbroken,
where driblets of water, instead of disappearing in
the rifts, form rills which, joining together, form
broad rivulets, and cut deep channels in the ice.
The stream so formed sooner or later reaches a point
where the ice is cracked, and the water, arrested in
its course, finds its way to the bottom of the
glacier. But as the stream runs with great force it
gradually shapes out a shaft, wide almost as the
mouth of a coal pit, and of a tremendous depth,
wherein the water plunges with a hollow and thunder-like
roar.

"Now you hear it distinctly enough," exclaims
Valentine, when they were once more afoot.
"Listen !"

It is a heavy rumbling sound like distant thunder,
which grows louder as they advance.

How curious ! " says Esther. " I should like to
see one of these moulins."

We shall be at it directly. This is a very large
one."

The sound grows louder and louder, and more like
real thunder, and then the swish of water is heard
and they see in the smooth ice a large cavernous
hole. They draw nearer and look into its awful
depths. It is a shaft bored through the blue ice,
into which leaps wildly a cascade of white water.

I say, Valentine," calls Corse, who is a few
yards in the rear, "I have left my flask down at

the boulder there. I wish you would fetch it forme
; I am beginning to feel a little tired. We will
wait for you here."

'^ Parfaitement, Monsieur, I shall not be five
minutes."

What an awesome sight it is ! " says Esther.
and what a wild scene all round ! It almost makes
me feel afraid."

*' Nonsense ! What is there to be afraid of ? Yes,
these moulins are very curious. G-ive me your hand
and come a little closer."

How your hand trembles, Vernon ! Are you
afraid, too ? "

'' Not a bit ; but I am cold with sitting on that
confounded boulder. I will put my gloves on. You
can stand alone half a minute. But take care, the
ice is very slippery and "

The next moment a piercing shriek rings through
the air, and when Valentine, who is barely two
hundred yards away, turns round, he sees only one
figure standing by the moulin.

The lady has fallen in," he says, and then
hurries back at full speed.

Corse is bending over the moulin in an attitude
of despair, his arms extended, and face as pale as
death.

*' She has gone!" he exclaims wildly, "fallen
into that horrible hole. I let go her hand to put on
my gloves ; then she moved a little forward — and —

and the very same moment I heard her shriek and
saw her fall. I clutched at her dress but it was too
late ! It tore ; see, I have a bit of it in my hand ! I
should not have let go her hand. Oh ! I should not
have let go her hand. But can nothing be done ?
Cannot we get ropes ? "

There are no ropes nearer than Chamouni, and
if we had a thousand they would be of no use. The
poor lady is dead already. Monsieur. You will
never see your wife again until you meet her in
heaven."

But the body," says Corse eagerly, " can we
not recover the body ? Oh, my poor, poor
Esther ! "

Impossible ! the body is at the bottom of the
glacier, and will not reappear until the day of judgment.
It is a great misfortune and I shall be much
blamed. Monsieur."

Why, why should any one blame you, Valentine ?
You have done nothing wrong."

Yes, I have ; I neglected my duty. I should
not have left you alone at the mouth of the moulin;
but Monsieur asked me to fetch his flask and I could
not well refuse. You will say so to the guide-en-chef,
will you not, Monsieur ? "

I do not think you are in the least to blame,
Valentine. The fault is entirely mine, and I shall
say so to the chief guide and everybody else."

A thousand thanks. Monsieur ; I am sorry to

trouble Monsieur about myself at so terrible a moment
; but when a guide loses his character as guide
he loses his living, and I have a wife and children."

And then Valentine led Corse away from the
fatal moulin, and they set their faces towards
Montanvert. Corse, who seemed to be overcome
with excitement and emotion, and was probably
unnerved by the drink he had taken, walked so unsteadily
that the guide had much difficulty in
getting him across the glacier and up the moraine.

Long before the two men gained Montanvert, the
sun had set in a blood-red sky. As they descended
the mountain in pitchy darkness, Corse spoke never
a word, and when they reached the Hotel du Mont
Blanc he was in such a state of mental and physical
prostration that he had to be helped from his mule
and led straightway to his bedroom.

CRUMBS OF COMFORT.

The tidings of the terrible accident on the Mer de
Glace (conveyed in a letter to Gribson from one of
the Americans whose acquaintance the Corses had
made on the steamer), caused, as was natural, a
great sensation at Geneva.

Mr. Corse, said the writer, being completely unmanned
by the shock, had requested him (Rufus T.
Choke) to write in his stead. He gave a full account
of what had befallen, and stated that in the course of
a day or two, when Mr. Corse could command himself
sufficiently to converse and travel, he should
return to Geneva. In the meantime he would take
it as a great favour if Mr. Gibson, out of consideration
for the feelings of Mrs. Corse's relatives, would
say in the paper no more about the sad event than
was absolutely necessary.

Means were also taken to prevent much being
said in Swiss and French papers, and though the
accident was briefly described in the Faits Divers
of most of them, Corse had written his name in the
visitors' book of the hotel in such a fashion that it
looked like " Lorph," and being in some instances

transformed into " Lerpli," in others " Dorpli," he
was set down as a Grerman ; so it came to pass that
few of his friends (except in Geneva) and none of
Esther's heard for a long time of his loss and her
fate.

When the bereaved man appeared at Greneva a
week after the accident, he become an object of
general sympathy, and even people whose capacity
in that way was of the slightest had a morbid
curiosity to see the survivor of the catastrophe, and
hear an account of it from his own lips. Leyland,
Mayo, and Gribson, together with their wives, and
many others, paid him visits of condolence. The
editor spoke in a manly, straightforward way of his
respect for the deceased and his sorrow for her
death, assured Corse that they all felt for him in his
great misfortune, and that he personally should
only be too glad to do for him whatever lay in his
power. Mrs. Gribson, who called with Mrs. Mayo,
could not well have been more effusive if the late
Mrs. Corse had been her nearest relative or her
closest friend.

When Mr. Gribson told me," she said, half-weeping,
"I was so much overcome that I nearly
fainted away. He had to fetch the smelling-salts
and give me a petit verre de cognac. Such a nice
lady ; so young, too, and to die such a dreadful
death ! She was quite an acquisition to our little
society here ; always so bright and cheerful. We

all feel for you — indeed we do, Mr. Corse. And you
had not even the melancholy satisfaction of giving
her Christian burial ! No funeral, no coffin, no anything
! How you must feel it ! How you must
have felt when you saw her slip down that horrible
hole ! "

I cannot tell you how I felt, Mrs. Gribson," returned
Corse in a broken voice, " but I know that if
the guide had not held me I should have jumped
down after her."

I can well believe it ; you must have been quite
frantic. But that would have been sacrificing yourself
without doing your poor wife any good, and you
will meet again in another world, you know." (" I
wonder if Gibson would jump down a hole after
me ? " she thought). " Here is a little tract I have
brought for you. If you will just glance at it I feel
sure you will get comfort. That is its name ; it is
called ' Crumbs of Comfort for the Afflicted.' "

Thank you, Mrs. Gribson, you are really too
kind," returned Corse, with a grimace that Mrs.
Gribson did not see.

And I am sure you will be very lonely when you
are here of an evening, all alone, thinking of her
that is gone. Be sure to step up to our pension
whenever you feel disposed. It will be a change
for you, and we shall always be glad to see you.
And don't fret any more than you can help, Mr.
Corse. There is no necessity, if you can only think

SO, for lie is happier than we are, poor lady, removed
as she has been in a mysterious way from this vale
of tears. Keep up your strength with good food,
though you may have to force yourself. When you
are in trouble there's nothing like good living ; and
I ought to know, for I have had a deal of it. You
will be sure to come up now, won't you, whenever
you feel disposed ? "

Corse assured her that he would, and after Mrs.
Mayo had given him a similar invitation on behalf
of herself and her husband, the ladies, with a renewed
expression of their sympathy, took their
departure.

*' Confound her tract, the old humbug ! " exclaimed
Corse, as soon as he was alone, at the same
time throwing the unfortunate pamphlet into the
fire without even glancing at the title. " Comfort,
indeed ! It is plain to see where she gets her comfort.
I wonder how much she costs Gribson in
Bordeaux and Madeira ? "

Among other callers were Blaine and Delane.
Any dislike or distrust which Alfred might previously
have entertained for Corse was, for the
moment at least, completely forgotten in the terrible
misfortune which had overtaken him, and warmly ashe
spoke, he was not able to express all that he felt.

Corse seemed touched, and expressed his sense of
his visitors' kindness in fitting terms. He looked
pale and worn, too ; the emotions and anxieties of

the last few days, together with unwonted indulgence
in spirituous liquors, had told upon him, and
the suit of solemn black which he wore heightened
the effect. But he was far from feeling as bad ashe
looked. The fear of Esther's reappearance —
illusory as he knew it to be — was gradually ceasing
to trouble him, and the attention he was receiving
pleased him exceedingly. He had become famous ;
he was the most important person in the English
colony; gratified vanity made him oblivious to all
sense of remorse and regret. He had only two
worries. He sometimes saw in his dreams the
terror-stricken face of poor Esther as she went down
into the moulin ; and more than once he had
wakened with her death-shriek ringing in his ears.
This was certainly very unpleasant, and he was not
sure that he did not talk in his sleep, but that he
looked upon as a passing weakness which time would
cure. The other trouble was Madame Marcquart.
Madame Corse's death had been a terrible shock to
the poor woman. In her grief she even accused
Corse of carelessness in letting his wife fall into the
moulin.

Why did he take cette pauvre dame into so dangerous
a place ? she asked. Had she not warned
him ? If he had well loved her he could not have
committed such a folly.

A sharp answer from Corse put a stop to these
upbraiding, yet he could neither ignore the re-vol.
II. 22

preaches she looked nor dry the tears she was
shedding nearly all day long. But it was at any
rate possible to escape the infliction by going away,
and he told his friends that, feeling himself quite
unable to bear the loneliness and associations of his
old lodgings, he was about to take temporary
quarters at the Hotel Pension Ducrot. Everybody
applauded his design ; they said that the change
would do him good, and prevent him from brooding
too much over his loss. But when he gave Madame
Marcquart notice he could see by the look she gave
him that the sharp old Suissesse neither believed
in the sincerity of his sorrow, nor regretted his
approaching departure.

'' I loved your wife much, Monsieur," she said ina
trembling voice ; " so young, so beautiful, and so
good. She was too good for you. Monsieur Corse.
That was indeed a terrible accident. I have thought

much about it, and I cannot understand Do you

think," she continued abruptly after a momentary
pause, looking him full in the face, ^' do you think
that if the guide had not turned his back the poor
lady would have fallen down the moulin all the
same ? "

The question was a surprise for Corse, and threw
him quite off his guard. Do what he might he
could not help changing colour.

What do you mean ? " he asked fiercely. " Of
course she would have fallen all the same."

And then the subject dropped, for Madame
Marcquart seemed to have nothing more to say and
Corse had no wish to continue the conversation. He
feared his landlady was beginning to suspect that
Esther's death was not altogether the pure mishap
which it seemed. The fear gave him great
concern ; he asked himself anxiously whether the
same thought could have occurred to anybody else ?
After long cogitation, he decided in the negative.

Nobody can have seen it," he thought. " I was so
close to her, my arm round her waist — it was not my
fault that she slipped. All over in two seconds. No.
Besides, if anybody had seen it they could not
possibly have suspected anything. And nobody did
see it. I looked all round and Valentine had his
back turned and was going the other way. He did
not suspect anything. And yet that old woman
evidently does suspect something. She liked Esther
so much and is of a jealous disposition, that's it.
If Esther had died here in her bed Madame Marc-quart
would have accused the doctor of killing her
because he did not cure her. Yes, she is a woman
of that sort. But she can prove nothing and dare
not say anything. And nobody else is likely to
have any sort of suspicion — nobody else — that's a
safe conclusion, I think — and a considerable
comfort."

Nevertheless, he did not feel altogether reassured.
He saw for the first time how easy it would be for

suspicion to grow. It would never do to let it be
seen that he had any interest in getting Esther out
of the way. He must let Vera Hardy alone until
a decent time for mourning had elapsed. This was
a disappointment and something more. It imperilled
his scheme, for delays are proverbially
dangerous. But of the two dangers between which
he had to choose this seemed to be the less. Too
great haste, moreover, might create an unfavourable
impression on Vera, it being just conceivable
(though he sincerely hoped not ) that she had heard
of the incident on the Mer de Grlace.

THREE MISSES AND A HIT.

Winter was mostly a quiet time in the office of the
Helvetic Neius. Fewer people called and fewer
incidents befel than in summer. The visitors' list
was shorter, advertisements were scarcer, and the
big safe downstairs, though it looked as imposing as
ever, was even emptier than usual. It was a time
when Leyland generally betook himself to Mentioned
or Mce, and Mayo spent most of his afternoons
playing whist or billiards at the Hotel de la Croix,
occasions on which he was generally accompanied
by Gibson, who had issued a standing order that
whenever he did not turn up at the office by four
o'clock Blaine was to do the leader. This
arrangement enabled him to avoid the disagreeable
necessity of leaving in the middle of a
game, and it was not often that he reached the
office before half-past five or six, or did more than
look over a few proofs.

Nothing could be more friendly than the editor's
relations with the manager, and he little suspected

that Mayo took means every morning to ascertain
by whom the principal leading article had been
written, often making a record thereof in a little
book which he kept expressly for the purpose.

Gibson had even ceased to reserve for himself the
writing of strictly political articles. Alfred could
write them quite as well as himself (Mayo and
Delane thought better), and as his Swiss experience
was fast undermining his Tory principles, he had
now no difficulty in adopting the liberal tone which
the paper professed. His political ideas had been
rather a bundle of prejudices inherited from his
father than reasonable convictions well thought out
prejudices which, as he could not help seeing,
were in flagrant contradiction with many of the
facts around him.

It was not, however, all at once that Blaine
outgrew the political garments of his youth ; they
dropped from him one by one, and he became a
Liberal almost without knowing it. The change
did not surprise Gribson. When Alfred produced
his first Liberal leader he simply thought the young
fellow was learning sense.

It is very good'* he said, " but if anything
rather too strong. Draw it a little milder next
time. Most of our American readers are Eats, I
know ; but, on the other hand, we have a good many
Tories among the English. We must not tread on
their toes too much, you know."

Alfred smiled. He had not jet learnt that the
supreme duty of an editor is to pocket his principles
and please his proprietors.

When Mayo read the article, and knew who had
written it, he smiled too.

*' Leyland is quite right," he thought. " These
fellows are always ready to write whatever they are
told. It is only a few months since that Blaine
was running a Tory paper, and now he pitches into
the Tory party just to save G gibson the trouble. I
do believe Gibson gets glazier, every day. He leaves
everything to those lads. Tant rnieux ; it suits our
book to a T. So much the better, too, that Bal-maine
is not more strait-laced than other folks.
An editor with a conscience is a devil of a
nuisance."

As for the Hardy mystery, Christmas came and
went without bringing more light. The riddle remained
as insoluble as ever. To Wanton's periodical
requests for news, Blaine could only give the
stereotyped reply, that he had none, for whenever he
wrote to Be vis, he received always the same answer
that Martinoo had not yet returned from Algeria.
So he had to possess his soul in patience, and this
he found all the easier that both his mind and his
time were well occupied with other matters. In
addition to his work in the office of the Helvetic
Neivs, he was doing occasional articles for an English
daily paper. But he had arrived at this result only

after making several abortive attempts in various
quarters.

But time revived his courage, and a good subject
turning up not long afterwards, he resolved to make
another attempt. The article was written and dispatched,
and for the next fortnight Blaine read
diligently every day the journal to which he had
sent it, in the not very confident expectation of seeing
his letter. Then he abandoned hope, and in his
disgust looked at the paper no more than sufficed
him to gather, for his editorial guidance, the gist of
its leaders and the purport of its telegrams.

Another fortnight elapsed, and he had almost forgotten
the article and got over his disappointment,
when one day as he was hard at work with his pen,
and Delane with his scissors, the sab-editor uttered
an exclamation.

Hello ! " he said, *' who has done this. ' The
Swiss Communal System : from a Swiss Correspondent.'
It cannot be — yes, it must be you, Blaine.
And it does not read badly either."

Blaine looked up with an air of eager surprise.

Let me look at it," he exclaimed.

Yes, it was indeed his article ; and that was not
all. The editor of the Day had written a leader
about it, and called him " our intelligent correspondent."


Alfred did not say very much, yet he was deeply
gratified, and it was not long before he let the Day

have something else, which appeared in due course,
and after a while he became its acknowledged
correspondent at Geneva. The result was an addition
to his income, considerable while it lasted ; but
during the parliamentary session it was only from
time to time that the editor was able to find room
for his contributions.

Others besides Delane noticed Blaine's letters
in the Day. When Gibson knew by whom they
were written he paid his assistant a handsome compliment
on his industry, and delivered a little homily
on the value of that useful quality for the benefit of
Delane and Oglethorpe.

One day Corse dropped into the office in his
usual free-and-easy manner, but dressed in deep
mourning, and looking more thoughtful and sedate
than he had been wont to do when Alfred first came
to Geneva.

Who is doing these letters for the Day ? " he
asked after they had exchanged greetings. " Do
you know, Delane ? "

Ask Blaine here ; I dare say he can tell
you."

*' Ah, that is it, is it ? I thought I detected your
style in that sentence about the self-seeking of the
few, and the patriotism of the many. Very well
put, I am sure. I congratulate you, Blaine ; you
are an awfully lucky fellow."

Alfred thanked him ; but there was a something

in Corse's voice which made him suspect that his
compliments were rather ironical than sincere.

Corse, after lighting a cigar, read the article, but
the perusal did not brighten his face much.

Not bad," he observed, throwing down the paper
'' What with the handsome screw you get from the
Helvetic and your outside earnings, you fellows must
be making big piles. How much have you at Har-man's,
Blaine ? "

Very little, I am sorry to say."

And I have nothing," laughed Delane ; " I
make it a rule never to trust bankers with my
money. I keep it in my [pocket, and then I have
no anxiety."

You have no fear of losing it, you mean."

Precisely, non ami''

Well," returned Cbrfe complacently, " I have a
trifle at Herman's, something like — let me see — yes
something like eight thousand francs, and I fancy
it is a good deal safer where it is than it would be
in my breeches pocket."

Very likely, for if you had that much about you,
you would be worth robbing, would he not, Bal-maine
? " said the Irishman with a laugh. " But
you see I am never worth robbing ; for if I get a
hundred-franc note, and neither my landlady nor
my tailor happens to want it, it burns a hole in my
pocket double quick. If I were so awfully rich as
to be worth eight thousand francs, I should probably

have more confidence in my banker than my breeches
I like possession, though."

So do I, and I can reduce my balance at Har-man's
to possession any day. I am going to draw
some of it now for a trip to the other end of the
lake."

Are you going to be away long ? "

"Oh, no; five or six days perhaps. I get so
terribly low-spirited sometimes (sighing deeply), a
change will perhaps do me good, and I shall try and
look up a few advertisements for Mayo. Here's my
copy, Blaine " (throwing some manuscript on the
table), " perhaps you or Deane will be good enough
to read the proof for me."

Certainly ; and I trust you will have a pleasant
trip, and come back in better spirits."

"Thanks awfully; ta-ta," and Corse, rising from
the table on which he had been sitting, walked
slowly from the room. Since Esther's death he had
tried to acquire a habit of slow walking. He thought
it looked more seemly and subdued than his former
rather swaggering gait.

Corse appears to like going to the other end
of the lake," observed Blaine carelessly, as he
turned over the pages of the manuscript before him.

Well, it's very nice up there — for a day or two ;
but awfully dull, I should think, for a long stay."

I don't know, Deane. I fancy that what with
fishing, boating, wild-fowl shooting, and mountaineering,

I could pass a month or two very
pleasantly in the region of the Waadtland Alps."

You might perhaps ; but I don't go in for that
sort of thing. I like being where there is a crowd ;
solitude bores me. So it does Corse, and that
makes me wonder sometimes why he is so fond of
Montreux and Cares. However, there is no
accounting for tastes. I see you are looking at his
copy. Do you think it has been as good as usual
lately ? "

*' Far from it, and I have hinted as much to
Gribson. But the chief is too good-natured. He
says we must bear with Corse on account of his bereavement,
and so everything he sends goes in."

*' Do you approve of that ? "

No. I am sorry for Corse ; the loss of his wife
was a great misfortune for him. But, after all, that
is no reason why the paper should suffer. And he
seems to be getting over his grief pretty fast."

So if you were editor "

I should go through his copy with a wet pen."

"He would be awfully riled. He thinks his
articles just perfection."

I should do it all the same, Delane. An editor
who passes people's copy for fear of riling them is
not worth his salt."

Core ON THE QUEST.

When Corse started on his journey next morning a
black bise " was blowing — a fierce north-east wind
with a cloudy sky. The sun was invisible; the
mountains lowered swart and grim, and the snows
on their summits seemed smutty and grey.
Clouds of dust swept along the white roads, the
wind howled and shrieked up the narrower streets,
doors and windows with a northern exposure were
firmly fastened, and people who had occasion to
cross the bridges and open places went with bent
heads and turned-up collars, facing the gale as if
they were fighting a foe. The lake was covered
with moutons blancs — white sheep — which chased
each other from side to side, dashed against quays
and retaining-walls, splashed into roadways and
froze where they feU. The trees lining the shore
looked as if they grew icicles, and Geneva gardens
were being rapidly converted into skating ranks.

Corse was the only first-class passenger. Besides
himself there were no more than half-a-dozen — all
second-class people. He rather liked this. The

captain, who hesitated whether he should start,
complimented him on his courage in venturing out
in such weather. He had deck, cabin, and waiter
all to himself, got a capital second dejeuner, talked
largely to the master and the men of his experiences
at sea, and could almost fancy that he
was sailing in his own yacht. It was amusing, too,
to watch the efforts of the steamer, in some instances
ineffectual, to make fast to the landing
places of the little lake-side stations, and he enjoyed
greatly the annoyance — generally expressed in
volleys of sacres — of the second-class passengers
who were landed at one place when they wanted to
get out at another.

Corse's purpose on the present occasion was not
precisely to propose to Mademoiselle Leonino. He
wanted to break the ice, make her acquaintance,
and, if possible, find out why this English heiress
was being brought up as a Swiss peasant. More, it
would be imprudent to attempt. It was only three
months since the catastrophe at the Seracs du
Geant, and he had an uneasy consciousness that he
had not always played the part of a sorrowing
widower with complete success. He liked billiards,
and he liked baccarat, and at the Pension Ducrot
and the Cafe Bellerive he had played very often —
more than once all night. This, he was aware, did
not look altogether comme il faut, and if it were
to be known that he was looking after another wife

there would be unpleasant remarks — perhaps dangerous
suspicions. He had not forgotten the parting
observation of Madame Marcquart. In certain
contingencies other people might take the same
view of the matter. Xot that he really cared for
what people said (so, at least, he tried to think);
proof was absolutely wanting, and mere talk could
not hurt him. But talk might ruin his chances
with Vera Leonino. He knew Swiss customs too
well to suppose that he could marry her by a corrode
main. He would have to negotiate with her
adoptive parents, her bonne, or whoever her
guardian might be. On them, much more than on
the girl, would depend his chance of success. If he
could bring them to consent, she would not be likely
to object. But before consenting they would be sure
to make inquiries, and if they should hear that he
was suspected of

"That would ruin everything," he muttered. "I
must keep myself in good odour and make no
formal proposal for a couple of months or more.
Confound it ! But never mind ; I have that money
in the bank and a thousand francs in my pocket ; I
shall contrive to exist."

And then he went to the weather side of the
funnel, planted his back against a warm place,
lighted another cigar, and watched the billows as
they threw themselves against the rocky shore and
tossed the boats that were not hauled in as if they

would break them into watchword. Every two
or three minutes the steamer shipped a sea, and
the second-class passengers were having a bad time
of it. They were both wet and sick.

Poor devils ! " he said. And the contrast
between their misery and his comfort gave him
an exquisite sense of enjoyment.

"It gets worse," he observed to the captain,
looking to windward.

And it did. The Mont Blanc range was quite
invisible; the Chaplain Alps were half hidden
under leaden clouds, which seemed hardly less
storm-tossed than the lake itself, the snow was
being whirled in mimic avalanches down the
mountains, and the leafless trees that clothed their
sides bent groaning to the blast. The water was
white with foam, and save a large lateen-sailed
boat, which seemed in imminent danger of foundering,
not a craft could be seen.

If I had not left Greneva I wouldn't have done,"
said the captain, scanning the horizon. " As likely
as not this will be a six or nine days' bise, and until
we get to the other end of the lake I shall not be
able to land another passenger."

"I think the best thing I can do," returned
Corse, throwing the stump of his cigar into the
lake, '' is to go below and have a snooze until we
get there."

When he came again on the deck an hour later

they were passing Vevey and nearly in sight of
Chillon. Behind them the bise was still blowing,
the lake still in commotion ; but southward there
reigned perfect peace. The lake stretched before
them, calm and blue ; a few billowy clouds fleeting
past the face of the sun hardly obscured his brightness
; and as they drifted away, and the ship got
under the lee of the Waadtland Alps, it was as if
she had sailed in a few minutes from howling winter
into smiling spring. Many of the trees were in
leaf, gardens were gay with flowers, and the pastures
between the pine woods bright with verdure. This
wondrous change of climate was due to the chain of
mountains that shelters the upper end of the lake
from the north and east winds.

Corse made for the Rousseau. He had written to
apprise Fastnacht of his coming, and was received
by that gentleman cordially, yet with less effusiveness
than on previous occasions. His manners were
rather too free and easy for a guest who paid
nothing. Corse saw this at once, and by putting on
an unusual graciousness of demeanour, and hinting
that he was about to write an article for a London
newspaper, in which he would say something
pleasant about the Hotel Rousseau, he soon
regained the footing of a welcome guest.

It was only, however, after dinner, as they were
sitting together in the manager's private room, that
Corse had an opportunity of fishing for information
VOL. II. 23

about the heiress. He led the talk to M. Searches,
which was not very difficult, the historian
being one of the lions of the neighbourhood and a
standing advertisement of its attractions.

I suppose he is always working at his history ? "
asked Corse.

Always. From seven in the morning to eight
in the evening — except when he eats, and takes a
short walk in the afternoon. He often passes the
Kousseau, sometimes drops in to look at the English
papers"'

What volume is he on now ? "
I think it is the seventh, and he has eight
more to do. They say it will occupy him still eight
years."

a Very extreme in his opinions, isn't he ? "
Eather. A regular Need. Wants to abolish
governments altogether, and give everything to
everybody."

Does he act up to his theories in private life ? "
I am not so sure about that. Perhaps he is
waiting for the social revolution. But he is really
very good — gives a great deal more than he spends
I should think, and has what you call the courage
of his convictions."

And, I have no doubt, gets shamefully imposed
upon. By the way, did you hear anything further
about that peasant family he took such a fancy
for?"

'* A peasant family ? "

Yes ; don't you remember ? One of them was
here at the fete — a rather nice-looking girl; my
friend Blaine danced with her. I forget her
name just now. Wasn't it Paganini, or something
like that ? "

You mean Mademoiselle Leonino. But that is
not the name of the family she lives with. They
are called Courbet, and live, I think, somewhere
about La Boissiere, not far from the Hotel de la
Foret. You know the Hotel de la Foret, of
course ? "

I have heard of it. It is only open in summer,
I think ? "

Not generally. But this year it is ; and I
think Henri, that is the proprietor, has even some
guests. Courbet is considered a good peasant —
pretty well to do, you know — but I dare say stupid
and avaricious, like most of his class. I don't
suppose M. Senarclens cares anything about him.
But he takes a warm interest in Mademoiselle
Leonino — there is something in her history "

Ah, I think you told me. Her father died and
left her in charge of her bonne, old Courbet's
daughter."

"Precisely. And I fancy that M. Senarclens,
notwithstanding his Socialistic notions, does not
think that a peasant's house is exactly the place
for such a girl, and Madame Senarclens often asks

23*

her down to Bellerive. I saw her there only a few
days ago."

She is very fortunate in having such a friend,"
returned Corse with a yawn. "I say, Fastnacht,
I think I'll have a cup of cafe noir. That lise has
made me confoundedly sleepy, and it is too soon to
go to bed yet."

Certainly, M. Corse." And the manager summoned
a waiter and gave the order, whereupon
they glided into another subject of conversation.

At breakfast next morning Corse announced that
he was going to walk over the Dent du Japan to
Vevey, where he might probably pass the night.
But when he was well out of sight of the Hotel
Rousseau he set his face towards the Hotel de la
Foret, and after a two hours' tramp — sometimes
following the road, which zigzagged ever upwards,
sometimes taking short cuts between vineyards,
through woods, and across pastures — he reached his
destination, a long, low, picturesque wooden building,
with a verandah and a terrace, commanding a
magnificent prospect of the lake and the Alps. All
around was white, and for the last half-hour Corse
had been walking over snow. His first proceeding
was to get a good luncheon, his next to stroll round
the hotel and ask a labourer, who was stacking firewood,
the way to La Boissiere. The man told him.
Turn to the right after crossing the bridge higher
up, then bear to the left about two kilometres off.

Not much of a place ; only two or three chalets ;
no auberge. Did a family called Courbet live
there ? Yes ; old Pere Courbet — everybody knew
old Pere Courbet. His was the highest chalet and
the bio^ofest. And then the man, who was very
sparing of his words, went on stacking his firewood.

In half an hour Corse was at La Boissiere, three
wooden farm-houses, a quarter of a mile apart from
each other. It was easy to recognise Pere Courbet's
chalet on the crest of the hill, backed by pine
woods, and flanked by a grange and several minor
buildings. A breezy place enough, and in summer
doubtless very pleasant, but just now of somewhat
bleak and wintry aspect.

Corse walked to and fro and hung about the
place a long time. He might have found a pretext
for going into the house by making an inquiry
about the way, or asking for a cup of milk; but
that would not have suited his purpose. He wanted
to get speech of Vera, and it was hardly possible
that he should find her alone indoors. His only
chance was to catch her outside. But in this he
did not succeed, and late in the afternoon hied
back to the Hotel de la Foret in a very bad temper,
and spent the evening in a dimly-lighted and insufficiently
warmed smoking-room, over an ancient
copy of Malignant and a Gazette de Lausanne, which
latter, though a good paper so far as it went, did
not go very far, being only about the size of a lady's

pocket-handkerchief, and could be read, advertisements
and all, in about five minutes.

The next day Corse had better luck. After
prowling about La Boissiere an hour or more, he
took a turn in the direction of the lake, then
retraced his steps, and at a bend in the road where
a mountain stream was crossed by a rude bridge of
pine logs, he caught sight of a figure coming
towards him, which made his heart give a sudden
bound and himself for an instant stand stock still,
like a pointer setting game.

Yes, there could be no doubt of it. It was she —
the heroine of the ball and the unconscious heiress
of fifty million francs. It made more of a mouthful
in francs than in pounds sterling.

"And mighty well she looks," was Corse's
mental commentary. "Not a bit like a common
peasant."

It was quite true ; for, albeit far from rich, Vera's
dress was tasteful and becoming. A turban-shaped
hat, probably of her own making, trimmed with
rabbit skin, a muff of the same material, a thick
cloth jacket with bright steel buttons and white fur
about the neck, and a stuff gown of silvery grey.
The gown, well tucked up to keep it out of the
snow, displays several inches of a striped red
petticoat, shapely ankles, and a pair of well-formed
feet, shod with stout mountain boots. The girl
moves with a springy step ; her dark eyes are bright

with gladness, for she delights in the open air, and
the warm blood has transfused with crimson the rich
olive of her cheeks.

As Corse nears her he doffs his hat and makes a
low bow. " I beg pardon, Mademoiselle," he says :
would you have the kindness to direct me to the
Gorge des Chataigniers ? "

Certainly, Monsieur," answers Vera drawing one
hand from her muff. " You go up there until you
come to a fountain, then you turn to the left until
you come to a chalet, and then you will see a footpath
that leads to the gorge."

A thousand thanks," returns Corse as the girl
essays to resume her walk. *' I beg pardon again ;
but I think I have had the pleasure of meeting
Mademoiselle before."

I think you are mistaken. Monsieur. I do not
remember you," says Vera coldly ; and again she
makes an effort to go on, for she has been bred in
the belief that it is not comme il faint for a jeune
fille to engage in solitary conversation with any
man, above all a stranger.
But Corse stands in the way.

*' I remember you," he replies in his most gracious
manner. " Nobody who has once seen Mademoiselle
Leonino could possibly forget her. It was at the
fete at the Hotel Rousseau. You danced with an
Englishman, M. Blaine."

*' But you are not M. Blaine," she exclaims

sharply, surprised into an answer she did not intend
to make.

No ; but he is my friend. I was with him.
Your name is Italian, Mademoiselle Leonino. Are
you of Italian origin ? I once met a gentleman of
that name at — where was it? Yes, at Lucca.
Could he be a relation of yours ? "

Oh, perhaps it was " and then remembering

how extremely improper it is to continue talking
with a strange gentleman tete-a-tete^ she tries again
to pass her questioner.

I beg pardon a thousand times, Mademoiselle,
but do, please, permit me one word more," urges
Corse, still barring the way. " You were saying "

At this moment a dog bounds from the wood into
the road, followed by a young fellow got up a la
chasseur and with a fowling piece under his arm.

Good day, Monsieur Jules," exclaims Vera,
again moving forward. This time Corse does not
attempt to bar the way.

Grood day, Mademoiselle Leonino," answers the
chasseur in a surprised voice and with a look that
said as plainly as possible : " Who is that man
there ? "

This gentleman wants to know the way to the
Grorge des Chataigniers. Perhaps you will be good
enough to show him. An revoir, Monsieur Jules,"
and without so much as looking at Corse she drew
herself up and struck sharply down the mountain.

"Perfectly' says M. Jules. '-' Allons Monsieur,
I .will put you in the way. Does Monsieur know
Mademoiselle Leonino ? "

^^Not precisely. I met her at the fete a little
while ago — that is all. Does she live hereabouts ? "

"Yes, at La Boissiere, the large chalet up
yonder."

With her parents ? "

Not at all. Madame Grabrielle, that is Monsieur
Courbet's daughter, is her thrice. Her parents are
dead, and Madame Grabrielle used to be her honneJ''

"I see. Mademoiselle Leonino is pretty. Is she
fiancee ? "

Pas dub tout. She will have a nice dot though.
There are many who would be glad to marry Mademoiselle
Vera, very many. But Pere Courbet
declares there is nobody good enough for her, and
that Mademoiselle desires not to marry herself. An
old grognard and very avaricious. He has her
money, and some people say that he does not want
to fork out the dot."

Is there a Madame Courbet ? "

"No; she is dead since a long time. Madame
Grabrielle manages the household of her father.
But here we are at the fountain. Behold ! you
have only to go about three kilometres until you
reach Monsieur Guyot's chalet, and you will see the
gorge down below. If you follow the footpath
through the wood it will take you to Chillon. Au

revoir, Monsieur, I go a-hunting higher up the
mountain."

*eau revoir, Monsieur, A thousand thanks for
your complaisance," answers Corse, setting off in
the direction indicated.

But when he was sure that the chasseur was out
of sight he turned round and walked briskly towards
La Boissiere.

Madame Gabrielle is nearly sure to be alone at
this hour," he said to himself. " I must interview
her. It is an opportunity not to be lost."

FOUND OUT.

The chalet of La Boissiere was a somewhat ancient
structure, dating from the last century, and built,
as the pious text in German characters over the
doorway betokened, when the lords of Berne ruled
in Canton Yaud. The woodwork was stained and
darkened by age and exposure ; a long gallery, ornamented
with trellis-work and quaint carvings, ran
along the front of the edifice, and the roof was so
high and pointed that the snow slipped off as fast as
it fell.

Corse knocked boldly, and either hearing somebody
say " Entrez I " or fancying he did, opened the
door and entered accordingly. He found himself ina
large room with a high wooden ceiling, a bare
oaken floor, and a big white stove. Hanged round
the panelled walls were several settles and chairs,
and a heavy table with carved legs occupied the
centre of the apartment.

It was evidently the principal living room of the
house, and Corse could not help remarking the
scrupulous cleanliness of everything. Not a speck
of dust was to be seen.

Near the stove sat a woman knitting — a tall
comely woman of some forty years old, for though
her face bore traces of anxiety and care, her cheeks
were ruddy and her dark hair was thick and glossy,
and streaked with grey. A frank open face
withal, indicative of a kind heart and a mild
temper.

I beg a thousand pardons," said Corse, in his
most insinuating voice. " But do I speak to
Madame Gabrielle Courbet ? " (I had better plunge
in medias res at once he thought.)

At your service. Monsieur," answered Grabrielle,
looking all the surprise she felt.

Ah I I wanted to ask you, if you will kindly
permit me. . . . You are the thrice of Mademoiselle
Vera Leonino, I believe ? "

I have that honour," returned Gabrielle, staring
harder at her interlocutor than ever. " Her father
on his death-bed gave Vera into my charge."

I knew him."

It is possible," said Gabrielle, changing colour.
"He was not always with us, and knew many
people whom we never saw."

It was at Lucca I saw M. Leonino. Where did
he die ? "

At Locarno."

How ? "

He died of wounds received in an affair with the
Austrians," answered Gabrielle, turning pale, " and

before he died he asked me to be a mother to Vera
and bring her up in my own home. . . . and he
gave me money. It was not much — just enough,
with care, to bring her up as a demoiselle. And I
have been very careful, Monsieur, and only the interest
of the money has been spent, and Vera is tome
as a daughter — she is the apple of my eye — she
is dearer to me than my own, and she loves me,
Monsieur ; ask her. Oh, Monsieur, you will not take
away from me 77i(X fille cherie. You cannot be so
cruel I I have — have "

Here words failed her, and sinking into her chair
the bonne burst into tears.

I, my good woman ! I have no power to take
Vera away from you — at any rate, not now, What
I do not understand is why sir. Hardy — that was
his real name, you know "

Gabrielle looked assent.

I do not understand, I say, why he chose to
have his daughter brought up in a Swiss chalet
when he might have sent her to his father in England.
However, that is no affair of mine — at any
rate not now. Many thanks for your information.
Au 2^^(^(^isir de vous revoir Madame Grabrielle."

And Corse bowed himself out of the chalet with as
much politeness as if it had been a chateau and the
bonne its chatelaine.

That will do for to-day, I think," he muttered,
as he walked swiftly down the hill. " I will go

back to Greneva tomorrow, and do myself the pleasure
of seeing Madame Grabrielle another day. It's
all quite clear. She has been playing the thief —
stolen both the girl and her money — that is what
she has done. Taut TYiieux, gives me a splendid
pull over her. Now I am sure of Vera and her
millions and no mistake. Hurrah ! "

And in his excitement, Corse threw his stick high
in the air, but caught it so clumsily that he got a
smart knock on the nose, which set him swearing
horribly.

"If it swells," he thought, "I shall look so
ridiculous." It did swell, and was so much " barked "
besides, that he had to repair damages with sticking
plaister, and invent a story about a walk in the
forest and a falling branch.

My sin has found me out," groaned Gabrielle,
when she was left alone. " That man knows everything.
I could see it in his manner, read it in his
eye. He will come again ; he will take my darling,
rn.a fille cherie, away from me. And when she
knows — when she knows that all this time I have
deceived her, kept her in this poor house when she
might have been in a palace — what will she say —
oh, mon dieu what will she say ! She will despise
me, she will leave me, she will say ^ Grabrielle, I
hate you ! ' Oh no, no, no, that would be more than
I could bear. I would rather die. And my father,
when they ask him for the money what will he say,

what will he do ? Oh, 'non diei! mon dieu! that
which I have feared all these years has come to pass.
My sin has found me out. Yet I did it for the best
—I did it for the best."

The poor woman in her agony wrung her hands,
her face was bedewed with bitter tears, and she
rocked herself wildly to and fro. This went on fora
whole hour, and might have gone on longer if the
striking of a clock had not recalled her to herself,
and warned her that it was time to prepare for the
midday-meal. She ran to her own room, and when
she came back in a more composed frame of mind,
and with a face which, though pale, showed few
traces of emotion, a stout kitchen wench was
spreading a coarse cloth at one end of the big
table. A few minutes later the girl brought in a
soup tureen, and almost at the same instant entered
Pere Courbet, a tall old man, all bone and sinew,
and with a long lean face, tanned by continual
exposure to wind and sun to the colour and consistency
of leather. Whiskers he had none, and
his short white hair, which had been cut close to
his head, stood up like bristles. A stern, silent
man now, whatever he might have been in his youth.
Without a word he placed himself at the head of
the table, and a few minutes later they were joined
by Jean, the jargon, a man nearly as old as his
■ patron, and the only farm servant kept through the
winter.

The repast was of Spartan simplicity. Soup a la
canaille, a piece of cold boiled bacon and roasted
potatoes, goat-milk cheese, and join de menage a
discretion. The loaf was a huge circular thing, as
big and as hard as a wheelbarrow trundle. But the
frugality in eating did not extend to drinking.
Pere Courbet drank a whole litre of vin blanc Jean
half a litre, but of inferior quality, and the coffee
that succeeded the cheese was considerably diluted
with cognac.

The wine and the cognac, and the sense of satisfaction
produced by a plentiful meal, loosened the
old peasant's tongue somewhat.

Where is Mademoiselle to-day ? " he asked.

''AtM. Senarclens'."

She will bring back books, or pictures, or something
of that sort, I suppose."

Very likely. She generally does."

"I do not believe in so many books. Mademoiselle
reads too much. She would do better to
milk the kine and help in the vineyards like other
girls. Her fortune is not so great that she may not
have to work for her living one of these days. If
she marries a peasant she will have to work."

I do not think " and then Gabrielle stopped

short.

^' Perhaps you think a peasant is not good enough
for her," said the old man scornfully. " Not that I
want her to marry just now at all. But a girl does

far better to marry an honest peasant with a bit of
land and a house he can call his own, than a viveur
from the town, who is clad in purple and fine linen
one day and in rags the next. And Mademoiselle
would make a very poor peasant's wife I am
thinking."

'' You do Vera wrong, father. She has not an
idle bone in her body. Didn't she help in the
vineyard last vintage, and work in the hatfield last
harvest, and doesn't she help me in the house ?
She is the best fine-darner in the commune, and
when she can spare time she is always at her
painting "

Painting ! " interrupted the old man in a tone
of contempt, " what good will painting do her ?
Send her to the wash-tub rather."

Ko, indeed," returned Gabrielle indignantly, " I
shall do nothing of the sort. I will not let her do
coarse work. There is no reason why she should.
Does she not pay us a pension ? "

Yes, twenty-five francs a week," returned Pere
Courbet bitterly.

And quite enough too. It's more than she eats.
The lodging costs you nothing."

It might easily have been more. If it had
been thirty or forty francs a week, how much less I
should have to pay! Ten francs a week for ten
years — that would be more than five thousand francs
the price of a nice bit of land. Besides, she
VOL. II. 24

does not pay twenty-five francs ; she pays nothing.
It all comes out of the interest I pay her on the
loan — five per cent. It is a great deal too much."

You were glad enough to pay it once, father.
You forget that Vera's money saved you from
ruin. What would you have done without it ? "

"As for that, I cannot do without it now. I
could not raise the money without selling some of
my land — do you hear, Gabrielle ? — without selling
some of my land. There must be no question of
Mademoiselle marrying unless (with an incredulous
laugh) you can persuade somebody to take her
without dower. Monsieur Jules will not — of that
you may be sure. And look here, Grabrielle, I must
have thirty francs a week for pension, or the interest
must be reduced to four per cent. — whichever you
like. I give you notice from this day."

Whereupon Pere Courbet refilled and relighted
his pipe, and stalked out of the house.

AT LA BOISSIERE.

I SUPPOSE M. Lacroix has been at him again,"
thought Gabrielle, as she returned to her knitting ;
he is very wishful for his son Jules to marry Vera,
and they are well off, and Jules is by no means an
undesirable parti. But would Vera marry a
peasant ? I doubt it. She has her own ideas ; she
knows that in England girls make their own choice,
and that M. Senarclens means to let his daughters
make their own choice. Still, if she marries anybody,
I should like it to be Jules, for then I should
always have her near me, and that strange monsieur
could not take her away. Who is he, I wonder, and
how can he have found us out ? He knew poor
M. Leonino at Lucca, he said. ■ It is true we were
once at Lucca, but I do not remember the face, and
if he had ever come to see Monsieur I should remember
it — I never forget a face. Since I came
here with Vera I have not seen one face I knew in
Italy."

And then Grabrielle went over in her mind for
the hundredth time all the events connected with

24*

the demise of Philip Hardy — the arrival of the
wounded man at Locarno, his last instructions, his
death and funeral, and her departure, as all thought,
for London. But the letter she had received from
her mother weighed heavily on her mind. It told
that her people were in sore trouble. The father's
soul was in the land. He worked harder than any
labourer, and did more work than any two men in
the commune. His only thought was to increase
his patrimony. He bought every bit of meadow
land and vineyard he could lay his hands on, mortgaging
one purchase to pay for another. In his
eagerness he committed a grave imprudence —
raised a loan on the personal security of himself
and a neighbour, the understanding being that
they should divide the proceeds; but his fellow
borrower contrived to get hold of the entire amount
and before Courbet could make him disgorge the
man failed. Then the family at La Boissiere saw
ruin staring them in the face. All their property
being mortgaged, it was impossible to meet
the claims upon them without making a forced
sale of the whole of their land, leaving the house
where Courbet's father and grandfather had lived
and he himself was born, and starting the world
afresh.

These were the tidings that Gabrielle received
the day after her late master's funeral. They
nearly broke her heart, and her grief was all the

keener that she felt so utterly powerless to help
her parents in their need. What could her poor
savings do towards providing the thirty or forty
thousand francs — an enormous sum in peasant
estimation — required by her father to save him
from ruin ?

'* Forty thousand francs," she repeated to herself,
as the diligence lumbered up the Val de Tremble.
forty thousand francs ! why, I have nearly as much
in my possession. Why should I not lend it to
them ? "

It was the first time the idea had occurred to her,
and she strove to put it away ; but it returned
again and again, and the more she thought of it
the more feasible and less objectionable did it seem.
Against any ordinary temptation the bonne would
have been proof, but this she was powerless
to withstand — it took her on her weakest side —
and before the diligence reached Goeschenen she
had decided on her course of action. Instead of
going to London she would go to La Boissiere.
It would be easy to account for her appearance
there by saying that M. Leonino had left
Vera in her charge, and given her a large sum of
money, the interest of which would be snfEcient
to defray the cost of the child's maintenance
and education, and that she was to be brought
up in Switzerland — living and education being
so much less expensive in that country than

in England. Then she would propose to lend
her father the money entrusted to her by her
master.

In this Grabrielle persuaded herself there would
be nothing very wrong. She did not mean to take
the child's money ; she would account for every
centime, charging nothing for her own services, and
when Vera reached womanhood restore the girl's
fortune intact. Vera had never seen her grandfather,
and had no desire to see him. Now that
her father was gone there was nobody in the world
she cared for but her bonne, and life on the mountains
of Canton Vaud was infinitely preferable to
life in the fogs of London, for Gabrielle of course
believed that the English capital was shrouded in
perpetual gloom. She did not think that she ran
much risk of being traced or followed. M. Hardy
pere knew not that his son was dead ; Martinoo and
the others at Locarno thought she was gone to
London ; and up there in the mountains it was to
the last degree improbable that she would meet
anybody who had known either the child or her
father.

Altogether Grabrielle felt quite safe, and when
she told her story at La Boissiere, and produced the
thirty-two thousand francs she had brought with
her, there was an outburst of joy that obliterated
from her mind the last traces of hesitancy or compunction.
An act which caused so much satisfaction,

and saved an honest family from ruin, could
not be wrong.

"You have saved my life and your father's
honour ! " exclaimed Madame Courbet, as she
clasped her daughter in her arms. " If we had been
sold up it would have killed me."

Pere Courbet was not an emotional man ; but
when he saw the money counted out on the table he
wept tears of gladness.

Grod bless thee ! my child," he said, fervently ;
I can keep the land and the old place now — all
but the strip of pasture below the pine wood, and if
I had not promised it to Lacroix I would keep that
too, although he does pay me a good price for it,
and I bought it cheap."

Neither Courbet nor his wife would hear of anything
being paid for Vera's board. She was their
good angel, they said — she had brought them luck ;
and as for her keep, why that would amount to
nothing at all. The child was welcome to the best
they could give. So Gabrielle was able to save
nearly the whole of the interest paid by her father
towards the expense of Vera's education, and after
they had been at La Boissiere a twelvemonth, she
sent the girl to an excellent school at Vevey. But
nearly every Sunday and fete day the bonne walked
down the mountain to visit her ward, and Vera
spent her holidays at La Boissiere.

For several years all went well, but Madame

Courbet's death, an event which occurred when Vera
was about fourteen, wrought a great change at La
Boissiere. She never forgot low much they owed
to Grabrielle, nor the consideration due to Vera ; she
always made much of the child, and her influence
kept in check the natural greed of her husband's
disposition. But when she was gone, and as the
years went by, the old man forgot the benefit and
remembered only the burden and the obligation.
The thirty odd thousand francs he owed Vera, and
the consciousness that they would some day have to
be repaid, weighed heavily on his mind, and if the
interest had been composed of drops of his own
blood he could not have begrudged it more. He
insisted on Vera paying for her board and lodging,
demanded a more rigid economy in the household,
grumbled at every little expense, and often made
both his daughter and Vera weep bitter tears. It was
then that Grabrielle began to have doubts as to the
wisdom of the course she had adopted ; to ask herself
whether she had acted rightly in disobeying her
master's instructions, and if she had not done Vera
a great wrong in bringing her to La Boissiere instead
of taking her to London. The superior education
she had given the girl made it all the worse. The
chalet, with its sordid economies and her father's
uncertain temper, was no place for a girl like Vera.
And what was to become of her ? The only alternative
was to marry her. But to whom? Jules

Lacroix was a bonne jargon, and Grabrielle liked
him ; but she did not like the idea of marrying her
child, of whose acquirements and accomplishments
she was so proud, to a peasant, even if the child
would consent, which was very doubtful. But if
that stranger should come again and try to take
Vera away, she might make the attempt. Anything
would be better than to lose her.

But as Grabrielle got over her first surprise, the
danger from that quarter seemed less formidable
than at the first blush it had appeared. The
gentleman did not say that he was a kinsman of
Vera. He had only known M. Leonino at Lucca.
What right then had he to interfere ? Who knew
what had passed between her master and herself, or
could say that in coming to Switzerland she had
not obeyed his orders ? The sole evidence against
her was the letter to his father (an old man who
was surely dead by this time), and that she had
hidden in her box up-stairs and could easily
destroy.

On the whole, Gabrielle, albeit still conscience-stricken
and uneasy, felt more reassured, and when
Vera returned, late in the afternoon, she was able
to greet her with a cheerful smile.

I don't like your going out alone," she said, as
the girl stooped to kiss her. " It does not seem
comme il faut, A demoiselle like you should not
go so far without escort. But you would not like

old Jean or Greorgette (the kitchen wench) even if
they could be spared, and I cannot always go with

you."

No, indeed," answered Vera with a merry
laugh. " Fancy old Jean hobbling behind me in
his big sabots I and as for Georgette, it is I
who would have to take care of her. She is
afraid of her own shadow. Don't you remember
sending her to meet me one evening last winter
when I was rather late, how I hid behind a
tree and called out, Boo — oo ! and how poor
Greorgette ran home so fast that I could not overtake
her."

Yes, I remember very well, la pauvre Georgette''
said Gabrielle, laughing in return. " Well, I don't
think there is much danger ; our mountains are
quite safe, and everybody in these parts knows
you."

Quite so. It is not as if we were in a large
town. But do you know, chere Grabrielle, that I
met with an adventure to-day ? A gentleman
accosted me."

Ma foi, you don't say so ! Who was he ? "

That I cannot tell you. I never saw him before.
He began by asking me the way to the Grorge des
Chataigniers ; but I have thought since that it was
only an excuse to get speech of me. Then, when I
had shown him the way, he said he had seen me
before — at the fete of the Hotel de Rousseau."

It was not the Englishman with whom you
danced ? How does he call himself ? Monsieur
Blaine ? "

*not at all," answered Vera, rather more
impetuously than she need have done. " Do you
think I should not recognise a monsieur with whom
I danced three times ? No, this gentleman is not
at all like M. Blaine. I am not even sure that
he is English ; his accent, which was very slight,
seemed rather Italian. He asked me if I was not
Italian, and said he once knew somebody called
Leonino at Lucca. I was going to ask for further
particulars thinking it might be my father he had
met, when I remembered that I was en tete-astute
with a strange gentleman, and at the same moment
M. Jules appeared with his dog, and I went my

You did quite right, ma chere. What was he
like, this gentleman ? "

*' Rather tall and square-shouldered. A very good
profile, straight nose and wide nostrils ; mouth so
covered with a heavy moustache that I could not
see its expression, very square jaws and shaven
cheeks. But I did not like his eyes, they are too
small, and his under-eyelids being swollen, they
seem even smaller than they really are, which gives
him a bad look. At least it seemed so to me,
though I dare say there are people who might
consider him a fine-looking man."

You are a close observer, ina 'petite.''^
" That is because I paint. Lucre Senarclens and
I are doing portraits at present, and that makes me
study faces, you know."

"What makes you think this gentleman asked
the way to the Grorge des Chataigniers only as a
pretext ? " asked the bonne, with as much indifference
as she could assume, for the meeting of Vera
with the stranger appeared of evil omen and disturbed
her much.

Because when I pointed out the way he did not
seem to pay attention, and though he was profusely
polite, his manner or his voice — I really cannot tell
which — did not impress me as that of a sincere
man. I wonder whether he really did know my
poor father, Grabrielle ? "

I am afraid that was only another pretext,
Vera."

I should think so too if he had not mentioned
Lucca; how could he know we were ever at
Lucca ? "

That is impossible to say. He may have heard
from somebody, or it may have been just a happy
guess."

"It's very strange though. I wonder who he
could be ? "

The bonne was wondering equally, but wanting
the subject to drop she made no reply.

Gabrielle ! " said Vera, after a long pause passed
in deep thought.

Yes, Mademoiselle."

You did not know my mother ? "

No, I became your bonne only after she died,
when you were about four years old."

'' Poor mother ! " said Vera, with a look of
abstraction. " I only just remember her. Still
I can see her face and hear her soft voice as she
said caressing india. But my father, I remember
him so well, Gabrielle, so well, and all that
happened in those terrible days at Locarno, and
how I nestled in his arms, and how he loved me.
And I loved him, Gabrielle. I love him still. Oh !
it was cruel to lose so kind a father. How I hate

those Austrian s ! I could " Here the girl

made a gesture as if she were striking down an
imaginary foe — " I could kill them. You are quite
sure, Gabrielle, that my father had no kinsfolk in
England ? "

*' Only your grandfather, and he died, you
know."

It seems very strange. M. Senarclens was
saying to-day that he thinks we should find I have
relatives in England if proper inquiry were made.
I should like to go to England, Gabrielle. It is my
country, yet I have never seen it."

No ; Italy is your country, nina chere

Not at all " (with great decision). " My father

was English, and M. Senarclens says the nationality
of the child is that of the father. I should like to
know something about my mother's family, if it
were possible."

'' I am more ignorant about your mother's family
than your father's," said Grabrielle, as if she were
growing rather tired of the subject. " I know only
that she died when you were very young, and that
her name was Leonino."

I think I shall abandon that name, Grabrielle,
and call myself for the future Vera Hardy."

But why ? " exclaimed the bonne, with inward
tremor though outward calm. " Your father called
himself by that name ; why should not you ? "

He had good reasons, no doubt ; but it seems
to me that a daughter should bear her father's
name."

But think, Vera, how inconvenient it would be.
You have been so long known as Leonino. Who put
the idea into your head, ma chere ? "

It is my own idea, though I did hear Lucre one
day remark that it was strange I should be called
by my mother's name. That set me thinking, and
now it seems strange to me. Why did my father
take my mother's name ? "

*' To deceive the Austrians, I suppose."

"Exactly. Well, I don't want to deceive the
Austrians. I would rather defy them. Vera Leonino
Hardy is my name, Grabrielle, and after my next

birthday ] shall ask everybody so to call me. I aman
English girl, and I hate to be taken always for
an Italian."

As Vera spoke a heavy footstep was heard in the
yard, and a moment afterwards Pere Courbet entered
the house.

Have you two nothing better to do than chatter
? " he asked, with a snarl.

Then the two knew that he had been drinking.
Not that the old man ever got drunk, but
when he had been taking more wine or cognac
than usual — and he usually, took a good deal
his temper worsened, and he sometimes became
very abusive.

Vera, fearing a scene, withdrew to her own room
without answering a word. She was beginning
utterly to detest M. Courbet, and notwithstanding
her affection for her bonne, had sometimes serious
thoughts of seeking fresh quarters. The contrast
between the refined home of her friends at Terrier
and her own, already sufficiently painful, was
rendered by the old peasant's rudeness and ill-temper
almost intolerable. But out of consideration
for Grabrielle she had hitherto kept these thoughts
to herself; and the bonne, albeit she doubtless
guessed them, saw no way of making a change that
would not separate her from Vera.

The girls questions and remarks about her father
and her name greatly distressed Gabrielle. Vera

had never talked in the same strain before, and the
bonne almost regretted that she had always been so
frank in giving her information, and had let her
know, among other things, that her father's name
was Hardy. In her present temper this knowledge
might lead to awkward complications.

A CATASTROPHE.

About the same time that Corse hit himself on the
nose with his own stick, the sab-editors of the
Helvetic News, by a not very singular coincidences,
chanced to be all at their posts. Oglethorpe was
hard at work with scissors and paste, Delane making
up a column of " Continental Notes," and Blaine
looking over his last leader, and trying to think of a
subject for his next.

The paper has still a good show of advertisements,"
he observed carelessly, " though it is the
dead season."

Of course it has' returned Delane, with a laugh ;
« why shouldn't it ? "

I suppose you mean they are not all genuine."

I should think not, indeed. Why Cromwell told
me so only yesterday."

Hush ! " put in Oglethorpe, who was better at
listening than talking ; "isn't that Gribson's step on
the stairs ? "

Nonsense ! " answered Delane ; " he never comes
at this time."

VOL. II. 25

But Delane was mistaken, for the next moment
the editor-inches entered the room.

Good morning, gentlemen," he said to his three
subordinates, who at his approach had resumed their
work.

They all turned round and looked at him, for he
spoke with a half gasp, half stammer, in marked
contrast with his usual hearty greeting. One glance
was enough to show that something had gone
wrong. The editor's face was pale and twitched,
and though the day was cold, heavy beads of perspiration
stood on his brow.

Have you heard ? — do you know ? " he
gasped.

We have heard nothing particular this morning
; what is it, Mr. Gibson ? " asked Ealmaine
anxiously.

'* Herman's have burst, and — and — I have nearly
£400 in their hands."

The three subs stared first at him and then at
each other. They could hardly believe they heard
aright ; and the same thought struck them all —
that either the chief had been drinking or gone off
his head.

"I came round by the bank to cash a cheque,"
he went on with a little more self-possession, '' and
got there just as they closed the doors. Something
wrong in New York ; the houses there and in
London suspended payment yesterday, and the

house here was of course obliged to follow suit.
There will be a terrible row; a crowd before the
door already. I ran on here at once. It is an
awful blow for me, but that is not the worst. I fear
it will stop the paper. Everybody knows that
Herman was its chief support ; and now, instead of
getting more money, Leyland and Mayo will have
to pay up."

Have you seen Mayo ? " asked Blaine.

No ; somebody was with him. He has heard
though. I am going again now, for I must see him.
I shall return presently, and tell you what is going
to be done."

*' Well, this is a go ! " exclaimed Delane, when
they were left alone. " I don't know how it will be
with you fellows, but I am in a nice hole ; I am
that."

"I thought you kept all your money in your
breeches-pocket," said Blaine.

So I do, and here it is ; all that I have (displaying
a couple of napoleons and some silver), " and
all that I shall get if the paper stops — not enough
to carry me to England. I was paid up on Saturday.
How is it with you, Blaine ? "

Bad enough if the paper stops. I have eight
hundred francs at Herman's and fifty in my pocket.
But will the paper stop ? "

I doubt it. Anyhow, Leyland and Mayo will
meet the occasion if anybody can. They have

25*

immense energy and few scruples, I will say that
for them."

If the paper should stop will you let me be your
banker ? " put in Oglethorpe quietly.

The others thought he was joking; their taciturn
colleague being the last man in the world whom they
would have suspected of being a capitalist.

I have been saving for an object," continued
Oglethorpe ; " but I have neither kept my savings in
my breeches-pocket nor deposited them at Herman's.
Pockets have holes sometimes, and I have heard that
pretty nearly every American banker fails sooner or
later, and generally sooner than later. No. I put
my money in the Banque Populaire, an excellent
institution which gives better interest than the other
banks, and is quite as safe. I have no present
occasion for money, and if you will permit me shall
be very glad to accommodate you with a few hundred
francs."

Delane and Blaine exchanged significant looks.
How they had mistaken this man ! They had
thought him poor, miserly, and unsympathetic, and
now he was proving to be that rara avis, a generous
capitalist and a true friend in need.

You are a good fellow, Oglethorpe," said
the Irishman, " and I thank you with all my
heart. If the paper does burst up I will certainly
take advantage of your kindness. You shall
lend me as much as will pay my travelling expenses

to London ; when I get there I shall be all
right."

And you, Blaine ? " asked Oglethorpe.

*' You are really too kind," said Alfred, " and, like
Delane, I thank you with all my heart. If I should
have occasion I will not fail to ask you for a temporary
loan. But if the worst comes to the worst —
which is contrary both to my hopes and my expectations
— I think I shall have as much coming from
the Day as will keep me here a little while, and, if
necessary, carry me to England'*

Well, whenever you want a little money you
have only to mention it, you know," returned Oglethorpe,
who seemed disappointed that neither of his
friends would oblige him by accepting an immediate
loan.

Half-an-hour later Gibson returned with the news
that the paper was going on.

'mayo was terribly upset at first," he said, "as
might be expected ; but he very soon rallied, and
has no idea whatever of stopping. It is true they
owe the bank a thumping sum, which they can no
more pay than they can fly ; but as Mayo says, liquidators
are never hard on their debtors ; and as it
will take a long while to wind up so big a business
as Herman's, they will have plenty of time to turn
round in. But until Leyland comes — and he has
been telegraphed for — nothing final will be decided."


"Except, to carry on the paper," put in
Delane.

Of course. Except to carry on the paper — ' that
goes without saying.' Mayo is fully determined on
that point. He says that rather than stop it he
would rob a church."

I believe him," said Delane dryly.

And Mayo seems to think," went on the editor,
that it won't be such a bad affair, after all. Hereat
least, Harmans have made no losses ; and the
estate ought to yield a very fair dividend — probably
seventy or eighty per cent.

*' Seventy or eighty per cent," observed Oglethorpe
quietly, " means something like fifteen
shillings in the pound, and fifteen shillings in
the pound is an almost unheard-of dividend. An
estate that pays that much must be virtually
solvent, for the wreckers — lawyers, accountants
and the rest — are not often satisfied with a
fourth. If Harmans owed me anything and I
was offered fifty per cent., I should take it and be
thankful."

No, no, Mr. Oglethorpe," returned Gibson,
with a touch of scorn in his voice. " You mean
well, I dare say, and seem to know a good deal
about these things; but I must have more than
fifty per cent., my dear sir. If I don't, I shall lose
£200 of hard-earned money. I am going to see
Herman, and I shall insist on having, at least,

seventy-five per cent. Even that would involve the
sacrifice of £100."

As if by insisting one could get blood out of
a stone ! " said Oglethorpe, with a quiet laugh,
as Gibson left the room. " Why doesn't he
insist on a hundred per cent, while he is about
it?"

"You do not think very highly of his chance
of getting seventy-five per cent., then ? " asked
Delane.

I don't. I shall be surprised if Herman's estate
pays ten per cent."

In that case I may look on my unfortunate
thirty pounds as practically lost," said Blaine,
with a sigh. " But about the paper ; do you think
it can go on ? "

That depends on whether Mayo and Leyland
can raise enough money from week to week to pay
current expenses — wages and suchlike — until they
are able to arrange some new combination, obtain a
loan, take in a partner, or find a buyer with more
money than brains."

You seem to know a good deal about these
things, as Gibson just now observed. Have you
been in business yourself. Oglethorpe ? "

Unfortunately I have."

Why unfortunately ? "

For a good many reasons. Perhaps I may tell
you one of these days. Meanwhile, let me give you

a bit of advice. It often happens just after a
failure, that some fellow with more faith than
experience, offers to buy up claims. If anybody
makes you an offer, take it, whatever it
my be."

COEFE IN A Corner.

Later in the day Gibson came back greatly lifted
up, and with an unmistakable " 
" look on his face."

I have had a long talk with Herman," he said,
rather largely; *rand it is quite as I expected. He
is very much cut up, poor fellow, very much ; but
full of confidence. Showed me a telegram from
New York ; the third since last night. The house
is quite solvent, and the suspension arises solely
from a temporary lock-up of funds. So soon as they
realise their securities they will pay everybody in
full and resume business."

"And when does Mr. Herman expect that will
be?" asked Blaine, with a side glance at
Oglethorpe.

Well, I did put the question to him, but he
could not exactly say. You cannot always put a
date to these things, you know ; but if you asked
my private opinion I should say in about three
months. At any rate, it won't be long ; and I feel
quite sure now of getting every shilling of my
£400. Little thinks so and he ought to know."

Herman's particular friend you mean ? "
Yes, Rickarby A. Little, from New York, said to
be a double millionaire — in dollars. I'll tell you
what he said, and he has the courage of his opinion.

I am a large creditor of Herman Brothers,' he said,

both here and in New York, but I feel just as sure
of getting my money as if it were in your Bank of
England. And I am quite prepared to buy any of
the firm's debts at fifty per cent. — cash down and
no questions asked."

Considering Mr. Rickarby A. Little feels 'so
cock sure of getting paid in full, that seems rather
a low figure, doesn't it ? " asked Oglethorpe.

Just what I observed," returned the editor ;
and he answered me with that directness which is
so admirable a feature of the American character.
I do not pretend to do business for nothing,' he
said. ' If I buy up claims on this estate I mean to
make a profit, and if people don't like to deal they
need not — that is all.' "

*' Did you accept his offer ? " inquired Blaine.

Certainly not," replied Gibson warmly. " Mr.
Little is a very smart man, I dare say ; but an old
bird is not to be caught with chaff. No, Blaine,
I would not take ninety per cent, for my claim ;
and if you take any less for yours you will be very
foolish."

Perhaps," said Alfred ; " but I am not quite so
sanguine about the result as you are. I want

money, too, and if so small a claim as mine is not
beneath his notice, I would let Mr. Eickarby have
it on his own terms."

"I'll tell you what," returned Gibson briskly,
seeing, as he thought, a chance of turning an honest
penny, '' I'll buy it from you myself. At the same
time, I tell you frankly I think you are doing
wrong."

"I dare say I am. All the same, as Mr. Little
would say, I am ready to deal. A bird in the hand
you know."

As you like. How much is it ? "

The exact amount," said Alfred, referring to his
memorandum-book, *' is 918 francs."

"Then I must give you 4o9- francs. All right.
I will bring you the money in the morning. I am
going below to tell Mayo what I have heard. I
shall be back presently."

You managed that very well, Blaine," said
Oglethorpe with an approving smile.

You think I have done right, then ? " returned
Alfred dubiously, as if he were not quite sure
about it.

I have not a doubt about it ; and as for Mr.
Little, I am not at all sure that, if he were put to
the test, he would buy claims at fifty per cent, or
any other discount."

Why should he say so, then ? "

Bounce, my dear fellow, bounce. An American

is a born bouncer, just as an Italian is a born liar
Talking tall comes natural to him, just as skinning
flints comes natural to a Scotchman and overreaching
to a Jew. I am only surprised that anybody
born in such a big country as America should own
to the name of Little.

*' You are in a cynical mood, Oglethorpe. Have
you been in America ? "

I have — to my sorrow ! But of that another
time. Jut will be here in five minutes for copy,
and I have not done a stroke of work the last two
hours, or more." And as he spoke Oglethorpe seized
his scissors, and cut viciously into the American
Eagle.

On the following afternoon Corse appeared at the
office. He had heard the news, of course. Nobody
could be half an hour in Greneva without hearing
it — highly embellished. He was wild with rage,
and in his excitement quite forgot that he had to
pose as a disconsolate widower.

It's a regular swindle ! " he said furiously, " and
when I get hold of Herman he will pass the
mauvais quart cohere de Rabelais, I can promise
him that. Why, to hear him and that head bottle-washed
of his talk — confound them both for a pair
of arrant knaves — and see the army of clerks they
kept, and the bundles of bank-notes that were
always knocking about the place, you would have
thought the firm as rich as Rothschild I I did.

and a darned fool I was. Seven thousand francs
clean gone ! I'd like to roast Eobert Herman
before a slow fire, or draw him a tooth every day
until he pays up ! These tales about tremendous
losses in New York, a lock-up of funds, and all
that, are all nonsense. It's downright, deliberate
robbery — a plot to swindle their creditors. Does
anybody know if there is any likelihood of there
being any sort of dividend ? "

I suppose so," said Blaine, coolly, for Corse's
hectoring manner pleased him as little as the
violence of his language. " Gribson thinks it possible
that the house may pay in full and resume
business. Oglethorpe thinks they will pay next to
nothing. For my part, I don't believe that anybody,
not even Eobert Herman, knows anything
about it."

"That is likely enough. But I am of Oglethorpe's
opinion. I don't think there will be a centime
for anybody."

You had better see Little suggested Delane,
who wanted to get rid of him. Ad then he mentioned
the American's offer to Gibson.

I'll see him at once," said Corse. " I think he
is at the Belle Vae. Fifty per cent. ! Yes, I'll take
fifty per cent. I only hope Mr. Little has not
changed his mind."

But Mr. Little had changed his mind. At any
rate, he would not bite, though Corse tried him

very hard. He did not deny having offered Gibson
fifty per cent., but since the day before he had
bought several claims on Herman's estate. His
firm in New York had also operated largely, and for
the moment he did not feel disposed to go farther.
All the same, he had not the least doubt that the
estate would turn out well, and if Mr. Corse
would only have patience, he was sure to get all his
money.

I wish I was," muttered Corse, as he turned on
his heel, without so much as saying good-morning.
He knows a d — d sight better. If he thought so
he would buy ; and he won't give even a thousand
francs. Well, there is only one thing for it ; I
must force the running with little Leonino. It is a
risk, but the risk must be run ; but if I have only
half-luck, I do not see how I can fail this time.
The bonne is evidently guilty ; I can make her do
whatever I want, while as for the girl, she is just
at the age when any sort of nonsense will go down,
and if I know anything, it is how to make love.
I ought to do, I have had plenty of practice."

A SMART MOVE.

At the office of the Helvetic Xeius, as at most newspaper
offices, salaries were paid weekly. Every
Saturday morning Gribson went downstairs, drew
enough money to pay himself and his staff, and
then handed to each man his dae. On the Saturday
succeeding Herman's suspension he returned from
this usually pleasant mission with a very long
face.

*' You will have to put up with short commons
this week, gentlemen," he said. " Mayo has not
yet succeeded in making fresh banking arrangements,
and can only give us half-pay ; the balance
must stand over until next week. The clerks below
are being treated in the same fashion ; only the
compositors are getting paid in full."

Let us be thankful for small mercies," said
Oglethorpe, pocketing his money. " This is twice
as much as I expected."

On the following Saturday Gribson returned from
his wonted interview with the cashier with a longer
face than ever.

"I have nothing at all for you to-day," he said
dolefully. '' It has been a hard struggle to pay the
compositors ; there is not a centime for anybody
else. I am very sorry ; but what can I do ? And
I don't know what will be the end of it, either."

Blaine felt glad that he had sold his claim on
Herman's estate, but Gribson felt far from glad that
he had bought it. The prospect of a favourable
dividend was decidedly worsening. At the first
meeting of creditors some very damaging disclosures
had been made. Mr. Eickarby A. Little turned out
to be a big creditor, fully secured. He had been
lending the defunct firm money at usurious interest.
Corse made a violent speech against both him and
the debtors, and threatened to have Herman prosecuted
as a fraudulent bankrupt. All this put the
editor very much about. He felt that he should
never be able to forgive himself for not accepting
Little's offer on the nail ; and when on the next
pay-day there was again no money in the big safe
not even for the compositors — he quite lost his
temper, fell out with Mayo, and gave that astute
gentleman the opening for which he had long been
waiting.

You say you won't stand it," said the manager
sneeringly. " Leave it then. You can go whenever
you like."

Pay me my arrears of salary, then, and an indemnity
of ten thousand francs for breaking my

contract, and I will go at once," replied Gibson
hotly.

No, Mr. Gribson, I shall not pay you a centime
for breaking your contract. I said just now that
you might go whenever you liked. I say now that
you must go \vhen I like, and that is to-day. You
cease from this moment to be editor of the Helvetic
Neius, Mr. Gibson."

You forget, I think, that my engagement does
not terminate for eighteen months," replied the
editor, with forced calmness. '' I will go, certainly ,
if you wish it ; but as you put it in that way I demand
seventy-five weeks' salary at 300 francs a week.
That makes — let me see — 22,500 francs. Are you
prepared to give me 22,500 francs ? "

No ; nor 22,500 centimes. You shall have the
arrears of your salary — I will send you a cheque
next week — and that is all you will get."

*' Then I shall sue you," said Gibson, turning
pale. " I will make you pay."

'* Try, by all means, if you think you can get
anything," returned Mayo coolly. " All the same,
you will make a great mistake. It does not seem
to occur to you that you have broken your contract
pretty nearly every week for the last five or six
months, and that you have not a leg to stand on."

*' What do you mean ? "

*' What I say. You undertook to edit this paper
and write the leaders, didn't you ? "

VOL. IT. 26

Certainly."

Have you done so ? "

Of course I have."

Not you. You have left it all to your assistants.
You seldom appear at the office before 6 P.M. —
generally not until seven — and you often leave before
nine. There are weeks (referring to a diary) when
you have written but one leader — one week you
wrote none ; for the last three months your average
has been two."

[ never undertook to write every leader. It is
quite sufficient if I give instructions and see them
written, and, in short, take the entire responsibility
of the redaction.''^

I don't think so. You surely don't suppose
that it ever entered into our calculations to pay a
man like you 300 francs a week merely to give instructions
? We can do that ourselves, Mr. Gribson.
However, as you say you are going to sue us, and
the affair in that case will have to be discussed in
another place, I don't see that anything is to be
gained by bandying words ; and with your leave I
will go upstairs and tell Blaine and the others
what has happened."

I shall go with you and take away my private
papers," said Gribson, bottling up his indignation,
though with difficulty.

'* As you will. If we have to fight, we may as
well fight like gentlemen. I shall say no more

than is necessary, and nothing that need give you
offence."

They found all the sub-editors in their room,
waiting to be paid.

You will be surprised at what I have to tell
you," said Mayo quietly. " Mr. Gribson and I have
had a slight difference of opinion, and he has
dissolved his connection with the paper."

It is true," added the ex-editor, with assumed
indifference, " although it would perhaps be more
correct to say that my connection with the paper has
been dissolved. However, it comes to the same
thing. I am going, and I confess that I am very
sorry to part with you, gentlemen. We have always
got along very well together, and though our official
relations have ceased, I trust our friendship will
continue."

*' I am very sorry," said Blaine, taking his
proffered hand, '' and very much surprised. So far
as it depends on me, our friendship will not be in
the least diminished."

The others expressed themselves to the same
effect, for all liked Gribson. Even his besetting sin
of indolence, though not without drawbacks, had
left them far more liberty than they would have
enjoyed under a less easy-going chief.

I am glad to hear you say so," returned Gribson,
with feeling. " I suppose we shall see each other
now and then, and I should not be surprised if we

2Q*

were all to meet in London on some not very distant
day. If we do, I will ask you to dine with meat
the Savage. Au revoir.'^

"I know what that means," said Mayo, with
rather a forced laugh ; " it's a parting kick. He
thinks the paper is going to pot, and that in a
week or two you will all be in London looking for
berths. But he was never more mistaken in his
life. Will you step this way a moment, Blaine
(going towards the editor's room) ? I want to speak
to you."

When they were alone the manager explained to
Alfred that Gribson, having resigned his post for
reasons to which it was not necessary " further
to allude," he should be glad if Blaine would
take his place. He had watched him, read his
articles (which were always excellent), and felt
certain that he would make a most efficient
editor-inches. For the present he could not offer
him more than 150 francs a week; but when they
had succeeded in reorganizing the finances of the
paper they would " make it two hundred."

To such a proposal there could, of course, be only
one answer, for though the editorship might add
somewhat to Blaine's responsibilities, it would
add little to his work, much to his power, and the
increased salary would be highly acceptable.

The next thing was to tell Delane and Oglethorpe.
This Mayo did in a very few words ; and,

after expressing a hope that they would pull well
together, was making ois in a hurry, when an observation
from Oglethorpe, though not ostensibly
addressed to him, "pulled him up sharp."

Had you not better go downstairs for our
salaries, Mr. Blaine ? " said the junior sub with
the gravest of faces. " I don't suppose Mr. Gribson
got the money, or he would have paid us."

I beg your pardon, gentlemen," said Mayo,
wheeling round and turning red, " I ought to have
told you. The fact is — the fact is — there is nothing
in the safe ; but I have paid the compositor's in full
and last week's arrears, so the paper is safe. But I
am in treaty for a new banking account, and Mr.
Leyland has gone to London to see what he can do
there ; and I have no doubt that next week I shall
be able to pay you in full. I can sympathise with
you, for I am as hard up as anybody. I have not
drawn a centime since Herman's stopped."

*' It's all very fine," grumbled Delane when the
manager had disappeared, which he did without
pausing for a reply, " but if Mayo has drawn
nothing since the suspension, he took deuced good
care to feather his nest before. I vote we do as the
compositors have done."

"^yhat have they done ? " inquired Oglethorpe.

They threatened to strike if they were not paid
up, and, as you hear, he has paid them."

*' And makes a virtue of it. Mr. Mayo is certainly

a very clever man. I do believe lie will keep
the ship off the breakers after all. It's a very
smart move, too, getting rid of Gribson. How much
are you to have, Blaine, if it's a fair question ? "

Blaine told him.

"The arrangement does the manager infinite
credit. He saves half Gibson's salary and all yours —
225 francs a week in all. But what I cannot understand
is how he has managed to get rid of Gibson.
However, I offer you my sincere congratulations on
your promotion, Blaine — I beg your pardon, Mr.
Blaine."

No, no," exclaimed Blaine, " Alfred, an you
love me ! "

By all means," said Delane ; " but are we not
going to celebrate your promotion m some way ? I
should like to drink your health, though the times
are so hard and we so hard up."

Certainly," answered Blaine, " we will have a
dejeuner a la fourchette at the Cafe du Roi.
Allons

With all my heart," said the Irishman gleefully.
I am awfully peckish, also very thirsty. You will
stand a bottle of cham., won't you, old man ? "

That requires some consideration, Delane.
Champagne is expensive, and money scarce ; and
Mayo's promises, I fear, are not much to be depended
upon. What do you think, Oglethorpe ? "

Mayo is a gentleman of infinite resources and

few scruples ; and until he and Leyland succeed in
hitting on some new device for raising the wind you
may be sure they will not pay a centime more than
they can help."

In that case," said Blaine ruefully, " I do not
think it would be prudent to go beyond a bottle of
Swiss, ^yill that do, Delane ? "

Do ? Of course it will. I always go in for vin
du "pays on principle. It is more likely to be
genuine than the imported article, to say nothing of
its being so much cheaper. Besides, Swiss champagne
is really very good."

So to the Cafe du Eoi they went, and Blaine
ordered a modest dejeuner of three courses —
bouillon, vol au vent, and bccignees de ponies —
rounded off with the champagne Suisse so much
desired by Delane.

The cafe consisted of a large room and a small
one, each with plate glass windows, looking towards
the lake ; and though the day was yet young several
groups of card players were already at work, and
the click of billiard balls could be heard in the
next apartment.

By Jove ! look there ! " exclaimed Delane excitedly,
" that's Count Solferino. He gambles here
all day long, and sometimes all night. They say
he eats his cigars, and I do believe he is at it
now."

The man pointed out by Delane was a stout,

white-faced, black-haired personage, with a bit of
red ribbon in one of his button-holes. He sat at a
side table with three other men, all deeply interested
in a game of baccarat. At the moment,
when the Irishman called attention to him, Count
Solferino was in the act of putting into his mouth a
cigar of the sort known as a " Vevey," about the
thickness of a little finger and some six inches long.
He then made as if he would light it, but did not.
A minute later the cigar began to grow perceptibly
shorter.

'* He is eating it," whispered Delane.

And so he was ; the cigar grew shorter and
shorter, and finally disappeared.

Horrible 1 " said Blaine. " It looks like a
snake creeping down his throat. Does he always
consume his cigars that way ? '*

No, I believe he sometimes smokes 'em. But
they say he eats 'em without knowing it; gets so
absorbed in the game that he forgets everything
else, and cannot even taste strong tobacco like

that."

'' I can well believe it. I mean there is no
stupidity, or folly, or crime of which a gambler is
not capable," said Oglethorpe gravely. "I could
tell "

Hullo ! here you are, all together ; the top of
the morning to you."

The speaker was Corse. They had been so

intent upon watching Count Solferino eat his
strange meal that they had not seen their confrere
enter the cafe.

You are feasting," he vient on, after they had
answered his greeting. 'that means there is
money at the office, I suppose ? Very glad to hear
it. When I have had a drop of absinthe — pour
vi^eclaircir, you know — I shall just see what they
can do for me."

"You may save yourself the trouble," laughed
Delane.

You don't mean to say they have not paid
you ? " said Corse, with a significant glance at the
bottle of champagne.

*' I mean nothing else ; but that is no reason,
you know, why Blaine should not pay his footing,
and we rejoice in his promotion."

How — what promotion ? "

*" Redacteur-en-chef, vice Gibson resigned."

Nonsense, you are joking."

We were never more serious in our lives, were
we, Oglethorpe ? "

Whereupon the latter confirmed the statement,
and told in more detail what had come to pass.

*•! congratulate you, Blaine," said Corse; and,
if you will allow me, I shall drink your health."

This was done ; and a few minutes afterwards
Corse, muttering something about an engagement
elsewhere, left the cafe.

He does not seem to like it much," said Delane ;
you saw the scowl that passed over his face when
I told him ? "

Wliy ? " asked Blaine ; " he and I have
always been good friends. He can have nothing
against me."

That has nothing to do with it," said Oglethorpe.
'* There are people in the world who are never more
vexed than when they hear of a friend's good fortune.
Perhaps Corse is one of them."

Oglethorpe was right. It was not in Corse's
nature to regard another's advancement with satisfaction,
and as he had always counted on being
Gribson's successor, he looked upon Blaine's promotion
as a personal wrong done to himself.

"It's just like my rotten luck," he thought as he
walked over the bridge. " The idea of making a
greenhorn like Blaine editor of a paper ! He
wants the shine taken out of him, and if he does
not mind what he is about I'll make Geneva too
hot to hold him."

TEMPTER AND Tempted.

Gabrielle Courbet was in a fair way to recovery
from the shock occasioned by Corse's unwelcome
visit, and had almost persuaded herself that her
alarms were imaginary, when she received a letter
thus couched ; —

The gentleman ivho had the pleasure of calling
upon Madame Courbet a short time ago, for the
purpose of making inquiries about Mademoiselle
Leonino (otherwise Hardy), will be at the entrance
to the Gorge des Chdtaigniers on Thursday next, at
three d clock in the afternoon, where he hopes to have
the advantage of seeing Madame Courbet a second
time, tuith the object of making a communication of
great importance, closely affecting her oivn interest
and the happiness of her luard,'^

This missive brought back the bonnets fears in
full force, and she spent the interval between its
receipt and the time appointed for the interview
in an agony of suspense and apprehension. What

could it mean ? How much did the man know ?
It was in vain she argued that her secret was
confined to herself and to the packet which, as she
had only the day before convinced herself, was still,
with seal unbroken, where she had laid it ten years
before. Facts were against her. This stranger did
know something, knew a good deal, or he could
not have spoken and written as he had done. How
he had got to know was a detail of trifling importance.
She felt that she was in his power, and that
her peasant's wit was no match for his trained
intelligence. Had she dared she would fain have
shirked the meeting.

Gabrielle reached the rendezvous several minutes
before the appointed time, and punctually, at three
o'clock, she was joined by Corse.

Bon soir, Madame Courbet," he said. " I presume
my letter surprised you somewhat ? "

Grabrielle, it is hardly necessary to say, was unmarried,
but it is a Swiss custom to address women
of a certain age as " Madame," in token of respect.

It did, indeed, Monsieur, and I still feel quite
at a loss to know why "

*' I asked you to do me the favour of coming here,
I will tell you. It is about your charming ward.
Mademoiselle Vera Leonino, otherwise Hardy."

Yes, sir ; what about her ? " said Gabrielle,
almost faint with apprehension, although Corse's
manner was affable in the extreme. He had made

up his mind that mildness of speech would suit his
purpose better than the reverse — unless she should
prove restive, and then he would have to try rougher
methods.

*' I love Vera ! I have loved her ever since I
first set eyes on her at the fete. I want to marry
her."

Marry her ! *' interrupted Grabrielle, hardly able
to believe the evidence of her senses. " Marry
her ! "

It seemed scarcely credible that this man, whom
her imagination had invested with so many terrors,
should after all be only a wooer.

Yes, marry her ; why not ? Is there anything
wonderful in the fact that an English gentleman of
means and position should desire to marry a beautiful,
well-educated girl, whose father was also an
English gentleman ? Yes, I want to marry her, and
I mean to marry her, with your kind aid, Madame
Grabrielle, and then " (lowering his voice to a significant
whisper) " I will keep silence about — that
money you took."

Oh, Monsieur, you do me wrong ! " exclaimed
the bonne in great agitation. '* The money — I
took it — I mean I took it not, it is intact. I can
account for every centime. The capital is in the
hands of my father, and the interest, it has been
spent on Vera."

All the same, you took it, Madame Grabrielle —

you took your master's money, and that is what
the law calls by a very ugly name. However, 1
am sure you meant well, and have done your best
for Vera. You may trust fully to my discretion,
and as for money, I have ample means of my own.
Let your father keep Vera's. If it is quite convenient
he may pay some small acknowledgment
in the shape of interest. But if you give
me Vera, I care for little else — I am dying for love
of her."

Ah, Monsieur ! " said the bonne in a voice
trembling with emotion, " when you ask for Vera
you ask for my life. I have brought her up; she is
to me as my own child."

Notwithstanding her emotion, Gabrielle felt
greatly relieved. This monsieur, so much dreaded,
was not wicked, after all. He had the air of a
well-bred gentleman, and with his means and position
might make Vera a most suitable husband;
but the idea of the child being taken away from her
probably to a foreign land — was more than she
could bear.

And she shall remain your child. Do you
think I could have the cruelty to separate you?
You shall live with us, and be her femme de
chamhreJ^

I am very grateful, Monsieur, for your kindness,"
said Grabrielle, joyfully, " and I think I may
say I will do my best to forward Monsieur's views.

But there is one consideration Monster is forgetting."


What is that, mori amie ? " asked Corse, with a
pleasant smile.

Suppose Vera is not willing ? "

A well-educated young girl does as she is told
in these matters, and you and your father, who
desire only her happiness, will tell her that Vernon
Corse, who has served in the English army, who is
one of the editors of the Helvetic Xeius of Greneva,
and the correspondent of a great journal of London,
is in every respect an unexceptionable party

But, Monsieur, Vera has not been educated
like a young girl of the bourgeoisie. She has had
much more liberty ; she has read English books,
she knows that English girls choose themselves their
own husbands, and my father and I, we have not
over her the authority of parents."

That is nothing at all, my dear Madame
Grabrielle," said Corse with an air of easy assurance.
Support my suit, speak in my favour — that is all
I ask; I will answer for the rest. May I depend
on you ? "

Perfectly, Monsieur," answered the bonne, now
completely reassured.

It was then arranged that Corse should follow her
to the chalet and introduce himself as a friend of
Vera's father, and that so soon after his departure
as Gabrielle might deem it expedient she should

inform the girl of the object of his visit, and urge
her to accept his offer.

This scheme was duly carried into effect, and, as
it happened, Corse arrived at the chalet before
Vera's return from Territet, whither she went two
or three times a week. This so far served his purpose
that when Vera appeared on the scene the
bonne was able to spare him the awkwardness of
introducing himself.

This is M. Corse, my dear," she said in answer to
the girl's look of surprise, " the gentleman you met
the other day. He was slightly acquainted with
your dear father, and also knew the family of your
mother."

In point of fact he knew neither the one nor the
other ; but being aware that when her father died
she was no more than seven years old, and having
gathered from Gabrielle that Vera only just remembered
her mother, and some other particulars, he
played his cards so adroitly that the bonne doubted
nothing, and her ward fully believed all he said. He
also took care to say more about places than persons,
and as he knew Italy well he could do this without
difficulty. Corse, having so much at stake, naturally
exerted his power of pleasing to the utmost,
and interested Vera so greatly that she set him
down in her mind as being — next to M. Senarclens
the cleverest man she had ever met. He knew
so many languages, could tell so many amusing

stories, and seemed to have travelled nearly all over
the world. Even the brag and bounce in which he
would not help indulging answered his purpose, for
the honiu, besides being as credulous as the average
of her sex, had an interest in believing him, and it
had not occurred to Vera that an English gentleman
could possibly speak anything but the truth. The
impression he made, as he could not fail to see, was
decidedly favourable, and he went away fully satisfied
with himself, and more confident of success than
ever.

''•' I am staying at the Hotel de la Foret," he said
on taking his leave, *rand shall do myself the pleasure
of calling again — perhaps tomorrow, or, at any
rate, the day after."

We shall be happy to see Monsieur at anytime,"
returned Gabrielle, " and I am sure that my
father, who has gone into Canton Valais to buy
cattle, would-be glad to make his acquaintance."

"And I am sure I should be equally delighted,
Madame Grabrielle. Bon soir, Mademoiselle
Leonino."

Vera returned his greeting and proffered him
her hand, which Corse held for a moment and eyed
her with a furtive yet bold look of admiration ; a
mistake that went far to undo the effect of his
entertaining conversation, for his eyes were his
worst feature, and the glance, besides annoying
her, rekindled that vague feeling of mistrust
VOL. IT. 27

and aversion with which their first interview
had inspired her.

A very nice gentleman, is he not ? " said
Grabrielle, as soon as he was gone.

"Yes," acquiesced Vera, but in a tone which
implied that she was not quite sure about it, " and
very clever. He must have seen a great deal. But
I don't like his eyes, Grabrielle, nor the way he uses
them."

What is the matter with his eyes ? I saw
nothing wrong about them."

That is because you are not an artist, Grabrielle.
I study eyes ; they are the windows of the soul.
An otherwise good face may be spoiled by bad
eyes, but with beautiful eyes no countenance can
be ugly. Look at those fine pictures of G-laire in
the Musee of Lausanne and you will understand
what I mean. This gentleman — M. Corse, does he
not call himself? — has a good profile and what I
should call a strong face, but his eyes have a sinister
expression and in my opinion quite spoil him.
Compare them with the eyes of M. Senarclens or
of that other Englishman."

What other Englishman ? "

The one with whom I danced at the fete — M.
Blaine. Yes ; his eyes are not only bright and
intelligent, they inspire confidence, and M. Corse's
do not."

You are unjust, Vera. M. Corse is a true

English gentleman'' protested the bonne ^Yith some
warmth.

I dare say he is, Gabrielle, and I am sure he is
very clever, but he is not to be compared with my
father, who, besides M. Blaine, is the only
Englishman to whom, until I met M. Corse, I ever
spoke."

There are very few like your father, Vera, yet I
believe that M. Corse is an honourable gentleman,
and also very rich and distinguished."

To this remark Vera made no answer ; she
seemed buried in the thoughts which the mention
of her father had suggested, and Grabrielle concluded,
perhaps wisely, that the moment was not
propitious for broaching the subject of Corse's
intentions ; but she made no secret of them with
her father ; when he returned in the evening she
told him all that had come to pass.

The old man was greatly pleased.

Take her without a clot will he, and accept
any interest for the money I may find it convenient
to pay ! He must be a fool. However, that is no
affair of mine. Let him have her by all means.
You said so, of course."

Naturally ; but I have not yet spoken to Vera."

"What does that matter'' said Pere Courbet,
with a brutal laugh, " girls must do as they are
told. I won't have any betimes, Gabrielle."

'' You forget, father, that we are not Vera's

27*

parents and cannot force her into a marriage
against her will, and to try to do so would make a
scandal. What would M. Senarclens say ? What
would M. Lacroix say ? You must leave it in my
hands, father. I will arrange it. If you meddle
you will do harm."

The bonne spoke firmly, for she was conscious
that her father's advocacy would be fatal to Corse's
pretensions.

« Very well, do as you will," he growled. " Only
it must be done, mind. I will have no hctises.^''

Corse came again next day and had a friendly
chat with the old man, who received him with
great effusion and treated him with, the utmost
respect. He had also another talk with Vera and
Gabrielle, and though he found no opportunity of
speaking to the latter privately a significant side
look told him that she had not yet spoken to
Mademoiselle Leonino of the matter he had most
at heart. But it did not suit him to remain long
in suspense, and as he took his leave he mentioned,
with a glance at Grabrielle which she quite understood,
that he should do himself the pleasure of
calling on the morrow.

He will come again tomorrow ! " said Vera,
when she and the bonne were alone. " He seems
very fond of La Boissiere. Why will he call again
to-morrow ? "

Cannot you guess ? "

Xo ; I am at a loss to understand why a man
of the world like this M. Corse should care for our
society, and his reminiscences of my parents do not
seem to amount to much, after all."

It is not for our society he cares. Vera ; it is for
yours."

Mine ! AVhat do you mean, Gabrielle ? "

What I say. Do you think M. Corse comes
here to see a middle-aged woman like me, or an old
man like my father ? Not he, indeed. You are the
attraction. He comes to see you, child, and I
really think you ought to be proud of the conquest
you have made."

*' Impossible, Gabrielle ; I don't believe it," exclaimed
Vera passionately, after a long pause.
You are mistaken."

No, I am not ; and to speak frankly he has
asked our permission to pay you his court, and my
father and I, we both think you would do well to
accept him."

It was all a pretence then, his coming here to
talk about my parents. I do not want to marry —
but (bitterly), perhaps you want to get rid of me,
Gabrielle. I know your father does."

Gret rid of you, my darling I " exclaimed the
bonne vehemently. " It is because I do not want
to lose you that I am anxious for you to marry this
M. Corse. He is rich, he is distinguished, he is
good. He would let me be always with you. I

should still be your bonne and your feminine de
chambre. And consider, ma Fille cherie, you are
now nearly a woman. In a few days you will be
eighteen. You cannot always remain here. La
Boissiere is no place for a demoiselle like you. And
my father — well, since my poor mother died he has
not been the same. He had never a very good
temper, and now he is sometimes almost insufferable.
It is very unpleasant for you ; for me it is
more than unpleasant, because I know that you are
patient under great provocation only for my sake.
Now if you marry M. Corse all will be for the best.
You will have a beautiful house. You will travel,
you will see the world. You will visit Italy, Some,
Florence and other famous cities, and the picture
galleries you want so much to see. And he loves you
so much, ce pauvre nionsieiir. It is for your own
happiness that I ask you to give him a favourable
answer. It will be favourable, will it not, ma chere ? "

*' I do not want to marry, Gabrielle — and — and I do
not care for this man. He is old and he has bad eyes."

Old ! Why he is quite young for a man. Not
more than thirty I should say, while as for his eyes,
I see nothing bad in them. And if they are not so
beautiful as you would like, that does not make
him a bad man. We cannot all have eyes like M.
Senarclens or this M. Blaine. Let me tell him
that he may hope, ma petites'

Again Vera answered in the negative, but her

No " was a shade less resolute than before, and it
was easy to see that Gabrielle's arguments had not
been altogether in vain. The prospect of being her
own mistress, of escaping from old Courbet, and,
above all, of seeing Italy once more and revisiting
scenes hallowed by the memory of her father and
mother, were contending in her mind with her indisposition
to marry, and her indifference to the
man who wanted to make her his wife.

If she could have got over her dislike of Corse's
eyes she might have inclined a favourable ear to his
suit, but when Gabrielle put the question to her
again on the following day she refused.

Will you let me speak to M. Senarclens then,
and be guided by his advice ? " proposed the bonne
as a last resource.

*' If you like. I am not sure about following his
advice ; but I should certainly be greatly influenced
by it." Vera thought by this answer to spare
herself further importunity. She knew M. Searches'
ideas about marriage and felt sure that he
would not urge her to accept a man whom she could
not like. Gabrielle, on the other hand, looked upon
it as a virtual consent, for the girl had an immense
respect for M. Senarclens, and she had no more
doubt that the great historian — being a sensible
man — would take her view of the matter, than that
her ward would do as he advised. In this sense she
spoke to Corse when he called again on the following

day. Vera having gone to Territet they could
converse freely. Corse seemed annoyed.

Why is she not here ? " he asked. " Why will
you not let me see her en tete-astute ? "

'* So I would, with pleasure, but she will not ; and
really, you knowest would not be quite canine ilfautJ^

Hang comme ilfaut I What is to be done then ? "

We must see M. Senarclens. I will meet you
at his house tomorrow."

I really do not see what he has to do with the
matter. But if there is nothing else for it, I
suppose it must be as you say," said Corse discontentedly.
He was not at all satisfied with the
turn things were taking. The historian might not
be so easy to talk over as the bonne. " How did
she become acquainted with M. Senarclens ? "

My father lets him one of the chalets, and he
and his family spend part of the summer there.
He thinks all the world of Vera. She takes
painting lessons with his own daughters ; he says
that she is a born artist, and with proper instruction
might make herself a name."

He says so, does he ? My wife, Madame
Gabrielle, will not need to paint pictures for her
living. Ah, that reminds me. You have surely
papers about Vera, papers you found among her
father's effects or that he gave you ? Where are
they?"

This was spoken suddenly and sternly, and Corse

saw by the bonne's hesitation and confusion that his
surmise — for it was no more than a surmise — was
well founded.

Xow look here, Madame Grabrielle, my silence
and your good name, your freedom even, depend
upon your unquestioning obedience to my orders.
Fetch me those papers at once."

The bonne not only felt that she was in this
man's power; but that her will was weaker than
his. She dared not disobey him ; and though fully
conscious that this further betrayal of her trust was
an aggravation of her original offence, she fetched
the packet confided to her by Philip Hardy and
handed it to Corse.

Is this all ? " he asked, putting it in his pocket.

It is all," she answered in a troubled voice.

Good. It is a thing agreed then, that we meet
tomorrow at M. Senarclens'. At what hour ? "

'• Eleven o'clock."

I shall be there ; " and without another word he
stalked out of the chalet.

Addressed to his father'" he muttered, looking
at the packet as he walked down the path. " Unless
I'm mistaken there is matter here that will prove
useful to me in any event, besides strengthening my
hold over Madame Gabrielle."

This time, at least, Corse was not mistaken, except
in the sense that he had drawn a bigger prize than
he vet knew.

NEWS AT LAST.

At last," exclaimed Blaine, as he saw lying on
his desk at the office of the Helvetic Keius, a letter
bearing an Italian post-mark and addressed in the
handwriting of Colonel Bevis. " News about
Martinoo it must be. Bevis can have nothing
else to write to me about."

Blaine was quite right. The letter did bring
news about Martinoo. He was back from Algeria.
Bevis had seen him. "As I expected,^^ wrote the
old soldier, " Martinoo knew your friend quite welland
seemed much distressed lumen I told him the
child was missing. He is coming ivith line to
Geneva, and ivill give you cl joarticidars. Till
then adieu. Yours to command, Mark Bevis

Confound his brevity," thought Alfred, *' Why
couldn't he have given me some particulars ? He
is as sparing of words as if they were gold pieces.
And when is he coming ? I must find out."

On this he shouted down the spout into the office
below and asked the clerk who answered him to
inquire of Mr. Mayo when Colonel Bevis was
expected.

Very soon," was the reply. " He is already
en route ; but the Colonel's movements are always
uncertain, and it is impossible to say exactly when
he will be here."

Mayo did not add that Bevis would have been at
Greneva already if he could have sent him sooner
the thousand francs, which the Colonel always
insisted on having before starting on a professional
journey. For the long-promised financial reorganization
of the paper was still unaccomplished and
the big safe as empty as ever. But it had the
excellent quality of stability, it was always there,
and no creditor could contemplate its imposing
bulk, its brazen adornments and many locks, without
feeling reassured as to the solvency of his
debtors and the ultimate liquidation of his claim,
even though he might court an interview with the
cashier in vain. There were creditors who had
come to the conclusion that the important functionary
in question possessed tha gift of rendering
himself invisible at will, as, though his existence
was a notorious fact, he was never to be seen by
duns. Call when they would he was sure to be out,
and however long they waited he failed to return.
They knew not that the ingenious Mr. Mayo had
organized a service of three small, yet sharp-eyed
and quick-witted boys, who watched in the street,
and whenever they saw anyone approaching that
looked like a creditor, whistled the information to

the guardian of the big safe, whereupon that gentleman
made himself incontinently scarce and came
not back until the coast was clear.

Nobody proceeded to extremities, because the
manager being plausible in' speech and profuse in
promises, generally succeeded in persuading importunate
creditors that if they would only have
patience all would be well. When they threatened,
he just shrugged his shoulders and told them
plainly that, if they proceeded to extremities, they
would stop the paper, and so destroy the sole asset,
except the types gnd the printing machine, which
would not fetch enough to cover the cost of liquidation
— and get nothing at all.

As for the editorial staff, beyond a few trifling
sums on account, they had received no pay since
the bank broke ; and had it not been for Alfred's
contributions to the Day he would have had to goon
short commons. It was all he could do to
keep straight with his landlady, and he was running
behind with his remittances to Cora and his mother.
Delane's pockets were as empty as the big safe, and
Oglethorpe's balance at the Eanque Populaire had
sunk almost to zero. They lived like anchorites ;
not one of them had been in a cafe for a month or
more, and they were reduced to smoking short
grandsons at five a penny. But though hard up
they where by no means low-spirited. There is a
humorous side to everything, and this Delane was

always quick to seize and make the most of; while
the very uncertainty of the paper's future and their
own increased the piquancy of their position and
added to the interest of their lives, for the dull
monotony of prosperous times is often as irksome to
youth as it is always grateful to age.

But to return to Blaine. His first proceeding,
after reading Bevis's curt epistle, was to write to
Wharton ; the lawyer's clerk was growing very importunate
for news — he had even hinted that Alfred
was not using due diligence in his quest, and this
gleam of light, so long waited for, might serve both
to encourage him and, may be, to diminish the
frequency of his letters, which were beginning to be
rather a bore. This done, he took up some copy of
Corse's, and was going through it " with a wet pen "
when after a knock at the door (Alfred now occupied
the room vacated by Gibson), Delane popped
his head into the room and inquired if he would
receive M. Senarclens.

Certainly ; show him in," said Alfred, wondering
what could have procured him the honour of a call
from so distinguished a visitor.

The historian, though a great man, was short of
stature and of insignificant bodily presence. But
he had something better than long legs or stalwart
arms — a superb head and an intellectual face. The
long hair of sable silver was brushed back from a
forehead both broad and high ; his bright and

somewhat dreamy blue eyes fully justified Vera's
admiration of their beauty, and though he wore a
moustache and his chin was covered with a pointed
beard, you could see that his shapely Grecian nose
was matched by a firm and well-formed mouth, and
his smile, as he advanced to greet Blaine, was
gracious and winning.

I am sorry to intrude upon you," he said, taking
the chair offered him by Alfred, *' since editors are
always busy men; but I shall not take many
minutes of your time. My object is to ask you, in
confidence, a few questions about M. Corse — not, I
assure you, out of idle curiosity, but for a motive
that concerns closely one in whose welfare I take a
deep interest. He occupies a position on the
Helvetic News, I believe ? "

He contributes a weekly article, if you can call
that occupying a position."

'sit certainly can be called a position," said
M. Senarclens, smiling, '' although I imagined it
was a much more important one. Do you know,
are you at liberty to say, whether he has any
other sources of income ? The question is a somewhat
delicate one, but I feel myself bound to put
it."

He does something for a London paper, I
believe, and gives lessons."

Has he property ? "

"That I am unable to tell you."

*' Bat he is the son of a military officer, and has
himself served in the English army."

*' I believe so ; but you should know that my
acquaintance with M. Corse 'is very short. I have
been only a short time in Geneva, and can really
tell you very little about him."

But so far as your knowledge goes, he is an
honourable man, whose statements about himself
may be trusted ? "

Certainly," said Alfred ; " for if I know little
about him, I know nothing against him, and he is
undoubtedly a very able man."

Thank you, M. Blaine. That is all, I think.
I daresay you are wondering why I have come to
ask these questions about your confrere ? "

It was true ; Alfred was wondering very much.

"Well, I will tell you," continued M. Senarclens,
after a short pause. " It is only right you should
know. M. Corse has made an offer of marriage to a
young girl who is hardly less dear to me than one
of my own daughters."

Alfred gave a start of surprise.

Her friends, who are very simple, unsophisticated
people, have consulted me about it, and I
thought it my duty, before giving an opinion, to
make some inquiry touching M. Corse's character
and antecedents."

And the young lady ? "

She protests that she does not want to marry ;

but that, you know (smiling), we must take cum
grand ; and her thrice is strongly of opinion — and
I am disposed to agree with her — that, seeing how
she is circumstanced, it would be well for her to
have the protection of a husband. Parbleu, now I
think of it, you know her ! You danced with herat
the fetes

Mademoiselle Leonino ? "

Yes ; Mademoiselle Leonino."

For a moment Alfred felt as if the room were
going round with him. He had just said that he
knew nothing against Corse ; but he had never liked
him ; and when he called to mind the strange
incident of Mrs. Corse's arrival at Greneva, her
dreadful death, and his (as it would now seem)
hypocritical sorrow, and many other circumstances,
the idea of his marrying that sweet girl, who had
made so strong an impression on Alfred's imagination,
if not on his heart, stirred him as he had
never been stirred before. And it was he who had
been the means of making known her existence to
Corse ! What a treacherous knave the fellow must
be ! He could scarcely contain himself for rage.

You seem surprised," said M. Senarclens, after
pausing several minutes for a reply.

I am. I admit it," said Alfred recovering himself
with an effort. " It seems only the other day
that M. Corse's wife died, and now he is seeking
another ! "

You don't mean that he is a widower ? "

Certainly he is. Did you not hear of a lady
being killed on the mer de glace at Chamouni
a few months ago ? "

*' Yes, I read an account of it in the Gazette de
Lausanne. She was German, was she not ? "

Xo, English, and M. Corse's wife."

How terrible ! " exclaimed the historian, surprised
in his turn. " The Gazette gave the name
as Dora, that is why I thought she was Grerman.
Strange that M. Corse did not tell us this ! "

Very strange. Perhaps he feared that if made
known to Mademoiselle Leonino it might prejudice
him in her opinion."

Probably. And, so far as I can judge, he is
really very much in love with her. ^Vell, I don't
know of any law against a man marrying a second
time ; but it would certainly have looked better if
he had mentioned the fact when he made his
proposals. But he may have reasons for his
reticence we know nothing of. I never condemn a
man until he has been heard in his defence. I am
also bound to say that M. Corse spoke very nicely,
and he really seems very much in love with Vera.
And when a man does something which we are
unable to approve we cannot deal too tenderly with
him, M. Blaine. Our impulses, when left to
themselves, are all good ; the bad are made vicious
solely by unrighteous laws and an imperfect social
\t)L. II. 28

organization. Were there no moral codes there
would be no sinners ; and if the possession of
private property were made a penal offence dishonesty
would disappear, and thieves cease to
exist."

Blaine, who was too much troubled with what
he had just heard to enter on the discussion to
which M. Senarclens invited him, made a somewhat
vague reply, and the historian, after observing that
he would communicate the result of his inquiries to
Mademoiselle Leonino, and confer with her thrice
as to the answer to be given to M. Corse, took his
leave, not, however, before he had thanked Alfred
for his courtesy, and asked him to pay him a visit
at Territet.

He thinks we cannot deal too tenderly with
Corse," mused Blaine. ^* Why, hanging is too
good for the fellow ! He must have taken a fancy
to Mademoiselle Leonino when we went to the
Rousseau together, at the very time he was posing
as a bachelor, and his wife was in England. There
is a mystery about that too — the affair was never
properly cleared up — and now I think of it, his
explanations were singularly evasive. And how
sorry he pretended to be when she died ! I am
afraid Corse is a very bad fellow — no fit husband fora
sweet girl like Mademoiselle Leonino, and I'll
take good care he does not marry her ! "

But when Blaine grew cooler, and thought the

matter out, he had to confess that he saw no
practicable way of hindering the execution of
Corse's design — provided all the parties concerned
were willing. If, after what he had told Senarclens,
Corse did not receive his cone, what could he do
more ? But surely no good girl would consent to
marry a man she did not love, who had wooed heron
the very morrow of the terrible event which
bereft him of a wife to whom he had pretended to
be passionately devoted. And her reluctance to
marry showed that she did not love him. She was
just being pushed into it by her friends. He must
do something, that was quite clear ; but what ?

After cogitating a long time, without coming to
any satisfactory contusion, Blaine lighted a
grandson, went into the sub-editors' room and told
them of Corse's intended marriage. They were
very much surprised, but took the affair much more
coolly than he had done.

I knew Corse was an unaccountable sort of chap,
but I had no idea he was so fond of the sex as to
marry at the rate of two wives a year," said Delane.
'* Poor Mrs. Corse ! It does seem an awful shame
for him to be after marrying another woman so soon
after her death, and such a death ! "

Has this girl money ? " asked Oglethorpe.

I don't know ; but I should think not."

You may depend upon it she has, or Corse

would not bs in such a hurry to marry her."

90*

I am not so sure about that," put in Delane
thoughtfully. " When a fellow is in love, you
know, he does not think much about anything
else."

The person Corse is most in love with is himself,"
said Oglethorpe, " and I am sure that if he
marries it is because marriage will somehow or
other advance his interests, for, largely as he talks,
you may depend upon it that he is very hard up."

Still, I don't see," returned Blaine doubtingly,
" I don't see how Mademoiselle Leonino can
have money. She lives up in the mountains, and I
gathered from Senarclens that her people were of
humble rank. As for Corse "

If Blaine had completed the sentence — which
he did not — he would have said that any man might
well want to marry Mademoiselle Leonino, even if
she had not a penny.

* As for Corse,' you were saying," observed
Delane, seeing that Alfred did not go on.

Was I ? " said Alfred with a look of surprise.
Oh, yes ; I was going to say that we have seen
very little of him lately."

You have riled him ; that's the reason why."

By editing his articles, I suppose."

"Exactly. I met him the other day in the
Place Neuve, and he asked me who had been
playing old gooseberry with his copy again. I
told him nobody touched it but you. He did not

say much ; but you should have seen his look !
I am afraid you have made an enemy of him,
Blaine."

Never Mind," answered Alfred carelessly. " I
am not afraid of Vernon Corse. Let him do his
worst."

Raising THE WIND.

A WEEK later came Bevis.

How do you do, M. Blaine ? " he said, as he
entered the editor's private room. "I congratulate
you on becoming redacteiir-en-chef, and on the
great improvement you have effected in the paper.
It is just what it ought to be, lively and interesting,
and full of Swiss news, and your leaders are crisp
and short."

Alfred thanked him for his compliments.

'' You got my letter ? "

I did ; and "

You mean Martinoo," said the Colonel, with a
look of importance. " It is all right. I have got
him with me. But I thought it better not to bring
him here : private business, you know ; and the
others might be wondering what it was all about.
Nothing like keeping these things quiet. When
will you see him ? Can you be at liberty about six
o'clock ? "

Yes ; say from six to eight."

Grood. Then we will dine at the Croix. A

table apart, you know, so that we can talk freely.
Will that suit you ? "

Exactly."

"Good; we shall be there. Six o'clock sharp,
remember. And now I must just run round the
town to pick up a few renewals. I have done very
well so far ; just given M. ]Mayo orders for six
thousand. A benton, M. Blaine."

And the Colonel (who, though he spoke no
language well but his own, always said " Monsieur,"
never *' Mister), bustled out of the room.

Punctually at the time appointed Alfred entered
the salle-danger of the Hotel de la Croix. Bevis
and Martinoo were sitting at a little table well out
of earshot of the great body of diners. The Colonel
introduced the strangers with a good deal of
ceremony ; and Blaine and the Italian, after
bowing profoundly, assured each other how
delighted they were to make each other's
acquaintance.

You knew Mr. Philip Hardy, I believe ? " said
Alfred, taking the third seat at the little table.

I knew him well," answered Martinoo gravely ;
*ewe were engaged in the same cause, and he died
in my house. He was a noble fellow."

«* He is dead, then ? "

Too surely. I saw him laid in the ground.
You will find a tombstone inscribed with his name
in the cemetery of Locarno."

And the daughter. What became of her ? "

'' What became of her ? Why, she went to
England with her Swiss holmes Grabrielle Courbet."

Went to England ! But she never reached
England. At any rate she has never been heard
of since, and nobody knows where she is."

Then they must have been robbed and murdered
on the way," said Martinoo, turning pale. " I
know Grabrielle had a large sum of money in her
possession, though she did not tell me how much.
Poor Vera ! she was a dear, sweet child."

In that case," said Blaine, " the mystery is
solved and my task completed. But do you really
think it is so, M. Martinoo — that this poor child has
perished ? "

I do not see how it can be otherwise. I myself
saw Gabrielle and the little girl leave Locarno. I
myself put them in the Fluelin diligence, en route
for Lucerne and London, which they counted on
reaching the third day. Unless they are murdered
where are they ? Can you tell me that, M. Bal-maine
? " said the Italian excitedly.

Indeed I cannot. I wish I could."

And Grabrielle never wrote to me as she
promised. That is another sign of evil."

Was she honest, this woman ? You say she
had a large sum of money. Where did she
get it ? "

From the patron. Yes, she was a very honest

woman, and she was devoted to the patron and the
little girl, and I know that Leonino charged her to
go at once to his father in London."

Leonino ! \Yho is Leonino ? "

** Ah ! you don't know. Leonino was Vera's
father. We always called him Leonino — it was the
name of his wife — to conceal his nationality from
the Austrians, who had threatened to hang without
trial any foreign G-aribaldian that might fall into
their hands ; partly, I think, because he had the
idea that taking an Italian name would more completely
identify him with the Italian cause."

And was the daughter — was Vera generally
known by that name ? " asked Blaine
eagerly.

Of course. It was the name 31. Hardy
adopted. But I must tell you this, that I had him
buried as Philip Hardy, and I recommended
Grabrielle always to call the child Miss Hardy after
leaving Locarno."

And what was she like, Hiss Hardy ? You said
just now she was pretty. Can you tell me the
colour of her hair and her eyes ? "

Certainly," returned Martinoo, with a look of
surprise. " I remember very well. Her hair it was
light, a little red or chestnut, like her father's ; her
eyes — yes, they were bright and dark — like her
mother's, very expressive ; and her skin, it had a
rich olive tint."

And she would now be about eighteen ? "

*' It is so ; she would now be about eighteen if
she were living, la precious! "

"She is living, M. Martinoo. I believe I know
where she is. I have seen Vera Hardy, and you
shall see her, M. Martinoo," exclaimed Alfred, in
suppressed excitement.

Where ? when ? how ? why — what do you
mean ? " asked the Italian, quite taken aback by
this sudden and unexpected revelation.

It must be so," said Blaine, more quietly ;
no other theory fits in with the facts."

And then he told Martinoo and Bevis (who had
been an eager though rather puzzled listener to the
conversation) of his meeting with Mademoiselle
Leonino at the Hotel Kousseau ; of her correspondence
with Martinoo's description, both as touching
age and appearance ; and of M. Senarclens' visit
and its object. Jealousy had sharpened Alfred's
wits ; he felt sure that Corse had somehow discovered
that Vera was an heiress, and for that
reason was seeking her in marriage.

I believe," he said, " that the Swiss bonne stole
the money entrusted to her by Mr. Hardy, and
instead of going to London, went to her own people
in Canton Vaud."

I shall be glad if Leonino's child — it is difficult
for me to call him anything else — be still alive,"
said Martinoo. '' But Basta ! I shall also be very

sorry if Gabrielle has done as you say. I thought
her an honest woman."

I suppose you would know her ? "

Know her ! Of course I should. I think I
should know Vera also — if she has not much
altered."

You shall have the opportunity very soon, M.
Martinoo. This is Thursday. To-morrow, or on
Saturday morning, we will see M. Senarclens and,
I hope, Miss Leonino and her bonne"

Before they separated it was arranged that
Martinoo and Blaine should proceed to Territet
on the following day, and, after seeing M. Searches,
hunt up Vera and the bonne, for as yet they
did not know, except generally, where the latter
lived.

Then it is a thing agreed that you two meet at
the station tomorrow at eleven," said Bevis, putting
on, as he sometimes did, his commanding officer
manner ; " let us have no misunderstandings, and
then we shall have no disappointments. Better
make a mem. in your note-book. There ! that is
all right. Another thing — I strongly advise you,
M. Blaine, to keep this matter as quiet as you
can. It will get out quickly enough, and when it
does, this young lady — if she really be as you say
and I am disposed to think, Leonino's daughter —
will be pestered to death with beggars and suitors,
some of them dangerous, like this M. Corse. I need

not say anything to you, Martinoo. As an old
conspirator you know the value of a silent tongue."

You speak of Corse as if you knew something
about him, Colonel," said Blaine eagerly; "do
you ? "

I know something about a good many people,
M. Blaine," answered the old soldier mysteriously,
" and I can put two and two together ;
but it is not always wise to say everything you know
and think."

This closed the conversation, and Blaine
returned to the office to finish his leader, read his
proofs, and think over a little difficulty in which he
found himself. He would have to pay both Martinoo's
expenses and his own, and his pocket was almost as
empty as the big safe. For railway fares — it would
be quicker to go by rail, and he was burning with
impatience to see iSenarclens and Vera and circumvent
Corse — and other expenses he might require ,a
couple of hundred francs.

*' Is the balance at the Banque Populaire quite
exhausted?" he asked Oglethorpe, just as they
were about to separate for the night.

Practically it is, I am sorry to say," answered
the sub-editor with a sigh, " all but about twenty
francs which I have left in, just to keep the account
open, you know. Why ? Are you in need ? "

Which I am," said Alfred, and then he told his
colleagues of the proposed journey to Territet on

business, of which he was not at liberty just then
to disclose the particulars. But he promised them
that they should know all about it later on.

That sounds mysterious," observed Oglethorpe,
'rand is just the sort of thing to pique one's
curiosity ; but we must try to possess our souls in
patience until you come back. The main point
now, as it generally is, is money. Xo use applying
to Mayo I am afraid. Well, we must fly a kite,
that's all."

Raise money on a bill, you mean ? "

'' The accuracy with which you have guessed my
meaning does credit to your intelligence, Blaine.
I know the manager of the Banque Populaire pretty
well ; he is a very good fellow, and I have little
doubt that he will advance money on a piece of
stamped paper, bearing our joint signatures."

"I don't much like that, though, Oglethorpe.
Wouldn't it be an accommodation bill ? "

Of course it would, and why not ? Don't you
know that the raison d'etre of the Banque Populaire
is the discounting of accommodation bills, billets de
complaisance they call 'em ? If the signatures are
satisfactory, that's all they care about. If they
consider two not strong enough for the amount
required they ask for a third, sometimes a fourth
and a fifth. The Banque Populaire, let me tell you,
is a very valuable institution ; it gives small people
who cannot go to the big banks, and who would

otherwise have to go to the Jews — eventually to the
dogs — facilities for obtaining temporary loans on
personal security and reasonable terms."

A valuable institution, indeed," laughed Delane,
by all means let us turn it to account. I should
rather like to be mixed up in a bill transaction. It
will be a new sensation. I had no idea there was
such an admirable system of raising the wind in
Greneva, or I should have been tempted to try it
before."

I know of but one objection to the system,
Delane," said Oglethorpe gravely.

What is that, old man ? "

These infernal bills become due. If you want
to know how fast time can fly put your name to an
acceptance. A reason for not doing so now, you
may say. But needs must, you know, when a certain
person drives ; and this journey of Blaine's
seems important."

M. Searches IS SURPRISED.

The bill was drawn, signed, and handed to Oglethorpe,
who declared it to be in perfect order, and
promised to be at the office early next morning
with the proceeds. All the same, Blaine had his
doubts as to the success of the expedient, and when
ten o'clock came and the sub-editor did not show
up, he began to feel very uneasy. To be unable to
go to Territet for lack of funds and have to make
some lame excuse to Martinoo, would be both a disappointment
and a humiliation. Rather than that,
he would take his watch — the sole memento of his
father which he possessed — to the Mont de Piece.
Time pressed, Oglethorpe did not come and at
10.1 he set ofiF on his unpleasant errand — so
unpleasant that if he had been on his way to
penal servitude he could not have felt much
worse.

** There is only one step from the sublime to the
ridiculous," he soliloquised. *' Here am I, forced to
pawn my watch in order that I may inform a charming
girl that she is the greatest heiress in Europe I"

But at the last moment he was spared the painful
necessity. As he crossed the Island Bridge he met
Oglethorpe.

Well ? " he said anxiously.

"I have succeeded — in a measure," returned the
other.

How, in a measure ? '*

We made the bill for five hundred, you know.
The Banque Populaire goes as low as forty francs ; but
it looks more respectable to borrow twenty pounds
than five or ten, and it is better to have too much
than too little. But the manager looks upon five
hundred as a large transaction — too large to be completed
without the sanction of the Conseil d' Administration
— and he would not do more than
advance two hundred and fifty, pending their next
meeting."

«' That will do," said Alfred, with a sigh of relief;
less will do. Thank you very much."

I am glad to hear you say so, for I could do with
a trifle myself, and I am sure Delane could. Weare
both a sec, as the folks here say."

All right. Keep a hundred francs. I daresay
I can make shift with one-fifty. I don't think the
Kousseau will charge me unreasonably."

"They won't charge you anything if you speak a
word to the manager, and tell him you are the
redadeiir-en-chef of the Helvetic News'^

I don't think I shall do that, Oglethorpe. I am

not going on the business of the paper, and I am
not one of your cadging journalists."

Cadging, do you call it ? You are too proud,
Blaine. It does not pay."

I do not think it is pride, Oglethorpe. But be
that as it may, I would rather be poor and proud
than rich and a lickspittle. I did not feel comfortable
not to pay when I was at the Rousseau with
Corse, though I went on the manager's express
invitation. To ask for free quarters merely because
1 am a journalist would be a piece of shameless impudence
— as much so as if I were to demand a suit
of clothes from a tailor for the same reason."

Perhaps you are right, Blaine. It is a mean
sort of thing when you come to think of it. And
I fear there is a great deal too much of what you
call cadging about continental journalism."

You might give it another name — blackmailing.
Mayo breakfasts two or three times a week at the
Croix in a style that would cost anybody else ten
francs a time, yet never thinks of paying a centime.
But here we are at our office. You had better get
your bag and hurry up, or you will be too late for
the train. Delane and I will keep things straight
until you get back."

Blaine did not miss the train, though he had

to run for it, and four hours later he and Martinoo

were knocking at M. Senarclens' door. They found

the historian in his study, a large and lofty room

VOL. II. 29

lined with bookcases and maps. Two French windows
looked into a garden rich with rare shrubs and
choice flowers, and commanding a glorious view of
lake, mountain, and forest. In the middle of the
room stood a big square table, lit red with books,
manuscripts, and proofs. At a smaller table sat the
historian's private secretary.

*' I am afraid we are hindering work," observed
Alfred, after introducing Martinoo, " but the business
on which I come admits of no delay. It concerns
Mademoiselle Leonino."

He thought it best to plunge in medias res.

Mademoiselle Leonino ! " exclaimed M. Searches,
looking all the surprise he felt. " What
a bout her ? Nothing unpleasant, I hope ? Poor
Vera ! "

*' She is called Vera, then," said Alfred, with a
significant glance at Martinoo, who had been very
doubtful as to the issue of their journey.

Certainly she is called Vera," returned M,
Senarclens, looking more surprised than ever.

*' And do you know if her father was English ? "

I believe her father was your compatriot ; but
she was born in Italy, and her mother was also of
that country."

I told you so," exclaimed Blaine, turning to
Martinoo in great exultation. *' I told you so.
Mademoiselle Leonino is the long-lost daughter of
Philip Hardy. Hurrah!"

It must be so. It must," shouted Martinoo, who
seemed even more excited than Alfred. " You are
right, M. Blaine. I doubt no longer. Where
is the little Vera ? She will remember me ; I am
sure she will. Many a time have I danced round
my corridor at Locarno, with the child on my back
singing."

And suiting the action to the word, Martinoo
pranced round the big table, singing an Italian
rhyme : —

Bimbo non piangere ;
Nascent trite
No se desicleri
Mori vestige."

The historian stared at his visitors with a look of
such utter bewilderment and comic surprise that.
Blaine could hardly keep from laughing outright.
M. Senarclens evidently thought — and no wonder —
that his visitors had gone mad.

*' It is time we explained, I think," said Alfred.
If you will stop your singing and sit down, M.
Martinoo, I will tell jM. Senarclens our errand."

Martinoo took the hint and a chair, whereupon
Alfred, while omitting irrelevant and non-essential
details, told Yera's story from beginning to end
But he made no imputation against Gabrielle,
deeming it better to let M. Senarclens draw his
own inferences from Martinoo's statement.

The historian listened with the deepest attention,

29*

asking an occasional question. His countenance
expressed at first surprise, then concern, and at last
something like dismay.

But you surely don't mean," he said, after a
pause which seemed to be spent in painful thought,
you surely don't mean that Vera is sole heiress to
this immense fortune — two millions sterling ? Why
that is fifty million francs ! "

"I think there can be no doubt of it, M. Searches."


Poor child, what a calamity ! "

A calamity ? "

Yes, 'tis a calamity, M. Blaine — nothing less.
What can be more unfortunate than for any young
girl, but, above all, for a young girl without father
or mother, or other natural protectors, to become
possessed of wealth that might well dazzle the
strongest mind, corrupt the purest nature ? Surely
you have noticed that the rich are always the most
selfish, the most egotistic, and the most self-indulgent
of mankind. This is a truth that has been
recognised for ages, and nowhere more emphatically
than in the sacred books of Christians in which
many of the bourgeoisie still profess to believe. I
would ten thousand times rather have heard that
Vera was reduced to poverty, and had no other resource
than that genius for art with which nature
has so richly gifted her."

Alfred was startled. This was a view of the

matter which had not occurred to him —he had
thought he was doing Vera a great service. Yet
he could not help admitting that there might be
some truth in what the historian said. But even
though it were altogether true his duty was clear ;
he must carry out his mission and inform Vera of
all that had come to pass.

"I hope," he said, " that Miss Hardy will make a
good use of her fortune, and that it will not prove
the calamity you fear."

I do not share in your confidence," returned M.
Senarclens gloomily, " unless she disembarrass herself
of the burden quickly — and that will be difficult
without doing more harm than good. I cannot
conceive anybody possessing so many millions without
being the worse for them. The right of bequest
is one of those rights to do wrong which ought to
be abolished ; it is bad for all that there should be
whole classes who neither toil nor spin and who
live on the labour of others. All accumulations
should go to the community, and the community
in its turn should undertake the upbringing of
orphans and the support of the aged and the helpless.
As for Vera, it is some slight satisfaction to
know that she is as well prepared to withstand the
corrupting influence of wealth as any young girl
could be. She is of a noble, unselfish nature ; she
has not been kept under a glass case, like the
jeunes filles of the bourgeoisie; she has had the same

liberty as my own daughters, and has studied with
them many of the best books in my library. She
loves literature and art for their own sake. You
will find her well instructed, M. Blaine, and she
has much sympathy with the poor."

Is she likely to become Madame Corse ? " asked
Alfred, to whom this question seemed far more
important than the character of Vera's recent
reading.

No, and she has suffered much in consequence,
poor girl."

How ? "

Well, after what I heard from you I could not
advise her to marry this M. Corse, the more especially
as when I came to question her closely, I found that
she has neither a vocation for marriage nor a liking
for this gentleman, and I would not for the world
constrain a girl's choice. We are all for liberty
here, M. Blaine. But Madame Gabrielle and
her father are very wishful she should marry him.
The one has entreated, the other threatened her,
and when he likes, M. Courbet can be very brutal.
She was here in great distress yesterday, and I
pressed her to come and stay with us until the storm
had blown over. It is one advantage of your revelation,
M. Blaine, that Vera becomes her own
mistress. The Courts have no legal authority over
her, and she is no way dependent on them."

Not at all."

1 understand now why Gabrielle brought her here
instead of taking the child to her grandfather.
Another instance of the demoralising influence of
money. I am sorry for Grabrielle, it will be a
terrible blow to her, this discovery of her dishonesty.
Yet she is not a bad woman, and I am sure it is
better for Vera — physically as well as morally — to
have been brought up in this mountain land as a
child of the people, than in the corrupt atmosphere
of London as the heiress of millions. But (smiling)
this is not business. I suppose you would like to
see her ? "

Both Alfred and Martinoo said they should like to
see her very much.

I thought so. Well, Madame Senarclens and
my daughter Greorgette shall fetch Vera. They
shall take a carriage. The journey to La Boissiere
occupies two hours, but one can descend the mountain
in one hour. So we may expect them hereabout
eight o'clock, and on the way my wife can
break the news to Vera. She will be very much
overcome, poor child ^Yill you then do me the
favour. Messieurs, to make me another visit in
three or four hours. If it were not that I must
absolutely despatch these proofs (glancing at the
table) to Paris by the next mail, I would ask
you to dine with me. But we will have tea
a Anglaise instead, let us say at eight o'clock.
Will you join us ? "

To this proposal Blaine and Martinoo gladly
assented, and at the request of the latter (who was
wishful to know whether Vera would recognise him)
it was agreed that she should not be informed of
his arrival.

A KECOGMTIOX.

Punctually at eight o'clock the two men were
again at the villa. Madame Senarclens had not
returned, and they were shown into the salon.
Though dignified with that name the room was
simply furnished and evidently used more for work
than show. Books were lying about. There was
an easel with a half-finished sketch ; an open piano
stood in one corner, a harp in another ; on the
walls hung paintings of Alpine landscapes ; on the
mantelpiece were two or three exquisite statuettes;
in the window recesses vases filled with flowers.

In a few minutes they were joined by M.
Senarclens.

They are not come yet," he said, " but they
cannot be long. Hark ! don't you hear the sound
of bells and ring of hoofs on the hard road? It
must be they. I will run and see. I will bring
Vera in and then you can tell this strange story
yourself, M. Blaine. I am anxious The girl

is very dear to me, and this is a supreme crisis in
her life. Did I not say so ? The carriage stops
at the door. I will go — pray excuse me."

He seems nervous," observed Martinoo.

"As much as we are," answered Alfred, who was
himself so nervous that he could hardly speak.
For the second time in his life he was going to
see this girl whom he had sought so long, and of
whom he had thought so much. What would bethe
issue ? He had a foreboding that the meeting
and its consequences would influence his destiny —
that a crisis in his life was also approaching.

The next moment the door opened and M.
Senarclens entered the saloon leading Miss Hardy
by the hand.

This is the gentleman, Vera, who has brought
the news — M. Blaine."

Alfred bowed and devoured the girl with his eyes.
It was a sweet face, as sweet as he had thought it
at the fete, and, strange to say, it seemed to him
that it bore a certain resemblance to that of M.
Senarclens — not in contour or complexion, but in
those subtler and less definable features which
denote character and help to spiritualise expression.
There was the same dreaminess in the eyes, the
same loftiness, yet benevolence of look, even the
same fashion of slightly throwing back the head
when speaking. But just then she was pale and
agitated and her lips trembled with emotion.

I have had the pleasure of seeing Mademoiselle
before," said Alfred, as quietly as he could, "perhaps
she has forgotten me."

Oh, no, I have not, I remember you quite well,"
she answered hurriedly. " But do tell me — is this
true — this that you have been telling my dear
friends ? You are not deceiving us, M. Blaine ? "

Why should I deceive you. Mademoiselle ? If
you are Philip Hardy's daughter you are the heiress
to an immense fortune — one of the finest in
Europe."

It seems impossible. I must have time — I
cannot — What shall I do, M. Senarclens ? I have
heard you say often how evil a thing is wealth. I
feel already what a terrible responsibility the care
of this fortune will bring on me. Shall i renounce
it ? If you bid me I will."

I am afraid that is too great a responsibility
for me to take 7)ia chere. You must decide for
yourself. And I do not think you can renounce it
can she, M. Blaine ? "

*' You mean she is a minor. That is so. Miss
Hardy cannot renounce what she does not possess ;
and she will not enter into possession of her
property until she is of age."

Tant TTiieitx, I am grateful for the respite. It
will give me time to think, to get accustomed to
the idea of my inheritance, and decide how I shall
dispose of it. But I do not understand how all this

has come about so suddenly, and why I was not told
sooner. Is my grandfather only just dead ? "

M. Blaine will tell us all about it while weare
at tea. Let us go into the salle a manger.
But you do not observe that another gentleman is
present. Have you met him also before, do you
think ? "

I do not think so." And Vera looked earnestly
at Martinoo, but no look of recognition came into
her eyes.

Don't you know me, Vera ? '' said the Italian.
Don't you remember the time when I rode you on
my back :

"Bimbo non piangere ; " Echo lo maxims
Nascent trite Che mai non fall

No si desideri E come un sughero

Mori vestige, Ti sponge a galla."

Martinoooo ! Martinoooo ! " cried the girl, running to
him and kissing him on both cheeks. "I do
remember, oh ! so well. And how my father
laughed when you danced round the table ! It is
like old times to see you, cato amico. And how
have you been; and why did you not write tous?"


For a very good reason ; I did not know your
address, but I know you. . I know you, and
how well you look" (she was quite flushed now),
'^ and how handsome you have grown ! I shall

never be able to thank M. Blaine enough, for discovering
you. But we must go into the salle d
manger ; they are all waiting for us."

Vera put her hand into that of the old innkeeper,
and they went in together and sat side by side,
Blaine being their vis-davis.

The " tea a Anglaise " was tea and little else,
and poor at that, as an American would have said,
which was so far fortunate that eating did not much
interfere with the re-telling of the story. Though
Alfred hesitated a little at first — French not being
quite as familiar to him as his mother-tongue — he
told his tale very well, when he warmed to his work,
and at greater length than the first time — perhaps
because he had in Vera an eager and charming
listener. She never once took her eyes off him,
and hung on his words as if he were a very
Othello.

"You took much trouble about me, M. Bal-maine,"
she said, when he had finished, "and I
shall never forget your kindness. But there is one
thing 1 do not understand — why Martinoo did not
know where 1 was. Did not Grabrielle tell you
where we were going, dear friend ? "

'* She said you were going to London, according
to your father's instructions."

*' Why did we not go then ? "

That you had better ask Gabrielle herself," said
M. Senarclens ; " she will be here tomorrow. I

have asked her to come. I think it is desirable for
her to give an explanation in the presence of these
gentlemen."

It is very strange ! Gabrielle has been very
good ; she has been like a mother to me ; and until
the last year or two I was very happy at La
Boissiere ; but if my father told her to take me to
London she ought to have taken me, ought she
not ? "

*' There can be no question of that. But let us
hear what Gabrielle says before we draw any conclusions.
Yet in any case, even if she may not have
acted altogether as she ought to have done, you will
deal gently with her."

How could I do otherwise ? Gabrielle will
always be very dear to me, M. Senarclens."

The person in question was meanwhile having a
very bad time of it. Worried on the one side by
her father, who insisted that she should make Vera
marry Corse, and by fear of Corse on the other,
tortured by pricking of conscience and dread of
discovery, she was about as unhappy as well could
be. Corse had been at La Boissiere a few days
before, and albeit Yera's refusal put him in a rage,
he would not take it as final, attributing it altogether
to the shock produced by her being told of
Esther's death. " She will get over that in a little
while," he thought, 'rand though it is a great
bore and awfully inconvenient, I must just wait;

and if it comes to a push I have got a pull over her
she little suspects. Without me she can never get
her fortune — unless I am very much mistaken."

He asked Grabrielle how Vera had come to know
of Madame Corse's death.

*' I think M. Senarclens heard of it at the bureau
of the Helvetic Neivs" said the bonne,

Oh, then it's Blaine ! I thought as much ! "
exclaimed Corse, in English. " Who can tell what
he said about me ? Confound the fellow ! I'll stop
him spoiling my copy and telling lies about me to
my friends! Bites done, Madame Grabrielle! I
shall not be here again for a month or so ; but will
you let me know if anything particular occurs, and
continue to use your influence with Vera in my
favour. I rely upon you. And look here ! silence
about that packet. If you tell anybody that you
have given it me — that it ever existed even — pardieu,
I will cut your throat ! "

Then he went away, leaving the bonne in a state
of mortal terror, for there was murder in his look,
and she really believed he would be as good as his
word. And this was the man she had undertaken
to persuade Vera to marry ! How much more
reason there had been in the girl's mistrust than in
her confidence !

The fetching of Vera by Madame Senarclens and
her daughter made the bonne, if possible, still more
uneasy. Such a thing had never happened before ;

and the cause assigned — to meet a gentleman who
had known her father —did not tend to allay her
fears. Who was this gentleman ? and how did he
know that Vera was at La Boissiere ? Was he
another Corse ?

gabrielle's confession.

Alfred was too much excited to sleep very soundly,
and, rising betimes, he wrote to Artful and Higgins
as well as to Cora and to Wanton, telling
them of all that had come to pass. He asked the
lawyers for instructions, as Vera, being the ward of
her grandfather's trustees, would have to be guided
by their instructions, and their instructions were
necessary, for at present, as it seemed to him, the
girl had no home. She was simply M. Senarclens'
guest, and it was out of the question for her to
return to La Boissiere. This done, he and Martinoo
went to Mon Repos, whither they had been invited
to breakfast. Madame Senarclens, her daughters
and Vera were in the garden. The historian was
in his study, and it was the habit of the house not
to disturb him until the ringing of the bell for
second breakfast.

Vera received the two visitors with evident
pleasure, kissed Martinoo, and offered Blaine her
hand.

VOL. II. 30

Do you still think it a misfortune to be a great
heiress, Miss Hardy ? " asked Alfred, after the ice
had been broken by some remarks about the fineness
of the weather and the grandeur of the scenery.

How strange it sounds to be called ' Meet
Hardy ! ' " she said laughingly. " ' Hardy ' I like ;
it was the name of my father ; but ' Meet ' is very
droll, and not very nice. You must admit that
Mademoiselle ' has a much better effect."

Especially Mademoiselle Leonino. It is a
name which, though you may cease to bear it, I
shall never forget. Would you like better for me
to address you as ' Mademoiselle ? ' "

Not at all. I am an English girl, you know,
and must accustom myself to English ways. You
ask if I still think it a misfortune to be a great
heiress. I am afraid it is. M. Senarclens thinks
so, and he is the wisest and best man I know."

With all due deference to M. Senarclens, it
seems to me that he pushes his theories a little too
far. There can be no question that great wealth is
a great danger. But rightly used it is a great
power for good, and you might easily, by throwing
your fortune away, do more harm than by keeping
it, while, by refusing to accept it — if that were
possible — you would deprive yourself of the means
of doing an immensity of good."

You mean that I might help the poor, better
the lot of the disinherited ? "

"Exactly."

That is what I should like to do. It is a noble
aim. Here in Canton Yaud there are not many
poor. There is not a family in our commune that
has not at least a bit of land and a cow, or some
goats. But in the great towns, which I have not
seen, they say the poverty is something frightful —
that people even perish of hunger. And it does
seem wrong, does it not, that while so many have
more than enough, the lives of thousands of their
fellow-creatures should be cut short by hardship
and want ? "

It does. But you must admit, at the same
time, that it is much easier to point out the wrong
than suggest a remedy. Among the indigent, for
instance, are many whose misfortunes arise solely
from their own idleness and intemperance. Would
it be right, do you think, to tax the thrifty and
industrious for the support of these ne'er-do-weels ?
Few, moreover, work for the love of labour, and if
you could — if it were possible to do away with the
fear of want — the world's work would not be done ;
we should relapse into barbarism."

Still, M. Blaine, I think it must be possible
to distinguish the criminal from the unfortunate,
and see that the latter do not want. I know it is
difficult, for I was reading in a book the other day
that, even with the best intentions, rich people
may do more harm than good. I pointed this out

30*

to M. Senarclens. He said it was quite true, and
gave it as an additional reason why there should
be no rich people. If the rich who would do good
cannot, he said, what harm must be done by the
rich who think of nothing but their own enjoyment
? "

Let me answer you by saying what I read in a
book the other day — that every good work, everything
worth doing, is difficult, and that difficult
does not mean impossible."

"You really think, then, that if I accept this
fortune I may do good with it ? "

I am quite sure you may. Miss Hardy."

And would you give me your advice, M.
Blaine — would you help me to turn to good this
great trust ? "

It was a strange request to make of him ; but, as
Blaine could see, it was made in perfect innocence
and good faith, "With all my heart," he
said. " I am not sure that I could help you
much, though, and you will find far wiser counsellors
than I."

But I know you, and as you discovered me "
(smiling), " as Martinoo said last night, and have
therefore found me the fortune, it is only right
that you should share the responsibility of its
disposal. However " (gaily), " that is three years
off. I wish it were thirteen. I can easily live
during that time on the sale of my sketches —

Georgette is quite sure they would find customers
in London or Paris — and the interest Pere Courbet
will pay me."

That will not be necessary," said Alfred, not a
little amused at the idea of the heiress getting
her living by selling sketches. '' Though you
cannot come into possession of your property until
you are of age, your grandfather's trustees will
certainly make you an allowance suitable to your
position."

Oh, I thought I should get nothing at all for
three years. How much do you think they will
give me ? "

Anything you like in reason, I should say."

*' Then I could buy poor Madame Wartmann
another cow. The only one she had died a few days
ago. It was not insured, and she is in great
trouble. I know where I could get a good milker
with a calf at foot, for about 470 francs — perhaps
450 — do you think I might ? "

I have no doubt the trustees will be delighted to
place that sum, and a great deal more, at your
disposal. Miss Hardy ? "

Oh, I am very happy. Madame Wartmann
shall have a cow better than the one she lost. You
do not think I shall be doing more harm than
good ? " said Vera demurely, but with a mischievous
twinkle in her dark eyes.

Certainly not. You are beginning to find out

what a fine thing it is to be rich. I could not buy
Madame Wartmann a cow ? "

••' Tou have no fortune then ? "

*' Yes, I have. My head, my hands, some energy,
and a great deal of hope*'

Add cleverness, for if you were not clever you
could not be the editor of a newspaper. If I were
a man I should ask for nothing more than you
possess. And if you want money, when I receive
my inheritance, you have only to say how much
and it is yours, for without you it would never have
been mine."

You are really too good. Miss Hardy," said
Blaine, smiling at her naivete, "but I trust you
will not think me ungracious if I am unable to take
advantage of your too generous offer."

You mean you cannot take money from me ? "

Alfred made a gesture of assent.

'you are not consistent. You advised me just
now not to refuse this fortune, and now you refuse
a part of it. Why ? "

"The circumstances are very different. Your
fortune comes by bequest from your grandfather."

'•' You puzzle me, M. Blaine. Why should it
be right to receive money as the gift of a dead man
and wrong to receive money as the gift of a living
person ? "

"It is a matter of feeling and difficult to explain,
as matters of feeling always are. When you are

three years older you will perhaps be better able to
understand my natives. And you are mistaken in
giving me all the credit of finding you ou. It was
Wart on, the lawyer's clerk at Calder, who first suggested
that you had strayed or been stolen, and
induced me to look for you. But for him I should
never have had the slightest inkling of your existence,
and as he went into the matter professionally,
and is a poor man with a wife and family, I think
he well deserves, and would willingly accept, some
payment for the seduce he has rendered."

*• He shall have it, M. Ealmaine, and you yourself
shall fix the amount. We will talk of this another
time. We must go in now, the bell rang a few
minutes ago ; and M. Senarclens, as he often tells
us, is too busy a man not to be punctual. AU.ons.''
Alfred thought that Philip Hardy's daughter was
the most singular girl he had ever met. Her manner
was entirely sans gene; she showed as much
aplomb and self-possession as a woman of the world,
yet neither overstepped the limits of modesty nor
betrayed the faintest symptom of self-consciousness.
It did not seem to occur to her that there was anything
unusual in the conversation they had just
held, or in the remarks which she had made. She
evidently saw no more impropriety in treating Bal-maine
with the frankness of an old friend, thana
child sees in letting itself be fondled by anybody
whose face wins its confidence. Alfred's face had

won her confidence, just as Corse's had roused her
distrust. She knew next to nothing either of conventionalities
of society or inequalities of rank.
In the mountains they did not exist, at Mon
Eepos they were either ignored or denounced. At
the same time, there was nothing about her either
girlish or pedantic. She would discuss a question
of social ethics or a point in history with M.
Senarclens one moment, and be running round the
garden with G-eorgette the next. Painting and
reading were her favourite occupations; but she
made her own dresses, was a good cook and a keen
hand at small bargains, and could have earned her
living as a dairy-maid. As M. Senarclens said. Vera
was a well-instructed girl ; he might have added
that in some things she was as ignorant as an
infant.

In the afternoon Gabrielle came, and was shown
into the salon, where, in a few minutes, she was
joined by Vera, whose kindly greeting reassured her,
and she began to think her fears were premature.
Then the door opened a second time, and M. Searches,
followed by Blaine and Martinoo, entered
the room.

I think there is somebody here you ought to
know," observed Vera, pointing to Martinoo.

Don't you know me, Mademoiselle Grabrielle ? "
said the Italian, coming forward and offering her his
hand.

Signor Martinoo ! " exclaimed the bonne, in a
low intense voice, her face turning deadly pale. " I
did not expect to see you here."

I dare say not ; but why did you not write tome
as you promised ? "

Because — because " — (desperately). " It is no
use trying to deceive you. I will tell the truth — I
will tell everything." (Here she sank into a chair
and wiped the perspiration from her brow.) " Yes,
I will tell the truth."

By all means," put in M. Senarclens soothingly,
as well for Vera's sake as for your own peace of
mind. We guess much, but we want to know
all."

So the bonne made a clean breast of it ; and
though she did not try to justify herself, she laid
great stress on the temptation to which she had
been exposed, and pleaded further in extenuation
of her offence that she feared M. Hardy opere might
deprive her of the care of Vera, " who was dearer to
her than her life." One thing only she kept back
that she had received a packet of papers from her
master and given it to Corse. She had persuaded
herself that it was of no importance, and she feared
Corse's vengeance.

I know I have done you a great wrong," said
Gabrielle, when her confession was finished, turning
to Vera with streaming eyes, " and that you can
never, never forgive me ; but I was sorely tried,

my darling; and your money is safe — my father
will pay it all back."

Never forgive you ! " said Vera, tenderly, putting
her arms round Grabrielle's neck and kissing her.
Never forgive you ! Why you are my benefactor.
You have been to me as a mother. My grandfather
died almost at the same time as my father. If you
had taken me to London I should have been brought
up by strangers, my life would have been wretched,
whereas here, in this mountain land, I have been
very happy."

*' But my father has been so cross Vera ; he has
used you very ill."

Only since your mother died, and I have been
so much with my dear friends here that it was not
much, after all. Do not let that trouble you,
Gabrielle."

It is like you, Vera, to make little of your
bonnets fault'' said M. Senarclens, gravely ; " and
I am quite of your opinion that her bringing you to
Canton Vaud has been for your good ; but it might
have been just the reverse, and Grabrielle did very
wrong, and exposed you to serious risk, by forgetting
her promise to your father. I do not think the end
in this case justifies the means. But it is not for
fine to sit in judgment on you, Gabrielle, for after
all, you are more sinned against than sinning. If
there were no such institution as property, your
father would not have got into trouble and you

would have been under no temptation to lend him
M. Hardy's money."

In that case," observed Blaine, with a covert
smile, "it is just possible that there would have
been none of Mr. Hardy's money to lend."

The historian made as if he was going to reply,
but seeing that Vera had something to say, he
refrained.

Can I dispose of this money ? " she asked. " I
shall not want it, and I should like to give it — not
to Pere Courbet, who has plenty already and is very
avaricious — but to Grabrielle, who, although she
has done so much for me, has taken nothing for
herself."

"At present, I do not think you can. Vera," said
M. Senarclens.

And I would not take it from you if you could,"
said Gabrielle. " I shall never feel happy until it
is repaid. And we have plenty without it ; there
is only my father and me."

We will see," returned Vera, with a smile ;
and (whispering) *' keep up your courage ; if I goto
England, you shall go with me."

The bonne went back to La Boissiere happier than
she had been for many a day — so ha2:>py that she
forgot for a while the bad quarter of an hour she
would have to pass with her father and the packet
which she had so unfortunately given to Corse.

blaine's defeat.

After Gabrielle was gone — and her visit did not
last more than half-an-hour — M. Senarclens went,
as usual, into his study, and Blaine and Martinoo
betook themselves to the garden, where they smoked,
contemplated the scenery and talked with the ladies.
As before, Alfred fell into conversation with Vera.
He told her that he should be obliged to leave for
Greneva by the next morning's steamer ; but
Martinoo liked the neighbourhood so well that he
proposed to stay there a few days longer, returning
to Greneva on his way to Italy.

"I am sorry you are obliged to return so soon,"
said Vera, " for though I have known you so short a
time, you have taken so kind an interest in me and
my affairs that I look upon you rather as an old
friend than a new acquaintance."

I am glad to hear you say so," answered Alfred
gaily ; " and you may be sure that I shall do my
best to prove myself as true a friend as if I were

really an old one. And I do not suppose it will belong
before we meet again. I shall be hearing from
Artful and Higginbottom in the course of a post or
two."

'' The lawyers ? "

*eyes."

Does my destiny depend upon them ? "

In a great measure. The trustees will doubtless
be a good deal guided by their advice."

Shall I have to go to England very soon, do
you think ? "

Probably. Yes ; I dare say they will want you
to go to England. Why ! Don't you want to go ? "

I should like to see England very much, but I
think I would rather first go to Italy. Will you be
there ? "

"Italy or England?"

'^ In England."

Why do you task ? "

*' Because I know nobody there. I shall be a
stranger in a strange land, and I am so ignorant of
the world and its ways. My life, since I was seven
years old, has been spent here. For all that time I
have never once been out of sight of the lake and
these mountains, and a country without mountains
I can hardly imagine. To meet in London somebody
whom I have known here would be like a
gleam of sunshine during a black hiseJ'

'* Don't compare London to a black hise^ if you

please, Miss Hardy. It is not quite so bad as that.
And there are other places in England besides
London — and some very beautiful ones. And you
will very soon make friends — troops of them."

"But you have not answered my question."

About England ? "

"Yes."

I am afraid there is very little chance of my
being in England for a long time, Miss Hardy."

He was afraid; yet three days before he would
have regarded return to England as little less thana
calamity !

I suppose you will stay here for the present
? " asked Blaine, by way of changing the
subject.

I do not know what else I can do. After the
last scene with Pere Courbet, it would be too painful
to return to La Boissiere."

The old ragamuffin ! He was very rude,
then ? "

Very," said the girl, reddening at the recollection
of the old man's threats of what he would do if
she persisted in her refusal of Corse. " But never
mind that now — it is past. Let us talk about something
more agreeable — the Senarclens, for instance.
M. Senarclens is a noble character, and he has the
courage of his principles. He would rather die than
do anything which he deems incompatible with his
dignity and his honour. The Emperor has made

him the most splendid offers. If he would only goto
Paris and accept the Empire, he might be a
senator, member of the Academy — anything he
liked — have both honours and money. But he
treats them all with disdain, and lives here involuntary
exile. As you see, the family live very
simply, and he gives much — chiefly, I think, to
brother exiles who are less fortunately circumstanced
than himself."

"Yes, as you say, M. Senarclens is a man of
noble nature. But, though I admire his courage,
his constancy, and his learning, I cannot say as
much for his opinions. Some of them are awfully
wild."

If you mean by wild that they are not well
thought out, you are wrong. For every one of his
opinions M. Senarclens can give very excellent
reasons. I have heard several people try to confute
him, but they always retire discomfited."

"You are a partial judge, I fear, Miss Hardy.
But did you notice the singular remark he made a
little while ago in reference to Madame Gabrielle —
that it was not one of those cases in which the end
justifies the means ? "

Well."

Can there be such a case ? "

Vera smiled.

Of course there can."

You really think there are circumstances in

which we are justified in doing evil that good may
come."

I did not say so, M. Blaine, and I might retort
by asking you to define good and evil. I do
not think you would find it very easy. But I will
meet you on your own ground, and use the words in
their ordinary acceptation. I presume you would
consider war an evil ? "

Certainly," said the unsophisticated youth, falling
headlong into the trap which this ingenious maiden
had set for him.

I was not aware you were a Quaker, M.
Blaine," returned Vera, with an amused smile.

I am not a Quaker, Miss Hardy. How could
you conceive so absurd an idea ? " said Blaine,
with some warmth.

^' Then you are of opinion that war, in certain
eventualities may be justifiable."

Decidedly."

*'So war is a justifiable evil. The end — say of a
people struggling to be free — sanctifies the means.
I do not think you could confute M. Senarclens,
M. Blaine," said Vera, bursting into a merry
laugh.

I acknowledge my defeat," answered Alfred, good-humouredly,
though he felt very much sold. " I
am thoroughly beaten ; I made an initial mistake.
I should have said that war is not always an
evil."

'* Bat it always is an evil. It must be bad for
men to kill and maim each other, and the doing so
can only be defended on the ground that still
greater evils are thereby avoided. When nations goto
war they do evil that good may come ; but very
often, unfortunately, the expectation is not fulfilled.
Slavery is an evil, but society enslaves its malefactors
for their greater good. If the principle that
the end does not justify the means were insisted
upon, there would be an end, not alone to government,
but to every sort of authority."

Who taught you to argue, may I ask. Miss
Hardy ? "

*' M. Senarclens. We often have discussions — he
and I and Georgette — generally on some subject
suggested by what we have been reading. We
take whichever side we prefer, and he takes the
other."

And always beats you, I suppose ? "

Nearly ; but once or twice the cause we have
espoused has been too strong for him, and victory
has declared for us."

I should like to be present at one of your
discussions."

Well, when you come again, you perhaps may.
We are reading Herbert Spencer's ' Sociology,' and
that promises to be very suggestive of topics. But "
(here her countenance fell) " if I go away we can
have no more discussions, no more sails by .
II. 31

light to La Meillerie, no more pleasant excursions
to Les Avants and the Others che Naze. Ah, M.
Blaine, I almost wish you had not discovered
me!"

I am sorry to hear you say that, Miss
Hardy "

But " (eagerly) "' perhaps they will let me come
back. Do you think they will ? "

I have not a doubt of it ; and nobody will be
more pleased to see you back than I, for in all
probability, I shall remain in Switzerland several
years."

I beg pardon for interrupting you, M. Blaine,
but don't you think it is time we set out on our
proposed walk to Chillon ? "

The speaker was Martinoo. He had been
describing Algeria to Madame Senarclens and
Greorgette.

Quite time," said Alfred, with feigned alacrity,
and looking at his watch ; " I had no idea how late
it was. I am sure these ladies must be getting
tired of us."

Quite the contrary," said Madame Senarclens,
graciously. " M. Martinoo has interested us very
much with his account of Algeria, and Vera does
not look as if she were tired of your conversation,
M. Blaine. We generally take a walk about
this time ourselves, and if you have no objection,
we will accompany you to Chillon. I daresay, too.

that my husband would be glad to make one of the
party.

Blaine and Martinoo declared that nothing
would please them better, and they had a most enjoyable
walk to the old castle. On the way
thither, M. Senarclens entertained them with an account
of its history, and told some legends about
the castle which are not found in ordinary
chronicles.

sr

CATCHING AT STRAWS.

On arriving at Greneva Blaine went straight to
the office of the Helvetic News, He had written
the greater part of his leader at the Rousseau, and it
required only a few retouches, and rounding off with
a sentence or two in conclusion, to be ready for the
printer.

He found the two subs at their post. They
hoped he had enjoyed his journey, and he asked if
anything particular had happened during his
absence.

"Rather," said Delane, "something very particular.
Mayo sent us each fifty francs yesterday, and
said there would be a hundred for you on Monday.
But as I have not much confidence in that safe, big
as it is, I said I was sure it would be a great convenience
for you to have the money to-day, and that
if he would give it to me I would hand it to you.
Here it is, a nice crisp hundred-franc note."

"Thank you very much, old fellow. What do

you suppose has happened — where has the money
come from ? "

He has opened a new banking account," said
Oglethorpe, "and drawn bills against the orders
Bevis brought the other day. It seems that you can
discount unaccepted drafts in this country, and it is
not customary to present them for acceptance
before they fall due, a mighty convenience for
financial dodgers like Mr. Mayo. And he will let
these bankers — I don't know who they are — have as
many as they can digest, I'll warrant."

There's a private letter and a telegram for you
at the pension, Blaine," put in Delane. "I
thought you would be calling there before you
came here, so I did not bring them."

A telegram ! When did it come ? "

'' Yesterday. I would have sent it on to you, but
I was not quite sure whether you meant to leave
the Rousseau last night or this morning."

Curious," said Alfred. " I cannot think who in
this country is likely to send me a private telegram.
It must be about the paper. You should
have opened it, Delane."

It was marked personnel."

Ah, that makes it more curious still. However,
I shall see what it is when I get home, and that
won't be long. Whistle for the boy, Delane, and
tell Lud to let me have a pull of the leader as soon
as possible. Here is the first part of it."

When the work on hand was finished, Blaine
told his friends what had taken him to the other
end of the lake. He did not see any reason why
Vera's story should be kept secret, even if it could,
and it was better that they should have the facts
from him than a garbled version of them from
somebody else.

You see, I was right," observed Oglethorpe ;
I knew Corse was after money. Catch him
marrying a portionless girl ! "

I hope he did not chuck his wife down that
hole in order to qualify himself for taking another,"
said Delane lightly.

I should not be at all surprised if he did," returned
Oglethorpe seriously ; *' many things more
unlikely have happened."

What a suspicious fellow you are, Oglethorpe ! "
said Blaine.

So I am, of people I don't like, and I don't like
Corse a dashed bit."

Alfred made no reply, but when he recalled his
conversation with Corse on their way to the
Kousseau fete, and remembered how possible it
was, despite his disclaim, for him to have heard
something of the Hardyss in Italy, or from some of
his Italian friends in Geneva, he had his thoughts.
And then there occurred to him — strange that it
had not occurred to him before — the strange discussion
about murder just before the journey to

Chamouni, and he asked himself whether it was possible
that Delane's jest expressed a truth, and Corse had
killed his wife in order that he might marry Vera
Hardy. He could hardly think so — it would be
really too atrocious. And yet the circumstances,
look at them as he might, were undeniably suspicious,
and true or false, they were an additional
reason for watching over Yera's safety and standing
between her and harm. Dangers might threaten
her he knew not of.

Delane and Oglethorpe were going to sup at the
Cafe du Eoi ; but Alfred, curious about his telegram,
went straight home. It was from Cora,
and as follows :

Your mother greiu suddenly horse this mumming
and died at four this afternoon. Shall bury
her on Tuesday.''^

He read the fateful words a second and a third
time, to make sure that he had gathered their purport
aright, and then, sinking into a chair, covered
his face with his hands. His poor mother ! He
thought of her, not as the querulous invalid which
misfortune had made her, but as the genial, easy-tempered
woman she had been in the happy days at
their old home ; how indulgently she had treated
him in his boyhood, how tenderly nursed him in his
long illness ! Days gone beyond recall, the home

broken up, the members of the household dispersed
and dead. His father and mother gone, George in
India, Cora in Calder, himself in Geneva. All this
had befallen in little more than two years, and
as Alfred mentally rehearsed these incidents of a
painful past, his heart was heavy within him. It
seemed as if his misfortunes would never cease.

Then he opened his letters. One was from his
cousin, written the Thursday before. It told him
that his mother's chronic illness had begun to assume
a graver character ; that they had called in a doctor,
who did not think there was any immediate danger,
and that if Mrs. Blaine's symptoms became serious
(which Cora did not apprehend) she would telegraph
to him at once.

It was evident that the symptoms had become so
much more serious that his mother had died within
the following twenty-four hours. What should he
do? That was the question. To receive his
mother's blessing, or to see her laid in the ground,
he would have gone to Calder, cost what it might
even his situation. But now it was too late for
either. If he were to leave the following afternoon
and he could not leave before — he would not be
able to reach Calder until Wednesday night or
Thursday morning. But he might perhaps be of
use to Cora. He would telegraph and ask the
question, and act accordingly. It was satisfactory
to think that, at his instance, his mother had made a

swill, leaving the furniture at the cottage, and anything
else she might have, to her niece.

So the telegram was dispatched, and in the course
of the following day came the answer : " You must
not think of coining ; it is not at all necessary. I
write''

Cora's letter, besides giving full particulars of his
mother's last illness, informed him that so soon as
she had administered the will and disposed of the
furniture, his cousin would leave Calder for good.
An old friend of her father's living in London had
invited her to stay with him and his wife for an
indefinite time, and she meant for the future to
make London her home, and literature her profession.
She had received an offer for the serial
copyright of her novel, and though it was very disappointing,
being a mere trifle, she should accept
it, and hope for better luck another time. And
perhaps she ought to esteem herself fortunate in
getting the story accepted on any terms. The sale
of the furniture and other effects might bring in
some two hundred pounds, quite enough to keep
her — especially as her board for the present would
cost her nothing — until she could earn her living
by her pen. Anticipating an offer of help from
Alfred, she told him that she was resolved to
be independent of everybody — even of him. "I
consider myself," she wrote, " quite as able to
earn my own living as you are to earn yours.

At any rate, I mean to try. Jf I fail I will ask
you for help with as little hesitation as I am
sm"e in similar circumstances you would ask
me.

Blaine sorrowed for his mother, but he had
too many occupations and distractions to brood
over his sorrow. Two days after his return from
Territet he received a letter from Artful and
Higginbottom, thanking him warmly, on behalf of
the trustees, for his exertions in seeking Miss Hardy,
and congratulating him on his success. Mr. Artful
would leave London for Switzerland towards the
end of the week, for the double purpose of escorting
Vera to England and putting into proper shape
the evidence of Martinoo and Grabrielle Courbet, with
a view to establishing the young lady's identity. Mr.
Artful proposed to travel by way of Greneva, and,
being ignorant of the French language, said that he
should esteem it a favour if Mr. Blaine could
accompany him to Territet.

Alfred had nothing to say against this proposal.
He would only be too glad to make another visit to
Territet ; but he thought it might be as well to
mention the matter to Mayo, and obtain leave of
absence beforehand. So he went downstairs, demanded
an interview with the manager, and told Diis
story. It raised him, as he could easily perceive,
immediately in Mayo's estimation.

By Jove ! " exclaimed the latter, " I never

knew anything like it. Highly romantic, is it not ?
And how close you have kept it all this time ! I
had no idea, when you went to Italy there, what
you were after. And the fortune is a large one, you
say. How much do you suppose she will have ? "

I don't know exactly ; but it is said about two
millions."

Whew ! By the Lord Harry ! two millions !
Now look here, Blaine, don't you think you could
turn Miss Hardy to account for the paper somehow ?
We would stand you a thumping commission if you
could."

Would you like me to ask her for an advertisement
? " said Alfred, outwardly grave though inwardly
much amused.

*' An advertisement ! " returned the manager, who
had evidently made the proposal in all seriousness.
"Something very much better than that, I hope.
Money, Blaine, money ! that's what the Helvetic
wants ! You might ask Miss Hardy to advance us
some, or make the paper her organ and subsidise it,
or help us to turn the concern into a company by
taking a lot of shares. Look here, Blaine (confidentially),
you have quite as much interest in this
thing as I have. We are all living out of the
paper, and I tell you frankly that unless something
is done I cannot carry it on much longer. Now
the season has begun, and Bevis has got to work,
and with the discount account I have succeeded in

opening with a new banking firm here I dare say
we may weather through the summer ; but when
the winter comes we shall be up the spout, to a dead
certainty, unless, as I say, we can reorganize our
finances. For my part, I have not left a stone unturned.
I have tried through a friend at Rome, to
get a subsidy from Cardinal Antonelli."

^* From whom ? " interrupted Blaine. He
thought Mayo had got hold of the wrong name.

Cardinal Antonelli, the Pope's head bottle-washed,
you know. I heard that the Curia wanted
to have an Ultramontane organ at Geneva, so I
offered to write up the Roman Catholic religion,
and print any articles not actionable they might
send, for a subvention of 25,000 francs a year.
No go, though ! I expect the Papal treasury is
something like our safe — not too well filled just
now. I am now in treaty with the French
Government — the Bureau Secret de la Presse, you
know. I have offered to insert articles advocating
the imperial policy and that, in consideration of a
monthly payment. I am not very sanguine about
the result though. They want too many particulars
about the circulation, and ask how many copies we
sell in London; and entre nous the circulation is
nothing to boast of, either in London or anywhere
else. Leyland has also been hard at work, and is
yet. He has gone to London again. Not long
since he was on the point of concluding an arrangement

with Sir Havelock Hill, the Radical member
for Putney, you know. His views are very advanced,
and he wanted an organ, but it fell through
at the last moment. Somebody offered him a
society paper, and he preferred that. At present
Leyland is negotiating with the Society for Promoting
Family Worship. They have a fancy for
starting an evangelical organ on the Continent.
He thinks they will bite; but after so many disappointments
I am not disposed to be over confident.
Anyhow, I would much rather enter into
an arrangement with Miss Hardy. If you can work
it, Blaine, you may name your own salary, and
put in the paper whatever you like."

I am very much obliged to you," said Alfred
quickly, " but there is an obstacle in the way, which
I fear may not be easily overcome. Miss Hardy is
a minor."

The deuce ! I did not know that. No go, then.
She could not enter into a contract. But look
here, Blaine : a girl in her position can have as
much money as she likes. She has only to ask and
have. And it is money we want, you know. Anyhow,
you will see ; and if there is a chance bear us
in mind."

Yes," said Alfred drily, " I will bear you in
mind."

As for going to Territet for a few days," the
manager went on, "of course you can — for a fortnight,

if you like. Delane and Oglethorpe can do
all but the leaders, and if you will send us one or
two on Swiss subjects we can manage the rest
amongst us, I have no doubt."

I was not aware you did anything in that line,
Mr. Mayo," said Blaine in some surprise.

Well, as far as that goes, I could not write a
leader to save my life, but I can fake one up when
needs must. Before Gibson came we had an interregnum
— no editor for several weeks — and
Delane and I had to step into the breach ; and
I flatter myself we did very well too. We took
one of the least read of the London dailies — the
Morning Mail, for instance. It is a paper hardly
ever seen on the Continent. Knocked the head and
tail off the leader we most fancied — just to tone it
down, you know — altered a word here and there to
give it local colour, found it a name, and had it
set up."

And were you never found out ? "

I don't think so. And the chances were very
much against our being found out. To begin with,
we have not a very wide circle of readers, I am sorry
to say ; and I do not think that one in ten of them
reads even your leaders, admirable as they are.
Then, if you consider that the Morning Mains
subscribers are relatively as few as ours, and not
one man in a thousand knows anything about a
leading article ten minutes after he has read it,

you will see how very remote was the chance of
detection."

You don't think leaders are of much use then ? "
observed Blaine, rather disgusted by the disparagement
of a calling in which he was beginning
to consider himself rather a shining light.

To be frank with you I don't, especially those in
the London dailies, which look as if they were
ground out of a machine at so much a yard —
always the same length, and always divided into
three pars."

*' Why do you continue them in the Helvetic,
then ? "

Because they are the fashion, look well in the
paper, please the Philistines, impose on the weak-minded,
and help us to advertisements. If we
dispensed with leaders Continental advertisers
might not look upon us as a grand journal
Anglais

Then I'm not quite so useless as I was beginning
to fear," said Blaine smiling. " An revoir,
Mr. Mayo."

Core GETS HIS Cange.

Two or three days later the manager came into
Alfred's room, with a letter which he asked him
to read. It was from Corse, complaining of the
editor's " so-called corrections " of his copy, but
which, as he alleged, were so far from being improvements
that they often made him say the very
reverse of what he had written and ruined his
articles utterly — " which is perhaps what Mr.
Blaine desires." He had stood this treatment
patiently for some time, but endurance had its
limits, and he should for the future send his copy
to Mr. Mayo, whose corrections, if he thought it
necessary to make any, Corse would gladly accept.

^' Well ? " said the manager.

I have made only such alterations in Corse's
copy as I thought necessary," said Alfred, '^ and I
should fail in my duty if I did otherwise."

I quite agree with you. There can be no
appeal from an editor's decision in these matters.
Could you dispense with Corse's articles ? "

"I dare say we could. They are often weak.

though good sometimes. But nobody's articles
should be indispensable. However, they do very
well on the whole, and are, I think, worth quite
what they cost."

Never mind that, if you think you can do without
them. I mean to save twenty-five francs a week.
Corse has never given me the chance before."

So Mayo sat down and wrote a letter in which,
after thanking Corse cordially for his services to the
paper, and deploring his difference with the editor,
he observed that, as it would be impossible for him
(Mayo) to look over his communications, there was
no alternative but to discontinue them, and he had
instructed the cashier to remit Mr. Corse a cheque
for the balance due to him up to the end of the
current month. (It was a long time before Corse
got it, though.)

There," said the manager, '' I think that is
rather neatly done. I thought Corse was more wide
awake than to give me such an opening. But I
suppose he lost his temper, and he has a fearful
conceit of himself."

It is your doing, remember," returned Bal-maine.
"I am sorry you are dismissing him —
though I cannot say that his articles are particularly
useful — if only because he is sure to visit his
displeasure on me."

*' Never you mind ; I'll back you up," said Mayo.
Besides, what harm can he do you ? "

VOL. II. ' 32

Almost at the same time that this came to pass,
stories — all, of course, more or less distorted or exaggerated
— about the Hardy inheritance and the
finding of Vera began to be bruited about, and Corse
had a letter from Gabrielle Courbet, telling him of
Blaine and Martinoo's visit to Mon Eepos and all
that had befallen there. She was in hopes that
this news might settle him, and that he would now
cease from troubling her. But he wrote by the
very next post a fiery letter, bidding her at her
peril not to omit acquainting him with all that
occurred, and everything concerning Vera which
might come to her knowledge. Then in his anger
for the proceeding was scarcely politic — he 'wrote
two other letters, one to Blaine, the other to Miss
Hardy.

Corse told Alfred in very strong language that he
knew particularly well to whom he was indebted for
the loss of his post on the Helvetic Keius, and that, as
Blaine would soon find, it was about the worst
day's work he had ever done. " So you have discovered
Miss Hardy," he went on, " or rather Bevis
has, for you are too stupid and conceited to discover
anybody. I suppose you mean to marry her. You
have impudence enough for anything. But you will
save us both some trouble by dismissing that idea
from your mind. I am watching you, and shall
take good care that you neither get her nor her
money."

Had Alfred been older and wiser he might have
treated this effusion with contempt, but being
young and impetuous, Corse's insults put him in
such a rage, that if the former gentleman had been
on the premises there would have been hats on the
green — unless, as was not very probable, he had
taken his beating quietly. But as Blaine cooled
down and thought the matter over, he saw how unwise
it would be to enter on a quarrel with Corse,
in which Vera's name would almost necessarily be
mixed up, and he resolved to take no notice of the
letter — for the present. The sting of it — that which
most aggravated him — was the imputation, so
brutally put, that he had sought Miss Hardy all
this time only that he might marry her for her
money. Corse, moreover, was not likely to be alone
in making these insinuations ; what he said other
people would think, and he himself be set down as
that most odious of characters, an intriguing heiress-hunter.
It was even conceivable that the tale
miorht reach the ears of Vera. The thought drove
him nearly wild, for he could not conceal from himself
that the admiration he had at first conceived
for her was fast ripening into love — not such a
passing fancy as he had felt for Lizzie Hardy, but a
strong overmastering passion which, as he thought,
would last as long as life itself. With this fact,
and the other fact that Vera was hopelessly beyond
his reach, Corse's letter had brought him face to

32*

face. The fortune he had helped her to find raised
between them a barrier more impassable than the
Alps. How could he, a penniless journalist, hope to
win a girl with two millions ? The mere attempt
would justify Corse's ignoble taunts, and lower him
irretrievably in the estimation of Vera herself. She
would believe — as it was natural in the circumstances
she should — that he wooed her only for
her money ; and if the idea did not occur to
her spontaneously, the first-comer would whisper it
in her ear. To protest his disinterestedness would
be useless ; no one would believe him. His duty
seemed clear ; he must renounce all hope of winning
Vera, and bury his love in his own heart. Yet he
could not desert her. It was not merely that he
found a great pleasure in her company, a pleasure
which, though he was now alive to its danger, he
could not bring himself to forego. She had few
friends, and would evidently be exposed to many
dangers, dangers of which he might warn her, and
from which he might, perchance, even unknown to
herself, sometimes guard her. • M. Senarclens was
not far wrong after all ; a huge fortune vas by no
means an unalloyed blessing; and the Hardy heritage
seemed likely to bring Vera more care than
happiness.

Vera herself was beginning to be very much of
the same opinion, for she, too, had received a letter
from Corse, which gave her great concern. He had

heard, he said, of her accession of fortune, and
offered her thereon his warmest felicitations, but
she must remember that she had not yet come into
possession, and though the statement might appear
strange, he could assure her that without his help
she never would come into possession of the Hardy
inheritance. He still loved her as much as ever,
and if she would favour him with an interview and
accept his hand, he would explain his meaning and
prove his words. *' Blaine pretends to have found
you," he went on, " and brought you the first news
of your fortune, and he does not mean to go unrewarded.
He means to have both you and your
money — if you let him — as he has openly boasted
since his return to Geneva. I shall call at Mon
Eepos in the course of a few days to pay my
respects and receive my answer."

Vera's first proceeding after reading this effusion,
was to inform Josephine, the servant who attended
to the door, that if a gentleman of the name of
Corse called she declined to see him. She was to
use these very words : ^' Mademoiselle Horde declines
to see you."

Then she went into the garden to think. Corse's
mysterious threat affected her hardly at all. If
obtaining her fortune depended on his help — which
she did not believe — she would rather be without it.
She was beginning to hate this man. How dared
he insinuate that Blaine was as base as himself!

Blaine, who had behaved so well — so nobly even
and of whom M. Senarclens thought so highly, of
whom she too thought so highly. And yet the
accusation was very specific. He had openly boasted
that he meant to have both her and her money. No,
it was impossible ; she could not believe that this
young man, who spoke so frankly and seemed so unselfish,
was a sordid fortune-seeker ; if she could she
would never see him again. Her faith in human
nature would be gone for ever, and she should know
that, save M. Senarclens, all men were base. Again
she said impossible. Corse was false, Blaine disinterested
and sincere; and yet deep down in her
mind there was a feeling that if his loyalty could
be proved before all the world and beyond dispute,
she would willingly forfeit the fortune which he was
said to covet.

And this, though the greatest, was not the only
trouble that this fortunate maiden's inheritance
brought her. The Senarclens were just the same as
before ; but the domestics treated her with marked
deference ; when she went out people stared at her
and pointed her out to each other. Every day the
post brought her more and more letters, until M.
Senarclens laughingly declared she would require at
least two private secretaries. All contained requests
for money, and Vera's heart was torn with the tales
of distress which some of them revealed ; but as
she had no money and it was physically impossible

for her to answer them all, she answered only a few
and destroyed the rest. Visitors innumerable came
almost every day, and as Madame Senarclens could
not keep a domestic to do nothing in the world but
open the door, a notice was posted on the garden
gate to the effect that Mademoiselle Hardy received
no strangers with whom she had not previously
made an appointment. But this did not prevent
them from waiting in the road, and whenever poor
Vera showed her face outside the garden, she was
beset by a crowd of promiscuous beggars, from
villainous-looking mendicants on the tramp, who demanded
alms, to painfully polite secretaries of
charitable institutions, who doffed their hats and
offered their cards. Things came at last to such a
pass, that when she wanted to take the air she had
to steal out by stratagem, and travel by boat to
parts of the country where she was unknown.

A GIRL OF CHARACTER.

'' If this continues, Vera," said M. Senarclens one
day, " and M. Artful does not come and take you
away, we shall have to hide you up in the mountains,
or keep you au secret on the other side of the
lake."

But a few days later the lawyer put in an appearance
— a full fortnight after the time he had
fixed — and with him came Blaine, for whom he
had called at Greneva. The little French which he
was supposed to speak turned out to be none at all,
so that Vera had to make shift to express herself in
her mother tongue — if English can be called the
mother-tongue of one whose mother was an Italian.
She read and wrote the language with comparative
ease ; the habit of speaking it she had almost lost.
However, with Blaine's help she did pretty well.
She had no difficulty in understanding jNIr. Artful,
who spoke slowly and with lawyer-like precision,
and it was not long before she made him understand
her.

He told her and Blaine — who was always

present when business was discussed — that the
trustees had placed at his disposal a sufficient sum
of money for all expenses, and whatever moderate
amount she might need for her own purposes he
was authorised to let her have. He used the word
moderate " designedly, for as the executors might
have to request the Court of Chancery to administer
the trusts of the will, it behoved them to act with
great circumspection, and to take no step which
they would not be able to justify. With the
depositions of Martinoo and Grabrielle Courbet in
his possession, he entertained no doubt whatever
that Vera was the long-sought heiress, and that the
Court would sanction all he proposed to do. He
had already paid Martinoo his travelling expenses
and a douceur for his services, and he now asked
Blaine if there were any other claims of a like
character " which equity required him to satisfy."

Alfred mentioned Bevis.

Yes, I think he has a claim," said Artful ; '' what
do you think I ought to give him ? "

Alfred thought that a thousand francs lodged to
his credit with the Gfenevese bankers, Gex & Co.,
would be satisfactory, for though the old soldier was
not the man to refuse money, however tendered, it
would probably be more acceptable if paid in this
way than priced in his hand or sent through the
post.

"It shall be done," said the lawyer. "I will

give you the money and yoa can pay it to his credit
when you go back to Geneva. Is there anybody
else ? "

Blaine then spoke about Wanton, and urged
his claim to a substantial recompense, as it was to
him more than to anybody else the solution of the
mystery was due.

I am afraid, though, we can do nothing for Mr.
Wanton at present, Mr. Blaine," said the lawyer
thoughtfully. " Martinoo has performed a specific
service, so has Colonel Bevis, so have you, but Mr.
Wanton has performed none which we can recognise.
I do not think payment for a suggestion made to
somebody else would be passed by the Court."

It was a very valuable suggestion, though."

"That may be. But you must remember that
the trustees are not dealing with their own money,
and that all their payments are likely to be strictly
scrutinised. When Miss Hardy comes of age, she
can, of course, do as she pleases."

And I have already said," put in Vera, " that
whatever M. Blaine thinks Mr. Wanton ought to
have, that will I give him."

*' I am sure Miss Hardy will be only too
generous," returned Alfred. '* But she will have
no power for three years, and a present payment
would not alone please Wanton ; it would be a
great help to him, for he has a large family, and
a very modest income. However, if it cannot be

done it must remain undone. He must just
wait."

And now about yourself, Mr. Blaine," said
Artful ; *' whatever Mr. Wanton may have suggested,
you have acted. It is to your energy, and yours
alone, that Miss Vera will be indebted for the recovery
of her fortune. You have spent both time
and money on the investigation, and I shall feel
myself quite justified in giving you — say a hundred
pounds and all your expenses out of pocket."

Thank you very much," replied Alfred, reddening,
" but I want nothing and can take nothing.
You paid my expenses to Italy ; you are paying my
expenses here. That is quite enough."

Vera made no remark, but he fancied that she
looked pleased.

As you like," answered the lawyer stiffly. " But
money is one of those things a man should never
refuse. When you reach my age you will know the
value of it."

Would it make any difference," asked Blaine,
**if instead of giving me this money, which you
think I have deserved, you gave it to Wanton ? "

Do you really mean it ? "

Certainly."

It shall be done, then. I will give you a cheque
for a hundred pounds which you can yourself send
to Mr. Wanton. And I think I may be able to
serve your friend in another way. I will after him

a place in our office. He seems to be a sharp fellow,
and I dare say we can afford to pay him a higher
salary than he is now receiving. These country
offices are not generally too liberal with their clerks.
If you will let me have his private address I will
write to him."

He will be delighted, I am sure," exclaimed
Alfred eagerly, " and though you may find him a
little rough in manner, he is very shrewd and knows
his business."

Just the man I want," said Artful ; *' and if
there should be a fight, a recruit from the enemy's
camp may be useful."

Blaine asked him about the Hardy Fortune
Company.

They have not done much yet," answered the
lawyer. " It is rumoured that Mr. Ferret is not
quite satisfied with the evidence he has got, and is
looking for more. It appears that the man who
says he identified Mr. Hardy as John Hardy, of
Calder, has not seen him for forty or fifty years, and
cases of mistaken identity are so common — I have
quite a collection of them — that the testimony of a
single witness would not count for much. However,
now that we have fortunately found the lost heiress,
they will have to throw up the sponge, for they have
not a ghost of a chance,"

Whereupon Mr. Artful opened a big memorandum
book and proceeded to make some notes.

I think I understand all that has passed," remarked
Vera in French, " all but the last part of
your conversation, which I confess rather puzzles
me. "What does throwing up the sponge mean ? "

Alfred explained.

It is very painful to think," she said, after a
long pause, " that I should be the cause of all this
strife and difficulty. See how much trouble I am
giving poor ^h\ Artful."

"You need not let that concern you," replied
Blaine, smiling, " lawyers like strife and
trouble."

*' Do they ? " said Vera, with a look of innocent
surprise. " Why : "

Because they make money by it. They live by
other people's quarrel and mistakes."

** Always money. Everybody seems to hunger for
money. Where is the charm of it."

"You will perhaps find out, if you live a few
years longer. Miss Hardy. You are just now in a
false position, for though you have no control over
your fortune, you are reputed to be rich. You
have all the evils of wealth and none of its compensations*'


There are compensations, then ? "

Very many, I should say."

You really think, then, that I may esteem myself
fortunate in being an heiress ? You are glad I am
rich ? " she said, regarding him keenly.

This was an awkward question. He could not
honestly say that he was glad.

I do think you may esteem yourself fortunate,"
he answered evasively, " for wealth is a power, and,
rightly used, a power for good."

Who knows that I shall use it rightly ? And
you only answer one part of my question. But
never mind that now. For whom are you in
mourning ? "

My mother."

Your mother I Oh, I am so sorry ! " and her
look and her voice expressed even more sympathy
than her words. And then she questioned him
further, and learnt more about him and his affairs
than she had ever known before. Cora seemed to
interest her greatly.

You must give me her address," she said, " and
when I go to London I will see her."

This request was at once complied with. It had
been arranged that Vera should return with Mr. Artful
to London, where she was to be the guest of Sir
James Leyton, one of her grandfather's executors, a
city magnate upon whom had lately been conferred
the honour of knighthood. When she expressed a
wish that Gabrielle should accompany her Mr. Artful
demurred.

*' The woman acted very dishonestly," he said,
and I do not think you should have anything more
to do with her."

*'I promised to take Gabrielle," answered Vera
simply, " and I want to take her ; it would be dreadful
to be all alone in that great city. She has done
wrong, it is true — who is there that has not done
wrong ? but she is not bad, and unless Gabrielle
goes, Mr. Artful, I do not go."

The lawyer, of course, yielded. As he afterwards
remarked to Blaine, there was nothing else
for it.

I was never so much surprised in my life," he
said ; " most girls of her age have no more character
than a mollusc ; but Miss Hardy has enough for
two men. I hope she will get on well with Lady
Leyton."

Another desire of Yera's was to make a pilgrimage
to her father's grave at Locarno, a proposal to which
Mr. Artful all the more readily acceded, as it occurred
to him that it might be well, with a view to
future eventualities, to obtain official proof of Philip
Hardy's death and his burial under his own name.
So it was arranged that they should travel thither
over the Simplon, and go direct to London by the
Mont Cenis and Paris. Martinoo would bear them
company as far as the shores of Lago Maggiore.

Blaine and all the Senarclens went with the
travellers to the railway station. Vera was pale,
silent and melancholy, and she kept back her tears
with evident effort. Poor girl ! she was leaving the
mountain land where she had spent so many happy

years, and tried friends whom she dearly loved,
for a far country and a position that, how brilliant
soever it might seem, was yet fall of difficulty and
peril.

When shall I see her again ? " was Blaine's
thought as he walked slowly and sadly towards the
beautiful lake of which she had just taken her last
look, for though as resolute as before in his policy
of renunciation, he felt that Vera had become dearer
to him than ever.

THE Lessons.

Sir James Leytox was a rich, stock-broker, with a
fine house at the West End. But he preferred comfort
to ostentation, and did not keep up so much
style as men who were far worse off. Although he
liked now and then to have a few celebrities to dinner,
the society he most affected was that of people of his
own class. He had two sons, the elder of whom was
married and his partner. Sidney, the younger, who
had graduated at Cambridge and spent a year in
Germany studying political economy, was now
making the tour of the world, preparatory to becoming
a student at the Middle Temple and entering
public life, for Sir James believed that his second
son was a genius, and had in him the making of a
statesman. The knight was nearly seventy, but
hale and well preserved, and his long white hair,
ruddy countenance, and rather jaunty carriage made
him one of the most conspicuous figures in the
neighbourhood of Capet Court. The dame was ten
years younger than her lord, and looked no older
than her age. Her hair was only just beginning to
VOL. II. 33

turn grey ; her complexion was high ; she was stout
without being corpulent ; of good presence ; and
her general appearance bespoke a well-fed body and
a contented if not an indolent mind.

Lady Leyton gave Vera a warm welcome, in part,
perhaps, because she was so agreeably surprised.
She knew that the girl had been brought up in a
peasant family, and her idea of a paysanne was a
broad-set young woman with big red hands and
wooden shoes, sheepish in look and rough in
manner. But here was a veritable young lady, with
a refined and winsome face, becomingly if plainly
attired, and whatever else she might be, anything
but rough in manner.

I am very glad to see you, my dear," she said,
kissing her. " You must be very tired, I am sure.
You had better go up-stairs and take off your
things. Come, I will show you to your room myself.
The odd man will take up your boxes. I am
glad you have brought your maid. It will be a
comfort to have somebody you can talk to in your
cwn language, won't it ? Mr. Artful, you will stay
and take dinner with us, of course. Six James will
be home in an hour, and you can tell him all your
news, you know."

But the lawyer begged to be excused. He
must go home and report himself to Mrs. Artful.
He would see Sir James at his office in the City
tomorrow.

Vera was shown into a bedroom the like of which
she had never seen before, or even imagined, and
the entire house seemed to her a very temple of
luxury. For the Leyton establishment, albeit not
on an extravagant scale, was exceedingly well
mounted. Nothing in the way of comfort was
wanting that money could provide, and the servants
were trained to perfection. But the extreme deference
with which they treated her and their mistress
annoyed Vera. It ran counter to all her ideas of
equality and human dignity that her fellow-creatures
should address her with bated breath and downcast
eyes, as if she were a superior or even supernatural
being.

She had often heard M. Senarclens speak of bourgeois
families who lived luxurious lives, and whose
chief concern was their own personal comfort, and
this seemed to be a typical family of the class. At
dinner, although there was only Sir James, Lady
Leyton and herself, they were waited on by two menservants.


Why could not these men be doing something
useful," thought Vera, " cutting down trees in the
forest, or working in the fields ? A girl could very
well change our plates and hand round the legumes.
And what a degradation ? If I were a man I would
rather break stones than earn my bread by standing
behind another man's chair and helping him to eat."

The current of her thoughts was turned by Sir

James, who had received her with great kindness,
speaking of her father and grandfather.

A shrewd old gentleman was your grandfather.
Miss Hardy," he said ; " none shrewder in the City
of London. Quite the architect of his own fortune ;
made it all himself, just as I have done. Your
father was very different, though. He and I were
always good friends, but I do not think he could ever
have made a fortune."

"He did better than make a fortune," replied
the girl. " He devoted himself to a great cause."

A great cause ? "

Yes, the redemption of Italy."

Ah ! I understand. Yes, very true. But if your
grandfather had not made a fortune his son could
not have gone abroad. He would have had to stay
at home and work. So you see that your grandfather's
fortune helped to redeem Italy. Even a
great cause has need of money. Very little can
be done without money in this world, Miss Hardy."

This was a consideration which had not occurred
to Vera before, and it suggested a new use for her
fortune. She might devote a part of it to the redemption
of oppressed nationalities. Some, for instance,
was still under the dominion of France, and
when the revolution foretold by M. Senarclens came
to pass

However," went on Sir James, after being
helped to some more claret, " you will not be without

money, thanks to your grandfather. The estate
has greatly increased since your grandfather's death.
I have seen to the investments myself — they are all
in the soundest stocks. None of your doubtful
foreign loans or bogus trading companies for me.
All Indian Consols and British railway preference
stock. Yes, Miss Hardy, you will be very rich.
Your income will be more than a hundred thousand
a year. What will you do with it ? "

"Make as many people happy as I can," answered
Vera, who had the vaguest possible idea as
to the " purchasing power " of the sum in question.

That means you will give it away, I suppose,"
said Sir James drily. *' I do not think you will,
though. You will think very differently three
years hence ; and political economists say that
there is nothing more demoralising than promiscuous
giving."

Vera made no answer. She did not understand
political economy, and it was evident that Sir
James Leyton did not understand her. Shortly after
dinner Lady Leyton, observing that her young guest
looked tired, and remembering that she had been
travelling all day and all night, suggested that she
had, perhaps, better go to bed ; and on this hint
Vera, who could hardly keep her eyes open, was
only too glad to act.

"She is not at all what I expected," said Lady
Leyton.

Why, what did you expect ? "

I feared she might be coarse and uncultured.
But she is really quite clever, and when she
has learnt to use her knife and fork properly, and
one or two things of that sort, will be quite
presentable. She not only knows French quite
well, which in the circumstances is not to be
wondered at, but I think also German and
Italian."

She seems to have rather wild ideas, though."

I do not know much about her ideas, but she hasa
very scanty wardrobe. I must take her tomorrow
to Madame Florissant, and order her some new
gowns. I was thinking -"

Yes," said Sir James, seeing that his wife hesitated.
*' You were thinking "

That it would be nice if Sydney "

Could help Miss Vera to take care of her
fortune. You are quite right. She will require
somebody to take care of it ; why not Sydney? "

He cannot be long now."

He may be here any day. But I don't think I
should say anything to her, if I were you."

Oh dear, no. But I will watch. And I should
not be surprised if Sydney were to fall in love with
her at once, and she with him. He is young, and
the girl is graceful and good-looking. All we have
lo do is to keep possible rivals as much as possible
at a distance."

The next day the ladies went to Madame
Florissant's.

You will be able to speak to her in her own
language," said Lady Leyton.

So there was held a polyglot conversation, Madame
Florissant and Vera speaking in French, Lady
Leyton English . The dressmaker wanted to attire
Miss Hardy in the height of fashion, which
was just then anything but aesthetic. Vera
demurred.

But you will look so odd if you are not dressed
like other people," urged Lady Leyton.

** I would rather look odd than hideous," was the
reply, "but I do not think I shall look so very
singular. Could you not do something like this,
Madame Florissant ? " and taking a pencil and a
piece of paper, she outlined, in a few rapid strokes,
a costume which, though not a wide departure from
the prevailing mode, avoided its worst features, and
was pretty and becoming.

It is not bad," said the dressmaker, " not at all,
but it is not what people are wearing. Still, if you
like, I will make your costumes comme pa."

"I do like," answered Vera, rather peremptorily;
and though some further objection was offered, she
got her way.

It is quite true," thought Lady Leyton ; " she
is a strange girl, and has some wild ideas, very wild.
She will have to be managed."

Where are the poor ? " asked Vera, as they
drove homeward. She had read somewhere a
vivid description of the extremes of poverty and
wealth to be found in London, and rather expected
to see the streets crowded with beggars.

There are not many poor in this neighbourhood,"
said Lady Leyton ; *' they live more in the
East, and about Fulham and there. A great deal is
being done for them just now. My husband subscribes
to several City charities; and when Mr.
Softly — that is our clergyman — mentions any deserving
case, I always give him something."

Are they very poor — those people at Fulham
and the East ? Do you ever go amongst them ? "

No, my dear, I leave that to the leisured and
the young. I have neither the strength nor the
time."

Later in the day they drove in the Park, and
Vera was astonished beyond measure at the numbers
of splendid equipages, fine horses, and well-dressed
people she saw, and wondered more than ever what
the poor of London were like in that mysterious
East which she had nob yet seen.

END OF VOL II.

miJMm^Mm^mm^

3 0112 056531939

i'mim

iiiiiiiii

wife

iPlil

lljipi

,iiirtii

wm

HER

/a-Diorv oi a rorxuiii

¥\lMMk WKuALi^.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or 1 LI.! N015

W il. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY.

,86 STRAND, LONDON.

NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND KEC£IV-

For THREE Volumes „ •• •• •* j g 2 10

For FOUR '- " " * i 15 3 3

For SIX ., " '• ■; 3 5 5

For TWELVE „ .» "^ , "

IN TOWN AND COUNTRY.

A MODERN MAGICIAN. By Fitzgerald Molly.
3 vols.

GRETCHEN. By Rita. 3 vols.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.

1 vol.

JOHN 0' LONDON. By Somerville Gibney. 1 vol.

SCHEHEREZADE: a London Night's Entertainment.
By Florence Warden. 3 vols.

A SECRET INHERITANCE. By B. L. Farjeon.
3 vols.

THE STORY OF ANTONY GRACE. By George
Manville Fenn. 1 vol.

A MODERN CIRCE. By the Author of "Molly
Bawn." 3 vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

WILLIAM Stall,

Author of

Red Eyvingtox," "The Phantom City," "Two Pieces ok
Snuff," etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. in.

LONDON :

WARD A^D DOWNEY,
12, VOKK STREET, Covent GARDEN, W.C^.

1887.
[sall rights reserved']

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES

V. 3

Contents

THE PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF THE
DUG DE BROGLIE. 2 yoIs.

VERDI, MILAN, & 'othello." By Blanche

Roosevelt. 1 vol.

IN FRENCH & RUSSIAN PRISONS. By Prince
Krapotkixe. 1 Tol.

ANCIENT LEGENDS OF IRELAND. By Lady
"Wilde. 2 vols.

A NOVELIST'S NOTE BOOK. By D. Christie

MrRRAY. 1 Yol.

Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY.

By O'Neill Daunt. 2 yoIs.

THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE. By
J. F. Keane. 2 Vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

A TERRIBLE LEGACY. By G. W. Appleton. 6s.

JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. By G. W. Appleton.
3s. 6cL

TWO PINCHES OP SNUFF. By William
Westall. 35. 6d.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. By B. M. Croker. 6s.

IN ONE TOWN. By E. Downey. 3^. 6d.

ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. By E. Downey. 3s. 6(1.

A HOUSE OF TEARS. By E. Downey. Is.

A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of " Molly
Bawn." 65.

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G.
M. Fenn. 6s.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

CHAPTER I.

VERA IN LONDON.

When Vera gave Greorgette Searches an account
of her new home, she mentioned among other
things that Monsieur and Madame Ley ton were
very religious, that they had prayers four or five
times a day, by which she meant grace before meat,
and morning and evening family worship. But
this inference though natural — Vera having arrived
on a Saturday evening and retired early — was mistaken,
the practice in question being confined to
Sundays, for Sir James was a firm believer in the
conventional theory that by strict attention to his
religious duties on the first day of the week a man
may compound with heaven for over-worldliness
and, perhaps, a little sharp practice in business, on
the other six.

Lady Leyton, like her husband, was strictly

orthodox, and except when the weather was too hot,

or too wet, or too cold, or she did not feel quite

strong, an assiduous churches. On the Sunday

VOL. III. 3-4

after her arrival Vera, as in duty bound, accompanied
her hostess to morning service, and her ladyship
was gratified to see that she paid great
attention and listened with seeming interest to
Mr. Softly's interesting sermon, in which he sharply
rebuked the sin of discontent and showed that
everybody had very much to be thankful for.
Lady Leyton said she quite agreed with him, and
when they were comfortably seated in the brougham
asked Vera how she liked " our Anglican ritual."

Avery much," said Vera, not quite knowing what
Anglican ritual " meant, but making a shrewd
guess ; " the singing was beautiful, and the church
is a very fine building. But I thought it was a
Protestant church, Lady Leyton."

vSo it is. Why should you think it is not ? "
I was once in a Catholic church at Sion, and they
seem so much alike.

Well, the service at St. Saviour's is very musical,
if that is what you mean. But we are Protestants,
all the same — the Church of England, you know.
You shall read the Thirty-nine Articles, and you
will see for yourself. Were you never in an
English church before ? "
Never."

'' Then you were brought up as a Dissenter. I am
sorry for that. I don't like Dissent."

I do not know what you mean by Dissent," said
Vera looking puzzled. " I think you would like the

church to which I went when I was at school — there
is not much church-going at La Boissiere — a Calvinistic
church."

Precisely. It is not an Episcopal church. You
had no bishops, I mean."

*' Xo," said Vera smiling. *' eye had no bishops."

Then it must be as I say," returned Lady Ley ton
positively. "You have been brought up as a
Dissenter. The church you attended was not an
Established Church."

I beg your pardon," said Vera, now beginning
to understand what Lady Leyton was driving at,
it is an Established Church — the public church at
Canton Vaud."

"Audit is Calvinistic ? "

It is Calvinistic."

Dear me, how very strange ! In Canton Vaud,
then, I should be a Dissenter. However, that is no
reason why you should be a Dissenter here, my dear.
You must be instructed. After luncheon you shall
read the Thirty-nine Articles, and I will lend you a
little book which I am sure you will like. It is
called ' Our Church.' You will find its teachings
quite in accordance with the New Testament."

So Vera spent the afternoon in reading the
Thirty-nine Articles and the New Testament. She
had not opened a Bible since she left school, and
then only as a class book, and she found much in
its pages that touched both her conscience and her

3^*

heart. Lie came to its perusal with a fresh mind,
it took her out of herself, strengthened her good
resolutions, and re-kindled that reverence for the
character of Christ which she had felt in her childhood
when her father told her the story of His
sufferings and His death, for Philip Hardy was a
revolutionist of the type of Mazzini, not of Proudhon.
In the teaching of Christ and His disciples Vera saw
a striking resemblance to much that she had heard
from M, Senarclens, and albeit the historian was no
believer in external religion, it seemed to her that
both in his principles and his life he came much
nearer to the Christian ideal than the respectable
Protestants among whom her lot was now cast. She
wondered what the Eev. Mr. Softly (who as Lady
Leyton had told her, was very popular in society)
would make of such passages as, " If thou wouldst
be perfect sell all that thou hast and give it to
the poor," and " Pure religion and undefiled before
God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless
and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself
unspotted from the world," and what would have
been made of them by a preacher of the Primitive
Church.

But whatever might be the shortcomings of the
knight and his lady in the matter of religion, they
treated her with all kindness and consideration. Of
Sir James she saw but little. Lady Leyton seemed
to like her company, and let her have very much of

her own way. As the days went on, moreover, the
strangeness of things wore off and she fell unconsciously
into the ways of her new home. The servility
of the servants troubled her less and less, the
profusion and waste that had at first given her so
much pain began to appear almost natural. London
she liked much. The bustle, the immensity, and
the variety of the vast city delighted as much as
they amazed her. The National Gallery, which Lady
Leyton took her to see, was a fresh world to her — an
earthly Paradise. The theatre was another. Never
before had Vera seen a great art collection or been
present at a play. She could have spent all her
days at the one, all her nights at the other. Then
there were other diversions. Mrs. Reginald
Leyton (the elder son's wife) had her down at
Richmond, took her to boating and garden parties,
introduced her to her friends, and made much of
the beautiful heiress. When Vera returned to town
there were drives in the Park, visiting and receiving
visits ; Lady Leyton took her for a few days to
Hastings, and Vera wandered for the first time on
the sea-shore, and listened to the music of the
waves. When she had time she painted, and several
hours every week she worked in the studio of a celebrated
artist. It was only occasionally that she
gave a thought to Switzerland and M. Senarclens,
but always when she did so her conscience accused
her ; she owned to herself that she was in danger of

forgetting the noble lessons her friend had taught her,
and proving recreant to the cause in which he had once
welcomed her as a promising recruit. So far from
devoting herself to the reform of society and the
redemption of the disinherited, she did nothing but
amuse herself and was fast becoming as selfishly
bourgeoise as Lady Leyton, who had hardly a thought
that did not centre in her family or herself. At
such times as these Vera would resolve to take an
entirely new departure, to go amongst the poor ordo
something equally heroic on the very next day ;
but the morrow brought so many distractions, diversions,
and amusements, that it seemed impossible to
carry her design into effect. It was either her
painting lesson or her singing lesson, or tickets had
been taken for the opera or some new play, or she
had agreed to go out for a drive, or accepted an
invitation to afternoon tea, and her good resolutions
were forgotten almost as fast as they were formed.
In other words, she was only a girl. M. Senarclens
had not succeeded in turning her either into a
socialist philosopher or a fanatical philanthropist.

Yet Vera had neither forgotten Blaine nor her
promise to see Cora, but she could not recall the
latter's address, and for some reason for which she
was unable to account or hesitated to acknowledge,
even to herself, she delayed for a long while asking
Alfred a second time where his cousin was to be
found. At length she mustered up courage to write

to him ; and in due course came the answer, very
polite and proper, altogether comme it faut, yet
disappointing. It seemed to lack something. He
wrote without warmth, said very little about her,
and hardly anything about himself. She threw the
letter from her with a sense of annoyance and irritation,
and then felt vexed at her own annoyance.
Why should she feel annoyed ? What difference did
it make to her how he wrote ? Then she took up
the letter and read it again. He was glad to hear
that she was well and enjoying herself, and that she
liked London, and he felt quite sure that his cousin
(whose address he enclosed) would be delighted to
see her. That was all, and there could not easily
have been less. Vera little knew what severe
restraint Blaine had put upon himself in writing
that letter— how hard he had found it to write so
formally and coldly ; how, looking upon his love as
foolishness and herself as hopelessly beyond his
reach, he was resolved to give his passion nothing
to feed upon, and to treat her — and so far as
possible think of her — as no more than a mere acquaintance.


Perhaps," she soliloquised, after a long reverie,
in the course of which she more than once decided not
to go near Cora, " he is in low spirits or indifferent
health. 1 will see his cousin."

So the next day she wrote to Cora, asking when
it would be convenient for the latter to receive her.

Cora, in a very cordial letter, named an hour at
which she was nearly always at home. When Vera
told Lady Ley ton that she was going to call on a
friend in Bloomsbury Square, her ladyship offered
her the brougham, but doubting whether it would be
kind, and feeling sure that it would be in bad taste
to flaunt a hne equipage in the face of a poor friend.
Vera declined the other, rather to her hostess's surprise.
Taking Grabrielle as an escort, she went by
omnibus. She pleased Cora and Cora pleased her,
and they were not long in making friends. They
naturally talked a good deal about Alfred, and if his
ears did not burn that day they ought to have
done, for the two young women praised him to the
skies, the one for his goodness to his mother and
herself, and his high qualities generally, the other
for his exertions in finding her, his disinterestedness
in refusing reward, and his wise and kindly
counsel.

While they were talking, a lady of some thirty
years old, wearing a widow's cap, entered the room.
Cora introduced her as Mrs. Maitland (she had
lately lost her husband), her kinswoman, and the
lady of the house. Though this lady's features were
plain, she had gifts more precious than beauty — a
winning smile, a gracious manner, and, as Vera
thought, the most beautiful eyes she had ever beheld.
Mrs. Maitland was a good soul, full of love
for her fellow-creatures, and she spent nearly all

her time in visiting the poor, and the greater part
of her modest income in relieving their wants.

I must warn you that Mrs. Maitland is a terrible
beggar," said Cora, smiling ; " she is always wanting
money for the poor, and begs of everybody she
knows."

You exaggerate, my dear. I beg of nobody I
meet for the first time, unless I am out on a regular
begging expedition, and not even then unless I have
reason to believe they can afford something."

I am sure I shall be only too glad to give what
I can," said Vera, eagerly. '* In two or three years
I shall have my money, I shall be rich, and then I
will give you as much as you want. But I should
like to do something — to work, I mean. There is
nothing so easy as being generous when your grandfather
leaves you a fortune."

'' Perhaps you would like to go with me on one
of my rounds. Miss Hardy ? " answered Mrs. Maitland
; *• and then you would see where the poor of
London live, and how they live."

Vera declared that this was what she had wanted
to do for a long time, and it was arranged that on
the following Thursday they should visit in company
Mrs. Maitland's district in the East.

You have no idea how much I envy you. Miss
Blaine," said Vera, as she was taking leave of
her newly-made friend.

'' Envy me ! " laughed Cora ; " the heiress to I

don't know how many millions, envy a struggling
authoress who has hard work to make both ends
meet ! "

At any rate, you are doing useful work which
you like, and you have the satisfaction of earning
your own living. You do not, like many, live on
the labour of others, and give nothing in return."

I fear you are a bit of a Socialist, Miss Hardy.
For my part, I often envy rich people. Think how
much good you will be able to do ! "

But shall I do it ? " rejoined Vera remorsefully,
*' There are so many things in London — so many
amusements and temptations. 1 am becoming as
bourgeoise as the rest ; yet, perhaps, with your help
and Mrs. Maitland's —Mr. Blaine also promised
me his — I may, after all, do some good. At present
I do nothing. But I must make a beginning. I
will be here in good time on Thursday morning to
go with Mrs. Maitland."

Vera went away'' sorrowful, for her visit reminded
her of M. Senarclens' teachings and her own almost-forgotten
good resolutions. The day was dull, too,
and she could not help making a mental comparison
between the sloppy streets, gloomy buildings, and
sombre air around her, and the towering Alp?, the
azure lakes, and the clear sky of the mountain land
where she had lived so long, and whither, at times
like these, she yearned to return. Vera, in fact, was
in melancholy mood, and rather home-sick, and she

asked herself whether, despite the attractions and
undoubted advantages of London, she had chosen
the better part — whether the lot of a Swiss peasant
was not more to be desired than the position of a
great heiress ?

A few days before Miss Hardy's visit to Cora,
Sydney Leyton came home from India and Egypt,
the last countries he had visited. A good-looking
young fellow, with a blonde complexion, a long
beard, a face burnt to the colour of a weather-stained
brick, he was full of life and energy, the scenes he
had witnessed, and the people he had met. His
mother was almost absurdly proud of him ; Vera,
whom he greatly amused, liked him ; and he made
the house busier and brisker as well by his own
high spirits as by the additional visitors which his
presence attracted. The young fellow was a great
rattle and an incessant talker. If words could
achieve distinction, Sydney Leyton was assuredly
destined for great things. Vera, as he confided to
his mother, pleased him.

She is a monstrous fine girl," he said ; " and so
awfully clever, you know. Not at all like other
girls — got ideas of her own, and that."

And she will have more than a hundred thousand
a year, your father says," added Lady Leyton
significantly.

Exactly so, inciter'' replied the young fellow
pleasantly ; " but, do you know, I am not at all

sure whether I would like to sell myself for the
money."

"Sell yourself?"

Dispose of my liberty, I mean. I would rather
be free a little longer. I don't want to put my
head into the matrimonial noose just yet."

Not a gilded one ? "

Not even a gildedone, offered by so charming a
girl as Vera Hardy."

But your father and I are anxious for you to
settle down, Sydney; and the opportunity seems
almost providential. You acknowledge that she is
a fine girl, and though, as you say, she has some
strange ideas, I think she would make you a goodwife.
And consider her fortune ! With Vera's
money, and your talents, my dear boy, you might
be anything you liked."

Prime Minister, for instance," returned the young
man with a laugh. " I understand that my father
wants me to go into Parliament and save the
nation ; but taking everything into consideration, I
think I would rather be an Australian stockman or
Texan cowboy, than enslaved to a constituency and
talked to death by wild Irishmen."

Oh, Sydney ! " gasped Lady Leyton. She was
dying to see her son in Parliament, and his sentiments
appalled her.

That is what it comes to, I assure you. The
House is all very well for young lords and old

fogies, but, for my own part, I would far rather be
roving round the world than filing in and out of a
division lobby. The game is not worth the candle ;
and if it is all the same to you, mother, I will keep
both my personal and political liberty."

When Lady Leyton, in some distress of mind, reported
this conversation to her husband he seemed
amused.

Don't be uneasy," he said ; " you must always
take fifty per cent, off what Sydney says ; and he is a
good deal deeper than some people think. He knows
on which side his bread is buttered. I am afraid
your son has been chaffing you, my dear."

But why ? I don't understand "

He wants leaving to his own devices ; and I think
you had better do as he wants. Syd has got his head
screwed on the right way, and is quite as much alive
to his own interests as you are."

THE FAR EAST.

Be sure you are back in time for dinner," said
Lady Leyton to Vera, the night before the
latter's proposed excursion to the Far East. " I
think I told you we shall have the Lord and Lady
Mayoress."

Yes," replied Vera with a slight smile, " I think
you did."

She had heard this momentous news at least six
times in as many consecutive days. The Leytons
where about to give a grand dinner in honour of their
son's return from his grand tour. A strong contingent
of aldermen and other civic notabilities were
expected, and the Lord and Lady Mayoress had been
pleased to signify their intention of gracing the party
with their presence.

Vera had promised to be with Mrs. Maitland in
good time, so she breakfasted alone, and left
Grrosvenor Square in a hansom cab at the unearthly
hour of eight She smiled to herself as she looked
at the closed blinds and remembered that the cows
at La Boissiere had been milked four hours before,
and, shutting her eyes, saw in imagination the sun

rising above the majestic Mont Blanc, and filling
with rosy light the valleys of Vaud, and heard the
seedling of the herdsmen and the songs of the
village maidens as they drove the kine to the mountain
pastures. What a change in her life and her
destiny a few short months had wrought ! It seemed
only the other day that she was being rated by old
Pere Courbet, and hearing words of wisdom from
M. Senarclens, for she still believed the historian,
though perhaps of a less fervent faith than of yore,
to be not alone one of the best, but one of the wisest
of men. And now she was rich beyond the dreams
of avarice, and driving about London in a two-wheeled
carriage !

She found Mrs. Maitland and [Cora waiting for
her, and without loss of time they started on their
journey.

I am not going to take you to any very dreadful
places," said Mrs. Maitland. "My work lies
principally among the struggling poor — those who
want a little help and are worthy of it. The
desperate cases and the worst neighbourhoods I leave
to the men visitors ; they are no fit places for us
women."

It is true, then, there is a great deal of misery
in London ? "

Words cannot describe it. Miss Hardy. I often
see sights that nearly break my heart, cases which I
am utterly unable to relieve."

You mean that you want money, yet London is
so rich. I "

It is not altogether want of money," said Mrs.
Maitland ; " though Grod knows if we had more of
it we could do more good. There are cases in which
all the money in the world could do no good. You
cannot help those who will not help themselves.
What can you do with people who would rather live
in filth and penury than do honest work and live
cleanly lives ; with mothers who make their children
beg — and worse than beg — and spend their wretched
earnings in drink ? "

Are there such women ? " asked Vera horrified.

"My dear, there are thousands of parents in
London who would sell their children into slavery,
or for any purpose whatever, either for money or
drink. But such people are beyond hope. They
should be shut up in prison and forced to work,
and their children taken from them. It is not right
for the State to stand by with folded arms and let
children be brought up to become a curse to themselves
and a danger to society. But do not think
the London poor are all of this class. Many, very
many, are the victims of pure misfortune ; they
struggle bravely to earn their bread, and bear their
privations with heroic fortitude. And they help each
other, you have no idea how much. They are far
less selfish than the well-to-do."

The well-to-do are worse than selfish," exclaimed

Vera indignantly ; " they are criminal. How can
they let such infamies exist ? There are wealth
enough and food enough in London for all. Why
then should any want ? "

That is a question more easily asked than
answered," replied Mrs. Maitland sadly ; " it is one
I have often put to myself. But I should not say
that the well-to-do are criminal. They do not know,
or they have not realised, how much want there is
in the world. And many have neither time nor
money to spare, or think they have not. They are
struggling, not to make a living but to keep up a
position. Families who spend two or three thousand
a year would look upon it as a dire calamity to be
reduced to an expenditure of fifteen hundred, and
those who have fifteen hundred do not see their way
to devote a twentieth part of it to the poor, for they,
too, have a position to keep up. By far the greater
part of the money raised for charitable purposes is
given by a very few. Most people give nothing, or
next to nothing."

Must we despair, then ? " asked Vera warmly.
Can nothing be done to relieve this terrible
misery ? The State should see to it ; they should
take charge of the poor."

"Well, we have the poor-law you know; and

though there is much the State might do, I would

rather trust to voluntary effort. No, my dear Miss

Hardy ; we must not despair ; we must work. Re-vol.

III. 3.1

forms always take time, public opinion is slow to
move, and progress is only achieved by prolonged
effort. We are trying, a few of us, to help the poor
on the one hand and enlighten public opinion on
the other. And I do think that with time we shall
succeed. I quite agree with you that there are food
and wealth enough for all. But to take from the
haves and give to have-not, would be wrong. I
believe in the Old Book and the Eighth Commandment.
What we want is to bring about a sort of
voluntary communism ; to convince the well-to-do
that they have a duty towards their less fortunate
fellow-creatures — not merely in the way of money-giving
— the easiest and least effective form of
charity — but of personal sympathy and active help.
We might then hope, if not to prevent poverty, at
any rate to extinguish pauperism. It will take a
long time to bring this to pass ; yet I am full of
hope. The number of workers increases. Only just
lately a rich man — he was a brewer, but having
scruples about continuing so questionable a business,
gave it up — has abandoned society to live altogether
in the East End and devote nearly the whole of
a large income and the whole of his time to the
service of the poor. He collects subscriptions
from others, too, and is organizing cheap lodging
and eating-houses for the poor, and several other
useful things. Next to relieving cases of pressing
need, his main object is to teach the poor

the great lesson that G-od helps those who help
themselves."

What a noble fellow ! " said Vera. " Is he a
Socialist ? "

A Socialist ! " answered Mrs. Maitland, whom
the question seemed rather to surprise, "Well,
since he gives nearly all bis substance to the needy,
I suppose he is one practically. But if you were to
ask him why he acts thus he would probably say
that he is constrained thereto by the love of
Christ."

And his name "

Is Fletcher. But here we are at our destination.
Let us get out and dismiss our cab."

It was clear, even to Yera's unpractised eye, that
they were in a poor street and a low neighbourhood.
The buildings were mean, the shops ill furnished,
their wares of the lowest quality, and in many of
them second-hand garments were exposed for sale.
Gin palaces were numerous, and in and out of them
were going and coming hideous women, villainous-looking
men, and ragged and bare-footed children.
The houses were gaunt and grim, the windows
of many of them mended with paper and stuffed
with straw, and in narrow by-streets and filthy
back-yards tattered clothing was hanging out to
dry.

Vera shuddered. Her artist's soul revolted at the
sight of all this squalor, uncleanness and gloom.

The poverty of London was certainly not picturesque,
and she wondered how human beings could submit
to a fate which in her eyes seemed worse even
than slavery or death.

Mrs. Maitland led the way into a narrow and
gloomy court, which, though Vera thought it unspeakably
squalid, was by no means one of the worst
in the neighbourhood. Then they mounted a dark
and narrow staircase, between bare and damp walls,
from which bits of plaster hung in tatters. On the
third flight Mrs. Maitland knocked at a door, and in
answer to a hurried '' come in," she entered, inviting
her companions to follow. It was a small un carpeted,
papered room, furnished with a tiny table,
four chairs, and a bed. The utensils about the
fireless grate and on the mantelpiece showed that
the room served every purpose, and the inmates had
no other. At the table sat a pale, dark-eyed young
woman, working with great energy at a sewing-machine.
She was a trousers finisher, and time was
so precious to her that she did not rise to receive
her visitors. Without pausing to answer Mrs. Maitland's
greeting, she asked them to sit down, and
went on with her sewing.

How is your sister ? " asked Mrs. Maitland,
glancing at the bed, on which lay another young
woman, whose wan face, hectic cheek, and skeleton-like
fingers left little doubt that she was in the last
stage of consumption.

About the same, I think. That doctor you were
good enough to send said that with nourishing food
and good port wine her life might be prolonged.
But how can the like of us get nourishing food and
port wine ? It is as much as we can do to live. I
often wish I was like Mary there, and that we might
die together. I should be at rest then."

My poor girl, you are weary and do not know
what you are saying," said Mrs. Maitland soothingly
; " Grod will keep you. * He tempers the
wind to the shorn lamb,' you know."

I wish He would temper it to me," exclaimed
the seamstress almost fiercely. " Here have I been
at work seven hours this morning, and when I have
worked ten hours more I shall have earned a
shilling, and my thread to pay for and my rent
to meet, and to buy port wine and nourishing food
for my sister — all out of a shilling a day. Yet you
say God will help us. I wish He would, I wish He
would ! "

And the poor girl, after a burst of hysterical
laughter, laid her head on the table and wept
bitterly.

Can these things be ? " asked Vera in a broken
voice ; and putting her arm round the seamstress's
neck she spoke to her words of comfort. "Do not
despair," she said ; *' here is something for you "
(laying a sovereign on the table), " take it, and
when that is done you shall have more. I will see

that you do not want, and that your sister has all
she needs."

This ! " exclaimed the seamstress wildly, taking
up the piece of gold. " Why this is twenty shillings
! You do not mean to give me all this, dear
lady? You cannot, it is too much."

"Yes, it is all yours," answered Vera gently;
your very own, and when you want more you
must let me know, and I will come and see you
again."

Oh, how good you are I Mrs. Maitland spoke
truly; God has helped us. But" (hesitating) "it
is too much — take half of it for the shoemaker's
family in the next flight ; they want it more than
we do."

It is all for you," returned Vera ; " and if you
do not keep it entirely for yourselves I shall be
vexed. We will see to the shoemaker's family."

Who are they ? " inquired Mrs. Maitland.

Name of Striverr," answered the seamstress,
second flight. Striverr was run over ten days
since, and lies in the hospital with a compound
fracture of the thigh. I think he drank, and they
were always pawning their clothing to buy food ;
but now I fear they have neither clothing nor
bread."

Let us go," said Vera.

And they went.

They found the shoemaker's wife and five little

children, all in single room. For furniture they had
a painted deal table, two or three dilapidated cane-bottomed
chairs, and an old bed with a filthy
coverlet.

The children were bare-footed and only half-clad.
There was neither a shirt nor a shift amongst them.
One little girl wore a boy's ragged overcoat and
nothing in the world else.

When had you anything to eat, Mrs. Striverr ? "
asked Mrs. Maitland.

Yesterday at this time. We've popped every
rag and stick we could spare, and now we're fair
hemming."

You are from the country ? "

Ay, are us ; I wish we were i' t' country ageean.
My master had a bit of a fortin left him, and we
came to Lunnon to draw it, and then he thowt as
he'd start for hissed i' t' shoemaaking line, that being
t' trade as he wor brown up to. So he boat a goodwill
and a stock, and shopped two journeymen and
set agaat. But he made nowt on't. T' fortin aw
went in a twelvemonth ; then we wor sold up, and
we've gone fra bad to worse ever sin', and now we're
fair at far end — hemming to death."

You come from the North, I fancy ? "

*' Ay, out o' Yorkshire. We lived not so far fro
a place called Holland, as you've happen yard tell
on. I wish we wor there now, I do that. What
wi' my master mending shoes and t' children

groin to t' factory we could addle a middling good
living."

Vera, who only half-understood the woman, took
out her purse.

Not yet," said Mrs. Maitland, with a significant
look ; " let us first get them something to eat.
Come with me."

They went out together.

I rather fear from the look of that woman,"
continued Mrs. Maitland, " that she, like her
husband, has a weakness for drink. If you gave
her money it might not all be spent in food. Life
in London has demoralised these poor Strivers, as
it has done many of their betters. But the children
must eat and be clothed, and then we will see what
can be arranged for the family."

Then they went to a baker's shop and bought
some bread, and to an eating-house and bought
some meat. At a second-hand clothes shop garments
were purchased, and Vera found that at
an outlay of a little over a pound she had fed and
clothed an entire family. She thought that the
pleasure of seeing the poor children eat was worth
ten times the money. Before going away she paid
the baker and eating-house keeper for a week's
provisions in advance, and Mrs. Maitland said that
she would arrange with a society with which she
was connected to have the family sent back to
Yorkshire, so soon as St river was fit to travel.

There are thousands more in the same plight,"
she said ; " they think London is an El Dorado, and
they find it a hell."

They made several more visits, saw whole families
making match-boxes at 2Jd. a dozen, finding their
own paste and string and fire to dry the boxes.
Some were making sacks, for which they got a
farthing a-piece ; others shirts, at twopence a-piece ;
and a crippled old tailor and his wife were hard at
work with policeman's overcoats, which, when quite
finished, brought them in something less than
three shillings each.

I don't know what the contractor gives for his
cloth," observed Mrs. Maitland, " but its cost, added
to the three shillings, represents his entire outlay,
and he doubtless makes a good profit. But if you
were to speak to him, he would tell you he cannot
afford to pay more. The authorities accept the
lowest tender, and the successful competitor is compelled
to get his work done at the lowest possible
price. It is the same with everything else. One
tradesman undersell another, and the price of
labour is forced down until the poor find it better to
steal than to work. Some people say that competition
is a fine thing, I say it is a curse."

Here Mrs. Maitland was accosted by a quiet,
intelligent-looking man, wearing a decent black
coat — rather a mark of distinction in that neighbourhood.


Ah, is that you, Morton ? " exclaimed Mrs.
Maitland. " What news have you to-day ? "

There is a very bad case in Pitman's Eents, and
something should be done ; but my funds are quite
exhausted. Will you come and see ? It is not
far off?'-'

But Pitman's Eents ! Isn't it a dreadful
place ? Can we go ? " — glancing at her companions.


Oh, yes ; all the worse characters are out by this
time — begging, and worse."

*' What do you say, young ladies ? — shall we
go?"

"By all means," replied Vera; "if there is a
lower depth, I should like to see it."

Come, then," said Mrs. Maitland. " Lead on,
Morton."

Morton led them to a wretched little court in a
dark little street. The building to which the court
gave access was large, but there did not appear to
be a whole window in it, and its condition was so
dilapidated that it seemed as if the first strong
wind would blow it down like a house of cards. It
was a place in which the sun never shone, where the
fresh air never came — fetid, filthy, and horrible.
They groped their way up a dark and rotten staircase,
which threatened to give way at every step,
and Morton, who went first, had several times to
help them past treacherous places and gaping holes ;

and the air was so foul that Vera and Cora had
much ado to keep themselves from fainting.

At the topmost storey the City missionary — for
that was norton's quality — knocked at the door,
which hung loose on its hinges, and, without waiting
for an answer, entered the room into which it
opened. Den, rather ; for it was no more than
ten feet square, and the walls and ceiling were
black, as it seemed, with the accumulated dirt of
ages. The table, an old box turned up-side down,
the seat a board resting on bricks, and in one
corner stood the crazy remains of an old bedstead.
A woman with dishevelled hair and hollow eyes, not
more than thirty, but looking fifty, crouched before
a grate in which burnt a hardly visible vestige of
jure. She was nursing a month-old baby, swathed
in a rag.

Mrs. Maitland's sharp eyes detected something
moving in the bed.

What have you there ? " she said.

Children," answered the woman abruptly ; " all
their things are at the pawn-shop, and I have
nowhere else to put them."

It was quite true. Four naked children were
wriggling among the rags that covered the relics
of the old bedstead.

How is this ? " enquired Mrs: Maitland. " Has
she no husband ? "

Morton explained that her husband, a bricklayers'

labourer, had deserted her — at any rate he had
disappeared — and owing to the birth of her baby
she had been unable to follow her calling of shirt-finishing,
by which, with hard work, it was possible
to earn sixpence a day. Up to the present time she
had existed (living it could hardly be called) on
charity and by selling and pawning such poor
things as she possessed. But now she had nothing
more to pledge, and was too proud to beg. Too weak
to go out herself, she could not send her children
into the street quite naked, and she still retained
some feeling of self-respect and independence.

"It is a case for the workhouse," said Mrs.
maitland.

So it is," answered Morton ; " but to get a
family into the workhouse requires time, and I do
not think they have a bit of bread in the room."

Not a crust," moaned the woman ; " I have
nothing for the baby, and the others haven't had a
full meal for a month."

Here, take this, Mr. morton,, and get them what
they need," said Vera, moved to tears by the sight
of so much misery. And as she spoke she gave the
missionary the last sovereign she had in her
pocket.

God bless you, my dear young lady ! " exclaimed
the woman fervently, " and may neither you nor
yours ever know what it is to want. For myself I
could bear it, or lay me down and die ; but when I

hear the poor children cry for bread and I have
none to give 'em, it drives nle wild. I feel as if I
could kill somebody."

And no wonder," said Vera. " Poor children ! "

After this they went away — for the air of the
little room had become absolutely insupportable —
the missionary with them, intent on procuring a
supply of clothing and food for the wretched
family.

You will see about getting them into the workhouse,
Morton ? " said Mrs. Maitland, when they
had safely reached the bottom of the rickety staircase.


This very day, ma'am."

Whose property is this, Morton ? These houses
are really not fit for piastres."

They belong to a Mr. Pitman. He is very rich,
they say, and a member of the corporation, and this
property brings him in fifty or sixty per cent."

I would rather be a thief or the proprietor of a
gambling-hell than make money in such a way ! "
exclaimed Mrs. Maitland indignantly. " It is worse
than murder."

It was now time for them to go, and after parting
with Morton they made for the nearest cab-stand.

What is your opinion now, Miss Hardy ? "
asked Cora. "Do you think you will be able to
find a use for your income ? "

*' I do," answered Vera emphatically. " I have

found my work, and for the first time I feel really
glad I am an heiress."

*' But she must not be quite so lavish as she has
been to-day," observed Mrs. Maitland, with a smile.
As it is, I do not think any harm has been done.
But to give sovereigns away at a time is too much,
especially when there are more claims than the
longest purses can satisfy, and indiscriminate
charity is as bad — in effect, if not in intention —
as downright avarice."

VERA MAKES A SENSATION.

Vera was very silent on the homeward journey.
The day's experience appalled her. She could think
of nothing but what she had seen. Much as she
had heard and read of pauperism, and of the
wretchedness of the London poor, she had not even
faintly realised how wretched they were, how utter
poverty could be. In Canton Vaud destitution
began when a family was reduced to the possession
of a single cow or half-a-dozen goats ! Yet Yaud
was not nearly so rich as London ; there was more
wealth in a single metropolitan parish than in the
whole canton ? Where lay the responsibility for
this frightful misery, of which Mrs. Maitland assured
her she had seen the merest glimpse ; with personal
selfishness or a vicious social organisation ? Which
was right, M. Senarclens, who saw no hope of
amendment save by a great upheaval of the masses
and a revolutionary cataclysm ; or Mrs. Maitland,
who believed in the efficacy of voluntary effort, and
that patience and perseverance would effect more in
the long run than grand schemes and heroic

measures ? Despite her reverence for the historian,
she was rather disposed to take Mrs. Maitland's view
of the matter ; but there could be no doubt that
the fortunate failed shamefully in their duty to the
disinherited, and it seemed to her that men like the
owner of Pitman's Rents should be banned from
society, and their nefarious trade stopped by the
strong hand of the law.

It was late when Vera reached Grrosvenor Square.
A few minutes after she appeared in the drawing-room
dinner was announced.

I am sorry you did not come sooner," said
Sydney Leyton, whose arm she had taken, " you
have missed making the acquaintance of the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, and all the other
swells."

A great loss, I am sure," Vera replied, smiling.
I must do my best to bear the disappointment
with equanimity, and you can point these swells out
to me, you know."

With pleasure ; but I fear you have no great
reverence for swells, Miss Hardy."

I don't think I have very much."

** Nor I ; particularly city swells. They always
suggest the idea of turtle and venison, old port, and
all the luxuries of the season. That is the Lord
Mayor on my father's right hand."

That tall thin man, with the long lean face ? "

« Yes."

Well, T am disappointed. He is the very last
man at the table I should have taken for the
greatest man in London."

*' The greatest man in London ! Ah, I see ; like
all foreigners you have got the idea that our chief
magistrate is only a little lower than the sovereign.
That is a mistake ; out of the City he is nobody
very particular, and after his term has expired,
nobody at all. You are right, Mr. Bothwell is far
from looking like an ideal Lord Mayor ; yet he is
said to be an excellent man of business, and he dispenses
the hospitality of the Mansion House with
profuse liberality. His right-hand neighbour, Alderman
Chipping, will be the next Lord Mayor ; does
his appearance please you ? "

Very much. His physique is splendid ; and
with that white beard and ruddy countenance,
and those dark eyes, he looks quite picturesque. I
should like to paint his portrait."

Yes, Billy Chipping is a fine old fellow, and will
well beseem his office. He is terribly bumptious,
though ! But that is rather a qualification for the
mayoralty. When he presides at civic feasts and
entertains great personages, they will call his
pompous ways his dignified bearing. I remember
"

At this point Mr. Sydney was interrupted by a
question from a lady on his right, and Vera was left
to her own thoughts — rather to her satisfaction, for
VOL. III. 36

she was not in a conversational mood. The sights

she had witnessed in the East were still in her mind,

and she could not help contrasting them with the

scene before her. The table was resplendent with

silver and adorned with choice flowers ; the viands

were of the richest, the wines of the rarest, and

some of the ladies wore as many gems as would have

redeemed a dozen poor families from misery for the

term of their natural lives, still leaving the owners

enough to make a brave show. Yet, probably, no

one there save herself was giving a thought to the

disinherited, and if she had not been so lately

amongst them they might have been equally remote

from her thoughts. Whence arose this callousness ?

and where could be found a remedy for these terrible

inequalities of condition, whereby one class of the

community was loaded with wealth and demoralised

by luxury, while others had hardly the wherewithal

to live, or were suffering the last extremities of

want ? It was a puzzle, and, as Vera well knew,

one that had bewildered wiser heads than hers. And

then she bethought her of a graceful custom that

prevails in Canton Lucerne, which, though it may

not do much to raise the lot of the lowly, at least

shows that they are not altogether ignored by those

whom fortune has blessed with plenty of good

things. At every dinner of a formal or public

character a collection is made for the Poor's, Fund of

the commune. All give something, for it is considered

that when people are feasting, and presumably
enjoying themselves, they should remember
those who lack the common necessaries of life, and
out of their abundance help them.

How quiet and pensive you are, Vera," observed
Lady Ley ton, who until that moment had not
noticed her. " I fear your exertions have been too
much for you."

Not at all," replied Vera, rallying. " I feel a
little tired, naturally, but not very much."

What do you think of the East End and the
poor people you have seen there ? "

I wonder they do not come and cut all our
throats," said Vera, half in jest, half in earnest.

But Lady Leyton took the saying very earnestly
indeed, and quite au pied de la lettre.

Heavens, Vera ! " she exclaimed, turning pale,
what do you mean ? what has happened ? Were
you — were you molested ? There are frightful
places at the East End, full of thieves and murderers.
I should not have let you go. Were you
robbed ? What was Mrs. Maitland thinking of to
take you among such wretches ? "

I did not see any wretches, except in the sense
that all whom I met with are wretchedly poor. I
was neither molested nor robbed ; but I gave away
all the money I had with me. When I spoke of
cutting throats, I merely meant that the poor I saw
are so terribly poor, so utterly destitute, that it

36*

would not be very surprising if they were to do
something desperate. But there is no fear of that.
They are very patient, poor things ; much more so,
I fancy, than we should be, if we were forced to exchange
places with them."

Heaven forbid ! What a revolutionary sentiment
! You quite make me shudder, child. But
don't you think you exaggerate ? You never saw
any of the very poor before, and you may think
them worse off than they really are."

On this Vera described some of the " interiors "
she had seen, and as her imagination had been much
impressed and she was full of her subject, she described
them well, and with considerable realistic
force. All within earshot listened to her ; and
several of the ladies were visibly affected, and
asked many questions. Vera was observing that
the worst place she had visited was Pitman's
Eents, when she was interrupted by a sharp-visaged
man, with thin lips and an unpleasant
smirk, who did not seem to 'have quite caught
what she said.

I beg your pardon," he observed, " but I think
I heard you mention my name."

I think you are mistaken," she replied, " I
have not the pleasure of knowing your name."

Pitman is my name."

What a singular coincidence ! I certainly did
use your name, though I was not speaking of you.

I was speaking of a dreadful place in the East
End, called Pitman's Eents."

That dreadful place is my property, Miss Hardy,
unfortunately."

The people who live there are unfortunate," said
Vera drily. " Some of your tenants are dying of
hunger, Mr. Pitman."

*' It is possible ; but surely you would not suggest
that I am under any obligation to keep my tenants
in food as well as let them live rent free ? "

Do you let them live rent free, Mr. Pitman ? "

*' Why, not quite, but the rents they pay are very
moderate, and my agent has instructions to deal with
them as leniently as possible."

Vera could not contradict this statement, though
she did not believe it, so she contented herself with
suggesting that no conceivable rent for dwellings so
dilapidated could be considered moderate.

Excuse me. Miss Hardy," rejoined Mr. Pitman,
sharply, in his harsh, grinding voice, " that shows
how little you know of the subject. I have very
heavy rates and taxes to pay for that property, the
condition of which, I admit, leaves something to be
desired. But in two or three years the ground
lease is out, and the land and all that is on it will goto
the ground landlord, so that I literally cannot
afford to put Pitman's Eents in good condition. It
would be making you a present, Miss Hardy .^'

Making me a present, Mr. Pitman ! " exclaimed

Vera in great surprise, trying at the same time to
develop from her inner consciousness what a ground
landlord could be.

Yes, making you a present, for the ground on
which Pitman's Rents is built belongs to the Hardy
Trust. Your grandfather was very fond of putting his
money into ground rents, and he was right. There
is no better investment, especially in London, where
property increases so rapidly in value. He was too
sharp for me, and got the land before I knew it was
in the market. The consequence is that in two or
three years — by the time you are of age, I imagine —
Pitman's Eents will become yours, and you will beat
full liberty to let the tenants live rent free, or
turn them out just as you like." And Mr. Pitman
smiled a triumphant smile, for he had been painfully
conscious that the sympathies of his auditors were
against him.

Can this be ? " said Vera, turning to Sydney
Leyton. " Is it possible that this hour — that Pitman's
Eents will one day be mine ? "

*' I am sure I cannot tell you. Miss Hardy. But I
should think nothing is more likely, and you maybe
quite sure that Mr. Pitman is right. He knows
if anybody does."

*' So much the better," said Vera, recovering her
confidence. *' I will try to see that my tenants have
dwellings fit for human beings to live in, and that
they do not die of hunger."

Sydney, seeing that this retort was likely to draw
an angry answer from Pitman, interposed with an
irrelevant remark which, as he intended, had the
effect of turning the talk into another channel.
Later in the evening he and Vera met in the 
and had a few words en tete-astute.

I quite agree with you. Miss Hardy, about those
poor wretches at the East End, and Pitman's Eents,
and that," he said. '* Society does not do its duty
by them. It is not right that these things should be,
and Pitman is a rack-renting cad, everybody knows
that, but he has a certain position, and being in the
Corporation my father thinks he must recognise him
in some way. He thought he had turned the tables
on you when he said the ground of Pitman's Eents
was yours. But you paid him back in his own
coin, and with interest. I had no idea you were
so clever at repartee. Miss Hardy. Pitman won't
forget you in a hurry."

jN^or I him. It is not very satisfactory to think
that a part of my income comes from these poor
starving creatures."

Nor does it. Pitman pays the ground rent. You
have nothing to do with his tenants."

I am afraid it comes to pretty much the
same thing ; they pay him, and he pays the
trustees."

*' He would have to pay them in any case, and if
the ground belonged to somebody else it would

be exactly the same. And it is better that it should
belong to you, because when you are of age and the
property comes into your possession you will be able
to do with the houses what you like, pull them down
and replace them with model dwellings for working-class
tenants."

That I shall certainly do, Mr. Sydney. I thank
you for the hint, and I am greatly obliged to you for
taking so kind an interest in my affairs."

Nobody who has the pleasure of knowing Miss
Hardy can help taking an interest both in her
affairs and herself," answered the young man
warmly, and with a look expressive of homage
and admiration.

To this speech Vera was saved the trouble, and
possibly the embarrassment, of replying by a message
from Lady Leyton, who wanted to present her to
the Lady Mayoress.

corse's brother.

One bright moonlight night, as Blaine and Delane
were walking across La Plaine to their lodgings they
perceived a man lying on the grass, near the footpath.
The weather being warm there was nothing
in this very unusual, but as they neared the prostrate
individual he rose slowly and with seeming
difficulty to his feet, and they saw that he was in a
somewhat damaged condition. His hat was crushed,
his coat torn, his face streaked with blood, and he
appeared unable to use his left hand.

What is the matter ? " asked Blaine, " you
appear to be hurt."

Eather," said the man in English, shaking himself
and trying to straighten his hat.

You are English ? " returned Blaine.

Yes, and you are the editor of the Helvetic
Neivs."

How do you happen to know that ? "

*' You were pointed out to mettle other day at
the Cafe du Eoi, and to tell the truth I was on my
way to call upon you when that dastard struck me
down."

What dastard ? "

My own bro ther, I am sorry to say. But I will
tell you all about it tomorrow. I must go home
and repair damages.

Come to my lodgings and repair damages.
They are hard by, and Delane and I will plaister up
your wounds, and give you some supper."

Thank you. I accept your invitation with pleasure,
for I have something to communicate that may
interest you."

You were saying that you had been struck down
by your own brother," said Blaine, leading the
way towards the pension.

Yes ; and you know him well, though he is no
friend of yours. He would like to treat you as he
has treated me — or worse, and he will if you don't
take care."

Indeed ! " replied Alfred. " I am grateful for
the warning, but its value would be increased
if I knew against whom I have to be on my
guard."

Against my brother, Vernon Corse."

*' I fancied as much, for so far as I know, Corse is
the only enemy I have ; but from what you say, I
am not the only one whose enemy he is."

'' Not by any means," answered the other, with a
bitter laugh ; " Vernon is the enemy of every one
who opposes him or whom he envies."

And he actually struck you down, and left you
lying on the ground ? "

He did ; but thereby hangs a tale, which I
must tell you when you have half an hour to
spare."

No time like the present," answered Blaine,
whose curiosity was greatly excited ; " here we are
at the pension."

Alfred ordered a supply of hot water, and took
the young fellow to his bedroom, and examined his
hurts. He had received two heavy blows on his
head and another on his left hand, when he raised
to parry the second blow, by which his fingers had
been a good deal damaged and his signet-ring
smashed. Sticking-plaister and a wash greatly improved
his appearance, but as he was hardly in a fit
state to sup at the table d'hote, Blaine ordered
supper to be served in a room adjoining his bedchamber,
which, since his accession to the editorship,
he had used as a study and sitting-room.

The meal over, cigars were lighted, and Hugh
Corse, who appeared to be a few years younger than
his brother, and looked like a gentleman, proceeded
to tell his story.

It is not very much of a story," he said, ^* though
there are parts of it that may surprise you a bit.
My father, as I dare say you know, is an officer on
half-pay. He lives mostly in Italy, with my mother
and my sisters ; and besides Vernon, who is the
eldest, I have two other brothers, so altogether weare
a pretty large family. My father is a strict

disciplinarian, but not nearly so much as lie used to
be ; and I fancy Vernon was not brought up very
judiciously. At the best he would probably have
turned out badly ; but severity makes some lads
deceitful ; what they dare not do openly they do
secretly. It was so with Vernon, and my father
now freely admits that he took a wrong course with
him. But whatever may be the cause, he has been
a trouble to the family nearly all his life ; latterly
he has been a disgrace. He was always prone to
extravagance, and when my father tried to cure him
by stopping his pocket-money, he pilfered. He even
stole my sisters' jewellery and sold it. At the same
time he was very clever, particularly at languages,
and my father had no difficulty in getting him into
the army. For a while he got on well, but one fine
day he did something not quite square, and had the
alternative offered him of standing a court-martial
or leaving the service, and he left it. But for my
father's influence he would probably have been prosecuted.
Since that time Vernon has lived practically
by his wits. Friends of the family have got
him several good appointments, but either by his
unmanageable temper or downright swindling he
invariably loses them. He cannot go to Italy, because
he got a lot of money from a banker at Genoa
against a cheque on a London bank where he had
no account ; and it is not very long since my mother,
unknown to my father, raised money at a great

sacrifice to get him out of a scrape vehicle would have
ruined him for life and utterly disgraced us. But
he did disgrace us after all, though the affair was
kept pretty quiet; and we are now beginning to
think that the best thing that could happen to him
would be to get locked up. For my part I wish he
had been locked up long since. Such a scoundrel
has no right to be at large ; and, unless I am greatly
mistaken, he has committed a crime which, if it
could be proved against him, might cost him his life.
I am not sure that he did not mean to kill me just
now. Did you know he was married ? "

Not until Mrs. Corse appeared on the scene."

Mrs. Corse ! Oh ! you mean poor Esther Brandon.
She was not his wife "

No ! " exclaimed Blaine. '' How was that ? "

By Jove ! what a fellow ! " said Delane. " Do
you mean to say they were not married ? "

Not legally. It is a very sad story. My brother
married an English girl of very good family with a
little money. He spent the money, of course, and
then took up with Esther Corse, and not being able
to win her without, went through a form of marriage
with her."

That was bigamy."

Of course it was ; and when the affair got wind,
neither of the two women would have anything
more to do with him, and his wife's relatives only
refrained from prosecuting him on condition of his

leaving England at once, which of course he did.
Then, as far as I can make out, a false report of my
sister in-law's death got abroad, and Esther came
here in the hope that Vernon would make her his
legal wife, which of course he did not."

And is your sister-in-law still living ? "

Yes ; but she resumed her maiden name, and
went as nurse into a London hospital, and that, I
expect, gave rise to the rumour that she was dead."

Why, he wanted to marry Miss Hardy ! " said
Blaine, hotly indignant. " What a villain ! "

"There is no mistake about that. I dare say,
though, he really thought Maggie — his wife, you
know — was dead. For a long time we had no idea
he was at Greneva, but when my father heard — from
Colonel Bevis, I think — he sent me here to see what
Vernon was doing, and if possible get back some of
the money he borrowed from my mother, and which
he faithfully promised to repay. So I came," went
on the young man, after a long pause. " I have
got no money out of him, of course. I did not
think I should. But I have made a few discoveries
which I think will rather astonish you."

I doubt it," observed Delane. " I am about as
much astonished as I can be already. But I can
still wonder. What next ? "

Well, I am pretty sure that he murdered poor
Esther Brandon."

I have heard as much hinted before," said Bal-maine

thoughtfully, " but not in earnest, I think.
What motive could he have for murdering her ? "

To get her out of the way, in order that he
might marry that girl you were speaking of — Miss
Hardy."

*' But you say Esther Brandon was not his legal
wife."

Neither was she. But don't you see that she
was in his way, and that he could not disclose the
truth without causing a scandal and compromising
his chances with Miss Hardy ? Madame Marc-quart,
with whom he lodged, is quite of my
opinion."

So am I," returned Blaine, recalling his conversation
with Corse about secret poisonings and
Alpine accidents, " but I fear he did it in such a way
as to defy detection."

Of course he did. My] brother Vernon is an
awfully clever fellow, I can tell you, and he is not
the man to risk either his life or his liberty if he
can get his ends without. He laid his plans very
well ; there are no proofs against him. And there's
another thing I found out. He is no longer on
your paper ; he has lost all his pupils ; he does
nothing whatever, and yet he seems to be quite in
easy circumstances. This was a riddle which I was
determined to unravel ; and with the help of a man
I knew in Italy, and who knows Vernon well, though
Vernon does not know him, I have succeeded.

He is a police spy, in the service of the French
Government."

Do you really think so ? "

"I have not the least doubt of it. Vernon sill
do anything for money — anything but honest work.
He is following no occupation, yet he keeps up a
good appearance ; and when I enquired how he was
living he asked what the deuce that was to me.
And it is very likely. There are lots of refugees
here about whom the Imperial police is glad to have
information, and Vernon is much less likely to incur
suspicion of being a mouchard than one of their
own countrymen. He goes amongst them in the
character of an English sympathiser with revolution,
and that ; and as he has a lively imagination and
a ready pen, he is just the sort of man to concoct
imaginary plots and conversations, and report them
to Paris ; and, you may depend upon it, he gets
well paid."

But isn't that rather a dangerous game ? " said
Blaine. " If any of those refugees he is betraying
find him out, he will stand a very good chance
of getting a stab in the back some night, and being
chucked into the river."

Possibly ; but Vernon is awfully clever, and,
where his own safety is concerned, as wary as a fox.
I dare say he will get off with a whole skin, as he
has always done before. I would lock him up if I
could ; but as I cannot, I shall try to make his position

in Geneva as uncomfortable as possible — too
hot to hold him, in fact," said the young fellow
vindictively.

How ? " asked Blaine. " There are many
suspicious circumstances against your brother ; he
is evidently a very bad fellow ; but where are your
proofs ? "

Well, I cannot prove that he murdered Esther
Brandon, if that is what you mean, or that he is in
the jay of the French police. But I can prove that
he is a bigamist and that Esther was not his wife ;
and when these facts are made known it will be
pretty warm for him with the English colony, I
fancy. I shall tell, too, about the murderous
assault he committed on me just now, as also a few
other things not very much to his credit. I mean,
also, to denounce him to the police here, and if
they do not expel him from the place they will keep
a very sharp eye on him*'

*' You are quite resolved on this ? " said Blaine
significantly. Villain as Vernon Corse was, he did
not like to see this vindictiveness on the part of a
brother.

Quite. You are thinking, perhaps, of the
proverb about washing one's dirty linen out of
doors. I don't care for that. It is only right
everybody should know what manner of man
my brother is, so that they may be on their guard
and when he struck me down in such a
VOL. III. 37

cowardly fashion ! But I did not tell you about
that."

'^No."

Well, we had several talks, and I urged him
strongly, as he seemed to be doing so well, to pay
up some of the money he owes the family. And
then we quarrelled. I spoke m}^ mind pretty freely
to him, and for several days we did not meet. But
this evening he came into the Cafe du Eoi where I
was taking a hand in a rubber with some English
fellows, and made as if he had something to say.
So I went out with him, and we walked in this
direction. At first he spoke quite reasonably, said
he was sorry for having caused the family so much
trouble, and that he would try and give me some
money. And then, when he had thrown me off my
guard, and we were out on La Plaine there, he
turned suddenly round exclaiming, ' I'll teach you
to meddle in my affairs, you young imp,' hit me a
crashing blow on the head with his stick followed
by another, which I partly parried with my hand.
But it knocked me down and completely dazed me.
I must have been on the ground several minutes
when you came up. If he had not heard footsteps,
or fancied somebody was coming, I do believe he
would have finished me off. And now I mean to
expose him. To-morrow I shall tell the chaplain
and the consul what I have told you, and all the
English fellows I know that frequent the Cafe du

Roi. I shall see the police, too, and tell them of
the assault. I regard Vernon Corse as no longer
my brother ; if they hang him I don't care. And
now if you will kindly allow me, I will take my
leave. My head aches badly, and the sooner I amin
bed the better."

You have not told us your name," said Bal-maine.


No more I have. Hugh is my name. Here is
my card."

Alfred and Delane offered to see Mr. Hugh Corse
safely to his lodgings. But he declined the offer,
saying he would take 3. fiacre at the nearest stand.

A queer business," observed Delane when their
guest was gone.

Very," said Blaine. " This confirms the very
worst suspicions we have had about Corse.

And a good deal more. Why, hanging would be
too good for the fellow. But what do you think of
the brother ? "

*' I would rather he had not shown quite so much
vindictiveness, for bad a fellow as Corse is, they are
both children of the same mother."

I was after thinking the same thing myself,"
returned the Irishman as he pensively lighted a
cigar. " Vindictiveness seems to run in the family.
If Mr. Hugh had got the money and had not got
his head broken, I don't suppose we should have had
the pleasure of making his acquaintance."

37*

At any rate, we should not have heard all these
revelations."

And they are revelations. By Jove, what a row
there will be when the thing gets out ! I should
just like to see Mrs. Gibson's face when she hears
those two were not properly married."

HOW MAYO BOSSED THE JOB.

Delane's prevision was fully verified by the event.
Hugh Corse's revelations caused a tremendous
sensation. The indignation of the ladies who had
received and visited poor Esther knew no bounds.
Mrs. Gibson, who was staying in Geneva,
while Gibson sought another situation in England,
wrote her husband a letter in which her outraged
virtue found vent in bitter upbraiding, she reproached
him for introducing her to the Corses, and
more than hinted that he knew "the shameless
woman " was no better than she should be, " all the
time." She hardly seemed to blame Corse at all,
and expressed no pity whatever for his victim.

Just like a woman," thought Gibson. " Poor
Esther, she was not a bad sort, after all; I wish
there were more like her." And then he congratulated
himself on being a considerable distance
from the wife of his bosom. It was so much easier
to bm'n her letters than restrain her tongue.

Mrs. Mayo, when she heard the news, almost
went into hysterics to think how she had been imposed

upon. Madame Caquetage was of course quite
triumphant, and gave an afternoon hen party, at
which the scandal formed the sole subject of conversation,
and the tale was retold with marvellous
embellishments. It was, moreover, proposed and
carried by approving murmurs, that no soi-disant
married woman should henceforth be received into
Genevan society who was not known by some
creditable person to be married comme il faut, or
whose marriage lines were not produced and pronounced
good by competent authority — say by the
chaplain, the consul, or the English joharonacien, a
nice old gentleman in whom great confidence was.
reposed.

As for Corse, he neither went away nor seemed
abashed. Except a few English and Americans, not
much better than himself and his foreign associates,
who did not think any the worse of a man for having
two wives at the same time, everybody cut him.
But the only difference he made was to swagger
about more than ever. If he chanced to meet Mrs.
Gribson or Mrs. Mayo, or any of the other women
by whom he had been patronised when he was in
the odour of respectability, he would take off his
hat and make them a very polite bow, much to
their annoyance. Mrs. Gribson expressed the intention
of hitting him with her parasol if he did it
again ; but when he did it again she somehow failed
to carry her threat into execution. Another of Corse's

pleasant ways was to stand near the English Church
and make loud and not very complimentary remarks
about members of the congregation as they emerged
from the sacred edifice. Then, on a Sunday afternoon,
he would drive about in an open carriage with
a questionable companion or two, not always of his
own sex, and stare insolently at every old acquaintance
whom he met.

If they think their sneers and lies and cuttings-dead
will force me out of the town," he was heard
to say one evening in the Cafe du Roi, " they
are infernally mistaken. I shall not budge till I
choose."

All this time Mayo was away in London and
Leyland reigned in his stead. The ingenious proprietor
had almost, as he informed his associate,
put the thing through," meaning thereby the sale
of the paper to a company; and knowing that
Mayo, though no more audacious, was more energetic
thai himself, he had sent him to London to give
the finishing stroke to the transaction, promising
him for his pains a handsome bonus in cash as also a
large interest in the new enterprise, and he was
now in daily expectation of hearing that the
business was completed. Leyland had good cause
to put a high value on his manager's capacity and
resource. During the former's absence in London
Mayo had settled the claim of Herman and
Brothers' liquidators for £500, borrowed from the

Helvetic new bankers, MM. Daxelhoffer, Henriquet
et Che. The liquidator was extremely loth to accept
so small a composition, but when Mayo politely yet
firmly intimated that in the event of the offer
being refused he should be under the painful
necessity of stopping the paper, in which case it was
very unlikely that the Herman's estate would get
500 francs, the poor man drew a long breath, made
an expressive grimace, and wrote out a receipt in full
of all demands.

*' It was a grand coitp," observed Leyland, when
they were talking the matter over. " I am not
surprised at that liquidator fellow taking £500.
He would have been a fool if he had not. But 1
cannot for the life of me understand how you got
the money out of those Daxelhoffer people. That
was really clever, now. Why, they are said to bethe
most close-fisted bankers in all Greneva."

Mayo did not complete the " putting of the
thing through " with quite so much dispatch ashe
expected, and Leyland was kept on the
tenter-hooks of suspense a good deal longer than he
liked. But one day, when he was beginning to fear
that something had gone " deucedly wrong," and
feeling very low-spirited in consequence, he received
a long telegram from the manager, for which
that gentleman charged five pounds in his accounts
(it had cost him nearly three), announcing the
complete success of his mission. Everything was

sealed, signed, and delivered, and Leyland might
draw on a London banker (whom he named) for
twenty-five thousand francs whenever he thought
fit.

After relieving his feelings by a sort of view
hallo, and exclaiming, " By Jingo, what a Godsend
! " Leyland put on his hat and his grandest
manner, went down to the bank, and immensely
surprised Daxelhoffer, Henriquet and Co. by handing
in a draft on London for ^^ 1,000, and telling
them that the paper had been turned into a company,
with a capital of half a million francs. He
then invited M. Henriquet and two other friends to
second breakfast with him at the Hotel de la Croix,
and gave them the most sumptuous feed which the
chef at so short a notice, could produce.

The breakfast, an affair of several hours, over,
Leyland returned to the office and had a talk with
Blaine, which wrought an unexpected and momentous
change in our hero's prospects.

It will be remembered that one of the consequences
of Alfred's sojourn in Switzerland was a
modification of his political faith. He became sofar
a Liberal that, without doing violence to his
conscience, he could advocate the cause with which
the Helvetic Keivs had always identified itself — more
probably from accident than design, for Leyland,
like Duke Rollo, made no scruple in saying that he
was for the side that paid the best. The ministry

of the day was of the Liberal persuasion, and ever
since Blaine took the editorial reins he had given
the government a hearty yet not indiscriminating
support. Despite the comparative insignificance of
the Helvetic Neius, moreover, and Mayo's opinion
that leading articles were mostly taken as read, he
received many letters which showed that they attracted
attention, and to one or two had fallen the
honour of being quoted by a London paper of large
circulation. But the days of the Grovernment were
numbered ; the country was in the throes of a
general election, and the latest returns left no doubt
that the Liberal party had been defeated " all along
the line," and that either at or before the meeting
of Parliament ministers would be compelled to
resign.

When the news came to hand Alfred wrote a
leader in his best style, deploring this result, denouncing
the blindness of British electors in preferring
the vague promises of Lord Slapdash to the
tried services of Mr. Whetstone, and exposing the
intrigues and manoeuvres which, in the opinion of
the Helvetic News, had caused the fall " of one of
the best and greatest ministries that ever swayed
the destinies of the empire," &c. Blaine was
reading a proof of this article— not without a slight
sense of satisfaction, for it seemed to him rather
well done — when Leyland lounged into the room,
his hat on one side, a cigar, about six inches long,

in his mouth, and himself evidently in a state of
serene complacency.

*' How do, Blaine ? " he said, taking a chair.
Heard the news ? "

About the election, you mean ? I am very
sorry "'

No, I don't," interposed the proprietor ;
the elections be hanged I I mean about the
paper."

No ; what about it ? Has something happened
? "

Eather. I sent Mayo to London, you know, to
boss the job, and he has put it through slick.
Everything is arranged, company formed, capital —
£20,000 — subscribed. AVe shall never look behind
us now, my boy."

"I am very glad to hear it," said Blaine
warmly, " and I congratulate you on your success."

Thank you. Yes, it is a good thing ; it will bea
good thing for us all. I shall pay up all arrears
this week end, and from the beginning of next
month your salary will be increased to two hundred
and fifty francs a week. I mean also to do something
for Delane and Oglethorpe."

Thank you very much, Mr. Leyland," returned
Alfred, his face glowing with pleasure. " On my
own behalf, and on behalf of my colleagues, I can
assure you that your liberality will not be thrown
away. We shall all work with redoubled zeal to

promote the interests of the paper, which I hope
may long flourish."

I am sure you will, and you have only to go on
doing well for the paper and it will do well for you.
But there is one thing — we must change our
politics."

Change our politics ! " exclaimed the editor,
looking as glum as a moment before he had looked
delighted.

Yes. These people who are finding the tin are
high Tory and Low Churchy. Several of 'em are
parsons, and they look more to making the Helvetic
an organ than for interest on their money, though
I dare say they will take that, too, if they can get
it. Yes, we must turn our coats at once, old man.
And what's the odds?"

Blaine made no answer ; he did not like the
idea at all.

And I want you to do a good rattling, out-and-out
Conservative leader for tomorrow's paper. Anything
you like, so long as you pitch it in strong.
You have a capital opening on the elections.
Couldn't you call it — yes, I once read something
like it in a novel — or was it a leading article ? —
Our Old Queen and our New Premier.' That
would sound awfully well now, wouldn't it ?"

'' I am afraid it would hardly be complimentary
to the Queen," said Blaine, smiling in spite of
himself.

You are quite right ; it hardly would. I did
not think of that, and we must be loyal, whatever
else we are. The throne and the altar, and all that
sort of thing ; you know what I mean."

"I think I do. But must this really be, Mr.
Leyland?"

Of course it must ; it is in the contract, and as
all the shares are not yet taken up — though we have
got a nice lot of money in — it is of the utmost importance
that we lay ourselves out to please these
people. Why do you ask ? "

Because I do not see my way to complying with
your request."

You mean it is too late. I ought to have told
you sooner, I know. But there is time yet. I'll
make the fellows stay all night, if necessary, and pay
them double and give them a good blow out at the
Hotel de Navigation on Saturday night into the
bargain."

I don't mean that. There is time enough and
to spare. I mean, Mr. Leyland, that I cannot
change my opinions to order — blow hot and cold
with the same breath and unsay to-day what I said
yesterday."

Your opinions ! You are not the paper, yoi
are only the editor."

That is a fact of which I am fully aware, Mr.
Leyland ; but even an editor may have a conscience,
and I cannot do violence to mine by advocating

views to which I object, and which in this very
article (holding up the proof) I have condemned."

"Just as you like," answered Leyland angrily;
but I must tell you plainly that you will either
have to do my bidding or lose your place."

I quite understand that," said Blaine, firmly,
though a little sadly, for the sacrifice he felt it his
duty to make was a heavy one, "but what must
be, must be. You think me foolish, I dare say, but
I would rather lose my place than forfeit my self-respect."


I know a fellow in London in every way suitable,
who will be glad to come for two hundred francs a
week, and write whatever he is told. I shall write
to engage him at once. But about this article for
tomorrow's paper, could not you do it for this
once ? "

If I could do that I could do everything."

Well then, I'll do a leader myself, or get one
done. But look here, leave me that proof, so that
in case I don't succeed I shall have something to fall
back upon."

Certainly," said Blaine, wondering greatly
what sort of a leader the proprietor, who had never
written a five-line paragraph in his life, would turnout,
or how, at such short notice, he could get one
written. "It is quite understood, then, that you
undertake to supply the leader, that I have no
further responsibility in the matter."

Quite."

In that case I may as well go. I am under engagement
to dine with the Eosslyns, and it is about
time I went."

But you will look in tomorrow ? "

Of course ; and if you do not object, I shall be
glad to come to the office as usual, until the arrival
of my successor."

By all means do so. We shall only want about
two political articles a week, and I dare say we can
knock them together somehow without asking you
to do violence to your conscience."

oglethorpe's misfortune.

When Blaine went down to breakfast next morning
he opened his copy of the paper with some
eagerness, being cmious to see what sort of a
leader Ley land had succeeded in "knocking
together." He could hardly believe his eyes when
he saw that it was his own, after all. But with
what a difference ! " The Liberal defeat " was
turned into " The Conservative victory ; " for " deplore
" had been substituted " rejoice ; " and by a few
similar alterations, most ingeniously contrived, the
whole tone and intent of the leader were reversed,
and his jeremiad over the fall of Mr. Whetstone
had become an lo jrjcBCin over the rise of Lord
Slapdash.

Well ! " he ejaculated, " if that is not about the
biggest piece of impudence I ever knew ! "

What is the biggest piece of impudence you
ever knew?" asked Delane, who had just taken a
place opposite to him.

Converting my Liberal leader into a Tory one.
It is uncommonly well done, too. I did not give
Leyland credit for so much literary skill."

Are you sure he did it ? " asked the sub-editor,
with a significant smile.

You don't mean ! Ah, I see who is the
plagiarist."

Don't be waxy, old man. It's a delicate thing
to meddle with a man's copy, I know. But in the
circumstances I really don't see how I could have
done otherwise. Leyland wanted me to do it, and
it would have been as much as my place is worth to
have refused. And I am no politician, you know
Whigs and Tories are all the same to me. I hope
you don't blame me, Blaine."

Not a bit, my dear fellow. You did quite right ;
and I cannot too much admire the way in which
you carried out your instructions. Leyland ought
to be well pleased."

So he is ; and he has promised to raise my
screw twenty francs a week. But I am awfully
sorry you are leaving us, Blaine. I would
rather lose my rise, and something more, than lose
you. We have always got on so well."

I am sorry, too," said Blaine gravely ; '' very
sorry. It is no light thing to give up the editorship
and £500 a year, to say nothing of parting
with such tried friends as, you and Oglethorpe. But I
could not have acted differently and retain my self-respect.
I dare say you think I have acted very
foolishly."

No, I don't. As I said, I have no decided
VOL. III. 38

political opinion, but I understand your position
and respect your motives. I don't say,
though, that I should have done likewise ;
very few fellows would. I suppose you will goto
London ? "

Yes, that is my intention. As I don't seem to
have struck oil here, there is nothing for it but to
seek my fortune there. But I shall not go immediately.
I have promised Leyland to stay on until
my successor arrives."

I wonder what sort of a chap he will be," said
Delane thoughtfully.

Very easy in his principles, from what Leyland
says ; he will write whatever he is told."

'' I hope he will be as easy in his temper, that is
all," returned the Irishman, " I say, won't they
make a nice trio ? for two easier-principled ruffians
than Leyland and Mayo I defy you to find in all
Europe. Do you know, I feel rather sorry for these
poor shareholders ? "

You think it won't last, after all."

Not it. Leyland is one of those fellows who go
up like a rocket and come down like the stick. It
is in him. He cannot help it. But he is going
up, now, luckily, and we shall get paid up on
Saturday."

Which they did, and Blaine found that, with
his back pay and the sum Leyland proposed to give
him in lieu of notice, he should have nearly

eighty pounds wherewith to start life in London.
Deane, in his joy at getting so big a draw, and a
rise in his '^ screw" at the same time, gave a supper
at the Cafe du Roi, and treated Madame von
Schmidt and her daughter, Blaine and Oglethorpe
to a carriage trip over the Col de la Facile,
and an at fresco banquet on the top. Oglethorpe
got leave of absence and went up the Valais, intending,
as he said, to tramp through the Shone
valley and pass by the Gremio into the Bernese
Oberland. He meant to be away a fortnight, but
four days after his friend's departure, Blaine received
a letter from him that almost took his
breath away. It was dated Saxon-les-Bains,
and stated with great point and brevity
that the writer had been making an utter fool of
himself — lost every centime of his money at 
and rouge-et-noir — and begged Alfred
to remit him a hundred francs by wire, that he
might pay his hotel bill and get away '- from this
cursed place."

The money was sent, and on the following day
Oglethorpe turned up at the office, looking terribly
crestfallen.

I suppose you were very much sm-prised," he
said to Blaine.

I don't think I was ever so much surprised in
my life. You are the very last man I should have

suspected of being "

38*

A gambler. Out with it ; don't mince
matters ! "

Oh no," said Alfred, eagerly. " I did not mean
that at all. I was going to say so foolish. You
cannot possibly be a gambler."

But I am a gambler," returned Oglethorpe
almost savagely, as he stood up, wildly gesticulating ;
a confirmed gambler of the worst sort. When I
came here penniless, a year or more since, I had
just been cleaned out at the very place where I have
again lost every centime I possessed — painfully
saved all this time for that very purpose. I inherited
a fortune ; I have made money in business —
all went in the same way. Don't reason with me ;
don't tell me what a fool I am. No reason can be
so severe as my own conscience. I am worse thana
fool; I am a villain. I have been a curse to
others as well as myself. My poor old mother, a
dear girl whom I should have married — but no, I
was not villain enough for that. . I cannot
help it, Blaine. Grod knows how I try. But I
have long lucid intervals, when, as you have seen,
I can be as sensible as anybody. Then the madness
breaks out again. And so it will be to the end
of the chapter. I am a ruined man— not merely
moneyless, that is nothing — but ruined morally."

** Don't say that, old man," said Alfred, now more
surprised even than before. " I refuse to believe
that you are incurable. You have plenty of

character ; and if you really resolve to conquer this
propensity, I am sure you will succeed. If I can
help you any way "

Help me ! How can you help me ? I am
incurable I " exclaimed Oglethorpe excitedly.
But stay, there is one thing. I am not an extravagant
chap. I can bave money, and as fast as I lay
it by I will send it to you in London ; and you
must make me this promise — not to let me have it
on any consideration whatever, unless I come for it
myself."

Eather a strange trust," returned Blaine ;
but to help you, I will accept it."

It will help me, by keeping temptation far
off. Saxon is so near that if I have a few
hundred francs by me I am sure to go there,
sooner or later. But if I can only have money
by fetching it from London — that might make a
difference."

Grive time for reflection ? "

Say rather, for the mad fit to wear itself out.
I am always reflecting. I am thankful for your
sympathy — from most people I should have had
only blame. Yes, I will try again. And perhaps I
can do something for you. I have long been estranged
from most of my friends, as you may
easily believe ; but there is a man in London
now in a position of considerable influence, whom I
once laid under a great obligation. I will give you

a letter of introduction to him ; he may be of use
to you."

Is he a journalist ? "

No ; he is in business in the City. But see him';
it will be worth your while. He owes me a good
turn, and I shall tell him that what he does for
you I shall consider done for myself. But say as
little about me as you can — merely that I am living
a quiet life here in Switzerland."

The letter was written, and Alfred, without looking
at the address, put it into his pocket.

Sense A^'D SENTIMENT.

Vera and Cora are in the apartment which the
former calls her studio, a spacious, nondescript sort
of place — at once workroom, boudoir, and curiosity
shop. The walls are covered with paintings, drawings,
and sketches, some of them Vera's own work. There
are also bronze and marble statuettes, plaster casts,
a lay figure, and a large easel. The furniture is all
good of its kind, but various m design, as if it had
been picked up at sundry times and places — no
two chairs being alike — and near a Louis Quatorze
secretaire stands a wonderfully carved oaken bookcase,
black with age and filled with richly-bound
volumes.

Perfect silence reigns in the room, for it is beyond
earshot of barrel-organs, and Vera is painting her
friend's portrait, and very intent on her work she
seems.

At length she pauses, and Cora profits by the
opportunity to make an observation.

"I don't know whether you are tired of painting,
but I know I am tired of sitting still, holding

my tongue and doing my best to look unconcerned."


Very well," answered Vera with a smile, as she
put down her pallet ; " we have perhaps done
enough for to-day. Let us talk, by all means. What
about?"

What pleasant subject can we have than ourselves
and those who belong to us ? " said Cora, with
an answering smile.

At any rate, it is one that comes the most home
to us. Now. let me hear your confession, for I
fancy from your manner that you have something
to tell me."

Something to ask you, rather — though I have
also something to tell you. I have been here several
times — once or twice to dinner — yet I never meet
any young men. How is it ? "

How should I know ? " returned Vera with a
look of surprise ; " I do not invite Lady Ley ton's
guests, and if I did it would hardly be comme ilfaut
for me to ask any men. Besides, we have young
men sometimes ; we had one last night, a Mr.
Angel."

Was he nice ? "

'^ Charming, as an angel ought to be ; and Lady
Leyton tells me that he is engaged to an equally
charming girl. And there were two young men to
dinner on Tuesday."

Were they nice ? *'

"Not very. One was taciturn and ugly, the
other noisy and vulgar. Mr. Sydney apologised
for them afterwards. He said they were business
connections of his father's, whom he was occasionally
obliged to invite. Yet now, when I think of
it, I do meet very few young men, either here or at
Mrs. Reginald's."

Cannot you guess the reason ? " asked Cora, with
a very significant smile.

I suppose because they know so few."

That is not the reason, my dear. They don't
want young men to come — that is the reason."

But why ? "

*' But why ! Oh ! what an innocent you are ! It
is because of you."

Because of me ! " repeated Vera. " I don't
think I should do the poor young men any
harm."

Here Cora laughed outright.

'' I am sure you would not," she said ; " but
then, don't you see, they might fall in love with
you, or you with them, and that is what the Leytons
don't want."

Fall in love with them ! I am sure I should
not," answered Vera indignantly. " At any rate
with anybody I have seen here."

Not even with Mr. Sydney ? " asked Cora mischievously.


Why do you suggest anything so absurd ? "

said Vera sharply at the same time blushing
somewhat, and, as Cora thought, seeming a little
confused.

Why do I suggest anything so absurd ? I see
no absurdity whatever in the idea, and I am sure
the Leytons don't. They mean you two to marry,
my dear."

Nonsense ! "

"No nonsense at all. I have thought so from
the first time I called, wien Lady Leyton asked me
so many questions about my family, and whether I
had brothers or cousins in London, and also
about Mrs. Maitland's connections. If there was a
young man in our house, you may depend upon it
that he would not be allowed to come to Grosvenor
Square, nor you to Bloomsbury Square. And what
is more likely or natural than that Sir James and
Lady Leyton should think you an eligible parti for
their son ? "

Because I am rich, I suppose," said Vera with a
scornful curl of her lip.

That may not be the sole attraction. You have
qualities of person and mind, my dear, that might
win any man's heart."

I do not want to win any man's heart," returned
the other impatiently. " I have made up
my mind not to marry."

"Please don't. I don't mean, don't marry ; but
don't say you won't marry, for when people say that,

the next news is sure to be that they are going to
be."

In that case I retract," laughed Vera. " I will
make no resolution at all, or if I do, I shall keep it
to myself. Mais, revenons a nos 'tnoutons, or,
rather, a notre mouton, which in this case is Mr.
Sydney. I do not think he is a marrying man."

Why ? I thought he seemed very attentive to
you the other day."

'' Oh, yes ; he likes a little flirtation. But he
does not seem particular with whom, and I heard
him say one day that it is time enough for a fellow
to marry when he has had his fling — whatever that
may mean — and unless I do him injustice, his
nature is rather shallow — he is not capable of feeling
deep love."

I quite agree with you ; but that will not prevent
him from marrying a rich wife if he can.
You know whom I mean."

I think I can guess " — smiling — " but all the

same, I don't believe he will " Here Vera

hesitated.

Propose to you," said Cora, finishing the sentence.
" I am sure he will. Call me a false
prophet if he does not, and before very long too. I
wonder he has not done so already."

And all for my fortune," sighed Vera. " It is a
great trouble this fortune, Cora."

Say, rather, a great blessing ; and I think you

are beginning to appreciate the advantages which
the possession of money confers. Confess, now, you
would not have been pleased if these Calder people
had gone on with the lawsuit and won the Hardy
fortune."

^' I should not. I freely admit that I should have
been greatly disappointed, for several reasons."

'' Well, there is no chance of that now ; at least,
everybody says so. And I cannot tell you how glad
I am to know that you are dropping some of the
fads you brought with you from Switzerland. I
have no doubt your M. Senarclens is a very clever
man, but he is certainly a visionary. It seems tome
the very height of absurdity for a young girl in
the springtide of life to make herself wretched
because she is the inheritor of a great fortune.
Rather rejoice at the means it gives you of doing
good, both to yourself and others. Take one
instance alone. You love art. Is it not much
better to paint, as you do, for love of your work,
than to work for bread ? I wish I were in the same
position. Then I should be independent of publishers,
editors, and everybody, and do my work in
my own way and my own time."

*' Yet it must be very pleasant to know that you
are earning your own living. You are sure then
that you are doing something useful, that you are
not throwing your time away. You write, for
instance, and your articles and stories find acceptance.

There must therefore be sore good in them.
I paint and sketch, yet I am never quite sure about
the quality of my work. People praise it, I know ;
some because they think it polite, others because I
am rich, and one or two, perhaps," smiling, " because
they love me."

"You are growing positively cynical, Vera. To
which of these categories do you assign me, may I
ask ? "

Can you ask, Cora ? You are the only person I
know to whom I can open my heart and speak as to
a dear sister — my best, my only friend"' and as
Vera spoke, she took her friend's hand lovingly in
hers.

And for that reason you think I am a partial
judge. Well, perhaps I am. All the same, I feel
quite sure that you are a clever artist, and could, if
it were necessary, make a far better income with
your pencil than I can make with my pen ; and I

think I can prove it to you. I have an idea *'

Yes, what is it ? " "^

I will tell you. You know I am doing a good
deal just now for the great publishing house of Peter,
Paul, and Piper. They bring out whole libraries of
illustrated books and employ quite an army of
artists. Xow, if you will let me, I will show one of
the art editors some of your sketches, and ask if he
can give the sketcher, a friend of mine, some
work."

That will be splendid ! " exclaimed Vera gleefully.
" But you will not tell him "

That you are an heiress. Certainly not ; nor
your name. But what name shall I give ? "

Miss Leonino. I am English, of course, but of
Italian extraction."

Nothing could be better. I will take the
sketches with me tomorrow, and tell you what
Peter, Paul, and Piper say the next time I come."

And let the next time be very soon, 77ia chere
amie, for I shall be impatient both to see you and
hear your news. But I was forgetting ; you have
something to tell me."

Have I ? "

You said so."

Ah ! now I remember. It is about that foolish
cousin of mine. I thought it might interest you to
know, you know "

Yes ! " said Vera eagerly.

That he has lost his situation, and the chance
of earning £500 a year."

Then he is no more editor of the Helvetic
News:'

Only until the arrival of his successor."

I am very sorry. It seemed such a nice position
for him. Why is he giving it up ? "

Cora told her.

*' How noble ! " exclaimed Vera enthusiastically.
He gives up everything — work that he likes, his

<c

means of living — rather than swerve from the path
of honour. I admire your cousin, Cora'

So do I. Yet, all the same, he is a misguided
young man."

In what way ? "

'' Not for sticking to his principles, but for
abandoning the belief in which he was brought up.
Why could he not live and die a Tory, like his father
before him ? He says that foreign travel, his sojourn
in Switzerland, and further thought, have made
him a Liberal. I don't think a sojourn in Switzerland
would make me a Liberal. I love our old
England, Vera ; I am proud of her glorious history
and great renown, of her vast empire and far-reaching
influence. And believing that we are indebted
for all these things to our ancient monarchy and to
the patriotism and courage of our aristocracy, I am
naturally a Conservative. These Radicals would
reform all our institutions out of existence, set up a
shoddy Republic, with perhaps a cotton-spinner for
president, and utterly destroy the continuity of our
national history. I don't understand how Alfred
can be so blind. I only hope that when he comes
back he will see things in a different light, and
return to the political faith in which he was
brought up."

I know so little of English politics that it would
be presumptuous for me to give an opinion," said
Vera quietly ; " but as between monarchies and

republics, my sympathies are certainly with republics."


That is natural enough ; you were brought up
in a republic — a very Conservative one, by the way.
But when you have lived here a little longer, I hope
you will think differently — at any rate so far as
England is concerned — and help me to reconvert
Alfred."

He is coming to London, then ? "
He must ; he has his living to get, you know."
Yes, I know," answered Vera thoughtfully ;
and then taking up her pallet she gave a few
touches to her friend's unfinished portrait.
Cora seemed surprised.
-' I thought you had finished ? " she said.
So I had ; but it just struck me that the shading
of this finger is a little too dark, and I had better
alter it before I forget. . . . Oh ! Cora, dear,"
again laying down her palette, " I feel so powerless
! "

I expect we all do, more or less. None of us,
with our own unaided strength, can effect very
much. But when you say you are powerless, you
mean, I suppose, that you would like to do something.
What is it?"

I would like," said Vera, hesitatingly ; " I
would like so very much . . . How shall I put it ?
I who do nothing, except for my own pleasure,
have wealth and a large income. You have only

what you earn. Your betrothed is a private soldier
in India. You cannot marry because you are poor.
Why should this be, Cora ? Why cannot I share
my fortune with you and make you both happy ?
And there is your noble cousin, who has sacrificed
his prospects to his principles, and may now find it
hard even to live — why cannot I help him ? "

For several reasons. Vera. If I know Alfred, he
is too proud, or, as you would say, he has too high a
sense of dignity and honour, to accept money without
rendering something in return, to become the
pensioner of anybody — at any rate, while he has
health and strength to fight his own way ; and he
believes that he has. And as for George and myself,
we are quite content to wait for better times ; he is
not a common soldier, let me tell you, but a sergeant.
We are both young, and if we are able to
marry in a few years we shall do very well. I
thank you very much for thinking of us, but "

Always those buts," interposed Vera impatiently.
Why need you wait all these weary years ? Let
him come home and I will — what do you call it ? —
make a settlement on you. He can find a career
here."

You are very good, my dear ; but I'm sure
George would not like to leave the army, and I
should not like to ask him. We must wait. I have
enough to keep me, while he with his sergeant's
Indian pay is quite rich."

VOL. ni. 39

I wish I were not quite so rich," returned Vera
with a grieved look. " I said just now that I should
have been sorry for these Calder people to succeed,
and I have so many schemes for the employment of
my fortune, that it would be a real disappointment
to lose it. But if my schemes are all to come to
naught, I do think, Cora, I would rather lose it than
keep it."

Oh, no you would not I "

And I should be saved the worry and the responsibility."


Not by losing your fortune, I hope," said Cora,
rising from her chair as an intimation that it was
time for her to leave. " There is a better way than
that. The burden of a great fortune is almost too
heavy for a young girl, I freely admit. You must
share it with another — one, if he can be found, whose
love for the heiress is as great as his indifference to
her fortune, yet who will give his best energies to its
wise and faithful disposal."

Vera's only reply was a grave shake of the head
and a wistful, almost pathetic smile, as if she deemed
so happy an ending of her trouble too improbable
for discussion.

And to console you a little," continued Cora as
they went towards the door, " I promise that when
George comes home, if we want a little money for
furniture, or that, or any other necessary purpose,
we will make you our banker."

Cora's plan.

Vera and Cora had become fast friends. A mutual
attraction drew them to each other at their first
meeting, and their intimacy had grown with every
subsequent interview. Cora soon saw that albeit
Vera was made so much of by the Leytons and surrounded
by so many luxuries, she was practically
alone in the world, with nobody to warn her against
its temptations and protect her from its dangers,
rendered so much greater in her case by her wealth,
her strange training, and her enthusiastic temperament.
And Cora pitied the girl, taking to her all
the more readily that she, like her, had no congenial
acquaintance of her own age and sex. Vera, on her
part, found in Cora somebody on whom she could
lean, to whom, as she herself said, she could open her
heart, and reveal without restraint her perplexities,
her anxieties, and her troubles. For Cora, though
not very much older than the heiress, knew more
of the world and its ways, while the trials she had
undergone had strengthened her character and made
her thoughtful above her years. Vera could not
have had a wiser counsellor or a more useful *



panton. The elder girl's sound sense and conservative
instincts were the best possible correctives for
her friend's wild theories and too generous disposition.
Her chief fear was that Vera would either be
snapped up by some mere fortune-hunter who knew
how to ape the virtues she most admired, or that,
escaping this peril, she might become the prey of
cunning impostors and scheming philanthropists,
and waste her substance without benefiting her
fellow-creatures. Against these dangers she resolved,
if possible, to guard her, a design in which
she had so far been greatly blessed by circumstances.
Accra's visits to the East End had of
late become much less frequent, partly because
she once or twice had been egregiously taken in,
partly because Sir James Leyton, who viewed
these expeditions with little favour, and was
addicted on occasions to the use of strong language,
roundly declared that, although the trustees would
let her have whatever money in reason might be
needful to keep up her position, they could not
undertake to keep all the beggars in Bermondsey,
and all the thieves in the New Cut. For as Vera
never went on a mission of charity that she did not
empty her purse — often against Mrs. Maitland's
wish — her demands on the trustees assumed alarming
proportions, and she was compelled to hold her
hand. One day, being in the neighbourhood of Pitman's
Eents, they were prevailed upon by a ragged

little girl to see her mother, whom she described as
dying of want. They found the woman and a second
little girl in a den, if possible, more horrible than
any they had yet seen, and Vera's compassion was
excited beyond measure. She gave the usual
sovereign, and promised to come again and make
some permanent provision for the poor creature ; but
before they reached home she missed both her purse
and her watch. Mrs. Maitland insisted on informing
the police, who were not long in ascertaining
that the little girl's story was a wretched fiction,
the dying woman a professional thief, and the whole
affair, as the police put it, " a regular plant."

Vera had been some time in London before it became
generally known where she lived and how
much she was supposed to be worth. For society
papers were not yet. But at length an enterprising
journalist got hold of a garbled version of her story,
and with a few adornments, developed from his inner
consciousness, printed it. As a natural consequence
the poor girl became speedily involved in a portentous
correspondence. Every post brought her
an avalanche of circulars, pamphlets, and letters, all
of them, of course, being appeals for money. Some
of the letters were so pitiful that they wrung Vera's
soul, and if she might have pleased herself she
would have answered every one of them with a
cheque. But at that rate, as Sir James showed her,
she would have got rid of her income, large as it

was (if it had been at her own disposal), in about a
week. And then he introduced his ward to an
officer of the Mendicity Society, who pronounced
nearly all the letters she had received to be the
work of swindlers. In one case — that of the soidisant
widow of a lately deceased clergyman, with
a consumptive daughter and a crippled boy — to
whom Vera had sent five pounds, the society prosecuted
the writer, a burly ruffian who lived on the
fat of the land, to conviction, and made him do a
term of hard-labour.

These two incidents were a sore trouble to Vera,
and, though she did not allow them to make any
change in her ideals, they lessened her confidence in
her own impulses and the soundness of some of M.
Senarclens' theories. For faith in the goodness of
human nature was a leading article in the historian's
creed, and she began to see that among the poor, as
among the rich, human nature had a very base side.
A great many more people seemed to want to get
hold of her money wrongly than to help her to
spend it righteously. In this fact M. Senarclens
would have found further proof of the pernicious
influence of wealth, and the need for its forcible
distribution; but when she said as much to her
friend, Cora observed that even if private property
were an evil —which she was far from admitting — it
by no means followed that robbery was right ; a conclusion
that Vera was too clear-headed to dispute.

Cora's plan for shielding Vera from harm, and
protecting her fortune from matrimonial wreckers,
was to marry her to Alfred Blaine. But in this
there was no self-seeking, no mere desire to promote
her cousin's interest by providing him with a rich
wife. She knew that Alfred was a true man, and
believed that he was developing into a strong one.
She felt as sure that he would make Vera a good
husband as that she would make him a good wife,
and she saw no other way of securing her friend's
happiness. And more than her happiness — the free
growth of her noble nature and attainment of such
of her ideals as experience might prove to be practicable
— for in Yera's character Cora discerned great
possibilities, and was earnestly wishful that she
should turn her opportunities to the best account.
But if the girl remained with the Leytons, above all
if she married Sydney — whom Cora had set down as
frivolous and selfish, if not positively vicious — she
would be rendered powerless for good and her fine
character irretrievably spoiled. It was to hinder
this consummation that Cora had warned her friend
against Sydney, and suggested marriage with a man
worthy of her love as the best means of insuring
her peace of mind and meeting the difficulties with
which she was beset. She hoped that Vera would
see this man in her cousin, for whom she had
evidently a kindly if not even a warmer feeling,
and it would be strangle if Alfred had not a tender

place in his heart for the fair girl whose acquaintance
he had made in circumstances so strange and
romantic. When he came to London she would
bring the two together, and give them every opportunity
to fall in love. And she wanted him to come,
for albeit she had warned Vera against Sydney
Leyton, and Vera was not blind to the latter's faults,
he knew how to make himself agreeable, and saw
her every day, advantages that could hardly be overestimated.
Cora fancied, moreover, from her friend's
manner, that although he might not have actually
proposed he had foreshadowed, in some unmistakable
way, his intention of doing so. This was the only
serious danger Cora apprehended, for albeit Vera
would almost certainly refuse him in the first instance,
importunity might, in the absence of some strong
countervailing influence, ultimately prevail. The
opposition that her scheme, if it were known, would
encounter from Sir James and Lady Leyton concerned
Cora little. She had no idea of taking them
into her confidence ; Vera was growing older everyday
; she would soon be of age, and the girl was of
so loving and constant a temper that if she once
plighted her troth not all the trustees and guardians
in the world would persuade her to go back from her
word.

Much, perhaps everything, depended on Alfred's
speedy arrival.

In the meanwhile one of the events anticipated

by Cora came to pass — Sydney Leyton
proposed.

As touching rising and breakfast the habits of the
Leyton household were somewhat irregular. It was
a long time before Vera could reconcile herself to
getting up at eight and eating an English breakfast
at nine o'clock. At La Boissiere she had hardly
ever been in bed after five, and for some time after
coming to london she awoke regularly at that
hour — sometimes even did so still, and painted or
wrote two or three hours before anybody in the
house was astir, but she gradually fell into the ways
of the family, and now seldom appeared down-stairs
before nine o'clock, when she breakfasted with Sir
James, for Lady Leyton breakfasted in bed, and got
up at eleven. The Knight being mostly in a hurry
to get to business ate quickly, and left Vera to
finish her repast at leisure and alone. For she was
rarely joined by Sydney, and had only the vaguest
idea either when he went to bed or at what time he
rose. But there were rumours in the house that he
sometimes did not come home until four or five
o'clock in the morning, and that Hands (the
butler) often took up his brandy and soda (with
which beverage ]Mr. Sydney generally began the
day) between twelve and one P.M. As, moreover, he
almost always lunched at his club, and frequently
dined out, there were days together when Vera did
not set eyes on the young fellow. Breakfast was

the last meal at which she expected to see him, and
when one morning, shortly after Cora's visit, he
appeared on the scene just as his father's brougham
was leaving the door, she was not a little surprised.
She offered to pour out his tea for him, an offer
which he accepted with an unnecessary profusion of
thanks.

Sydney did not look nearly so well as when he
first returned from his toui^ du moche. His burnt
brick complexion had become the colour of a flagstone
; he had shaved his beard, thereby revealing
a rather retreating chin and an undershot lip. He
had grown thinner, too, and looked both a smaller
man and less manly than of yore. London life was
telling on him.

These were Yera's thoughts as she poured out Mr.
Leyton's tea. She noticed, too, that he seemed preoccupied,
and was less talkative than usual ; which
was perhaps because his father had spoken to him
the night before rather sharply about his lavish expenditure,
and told him that he must pull up and
settle down ; for the old Knight, though rich, had no
idea of letting even his favourite son make ducks and
drakes of his money. This incident had turned the
young man's thoughts to 3Iiss Hardy, and accounted
for his early rising. He knew the coast was more
likely to be clear at that time than at any other,
and he had resolved to make her his wife, so that
he might spend as much money as he liked without

fear of incurring paternal admonition. But he had
not quite resolved how to pop the momentous
question, and though doubting little as to the result
he could not help feeling just a little nervous.
Hence his taciturnity.

Beside Vera's plate was a portentous pile of
letters and circulars, all either containing requests
for money or invitations to patronize something
which involved giving. Most of them, by Sir
James Leyton's advice, were left unnoticed ; the few
to which replies were deemed expedient being
answered by a lithographed letter, in the Knight's
name, to the effect that as Miss Hardy was a minor
she had no money at her disposal for the purpose in
question.

"These people seem to worry you as much as
ever," said Sydney, as he sipped his tea : " why,
you get as many letters as a Minister of State."

'too many. They made me unhappy at first;
but now I am getting used to them. All the same,
they must be looked over, there might be something
important among them — private letters, for
instance — but circulars I throw into my waste paper
basket unopened."

*' They are a great nuisance. You should really
have somebody to take this trouble off your hands,
Miss Hardy," and as he spoke he drew his chair a
little nearer to hers.

I think less of the trouble than of the lost time

and wasted money. The price of this paper and
these postage stamps would keep a poor man a
week. I wonder how much is spent in London
every year in making appeals for charity ? It seems
a great shame."

You are quite right. It is a great shame. And
some of these so-called charitable organizations are
great swindles, kept up solely for the benefit of
officials. They help) themselves, and defraud the
poor — defraud them of some thousands a year. I
sometimes think that I should like to devote myself
to exposing the depredations of these people, and
vindicating the rights of the disinherited."

The chair came still nearer.

*' It would be a noble task," said Vera, rather surprised
at this outburst, for Sydney had delivered
himself with considerable energy.

Let us undertake it together, Vera. Let us
work hand in hand." (Here the chair was drawn
nearer still.) " I know your views, and sympathise
with your aims. More, Vera, I admire you. I love
you with all my heart. I know you are too good
for me, but I will do my utmost to render myself
worthy of the love and confidence — both love and
confidence — which I hope you will not refuse me ; "
and he tried to slip his arm round her waist, but
Vera, pushing her chair back, evaded him.

You act the part very well, Mr. Sydney," she
said, laughing ; " very well indeed."

I do not understand. What part do you mean ? "
he asked, with a nonplussed look.

The part of an enamoured swain."

It is no part at all. I am awfully in earnest,
Vera. I admire you. I love you with all my
heart."

So you said just now. You have had your fling,
then ? "

I beg your pardon, but really you know "

stammered the young man, turning very red.

"I happened to hear you say that you should
not marry until you had had your fling, so I
thought "

That — that was only a joke, you know. But I
am in earnest, real earnest. I am, indeed. Won't
you take compassion on me. Vera ? Ever since we
first met I have admired you. I love you with —
from — yes, from the bottom of my heart. Believe
me, I "

*' I think I have heard something of that sort
before," said Vera, smiling at his confusion. " But
had you not better wait until I am of age and
come into my fortune ? Those Calder people may
possibly go on with the suit after all — and win it."

jNo, they won't," exclaimed the young fellow
eagerly. " I have satisfied myself on that score.
Your fortune is quite safe."

*' I am glad you think so, Mr. Sydney," returned
Vera quietly. But there was a touch of sarcasm in

her manner, and her voice which suggested to Sydney
that he was making rather a mess of it.

I mean — I should love you all the same, fortune
or no fortune," he said desperately. " It is you,
your own precious self, I care for. Will you not
listen to me. Vera ? Won't you say yes ? "

"Not at present. I have not had my fling yet ; "
and with a merry laugh she tripped lightly from
the room.

Confound it," muttered Sydney angrily, " what
a fool I have made of myself! I had no idea proposing
was such a confoundedly awkward business.
What rot I did talk, to be sure ! And that was a
deuced awkward slip about the fortune. However,
she did not refuse me ; that is one comfort. I must
try again. There is nothing like perseverance, my
father says."

DISAPPOINTMENTS.

Before leaving Greneva Alfred Blaine informed
the manager of the Day of his approaching departure,
and that, after a time which he mentioned,
he should be reluctantly compelled to discontinue
his connection with the paper in Switzerland, but he
ventured to express the hope that he might be permitted
to resume it in London.

The reply he received was prompt and gracious.
The manager greatly regretted that Alfred was
leaving Greneva, thanked him for his contributions,
hoped to have the pleasure of seeing him on his
arrival in London, and more than hinted, as Alfred
thought, an intention to give him a permanent
place on the editorial staff.

This letter removed a weight from Blaine's
mind. A position on the Day would be a living
and something more. There was no telling to what
it might not lead, and he probably built more castles
in the air than the circumstances altogether warranted.
Anxiety about his future was dismissed,
and he resolved to travel to England through North

Switzerland and South Germany, do the Thine
country, and possibly see something of Belgium
and Holland. The journey thus lengthened might
cost him a few pounds more, but considering that
he was now almost sure of a place on the staff of
the Day, he felt that he could well afford the outlay,
and it might be a long time before he had
another equally favourable opportunity of enlarging
his experience by Continental travel.

So a fortnight after the arrival of his successor he
took leave of Geneva, and set out on his travels,
first writing to Cora that he should probably reach
London in two or three weeks, but that he could not
quite fix the day, and that she must expect him
when she saw him ; he meant to take her by
surprise.

Blaine enjoyed his tour immensely, especially
in the grand country of the Order Rhone and the
Black Forest ; but it made a larger hole in his
pocket than he had reckoned on, and if he had been
less sanguine about getting a place, the lightness of
his purse would have caused him serious misgivings.
In any case it was only prudent to husband his
resources, so instead of going to a big hotel he put
up at an inn in Finsbury Pavement, which being
recommended to him by one Switzer and kept by
another, was not likely to be very expensive.

The morning after his arrival he went to the
office of the Day, not without a sense of misgiving.

for as the critical moment drew near doubts as to
the issue on which he had hitherto so confidently
counted began to rise in his mind. What if he
should not get a place after all ! And as he had
never before had an interview with so important a
personage as the manager or editor of a great daily
paper, he rather feared this one would be as difficult
to approach as a Minister of State, and as sparing of
words as an ancient oracle. But he had hardly sent
in his card when he was asked to step upstairs and
ushered by a remarkably courteous attendant into
the great man's room. He found in Mr. Nonpareil
a plain visaged, bald-headed gentleman, more than
middle-aged, sitting before a large writing-table
between two huge letter-baskets. As Alfred went
forward to take his outstretched hand, it struck him
that if the famous manager were to doff his coat
and put on an apron, he would be the very head
ideal of a country green grocer. And the manager's
manner was as homely as his appearance. He requested
his guest to take a seat, said how pleased
he was to make his acquaintance, and spoke so
warmly about his services to the paper, that the
young fellow felt quite reassured, and saw himself
in imagination one of the Day's sub-editors or reporters,
possibly a leader-writer, and he had heard
that the pay of a leader-writer was £1,500 a year.
Mf. Nonpareil made many inquiries about Switzerland,
asked his guest's opinion about France and the
VOL. III. 40

probability of a revolution in Spain, and kept him
a long time in talk without once referring to the
subject nearest to his heart. At length Alfred,
unable to bear the suspense longer, answered a not
very clear exposition of the manager's views on the
land question by mentioning that he had come to
London in search of employment, and reminding
him of the hope he had held out of finding him a
place.

"I don't think I said that," replied Mr. Nonpareil,
his manner suddenly becoming hard and unsympathetic.
"I said I should be glad to secure
your services."

I beg your pardon," said Blaine, feeling himself
grow hot all over, " but is not that pretty much
the same thing?"

'* Not at all. I should be glad to secure your
services if it were in my power — if you were to
return to Geneva, for instance, or there was a suitable
opening here. But I am sorry to say there is
not. There is hardly work for the present staff, and
I think we have the names of some fifteen hundred
eligible candidates on our list."

'* No chance for me, then," said Alfred, in a voice
faint with disappointment.

*' I fear not, at present," returned the manager, in
his more kindly manner. " At any rate, not on the
staff. But the paper is always open to you, and any
contributions you may offer will receive favourable

consideration. Should anything arise of a more —
of a more permanent character, I will let you know."

And that is all ! " said Alfred. The words
literally escaped him. They were the involuntary
expression of his thoughts and were no sooner
uttered than he became aware of their impropriety.

"And a good deal, too," returned Mr. Nonpareil
sharply. " There are hundreds of journalists in
London who would only be too glad to be numbered
amongst the Day's outside contributors, and have
their names in my book. What is your address ? I
may have occasion to communicate with you."

Blaine gave him the address of Cora's lodgings
in Bloomsbury, and after a friendly hand-shake from
the manager, took his leave.

It was a terrible blow for the young fellow. His
spirits fell at once below zero, and the confidence
and elation with which he had been rather unreasonably
buoyed up gave place to a sense of
depression more unreasonable stil). He walked
along Fleet Street, looking neither to the right nor
the left, so unconscious of what was passing around
him that, as he crossed over to Chancery Inane, he
narrowly escaped becoming the victim of a reckless
hansom cabman.

The paper is always open to me ! " he soliloquised
bitterly. '' So it is to anybody who can
write a readable article, which takes the editor's
fancy. What a fool I was to take what Nonpareil

40*

said about securing my services an series. It
meant no more than the ' your obedient servant '
with which he concludes his letters, and putting my
name in his book is just humbug. It was a mere
bit of politeness, and I shall never hear from him
again. No more Day for me. And I have barely
fifty pounds left. What shall I do when that is
done ? If I only knew somebody who could give
me a word of counsel or, better still, a few introductions
! "

And then he bethought him of Farley, and
the idea crossed his mind to call on that shrewd and
successful journalist and ask his advice. But the
idea was conceived only to be dismissed. Farley
could neither understand his scruples nor sympathise
with his views, and he would certainly think, perhaps
roundly tell him, that he was an arrant fool
ior leaving \h.e Helvetic Neius, and decline to help
further a man who let principle stand in the way of
advancement. He would go and see Cora. She was
more sensible than a good many men, and a talk
with her might help to raise his spirits.

But another disappointment was in store for him.
He did not find his cousin at home. She had gone
for a few days to Hastings with Mrs. Maitland,
whose labours among the poor had impaired her
health. The maid who answered the bell gave him
Cora's address, and thought Miss Blaine would
be back the day but one following.

It was not much, and Alfred felt vexed with
himself for letting the incident affect his spirits ;
but he could not help it, and his depression became
greater. He had counted so much on a talk with
Cora, and now he should not see her for two, perhaps
for three or four days. But it was his own
fault. Why had he not come straight to London,
instead of fooling away his money in Continental
travel ?

Turning away from Bloomsbury Square, he
wandered mechanically westward, without thinking
whither he was going, and went on till he reached
Hyde Park. By this time he had become tired,
for the day was warm and the flags were hot, so
he sat down on a convenient seat and proceeded
to solace himself with a smoke. But as he was
on the point of lighting up he hesitated. The
contents of his cigar-case were part of a lot he
had brought from Geneva, and though of a
very fair quality, had cost him only ten centimes
each.

Can I afford it ? " he thought. " The next cigar
I buy — whenever that may be — will cost me threepence
or fourpence. I must make this go a long
way, and — yes — I will buy a pipe and a few ounces
of common tobacco. But this must certainly be the
last cigar to-day."

As he threw down his match he happened to lookup,
and saw something which effectually diverted

the current of his thoughts, and put out his pipe
in more senses than one.

Miss Hardy was riding past on a thoroughbred
horse, accompanied by a gentleman equally well-mounted,
and followed by a belted groom. Her
companion seemed to be paying her great attention,
and right well Vera looked. Her cheeks were
rosy with exercise, her eyes sparkled with pleasure,
and her riding-habit set off her fine figure to perfection.
She did not see Alfred, and as she and
her companion cantered towards Rotten Row his
thoughts grew bitterer than ever.

''I do not think she would have noticed me if
she had seen me," he said to himself. " Why
should she ? I am a poor devil of a journalist out
of place and she is a millionaire heiress. True, I
put her in the way of getting her fortune — but
what does that matter ? I wonder if she is engaged
to that fellow. It looks so. He seems very devoted
and she delighted. Taut Tuieux. She is
nothing to me, and never can be. I made up my
mind to that long ago. Why should I let it
worry me ? I won't. I will think about something
else."

A vain resolution. He could think about nothing
else, and so far forgot himself as to smoke a second
and even a third cigar without its once occurring to
him that he was committing an extravagance. But
after a while he came to his senses, and wended his

way towards Finsbury Pavement (an omnibus would
have cost him fourpence), and as a further measure
of economy, he dined at a confectioner's shop on a
cup of chocolate, a chunk of brown bread, and a
lightly boiled egg, by which, as compared with
dining at the Edelweiss Hotel, he saved eighteen-pence,
and spent the evening in smoking a pipe
and making vain efforts to read the evening
papers.

His campaign in London had opened badly, and
he went to bed full of gloomy forebodings, and
passed a restless and dreamful night.

oglethorpe's friend.

The next day Blaine, whose " white night," to
use a French phrase, had still further lowered his
spirits, called on Wanton. The managing clerk,
who did not know he had left Greneva, though
delighted to see him, was beyond measure surprised
to learn that he had severed his connection with the
Helvetic Keivs, and evidently thought him a great
fool for giving up so good a position for so inadequate
a cause.

What difference does it make to you which
side the paper takes ? " he said. " A journalist
should be like an advocate — plead for the side
which I stains him."

Alfred in his depression began to think that
he perhaps had been a fool. So far, at least, ashe
was concerned, honesty did not seem to be
proving the best policy which he could have adopted.
But seeing that Wanton could neither understand
his scruples nor enter into his feelings, he let the
subject drop, and inquired what was the latest news
from Calder.

Saintly Sam and the Hardy Fortune Company
are knocked into a cocked hat," said the clerk gleefully.
*' Ferret is as mad as a meat axe, and the
Hon. Tom thinks he has been regularly taken in,
and would jilt Lizzie if he dared."

They are engaged then ? "

Eather ; and the Hon. Tom is going to stand
for Calder at the next election. He does not like
the idea of losing his share of the fortune though,
and his people don't much like the match, I am
told. But if he does not stand to his guns, Sam
will * breach ' him to a dead certainty ; and Ferret,
you may be sure, would make him pay swinging
damages."

Has the Fortune Company collapsed then ? "

"Not altogether. Sam and Ferret still show
fight. But it is all gammon, and they know it.
Bless you, they haven't a leg to stand on. Even if
they could prove their John Hardy to be the John
Hardy, what would it amount to ? The estate is
distinctly bequeathed to Miss Vera Hardy, and she
will get it, my boy. What will she stand, do you
think ? "

Stand ! What do you mean ? "

How much will she give us when she comes of
age ? It won't be long."

I have no idea, Wanton. But I am sure she
will deal liberally with you."

And you ? You have done the lion's share of

the work, and deserve the lion's share of the
reward."

I won't take a penny from her — not a penny ! "
said Alfred emphatically. " What do you take me
for?"

*' I could tell you," replied the clerk drily ; " but
you might not like it. But I know one thing — if I
were you I would take her. That is the reward you
ought to have."

Don't talk nonsense," said Blaine severely.
How do you like your place ? "

Excellent well. Old Artful is a trump. We
can get on capitally. And there is always something
going on here. It is not like dull old Calder,
and I am better off than ever I was in my life. We
have got a comfortable shanty up dotting Hill way,
and the family seems to have reached its maximum
thank heaven for that ! Won't you come and
take pot luck with us to-night ? Say half-past six.
Mary will be awfully glad to see you. Here is my
address" (exhibiting his card).

The invitation was accepted, and the two friends
spent the evening in talking about Calder and old
times ; Alfred being further entertained with an
amusing narration of Mrs. Wanton's impressions of
London, and an account of the remarkable sayings
and doings of little Tommy, the managing clerk's
son and heir.

On the day following Blaine made another

visit to Bloomsbury Square, and to his great satisfaction
found Cora at home.

Her sharp eyes were not long in detecting the
uneasiness of his mind, and the two had no sooner
exchanged greetings than she asked him plumply
what was wrong.

He told her of his interview with the manager of
the Day, but said nothing of his meeting with
Vera in the Park, albeit, in spite of his utmost
efforts, this incident was causing him much more
disquiet than the other, which, now that he had
taken time to think, he no longer looked upon as
the terrible misfortune it had at first appeared.

Cora laughed.

Why, Alfred," she said, " I gave you credit for
more spirit. The Day is not the only paper in the
world, and you have it all before you — the world, I
mean — and you have time to turn round. Your
money is not all done ? "

*< Nearly," returned Alfred dolefully. " When I
have paid my bill at the inn I shall not have more
than forty-five pounds left."

Forty-five pounds ! Why, what have you to
mope about ? How many scores of thousands are
there in London who, with forty-five pounds would
consider themselves passing rich ; how many who,
to have your youth and health and brains, would
give all they possess ! Forty-five pounds, will keep
you twenty-two weeks — perhaps longer if your are

very careful — and surely by that time you will be
able to make more than a hundred a year. I will
introduce you to Peter, Paul, and Piper. They are
very nice people, and can, perhaps, find you something
to do. And if I were you I should certainly
send some articles to the Bay

"I mean to do," said Blaine briskly. "I
thought at first that Nonpareil's saying the paper
was open to me was, like the rest, a piece of
humbug. But perhaps he meant it. Anyhow I
shall try. There are a good many Swiss papers at
the inn. I fancy Swiss subjects will have the best
chance, and I shall knock a few articles together.
I had better do that than nothing, even if they
should not be accepted."

Decidedly. But you must not stay at the hotel,
cheap as it is. You can find quarters in this
neighbourhood a good deal cheaper — in Regent's
Square, for instance, there are always lodgings tolet.
And I am sure, when you get known — which
will, of course, take a little time, you will do very
well. Why, I am making more than three pounds
a week myself, and you as an experienced journalist
ought to do far better.

'' Experienced journalist ! " returned Alfred, rather
bitterly. " Why experienced journalists absolutely
swarm, the Bay alone has the names of 1,500
applicants on its list."

Yes, and I daresay three-fourths of them are

good for nothing, and never wrote a line, much less
a leader, in their lives, whereas you have won your
spurs and can show excellent credentials. All the
same, I think you have been very foolish — not in
giving up your place if you could not conscientiously
keep it, no true Blaine would do otherwise
— but in deserting the old flag. However, I
will say nothing about that now. But there is no
reason in the world for despondency, or even discouragement."


After some more talk, Alfred set out on his hunt
for lodgings, which he found, as Cora had suggested
he might, in Regent's Square, and a close calculation
showed him that he could live, and not uncomfortably
within the amount she had mentioned — two
pounds a week. Before he went she asked him to
take afternoon tea with her and Mrs. Maitland on
the day but one following.

You will perhaps meet somebody you know,"
she said.

*' Somebody from Calder ? " he asked.

Cora shook her head and smiled significantly.

No. Nobody from Calder. You will see."

He asked no further questions, but he knew what
she meant, and although he kept saying to himself
that Vera was nothing to him and never could be,
and his prospects were not a whit better than they
had been the day before, he went away full of
courage and hope.

After he had arranged about his lodgings Bal-maine
went to the Edelweiss Hotel to pay his bill
and fetch away his belongings. While putting his
papers together he came upon Oglethorpe's letter of
introduction which, until that moment, he had
entirely forgotten. It was addressed to " Abraham
Wilkins, Esq., 55, Leadenhall Street."

I will call with this tomorrow," thought
Alfred. " I don't suppose anything will come of it,
but it would not be courteous to old Oglethorpe not
to present his letter."

Eather to his surprise he found Mr. Wilkins
splendidly installed in an extensive suite of offices,
occupied by troops of clerks. Oglethorpe's friend
was evidently a financial or mercantile swell of the
first water ; but the letter acted as an open sesame,
and Alfred was ushered at once into the great man's
private room. As touching his personal presence,
however, Mr. Wilkins was by no means a great man,
being rather of the Tittlebat Tit marsh order of
creation. But he had a big head on his rather
narrow shoulders, and his keen grey eyes and
massive jaws showed that he possessed in high
measure both shrewdness and strength of will.
His first question was concerning Oglethorpe,
whereupon Alfred told Mr. Wilkins exactly what
his friend had charged him to say.

I am glad he's doing pretty well," said Wilkins,
though dubiously, as if he were not quite sure of



the fact ; " but if he would come here I think he
might do very much better. However, if he cannot
be persuaded, I suppose he must remain where he
is. And now what can I do for you, Mr. Blaine ?
I have no hesitation in saying that in times past I
have been under great obligations to Mr. Oglethorpe,
and if I can oblige you I shall only be too
glad."

Alfred told him frankly that he was a journalist,
very much in want of work.

Well, I can perhaps do something for you,"
answered the merchant, after a moment's thought.
"But not just now. I run down to Liverpool tonight,
and sail for America tomorrow morning."

•' For America ! " exclaimed Alfred in surprise ;
thinking the something Wilkins proposed to do
for him would be a long time in coming to pass.

Oh, that is nothing," said the other smiling.
I shall not be more than four or five weeks away.
When I come back I will drop you a line, and you
will perhaps do me the pleasure of dining with mein
Palace Gardens, Mr. Blaine."

Alfred expressed his thanks and said he should be
very glad, but he went away with little hope of
help from Mr. Wilkins, and resolving for the future
to expect nothing from anybody, and to win success
by his own efforts.

GETTING OX.

Vera was there. The traditional lover is always
supposed to appear at a tryst king-place far too soon ;
but Blaine did not show up at Bloomsbury Square
until several minutes after the time his cousin had
fixed. Truth to say, albeit he felt in his heart that
he loved Miss Hardy, he did not consider himself in
any sense an aspirant for her hand, and greatly
doubting if it would conduce to his peace of mind to
see her again, he hesitated for some time whether to
keep the appointment or not. But he did keep it,
and, despite his doubts, there can be no question
that had he not found Vera at Mrs. Middleton's
he would have been disappointed more thana
little ; for Alfred was not immaculate ; he
had not always the courage of his convictions, and
people in love are seldom consistent.

She greeted him with all the cordiality of an old
friend, and when they shook hands a slight, yet as
Cora, who narrowly watched her, thought a tell-tale
blush overspread her face and neck.

What a long time it is since we have seen each

other ! " she said, dropping inadvertently into a
French idiom.

"It is not so long since I saw you though,"
answered Blaine gaily, for the magic of her
presence and the touch of her hand had for the
nonce conjured away all his prudential resolutions.

'' How — when ? " asked the girl in surprise.

On Monday afternoon in Hyde Park."

Yes, I was out riding with Sydney Leyton on
Monday. But how stupid of me not to see you ! I
am so sorry."

She spoke with evident sincerity; but it did not
escape Blaine that she mentioned her companion
as " Sydney ; " neither did the shade that passed
over his face escape Cora.

What a fine horse you ride, and how well you
ride him ! " said Alfred. " I had no idea you were
such a horsewoman."

Oh, I have learnt that and some other accomplishments
since I came to England. Lady Leyton
insisted on my taking some lessons in equitation,
and Sir James bought me Reindeer. You like
him ? "

Immensely. I saw no handsomer horse in the
park. He is almost as handsome as his mistress."

Come, he is getting on," thought Cora.

Vous me moquez, Monsieur Blaine," said
Vera with a blush; yet she did not seem displeased.
"But you are right about Reindeer. He is a fine
VOL. III. 41

horse, and as good as he looks — as courageous as a
lion, yet as gentle as a fawn. I can rule him with
a word. I think he is as fond of me as I am of
him."

Fortunate Eeindeer ! " thought Blaine.

But, do you know," she continued, "I never feel
quite comfortable when I am out riding."

I am surprised at that. Why ? "

I cannot help thinking of the unfortunates who
have no horses. And when I see some poor old
man or woman trudging along, carrying a big pack
or a huge basket, I almost feel as if I were doing
wrong — that it is they, not I, who ought to have a
horse."

You foolish girl," put in Cora ; " when will you
have done with these nonsensical communistic
ideas ? What could your poor old woman do with
Reindeer if she got him ? Would he carry her and
her basket, do you suppose ? "

Not very well," replied Vera smiling ; " but the
money it cost to buy and keep horses like Eeindeer
would keep a great many old women, ma chere, and
it seems so selfish to be indulging in luxuries when
so many of our fellow-creatures have not even necessaries."


An admirable sentiment. Miss Hardy, but not
to be accepted without a good deal of qualification,"
observed Blaine. " If you, and everybody else
who possesses a cheval de luxe, were to sell them, it

would make little perceptible difference in the sum of
human misery — probably none whatever. And if all
were like-minded, where would you find buyers ?
Thorough-bred horses are not of much use between
the shafts of a cart. You would not like to have
Reindeer shot, I suppose ? "

Quelle horreur I Xo," exclaimed Vera, " not for
the world ! "

Then you or somebody else must keep him, and
if you keep him you may as well ride him. And
in keeping him you help to keep others. Your
groom, for instance, and saddlers, harness-makers,
farriers, farmers, labourers, and no end of people."

*' Perhaps you are right, Mr. Blaine," answered
the girl pensively, " and it is pleasant to think
that keeping Reindeer is not only a pleasure tome
but a benefit to others. I suspect, though "
(smiling), " that a fallacy lurks somewhere in your
argument. I should like to ask M. Senarclens what
he thinks."

Bother M. Senarclens ! " interposed Cora impatiently.
" That man is becoming a perfect
nuisance. And do please cease arguing about a subject
which I am sure neither of you understand.
Let us have some music. I am sure Alfred would
like to hear you play something. Vera. Would you
not, Alfred ? "

Alfred said there was nothing he should like
better, unless it was to hear her sing.

41*

He heard her do both, and, albeit Yera's execution
left something to be desired, which, considering her
opportunities, was perhaps not to be wondered at, she
sang and played fairly — Alfred thought divinely, and
he was enthusiastic in his praises. After a while Cora,
seeing that matters were progressing to her satisfaction,
made an excuse to leave the lovers (as she
already chose to consider them) alone, and they had
a delightful talk about Switzerland, the Jura, the
Alps, and the lake, and Vera took an opportunity of
saying how much she applauded his resolve to give
up his place rather than be recreant to his principles,
on which the young fellow was foolish enough to
think (although he did not venture to say) that her
approval more than repaid the loss and disappointment
he had sustained.

The talk went on a long time, and would probably
have gone on longer if it had not been interrupted
by a loud knock at the door, followed by the
announcement that Sir James Leyton's carriage had
come for Miss Hardy.

When she was gone Blaine asked his cousin
whether he ought not to call on the Leytons.

I would not if I were you," said Cora ; " and I
really do not see why you should."

I am sure I don't want," returned Alfred carelessly.
" They seem to be very grand folks, and
grand folks are not much in my line."

"The Leytons are not, at any rate. They gauge

people by their wealth, and would look upon a poor
journalist as a nobody. As for Vera, you will see
her here. She generally comes on a Wednesday,
sometimes oftener."

Blaine made no answer. For though he had
a strong feeling that the less he saw of Vera the
better — if, as he meant to do, he remained true to
his resolve — he could not bring himself to refuse
the opportunity of meeting her offered by his
cousin, and the following Wednesday, and a good
many other Wednesdays, generally found him in
Bloomsbury Square, and he was seldom disappointed
in seeing Miss Hardy. Sometimes, when the Leytons
chanced^to be out, she spent the evening there,
had high tea, followed by little improvised concerts,
in which Blaine, who sang a good song, took
part ; yet though he fell deeper and deeper in
love, he gave Vera no other intimation of his
feelings than a tender deference of manner and
the homage of an admiration which he could not
conceal.

Cora had meanwhile mentioned his name to her
friends Peter, Paul, and Piper, and the firm granted
him an interview and offered him work. It was
not much — the translation of a French manual
into English — and the pay was not high; for, as
Mr. Piper explained to him, professional translators
work for small pay, and there is generally so little
profit in translated works that publishers cannot

afford a liigti rate of remuneration for them. But
some translators' English is utterly destitute of
style ; and as Alfred wrote forcibly and well, the
firm was willing to give him rather more than the
ordinary rate.

All the same," said Mr. Piper pleasantly, " I
would not ask you to undertake it if you have anything
better to do."

Alfred, frankly admitting that he had nothing
better to do, accepted the offer and did the work
did it so well that Peter, Paul, and Piper gave
him even a pound or two more than the highest
rate they had bargained for, which was so very
unlike a publisher that most people, especially
those who are authors, will probably be disposed to
doubt the statement. But the race of fair-dealing
publishers is not quite extinct, and Peter, Paul, and
Piper never adopted the sharp practices of their less
scrupulous fellow-tradesmen ; such as paying an
unfortunate writer his royalties in a nine months'
bill, or giving him no more for the copyright than
they got from America for the advance sheets — and
their ever increasing prosperity was a proof that
fair dealing is the surest guarantee of success.

For the rest, Blaine worked with all the
energy inspired by the resolution he had taken to
succeed in his calling, and not to be satisfied until
he had attained a position at least equal to that
which he had surrendered. He wrote several

articles every week, which were accepted in the proportion
of about one to three. He made offerings
to sundry journals, sent contributions to magazines,
and proposed papers to the editors of monthly
reviews, who either answered him by a note (lithographed
beforehand), saying they regretted not
being able to find room for his article, or not at all.
Editors of reviews are the most inveterate of
flunkeys ; their contributors must either be lords or
lions," and as Blaine was neither noble nor
famous, he had no chance. All the same, he felt
that he was getting on. By working ten or twelve
hours a day he contrived to earn nearly as much asa
shoeblack or crossing sweeper, and one way and
another he could see his way to the end of the year.
It was not so much that he was badly paid, as that
so many of his articles were either rejected or their
insertion unconscionably delayed.

Cora's Remonstrance.

Vera, albeit more restrained and less impulsive in
her manner than when Blaine had first known
her, was always gracious and friendly, and she
treated him with the unembarrassed frankness of a
sister ; but their relations remained on the old footing,
for though Mrs. Maitland regarded them as
almost affianced lovers, no word of love had, as yet,
passed between them. But this state of things did
not suit Cora's views at all. Delays were dangerous.
Young Leyton might propose a second time ; and
if Vera got it into her head that Alfred did not care
for her, she might be persuaded to accept the other.
If, moreover, it should come to Lady Leyton's ears
that Alfred was a frequent visitor at Bloomsbury
Square, she would of a surety put a stop to Miss
Hardy's visits. Altogether Miss Blaine's matchmaking
scheme was not making the progress she
desired, and being a young woman of resolute will
and earnestly solicitous for the happiness of her
cousin and her friend, she took the former roundly
to task for what she was pleased to call his
stupidity.

I wonder what you are thinking about,
Alfred ? " she said one day, when he put in an
appearance half an hour before Vera was expected,
and an hour before she came.

Whether I shall earn thirty shillings or two
pounds this week, and I can afford myself a new
overcoat," he answered with affected seriousness.

You may afford yourself a good many overcoats
if you will only act as you ought," she said going,
as was her wont, straight to the point.

As how, dear coz ? "

Propose to Vera."

'' That would not be acting as I ought."

Why ? You love her."

Who says so ? "

I say so. Do you think I am blind ? You love
the very ground she treads on."

Well, Cora, I have never had any secrets from
you," returned Blaine gravely, after a long pause,
and I will not deny that Vera is very dear to me.
But what difference does that make ? Here I ama
poor devil of a journalist, earning with the utmost
difficulty thirty or forty shillings a week. How can I
ask a girl with I don't know how much money to link
her fate with mine ? What would the world say ? "

That you were a very lucky fellow."

No ; they would say I was an adventurer, a
fortune-hunter, who had taken a mean advantage
and entrapped Vera into a mesalliance/^

A mesalliance ! The mesalliance would be the
other way. The Balmaines are an old county
family, and poor Vera is literally a girl without a
grandfather."

'' But a ruined family ; and money nowadays
counts for more than blood. Besides, the very fact
of my belonging to an honourable family is another
reason why I should not be guilty of a dishonourable
action."

A dishonourable action ! Do you know, Alfred,
you are talking great nonsense ? How can it
possibly be dishonourable to marry any good girl
whom you love ? What difference can it make in
the point of honour whether she has two hundred or
two million pounds ? "

A great deal. All the same ; it is a matter
rather of sentiment than reason. Others may not
feel as I feel ; chacun a son gout, you know."

"Well, I won't reason with you then. Only if
you are resolved not to marry Vern, you and she
must cease to meet. I cannot let you make a sport
of the poor child's affections."

I make a sport of her affections I What do you
mean, Cora?" exclaimed Alfred aghast.

What I say. Neither more nor less. You do all
in your power to make her love you, and yet you
say you won't marry her."

But she does not love me."

Are you sure of that ? "

Well, I see none of the signs that are supposed
to bespeak love. Nothing could be more frank and
friendly than her manner. To me it seems altogether
too friendly for love. There is none of that
shyness and constraint, that tender embarrassment
and sweet confusion, which young girls who love
always show."

You speak as if you had been reading the subject
up in a sentimental novel ; but you forget that
Vera has not been brought up as other girls ; she
has not the same ideas, and neither shows nor conceals
her feelings in the same way. I certainly
think you are not indifferent to her, and, in my
opinion, you are letting an overstrained sense of delicacy
stand between you and your mutual happiness.
But frankly, I am more concerned for her happiness
than for yours. You are a man and can take care
of yourself, but she is a young girl, placed in a most
invidious and exceptional position. Has it never
occurred to you how great is the risk of her becoming
the victim of some needy and unscrupulous
fortune-hunter ? You, at least, are not a fortune-hunter,
let the world say what it may. Your
scruples are highly honourable, Alfred — that I freely
admit — but in this instance you are mistaken. You
will be doing wrong, very wrong, both to yourself
and her, if you do not marry "

Miss Hardy," said the maid, throwing open the
door, and Vera, stepping into the room, embraced

her friend, and gave Alfred the friendly and unembarrassed
greeting which he had hitherto looked
upon as one of the indications that she did not return
his love. On the other hand, she was less
bright than her wont, had little to say, and as Cora
did not seem to be in her usual high spirits, and
Alfred, absorbed by the thoughts which her remarks
had suggested, conversed with effort, and often at
random, the re-union was less successful than
usual.

On the plea that she had a headache, Vera left
early, and shortly afterwards Alfred, who had several
hours' writing to do before going to bed, took leave
of Cora and Mrs. Maitland and returned to his
lodgings. There he found two letters awaiting him,
both of which, as the sequel proved, were fraught
with important consequences, as well for himself as
for others.

One came from Mr. Wilkins, whom by this time
he had almost forgotten. It was of the very briefest,
containing merely an invitation to dinner and an
expression of regret that, owing to his having been
detained longer in America than he expected, he
had not been able sooner to carry out his promise.

The other letter was from Wanton, and brought
strange news. " Something devilish unpleasant," in
connection with the Hardy Trust, had turned up,
wrote the managing clerk in his own picturesque
style. The company had reopened the campaign,

and this time they seemed to have hit on a real
flaw, which, though it might not make Saintly
Sam's fortune, was like enough, according to present-appearances,
to deprive Miss Hardy of hers. Could
Blaine call at the office on an early day ? Mr.
Artful would much like to see him.

A PLOT.

There used to be a house of entertainment at Paris,
known as the Hotel des Miracles, Rue des Apostles,
names which, since the advent of the Third Republic,
have been changed for others less suggestive
of effete superstition, and more in harmony with
the ideas of an age and a country which does not
believe in anything particular.

The Eue des Apotres, was a narrow street on the
left bank of the Seine, a street of tall houses and
small shops ; the Hotel des Miracles, a narrow building
of five stories, flanked on one side by a wine
shop, on the other by an ancient porte cohere and a
debit de tahac. Behind the double front door was a
recess, wherein slept — with a cord round his arm, so
arranged that nobody could enter without rousing
him — Auguste, the single porter and general factotum
of the establishment ; for Madame Merveille
could not afford — or thought she could not afford —
two porters, and she did not choose to supply the
whole of her twenty or thirty lodgers, some of whom
she hardly knew by sight, with latch keys.

On one side of the entrance passage was a diningroom,
capable of accommodating comfortably a score
or more of diners ; on the other, Madame Merveille's
cabinet, in which she received her visitors and kept
her books. Behind was the kitchen. All the rest of
the house consisted of bedrooms, the Miracles being
both an ordinary inn and an hotel oneuhle. Most of
Madame Merveille's guests were, indeed, lodgers
only. Some of them she seldom saw, except when
they paid their bills — nor always then, for as often
as not they left the money with Auguste, either
before Madame got up or after she went to bed.
But she had also regular pe7isio?i7iaires, whom, being
a good soul and a sensible woman, she treated welland
charged moderately. Boarders, who proposed
to make a long stay, she would rate as low as thirty
or forty francs a week, giving them a good bedroom
on the fourth story, three meals a day, and wine at
discretion. Madame Merveille's liberality in the
matter of wine did not lose her anything, however,
for the more her lodgers drank of it the less they
were likely to eat. She knew that a litre of vin
ordinaire at fifty centimes, taken with a meal, provokes
appetite as little as it promotes digestion.

It is hardly necessary to say that the Hotel des
Miracles was frequented almost exclusively by
Madame Merveille's compatriots, the vast majority
of foreign visitors being as ignorant of the existence
of the Eue des Apotres as was the worthy landlady

of the English tongue. Nevertheless, a few weeks
before Alfred Blaine received the startling communication
from Wanton, mentioned in the foregoing
chapter, three Englishmen, not unknown to
the reader, were under Madame Merveille's roof.

One was Vernon Corse ; the other two were
Saintly Sam and Lawyer Ferret. They were sitting
at one end of the table in the little salle a manger,
which had evidently just been the scene of a repast,
and as the regular diners, according to their wont,
had adjourned to a neighbouring cafe and elsewhere,
the three men had the room to themselves.

This seems a nice little house," Saintly Sam was
saying.

And not half a bad dinner either," observes the
lawyer, sipping his coffee and proceeding to light a
cigar.

I should think so," puts in Corse, '*' you would
have had to pay five francs for such a dinner on
the boulevards, wine not included. But it was not
merely for the sake of economy that I asked you to
come here. It is so much quieter than the big
hotels on the other side of the Seine, and more out
of the way, you know"

And more Frenchy," remarks the chairman of
the Hardy Fortune Company gravely. "When I
am in France I like to be Frenchy. But what are
we here for ? That's what I want to know. You
invited us to meet you on important business connected

with our claim to the Hardy fortune. You
said you had important disclosures to make, which
would insure us getting the fortune. We lunched
at the station at two o'clock; we drove straight
here, and found you waiting for us. You said as
dinner was just ready we had better not go into
business till after. Ferret and me were quite
willing, being uncommonly hungry. But now as
we have satisfied our appetites and all's quiet, let
us go into things without any further loss of time.
Is not that quite right, Ferret ? "

Quite right, Mr. Hardy. And Mr. Corse must
not forget that our time is precious."

Yours is. Ferret, to judge by your bills," returns
Sam, laughing slyly at his own joke. " This
journey will cost a bonny penny, too. However, that
is neither here nor there, if this gentleman will put
us in the way of getting our rights."

I both can and will — on conditions, Mr.
Hardy."

Conditions ! That means brass, I suppose ?
Well, make your proposals, Mr. Corse, and I'll give
you my answer. But first of all, tell us what you
have got to sell — for that's what it amounts to I
reckon."

I can easily do that," says Corse quietly, handing
Sam a cigar and lighting one himself. " Well,
I think I may say I know as much of the ins and
outs of this business as you know yourselves. As
VOL. Ti. 42

for the facts, they are notorious, while as for the
law I have taken advice from a very clever English
barrister, a friend of mine who lives in Paris,
because, like some other people, he finds it a more
convenient place of residence than London. Now
it results from what he says and I know, that
as affairs look at present, you have not a ghost of a
chance "

Come, come ; I am not at all sure about that,"
interrupts Ferret.

But I am, and you know I am right, Mr.
Ferret," answers Corse firmly. " I repeat it, you
have not a ghost of a chance. What does it matter
where old John Hardy came from, or whether he
was Mr. Hardy's grandfather or great uncle, or
whatever else you may call him ? Vera Leonino —
Miss Hardy, I mean — is the heiress. Even if there
was no will, she would inherit, and there is a will,
leaving her everything. And there can be no
question about her being Philip Hardy's child. It
can be proved in half-a-dozen ways."

If that's your opinion, what did you mean by
that letter you wrote us, and what are we here
for ? " asks Saintly Sam angrily.

Wait a minute. Suppose Vera's father and
mother were not married, or, what comes to the
same thing, she cannot prove they were, how
then ? "

Then I do believe we should get the fortune,"

says Ferret. " It is ray sirra conviction we should.
At any rate, she could not get it ; I'd take deuced
good care of that."

But they were married, and I can prove it."

Here Corse pauses for a reply, and the other two
gaze at him in blank amazement.

What the devil do you mean ? " demands
Ferret.

Where is the flaw ? " exclaims Hardy.

I said I could prove it. But nobody else can ;
and if it's made worth my while — do you twig
now ? " asks Corse, leaning back in his chair and
leering wickedly at Ferret through the smoke of
his cigar.

I think T do. But I don't understand how you
can have exclusive possession of the proofs."

I will enlighten you. Philip Hardy was
married at a town called Balafria, in Lombardy.
It was more than half burnt down during the war
of 1859, and the church, public offices, records of
births, deaths, and marriages were utterly destroyed.
But Philip Hardy had taken the precaution to
obtain properly attested and legalised copies of the
documents necessary to prove his marriage. Those
copies were in his possession when he died ; they
are in my possession now."

How did you come by them ? "

That is my business. But I will say this much,
that it was quite by accident."

42*

*' You mean you did not steal them," says the
lawyer bluntly.

No, I did not steal them ; though I do not see
what it would matter to you even if I did."

But how are we to know, first of all, that these
papers are genuine, and, secondly, that duplicates —
certified copies — are not to be obtained at the
place you mentioned just now — Balafria ? "

Firstly, by going with me to the Italian consul,
who will tell you they are genuine ; secondly, by
trying to get certified copies, when you will be told
that none are to be had. If you like I will go with
you to Italy, and you can make personal inquiry on
the spot."

That seems right enough, as far as it goes.
And now we come to the most important question
of all. How much do you want ? "

*' Ten thousand pounds."

Ten thousand devils ! " exclaims Saintly Sam,
startled by Corse's modest demand into unwonted

coarseness of language. " I'll see you Come,

Ferret, let us go. He's mad."

If he be in earnest he is ; but maybe he is not.
Do you really mean, Mr. Corse, that you expect us
to give you ten thousand pounds for these certificates
? "

Certainly, and they are cheap at the money.
The other side would give me ten times as
much."

'* Why don't you treat with the other side,
then ? "

"Because I don't want Miss Hardy to get the
fortune. She would marry that scoundrel Blaine,
and I hate them both. However, that is nothing
to you. Will you give ten thousand for two
millions or not ? "

Yes, and as much more as you say the other
side will give, if you will insure us getting the two
millions."

"Why, you said just now that if Vera could not
prove she was born in wedlock you were absolutely
sure of getting it."

I said it was my firm opinion we should. It is
my opinion still. But I am not infallible. The
Court of Chancery might not take the same view of
the case. There is always the glorious uncertainty,
you know. And assuming that all you say is true,
how can we tell that there does not exist somewhere
a second attested copy of the marriage register ?
Suppose, for instance, that Philip Hardy had it in
duplicate, and the duplicate should be found among
his father's papers, or in possession of some of his
wife's kinsfolk — how then ? "

That is impossible."

Not a bit of it. Missing documents are apt to
turn up unexpectedly sometimes. Anyhow, the
contingency is to be taken into consideration, and
though the papers you have got hold of may have

a certain value, they are not worth anything like
the value you put on them."

How much will you give then ? " asks Corse,
lowering his tone. He found that this rough
Lancashire lawyer was not quite so easily to be
imposed upon as he had thought.

What do you say, Mr. Hardy ? " says Ferret,
turning to his client. " Would you give a thousand
supposing, of course, all as this gentleman says
can be proved ? "

No ; I would not. In my opinion five hundred
would be twice too much. But we will say five
hundred ; and one way and another the risk is so
heavy that I don't much care whether Mr Corse
takes it or not."

Five hundred — only five hundred pounds ! "
exclaims Corse, now in his turn moved to indignation.
" I'll see you both hanged first."

Thank you. I think we are quite as likely to
see you hanged first, Mr. Corse. You refuse our
offer then ? In that case we may as well go back
tomorrow, Mr. Hardy."

Corse reflected. It is mortifying to get only five
hundred pounds when you have been expecting ten
thousand, and counting confidently on five. But
five hundred is a nice sum, and Corse was in need
of money. As for the other side, his story about
revenge was only half true. Revenge may be sweet,
but hard cash is sometimes sweeter ; and Corse had

written to Artful and Higginbottom, offering to sell
them *' some very important information relating
to the Hardy Trust ; " but as Artful knew him to be a
scoundrel, and would not have believed him on his
oath, he left the letter unanswered. For this rebuff
Corse owed the lawyer a grudge, and the desire
to be even with him " and " put a spoke in Bal-maine's
wheel" at the same time, was, probably,
not without its influence in deciding him to
accept Sam Hardy's offer. In any case he did
accept it — after a short wrangle and a vain attempt
to get more.

I know I am a fool for making such a bargain,"
he said, '' and if it was not that I want so much to
serve those beo^orars out I would not take a centime
less than ten thousand."

We have nothing to do with your motives, Mr.
Corse," answered Ferret curtly, " but the more I
think about it the more I feel sure that five
hundred is more than enough. How can we tell
as these documents are not forgeries, after all ? Such
things have happened."

Do you think I am such a scoundrel ? " began
Corse furiously. " Let me tell you "

Come, come, there is nothing to get into a
passion about," interrupted the lawyer. ** I did not
say it was so ; I merely suggested the possibility
of such a thing. I think we may look upon this
business as being settled, Mr. Hardy — subject, of

course, to the proofs promised by Mr. Corse proving
satisfactory."

That's the main point, I reckon. Let us make
as sure as we can, whatever else we do. It's a good
lump is five hundred pounds."

Yes ; we shall have to make a trip to Italy, and
the sooner we start, I think, the better."

This idea was at once acted upon. They started
the very next afternoon, and ten days later Corse
received a draft on London for the sum in question —
after giving up Philip Hardy's marriage certificate,
which Mr. Ferret very carefully burnt.

A HAPPY THOUGHT.

When Blaine called on Mr. Artful, as he did the
very next day after receiving Wanton's letter, the
nature of the flaw in Miss Hardy's case, discovered
by the Hardy Fortune Company, and of which they
seemed determined to take every advantage, was fully
explained to him. *' There could be no question," he
said, " that Philip Hardy and Yera's mother were
really married, and that Vera was born in wedlock.
This, Philip's letters to his father, announcing his
marriage and the birth of his daughter, together
with the evidence of Martinoo and Grabrielle Courbet
abundantly proved — from a moral point of view;
and if there were no opposition to Yera's claim, the
Court of Chancery and the trustees would doubtless
consider these proofs as sufficient. But in the event
of her legitimacy being disputed — if it were asserted
by parties claiming to be John Hardy's legal representatives
that she was born out of wedlock, then it
would be necessary to prove the marriage strictly,
either by producing a properly certified copy of the
marriage register, or witnesses who could testify

that the union had been solemnized in accordance
with the laws of the country where it took place.

In anticipation of this difficulty Mr. Artful had
some time before requested the British Consul at
Milan to procure and forward him this essential
document, but he was informed in reply that all
the public records of Balafria (where Mr. and JNIrs.
Hardy were married), having been destroyed during
the war of 1859, his request could not be complied
with. This was unfortunate, but as the Hardy
Fortune Company seemed to have given up the
contest, and no other claimants were forthcoming,
he had assumed that they (the trustees) would have
a walk over and given himself no further concern in
the matter. Now, however, that their opponents
had thrown down the glove — in other words filed a
bill — and openly challenged Vera's legitimacy, it
had become necessary to act with vigour and
despatch.

"I suppose they have found out that no certificate
is producible," said the lawyer ; " how, I
cannot conceive. In any case, it is a dirty trick
and quite like that rascal Ferret. But these Calder
people can take nothing by their motion, for even if
they should succeed in depriving Miss Vera of her
fortune, they will not get it. I can promise them
that. And they are, perhaps, counting without
their host, after all. There were witnesses of the
marriage, of course. We must try to find them."

And that would do as well ? '

Quite as well."

Don't you think Ferret knows all this ? "

Of course he does. But he wants to run up a
big bill of costs, and so advises his clients to fight,
even though he knows that, whatever may be the
issue, they have not the ghost of a chance. But the
great point now, so far as we are concerned, is to
hunt up the witnesses of the marriage. Will you
undertake the task ? "

Gro to Italy, you mean ? "

"Yes; you are just the man. You know the
case, you know the ground, and you know what we
want. Will you do it ? You may name your own
terms."

Very well ; I will go and do my best'' said
Alfred, after a moment's thought. " When would
you like me to start ? "

This time Blaine did not refuse payment. The
world's buffets were beginning to wear off the edge
of his Quixotism, and he really could not afford to
throw away several weeks' time, even in Vera's
service, or rather in the service of the Hardy fortune,
which, as likely as not, would never be hers.

When would I like you to start," repeated the
lawyer. "Well, I don't know that there is any
particular hurry. Say in a week's time. Will that
suit you ? "

Perfectly."

"In that case we may consider the matter as
settled. Look in between this and next Monday and
I will give you your instructions, and what is quite
as necessary, a supply of cash. These people have
fired the first shot — filed their bill — but we need not
put in an answer just yet. When we do, it will be
to pray the court to administer the trusts of the
will."

But that will be a surrender, won't it? "

Oh dear, no. The court will review the facts and
decide the case on its merits. The Calder Company
will produce their proofs — if they have any — and
their supposed claim will doubtless be urged by
competent counsel. We shall, of course, represent
Miss Hardy, and I have no doubt that, whatever
may be the issue, the Vice-chancellor will allow the
costs out of the estate."

Blaine did not say, albeit he thought, that
Ferret was, perhaps, not the only solicitor in the
world who liked to make a big bill of costs. Neither
did he hint to Mr. Artful that the prospect of Vera
losing her fortune was far from displeasing to him.
In point of fact, he left the office in Lincoln's Inn
Fields in a happier frame of mind than he had known
for many a day. It was probably this serenity of
spirit that suggested a happy thought — and happy
thoughts are often more fruitful in results than hardwork.
As he turned into Fleet Street it occurred to
him that it might not be amiss to call on the

manager of the Bay, tell him that he was bound for
North Italy, and ask if he could do anything for the
paper there. He by no means anticipated a favourable
answer, but there was just the off-chance that it
might be favourable ; if it were not, he would be no
worse off than before.

Mr. Nonpareil received him somewhat less cordially
than on the occasion of his first visit. The manager
was evidently both very much occupied and preoccupied.
Blaine seeing this, explained his business
in the fewest possible words.

Going to North Italy, are you ? " said the
manager. " Well, we have no correspondent there,
and if anything should occur — anything very particular,
you know — you might send us an account of
it. But you had better see the editor. He may,
perhaps, suggest something. You know him, of
course ? "

Only by name."

*' Indeed ? Well, I will send in your name and
tell him you will call this evening — shall we say
nine o'clock ? Grood. The porter below will tell
you how to proceed."

On this Blaine made haste to take his leave,
and when he got below addressed himself to the
porter for an explanation of the manager's rather
enigmatic instructions. Obtaining access to the
editor of the Day seemed to be an undertaking of
some difficulty. He was first of all to knock at a

certain door in the court, pointed out by the porter,
and ask if ]Mr. Manifold was in the office. Should
the answer be in the affirmative, Blaine must cross
to a door on the opposite side of the court, press a
button, the position of which the porter minutely
described to him, and when the attendant came hand
in his card. He would then, if Mr. Manifold was
able to see him, be favoured with an interview.

All this Alfred did. He knocked at one door,
and after ascertaining that the manager was in,
pressed the button of the other, whereupon it was
slowly and cautiously opened and he was let inside.

You want to see the editor ? " said the attendant,
and without waiting for a reply, led the way up a
broad flight of stone steps, then along a corridor to a
door, which, throwing open, he told Alfred to be
pleased to take a seat until the editor came, and incontinently
withdrew. It was a large, well-furnished
room, with sofas, easy chairs, a long table, and a
handsome bookcase — not in the least like the " den "
of the traditional editor.

Alfred sat down in the twilight, feeling almost as
if he were engaged in some conspiracy, and wondering
what like was the man who forged the thunderbolts
of the Day and wielded the power of a minister
of state, how he would be received, and thinking
what he should say. He had ample time for reflection.
Mr. Manifold did not put in an appearance for a full
half-hour, and when he did come the door opened so

quietly, and he entered so softly, that before Bal-maine
became aware of the editor's presence he was
half-way across the room.

How do you do, Mr. Blaine ? "

The great editor spoke as softly as he walked — a
man of middle age and middle height, with a high
forehead, a pale, intellectual, weary face, bent
shoulders, and " a frosty pow." He looked to Alfred
like an overburdened Atlas, a mentally strong man,
perhaps, yet whose physical strength was not equal
to his day.

I'm glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Bal-maine,"
he said. " Your letters from Geneva were
very good. I am sorry for our sake that you have
left. What can I do for you ? "

Alfred told him of his proposed journey to
Italy.

Well, if you can find any good subjects, and send
us a few letters, I will do my best to use them.
Italy is always interesting, and I think the time is
not far off when she will complete her unity by the
redemption of Some. France and Prussia are ready
to fly at each other's throats, and when they do, the
Temporal Power must come to an end."

You think there will be war then ? "

I look upon a war between France and Prussia
as inevitable. France cannot lose her supremacy in
Europe without a struggle. The unification of
Germany would be fatal to her supremacy, and

Napoleon will try at all hazards to hinder its consummation.
Yes, sooner or later, and rather sooner
than later, we shall have a European war."

As he spoke the editor rose from his chair, and
Blaine taking this as a hint that the interview
was at an end, " made his adieux."

He went away in good spirits. Something might
come of the interview after all, for it would be
strange, indeed, if he could not find matter for a few
letters in North Italy, letters which might possibly
lead to a permanent connection with the paper.
Blaine having a sanguine temperament could not
help being hopeful, any more than he could help
being unduly depressed under disappointment, for
one extreme begets another. Circumstances in the
present instance did not, perhaps, justify great
expectations ; but when, two or three days later, he
dined with Mr. Wilkins, that gentleman made him
a proposal which offered tangible grounds for encouragement.
It was to take the editorship of a
monthly commercial and financial magazine, *' to be
run," as Mr. Wilkins put it, in connection with a
similar undertaking in the United States.

But I know so little about commerce and
finance," said Blaine.

You will soon learn," was the answer. " I can
get you facts and information. You will only have
to put them into shape. It will not take very much
of your time."

The salary was to be two hundred a year, and, as
the enterprise could not be launched for two or
three months, there would be ample time before its
inception for the contemplated journey to Italy.
Alfred, of course, accepted the offer with both hands,
and went away as much rejoiced as if he had come
into a fortune as big as Vera's, or that which ought
to be Vera's. With two hundred a year and his
other earnings he would be almost as well off as
if he had retained the editorship of the Helvetic
News. Cora, whom he saw on the following day,
though she congratulated him, did not seem
so much surprised at his rise in life as he had
expected.

Of course you will get on," she said, " better, I
dare say, than if you had stayed at Greneva. But
what a terrible thing this is about poor Vera and
her fortune ! I declare I am quite ashamed of
Older. Saintly Sam is a wretch, and Ferret a
villain. They cannot get the fortune themselves
and they are trying to take it from Vera ! But I do
hope they won't succeed ! You must find these
witnesses, Alfred."

What does Vera say about it ? "

Xot very much. She will be here soon and you
can ask her yourself."

Cora, as Alfred had already discovered, was not in
the most serene of tempers. Truth to say, she was
greatly perplexed by the turn things were taking.
VOL. III. 43

For months she had been trying to make Vera and
her cousin fall in love with each other, and now
when the goal was in view and she had almost
persuaded Alfred to propose, came this stroke of the
Fortune Company; and though she hoped for the
best, she could not conceal from herself that her
friend was in imminent danger of being reduced to
penury. Cora, though not mercenary, was essentially
practical, and being blessed with a more than
average share of common-sense, it seemed to her
that in the changed condition of things it would be
nothing less than a misfortune for Alfred and Vera
to become engaged. How could her cousin, with
the two hundred a year, of which he was so proud,
and a few pounds more, precariously earned, keep a
wife ?

Yet with the proverbial perversity of lovers,
they would probably regard the present as being an
especially propitious time for an exchange of vows
and the swearing of everlasting constancy. But
what could she do, without laying herself open to
the imputation of being actuated by unworthy
motives, to avert this consummation ? And was not
she herself, a poor girl, engaged to a poor man ?
Taking all this into consideration, Cora came to
the sensible conclusion to let matters take their
course.

"I have meddled and muddled," she thought,
and, perhaps, if I meddle any more I shall only

make the muddle worse. I'll leave it to Providence.
People who do not possess the gift of foresight have
no business to weave elaborate schemes for the
benefit of their friends. They may not prove
beneficial after all."

43'

Blaine PROPOSES.

The cousins were still discussing the iniquities of
Saintly Sam and his familiar spirit, as Ferret was
called at Calder, and the chances of the chancery
suit, when Miss Hardy was announced. She did not
appear to be much concerned, while, as for Alfred,
his spirits seemed higher than ever. A bad sign,
thought Cora. She knew her cousin's impulsive
nature, especially in affairs of the heart ; and
remembering how easily declarations were made she
feared the worst. As ill-luck would have it, too.
Vera had hardly come in when Miss Blaine was
called out. No invented excuse this time, but a call
of real necessity. The cook had scalded her foot
and fainted. There was a terrible hurry-skurry in
the kitchen, and in the absence of Mrs. Maitland
Cora was compelled to descend to the basement and
take the part of mistress.

Are you very much concerned at the turn things
have taken. Miss Hardy ? " asked Blaine rather
vaguely when they were alone.

About the poor cook, you mean ? Yes, I am
very sorry. I fear her foot is badly scalded."

No, I don't mean about the poor cook. I mean
about the Fortune Company, and the possibility
that "

"The fortune will never be mine," said Vera,
finishing the sentence. " Yes, for some reasons I am
very sorry. I shall have to abandon plans on which I
had rather set my heart ; and I must give up
Eeindeer — poor Eeindeer ! What will become of
him, I wonder ? " sighing.

Happy Reindeer," thought Alfred.

But I am far more glad than sorry, Mr. Blaine,"
she added with brightening eyes, and a look that
confirmed her words.

Grad to lose a fortune of two millions ! How
many there are who would give their very souls fora
few years' enjoyment of such wealth."

They are very poor creatures then. They can
never have known what it is to be rich."

That is very probable, I think. They would
like to know, though. And if the wealthy did not
find that their wealth gives them more pleasure
than pain they would not cling to it so tenaciously."

They have perhaps never known what it is to be
poor," said Vera mock seriously.

"Perhaps not," returned Alfred with a smile.
All the same, it is not pleasant to be poor, or to
feel that you are in danger of being poor. But, do
you know, I think people are none the worse for
feeling, once in their lives, the pinch of poverty.

The experience enables them to sympathise all the
more with those who are less well off than themselves.
It makes them more generous too ; for, if
you notice, our greatest public benefactors are
generally men who have risen, and who some time
or other have known what it is to be poor. If you
hear of anybody giving or bequeathing a large sum
of money for the promotion of learning or the
relief of poverty it is almost sure to be a self-made
man, hardly ever a great noble or wealthy
squire. The millionaire pill-maker who died the
other day is said to have given and left more than
half a million for charitable purposes ; but the
banker-peer who died at the same time, and was
worth six millions, did not leave a pound of it for
any higher object than the aggrandisement of his
family."

I don't much admire pill-makers," said Vera,
but I honour that man far more than the peer.
The peer was an egotistical wretch ! "

I would not say that. He was selfish certainly,
but he acted according to his lights. He had never
gone through a course of poverty. I don't mean
penury. And you. Miss Hardy, if you had been all
your life cradled in luxury, and brought up as a
great heiress, would not have looked upon your
fortune as a responsibility too heavy to be borne."

Thank Heaven, I was not. I would rather be a
Vaudois milkmaid than a great heiress."

There, I think, you are wrong. For a great
heiress may, if she likes, become a milkmaid, but a
milkmaid cannot very well become a great heiress.
The one has a choice of destinies which the other
does not possess. Neither am I sure that the lot
even of a Swiss milkmaid is altogether to be desired.
In summer time and fine weather it is all very well
poetic, romantic, and healthy — but in winter, I
should think, the calling has its drawbacks. And, I
fancy, milkmaids have not much opportunity for the
cultivation of literature and art, and you love literature
and art, Miss Hardy."

How practical you are, Mr. Blaine. But you
misunderstand me. I meant that I would be rather
brought up as a Vaudois milkmaid than as great
heiresses are generally brought up. You speak of
literature and art. Well, I have met at the Leytons
some girls who are said to be very rich, and I am
sure they have fewer ideas than any milkmaid in our
commune."

And what arrangement could be more admirable
? " returned Alfred with assumed gravity.
Dame Fortune is much less capricious with her
gifts than we sometimes give her credit for being.
She gives Swiss milkmaids ideas and idealess English
girls money. It is only rarely, as in your case, that
she bestows on the same fortunate maiden both
money and ideas."

You are in a merry humour, I think, Mr. Bal-maine.

Fortune is capricious whatever you may say.
And I'm not the exception you would make me.
You are pleased to say I have ideas, but I have not
the money — that is as good as gone."

Not yet ; and it may not go. You are still the
heiress presumptive, and if I can find the priest who
married your father and mother, or one of the witnesses
to the marriage, as I hope to do, you will bethe
heiress in fact."

You hope to find them — really now ? " and she
looked straight up to him as if she would read
his thoughts. She was sitting on a low chair knitting,
an accomplishment in which, like most Swiss-bred
young women, she excelled ; he on a higher
one not far from her.

What did she mean ? Had she guessed ? Could
Cora have told her ?

I shall do my best to find them as in duty bound.
But "

She looked down again, and went on with her
knitting. Alfred's heart beat wildly, and for a
minute or two neither spoke a word.

Vera was the first to break silence, but only by
a single word — " Yes ? " the " Yes " interrogative
not affirmative. It was an invitation to Blaine
to complete his sentence.

I should be glad not to find them if I thought —
if I thought — if I thought " (impetuously) " that
you love me as I love you. Vera."

He did not intend to speak thus ; the avowal being
uttered, as it seamed to him, without any volition of
his own.

'* And whom should I love if I love not you ? she
returned in a low yet collected voice. " Have you
not always been good to me, rendering me many
services and placing me under great obligation ?
and have you not always shown yourself chivalrous
and high-minded ? In that so like M. Senarclens,
though in many things so different, caring more for
high principles than material advantage."

"And, then, you do love me, dear, dear Vera ? "
exclaimed Alfred in an exultant voice, taking her
unresisting hand in his.

Have I not said so ? Yes, I love you, Alfred
Blaine, and you are mine and I am yours until
death do us part — n'est ce pas ? "

It is so. But "

*but?"

I mean that though I love you more than I can
tell, the avowal was made on the impulse of the
moment. I had made up my mind to keep my love
to myself, lest people should say that it was mercenary
love, and that I cared more for your fortune
than yourself."

What, Alfred Blaine ! " she exclaimed, rising
from her chair with an indignant gesture, " do you
know me so little as to suppose that I heed what
people say, or that I would not, if you asked me,

give this fortune away — scatter it to the four winds
of heaven ? "

I did not know that you loved me then, dearest,"
said Alfred, putting his arms round her, and sealing
their betrothal on her lips.

"But you know now," she answered smiling, as
she pushed back the curls from his forehead and
looked lovingly into his eyes. " And were you not
just a little selfish in hiding your love because you
feared to share my lot ? "

Feared ? "

Yes, you were afraid of what people would say.
I have a strong persuasion that the fortune will
never be mine ; but if it should, you will help me to
bear the burden, will you not ? With your help I
do not think I should feel it to be a burden. You
will not mind what people may say, now?" A
strong emphasis on the " now ! "

Now that I know you love me," returned Alfred
passionately, " let them say what they like. And
perhaps, after all, I was wrong in resolving not to
speak to you of my love, but I thought it my duty.
I could not bear the idea of being considered
a fortune-hunter — perhaps by you, certainly by
others."

It is as Cora says ; you are too sensitive on the
point of honour — too Quixotic ; or is it pride ? "

•' Perhaps. And Cora — did she ever hint ? You
know what I mean — she guessed my secret ? "

"Your cousin has always been good and kind,"
answered Vera evasively, " and very anxious to promote
your happiness and mine ; but don't tell her
of this, nor anybody else."

"sot tell Cora!"

"Not just now. Leave that to me. And as you
are going to Italy so soon, and may be away for
some time, it would be well, I think, to keep our
betrothal a secret for the present."

Your will is my law. Vera. And there is another
reason for keeping it to ourselves. You may be
made a ward in Chancery, and it might not please
the Lord Chancellor to sanction our engagement."

But when I am majeure ! "

*' Then you will be your own mistress. How do
the Ley tons take the change in your prospects ?
Are they as kind as they were ? And you "

*' There is somebody coming ! " interrupted Vera,
withdrawing from his side and sinking into her
settee.

The next moment the door opened and Cora appeared
on the scene.

It is not so bad as I thought," she said, " Jane
was more frightened than hurt. Fancy a big stout
girl like her fainting because some not very hot
water fell on her foot ! And what have you been
talking about all this time ? "

I was just asking Miss Hardy how the Leytons
take the change in her prospects," replied Blaine

carelessly ; " if they are as kind as they were when
she was regarded as an undoubted heiress."

The very question I was going to ask her myself.
It must make a difference. If the Leytons are not
kind to you, dear — if you are not comfortable — you
must come here. Make your home with us, Nothing
would give Mrs. Maitland and me more pleasure."

A thousand thanks, Cora dear. You are really
too kind ; and I need hardly say that I would rather
be your lodger than the Leytons' guest. But I do
not feel that I ought to leave them just now, even
if I could — as to which, being a minor, I am not
quite sure. Whatever may be their motive. Sir
James and Lady Leyton have been very kind to me,
and are so still. When Sir James told me of what
he called the weak point in my armour, which the
Fortune Company have discovered, I said at once
that I must set about earning my own living. But
he would not hear of it — seemed almost angry
indeed — and said that until the court decides otherwise
I am the heiress and his ward and must remain
his guest. I have, therefore, no alternative. But
once the case is decided against me, and I think it
will be, I shall certainly come away. I could not
bear to be dependent on the Leytons — nor on anybody
else."

You are quite right. You have no need to be
dependent on them," said Cora warmly. " Have
you any idea how soon you will know your fate ? ''

No ; but I hope soon. I have asked Sir James
that no unnecessary delays may be interposed, and
he has promised that he will use his influence in
that sense with Mr. Artful."

And so the talk went on, but not for very long.
The carriage came earlier than usual. There was
to be feasting that evening in Grrosvenor Square, and
Lady Leyton had asked Vera to be back in good
time. So she went out of the room with Cora " to
put her things on." When the two returned, a few
minutes later, Blaine saw at a glance that his
cousin knew all.

Well, you are a nice pair," she said, in spite of
her doubts pleased, though dubious withal as to the
prudence of an engagement in present circumstances.
You choose the very moment when one is suffering
from a reverse of fortune and the other is perhaps
on the point of losing her inheritance, to become
engaged ! All the same, I am very glad, and wish
you every happiness. But how do you propose to
keep a wife, Alfred ? "

I think I can," was the confident reply. " I am
not doing badly, and you said only just now that you
thought I should do well."

*' Always sanguine," put in Cora with a smile."

*' You forget me, I think, Miss Blaine," exclaimed
Vera proudly, and with more than pretended
warmth. " Whatever happens, I shall not be
dependent on Alfred. Do you forget what that nice

gentleman — Mr. Roberts isn't his name — at Peter,
Piper, and Pepper's said when you introduced me
to him as Miss Leonine ? He said I could easily
earn five or six guineas a week with sketches.
There now ! "

"And if the worst comes to the worst," added
Alfred gaily, "we can do as you and George are
doing — wait and hope."

FAILURE AND SUCCESS.

The Leytons were not, as may be supposed, altogether
disinterested in refusing to let Vera go.
Their motives were rather mixed. They felt
instinctively that it would look mean, and expose
them to unpleasant remark, if they turned their
backs on the girl the moment her prospects
worsened — after they had made so much of her
too. Then, again. Lady Leyton, in her selfish,
indolent way, liked Vera — her presence made the
house brighter, and it was pleasant to have her to
talk with and read aloud, take her on shopping
excursions, and consult on the all-important question
of dress, for Lady Leyton had discovered that her
young guest was gifted with exceptionally good
taste. It had even occurred to her ladyship that if
Vera should lose her fortune it might be well to
engage her as a permanent companion and secretary
at a good salary, of course, for the Leytons were
not stingy people. The arrangement would both
contribute to her own comfort and gain her credit
with her friends generally and the world at large.
Sir James had also a personal reason for^desiring

to keep Vera. He hated to breakfast alone, and if
she went away that would be his fate for at least six
mornings in the week.

Husband and wife of course talked the matter
over.

It is very well," said Sir James, after they had
arrived unanimously at the conclusion that Vera
should continue as their guest and be treated — for
the present at least — as she had been. " It is very
well that Sydney has not made any advances — and
I rather pressed him to do."

I look upon it as quite providential," answered
the lady. " Of course he won't think of such a
thing now."

Of course not. Trust Syd ; he is too wideawake
for that. I wish he would get done sowing his wild
oats though."

Marriage would steady him, don't you think ? "

Very likely. But wait a bit. Vera will perhaps
get her fortune after all. It will be an infernal
shame if she does not."

The worthy couple little thought that their son
had proposed to Vera twice and been refused each
time.

Sydney Leyton was far from being a man of noble
nature ; but even ignoble natures may have generous
impulses. He felt his first repulse keenly, for
though he did not love Vera passionately, he liked
lier well, and respected her even more than he liked

her; and he inferred from her manner when he
made his first proposal that she rather despised him.
So when he heard that she was likely to be bereft of
her fortune he resolved to ask her a second time to
be his wife, if only to show her that he was not the
frivolous fortune-hunter she thought him. If she
accepted him he would stand to his guns, whatever
his father and mother might say, and if she did not
he would have the satisfaction of knowing that he
had behaved well and deserved Vera's good opinion.

She refused him, as he had rather feared — perhaps
if he had analysed his motives rigidly he would have
said hoped — but in a very different fashion from the
first time — seriously, and with many expressions of
sympathy and regret. She could not love him, she
said — from no fault of his — and to marry a man
whom she did not love would be a double wrong, a
wrong to him and a wrong to her ; but she should
always take the warmest interest in his welfare, and
hoped to see him one day a Member of Parliament
and a great man.

It is probable that the refusal so graciously given
pleased Sydney quite as much as an acceptance
would have done. He expressed a hope that they
should always remain firm friends, and assured Vera
that he would do his very best to protect her
interest and defeat the machinations of Saintly Sam.

It was partly out of consideration for Sydney that
Vera wanted to keep secret her betrothal to
VOL. III. 44

Blaine. It might hurt his feelings, she thought,
if he were to know that almost the day after she
refused him she had accepted another.

Before Alfred left for Italy the lovers had one more
stolen interview — short but sweet — contrived by
Cora. It was agreed that during his absence, which
he was to make as short as might be, they were to
write to each other as often as possible.

Write to me at Grosvenor Square," said Vera ;
I have so many letters that one more or less will
never be noticed, and nobody but myself so much as
glances at the outside of them."

And so they parted, and Blaine went on his
way ; but his second visit to Italy was no more successful
than his first had been. He made first for
Balafria, where Philip Hardy and Vera Leonino
were married, and knowing from the former's letters
to his father the date of the marriage, he had no
difficulty in ascertaining who, at the time in question,
was the parish priest. Everything depended on his
finding this man, for if he had not himself solemnised
the marriage, he would doubtless know who had.
But Alfred failed to find him. After the war and
the fire Father Ariosto — for so he was called — had
gone to another part of the country — to Livorno,
thought the syndic of Balafria, Alfred went to
Livorno, and after a good deal of trouble found that
the syndic was right. It appeared, however, that
from Livorno Father Ariosto had gone somewhere

else, and Blaine followed on his traces from place
to place until he reached Grenoa, where he learnt
that the reverend gentleman had embarked on board
a vessel bound for the Southern Seas, with the intention
of proceeding thither as a missionary ; but
as the ship ran ashore on a cannibal island, and there
was reason to believe that all the ship's company —
except an able-bodied seaman, who alone escaped toto
tell the tale — were either drowned or eaten —
possibly both — it did not seem likely that the priest
would be available as a witness in the suit of Hardy
against Hardy, and to this effect Alfred advised Artful
and Higginbottom. As for the other witnesses
and there were beyond doubt two — he failed to
find out their names, and could not, therefore, very
well find out them, nor did he, albeit he advertised
extensively in divers Italian papers.

Yet notwithstanding Alfred's failure in the main
object of his expectation, it had two important consequences.
Wherever he went he was struck by the
abject poverty of the masses of the Italian people,
and he wrote some letters on the subject, which
pleased the editor of the Day and rather startled his
readers. They gave so much satisfaction, indeed,
that he was requested to continue them, with
which object he visited the south, and in an interesting
series of articles he was able to show the close
connection that obtained between the indigence of
the people and brigandage and the Maria and the

44*

Camera, and other secret societies of black-mailers,
which the authorities, in spite of their utmost
efforts, were unable to suppress.

When Mr. Manifold thought the British public
had had enough of this sort of thing he instructed
Blaine (who for the previous six weeks had been
acting exclusively for the Day) to return to London,
informing him at the same time that the proprietors
and the manager and himself were so pleased with
his letters that they were prepared, on terms which
he would learn on his arrival, to offer him a permanent
place on the paper.

Nothing could well be more satisfactory, and
the young fellow was naturally in high feather,
as much by reason of the improvement in his
prospects as the handsome manner in which his
employers had recognised his services. Altogether
he profited greatly by his Italian journey, and no
less in experience than in pocket and reputation.
But there is a drawback to everything, and he feared
that his new duties would be incompatible with his
retention of *he editorship of Mr. Welkin's financial
journal. If he had to sacrifice one, however, it
would certainly not be the Day.

HAMMER AND TONGS.

During his absence in Italy Blaine wrote to Vera
regularly and often ; owing to the uncertainty of his
movements, however, she wrote less regularly to
him ; some of the letters she did write he never received,
and when he reached London he had been
without news from her for more than three weeks —
in his love-heated imagination quite an age. Boiling
over with impatience he rushed off to Bloomsbury
Square — albeit the time was unconscionably early
for a call, and he had not yet reported himself at the
office of the Day. He feared that his letters had
miscarried or been suppressed. He would ask Cora
to see Vera that very afternoon, and arrange for a
tryst later in the day.

*' Is Miss Blaine in ?" he asked the not very
intelligent maid who answered the bell, and, without
waiting for a reply, went to the room in which
his cousin was wont to do her literary work.

Cora was not there ; but somebody else was.

"Vera!"

« Alfred ! "

The next moment they were in each other's arms.

You here ? " he exclaimed. " What a delightful
surprise ! "

"What, did you not get the letter I sent to
Naples ? I am here altogether."

Here altogether ! "

Yes ; I have left the Leytons, and see " (pointing
to some sketches that lay on the table), " I am earning
my own living."

But what has happened ? Tell me all about it,
for in an hour I should be at the office of the Day's

Vera told him all about it. As she said laughingly,
he was the cause of all the trouble. By one
of those accidents which so often mar the best laid
schemes, their secret had been discovered. The
greater part of her letters came by the first delivery,
and were always lying on the table when she went
down to breakfast. Those that came later were sent
up to her room. But one morning several which
came by the second delivery were placed by mistake
in the breakfast-room, and when Sydney Leyton
entered at his usually late hour he found them
on the table, near his own. Lazily looking over
the addresses, without any particular motive, he
noticed that one of the letters bore the post-mark
of Grenoa.

'•' Who on earth can be writing to her from
Genoa ? " he soliloquised. '* An English hand too.
Some beggar, I suppose."

The next day he called at Artful and Higgins
office to ask about the progress of the suit,
when the head of the firm showed him Blaine's
letter from Grenoa announcing the failure of his
quest.

"The same handwriting and the same place, by
Jove I " he thought. '^ What can it mean ? Are
those two carrying on a correspondence, I wonder?
I must find out."

By keeping a sharp look-out on the letters delivered
by the postman, and occasionally overhauling the
contents of the letter-box in the hall, he was not
long in arriving at the conviction that Vera and
Blaine were carrying on a lively correspondence.

Now, albeit Vera's denial of his suit had not
broken his heart, the thought that he had been
rejected in favour of so obscure and impecunious
a rival as Alfred Blaine riled Sydney exceedingly.
It seemed to him, moreover, that Vera was not
acting sincerely, and he straightway informed his
father of the discovery he had made and the
suspicions it suggested.

Sir James was very angry, and when angry-he was
apt to be coarse and use rather strong language.

Confound the fellow ! " he exclaimed ; *' I will
stop this, and pretty quickly. You did right to tell
me, Sydney. I could not have believed that Vera
was capable of such deceit — I might almost^say of
such base ingratitude."

When they met the next morning at breakfast,
he opened the attack.

You are corresponding with that Alfred Bal-maine,
Vera," said the knight abruptly. " What
are your relations with the fellow ? "

Sir James ! " explained the girl, for the moment
quite confounded by the suddenness of the question.

You do not seem to understand. I ask what are
your relations with this Blaine, to whom you write
so often ? "

We are betrothed," said Vera quietly, recovering
by an effort her self-possession.

The devil you are ! Well, I call it a piece of
base ingratitude to go and get engaged without my
knowledge and consent. It must be put a stop to."

Pardon me, Sir James, that cannot be. I am
sorry to displease you, but this is a matter about
which you must allow me to please myself."

Am I to understand, then, that you refuse to
give this absurd engagement up ? "

Decidedly. Not for all the world would I give
it up."

In that case you cannot stay here," returned
the knight furiously.

*' As you like, Sir James," said Vera, rising from
her chair and turning pale.

Besides, don't you see that the fellow wants
only your money ? A beggarly journalist without a
brass farthing to bless himself with ! He is just

speculating on the chance of the suit going in your
favour. I understand now the cause of those
frequent visits to Bloomsbury Square. I little
thought that Miss Blaine was a mercenary
matchmaker.

With a single indignant glance at Sir James, but
without offering a word in reply, Vera left the room.
Half an hour later she left the house.

*•' Did I do right ? " she asked Alfred when she
had told her story to the end.

Quite right," he answered warmly. " You could
not have done less, and it would have been a mistake
to answer Sir James's insults. But are you as happy
here as you were at Grosvenor Square, Vera ? "

Happier. I am free here ; I can live my own
life and I could not there. And, do you know, I find
it a real pleasure to earn money. Look here" (showing
a cheque for ^10 10s.), " I received this only
yesterday for some sketches."

I congratulate you," laughed Alfred. " Why, if
you go on at this rate you will become a millionaire
by your own efforts. But where is Gabrielle ?"

Grabrielle, said Vera, was staying with Lady Ley-ton,
as her maid. Lady Leyton had called upon
Vera the day after she left, and tried to persuade
her to go back. But with this request — though
Lady Leyton pressed it, and said her husband had
been too hasty — she found it impossible to comply.
After the scene with Sir James she could not bring

herself to accept his hospitality, and greatly preferred
to be with Cora.

*' If for no other reason, because we can see each
other oftener, mon cher ami," she said with an
affectionate glance at her lover. "You can come
here, but you could not go to Grosvenor Square."

There had been a question of asking the Lord
Chancellor to order her to return thither ; but seeing
that Sir James Ley ton had told her in effect to go,
that she would soon be of age, and that the suit was
not likely to last very long, he thought it better not
to persevere with the project. From Bloomsbury
Square, whither he promised to return in the evening,
Alfred went into the City and waited on Mr.
Nonpareil. The manager received him with great
cordiality, and after complimenting him warmly on
his letters, said that if Blaine liked to take a permanent
post on the paper he could offer him six
pounds a week, to begin with ; but the staff being
very full just then they could not find him very
much to do ; what that was he would learn from the
editor. He would probably be asked from time to
time to write articles on special subjects, review
books, and so forth, and he must hold himself in
readiness to proceed to any part of the world at very
short notice. He could not, of course, contribute to
any other daily paper ; but for the rest he would be
free to dispose of his own time in his own way.

Alfred accepted the offer and the conditions with

both hands, and left the office in great spirits, for,
save in the event of his being dispatched on some
distant expedition, he would be able both to fulfil
his duties on the Day and conduct the Financial
Guide — perhaps do other Avork as well. He was
thus, as touching income, in quite as good a position
as if he had remained at Greneva, and there were
surely a wider field and better chances of advancement
on the banks of the Thames than in the
pleasant yet somewhat sleepy city of the lake.

From the Day office Blaine went to Artful and
Higginbottom and had a long talk with Mr. Artful
and Wanton. The Hardy estate, as he already knew,
had been put into Chancery, that is to say, the
executors were acting under the direction of the
Court, and had, so to speak, become its agents. Miss
Hardy's claim to the property was being hotly contested
by the Fortune Company, interrogatories and
answers put and given, affidavits filed, motions made
by counsel, and altogether the suit was progressing
very satisfactorily — for the lawyers.

eye are at it, hammer and tongs," said Wanton.

And what are the probabilities, Mr. Artful ?"
asked Blaine.

The old lawyer lifted his eyebrows and took a
pinch of snuff.

"Difficult to say ; but in the absence of conclusive
proofs of the marriage, I very much fear that Miss
Vera will not get her fortune just yet; and I begin

to believe her grandfather was the Calder man after
all."

'* Saintly Sam will get it then," exclaimed Bal-maine.
" They say he has bought up so many shares
in the Fortune Company that he and it are pretty
much the same thing."

He stands a very fair chance, I think. All the
same, we mean to prevent him — if we can. And one
of their witnesses — a fellow of the name of Murga-
troy — has so palpably perjured himself that it will
cause the Court to look with suspicion on the other
man's evidence. Mr. Murgatroyd has committed
the fault of being too precise. He takes oath that
he saw the late Mr. Hardy on a day which he cannot
specify, but in a month and year about which he is
quite sure, at his office in London. Now the late
Mr. Hardy was a very exact man, and kept a business
diary wherein all his movements are carefully recorded
; and from his diary it appears that at the
time in question he was on the Continent. So
Murgatroyd's evidence amounts to nothing at all.
If it were worth while we would prosecute him for
perjury. But the other witness, Clutterbuck, is
dangerous. From all accounts he is a respectable
old fellow, and according to his affidavit was a close
friend of the Calder John Hardy, when they were
both young. When the latter went to London he
went to Manchester, but in after life he met John
Hardy more than once, and swears that he is our John

Hardy and no other. He even produces a letter
from him, which appears to have contained a remittance
; for Clutterbuck, being at the time in
needy circumstances, had applied to his old companion
for help. And that is not all. The gift is
duly entered in the late Mr. Hardy's private cash
book."

Saintly Sam has a good case then ? "
It looks so, and unless we can persuade the Yice-
Chancellor to accept as sufficient the indirect yet
morally unimpeachable proofs of Philip Hardy's
marriage which we are able to produce — have produced,
in fact — we stand a very good chance of being
beaten. But we are not beaten yet. The witnesses
you could not find may possibly be forthcoming, and
Wanton is going down to Calder to look into the
antecedents of the other John Hardy. Time is all
in our favour, and if we can get the better of Saintly
Sam and his crew I think Miss Vera may come into
her fortune even yet."

Blaine left the lawyer's office in much soberer
mood than he had left the office of the Day for
though his love for Vera was pure and disinterested,
and the loss of her fortune would cause him no
distress, it was not pleasant to think that it might
become the possession of " Saintly Sam and his
crew," though probably little more than the jackal's
share would be left for the crew. That was a lame
and impotent conclusion indeed, and Vera and Cora,

when he talked the matter over with them in the
evening, were greatly excited by the news he had
brought.

And they call this English law ! " exclaimed
Vera indignantly. " For the slur cast on my father
and mother's memory I care nothing. They regarded
each other as husband and wife, and that is enough
for me. But if this Mr. Samuel Hardy inherits the
fortune destined by my grandfather for my father
and by my father for me, it will be an infamy, a
travesty of justice. I would rather give it to that
crossing sweeper in the street there, or scatter it
broadcast to be scrambled for by beggars — anything
rather than bestow it on this unprincipled scheming
Calder cotton-spinner."

THE JUDGMENT.

If Alfred and Vera had ever cherished any illusions
as to the issue of the suit, they cherished them no
longer. They looked upon the fortune as absolutely
gone, and felt that, as touching their future, they
must trust to themselves alone. And they had no
cause for discouragement. As yet Blaine's post
on the Day was almost a sinecure. The editor now
and again asked him to write an article or review a
book, and he once acted for a fortnight as the foreign
sub-editor's substitute, but the salary he received
was rather a retainer than a remuneration for services
actually rendered. He had ample time, as well
for editing the Guide as for other work, and was
gradually forming an outside connection which
produced an acceptable addition to his income.
One way and another he was earning from six to
seven hundred a year ; Vera half as much, and she
was at work on a painting by which she expected to
make something very nice indeed.

In these circumstances there was no reason why
they should not marry so soon as they had saved
enough to furnish, and as they spent little they

could look forward to an early consummation of
their hopes.

Cora, practical as usual, counselled prudence, and
advised the lovers not to be in too great a hurry.
They could not tell what might happen ; their
incomes were precarious, and it would be well for
them, before beginning housekeeping, to have a
few hundred pounds to the good, in addition to the
amount required for furnishing.

But prudence and young love do not often go
together. Alfred called his cousin a Job's comforter,
and inquired whether, if George and she were
equally well off, they would not make haste to
marry ; a question which Cora thought it expedient
to evade by saying something about the foolishness
and impetuosity of men. As for Vera, judging by
the Vaudois and not by the Grrosvenor Square
standard" of comfort, she thought they would be rich
beyond the dreams of avarice. For the rest, she
left everything to mon cher ami, as she generally
called Alfred, and he being thus constituted the
arbiter of their destinies decided that they should
be married so soon as they found a suitable house,
and had the wherewithal for furniture.

The house was eventually found in the neighbourhood
of Regent's Park, and tastefully and artistically,
though not luxuriously furnished, for Blaine was
determined that his wife should have a pleasant and
cheerful home.

They had hardly returned from their short
wedding trip to the English lakes, when Alfred
received a letter from Artful and Higginbottom,
headed " Hardy versus Hardy," asking him to be
good enough to make an early call at the office in
Lincoln's Inn Fields ; a request with which he
promptly complied, for although Cora, Vera, and
himself had wisely resolved to discuss the question
as little as might be, and were rather weary of it,
they could not help taking a warm interest in the
case, and wondering often, both mentally and
audibly, how it would end.

Mr. Artful thought that judgment would be given
in the course of a month.

In what sense ? " asked Alfred.
That I cannot say, though I have my opinion.
But one point is settled — Saintly Sam won't get the
fortune. We have knocked the wind out of his
sails at any rate."

I am very glad to hear it. How ? "
It was your friend Wanton's doing. A sharp
fellow, Wanton. I sent him down to Calder to lookup
the antecedents of the John Hardy of that place,
and pick a hole if he could in the evidence of that
man, Clutterbuck. He went several times, and in
the end hit on a notable discovery. The morality of
your native town, some seventy or eighty years ago,
does not seem to have been absolutely irreproachable,
Mr. Blaine."

VOL. III. 45

Is that the notable discovery ? " said Alfred,
amused as much by the remark as by the gravity
and pomposity with which it was made.

So much so that if the Hardyss had always been
strictly moral our esteemed friend Samuel would in
all probability come into the Hardy fortune."

I am thankful they were not, then. But do you
really mean that the judgment of the court will be
influenced by the condition of Calder morality
more than half a century since? You are joking,
Mr. Artful."

I never joke, Mr. Blaine," returned the old
gentleman with some asperity. And he never did, intentionally.
" What I mean is that two or three generations
ago it was no uncommon practice at Calder
for even respectable people not to marry until they
began to have a family, and Wanton has discovered
that John Hardy was christened on the day his
father and mother were married."

And the lawyer, after taking a pinch of snuff and
wrinkling his parchment-like face into a self-complacent
smile, blew into his pocket-handkerchief
a blast of triumph.

An interesting fact in the history of the Hardy
family, I daresay," said Alfred, who was both puzzled
and amused by these demonstrations ; " but I really
don't see what bearing it has on the case of Hardy
versus Hardy."

You really don't ? "

I really don't," repeated Alfred, trying his very
hardest to think what the old fellow was driving at.
I am surprised. I thought everybody was aware
don't you perceive, my dear sir, that the testator
being illegitimate — a son of nobody — no Hardy,
except his own lawful issue, could inherit a shilling
of his money unless he had willed it to them, and of
that there is no question. So let Saintly Samuel
prove ever so conclusively that his John Hardy and
our John Hardy are one and the same man, he cannot
touch a farthing of the fortune. He and the
other members of the Company are claiming as
next-of-kin, and in the eye of the law a person of
illegitimate birth has no kin but his own parents
and his own children."

So the Fortune Company are quite out of the
running ? "

Quite, and serve them quite right."
A few weeks later Blaine went to the Vice-chancellor's
Court to hear the delivery of his judgment.
It was a long rigmarole, as judgments
generally are. There were many things set forth in
it with which the reader is already acquainted, and
some which it would not interest him to know.
The general conclusion of the whole matter was
that, in the opinion of the court, neither party to
the suit was entitled to the fortune. Whether the
testator and John Hardy of Calder were one and the
same person was not germane to the issue, inasmuch

45*

as the John Hardy in question, being illegitimate, it
was not in the nature of things that the Calder
Harts could be his next-of-kin or legal representatives.
On the other hand, as the marriage of
Philip Hardy and Vera Leonino had not been
established to the satisfaction of the curt, and as
Philip Hardy not only left no will, but pre-deceased
his father, the elder Hardy died practically intestate
and without any issue who could inherit his fortune.
For these reasons the estate would escheat to the
Crown. The Vice-chancellor came to this conclusion
with regret. He regarded it as morally certain that
Philip) Hardy and Vera Leonino were legally married,
a fact which he trusted that Mrs. Blaine,
with whom he expressed great sympathy, would,
sooner or later, be able to establish to the satisfaction
of that or some other court. He had no fault to
find with the conduct of the testator's trustees ; they
had behaved admirably throughout, and their costs
would be costs in the suit. As for the Calder
Hardyss, who, he understood, had formed a company
for the prosecution of the claim, and with whom he
had no sympathy whatever, he should decline to
make an analogous order. As they had contested
the proceedings, and failed to prove their case, they
must themselves pay their costs.

*' Is this what you expected ? " asked Alfred of
Artful as they left the court together.

*' It was not possible to expect anything better.

And you heard what the Vice-chancellor said, that
he hoped your wife would be able to prove her father
and mother's marriage."

*' And in that case ? "

*' The Crown would have to disgorge."

A disappointment for us," put in Wanton, " buta
terribly dry wipe for Saintly Sam. He holds nearly
all the shares, which are now of course utterly worthless,
and they say it will cost him ten thousand
pounds in addition."

Serve him right, serve the rascal right ! " said
Artful vindictively. " I wish it had cost him twenty
thousand ! But I don't despair, Mr. Blaine ; we
may find those witnesses even yet."

TROUBLES.

Despite the Vice-chancellor's sympathy, and the
faint hope held out by the old lawyer, Alfred and
Vera regarded the fortune as irrevocably gone.
They were agreed that though they would far rather
it should revert to the Crown than go to Saintly
Sam, they could put it to better use than either one
or the other. But they were too happy and too
much wrapped up in each other to let the loss
trouble them. Vera laughingly declared that though
she had lost her fortune she had found a perfect
treasure of a husband, and so gained by the exchange;
a compliment which Alfred answered by
saying that he would infinitely rather have Vera
without the millions than the millions without
Vera. And so both were content. They had
enough for their wants and enough is as good as a
feast.

For a time all went well with the young couple.
His study was her studio, and while he wrought
with his pen she plied pencil and brush. As a rule,
they worked silently, but now and again Vera would

ask her husband's opinion either on a sketch she
had finished, or as to the meaning of an author
whose work she was illustrating, and he, after putting
the last touches to an article or an essay would
read it aloud, and invite her criticism, which he
often found both acute and suggestive. Then of an
evening Cora or some other friend would drop in, or
they would go out to a concert or the play, entertainments
for which Alfred had occasionally an order
from the paper, and at least once a week they paid a
visit to some picture gallery.

Thus the Balmaines were as happy in their lives as
they were prosperous in their circumstances ; for
prosperity, like poverty, depends less on the amount
of a man's income than on the ratio between his
wants and his means of gratifying them. To some
people — the Leytons, for instance — the Balmaines'
eight hundred a year or thereabouts would have
seemed little better than nothing at all ; for Alfred
and Vera, though they had all they needed and
lived refined lives, it was more than enough. Not
that they were so imprudent as to spend the whole
of it ; he knew too well the value of money to be
extravagant, and she had been bred to look on waste
as a sin. In theory they limited their expenditure
to four hundred a year, but in practice it came to
somewhat more, for their rent was rather high, and
they seemed never to have done paying rates and
taxes. Moreover, Alfred had insured his life rather

heavily, and Vera would not have been happy if
they had not spared something for the disinherited,
to whom she herself now belonged. One way and
another their outgoings were not much less than
forty pounds a month ; yet this being little more
than half their estimated income, it never occurred
to them that they were exceeding the bounds of prudence
; and when Vera once dropped a hint to that
effect, Alfred received it so ill that she did not venture
to repeat the experiment. All went on well
for a few months, and then the tide of prosperity
began to ebb. The first check was Yera's illness.
It was not a very serious illness, nor could the cause
be considered as either abnormal or alarming, nevertheless
it quite incapacitated her for work. The
sketching and painting had to be given up, and
they were poorer by the five or six guineas a week
she had been earning. Yet even with this lessening
of their resources — which they regarded, perhaps
too hopefully, as only temporary — they were by no
means badly off, as Alfred, whose reputation as a
journalist was steadily growing, could now reckon
his gains at nearly fifty pounds a month. But misfortune,
says the proverb, never comes singly, and
one day when Blaine went to the office of the
Financial Guide, which adjoined that of Mr. Wilkins',
he was called in by the great financier and informed
that the magazine was about to be given up.
For his own part he was quite willing to go on,

believing that sooner or later it would become a
paying concern ; but the outgoings were heavy, the
receipts almost nil, and his associates in the enterprise
had resolved to drop it at the end of the
current month. Mr. Wilkins was very sorry, and if
he could throw anything in Blaine's way he
should only be too glad to do so.

Alfred said very little. He could not press the
proprietors to go on losing their money for his
benefit, but he went home with a heavy heart. At one
stroke his income was diminished by two hundred a
year; and as the furnishing and et ceteras had, as
they pretty nearly always do, cost a good deal more
than was expected, the young couple had very little
beforehand. Yell, he must work all the harder, and
try to make up the deficit that way. When he told
Cora what had happened, she insisted on dismissing
one of their two servants and effecting other economies
; for they now realized for the first time the
extreme precariousness of their income, and Alfred
asked himself in alarm what would become of them
if he should fall ill, or lose his place on the Day.
Cora was right, after all ; they should 1 have waited
a little longer ; and when he saw his wife, notwithstanding
her sufferings, going about her household
duties or bravely trying to resume her drawing, he
reproached himself bitterly for the want of prudence
and forethought which had landed them in such a
strait.

After a while the Day began to make more
demands on his time, and this, though gratifying as
showing that the editor's confidence in him was
unimpaired, left him little leisure for outside work,
for he had to be absent from home the greater part
of the day, sometimes nearly all night. One of the
tasks assigned to him at this time was visiting the
slums of London, and writing realistic descriptions
of the lives and habits of the lower classes of the
]population. He was next dispatched, as special
correspondent, to the Black Country, to report about
a big strike, and remained there several weeks. He
saved something on his allowance for expenses, but
his income from all sources was reduced to little more
than the salary he received from the paper, to which
his time was now almost exclusively given. But
though considerations connected with pounds,
shillings and pence weighed heavily on his mind,
Alfred's greatest anxiety was the necessity of leaving
Vera so much by herself. It was, in truth, a weary
time for the poor girl, and as she lay on her sofa in
the little studio, listening to the patter of the rain
against the windows, watching the stunted trees as
they bent to the autumnal blast, or gazing blankly
at a pea-soup fog, her thoughts would go back to
Canton Vaucl si beau, and the happy days she had
spent on the shores of the lake and in the enchanted
region of the Waadtland Alps. Would she ever see
them again, those scenes endeared by so many

associations, and where nature, whatever might be
her moods, was always either beautiful or grand ?
Alfred and she had talked of going to Switzerland
the following summer and visiting together some of
the places they knew so well and loved so much.
But there was no chance of that now, for even if
there were no other reason they could not afford the
expense of the journey. And then she turned to
reckoning, as she often did, how much it was costing
them to live. Rent and rates ran away with two
pounds a week — a great deal too much for their circumstances,
but as they had unfortunately taken the
house on a three years' agreement, there was no
remedy readily apparent. That left four pounds for
everything else, little enough, yet still sufficient with
care to make both ends meet, especially while Alfred
was away, for she had a very poor appetite, and her
maid-of-all-work was fortunately not a big eater.
Poor Alfred ! how hard he had to work and how worn
he was beginning to look. If she could only help
him more ! But she could do nothing — nothing,
except lie wearily on the sofa, and drag herself sometimes
to the kitchen to see what Mary was doing.
For the first time Vera regretted the loss of her
fortune, and appreciated the advantages of wealth.
A hundredth part of the income which she once
thought her own and was now wrongly withheld from
her, would not alone free them from anxiety, it
would set them at ease — make them rich. Yet three

hundred a year was by no means a bad income. How
many were there whom it would make happy ; who
would regard it as positive affluence. And Vera had
a vision of a little chalet in some mountain valley,
watered by a snow-born stream, and commanding a
view over a blue lake and white-browed Alps, herself
dividing her time between her diary and her easel,
and Alfred writing articles for the Bay, or still
better, a book which should bring him honour and
reward. With three hundred a year on which they
could depend this might be done, and she would not
ask for more. Even as matters stood, if they could
depend on their present income there would be no
reason for despondency, but both Alfred and herself
were continually haunted by the fear that this, too,
might take to itself wings and fly away. And then
no, she would not anticipate anything so dreadful ;
she would try as her husband, in the letter she had
that morning received from him advised, to be
patient, and hope for the best. Anxiety, weakness
and indisposition, had for the moment dulled, if
they had not quenched, her enthusiasm in the cause
of humanity. Her mind ran chiefly on matters connected
with Alfred and herself, and the impending
event which it was possible she might not survive ;
and she understood, as she had never understood
before, how hard it is for people who have troubles
of their own to give much heed to the troubles of
others. The world's seeming selfishness is, in great

part, due to the engrossing nature of the struggle
for existence in which the majority are engaged.

After a while, the big strike being over, Alfred,
to Vera's great joy, came home. She was never
unhappy when he was near. But she saw with
concern that he was far from well, and on the day
after his return he became so much worse that she
insisted on sending for a doctor, who pronounced
the illness to be typhoid fever, the seeds of which
Alfred had brought with him from the Black
Country. This was a terrible blow, and more than
confirmed Vera's worst forebodings. She sent for
Cora ; and informed the manager of the Day of her
husband's illness. Cora came at once and rendered
all the help in her power; and the Bciy^ besides
paying his full salary, made frequent inquiries about
him. The fever, moreover, was not of a bad type.
For all that, it was an anxious time, and Alfred had
no sooner been pronounced out of danger than Vera
became the mother of a little boy. She got well
over her trouble, but her gladness was turned into
sorrow when she learnt that her baby was so weak
owing, as the doctor thought, to her anxieties
and exertions during Alfred's illness — that it was
hardly possible for him to live more than a few days
or weeks. Nor did he. After a brief struggle the
flickering lamp went out, and Vera, with bitter tears
and an aching heart, saw her first-born taken away
to be laid in the cold ground.

But her grief was lightened by her husband's
loving sympathy ; his rapid recovery removed a great
weight from her mind, and she found further solace
in the resumption of her artistic work. And she
resumed it none too soon, for their savings were
quite exhausted, and they were now entirely dependent
on the weekly remittance from the office of
the Day,

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.

When Blaine reported himself at the office as fit
for duty the Franco-german war had been going on
several months, the siege of Paris was drawing to a
close, and Mr. Nonpareil, after congratulating him
on his recovery, warned him to be in readiness to
proceed to the French capital the moment it should
be open.

The Dayes correspondents had stuck to their posts
during the siege, and sent many communications by
the pigeon express ; but one had fallen seriously ill,
and the other was so weakened by privation that
both would have to be relieved, and Alfred, with
two other members of the staff, had been appointed
to take their places — for how long they had no idea.
His two colleagues would look after political matters,
while to him was assigned the special duty of going
about the city, describing its appearance after the
bombardment, and the condition and temper of the
populace. It was the duty he would himself have
chosen, and he rightly took the appointment as a
decided compliment and an acknowledgment that

his previous services had given satisfaction to the
proprietors of the paper. His salary was also raised,
but as he had to defray out of it his personal
expenses in Paris, the increase did not add materially
to his means. But it was a step in the right direction,
and he felt that his prospects were again
improving. The only drawback was the necessity
of leaving Vera in London, for as the new appointment
might not be permanent it would have been
imprudent for him to take her with him, even had
peace been definitively concluded.

Vera, however, though greatly pleased with her
husband's promotion, did not much like the idea of
his going to Paris so soon after the siege. She
feared that he was running into danger; but Alfred
reassured her by pointing out that, as the city had
capitulated, and the Germans held it at their mercy,
there was no chance of a renewal of hostilities, and
that a stay there involved little if any more risk
than a stay in London. It was arranged that Cora
should be her guest during his absence ; so Vera
would not be alone, and he left home with a comparatively
easy mind.

Where are you going to put up, Blaine ? "
asked one of his Day friends, as he was on the point
of starting.

I have no idea. Can you recommend me a
place ? "

*' I can, if you want to get really into the heart

of Paris. There is a little hotel in the Quartier
Latin — if it has not been smashed by a Prussian
shell — that I think would be just the thing. I once
stayed there a few weeks and found it very comfortable.
But it is a Bohemian sort of place, I must
tell you, and you are not likely to meet any English
there."

So much the better. What is it called ? "

"Hotel des Miracles, Rue des Apotres, kept by
Madame Veuve Merveille."

Thanks, I will go there," answered Blaine,
making a mem. in his note-book.

Make my amities to Madame Merveille — if the
Prussians have left her alive," said the other, who
had a mortal hatred of everything Grerman. " Tell
her I sen you, and she will treat you well."

Blaine arrived at Paris with the first train of
provisions for the famished inhabitants, and witnessed
and described their distribution and some
other scenes ; and he had good reason to believe
that his letters and despatches gave satisfaction to
the conductors of the Day, and were read with
interest by its readers. But he had soon still more
stirring incidents to describe — the Communist rising
and the second siege of Paris. At first he rather
sympathised with the movement. Among the
leaders were men whose sole aim was the good of
their kind, and who would gladly have sacrificed
their lives if thereby they might establish that
VOL. III. 46

ideal justice for which the noblest spirits of all ages
have yearned and striven. Their principles may be
summed up in the memorable words uttered nearly
nineteen centuries ago, " Peace on earth and goodwill
to men." Nor were their demands unreasonable;
and if the Versailles government had
shown more forbearance and discretion at the outset
the horrors that afterwards came to pass might have
been avoided. But when the scum of Paris rose to
the surface, and the Communist Council began to
vote decrees for closing churches, proscribing priests,
and forcing capitalists to " disgorge," all chance of
success or a peaceful termination of the strife
vanished. The Commune had signed its death-warrant,
and its overthrow became only a question
of time.

Whoever, like Blaine, saw Paris under the Need
Flag must have afterwards found any stage burlesque
tame in comparison. Louise Michel took possession
of the pulpit of St. Eustache, where she shrieked
lectures on the rights of women, and showered denunciations
on the wretches of the bourgeoisie.
Another creature set up as a priestess in the
cathedral of Notre Dame. Citoyen Eludes and a
gang of loose women, decked with red ribbons and
adorned with crosses, held high revelry in the
Palace of the Legion of honour, while the
Tuileries, the Elysee, and other Grovernment
buildings were filled from night to morning and

from morning to night with drunken ruffians in
much braided tunics and broad sashes, who smoked,
played cards, and sent out squads of soldiers to
requisition wine from the cellars of private houses,
whose owners had fled in affright from the doomed
city.

All this Blaine described in letters that, despite
the prevailing disorder, he found no difficulty in
dispatching. But in order to obtain materials for
his correspondence he had to move continually
about, and was several times in great danger. Once
he was impressed, forced to shoulder a musket, and
take part in a skirmish. He might, of course, have
refused, but only at the price of his liberty or his
life, while by pretending compliance he contrived to
get away without much trouble. On another
occasion he had the alternative offered him of
working all night at a barricade or being marched
off to prison. He wisely preferred the former, and
at daybreak the commander gave him a breakfast
and let him go. When he related this adventure
to Madame Merveille, who, since she knew he
had left a young wife in London, took a warm
interest in his welfare, she besought him to stay at
home.

You never go out," she said, " that I do not fear
you will never return. One of these days that
canaille will kill you, as they killed the poor
Archbishop. If only for the sake of Madame your

46*

wife, the beautiful lady so gentile, whose portrait
you have shown me, you should be prudent."

Alfred explained that if he were to remain all
day in the Rue des Apotres he would be unable to
find matter for his correspondence.

"Yes, the Rue des Apotres is very tranquil,
fortunately ; but I fear we shall have bad work even
here before this is over. I hope monsieur will
never have to put the street in one of his
dispatches," observed the landlady with uneasy
foreboding.

And then she asked Blaine whether he had
any friends among the Commands.

Not one. Why do you ask ? "

"They might be useful; they could give you
protection. If you only knew Monsieur Corse
now!"

Corse, Corse ! what Corse ? " said Blaine,
unpleasantly surprised by the mention of his
enemy's name.

An English gentleman who once lodged here,
and, I'm sorry to say, has joined the Commune.
He is an officer, and has great power, and they say
though that is quite entre-nous — that he has
made a nice little harvest. Now if Monsieur only
knew Monsieur Corse ''

Know him ? Perhaps I do. What is he like,
Madame Merveille ? "

"Tall, brown hair, hard grey eyes, thin lips,

haughty in manner and hasty in temper, carries
himself like un ancien militaire"

"The same' said Blaine thoughtfully. He
was asking himself what would happen if Corse and
he should meet, for just then the leaders of the
Commune could do pretty much as they liked.
Yes, I think I know this Monsieur Corse, or,
rather, I did know him."

Monsieur and he are not friends then ? "

"Not precisely."

"Then I should still more advise Monsieur to
stay altogether in the house and keep as quiet ashe
can. It is not well to have a chief of the Commune
for one's enemy."

But Blaine could not have reconciled the
acceptance of Madame Merveille's counsel with the
faithful discharge of his duty, even if he had been
disposed to take the course she suggested. On the
other hand, he could not hide from himself that the
danger was a very real one, and he had a strong
feeling that sooner or later he and Corse would
cross each other's paths. It was a danger, moreover,
against which he had no means of guarding.
All he could do was to trust in Grod and keep his
powder dry. He had got the better of this man
hitherto, and he hoped to be equally fortunate if
they should meet again.

The event which Blaine foresaw and, to tell the
truth, rather feared, was not long in coming to pass.

Going one evening from the Hotel des Miracles
to the office of the Day, on the opposite side of the
Seine, he had to pass by, or rather through, a
company of the Communed soldiers, en bivouac
near the Tuileries.

Ma foi'' exclaimed one of them, " that gaillard
cannot be French ; he has not the air."

Perhaps he is a Prussian," suggested a second.

Yes, a Prussian spy," hissed a third ; " he looks
like one."

Sacr^^-i^e noun che lieu, let us arrest him,"
shouted a fourth.

The next moment Blaine was the centre of a
ring of bayonets, and it is no imputation on his
courage to say that he broke into a cold sweat and
wished he was well out of the difficulty. The
proximity of lethal weapons to your person can
hardly, in any circumstances, be productive of
pleasurable sensations. Alfred suspected, moreover,
that the Cummunard muskets were loaded,
and the unkempt sans-culottes around him looked
as if they would no more hesitate to draw a trigger
than to drain a wine-cup. But the very extremity
of his peril restored his courage, and the moment
he realised his position he recovered his presence of
mind.

What does all this mean ? " he asked quietly.
You are mistaken ; I am no Prussian."

Who are you then ?" asked one who appeared to
be in authority.

Blaine told them his name and calling, and in
proof of his statements showed papers and letters,
but as his captors knew no language but their own
these were of no avail. Then he produced his
address card, whereupon the man in authority observed
that a card was no proof of identity or good
faith, and it would be quite like a Prussian spy to
provide himself with a false name and a forged
card.

What shall we do with him then ?" asked a
fellow with a red beard and a ferocious face,
glancing significantly at his chasse pot and approaching
his bayonet to the small of Alfred's back.

Tais-toi, Jules, I reflect," said the officer.
*' Yes," after a pause, " that will do. Where is the
Diable-boiteux ? I saw him about just now."

** Behold him. Citizen Captain," pointing to a
group close by.-

Grood. Make le Diable-boiteux advance. He
knows the English, he shall interrogate the
prisoner."

Why the Communed in question should bear such
a name as this was not very apparent, for he was a
stalwart, clean-limbed fellow, with a strong squint,
and as much hair on his head and face as would
have stocked a wig-maker's shop.

"Here's a suspected spy, Boiteux, who protests he

is English, said the officer, " interrogate the drove in
his own tongue, and tell us what you think."

Perfectly, Citizen Captain," answered the 
ticks, and leaning his hands on his piece
his friendship asked Blaine a question in a language
the like of which the latter had never
heard before. It was no more English than
Choctaw. Alfred could not understand a word of it.
All the same, he listened attentively, and assuming
that the fellow meant to ask who and what he
was, answered accordingly, speaking slowly and
clearly, so that if his questioner knew any English
at all he might have no excuse for not
understanding him.

But Boiteux evidently understood not a word, for
turning to the officer he roundly declared that the
prisoner was no more English than himself; and
though ignorant of German he had heard it spoken
in Alsace, and would take his oath that the prisoner
was both a Prussian and a spy.

This declaration elicited a chorus of fierce execrations
; the bayonets were thrust closer, and Alfred
perceived that he was in a very awkward predicament.
But whatever he may have felt he showed no sign of
fear, and surprised his captors by the coolness of his
bearing.

Monsieur le Diahleis quite mistaken," he began.

"No monsieur here, if you please," growled one
the Commands.

Not even-when speaking of his satanic majesty ?"
rejoined Alfred with a jocularity he was far from
feeling.

Lille tonnerres, that is worse ; we will have no
majesties, even in hell."

Well, you look as if you ought to know," said
Alfred, smiling.

This time the joke told, all burst into a laugh, and
the situation became less strained.

I was going to say," he went on, *' that the
Citizen Devil is quite mistaken. I have no doubt he
knows English quite well, and can read it with ease,
though his pronunciation leaves something to be
desired, is in fact utterly incomprehensible. His
accent has probably become rusty from disuse. Have
you no officer who knows English ? I would answer
his questions with pleasure, and he could see at once
that I am a true Englishman, and no spy."

Ma foi, Old" said the man in authority, " we
have such an officer, and the prisoner's proposal is
reasonable. Take him to the commandant in the
Place Vendee. He has travelled and knows all the
languages."

So Blaine was marched off by his six captors —
two before, two behind, and one on either side of
him. Two would have been quite enough, but as
they could not agree which two it should be, and all
were curious as to the issue, perhaps anxious to be
in at the death, all went, and Alfred had the honour

of being escorted by half-a-dozen Commands armed
to the teeth, who, in the event of his failing to clear
himself of the suspicion of being a Prussian spy,
would, he felt assured, have the greatest possible
pleasure in making a target of him.

When they reached the Place Vendee he was
taken to a house at the door whereof two sentinels
stood on guard, and on their errand being explained
the party were ushered into a large room where
several men sat writing.

'' Citizen Commandant, behold a prisoner," said
one of the six ; " he has been denounced as a Prussian
spy, but he professes to be an English journalist, and
we have brought him here that you may interrogate
him in his own tongue and ascertain the truth.

What the devil brings you here, Blaine ? You
are not in luck this time, anyhow."

At the same moment the speaker faced towards
him, and Alfred, who had not previously caught sight
of the man's face, saw that the Communed chief
before whom he stood was Vernon Corse.

BEFORE THE Enemy.

Alfred made no answer ; he was praying heaven to
steel his heart and sharpen his wits, for he foresaw
that the struggle before him would be one of life
and death. He was in the power of a man from
whom he could expect neither justice nor mercy.

What the devil brought you here, I say ?" repeated
Corse angrily.

Those men. You may be sure I did not come
voluntarily."

And what do you expect me to do with you ?"

Let me go. I have done no wrong, and as you
well know, I am no spy."

I know nothing of the sort. A sneak like you
is capable of anything. As for wrong, you have
wronged me in several ways, and it is with me you
have to count, my fine Mr. Blaine."

Wronged you ! How ?"

How ? You know devilish well. You intrigued
me out of my place on the Helvetic News and robbed
me of the girl I was going to marry. What could
you have done more ?"

As Alfred's reply, if he had replied, would have
been either scornful or indignant, he thought it
better to hold his tongue.

You don't answer. You acknowledge that you
treated me ill. And you gained nothing by
your treachery after all — nor she either. What a
terrible sell it must have been for you, Blaine,
when you lost that lawsuit ! But if Vera had
married me she would have kept her fortune. I
could put her in the way of getting it even now.
What do you say to that, my fine fellow ?"

Alfred, who naturally did not believe a word of
this, still kept silence.

How are you getting your living, Blaine —
still scribbling ?"

I am a journalist, and at present special correspondent
of the Day."

*' Well, I fear that by this time tomorrow the Bay
will have a correspondent the less. I Wonder
whether they would take me on in your place ? I
expect it is very nearly U P with this precious Commune.
Do you know, I have only to say the word
and those fellows will just take you outside and
riddle you with bullets, or run you through with
their bayonets ? "

I know."

'Pon my word, you are very cool about it. If
you think I am not in earnest you are deucedly mistaken.
However, I will give you one more chance

for your life. Write down on this sheet of paper
that you pretended to be my friend in order to
deceive me, and persuaded Miss Hardy to marry you
by telling her a pack of lies — and I will let you go."

I prefer to die'' said Alfred with assumed coolness,
for his thoughts were of Vera, and his heart
was well-nigh bursting with suppressed emotion.
But even to save his life and see her again he
would not put his name to a lie. He could see,
too, that whatever he might say or do, however he
might abase himself, his doom, so far as it depended
on Corse, was sealed.

Die and be d d, then," exclaimed Corse in a

rage. "Look here, citizen soldiers!" addressing
the escort. " I know something about this fellow.
His capture does credit to your discrimination, for
beyond all doubt he is a Prussian."

Mille tonnerres ! Shall we ! "

Wait a minute. You cannot kill a man for
being a Prussian — that is a mere accident of birth ;
the proceeding would be highly undemocratic.
But I have not the least doubt that the prisoner is
a spy. His answers are unsatisfactory, the papers
found in his possession compromising. I know his
antecedents, too, and they are bad. He was a spy
of the Prussian police in Greneva."

You lie !" exclaimed Blaine, unable any
longer to restrain his indignation. " It is you were
a spy in the service of the French Grovernment. I

am a British subject, as I can at once prove, if you
will conduct me either to the office of the Day in the
Rue Scribe, or to the Hotel des Miracles, Rue des
Apotres ; and I warn you, Corse, and all here present,
that if you harm me it will be at your peril."

You are a fool, Blaine," hissed Corse savagely.
*' What use is it to talk of peril to men compromised
and desperate as these are ? Do you think they
stand in awe of your Grovernment, or care a button-top
whose subject you are ? Take the rtioiichavd
away, my braves, shoot him on the Trocadero, and
throw his carcase into the river."

'' Allan, said the chief man of the six, who
seemed to be a corporal, taking Blaine by the
arm ; *' we will soon dispose of this gaillaixV^

*' No, don't do that, exclaimed Corse with a sardonic
glance at his victim. " Better take him to
the police station in the Rue de Tivoli while I make
some further inquiries. But be sure of this ; if you
do not hear from me to the contrary before eight
o'clock in the morning give him the coup de graces

"As you will. Citizen Commandant," began the
corporal ; " but I should think "

"Let him have some supper and supply him
with writing materials. He may want to write to
his wife. Give her my kind regards, Blaine. I
hope you will remember me in your will, and that
you are properly grateful for the respite I have
granted you."

I might be if I did not guess your motive —
murderer, coward, and thief as you are ! And I am
not your first victim. You killed Esther Brandon
on the Mer de Grace, and sooner or later retribution
will overtake you."

At the mention of this name Corse turned perfectly
livid with fear and rage, and fell back in his chair
as if he had received a blow.

Take him away," he shouted hoarsely ; take the
mouchard away and shoot him tomorrow morning-like
a dog."

A few minutes later Blaine was thrust into a
small room at the post in the Eue de Tivoli and left
to his thoughts. The room contained a chair, a
table, and a truckle-bed ; the windows were strongly
barred, a sentinel stood on guard at the door, and
at least a score of armed commands were loitering
about the building. Escape seemed to be out of
the question. Nevertheless, Alfred did not despair ;
life is sweet, and both for his o^vQ sake and for Vera's
he was resolved to spare no effort to get out of
Corse's clutches. To this end it was imperative to
keep up both his spirits and his strength; so after
demanding writing materials, he asked for supper
and a bottle of wine. These latter being dispatched,
he wrote a letter to his principal colleague at the
office of the Day telling him what had happened,
and that unless prompt measures were taken he
should certainly be shot the next morning at eight

o'clock. If he could get this letter into the hands
of his friend Laurence, he knew that every possible
effort would be made to save him. Then he wrote
to Cora, telling her also what had come to pass, and
asking her to break the news of his death to Vera
with all gentleness.

This letter he enclosed in the one to Laurence,
with strict injunctions to forward it only in the
event of his murder being accomplished.

But how should he get Laurence's letter to its
destination ? There was only one way — by stratagem
and bribery. The sentinel who had obtained him
his supper and his writing materials had a good-natured
face, and might possibly be persuaded to
act as his messenger.

How soon will you be relieved ? " asked Alfred
through the keyhole.

In an hour."

Th;it is to say at ten o'clock."

Precisely."

"Grood. Would you like to earn two hundred
francs, and do an act of kindness at the same
time ? "

If Monsieur — I mean if the Citizen Prisoner
will tell me how, I shall be delighted to oblige him."

You have only to take this letter, which I am
pushing under the door, to the Rue Scribe and the
destination, M. Laurence, will give you the money.
As you will see, I have written outside, 'Two

hundred francs to be given to the messenger who
shall deliver this letter as addressed, before midnight.'
I have said before midnight, but the sooner
the better."

Farfaitement, Monsieur le Prisonnier — I have
not the advantage of knowing your name — your commission
shall be executed and the letter delivered
before eleven."

This done, Alfred lay down on his truckle-bed, so
utterly worn out with the fatigues of the day and
the emotions of the last few hours, that, despite the
perils that threatened him, he slept well and did
not awake until the clocks were striking five. Fora
minute or two he neither remembered where he
was nor what had happened, and only when he saw
the first light of dawn struggling feebly through the
grated window, and heard the measured tread of
the sentry in the street, did he realise his position.

Five o'clock ! In three hours — unless the soldier
had delivered his letter and Laurence succeeded in
obtaining an order for his release — he would belying
stark and stiff on the Trocadero. And it
seemed to him now that the chances in his favour
were much less than he had thought them the night
before. The man might not have delivered the
letter, after all. Laurence might have failed to
convince the Communed leaders of his innocence,
and procure a respite, for just then, while the
enemy's shells were hurtling through the air and
VOL. III. 47

death and destruction stared them in the face, the
rebels could be in no merciful mood. But in any
case Laurence would surely come to see him, if only
to say that he had failed, and to bid him a final
farewell — supposing he had got the letter ! And if
he had got the letter he would have been there
already, or, at least, have sent some message. No
friend in such circumstances could do less.

No, the letter had not been delivered ; and as the
clocks went six Alfred threw himself on his bed with
a shudder. He was beginning to lose courage. It
is hard for a man in the prime of life and the fulness
of his strength to walk through the dark valley and
die in cold blood an ignominious death at the hands
of men he never harmed, away from those he loves,
sustained neither by a hope of posthumous fame nor
the consciousness that he is sacrificing his life at the
call of duty, or for the good of his kind. How little,
how utterly insignificant appeared the trials he had
lately undergone as compared with this crowning
calamity ! Poor Vera ! what would become of her ?
And then he bowed his head, and prayed both for
her and himself, that Grod, who tempers the wind to
the shorn lamb, would comfort his desolate wife and
give him courage to die as a Christian gentleman
should.

Seven o'clock ! Blaine was already up and
dressed ; but he now threw off his clothes and lying
down made as if he were asleep. There was still a

chance that Laurence might come, and he resolved
to delay his departure from the post to the latest
possible moment.

At half-past seven the door opened and the
Communed corporal entered the cell, and placing
his heavy hand on Alfred's shoulder shook him
roughly.

Awaken up ! It is time. Milles tonnerres I for
one who is going to be shot in half an hour you
sleep soundly, young man. It is time, I say."

Time for what ? " said Alfred drowsily, and
putting on a surprised look.

*' Ma foi, time to die. You know what the
citizen commandant said : eight o'clock at the
Trocadero."

Xo he did not. He said you had to keep me at
the dost until eight o'clock. Besides, I must have
time to dress and take my breakfast."

Dress then, and quickly. But as for breakfast
well, yes, I will order you some. It might be bad
for your digestion to die on an empty stomach.
Ah ! ah ! "

And the fellow laughed consumedly.

Have you any money ? "

Blaine gave him a five-franc piece.

Here, Victor, fetch the prisoner some breakfast
and a bottle of wine at twenty sous."

Two ; one for yourself."

Thank you much. Bring two bottles, Victor."

47*

^^It was half-past eight before Blaine had finished
his breakfast, and the corporal, besides emptying his
own bottle, drank the greater part of Alfred's. But
by this time the man's comrades were getting
angrily impatient, and the under-officer declared
that he could allow no further delay. They must
march at once.

Alfred walked slowly, almost automatically, feeling
like a man in a dream, yet continually on the
alert, for Laurence might come to the post at the
last moment and reach the Trocadero in time to
save him.

As the escort neared their destination, they met
two well-dressed men, proceeding in the opposite
direction. The strangers looked at Blaine pityingly,
and he at them with languid curiosity ; but
the next moment his face brightened with new-born
hope, and springing forward with an eager gesture,
he shouted : —

Senarclens, Senarclens, Monsieur Senarclens,
dear friend, save me ! These men are going to
shoot me on suspicion of being a Prussian spy.
You can tell them who I am, that I am neither
a Prussian nor a spy."

But it is not possible," exclaimed the startled
historian, with a look of horrified surprise. " These
are honest citizens, they would not put to death an
innocent man. This gentleman is Alfred Blaine,
my particular friend ; he is the husband of a lady

who is as dear to me as my own daughter, and
no more a Prussian spy than I am. You must let
him go, my friends."

This the corporal refused to do, albeit he was
evidently very much impressed by what he had
heard.

Commandant Corse, he said, had pronounced
the prisoner to be a spy and ordered him to be shot
on the Trocadero at eight o'clock.

Yes," put in Alfred, " it is Corse's doing."

And then he told M. Senarclens how it had all
come about.

You must not shoot this man," said Senarclens
sternly. " It would be a most shameful murder.
Do you know who I am ? My name is Senarclens."

The corporal doffed his hat.

All the world, he said, knew the name of Citizen
Senarclens. Was it not one of the glories of
France ? He should be only too happy to comply
with his request, only Citizen Corse "

Never mind Citizen Corse. I will take the responsibility.
Be good enough to let my friend go."

The corporal still refused ; but after a little
hesitation he agreed to conduct Blaine to the
police station in the Eae de Tivoli and keep him
there while Senarclens procured an official order for
his release. The historian took Alfred's arm, the
six soldiers marching respectfully behind. As they
came within sight of the post a fiacre was driven in

hot haste to the door, and out of it stepped a man
pale with excitement, who, when he perceived
Blaine, ran towards him with outstretched hand.

Thank Grod, I am in time ! " he exclaimed
fervently ; " I was beginning to fear the worst."

And the worst would have happened if it had
not been for M. Senarclens. It is to him I owe my
life," said Alfred rather bitterly.

*' I could not have done more had my own life
been at stake, Blaine. I only got your letter at
four o'clock, and ever since I have been running
about from pillar to post. I have not lost a moment.
It is not ten minutes since I got the order for your
release. Here it is ! "

You will let my friend go now ? " said Senarclens,
turning to the corporal.

*' Certainly ; the citizen who is not a Prussian spy
is no longer my prisoner. He may go. Aic revoir,
citizen."

You are very kind," replied Alfred grimly ;
but everything considered, I think I would rather
not see you again. Adieu poitr toujours, Citizen
Corporal."

M. Searches IS DISCOURAGED.

The historian invited Blaine to walk with him
towards his lodgings in the Hausmann boulevard.
He seemed much depressed. When he heard of
the Communed rising he had hurried to Paris, full
of enthusiasm, and firmly believing that a new era
had begun, that a socialist republic was being
organized which would regenerate France and confer
on humanity at large untold blessings. Only a few
years, and wars, inequalities, and poverty would
cease, Europe become a happy family, and perfect
justice be everywhere established. And what did
he see ? Violent dissensions among the reformers
themselves, the usurpation of power by unscrupulous
factions, spoliation and oppression, Paris begirt ina
circle of fire, and his beloved France, still in
possession of the foe, torn by intestine strife and
bleeding at every pore.

"But it is not the fault of the socialists," said
Senarclens. " If they had been more united among
themselves, and Tiers were not such a wretched
little despot, and the Versailles Government had

been less cruel and intolerant, and the Empire had
not so completely brutalized the population of Paris,
all might have gone well."

If, if, if," repeated Alfred rather bitterly.
Why not say at once that if everybody was
virtuous till would be happy ? Do you not see,
my dear ^l. Senarclens, that while brutality and
ignorance, crime and intolerance prevail, they must
be taken into account, and that so long as dissensions
exist among communists themselves, you
cannot expect brotherly love to reign in the world
at large ? Before they try to convince others, let
them know their own minds. And I have the most
profound distrust in these heroic remedies. I have
lately seen a good deal of the poor of three
countries — England, Italy, and France — and I am
convinced that, though wise laws and elhcient
administration may effect some improvement in
their lot, it is really nothing compared with what
they could do for themselves. In other words, you
cannot make people happy by Act of Parliament.
Suppose, for instance, that the people of this
country and of England could be persuaded to
reduce their consumption of drink and tobacco by
one half, and Christian countries were to disband
their armies and refer the settlement of their disputes
to a supreme international court, composed,
let us say, of the wisest men and best legists of
Europe and America ? AVhat a difference it would

make ! The world would hardly know itself, so
great would be the change ! And I believe all this
will connie to pass, but only in one way — by the
moral improvement of the masses."

"You do the masses injustice, M. Blaine ; it
is not they alone who are deficient ; the upper
classes are quite as ignorant, and still more selfish."

As selfish, perhaps, yet hardly as ignorant. But
never mind that. I was about to say that real
progress can be achieved only by improving the
'frujvale and raising the ideals of all — gentle and
simple, rich and poor — by evolution, in fact, not by
revolution. And the process is going on, has been
going on for ages. I have no objection to socialism.
I dare say it will come in its own time ; but it must
come gradually, and be adopted spontaneously, and,
as nearly as possible, unanimously. A majority
could no more force socialism on a minority than it
could force on them moderation in eating or personal
cleanliness. At least that is my opinion."

"You are for a policy of laisser faire, laisser
alley, then ? It is a policy that has failed M.
Blaine."

It will be time to say so when the experiment
has been tried, M. Senarclens. Anyhow the opposite
system does not seem to answer here in France.
The most complete laisser faire could not well
produce much worse results than those we are now
witnessing."

"Perhaps you are right," returned the historian
mournfully. *' I sometimes think we should be
better without government of any sort. Yes, all
this is sad and disheartening, and I begin to despair
of the future of humanity."

I do not think there is any reason to despair,
M. Senarclens ; failures always precede success, and
enthusiasts are apt to forget that, so long as men are
fallible, and mortality and toil are conditions of
existence, sorrow and suffering cannot be banished
from this world of ours, which for many must always
be a vale of tears. We may prolong life but we cannot
conquer death."

You mean," said the historian, smiling, " that
though we may mend we shall never become
perfect."

Exactly."

"In that I quite agree with you. But at any
rate let us try to mend, and each in his own sphere
do something to make the world a little better than
he found it. We shall then prepare the way for the
reign of that ideal justice which men have so long
desired, and which still seems so far off."

And then, after a few more words, they separated,
not to meet again until both had undergone some
further strange experiences.

As Alfred, after calling at the office of the paper,
was making for his lodgings he encountered a detachment
of weary and depressed-looking com-guards,

part of a force which had just been defeated
close to one of the barriers.

The siege was growing hotter and hotter; an
assault might be delivered at any moment, yet there
was no sign of yielding, and the besieged were
making preparations for a desperate resistance in
the very heart of Paris. Barricades were being
erected and buildings fortified in every direction,
and when Blaine reached the Eue des Apotres he
found it swarming with insurgents and blocked at
both extremities. But on showing a passport with
which he had provided himself at the office he was
allowed to pass. Poor Madame Merveille was in a
state of great agitation and distress. Nearly all her
lodgers had bolted, she had feared that Blaine
was killed, and was in mortal terror lest her house
should be crushed by shells or set on fire by the
rebels. For all that, she was determined to stand
by her property to the last. If the worst came to
the worst she would shut herself up in the cellar,
where she had placed a store of provisions sufficient
for several days. When she knew that Alfred did
not mean to run away like the rest, she fairly hugged
him ; put her hands on his shoulders, and kissing
him on both cheeks declared that she should not
charge him another centime. So long as he remained
in Paris he might live at free quarters in
the Hotel des Miracles.

A few days later the Versailles troops were inside

and the street fighting began. The events that
followed are amongst the most terrible that ever
befell, even in the bloodstained history of Paris.
Blaine witnessed scenes that burnt themselves
inefFaceably into his soul, and made him, like M.
Senarclens, almost despair of mankind.

In some of the streets dead bodies were as numerous
as autumnal leaves in a country lane ; pools of
blood as frequent as pools of water after a storm.
From La Roquette to Pere la Chaise human carcases
lay as thick as the bodies of slaughtered pheasants
after a great battue. Horrible as were the excesses
perpetrated by the commands, the atrocities committed
by the troops were still more ruthless. To
insurgents captured in fight no quarter was given.
Prisoners were sorted ; those with blackened hands,
or shoulders which appeared to have been bruised
with the recoil of muskets, were shot without mercy.
The others were reserved for execution later on, or
transportation to Cayenne. No consideration was
shown either for age or sex. The mere suspicion of
being a communed, above all a petroleiise, was
equivalent to a sentence of death without inquiry or
trial.

One day, while Alfred was watching from the
Place de la Concorde the fires in which the doomed
city was wrapped, he saw coming towards him a
crowd of howling demoniac, half-carrying, half-pushing
along what at first sight looked like a

bundle of rags. The bundle of rags was a woman,
limp, helpless, and nearly unconscious ; her dress in
tatters, her hair dishevelled, and her white bloodstained
face agonized with fear.

'' La petroleum ! la petroleum ! " yelled the crowd,
and as they reached the point where Blaine
stood an officer stepped forward and, drawing his
revolver, blew out the wretched creature's brains.

Blaine took the trouble to inquire, but
cautiously, lest he should draw on himself suspicion
of being a communed, how it was known that the
woman was a petroleum — on whose evidence she
was accused. But nobody could tell him. Or le dit,
was the only answer he received.

One of the last fights that took place was in the
neighbourhood of the Hotel des Apotres. As all
the lodgers had fled, and Madame Merveille was
hidden in the cellar, the correspondent of the Day
had the house all to himself, and he watched the
operations partly from an upper window, partly from
the porte cohere between the tobacco-shop and the
hotel. He saw the first attack on the nearest barricade,
led by a plucky little officer with a walking-stick,
who at the first volley bounded into the air
with a scream and then fell flat on his face, stone
dead. The insurgents contested the ground inch
by inch, and repulsed the troops in the street over
and over again. In the meantime, however, another
detachment had entered the buildings on either

side, and, breaking with pickaxes and crowbars from
house to house, they fired on the commands from
the windows, and finally took the barricade in
reverse.

Alfred, always on the outlook for incidents wherewith
to enrich his correspondence, obtained permission
to accompany one of these housebreaking
parties ; and exciting and perilous work it proved,
though he took care to expose himself to no more
danger than he could help. To make a hole in a
wall big enough to admit a man was generally an
affair of a few minutes, whereupon the soldiers
would rush through and begin shooting from the
windows or, as happened more than once, descend
into the street, and engage in a hand-to-hand
struggle with the rebels, who, taken between two
fires, and knowing that no mercy would be shown
them, fought with the ferocity of despair. At
length, as the night was closing on the murderous
scene, they were driven — the few who remained
alive — into the very centre of the Rue des Apotres,
and close to the Hotel des Miracles.

And now the end of the struggle is at hand. The
soldiers (whose movements Blaine is following)
have reached the house contiguous to the wine-shop,
next door to the hotel. They are in a large
room in the third story, and while one party is firing
from the windows a second is breaking through the
next wall. The air is thick with lime-dust and

powder-smoke. Two or three wounded men are
lying on the floor ; every now and again a lump of
ceiling, dislodged by a bullet, falls with a crash, and
all in the room are as white as millers. A large
building on the opposite side of the street is on fire,
and the flames throw a lurid light on the fierce,
ghastly faces of the fighters, all of them damp with
sweat, and some of them streaked with blood.

*' En avast, mes enfants I " shouts the captain,
who is standing, sword in hand, near Blaine, as a
big stone is knocked out of the breach in the wall,
now wide enough to admit two men abreast. " Six
of you to the windows ; the rest follow me into the
street, and at them with the bayonet." As the
captain speaks he makes for the hole, his men,
among whom is Blaine, crowding after him.
Ah ! who is that ? After him, men ! after him I "

A man, who seems to have sprung out of the
adjoining room, is rushing madly up-stairs, three
steps at a stride. The next moment a soldier has
him by the heels ; he is dragged down in a trice,
the captain seizes him by the coat-collar and,
shortening his sword, prepares to plunge it into his
throat. At the same instant a great sheet of flame
from the burning house flares into the sky, and in
the writhing and terror stricken prisoner before him,
disguised though he is, Blaine recognises his
erstwhile friend and would-be murderer, Vernon
Corse.

You are mistaken, you are mistaken ! " lie
screams, putting up his hands to ward off the impending
stroke. *' I am not a communed ; I was
escaping from them ; I am an Englishman ; and
that gentleman there — that gentleman knows me
and can tell you that I speak the truth. For Grod's
sake save me, Blaine ! It will be worth your
while."

Alfred, it need hardly be said, bore Corse no goodwill,
nor was he a sufficiently advanced Christian to
return good for evil. A few days previously he
would probably not have raised a finger to save the
murderer from the doom he so richly merited. But
he had lately supped full of horrors, he was sickened
with slaughter, and could not bear to see this man,
murderer and traitor though he was, slain in cold
blood before his eyes, if by a word he might obtain
him a reprieve.

Is this so ?" asks the officer.

It is. I know him, and, as he says, he is an
Englishman."

Has he been fighting at the barricades ?"

'* That I cannot tell you." Blaine did not feel
that he was called upon to save Corse's life by telling
a lie.

His hands are clean," said the Captain, " and
that is a good sign ; but the circumstances are suspicious.
I cannot let him go. He must be sent to
the Dicere, and justice will decide his fate."

A MESSAGE FROM Core.

A MONTH later Paris had almost resumed its ordinary
aspect. True, the blackened ruins of the Hotel de
Ville, the Tuileries, the Conseil d'Etat, and other
buildings were there in grim evidence of the havoc
so recently wrought by social hatred and civil strife ;
but the streets were thronged with passengers, most
of the shops were reopened, and people went about
their business as if nothing particular had happened.
Now that matters were taking their regular course
Blaine had much less to do, and he was in daily
expectation of being either recalled to London or
sent farther afield. In the meantime he found the
comparative calm a great boon, for the fatigues and
excitement of the siege had told on his health. He
felt and looked far from well, and was just about to
apply for leave of absence to run over to London and
spend a few days with Vera, when he received a letter
from Corse, of whom, since his arrest in the Rue
des Apotres, he had heard nothing. It was to this
effect :

VOL. III. 48

/ am condemned to death. I have done you all
the harm I could, but for all that I entreat you to
come and see me. 1 have an important communication
to make,

Vernon Corse."

Blaine did not much believe in the important
communication, yet he resolved to visit his quondam
rival, partly to see how this man, whose character
interested him, met his doom — he had not shown
much courage in the Rue des Miracles — partly with
a view to obtaining matter for a letter — for your
true journalist is always on the quest after effective
*' copy."

On presenting his card as correspondent of the
Day he was courteously received by the Director of
the prison, who made no difficulty about granting
his request for an interview with Corse.

If Alfred had expected his ancient enemy to show
any signs of embarrassment he was mistaken. He
found him in a small yet airy and comfortable cell,
well supplied with books and writing materials. As
his visitor, accompanied by a turnkey, entered, Corse
rose from his chair, bade Blaine good day, and
offered him a seat, quite in the old nonchalant style.
Won't you sit down, Blaine ?" he said. " It
is awfully good of you to come and see me, after all
that has happened. Let me offer you a cigar. You
will find them better than the Veveys and Grandsons

we used to smoke at Greneva. They let me smoke
now that I am condemned ; they would not before, and
'pon my word, to be deprived of tobacco is almost as
bad as being sentenced to death."

But there was a nervous tremor about his lips and
a hunted look in his eyes which showed he was far
from being at ease, and that his words were braver
than his heart. He was playing a part, and his
insatiable vanity went far to supply ,the place of
courage.

You would be rather surprised to get my letter
You had not heard, I suppose ?"

No ; I had not heard."

Well, I want you to do something for me ; butin
return I will do a good deal more for you."

Yes," said Alfred quietly ; " what is it ?"

Restore your wife's fortune."

How ?" exclaimed Blaine, startled but incredulous,
and expecting some trick.

*' By giving you properly legalised copies of Philip
Hardy and Vera Leonino's marriage certificates — a
copy of those, I mean, that Hardy had in his possession
before he died, and which he gave to Grabrielle
Courbet to take to his father in England."

How do you know he did this, and how came
these documents into your hands ? " asked Alfred,
almost confounded by this revelation, which nevertheless
seemed to bear the verisimilitude of truth.

I will tell you." And with a self-satisfied air,

48*

"I have a mother, Mr. Blaine," said Corse,
dropping for the first time during the interview his
cynical manner : " I have a mother, the only relative
for whom I ever cared, and who has never treated
me badly. My father is a hard, severe man, who
used to punish me unmercifully, and, I believe, begrudged
me the very bread I ate. But my mother
was always good to me, she shielded me from his
anger, and got me out of many a scrape. A few
years ago, unknown to him, she gave me a large
sum of money to save me from a great danger —
never mind what. I promised to give it her back,
and I have not been able to keep my word. My
father has found it all out, and he is awfully savage,
reproaching her always, and making life a burden to
her. Now I should like her to have that money,
and if I let you have these papers you must send it
to her; that is my condition."

You are not absolutely destitute of conscience
after all, Corse ! "

Of course I am not ; what made you think so ? "
returned Corse, with a look of injured innocence.
Well, how is it to be ? "

*' What is the amount ? "

*' A mere trifle ; eight hundred pounds."

It shall be done' said Alfred, after a moment's
thought ; " always provided, of course, that my wife
recovers her fortune by means of these papers."

*' Of course. That goes without saying. And

now I must tell you where they are. I made some
money during the Commune, but lost it all in the
crash, except two or three thousand francs, which,
together with some private papers — those relating
to the Hardy marriage among them — I hid in the
house where T was lagged, and where I had gone for
the purpose of getting them. They are in an oaken
cupboard in a room on the fourth story, which I once
occupied. You will easily find it ; and I shall give
you a letter to the proprietor, authorising you to
take possession of my effects, though there is naught
worth taking but the money and the papers, which,
as I said, are hidden. The back of the cupboard is
panelled, and all the panels are fastened with four
nails, save one, which is fastened with five. Remove
it, and behind you will find a recess in which is a
little iron box. That box contains the papers and
the bank notes. Destroy all the papers but those
you want ; they concern nobody but myself."

And the bank notes ? "

'* Send them with the eight hundred pounds to
my mother ; say they were my last gift. And now
I have a last request to make of you."

And that is "

To come and see the last of me. I want you
to be able to say that I died game. 1 am aware I
did not appear to advantage in the Rue des
Miracles ; but I was taken by surprise, and, I
admit it, got into a mortal funk — only for a minute,

though, as you no doubt noticed. You will come, of
course ? "

It is a strange request, but I will do as you
wish. When "

Have I to be shot ? I have no idea ; they do
not let us know beforehand ; in two or three days
probably. The director will tell you. Must you
go?"

Yes," said Alfred, who had risen from his chair ;
1 cannot stay any longer. I have work to do."

Corse tendered his hand. Blaine drew back.

What ! you won't shake hands ? " asked the
prisoner.

With you ? Certainly not."

*' You have got all you require, and now you
want to insult me, I suppose. But you need not
get on your high horse ; my family is quite as good
as yours, let me tell you."

So much the worse for your family. I won't
touch your hand, Corse, because it is stained with
blood. By a shameful fraud you deprived my wife
of her fortune, you did your best to murder me ; I
firmly believe that you killed poor Esther Brandon,
and you richly deserve the punishment you are
about to receive."

With that Blaine turned on his heel and left
the cell. He never saw Corse again. The director,
of whom he inquired as to the time of execution,
thought it would not take place until the following

week, and promised to let him know betimes. But
peremptory orders came early next morning, and
within an hour of their receipt the culprit was shot
in the prison yard.

Corse failed to make good his boast of " dying
game," for though he struggled hard to keep up an
appearance of composure, he completely broke down
at the last moment, had to be dosed with brandy,
supported to the place of execution between two
warders, and propped in a fainting condition against
the prison wall.

THE DISPOSAL OF THE FORTUNE.

What would you say, Vera," asked her husband,
on the day after his return from Paris, " if I were
to tell you that you are going to get your Two
Millions after all ? "

I should say you were joking ; would not you,
Cora?"

I am not sure. If Alfred says so I should think
he is very likely to be right."

Are you serious, cher ami ? "

Quite. I did not like to say anything until I
had seen Mr. Artful. Well, I saw him this morning,
and after hearing my statement, he said there was
no doubt the fortune could be recovered ; and I
took the liberty of telling him to begin proceedings
for its recovery forthwith. Did I do right,
Vera mia ? "

Whatever you do is right for me, non viaitre,^^
said the young wife fondly ; " but tell us all about its
please ; we are both dying of curiosity."

Alfred told them all about it. The two women
were so deeply interested in the story and so much

excited by the perils their husband and cousin had
undergone, that the fortune question fell for a
moment into the background.

W hat an awful villain that man was ! " said
Cora, meaning Corse ; " it makes one's blood run cold
to think of him.'^

And he tried to have you shot ! " said Vera,
turning pale.

And to marry you," said Blaine.

How do you account for the existence of such a
monster of iniquity ? "

You might as well ask me how I account for the
existence of evil. Yet I have no doubt there are
many more like him — as vain, as devoid of moral
principle, and as hard and cruel — as potentially bad
though not actually so wicked. But there are, fortunately,
few equally unscrupulous who have Corse's
gifts and education, and opportunities for evil.
Those who have, become, like him, great criminals'*

And always come to a bad end, it is some satisfaction
to know," put in Cora.

*• Not always, I fear. If Corse had not got mixed
Tip with the Commune I do not see how he could
have been brought to book for the crimes we know
he committed. It is well he did, for a man of his
capacity and moral callousness is more dangerous
that a homicidal lunatic. But enough about Corse.
Do you think (smiling) the fortune will be too great
a responsibility for you. Vera ? "

Not when you share it with me. But we must
turn it to good account."

How ? " asked Cora, rather sarcastically. " I
cannot conceive of anything more difficult than to
dispense a large fortune judiciously — that is if you
mean to give it away."

But we don't. Vera and I have discussed the
subject very often, and imagined what we should
have done had the fortune come to her ; and I think
we are agreed that there are better ways of helping
people than bestowing indiscriminate alms, subscribing
to churches and the rest. We should give
something for charitable purposes, of course — probably
a good deal — but nothing is easier than to give
money when you have plenty of it, and as often as
not charity pauperism. I would rather try to prevent
pauperism and help the poor without impairing
their self-respect by making them recipients of
relief."

That is easier said than done"'

True. But few things worth doing are done
easily. You will perhaps say that what one man
can do is hardly worth mentioning — that it is only
as a drop of water to the ocean. Well, the ocean is
made up of drops after all; and if a sufficient
number could be taken from it, even the volume of
an ocean might be perceptibly diminished. From
what I have lately seen, both in this country and
others, I feel convinced that more good may be

effected by raising people's ideals, improving their
morals — using the word in its widest application —
and combating erroneous views than by mere
doles, however carefully bestowed. For instance,
if anybody could persuade the people of this
country to lessen their expenditure on drink by
five or ten millions a year, and eat — I exclude of
course the indigent — a little more moderately, he
would do more good than would be done if every
millionaire in the land were to sell all he had and
give it to the poor. Adam Smith, who was the
first to show the errors of the protective system,
and the men who brought about the repeal of the
Corn Laws, did more to diminish the sum of
human misery than all the philanthropists of the
century."

'' Very likely," put in Cora, *' but what is the
practical application ? Adam Smiths are not to be
bought to order, and there are no more Corn Lass
to repeal."

There are other bad laws to repeal though, and
I only mentioned Adam Smith as an illustration of
the idea I wanted to convey — that the greatest and
noblest of all functions is that of the teacher ;
second to it is the work of those who devote themselves
to the repetition and enforcement of the
teacher's lessons ; for of all evils ignorance is the
greatest — if men were wiser they would be both
better and better off."

Not when you share it with me. But we must
turn it to good account."

How ? " asked Cora, rather sarcastically. " I
cannot conceive of anything more difficult than to
dispense a large fortune judiciously — that is if you
mean to give it away."

But we don't. Vera and I have discussed the
subject very often, and imagined what we should
have done had the fortune come to her ; and I think
we are agreed that there are better ways of helping
people than bestowing indiscriminate alms, subscribing
to churches and the rest. We should give
something for charitable purposes, of course — probably
a good deal — but nothing is easier than to give
money when you have plenty of it, and as often as
not charity pauperism. I would rather try to prevent
pauperism and help the poor without impairing
their self-respect by making them recipients of
relief."

That is easier said than done"'

True. But few things worth doing are done
easily. You will perhaps say that what one man
can do is hardly worth mentioning — that it is only
as a drop of water to the ocean, lyell, the ocean is
made up of drops after all; and if a sufficient
number could be taken from it, even the volume of
an ocean might be perceptibly diminished. From
what 1 have lately seen, both in this country and
others, I feel convinced that more good may be

effected by raising people's ideals, improving their
morals — using the word in its widest application —
and combating erroneous views than by mere
doles, however carefully bestowed. For instance,
if anybody could persuade the people of this
country to lessen their expenditure on drink by
five or ten millions a year, and eat — I exclude of
course the indigent — a little more moderately, he
would do more good than would be done if every
millionaire in the land were to sell all he had and
give it to the poor. Adam Smith, who was the
first to show the errors of the protective system,
and the men who brought about the repeal of the
Corn Laws, did more to diminish the sum of
human misery than all the philanthropists of the
century."

'' Very likely," put in Cora, ** but what is the
practical application ? Adam Smiths are not to be
bought to order, and there are no more Corn Laws
to repeal."

There are other bad laws to repeal though, and
I only mentioned Adam Smith as an illustration of
the idea I wanted to convey — that the greatest and
noblest of all functions is that of the teacher ;
second to it is the work of those who devote themselves
to the repetition and enforcement of the
teacher's lessons ; for of all evils ignorance is the
greatest — if men were wiser they would be both
better and better off."

You must have a newspaper, Alfred."
I paean to have one if Vera will let me ? "
Allow you ! Of course I will ; but why do you
ask ? "

Because my newspaper will not be a money-making
concern. I shall not conduct it on commercial
principles. It must be sold at a low price
or it will not reach the classes whom I want most to
influence ; it must be well and brightly written, or
it will not please my readers, and fearlessly written,
without respect to persons and parties, or it will not
please me. The columns of this paper will be open
to all who have anything really good to say, and I
shall pay my contributors handsomely, always on
condition, however, that they sign their articles, for
I will neither take the responsibility of other men's
articles, nor ask them to suit their views to mine.
And it is only right that the public should know
who their self-appointed Mentors are. What
should we think of a divine or a statesman who
delivered his discourses with his features hidden
under a mask? Anonymity is the journalist's
mask, worn, moreover, not in his own interest butin
that of his employer. A paper conducted on
these principles would not be likely to pay pecuniarily,
the more especially as I should neither
humiliate myself by asking for advertisements nor
stoop to obtain subscribers by pandering to the
classes or flattering the masses. But other results

would come in turn ; sooner or later the public
would appreciate honesty of purpose and plainness
of speaking. And if the enterprise should
cost us a few thousands a year what then ?
The money would be better spent than in keeping
up a big establishment, and Vera and I
can live on far less than the interest of our
income. x\nd there are other ways in which
we could dispose of money usefully, such as
educating highly and providing for poor children
of exceptional ability, organizing free lectures
on practical subjects, and making an essay
now and then towards the problem of housing
the poor"'

"1 approve of all you propose, mon ami," said
Vera thoughtfully ; but could we not do something
more immediate ? It will be a very
long time before the paper begins to tell, and
making experiments about housing the poor
will be a rather slow process, will it not ? Could
we not hit upon some idea that would be all
our own ? "

An apt suggestion. Yes ; I think I have an
idea. It occurred to me a little while ago. When
I was among the London poor, I noticed that they
are very badly served by retail traders. Why
should we not establish stores in some of the
poorest districts of London, where the very poor
could buy all they want at a moderate advance on

first cost ? I would not give anything — for giving,
like borrowing, dulls the edge of husbandry — so the
scheme would have to be self-supporting, but by
doing the business on an extensive scale, we could
afford to supply genuine articles at much lower
prices than are paid at present, and so place within
the reach of the poor the advantages of co-operative
trading — perhaps, in the end, by advancing the
necessary capital — of course without interest —
enable some of them to become their own providers.
For of all helps, self-help is the best. Oh, there
are many ways by which those who regard wealth asa
trust, and not a right, may promote the common
good. And it seems to me that it is simply a
matter of duty on the part of the rich to spend the
greater portion of their incomes in bettering the
condition of the community which protects them in
its enjoyment."

'* And yet you say you are not a Socialist," said
Cora.

Nor am I, for I would constrain no man. The
only force I desire to use is the force of public
opinion, and it is public opinion which. Vera
being willing, we will try to do our part in
educating."

With all my heart, mon ami. It is a noble
aim and practical, not like some of those splendid
yet impossible schemes M. Senarclens used to talk
about."

"All very fine and Quixotic," observed Cora,
smiling. " But you have not got your fortune yet.
What are you going to do in the meantime ? "

Cannot we go to Switzerland for a while ? " said
Vera; *• this London air seems to suffocate me. I
must see once more the mountain and the lake, and
bask adam in the sunshine of Canton Vaud si beau.
The change would do us both good, Alfred. And
we need not be idle. You could write articles for
the Day and your new paper, and 1 would go on
with my picture'"

Yes ; let us go. Artful says it may be some
little time before the proceedings for the recovery
of the estate can be completed. We will sell this
furniture, and give up the house — I think we are
both pretty well tired of Park Village East— and
betake ourselves to Switzerland until the business is
arranged. We shall come back stronger for work.
And I should like to see Oglethorpe and Delane.
Perhaps we might find Delane a better place, ordo
something to enable him to marry Ida von
Schmidt. I am sure they are desperately spoons on
each other. If Cora will go with us as our guest
and at our expense, it will add greatly to our
pleasure. Won't it. Vera ? "

It will, indeed. Do come, Cora dear."

With all my heart. Alfred's proposal is a piece
of practical communism of which I highly approve.
I wish more rich folks would do likewise, and treat

VOL. in. 49

their less fortunate friends to Continental excursions
rather oftener than they do at present. Educate
public opinion on that point, cousin, and you will
do a good thing. It is a capital beginning, and you
may do the same thing next year if you are so
disposed."

THE END.

KEhhY AND CO., Gate Street, LINCOLN'S INN Fields,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

fi

J

liL

iiiitii

•'i} a^ '

'. f f '-

;:l!.iL'.

mhMiA i;^ j^. -V J . «- V
