*7!r^ M ";'fjip |j|j;|!;!|

:',:■/■>$ 8SJ#'i

$l^#S&&i $&F'4>~

^f*T '

L I B R A R. Y

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


N5Z/b

BIRCH DENE.

VOL. I.

William Wtzsttdl's £Lototls,]

JOHN BROWN AND LARRY LOHENGRIN. 5*.

NIGEL FORTESCUE ; OR, THE HUNTED MAN. 5s.

TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. 3s. 6d.

HER TWO MILLIONS. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

THE OLD FACTORY. 2s.

RED RYVINGTON. 2s.

RALPH NORBRECK's TRUST. 2s.

LONDON :
WARD AND DOWNEY, 12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

BIRCH DENE.

% loiul

BY

WILLIAM Stall,

AUTHOR OF

"HER TWO MILLIONS," "RED RYVINGTON," " NIGFL FORTESCUE,

"JOHN BROWN AND LARRY LOHENGRIN," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1889.
[All Rights reserved.]

Richard Clay A Sons, Limited,
London <fc Bvnoay.

8£5
v.i

TO

OF BIRCH
THIS STORY IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.

Digitized by the Internet Archive

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/birchdenenovel01west

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

CHAP.

I.

THE WAIFS .

11.

THE PITY OF IT

III.

COMMITTED .

IV.

NEWGATE

V.

THE BLACK PEW

VI.

ME. CHUBB .

VII.

HOPE

VIII.

THE TRIAL .

IX.

THE VERDICT

X.

A BOOTLESS QUEST .

XI.

bartlett's RESOLVE

XII.

A CLUE

XIII.

MOSES WEEVIL

XIV.

ANOTHER LOSS

XV.

Solomon's advice .

PAGE








57



80

92

112

122

.-. 135

,. 153

169

179

194

Vlll

CONTENTS.

CHAP.

XVI. BOUND APPRENTICE

XVII. ROGUES IN COUNCIL

XVIII. ON THE ROAD

XIX. A NEW FRIEND

XX. THE APPRENTICE HOUSE

XXI. ANOTHER MISFORTUNE

XXII. THE FACTORY

PAGE









BIECH DENE.

CHAPTER I.

THE WAIFS.

A winter's day in London. During the
morning it has snowed, frozen, and thawed
in turn. The streets are slushy, the air is
damp and raw, houses and shops loom swart
and grim, and a red sun hangs low in a
leaden sky.

Among the wayfarers who wend eastward
along Holborn — men with pigtails, top-boots,
and low-crowned hats, women in patterns, with
waists as high as their armpits, and coal-scuttle
bonnets — are a woman and a boy,
whose slow and sauntering pace is in striking
contrast with the hurry and rush of the crowd
around them.

VOL. I. B

2 BIRCH DENE.

The woman may be thirty years old ; her
face, though pale and worn, shows traces of
beauty and refinement, and is still pleasing
and comely. The boy has seen, perhaps, nine
or ten summers ; he has a frank and open
countenance, his eyes are dark blue, and the
curls which hang down his shoulders are
almost as black as the broad-brimmed hat
which covers his head.

Both these persons are decently yet very
insufficiently clad, and their pinched features
and tremulous gait show that they are well-nigh
spent with hunger and fatigue.

More than once the woman half stops
before a passer-by, and timidly holding out
her hand, begs with her eyes. Then, as if
ashamed of herself, she blushes deeply, and,
with a gesture of despair, gathers her skirts
about her and hurries onward. The only
answers vouchsafed to these mute appeals
are a shake of the head, or a movement
of impatience — as often as not a muttered
curse.

The child, less anxious and pre-occupied

THE WAIFS. 3

than the woman, is continually calling her
attention to the sights around them, and asking
questions — questions to which she almost
invariably responds with all gentleness. Once,
however, as if wearied by his importunity,
she speaks sharply, and bids him be silent,
but only the next moment to kiss him with
passionate fondness, murmuring :

"My poor, poor boy — what will become
of us ? "

Look there, mother — look there ! " he exclaims,
as they pass Chancery-lane. " What
are they doing 1 Why are those people shouting
so ? — and that cart with the man tied
to it!"

I think — yes, it must be so. They are
whipping a man at a cart's tail."

Poor man ! What has he done ? Is he
wicked ? "

That is a question God alone can answer,
my dear Robin. It is not for us to judge.
Perhaps he stole something."

Then he is wicked ? "

He may be. We are all wicked. But

B 2

4 BIRCH DENE.

there are degrees. Perhaps he was very
hungry or had starving children at home
I wonder whether it is wrong " —
lowering her voice to an inaudible whisper
" I wonder whether it is wrong; to steal
for one's children. Would God forgive me
if "

As they go on they are overtaken by
another cart, surrounded by a mob of howling
ragamuffins. Seated in it is a wretched
creature, bareheaded and handcuffed — his
clothes a mass of filth, his face streaked with
blood — whom the mob are pelting with mud,
addled eggs, rotten turnips, dead cats, and
assailing; with foul abuse.

Oh, that poor man ! " cried the boy,
excitedly. " They are killing him. Will
nobody help him ? What has he done that
they use him so ill ? "

This remark was overheard by a little
caustic-looking, oldish man, who wore a short
pigtail, tied up with black ribbon, knee-breeches
and gaiters, and carried under his
arm a bundle of books, and on whose beak-the

WAIFS. 5

like nose was perched a pair of huge horn-framed
spectacles.

That is a very bad fellow, my boy' he
said. " He spoke evil against dignities, so
they put him in the pillory, and now they are
taking him back to Newgate."

Spoke evil of dignities ! What is that ? "

"He found fault with the king and his
ministers, and said something about bishops
being wolves in sheep's clothing ; and, what
was worse, he printed it all. He pointed the
finger of scorn at the great, and now the mob
bespattered him with mud and rotten eggs.
Serves him right for meddling with other
people's business and not minding his own —
don't you think ? "

The boy, with a puzzled look, answered by
asking another question.

And that other man," he said, after a
moment's thought — " what has he done ? "

The fellow they were whipping at the
cart's tail?"

Yes."

Oh, he committed a most heinous offence

6 BIRCH DENE.

nothing less than buying two trusses of
hay at a price so low that it was assumed he
must have known they w r ere stolen. "

Did he steal them ? "

No ; he bought them."

Bought them ! That seems very strange,"
said the poor child, looking more puzzled
than ever. " If people are flogged for buying
things, what is done to those who steal
things ? "

"They are hanged — hanged as high as
Hainan, provided the thing stolen be above
the value of five shillings. That is the value
put on a man's life in this country, for whether
you kill or merely rob, the punishment is the
same. But I must go and look after my shop,
or somebody will be robbing me. Good-bye,
my little friend, and if you live to be as old
as I am, you will often think of the sights
that you once saw in the streets of London
sights that could not be matched in any
other city in Christendom at the dawn of the
nineteenth century."

And with that the old gentleman gave

THE WAIFS. 7

Robin a patronizing nod, and went briskly
on his way*.

"A very strange man — isn't he, mother?
Who do you think he is ? "

I have no idea," answered the woman,
bitterly. " He likes hearing himself talk, I
think. I dare say, though, there is truth
in what he says ; only I wish that instead
of giving us words he had given us
bread."

So do I. But I am not so hungry as
I was a little while since. I can wait a
bit longer. Where shall we sleep to-night,
mother — under the Adelphi arches again ? "

Heaven only knows. But we must have
patience. God is good. Perhaps there maybe
news of your father. Let us go on."

As if the mere suggestion of such a possibility
renewed her strength, or made her forget
her weakness, the woman took the boy
firmly by the hand, and increased her dilatory
pace to a fast walk.

A few minutes afterwards they reached
Leather-lane, and over a bookseller's shop, at

8 BIRCH DENE.

the corner, Robin (who read every sign he
passed) saw inscribed the words —

Bartlett, Dealer in Old and Secondhand
Books.

At the same moment he stopped short, and
uttered an exclamation :

Look, mother ! That must be the name
of the strange old gentleman who you said
liked to hear himself talk. There he is*! "

It was quite true. He stood at the door,
calmly contemplating the stream of life which
flowed past him, smoking the w T hile a big
German pipe, which harmonized well with his
horn spectacles and hooked nose. As Robin
spoke, the smoker caught sight of him.

How do you do ? " he said, removing the
pipe from his mouth. " Glad to meet you
again. Here you see me on my native heath
in my own shop, surrounded by my household
gods. Wont you step in, madam, and
buy a book for the young master, who, I
take it, is your son ? I have works suitable
for every age, and the meanest as well as

THE WAIFS. 9

the highest capacity — some with very nice
cuts."

"People who cannot buy bread don't buy
books, and I have money for neither," answered
the woman, bluntly.

Is it indeed so ? I should not have
thought it — yet when I scan your faces

closely Excuse me, my eyes are dim with

much poring over books. You are right —
literature is good ; but pudding is better fora
hungry boy; and, now that the quartern
loaf has got up to one shilling and sentences
as cheap as bread, besides being a
good deal more filling for the money. Here,
take this" — putting two penny pieces into
Robin's hand — " and get a couple of slices."

The lad's eyes glistened, the woman's filled
with tears.

God bless you ! " she said, in a broken
voice. " I never thought — this is the first

time But he has eaten nothing since

yesterday."

Pudding ! Thank you, sir," cried Robin.
But where shall I get it ? "

10 BIRCH DENE.

From the Flying Pitman. But I dare say
you can find room for more than two slices
between you. Here is another twopence.
Buy four."

Poor woman ! " he thought. " She says
nothing about herself, and yet she looks fit
to drop."

"You are really too good, sir; and if it

were not for my poor boy We will do

as you say. But surely that fine gentleman
on the other side of the way cannot be a
pitman ? "

He is, though. The Flying Pitman of
Holborn Hill. I suppose they call him a
pitman because he sells pudding," laughed the
bookseller. " But you do right to call him
a gentleman. He has genteel lodgings in
Kathbone-place, and when not occupied in
selling pudding, he paints pictures. I am
told, however, that the puddings pay him
better than the pictures. But I am keeping
you from your pudding, and I think I discern
in that portly gentleman, who is coming this
way, a possible customer."

THE WAIFS. 11

Acting on this hint, mother and son, after
again expressing their thanks, crossed over to
the corner of Fleet Market, where the gentlemanly
pitman vended his wares. He was a
fine-looking fellow, with a smiling face, and
in his suit of black — dress-coat, knee-breeches,
silk stockings, steel-buckled shoes, frilled shirfc-
front, and spotless white cravat — presented
a very distinguished appearance. In his right
hand he carried a round tray, on which reposed
a sort of baked plum-pudding smoking
hot, which he cut up with a brilliantly bright
spatula, handing the slices to his customers
with a flourish and a smile, sometimes with a
jocular remark.

The slices ordered by Robin and his mother
were quickly consumed, and though she would
have made him eat three, herself taking only
one, he refused to take any unless she took
half, and after an amicable contest, the portions
were equally divided.

This incident was viewed with evident approbation
by the distinguished pitman.

I have not the pleasure of your acquaintance

12 BIRCH DENE.

to my regret," he observed, in a loud
voice, and with much dignity of manner, "for
you are a very fine boy, and if there be any
truth in the Fifth Commandment, you will
live a long and honourable life. Allow meas
a reward for your filial duty, to offer you
another slice of pudding."

This sentiment was loudly applauded by the
bystanders, of whom there were many within
hearing, and straightway brought the pitman
a large accession of custom, as he may not
improbably have expected.

The slice despatched, the woman and the
boy resumed their walk.

It is as I said — ' God is good,' ' she
observed, as they descended Holborn Hill.
We have been very fortunate to-day, Robin.

Who could have thought this morning

You are not hungry now, dear ? "

"Not a bit. I am quite full. I almost
feel as if I had eaten too much."

"Yes, we have been very fortunate. It makes
me hope that we may have news of your father.
If not But we must hope for the best."

THE WAIFS. 13

Skirting the walls of Newgate, they turned
into Cheapside, then up Cornwall into ,
until they came to a coffee-house,
close by St. Mary Axe.

I almost dread to go in' she murmured,
after looking at the half-open door long and
wistfully. " If there be no news, what shall
I do ? And if there is a letter, and anything
to pay on it, that will be nearly as bad, for
I have no money."

But at last, mustering up her courage, she
entered, first bidding the boy to wait outside
until she came back.

During her absence Robin amused himself
by watching the process of trimming and
lighting a street lamp. Two sturdy fellows
came up at a swift walk, one carrying a ladder,
the other an oil-can. They wore leather
aprons, and in each of their belts was stuck
a pair of scissors. The man with the ladder
reared it against the post, and, leisurely
mounting, opened the glass, took out the
lamp, and handed it to his companion, who,
after filling it with oil and trimming the wick,

14 BIRCH DENE.

gave it him back. Then the first man lighted
the wick and replaced the lamp, and the
operation was completed.

But the lamps of the period — at the best
poor things, giving a wretched, flickering light
always went out in a wind ; and so costly
was their maintenance that only the main
thoroughfares were lighted at all. People
who traversed bye-streets after dark did so at
the risk of breaking their limbs by falling
into entrapped cellars or over heaps of refuse.

As the two lamplighters trotted round the
corner the woman reappeared. Robin had no
need to ask questions. Her haggard face
bespoke the extremity of despair, and she was
so overcome that she had to lean against the
coffee-house wall for support.

No news, no letter, no word, no anything!"
she gasped. "Oh, my Willy! he
must be dead — he said he was ailing ; or the
ship he was coming home in has been lost.
Nothing less would keep him from me —
nothing less. . . . Let us go."

Whither shall we go, mother?" asked the

THE WAIFS. 15

child, struggling hard to keep down a rising
sob.

I know not — anywhere. . If it would
only please God to take us to himself ! But
for you, darling. . . . We must beg our way
back to Hampshire. Come ! "

And taking his hand she began to retrace
her steps, yet without seeming to give much
heed whither she went.

They had not gone far when snow began
to fall, and as the sun was already below the
horizon, and the blinking lamps served but
to make the obscurity more profound, they
found their way with difficulty, and had to
walk almost at random.

Newgate again ! ' 5 exclaimed the woman,
after a while, looking up at the sombre walls.
We must have taken a wrong turn and
doubled back. I thought we were going
towards the river. But let us go along
Holborn again ; we may as well be there as
anywhere else. We are even more wretched
than the prisoners inside that gate. They,
at least, have food and shelter. . . . Oh, that

16 BIRCH DENE.

it should come to this ! . . . My poor Robin,
you shiver. You must be wet through. Only
that thin jacket, and it is snowing faster
than ever ! "

It is as thick as your gown, mother,"
said the boy, heroically.

But I am older, and can bear it better. . . .
If we have to stay out all night, or sleep
again under the Adelphi arches "

It

Oh, mother," cried the boy, impetuously,
don't you think that the kind gentleman
who gave us the fourpence to buy pudding
would give us, or find us, a night's lodging ? "

I am afraid Still he could only

refuse. It is a good idea, Robin. Let us
go and ask him."

So they went on, and soon after entering
Holborn came to one of those picturesque
old-fashioned timbered buildings with pointed
gables and projecting upper storeys which
still survived in various parts of the town.
The lower storeys were used as shops, and
here, being under cover, the two waifs halted
for a few minutes' rest.

THE WAIFS. 17

The woman shook the snow from her dress,
and as she looked at the boy, her mother's
heart melted within her. , If he had been
dragged through a pond he could not have
been much wetter. His teeth chattered, and
his face was blue with cold.

What shall I do ? " she murmured —
what shall I do ? If we go out again into
the snow, it will kill him."

She glanced round. They were close to
a tailor's shop, lighted with flaring naphtha
lamps. About the door was a great display
of cheap garments — one of them a child's
cloak. Quick as thought, and as if moved by
an irresistible impulse, the woman nipped up
the cloak, threw it over Robin's shoulders,
took his hand, and hurried away.

Nobody in the shop saw the deed done ;
but a neighbour did, and gave the alarm. Yet
the woman, had she not been handicapped
with a conscience, might easily have escaped
with her prize. She had a few minutes' start,
and the night was so dark and the snow so
thick, that by crossing over the street or

VOL. I. c

18 BIRCH DENE.

slipping round a corner she would have been
safe from pursuit. The rash act was no
sooner committed, however, than she began
to rue it. After running a short distance,
she came to a sudden stop.

That was ill done, Boom," she said ; " but
I did not give myself time to think. Your
father's wife must not play the thief. Let
us be honest, though we perish. We will go
back and give the cloak up."

She took it from him, and they began to
retrace their steps, and presently found themselves
face to face with the tailor's showman
and the neighbour.

This is the party ! " exclaimed the latter.

That is my cloak ; you took it just now,"
said the showman.

I did, and I am very sorry. I was bringing
it back. Here, take it ! "

I'll take it, sure enough, and you too.
You'll have to come alone: with me. "Would
you mind fetching a runner (constable),
neighbour ? "

Eight willingly. You hold on to her, and

THE WAIFS. 19

I'll have one here in the twinkling of a
bedpost."

Oh, good sir, let us go ! " pleaded the
woman. "I did not mean to steal the cloak
indeed I did not ! I must have been mad ;
but as you saw, I was bringing it back ; and
I was sorely tempted. My poor little boy
was perished with cold. I am penniless, and
we know not where to lay our heads. In
the name of your mother, good sir, let us
go!

The showman, who had an honest face,
seemed touched.

I would if it was in my power' he
said, hesitatingly. " But I dare not ; it
would be as much as my place is worth.
Maybe, when my master, Mr. Lazarus, hears
what you have to say, he won't be hard on
you. I will speak a good word for you. Let
us go to him before the runner turns up. I
wish I had not been in such a hurry to send
for him. Come."

Mr. Lazarus stood in his doorway, between
the flaring naphtha lamps — a big man, with

C 2

20 BIRCH DENE.

a huge stomach, a heavy face, and pig-like
eyes.

Oh, oh — you have caught 'em ! " he
shouted, in a strident voice. " I'm glad of
it. I'll teach you, you hussy, to steal my
goods ! I'll make an example of you. You
shall smart for this, madam."

"You are mistaken, master. This woman
is poor, but she is not a common thief. She
was bringing; the cloak back when we met
her."

Come now, Perkins — no gammon. Bringing
it back, indeed ! "

She was, though, and I can quite believe
what she says — that she took it on impulse,
as she calls it, for the sake of the child, who,
as anybody may see, is perished with cold
and wet to the skin. I am sure she is a
gentlewoman in distress" — lowering his voice
to a confidential whisper — " she is so well-spoken.
I think you might let her off; you
have got the cloak back."

You mind your own business, Perkins ; I
shall not let her off. I mean to make an

THE WAIFS. 21

example of her as a warning to others. It is
not the first thing I have had stolen, not by
a long way, as you well know. I consider
it my duty to persecute, and persecute I
shall. Ah, here comes the runner ! I give
this woman in charge, constable, for stealing
this 'ere cloak. She was caught in the
very act."

4 'For mercy's sake let me go!" cried the
poor creature, clasping her hands in an agony
of fear. " I did not mean to keep the cloak ;
I was bringing it back. Ask this good gentleman."


Tell that to the marines — it won't go
down wi' me," broke in the constable, with a
brutal laugh. " You are lagged this time, old
woman, and, as like as not, will have to swing
for it. Come — none of your tricks"' (She
was weeping bitterly, and, had the kind
showman not supported her, would have
fallen to the ground.) " Shall I take the
boy too ? "

Yes, take him. They are both tarred with
the same brush."

22 BIRCH Dee.

A few minutes later the woman was walking
through the snow with gyves on her
wrists, and the constable by her side, one of
his hands under her arm, the other drain &
the dazed and almost unconscious Robin by
the collar.

CHAPTER II.

THE PITY OF IT.

Mr. Bartlett, the dealer in new and
second-hand books, was chairman of a small
but select club, which had its domicile at the
Black Bull, in Holborn. The members of this
club called themselves Old Fogies, either byway
of irony, because they entertained ideas
which some folks deemed dangerous and newfangled,
or to conceal the fact of their doing
so ; for though they were reformers, after a
fashion, they had no desire to become martyrs.
And the open profession of extreme opinions
at the dawn of the century was as likely as
not to bring the professors into trouble, especially
if they chanced to be tradesmen, more
or less dependent on a public which had been

24 BIRCH DENE.

frightened by the horrors of the French Revolution
in to hatred of everything that savoured,
however remotely, of innovation. Many of the
Fogies were tradesmen, and too much concerned
about their wives, their families, and
their shops to possess the courage of their
opinions — except the bookseller, who was by
far the boldest of the lot, never hesitating to
avow his sentiments, sometimes even publishing
them. But then he had neither chick nor
child, nor " wife to trouble his life n — a circumstance
which was considered to give him
an unfair advantage over the other Fogies.

It is only right to state, however, that there
was nothing in the social and political views
of these gentlemen which now-allays would
be held exceptional, much less reprehensible.
On the contrary, they would probably be
deemed old-foolish, and behind the times.

On two nights of the week the Fogies
had an upper room of the Black Bull all to
themselves (by special arrangement with the
landlord). Here they met after business
hours to smoke the calumet of peace, drink

THE PITY OF IT. 25

a friendly glass, and discuss the affairs of
the nation.

One of these meetings took place shortly
after the arrest of the woman and the boy.
The first subject of conversation was naturally
the weather, of which, during the previous
twenty-four hours, there had been a good deal,
and Londoners were quite as much disconcerted
by a heavy fall of snow then as they
are now.

Anything fresh ? " asked one, when this
topic had been exhausted. ■' You go more
about than anybody else, Jones ; have you
heard anything fresh to-day ? "

"Nothing particular. I went to see the
new lamps in Old Bond-street last night, and
very well they answer. They are furnished
with reflectors, and give more than double the
light of ordinary lamps."

I am glad to hear it," said Bartlett, who
sat in a big arm-chair, complacently smoking
his big German pipe. " London wants light
in more senses than one. We could do with
more light in high quarters — in Parliament,

26 BIRCH DENE.

for instance, and at Court. The nation is ina
condition of political darkness, and the Kght
given by our ministers and legislators is as
feeble and uncertain as that given by common
street-lamps, which, bad at the best, always
go out when they are most needed. We want
searching reforms in every department of the
State — abolition of sinecures, reduction of
expenditure, extension of education "

You are quite right, Bartlett — quite right,"
put in a Fogey of the name of Driver, who
made it a rule to interpose whenever he
thought the chairman was becoming too outspoken.
" We want these things, just as we
want to be rich or to go to heaven, and shall
have to want 'em a longish time, I expect.
One thing at a time : slow and sure goes far
in a day. Talking of light, what do you
think of this new plan of getting it from
smoke they talk so much about ? There are
folks who say that before many years are
over, the streets of London will be lighted
with some sort of gas distilled from coal."

They might as well say distilled from

THE PITY OF IT. 27

moonbeams' returned Bartlett, contemptuously.
"As a laboratory experiment, I daresay
the thing is possible enough ; but the idea
of lighting a town with coal gas is utter nonsense.
Why, even if it could be done, we
should all be stifled with the stench ! "

"And the whale fishery would be quite
ruined," observed Jones, who, as an extensive
dealer in sperm oil, took a practical view of
the question.

You may rest content, Jones ; the whale
fishery won't be ruined this century, at any
rate, by coal gas. But to return to our
subject. I was going to say, when Driver so
unceremoniously shut me up, that no reform
was so much needed as a reform of our
criminal law."

You think there is too much hanging.
So do I."

"Yes, I hope we may live to see the day
when the offences punishable by death will be
limited to five or six."

So do I. But don't you think you are
rather too sanguine ? If we get the number

28 BIRCH DENE.

down to a dozen it will be a grand thing. By
the way, did you hear of the robbery at
Lazarus's \ "

"No. When was that?"

Two or three hours since. A woman, who
had a little boy with her — her child, I suppose
took a cloak that was hanging at the door
and made off with it ; and then, as it would
seem, she repented, and w T as bringing it back
when Perkins, the showman, met her, and she
was given in charge. Perkins wanted Lazarus
to let her off; but the old ruffian refused —
said he would make an example of her.
Perkins thinks she is a gentlewoman who has
fallen on evil clays — very well spoken and
that. The boy was wet through and shivering
with cold, and she took the cloak to keep
him alive. A pitiable case, isn't it ? As likely
as not she will have to swing for it, and 'pon
my soul, I cannot blame her much. I know if
one of my children was out on a night like
this starving and half clad "

A woman and a boy, did you say ? " broke
in Bartlett, excitedly. " The woman very well

THE PITY OF IT. 29

spoken ! And the boy — how old about is
he ? "

About nine' Perkins said.

"It is the same — I do believe it is the same.
Nay, I am sure. If I had thought. . I
might have prevented this. I saw them ;
they passed my shop, and I found out that
they were starving — to my surprise, for they
looked respectable and did not beg. Well,
I gave them fourpence, and told them to
spend it with the Flying Pitman, which they
did. A shilling more — ay, less than a shilling
would have provided them with another
meal and a night's lodging, and then this
would not have happened. Yet I never
thought of it. A human life will be lost for
want of thought — and a shilling ! "

The chairman puffed angrily at his pipe until
his face was enveloped in a cloud of smoke.

I shall never be able to forgive myself —
never ! " he went on. " But I did uot think
and, after all, if it were not for these
infernal, bloodthirsty, diabolical laws that
would disgrace a nation of negroes "

30 BIRCH Dee.

Hush, Bartlett, hush ! If anybody were
to hear you they would say we were all
Jacobins."

Let 'em ! What do I care ? Does anybody
know what became of the boy ? ' :

They took him too."

You don't mean "

Yes ; Lazarus gave him in charge as an
accomplice."

Hang Lazarus ! I wish they would, and
two or three hanging judges along with him.
There would be sense in that. But about
this poor woman — I shall go to the police-court
tomorrow morning, and if a lawyer is
likely to be of any use to her, she shall have

one."

Have you any idea who she is ? "
Not the least. I think, though, there is
a history behind her, and I shall try to find
out what it is."

After this the conversation drifted into
other channels ; but the chairman, contrary to
his wont, took little part therein, interposing
only from time to time, between the puffs of

THE PITY OF IT. 31

his pipe, some observation so caustic and
revolutionary that the discreet Mr. Driver
declared it positively made his hair stand on
end, and plaintively besought him to " draw
it mild."

I will do better," he said at length, as he
knocked the ashes out of his pipe. " I will go
home. Thinking of that poor woman and the
fate that is probably in store for her quite
puts me out. And the shilling I have spent
to-night on whisky would have saved her !
The pity of it ! Good heavens, the pity
of it ! "

CHAPTER III.

COMMITTED.

The bookseller was as good as his word.
He went next morning betimes to the Hatton
Garden police-court, where, as he had ascertained,
the woman and the boy were to be
brought up for examination.

It was a mean place, with sordid surroundings.
About the door were several
villainous-looking men and wretched women
awaiting the arrival, under escort and on foot,
of prisoners in whom they took an interest,
prison vans being the invention of a later age.
The court-house itself was a small and gloomy
room, with exceedingly dirty windows, and
divided into two unequal parts by an iron
railing. The larger section was occupied by
the magistrate, clerks, lawyers, and witnesses ;

COMMITTED. 33

the smaller, by a not very numerous public
and a few constables (generally called "runners")
— rough-looking fellows with long
staves, long coats, red waistcoats, top-boots,
and cocked hats. Two of these myrmidons
of the law were guarding a witness with legions,
whom they had just brought from
Newgate — a notorious highwayman and
housebreaker, who, having " turned stag,"
was about to give evidence against his former
comrades.

When Bartlett entered the court the night
cases were being dealt with. These were
speedily disposed of, and shortly afterwards
the woman and the boy were brought in.
The former looked ill and woebegone, yet she
held herself erect, and her manner was composed
and resolute. Robin seemed bewildered
and frightened, but when his eye caught the
bookseller's, who gave him a friendly nod, he
brightened up wonderfully.

Is this the prisoner who refuses to give
her name ? " asked the magistrate, looking at
the charge sheet.

VOL. 1. D

34 BIRCH DENE.

She is, your worship," answered the constable
who had taken her into custody. " The
boy also refuses to give his name."

How is this ? Why won't you give your
name, woman ? "

May I make a statement % "

If you like, only it is my duty to warn
you that anything you say may be used in
evidence against you."

"You are very kind. All the same, I
should like to make a statement. My husband
is an officer in His Majesty's service.
He has been a long time abroad, and I have
been living in the country, a long way from
London. About two months ago I received
a letter from him saying that he had been
invalided and ordered home ; and, expecting
to be in London early in November, he asked
me to meet him here. He told me to find
comfortable lodgings and leave my address at
a certain coffee-house where he would call as
soon as he landed, the ship in which he was
coming; home being; bound for the Thames.
So I came up from the country with my little

COMMITTED. 35

boy, and we have been here nearly two
months. I have called at the coffee-house
scores of times — I called yesterday — but
always in vain ; and now I fear that something
has happened to my husband. I made
the money I brought with me go as far as I
could, and when it was gone, I pawned everything
I could possibly dispense with. At last
I was turned out of my lodgings, literally
penniless, and we wandered about the streets,
my child and I, cold, hungry, and penniless.
Yesterday we were overtaken by the snowstorm,
and in a fit of desperation, not knowing
what I did, I took the cloak which I am
charged with stealing — not for myself, but for
my poor little boy, who was wet through and
benumbed with cold. But almost the next
minute I recovered my senses, and saw that
I had committed a theft ; and when they
took me, I was on my way back to return
the cloak to its owner. That is all ; and I
trust, sir, that you will consider a night's
imprisonment in those horrible cells a sufficient
punishment for the offence which, in

D 2

36 BIRCH DENE.

a moment of madness, I committed, and let
us go."

"But what has all this to do with your
refusal to give your name ? '

"I refuse to give my name because my
husband is an honourable man, belonging to a
highly-respectable family, and I would not
have it known for the world that his wife had
been publicly charged with theft. I would
rather die."

In that case there is no use losing anymore
time about it. We must do without
your name. And now let us have the evidence.
As yet I have nothing before me."

On this the neighbour (by name John
Smith) was called and sworn. He testified
that he had seen the prisoner take the cloak
from the shop door, and make off with it ;
and that afterwards, when he followed her, in
company with James Perkins, he saw it in her
possession.

The next witness called was Perkins. He,
too, had seen the cloak in the prisoners
possession ; but she was then coming towards

COMMITTED. 37

the shop, with the cloak in her hand, as if she
intended to give it up. He repeated what
she had said, and avowed his belief that she
spoke the truth. The cloak was worth ten
shillings.

We have nothing to do with your belief,"
observed the magistrate. "You can step
down. Call the constable."

All the constable could say was that the
prisoner admitted having taken the cloak, but
declared that when the other two witnesses
met her she was on her way back to give the
cloak up.

The prisoner declined to ask the witnesses
any questions. She said that they had told
nothing more than the truth, and thanked
Perkins for having corroborated her statement.

The case is complete then," said the
magistrate. " The boy does not seem to be
implicated at all. He is dismissed."

Thank Heaven for that ! " ejaculated the
woman.

As for the other prisoner, however, I have
no alternative, with the evidence before me,

38 BIRCH DENE.

but to commit her for trial on the charge
of stealing from the shop of Mr. Jacob
Lazarus wearing apparel of the value of ten
shillings."

The woman looked wildly round, uttered
an incoherent exclamation, and then, clutching
convulsively at the front of the dock, bowed
her head on her hands. ■

How shall I describe the prisoner in the
committal order — as a nameless woman, a
woman who refuses to give her name, or a
woman whose name cannot be ascertained ? "
asked the clerk, with a puzzled look. " Such
a case has never happened before in my
experience."

"Nor in mine," said the magistrate. "But
how do we know it cannot be ascertained ?
That is pure assumption. Have you made
any attempt to find out the prisoner's name,
constable ? "

I have asked her."

How very ingenious ! I mean, have you
made any independent inquiry ? "

How could I ? I only took her last night.

COMMITTED. 39

None of us knows her, and anybody can see
as she is from the country."

"That is true; and there was nothing on
her person, I suppose, that might serve as a
clue to her identity ? "

Only these papers," — handing him a
packet.

Papers ! The very thing. Why did not
you give me them before ? Pawn-tickets, in
the name of ' Mary Nelson,' and a letter with
the address obliterated "

Here the prisoner raised her head.

The letter ! " she exclaimed, excitedly.
Oh, give me back the letter ! It is from
him."

Your Christian name is Sophie, then ? "

No answer.

But the pawn-tickets are in the name of
Mary Nelson. How is that ? "

The letter ! Oh, give me the letter ! "

I am afraid I cannot do that. Both the
letter and the pawn-tickets must be impounded.
I will read the letter through ; there may be
something in it."

40 BIRCH DENE.

The letter was dated from Martinique (then
an English possession), and began, " My dearest
Sophie." The writer, after acknowledging the
receipt of a recent letter, and expressing the
pleasure it gave him to hear that she and dear
little Robin were in good health, went on to
say that he had been prevented from writing
sooner by an attack of fever, from which he
was only just recovering. It had not been a
very severe attack, and he thought he should
soon be quite well ; but the medical board
which had considered his case was of opinion
that he had better come home. In one sense,
this was a disappointment, because it might
delay his promotion to a captaincy. Yet he
was delighted beyond measure to think that
he should soon see his wife and boy and old
England once more. It had been arranged
for him to leave Martinique in an armed transport,
bound for the Thames, which would sail
in about three weeks, and be due about the
first week in November. As it was a long
journey from London to Hampshire, and he
might not be strong enough to undertake it,

COMMITTED. 41

he would like her to meet hint in London. She
could come up by coach a few days before his
expected arrival (bearing in mind that it might
be earlier or later, according as the weather
was favourable or the reverse), and stay at
some lodging-house or hotel, leaving a letter
for him at the Turk's Head coffee-house in
Leadenhall-street, where he should call as soon
as he had landed and reported himself. She
would not want money before he joined her,
and as he had both pay and prize-money to
draw, they would be able to enjoy themselves.
The letter, which concluded very affectionately,
w^s signed " Your loving Willy," and there
was a Pes. to this effect :

I have mentioned to nobody but you either
that I have been ill or am coming home. This,
purposely, in order that toe may have a few weeks
together before I go to Down Manor. So soon
as I get my step fund it cannot be long delayed),
I si tall tell them all."

This letter quite confirms the prisoner's
statement," said the magistrate. "No wonder

42 Birch DENE.

that she does not desire to disclose her
name ! But these pawn-tickets — still, I doubt
whether it is Mary Nelson "

It is not," said the prisoner.

Ah, you gave another name then ? However,
that is no business of mine, and I do not
see that the name matters very much. It is
not a case of disputed identity. All the same,
we must call her something. Call her ' Mary
Nelson, alias Sophie ' — and make a note that
she has no address, and refuses to give her
name."

Very good, sir. But what must be done
with the boy ? "

"My boy! Oh, for Heaven's sake, do not
take my boy from me ! " cried the woman.
Surely, surely, you cannot be so cruel ! "

It would be no kindness to let the child
accompany you to Newgate, prisoner," said the
magistrate, compassionately. " You do not

know Besides, I cannot. I think you

had better take him to the workhouse, constable,
unless the prisoner has some friend "

Friends ! I have no friends. In all this

COMMITTED. 43

great city there is not one who would stretch
a hand to save me from perdition ! " exclaimed
the prisoner, bitterly.

Here Bartlett, deeming the moment opportune
for his purpose, came forward.

If your worship would allow me," he said,
I should like to make a proposal. I saw the
prisoner and her child in Holborn yesterday,
and exchanged a few words with them. Could

I have foreseen However, that is not to the

purpose. I failed to foresee. I believe her
story, and respect her motives. Her refusal
to disgrace her husband by giving her name is
greatly to her credit, and I shall be glad to
render her whatever slight help may be in my
power. With your permission and hers, I will
take charge of the boy, and find him a home
until such time — until the trial comes off,
and afterwards if necessary."

I have a friend, then ! " murmured the
woman. " You are very good, kind sir. I thank
you with all my heart, and when my husband
knows, he will join his thanks to mine."

I shall certainly interpose no objection ,"

44 BIRCH DENE.

said the magistrate. " It would hardly be less
cruel to send the poor child to a workhouse
than a prison. At the same time, as the
prosecution may possibly desire to call him asa
witness, we should know where he is to be
found."

"My name is Thomas Bartlett, and I am
pretty well known in this neighbourhood,"
answered the bookseller.

Mr. Bartlett is an old inhabitant, and a
responsible householder," put in the clerk.

That will do. Remove the prisoner. The
next case, please."

Five minutes later the " worthy magistrate "
had forgotten that the decision which he had
pronounced, committing the prisoner for trial,
would in all probability involve the sacrifice
of a human life. Albeit by nature kind and
sympathetic, familiarity with "hard cases"
had deadened his conscience and hardened his
heart. The administrators of a bad law can
no more escape demoralization than its victims
can escape their doom.

Before leaving: the court-house Bartlett had

COMMITTED. 45

a few words with the prisoner. Though she
had borne herself bravely during the proceedings,
she was now almost in a state of collapse,
and, as the bookseller thought, on the point
of being seriously ill — which, seeing that she
had eaten next to nothing for twenty-four
hours, and spent the night in her wet clothes,
was not to be wondered at.

Have no fear about the boy," he said,
gently, as he led her to a seat ; "I will take
good care of him, and bring him to see you,
and you shall have legal assistance. When
do the sessions begin ? " (to the constable.)

Next week."

"The sooner the better," she murmured.
I could not endure this suspense long. It
would kill me; and the jury, when they hear
my story, are sure to acquit me, don't you
think, sir ? "

I hope — yes, I think so, decidedly. Todo
otherwise would be wicked — positively
wicked. When the circumstances are properly
explained, they must acquit you."

Bartlett spoke much more confidently than

46 BIRCH DENE.

he felt. He had not the heart to discourage
the poor creature, and though too old to be
over-sanguine, he hoped for the best. Juries
did sometimes refuse to convict, even when
the evidence in favour of a conviction was as
overwhelming as in the case of this unhappy
woman.

I am glad to hear you say so," said the
woman, with a smile of gratitude and an effort
at cheerfulness ; " and now that God has provided
us with a friend, and my boy with a
home, I shall be able to await the issue with
patience."

Here the constable made a sign of impatience,
as if he thought the conversation
had lasted quite long enough.

Robin, dear, we must part," she continued.
This kind gentleman will take you to his
house, and bring you to see me. God bless
you, my darling!" And then, drawing him
to her and putting her arms round his neck,
she whispered something in the child's ear
which Bartlett did not catch, albeit he heard
the reply :

COMMITTED. 47

I promise, mother. Robin will be true."
Keep up your spirits — I will come soon,"

said the bookseller, as they shook hands.

"And, here, take this" — giving her a crown.

You may find it useful where you are going.

I believe the gaolers expect something."

CHAPTER IV.

NEWGATE.

The turnkey threw back a heavy, nail-studded
door, opening into a small quadrangle,
enclosed within high and gloomy walls.

Heaven help me ! Must I go in there ? "
cried the unfortunate woman who called herself
Sophie, recoiling with a gesture of horror and
dread.

Of course you must," answered the man,
with a sardonic laugh. " That is the women's
ward. You will have to stop there till you
are tried, and then we shall, maybe, put you
in a place as you can have all to yourself, and
where nobody will disturb you."

The women's ward ! " said a female pickpocket,
who had been Sophie's chain companion
from Hatton Garden to Newgate. " There is

NEWGATE. 49

another name for it, ' Hell above ground ! ' I
have been there before. If you haven't, God
help you ! "

And then the heavy door closed behind
them, and Sophie found herself in a pandemonium
as appalling as Dante's " Inferno."

The quadrangle was filled with a horde of
yelling and blaspheming women, most of them
in rags, many half-naked, some stupidly drunk,
others fighting like demons and capering like
maniacs.

There were children, too — babes but a few
days old, born in gaol ; little ones clinging to
their mothers' skirts, and learning to curse
before they had been taught to lisp.

So soon as the new-comers were perceived,
their fellow captives gathered round them.

Here's two fresh 'uns ! " shouted a virago
with touseled hair and blackened eyes. " Weare
middling crowded already ; but I dare say
we can find room for you. What was it, my
beauty % "

Sophie was too dismayed to answer ; moreover,
she did not understand the question.

VOL. I. e

50 BIRCH DENE.

Come now — none of your gammon ! We
won't have airs and graces here. You thinks
yourself a lady, maybe, and too good for the
likes of we. But we'll soon let you see — won't
us, Cheeky Poll ? What was it, I say ? ' ;

I am very sorry, but I really don't know
what you mean. If you will kindly explain"

said Sophie, courteously, in the hope that

a soft answer might turn away wrath.

I am very sorry, but I really don't know
what you mean " — mimicking her. " Oh my
eye, here's a green 'un, and no mistake ! I
mean, what was you lagged for ? What have
you gone and been and done to get yourself
locked up ? "

Sophie hesitated a moment, and then thinking
that frankness and truthfulness would bethe
best policy in the circumstances, she
answered :

I had no money, and I took a cloak — the
night before last, when it was snowing so hard
to shield my starving child from the storm."

And then you spouted it to get drink, I
suppose ? "

NEWGATE. 51

I didn't keep it many minutes, and. when
they took me into custody, I was going to
return it."

Why, what a fool you was, to be sure !
When I prigs anything I always sticks to it,
and spouts it for drink. I wish I had some
now — don't I just ! But what made you want
to give the cloak up ? "

My conscience smote me. I felt that I
had done wrong."

"Conscience! Wron^l Them's things I
know nothing about ; I'm not a scholar nor
yet a fine lady. All the same, I have wit
enough to stick to what I prigs. You said
you had no dibs the other day. Have you
any now — money I mean % "

It is no business of yours whether I have
or not," said Sophie, who began to* see that
nothing was to be gained by eating humble
pie.

' Isn't it just? We'll soon show you.
Come, let us see what my lady has got about
her.

The words were hardly spoken when Sophie's

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILL/NOf^ i irpapv

52 BIRCH DENE.

arms were pinioned and half a dozen nimble
hands were rummaging her dress.

Here it is ! " cried a slatternly girl with
bare feet, a tattered gown, and a grimy face.

"Give it me !" screamed the black-eyed
virago, snatching it from her. " This will pay
your footing, madam ; we'll drink your health
in hot ale and rum."

Hot ale and rum be " shouted another.

We'll have blue ruin — blue ruin and no
water."

You shut up, Brazen Bett ! It shall be
hot ale and rum."

Shut up yourself, Drunken Sal, and tip
me the tin. I'm the treasurer of this 'ere crib."

I'll see you — hanged first."

"Not you. You'll swing before me. That
face of yours would hang a bishop."

Bishop you, Brazen Bett ! Take that for
your inference ! " screamed Sal, giving her a
tremendous box on the ear.

Sal answered in kind, and the next moment
the two women were pounding each other's
heads and faces like prize-fighters.

NEWGATE. 53

A fifflit — a fight ! " shouted the onlookers.
Make a ring ; let us see fair play. Who'll
back Bett ? "

I will," said one.

And I'll back Sal," screamed another.
Go it, old girl ! Tap her claret jug ! Scratch
her face ! Pull her hair ! Well done ! Well
done ! Bett will be uglier than ever. She'll
have a jib like a black pudding."

Sophie, horrified beyond measure by the
revolting scene, put her fingers in her ears to
shut out the hideous din, and stole away to
the end of the quadrangle, where several
mothers seemed to be nursing their children
in comparative peace.

One of the women made room for her on a
stone bench.

"You look scared," she said; "and no
wonder. They are a rough lot. But if you
want to be quiet, stop here with us, and I'll
do what I can for you."

Thank you, oh so much ! You have some
influence with them, then ? "

A little. They are not quite as bad as

54 BIRCH Dee.

you may think. They generally let me alone,
and I dare say if I ask them they will let you
alone."

Is it because you have children ? "
"Partly. Those are mine" — pointing to
two sickly little girls, who were playing with
a rag doll. " I had three, but I lost one last
week, thank God ! "

You thank God for taking your child ! "
So would you, if you were like me,"
said the woman, gloomily ; " and if He would
take the other two I think I could die
happy."

Die happy ! What do you mean ? ,:
As soon as my baby is born I have to be
hanged''

But it is impossible ! " gasped Sophie,
looking as amazed as if she had seen a o-host.
It would be an infamy. Nobody could be
so cruel. What have you done, poor soul,
that they should want to hang you ? "

We passed flash notes, my husband and I.
I was once lady's-maid in a very good family,
and I married the butler and we took a public-newgate.

55

house. But we did not succeed — lost all our
money — and to retrieve ourselves we took to
passing flash notes. For a while all went well,
but in the end we were found out. . . . My
husband was hanged three months since, and
in three more -"

Here the wretched woman's voice sank into
a broken whisper, and though beads of perspiration
started on her brow, she shivered as if
she had been struck by an icy blast.

You understand. In three months more
it will be my turn. That is why the other
prisoners look up to me a little, and if I ask
them to let you alone, I think they will."

Sophie closed her eyes and shuddered. She
was too horrified to speak, and could hardly
believe that she heard aright, that the forlorn
creature by her side was doomed to die a
shameful death, and allowed to live for a brief
space only that another life might not perish
with hers. . . . And she herself — was not the
fatal rope also dangling over her head ? . . .
No, no ! — a thousand times no ! God would
not be so unjust — men so cruel. For so

56 BIRCH DENE.

trifling an offence as hers they could not condemn
her to die. And then a feeling came
over her as if she were already dying ; her
head fell forward, and, overcome by weakness
and emotion, and the foul air of the prison
yard, she lost consciousness.

CHAPTER V.

THE BLACK PEW.

When Sophie came to herself, she was lying
in the arms of the woman who was waiting
to be hanged.

"You went off in a dead faint," said the
latter. " Do you feel better ? "

A little, thank you. Where am I ? . . ,
Oh, I remember" — sighing. "You are very
kind. You must tell me your name."

Broxley. And yours ? "

Nelson — here. But that is not my husband's
name. He is away from home, and it
would be so terrible for him, and such a slur
on his family •'

I understand. You are a lady. I could
see that before you spoke. But why "

58 BIRCH DENE.

Why am I in this place, you would
say? I will tell you."

"You mustn't be downcast," said Mrs.
Broxley, when Sophie had finished her story.
I don't think they will convict you. It was
such a very little thing, and you were bringing
the cloak back. They do let people off sometimes.
Pray that you may get a merciful
judge. So much depends on the judge. I
don't think they are quite as hard on stealing
as they used to be, so long as it isn't burglary
or highway robbery. But people who pass
flash notes they never let off."

'rand is there really no hope for you ? "
.f"None," said Mrs. Broxley, with a heartrending
sigh. " My poor old mother — she
lives at Chingford — and our clergyman saw
the Home Secretary, and they pleaded very
hard for me. My mother went down on her
knees ; but it was no use. He said he was
very sorry, but that if they were to let me off
they might as well abolish capital punishment
altogether. I must try to be resigned."

I thought this morning there was nobody

THE BLACK PEW. 59

so unfortunate as Said Sophie. " But you
are. How little we know ! And my life
was so happy. Till I came to London I
had no idea there was so much misery in
the world. Poor woman ! My heart bleeds
for you ! "

And yet there's some as is worse off even
than me. There are five — one of them little
more than a child — to be hanged on Monday
morning ; and I have three, maybe five,
months to live. They will surely let me have
a week or two to get strong before. . . . And
if it would please God to take me and the
little one too "

Oh, don't say that, dear Mrs. Broxley !
Something may happen. It may be better
for you than you think, after all. You can
at least hope. If I lost hope I should go mad
or die."

And thus they talked on ; and so potent a
consoler is mutual sympathy, that, after a
while, these two desolate women, both under
the shadow of the gallows, became almost
cheerful. Sophie took the little girls on her

60 BIRCH DENE.

lap and told them stories ; Mrs. Broxley spoke
of days gone by, and seemed to forget for a
moment that her life was forfeit and her days
were numbered.

It was so pleasant to have somebody who
understood her, and to whom she could open
her heart, said the poor soul, while the mere
fact of Sophie finding one " still more unfortunate
" — one that she could pity, and console,
and help— made her own burden of sorrow
and suspense easier to bear. Without the
condemned woman's friendship, moreover, it
would have fared ill with her in several ways.
She would have been forced to join in the
rough sports of the other prisoners, probably
forced to drink with them, under pain of being
threatened and bullied, if not severely beaten,
and to go dinnerless and supperless to bed.
At that time the prisoners' food was thrown
to them as if they were dogs, and they
scrambled and fought for it like wild animals.
The strong got barely enough, and the weak,
who could neither purchase the favour of their
gaolers nor buy bread for themselves, had to

THE BLACK PEW. 61

subsist on the doles of their more fortunate
companions, or starve.

But those sentenced to death were always
treated with a certain indulgence, as well by
officers as prisoners, and Mrs. Broxley's sad
fate touched the hearts and excited the pity
even of the worst among the annexed inmates
of the ward. They secured her an ample
allowance of food, enough for both herself and
Sophie ; offered her drink (always obtainable
at the "tap" kept by one of the turnkeys),
spoke to her respectfully, and paid her many
little attentions ; and so strangely constituted
is human nature, so deeply rooted are vanity
and love of distinction, that, despite Mrs.
Broxley's miserable condition and impending
doom, she enjoyed these attentions. The
homage of those terrible women gave her
evident pleasure.

Didn't I tell you that they would let you
alone if I asked them ? " she said, as Sophie
and she were eating their dinner. " There is
nobody else in the yard as they would do as
much for. They always do as I tell them ;

62 BIRCH DENE.

and the roughest of 'em, Brazen Bett and
Cheeky Poll, never give me a wrong word'

Poor creatures ! They cannot be wholly
bad. They are women, after all."

It was true. They w T ere women, after all.

When the time came for the children to goto
bed, Sophie asked the mother if she should
hear them say their prayers.

Prayers ! " said Mrs. Broxley, with a look
of surprise. " Nobody prays here. What
would be the use ? Besides, I never taught
them any. But if you like "

And then Sophie, profiting by the permission,
took the little ones to her, and taught
them to lisp a short hymned prayer, such as
she had once taught Robin, and when they
knew it the children knelt beside her on the
stone bench, and repeated it with uplifted
hands.

While this was going on, several of the
prisoners, gathering round them, watched the
proceeding in deep silence and with amazed
curiosity. When the children rose from their
knees and Sophie took them in her arms and

THE BLACK PEW. 63

kissed them, Drunken Sal came forward and
grasped her hand.

"You are a good woman' she exclaimed,
with a big oath, " and I used you ill ; but I
w T on't do it again, and if anybody so much as
lays a finger on you I'll wring their necks
for 'em."

During the short remainder of her prison
life, Sophie was treated with as much consideration
as Mrs. Broxley. Nobody molested
her, and though she heard many rude words,
none were addressed to her.

In that place of torment, night was more
hideous than day. The beds w T ere merely
sloping boards, with logs for pillows ; and for
bedding and bed-clothes, each prisoner had
two filthy and vermin-haunted rugs. The
ward, which had accommodation for a hundred
inmates, contained three hundred, and
the cells were as crowded and noisome as the
hold of a slave-ship in mid-ocean. The cries
of drunken women, the failings of children,
and the curses of their mothers, rendered rest
well-nigh impossible; and though Sophie was

64 Birch DENE.

weary and worn-out, the clock of St. Sepulchre
had gone twelve ere she could close her
eyes in sleep, and she woke long before daylight,
feverish and unrefreshed.

"You are not used to it yet," said Mrs.
Broxley, looking at her pallid cheeks and
sunken eyes. "It always takes a little time,
and some never do get used to it "

And then ? "

They dip. When the ward is as full as it
is now, there is often a death every day —
sometimes two."

I am afraid I shall prove to be one of
those who die before they get used to it," said
Sophie, bitterly. " A few nights like last
night would be my death."

Ah, Mrs. Nelson, many a one has thought
and said the same ; but none of us know how
much we can bear till we are tried."

The morning was Sunday, and Sophie,
being a country-bred, God-fearing woman,
and feeling in more need of religious consolation
than she had ever felt in her life before,
said that she should like to attend service at

THE BLACK PEW. 65

the prison chapel, and asked Mrs. Broxley to
accompany her. But Mrs. Broxley positively
refused.

"I shall not go," she said; "and I would
not advise you. However, please yourself;
and it is perhaps just as well you should go,
just for once."

Bather to her surprise, Sophie finds that a
good many of her fellow prisoners are of the
same mind as herself, and all go together,
under the escort of several warders. She
hears frequent mention of "the condemned
sermon ; " but being too much absorbed in her
own thoughts to inquire what this may mean,
she enters the chapel quite unprepared for the
terrible drama which is about to be enacted
there.

The other women and herself are shown
into the body of the building, on either side
of which is a small gallery. In one are a
number of strangers, who have come to feast
their eyes on a spectacle hardly less piquant
than a prize fight or a public execution. In
the other sit the convicts who, after being

VOL. I. F

66 BIPX'H Dee.

sentenced to death, have been respited by
royal favour. The sheriffs of London are
present in their robes of office, wearing their
gold chains, and attended by two tall footmen
in gorgeous liveries.

In the centre of the chapel is a large square
pew, painted black, and on a table in the
middle of it rests a coffin.

Strangers, prisoners, and officers have taken
their seats ; the Ordinary is in the reading-desk
; the shuffling of feet and the hum of
voices have subsided, and amid a silence
broken only by the sighs of prisoners and the
clanking of chains, five manacled men and
two women enter with laggard steps and,
filing into the condemned pew, range themselves
round the open coffin. All are doomed
to die on the morrow.

One of the women has broken into a
dwelling-house, and stolen a pair of stockings ;
another has stolen a cotton counterpane.
Among the others are a horse thief, a burglar,
a highwayman, a coiner, a returned transport,
and a lad of seventeen, who has forfeited

THE BLACK PEW. 67

his life by stealing a lamb — not a single
murderer !

After a hymn lias been sung the morning
service proceeds in the usual order until after
the reading of the litany, when the Ordinary,
turning to the sheriffs, says, in a loud voice,
The service for the dead."

All the occupants of the black pew have
prayer-books, but only one of the women and
the youth are able to read, and the latter is so
agitated that he holds his book upside down.
The woman is on the point of fainting, the
burglar utters an audible oath, the highwayman
laughs and smirks, and tries to look as if
he did not care.

Next follows a special prayer for " those
now awaiting the awful execution of the law,"
and in due course comes the sermon. It is a
powerful sermon of its kind, and the place
and the circumstances invest the words of the
preacher with a dread solemnity which affects
the most callous of his listeners, and throws
the more sensitive into an agony of apprehension
and fear. As he " concludes," the

F 2

68 BIRCH Dee.

visitors cover their faces ; some of the women
among the untried prisoners scream, others
fall into hysterics, the lamb-stealer swoons,
and has to be carried out by two of the
attendants : the burglar in a state of frantic
excitement, and. fiercely cursing, strikes with
his manacled hands one of the turnkeys full
in the face, and is overcome only after a
desperate struggle.

Sophie, more dead than alive, and bitterly
ruling that she did not follow Mrs. Broxley's
advice, was led back to the women's ward by
Brazen Bett and Drunken Sal.

CHAPTER VI.

MR. CHUBB.

Bartlett was a confirmed old bachelor.
He lived in his shop and slept in a chamber
on the first floor. Besides this, he possessed
only one other room — a place behind the
shop, which served as office, study, and parlour.
It was here that he took his meals
(obtained for the most part from a neighbouring
eating-house), received his friends, and
wrote his articles and letters. A charwoman
made his bed and swept his rooms, and he
was assisted in his business by a young man
with straw-coloured hair and a rueful countenance,
who wore knee-breeches and buckled
shoes on week-days, and a brass-buttoned coat
and top-boots on high days and holidays.
The name of this young man was Solomon

70 BIRCH DENE.

Slow. When his master was in a jocular
mood he would call him " Slow Solomon,"
"King Solomon," "Slow and sure," and indulge
in other pleasantries at the youth's
expense, and much to his disgust.

When Mr. Bartlett, out of the kindness of
his heart, volunteered to take charge of Robin,
he had formed no definite idea as to how he
should dispose of the child ; and as they
wended homeward from the police-court, his
mind was greatly exercised there anent.

I have only one bedroom and one bed,"
he thought, " and I don't know much about
children. Solomon has a mother ; she lives
in Fetter-lane, and I believe is a decent
woman. I wonder whether she would put
him up, and how much she would charge ? I
will send Solomon to ask her as soon as we
get home."

As he arrived at this conclusion, they came
to a second-hand furniture shop, at the door
of which stood a second-hand truckle-bed,
whereon was a ticket thus inscribed —

Ten shillings. Dirt cJicajj."

MR. CHUBB. 71

The truckle-bed suggested an idea.

Would you rather stay with me, my little
man ? You know my place ; but I have very
poor accommodation. Would you rather stay
with me or with a lady who lives hard by ?
She would make you very comfortable, I
think."

Oh, let me stay with you, sir," answered
the lad, looking up to him with trustful eyes.
You have been so kind to us, and — I like
your face."

He likes my face ! " thought the old fellow,
with an amused smile. "Rather a strange
saying from so young a child."

All the same, the saying pleased him.

Well, you shall stay with me. I will buy
this truckle-bed, and have it set up in my
room. And you can amuse yourself with my
books. You like reading — eh ? "

I like it better than anything else " —
eagerly — " except "

Except what ? Speak out."

Playing at marbles."
Well, I dare say we can find somebody for

72 BIPX'H Dee.

you to play marbles with," laughed the bookseller.
" Now for the truckle-bed ! *

With that he went into the shop, and
asked the keeper of it, a bustling little
woman, how she could have the conscience
to want ten shillings for " an old concern
like that," and bade her five. She offered
to split the difference, and ended by taking
six-and-six.

"A truckle-bed is always useful, and I
have bought it worth the money," observed
Bartlett, complacently, as be and. Robin resumed
their walk.

On reaching the shop he ordered breakfast,
for the lad looked half famished, and after
he had eaten his fill told him to choose a
book. Somewhat to Bartlett's surprise, Robert
chose The Pilgrim s Progress, and was soon
deep in that most wonderful of allegories.

The bookseller's next care had reference to
providing legal assistance for Robin's mother.
Though he was a generous man — or, rather,
because he was a generous man — be could not
afford any great outlay. But he happened

MR. CHUBB. 73

to have a customer learned in the law, and
as he expected this gentleman to call in the
course of the clay, about some books he had
ordered, Bartlett decided to lay the matter
before him, shrewdly thinking that he could
do so to greater advantage, and probably at
less cost, in his own shop than in the other's
office.

Shortly after noon, the lawyer, who lived
in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and whose name was
Chubb, put in an appearance.

The business of the books concluded, Bartlett
took Mr. Chubb aside, and, after giving
him full particulars, asked his opinion on the
case "both as a lawyer and a friend, if you
will allow me to call you so."

"I want to have the woman properly
defended," he said, " but not possessing a
long purse I cannot pay big fees."

Lawyers are generally supposed to be hard
and grasping, dead to sentiment, and alive
only to their own interests — a conception of
their idiosyncrasy which, in the main, may be
true. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that

74 BIRCH Dee.

there are many among them who have lucid
intervals of generosity. To this class belonged
Mr. Chubb.

"Ton my soul, Bartlett, you are a good
fellow ! " he exclaimed, when the bookseller
had told his tale. "And this is an interesting
case. Now, I'll tell you what I'll do.
You cannot afford much expense, you say.
Well, I'll do what I can for the woman —
instruct counsel, and the rest — all that is
necessary, in fact — and charge nothing for
my services. What do you say to that % '"'

I say — thank you, Mr. Chubb, both on
my own behalf and hers. It is more than I
had any right to expect."

"Not at all, Bartlett— not at all ! I don't
like being outdone in anything — even in
generosity. But there's the question of
counsel, you know. Counsel cannot work for
nothing — it isn't allowed. However, that is a
difficulty which I think we shall be able to get
over. I have a friend at the bar who wants
business — young, clever, and eloquent. He
has been junior in several cases, but, as yet,

MR. CHUBB. 75

has had no opportunity of showing his quality.
Now, the case of this anonymous woman is
just the chance for which he is sighing. There
is not much law in it. There can be no
question, I think, that she is technically guilty
of a felony. On the other hand, the prisoner,
being a woman, he may possibly be allowed
to address the jury, and Blake — that is my
friend's name — is just the man to work on
their feelings. If anybody can. get her off, he
can. I will retain him, and, considering the
circumstances, I have not the least doubt that
he will undertake the defence for a three-guinea
fee, of which I will pay half — out of
my own pocket. What do you say to
that % " — and Mr. Chubb, smiling pleasantly,
took a pinch of snuff, and wagged his pigtail
with an air which showed that he did
himself full credit for the plan which he had
suggested and the good action he proposed
to perform.

I say that you are a true friend in need.
You have relieved my mind of a great anxiety,
Mr. Chubb."

76 BIRCH DENE.

You approve of my idea, then, and authorize
me to retain Blake ? M

Certainly."

Good ! The next thing is to see the
prisoner. As I have engagements which will
prevent me from doing so to-day, we must
make it tomorrow, though it is Sunday. The
sessions begin on Wednesday, and that will
leave me only Monday and Tuesday to draw
the brief and consult counsel. Not too much
time — not enough, in fact. However, we
must do our best. I shall call for you on my
way to Newgate, about two o'clock. You will
go with me, of course ? "

Of course."

"We must try to persuade the prisoner to
disclose her name. I fear it will make against
her on the trial if she persist in her refusal to
say who she is."

"All the same, I do not think you will
succeed in getting it out of her, Mr. Chubb.
And, to tell the truth, I admire her refusal
to disclose her name. It shows how deep is
the love she bears her husband — that she

MR. CHUBB. 77

thinks more of him than herself. Name or
no name, Mr. Chubb, I regard that woman as
one of the noblest of her sex."

Perhaps she is, Bartlett, but it is greatly
to be feared that the judge and jury will not
view the matter in exactly the same light.
They may ascribe our interesting prisoner's
reticence to other and less commendable
motives than wifely devotion. The counsel
for the Crown may even suggest that the husband
is non-existent, and herself an habitual
criminal who refuses to give her name in order
to conceal her identity."

"No, no, Mr. Chubb — that theory won't
hold water. If she wanted to mislead, she
would give an alias, or adopt the name on the
pawn-tickets. There is, moreover, something
in her bearing and appearance that inspires
me with confidence. I am too old, and have
been too often deceived, not to be mistrustful.
Yet I believe in that woman, and I feel sure
that she tells the truth."

' The whole truth, and nothing but the
truth,' " added the lawyer, with a smile that

78 BIRCH Dee.

might mean anything. And then they passed
into the shop, where Robin sat on a cane-bottomed
chair poring over his book.

"Her son ? " whispered Chubb, raising his
eyebrows.

Bartlett nodded.

What is the name of your father, my boy ?

Captain ? " he asked, suddenly, at the

same time laying his hand on Robin's head.

Robin, colouring deeply, looked up.

"The name of my father!" he said. "I
cannot tell you, sir. My mother bade me
not."

Quite right, Robin ! Always do as your
mother bids you," put in Bartlett, indignant
at the lawyer's mean attempt to surprise the
lad's secret.

Very well answered, Robin ! " said Chubb,
laughing good-hum surely at his own discomfiture.
" Here is a little reward for your
ready intelligence " — giving him sixpence.
God bless me ! Are you going gray already ?
If all your hair were like this, you would be
powdered for life. Queer, isn't it, Bartlett ? "

MR. CHUBB. 79

pointing to a lock of the lad's hair, which
was white as snow, all the rest of his hair
being dark brown.

It has always been like that, sir," said the
child.

And always will be, till you lose it altogether.
A mark to know him by that, Bartlett.
If we have to invent a name for him,
we might call him Whitelock — ah ! ah ! "

And then the lawyer made a courtly
bow, placed his broad-brimmed beaver on his
powdered head, and went his way.

CHAPTER VII.

HOPE.

At the stroke of two on the following afternoon
Mr. Chubb, who was nothing if not
punctual and precise, presented himself at
the bookseller's house. Bartlett and Robin,
equally punctual, were ready to bear him
company.

Taking the boy, are you ? " whispered the
lawyer. " Do you think it is wise ? Newgate
is not exactly the place for children — though
there are children there, I am sorry to say."

I promised his mother," answered Bartlett,

simply, " and if It may be that they

will never meet again."

Ah — yes — I was not thinking of that.
Poor little boy ! Well, let us be going."

They had no difficulty in obtaining admit-hope.

81

tance to the prison. At the time in question,
relatives of prisoners, and people who called
themselves relatives, were allowed to see their
friends inside even without orders ; but Mr.
Chubb had taken the precaution to obtain a
sheriff's order for a private interview with
the untried prisoner, known as Mary Nelson''

The felon's door was beset with a crowd of
visitors waiting for admission, most of them
laden with baskets of provisions, "liquid refreshment,"
and other things, the greater part
of which had probably been ordered by the
prisoners beforehand, and would be paid for
out of their own pockets.

Passing through this door, Mr. Chubb and
his companions find themselves in a large
ante-room of gruesome aspect. The whitewashed
walls are festooned with handcuffs
and leg-irons ; at an anvil in the middle of
the room a felon, with ulcerated ankles, is
being relieved from his fetters, and across it
is ranged a battery of blunderbusses, mounted
on movable carriages.

Hard by an iron gate leading out of this

VOL. I. G

82 BIRCH DENE.

room are stationed a turnkey, who searches
the men visitors, and a woman, who searches
the women. But Chubb being furnished
with a sheriff's order, and known to the
gaolers, he and his friends escape this ordeal.

After going through a narrow corridor, they
come to the place where male prisoners are
allowed to hold converse with their visitors —
a sort of iron cage, so contrived that, albeit
talk is easy, personal contact, even to the
extent of a hand-shake, is impossible. Passing
thence to the women's ward, they are shown
into a turnkey's lodge, and a few minutes
later Sophie is brought in by a gaoler, who
stands on guard at the door, and never once
loses sight of his prisoner. Though somewhat
recovered from the shock of the condemned
sermon and the scene in the chapel,
she is pale to ghastliness ; but a hectic spot
on each of her cheeks betrays the excitement
under which she is labouring; and
there is deep trouble in her beautiful dark
eyes.

Bartlett is both pained and surprised by the

HOPE. 83

change in her appearance which a few days
have wrought.

After tenderly embracing Bobin, she thanks
the bookseller for his visit, sinks into a chair,
and glances inquiringly at his companion.

This is Mr. Chubb, the lawyer, who has
been good enough to undertake your defence,"
says Bartlett.

Will he speak for me ? " — eagerly.
No. The speaking will be done by
counsel — a barrister, you know — a very clever
and eloquent gentleman of the name of Blake,
whom Mr. Chubb will retain and instruct."

"You are both very good and kind. How
can I ever repay you, dear friend ? " — taking
Bartlett's hand ; " for though I have known
you so short a time, you are in very truth a
friend. All this will cost much money, and
for the present I am destitute ; but when my
husband returns he will make it good to you,
and join his thanks to mine."

Don't you think it would be well, madam,"
observed Chubb, with great respect, for the
woman's manner impressed him favourably,

G 2

84 BIRCH DENE.

and her forlorn condition touched his heart —
don't } T ou think it would be well if you were
to be tried in your own name ? Refusal to
give a name is apt to be construed as ill as
the giving a false one."

You mean kindly, I am sure, sir, but for
reasons that Mr. Bartlett has no doubt explained
to you, I must decline to act on your
suggestion. I cannot give my name."

"Well, as I have told Mr. Chubb, I think
you are doing quite right," observed Bartlett.
But there is one consideration you appear to
be losing sight of. Your husband may arrive
any day ; he may have arrived already. Had
you not better enable us to communicate with
him, and let him know where you are ? ' !

Not for the world — not for the world,"
answered Sophie, warmly, " would I have
him know that I am a prisoner in Newgate.
Imagine him seeing me with these dreadful
women ! He would go mad, and I should die
of shame. Better, far better, let him remain
in suspense a few days — if he has come back.
The trial takes place on Wednesday, and with

HOPE. 85

the kind help of this gentleman, and that
eloquent barrister to speak for me, I feel
more confident than ever of an acquittal.
After the trial I shall have nothing to conceal,
and will gladly tell you my husband's
name and my own story. It is the least I
can do."

Mr. Chubb then asked her several questions
among others how she came by the pawn-tickets
which were found in her possession at
the police-court. The explanation was simple.
When the exhaustion of her resources compelled
her to resort to the pawn-shop, she
felt ashamed of giving her own name, and
gave instead that of Mary Nelson, a servant
she once had in Hampshire.

Could not you have written to your
friends in Hampshire for help ? " asked Chubb,

suspiciously.

I have no friends in Hampshire to whom

I could apply for help, nor yet in England. I

am not a native of this country."

"You speak the language without accent,

though ! " said Chubb, in a tone of surprise.

86 BIRCH Dee.

"Naturally, because I have spoken it all
my life."

As she did not seem disposed to be more
communicative, the subject then dropped, and
shortly afterwards the interview terminated.

Before parting with her son (who had been
out of earshot while his elders were talking)
Sophie drew him aside, and taking him in her
arms, kissed him passionately.

Only till Wednesday ! " she murmured —
Only till Wednesday ! In three days we
shall be together again, and perhaps by that
time your father may be with us. Pray to
God that he may, and remember what I said."

And then the turnkey led her away.

When the others were outside, Bartlett
gave Robin the key of the house, and bade
him go home and wait there until he came.

"Well, Mr. Chubb, what do you think
now ? " he said, dien the lad was o-one.

I am of your opinion. To tell the truth,
I had a lurking fear that you might have been
talked over by an artful woman. But now
that I have seen her and heard her story from

HOPE. 87

her own lips — as much as she chooses to tell
I believe in her. She interests me. This
woman must not be hanged, friend Bartlett."

You think you can get her off, then — you
and Mr. Blake % "

I do. All the same, there is no gainsaying
that she is technically guilty of the
felony. The evidence as to that is overwhelming,
while her intention to return the
cloak rests on her own statement, which is
not evidence, and on the testimony of Perkins,
who can only say what he thinks and the
woman said. His opinion, of course, counts
for nothing, and her statement to him was
precisely such an one as an artful, unscrupulous
woman, caught in flagrante delicto, would
be likely to make. On the other hand, nobody
can deny that she may have been telling
the truth ; she acted as almost any mother in
similar circumstances would have acted ; she
is good-looking and ladylike, and that weighs
much with a jury. Lazarus is a Jew, and the
average juryman detests a Jew, and Blake
has ample scope for a powerful speech — if he

88 BIRCH DENE.

is allowed to make one. Then we shall have
in Sir James Hulton one of the youngest and
most humane judges on the bench. If we
had one of the old hanging judges, I would
not give much for my client's life. As it is,
however, I think the chances are in our favour
I may almost say decidedly in our favour."
That means we are sure to win ? "
I hope we shall. All the same, I would
not advise you to be too confident. There
may be tradesmen on the jury who will rather
sympathize with Lazarus than his victim, and,
because they expose goods for sale at their
shop-doors, think that anybody who lays
hands on them, except to buy, deserves to be
hanged. And there is always the glorious
uncertainty, you know."

Yes," returned Bartlett, gloomily ; " the
only things certain about our English law
are injustice and cruelty. Its footsteps are
marked with blood, its victims outnumber
those of the destroying angel ; the gibbet
is its emblem, and Jack Ketch its chief
minister.

HOPE. 89

Hush, my clear sir, hush ! You forget
that I am a humble representative of the law
which you defame. Yet I freely admit that
our criminal code is susceptible of amendment
; and it is being amended. The number
of offences for which capital punishment can
be inflicted has been reduced from three
hundred to a hundred and fifty. Think of
that ! "

Bartlett bore the lawyer company as far as
the turnstile leading into Lincoln's Inn Fields,
and it was agreed that he should call at Mr.
Chubb's office on the following Tuesday morning
to ascertain the result of his consultation
with Blake.

Come about ten," he said, " and bring the
boy with you. I may have a question or two
to ask him."

So when the time came Bartlett bade Robin
put on his hat and cloak (which he had
bought for him the day before), and accompany
him to Lincoln's Inn Fields.

I am glad you are come," said the lawyer,
when they were ushered into his room ; " and

90 BIRCH DENE.

you will be glad to hear that Blake's opinion
is favourable. With an average jury and a
judge with bowels, he thinks we are nearly
sure of an acquittal. He quite approves of
my idea to call our young friend here as a
witness. He thinks that even if he can give
no material evidence, his appearance in the
box will have a good effect on the jury —
always provided that he understands the
nature of an oath."

Mr. Chubb, having satisfied himself on this
point, questioned Robin closely touching the
evidence he might be able to give, carefully
putting down his answers, which he considered
so important that he said he should send a
copy of them to Blake forthwith. They fully
confirmed Perkins' evidence of the prisoner's
intention to return the cloak, and would, he
thought, tell with the jury, if they did not
convince the judge.

Then, turning to Robin, he asked him
whether he had ever given evidence in a court
of justice. Robin answered in the negative.

Well," said Mr. Chubb, "there is nothing

HOPE. 91

to be alarmed about. All you have to do is
to answer simply and truthfully — for your
mother's sake. . One more question :
Robin is, of course, a pet name, a diminutive
—what of? I am not asking your surname,
remember. I want only to know your right
Christian name. Is it Robert ? "

"No; Rupert."

In that case w T e shall have to call you as
Rupert Nelson, I suppose ? When you hear
that name called, see that he steps into the
box, Bartlett ; and be at the court in good
time — our case will probably come on early.' 1

When Bartlett got back to his shop, he
sent Solomon Slow with a letter, addressed to
"Mrs. Mary Nelson," at Newgate, in which
he told Sophie how well things were going,
bade her be of good cheer, and said he hoped
and believed that within twenty-four hours
she would be free.

This hope was realized, but in a way which
the worthy bookseller little anticipated.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE TRIAL.

The Old Court of the Old Bailey.

A large, square hall, lighted by three large,
square windows, through which can be seen
the sombre walls of Newgate ; on one side,
and close to the ceiling, a gallery with projecting
boxes; on the other, the bench, with
desks at intervals for the use of the judges ;
under the gallery, the dock, from which stairs
descend to the covered passages leading to the
interior of the prison. Standing out from one
corner of the dock is the witness-box ; at the
other the jury-box, so placed as to enable the
jurymen to see both prisoners and witnesses
without turning their heads, and the witnesses
to see the prisoners in like manner. The space
below is occupied by the members of the bar,
who are seated round a green baize table,

THE TRIAL. 93

covered with a formidable array of law books.
The seat of honour on the bench is filled by a
portly gentleman, attired in blue and furred
robes ; he wears round his neck a massive
gold chain, and hanging over his head, against
the crimson-lined wall, is the gilded sword of
j justice.

"Is that the judge, Mr. Bartlett?" asks
Robin of the bookseller, who is looking anxiously
for Chubb.

The big man with the gold collar ? No,
that is the ex-Lord Mayor. The judge is the
one further on, robed in scarlet. . . . Ah,
there is Mr. Chubb ; let us go to him."

The lawyer was close to the bar, whispering
in the ear of a bewigged gentleman with a
shrewd and powerful, albeit (for a barrister)
somewhat youthful face, who holds a brief in
one hand and a pen in the other.

"That will be Blake," thought Bartlett.

When Chubb caught sistfit of the bookseller,
he pointed to a seat near his own. He looked
so grave and anxious, that Bartlett feared that
something had gone wrong.

94 BIRCH DENE.

Any news ? " he asked. " Does Mr. Blake
think as well of the case as he thought
yesterday ? ' ;

No. How could he, or anybody else, with
old Baron Hardress on the bench ? ,:

Baron Hardress ! I thought you said we
should have Sir James Hulton."

And so w T e ought to have. But it seems
that at the last moment the devil put it into
his head to stay in town, and Hulton is going
on circuit in his stead."

"And that w T ill make against her, you
think ? "

Decidedly. Instead of the chances being
in our favour, it is now about even betting.
Hardress always does his utmost to convict.
They say he has passed more death sentences
than any other judge on the bench. We have
nothing to hope from him, and everything to
fear ; but if Blake be allowed to speak, and
can convince the jury of Mrs. Nelson's virtual
innocence — and he still thinks he can —
Hardress may go to the deuce ; and he will,
some time, the old ruffian ! "

THE TRIAL. 95

Bartlett felt greatly discouraged. He could
see from Chubb's manner, and the unwonted
energy of his language, that he thought worse
of his client's prospects than he was willing to
admit, and he regretted having encouraged
Sophie to regard her acquittal as almost a
foregone conclusion. She would be so buoyed
up with hope that a verdict of guilty would
come upon her with a crushing effect of which
it made him shudder to think. And then he
looked at the child by his side, who was
gazing with his large blue eyes at the twelve
men in the box above him, unconscious that
on their flat it depended w T whether his mother
should be restored to him. or taken away and
put to a shameful death ; then at the judge,
who was raising his head — for the first time
since Bartlett had entered the court — from
the depositions he had been reading, to receive
several " true bills " which the grand jury had
just found.

Mr. Baron Hardress, though not a very old
man, was well on in the sixties. He had a
narrow forehead and a big, aquiline face,

96 BIRCH DENE.

covered with a smooth, tightly-drawn and
colourless skin, small eyes under shaggy brows,
and thin lips, which, when opened, showed a
row of beautifully white teeth.

It was a countenance that reminded the
bookseller of a portrait of Torquemada he
had once seen in a History of the Spanish
Inquisition — a countenance by no means
devoid of dignity and power, yet ruthless and
malevolent, as if the Draconic code which its
possessor administered had turned his heart
into stone, and dried up at their source all
the gentler virtues.

"No pity there," thought Bartlett. "It
will be no fault of his if that poor woman is
not convicted, and if she be, then may she
bid hope adieu."

This view of the judge's character received
speedy confirmation. The prisoners first arraigned
pleaded guilty, and on all were passed
the severest sentences which it was in his
power to award. A wretched old man in
tattered garments, and shaking with palsy,
accused of clipping the current coin of the

THE TEIAL. 97

realm, who looked as if he could not survive
another week of Newgate, much less a voyage
to the other end of the world, was so ill-advised
as to admit his guilt and throw
himself on the mercy of the court." Baron
Harmless, who had a courtly manner and a
silvery voice, thereupon expressed his regret
that mercy was not one of the attributes of
the court over which he presided ; it was the
prerogative of our Gracious Sovereign alone.
Clipping the coin of the realm was a most
serious offence, and he, the judge, as a faithful
minister of the law, felt that he had no
alternative but to sentence the prisoner to
transportation for life.

This was virtually a sentence of death ; and
a few years previously " clipping " had been
a capital felony, to which no indulgence was
shown, those guilty of it being invariably
hanged.

Towards twelve o'clock the name of Mary
Nelson was called, and Robin's mother, who
had been waiting her turn in the covered
passage, was led into the dock. At first she

VOL. I. H

98 BIRCH DENE.

shrank back in dismay, cowering and shivering
under the concentrated gaze of so many
eyes. But recovering her self-possession by
a strong effort, she glanced quietly round the
crowded court, and, seing Bartlett and Robin,
gave the one a grateful look, the other a
loving smile.

The boy was terribly excited, and Bartlett
had some difficulty in preventing an explosion
of indignation and grief which would have
drawn on him the anger of the judge.

Blake, after a keen glance at the prisoner,
carefully scrutinized the countenances of the
twelve men in the box.

She will do," he whispered to Chubb.
Those pale, refined features, those large
violet eyes, the neatness of her dress — which
is none the worse for being a little shabby —
and the modesty of her bearing, are all in
her favour. She has won the sympathy of
the jury already. Mark the interest with
which they regard her, and the way in which
they are talking about her.

This is the prisoner who refuses to give

THE TEIAL. 99

her name and address, my lord," said the
clerk of the arraigns. " She has been indicted
as ' Mary Nelson ' — a name which was found
on some pa wn-tickets in her possession."

The name is a matter of secondary importance,"
observed the judge, indifferently,
and the prisoner's name is probably ' Nelson
after all. People caught in the commission of
a felony are not generally careful to tell the
truth. Let the case proceed."

The clerk of the arraigns then read the
indictment, which set forth that, according
to the finding of the grand jury, the prisoner
Mary Nelson, "abode and occupation unknown,"
had, on the night of December the
13th, feloniously taken from the shop of Jacob
Lazarus a cloak, or piece of cloth, of the value
of ten shillings, against the peace of our lord
the King, his crown, and dignity.

What say you, prisoner at the bar — guilty
or not guilty ? "

"Not guilty," answered Sophie, in a low,
yet clear and distinct voice.

After the junior counsel for the Crown has

II 2

100 BIRCH Dee.

briefly " opened " the case in a rapid, monotonous
voice, he calls the first witness, John
Smith, who saw the theft committed. Smith's
evidence was merely a repetition of that which
he gave at the police-court. Blake cross-examined
him sharply, but failed to shake
his testimony or obtain any admission favourable
to the prisoner. He could not take on
himself to say whether she was bringing the
cloak back or not ; and whatever she may
have said to Perkins, all that he heard her
say was that she wanted to be let off.

The desire of Perkins to shield the prisoner
w T as obvious, and the reluctance with which
he gave some of his answers drew a severe
rebuke from the judge. He swore positively
that dien he first caught sight of her she
was coming towards him, and that the first-thin
g she said was that she regretted what
she had done, and was bringing the cloak
back.

I suppose you regret that you did not
take the cloak and let her or ? " asked the
judge, with a sneer.

THE TRIAL. 101

I do, my lord ; and shall as long as I
live," said the honest fellow.

The next witness was the constable, who
testified that, after arresting the prisoner, he
warned her that anything she might say would
be used in evidence against her, on which she
answered that she took the cloak for her little
boy, who was wet through and perished with
cold, without thinking what she did, and was
taking it back when she met Mr. Perkins.

That is my case," said the senior counsel
for the Crown, Sergeant Walworth, as the
constable stepped down.

Then rose Mr. Blake, and with marked
deference of manner asked the judge if he
might be allowed to address the jury on the
prisoner's behalf.

"Address the jury !" said Baron Hardress,
with a look of surprise. " But that is against
all rule, Brother Blake. This is a case of
felony. On what ground do you make the
application ? "

On the ground that the prisoner is a
woman, my lord, and the wife of an officer in

102 BIRCH DENE.

His Majesty's service. I am aware that my
request is unusual ; but in the circumstances
I venture to hope that your lordship will make
an exception in this poor lady's favour."

"The wife of an officer in His Majesty's
service ! But how am I supposed to know
this ? It is not before me."

"If your lordship will be good enough to
read the letter found in the prisoner's possession,
you will see that I am stating no more
than the literal truth" — banding him the
letter.

The judge read the letter.

This seems to be genuine," he said, " but
there is nothing to show that it was really
addressed to the prisoner, and her refusal to
give her name does not predispose me in her
favour. However, I will give her the benefit
of the doubt. It is highly irregular, though,
and I must ask you to make your speech
studiously moderate. If not, I may find it
my duty to direct the jury to disregard your
observations as completely as if they had
never been made."

THE TRIAL. 103

On this Mr. Blake thanked the judge for
his indulgence, and began his speech, and
had he been pleading for his own life he
could not have spoken more powerfully and
earnestly. He made no attempt either to
dispute or distort the facts of the case as they
had been stated by the witnesses for the
prosecution. His client took the cloak. She
admitted it ; he admitted it ; but he denied
most emphatically — denied "with his whole
soul," that she took it feloniously, and without
felonious intent there could be no felony.
If he called at the chambers of his learned
friend to borrow a book, and, not finding him
in, took it without leave, intending to return
it on the following day, would that be a
felony ? Moreover, when the prisoner took
the cloak, she was not in full possession of
her senses ; she knew not what she did. Let
the jury try to put themselves in this poor
woman's place, and say before God and man
whether, in similar circumstances, they would
not have acted as she had acted.

Mr. Blake next gave a vivid description of

104 BIRCH DENE.

the prisoner's forlorn condition — a gentlewoman
born and bred, whose husband had
fought and bled for his country and his king ;
of her weary wanderings through the streets
homeless, hungry, desperate ; of the dark
night and the fast-falling snow : of her impulsive
taking of the cloak " to shield her
shivering child from the storm, just as a man
who saw a fellow-creature dying of thirst
would give him a cup of water without thinking
to whom it might belong ; " and of the
noble honesty and resolution with which she
attempted to repair the wrong she had inadvertently
committed. He asked the jury
whether an act that was neither morally a
theft nor technically a felony should be adjudged
a crime deserving of death, and, after
a passionate appeal in favour of his client, he
besought them to render such a verdict "as
would restore the mother to the child to
whom she was so devoted, and the child to
the mother whom he so dearly loved and so
sorely needed."

Had Mr. Blake said no more than this, he

THE TRIAL. 105

would have acted wisely ; but he let himself
be carried away by the fire of his own eloquence
(which is oftentimes a snare), and not
content with asserting his client's virtual
innocence, denounced, with great warmth, the
system of which she was the victim. He told
how many unfortunates had suffered death
during the last quarter of the previous century,
quoting the saying of Sir John Moore
that it was neither right nor just that the
loss of goods should cause the loss of a
man's life, " all the goods in the world
not being; able to countervail man's life."
Going still further, he questioned whether
it was either expedient or just that life
should be taken for any offence whatsoever;
spoke bitterly of the "hanging judges" of
the period, and stigmatized several recent
executions as nothing less than judicial
murders.

"It was a splendid speech," remarked
Chubb, when the eloquent advocate sat down,
and I agree with every word of it ; but old
Hardress looks as black as thunder, and if he

106 BIP.CH DENE.

has not half frightened the jury out of their
senses, I am much mistaken'

I shall call only one witness," said Blake,
again rising — "the prisoner's son, Rupert
Nelson."

Rupert Nelson ! " repeated one of the tipstaves.


Don't be afraid ; speak boldly out, and
tell neither more nor less than the truth,"
whispered Bartlett, as he led Robin to the
box.

Rather a youthful witness, Brother Blake,"
observed the judge. " Does he understand
the nature of an oath ? "

Better than many a grown-up person.
Perhaps your lordship will put him to the
test ? "

"What would happen to you, my boy, if
you should bear false witness ? "

God would punish me,"

That will do. Let him be sworn."

"Take the book in your right hand," said
the registrar. " The evidence that you are
about to give shall be the truth, the whole

THE TRIAL. 107

truth, and nothing but the truth, so help your
God ! Kiss the book."

Robin kissed the book, glanced at his
mother — who smiled encouragement and love
and then looked Mr. Blake full in the
face.

"Do you remember the 13th of December
last Friday ? " asked the barrister.

"Yes, sir."

"Were you with your mother — the prisoner
at the bar — on that day ? "

"Yes, sir."

"What w T ere you doing ? "

Walking about the streets."

What streets ? "

A great many. I don't know their names."

Were you in Holborn at all ? "

"Yes, twice — once in the afternoon, and
again at night, when it was snowing."

Did anything particular happen while it
was snowing ? "

Yes ; we sheltered near some houses,
where there was a light, and my mother gave
me a cloak."

108 BIRCH Dee.

She gave you a cloak ! Where did she
get the cloak ? "

I did not see. I was very cold, and
looking another way, but I think "

Never mind what you think. She gave
you a cloak. What happened next ? "

She took my hand and said, ' Let us go
and we ran clown the street, and then she
stopped and said, 'That was ill done, Robin.
I did not give myself time to think. Your
father's wife must not play the thief. Let us
be honest, though we perish. We will go
back and give the cloak up.' Then she took
it from me, and as we turned round, we met
Mr. Perkins, and he said the cloak was his,
and made us go with him."

Thank you, Robin ; you have answered
very well. Perhaps my friend here would
like to ask you a few questions " — pointing to
Sergeant Walworth.

Well, I think I should — just one or two,"
said the sergeant, rising and looking hard at

0*0 o

Robin. " You seem to have a e:ood memory,
my boy \ "

THE TRIAL. 109

Yes, sir," said Robin, who did not seem
quite to understand the drift of the question.

I mean that you remember things very
well. You repeated just now what your
mother said the other night, word for word.
Will you be able to repeat next week what I
am saying to you now ? "

You are not my mother, sir."

I see. You remember all your mother
says, but nothing anybody else says. Your
memory is more than good — it is convenient.
I wonder if you forget with equal facility.
You spoke of your father, or, rather, you say
your mother did. Where is he 1 "

I don't know, sir " — sadly.

What is he \ "

An officer and a gentleman."

Whether by accident or design, Robin laid
a strong emphasis on "gentleman," thereby
causing the bar to smile, and the public to
titter.

That means, I suppose, you do not consider
me a gentleman ? " remarked the sergeant,
good-humouredly.

110 BIRCH DENE.

I did not say that, sir ; but "

But what ? Don't hesitate. Oat with it."

I know ray father is a gentleman, and I
am not quite sure "

You are not quite sure about me. Well, I
may return the compliment, and say I am not
quite sure about your father. Who is he ?
What is his name, I mean ? "

I cannot tell you, sir."

Why I "

Because my mother said I was not to tell
anybody."

Well, I shall not press you to disobey her.
All the same, if it were necessary for the ends
of justice, I should insist on your telling his
name, and I think your mother was ill-advised
in forbidding you to disclose it. You can
step clown."

The sergeant then began his speech in reply,
the last word being with him. He spoke very
much to the purpose. Though less eloquent,
he was more artful than his opponent, laughed
at his oratory, and sneered at his law. If the
prisoner took the cloak, he said — and as to

THE TEIAL. Ill

that there could be no question — she committed
a felony within the meaning of the
Act. To acquit her because she pretended
regret for what she had done, and protested
that she meant to restore the stolen property
to its rightful owner, would be the height of
absurdity and a most dangerous precedent.
Every thief who was found with stolen goods
in his possession might make a similar excuse,
and if poverty were held to justify robbery,
social order would be at an end, and private
property cease to exist, for it unfortunately
happened that the poor were much more
numerous than the well-to-do. He had no
feeling against the prisoner ; on the contrary,
lie pitied her ; but unless the jury despised
facts, and disregarded their oaths, they could
not do otherwise than find her guilty of the
felony for which she was arraigned.

CHAPTER IX.

THE VERDICT.

The counsel for the Crown had scarcely sat
down when the judge began his summing-up.
Under a show of impartiality, it bore much
more hardly on the prisoner than Sergeant
Walworth's speech had done. It was for the
jury to consider the facts, he said. If they
believed that, for some inscrutable reason, the
witnesses, Smith and Perkins, had conspired
to swear away the prisoner's life ; that the
boy Robin w r as mistaken, and that the constable
had borne false witness — in short, if
they believed that the prisoner never took the
cloak, they would, of course, give her the
benefit of the doubt. But as for the law,
they must take that from him ; and it was his
duty to tell them that, unless the witnesses

THE VERDICT. 113

had lied, one and all, the prisoner was undoubtedly
guilty of stealing with felonious
intent. "With her position, her poverty, her
love for her child, or her child's love for her,
they had nothing whatever to do. The statement
that her husband was an officer who had
fought and bled in his country's defence they
must regard as a pure assumption — he had
almost said an impudent fiction. The letter
proved nothing ; as likely as not the prisoner
had stolen it. It was, however, a fact to
which he begged leave to call the jury's
particular attention, that she declined to give
her name and address. The wives of officers
in His Majesty's service, he hardly needed to
observe, were not in the habit of prowling
about London after dark and refusing to give
their names. They might depend upon it
that people who refused to give their names,
or gave false names, had something to conceal,
which would not bear the light.
Mr. Baron Hardress had, moreover, much
to say concerning the " pernicious principles "
advocated by Mr Blake — " principles which

VOL. I. i

114 BIRCH DENE.

smacked of Rousseau and Voltaire, which had
led to the downfall of the ancient monarchy
of France, caused the horrors of the French
Revolution, and laid Europe prostrate at the
feet of Bonaparte." England was the freest
of countries ; her laws were the perfection of
human wisdom ; and further tampering with
the system of capital punishment, as it
then existed, would, he felt persuaded, be
attended with the most disastrous consequences.
In conclusion, he besought the
jury to dismiss from their minds everything
that was not relevant to the issue, in which
category they must include the observations
of the counsel for the defence, and find a
verdict in accordance with the oaths they had
taken and the evidence they had heard.

All this time Robin's attention had been
divided between the judge and his mother.
"When he was not looking at the one, he was
gazing with all his soul at the other. In the
first instance, he failed to attach any precise
significance to the proceedings of the court ;
but it gradually dawned on his mind that

THE VERDICT. 115

lie was watching a terrible struggle, in which
his mother, championed by Mr. Blake, and
Baron Hardress were the principals ; and,
fresh from his reading of The Pilgrims
Progress, he likened the eloquent advocate
to Mr. Greatheart, and the judge to Giant
Despair or Apollyon. While the judge was
summing-up, Robin hardly ever took his eyes
off him ; and though he perceived that his
lordship spoke with greater authority, and had
much more power than Mr. Blake, the poor
boy never doubted that right would triumph,
and his mother be set free.

Notwithstanding the judge's ruling, and the
comparative simplicity of the case, the jury
were slow in coming to a decision. After
long whisperings and much putting together
of heads, they seemed to be exactly where
they were, and Baron Hardress suggested that
they should retire to their own room, where
they could consult more at their ease. But
the jury knew what retiring to their own
room meant, and before complying with the
suggestion they made yet another attempt to

I 2

116 BIRCH DENE.

arrive at an understanding. The attempt
failed, however, and they were led aw 7 ay to a
wretched little room, destitute of seats, whereas
they well knew, they would have to bide,
without food, fire, or light until they could
agree on a verdict — and the weather was
bitterly cold, and the day fast drawing to a
close. Had the season been summer, their
deliberations might have lasted longer and
ended differently ; for, despite the uncompromising
character of the judge's deliverance,
there was great diversity of opinion
among them, and at the last moment the
prisoner's fate depended on the capacity or
willingness of a few jurymen to undergo a
certain amount of physical hardship and
privation.

Let the prisoner be removed, swear another
jury, and w r e will proceed with the next
case," ordered the judge.

So Sophie was taken into one of the dens
below the court to endure for another hour, in
darkness and solitude, the torture of suspense.
As she was led away, Blake, sanguine to the

THE VERDICT. 117

last, good-naturedly passed to her a piece of
paper, on which he had scribbled —

"Don't be downcast; the hesitation of the jury
is a good sign."

Having his mother no longer to look at,
Robin now fixed his eyes exclusively on the
judge, w T ordering why he had such a wicked
face and big white teeth — whether he always
wore his wig and his scarlet robe ; whether he
had ever been a little boy, or had little boys
of his own ; whether he was more like Giant
Despair or Apollyon ; what would become of
him when he died — and many other things.
Meanwhile a barrister, who seemed to have a
cold in his head, was opening the new casein
a droning voice, which, together with the
hypnotic effect of the boy's steady stare at the
judicial countenance, almost sent him asleep.
But the case, being undefended, was soon
concluded, and as Baron Hardress sentenced
the delinquent, an embezzling clerk, to ten
years' transportation, a side door opened, and
it was whispered that the old jury were ready
with their verdict.

118 Birch DENE.

Let the prisoner, Mary Nelson, be brought
up ! " said the judge.

In the yellow light of the candles that flared
on either side of him he looked, thought Robin,
more diabolically wicked than ever, and when
his mother stood once more at the bar, a great
fear came over him. The boy was awed by
the intensity of the silence which followed her
appearance. He felt that something portentous,
some unspeakable calamity which might
sunder them for ever, was about to take place.

The jury stood in a group under the gallery,
their foreman, pale with suppressed excitement,
at their head.

Are you agreed on your verdict ? " asked
the clerk of the arraigns,

"We are."

What say you ? Is the prisoner at the
bar guilty or not guilty ? "

Guilty ! " answers the foreman, in a voice
trembling with emotion, for he has weakly
yielded to the pressure of his colleagues, and
fear of cold and hunger, and his conscience
smites him.

THE VERDICT. 119

A shudder runs through the court, and
Sophie, staring wildly with terrified eyes,
clutches convulsively at the front of the dock
and awaits her doom.

Have you anything to say why sentence
of death should not be passed upon you ? "
demands the judge.

A low, almost inaudible moan is the only
answer.

"Mary Nelson, or whatever may be your
name," he goes on, "after a long and painstaking
trial, in which you have been, ably,
though I fear not very judiciously defended,
a jury of your countrymen has found you
guilty of a capital felony — of stealing from
Jacob Lazarus a cloak of the value of ten
shillings. It is a verdict in which I fully
concur, and the sentence of the court is
that you be taken from hence to the
place from whence you came, and from thence
to the place of execution, and that you be
there hanged by the neck until you shall be
dead, and that your body be afterwards
buried within the precincts of the prison in

120 BIRCH Dee.

which you shall have been confined after your
conviction. And may the Lord have mercy
on your soul ! "

While these dread words were being spoken,
a fearful change was seen to pass over the
prisoner's countenance. She clutched wildly
at her throat, her eyes became fixed, her
pallor corpse-like, the jaws dropped, her head
fell forward, and as the judge's voice ceased,
she sank down in a heap.

The turnkey, who was standing beside her,
stooped to raise her up, and Blake, who had
been watching his client intently, sprang forward
to help him. After looking at her for a
minute, the barrister with a face almost as pale
as the prisoner's, turned towards the bench.

"Your lordship has anticipated the hangman,"
he said, in a voice that trembled with
pity and rage. " Your victim is dead."

Mr. Blake ! This language to me! "

But his voice was drowned in the cries and
exclamations that came from every part of
the room, and he hastily ordered the court to
be closed.

THE VERDICT. 121

What has happened ? What is it, Mr.
Bartlett?" wailed Robin. "My mother is
ill ! Let me go to her ! Oh, let me go to my
mother ! "

You have no mother, my poor boy. She
is gone — to a better world than this. But
I will be a father to you, until you find your
own. Come ; let us get out of this place.
It is the ante-chamber of death."

And taking the weeping and half-fainting
child in his arms, he led him tenderly home.

CHAPTER X. ■

A BOOTLESS QUEST.

Robin, half-demented with grief, sobbed
himself asleep, and Bartlett hoped that the
elasticity of youth would enable him to
support, and, in a while, to forget the trouble
which had befallen him. Children so easily
forget. But the lad's vitality had been impaired
by privation and exposure. His nature
was sensitive, his love for his mother a passion,
and the excitement of the trial and its terrible
ending were more than his brain could bear.
When the bookseller looked at him in the
morning, tossing in his little bed, he saw at
once that there was something seriously wrong.
The child's hands were clasped over his head,
which he said ached terribly ; his eyes were
bloodshot, and their pupils contracted to a

A BOOTLESS QUEST. 123

small point. But lie hardly seemed to understand
what was said to him, and his answers
were wild and incoherent.

Like the sensible man he was, Bartlett sent
straightway for Dr. Yockleton, who, as a
neighbour and a Fogey, would, he felt sure,
take a special interest in the case, and be
moderate in his charges. When the doctor
(by courtesy, for he was no more than a
member of the college) had examined his
little patient he looked grave, and, taking
Bartlett aside, told him that the lad w T as
very ill.

It looks like a case of phrenitis — brain
fever," he said. " He will want skilful treatment
and careful watching ; and even then
it won't be easy to pull him through and
preserve his reason. Acute inflammation of
the brain is one of the most difficult diseases
we have to deal with. Now I am going
to make you a proposal, less in my own
interest a good deal than yours, for it will
lose me a patient. Let us roll him up in
his blankets, put him in a, hackney coach, and

124 BIRCH DENE.

take him right away to Bart's — St. Bartholomew's
Hospital. What can you do with
him in this little room, where you have to
sleep yourself? And not a woman in the
house, and no accommodation for a nurse ! "

The suggestion was so sensible and practical
that Bartlett fell in with it at once, and half
an hour later, Robin, already delirious, was
lying in one of the sick wards of the great
hospital.

He will be as well looked after and as
skilfully treated as if he w r ere the king's
son," observed Yockleton, as he and the
bookseller were going away ; " and that and
a youthful constitution may pull him through.
But it will be touch and go."

Poor little chap ! I should like him to
get better," said Bartlett, sadly. " He is a
fine boy, and I have quite taken to him ;
and if he does not, we shall never know
who he is, or his right name."

"You have found no clue, then? The
mother said nothing ? "

"No. She said she would tell us every

BOOTLESS QUEST. 125

thing after the trial ; but the poor soul has
gone and taken her secret with her, and I
suppose the boy won't be in a condition to
answer questions for some little time, even
if "

"He gets better? Not for a long time.
That brain of his has a good deal to go
through before it will be fit for much. A
strange case, Bartlett ; and, to my thinking,
the strangest thing about it is that a cynical
old bachelor like you should act as knight-errant
for a woman and a child you know
nothing in the world about."

"A cynical old bachelor! Thank you,
doctor ! Well, to tell the truth, I am rather
surprised myself. Perhaps you are right in
thinking I have acted like a fool — for knight-errant
and fool are almost synonymous terms,
I imagine — but I can plead that I really did
not mean it. I was led on. When I heard the
woman had been arrested, curiosity prompted
me to go to the police-court. The marvellous
fact of a wife publicly declaring that she would
rather die than cast a slur on her husband's

126 BIRCH Des.

name by revealing her own still further roused
my curiosity, and so I went on till I became
responsible for her defence, and a sort of post-baptismal
godfather to her son. But I don't
think I shall do so any more. The result of
the experiment has been the reverse of satisfactory.
I did not get the woman off; the
boy is sick, and I have not the least idea who
they are."

It is like you, Thomas Bartlett, to belittle
your own goodness. Why, man, you have
tears in your eyes this minute ! Curiosity,
indeed ! Why, it was nothing but kindness
of heart ! While, as for knights-errant —
whether ancient or modern — so far from
thinking them fools, I regard them as superior
beings. Did you ever meet with a finer
character in all literature than Don Quixote ?
I was paying you a compliment, man — not
finding fault. Everybody knows that your
cynicism is all on the lip. But about this
boy. Do you still think he comes of gentle
people ? "

More than ever. He has been well

A BOOTLESS QUEST. 127

brought up, and is wonderfully forward for
his years — writes fairly, reads well, and knows
the greater part of Chevy Chase, Gray's Elegy,
Milton's U Allegro, and several pieces of
Shakespeare off by heart. His mother must
have been a cultivated woman. It would
be a strange dispensation if he should die,
and we were never to know who they were.
If I had thought he was going to be so ill,
I should have got him to tell me his father's
name last night. The poor man may be in
London this moment vainly looking for his
wife and child."

Yes, and he may be the first man I meet
on my way home. But what would be the
use of that ? I should no more know him
than Adam. . I shall look in at the
hospital occasionally to see how the boy is
going on. I suppose you will also ? "

I shall either call every day or send
Slow, and when he gets better However,
we will not talk about that for the
present."

The doctor was followed — at a short interval

128 BIRCH DENE.

by the lawyer, who seemed much put about
on hearing of Bobin's illness.

It is of a piece with all our luck," he said,
bitterly. "First, we have that old hangman,
Harmless, instead of Hulton ; then Blake, not
content with defending; his client, must needs
set both court and jury against him by
abusing the laws and making a Jacobin
speech, and now the boy is ill and like to
die r

No, no ; not so bad as that, I hope ? '

Well, you will see. Brain fever is a
formidable disease — you must admit that ;
and you cannot deny that the omens are
against us. I came with the express purpose
of asking Bobin his father's name. Now that
his poor mother is dead, there is no reason
why he should not tell us — every reason why
he should, indeed ! "

"And I am sure he would if he could. But
the poor child is past answering questions just
now, Mr. Chubb. He is delirious."

So you said. Zounds ! it is a thousand
pities ! Has it occurred to you that his father

A BOOTLESS QUEST. 129

may be seeking him and his mother at this
moment ? "

"Exactly what I said to Yockleton this
morn in o*. But what can we do — how ascertain
whether he is in London or not 1 "

Well, it is not very easy to find a man in
London whose name you don't know, and
whose description you are unable to give.
However, we can make an attempt. We will
insert an advertisement in some of the papers
the Times and the Morning Chronicler

An excellent idea ! I wonder we did not
think of it sooner."

It would have been of no use if we had ;
and if Mrs. Nelson — I suppose we had better
speak of her as Mrs. Nelson — had either been
acquitted, or survived her trial, it would not
have been necessary. I shall also obtain the
pawn-tickets and redeem the articles she
pledged — they may possibly afford us a clue
and make a personal inquiry at the coffeehouse
in Leadenhall-street."

Before Mr. Chubb went away, he and
Bartlett drew up the proposed advertisement,

VOL. I. K

130 BIRCH DENE.

which the bookseller undertook to send to
the offices of the Times and the Chronicle. It
was to the following effect :

If the Officer returning from Foreign
Service, who appointed his wife and son
(Rupert) to meet him in London, will communicate
with Messieurs Chubb, Marrowfat,
and Sheepskins, Attorneys-at-law, Lincoln's
Inn Fields, he may hear what has become of
them."

As the advertisements, after four insertions
extending over a fortnight, produced no result,
save a few odd inquiries from curious busybodies,
they were discontinued. In the meantime
Chubb had obtained the pawn-tickets
and redeemed the pledges to which they
referred. They were mostly articles of wearing
apparel belonging to the boy and his
mother. Hers were marked with the initials
"S. K."— his with "K. K." There were,
besides, a pair of gold eardrops, two brooches,
a gold keeper, and a miniature on ivory, set
in a gold frame. Inside the keeper were

A BOOTLESS QUEST. 131

engraved a true lover's-knot, and the words
Sophie and Will." The miniature represented
the half-figure of a florid, handsome,
blue-eyed Englishman. He might be some
twenty-five years old, and wore a full-dress
uniform coat, which Chubb afterwards ascertained
to be that of a lieutenant of marines.
All this did not tell him much — merely that
R." was the initial letter of the dead woman's
Christian name. He knew already that her
husband was an officer of Marines, and that
his Christian name was " William." Nor did
the inquiry at the coffee-house prove more
fruitful in results. It was a place of call for a
good many people, and a good many people
had their letters sent thither. Neither the
landlord nor the waiters could remember who
had called for letters a week or two previously.
Had a woman and a boy called ? asked Chubb.
Yes, several women had called — women called
every day ; but they did not remember any
boy coming.

The lawyer next asked whether a gentleman
resembling the miniature had called within

K 2

132 BIRCH DENE.

the last few clays, or if they could identify
the likeness as that of anybody they knew.
After carefully scanning the picture, the
people of the coffee-house felt quite sure that
they had never seen anybody who resembled
it in the least. Baffled in this quarter, Chubb
asked and obtained permission to look over
the letters in the rack. He thought he might
possibly be able to identify the letter in
which Sophie intended to inform her husband
of her arrival in town, and give him her
address. Here, again, he was baffled. Among
a bushel of letters there were at least half a
dozen which might have been meant for her
husband. One was directed to " William
Ray, Esq," a second to " Mr. W. Rowntree,"
a third to fc£ William Rackstraw, Esq," a
fourth to " William Redmond, Esq." If he
could have opened them all he might have
found a clue to the mystery ; but not being
allowed to open any, he had to go away as
empty as he came.

Chubb pushed the investigation no further.
It had already cost him several pounds sterling

A BOOTLESS QUEST. 133

and some time and trouble, and lawyers do not
like to work for nothing. Had he been acting
for a solvent client he would doubtless have
persevered, and his exertions might have been
crowned with success. But he thought that
he had now done quite enough for humanity
and the satisfaction of a legitimate curiosity.
Yet kD owing how pregnant is life with possibilities,
how full of surprises the chapter of
accidents, and how often that which we have
painfully sought comes to us at last without
effort, he dictated to one of his clerks a full and
particular account of the case, from the meeting
of Bartlett with the woman and her boy,
to the woman's death in the dock at the Old
Bailey, and the boy's illness. The account
comprised a minute description of Bobin's and
Sophie's personal appearance. The latter,
obtained from the authorities of Newgate, and
other documents, together with the letter
taken from Sophie at the police-court, and
the trinkets she had pawned, were made up
into a packet, which, after being duly docketed,
was consigned to the safe keeping of an iron

134 BIRCH DENE.

box in the office of Chubb, Marrowfat, and
Sheepskins.

The woman and the boy must belong to
somebody," soliloquized the head of the firm ;
and sooner or later there are sure to be
inquiries. Who knows ? Their identification
may be a matter of great importance, and the
possession of these papers bring business to
the office."

For kindness is by no means incompatible
with keenness, and Mr. Chubb's kindness was
no more disinterested than that, of other men.
He possessed generous impulses, and liked,
when occasion served, to do a fellow-creature
a good turn ; but he had no sympathy with
the doctrine that virtue should always be
its own reward. Good deeds were in the
nature of bread cast upon the water, which
the sower might justifiably hope would be
returned to him after many days.

Chapter XL

bartlett's resolve.

The last fact set down in Mr. Chubb's
memorandum was the burial of Sophie in
Dunghill Fields Cemetery. The Fogies subscribed
a sufficient sum to defray the cost of
a modest funeral, and erect over her grave a
headstone which bore this inscription :

HERE LIES

THE BODY OF SOPHIE E.

(Also called Mary Nelson).

The innocent victim of a cruel law and an implacable
judge, she was here interred on January 20, 18 — , at the
charge of a few unknown admirers of her constancy and
virtue.

Many weeks elapsed before Robin was able
to visit his mother's grave. He lay long
between life and death, and even when the
fever left him, seemed almost too weak to

136 BIRCH DENE.

rally. Had he stayed in the bookseller's
house, he would surely have died ; but the
skill of St. Bartholomew's physicians and
careful nursing eventually restored him to
comparative health.

All this time Bartlett was as good as his
word. Not a day passed that either he or
Solomon Slow did not call to see the lad, and
when Robin began to recover, they often
passed an hour by his bedside, talking or
reading to him. But all exciting topics were
forbidden, and as nothing excited him so
much as reference to the past, Bartlett deferred
putting questions to the child about
himself or his mother until he should be quite
convalescent.

At ]last the house physician, who knew
something of Robin's history, declared him
well enough to be removed.

So well that we cannot keep him here
much longer," he said to Bartlett ; " but he
is far from strong, and will require care for
some time to come. I don't mean as to his
bodily health — that, I dare say, will soon be

bartlett's resolve. 137

all right — but his nervous system has received
a severe shock, and may not recover its normal
tone for a twelvemonth or more. Has he told
you his name yet ? "

I have not asked him. You said we had
better not — that it might do harm to recall
to his mind the tragedy of his mother's death ;
and once or twice when I have thoughtlessly
spoken of the past, he has got wildly
excited."

That was some time ago. I see no harm
in asking him now. Indeed I should like the
experiment to be tried before he leaves the
hospital."

"Do you mean that you would like me to
ask him now 2 "

Yes. I think he is more likely to answer
you than anybody else."

Robin was sitting on his bed, partly dressed,
and turning over the pages of an illustrated
book. As yet, he read with pain and difficulty
; the letters ran into each other, he said,
and made his head swim.

"The doctor tells me you are so much

138 BIRCH DENE.

better that I may take you home, Robin,"
said Bartlett, raising his voice.

Home ! Home ! " returned the boy, with
a puzzled look. " You mean "

I mean my house in Holborn — the bookshop,
you know."

Yes, I remember. But that is not my
home. My home is — with my mother. Will
you take me to my mother, dear Mr. Bartlett
? My mother, my mother ! " and the
look he gave the bookseller was so tender,
pitiful, and pathetic, that it quite went to
his heart, and he knew not what to answer.
"But I am forgetting" — wildly; "she is
gone. Giant Despair — no, it was Apollyon —
killed her, and those men took her away . . .
I shall never see her more, Mr. Bartlett, nevermore
! . . . No, it was not Apollyon who
killed her. It was the wicked judge — the
man with the red cloak and the bi white
teeth ; and when I am a man I shall kill
him."

No, no, Robin ; you must not talk about
killing. That would be wrong, and if your

bartlett's resolve. 139

mother could hear you, she would not like
you to threaten vengeance. You shall go
with me arid play about the shop, and read
as many books as you like, and I will try
to find somebody to play marbles with you.
You would like that now — wouldn't you ? "

"Yes, I should like that."

"You see" — aside to the physician — "he
cannot stand it yet."

No, he is not as much better as I thought.
His brain won't stand much yet ; that is quite
clear. You will have to watch him carefully,
Mr. Bartlett."

"You surely don't think, doctor, that the
poor boy is off his head at all ? " asked the
bookseller, anxiously.

Well, I should not go so far as to say
he is of unsound mind. Father that the
nephritis — the brain fever, you know — and
the nervous shock have left him mentally
weak — for the time being. If he were older
the weakness might become chronic ; but he
is very young, and the recuperative energy
of youth and vis cicatrix nature will, I hope,

140 Birch DENE.

eventually restore him to perfect health. But,
as I said, you will have to be cautious. Another
shock — the sight of Baron Hardress —
for instance, might develop homicidal mania,
and make him an incurable lunatic. I think,
on the whole, we had better keep him here
a few days longer. It is an interesting case.
Come for him this day week."

After staying a while longer, Bartlett bade
Bobin good-bye, and went sorrowful away.
He had an idea that the physician thought
worse of the case than he was willing to
admit, and he took so much interest in the
lad that the possibility of his mind being
permanently unstrung grieved him greatly.
In any circumstances, it would be sad to see
so young and promising a life blighted in the
bud ; but for this child, whose father had probably
perished at sea, and whose mother had
just died so tragic a death, to lose his reason
would be too terrible — enough to make a man
doubt whether the world is not ruled by some
malign influence, and the evil of it greater
than the good.

bartlett's resolve. 141

But this impression did not last long.
Bartlett, albeit he occasionally indulged in
caustic remarks, was not given to taking
gloomy views of life. Before the day ended
he had persuaded himself that the doctor did
not know what he was talking about;, and that
the boy would soon be sound again, both in
mind and body. This conclusion was confirmed
on his next visit to the hospital.
Robin seemed decidedly better, and when
Bartlett took him home on the following
Monday he was better still. Yet while disbelieving
the doctor's diagnosis, Bartlett religiously
followed his instructions, carefully
refraining, and requesting others to refrain,
from questioning the lad about his father
or his name, or making any allusion to his
mother's fate and his former life.

"We need not call him anything but
Robin ; and if we do, there's a name handy
Nelson. He could not have a better," said
Bartlett to Solomon Slow.

So Robin went back to the bookshop. As
before, he shared his protector's bedroom, and

142 BIRCH DENE.

during the clay bad " the run of the shop."
Very quiet and grave he was, often reading
(his eyes being now stronger), sometimes looking
into the street, or talking to Solomon,
with whom he soon struck up a warm friendship.
But never a word about the past or
the most remote reference to the trial, or the
events which immediately preceded it, escaped
him. Bartlett doubted whether they were
even in his mind. But he was pleased to
observe that the boy appeared perfectly sane
and sensible, and warmly attached to him.
He not only obeyed him implicitly, but tried
to anticipate his wishes, and when he grew
stronger, asked for something to do.

"Let me help Solomon!" he said one
day.

"By all means, if you think you can,"
said the bookseller, who saw in this request
a sign both of a thoughtful disposition and
improving health.

Solomon was compiling a "random catalogue,"
and Robin, after a little instruction,
rendered him material help — fetched and car-bartlett's

resolve. 143

red books, read out their titles, while Solomon
wrote them down, and sometimes taking the
pen himself, wrote to the showman's dictation.
Then, by way of change, he would go with
Solomon to the Eow and elsewhere in search
of works, new or old, ordered by customers
or desired by Bartlett ; and when he got to
know the town a little, he was often sent,
at his own request, to deliver books and
messages. Usefully occupied, and .passing
much of his time in the open air, Robin not
only regained his wonted health, but became
cheerful, brisk, and alert — albeit, for his years,
singularly taciturn. His presence, as Bartlett
more than once remarked to his brother
Fogies, seemed to brighten the shop. Nevertheless,
he still refrained from questioning
him about the past — the boy, on his part,
being equally reticent ; and though several
months were gone by, the bookseller knew
no more of his protege s antecedents than he
had been able to gather before the trial.

There was something strange, unnatural
even, in one so young maintaining about

144 BIPX'H DENE.

himself and his previous life so unbroken a
silence — children are generally so talkative
and open, oftener saying too much than too
little. Bartlett could only account for Bobin's
reserve on the supposition that it was in some
mysterious way a consequence of his illness
an ailment which time would cure ; and
he waited patiently in the confident expectation
that, sooner or later, he would spontaneously
reveal his name, and tell where he
and his mother had lived, and what had befallen
them before they came to London.
But as time went on, and the lad made no
sign — might, for anything that appeared to
the contrary, have lived in Holborn all his
life — Bartlett resolved to try an experiment
which, as he hoped, would have the effect of
opening his lips. One fine Sunday morning,
when the church bells were ringing, he took
him to Dunghill Fields Cemetery, and showed
him his mother's grave.

Do you know who is buried there, Robin ? ' :
he asked.

"Mary Nelson. The stone says so."

Bartlett RESOLVE. 145

The stone says * Mary Nelson ' ; but the
woman who lies under it is — your mother."

My mother ! it is impossible ! " cried
Robin, turning pale and quivering like an
aspen leaf. "My mother's name was not
Mary Nelson."

AVhat was it, then ? I am very anxious
to know. It is of great importance, especially
for you, that we should know."

Sophie " — looking at the stone — " yes, it
was Sophie."

Sophie what ? "

Robin's face assumed an expression of blank
surprise, then of sinful effort. He knitted
his brows as if he were trying to remember
something, and then, bowing his head, burst
into tears.

"You cannot remember" — soothingly.
Never mind. Another time, perhaps. Can
you tell me the name of the place you lived
at in Hampshire 1 "

Robin shook his head, and Bartlett, taking
his hand, led him away.

The bookseller was puzzled, and, in spite

VOL. I. L

146 BIRCH ]sexe.

of himself, doubts of the lad's sincerity began
to trouble his peace. Could he be feigning
1 Was he, in obedience to some secret
command laid on him by his mother, ignoring
his past and concealing his name ? And
if so, for what purpose ? Had they, after
all, been deceived in the woman ? Heaven
forbid ! But, do as he would, the doubt
continued to haunt his mind — haunted it all
day long, and grew to such a pitch that in
the end, though half-ashamed of himself, he
consulted Dr. Yockleton, of whom he entertained
a high opinion both as an able practitioner
and a man of the world.

At that time physiology was in its infancy,
and the scientific study of mental phenomena
had hardly begun ; but Yockleton, besides
being a keen observer and a wide reader, knew
how to make a correct deduction, and had
become, without knowing it a very fair
practical physiologist. Bartlett could have
found no more competent adviser.

No, no," he said ; " the boy is no hypocrite.
It takes a clever man to be a consistent

bartlett's resolve. 147

hypocrite. No child of tender years could
keep it up. He would be sure to betray
himself, and Robin, you say, is singularly
truthful. It must be the nephritis. I told
you it would be ill to cure. I have known
some strange cases. He is quite right in his
head — no doubt of that — but his memory is
gone. He has been dipped in the waters of
Lethe, my friend."

There I cannot agree with you, Yockleton.
There are many things he does remember —
how to read and write, for instance. He
remembers his mother, and he has not forgotten
the trial''

Perhaps I was too absolute in saying
that his memory is gone. But it is certainly
very defective. And I did not mean
that it was gone for good. It will come back
probably is coming back. And as for reading,
is it not possible that seeing printed
words would bring the power of reading
back, and that watching you and Solomon
write, would, as it were, teach him the art

over a era m

o

L 2

148 BIRCH DENE.

I dare say you are right, for I noticed that
when he first began to use the pen, he wrote
slowly and with great difficulty — could scarce
form his letters, in fact. I thought it was
weakness."

So it was — weakness of memory. But
his finders would ore him over that dim-cult,
as his eyes would help him over the
difficulty of reading printed words. Acquirements
that have become automatic, that are
performed independently of the consciousness,
I do not think can be forgotten. Is
there no way of putting this to the test ?
Did he not use to know some poetry by
heart ? "

"A good deal."

Does he remember that ? "

I don't know ; I have not tried him. We
can do, though, if you like."

By all means. It will be an interesting
experiment."

On this Bartlett called Robin into his private
room, where he and the doctor had been basins:
their talk.

bartlett's resolve. 149

I want you to repeat Gray's Meg for
Dr. Yockleton, Robin," said Bartlett.

"Gray's Elegy I What is that?" asked
Robin, with a bewildered look.
What ! — don't you know ? You once
repeated it right through in this very room.
You can surely recall the lines —

' The curfew tolls the knell of parting day,
The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea,
The ploughman homeward plods his weary way,
And leaves the world to darkness and to me.' "

A smile broke over the boy's face.

Oh, yes — I remember now ! " he exclaimed
; and with that he repeated the first
stanza correctly and without hesitation. But
until Bartlett read them he could not repeat
any of the following stanzas. It was the
same with Chevy Chase and the other pieces
he had previously known.

It is just as I thought," said Yockleton,
when Robin was gone. " I read in a French
medical book of a precisely similar case. But
you need not worry yourself. His memory
will gradually come back, just as his bodily

150 BIRCH DENE.

strength has done. As the brain suffered the
most, it is naturally the last to recover its
pristine vigour."

That I can understand. But isn't it
passing strange that the hoy should forget his
own name ? "

"Not at all — considering; the circumstances.
Why, I know a man — clever he is too — who
forgets his name regodarlv. The other dav he
went to the post-office to inquire for letters,
and when the clerk asked his name, he was
unable to tell him — had actually to refresh
his memory by referring to his card-case.
Now, if a man in fair health can forget his
name for a few minutes, is it any matter for
surprise that a boy, who has suffered from
acute nephritis, should forget his for a few
weeks or months — years even ? ' :

No, I don't think it is, considering the circumstances,
as you say. You could not give
me any idea, could you, how soon he is likely
to remember his name ? "

Not the least. That, my friend, depends
on the chapter of accidents. It may be to-bartlett's

resolve. 151

morrow. It may not be for years — many
years. If you could give him a clue, as you
did just now with the poetry, he might remember
it at once."

Which means, I suppose, that if I could
tell him his name, he would know it ? " said
the bookseller, with a smile.

"Undoubtedly. Also, if he chanced to
hear it accidentally spoken, see it in a book,
in a newspaper, or on a sign-post. You must
just go on as you are doing — wait patiently,
and put your trust in the chapter of
accidents."

This ended the conversation, and when the
doctor was gone, Bartlett sat down in his
easy-chair and smoked a reflective pipe.

The lad is a good lad," he mused. " I
am getting fond of him, and he shapes for
being very useful in the shop. I should
be sorry to lose him, and when he finds his
father, or his father finds him, I shall lose
him ; and I am not so sure about the father. I
dare say, if the truth were known, he deceived
that poor woman with a mock marriage, and

152 BIRCH DENE.

is purposely keeping out of the way. There
is certainly something very queer about it all.
She said she wasn't a native of this country.
Why didn't he leave her with his own people
instead of at an out-of-the-way corner of
Hampshire ! Yes, it does look queer —
very. At any rate, I have done my duty,
and I don't see that I am called on to do
more. If the father comes forward and
recognizes his son, well and good — I must
give him up. But I shall trouble Robin with
no more questions ; and if his name does not
come back to him, what then ? He cannot
have a better name than that of England's
hero, and I will cherish him and make much
of him, and he will be a comfort and a companion
to me ; and when I am too old for
harness, he shall have the business. There
is nobody else for it but my miserly nephew,
Moses Weevil ; and I would rather leave it
to be scrambled for by blind beggars than
to him."

CHAPTER XII.

A CLUE.

Here's your list ! Decline and Fall,
Paradise Lost, and Animated Nature, one
copy each ; Tom Jones, two copies ; The
Frugal Housewife, four copies ; Pamela, three
copies. Jones and Pamela have to go in
the St. Albans parcel ; so look sharp, my
little Lord Nelson."

All right, old Wisdom ! Til try to act
sharp, and leave you to look it," answered
Robin, as he put on his hat and shouldered
his bag.

"Old Wisdom, indeed! Take that for
your impudence, you young jackanapes ! " —
throwing a book at his head.

"Well meant, but badly aimed, Showman.
Try again ! M returned Robin, laughing, as

154 BIRCH DENE.

he dodged the missile by a timely obeisance ;
and then, running out of the shop, he bent
his steps towards Paternoster Row.

Solomon Slow resumed, his work of adding
up the cash-book.

Dash the boy, he's getting altogether too

sharp ! " he muttered. " Always taking my

name in vain. Gad ! there's hardly a day

that he does not find me a fresh one. I shall

never forgive my father for being called Slow,

nor my mother for having me called. Solomon.

It was her doing — after that precious brother

of hers. They will cling to me through life,

those names will, and. I shall be everybody's

butt to the end of the chapter. Old Wisdom !

Showman ! What next, I wonder ? I'll have

another shy at him when he comes back.

I'd. pepper him, only — it wouldn't be very

easy. He has crown tremendous the last

year or two, and, besides sparring well, is as

active as a cat, and the master might not like

it. He thinks all the world of him, and treats

him as his own son. I really don't know

why. He never took to me in that way, and

A CLUE. 155

I flatter myself that I am in every respect
equal to Rupert Nelson — in many respects
superior. At any rate, I have a father, and
know my own name."

It was quite true. During the years that had
elapsed since they made each other's acquaintance,
the bookseller's attachment to Robin had
grown with the boy's growth. He filled avoid
in the old man's heart and brightened his
home ; he could not have loved him more had
he been his own son. In one sense he was his
own, for had he not saved him from the horrors
of a workhouse or the streets ? For a while
he sent him to Chigwell Grammar School,
but finding that he learnt little but boxing,
football, and other boyish accomplishments,
Bartlett took him into the shop, let him read
as much as he liked and what he liked ;
taught him arithmetic and book-keeping, and
even a little Latin. So it came to pass that
Robin knew more than most boys of his age,
and his London breeding and continual association
with his elders had made him sharp
of tongue and ready-witted, although of the

156 BIRCH Dee.

world outside his own narrow one lie knew
next to nothing.

Bartlett had another reason for taking
kindly to his ward. Though a Eadical he
was not free from superstition, and he believed
that Robin had brought him good luck.
Since the boy (now nearly a young man)
became an inmate of his house, the business
had so much increased as to render necessary
a considerable enlargement of the shop. He
had also added to his house, given Robin a
room all to himself, engaged a working housekeeper
and a porter, and purveyed rare editions
for several wealthy customers, Robin, on his
part, regarded his benefactor with an affection
which seemed to grow with his growth and
increase with his years, and there prevailed
between them a loving confidence which it
was pleasant to see. The youth was tall for
his age, slim and active, and blessed with a
bright and intelligent countenance. His
health had fully recovered from the effects of
the brain fever. One trace of it only, and
that purely psychological, remained. He was

A CLUE. 157

still unable to remember his father's name
and his own. But he could now discuss the
subject without excitement, and he and Mr.
Bartlett often talked it over. Robin himself
had an idea that the injunction laid on him
by his mother had something to do with his
inability to recall her name. On the other
hand, he had every desire to recall it, the
need for reticence being long past. He had,
moreover, sense enough to see that until he
knew more about his father, there was no
possibility of either of them finding the other,
and the thought that Mr. Bartlett might
possibly attribute his obliviousness to intention
sometimes pained him beyond measure.
Yet, try as he might, he could not remember.
Nevertheless, Dr. Yockleton maintained his
original opinion.

So soon as the right chord is struck his
memory will respond," he said. " Mark me
if it doesn't."

In due time Robin reappeared with his
budget of books.

Well, have you got 'em all, you young

158 BIRCH DENE.

jackanapes ? " asked the showman, who, though
by no means ill-natured, was not always sweet-tempered.


I have, Solomon, King of the Jews — all
except The Frugal Housewife — "

King of the Jews ! I'll Jew you, you
nameless waif There ! "

This time Robin did not dodge quickly
enough ; the book struck him on the ear, and
the taunt touched him to the quick. Seizing
the first missile that came to hand, which
chanced to be an inkstand, he threw it with
aim so true that it hit Solomon on the chin,
splashing his face and deluging his cravat
with ink.

At the same moment Bartlett came in,
unperceived by either of the combatants.

Come, come, Robin ! " he exclaimed.
What are you about, throwing ink all over
the place ? God bless me, Slow, what a sight
you are ! You look as if you were weeping tears
of ink — ah, ah ! But, seriously, you know,
these Barnes won't do in business hours. What
has been the matter ? Not quarrelling, I hope ! "

A CLUE. 159

"He called me ' King of the Jews' said
the showman, angrily, as he wiped his face with
a dirty duster, "and — "

Only after he had called me jackanapes
and a nameless waif, and shied a book at my
head," put in Robin ; " and I "

Retaliated with the inkstand. Well, I
should very likely have clone the same if I
had been in your place. I don't much believe
in turning the cheek to the smiter. But no
more larking in business hours, if you please.
Suppose a customer had come in before
Solomon had w T sped his face ! It is not clean
yet — you had better wash it with soap and
hot water. Suppose a customer had come in,
what would he have thought ? Has anybody
been in since I went out, Solomon ? "

Only Collins. He stopped more than an
hour, looked at a hundred books, left them allover
the shop, and bought a copy of Tommy
TU mouse."

Price. twopence ! Just like him. Collins is
as great a skin flint as my nephew, Weevil.
I am going to Portsmouth to-night by the

160 BIRCH Dee.

Flyaway coach. Can I trust you two to look
after tidings till I come back ? "

Certainly, Mr. Bartlett,"

And keep the peace ? "

If Solomon won't call names and throw
things at me, I won't throw things at him,"
said Robin.

And if Robin won't call names and throw
things at me, I won't throw things at him,"
echoed Solomon.

Good ! The treaty of peace is fully ratified,
and I shall be able to leave with an easy
mind," said Bartlett, smiling. " Will you go
with me to the Angel, and help to carry my
things, Robin ? "

Robin said he should be very glad, and the
bookseller, after a short absence, appeared in
the shop, fully equipped for his journey,
which, as it involved sitting; twelve hours outside
a coach (Bartlett begrudging the expense
of an inside place), was not to be undertaken
lightly. He carried his cloak on one arm, and
under the other an umbrella — a huge affair of
whalebone and blue cotton, bio* enough for a

A CLUE. 161

gig. The cloak, furnished with two or three
capes, was a garment of weight and substance.
Robin followed with the valise, which was
little heavier than the umbrella, and not half
so heavy as the cloak.

Which way shall we go — by Chancery Lane
or across Lincoln's Inn Fields ! " asked Bartlett,
as they stepped into the street.

As you like, sir ; but if I were by myself
I should go through the Fields."

Why ? "

I like to see the grass and the trees. It
makes me think I'm in the country."

Ah, you like the country better than the
town. I don't. I detest the country and like
a crowd. However, as you prefer the Fields,
we will e'en go that way."

No, no, sir ; let it be as you please."

' It pleases me to let you indulge your
fancy, and I like passing through the Fields
occasionally myself. It is a change. We
shall pass the house of poor Mr. Chubb."

Why do you say poor Mr. Chubb ? "

'•' Because he is doubly unfortunate : he has
vol. i. M

162 Birch DENE.

lost a wife whom he dearly loved, and got a
fever of which he may not improbably die."

I am very sorry for that. He is a pleasant
gentleman, and always so kind to me when he
comes to the shop."

Yes, he takes a great interest in you,
Robin, and if he should recover from his
sickness, as I hope he may, and you should
ever want to know all that is known about —
about your mother and that sad time when
we first met — and I don't happen — what shall
I say ? — don't happen to be at hand, you must
apply to him. Bear that in mind : apply to
Mr. Chubb, of Lincoln's Inn Fields. . A
strange-looking body that. Quite an admirable
study from the antique, I do declare."

The strange-looking body was a tall, angular,
elderly lady, who was crossing the great
square as Robin and Bartlett turned into it
from Turnstile Lane. She wore spectacles,
carried even a bigger umbrella than the bookseller's
; though the day was fine and the
streets were dry, she wore a pair of Brobdig-
nathan patterns ; her fiddle-like face was shaded

A CLUE. 1G3

by long brown curls, which had certainly not
grown where they flourished, and her costume
was that of the previous century.

No sooner did this queer-looking creature
catch sight of Bartlett, than she clattered
towards him with a cry of joy.

"sat last — at last I have found you, my
dear, my beloved, my only brother!" she
exclaimed, dropping her umbrella, and throwing
her arms round Bartlett's neck with a
force that almost sent him into the gutter.

God bless you, woman, I am not your
brother ! ' : cried the astonished bookseller,
struggling to free himself from her embrace.

You are — you are ! Don't you remember
me — your sister Salina ? True, 'tis a longtime
since we met "

'■' A very long time, I should say. You are
quite mistaken. Never had but one sister in
my life, and she has been dead a generation."

What ! Are you not my brother, Major
Claude Ilford, who went to America in
1795?"

Certainly not. My name is Bartlett. I

51 2

164 BIRCH Des.

am Dot a major. I have a shop in Holborn,
hard by, and I was never in America in mv
life."

Ah, me ! Another case of mistaken
identity ! Shall I never see him aojain — mv
dear, my beloved brother ? Pray excuse me,
sir ; and as for Claude, I beg his pardon for
mistaking him for a common tradesman."

And with that this eccentric lady picked up
her umbrella and took herself off.

The woman is mad — mad as a March
hare," said the bookseller, adjusting his hat,
which had suffered in the account ' ; I

never knew anything like it. She apologized
to her brother for mistaking me for him.
Come along, Robin ; we have plenty of time.
But if we meet any more women who fancy I
am akin to them, we may be too late, after
all."

That is Mistress Eackstraw," observed a
passer-by. "She is quite out of her mind —
imagines every man she sees to be her lost
brother."

•'•' Thank you, sir. I thought she was a

A CLUE. 165

lunatic, from her looks and her very extraordinary
behaviour. Good-day to yon, sir.
A very curious incident, and calls to
mind your lost father, Robin. I need not ask
you whether you remember his name yet. If
you did, you would be sure to tell me. Can
you recall nothing — nothing that might serve
as a clue ? "

Yes, sir, I can recall two things. They
have come into my mind within the last few
minutes. I remember my mother once saying
that I was born at sea, on board the ship
Ilford, as she was sailing from America to
Portsmouth."

"A clue — a clue!" exclaimed the bookseller,
in great delight. "It is just as
Yockleton said it would be. I am going to
Portsmouth. Ilford is the name of Mrs.
Packstraw's lost brother, who has never been
heard of since he went to America in 1795.
These have reminded you. One of the missing
links has been supplied ; the rest will
come in good time. A most fortunate accident,
this meeting with Mrs. Eackstraw. And

166 BIECH DENE.

I'll tell you what, Robin. I'll make inquiries
at Portsmouth. You were born on board the
Ilford, during her passage from America to
Portsmouth, some eighteen years ago. I'll
apply to the port authorities for a list of her
passengers. Among them is sure to be your
father's name. If possible I shall bring the
list back with me. If not, I will arrange to
have it sent here. You are quite sure that
if you heard your father's name you would
know it ? "

"Quite."

Good ! I must get that list, cost what it
may. But let us hurry on, or I shall be too
late ; and my place is booked, you know."

When they reached the Angel, near St.
Clement Danes Church, in the Strand, the
coach was drawn up at the door, the guard
was putting the mail-bags into the boot, and
the coachman was standing by, drawing on
his gloves.

"Not so much too soon," said Bartlett, ashe
shook hands with Robin. " I shall be back
by the end of the week, as I hope, with

A CLUE. 1G7

important information ; and you had better
not say anything of the attack made on me
by that fiddle-faced female, nor of that other
matter — not even to Solomon. Good-bye."

Robert lingered about the inn door until
the coach started, and then, waving a last
adieu to Bartlett, he walked slowly homeward,
absorbed in painful thought. For although,
as touching his father's name, his mind was
still a blank, his memory was so far restored
that he remembered some of the principal
events of his life as vividly as if they had
occurred only the day before ; they passed
before his mental vision like the unrolling of
a pictured panorama.

The happy time down in Hampshire with
his mother — the journey to London — the delight
with which they had looked forward
to the meeting with his father — delight on
Robin's part mingled with curiosity, for he
had almost forgotten what that father was
like — followed by growing disappointment,
deepening into dire alarm. Then the grind
of poverty — the gradual disappearance of his

168 BIRCH DENE.

mother's ornaments, and nearly all their
clothing — their expulsion from their lodgings
the dreadful night they spent under the
Adelphi arches — their weary wanderings
through. London streets — their meeting with
Mr. Bartlett — the snowstorm — the taking of
the cloak — the flight, the arrest, the trial, and
all that had come to pass since.

And he vainly tried to conjecture what the
future might have in store for him. and strove,
equally in vain, to recall his father's name.

CHAPTER XIII.

MOSES WEEVIL.

It would have paid the old man to take
an inside place' said Solomon Slow that same
evening, as he looked out of the shop-door.
"It is going to rain cats and dogs all this
blessed night, I do believe."

The realization of Mr. Slow's forecast proved
the correctness of his opinion. It did rain
all that blessed night (which, however, was
anything but blessed by the Flyaway's passengers),
and despite his big umbrella and his
many-caped cloak, Bartlett got thoroughly
wetted, and took a severe cold. In that age
of picturesque yet uncomfortable travelling,
it was no unusual thing for elderly gentlemen
who took outside places on stage coaches
to catch cold, and Bartlett had often caught

170 BIRCH DENE.

cold before under precisely similar circumstances,
without any more serious result than
some temporary inconvenience. But in the
present instance, the bookseller's penny wisdom
(he could well have afforded to go inside) was
destined to have important consequences, both
for himself and the youth whose welfare he
had so much at heart.

Mr. Bartlett came back a day before he was
expected — greatly surprising Bobin and Solomon
by driving up to his door in a hackney
carriage.

I have been obliged to hurry back," he
gasped, as he entered the shop, and sank into
a chair. " I am very ill. Help me to my
room — Solomon and Mark ; and, Bobin, will
you run for the doctor ? "

He was ill — so ill as to be almost voiceless
and it was all Solomon and Mark, the porter,
could do to get him up-stairs. Bobin went
on his errand without a second bidding, and
in less than twenty minutes he was back with
Dr. Yockleton, whom he accompanied to Bartlett's
room. The sick man was evidently in

MOSES WEEVIL. 171

great pain, but when he saw Robin he beckoned
to him.

I think I have found another clue," he
said. " I met an officer "

Stop ! " interposed Yockleton, imperiously.
"No talking, if you please. You have got
rheumatic fever, complicated with inflammation
of the lungs. Robin must go at once to
Bart's and fetch a sick nurse. Here ! I will
give him a line to the warden. But for the
difficulty of moving you, and the risk, I would
send you thither straightway."

Robin ran off to the hospital with the note,
wondering what Mr. Bartlett would have said
had Yockleton not interrupted him, but too
much concerned about the former's illness to
be either over-curious or impatient. When
Mr. Bartlett was a little better he would learn
everything.

But instead of getting better, Mr. Bartlett
grew worse. On the Saturday morning Dr.
Yockleton, whose face Robin carefully scanned,
looked enigmatic, and spoke w 7 with oracular
vagueness ; on the Sunday he looked serious,

172 BIRCH DENE.

and said that Mr. Bartlett was very ill, but
lie hoped for the best ; on the Monday he
asked Solomon whether his master had any
kinsfolk in or near London, to which question
Solomon made answer that, so far as he knew,
his master had only one relative in the world
a nephew of the name of Weevil, w r ho lived
at Chelsea.

Send for him at once ! " said the doctor.

So Slow, as in duty bound, and perceiving
from the doctor's manner that he despaired
of the old man's recovery, wrote to Mr.
Moses Weevil, apprising him of his uncle's
illness, and despatched the letter by the twopenny
post.

He is the cursedest sneak in all London,
I do believe," said Solomon to Robin. " I'd
rather see Boney in the place than Moses
Weevil. Drop the We, and you have him to
a T. It would be a nice thing if the place
were to come into his hands ! I know somebody
dio would have to go — and pretty
quick too. But our old man knows better
than that ; he has surely made a last will

MOSES WEEVIL. 17

g

and testament, in which I hope his faithful
showman, Solomon Slow, is not forgotten.
He is sure to have remembered you, Robin.
You will get the lion's share, and these books
are worth a nice penny."

Bobin made no answer. He grieved too
much for his friend to think of himself, and
was too young to care about money or be
over anxious concerning his future. A little
later he looked into the sick room ; but Mr.
Bartlett's senses were so dulled by opiates
that he neither recognized him nor seemed
capable of coherent speech. Nevertheless
the doctor thought his patient might last
several days.

The next morning came Moses Weevil. A
gray, spare little man — in appearance not
much younger than his uncle — with a low
forehead, a large nose, little furtive eyes, a
long bony chin, and lantern jaws. He wore
a bob-wig, an old-fashioned suit of seedy
black, and had a subdued manner and a low,
soft voice, in striking contrast with his ungainly
person and ill-favoured face.

174 BIRCH DENE.

How che do, Mr. Slow — how de do ? " he
said, deferentially, taking the showman's hand.
I am truly grieved to learn that my uncle
is so sick. I do hope it is not unto death.
Is he any better this morning ? No ! I am
sorry to hear that. And this is the young
man my uncle takes so much interest in.
Mr. — ah ! thank you — Mr. Rupert Nelson.
How che do, Mr. Nelson — how de do ? I hope
I see you well, sir. Would you oblige me by
inquiring whether I can see my poor uncle ? "

Solomon suggested that it would, perhaps,
be as well if Mr. Weevil were to wait till
the doctor came ; whereupon Mr. Bartlett's
nephew bowed acquiescence, and, withdrawing
to a corner of the shop, he sat himself down.
He made no further remark, but his little
eyes were in continual movement. Had he
been counting the books he could not have
scrutinized them more minutely. Nothing
that Solomon and Robin did escaped him,
and he scanned the customers who came
and went like a thief-taker on the warpath.


MOSES WEEVIL. 175

Thank goodness he is gone ! " exclaimed
Slow, fervently, when Yockleton appeared,
and, after a whispered conversation, took
Weevil to the sick room. " The sense of
being continually watched by that ghoul-like
wretch is enough to send a fellow off his
head. He could not look more unwholesome
if he fed on his own corpses."

His own corpses ! What do you mean ?
What is Mr. Weevil ? " asked Robin.

"A miser and an undertaker; and they
say he does not always bury the bodies he
undertakes to lay in the ground'

Doesn't bury them ! What then ? "

"Sells them to the doctors. At least, so
people say. And there is a very queer story —
it happened a good many years ago ; Weevil is
an oldish fellow — about a coffin that he had
provided and buried being dug up and opened
to hold a coroner's inquest on, I think, a case
of suspected murder, or something of that sort
and found to contain nothing but stones."

But might not somebody else have taken
out the body and put in the stones ? "

176 BIRCH DENE.

"That was just the point. They could
prove nothing against him. All the same,
everybody thinks Weevil did it, and you
have only to look at his cadaverous old face
to see that he is capable of anything. He
reminds me of one of those vampires you
read about, who disinter corpses on moonless
nights and eat 'em."

Well, he has a very ugly face. All
the same, he seems a harmless old gentleman.
"

Harmless old gentleman ! I shouldn't
like Moses Weevil to have a chance of doing
me an ill turn if he thought he could gain
twopence-halfpenny thereby. "

A few minutes afterwards Weevil and the
doctor re-entered the shop. Yockleton said
that Mr. Bartlett was no better, and unless
a speedy change took place, he greatly feared
that his old friend

Here the doctor paused, shook his head
mournfully, and took a pinch of snuff — an
opportunity by which Weevil profited to
observe, in his dulcet voice, that, being his

MOSES WEEVIL. [77

uncle's sole surviving relative, he could not
think of leaving; him to the care of strangers,
and that he should bide in the house until a
change occurred — which, notwithstanding Dr.
Yockleton's unfavourable prognosis, he hoped
would be a change for the better.

"You may bide, but I don't know where
you will sleep," said Solomon. " There are
only two beds — one is the master's, the other
Nelson's/'

Oh, I can sleep with Mr. Nelson quite
well — if he will kindly allow me," answered
Weevil, with a grimace which he probably
meant for a smile. " I am not particular."

But I am," exclaimed Robin, with a look
that showed how little he relished the undertaker's
proposal. " I mean that mine is a
truckle-bed which could not possibly hold tw T o."

Oh, anything will do for me," rejoined
Weevil, meekly — " a sofa or an arm-chair,
a shake-down here in the shop, or in my poor
uncle's office. I can lie anywhere."

So you can — or to anybody," muttered
Solomon.

VOL. I. N

178 BIRCH DENE.

Were you saying something, Mr. Slow ?
I did not quite catch it," asked Weevil, softly.
(A lie ; he had caught it.)

"Merely that I think we might perhaps
find you a mattress and a counterpane, and
make you up a bed on the office floor —
if you could put up with such poor accommodation."


Poor accommodation ! Oh, Mr. Slow,
what do you take me for ? Add a sheet and
a pillow, and I shall be as contented as if
I were in a palace. My wants are very
few, and I have never pampered myself with
luxuries."

"Nor anybody else," whispered Solomon
to Robin. " They say he starved his wife
to death."

So it came to pass that the private office —
or study, as it w T as sometimes called — was
converted into a temporary bedchamber for
Weevil — an arrangement which made him a
near neighbour of Robin, whose room opened
into the study.

CHAPTER XIV.

ANOTHER LOSS.

Five clays more passed, and Bartlett still

lingered. Robin and Solomon began to hope

that he might recover, after all; but to

Yoekleton and the nurses, and doubtless also

to Weevil, it was evident that the end could

not be far off. When not writhing with

pain, the patient was mostly in a condition

verging on stupor. The doctor, however,

thought he understood what was said ; and

now and again he recognized those about

him, and spoke to them, though not always

coherently. Sometimes, when Robin entered

the room, he would greet him with a pathetic

smile, which went to the lad's heart. Once

he said, " When I am a little better — " and

then stopped short with a troubled look, as

N 2

180 BIRCH Dee.

if he wanted to add something which he was
unable to recall. It was quite impossible
for Robin to question him about his father's
name, or anything else.

Bartlett's recognition of Weevil was the
occasion of a rather unpleasant incident — for
Weevil.

"Do you feel any better to-day, uncle?' 5
asked the undertaker, in an intense and
mellifluous whisper.

Bartlett eyed him with a look of surprise,
which swiftly turned into one of dislike and
distrust.

"What! Moses Weevil!" he exclaimed,
hoarsely. " Go ! Get out of my sight. I
have left everything to — my boy."

Weevil did get out of his uncle's sight,
and, save for an occasional peep, kept out
of his room ; but he declined his invitation
to leave the house, and there was no one
to compel him. He was nearly always in
the shop, for the most part sitting in a
corner, silently observant, to Solomon's great
annoyance.

ANOTHER LOSS, 181

If this continues much longer I shall
be doing something violent," said Slow to
Robin. " Whatever I do, I am always conscious
of a cadaverous gaze, and if it was
not for the poor master being sick up-stairs,
I should "

What ? "

Knock Weevil off his chair, or throw
something at his head."

When the showman was out, Weevil would
sometimes quit his chair and find his tongue,
ask Robin questions about the price of various
books, their original cost, the value of the
stock, and other things touching the business.
On these occasions he made himself so agreeable
and deferential, always calling the lad
Mr. Nelson," that the latter began to think
the undertaker was not such a bad fellow
after all, and that Solomon was too hard
on him. If Weevil had not been so ill-looking
and badly dressed ! — and the poor
man could not help his looks. He was as
God made him, as Robin had once heard Mr.
Bartlett say of another ugly man.

182 BIRCH DENE.

A few days after this it almost seemed as
if the change for which Weevil had expressed
so ardent a desire was setting in. The worst
of the fever appeared to be over, and one
night, when Robin, according ' to his wont,
went into the sick room to see how Mr.
Bartlett did, he found him clear in mind and
free from pain. Unfortunately, however, he
was too weak to converse.

"Yes, I am a little better," he whispered,
in answer to Robin's inquiry, " but still very
feeble. To-morrow we must have a talk
about your father and other things'

To-morrow ! "

Robin pressed the old man's hand, and
bade him good night, and then, going to his
own room, " turned in," and slept the sleep of
the just, until he was awakened by the clock
of a neighbouring; church striking three. In
ordinary circumstances he would probably
have resumed his slumbers without remembering
that they had been interrupted, but ashe
dreamily opened his eyes a gleam of light
streamed from under the door. This roused

ANOTHER LOSS. 183

him to full consciousness, and greatly excited
his curiosity. What could it mean ? Weevil
always went to bed early, and it was hardly
conceivable that so miserly a man would, even
by inadvertence, leave the candle burning.
Could it be anybody else ?

By way of solving the doubt, he slipped
quietly out of bed and applied his eye to the
keyhole.

This is what he saw : the safe door ajar ?
Weevil half-dressed, sitting at Mr. Bartlett's
desk, looking over a pile of papers by the
light of a guttering candle. Without a
moment's hesitation Robin threw open the
door.

You seem to be busy, Mr, Weevil," he
said, quietly.

Weevil jumped up as if he had seen a
ghost, his jaw dropped, and he nervously
grasped the back of his chair.

You — you, Mr. Xelson ! " he gasped. " I
thought — I mean I did not know. I was
looking for some papers "

So it seems."

184 BIRCH Dee.

"Some papers my uncle wants. He told
me to get them. I am getting them for
him."

Did he give you the keys ? "

He told me where they were : and now
I am going back to him."

As Weevil spoke he rolled up his papers
and shut and locked the desk.

I shall return presently," he added ; " and
as I can find my way in the dark, and lights
are expensive, I may as well blow the candle
out."

Whereupon he suited the action to the
word, then w T went out himself, leaving behind
him a glowing wick and an evil smell.

Robin returned to his bed greatly puzzled
by what he had seen and heard. He could
scarcely think that Mr. Bartlett was in a
condition to transact business or look over
papers —above all, in the middle of the night
and had it not been for Weevil's possession
of the keys (which the sick man kept by his
bedside), he would have been inclined to disbelieve
him.

ANOTHER LOSS. 185

For a short time Robin lay awake, turning
the matter, and several others which it suggested,
over in his mind, but being a healthy
young fellow, with a good digestion, he soon
fell asleep again.

When he awoke a second time it was past
seven o'clock ; so getting up, and dressing
quickly, he went into the shop.

Mark, the porter, was taking down the
shutters, and before he had finished the
operation Mrs. Gaddums, the sick nurse,
came in.

You had better not take them shutters
down, Mr. Mark," she said — " leastways, not
all of 'em."

"Why?" exclaimed Robin, in sudden apprehension.
"You surely don't mean "

"Yes, Mr. Bartlett is dead."

"And I did not see him again. When —
when did he die, Mrs, Gaddums 1 "

He passed away soon after the clock
struck four."

But it is impossible. . . He was so much
better last night. He said he had something

186 BIRCH Dee.

to tell me, and I felt sure lie would get
well."

Patients very often does pick up a bit
before they passes away, Mr. Nelson. I
thought it was a bad sis;n when he seemed
so much better last night ; but I didn't like
to say so."

Did you see him die, Mrs. Gaddums ? "

Of course I did, poor dear ! " — sighing
deeply. " I gave him his mixture regular,
and sat by his bedside the night through,
never so much as shutting my eyes for half
a minute. Ini not one of your nurses as
sleeps at their possesses, let others do as they
will. He passed away peaceful, just as the
clocks went four."

Robin regarded the woman suspiciously.
She looked as if she had been asleep and smelt
of gin, and he had heard Solomon Slow say
that nearly all nurses were given to drink.

Mr. Weevil can bear me out in what I
say," she went on, with some asperity. " He
was in the room when Mr. Bartlett passed
away."

ANOTHER LOSS. 187

For the first time since he had got up
Robin remembered the strange incident of
the preceding night.

"Where is Mr. Weevil?" he asked.

"He went out soon after six. He will be
back about nine to arrange for the funeral.
I never saw a man take the passing away of
a near and dear relation worse, and him as is
so used to coffins and corpses, and such like.
I have seen as much of undertakers as most,
and they are generally as hard as their own
brass nails. But Mr. Weevil could not show
more sorrow, not if Mr. Bartlett had been
his father, and left him a fine fortune."

Robin turned away with an aching heart.
As yet, however, he failed fully to realize the
loss which he had sustained. He felt rather
dazed than grieved ; and though it seemed
absurd to doubt the woman's statement, he
found it hard to believe that his friend was
really gone. "It is impossible," he repeated
to himself; and then, as if moved by an
irresistible impulse, he crept in fear and
"trembling to the chamber of death.

188 BIRCH Dee.

As he stepped across the threshold a sudden
faintness came over him, so that he had to
lean against the wall for support. It was the
first time he had been alone with the dead.
Then, drawing nearer to the bed, he looked
on all that remained of the man who had
befriended his mother and been to himself
more than a second father. Bartlett lay
almost as he had died : his head propped on
his pillow, one arm across his breast, the other
hanging by his side. The poor boy shrank
back in horror, but remembering that it was
the face of his once friend and benefactor, he
bent reverently down, and, murmuring a
prayer, imprinted a loving kiss on the inanimate
brow. Then, walking on tiptoe and
shutting the door softly after him, he returned
to the shop.

A few minutes later came Solomon
Slow.

The shutters up and 'you crying ! " he
said. "That tells a tale. The old man has
gone over to the great majority."

Robin nodded. He was too full to speak,

ANOTHER LOSS. 189

and the showman's manner seemed flippant
and his words unfeeling.

I am very sorry. He was a kind gentleman,
and always a good friend to me • and
I am not sure about keeping my place. Who
is ffoinor to look after things ? "

Mrs. Gaddums says that Weevil is going
to arrange about — the funeral."

"Weevil! llano the fellow! What business
is it of his ? . . . Well, I suppose, as
the nearest relative, he has a sort of right
to take the first step. But when the will is
produced my gentleman will have to march.

By I'll tell you what I'll do, Bobin.

I'll run down to Lincoln's Inn Fields and
ask Chubb and Marrowfat what we had
best do."

Bobin signified assent, and the showman
started on his self-imposed errand. In half
an hour he was back — very little wiser than
before. Mr. Chubb was better, but still quite
unfit for business. So soon as he gained a
little strength he was going to take the waters
at Bath. Mr. Marrowfat believed that Mr.

190 BIRCH Dee.

Bartlett had made a will, but there was no
such document in their possession. It would
probably be found among his papers, and
until it was found, Weevil, as the deceased
bookseller's next-of-kin and presumptive heir,
had a right to assume the temporary ordering
of his affairs.

So he is master for the moment, and
I suppose we shall have to treat him as
such — though I would a good deal rather
kick him," concluded Solomon. . . . "Gad,
here he is ! Who is that with him, I
wonder ? "

"That" was a large man, with keen gray
eyes, a big wig, and a ponderous gait. His
manner was solemn and his costume funereal.
He wore a voluminous black coat, black
small, ditto silk stockings, and a huge black
stock. The only white things about him were
his bony face and his big wig.

After saying how highly he had respected
his Uncle Simon, and how much he deplored
his death, and making a desperate though
ineffectual attempt to shed a tear, Weevil

ANOTHER LOSS. 191

introduced his companion as " Mr. Townhouse,
my lawyer." He wanted to do everything in
proper order — just as his poor uncle would
have wished. If there was a will, he would
most gladly conform to its provisions ; if
there was not a will

If there be no will, your respected uncle
died intestate," observed Mr. Tokenhouse, with
great deliberation, " and you, as his ,
and sole legal representative, would take
all — be in the position of sole legatee — in
fact."

But maybe there is a will," suggested
Weevil, blowing his nose and pretending to
wipe his eyes. " Perhaps there is a will, and,
if so, nobody will more gladly conform to its
provisions than I."

By looking through the papers of the
defunct we shall probably be able to ascertain,"
suggested the lawyer.

Let us do so, then. About an hour before
my poor uncle Simon breathed his last, he
desired me to take his keys and bring certain
papers from his desk ; which, of course, I did "

192 BIRCH Dee.

looking significantly at Robin. " I will
fetch them, and ask you, sir, in the presence
of these gentlemen, to look through
them."

The papers were fetched and carefully
examined, but nothing in the nature of a
will was forthcoming;. An examination of the
desk, and of every receptacle in the deceased
gentleman's office and bed-room likely to
contain any such document, proved equally
resultless.

I think you will have to administer and
take possession of the property, Mr. Weevil'
said Mr. Tokenhouse, when the search was
completed.

You advise me to do so ? "

Certainly, it is your duty. The fact of
no will being forthcoming is presumptive
proof that none exists."

Very well. Will you be good enough to
take the necessary steps ? I will see to the
funeral ; it is in my line. We will inter next
Tuesday. In the meantime, I shall be glad
if Mr. Slow and Mr. Xelson will attend to the

ANOTHER LOSS. 193

business as usual. It may be However,

we can talk about that afterwards. I need
hardly say, gentlemen, that if a will be found
hereafter, its provisions shall be implicitly
obeyed."

VOL. 1.

CHAPTER XV.
Solomon's advice.

Weevil is cleverer than I thought," said
Solomon Slow, when he and Robin were alone.
"I knew he was a knave, but I had no idea
he was a comedian."

A comedian ! "

Yes. Don't you see that he has been
playing a part, and playing it deuced well
too ? He knew from the first there was no
will. He purloined it last night when he
went into that office ; and if you had not
seen him, you may be sure he would have
said nothing about it. And he expects us
to believe that the master crave him the keys !
Why, Bartlett could not bear the sight of
nim. You may depend on it that Weevil

Solomon's advice. 195

took them after he died, and bribed Mrs.
Gaddums to confirm his story."

What shall we do, then ? "

What can we do ? I feel sure that he
first stole the will, and then destroyed it."

I don't think so, Solomon. I don't think
anybody could be so wicked."

Could not be so wicked ! Little you
know of the world, Robin. Wait till you
are as old as I am — wait till you are twenty-five
— and you'll see. If Weevil was not
after the will, what was he doing in the
office ? Tell me that. And do you think
the master would trust Weevil with his keys
a man he could not bear the sight of?
You may depend on it, he found the will
in the desk along with the other papers, and
that by this time it's dispersed to the four
winds in the shape of ashes. It is a bad
job for both of us — for you especially. He
meant to make you his heir — I am sure he
did — and me manager of the business, with
an increase of salary and a share of the

profits. But as we can prove nothing, we

o 2

196 BIRCH DENE.

should only get into trouble by saying anything.
Better keep a still tongue, and be
civil to the villain. It is necessary to bold
a candle to the devil sometimes, and if he
continues the business — I mean the villain,
not the devil — he may keep us both on —
not that I take at all kindly to the idea of
serving Mr. Weevil. I shall be on the lookout
for another place, but I should like to
be kept on till I find one. Tolbooth and
embroidered waistcoats are expensive, to say
nothing of an occasional night at the play
and Ranelagh ; and I have not much laid

The showman lost no time in acting on the
lines he had laid down. When Weevil, who
had gone out with Tokenhouse, returned later
in the day, Solomon treated him with marked
deference, asked for his instructions about
business, showed him the cash-book, told him
how much money there was in the till, and
asked what he should do with it. The undertaker,
on his part, was as affable as an angel
with a new pair of wings, said he knew

Solomon's advice. 197

nothing whatever about the book trade, declared
that he had full confidence in Mr.
Slow's honesty and capacity, and begged of
him to go on exactly as he would have done
had his poor uncle been alive. He left everything
in his hands.

Nevertheless Solomon profited little by his
policy of the jumping cat. The day after
the funeral Weevil told him, with a malicious
smile, but in his sweetest voice, that he
should not require his help after the end of
the week. He had arranged with a firm in
the Eow to accept a transfer of the lease,
purchase the goodwill, and take the stock
at a valuation. It would be very painful
for him to part with Slow, but he had no
alternative. He knew nothing of the book
trade, and it was impossible for him to carry
on a business which he did not understand,
especially as he had already a business which
required all his attention.

The end of the week ! Is that all the
notice I am to have % You will at least give
me a month's salary, if only out of respect

198 BIliCH Dee.

for your uncle's memory," exclaimed Slow,
in a rage.

He was wild to think that he had practised
so much servility to so little purpose.

"I do not see any necessary connection
between respect for my uncle's memory and
making you a present of a month's salary.
All the same, I would if I could ; but I really
cannot afford the outlay. I have to pay
legacy duty, and all sorts of things. There
will be very little left when all is paid."

"That is false, and you know it is, Mr.
Weevil. As I am to have no notice, I mayas
well go now. I make you a present of the
half-week. It will buy you a new hat ; you
want one. Good-bye, Robin. We shall meet
again, I hope. I am sorry you have been
jockeyed out of your inheritance."

Stop, stop, Mr. Slow ! Don't be so
hasty!" cried Weevil, laying his hand on
the showman's arm. (It had occurred to
him that if he were left to deal with the
Row people alone, he might be taken in to
a much greater amount than the month's

SOLOMONS ADVICE. 199

salary.) " On second thoughts, yes, you
shall have the month's salary, if I pay it
out of my own pocket."

How long do you want me to stay ? "

Only till Saturday night, just to see, on
my behalf, that nothing is omitted — that a
proper inventory is taken."

Very well ; but I must have the money
now."

Now, Mr. Slow ! But — it is impossible.
I could not "

Then it is impossible for me to stay — "
putting on his hat. " It is a degradation to
stay with you another day. My poverty,
not my will, consents ; and unless I get the
price down on the nail, I'll be hanged if I
do degrade myself."

With a very wry face, Weevil produced a
shabby-looking pocket-book, and paid Slow
his month's salary in dirty one-pound notes,
for which the showman gave him a receipt
in due form.

I suppose I shall have to go at the end
of the week too, Mr. Weevil ? " asked Robin,

200 BIRCH DENE.

who had been an interested witness of the
scene.

You, Mr. Nelson ! Certainly not, my
dear sir. I believe my poor uncle had it
in his mind to do something for you, and
I shall consider it a sacred duty to provide
handsomely for his adopted son. Make yourself
content, and help Mr. Slow to overhaul
the stock. I give up possession of the shop
and its contents to Messrs. Brevier and Co.,
the people from the Row, you know, on
Monday. We keep the bedrooms a week or
two longer, and before that time we shall see.
I have something in view. Make yourself
content, my dear sir — make yourself content."

Robin was surprised beyond measure by
this unlooked-for generosity. He had been
wondering what would become of him, and
forming wild plans for going in search of
his father, though he could not remember
his name.

Thank you, Mr. Weevil, you are very
good; thank you very much," he returned
warmly.

SOLOMONS ADVICE. 201

Don't say that, please. I don't pretend
to be good — I only pretend to do my duty ;
and I shall do my duty by you, and I hope
by everybody else."

Now that the funeral was over the undertaker
appeared to be in better spirits, probably
because he had discovered that, besides
the stock-in-trade, his uncle owned a piece of
land in the City, bought for an old song
many years before. True, it was of no great
extent, but even at that time a few square yards
of land, in the heart of London, was worth
a great many pounds sterling, and Weevil,
being heir-at-law, as well as next-of-kin, would
take both the real and personal estate.

For the remainder of the week Robin and
the showman were too busy stock-taking to
have much time for talk ; but on the Sunday
morning they put on their scarves and hat-bands,
and went together to the church of
St. Andrew-by-the-Wardrobe, where Bartlett
had been in the habit of attending occasionally,
and whose rector had officiated at
his funeral.

202 BIRCH DENE.

After service, Solomon, always liberal when
he had money in his pocket, stood dinners
at an eating-house in Newgate-street. Then
they went for a stroll on Islington Common,
drank a dish of tea at the Old Queen's Head
an ancient and picturesque lath and plaster
hostelry, once inhabited by Sir Walter Raleigh
and walked home in the cool of the evening
through Finsbury Fields.

Their talk was mostly about themselves,
Mr. Bartlett's death, and their own prospects,
and the burden of the conversation was borne
by Slow. He was still very wrath against
Weevil.

There's one thing I'm deuced glad of,"
he said, shortly before they parted company.
He has been done in the valuation. But
it was no business of mine. I am not ffoins;
to cast my pearls before swine — above all,
when I am not asked. There's that Mazarin
Bible now — the one Bartlett always kept in
his room, you know. Well, just because it
was entered in the cost-book at fifty shillings
the price our poor old man gave for it at

SOLOMONS ADVICE. 203

a country sale, where nobody knew its value
Weevil actually let it go at ten pounds,
and thought he was doing a good stroke of
business ! I wonder what he intends to do
for you, Robin ? Yes, I wonder ? " (curiously).
" T don't think he ever did a generous
or kindly action in his life — except to
gain some end for himself. However, if he
offers you anything good, take it. That is
my advice. You see you have no trade in
your fingers, and would find it hard to get
employment, except in a very mean capacity.
How would you live if Weevil turned you
adrift ? Times are very bad. Gad ! you
might have to go to the workhouse. Anything
would be better than that."

Yes," thought Robin, who felt unspeakably
desolate and sad, "anything would be
better than that."

Rather than submit to so great a humiliation,
he would beg his way to Portsmouth,
and if he failed to find his father, go to sea
or enlist as a soldier.

CHAPTER XVI.

BOUND APPRENTICE.

Robin was nob kept long in suspense. On
the next day, as he was lending a hand to
the new people, Weevil took him aside, and,
with an air of importance, said that lie had
something to communicate touching his promise
of the previous week. After dwelling on
the lad's unfortunate position — without means,
kinsfolk, or the knowledge of any craft whereby
lie might earn his living — the undertaker
observed that it was of the first necessity for
him to learn a trade.

To this obvious proposition Robin readily
assented, and made a pertinent inquiry as to
what trade he should learn, and how he was
to live till he did learn it.

Cotton spinning is the trade you will
learn, if you are wise, Mr. Nelson ; and as

BOUND APPRENTICE. 205

for living, I can arrange for you to be boarded
and lodged — handsomely ; kindly treated, and
found in pocket-moneys'

Cotton spinning ! But it is only women
who spin ! " exclaimed Robin, whose ideas of
the rising industry of the north were somewhat
shadowy.

"Oh, it is not that sort of spinning. I
know what you are thinking about. Yon
are thinking about old women who do something
with a distaff and a wooden wheel.
They spin now with machinery, in great big
factories, turned by steam. It's a splendid
business, and very genteel and interesting.
I wish I was your age, and had the same
chance. Why, you will make your fortune
in no time ! "

"Is it far off — the place I should have to
oho to, I mean ? "

Well, it isn't quite in the next parish.
It's a charming place in the country, about
two hundred miles away, called Birch Dene ;
and at this time of the year the journey thither
must be delightful. I wish I was Q-oino;."

206 BIRCH DENE.

In the north, you said ? "

Yes, in Lancashire."

This was not exactly the direction in which
Robin wanted to go, and he did not quite
believe all that Weevil had told him. But,
being; at a credulous, confiding a^e, he believed
a good deal of it, and if he refused
this offer he would be thrown entirely on
his own resources — if a youth without either
money or friends can be said to have resources.
He knew, moreover, from the newspapers,
that parish constables were always on
the look-out for penniless wanderers, receiving
for each apprehension a reward of ten
shillings. On the other hand, by going to
this place in Lancashire, albeit he might not
make his fortune in no time, he would, at
any rate, earn something, and when he had
laid by a few pounds he could go in quest
of his father — so soon as he remembered the
name after which he was continually striving.
A sojourn in a place like Birch Dene would
be an agreeable change, to say nothing of
the journey ; and a two-hundred-mile ride on

BOUND Apprentice. 207

the top of a fast coach would be something
to look forward to.

"You seem to hesitate," said Weevil, impatiently.
" I need hardly say that if you
are so foolish as to refuse this chance you
won't get another. If you were my own
child I could not do better for you. I expected
gratitude, not hesitation. Come, now,
what do you say ? Is it ' Yes ' or ' No ' ? "

"Yes," answered Robin, who had already
made up his mind. But he said nothing
about gratitude, for though the undertaker's
voice was as soft as usual, his manner had
become unpleasantly peremptory.

You have decided wisely. And now the
sooner we see Mr. Tokenhouse the better. I
have a duty to perform : you must not leave
my charge until your future is assured. Let
us go at once."

Mr. Tokenhouse's office consisted of two
dark and musty little rooms in a street near
Smithfield Market. The floors were thick
with dust, the papers on the desks were
covered with it, the ceiling was black with

208 BIRCH DENE.

cobwebs, and the window dim with dirt.
The outer room (which Weevil entered without
knocking) was occupied by a seedy-looking
man and a mildewy-looking boy, both
seated on loncr-le^ed chairs, and w T rhino; as
if they were paid by results, as probably they
were.

Is he in ? " asked the undertaker, in a
confidential undertone.

Yes," answered the seedy-looking boy.

Anybody with him % "

"No."

Whereupon Weevil rapped at the inner
door, and being answered by an invitation
to "Come in," went in accord in ugly. followed
by Robin.

Here is a young man who has made up
his mind to go into the cotton trade," said
the undertaker, by way of introduction.

"Wise young man! I congratulate him.
He will become rich. He is taking at the
flood the tide that leads on to fortune. They
are coining money up there — literally coining
it ! I know of only one better trade than

BOUND APPRENTICE. 209

cotton spinning, and that is farming. A
farm is as good as a gold mine in these
days. I suppose you have brought him to
sign his indentures ? "

"Well, I don't know whether that is necessary.
It is time for Bones to be here, isn't it ? "

Quite. But Mr. Bones is not the most
punctual man in the world. He will be here
presently, though. Ah ! I think I hear his
step in the outer office. You can hear Mr.
Bones a long way off — ah, ah ! "

The next moment there was a tremendous
knock at the door, and in response to Mr.
Tokenhouse's " Come in," entered Mr. Bones,
a big man with a beefy face, a resplendent
uniform, and a presence that seemed to fill
the room. In one hand he held a cocked
hat — in the other he carried a long, silver-mounted
staff.

At your service, gentlemen ! " exclaimed
this magnificent personage, with a condescending
wave of his cocked hat.

Good morning, Mr. Bones — glad to see

O 7 o

you," said Tokenhouse. "Pray take a seat."

VOL. I. P

210 BIRCH DENE.

Is this the youth ? " asked Bones, glancing
critically at Robin.

Yes, this is the youth."

Hum ! He is rather older and bigger

Co

than they like 'em to be. But I dare say
he'll do. They can lick bigger fellows than
him into shape up there — ah, ah ! What is
your name, my lad ? "

Eupert Nelson. And who are you ? "
said Robin, chafed by the man's overbearing
manner, and annoyed at being called " my
lad."

Who — who am I ? " gasped Mr. Bones,
his great red face purpling with indignation,
and his cheeks swelling out like the gills of
an enraged cock turkey. " I never heard
such inference in all my life ! Tell him —
tell him, Mr. Tokenhouse, who I am."

Mr. Bones is a highly-important parochial
officer; he is the senior beadle of this parish,"
said the lawyer, severely.

"You want a lesson in manners, young
man. Respect them as is set in authority
over you, or you will come to no good.

BOUND APPRENTICE. 211

Where was you brought up, I wonder ? But
I need not ask that. Where was you born ? "

I was born — at sea."

Oh, you was born at sea, was you ? And
whereabouts there, I should like to know 1 "

Eighteen degrees twenty-seven minutes
north latitude, by thirty-three degrees thirteen
minutes west longitude."

Robin was by no means sure that he had
first seen the light at this particular part of
the North Atlantic, but he had a decided
feeling that it would be better to answer at
random than let himself be put down by a
parish beadle.

I don't think as I ever heard of that
parish before," said Bones, with a rather
foolish laugh. " But he has a settlement in
St. Giles's parish — hasn't he, Mr. Weevil?"

"There is no doubt of that, I think.
He has lived in it several years, to my
knowledge."

That is quite enough, Mr. Weevil — quite
enough. Well, it is my duty to ask you,
Rupert Nelson, whether you are willing to

P 2

212 BIRCH DENE.

be bound apprentice to Messrs. Benjamin and
Robert Berry, cotton spinners, of Birch
Dene, in the county of Lancaster, to be by
them taught the trade and mystery of cotton
spinning ? "

"I am willing' said Robin.
As you are a minor and chargeable on
the parish, the parish has no call to ask if
you are willing ; but as the overseers make
it a rule never to apprentice a infant against
its own wish or the wish of its parents, and
as I understand you have neither kith nor

kin "

What have the overseers to do with me,
or I with them ? " asked Robin, warmly
"Besides, I am not an infant. "

Allow me. I think I can explain the
matter to this — this young gentleman's satisfaction,
Mr. Bones," interposed the lawyer,
with judicial ponderosity. " You are in a
peculiar position, Mr. Nelson. Being a minor,
you are incapable of contracting a legally
binding engagement ; and, being an orphan,
you have no parents to contract one for you.

BOUND APPRENTICE. 213

In these circumstances, and as you have unfortunately
no visible means of subsistence,
the parochial authorities of St. Giles's, where
you have acquired a settlement, are empowered
by the law of the land to act on
your behalf. They are in loco parentis, as
we say."

I understand — in the place of parents."
Precisely. You know a little Latin, I
see. Precisely. And as these Lancashire
gentlemen, Messieurs Benjamin and Robert
Berry, engage to teach you the art and
mystery of spinning cotton, it is necessary
for the parochial authorities to undertake,
on your part, that you serve the Messieurs
Berry well and faithfully according to the
usual covenants. The authorities, as Mr.
Bones just now truly observed, have no need
to ask your consent ; but as they have no
desire to assert their prerogative merely todo
you a service, they have deputed the senior
beadle to ask you formally whether you are
willing to be apprenticed to these Lancashire
gentlemen, and conform to the conditions

214 BIRCH DENE.

which the parish may make on your
behalf."

"As I have already said, I am willing."
Will you be so good as to put that down
on a piece of paper, Mr. Tokenhouse ? " asked
the beadle. " The overseers are rather
particular just now. Some people have
actually been giving out as we send children
off like slaves, without so much as telling
'em where they are going. Why, bless your
life, they fairly clamour to go ! "We cannot
keep 'em back."

Mr. Tokenhouse wrote a few lines on a
sheet of foolscap, and, after appending his
signature, handed the document to Mr. Bones.
It was to the effect that Eupert Nelson gave
his consent to being apprenticed to Benjamin
and Robert Berry, according to the conditions
set forth in the indentures, which
had been read over to him. This was false,
and if the indentures had been read over to
him, it is quite certain that Robin, being
neither a simpleton nor a lunatic, would have
refused point blank to accept the engagement

BOUND APPRENTICE. 215

which the guardians and overseers of Holborn
had contracted on his behalf. The indentures
which bound him to serve Berry and Son
until he was twenty-one years of age, fora
remuneration of a shilling a week, and his
board and lodgings, made him as much their
chattel as if they had been West India planters
and himself a negro slave.

When shall I have to start ? " he inquired,
as Bones consigned the piece of paper to his
pocket-book.

To-morrow morning, at six o'clock, you
must be at the Elephant and Castle, King's-road,
St. Pancras, with your goods and
chattels," said the beadle.

The Elephant and Castle, in King's-road !
The Manchester coach does not start from
the Elephant and Castle."

Mr Bones gave a look of blank astonishment,
and then, leaning back in his chair,
burst into a laugh that raised a cloud of dust
from the floor and brought down a shower
of cobwebs from the ceiling;.

Coach — coach ! " he exclaimed. " Did

216 BIRCH DENE.

anybody ever hear the like % What is the
world a-coming to, I wonder ? He'll be
wanting a chaise and pair all to himself next.
You'll have to ride in a waggon, my young
master — and be thankful for that."

"It is very expensive inside the coach,"
put in Weevil, soothingly, and with a
significant glance at the beadle — " very expensive
; I could not afford it myself. And
I would not on any account let you travel
outside ; you might get your death of cold.
But you will find yourself very comfortable
in the fast waggon. It is drawn by six
horses and covered over, and I will bespeak
a good place for you, where you can sleep
as well as in your own bed. It is not as
if time was an object. You are in no hurry,
and when I am not pressed for time, I
always travel by waggon, or in a covered
cart — if I don't walk. Those coaches £0
seven or eight miles an hour, and that's
too fast for enjoyment, to say nothing of
the danger."

Robin was bitterly disappointed, but seeing

BOUND APPRENTICE. 217

that remonstrance would be useless, and
remembering that be£2fars cannot be choosers,
he held his tongue.

The business being concluded, the beadle
and the undertaker took formal leave of
Mr. Tokenhouse, and when they were outside,
the former invited the beadle to step into
a neighbouring public and have a glass at
his expense. Bones accepted the invitation
with great alacrity, whereupon Weevil told
Robin he might go home, whither he would
presently follow him.

Chapter XVII.

ROGUES IN COUNCIL.

What will you take, Mr. Bones ? " asked
Weevil, as they seated themselves in the bar-parlour
of the King's Head.

Eum, with a squeeze of lemon in it, if
you please, Mr. Weevil."

"You couldn't have anything better. I'll
do ditto. Two rums, if you please, miss."

"How much am I in your debt for this
business, Mr. Bones ? " continued the undertaker,
when the rums had been brought and
paid for.

Well, I have had a good deal of trouble
one way and another. Would a one-pound
note be too much ? "

"I was thinking of ten shillings. You'll

ROGUES IN COUNCIL. 219

get a fee from those Lancashire people, I
suppose ? "

A trifle. But this is a special job, and
requires nice management. This young spark
isn't a common workhouse child, and I am
not sure, if the overseers was to see him,
as they'd let him go. They might think him
big enough to shift for himself — or, leastways,
try to find him a place in London, and make
inquiries as you oughtn't like. No, Mr.
Weevil ; a pound is the very least I deserve.
It should be two by good right — and many
a man would ask you five."

A pound let it be, then. Here it is " —
handing him a note. " All the same, I think

ten shillings You are quite sure, now,

there's no chance of his getting back ? "

"Not the least. I've known thousands
go, but I've never known one come back.
They takes care of that. Between you and
me, most on 'em dies."

Oh, they die, do they ? "

Like flies. The masters works 'em to
death. They find that pays best, I'm told,

220 BIRCH DENE.

and they can have as many more as they want
for the asking. Many a waggon-load of parish,
apprentices I've sent off to Lancashire and
Derbyshire ; and — you'd hardly believe it —
but they're all delighted to go — thinks they'll
be better off than they was in the workhouse,
the fools ! Little they knows what is before
'em. I say, won't it be a here-opener for
that young spark when he gets to Birch
Dene ! Side in a coach, would he ? The
only coach as ever he'll ride in will be the
parish hearse."

But oughtn't he run away on the road
thither? That's what I'm afraid of. He's

a lad of spirit, and if he got an inkling

You understand."

He'll get no inkling. The other children
knows nothing. They think they'll have
plenty to eat and nothing to do. Lancashire
is a sort of Promised Land for 'em, and
nobody is fool enough to tell 'em different.
And we must not let this Nelson know any
different. Go with him to the Elephant and
Castle tomorrow morning. Make much of

ROGUES IN COUNCIL. 221

him, and give him good advice, and a trifle
of pocket-money "

Money — money ! You talk as if I was
made of money, Mr. Bones. Haven't I just
given you a pound ? and there will be
Tokenhouse's bill and the legacy duty, and
I don't know what besides. I really couldn't
afford it, Mr. Bones."

"That is just as you like, Mr. Weevil.
You asks my advice, and I gives it. Follow
it or not, as you please ; only if you want
the young chap to go and not come
back "

How much do you think I should give
him, Mr. Bones ? " groaned the undertaker.

What do you say to ten shillings, and
a crown to the waggoner ? "

Fifteen shillings more ! Heaven help
me ! But why a crown to the waggoner ? "

So as to get a good place for Nelson in
the waggon ; and I will give the man a
hint to treat him different from the others.
He is proud — anybody can see that — and if
he got it into his head as he was going to

222 BIPX'H DENE.

be treated like a common parish apprentice,
he might bolt off the course — don't you see ? "

Well, I suppose I must do it" — (sighing).
"And if I could only feel sure that I shall
never see or hear of him again — "

"If he gets to Birch Dene — or any other
cotton factory, for that matter — you never
will hear of him again."

He might write."

Oh, he can write, can he ? That's bad."

Yes, he is well educated. He understood
that Latin — in loco something."

So he did. That is worse. I could never
see any good in education, except for gentlefolk,
tradesmen, and parochial officers. As
for the poor, education can only make them
dissatisfied with their lot, and goes clean
against Scripture and the Church catechism.
But we have no such nonsense at the workhouse.
Nelson is the first apprentice I ever
came across as could tell B from a bull's foot.
I don't think, however, as he is likely to
give you any trouble with writing letters.
They'll keep his nose too close to the grind-rogues

IN COUNCIL. 223

stone for that, and if he tries to run away
he'll get locked up."

Meantime, Robin, unapprehensive of evil,
yet not altogether easy in his mind, was
wending down familiar Holborn. Though
at an age when care sits lightly, and troubles
are soon forgotten, he could neither think
of the past without regret nor of the future
without misgiving. The beadle's manner
made him doubt whether his prospects in
Lancashire were nearly so bright as Weevil
made out; and albeit he did not think as
ill of him as Solomon Slow, he had a feeling
that the man was not sincere, and a suspicion
that, in sending him so far away, he might
possibly have a purpose of his own to serve.
What that purpose was did not, however,
seem very clear ; and after long cogitation,
and much halting between two opinions,
Robin came to the more charitable conclusion
that Weevil, pitying his forlorn condition,
and having regard to Mr. Bartlett's intention
to make him his heir, really wanted to do him
a good turn at a trifling expense.

224 BIRCH Line.

But what weighed most on Eobiu's mind,
and made him really angry, was Weevil's
meanness in sending him to Manchester ina
waggon. As for the plea of poverty, and
fear of his taking cold, that was all nonsense.
Robin had heard that the undertaker was
rich, and he knew from the books that Mr.
Bartlett's stock and the moneys due to the
estate amounted to two or three thousand
pounds. Weevil could easily afford to pay
his fare by coach, and Robin had looked
forward to the ride with desire ; and he
thought that travelling in a waggon, like a
common workhouse apprentice, was a sort
of degradation. For he never forgot that
his father was an officer and a gentleman.
Yet he had undertaken to go, and go
he would. Gentlemen always kept their
word.

Later in the day he called at the Slows to
take leave of Solomon, but found, to his regret,
that the showman was gone to see an uncle at
Croydon, and would not be back for several
days. So it came to pass that neither of his

Rogues IN COUNCIL. 225

two friends (Mr. Chubb being the other) knew
whither he was going.

Rather to Robin's surprise, Mr. Brevier
made him a handsome present for the help
he had rendered in arranging the books and
preparing the inventory. Weevil was also
very kind, talked to him like a father, let
him have an old valise of Mr. Bartlett's " to
put his things in," and on the following morning,
as they were going to the Elephant and
Castle, almost took the lad's breath away by
giving him two crown pieces.

"A little pocket money for you," he said.
You may want a shilling or two on the way,
and I don't think the Messrs. Berry will be
able to afford you much wage for a month or
so. But don't waste it ; ten shillings is a deal
of money, and should last you a long time.
My uncle was very good to you. You are
well set up with clothes. I wish I had such
a wardrobe."

Robin was quite touched. The undertaker
could do a liberal thing, after all. How much
he had mistaken the man !

VOL. I. Q

226 BIPvCH DENE.

"Thank you, Mr. Weevil," he said. « I
thank you with all my heart. I am quite
rich now " — gleefully. " I never had so much
money in my pocket before."

"I dare say. Ten shillings is a large sum."
I have more than ten shillings. I have
twenty" — jingling them' in his pocket.

But how — where ? I don't understand — "
Mr. Brevier gave me ten shillings yesterday
for helping him with the books. Very
kind of him, wasn't it ? "

1 'Very kind — quite princely — very kind
indeed," stammered the undertaker, turning:
pale

Don't you feel well, Mr. Weevil ? " asked
Bobin. " You look as if you were in pain."

A slight spasm — nothing worth mentioning,
" answered Weevil, recovering his self-possession
with an effort. He was agonized
to think that he had thrown ten shillings
away. Had he known that the Brewers
would be so generous, he need not have parted
with a penny. By ascribing their liberality
to his influence, he might easily have got the

ROGUES IN COUNCIL. 227

credit without incurring the outlay, and if he
could have invented a plausible excuse, would
have asked Robin to return him the two crowns
which he had just given him. There was,
however, still a possibility of saving five
shillings ; he would tell Bones not to tip the
waggoner. If there was anything more to
be paid, the young jackanapes must pay it
himself.

We must put the best foot foremost," he
observed, " or we shall not be in time. It
would never do to keep the waggon waiting,
and I want to have a word with Mr. Bones
before you set off."

A few minutes later they were at the Elephant
and Castle, where they found the beadle
in full uniform, and smelling very strongly
of rum.

How do you do, Mr. Weevil ? " he said.
I have just been taking a nip to keep out
the morning air. The waggon is at the
workhouse. It will be here in a few
minutes. Won't you have a taste of something
? "

Q 2

228 BIRCH DENE.

A word with you, Mr. Bones " — drawing
him aside. " About that crown "

For the waggoner ! Oh, it is all right.
He has got it. He will let our young friend
have a sleeping-place all to himself, and see ashe
doesn't make a bolt of it "

I didn't want you to give it him — I
didn't want you to give it him," interrupted
the undertaker with a suppressed groan of
anguish. " It was unnecessary — quite unnecessary.
I shall be clean ruined. Couldn't
you get it back, Mr. Bones ? I should be so
much obliged if you would " — piteously.

Get it back ! I might as well try to get
butter out of a clod's throat. What has made
you change your mind so ? Yesterday you
were all for preventing Nelson at any cost
from suspecting what is before him, or guessing
that you want to get rid of him."

Not at any cost, Mr. Bones — I did not
say at any cost. I was willing to go as far
as ten or fifteen shillings more — and that will
make a total, one way and another, of seven
pounds, not reckoning the valise I have given

ROGUES IN COUNCIL. 229

him ; and that alone is worth 
of anybody's money. And I could have
saved ten shillings. Just now, when I gave
him two crowns, as you suggested yesterday,
he told me that the Brewers — the people I
have sold my uncle's business to — had also
given him two crowns. I did not like
asking him for it back, but he could easily
afford to fee the waggoner himself. Are

on

you quite sure he wouldn't return it, Mr.
Bones ? "

Well, you can ask him if you like, but
I wouldn't advise you to ; and I'll be hanged
if I will," said the beadle, with a laugh. He
rather enjoyed Weevil's discomfiture, for misers
are never popular, even with their parasites.
Besides, what difference does it make ? It
is costing you no more than you calculated
yesterday. The two crowns he got from the
Brewers did not come out of your pocket."

It's the same thing. Money saved is
money gained, and I might just as well have
saved my ten shillings."

You've got up too soon, and are out of

230 BIRCH DENE.

spirits — that's what it is. Come into the
house and have a glass — at m) T expense."

With this invitation Weevil, who made ita
rule never to refuse a treat, promptly complied,
and the two went together into the inn,
leaving Robin outside.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ON THE ROAD.

When Weevil and the beadle returned from
taking their nips, the waggon, a ponderous
affair, drawn by four horses, and covered with
an awning, was at the inn door. It was in
charge of two men, one of whom drove while
the other slept. The forepart, save a small
space in front, was filled with parcels and
light goods ; the hind part with children,
none of whom looked more than seven or
eight years old. The only provision for their
comfort w T as a quantity of clean straw, in which
they sat and disported themselves, as it might
seem, in very good spirits. They were prevented
from falling out or running away by
an iron grating, which swung on hinges and
fastened with a padlock. A couple of beadles,

232 BIRCH DENE.

who closely resembled Bones, even to the bigness
of their noses, were looking on. They
belonged to the workhouse of St. Pancras,
hard by.

Here's the young spark as I was a-telling
you about," said Bones to the driver on duty,
by way of introducing Robin. "You'll take
care of him, won't you ? "

Aw rest," answered the man, Tim Slings
by name, a burly Yorkshireman. " I'll see
as he wants nowt. There's a warm nook
for him i' t' front, where he can , lig all
by hissed. But he'll pay his footing, willet
he ? If he doesn't, he'll ne'er get safe to t'
far end."

Of course I will. What will you have ? ' :
rejoined Robin, who, with twenty shillings in
his pocket, felt as if he had come into a small
fortune.

A pint o' ale, with a sup o' rum in it, if
yo' please, master."

And me too ! " exclaimed the other fellow,
as he scrambled out of the wao-o-on, where he
had been sleeping. " Me too ! "

ON THE ROAD. 233

"Certainly;" and Robin led the way into
the house.

May I come also, Mr. Nelson % " asked
Bones, with a leer. " I should like to drink
your health before we part — wish you good
luck, you know."

If you please," said Robin, politely, though
not very cordially ; and feeling that it would
be both invidious and ungrateful to leave
Weevil out in the cold, he asked the undertaker
to bear them company. The two St.
Pancras beadles, on a wink from Bones,
followed without being invited, and one of
Robin's crown pieces vanished almost as
quickly as the ale and rum disappeared down
Slingsbyby's throat.

Bones, who always took kindly to ibis
liquor, became exceedingly merry ; and dropping
his dignity and doffing his cocked
hat, he danced a jig with one of his brother
beadles, to the huge delight of the two
waggoners.

DO

The undertaker, who had a weak head and
an empty stomach, grew maudlin, and, after

234 BIRCH DENE.

his second glass, protested, weeping, that he
loved Robin like the eye of his apple, and
assured him that he would always find a
warm enemy in Moses Weevil. Then, to the
general surprise, he ordered more drink, and,
when it was consumed, wanted to decide by
tossing up with Bones which of them should
pay the shot. Whereupon a wrangle and a
row, in the midst of which Robin (who had
been wise enough to drink nothing), not liking
the turn things were taking, left the room,
and went to the outer door to look at the
waggon and get a breath of fresh air.

The wag-aon was gone. The horses, tired

on o '

of waiting, had taken French-leave, and were
already half a mile away, going northward,
at a slow and elephantine trot.

Returning at once to the revellers, Robin
gave the alarm ; whereupon the two drivers,
gulping down their drink, hurried out of the
inn, followed by the beadles and the undertaker.
Robin made the running ; after him
came the waggoners, neck-and-neck ; then
Weevil, a bad fourth ; and close behind him

ON THE ROAD. 235

the three beadles. They had not gone many
yards when Weevil fell on his nose, tripping
up Bones and his brethren, and the last Robin
saw of them was a confused mass of men
wrigoiinff on the ground. — the undertaker
undermost — and making frantic efforts to getup.


By gum, if yon little chap isn't kilt, it
caps me," said Slingsbyby. " I never see owt
like it i' my life. But we've no time to stop
and help 'em up. We nun catch them tits,
drat 'em, or they'll be running o'er somebody,
or into summit. Come on, lads ! "

Robin was first at the waggon, and dashing;
rather recklessly at the off-leader's head, he
managed, at some risk to himself, to bring
the team to a stand several minutes before
the drivers came up.

"That's a good job," gasped Tim, who, not
being used to running — and carrying weight
in the shape of a pair of tremendous boots —
w T as a good deal blown. " I was feared as
there'd be further trouble. You're a sharp
young fellow, and I'm obliged to yo'. Here's

236 BIECH DENE.

my mate ; lie's war blown than I am mysen.
Get in, Matt, and let's be off. Willet yo'
get in too ? " — to Robin. " There's room for
both on yo', and you'll find riding comfortable
than walking. It is a snug little berth,
where yo' can either lig or stone."

Partly out of curiosity, and partly to please
Sliugsby, Robin climbed up the side of the
waowon after Matt. The " snug; little berth "
was a narrow strip, as long as the wain was
wide, between the forepart of it and a wall
of packages which reached to the very top
of the awning. There was just room for two
men to lie down, and plenty of clean straw
to lie on. Matt threw himself down without
a word, and the next moment was snoring.
Robin preferred to stand up and look out.
But the road being rough, and the waggon
springless and heavy-laden, it jolted terribly,
so that he had much ado to keep his feet, and
an occasional muffled scream from the rear
told him that the children w T ere having rather
a bad time of it. The horses, having had
their fling, settled down into the regulation

ON THE ROAD. 237

walk of about two miles an hour, Tim keeping
pace with them, now and again cracking his
whip and shouting "Gee up!" by way of
letting them know that he had his eye on
them. Your northern driver, unlike him of
the south, never says "Wo back!" It is
always " Gee up ! "

After this sort of thing had gone on some
three hours, and the wain had trundled, perhaps,
eight miles, it occurred to Slingsbyby that
if his horses were at all like himself they must
be very dry, and he pulled up at a roadside
public-house to water — and beer.

Robin profited by the opportunity to get
out.

I am going to walk awhile, until we get
to a smoother road," said Robin to Tim.

You'll have to walk a long way, then.
You'd better get up ageean, I think, when
you've helped me to water th' bosses. Matt's
asleep yet, I reckon."

Matt was asleep — as it seemed, beyond the
power of anything short of an earthquake ora
thunderbolt to waken him.

238 BIRCH DENE.

I'll help you to water the horses with
pleasure," answered Bobin, " but I shall not
get up again just yet ; T prefer to walk."

And I'd liefer you didn't walk. You'd
happen to be peking off."

Peking off ! What does that mean ? "

Cutting your stick — running away ; and
if you did, I should get into a hobble. You're
down i' my waybill, and I've to 'liver you up
at t' far end."

Why should I run away ? I want to goto
Birch Dene."

The augment you do ! By gum, if yo'

nobbut snowed. Howsomever " stopping

short as if he were at a loss what to say.

Robin, ignorant of the man's lino-o, did
not grasp the portentous significance of the
expression, " if yo' nobbut snowed."

I shall walk," he said, resolutely.

Aw rest, but promise as yo' willet pike
off."

Certainly. I have not the least desire to
pike off, as you call it."

"He looks like a lad as '11 keep his w T ord,

ON THE ROAD. 239

but if he nobbut (only) snowed what was
afore him, he'd be off, word or no word,"
muttered the driver.

Robin went round to inspect the children.
They looked seedy and woebegone. The
motion of the waggon had made some of them
quite ill, and their hair and clothes were
covered with bits of the straw in which they
had rolled — at first in the gladness of their
hearts, afterwards because they could not help
it. Yet they were in the highest spirits, fully
believing (as they had been told in the workhouse)
that they were going to a world of
halfpence, without kicks — an El-Dorado where
they could work as little as they liked and eat
as much as they choose. Three or four of the
elder children were disputing which should
first ride in their master's carriage.

Robin asked the wagoner to let the
children out for a run on the common, hard
by the inn.

"Bitumen, they'll happen be running too far."

No, they won't. They are too anxious to
get to Birch Dene."

240 BIRCH DENE.

Poor little devils ! — poor little devils !
Ay, let 'em have a run. Here's t' key. But
you'll be answerable, now % "

Yes, I'll be answerable ; " and with that
Robin opened the iron door, and let the
captives go free. He went with them, and
after a glorious scamper over the common,
brought them back to the waggon, where they
had a "putting on" of bread and cheese,
washed down with water from the horse
trough. Tim had been slaking his thirst with
something a good deal stronger.

I'll tell you what, Nelson," he said in a
rather thick voice, when they were once more
under way, " I don't think as I'll cart chiltern
ony moor. It's second time, and it shall bet'
last."

What for, Slingsbyby ? "

"Well, when I seed 'em taking (playing)
and shouting on t' common just now, and
thought what they'll be like i' two or three
months, it made me feel unfine."

Unfine ! Do you mean uncomfortable ? '

Ay, uncomfortable."

ON THE ROAD. 241

Why should it make you feel uncomfortable
? "

Well, I've chiltern of my own — two little
wenches and a little lad. You'll find out one
o' these days. You don't come fra' t' workhouse,
I reckon ? "

Certainly not. I was never in a workhouse
in my life."

But you're a parish 'prentice 1 "

"I am an orphan, and the parish of St.
Giles apprenticed me — if that is what you
mean."

And they told you as you'd have fine
times o'er yon, I reckon ? "

"Mr. Weevil said I should learn cotton
spinning, and be handsomely treated and well
paid."

He did, did he ? Well, he deserves his
neck wrinmno; — that's what he deserves.
. . However, there's no telling ; you happen
will be handsomely treated — and you're not
like them brothers ; you can tak' care of yersen.
If they don't treat you handsome, give 'em
leg-bail ; and if anybody hits yo', hit um

VOL. I. R

242 BIRCH DENE. •

ageean. Punch their shins. Yo' look as if
yo' could do a Lit o' fey ting."

This was not very encouraging, but as
Robin only half understood the man, and it
was evident that he had taken more beer than
was good for him, Slingsbyby's hints and warnings
gave him little concern, and, not being
repeated, they soon passed out of his mind.

Six days were spent on the road. Every
two hours there was a halt to water — every
four or five a long stoppage to bait. At night
they generally drew into some inn yard, the
carters sleeping in a hay loft, and Robin and
the other apprentices in the waggon. The
children, being nearly always confined in their
cage, deteriorated both in health and spirits ;
but Robin, who walked all day long, benefited
greatly by the exercise and the open air, and
was stronger at the end of the journey than he
had been at the beginnings

last halting-place was Stockport,
whither they arrived on the evening of the
fifth day, and where there befell an incident
to which Robin attached much more imported

THE ROAD. 243

ance than to Slingsbyby's only half-comprehended
warnings. The horses had been unyoked,
and he was talking to the children, all of
whom he now knew by name, when two
women with shawls over their heads came up.

Parish 'prentices going to a cotton factory,"
said one.

Liker (more like) lambs being led to a
slaughterhouse," said the other.

Why do you say that ? " asked Robin.

Are you one of 'em % "

"I am an apprentice."

"Well, then — but there's no use saying
aught. You'll learn soon enough. And you
are tall and strong. You can fend for yourself.
But these poor little things Stand

up for 'em whenever you've a chance. They're
all somebody's chiltern, and God is good to
them as is good to little chiltern."

I don't understand. I wish you would tell
me what you mean," said Robin earnestly.

You will know soon enough," repeated the
woman, " and when you do, think of my
words. Good-meet to you."

R 2

244 BIRCH Dee.

He was thinking of them already ; they
had sunk deep into his mind, and he was on
the point of again asking her to be more explicit,
when Tim called him to supper. The
waggoner had decided to stay all night where
they were, and go on to Manchester next
morning.

CHAPTER XIX.

A NEW FRIEND.

These are urn, Mester Berry," said Tim,
pointing to the children, who lay huddled up
among the straw. " Ger at — here's your
master ! "

These are um, are they ? How many ? "

Nine lads and four wenches."

A baker's dozen. One, two, three, four
Right you are, Slingsbyby. Got a delivery
note ? "

Bob went to his cart-box, took from it a tin
case, and from the tin case drew a wafer-fastened
letter, which he silently handed to
Mr. Berry, who straightway opened it.

Thirteen ! " exclaimed Mr. Berry, looking
up from the letter of advice. "But there

246 BIRCH Dee.

should be fourteen according to this. I hope
you haven't let one of 'em slip off, Slingsbyby."

"Oh, ay — there is another. I'd clean forgotten
he wor one on urn. He's a young
ran, No. 14 is. I'll sot him. Nelson !"

Robin, who was in the stable helping Matt to
feed the horses, answered promptly to the call.

Master and apprentice exchanged a stare
of surprise, for neither was what the other
had expected. Benjamin Berry was a
middle-sized, broader man, with light-blue
eyes under bushy brows, a crooked nose,
slightly redder than the rest of his ruddy
countenance, fat cheeks, mutton-chop whiskers,
and hair turning gray. As touching age, he
was probably between fifty and sixty, and,
as Robin thought, he looked much more like
a country gentleman or prosperous farmer
than a manufacturer.

Mr. Berry wore a pair of top-boots,
spurs, cord breeches, a green coat with brass
buttons, a canary-coloured waistcoat, and a
low-crowned, broad-brimmed hat, set a little
on one side.

A NEW FRIEND. 247

This was not, as may be supposed, a hunting
or masquerade dress. It was the costume
in which Mr. Buberry invariably went to
market, and generally (barring the spurs) to
church.

"So this is No. 14, is it?" he said, with a
dissatisfied look. " You'll be bringing old
fellows next."

"I've nowt to do wi' it. I only brings
them as I receives," answered Bob, sharply.

I know T that, and I am not blaming you ,
Slingsbyby. But we gave strict orders to send
none above ten, at the outside. My brother
would rather have 'em at six and seven, as we
used to have ; and if the age had not been
raised by this new r law to nine, we'd have
none else. How old are you ? " — to Robin.

Eighteen."

Four years older than your number — and
that's four too many. They must ha' wanted
to ore rid of you base ill. Have you ever
been locked up ? "

Never " — impetuously, and reddening with
indignation.

248 BIRCH DENE.

"Well, well — you needn't get in a passion
about it ! I thought you happen might ha'
been. Why didn't they 'prentice you in
London, I wonder ? However, we shall have
to learn you to addle your own porridge, I
suppose, and the sooner you do the better
my brother will be pleased ; and he isn't a
man to be trifled with."

The London-bred lad had only a very vague
idea of what " addling " his own porridge
might mean ; but he guessed, from Mr.
Berry's manner, that it was something not
very pleasant, and he had a foreboding that
he and his new master would not be the
best of friends. He was so very unlike Mr.
Bartlett.

I think you and me had better settle up,
Slingsbyby," said Mr. Berry, turning to the
waggoner. " Come into the bar-parlour.
Gib Riding will be here directly for these
children."

Tim responded to the invitation with a
Thank you kindly, Mr. Berry," and a
broad grin. He knew that in addition to

A NEW FlilEND. 249

receiving money, "settling up" meant supping
something warm with a spoon in it.- He had
arrived in Manchester an hour before, and
put up at an ancient hostelry in Hanging
Ditch, where Mr. Berry (having been apprised
betimes of his departure from London)
had found him and claimed his property, for
except that he could not sell them, the apprentices
were as much his own as if he had
bought them at a price.

Mr. Berry and Tim made rather a long
stay in the bar-parlour, and, had it not been
for the arrival of Gib Riding, would probably
have made a night of it.

"You are Gib Riding, and that's Mr.
Berry 's cart," said Robin, as the vehicle in
question came into the inn yard.

How the augment do you know that ? "
exclaimed the astonished carter, a freckled,
red-haired fellow, with a smock-frock, a hair-skin
cap, fustian small, and iron-shod clogs.
And how the augment do you know me ? "

I can read," — looking at the sign-board —
and I heard you were coming."

250 BIRCH DENE.

"Ob, that's it, is it? "Well, as you known
so much, you can happen tell me wheel owt
Ben is."

Do you mean Mr. Berry ? "

"I do."

"He is in the bar-parlour with Slingsbyby.
Shall I tell him you want him ? "

Nay, nay, lad — I'll go myself'. I know
th' road. Will yo' just keep a here on this
tit a minute or two ? "

The bar-parlour was suggestive of a drink,
and Gib thought it very likely that somebody
would " stand treat." In this expectation
he was not disappointed. His master stood a
pint of ale and Slingsbyby a noggin of rum, and
Gib presently came back very red in the face,
and wiping his mouth with his smock sleeve.

They'll be here in a minute," he said ;

ger in wi yo .

Robin, guessing that this meant " get in,"
helped the children to mount the cart, which
was provided with boarded seats. Then he
threw in their poor little bundles and his own
valise.

A NEW FRIEND. 251

"Naa, ger in herself," added Gib, as he
took the rope reins, and, putting a foot on
the spoke of one of the wheels, climbed to the
front of the cart.

Robin did as he was told. The cart would
be pleasant than the waggon, and he was
tired with his long walk from London.

As they were setting off, Mr. Berry and
Tim appeared on the scene, both looking
rather flushed.

I shall be seeing you on th' road, Gib.
Be sure, now, you don't sup any more," said
Mr. Berry.

I cannot, master. I've gotten no brass
not th' price of a stunning gill." (A
"standing gill" cost a penny, a "sitting gill"
three-halfpence.)

So much the better. And see as you
take care of that coat, or he'll be running
away with you."

Never yo' fear, master. Th' coat '11
moan tak' beggar wi' me." (Take fright and
bolt.) " Are yo' aw rest, chiltern ? Gee up,
Piper ! "

252 BIFX'H DENE.

Robin and the others were not much impressed
with the bigness of Manchester. As
compared with London, it was little more thana
large village ; but the country outside was
among the fairest they had yet seen. It was
richly wooded, interspersed with pleasant gardens,
sparkling meads, and waving cornfields,
with here and there an ancient timbered mansion
and quaint farmhouse. The road bordered
the Irk, a crystal stream flowing between
verdant banks. Then by Harpurhey and
Blacker, and past Seaton Park, with its
noble forest trees and wide stretches of turf,
as yet innocent of soot and unpolluted by
smoke.

After they had gone about a mile, Robin
inquired how far it might be to their
destination.

Nearly ten mile fro' th' start. Th' coat's
a goodish walker. We're do it under three
hours, I reckon," was the answer.

When they had done two thirds of the
distance, and were nearing the Three Fiddlers,
a pleasant-looking, whitewashed inn, with

A NEW FRIEND. 253

dormer windows, a thatched roof, and a porch
overgrown with greenery, Gib asked Robin
whether he happened to have such a thing asa
shilling about him ; whereupon the lad, who
was nothing if not truthful, admitted, albeit
rather reluctantly, that he did happen to
have in his possession a coin of the denomination
in question.

"I wish you'd len' it me. I'll giv' it yo'
back next pay-day — I will as sure as God's i'
heaven. I'm that dry I hardly know how to
bide."

Robin forked out the shilling with a rueful
face, and a painful consciousness that his once
unlimited wealth was becoming small by
degrees and beautifully less.

I'll not be a minute. How's th' reins till
I come back," said Gib, pulling up at the inn
door, and dismounting from his perch.

Instead of a minute, he stayed a good half-hour,
and when he reappeared his eyes were
watery and his legs unsteady. Twice he
tried to mount the cart, and twice ignominiously
failed. As he tried a third time, putting

254 birch deep:.

his foot on a spoke as usual, the horse
moved, and Gib fell on his back, carrying
with him the reins, which he had seized in a
desperate effort to save himself, and cursing
both loud and deep ; whereupon Piper, either
shocked by his master's profanity, or startled
by his fall, set off, full tilt, down the hill, and
the next moment was hidden from view by a
bend in the road.

AVith some difficulty Gib scrambled to his
feet, and after steadying himself and staring
round, started, as he thought, in hot pursuit ;
but owing to a slight confusion of ideas and
an obliquity of vision, which, in the circumstances,
were natural, if not pardonable, he
unfortunately event the wrong way.

Meantime Mr. Berry was jogging soberly
(though perhaps not quite sober) homeward
on his sorrel nag — a roadster of the old-fashioned
sort, equally at home in harness or
saddle. Hard by Seaton Park he was overtaken
by another horseman, mounted on a
powerful and nearly thoroughbred bay gelding
with black points. The new-comer was a

A New FRIEND. 255

tall man, with a brown face and light, closely-cut
hair. "Whiskers he had none but he
wore a moustache — an adornment only
affected in those days by gentlemen who
actually bore the king's commission, or had
served in the army. His costume was not
unlike Mr. Bilberry's, but his coat and other
garments were of finer quality and better fit.
He was particularly well booted and gloved,
and the pose of his hat (of the latest fashion)
showed that though no longer young, the
wearer was still somewhat of a dandy.

Good day, major ! " said Berry, respectfully
touching his hat. " I hope I see you
well, sir ? "

Quite well, I thank you, Mr. Berry.
It would be almost superfluous to ask how
you are " — smiling.

Seeing that Berry 's face was red and
his voice thick, this might have been considered
a rather doubtful compliment ; but
he took it quite seriously.

"Well, my health keeps very good, if that
is what you mean, major. I don't know

256 BIRCH DENE.

as I ever felt much better, bad as times

are.

"Times bad! Why, God bless me, I
thought you cotton men were making money,
hand over fist ! "

You are quite mistaken " — eagerly.
You were never more mistaken in your life.
Things are not as they have been. Yarn has
dropped and raw cotton gone up, and we
cannot see more than sixpence a pound clear
profit on thirty twos twist ; and when you
take into account risk of bad debts, troubles
w r with the hands, anxiety of mind, and one
thing and another, sixpence a pound is really
nothing at all. As my brother says, you
might almost call it a loss."

It was the fashion seventy years ago for
tradesmen to protest, in season and out of
season, that times were bad, and Robert
Berry being as much a farmer as a manufacturer,
grumbling came natural to him.

But if yarn is down corn is up, and you
will have it that way," said the major. " You
are equal to either fortune, Berry."

A NEW Friend. 257

Nay, nay, I haven't made my. fortune
yet, major — at any rate, not much of one ;
though I will not deny as we have a good
deal to be thankful for. It's such like as you
as is fortunate — rent rolling in regular, and
land increasing in value, while you lie abed
sleeping."

But you get it every way, Berry. You
are landlord, cotton lord, and farmer all rolled
into one. I'm content to be a landlord."

Landlord ! Call me a landlord ! Why,
we've only about three hundred acres, and
you've four or five thousand, if not more, and
no bad debts to fear nor hands to contend
with."

Oh, I'm not complaining. Life is just a
little tame down here, it is true ; but it's
better than being in a French prison "

Hallo ! I'll be hanged if that isn't Gib
Riding. What is he up to, I wonder ? "

"Who is Gib Riding?"

"My carter. Where are you going, Gib ? "

Piper has run away, and I'm after him,"

said the carter, stopping in full career.
vol. i. s

258 BIRCH DENE.

But he has not run away this way, you
fool. If he had, we should have met him.
Which way did he go ? "

"Toward loam."

But this is not the way toward home. It's
the way toward Manchester."

Bitumen, and so it is!" exclaimed Gib,
looking round in grotesque bewilderment.
I've been running backward road."

"Why, you're as drunk as a fiddler's sow !
Who has been treating you?"

Nobody. I borrowed a shilling fro' that
young mon, Nelson. But I'll pay him back

out o' my next wage — I will, as true as

I'm not drunk. I hope as non on' em'll
get killed."

Get killed ! Who do you mean ? What
is it all about, Berry ? ' asked Major
Dene.

Why, the godless beggar has let his
horse run away, and the cart's full of
choler — 'prentices from London."

God bless me ! Let us ride on and
overtake them, before worse befall."

A NEW Fend. 259

With that, Major Dene touched his horse
with the spur, and went off at a gallop,
followed by Berry, at a fourteen -mile-an-
hour trot.

When Piper set off, Robin found himself
in a rather awkward fix. As the reins had
fallen under the horse's feet and got cut to
pieces, stopping him was out of the question ;
and he went at such a pace that to slip out
behind and run to his head (as Robin once
thought of doing) would have been highly
dangerous and probably unavailing. The
children, who had been thrown from their
seats, were half frightened to death, and
screaming wildly. And there was cause for
fear. Piper's course was most erratic. Now
on one side of the road, now on the other,
bounced the cart ; once on the footpath, with
a wheel in the air, several times nearly in the
ditch ; and it soon became evident that unless
something were done, and that quickly, an
upset or a collision, probably attended with
fatal results, was merely a question of a
few minutes.

S 2

260 BIRCH DENE.

But what could be done ?

I have it ! " shouts Robin ; and the next
moment he is on the horse's back, his feet
on the shafts, and holding on by the crupper.
Then he scrambles over the saddle, and,
reaching over and seizing the bridle with
both hands, pulls with all his might. Piper
shakes his head, and at first takes no heed,
but yielding at length to the steady pressure,
he gradually slackens his gallop into a trot ;
the trot next becomes a walk, and the danger
is past.

"Well done, boy — very well done, indeed !
You have shown both pluck and presence of
mind. But do you know that you risked
your life ?

I never thought of that, sir," said Robin,
simply, looking up at Major Dene, who had
overtaken him just in time to be of no
use.

You did, though. If you had fallen —
and I don't know how you managed to get
to the horse's head without falling — you
w r ould either have been trampled on or run

A NEW FRIEND. 261

over. But it is sometimes a man's duty to
risk, and even deliberately sacrifice, his life
in the cause of duty or honour ; and you
certainly saved the lives and limbs of some
of these children."

It's all right " — to Berry, who had just
come up. " No bones broken, and, so far as
I can see, the horse is none the worse — for
which you must thank this youngster. He
did a very plucky thing — got on the horseback
and pulled him up — as I told him just
now, at the risk of his life."

As you say, major, a plucky thing, and
I am obliged to him. All the same, as it was
partly his fault "

His fault ! What do you mean ? "

"He gave Gib a shilling, and Gib got
drunk with it "

He asked me to lend him a shilling, and
I did not like to refuse," said Robin, reddening.
"How could I know he would get
drunk and fall off the cart ? "

A fault on the side of generosity, if it bea
fault," rejoined the major. " If anybody is

262 BIRCH DENE.

to blame, it is rather those who trust children
to drunken carters — and set them such a nice
example," he added, in an undertone.

"Well, you are happen right," answered
Berry, with a forced laugh. " But what
can you do ? They are all alike. We haven't
a chap about us as doesn't sup whenever he
has a chance. There's worse than Gib. If
you'll go quietly on, Nelson, I'll just go back
a bit and see what has become of him."

Major Dene remained with the cart.

So your name is Nelson ? " he observed,
interrogatively to Robin, as Berry rode off.

Yes, sir."

You come from London, I suppose ? "

•''Yes, sir."

But these are workhouse children, aren't
they ? "

"They are: but I am not a workhouse
child."

How do you happen to be here, then ? "

"Mr. Weevil got me taken as an apprentice
to learn cotton spinning. After Mr. Bartlett's
death I had to get my own living — there

A NEW FRIEND. 263

seemed no other way — and Weevil said I
could not learn anything better, and that I
should make my fortune."

But your parents ? "

I have no parents."

Poor boy ! Mr. Bartlett was probably a
relative ? "

"No, sir — only my dear friend and benefactor.
But he was everything to me, sir,"
said Bobin, as a tear rolled down his cheek.

And the other gentleman you mentioned
"

Weevil."

Mr. Weevil — was he also a benefactor ? "

He is Mr. Bartlett's nephew and heir, and
got me a place as apprentice."

"Turned you adrift — eh? Inherited his
uncle's money, but not his benevolence.
Have you been at school ? "

Yes, sir ; I was three years at Chigwell
Grammar School. I had also lessons from
Mr. Bartlett."

Excuse my asking so many questions ;
but boys, especially when they are plucky,

2G4 BIRCH DENE.

always interest me. Look here ! I have no
desire to interfere between you and the
Kuberrys ; but if anything — if you should
not be happy with them, or any of the
people don't — if they use you ill, come tome
— Major Dene, of Birch Dene Hall. Anybody
will tell you where it is ; the lodge
gates are only about two miles from Mr.
Berry's factory. You won't forget now.
And, see, take this " — offering him a guinea
" as a reward for the courage you showed
in stopping that runaway horse."

The guinea would have been very acceptable
— the lad's store had waned woefully since
he left London — but it seemed to him that,
if he took it, he would suffer both in Major
Dene's estimation and his own self-respect.

"You are very good, sir," he answered,
after a moment's hesitation, "but you said
just now that it was sometimes a man's duty
to risk his life in the cause of honour or
humanity, and it does not seem right to
take money for performing a simple act of
duty."

A NEW FRIEND. 265

A simple act of duty ! However, you
are perhaps right. I should have offered
you the guinea as a tip, not as a reward.
No boy in his senses ever refuses a tip. I
shall know better next time. Don't forget
what I said ; we shall meet again. Goodbye."


CHAPTER XX.

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE.

Major Dene had not been gone many
minutes when Mr. Berry returned from
his quest.

Gib's yon," he said.

Where ? " asked Robin, staring up the
road.

Nay, it's no use looking ; you'll not see
him. He's in th' dyke bottom."

In th' dyke bottom ! Shall we go back
and put him into the cart ? "

Nay, nay. Let him lie where he is till
he's slept himself sober. Can you drive
Piper ? We are not much above a mile
from home now."

Robin answered in the affirmative, and the
journey was resumed.

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 267

There, that's it ! " exclaimed Mr. Berry,
reining in his horse after they had gone a little
further. " Birch Dene factory and village,
and it all belongs to me and my brother."

Birch Dene ! And that is Birch Dene,"
said Robin, in a voice expressive rather of
disappointment than admiration or surprise.
He had lived too long in London to be greatly
impressed by the sight of a cotton factory and
a few cottages. " I thought it was a large
place."

It is a large place. There is not two
bigger concerns between here and Manchester.
We run fifty thousand spindles, and farm
three hundred acres of land, to say nowt of
a thousand weavers as we keep going, here
and elsewhere," answered Berry, with some
heat ; for though it suited his purpose to sing
small to Major Dene, he was proud of his
property and his wealth, and it went against
the grain to hear them belittled by a workhouse
apprentice.

Fifty thousand ! That seems a great
number; but I don't know anything about

268 BIRCH DENE.

spindles," returned Bobin, who saw that he
had unwittingly given offence.

You soon will, though. Ay, that is Birch
Dene, and it's worth a hundred thousand
pounds of anybody's money, little as you
think it looks, my lad."

A somewhat confused mass of white buildings
of various heights and dimensions, lying
in a hollow, and partly enclosed by a wall,
with a gateway and a lodge, looking rather
as if they had been thrown together haphazard
than scientifically planned ; nevertheless,
far more picturesque than the " modern
mill," by which they have been succeeded.

Close to the factory, and parallel with the
road, was a long row of straggling cottages —

O (DID O O

some one-storied, whitewashed, and thatched ;
others of red brick, roofed with gray slate ;
and all the windows were glazed, with 
panes. Hardly any two of the
cottages were alike, either in appearance or
size. Like the factory itself, they had evidently
been put up at various times, and
without the least regard to unity of design.

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 269

On the brow of a hill at the opposite side
of the road, and some distance from it, could
be seen a nondescript sort of house which
looked like an old-fashioned homestead,
veneered with the stuccoed front of a genteel
mansion of the period. It was approached
by an avenue of beech trees, and flanked on
one side by a large garden ; on the other by
a farmstead, filled with stacks of hay and
corn. This was the ancestral home of the
Kuberrys, and the oldest gaffer in the township
could not tell of a time when Oaken
Clough was not owned and occupied by one
of the name.

The country round about, though it lacked
the soft grace of southern landscapes, was
destitute neither of beauty nor character.
The valleys (now denuded to their last tree)
were well wooded ; merry bundles murmured
their way through tangled doughs ; the
meadows and cornfields were interspersed
with patches of brown heath and yellow
gorse, and overshadowed by sweeps of wild
moorland, still sacred to black cock and grouse.

270 BIRCH DENE.

As yet, long chimneys were few and far
between. Day was not disfigured with pillars
of smoke, neither were the fruits of the
earth and the leaves of the trees coated with
soot, nor the flowing waters fouled with
refuse.

Now the once fair landscape is scarred
with coal pits, and made hideous by the
print shops, gas works, factories, and other
buildings of ugliness unspeakable, which cover
the land as the waters of the delude once
covered the face of the earth.

But there is never an evil without a good,
and albeit since that not very distant time,
which we call the dawn of the century, the
landscape about Birch Dene, and many other
places, has been bereft of its pristine loveliness,
men have improved and humanity has
gained. If the age be more practical and less
picturesque, it is also less discontented and
more comfortable.

Robin, as the reader is aware, saw nothing
extraordinary in the place. It was neither
particularly big nor supremely beautiful, but

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 271

when Mr. Berry observed that it was
worth a hundred thousand pounds, he thought
it was a very fine thing to be a cotton
spinner, and, with his usual outspokenness,
said so.

Mr. Berry seemed pleased.

Well, it isn't so bad," he remarked, complacently.
" Better than being a parish
apprentice — eh ? But there is no telling.
Many a one has made a fortune with no
better a start than you. You are at the
bottom of the ladder now. You'll happen
get to the top before you've done, and if
you do, take care you stop there. It is
easier to fall than to rise. Here we are.
Stop him ! Mayo-oh, Piper ! Hello, Betty, are
you there ? "

They were before a house with a stone
porch, near the factory gates, which looked
like three or four large cottages converted
into a single dwelling.

In answer to Mr. Berry's call, there
came to the door a tall, gaunt old woman,
wearing a print bed-gown, a red petticoat, a

272 BIRCH DENE.

cap that ought to have been white, but was
not, and a pair of iron-soled clogs.

Oh, you've brought 'em, have you ? " she
cried, in a shrill voice.

Ay, here they are — a baker's dozen on
'em, and one over. Where's Dick ? "

I'm here, master. "What wanted yo' ? "
answered a gruff voice from the house ; and a
man, taller, older, and more gaunt than the
woman, yet hale and hearty withal, came to
the threshold.

Take Piper round to the stable, Dick. I
left Gib i' th' dyke bottom a bit this side of
the Fiddlers."

Dick silently did as he was bidden.

In the meantime the little waifs, with
Robin's help, had dismounted from the cart,
and stood, each carrying a bundle, before the
apprentice house.

Come on and have summit to ate," said
Betty, roughly, yet not unkindly. " You
look as if you wanted it."

On this all filed into the house, followed
by Robin. Passing through the porch, they

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 273

found themselves in a large, low room, furnished
with narrow deal tables and wooden
benches. At one end of the room was a wide,
open fireplace, and over the fire hung a huge
pan, from which rose a cloud of steam.

After making the girls seat themselves atone
table and the boys at another, Betty
placed fourteen bowls on a stand near the
fireplace, and, taking a ladle, half filled them
with boiling porridge from the pan. Then
she poured into each of the bowls a little
blue milk, and with a large whittle, cut from
a huge and not very inviting loaf, compounded
of rye and coarse flour, fourteen chunks of
bread.

Here, you two, sot 'em and serve brothers ! "
she said, pointing with her whittle to the boys'
table.

Though Betty's words were almost Greek to
the Cockney children, there was no mistaking
the gesture by which they were accompanied
she was evidently a woman who meant to
be obeyed — and the two whom she had indicated
hastened to do as they were told.

VOL. I. i

274 Birch DENE.

The children were hungry, and hunger is an
excellent sauce ; and, as everybody knows,
oatmeal porridge is highly nutritious food.
Unfortunately, however, everybody does not
like porridge — especially with blue and rather
sour milk. It was rather different from the
plum-pudding with which the poor little
wretches had expected to be regaled. No
wonder that some of them smelt at the
mess before tasting it, and, when they did
taste it, pulled wry faces and laid clown
their spoons, with looks of disgust and
despair. They had been better fed at the
workhouse.

What ! — you don't like my porridge ? M
exclaimed the old woman, with a sneer.
It's alius so wi' you Londoners ; you know
not what's good for you. But wait a bit.
You'll be fain to get 'em afore you've been
here a week ; and I can tell you one thing,
you'll get nowt else — less it be potatoes and
point."

Potatoes " the children understood, but
the " point " passed their comprehension.

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 275

They were soon enlightened ; it meant a
modicum of salt — or Done at all, according
to circumstances, the mineral being so dear
that poor people had often to content themselves
with pointing at the empty salt-cellar.
Hence the expression — "Potatoes and point."
The children were still lino-erin over the
repast — many of them, after the first plunge
(of their spoons), found the porridge not unpalatable,
and decidedly filling — when a bell
rung, — a signal that was followed at a short
interval by the inrush of a horde of apprentices
from the factory, ravenous for their
supper. Among them were children and
young people of both sexes and all ages, from
nine to nineteen. Most of the boys had
nothing on but trousers, shining with grease,
and coarse, blue shirts, open at the neck.
Their hair was tangled, unkempt, and powdered
with cotton fluff; several had black eyes,
others ugly wounds on their heads, and fingers
bound with blood-stained rags. The girls,
like the boys, were bare-footed and bareheaded.
Their hair was pinned up ; very

T 2

276 BIRCH DENE.

few wore either bodice or gown, only a
single under petticoat, and over that a
bishop " or " brat " (a long apron reaching
from the neck to the heels). Compared
with this lean, sallow, half-naked crew,
redolent of factory grease, the newly-arrived
Londoners looked like so many ladies and
gentlemen.

As they came into the house, some of the
old apprentices glanced curiously at the
strangers, but most of them were too intent
on feeding to think of aught else. Some took
bowls to old Betty and had them filled with
porridge ; others went to a hatch door opening
into the kitchen, and clamoured for potatoes,
which the girls received in their filthy
aprons, and the boys into the forepart of their
equally filthy shirts. Then, scampering to
their places, they tumbled the potatoes on
the bare table and devoured them with infinite
relish.

Still unsatisfied, the hungry crew next
turned their attention to the new-comers,
and, seeing; that the latter had not consumed

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 277

the whole of their rations, gobbled up in a
twinkling all that remained, and shouted for
more.

The thirteen unfortunates from St. Pancras
were speechless with dismay, as well they
might be. Robin began to think that he had
been suddenly transported to the nether
regions ; and of a surety it was a strange,
uncanny scene. Night had set in. Old
Betty in her red bed-gown, standing near the
blazing fire, gesticulating fiercely with her
porridge-ladle in a vain attempt to restore
order, looked for all the world like a witch
performing some unholy rite ; half-naked
impish lads were gambolling on the benches
and racing round the room, smoke tearing each
other's hair and punching each other's heads ;
a group of girls, who had fallen out, swearing
like bargees.

The noise was deafening, and only when
it lulled could Betty's voice be heard above
the din, scolding and expostulating. Robin
was wondering how the row would end, when
the door opened, and a tall figure quietly

278 BIRCH DENE.

entered the room. It was Dick, with a
horsewhip.

Silence ! Be quiet, you little devils !
Silence, or, bitumen, I'll flay you alive ! " he
shouted, in a stentorian voice ; and seizing
by the waistband of his trousers one of a
group of lads who were fighting on the floor,
he gave him half a dozen cuts of the whip,
which produced howls of anguish from the
victim, and frightened all the others into
instant silence.

Get away to bed ! Get away to bed,
every one on you ! " he cried, shaking the
whip over their heads, and letting it occasionally
descend on their backs.

The terrified wretches obeyed without a
murmur, tumbling over each other in their
efforts to get out of his way. In two minutes
they were gone — all save the new-comers, who
had been silent, yet deeply interested, witnesses
of the incident.

You'd better go too," he said. " Come
on, lads ; I'll show you th' road. Betty, thee
take th' lasses. Give me a candle."

THE APPRENTICE HOUSE. 279

Robin rather resented being ordered off in
this peremptory fashion ; but as he felt tired,
and refusal to obey would have involved
spending the evening with Dick and Betty, he
followed the others.

CHAPTER XXI.

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE.

The room into which the old man led the
children was a garret on the second floor,
running the whole length of the building — a
long;, low, cheerless-looking room, with bare
rafters and barred windows, .plunged in a
funereal gloom, which the tallow candle carried
by Dick served rather to intensify than relieve.
The sleeping places were narrow cribs, built
in a double tier all round the chamber, like
bunks in a ship's cabin. The apprentices,
with grim humour, dubbed them coffins —
probably because many of their occupants had
been taken thence to their long home. The
smaller lads slept two in a bed, but Robin,
being considered an older, got one all to

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 281

himself. It was just under a beam, whereon
he placed his valise and his clothes, for the
room contained neither chair, bench, nor
table. While the boys were undressing, Dick
walked about, shaking his whip and threatening
what he would do if they did not keep
quiet and look sharp. After telling the
new-comers — to whom he showed more indulgence
than to the others — where they
were to sleep, and seeing that they went to
bed, he bade them a gruff " good-meet " and
went his way.

As Robin crept between the sheets he heard
Dick double bolt the door, and then he knew
that he was a prisoner for the night. The
oily stench of the bed-clothes, which had apparently
not been changed or cleansed since
they were last used, nearly turned his stomach.
He was already sick at heart and wild with
rage at the deception which he now knew,
beyond a doubt, had been practised on him,
and was mentally anathematizing Moses
Weevil, and revolving in his mind projects
of escape and revenge, when his musings were

282 BIRCH Dee.

interrupted by a whisper from the other side
of the board which separated him from the
next bunk.

Are you asleep ? " asked the whisperer.

Not yet — not by a long way. I cannot
sleep."

I dare say ; none of 'em sleep much for a
night or two. There's one down below — in
the next coffin but one — a little lad with a
fresh complexion and curly hair, that's sobbing
as if his heart would break. Don't you hear
him ? "

Poor Harney ! Poor little chap ! I was
thinking so much of my own misfortune that
I forgot there were others as badly off as
myself."

Harney, is his name ? What's yours, if I
might make so bold ? "

Nelson. And yours ? "

Blincoe ; but they generally call me
Parson.' "

Why do they call you Parson ? "

I can hardly tell. Perhaps because when
I came at first I said my prayers sometimes.

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 283

But they give everybody a nickname. They'll
give you one."

I wonder what it will be ? You are from
London, I suppose ? ' ;

"Yes, I was apprenticed by the overseers
of St. Pancras, like a good many others.
Lancashire folks won't apprentice their
children."

How is that ? "

They know better. Apprentices are so
hard wrought and ill-used. I was at another
place before I came here — I'm what they calla
turnover — it was hell, Nelson. We hadn't
half enough to eat, and were almost kicked
and cuffed to death. I hadn't a sound spot
on my body. Many did die. I saw one child
killed " — lowering his voice. " A spinner
knocked him down with a clearer (wooden
roller), and he fell with his head ou the corner
of a carriage rail. He never spoke again, poor
little thing ! "

But that was murder ! " exclaimed
Bobin, horror-stricken. " Wasn't the spinner
hanged ? "

284 BIRCH DENE.

Hanged ! Not he. It was given out as
the child died in a fit, and none of us durst
say owt different. But it isn't as bad as that
here. We mostly get enough grub ; and if
they put you with a good spinner, you haven't
so much to fear. They don't knock big 'uns
about as they do little 'uns."

I'm not afraid," said Robin, stoutly. " I
am not a common apprentice. I've come to
learn the business."

Blincoe laughed bitterly.

They told you that, did they ? " he said.
It's exactly what they told me, and I'm an
apprentice all the same, and treated like one,
and shall be till I am twenty-one."

Why don't you run away ? I know
I "

Hush ! Not so loud ! " whispered Blincoe,
in alarm. " If anybody hears you we shall
get into a hobble. Some of them are arrant
tell-tales, and will do anything to curry favour
with the manager and overlooker. It's all
very fine to talk about cutting. It isn't as
easy as it looks by a long way. There's always

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 285

somebody on the watch, and you re no sooner
missed than you are followed. I've tried it
twice, and I got caught both times, and it was
worse for me afterwards."

How ? Did they punish you ? "
"Didn't they just? Tied me up by the
hands and flogged me till I fainted. But it
brought them no luck" — (savagely). "Not
long after, Lowdham mill — that's where I was
working — was burnt down, and they said one
of the apprentices set it on fire. Anyhow,
the masters were ruined, and I got turned
over to B. and R. Berry. No, Nelson, it
isn't a bit of use running away, unless you
have got money and decent clothes. You
cannot get a shop anywhere else without
telling where you wrought last, so there's
owt for it but either to beg or steal, and
the first constable you see will lag you. The
township gives 'em a reward of ten shillings
for every tramp or vagabond they lag, and
the masters give 'em as much more and all
expenses for every apprentice they bring back.
It is best to grin and abide."

286 BIRCH DENE.

Not at all ! I won't ! " said Robin,
hotly. "You could save money out of your

ware."

I dare say ! How much can a chap save
out of a shilling a week, do you think, and
find his own shoes and stockings, and pay
fines — and there's never a week without
one L .

A shilling a week ! Is that all you
get ? "

"Ay, and it's all you'll get till you are
twenty-one. But you've maybe some money
with you ? "

A little ; only a few shillings," answered
Robin, with a sigh, as he thought how
woefully his store had diminished since he
left London.

Lucky for you ! I wish I had one shilling.
I'm going asleep now, Nelson ; and I'd advise
you to do the same. Old Dick wakens us at
five, and he makes us get up too."

A few minutes later Blincoe's heavy breathing
showed that he slept. But Robin found
it impossible to follow his neighbour's example.

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 287

His mind was too full — Lis Heart too heavy.
Blincoe Lad given tLe death-blow to tLe last
of Lis illusions. Three years at a shilling a
week ! Three years of slavery in a pigsty,
and Le tLe son of an officer and a gentleman !
If Le Lad only Moses Weevil by tLe throat !
Better far to Lave stopped in London, and
taken Lis chance there. He boiled over with
impotent rage ; and then Lis mood cLanged.
He thought of Lis mother and wept, and
murmured a prayer — first to God, afterwards
to Ler, as Le Lad done in tLe hospital, where
he had often felt as wretched and lonely as he
felt now. He believed, poor boy, that she
could see him and hear him, and would somehow
help him in his need ; and, whether it
was the prayer or the belief, a sense of comfort
came over him, and he made up his mind that
if his lot turned out to be as miserable as
Blincoe had led him to suppose, he would
run away on the first opportunity. Having
decent clothes, and, as he thought, as much
money left as would keep him in food until
he got to London, he was not likely to be

288 BIRCH DENE.

arrested as a vagrant ; and if he could steal
away unperceived, nobody would know whither
he had gone or where to look for him. But
Robin was shrewd enough to perceive that to
put this scheme into execution at once would
be to insure its failure. He must bide his
time and watch for an opportunity, and, if
possible, so contrive matters that he would
not be missed for several hours after his
departure. If he could get as far as Manchester,
he would, he thought, be safe from
pursuit. Then, after building a few castles
in the air, in which his father, whom he
always pictured as a hero, played the principal
part, Robin fell asleep ; and, notwithstanding
the hardness and filthiness of his couch, and
the snores of his companions, he slept so
soundly that when Dick roused him an hour
after daylight he was unable, for a minute or
two, to recall what had happened to him, and
where he was.

Come, get up ! " said the old fellow. " It's
welly porridge time, and brothers has been
at work going; i' two hours. You'd ha' had

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 289

to go too, only word came last Beet as they
didn't want you in th' factory till after breakfast,
and my missus and me, we thought as
we'd let you sleep a bit, and, bitumen, you
have slept ! Them lads made racket enough
to waken a corpse. Here, don these clothes !
Th' concern finds 'em, and you may as well
save your own for a holiday suit. It would
clean spoil 'em to wear 'em in th' factory, and
it'll ten to one be a long time before you
gotten another. You'll not want no jacket,
nor yet shirt and chosen. It's hot enough i'
them spinning rooms to go about stark
naked ; but as there's lasses it happen wouldn't
do."

The clothes provided by the " concern "
were a pair of greasy corduroy trousers and
a check shirt. They did not look very inviting,
and Robin was hesitating whether he
should put them on, when he chanced to lookup
at the beam over his bunk, where he had
put his things the night before.

To his dismay, not a vestige of them, was
to be seen.

VOL. i. u

290 BIRCH Dee.

"Hallo!" lie exclaimed. " Where are
the clothes I took off last night, and my
valise ? "

"Where did you put 'em?"

On that beam."

Are you sure ? "

"Quite."

Then some o' them little devils has hidden
'em somewheres. They oft do play tricks on
new-comers. Let's look rand."

"I hope my money is safe," said Bobin,
turning pale.

Whew ! You'd brass i' your pockets then !
How mich ? "

Four half-crowns and a sixpence."

By gum ! you weren't cause (wise) to
leave your brass there. Them varmint is upto
all sorts o' shanks ; there isn't one on 'em
as I'd trust as far as I can throw a bull by
his tail. But let's look rand ; we're sure to
find th' breeches and things somewheres, and
if th' brass isn't fun' we nun spot (inquire).
Ay, let's look rand."

They did look — searched every bunk,

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 291

explored every corner of the garret. But
nothing could be found. Coat, waistcoat,
shirt, breeches, shoes, stockings, valise — all
had disappeared, and with them Robin's
means of escape.

"It's a gradely quare do," said Dick,
scratching his head. " Nearest do as ever
I knew. Looks like a bungler. Let's go
dean stairs and see what my owt woman
says about it. Hoo's as cause as a tup
sheep, my Betty is."

Bobin put on the corduroy trousers and
check shirt, and silently followed Dick downstairs,
shivering with cold and sick with
apprehension and dismay. Betty stood before
the fire, stirring porridge with a Gargantuan
thimble. Her husband told her what had
befallen.

"Lost his bag and his brass, has he ?" said
the old woman, thoughtfully. " He's first
'prentice as I ever knew as had ony brass. I
con understand th' brass being town (stolen).
That is easy enough hid ; but what con they
have done wi' th' clothes and portmanteau ?

U 2

292 BIRCH Dee.

They cannot have taken 'em into th' factory*
They nun be somewhere i' tF hoyle (in the
place). I'll go and look myself'. Stir th'
porridge, will you, till I come back ? "

Robin complied with alacrity. He wanted
to get near the fire and warm himself.

In a few minutes Betty returned.

Your things isn't i' this house. They are
either hidden outside, or somebody has poked
off wi' 'em. Did anybody know as you had
brass in your pocket ? "

"I don't think so. I told nobody — except
the fellow next to me. He asked me if I had
any money, and I said I had a little. But
I am sure it cannot be he."

"Was it Blincoe?"

"Yes, that is the name. He told me his
story. He has been very ill-used."

"That's true. And he's ill-contrived too.
They sayer it was him as see Lowdham
factory a-fire. So you told him as you

had a bit o' brass ! I wonder He runaway

twice fra Lowdham factory. Well, we'll
soon know. Th' engine is just stopping' ; they'll

ANOTHER MISFORTUNE. 293

be here in a minute. Has thou cut th
bread, Dick?"

Presently a great shouting and shuffling of
feet were heard at the back door, which
opened into the factory yard ; the apprentices
trooped ravenously in, and almost
before they were seated began to swallow
the hot porridge which Betty had just
poured out.

Is th' Parson here ? " she asked, looking;
round.

He's happen i' th' factory," said one.

"Nay, he isn't," said another. "I work in
th' same room. Soon after th' engine set on
he said as he was sick, and Jim Rabbits let
him off till after breakfast time. He's happen
i' bed."

Nay, he isn't. He's off, and he's taken
aw Nelson's things here — his clothes, and his
brass, and his portmanteau. That is what th'
Parson has done. He no doubt hid 'em
somewhere about th' house, then come back
and fetched 'em, and climbed o'er th' wall
behind th' boiler-house. It was dark at

294 BIRCH DENE.

six o'clock, and th' Parson is as nimble asa
cat. Go and tell 'em i' th' counting-house,
Dick. If they looked sharp, they'll ten to
one catch him ; he cannot have gotten
far."

CHAPTER XXII.

THE FACTORY.

Meanwhile Robin cowered by the fire,
utterly undone. With his money and valise
had gone all hope of escape, all possibility of
finding his father, even though he should be
able to remember his name. Even the
wretched things he had on, and which he
felt it almost a degradation to wear, belonged
to his masters. Except his nightshirt, he
possessed nothing he could call his own ; and,
unkindness cut of all, the thief was a fellow
victim, whose story had won his sympathy
and touched his heart. If Robin had been
alone, he would probably have found relief
for his feelings in a burst of passionate grief;
but as all the apprentices were staring at him,
he held up his head and looked defiant.

296 BIPX'H DENE.

Don't be down-hearted ; your portmanteau
is sure to torn up," said Betty, who, though
by no means a tender-hearted woman, had a
weakness for well-favoured lads. " Draw upto
th' table and have a bowl of porridge.
It'll do you good. No ! Well, then, a bowl
o' milk and a soft bread butter-cake. Come,
now — you'll be all the better for it."

Robin, though he had no appetite worth
mentioning, felt that it would be both ungracious
and impolitic to persist in his refusal,
and by the time he had eaten his bread and
drunk his milk — with little relish, however —
Dick came back and informed him, with an
air of importance, that he was wanted in the
counting-house.

Robin did not much like the idea of o^oin^
out hopeless and bareheaded, but as there was
no help for it, he followed the old man into
the factory yard, which, being strewn with
hard cinders, did not make the pleasantness
walking for unprotected feet, and he went
as gingerly as if he were treading on hot
iron — to the great amusement of the factory-the

FACTORY. 297

folk, who were returning to their work, some
of whom jeered at his soft feet and white
hands.

The counting-house, a plain square building,
plainly furnished, was so placed as to
command a view of the gates and the entrance
to the spinning room, and other
departments.

Go forrud, and don't be daunted," said
Dick, opening the door. " Here he is ! " —
pushing Robin into the room.

Robin, who neither looked nor felt in the
least daunted, found himself in the presence
of Mr. Berry and three other men. One
was Robert Berry, the younger brother
and junior partner — a man short of stature,
sparely built, and slightly humpbacked. His
keen, colourless, bony face was fringed with
iron-gray whiskers ; he had vigilant steel-gray
eyes, and his suit of sober gray was
covered with cotton fluff. The hands always
addressed him as " Mester Robbut," but amono-
themselves he was known indifferently as
"Bob" and " Owt Bob;" and with equal.

298 BIECH DENE.

irreverence they generally spoke of his brother
as " Owt Ben."

Besides the brothers, there were present
the book-keeper, who sat on a tall stool poring
over a big ledger, and a tall, sharp-featured
man, with a pock-marked face, a paper cap,
doeskin trousers, and a sleeved waistcoat.
This was Jim Rabbits, the spinning master,
and the Ruberrys' most trusted servant and
adviser.

Good morning, Mr. Berry," said Robin,
with easy assurance. " Dick says you want
me. How is Gib \ "

The three men exchanged glances. This
was not the way in which apprentices were
wont to address their employers.

I haven't seen him yet. Drunken sick,
I expect. You look rather different from
what you did yesterday, my lad. Where's
your clothes ? "

Somebody has stolen them."

Ay, Blincoe. You had some talk with
him last night, I understand. What did he
say ? " asked the senior partner.

THE FACTORY. 299

On this Robin related so much of the conversation
of the preceding night as he thought
it prudent to disclose.

He said apprentices were ill-used, did he,
the young rascal? He shall be ill-used if
we get hold of him. I promise him that."

"It'll be a hanging job if he's prosecuted,
willet it ? " put in Jim Rabbits.

"And he shall be prosecuted ! " exclaimed
the younger brother, angrily. " Hanging's
too good for that fellow. He was not only
discontented himself, but he made all the
others discontented. What was there in your
bag, Nelson 1 "

Two suits of clothes, six shirts, three pairs
of stockings, two pairs of shoes, combs and
brushes, some handkerchiefs, and several
books."

Handkerchiefs ! " put in Jim Rabbits.
What does a 'prentice want wi' handkerchiefs
? I never uses one except o' Sundays."

"Were these things marked with your
name ? " asked Robert Berry.

Yes, sir."

300 BIRCH DENE.

Robert Berry made a memorandum.

And these books you speak of — what were
they ? "

"A copy of Paradise Lost, edition of 1680 ;
a copy of Malone's Shakespeare, a copy of
Chapman's Homer, and copies of Plutarch's
Lives, and the Arabian Nights"

"You can read, then?" demanded the
spinning master.

"I can."

And write ? "

And write," answered Robin, with a smile.

And cipher ? "

"A little."

Well, I'll be d— d ! " said Rabbits, pushing
back his paper cap, and eyeing Robin as if
he had been a veritable prodigy. " He's
quite a scholar ! " (To Berry, junior.)

Humph ! That remains to be seen. How
did you come by these books, Nelson ? "

They were given to me by my dear friend
and benefactor, Mr. Bartlett, He wrote my
name in every one of them. The Paradise
Lost and the Shakespeare are scarce editions."

THE FACTORY. 301

Benefactor ! What does that mean ? •'
inquired the irrepressible Eabbits. " It's a
word as I cannot say as I ever heard afore.
It's nowt to do with a cotton factory, has
it?"

Not exactly," said Owt Bob, with a grim
laugh. " It means well-wisher — kind friend,
you know."

I'll try to think of that ; it's what you
and your brother is to me," observed the
spinning master, with the gratified air of a
man who conceives a brilliant idea. " You're
my benefactors. But hadn't you better be
sending somebody after th' Parson ? If you
don't, you'll not be catching him."

Oh, never fear, we'll catch him fast
enough ! He cannot be far, and I've sent
a mounted man to make inquiries on the
Manchester road. I only wanted to know
exactly what he had taken, so that if he
attempts to dispose of his plunder "

He's sure to pop it if he gets to Manchester,"
put in Rabbits.

So that if he attempts to dispose of it

302 BIECH DENE.

he may be identified. I shall inform the
constables at once, and send off three or
four men in as many directions to look for
him. We shall have him before nightfall,
Jim."

I hope so. I have to battle wi' him for
shamming sick and taking me in this morning.
He groaned and rolled his e'en, and
doubled hissed' up, and rubbed his belly, as
if he were going to dee th' next minute. I'll
never believe one o' them lads ageean, whatever
he says."

I wouldn't advise you. They are deceitful
little scamps. That is all, I think. Let

me see Nelson, come here and write

out a list of the things you have lost, and
then I shall be sure of having it right."

Robin seated himself at the desk pointed
out by Berry, junior, took a sheet of paper,
and wrote. When he had finished he handed
the list to Robert, who passed it on to his
brother.

Humph ! The lad can write, sure enough,"
said the senior to Eabbits, who was looking

THE FACTORY. 303

curiously over his master's shoulder. " And
it is not ill spelt, either."

It was so unheard-of a thing for an apprentice,
or any other " child of the people," to
be a skilled penman, that until that moment
none of them had believed Robin could write
either easily or well.

There, that'll do, I think," observed the
younger brother, a little more graciously, ashe
laid the paper on the desk. " Go with
Jim, and he'll set you to work. You can find
him something to do, Jim ? "

Oh, ay, I'll set him agate. And th' engine
has started ; it's time to be off. Come on,
Nelson ! "

A sharp lad that," observed Mr. Berry,
so soon as the door was closed. " Couldn't
we find him something better to do than
piecing ? He writes a good hand, and the
spelling seems to be all right, doesn't it ? "
(Orthography was rather a weak point with
the senior.)

"Yes, he can both write and spell," the
other answered, coldly. " But what is the

304 BIRCH DENE.

good of education for one in his position ?
And Low ridiculous for him to have such
books as Paradise Lost and Shakespeare ! The
more ignorant working people are kept the
better. No ; let him learn to piece like the
others. It'll bring him to his cake and milk.
He's a good deal too free and easy for my
liking."

Meanwhile Robin and his conductor had
reached the entrance of the main building.

Wor you ever in a cotton factory afore ? "
asked Rabbits.

Never."

Well, then, I'll show you round."

The spinning master did not usually pay
so much attention to new apprentices, rather
despising them as ignorant Cockneys who
gave more trouble than they were worth ;
but he regarded Robin as a prodigy of learning,
who knew the meaning of long words,
and whose learning might possibly be turned
to good account.

I'll show you round," he repeated. " This
is th' devil hole," — pushing open a door.

THE FACTORY. 305

A whirr of wheels, a clashing of straps,
a diabolic din of clanking drums and fast-revolving
fans ; an atmosphere thick with
cotton fluff, children mixing cotton, men feeding
cotton into huge machines which swallow
it by the hundredweight, tear it asunder,
shake it aloft, and then fold it neatly in thick
flakes on a great iron roller.

These were the demon denizens of the
hole." Now-a-days they are called " blowers,"
for we live in a refined age, and even cotton
spinners are becoming polite.

Robin, who had never before seen any more
complicated machinery than a tinker's grindstone,
thrust his fingers into his ears, and
started back in affright.

The spinning master laughed complacently.

There's nowt o' this short i' Lunnon, I
reckon 1 They don't know quite everything
up there," he shouted. " But don't be flayed ;
you'll tak' no hurt." And then he explained
to Robin what the "devils" were doing — the
initial process of cotton spinning.

This done, they went into the card-room,

VOL. I.

306 BIRCH DENE.

Robin keeping close to his conductor, lest
he should haply lose himself and come to
grief in the maze of machinery, cans, and
skips with which the place was filled.

How does it all go ? " he asked.

You mean what turns us ? Steam. None
o' your nasty water, as there's too much on
one week and not enough next. There's nowt
like steam. It licks everything. You never
saw a steam-engine, I reckon ? I thought
not. Come this way, and I'll show you
ours."

With that Jim went to a corner of the
card-room, where was a small door, which
he opened with his " master " key, and beckoned
Robin to enter. The lad, who was becoming
used to portentous sights and sounds,
going boldly forward (though, if possible,
he was more scared than he had been in
the " devil hole "), presently found himself on
the packing stage of the engine-house. The
ponderous wooden beam moved up and down
like an animated monster ; the huge fly-wheel
whizzed round with a velocity that seemed

THE FACTORY. 307

like to bring the place about their ears ; the
heavy spur wheels fixed their great black
teeth into each other as if they were engaged
in mortal combat, and the piston-rod, as it
shot in and out of the cylinder, hissed like a
hundred snakes.

That's a hinjun as is a hinjun ! M said the
spinning master, proudly. " It's by Bolton
and Watt ; fifty loss-power. You'll have
heard of James Watt ? "

The inventor of the steam-engine. But

I had no idea But how is it done ? How

can steam make that beam go up and down ? "

Rabbits, who, though no scholar, was a
clever practical mechanician, tried to answer
Robin's query ; but his explanation, only
half heard amid the din, did not seem to
make the mystery much clearer. They next
went to one of the spinning rooms, whereas
the master told Robin, he would have
to stay.

"You've to learn to piece," he said.
That is to be your job. Th' little 'uns
mostly begin with picking up loose cotton,

x 2

308 BIRCH DENE.

and sweeping. But you're too big for that.
Tom Cat. here, will put you i' th' way. They
call him ' Cat ' because he wed a woman name
o' Kittling. Piecing looks easy ; but it's like
mony another thing — not as easy as it looks.
However, you'll never larn younger, and
you don't know what it may lead to. I
was once a piecer myself."

The room, which was long, low, and
desperately warm, contained eight or ten
pairs of old-fashioned spinning jennies, which
moved continually backward and forward,
and were followed by half-naked boys and
girls, who dexterously pieced up the broken
threads. To and fro these children walked
all day long, from six in the morning till
half-past seven at night, with an interval
of only an hour and a half for rest and
meals — often even longer : for though the
legal limit of the day's work was twelve
hours, there were no inspectors to enforce
the law, and, by early starting and late
stopping, many employers lengthened the
stint to thirteen hours. How heavily their

THE FACTORY. 309

severe labour told on the children was shown
by their looks. Their faces were haggard,
their forms stunted, their movements languid.
Many did not long survive the terrible ordeal
which they were compelled to undergo, and
most of those who lived were broken in
constitution before they reached middle

age.

The journeymen spinners, of whom there
was one to every pair of jennies, worked
harder than galley slaves. They supplied
half the motive power, pushing the frame
forward with one hand and knee, and turning
a wheel with the other. Only men of
exceptional strength were equal to the task,
and how they performed it was a marvel.
But they had a stimulus which their piecers
had not. They were paid by the weight of
yarn produced. The harder they wrought
the more they earned. The apprentices, on
the other hand, never earned more than a
shilling a week, and even that pittance was
often reduced to nothing by abatements and
fines. The spinners, whose wages depended

310 BIRCH DENE.

in great measure on their diligence, were
harder taskmasters than their employers,
visiting trivial faults with cruel punishments,
sometimes even tormenting the unhappy
children out of pure devilry — or, as they said,
for sport."

END OF VOL. I.

University OF Illinois-URBANA



^

L I B Ray

OF THE

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS



W52lb
V-2

Digitized by the Internet Archive

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/birchdenenovel02west

eli

BIRCH DENE.

VOL. II,

BIRCH DENE.

%, ifofoi.

BY

WILLIAM Stall,

AUTHOR OF

"HER TWO MILLIONS," "RED RYVINGTON," "NIGEL FORTESCUE,'

"JOHN BROWN AND LARRY LOHENGRIN," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

$xrttbxm :

sward AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1889.

[All Rights reserved.]

Richard Clay & Sons, Limited,
London <fc Bungay.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

CHAP. i'AGE

I. JIM RABBITS ,

III. A BATTLE

V. BEFORE THE BENCH
VI. A FRATERNAL QUARREL



II. OLD DICK'S ADVICE . . . . 11



IV. THE OLD WAREHOUSE . . 44





VII. ROBIN AT CHURCH . . . . 95





VIII. MIRIAM

IX. IN LOVE

X. A VISIT AND A VIGIL . . . 148

XI. A FRIEND AT COURT . . . 173

XII. PROMOTION .
XIII. AT OAKEN CLEUGH .

XIV. REBUFFS

XV. A MOMENTOUS VISIT

XVI. AT DENE HALL

XVII. A SENSIBLE LASS








Birch DENE.

CHAPTER I.

JIM RABBITS.

Tom Cat was by no means a bad fellow,
as spinners went in those days. Though he
kept a strap and walloped his piecers and
creepers now and then, and occasionally threw
a clearer or other missile at their heads, he
neither tortured them for his pleasure nor
spent more than a fourth of his wage in drink.
Most of his fellow-workmen, besides getting
drunk on Saturdays and Sundays, consumed
two or three quarts of beer every working day.

Cat, being a shrewd fellow, was too knowing
not to be civil to an apprentice who
had been taken in hand by the spinning

VOL. II. b

2 BIRCH DENE.

master. He gave him a first lesson in piecing,
and explained the mechanism of the jenny,
about which Robin was curious.

Watch brothers and you'll soon get into
it," he said, encouragingly. "But piecing
one end doesn't 'mount to much. A chap, to
be worth owt, should piece four in a draw ;
I've known chaps as could piece seven."

After this Cat left Robin to his own devices.
At first he felt awkward and bewildered,
but the machinery interested him greatly,
and as he gained confidence he attempted
to piece a thread (technically, an " end ").

After many trials he succeeded by a fluke,
and fancied himself very clever ; but his next
attempt ended in disaster. Ends are pieced
as the frame (now called mule) draws out,
and the further it draws out, the further
have the piecers to stretch in order to reach
the rollers. Robin, in his eagerness stretching
too far, fell head foremost over the front
part of the frame, and broke more threads
in a second than he was like to piece
in a month. Had he not enjoyed the

JIM RABBITS. 3

spinning master's favour there would have
been hot words — probably blows and a fight ;
for Robin was a lad of spirit, and knew how
to use his fists. But after a big oath, just
to relieve his feelings, Cat, laughing heartily,
helped Robin to his feet, and stopped the
frame to " piece up."

You nun stan' me a quart for this,"
he said, " and if you don't do so no more,
we'll say nowt about it."

Robin shook his head. He did not possess
the price of a gill, much less of a quart.

Oh, ay — I'd forgotten. Th' Parson has
run away wi' all your brass. Never mind !
If he's catched, and your brass is fun', you'll
stand then, maybe ? "

With pleasure."

Good ! We'll have it some meet at
Lucky Riddles. Fettled ? "

Fettled ! What do you mean ? "

Hot, wi' a bit o' nutmeg int."

If you like."

That'll be grand " — (smacking his lips) —
and I'll be a noggin or two o' rum myself."

B 2

4 ' BIRCH DENE.

Later in the day, a small boy, with crooked
legs and a wizened face, touching Robin on
the arm, told him that Jim Rabbits wanted
him "in th' cabin," and offered to show him
the way.

On this Robin nodded assent, and followed
his guide up two or three flights of grimy
and greasy stone steps until they came to a
door, in the lock of which hung a bunch
of keys.

That's it ! " said the boy, and incontinently
disappeared.

After knocking at the door — an excess
of politeness in the circumstance — and being
answered by a request to " Come in," Robin
entered " the cabin " — really the spinning
master's sanctum, a room about twelve feet
square, furnished with a vice, a bench, and a
three-legged stool. On the walls hung coils

Co o

of wire, balls of twine, straps, laces, brushes,
cog-wheels, and a miscellaneous collection of
odds and ends.

Rabbits had before him a sheet of coarse
paper, covered with cabalistic signs in red

JIM RABBITS. 5

lead, which bore a remote resemblance to
figures, and his swarthy face wore the rapt
look of one who has been wrestling with
mighty thoughts.

You said this morning as you could
cipher ? " he observed, anxiously.

I can — -a little''

I wish you'd cipher for me a bit. I'd
make it worth your while. I'm quite at th'
far end. I've been trying to work this out
for two hours and more, and I'm not a bit
forruder."

The spinning master was as weak in the
theory of his calling as he was strong in
its practice. A calculation bothered him
dreadfully, and he had many calculations
to make — or rather, many that he ought
to have made ; for, save the very simplest,
all his work of this description was done
for him by the book-keeper, Tommy Nutter,
generally called Owt Nutcrackers (in playful
allusion to his name, and the fact that
his nose and chin promised at no distant
time to meet). But Nutcrackers had not

6 BIRCH DENE.

the sweetest of tempers. He rendered his
help so unwillingly, and at the price of so
many pints of beer, that Rabbits was intensely
anxious to be independent of him.

At the outset Robin feared that he would
not be able to do what was required of him ;
but when Jim stated the question, and produced
a manuscript book, in which rules were
given and examples worked out, Robin had no
difficulty in solving the problem that had
so puzzled his patron — something about the
size of a pulley and the speed of a shaft — to
the spinning master's great delight.

One good torn deserves another'' he said,
and I'll do you a good torn for this. See
if I don't. Tak' th' book and look at it when
you've a minute or two to spare, and when
I want some more ciphering done, you'll know
how to do it. I get it for th' price of a
gallon o' beer from an owt mon as wor on th'
boil (on the loose), thinking it might torn out
useful, and if I could read it and write like
you, I wouldn't give a twopenny damn to
call King George my uncle. I might get

JIM RABBITS. 7

to be a master myself' then, and mak' my
fortune."

Robin hinted that in these circumstances
he was rather surprised the spinning master
did not learn to read and write.

Do you think I could ? " (anxiously).

Why not ? I once heard Mr. Bartlett
say that a man with brains may learn anything
he likes ; and you have brains, or
you could not be a spinning master, could
you i

Well, there's summit i' that," said Rabbits,
thoughtfully. " I know one thing : I've
a damned sight more brains than owt Nutcrackers,
and he's th' best writer i' these
parts, and can figure like a fourteen-day
clock. But, then, he lamed when he wor
young, and I'm thirty come next Michaelmas."

Still you might try, and I'm sure "

But who is there to larn me ? I'd liefer
be licked than ax th' book-keeper. Beside,
it would cost me loaf my wage in drink.
He can how as much beer as a brewer's
vat, owt Nutcrackers can. There's Bill

8 BIRCH DENE.

Eomford ; he's a gradely good scholar too

But no ! It would never do. I

durst."

Why ? Is he like Nutcrackers ? Can
he hold as much beer as a brewer's vat ? ' :

"Nay, he isn't a supper, isn't Bill. But
he's war — he's a Radical."

This sentiment surprised Bobin beyond
measure, for he had an idea (gathered,
doubtless, from Mr. Bartlett) that Radicals
were the salt of the earth.

How can being a Radical be worse than
being a drunkard ? " he asked.

"I don't say as it is. But both Ben
and Bob's rank Tories. They'd think th'
world wor coming to an end if I let a Radical
weever larn me to read. Why, it's not long
sin' they bagged a chap for wearing a white
hat on a Easter Sunday."

A white hat ! What can there be wrong
in that, Mr. Rabbits ? "

Well, I don't know as there's owt wronsr
i' th' hat ; but wearing one is th' sign of
a Radical. Owt Bob said as no iron as

JIM RABBITS. 9

respects his master, and is loyal to his king,
would have such a thing in his house, much
less put it on his yet."

In that case it must be considered loyal
to wear a black hat ? I wonder why ? "
asked Robin, with a puzzled look.

"That's more than I can tell you. I
don't know much 'bout politics ; but I know
when I've a good shop, and that's th' main
point, Nelson. And I know another thing :
if a working mon meddles wi' politics, he's
sure to get into a hobble. There's Bill
Eomford, now. He's been i' two or three
hobbles already, and if he doesn't get hissed'
transported afore he's done, it'll che me.
But he's a rare weever and a fine scholar,
and I don't know a B from a bull's foot.
Eomford's a better mon than me, Nelson,
though he is a Radical."

If you wouldn't mind," said Robin,
hesitatingly, " I think — if you would let
me try I could perhaps teach you to read
and write. I never did teach anybody,
but "

10 BIRCH Dee.

Let you try ! Ay, will I, and be gradely
fain too, and do my best to larn. But don't
say nowt. Keep it quiet, whatever you do.
You shall give me my most lesson o' Sunday.
By gum ! willet Owt Bob stare when he
knows ? He'll be saying, as he oft does,
Here's a letter, Jim, about them spindles
or happen about a new roving machine.
But you cannot read ; Til read it for you
And then I'll say, ' You're mistaken, Mester
Kobbut — I can read it ; ' and then I'll let
him see. Willet he stare ! But larn me
to read, Nelson, and I'll do owt for you.
Don't forget Sunday. And now I think
you'd better be going back to your work.
It's welly lighting-up time ; I nun be off
myself', or I shall be having Owt Bob
after me."

Robin went, and as he shut the door
behind him, the spinning master laughed
softly to himself.

He's a good short — a gradely good short,"
lie murmured. " He calls me Mester Rabbits,
and he'll learn me to read."

CHAPTER II.

OLD DICK'S ADVICE.

By the time Robin returned to his work
lighting-up had begun. It was a slow and
tedious process, drawbacks which were not
redressed by a brilliant result, for albeit coal-gas
as an illuminant was coming into use,
it did not yet illuminate Birch Dene. The
lamps gave a dim and vacillating light, the
smoke thereof blackened the ceiling, and still
further fouled the air ; and the heat, which
before had been oppressive, became almost
unbearable.

Several of the lads doffed their shirts ; a
girl fainted and had to be carried out, the
spinners worked with evident effort, the weary
and worn-out children could not " keep their
ends up," thereby incurring the wrath of their

12 BIRCH DENE.

masters, who hurled at them fierce oaths and
blood-curdling threats. A spinner at the next
pair of wheels to Robin's ran amuck among
his piecers with a piece of strapping, and Tom
Cat knocked a boy down with his fist.

When the engine stopped (ten minutes after
its time) there was a general sense of relief.
The hands who lived outside put on their
clogs, coats, waistcoats, and caps, wound huge
red comforters round their necks (comforters
were a great institution at Birch Dene), and
hurried off. The apprentices went as they
w r ere. Hopeless and half-naked, they picked
their way, shivering, through the hindered
yard to their wretched quarters. But a bright
fire and hot porridge awaited them, and after
thirteen hours in the suffocating spinning
room, with its jarring noises and monotonous
toil, the apprentice-house was a haven of rest
and a place of delight. After supper the
children recovered their spirits, and began a
series of pranks, which ended, as usual, in a
row, the appearance of Dick with his horsewhip,
and a peremptory dismissal to bed.

old dick's advice. 13

But he made an exception in Robin's
favour.

You can sit by th' fireside, and go to bed
when you like," he said. " You're not like
brothers ; you're a young mon, and a
scholar."

By calling him a " young mon " Dick meant
not merely that Robin was a well grown lad
who could read and write, but that he ranked
in popular estimation as something very different
from a common apprentice or ordinary
factory hand. Mr. Nutter had been heard to
say that Nelson's handwriting was almost as
good as his own, and that he had read more
books than the two Ruberrys had ever seen.
Jim Rabbits, on his part, had confided to the
carding-master his belief that Nelson had more
wit in his little finger than many up-grown
folk carried in their heads.

This expression of opinion being repeated
and passed on with additions, it came to pass
that before Robin had been at Birch Dene a
week he was regarded as a sort of Admiral
Crichton — or would have been had the Birch

14 BIRCH DENE.

Dene folks ever heard of that portentous
genius — and they wondered greatly who he
was, and how he had become the master
of so many accomplishments and so much
knowledge.

Robin gladly accepted Dick's invitation to
take a seat bv the fireside. He was in no

ml

hurry to leave its friendly warmth for that
greasy and, if the truth must be told, rather
too lively bed of his in the garret.

You'd better ha' stopped in London, I
think," observed Dick, as he lighted his pipe
with a coal from the fire.

I wish I had," answered Robin, with a
rueful glance at his grimy trousers and bare
feet.

If it's a fair question, I'd like to know
what med you come ; and there's more than
me as would like to know."

On this Robin told briefly, pretty much ashe
told Major Dene, what had happened to
him since Mr. Bartlett's death.

Dick smoked reflectively, as if the narrative
contained matter for thought, then smiled

old dick's advice. 15

complacently, as if lie had hit upon a very
original idea.

That's it," he said, removing his pipe
from his mouth — "that's it. I thowt there
was summit out of th' common. You've
lived among books ; that accounts for your
being such a scholar, and knowing so much
about 'em. But 111 tell you what — that
whaten-you-caw-him — Weevil, is a damned
rogue ! "

Robin nodded assent.

He's nowt else. He is a damned rogue !
If ever he comes to Birch Dene he'll get his
shins punched. I can promise him that. He
told you a pack o' lies to get rid of you, and
keep th' owt fellow's brass for hissed'. Are
you sure, now, as Bartlett wasn't your
father ? "

Certainly," said Robin, half amused, half
indignant. " How could he be ? My name is
Nelson ; his was Bartlett."

That's nowt," returned Dick, with a knowing
smile — " nowt at all. Why, there's scores
o' chiltern in these parts as isn't called after

16 BIRCH DENE.

their fathers, and mony a one as doesn't
know who their fathers is. Who was your
mother ? "

My mother died when I was very young,"
said Robin, evasively. He had a decided
objection to discussing his mother with Old
Dick.

Well, it's Down to me ; but I can happen
see as far into a stone wall as anybody else.
Howsomever, there's one thing clear — you're
a 'prentice, bun' till twenty-one. It is a
gradely hard case, I will say that — and you'll
happen have thowts o' running away. But I
don't think I would if I wor you. You'd ten
to one get catched and put i' prison, and you
wouldn't like that ; and runaway 'prentices
mostly does get catched, either dead or
alive."

Dead or alive ! What do you mean ? "

Only as they sometimes dee," said Dick,
composedly. " Last winter two lads run away
from here — one of th' spinners had been
hiding 'em a bit moor than usual. Well, they
were fun' th' week after on th' moors, frozen

old dick's advice. 17

to death, and their been poked out by crows.
I don't say as owt o' that sort would happen
to you. All th' same, I'd stop where you are,
if I wor you. It's not as if you wor a common
'prentice. You are a fine scholar and
a young mon, and they're sure to find you
summit better to do than piecing. Tak' care
as you keep in wi' Owt Bob, that's all."

Why with him more than Mr. Berry ? "
asked Robin, who could not yet bring himself
to speak of his employers in the free-and-easy
style adopted by Dick and the others.

Because he's th' cock o' this here midden.
Whatever he wants is done, whatever he
doesn't want isn't done. Th' hands says as
Ben's bark is war than his bite, and as
Bob's bite is war than his bark. If Ben
bags a chap, he'll shop him ageean th' week
after ; but if Bob bags a chap, he nut as
weel whistle jigs to a milestone as ax on
ageean. Bob's most terrible hot again th'
Parson. He wor in here this afternoon.
You'll have yard as his clothes has been
fun."

VOL. II. C

18 BIRCH Dee.

No, I haven't. Where ? Have any of
mine been found ? " exclaimed Robin, eagerly.

They were fun' in a field about a mile off,
on th' Manchester road — his owt things, nowt
else. He doffed his own and donned yours,
and then made off with th' portmanteau. But
they're cock-sure to catch him. Th' port-mantle
'11 be his ruin. He'd ha' shown some
sense if he had left that in th' field too.
He'll be trying to pop summit, and then he'll
get dropped on. And a bonny hobble he'll be
in ! They say as Owt Bob means to make a
hanging job on it."

For stealing my clothes ? "

For nowt else. You surely don't think as
they'd scrag a slip of a lad for running away !
They haven't gotten to that yet. Not as I
think Owt Bob would have owt ag^eean it.
He'd hang a runaway 'prentice as soon as look,
if he could have his way."

Robin had no reason to bear the Parson
good will. The theft of his clothes was both
mean and cruel, and if he met Blincoe, the
latter would be very likely to pass a bad

old dick's advice. 19

quarter of an hour. But hanging him would
be too horrible ; and for the hundredth time
there arose before Robin's mental vision the
ghastly scene at the Old Bailey ; the terrible
words of the judge rang once more in his ears ;
he saw his mother sink dying in the dock, and,
closing his eyes, visibly shuddered.

"You're cold," said Dick. "Draw a bit
nearer to th' fire. I'll story it up a bit. Them
clothes isn't warm enough for you out o' th'
factory. I nun see if I cannot get summit
warmer for you by Sunday, and fit you up wi'
stockings and a pair o' shoon. And now, if
you're not in a lorry to go to bed, you'd
happen not mind reading a bit for Betty and
me — howell be here in a minute. It isn't oft as
we gotten anybody to read to us. Jabez o'
Jenny's lass can do a bit, but hoo gets o'er no
ground — has to spell every second word, and
then hoo doesn't know what they mean. I've
a bit of a book there, in th' nook, as I boat ova
hawker for fourpence and a pint o' beer.
He said as it wor gradely good reading, and
there's an uncommon nice cut on th' back."

C 2

20 BIRCH DENE.

As Dick spoke he went to a corner cupboard,
and returned with his " bit of a book' which
proved to be a pamphlet, giving a full, true,
and particular account of an exceptionally
brutal murder, and the murderer's last dying
speech and confession. The " uncommon nice
cut " was a ghastly engraving of a man hanging
— supposed to be the murderer — Jack
Ketch pulling at his legs, and a devil in the
background, presumably waiting to receive his
soul.

A gravely r good 'un, isn't it ? " said the old
man, admiringly. " But I never knew afore as
th' owt lad had a gimlet at th' end of his tail.
I reckon he makes it red hot, and uses it to
bore holes in 'em when he gets 'em there.
Gone on, Betty" — (shouting) — "Nelson is
going to read this book as I boat fro' th'
hawker ! "

Bobin would much rather have gone to
bed, but, not liking to disoblige his host and
hostess, especially after the former's fatherly
advice, he complied with Dick's wish, and
read the pamphlet from beginning to end, to

J

OLD DICKS ADVICE. 21

the worthy couple's great delight, which, as also
their admiration of his cleverness, was warmly
expressed.

What I like about his reading," observed
Betty, " is as lie stops at nowt, neither
stutters nor stammers, but goes straight on,
as if he wor telling it all out of his own
yet."

Thou art rest, las?, he does," added her
husband, sympathetically. " Th' words comes
out of his mouth like water out of a spout
on a rainy day. We'll have some o' th' chaps
in next time as he reads, and I'll be twopence
toward another book if anybody else will."

After this all went to bed, and so ended
Robin's second day at Birch Dene — a memorable
day in bis life's history — a day which he
was not likely ever to forget. The expectations
raised by that rascal, Moses Weevil,
had been rudely and finally dispelled. Robin
had learned beyond a doubt that, call himself
what he might, he was nothing better than a
common parish apprentice, bound to serve
the brothers Berry for three years at the

22 BIPX'H DENE.

munificent salary of a shilling a week. On
the other hand, he was not so badly off as
some of his companions ; the place and, above
all, the machinery interested him ; he felt a
desire to understand it, and to know more of
the properties and nature of steam, which
seemed to him as wonderful and mysterious
as the imprisoned genii he had read about in
The Arabian Nights. Even though his clothes
and his money had not been stolen, he would
probably have thought twice before attempting
to carry out his project of escape, and to
attempt it in existing circumstances would bethe
height of folly.

For the moment, moreover, his chief concern
was the recovery of his lost belongings.
Should he ever get them back ? he was continually
asking himself. To be without a
change of garments ; to have neither comb
nor brush, nor possess a clean shirt ; to be
compelled, out of the factory as well as in
it, to wear the miserable garments given him
by his masters — all this was more than an
inconvenience, it was a degradation. He felt

old dick's advice. 23

like somebody else — could hardly believe that
but a few weeks previously he was a happy
youth, with fair prospects and kind friends.

When Robin awoke next morning, he
thought at first that it was all a hideous
dream ; but the hoarse clang of the factory
bell, the cries of his comrades, and the voice
of Old Dick shouting that if they did not
look sharp he would be at them with his
whip, quickly dispelled the illusion, and
tumbling out of his bunk, he slipped on his
trousers, and was one of the first down-stairs.
Dick would probably have let him stay in
bed a little longer, but he had made up his
mind to conform to the rules, and show that
what others could do he could do. One indulgence,
however, he did crave and obtain ;
he prevailed on Betty to give him a towel
and let him wash in the kitchen, instead of
doing his ablutions at the pump, and struggling
for " a dry wipe " with a corner of the
piece of coarse sheeting used for that purpose
by his fellow apprentices. Then he took a
hunch of bread and went to his work.

24 BIRCH DENE.

The day passed pretty much as the previous
day had passed. Robin contrived to piece
about a dozen ends without tumbling over
the frame, and was warmly commended by
Tom Cat for his success. In the afternoon
he spent an hour with the spinning master
in his cabin, doing calculations, and giving
him a preliminary reading lesson. Fired with
zeal for knowledge, Rabbits was too impatient
to wait until Sunday ; he wanted " summit
to lam " in the meanwhile : and during the
remainder of the day he might occasionally
be seen taking from his waistcoat pocket and
furtively consulting the " bit o' paper "
whereon Robin had inscribed, in bold characters,
the letters of the alphabet.

CHAPTER III.

A BATTLE.

If nothing particular happened on the third
day of Robin's sojourn at Birch Dene, a good
deal happened on the fourth. Shortly after
breakfast time, as he was reaching over to
piece an end, the machinery came to a dead
stop.

Hello ! " shouted Tom Cat. " What's up,
I wonder ? I expect it's them spore wheels in
th' bottom room. I yard Jim say as they
won't running true. If they're smashed we
shall have to lake [play] a week, and if we
do my children will have to go short o' porridge.
But it's happen summit wrong with
tn enim .

A minute later the spinning master, popping
his head in at the door, confirmed Cat's

26 BIRCH Dee.

conjecture. The crank shaft of the engine
had heated, hut the stoppage was not expected
to last more than half an hour.

Bobin had not the most remote idea what
a crank shaft was, or why its heating should
render necessary a stoppage of all the
machinery, and in his thirst for knowledge
he plied Tom Cat with more questions than
that worthy could satisfactorily answer.

Go and see for yourself," said Tom, at
last, rather impatiently. " They'll let you
look. Go through No. 2, and down th' steps
into the boiler-house — that's th' nearest road."

Robin acted on this suggestion at once.
No. 2 was the room below No. 3 (the one
in which he worked).

As he opened the door he heard shouts of
laughter and cries of pain.

A spinner, known as Black Jack, was
whiling away his enforced leisure by torturing
one of the apprentices, or, as he would
have said, having a "bit o' sport." A poor
boy, not more than ten years old, had been
forced to take off his clothes, and Jack was

A BATTLE. 27

now trying to make him sit on a hot steam -
pipe. The child struggled and begged for
mercy, but he was answered only by jeers
and laughter ; and as his body touched the
burning iron, he screamed and writhed in
agony, greatly, as it seemed, to the amusement
of the spinners, piecers, and others who
were looking on.

This was more than Robin could stand, and
without giving a thought to the consequences,
he ran forward, pushed Black Jack aside, and
lifted the child from the pipe, a proceeding
which was followed by exclamations of surprise
from the spectators, and a howl of rage
from the principal actor.

"What the hell!" he shouted. . u If
thou doesn't pike off this minute, I'll clap
thee on th' pipe too, thou damned Cockney
counter-jumper. Come, be off, now ! "

And Black Jack made as if he would again
lay hands on his victim.

You shall not touch this child," said Robin,
as he stood between them, pale and in a tremor
of excitement, yet with undaunted mien.

28 BIRCH DENE.

Who's going to stop me ? Not a hatter-cropper
[spider] like thee ! But if you'll
stan' thy ground I'll give thee what for afore
I set Little Jimmy on ageean. What says
thou ? "

I wouldn't if I was you," whispered a
friendly piecer ; " he's a deal stronger than
you.

This was quite true. Black Jack (so called
because of his swarthy, ill-favoured face),
though short of stature, was broad of chest,
and his arms, by reason of his occupation,
were as strong as sledge hammers.

But Robin did not flinch.

"You may do what you like," he said,
quietly ; " but I shall stay here until you
promise to let the boy alone, and while I
stay you shall not lay a hand on him."

Thou wants sore bones then, and thou
shall have 'em. Come on ! "

And by way of showing that he meant
what he said, Black Jack rolled up his shirt-sleeves
and spat fiercely into his hands — the
usual preliminary to battle. Then, drawing

A BATTLE. 29

a few steps backwards, he paused, as if half
expecting that Robin, overawed by his resolute
attitude, might yield him the honours of
victory without striking a blow.

On this some of the others began to laugh.

Thou dare not tackle him, Jack," said
one.

He'll be too mony for thee, owt mon,"
shouted another.

These taunts stirred Jack to immediate
action.

Lowering his arms, he made a rush at his
opponent, as if he would bear him down by
sheer strength. This rather surprised Robin,
and if Jack had been armed with his clogs
it might have fared ill with the lad, for he
had no experience of Lancashire fighting.
But, being barefooted, the spinner could
make no effectual use of his feet, and being
no boxer, he meant to grip Robin by the
waist, throw him down, and then " punch
his head." This design Robin defeated by a
very simple manoeuvre. As Jack made his
rush, he gave him a blow with " his left "

30 BIRCH DENE.

between the eyes, delivered straight from the
shoulder, and the spinner went down like a
felled ox.

Jump on him and finish him ! Get onto
him and throttle him ! Look sharp, or
he'll be up ageean ! " shouted the now excited
onlookers, who could not for the life of them
understand why Robin did not follow up his
advantage.

But Robin, who had no idea of hitting a
man when he was down, waited quietly until
the spinner got up.

Thou had better give in," said one of his
friends. " Another crack like that their, and
you'll be that faa [ugly] as thy own wife
willet know thee."

Not I," growled Jack, savagely. " I
haven't begun yet." And with that he
lowered his head and went at Robin like a
bull charging.

The next moment Jack's head was in
chancery."

In vain he struggled to free himself. It
is no easy thing to get out of " chancery "

A BATTLE. 31

at any time, and when your opponent has a
firm grip of your neck, and is hammering
away at your face, the feat is well-nigh impossible,
and Robin, who by this time was ina
decidedly berserker frame of mind, showed
no mercy, showering his blows like rain, and
sticking to his man like grim death.

Like James Fits James and Eoderick Diu,
they tug and strain, and at length, their feet
slipping on the greasy floor, down they go,
Robin uppermost, and still holding on.

And then the shouts suddenly cease, and
an ominous whisper passes from mouth to
mouth.

I give in. Leave loose ! Let me getup
! " says Black Jack, in a hoarse gurgle.
It's Owt Bob ! "

Robin loosed his hold, and both combatants
scrambled to their feet.

Robert Berry was at the door, looking
sternly on, and the spectators of the fight
were slinking away one by one, or, as they
would have said, " peking off 3

What ! " he exclaimed, " cannot the engine

32 BIRCH DENE.

stop a few minutes but you must be fighting ?
The only way with you fellows is to keep
your noses to the grindstone. Who are the
fighters ? Nelson and Black Jack ! Why,
Nelson, I thought you called yourself a
scholar, and considered yourself a bit of a
gentleman ! I did not know that your
scholarship included a knowledge of up-and-down
fighting. What were you fighting
for ? — a quart of beer ? Or was it merely
to decide which of you is the better
man {

Neither one nor the other, Mr. Robert,"
answered Robin, indignantly ; and then he
told what had happened, emphasizing his
narrative by pointing to the naked child,
who was cowering behind him.

Oh, that was it, was it ! Well, I think
you did quite right, Nelson. Apprentices
cost money ; we cannot afford to have 'em
frizzled on hot steam-pipes. If that lad had
been injured and laid up, it might have run
us into a loss of four or five pounds, one way
and another. Strap 'em if you like, but we'll

A BATTLE. 33

have no burning. What had he been doing ?
Little Jimmy I mean."

ts I don't know as he had been doing owt.
It was nobbut a bit o' sport," said Jack,
sullenly, as he wiped his bleeding face with
a piece of cotton waste.

Sport ! Well, sport with your own
children next time. You can stick them on
the steam-pipe as much as you like. But
I'll have no sporting with our apprentices.
Why, man, what a face you have got ! It
will be as black as my hat soon. Your own
wife won't know you."

Just what I said just now," observed one
of the fellows who had stood his ground.
He's fader than ever. I cannot tell what
he wor doing to let a bit of a lad peel him
in that way."

A bit' of a lad ! " growled Jack. " He'd
lick thee ony end up, and thou caws thyself'
an up-grown fellow ! He fights like him
as he's called after — Lord Nelson — crashed
me down afore I knew where I wor', by
gum ! "

VOL. II. D

34 BIRCH DENE.

Come ! No more of this ! All of you to
your places ; the engine is setting on again,"
cried Robert Berry, impatiently. " And
you, Nelson, go to your own room. How
came you here ? "

Robin told him.

So you are both curious and combative.
But take care you are not too combative. If
Jack had had his clogs on, you might have
got a good deal the worst of it. But you
cannot be too curious about owt as it concerns
you to know. Learn all you can, and study
your master's interest, and you may become a
valuable servant."

Coming from Robert Berry this was a
gracious saying ; but Robin returned to his
work with the conviction that the younger
brother was a tyrannical old curmudgeon,
yet fully satisfied with w T hat he had clone,
and proud of his victory over Black Jack.
The news of it reached No. 3 before him,
and as he entered the room he was received
with a cheer. Tom Cat congratulated him
warmly.

A BATTLE. 35

You served him weel rest," lie said. " I
don't hold wi' putting chiltern on hot steam
pipes. But I've seen it done, and it is done.
And, what's more, I've seen a lad hoisted
up to a hook by his hands, wi' weights
fastened to his feet, and then hided wi' a
piece of thick belting till he lost his senses.
I don't hold with that neither. But what
caps me is how you managed to best Black
Jack. If he is not long, he's strong, and
though you're taller, you are nowt like as
heavy. You're a good plucked 'un, and sharp
wi' your leaves (fists), that nun be it.
They say en as you knocked him down like
winking."

Besides congratulations, Robin's victory
made him the popular hero of the hour, and
brought him a nickname. The apprentices
swore by him, and before nightfall he was
dubbed, by general consent, " Little Lord
Nelson," and the sobriquet, sometimes shortened
to "Little Lord," or "Lord Nelson"
simply, according to the fancy of the speaker,
stuck to Robin until he found his own name.

D 2

36 BIRCH DENE.

Later in the day, while he was watching
Tom Cat tighten a driving strap, the wizen-faced
lad who had summoned him to the
spinning master's cabin touched him on the
arm, in the same mysterious way as before,
and whispered that he was "wanted in th'
counting-house."

Bobin's first idea was that the brothers
were going to call him over the coals for
thrashing Black Jack ; but on consideration
he saw that this was hardly likely, as, on the
whole, " Owt Bob " had commended him,
although grudgingly and ungraciously. However,
he would soon see.

In the passage leading to the counting-house
were several of the hands, among them
Old Dick, obviously in an intensely expectant
state of mind.

Get you in," said Dick, " and you'll see
summit as you want to see."

Inside there was quite a crowd — the
brothers Buberry, Jim Rabbits, Nutter, two
strangers whom Bobin rightly conjectured
to be constables, and a youth, whom he at

A BATTLE. 37

once knew to be the Parson, though he had
never seen him before. On the floor lay
his missing valise.

Ail the wrath that Robin had been nursing
against Blincoe evaporated at the sight of
him. Never had he seen a more abject
specimen of humanity. Blincoe was undersized
and dreadfully knock-kneed ; his arms
were disproportionately long ; his short-cropped
hair made visible several ugly scars ; he had
a furtive, hang-clog look, and his ill-favoured
face was covered with eruptions. Altogether,
a most wretched-looking; creature — not naturally,
but made so by cruel usage and a life
of enforced servitude and excessive toil. Had
he been born under a happier star, kindly
treated, and carefully trained, he might have
been as healthy, as high-spirited, and as well-favoured
as Robin himself. Yet probably
not one of the men present experienced even
a passing sense of pity for the manacled
victim of social oppression and unrighteous
laws who stood trembling before them. They
saw in him only a runaway and a thief, fully

38 BIRCH DENE.

deserving of all the punishment which his
crimes might entail and justice (!) inflict.

"Is this your property, Nelson?" asked
Robert Berry, pointing to the valise.

Yes, sir," answered Robin, after examining
the contents ; " and very few of my things
seem to be missing."

You can swear to them ? "

Certainly ! "

And the clothes Blincoe has on, are they
also yours ? "

Robin had no doubt of it, but in order
to make quite sure, he examined them
carefully, and then gave the same answer
as before.

"Well, we shall want you to give your
evidence tomorrow. Were you ever in a
court of justice ? "

Yes, sir," said Robin, with a strange look.

Then there's no occasion for me to say
owt. You know all about it. Let's see, what
time do the justices meet ? " — (to one of the
constables).

Half-past ten."

A BATTLE. 39

"You will have to start a bit before ten
then. Be ready at half-past nine, Nelson.
Either my brother or I will go with you.
It will be a very simple affair. You will
have little more to do than swear to your
things and be bound over to prosecute."

Yes, sir. But may I have some of
my things ? If not, I shall find it rather
difficult to be more ready than I am at
present."

I see no objection. You can swear to
them just as well whether they are in your
bag or on your back. What do you think,
Jenkinson ? "

Oh, ay ; th' thing belongs to him. Let
him have what he wants. But we must
tak' th' portmanteau and what there is beside.
Th' portmanteau's worth a sovereign, let alone
owt else ; and that is enough to cook his
goose" (indicating Blincoe with a jerk of
his thumb). " But what are you going todo
wi' him till morning ? "

I thought of locking him up in th' old
warehouse. He will not get out, I'll warrant

40 BIRCH DENE.

him, and old Dick can give him a bit of
supper."

"Ay, I dare say that'll do; and we'll be
here first thing in th' morning; to look after
him."

And so the colloquy came to an end.
The constables took their prisoner to the
old warehouse, and Robin went out with
Jim Rabbits, who told how Blincoe had been
dropped on." At the outset he Lad a stroke
of luck. After changing his working clothes
for a suit of Robin's he took to the highroad,
and fell in with a carrier bound from
Rochdale to Manchester, who agreed to carry
him and his bag to the latter place for a
shilling and a pint of beer. He thus got
away from Birch Dene without being seen, or
leaving any clue as to the direction he had
taken.

If it had not been for that cart," said
the spinning master, " he'd ha' been catched
afore he'd been gone two hours."

At Manchester Blincoe put up at a small
hostelry in Deansgate, his purpose being to

A BATTLE. 41

travel to London by waggon. But as after
settling his score at the inn he would not
have nearly enough to pay his fare and other
expenses, it was necessary for him to raise
the wind either by pawning or selling some
of Robin's property. Fearing to enter a " pop-shop,"
lest it might lead to his detection,
and desiring to keep the clothes for his own
use, so that he might, as he put it to himself,
travel respectable," he decided, after long
consideration, to dispose of the books, and,
by way of a beginning, took the Shakespeare
and the Paradise Lost to a second-hand bookseller
near the Collegiate Church steps.

This proceeding proved the Parson's ruin,
or, as Jim Rabbits expressively remarked,
it did for him."

The bookseller, either struck by something
in Blincoe's manner, or the fact of the Paradise
Lost being a scarce edition, asked Blincoe
how he had come by the books.

I bought them in London," said Blincoe,
boldly.

As it happened, this was not a bad shot,

42 BIRCH DENE.

the inscription on the fly-leaf being elated at
London.

"Lately?"

Two years since."

A very bad shot, for the inscription purported
to have been written only a few
months previously, and the bookseller began
to smell a rat.

This copy of Paradise Lost seems to be
rather a valuable book. What do you ask
for it ? "

It was not lost, I tell you ; I bought
it. What will you give me for it and that
other ? "

On this the bookseller, feeling sure that the
books had not been honestly come by, said
that he should detain them and communicate
with the police. After an angry but useless
protest against this proceeding, Blincoe made
off as fast as his shambling legs could carry
him. But the bookseller caused him to be
watched, and a few hours later he was in
custody.

"If he'd been a scholar," observed the

A BATTLE. 43

spinning master, sententiously, " he'd ha' had
more sense than to try to sell a book wi' th'
owner's name written inside. I tell you what
it is, Nelson ; whether a chap's a rogue oran
honest mon, or just as it happens, sometimes
a bit of one, sometimes a bit of t'other,
like the generality of folk, he's not up to
much if he doesn't know how to read and
write. Come into th' cabin a minute or two,
and hear me say my A B, ab, and look at
these pothooks as I made last meet."

CHAPTER IV.

THE OLD WAREHOUSE.

The old warehouse was an isolated one-storeys
building, dimly lighted from the
roof, with a door wide enough to admit a
loaded truck. The walls streamed with moisture,
and the flagged floor was thick with
grease. The warehouse contained a pair of
beam weigh scales, sundry bales of cotton,
bags of waste, casks of oil, and barrels of
tallow. Besides being a happy hunting-ground
for rats, it had the reputation of being
haunted by the ghost of an overlooker, who,
in a fit x)f delirium tremens, had hung himself
behind the door with a bale rope.

It was to this place that Blincoe, after being
made to doff Bobiil's clothes and put on
his own, was conducted by the constables.

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 45

The wretched lad, who stood in mortal terror
of ghosts and rats, besought them to put him
somewhere else.

"For God's sake, don't leave me here all
by myself' ! " he cried, piteously. " Anywhere
but here — anywhere but here. I'll not try to
get out. . . . For God's sake "

But the constables had their orders, and
as he resisted strenuously, they dragged him
in by main force ; and cursing him for his
stupidity, threw him on a heap of waste, and
left him to make the best of it.

So long as it was not quite dark, and he
could hear the hum of machinery in the mill,
Blincoe did not despair, but when the last
glimmer of light died out, and the patter of
departing feet told him that the people were
going home, and that in a few minutes he
would be utterly alone, he groped his way
to the door, and screamed wildly for mercy
and help. Yet neither mercy nor help came,
and after a while he lay down again on the
pile of waste. The darkness was now absolute
; he could not see his uplifted hand, and

46 BIRCH DENE.

the stillness was broken only by the squeaking
of the rats as they tumbled from the cotton
bales and raced over the floor.

Blincoe had heard terrible stories of rats
setting on people in lonely places, flying at
their throats, and biting them to death, and
when one of the creatures brushed against his
leg, and another ran over his face, he jumped
to his feet with a yell. In imagination he
saw them swarming about him in thousands.

How can lie defend himself? Happy
thought, the scales! And the next moment
he is frantically hurling all the weights he
can lay hands on at his invisible foes. This
seems to settle them ; the squeaking cease,
and he can breathe once more. But he knows
not how long the respite may endure, and not
daring either to lie down or sit, he stands up,
grasping the while one of the weigh scale
chains, and thinking fearfully of the long
hours that must pass before he can hope to
be released.

How many hours ? The big factory clock
strikes eight. It will not be light till seven

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 47

next morning. Eleven hours — eleven mortal
hours ! An eternity ! Would morning ever
come ? And the darkness ! And the rats ! . . .

And — and — the rats had put it out of his
mind ; but now he remembers and shudders —
Ned Dawson's spirit ! He is within a yard or
two of the very spot where Ned hanged himself.
Tom o' Jeff and Old Dick cut the body
down, and he has heard them tell that the
face was black and the tongue sticking out,
and that the miserable man, ruling the deed
at the last moment, tore his throat almost to
pieces in his desperate efforts to undo the
rope. The sight, they said, was terrifying.

No wonder that Ned's spirit haunts the old
warehouse !

Blincoe's blood runs cold ; his teeth rattle
in his head ; he can feel the sweat stream
down his face, and hear it as it falls in heavy
drops on the floor. . . .

God be thanked ! A gleam of light !
Blincoe shouts with joy. That yellow moonbeam,
shining through the windows, is like
water in a thirsty land. Will it go on shining

48 BIRCH DENE.

all nio-ht ? Rats ? Not one to be seen. Yet
they are running about all the same, and, byway
of preparing for the next encounter, he
replaces the weights, and possesses himself of
a brush-handle. Then, gaining courage, he
begins to pace to and fro, for the place is
damp and cold, and himself thinly clad.

But what is that hanging from a beam over
the door ? A hideous thing, with a rope
round its neck, a drooping head, and contorted
limbs. A corpse, or Ned Dawson's ghost ?

Blincoe feels his hair bristle on his head, his
knees bend under him, and with a groan of
terror he falls on the floor in a dead faint.

A few minutes later the door opens, and income
Robin and Dick, the one carrying a
lantern, the other a loaf of bread.

Where is he ? " says Dick.

There," says Robin, holding up the lantern,
and going towards the spot where Blincoe lies
prone.

"Asleep! It's a queer place to fa' asleep
in. I'd ha chosen a softer place if I'd been
him. There's plenty o' sacks and things about.

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 49

Get up, mon ! We've brought thee thy
supper" — (stirring the prostrate youth with
his foot).

''He's not asleep; he's dead!" exclaims
Robin, starting back in affright.

"Dead ! Not him. How th' lantern here
o'er, his face. No, he's none dead. He's
swooned on a h empty belly — that's what it
is. We nun get some o' this porridge into
him. Brun a bit o' brown paper, Nelson,
and stick it under his nose."

Robin tears a piece from the wrapper of a
cotton sample, lights it at the lantern, and
holds it before Blincoe's face ; whereupon the
lad, sighing deeply, opens his eyes and looks
wildly round.

Where am I?" he murmurs.
In th' owt warehouse, to be sure ; and
we've brought thee thy supper. Get up, mon,
and knock some o' this porridge into thee.
Thought hungered."

But the corpse — Ned Dawson's spirit ? Tt
nearly frightened me to death. And — and
it's there yet, my God ! — there yet ! " —

VOL. II. E

50 BIRCH DENE.

(shuddering, and putting his hands before
his face).

Where — where ? " exclaimed Dick.

Over the door."

"Well, I'll be dam I mean God help

us ! Another chap gone and hanged hissed' !
Whatever nun we do ? " And Dick, looking
as scared as Blincoe himself, leans, limp and
helpless, against the nearest cotton bale.

Nothing of the sort," says Robin, laughing,
for being keener-sighted than Dick, and less
bewildered than Blincoe, he has already detected
the true character of the apparition.
"Nothing of the sort — it's only a sack."

Well, I'll be I do believe you're rest.

Bitumen, it's nowt else. Why, Parson, what
a godless bea^ar thou nun be to let a
empty sack flay [frighten] thee into a fit !
Anybody can see what it is wi' loaf an ee."

And with that Dick went boldly up to the
sack and shook it.

It looks most terrible like a corpse,
though, doesn't it ? " said Blincoe, sheepishly,
as, with Robin's help, he rose to his feet.

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 51

"Not it," responded Dick, contemptuously.
Thou looks a good deal more like one thyself
Here, knock this porridge into thee ;
it'll give thee porridge."

Blincoe sat down on a bag of waste and did
as he was told, declaring thereafter that he
felt decidedly better. But when his visitors
made as if they would leave, he begged pitifully
that he might go with them.

There's thousands of rats," he pleaded ;
you know there is. Only a bit sin' they
were running all over me. And Ned Dawson's
spirit ; it's welly sure to come when th'
clock strikes twelve. Let me go with you,
Dick, and sleep in a coffin. I willet runaway.
Tie my legs and arms — do owt you
like ; but for God's sake don't leave me here
all night by myself."

Dick shook his head.

It cannot be allowed on," he said, gravely
" it cannot be allowed on. Owt Bob has
gan his orders, and I can't go ageean 'em."

Oh, Dick, do let me go with you. Owt
Bob will never know. You can bring me

E 2

52 Birch DENE.

back before daylight. If you leave me I shall
either die or lose my senses — I know I shall."

Nay, nay, it cannot be allowed on. You'll
none lose thy senses, not thou — what bit thou
has. Lie thee down and go asleep ; nowt'll
hurt thee."

The rats will eat me up. There they are,
squeaking again ! Don't you hear them ? ' ;

Would you be afraid if somebody were
to stay with you ? " asked Robin, who had
listened to the conversation with deep interest.

"No; I should not be lonesome then. And
it is the loneliness as terrifies me so — more
than the rats. But w T ho will stay with me ? "

"I will."

You ! Why, I stole all your money and
took all your clothes ! "

"Never mind that. I will stay with him,
Dick. He evidently is not fit to be left alone.
See how he trembles, and his face is as white
as a sheet."

Are yo' i' gradely am est ? "

Certainly."

Well, if you are, I think it can be allowed

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 53

on. Owt Bob said as th' Parson wor to be
locked up here all meet ; but he didn't say as
nobody wor to be locked up wi* him. Ay,
stop if you will. And I'll tell you what I'll
do : I'll fob some blankets for you — it's a
cornish meet : and what's more, I'll bring
Scamp. You'll be aw rest then. He fears
arthur fattens nor devil ; and it is my belief
as he'd fly at Ned Dawson's spirit if he worth
see it — as soon as look. He could ne'er
abide him when he wor week."

On this idea Dick acted forthwith. In a
few minutes he was back with a bundle of
blankets and a vicious-looking black and tan
terrier.

There," he said. " There's blankets to
keep you warm, and a tyke to tak' care on
you. I'll let you out at five o'clock, Nelson,
afore anybody's stirring, and then nobody ; full
know nowt. Good-meet to you."

It is gradely good of you to do me this
kindness, Nelson, after the way I behaved to
you," said Blincoe, when the old man was
gone. " I don't deserve it."

54 BIRCH Dee.

Well, it was not very nice of you to take
my things. But I know how much you have
suffered ; and you were so terribly frightened
that it seemed cruel to leave you in this place
all by yourself, so I said I would stay with
you, and as I have got all my things back, it
does not matter, you know ; and I always feel
sorry for anybody who is in trouble."

If you'll believe me, Nelson, if you'll
believe me, I didn't mean you any ill when
I took your things. I was that hot on getting
away as I could think about nowt else. Over
my head, within reach of my hand, was
clothes and money. I felt sure as if I had
them I could get back to London — and I
could have done if I hadn't tried to sell them
books" — (sighing). . . . " If you only knew,
Nelson. But I hope you never will know.
It isn't the rough lodgings and coarse food ; it
isn't the blow's and cursing — a chap gets used
to them. It is the long, weary hours — piece,
piece, piece, week after week, year after year,
all day long ; no hope, no rest, no change,
nowt but piecing ends — factory and bed, bed

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 55

and factory— nobody to care for you, nobody
to say a kind word to you. Eight years I
have had of it, and nearly four yet to come !
I think I'd liefer die, Nelson."

And then the lad told Robin his miserable
story ; how he remembered, though dimly, his
home and his father and mother. He thought
his father must have been a prosperous tradesman
in the West-end of London ; for they had
a good house and himself a nurse, and he used
often to be taken for a drive in the country.
And then the father died, and they went to a
smaller house — where, he could not tell. After
that more trouble. His mother fell into bad
health, and after a long illness she, too. died.
Then strange men came, and Blincoe was
taken to St. Pancras Workhouse. He did not
complain of his treatment there. It was not,
perhaps, all that could be desired ; he did not
much like it at the time, but it was out of all
comparison better than the treatment he had
received since, cither at Lowdham Mills or
Birch Dene. He wished he was back, how he
wished he was back ! He was sent away in a

56 BIRCH DENE.

batch of fifty or sixty boys and girls, all of
whom, under the belief, industriously fostered
by the beadles, that they would be handsomely
treated, and made into ladies and gentlemen,
went more than willingly. Within a twelvemonth
of their arrival at Lowdham, averred
Blincoe, fully one-half were under the sod,
and the others, half-starved, continually beaten,
and cruelly over worked, were dragging on a
miserable existence, and almost more dead
than alive.

And Blincoe's story was probably in no wise
exaggerated. As may be seen by reference to
the personal narratives of some of the victims
who survived, and to Parliamentary Blue
Books of the period, his sufferings were far
from being exceptional. Factory masters at
that time were wont to boast that they used
up so many children a year, and every year
thousands perished of overwork and ill-usage.

Blincoe did not seem to care much what
became of him. He could not well be worse
off in prison than he had been at Lowdham
Mill and Birch Dene ; he would at least have a

THE OLD WAREHOUSE. 5

h»

rest ; and, if they hanged him, the rest would
know no wakening — that was all. Though he
did not put his philosophy into words, he had
come to the conclusion that, so far as concerned
himself, life was not worth living — and
no wonder.

After they had ended their talk, the two
lads fell asleep, and when Dick came to rouse
them in the morning, Scamp was contemplating
with extreme satisfaction half a dozen rats
which he had killed during: the night.

CHAPTER V.

BEFORE THE BENCH.

After breakfast Robin "knocked off" work
and put on his Sunday clothes. How pleasant
to discard, though only for a few hours, his
greasy garments, enjoy the luxury of a clean
shirt — revel in the consciousness that he was
himself again ! He felt inches taller, and old
Betty paid him the compliment of admiring
glances and flattering; words.

It becomes you gradely weel, that suit
does, 1 ' she said, putting her hands on her hips
and eyeing him critically. They don't mak'
clothes like them their down here, nor legs
neither. Most on 'em is aether knock-kneed
or bow-legged, or else their caves is like Tom
(kkty's crutch — thick at tli* sma end. And
your face has a colour, too, and you've a back

Before THE BENCH. 59

as straight as a picking-rod. It is much if
you'll have aether colour, or a straight back, or
straight legs after you've been a twelvemonth
in th' factory. You'd mak' a rare lodger,
after you've thickened a bit, and gotten a year
or two order. I'd a brother a lodger, but
that's a long while sin', and he wor killed, poor
lad, at Bunker's Hill. I wor gradely sorry at
th' time, but I've thowt sin' as it wor happen
a good job. He's missed, a deal of trouble."

Robin, who always took an interest in
soldiers, encouraged Betty to go on talking
about her brother, and the subject w T as far
from exhausted w T hen Jim Eabbits came in
and told him that he was to go with Mr.
Berry in the gig to Toppleton; while Blanche,
under the escort of the two constables,
was to proceed thither on foot.

Robin owed this honour to " Owt Bob."

Better take him with you, and then you

will be sure of him," said the younger brother.

These apprentices are not to be trusted, and

you would look small if your principal witness

wasn't to turn up."

60 BIRCH DENE.

Very well. He shall go in the gig, though
he is but an apprentice. However, he has a
decent suit of clothes, and will look respectable.
Do you think we should have 'Tourney
Bruff ? "

No ! Why should we throw thirteen and -
fourpence away ? And that is what he'd
charge, at the very least. Those lawyers
haven't a bit of conscience. If Blincoe had
anybody to speak for him it would be different.
But he hasn't. State the case yourself. All
you have to say is what he is charged with,
and call on Nelson to tell his tale. Th' magistrate
will commit him, of course — they can
do nowt else ; and then we must get th' Crown
to prosecute. It's a capital felony."

As you seem to know so much about it,
hadn't you better go yourself?' 1 said Benjamin,
rather tartly ; for although he generally
did his brother's bidding without demur,
he was occasionally provoked to rebellion.

"No; this sort of thing is more in your
line than mine. Besides, I never leave th'
ground that something doesn't go w r long."

BEFORE THE BENCH. 61

Toppleton was a small country town about
three miles from Birch Dene, inhabited mainly
by hand-loom weavers, factory hands, and innkeepers.
Mr. Berry drove to ' The Roundabout'
— a quaint old inn, with mullions
windows framed in ivy, high-pitched gables,
and a ponderous nail-studded door.

After giving his horse in charge of the
ostler, and ordering him a feed, Mr. Berry
went into the bar and ordered a " drop " of
whisky for his own consumption — partly, ashe
put it to himself, to keep the cold out,
partly to keep his courage up ; for the idea of
conducting his own case somewhat perturbed
his mind, and he began to wish that he had
retained Tourney Bruff — his brother to the
contrary notwithstanding. But it was too
late now, and when the whisky had taken
effect his spirits revived, and, telling Robin
to " Come on," he led the way towards the
court-house — a big room over the shop of the
leading corn-chandler. There they found
Blincoe and the two constables ; a gorgeously-arrayed
beadle, who stood sentinel over a

62 BIRCH DENE.

scared-looking younor woman with a small
baby, and a public, consisting of two old
women and three dirty boys.

Presently the clerk came in, followed at a
short interval by two magistrates, who took
their seats, figuratively on the bench — literally
on two of several ancient arm-chairs, with
dilapidated cushions. One of them (the magistrates,
not the chairs) was Major Dene. The
name of the other was Dogwood, a corpulent
gentleman, with an apoplectic face and out-starting
eyes. But he was more generally
called " A Nasty Conclusion," from a habit
he had (when dispensing justice) of saying,
f Don't let us come to an 'hasty conclusion ; "
and he was never known on such occasions to
say aught else. Being the senior justice he
took his seat on the centre chair, which was
slightly higher than the others.

Good morning, Mr. Berry," said Major
Dene.

Good morning, major," returned Berry.

Mr. Dogwood contented himself with a nod.

What can we do for you, Mr. Berry ? ''

BEFORE THE BENCH. 63

asked the clerk. " Another runaway case, I
suppose ? "

That and something more, Mr. Lush. The
prisoner here has committed a runners "

"A runners !"

I mean a robbery. He's an apprentice of
ours, and he not only ran away himself, but
took a lot of things belonging to another
apprentice, name of Nelson. He's here now"
(pointing to Robin) — "and he'll tell you
all about it. I'm not much used to public
speaking, and I don't know as it is necessary.
It's a case for the assizes, I reckon."

What is the nature of the articles alleged
to have been stolen, and their value 1 "

Clothes, wearing apparel, and books — ay,
and there's a valise. As for their value, I
should say at the very least they were worth
ten pounds."

Where were they taken from ? "

From the apprentice house."

So ! It is a case of felony, then. But
all this is not evidence. We must have the
prosecutor — what is his name ? Nelson ? —

64 BIRCH DENE.

thank you. We must have him sworn. Step
forward, Nelson, and take the book in your
right hand."

Robin stepped forward, looking pale and
rather agitated, yet as if he had made up his
mind to some very decided course.

Take the book ! " repeated the clerk.
You — what is your name ? "

You said just now I was the prosecutor'
observed Robin, with seeming irrelevance.

So you are. Mr. Berry stated the case
on your behalf — at any rate, I presume so.
Take the book "

It is a mistake. I am not the prosecutor,
and I will not be the prosecutor. I have got
my things back. I have nothing against the
prisoner. I decline to give evidence."

All this was said in a breath.

What the devil ! " exclaimed Mr. Kubcrrv ;
and then, feeling as if he was like to choke
with indignation and surprise, he stopped
short.

"Don't let us come to an 'hasty conclusion,"
remarked Mr. Dogwood.

BEFORE THE BENCH. 65

If Nelson refuses to prosecute and give
evidence, the case falls to the ground — doesn't
it, Mr. Lush?" said Major Dene.

I suppose so ; but it is a very serious case,
you know. Stealing from a dwelling-house is
a capital felony. It is a case the Crown would,
of course, take up."

That's what my brother said," broke in
Mr. Berry. " Cannot you make the young
beggar prosecute, Mr. Lush ? "

I am afraid not. This court has no power
to force a man to prosecute. Besides, if Nelson
gave his evidence unwillingly, what would bethe
use ? He might say that the prisoner
took the things with his consent."

The young villain ! Why didn't you say
you wouldn't prosecute before we started,
Nelson, instead of bringing me here on a
dead horse ? "

You never asked me, Mr. Ru berry ; and
I. was not sure, until I heard this gentleman
say I was the prosecutor, that I had any
voice in the matter."

What is your reason for not wanting

VOL. II. F

66 BIRCH DENE.

to prosecute, Nelson ? " asked Major Dene,
kindly ; and Robin inferred from the magistrate's
manner that he had his sympathy and
approval.

Because I would rather lose my right
hand than be the means of getting Blincoe
hanged, or anybody else. He is very unfortunate,
and is sorry for taking my things.
He has asked my forgiveness, and I have
forgiven him. How can I ask for him to be
punished after I have forgiven him ? "

I think you are quite right, Nelson. Were
I in your place, I should do exactly the same.
Is there any use pressing Nelson to prosecute,
Mr. Berry ? You surely don't want this
poor devil to be hanged ? He is only a lad,
and I am sure after the lesson he has had,
will not repeat the offence."

Well, if you think so, major " — (hesitatingly)
— " I don't care much about it either
way. My brother thought if Blincoe were
hanged it would be a good example for the
other apprentices — that is all."

A very bad example, I should say.

BEFORE THE BENCH. 67

Wouldn't it be quite a sufficient example to
give him a short term of imprisonment for
running away ? "

Maybe it would ; and it seems to me — as
Nelson won't prosecute — it's about all as we
can do. Ay, give him a month or two for
that."

"What is your opinion, Mr. Dogwood?"
inquired Major Dene, turning to his colleague,
whose eyes were closed, as it might seem, in
deep thought.

Don't let us come to an 'hasty conclusion,"
muttered the senior magistrate, waking up
from his nap with a start.

You agree with me then 1 "

Mr. Dogwood nodded his head, and closed
his eyes.

The charge having been made in due form,
and Blincoe admitting that he had run away,
he was sentenced to a month's imprisonment.

"Are you going to the ' Roundabout,' Mr.
Berry ? " asked Major Dene, when the business
was concluded.

Yes, I always put up at the ' Roundabout.' "

F 2

68 BIRCH Dee.

"Well, I shall be there myself shortly,
and if you are not gone, I should like to
have a word or two with you."

Certainly, Major Dene. I'm in no
hurry. I'll wait till you come," returned
the other, with deference ; for the major
was the great man of the neighbourhood,
and Berry had special reason for desiring
to "keep in" with him.

Before leaving the court-room, Robin
shook hands with Blincoe.

I suppose you are not very sorry ? " he
said.

"Sorry! No, I'm fain. It'll be the first
holiday I've had since I was an apprentice.
I wish they had made it two months instead
of one."

On the way to the inn Berry said very
little to Robin. Everything considered, he
was by no means dissatisfied with the result
of his amateur advocacy, albeit he had made
up his mind never to repeat the experiment.
The idea of prosecuting Blincoe for felony
was Robert's, not his, and when he thought

BEFORE THE BENCH. 69

of the ill-will they would not improbably
have incurred had Blincoe been prosecuted
to conviction, he was by no means sorry
the lad had escaped. More than one newspaper
had lately called attention to the
treatment of factory apprentices by their
masters ; the subject had even been mentioned
in Parliament ; and " Old Ben " had a wholesome
regard for public opinion, being in this
respect both w T wiser and more susceptible than
his brother. Then, again, he had obliged
Major Dene, and he Wanted to oblige Major
Dene. So, for the present at least, Robin
did not get the scolding which he expected,
and which he had nerved himself to take
without flinching, and, as he hoped, without
resenting.

While he waited in the bar-parlour Mr.
Berry regaled himself, and treated Robin,
with bread and cheese and ale — less, however,
out of any feeling of hospitality than that
he might keep the apprentice under his eye.
Even as it was, he would have a bad quarter
of an hour with his brother, and if by any

70 BIRCH DENE.

chance he returned without Nelson, he would
never hear the last of it.

Mr. Berry had longer to wait than he
expected, and when Major Dene appeared
he had lighted a pipe, and was half way
through a second pint of the ' Roundabout's '
home-brewed.

"I am sorry I have kept you waiting,"
said the major. " Lush had some papers forme
to sign, and detained me longer than I
counted on. Thank you. I will have a
glass of ale. . I wanted to speak to

you

Here he paused and glanced at Robin,
w T ho, inferring: therefrom that his absence
was more desired than his company, made
towards the door.

Don't go far away," continued Major
Dene. " I want a word with you also. You
behaved very well to-day. I should have
been sorry if we had had to send that poor
devil to the assizes."

"It is about Nelson I want to speak to
you," he resumed, when Robin was out of

BEFORE THE BENCH. 71

earshot. " A very unusual sort of apprentice,
isn't he ? "

Very. Seems clever and that, and writes
an-uncommonly good hand. He knows a lot
about books too. You heard how boldly he
spoke up just now. Gad ! I was never so
much surprised in my life."

Yes, he spoke as boldly as he acted the
other day. Now, when a lad both speaks
boldly and acts fearlessly, you may depend on
it there's something in him. Seeing, moreover,
that in both cases he was exerting
himself for others, he must be of a generous,
unselfish disposition. And he looks it.
Don't you think it would be worth your
while to put him in some better position than
that of a common apprentice ? It seems a
waste of good material to make a mere factory
hand of him."

"So it does. Still, you know, I don't quite
see what else we can do with him. However,
I'll think about it, and speak to my brother.
It is more in his way than mine. He takes
most of the management. I look after the

72 BIRCH DENE.

books and outside matters. I think I shall
retire before long, major. Vm getting tired
of cotton spinning. It's a bothering business,
and as I've no son to succeed me, and I've
quite enough for my daughter and myself,
I don't see why I should go on working to
the end of my days."

Well, I don't think I should if I were you.
I hear your daughter is coming home. She
will be a pleasant companion for you."

Ay, she's coming home in a month or
two " — (smiling) — " and right glad I shall be.
I have only seen her six times in seven years.
But she has got a good education — that is one
comfort. I fear, though, she will find it dull
work, poor lass, living with two old fellows
like my brother and me, after being so long
in London."

"Oh, I don't know. It is quite possible
she may prefer a country life to town life.
You must bring her to the Hall one of these
days."

Thank you kindly, major. I'm sure she
will be very glad," said Mr. Berry, with a

BEFORE THE BENCH. 73

look of intense gratification. " She will have
very little company, and hasn't a single
female relative — except her Aunt Transcribe,
and she won't see much of her."

I suppose you will bring her out with
the harriers sometimes ? "

Well, I think I shall. She can ride, and
that old horse of mine — Tommy — will carry
her first-rate. He's as clever as a cat and as
safe as houses ; you've only to let him have
his head, and he'll carry you over owt. And
as for this Nelson, as you seem to take so
much interest in him, I've just been thinking
that I might, maybe, find him a place in the
counting-house. But as he's a scholar, and
has a head for figures, it might be better for
him in the end to let him learn the business
thoroughly, and train him up as a manager.
He'd be a made man then. I'll speak to my
brother about it, and see what we can do.
That was a shrewd remark you made just
now, major, about waste of material. There's
not much sense in putting a blood-horse
between a pair of cart shafts."

74 BIRCH DENE.

Nor any gain, Mr. Berry. The lad is
well-bred, unless I am much mistaken, and if
you treat him fairly he will serve you well."

Meanwhile Robin was loitering about the
inn door, contemplating the High-street of
Toppleton, and mentally comparing it with
Holborn, rather, as may be imagined, to the
disadvantage of Toppleton. While he was
thus occupied, a carriage with four horses and
two postillions turned the corner and stopped
before the ' Roundabout.' In the carriage
were a lady and a little boy.

The lady put her head out of the window,
and asked Robin if he knew where Major
Dene was.

Robin doffed his hat, made a polite bow,
and answered that Major Dene was at
that moment in the bar-parlour with Mr.
Berry.

Will you kindly tell him that I am
going to the other end of the town, and will
call for him as I come back — in about ten
minutes % "

With pleasure, madam. But who shall

BEFORE THE BENCH. 75

I say sends the message ? I have not the
pleasure "

Don't you know ? I am Mrs. Dene, of
Birch Dene Hall ; " and there was a slight
lifting of the eyebrows, and a gesture expressive
of mild surprise that anybody at Topple-ton
should have to ask who she was.

And then she drew in her head, the four
horses sprang forward, the carriage rattled
up the street, and Robin returned to the bar-parlour
to deliver his message.

"My wife!" said Major Dene. "Yes, I
was expecting her. I walked in this morning,
and it was agreed that she should call forme.
I have been talking to Mr. Berry
about you, Nelson, and he may possibly do
something for you "

Weil, we shall see," struck in Berry.
I make no promise, but if he's a good lad,
we may happen put him forward. I will
speak to my brother about him."

And I have no doubt he will be a good
lad, and deserve all you may do for him.
Here " — taking Robin's arm and leading him

76 BIRCH DENE.

towards the outer door — "you refused the
money I offered you the other day because
you hesitated to take a reward for doing a
generous act. Take this as a simple gift — to
oblige me. Put it in your pocket, and say no
more about it. You will find it useful ;
money always is useful."

This time Robin did not refuse. Murmuring
a " Thank you kindly, sir' he put the
guinea in his pocket.

They were now outside, and the carriage
was in sight. Ashen it stopped, Mrs. Dene
nodded, smiling, to her husband, and held
her son up to the window to look at his
father.

Are you ready ? " she asked. " How do
you do ? " — moving to Berry, who stood,
hat in his hand, and otherwise in a rather
cringing attitude. "Ah, there is the youth
who asked me my name."

Asked you your name, Edith ! "

Oh, I don't mean that he did it rudely —
quite the reverse ! I told him to let you
know that I had called, and would call again.

BEFORE THE BENCH. 77

It is the first time I was ever asked my
name, though."

"Well, you can hardly expect everybody
to know it by intuition ; and as Nelson has
been only a few days in the neighbourhood,
his ignorance w T as quite excusable, I think.
You must come up to the Hall some day,
Nelson, and look round the gardens and
the stables."

Although the invitation, if invitation it
could be called, did not seem to amount
to much, Robin, of course, gave the answer
which courtesy required, and the major, after
shaking hands with Mr. Berry, joined his
wife and son, and the carriage drove off.

CHAPTER VI.

A FRATERNAL QUARREL.

That is the lad I was telling you about,
who so bravely stopped a runaway horse,"
said Major Dene, as he took his little boy
between his knees.

But you said he was an apprentice."
So he is — in Berry's factory."
Why, he has quite the air of a gentleman's
son — wears well-fitting clothes, and
does not seem in the least gauche!"

"True; and better still, he has generous
instincts and a noble disposition. You
should have seen how bravely he stood up in
court to-day, and refused point-blank to
prosecute a poor devil of an apprentice whom
the Ruberrys wanted to hang. I cannot understand
how he came to be an apprentice. He

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 79

told me something of his story, and I am
disposed to think that he has been sent down
here to get him out of the way."

To what end ? "

That is more than I can say. He spoke
of a benefactor in London who had befriended
him, and of somebody who sent him here, as
I gathered, under false pretences, but he did
not say a word about his family."

Dear me ! All this is quite mysterious,
and I delight in mysteries. Perhaps he is a
lost heir. When he comes to the Hall we
must find out all about him."

"If he likes to tell us. I don't think it
would be right to press him. And that
reminds me of another matter. Mr. Berry's
daughter is coming home shortly, and I want
you to call there, and if she is a nice girl,
have her up at the Hall occasionally."

I call on the Kuberrys ! You forget,
Eustace, that they are tradespeople."

So they are, in a sense ; and, for that
matter, so are we. They sell calicoes, and I
sell coals and slate."

80 BIRCH DENE.

But that is very different ! "

There is a difference, certainly. They

make calicoes and I don't make coals and

slate. They do their business in person ; I

do mine by deputy."

So you think the Ruberrys are as good as

we are ! Why, Eustace, you are becoming

more a Jacobin than ever !'"

x\m I \ It doesn't look like it " — and he

laughingly pointed to the four thoroughbreds
which were carrying them swiftly towards the
noble Elizabethan mansion, whose high-pitched
gables could be seen in the distance — " it
doesn't look like it ; while as for the Ruberrys
being as good as we are — well, I don't like to
make invidious distinctions. I am, however,
free to confess that I don't admire them much.
Their ideals are low, and Robert Berry has
the name of being a tyrant with his work-people.
On the other hand, they are neighbours,
and come of a good old yeoman family,
with whom the Denes have been on friendly
terms for generations. And I don't ask you
to associate with the two old men — I don't

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 81

think I should care to associate with them
myself; I only ask you to call on Miss
Buberry."

Certainly, dear, as you wish it ; and if I
find her to be agreeable and well-educated,
I will take her up. But why this sudden
interest in Miss Berry ? Did you ever see
her ? "

No. She has been a long time in London —
at school, I think ; lost her mother when she
was little more than a baby, and, as her father
said just now, she is likely to have rather a
dull life of it with these two old men. It
would be a charity to call on her, and have
her up to luncheon now and then — always
provided, of course, that she is presentable
and well-mannered, which you will soon see.
And to be perfectly frank with you, I have
another reason. The father would esteem any
attention from you a great honour ; it would
please him immensely "

So he, at least, doesn't think that the
Denes and the Ruberrys are on the same social
level."

VOL. II. G

82 BIRCH DENE.

I am sure lie doesn't — fortunately for my
present object n

Which is T'

To do a good turn to Nelson."

Do a good turn to Nelson ! You talk in
riddles, Eustace."

It is an easy riddle to read, though.
Buberry knows that I take an interest in the
lad, and if you do him the favour of calling
on his daughter he may be induced to treat
Nelson more kindly than he otherwise would."

How deep you are, dear ! Really, you
know, this is becoming quite exciting — a
mystery, a lost heir, and now a plot. All
about a factory boy too ! But you always
had a weakness for boys, I think."

Especially for fatherless and motherless
boys who are cast adrift on the world, like this
Nelson," said the major, gravely. " Imagine
our little Willy in a similar position ! "

Oh, Eustace, don't suggest anything so
dreadful ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dene, snatching
up her boy and covering him with kisses.
No such fate could befall my darling Willy

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 83

the heir to Birch Dene. You are right, dear.
It is our duty to do what we can for the lad.
We will have him at the Hall. I am sure he
looks a great deal more gentlemanlike than
Mr. Berry."

As the Denes were driving home in their
carriage, Mr. Berry, accompanied by Robin,
was driving home in his gig.

The senior partner being slightly " sprung "
with his two pints of beer and two glasses of
whisky (he had taken a second as a stirrup
cup), and, elated by the major's invitation, was
in great spirits, talked incessantly and rather
boastfully, also with much less caution than he
had observed during the interview in the bar-parlour.
He assured Robin that he loved him
as his own son, and would make a man of
him ; talked about his daughter, protesting
that she was the finest lass in those parts.
He had brought her up as a lady, and when
the time came he meant her to marry a gentleman
— " a real gentleman, of good family and
ancient lineage ; none of your mushrooms
sprung from a dunghill." He could give

G 2

84 BIRCH DENE.

Miriam thirty thousand pounds, and have as
much left for himself — which was more than
many a man with a handle to his name could
do for his child. And as there was nobody
else for his brother's money, and Robert was
even better off than himself, the lass had a
right to look high, and was as good as Mrs.
Dene any day, though she was an Aside of
Morecambe, while as for the major

At this point Mr. Berry's outpouring
suddenly ceased and his countenance fell, for,
catching sight of his factory chimney in the
near distance, he bethought him that he was
talking rather at random, and that he had still
to give an account of himself and the events
of the day to his strong-minded and somewhat
despotic brother.

This is all between ourselves, Nelson," he
said, earnestly. " Not a word of what I have
been saying to anybody — to anybody, mind
that. Keep a still tongue, and I'll be your
friend, as I promised Major Dene. But you
may have to wait a while. My brother may
not be of my mind just at first — and he

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 85

manages the factory, you know. Mum's the
word, mind, or it may go ill with you."

"When they reached the mill gates Mr.
Bilberry told Robin to take the gig " round
to the stable," and then, descending from the
vehicle, bent his steps towards the counting
house.

Now for a rumpus ! " he muttered between
his set teeth. " Well, the sooner we get it
over the better, I reckon."

Robert, who looked as fluffy as if he had
just emerged from a bale of his own " raw
material," was examining and valuing cotton
samples. As his brother entered the office
he turned sharply round, and pushed his
spectacles up on his forehead.

So you've got back ! " he said. " How
went you on ? "

"Middling. They've given him a month
for running away," replied Benjamin, coming
to the point at once.

"And what have they given him for
the burglary ? "

Nowt."

86 BIRCH DENE.

Nowt ! What mean you ? How was that ? "

Nelson refused to give evidence."

Just like his impudence ! What the devil
for, I should like to know ? "

He said he wouldn't be the means of
getting Blincoe hanged."

But I want Blincoe to be hanged. Curse
Nelson ! Why didn't you make him give
evidence ? "

How could I make him ? And Major
Dene thought it was better not to press the
matter ; and after such an expression of
opinion from the bench, I thought so too."

You thought so too, did you ? So Nelson
wasn't so much to blame, after all. It was
you and your friend, Major Dene, that put
him up not to give evidence, and a nice mess
you have made of it, one way and another.
We shall be laughing-stocks for all the
countryside. Beaten by a bit of a Cockney
apprentice ! If you had engaged Brut, as I
wanted you, this would never have happened."

Though Benjamin generally let his brother
have his way, because being himself of an easy

FRATERNAL QUARREL. 87

going nature, he found submission easier than
resistance, and disliked contention, and for
other good and sufficient reasons, there were
limits to his endurance, and the limit had now
been surpassed. To be reproached for not
doing the very thing which he had reluctantly
refrained from doing, at Bobert's own instance,
was more than flesh and blood could bear.

What the deuce do you mean ? " he cried,
angrily. " It was just the other way about.
I wanted to engage Bruff, and you would not
let me. And it isn't the first time, either,
that you have blamed me for following your
advice when things have not turned out as you
wanted. It is time an end was put to this,
Robert. You forget, I think, that I am your
elder brother and the head of the firm. I am
glad Blincoe has got off, and I am pleased that
Nelson behaved as he did. I should have put
my foot down at first, and refused either to
take Blincoe to Toppleton or let him be prosecuted.
The next time you want to hang an
apprentice you'll have to do it yourself. It is
true what people say about you, Robert. You

88 BIRCH DENE.

are a hard taskmaster, and if you don't alter,
it will be the worse for us both."

You are in a passion, I think," said Robert,
taken aback by this unexpected outburst.

Well, haven't I a right to be ? You'd provoke
a saint, and I never pretended to be more
than a good churchman. You are too hard
and domineering, and you get worse ; and no
good will come of it, mark me if there does.
I dare say you will be vexed, but you began,
and I mean to have my say out while I am at
it. Now, there's that Nelson. I am not going
to have him punished or ill done to, or owt o'
that sort, on account of what's happened today."


Who's going to do ill to him ? A lad as
can lick Black Jack in an up-and-down fight
may be trusted to take care of himself, I
think."

Did he lick Jack ? I had not heard. Ay,
he's a lad of spirit. Major Dene said so today.
The major takes a great interest in him.
Couldn't we turn Nelson to better account
than making a common piecer of him, Robert

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 89

He's a good scholar, and nobody can deny ashe's
clever."

Ay, too clever by half. Do with the lad
what you like. Feed him on turtle and champagne,
clothe him in purple and fine linen,
make a gentleman of him, and wed him to
your Miriam, if you like. I don't care a brass
farthing. But I know one thing — no goodwill
come of it. However, it's nowt to me.
You're my elder brother, and head of the firm,
and can do as you like, I suppose. What is
the use of asking me ? Only mind one thins:.
The concern mustn't suffer — not for all the
majors and apprentices in creation ! "

And with that " Owt Bob " dashed his
spectacles on the desk, put his hands in his
pockets, and rushed out of the office in a huff.

It were hard to say which of the two
brothers was the more surprised by the result
of this encounter, for never before had
Ben so resolutely resisted his junior's dictation,
or come off so completely victorious. As a
rule, he came off the reverse of victorious,
partly, as has been already hinted, owing to

90 BIRCH DENE.

the easiness of his temper, partly because he
knew by experience that Robert's judgment
on matters of business was generally sounder
than his own, and that to Robert's energy
and hard-headeclness their common prosperity
was mainly due.

The relations between the brothers were
somewhat remarkable. Their father had been
a yeoman and a farmer at a time when agriculture
was the most flourishing; of English industries,
and they inherited from him several
hundred acres of good land and a fair amount
of ready money. Benjamin would have followed
in the old man's footsteps, and stuck to
the land. Robert, on the other hand, was
eager to embark in the new business of cotton
spinning. The elder reluctantly consented,
and Birch Dene Mill was built and filled with
the best machinery of the period. Into this
enterprise the younger brother threw himself
with almost preternatural energy. He spared
neither himself nor others — "following the
work," as the saying is, from morning tonight,
literally dividing his time between

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 91

factory and bed. When not asleep — and be
never slept long — be was at work. His sole
indulgence was an extra glass of grog on
Saturday night, and staying in bed until
breakfast-time on Sunday morning. This
devotion to business, practised at first as a
duty, ended in becoming so entirely a second
nature that, outside his factory gates, Robert
Berry was never content. He had been
heard to say that, except to " clean up,"
and let the bearings cool, machinery should
never be allowed to stop. Twice in twenty-five
years he had ventured to take a holiday
for the benefit of his health, but unable to
bear separation from his beloved factory, and
fearing that in his absence the business would
go to the devil, he returned on each occasion
in less than a week, declaring that
nothing should ever induce him to repeat
the experiment.

Yet " Owt Bob " was by no means a miser.
He made money because he could not help it
he had no other pleasure — and saved because,
as he said, he had no time to spend.

92 BIRCH DENE.

But when his brother married, Bobert settled
five thousand pounds on the bride ; he subscribed
a thousand towards the cost of the
war with France, and two or three sums of
five hundred each towards the building and
endowment of churches. As for his work-people,
however, it never occurred to him
that they had any other needs than plenty
of work and just enough wage to keep body
and soul together. He had a theory that the
less they earned the harder they wrought ;
and on one occasion, being asked to put the
cottages in which they lived in a better state
of repair, answered that the cottages were
quite good enough to sleep in ; their living
place was the factory.

The elder brother was a man of another
stamp. Though shrewd and keen, he preferred
farming to spinning, liked better to
punch the ribs of a fat bullock than value
a sample of cotton, and spent money with
almost as much pleasure as he earned it.
Ben was looked upon, and looked upon himself,
as the gentleman of the concern, attended

A FRATERNAL QUARREL. 93

markets, pretended to keep the books, and
managed the farm. He was fond of horses,
hunted with the harriers, and liked to ride
about, wearing a jockey cap and followed by
a couple of dogs, like his father before him.
When he married he enlarged and, as he
thought, otherwise improved the old house,
and Robert took up his abode in a double
cottage near the factory gates ; but after
Mrs. Berry's death the brothers again lived
together in the ancestral home.

The only child of the marriage was a girl,
and when she was ten years old, her father,
after several unsatisfactory experiments with
nursery governesses and lady housekeepers,
took the sensible course of sending Miriam
to her Aunt Branscombe, in London, who
had offered to superintend her education.
There she remained nearly seven years, and
Mrs. Branscombe would fain have had her
stay longer. But Mr. Berry yearned for
his daughter's company. He thought that
with his help she would be quite competent
to undertake the management of his house,

94 BIRCH DENE.

and, as he had informed Major Dene, she was
expected at Birch Dene in the course of a
month or two.

This was the state of things dien the two
brothers had their first serious difference, and
the elder was left free to deal with Robin ashe
thought fit.

CHAPTER VII.

ROBIN AT CHURCH.

Rich once more, Robin should have been
happy, but before Major Dene's guinea had
been in his possession many minutes, it began
to breed him trouble. He was so afraid of
losing it that, during the ride home, be kept
the coin in his hand and his hand in his
pocket. But this could not go on for ever,
and while he drove the gig to the stables
(at Mr. Berry's house) he was obliged tolet
the guinea take care of itself, which fortunately
it did. How to dispose of it when
he went to work was the next question. To
take it with him would be to ensure its loss,
the pockets of his working breeches being full
of holes ; while to leave it behind, whether
in his valise or elsewhere, would be running

96 BIRCH DENE.

a big risk. It might go the way of his
other money, and Robin, schooled by experience,
was growing preternaturally cautious.
After lorn* thought he came to the conclusion
that the only safe course was to place the
guinea in the hands of somebody who had
a strong-box, and could be trusted to return
it upon demand.

Mr. Berry ! Yes, why should he not
make Mr. Euberrv his banker. He seemed
very friendly at present, and there was a big
iron safe in the counting-house, where he felt
sure his fortune would be quite safe. But
suppose, when he required it for the expenses
of the journey to Portsmouth, which he still
contemplated, Mr. Berry should make difficulties,
or ask awkward questions ? How
then ? No, this plan would not do at all.

Old Dick ! He seemed honest, was kind
in his own rugged fashion, and evidently held
Robin m high respect for his clerkly qualities.
Unfortunately, however, Dick, like everybody
else at Birch Dene, was fond of drink, and
Robin had a strong suspicion that if he en-robin

AT CHURCH. 97

trusted him with his guinea it would all go
down his throat. No, Dick would not do
either.

But — happy thought ! — old Betty might.
She w T as at least as honest as her husband ;
she did not drink, and if she had not a
strong-box, she had probably an old stocking,
or some other secret receptacle, where
the guinea could be safely put away.

So on his return to the apprentice house
to change his Sunday suit for his working
garments, Robin broached the subject to
the old woman — nobody being present but
themselves.

You've gotten a guinea ! " she exclaimed,
with a gesture of surprise. " Major Dene's
gav' you a guinea ! Why, it is one pound
one ! It's more than a spinner addle ina
week, and happen three or four chiltern to
keep. Nobody ever gav' me a shilling, let
alone a guinea. But they do say as Major
Dene is very fluent wi' his brass. Keep it
for you ! But where mon I keep it ? . . .
I'll tell you what I'll do, if you like : I'll

VOL. II. H

98 BIRCH DENE.

stitch it i' my stays. It's about th' last
place where anybody would look for a good
piece, and as I wears 'em all day, and they
lie on a chair by my bedside all meet, I don't
think they are like to get town. But if
they do, I'se not be answerable. You'll mind
that, Nelson — I'se not be answerable."

To this condition Robin gladly assented.
It w 7 as to the last degree improbable that
anybody would steal the old woman's stays,
and he went to his wwk with a lighter heart
than he had known since he became a factory
lad. His prospects were brightening : he had
saved Blincoe from being hanged, and recovered
his clothes, and, thanks to Major
Dene's gift, he possessed the nucleus of a
fund which would enable him, if he kept in
the same mind, and a favourable opportunity
should present itself, to leave Birch Dene and
go in search of his father — so soon as he could
think of his name. He did not put much trust
in Mr. Berry's promises, and was firmly
resolved to remain an inmate of the apprentice
house no longer than he could possibly help.

ROBIN AT CHURCH. 99

On the Saturday night he received his
wage — one shilling. Jim Rabbits, who paid
him, mentioned that it was not customary
to pay apprentices until they had been at
work three months, and even then they generally
began with sixpence. But "Owt Ben"
had ordered that he should have a shilling;
from the start."

I never snowed it done afore," said the
spinning master. " That comes of your being
so learned. Not as a shilling a week is much
for a scholar like you. All th' same, it's
better than a punch on th' shins wi' an iron
clog, and it shows as Ben thinks well on
you. That's summit." And then he tendered
Robin twopence as an honorarium for
his lessons, and invited him to breakfast at
his house on the folio win's; morning;.

Robin took the coppers and accepted the
invitation. He wanted money, and was
getting tired of porridge.

Rabbits had a managing little wife, two
children, and a roomy cottage with a small
parlour. The breakfast, greatly enjoyed by

H 2

100 Birch DENE.

Robin, was a substantial meal of black-puddings
and fried eggs, washed down with small
beer. Coffee was too costly for common use,
and the Birch Dene people only indulged in
tea (diluted with rum) on festive occasions,
or when they felt out of sorts — which, for
some reason or another, generally happened
on Mondays.

The morning was given to a reading and
writing lesson, to which the spinning master
applied himself so energetically that be had
to take off bis coat and roll up bis shirt-sleeves,
and be declared that learning to bea
scholar was the hardest work be had ever
tried.

After dinner they took a walk in the fields,
which Robin enjoyed even more than he had
enjoyed the black-puddings and fried eggs.
The other apprentices spent the morning,
some of them the entire day, in bed — which,
seeing how hard they were compelled to work
during the week, was perhaps the best thing
they could do. Those who felt so disposed
were allowed to play at " blackthorn," tag-robin

AT CHURCH. 101

rag, marbles, or anything they liked, in the
factory yard, but were never allowed to go
outside unaccompanied by Dick or the watchman.


A few Sundays later Robin breakfasted as
before with Jim Rabbits, and they were in
the midst of a lesson when the spinning
master — who was trying his hand at writing
large M's — threw down his pen and
proposed that they should go to church.

Ay, let's go." he repeated earnestly. " I
can how th' prayer-book rest end up now,
and I said as I'd ne'er put my yet in a
church ageean till I could."

Robin looking rather mystified, Rabbits
explained that the last of the few times he
had ever been to church (some two years
previously), " an owt mon wi' a big stick "
politely gave him what Rabbits presumed to
be a prayer-book, which (not liking to make
a public exhibition of his ignorance) he took,
and made as if he could read, and was following
the parson. As ill-luck would have it,
however, somebody who could read noticed

102 BIRCH Dee.

that he held the book wrong side up, and
afterwards unfeelingly bruited the fact abroad
as an excellent joke, thereby causing the poor
fellow to be unmercifully chaffed, or, as he
put it, "trotted."

Damnum ! " he said, bitterly ; " they get
agate a-calling me ' Top-end-up ' one while ! "

So they went to Birch Dene church — a
hideous concern with slab sides and a squat
steeple, towards the building of which the
brothers Berry had contributed five hundred
pounds a piece. The pews for the commonalty
were high-backed, with narrow, cushioned
seats; the pulpit was a huge three-decked
affair, the lowest tier being occupied
by a clerk with a red nose and a cracked
voice. When the service bean Robin found
the place for his companion, but, prompted by
a spirit of mischief, put the prayer-book into
his hand wrong side up. After a puzzled
stare, Jim, with an Et tu, Brute look, turned
the book round, and tried diligently to follow
the parson — though he made rather a stern
chase of it, being always a long way behind.

ROBIN AT Church. 103

Then, for the first time, Robin looked round.
On either side of the three-decked pulpit was
a large State pew, lined with green baize,
comfortably cushioned, and strewn with hassocks.
One was occupied by Major Dene, his
wife, and another lady. Mrs. Dene was a tall,
fine-looking woman, with a healthy colour, soft
brown eyes, and a comely countenance, albeit
the expression of it was somewhat haughty
and reserved. A profusion of chestnut ringlets
shaded her face, her hat (hats were in
fashion) was adorned with drooping ostrich
feathers, and she wore a black satin gown,
richly trimmed with lace.

In the other State pew were the brothers
Berry and a young girl. Old Bob was so
transformed that Robin hardly knew him.
His calves were clothed in black silk stockings,
his shoe-buckles were of silver, his yellow
waistcoat and ample blue coat were resplendent
with gilded buttons, and on his nose was
perched a pair of gold-rimmed spectacles. He
looked intensely respectable and devout, followed
the sermon with close attention, and

104 BIRCH Des.

made the responses in a loud voice and with
seeming fervour.

By gum, there's Owt Bob ! What's made
him buck hissed' up i' that fashion, I wonder ? "
whispered Rabbits. " I haven't seen him i'
that coat sin his brother wor wed."

But just then Robin had eyes only for the
young girl. Her face was the most winsome
he had ever seen — oval, with violet eyes, a
fair skin, straight nose, dainty lips, and a
dimpled chin. It wore an expression of sweet
gravity befitting the place and the occasion.
Though she was somewhat below middle
height, her figure was shapely, and her movements
were graceful and unconstrained. This
young girl's attire was of an almost Puritan
simplicity. The sole ornament of her velvet
hat was a scarlet ribbon ; her gown was silver
gray ; her beautiful arms were bare to the
shoulder ; her hair, glossy black, was confined
by a velvet band ; and a coral necklace,
with a golden clasp, encircled her shapely
throat.

That's th' lass," whispered the spinning

ROBIN AT CHURCH. 105

master. " It's for her as Owt Bob has bucked
hissed' up so."

That must be Miriam," thought Robin ;
and happening to look at the same time
towards the Dene Hall pew, he noticed that
Major Dene was gazing intently, and with
troubled eyes, at Mr. Berry's daughter.

Then the sermon bean, and save the three-decked
pulpit, the tops of a few tall men's
heads, and the backs of a few tall women's
bonnets, nothing was to be seen. After trying
to puzzle out the text (found for him by
Robin), Jim Rabbits composed himself to
sleep. Robin, though he felt drowsy, made
a strong effort to keep awake ; but the sermon,
delivered in an almost inaudible monotone,
was too much for him — it had the same soporific
effect as a nurse's lullaby or the babbling of
a distant brook — and he, too, made an excursion
into the land of dreams. When he
awoke, the rector, undisturbed by a few snores,
was calmly saying, " And now, sixthly, my
brethren" — from which the young fellow
rightly inferred that he had been asleep rather

106 BIRCH DENE.

a long time. A few minutes later the sermon
came to an end, and Rabbits, roused by a
furtive pinch from Robin, wakened up with
a start.

"Bitumen!" he exclaimed; "I do believe
I've been asleep ! "

The rector frowned visibly 7 , old people stared,
young ones tittered, and the spinning master,
to his utter confusion, became the cynosure
of every eye.

I shall never hear the last of this," he
murmured ; and as the old clerk uttered the
final " Amen," Jim hurried out of church,
painfully conscious of the fact that he had
committed an offence for which ability to hold
his prayer-book right side up would not be
considered a sufficient atonement.

Robin followed at his leisure, not leaving
his pew until the great folks had left theirs.
When he reached the porch Mrs. Dene was
getting into her carriage, while the Major was
talking to Mr. Berry ; but Robin observed
that he looked more at the daughter than the
father, and with the same wistful expression

ROBIN AT CHURCH. 107

as before. As he was about to join his wife,
he caught Robin's eye, and returned his greeting
with a friendly nod.

I like Miss Berry," said Mrs. Dene,
making room for her husband, " and I shall
take her up. She has rather a sweet face,
don't you think ? "

I call it a very sweet face. Why didn't
you stay and let her be introduced to you ? "

I hate being introduced to people at
church. All the rustics stop to stare and
listen ; but I shall call."

When ? "

"When we come back from York; I shall
not have time before. I say, Eustace."

"Yes, Edith."

Did you ever notice your protege s
head ? "

My proteges head ! What on earth do
you mean ? "

That factory boy you take so much interest
in — Mr. Berry's apprentice. The
lost heir, you know."

Oh, Nelson ! No, I don't think I ever

108 BIRCH DENE.

noticed his head much. Is there anything
wrong with it ? "

Not wrong. It is strange, though. While
in church he generally stood with his back to
our pew — I think he was looking at Miss
Berry — and I noticed above his right ear
something white,, which at first I took for a
piece of cotton ; but I soon saw that it was
a lock of white hair. That is very unusual,
is it not ? — a white lock on a nearly blackhead,
and so young a head too ! "

Unusual, certainly, yet not so much so
as you might think. There was a fellow in
my regiment who had a black head which
was simply fringed with white locks. Over
the right ear, did you say ? "

Yes, over the right ear."

I will make a point of looking at it the
next time I see Nelson. It is strange that so
marked a peculiarity escaped me. But though
I am rather given to the study of faces, I am
not in the habit of paying much attention to
heads."

This seemed to exhaust the subject; Mrs.

ROBIN AT CHURCH. 109

Dene made no further remark, and her husband,
turning to the window, pensively contemplated
the landscape.

When they alighted from the carriage she
went straightway to the nursery, like the good
mother she was ; he to his own room. Like
the house of which it formed a part, this room
was quaint, old, and picturesque. The walls
were wainscotted, the windows deeply embayed.
Over the carved oak mantelpiece was the
stuffed head of a wolf which the major had
killed in Spain, surmounted by a trophy of
arms, and the tinted cuirass of a French
dragoon, whom he had slain in single combat
at Waterloo. At one end of the room was
a well-furnished gun-rack; at the other a well-filled
bookcase, flanked by an ancient brassbound
desk ; in the middle, a large table, on
which were works of reference, packets of
official-looking documents, writing materials,
and a pair of double-branched silver candlesticks.


Major Dene, after locking the door, unlocked
the old desk, and from one of the

110 BIRCH DENE.

drawers he took a packet carefully wrapped
in tissue-paper. Then, seating himself at the
table, he proceeded to unfold the packet. It
contained a miniature, a lock of hair, and
several letters. Taking up the miniature, he
looked at it intently for several minutes.

"The likeness is wonderful," he murmured.
It might be her own portrait, and yet there
can be no kinship. . It is quite impossible.
Poor girl ! I wonder . . ."

Then he opened one of the letters, and, ashe
read, heavy tears rolled down his cheeks
and fell on the paper.

A knock at the door.

Yes. What is it ? "

Luncheon is ready, Major Dene."

Hurriedly, and with trembling fingers, refolding
the packet, he replaced it in the desk
and left the room.

CHAPTER VIII.

MIRIAM.

The spinning master's cabin. Robin doing
what appears to be a somewhat elaborate
calculation. Rabbits, who holds in his hand
a number of small wheels strung on a wire,
watching him admiringly.

"A twenty-nine toothed pinion will do it,"
says the young man, looking up from his
paper.

"I think I've gotten it here," answers Jim,
selecting one of the wheels and beginning to
count the teeth. " Why, you're welly as sharp
at sums as th' bookkeeper, and a good deal
sharper than Owt Bob. Ben wor talking
about you yesterday. He did not know till
I told him how good you are at ciphering.
He says I nun put you up to all as I can,

112 BIRCH DENE.

and as you needn't spend all your time
piecing. You may go about a bit and help
me. I told you how it would beard after
a while you'll have to go in th' card-room,
and pike up what you can there, and I mak'
no doubt as your wage '11 be raised afore long.
But it's all Ben's doing. I wish it wor Bob's,
for your sake. It is him as is th' real master.
But he never mentions your name, and I
don't think he loaf likes you. But that's
nowt. I don't think he likes owt but th'
factory and hissed', though some folks says ashe
sets a deal o' store by Ben's lass. . . .
Hello ! Who is there ? What's up, I wonder ? "

A sound of hurried footsteps, excited voices,
and a cry of pain, followed by the opening of
the door, and the appearance of two big lads,
who support between them a small boy.

Little Harney's gotten catched," they say,
pointing to the poor child's right hand, all
covered with blood.

Little soo' ! What has he been doings ?
Bring; him here, and let's see what it is,
says Eabbits.



MIRIAM. 113

Robin takes the half-fainting child on his
lap. He is one of the youngest and smallest
of the apprentices who came with him from
London.

"Won't you send for a doctor?"

Nay, we nun have no doctor for a job
like this. He's nobbut gotten' two of his
fingers smashed. I'll bind 'em up i' th' blood
Wentworth bottle and a rag — that'll about
do this time, I reckon."

As Jim speaks, he reaches from the windowsill
a bottle containing a red mixture, a few
drops of which he lets fall on the wounded
fingers. Harney moans pitifully.

It keens a bit at most, I know," continued
the spinning master, "but it'll soon be o'er.
There's nowt like Wentworth bottle for killing
pain and making a cure."

And then, with strips of linen rag, he
bandages the crushed fingers swiftly and
deftly — for Jim, in his way, is quite an
amateur surgeon.

Again Robin suggests that a doctor should
be called in.

VOL. II. I

114 BIRCH DENE.

I cannot, and Ovid Bob willet," says
Eabbits. " If you wor to speak of such a
thing to him, he'd go fair mad. It's the ]last
shift when he sends for a doctor. Why, he'd
charge loaf a crown for one visit, and you
may be sure he'd come seven or eight times,
to say nowt o' bandages and bottles o'
stuff. . . . Now " — (to Harney) — " thou can
go and lake" [play]. "You'll do no more
piecing for a week or tw T o."

But the unfortunate child being still too
faint to w 7 alk unaided, Robin raises him in
his arms, and carries him to the apprentice
house.

Gotten catched, has he ? " exclaimed
Betty. " They're alius getting catched. Two
fingers ! If it had been one, I should ha'
said he'd happen done it o' purpose."

On purpose ! Why should the poor boy
get himself hurt on purpose ? "

To get a holiday, to be sure. There was
one lad get catched so oft that Owt Bob
ordered him to be weel hided every time, and
have nowt to eat but skilly till he went back

MIRIAM. 115

to his work. It cured him, that did; but he
get killed at last."

"How?"

Put his yet between a pair o' big spur
weeks, and get it ta'en off."

Poor boy ! But surely not on purpose,
Jenny ? "

There wor them as thowt so — and it's
like enough ; he wor a queer lad. But th'
crowner's quest wor accidental death ; and it
wouldn't do for any of us to say owt different,
3 7 ou know. Put Harney in this rocking-chair
by th' fireside. He'll not want to run about
much to-day, I reckon."

Neither that day nor the next was Harney
able to run about much, or at all. He passed
a wretched night, and in the morning seemed
so weak and ill that Robin would not let him
get up. On the following day he was no better,
and though he rallied somewhat towards the
end of the week, a change for the worse set
in on the Saturday night, and Robin became
seriously alarmed. On the Sunday morning
he insisted that Dick should send for a doctor.

I 2

116 BIRCH DENE.

I'se do nowt o' th' sort' said the old
fellow, gruffly. "You may ax Owt Bob, if
you like ; but I can tell you aforehand what
he'll say : * Let him dee ; he's nobbut a
'prentice, and I can get two fro' London for
less than th' doctor will want, whether he
cures him or not.' '

I don't believe Mr. Robert is as bad as
you say, Dick, and I am sure Mr. Berry
isn't. At any rate, I shall go and ask them,
and at once. I am sure Harney is very ill."

The Ruberrys were breakfasting at (for
them) the unusually late hour of half-past
eight. Miriam was at the head of the table,
looking, in her neat print gown, as fresh and
rosy as the morning itself. Her father was
busy with his matutinal egg, and her uncle
just finishing the dish with which he always
began the day — porridge and ale — when
the door opened, and a red-checked maid
entered.

There's a young mon fro' the factory
wants to see you," she says — " name o'
Nelson."

MIRIAM. 117

"Nelson! What does he want coming
bothering of a Sunday morning ? "

I don't know ; but he says it is very

serious."

Say we are all at breakfast, and let him
wait in th' kitchen," answers Robert. " I'll
come and see him directly."

Nay, if it's serious, let us have him in
and hear what it is," says Benjamin. " Tell
him to come forrud, Phoebe."

So Robin was ushered in, and, after respectfully
greeting his masters and the young lady,
told his tale — how ill Harney had been, how
much worse he was, and how serious were hh
symptoms, concluding with an urgent appeal
that a doctor might be sent for while there
w T as yet time.

Nay, we willet have a doctor just yet,"
said Robert. " We'll see how he is tomorrow."



But suppose he dies to-day ! "
Well, there's plenty more where he comes
from. He's only a bit of an apprentice."
Oh, uncle, what are you saying ? " 

BIRCH DENE.

claimed Miriam, with heightening colour and
indignant eyes. " Only an apprentice ! Poor
child ! Is he not one of God's creatures ?
Has he not a soul ? If he dies, the sin will
be at your door. You don't mean what you
say. You will send for a doctor. Do, please,
at once."

We happen had better send for Hadley,
Robert," suggested the elder brother.

"Ay, send for him, if you like," returned
Robert, with a somewhat disconcerted look.

The idea that an apprentice might have a
soul to be saved, as well as himself, had, so
to speak, taken the wind out of his sails.

Shall I fetch him ? " said Robin.

"Nay, well send Gib to Toppleton with
the gig, and then he can bring Ridley back.
If we don't, he'll most likely not come
till towards nisdit — and then worse for
drink."

With that Mr. Berry summoned Phoebe,
and sent the order to Gib. Robin bowed, and
made as if he would retire.

Have you breakfasted ? " asked Miriam.

MIRIAM. 119

Robin admitted that he had not breakfasted.


Won't you have a cup of coffee ? I'm
sure you must be hungry."

The brothers looked as if the world was
coming to an end ; but as neither of them
liked to say Miriam nay, they made no
objection. Benjamin even seconded the
invitation.

"Ay, draw up to th' table, Nelson," he
said. " Take that egg ; or you'd happen liefer
have a bit of this rasher. "

Give him both, father. He must be very
hungry after his walk. The air is sharp this
morning,"

Robin, nothing loth, thanked his hostess,
and did as he was told. It seemed an a^e
since he had tasted coffee or enjoyed the
perfume of a rasher.

"It is very good of you to take so much
trouble about that poor boy," said Miriam.
You belong to the factory, of course. What
are you ? "

Only an apprentice, Miss Berry."

120 BIRCH DENE.

An apprentice ! I thought the apprentices
were all little."

Not by any means. Some are nearly
grown up. They remain apprentices until
they are of age."

"And you are really one of them. Do
you live in the apprentice house ? ,:

I am really one of them, and I live in the
apprentice house."

But you don't look — I mean I shouldn't
have thought. . . Father, I want to go to the
apprentice house and see what it is like, and
this poor boy."

The brothers exchanged glances of dismay.
Had Miriam proposed to become a common
factory girl, and take up her abode at the
apprentice house, they could not have looked
more horrified.

"That would not do at all, Miriam; I
could not allow it. It's quite out of the
question, you know — quite out of the question,"
said Mr. Berry, when he had recovered
from the confusion into which his
daughter's extraordinary demand had thrown

MIRIAM. 121

him. "Isn't it quite out of the question,
Robert ? "

Quite. I never heard of such a thing in
my life."

But why is it out of the question 1 '
asked Miriam, quietly, yet in a tone which
showed that she had by no means abandoned
her project.

For many reasons. The lads are rough-spoken,
and some of 'em never gets up of a
Sunday. That is quite enough, if there were
nowt else."

But they will get up ; I'll run down and
make them get up," put in Robin, eagerly.
And Harney would be so pleased and proud
he is such a little fellow, and nobody to
nurse him. He would think an angel had
come to see him."

That's all nonsense!" interposed Robert,
impatiently. " It wouldn't do, I tell you.
It would make 'em all think too much of
themselves ; they'd be past managing. And
then. . . I don't think you should let her go,
Benjamin — 1 really don't. Th' apprentice

122 BIRCH Dee.

house is no fit place for a young gentlewoman."



Miriam rose from her chair, and going
to her uncle, placed her hand on his shoulder.

Uncle," she said, " suppose you were a
little child once more, but without either
father or mother, among strangers in a strange
place, and sick perhaps unto death — would
you like me to come and see you ? " — (kissing
him).

"That — that's hardly a fair question, I
think, Miriam," stammered Old Bob, after
vainly scrutinizing his inner consciousness
for an answer to his niece's argumentum ad
hominem.

Yes, it is — quite fair ; and I want you
to answer it, as I am sure you will, honestly
would you like me to come and see you ? "

Ay, lass, I would ; but . . ."

That is enough. ' Whatsoever ye would
that men should do to you, clo ye even so
unto them.' You were at church last Sunday,
Uncle Robert, and you are going again
to-day."

MIRIAM. 123

We shall be like to let her have her way,
I think." said Ben, who was not altogether
displeased with his brother's discomfiture.

It seems so ; she's too many for us old
fellows," returned Robert, with a forced laugh.
Run down to th' factory, Nelson. Maketh'
lads wash and don themselves, and tell
Dick and Betty as th' young missis is coming
to see Harney and look 'em up."

Let him finish his breakfast first, uncle,"
said Miriam, with a pleasant smile. " He
has only just begun. Is your coffee quite
agreeable, Mr. Nelson ? "

Robin blushed, and protested that it was
the most agreeable coffee he had ever tasted.

Old Bob made no further remark, but
looked unutterable things. The shock of hearing
an apprentice addressed as " Mr," and
asked whether his coffee was agreeable, had
reduced him for the moment to impotent
silence.

A few minutes later Robin, having drunk
a second cup of coffee, made his bow and
withdrew.

124 BIRCH DE>'E.

You'll quite spoil that lad, Miriam. You'll
spoil 'em all if you carry on in this way."

How, Uncle Robert \ What have I done
wrong {

"You called him 'Mr,' and asked if his
coffee was agreeable."

And why not ? He is well spoken, and
behaves like a gentleman."

I say nowt about that ; but what I do
say is as he's a hand, and hands are bad
enough to manage as it is. If we don't rule
'em with a tight hand and keep 'em in their
places, they'll be th' masters of us instead
of us being th' masters of them."

Couldn't you rule them by kindness,
uncle ? "

Robert, leaning back in his chair, laughed
heartily.

Rule 'em by kindness ! Rule 'em by
kindness ! Who would be such a fool as
to try, I should like to know ? Where did
you get your ideas, Miriam ? Not from Aunt
Branscombe, I reckon. I always thought she
was a sensible woman."

MIRIAM. 125

So she is, and a good woman. I owe
her much. It was she who taught me that
Love thy neighbour as thyself * means that
we should love everybody — that every fellow-creature
is a neighbour. You believe the
Bible, Uncle Robert?"

This was taking him on his weak side,
for he prided himself on being an orthodox
Christian and a good Churchman, and though
in his heart he strongly demurred to much
of his niece's theology, fear of seeming to
impugn the authority of the Old Book prevented
him from contesting the point, and
rendered his reply somewhat irrelevant.

Of course I believe in the Bible. Whatever
made you ask such a question ? " he
exclaimed, with more indignation than he
felt. " Did you think I was an infidel ?
There's no infidels at Birch Dene, Miriam. If
I heard a man say as he did not bereave in
the Bible, I should send him about his business
that very minute, whoever he was."

"Do you think that would make him a
believer, Uncle Robert ? "

126 BIRCH DENE.

That's more than I can say. But, whether
or not, we'll have no infidels about us."

Nor Jacobins neither," put in Ben. " They
are just as bad. Ay, six of one and half
a dozen of t'other. Jacobins generally are
infidels, I think, and should be treated as
traitors. However, there's neither on our
ground, I am thankful to say ; and I'll take
care as there isn't."

After this the brothers drew up to the fire
and lighted their pipes, and Miriam, who
had household matters to attend to, and to
prepare for the visit to the apprentice house,
left them to themselves — an opportunity by
which they profited to talk her over, as they
had done nearly every day since her return.
They could not make her out. It was not
merely that she had gone away a frolicsome
child and come back a comely young woman,
with (as they deemed it) queer ways and a
Cockney accent. This was to be expected.
But she had also come back with ideas and
a will of her own, together with a sweet
imperiousness of manner which nobody seemed

MIRIAM. 127

able to resist. Her father was as wax in
her hands, and though Robert grumbled and
protested, he mostly ended by submitting.
In one respect she was a girl after his own
heart — being active and energetic to a fault,
and familiar with all the details of domestic
economy. She had already assumed the
management of the household — rather to the
disgust of the servants, who, under Mr.
Berry's rule, had done pretty much as they
liked ; for Ben was easy-tempered, and Robert
never meddled with his brother's private concerns.
Miriam declared that the house was
positively dirty, and within a few days of
her arrival there was such an overhauling and
cleaning-up as there had not been for years.
She was always doing something, and in the
course of a few weeks revolutionized her
father's establishment and renovated his house
not before they wanted it — and Old Bob
was heard repeatedly to affirm that she had
not an idle bone in her body.

Miriam's energy and brightness were native
to her, but her love of order, her good sense,

128 BIRCH DENE.

and most of the ideas which had so much
startled her father and her uncle she owed
to her Aunt Branscombe, under whose care
she had passed the greater part of her conscious
life. This lady, herself highly cultured,
had married into a Quaker family, and albeit
she did not formally join the Society of
Friends, she approved of their principles and
sympathized with their aims, was intimately
acquainted with Clarkson, Wilberforce, and
Mrs. Fry, and had a part in that philanthropic
movement which was destined, ere long, to
bring about so momentous a chancre in the
ideas of the classes and the condition of the
masses. Thus, thanks to her aunt (who was
a notable woman), Miriam had not merely
been well educated in the ordinary acceptation
of the term, but taught, both by precept and
example, to love her neighbour in that
higher sense of which she had spoken to her
uncle.

Chapter IX.

IN LOVE.

Sunday was an easy time at the apprentice
house, and disorder ruled the roast. The
apprentices were allowed to rise pretty much
when they liked, and breakfast as it pleased
them — always on condition that if the porridge
was cold, or the " first-downs " had
eaten more than their fair shares of bread,
the "last-downs" should not grumble — and
Dick and Betty did not begin " siding up "
until the clock went twelve.

When Robin returned, several of the apprentices
of both sexes, mostly half dressed,
were seated at the table, eating, gossipping,
and making coarse jokes ; others were washing
themselves at the pump, aod a lot of lads
and lasses, who had risen betimes, were

VOL. II. K

130 BIRCH DENE.

playing a noisy game of " blackthorn, new
milk, and barleycorn" in the factory yard.
On one side of the fireplace sat Dick, in his
shirt-sleeves, smoking a long pipe, his braces
about his heels, and a week's growth of grizzly
stubble on his cheeks and chin. On the other
side sat Betty, also smoking a long pipe,
her cap awry, her hair tousled, and her face
unwashed.

Well, how have you gone on ? Did you
persuade him ? " asked Dick.

No, I didn't. . ."

I told you so, but you wouldn't heed me.
I know Owt Bob, mon. I snowed him when
he wor a lad."

I did not persuade him, but Miss Berry
did."

What ! And is the doctor coming-then
? "

"Yes. Gib has gone for him. Miss
Berry is also coming to see Harney and
inspect the house."

A live shell dropping from the ceiling, ora
living snake coming down the chimney,

IX LOVE. 131

could scarce have caused a greater sensation.
Dick stopped smoking and stared in open-mouthed
astonishment. Betty let her pipe
fail on the hearthstone, and sprang to her
feet.

Say that ageean — say that ageean, if you
dare ! " she exclaimed.

Robin laughed and said it again.

Bitumen ! there's nowt to laugh at. Aw
these fine folk coming — and lor fresh fro'
London — and me i' this state, and th' hoyle
upside down ! "

And me not shaved, and my razzur that
dull as it wouldn't shave a scalded pig, not
if you lathered it wi' sainted soap. Where's
my holiday shirt, Betty ? "

How do I know ? Thou nun find it for
thyself'. But first of aw go and waken th'
lads, and tell 'em as if they aren't down to
breakfast i' five minutes they'll have to go
wi' empty bellies till dinner-time. Tak' thy
whip. I'll look after th' lasses and get some
on 'em to side up a bit, while I get mystified
and don my holiday cap and bedgown.

K 2

132 BIRCH Dee.

I never knew such a thing i' my life. What
has put it into her yet, I wonder ? How
soon will boo be here, thinker yo' ? In about
an hour ! Well, we can get sided up a little
bit afore then. But I wish I had known last
meet — I do that."

By this time Dick was up-stairs, cracking
his whip, and threatening the direst vengeance
on all who did not " look sharp " ; and
the loiterers, mortally afraid of missing their
breakfast, were coming down-stairs almost
heels over head, many of them with their
garments in their hands, or under their
arms.

A few minutes later the " siding up " began
in real earnest, and by the time Miriam
appeared, the place, though far from being
clean, was less dirty and disorderly than
Robin had yet seen it. As, moreover, Dick
had banished to a remote corner of the factory
yard all who did not possess something like
Sunday clothes, the apprentices who remained
looked almost respectable, and having promised
to administer " a d good hiding "

IN LOVE. 133

to any who misconducted themselves, he had
every reason to believe that they would
behave da cent."

Miriam was accompanied by her father
and her uncle, who had not been without
misgivings as to the condition in which they
should find things — for the brothers were
beginning to have a dim perception of the
fact that the apprentices had possibly a right
to expect something more at their hands than
shelter and porridge. It was, therefore,
with a sense of relief that they saw that
Dick and Betty had turned the short time
at their disposal to good account, and put
the place into some sort of order. Nevertheless,
when Miriam entered the " living "
room, she could hardly repress an exclamation
of dismay. The blackened ceiling, barred
windows, rude furniture, and greasy floor ;
the bold looks of some of the girls, the evil
countenances of some of the boys — a considerable
proportion of whom were of the lowest
type of London Arab— their pale unwholesome
faces and stunted forms, gave her a

134 BIP.CH DENE.

sense of pained surprise, followed by a feeling
of repulsion and disgust.

How is that poor boy?" she asked, after
the " masters " had exchanged greetings with
Dick and Betty. " Let us go and see him."

Whereupon the party went up-stairs, and
Robin, though uninvited, followed them.

Harney was tossing about in his narrow
crib, moaning, and seemingly in great pain.

"This is no place for a sick child," said
Miriam, regarding with a shudder the grim
array of " coffins " and their dirty counterpanes
and pillows. " The very sight and
smell of it are enough to make anybody ill."

Nay, nay ; that's going too far," remonstrated
her father. "It is not a bad place
for an apprentice house bedroom. "We have
not much sickness, and it's only now and
then as one dies. I don't think there has
been a death anion o; them for ever so long:.
Has there, Robert ? "

Not for nearly a month," returned Robert,
complacently ; but he took care not to mention
that two had died the month before.

IN LOVE. 135

Besides," continued Mr. Bilberry, " where
else can we put him ? This is the only lads'
room we have."

We mio;ht take him home, and . . ."

Take a sick factory lad to our house !
Nay, by Heaven ! " interrupted Mr. Berry,
passionately. "What will you propose next,
I wonder ? "

Miriam, perceiving that her father was
really angry, and that her persistence might
do more harm than good, wisely made no
reply. This gave him time to cool ; and
thinking that his language had, perhaps,
been a little more violent than was either
seemly or necessary, he urged, as a conclusive
reason against her proposal, that if they took
Harney into their own house, they could not
consistently refuse to do as much for other
sick apprentices — " and that would not do at
all, you know."

Of course not. But wouldn't it be possible
to convert one of the cottages into a
sort of hospital ? "

I don't think your uncle would agree

136 BIRCH Dee.

to that. We are short of cottages, as it is ;
and then, consider the expense ! "

Miriam was prevented from replying by
the arrival of the doctor, a little man with
a big paunch, a pink nose, and a peremptory
manner. His first proceeding was to order
the visitors to the other end of the room.

"Leave him to me and Betty," he said.
She knows what to do. I have had her
as helper before. I must examine these
fingers."

Do you sleep here, Mr. Nelson ? " asked
Miriam, as they moved away,

"Yes, I sleep in the coffin next to
Harney's."

Coffin ! Why do you call them coffins 1 "

Partly, I think, because the bunks, being,
as you see, narrow and painted black, are
not unlike coffins ; and there is a tradition
among the apprentices that somebody has
died in every one of them."

How dreadful ! I wonder how you can
bear to sleep here. It reminds me of
Newgate."

IN LOVE. 137

Newgate ! But you were never in Newgate,
Miss Berry ? "

I went several times with Mrs. Branscombe
and Mrs. Fry to see the female
prisoners, and read to them. Were you ever
there ? "

"Yes, I have been in Newgate," answered
Bobin, with a deep sigh, as he thought of
his mother.

"You have been in Newgate, Nelson!
What for ? " asked Old Bob, who, though
engaged in conversation with his brother,
had overheard Robin's answer.

"I went with Mr. Bartlett to see — " (hesitating)
— " to see a prisoner in whom he took
an interest."

"Who? What prisoner ? "

Miriam, seeing that Bobin looked embarrassed,
came to the rescue.

Did you not hear him say, uncle, that
it was a prisoner in whom Mr. Bartlett took
an interest ? Mrs. Branscombe took an interest
in several prisoners. There was one I
remember particularly — a poor creature under

138 BIRCH DENE.

sentence of death, and she had a little bov.
I wonder what became of him ? But the
prisoners are much better treated now."

"Humph! I did not know as young folks
were allowed to visit prisoners in Newgate,
unless they belonged to 'em in some w r ay ; "
and with a curious glance at Robin, who was
pale and all in a tremble, he resumed his
conversation with Ben.

I am not surprised that you are overcome
with the recollection of the scenes you
witnessed in Newgate," said Miriam, softly.
They are terrible. Sometimes they haunt
my dreams."

And mine. Newgate is associated with
the most terrible event in my life. The
prisoner I went to see . . ."

And then, remembering himself, he stopped
short. Miriam's manner w T as so sympathetic,
her voice so low and sweet, that he had been
on the point of telling her all. But if she
knew who the prisoner was, and that his
mother died in the clock of the Old Bailey !
. . What her uncle and others would think

IN LOVE. 139

and say, if they knew, was only too evident,
and rendered the strict guarding of his secret
more imperative than ever.

Miriam, surprised and curious, but too
courteous and kind-hearted to press Robin
with questions, hesitated what to say, or
whether to say anything, and there ensued a
pause which was only saved from becoming embarrassing
by an exclamation from the doctor.

Will you come hither a moment, Mr.
Berry, if you please ? " he said ; whereupon
all returned to the bedside. " Look at these
fingers ! These are no mere flesh wounds.
The bones are broken. Why was I not sent
for at once ? How can you expect a surgeon
to treat a case successfully when it has been
well-nigh ruined by one of your cursed factory
bone-setters ? For the child's sake, I will
try to save his hand ; but " — lowering his
voice that Harney might not hear — "it is
a very serious case, and I should not be
surprised if it were to end in lockjaw or
blood-poisoning. A thousand pities I was
not called in sooner ! "

140 BIRCH DENE.

And then, while the poor child writhed and
sobbed with pain, the doctor bound up and
spelled his maimed fingers.

Robin and Miriam exchanged pitying
glances.

I knew how it would be when we sent
for him," said Rob to Ben, in an angry
whisper. " If th' lad gets better, it will be
all his cleverness ; if he dees, it will be all
our fault. It comes of heeding Miriam. You
are too soft, Ben."

So are you. It was your done as much
as mine. And, to tell the truth, I think
it would have been just as well if we had
sent for him sooner."

Old Bob made no reply, but he looked as
black as thunder.

Can anything more be done for the poor
boy, Dr. Ridley ? " inquired Miriam.

"Nay, I think everything has been done
for him that can be done — for the present.
I have brought a soothing mixture, which
Betty can give him as directed. He will
have a good deal of pain, I dare say. It is

IN LOVE. 141

a serious case, but I hope we shall be able
to save his life and avoid amputation. I will
come again tomorrow. Good-day to you
all ; " and with that the doctor went his
way;

After saying a few kind words to Harney,
Miriam asked Robin whether he was going to
church.

Yes — no — I think not," was the rather
confused answer. " I should like, but somebody
had better sit with Harney — poor little
chap ! He might want something, and Betty
has the house to look after. I think I will
stay here."

By all means do so," she said, with glistening
eyes. "And could you run up this evening
and let us know how he is ? I should
be so glad."

Certainly, Miss Berry. I will do so
with pleasure."

He was going to say " with all my heart,"
but checked himself in time.

"Who is she, Nelson?" asked Harney
when his visitors were gone.

142 BIRCH Dee.

Miss Berry — Mr. Berry's only
daughter."

Did you hear how she spoke to me ?
Such a sweet voice ! She makes me think
of my sister that died."

And such a sweet face ! She makes me
think of my mother."

She made him think of his mother. In
many respects Miriam strangely resembled
her. Both had the same violet eyes, dark
hair, oval face, and fair skin, the same sweet
voice and sympathetic manner. At the same
age, he thought, his mother must have been
still more like Mr. Berry's daughter. Or
was it that the resemblance existed only in his
imagination, and that he ascribed to one the
qualities of the other ? For all unconsciously,
and without, as yet, even faintly realizing the
fact, Robin had fallen in love with Miriam.
Nor was there in this anything very surprising.
Most lads of eighteen or nineteen have
either been in love, or fancied they were —
probably more than once. With Robin, however,
it was no case of mere calf-love. To

IN LOVE. 143

love somebody was a necessity of his nature.
He had worshipped his mother as a superior
behoof • he had loved Mr. Bartlett as a second
father ; and the love which he had cherished
for them, or which, in happier circumstances,
he mio'ht have cherished for brothers and
sister, he gave to Miriam. So far from holding
herself coldly aloof (as, having regard to
their relative positions, she well might have
done), she had spoken to him kindly, and
treated him with a delicate consideration
which was as gratifying as it was unexpected.
x4nd then her manner was so gracious, her
face so fair — how could he help loving her?
He more than loved her — he worshipped her ;
she was enthroned in his heart. For the mere
pleasure of being near her, and sometimes
seeing her and speaking with her, he would
be content to remain at Birch Dene for years
always. Yet in this love of Robin for
Miriam there was nothing earthly or sexual,
whatever it might subsequently become.
Father was it the affection of a brother for a
favourite sister grafted on the passion of a

144 BIRCH DENE.

mediaeval knight for an ideal lady-love. The
thought that he should ever avow his love
had not so much as crossed his mind. So to
conduct himself as to win her approval and
secure her friendship was all — for the present
to which he aspired.

To this end he had already done an act
of severe self-denial. Nothing would have
gratified him more than to follow Miriam to
church, and get an occasional glimpse at her
over the pew backs, but he felt that it would
please her better if he stayed with Harney.
It may be, also, that he was moved by a
generous impulse. Virtue and love went
together, as they always should. And he did
not go unrewarded. She had smiled approval
of his resolve, and asked him to go up to
Oaken Cleu^h in the evening;. That would
be better than seeing her at church.

"Why cannot you speak, Nelson? What
are you thinking about ? " said Harney,
querulously.

(: Thinking about! Nothing — that is, nothing
very particular," said Robin, wakening

IX LOVE. 145

up from his day-dream. "How do you feel
now ? Can I do anything for you ? "

"My hand does so ache, Nelson, right upto
the shoulder. But I think it will be a
little better soon. They say you are a scholar.
If you could read something out of a tale
book, it might make the pain easier to bear."

Of course I can. Let me see ! What
shall I read you ? Did you ever hear of All
Baba and the Forty Thieves ? "

No, Nelson. Was they hanged 1 "

No, they were boiled."

Boiled ! I am sure that would be nice.
Do read it, Nelson."

I'll go and fetch the book. I shall be
back in two minutes."

Robin kept his books in Betty's linen press.
Among them was a copy of The Arabian
Nights — a gift from Mr. Bartlett. Dick saw
him take it, and asked what he was after.
Robin told him.

I'll go wi' you and hearken," he said.

Two or three of the apprentices, who were
by, said they would also like to hearken, and

VOL. II. L

146 BIRCH DENE.

all followed him up-stairs, each carrying a
three-legged stool. After raising Harney's
pillow, and letting him drink, Robin sat
down on a rush-bottomed chair without a
back — the only one in the room — and proceeded
to read the story of All Baba, to
which his auditors listened with rapt attention.
Then, bethinking him that The Arabian
Nights was not exactly a Sunday book (he
wondered what books Miriam read on Sundays),
he fetched a Bible, and by way of
striking an average, read the fine Oriental
story of Joseph and his brethren.

They're both good tales," observed Dick,
thoughtfully ; " but I like that about them
thieves best. That Morgan wor a gradely
lass — fit to turn out, hoo wor. I don't quite
see, though, where hoo get aw th' hot water.
It would tak' a sight o' hot water to scald
forty thieves. It tak's five or six gallons to
scald a pig. But what a soo' that chap worth
forget th' word — ' Open Sezme ! ' 
could mind that. ' Open Sezme ! '
Its welly same as ' Open, ses I ! '

IN LOVE. 147

I am not so sure of that," said Robin.
It's a good deal easier to forget than to
remember sometimes. I have forgotten a
word which I would give a great deal to
remember."

What is it ? "

That is exactly what I want to know."

"I mean what mak' of a word is it — owt
like ' Open Sezme ? ' "

No, it's a name."

A lass's name ? "

No, a man's name."

Who wor he ? "

A man I knew a long time ago."

It'll come to you one o' these days — ten
to one when you're least expecting it. It
is no use hosting " — [trying] — " when you've
forgotten owt. There's nowt for it but to
wait, and the less you think about it the
better."

L 2

CHAPTER X.

A VISIT AND A VIGIL.

Evening " is a word of varied signification.
Among common folks, who rise betimes,
go early to bed, and say " good night "
before sunset, it means almost any time afternoon
; while among M. P.'s, slaves of the pen,
and people of fashion, who turn night into
day, evening only begins with the dinner
hour.

Robin found this looseness of definition
useful. He had agreed to see Miriam in the
evening — an arrangement which left a good
deal to his discretion. After forethought
he came to the conclusion that he would be
none too soon if he went about four o'clock.
So at half-past three he put the finishing
touches to his toilette (with the help of a

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 149

cracked looking-glass, borrowed from Betty),
and a few minutes later set out on his
errand.

Meanwhile Miriam sat all alone in the
drawing-room at Oaken Clough, reading the
Imitation of Christ. Every now and again
she would lay down her book and glance
pensively into the leaf-strewn garden, where
drooping dahlias and faded rose-trees betokened
the coming of winter ; and over the
wild stretch of moorland beyond, now crimsoned
with the last rays of the departing sun.

Her father and her uncle, who had dined
heartily and drunk quite as much wine as
was good for them, were dozing and smoking
away the afternoon in the breakfast-room.

A chill sense of disappointment was beginning
to creep over the girl. Birch Dene hardly
differed more from London than Oaken
Clough differed from her Aunt Branscombe's
house at Clapham. There she had friends of
her own age and sex, congenial society, a
refined home, and the continual companionship
of a woman whom she revered as a

150 BIRCH DENE.

mother and loved as a sister. Here she
despaired of finding even a potential friend.
Society was limited to the rector and his
wife — the one a lazy latitudinarian, the other
an empty-headed gossip ; and, so far as
Miriam knew, there was nobody in the neighbourhood
to whom she could appeal for the
sympathy for which she yearned, and the
counsel of which she already felt the need.
True, she was beloved by her father, and
loved him warmly in return : but they had
been so long separated, he was so much her
elder, their views of life differed so widely,
that it was scarcely possible there could ever
prevail between them that community of feeling
and aspiration, that tender love on the
one side and trustful affection on the other,
which sometimes unite father and daughter
in the bonds of an ideal and life-ions friendship.
Lonely she was, and lonely she feared
she would have to remain. On the other
hand, she need neither be idle nor unhappy.
There was more than enough for her to do, as
Mrs. Branscombe had hinted there would be.

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 151

ec It will be a great change for you," she
had said, " and I dare say you will often get
terribly homesick. But whatever you do,
don't brood. Work! You will find scope
enough for your energies down there — perhaps
more than enough."

Her aunt spoke with knowledge, and was
proving a true prophet. The management
of the house and the reform of the household
had so far provided Miriam with a
sufficiency of occupation, and the condition
of things at the factory and the farm simply
appalled her. Everybody about the place
drank, and nobody seemed to care. Her
father and her uncle did not appear to have
the faintest conception that their duty as
Christians involved any concern either for
the bodies or souls of those whom they employed.
The mill was a contrivance for
making money, regardless of the welfare or
even the lives of those by whose industry
its owners were enriched. . . . Those unfortunate
children ! The state of the apprentice
house was simply shameful, the squalor of

152 BIRCH DENE.

some of the cottages into which she had
looked past belief. Yet what could she do ?
Her father she might possibly awaken to a
sense of his responsibilities, but her uncle
was made of less yielding stuff, and although
he had so far been unexpectedly kind, she
felt sure that in anything which seriously
affected his pocket, or ran counter to his
prejudices, he would be as hard as iron.
And who was there to help her in the
struggle which, unless she was content to
rest with folded hands, she saw was before
her ? Not a soul. . . . Yes, Nelson. He
was intelligent and kind-hearted, seemed
anxious to please her, and would surely help
her all he could. He had been very good
to that poor boy. . . . How did he become
an apprentice ? she wondered, and why was
he so strangely moved at the mention of
Newgate ? She did not like to ask him,
yet would like to know. Her uncle had
said at dinner that he believed Nelson had
gone to Newgate because he could not help
it — meaning that he had gone as a prisoner.

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 153

But she did not. Besides, as she well knew,
there were many innocent in London's great
prison. . . . No, it would not be right to
question him — perhaps an opportunity . . .

While Miriam thus thought, Phoebe, the
rosy-cheeked, entered the room, and announced
that the object of her musings was
in the hall, and would like to speak to
her.

It is about Harnev. Show him in,
Phoebe," she said.

When Robin appeared, with a bright blush
on his face, and agreeably surprised at finding
Miriam alone, she bade him be seated,
and after thanking him for coming, asked
how he had left "that poor boy."

Robin answered that Harney seemed easier,
but also weaker, and that Betty, who was an
experienced woman, and had seen many such
cases, had very poor hopes of him.

Indeed ! " said Miriam, gravely. " I did
not think it was so bad as that. I should
be very sorry if — if he were not to get
better."

154 BIRCH DENE.

So should I. He is such a quiet, inoffensive
little fellow. Not rough and foulmouthed,
like most of them."

Poor bov ! Who are his friends ? "

I don't think he has any, unless I may
call myself one."

"No parents ?"

I have heard him speak of a mother and
a sister ; but I believe both are dead. It
is not often that workhouse apprentices have
parents — who care anything about them."

You mean they have been deserted."

"Yes."

Where does Harney come from 2 "

He came hither from St. Pancras Workhouse."


And you, Mr. Nelson — you are surely
not . . ."

I am an apprentice like the others ; but
I was never in a workhouse in my life, Miss
Eu berry."

I beg your pardon. I should be sorry —
I had no intention of hurting your feelings
or asking an indiscreet question," said Miriam,

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 155

reddening. " I was merely going to say that
I was sure you could not be a workhouse
apprentice."

Robin hesitated. Should he tell her all ?
He felt sure she would not betray his confidence,
and it might make her his friend.
But he was growing cunning, and it occurred
to him that if he told her all then, there
would be nothing left to tell another time ;
whereas if he told her merely a part, she
might peradventure (her curiosity being
whetted) favour him with another interview.

Why were you so sure, Miss Berry 1 "
he asked, smiling.

For several reasons. But mainly because
you have the speech and manner of an
educated person."

Yes ; my dear friend and benefactor, Mr.
Bartlett, gave me a good education. It is
to him 1 owe my love of reading. I owe
him everything, in fact. If he had lived, I
should not be here."

Friend ! Benefactor ! You have no father,
then % "

156 BIRCH DENE.

I hope so, but I am not sure."

Not sure whether you have a father !
But that is dreadful. You cannot mean
that ."

Oh, no ; my father has not deserted me.
He is not that sort of a man. He is an
officer and a gentleman. We have lost each
other. I don't know where he is, and he
doesn't know where I am."

But surely it is possible to find him !
You could make inquiry."

I might ; but unfortunately I don't know
his name. I have forgotten it."

Forgotten your father's name ! But it is
not possible. You are joking, Mr. Nelson ! "
exclaimed Miriam, impetuously, and almost
angrily.

"It is quite possible. I had a serious illness
— brain fever — which left me with an
impaired memory. But everything has come
back except my fathers name, which is, of
course, my own. The doctor said that would
come too. If I heard it I should recognize
it — just as when I heard the name of the

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 157

ship on which I was born I recognized it
at once."

Born on a ship ! How strange ! And
your mother — have you also lost her ? "

Utterly. She is dead ; " and, in spite of
himself, Robin's face blanched, and his voice
trembled.

What a sad story ! I am very, very sorry
for you, Nelson," murmured Miriam, shading
her face with her hand. "I, too, have lost
my mother, but, thank Heaven, my father
still lives."

She was sorry for him ! Tears of gratitude
sprang to the lad's eyes.

It is a terrible story, that of my mother's
death," he said. " Some time, if you like,
I will tell you all about it. But I should not
like it to be known, even by your father or
your uncle, that I am ignorant of my true
name, and that I know not whether my father
be alive or dead."

Have no fear ; I will keep your secret,"
returned Miriam earnestly. " Nothing you
tell me shall go any further ; and it might ease

158 BIPX'H DENE.

your mind to tell me more about your mother
and yourself. Who knows ? " — (smiling.)
Perhaps I might help you to remember your
father's name and to find him."

"It is possible' said Robin, smiling in
return, " though I don't quite see how. But
never mind that. It would, as you say, ease
my mind to tell you all, though I can never
think of that time without pain, and I
will . . ."

Just then the door opened, and Phoebe
appeared with a pair of candles and a snuffer-tray,
and Robin, looking at the clock on the
mantelpiece, saw that the interview had lasted
a full hour. It was time for him to go. The
idea of inviting her guest to supper had
crossed Miriam's mind ; but as neither of her
elders was present, she thought she had better
not. Nor did she ask him to prolong his
visit. Her father might come in at any
moment, and perhaps inquire what they had
been talking about.

Another time," she said, with one of the
smiles that made her look so like his mother.

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 159

We shall meet again before long, and I must
not keep you longer from poor Harney. You
will let me know in the morning how he is ? "

If they will let me leave my work, I shall
be very glad."

I was forgetting that tomorrow is Monday.
Never mind, I will send down, or come myself.
Good-bye ! "

Good-bye ! " repeated Robin, taking for a
moment Miriam's proffered hand.

And then he went out into the darkness,
but with a lightened heart, for he felt that he
had in truth found a friend — a friend who
understood him, whom he could love without
stint, trust without reserve. As for the
precise nature of this love, to what it might
lead, or how his friendship with Miriam would
be viewed by her father, he did not trouble
himself in the least. He was young, and one
of the privileges of youth is power to enjoy
the present without misgiving, and think of
the future without fear.

But for the moment, at least, Robin's enjoyment
was purely mental. It consisted in

160 BIRCH DENE.

thinking about Miriam, and after the pleasant
hour which he had passed with her in the
drawing-room, with its red curtains, carpeted
floor, and shining rosewood furniture, the
apprentice house looked more uninviting than
ever, and he almost shuddered as he heard the
gabble of rough voices and screams of shrill
laughter within.

Here's Lord Nelson ! " shouted several of
the girls, as he opened the door. " Cheer
have you been, Nelson ? Look how smart he
is ! Why, he's quite a buck ! That hat is th'
last London cut — isn't it, Nelson ? Is that
a white shirt, or is it nobbut a dickey ? ' : were
among the questions addressed to him.

Then one of the lasses suggested that he
had been " a-courting " — a remark which
produced a shout of laughter.

Robin disdained to reply, and turned
towards the staircase.

"Nay, don't get mad, and go off!" exclaimed
Nanny Gorton, a pale young woman
with red hair. " We only want to know
wheel you've been."

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 161

I've only been to Oaken Clough with a
message," answered Robin curtly, " and now
I'm going upstairs to see how Harney is."

Been to Oaken Clough, has he ? Then
it's that Phoebe as he's after — lor wi' red
cheeks and black been."

Nay, Lord Nelson will have no sarvant.
He'll have a factory lass — one of his own
short.

And I know one as would be fain to have
him, Nanny. Do you want a sweetheart,
Nelson ? You can have one for th' axing."

With an indignant gesture, Robin again
turned away. It was not the first time he
had been given to understand that he had
made an impression on the heart of Nanny
Gorton.

Nay, you've no occasion to go. Don't get
mad ageean, mon. If you don't want a sweetheart
you're no war for 't. You happen will
some time, and if you do, you've nobbut to
speak — that's aw. We want you to read us
that tale as you read to 'em up-stairs this
morning, about a lass boiling forty thieves in

VOL. II. M

162 BIRCH DENE.

a washing mug. They mon ha' been little
'uns, I think."

Not aw i' one mus:, thou soo ! There wor
forty mugs, and they won't washing mugs
neither," growled old Dick, who had evidently
been drinking. " Ay, read it ageean, Nelson ;
it's a gradely good tale, and it'll be a good
example for th' lasses."

Robin had no particular desire to read AH
Baba a second time ; but knowing that
refusal would both cause disappointment and
bring him ill-will, he consented, stipulating,
however, that, before he began, he should see
Harney.

Old Betty was with him. In answer to
Robin's inquiry, she said that she did not
think he was any better.

But you surely don't think he is any
worse ? " whispered Robin. " He seems very
quiet."

"Ay, that's just it. He's a good deal too
quiet for my liking. He's been lying i' that
way, wi' his e'en shut, aw th' time, and he
hardly ever opens his lips. I'm feared as

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 163

he's getting walker ; and it's not as if he had
summit on his bones to fa' back on. He's as
thin as a lath. But there's no telling ; he'll
happen pike up a bit toward morning."

At any rate, he isn't in pain, and that is
a great blessing," said Robin ; and after telling
the old woman that he would return shortly,
he went to keep his engagement with the
people below. They found him a place of
honour near the fireplace, and none listened
more attentively than those who had heard
the first reading. When Robin saw how much
pleasure he had given, he was glad that he had
complied with their request. The comments
that followed the reading were many, and in
some instances amusing.

I say, lads," asked one of the older piecers
" I say, lads, who would you most like to
boil in a mug, if you'd th' chance ? "

"■ Ow'd Bob ! "— " Owt Bob ! " chorused a
score of voices.

How your noise, and don't tak' your
master's name in name ! " exclaimed Dick,
angrily. " You'd like to boil Mester Robbut

M 2

164 BIRCH Dee.

in a mug, would you ? What next, I wonder ?
You'd happen like to boil me too ? "

Nay, there'd be no use i' that. You boil
yersel', Dick."

This sally evoked a burst of laughter —
(" boiling " being a Lancashire synonym for
fuddling) — from all save the victim, whom it
put in a towering rage.

I'll boil you ! " he exclaimed, jumping up
and seizing his whip. " You shall net have a
bit o' supper — not one on you. Be off to
bed this minute, or, bitumen, I'll flay you
wick ! "

This ferocious threat was followed by an
outburst of angry protests. The lads swore,
the lasses scolded, yet though all kept beyond
the reach of Dick's whip, none showed a disposition
to obey his order, and a serious attempt
to enforce it would probably have provoked
a mutiny. To be sent to bed supperless was
bad enough in any circumstances, but when
supper consisted of baked potatoes and red
herrings, as was the rule on Sunday nights,
the deprivation was more than human nature

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 165

could bear. But at the critical moment, when
Dick stood at bay, whip in hand, facing the
crowd of excited apprentices, and uttering
curses both loud and deep, Robin succeeded instilling
the storm.

Come, Dick," he said soothingly, " don't
get angry. It was only a joke. Sit down,
and I'll read you another story."

The effect was magical. Dick laid his whip
aside, and beckoned the apprentices to resume
their places.

"Another tale ! " he said hoarsely. " Come
on, then ; let's have it. But I'll tell you
what: If ony on 'em says owt to me about
boiling, ageean — bitumen, I'll knock its yet
off, let it be who it will ! "

Robin then read The First Voyage of
Sindbad the Sailor, and by the time it was
finished the potatoes and herrings were smoking
on the table.

When supper was over — and it did not
take long in the eating — Robin went up-stairs
to relieve Betty of her charge.

"He's just the same," she said, "neither

166 BIRCH DENE.

spake nor story, and scarce ever opens his
been. I fear me he's but in a bad way. I've
gan him his physic ; he'll not want no more
for two hours. You'll be goings to bed toward
ten o'clock, I reckon ? "

I shall watch all night, or until there's
a chancre for the better."

Change for the better ! Well, it would
happen be as weel ; he is in a bad way. I'll
look in last thing to see if you wanted owt,
and Dick '11 let you lie a bit longer i' th'
morning."

After a while the apprentices came to bed
out of consideration for their sick comrade
making as little noise as possible — and
were soon asleep, and the only sounds to be
heard in the room were deep breathing and
an occasional snore. Robin sat on the old
rush-bottomed chair ; and on a three-legged
stool, which served as a table, were placed a
candlestick, a bottle of medicine, a broken
wine-glass, and an iron spoon. The candle
uttered, for the place was draughty, and as
the house did not boast a pair of snuffers,

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 167

Robin had to do the snuffing with his fingers.
It was, moreover, a "dip" of indifferent
quality, and gave a dim, uncertain, and almost
ghastly light. When Robin wanted to look
at Harney, he had to hold it over his head.
Now and then he asked the poor child in a
whisper how he felt, but as often as not
received no answer.

And so the hours wore on.

The time and the circumstances were propitious
for thought ; and Robin did think, or
rather dream, in a fitful, erratic fashion. He
thought about his past life, his mother, Bartlett,
Major Dene, very little about his father,
and a great deal about Miriam, whom he
pictured as he last saw her in the cosy ,
with her comely face and winsome
smile, her gray silk dress, the rose at her
breast, which matched so well with the
damask of her cheek, and in imagination
heard again her sympathetic, sweet-toned
voice, and felt once more the soft pressure of
her hand.

Betty, coming with another candle, roused

168 BIRCH DENE.

him to a sense of the present and his duties
as nurse. The candle came none too soon ;
the old one was nearly burnt out, and the
brown paper with which it was packed nearly
in a blaze.

There ! " exclaimed Betty, planting the
new candle in the molten remains of its
predecessor. "That'll last you an hour or
two, and here's two more ageean when it's
done. How is he ? "

There's no difference. He has not spoken
for a long time."

Let's look ! " and the old woman held
the candle over Harney's head. Her experienced
eyes detected a change which Robin
had not perceived.

1'se stop wi' you," she whispered ; and
with that she put the candlestick and other
things at the foot of the bed, and herself on
the three-legged stool.

"There isn't the least need, Betty. You
go to bed. I'll watch."

How your noise ! We shall neither onus
ha' to watch so long."

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 169

"What for?" ' .

He's seeing ; that's what for."

Nonsense, Betty ! He has been like that
all the time."

"Wait, and you'll see."

Robin said no more, but he bitterly reproached
himself for letting his thoughts
wander so far from the poor child whose
life, though he knew it not, was ebbing
away.

A little later Harney opened his eyes.

Who's that 1 " he murmured, in an almost
inaudible whisper.

Me — Nelson and Betty," said Robin,
bending over him.

Where are the others ? "

In bed, asleep."

And you are keeping me company !
You've been very good to me, Nelson. . . .
I say, Nelson."

"Yes, Harney."

"We came from London together, didn't
we ? "

170 BIRCH Dee.

"Yes, dear boy, we did."

You and me and the others. But I shall
never go back to London. I've had a dream,
Nelson, and I'm going to my mother and
Mary. . I say, Nelson."

"Yes, Harney,"

You've been very kind — kinder than anybody
else. Will you kiss me ? "

Robin pressed his lips on the child's pale
brow, already damp with the clew of death.

You'll — you'll think sometimes of little
Harney — won't you, Nelson ? "

As long as I live I'll think of you."

Put your arm round me and raise me
up. I — I feel faint."

Robin raised him up tenderly, and laid the
dying lad's head on his shoulder.

"The candle burns dim," whispered Harney.
Bring it nearer, please."

Betty, with a significant glance at Robin,
brought it nearer.

Then the child made as if he would pick
something from the coverlet of the bed and

A VISIT AND A VIGIL. 171

the air with the forefinger and thumb of
his un wounded hand. While this was going
on, Betty, thinking to make a better light,
tried to snuff the candle, and in her agitation
snuffed it out.

"I nun go down-stairs and leet it at
tli' fire," she said. " I'll be back direct! v."

"Dark! Dark! Mother! Mary! I'm coming
! " Robin heard the child murmur ; and
then all was quiet.

When Betty returned the two were still
in the same position.

Look ! " she whispered, raising the candle.

There was no mistaking the meaning of
those glazed eyes and pallid cheeks and that
drooping jaw.

He's groan dead," said Betty.

God has taken him," said Robin, in a
broken voice.

"Ay, he is better off than aether on us
now, Nelson. It mak's more than fifty as
I've seen dee i' this 'ere house, and I've
alius thowt as it wor th' best thing as could

172 BIRCH DENE.

happen to 'em. Life's most terrible hard
for poor folk. But get you off th' bed, and
I'll shut his been and tie up his face, and
when morning comes I'll get Dick to measure
him for a coffin. It's but a little 'un as he'll
need, poor lad ! "

CHAPTEK XL

A Friend AT COURT.

As Robin crossed the factory yard next
morning, nearly an hour after the engine had
set on," he met Robert Berry.

Is this your first appearance, Nelson ? "
asked his master.

Yes, sir."

What the devil ! I cannot have this,
you know. My time is six o'clock at th J
latest ; and a piecer should be at his wheels
by half-past five. You must get up as soon
as you are wakened."

"So I did ; but Dick let me sleep a bit
longer. I sat up till nearly midnight with
Harney."

Harney be hanged ! I cannot have work
neglected for the sake of a sick apprentice."

174 BTRCH DENE.

I am sorry if I have done wrong, sir ;
but the offence is one I cannot repeat, even if
I would."

Cannot repeat, even if you would ! How
so?"

(; Poor little Harney is dead," said Robin,
with difficulty keeping down a sob.

Harney dead ! Nonsense ! You don't
mean that ? "

"I do indeed, sir. He died last night."
Ah, well, that does make a difference,
certainly. I wasn't aware you had been
sitting up with him. Very sudden at the last,
wasn't it ? "

It seemed so to me ; but he was very
ill when the doctor came, and Betty had
poor hopes of him all clay. Will you let
Miss Berry know, sir ? She was very
anxious about him."

Yes, I'll let her know. I'll tell her when I
go up to my breakfast. That is all, I think.
I shouldn't have spoken to you as I did just

now if I had been aware Be off to your

work. I think Jim Rabbits wants you."

A FRIEND AT COURT. 175

Robin went.

Nelson!"

Yes, sir ! " said Robin, returning.

"The doctor wasn't much use, was he ?
Doctors seldom are, I think. It would have
been just the same if we had sent for him
at first."

I don't think so," answered Robin, resolutely.
" I believe that if a doctor had been
called in at first, and Harney had received
proper attention, he would have been alive
now, and in a fair way for recovery."

What, curse it, do you mean to say. . . ? "
exclaimed Old 'Bob, savagely ; and then,
without another word, he turned on his heel
and went his way.

All this rather surprised Robin ; but he
had not been long enough at the place to
understand its full significance. Never before
had the death of an apprentice caused Robert
Berry the slightest apparent concern. His
usual remark, when anything of this sort
happened, was — " Dead is he ? Get him
buried as soon as you can." Yet when he

76 BIRCH DENE.

learned the cause of Robin's tardiness, his
tone became almost apologetic ; he had evidently
an uneasy feeling that the fatal termination
of Harney's illness might possibly
be ascribed to the delay in sending for a
surgeon. Moreover, instead of going to his
breakfast, he despatched a note to his brother,
saying that he was too busy to " come up'
and asking that his breakfast might be " sent
down," adding, in a Pes. — "Miriam will be
sorry to hear that Harney died last night."

In truth, the cynical old money-spinner
was beginning to be rather afraid both of
Robin and his niece ; for being neither utterly
devoid of conscience nor deliberately cruel,
he could not help seeing in their humanity
(softness he called it) an implied reproof of
his own hardness. Here was this lad, fresh
from London, refusing to give evidence against
Blincoe, stopping all night with him in the
old warehouse, sitting up with Harney, and
almost telling him (Robert Berry) to his
face that he had incurred the guilt of murder
by not sending sooner for a doctor ! W hat a

A FRIEND AT COURT. 177

piece of impudence ! He had felt almost
angry enough to strike him, and a few weeks
earlier he probably would have struck him.
Nevertheless, he could not help paying Nelson
the homage of a reluctant admiration. Nelson
was outspoken, and Robert Berry liked
outspokenness ; bold, and he liked boldness.
He was also disposed to believe him honest
(with one slight reservation), and next to
passive obedience, Berry held honesty to
be the highest virtue a youth could possess.
For these reasons Robin's respect was worth
having ; and the idea that the young fellow
probably regarded him as a tyrannical old
curmudgeon was anything but soothing to his
feelings.

As for his niece, he knew what she would
think — how grieved she would be about
Harney's death, and that, like Nelson, she
would ascribe it to his neglect. Yet "Old
Bob " liked Miriam so well that he was anxious
both to save her pain and secure her love.
Not for fifty pounds, he said to himself,
would he have told her the news, and he

VOL. II. N

178 BIRCH DENE.

looked forward to their next meeting with
some misgiving.

And there were other causes at work which
might well have tended to disturb Robert
Kubery's tranquillity, and suggest grave
doubts as to the wisdom of the course which
he had hitherto followed. Distress was widely
prevalent, political agitation active ; the
operatives were bitterly discontented, and
almost ripe for rebellion ; even his own
hands were showing signs of insubordination ;
in several districts there had been serious
rioting, the tyranny of factory masters had
been violently denounced, both on the platform
and in the press, and strange aud
startling doctrines were being openly promulgated.
Only the day before had he read ina
Manchester paper a protest by several
leading physicians , against the iniquities of
the apprentice system ; it was asserted that
overwork was destroying annually thousands
of lives, and impairing the health of a whole
generation. One audacious innovator had
actually gone so far as to propose an enact

FRIEND AT COURT. 179

ment for restricting the labour of women
and children to eleven hours a day, and
forbidding the employment of children under
ten altogether !

All this, besides making Robert Berry
uneasy and apprehensive, rendered him much
more pervious to the influence of Nelson and
his niece than he otherwise would have been.

The respite he gained by sending for his
breakfast was of short duration. He had
scarcely finished it when Miriam appeared
in the office — after calling at the apprentice
house, and getting from Robin and Betty
a full account of Harney's death. Her face
was pale, and her eyes looked reproach.

Oh, uncle," she exclaimed, " that poor
boy ! "

Yes, it's a bad job. I — I am very sorry.
You see, it did not do much good sending
for the doctor, after all."

"He was sent for too late, uncle. If he
had been sent for sooner, Harney would
probably have been alive this moment. Both
Betty and Nelson think so."

N 2

180 BIRCH DENE.

Curse Betty and Nelson ! " thought the
uncle. What he said was : " They may think
as they like, but you may depend upon it
that it was the shock to the system that
killed him. I don't believe all the doctors
in Manchester could have saved him."

Perhaps not, but we cannot be sure of
that ; and, at any rate, if you had called
in a doctor at once we should have done
our best ; the issue would have been with
God. It is a terrible thing to trifle with
the life of a fellow creature. Don't let anything
of this sort happen again, uncle ; it
would be too dreadful."

I am sure I don't want anything of the
sort to happen again, Miriam. It is no
interest of ours for apprentices to die ; they
cost money, and a dead apprentice is of
precious little use. What would you have
us do?"

I would have you send for a doctor at
once, whenever an apprentice, or anybody
else, is hurt — unless it be something very
trifling "

A FRIEND AT COURT. 181

Hum ! But that would cost a lot of
money."

"And I would have you turn two of
the cottages into a hospital — one for boys,
the other for girls. I have seen London
hospitals, and I am sure it could easily be
done. There is something horrible in the
idea of the sick being in the same room as
the whole — perhaps dying there like Harney ;
and but for Nelson, there would have been
nobody with him at the last. He would have
died, in the dark and alone."

Turn two cottages into a hospital ! That
would be an expensive job, Miriam, and we
should lose ten or twelve pounds a year in
rent, to say nowt of the expense of fitting
them up. The concern must not suffer, whatever
happens."

To Robert Berry, " the concern " was
a thing apart, and almost sacred. He held
it his bounden duty to protect its interests
and promote its prosperity by every means
in his power, and was as devotedly loyal
to it as some men are to a mistress, a

182 BIRCH DENE.

monarch, or a cause. The factory cottages
were a part of the business, and a permanent
source of profit. Every man about the place,
whether a benedict or a bachelor, whether
he liked it or not, was compelled to take
one. Several single men, who were domiciled
with their parents, paid rents for not taking
cottages. The idea of turning two of them
into a hospital went strongly against the
grain ; and when he said that the concern
must not suffer, he thought he had said
the last word — that the question was settled.

But Miriam, whose notions about business
were somewhat hazy, failed to see the matter
in the same light.

Ten or twelve pounds a year ! " she said.
What is that to a man like you ? My
father says you are better off than he is —
that you are worth nearly a hundred thousand
pounds."

Your father talks nonsense. He's quite
wrong ; I'm not worth owt like it — at least,
I don't think I am — and, for Heaven's sake,
keep it to yourself. If th' hands thowt I

A FRIEND AT COURT. 183

was worth half as much, they'd be striking
for a rise of wages, and my life would be
made a burden by folks asking for subscriptions."


"" Will you make the hospital, then ? Ill
engage to obtain my father's consent— in fact,
I have done so already."

I cannot, Miriam — I really cannot. As
I said just now, the business must not suffer,
whatever happens. But I'll tell you what
I'll do " — (briskly, as if struck by a happy
thought)— " I'll tell you what 111 do. Ill
do it out of my own pocket. The rent shall
be debited to my private account, and I'll
be at the expense of making the alterations
and maintaining a nurse — and, yes, 111 make
an arrangement with Hadley, give him so
much a year to come whenever he's wanted,
and then there'll happen be no more bother.
Will that suit you ? "

Excellently well ! ' said Miriam, gladly,
and inwardly much amused to think that,
out of consideration for the concern, her uncle
was assuming a charge which he might just

184 BIRCH DENE.

as well have shared with her father. " Excellently
well, and I thank you with all my
heart."

Is there owt else ? "

Yes ; I want to speak to you about
Nelson. Wouldn't you put him in some better
position ? I am sure he is clever ; he was
wonderfully kind to poor Harney, and, from
what Betty tells me, he is an influence for
good with the other apprentices. He reads
to them on Sundays, and they think all
the world of him. And yet he goes about
without shoes and stockings, just like a
common sweeper or piecer ! "

That lad again ! " exclaimed Robert
Berry, with a laugh that sounded like a
gibe. " That lad again ! Everybody's wanting
us to treat him different from the others.
It is Nelson, and no end. But I have nowt
to do wi' him. Eve made him over to your
father. Speak to him."

I will, and I am sure my father will do

his best. But if you would take it in
hand »

A FRIEND AT COURT. 185

Here Miriam paused ; but her uncle knew
what she meant, and the implied compliment
pleased him. She meant that he had more
backbone than his brother — that what he
willed was generally done, whereas Benjamin,
though he promised freely and meant well,
sometimes forgot his promises, and did not
always see that his orders were carried into
effect.

Well, I'll tell you what I think of doing,"
he said, confidentially; "but don't let it go
any further at present. As soon as Nelson
has got an insight into things — and he's sharp,
there's no denying that — as soon as he's
got an insight into things, I mean to have
him into the counting-house — he's a good
scholar — and both make him useful and give
him a better position. Will that please your
ladyship ? "

Very much indeed, and I am sure Nelson
will be grateful. But do you think it will
be good for the concern ? " asked Miriam,
trying, not very successfully, to keep a grave
countenance.

186 BIRCH Dee.

But it never occurred to Robert that anybody
could be either ironical or jocular on
so serious a subject, and he answered the
question with all gravity.

I do think so," he said. " If I did not,
he would have to stop where he is. The
concern must not suffer, whatever happens."

Of course it must not. But if I take
up your time any longer, I am afraid it
will. Give me a kiss and let me go, you
dear, good uncle. I thank you with all my
heart ; you have made me very happy."

Robert accepted the compliment, and gave
the kiss with evident pleasure, and a minute
afterwards Miriam was walking sedately
across the yard, the observed of all observers.
It was the first time w T within living memory
that a lady had visited Birch Dene factory,
and the " hands," particularly the female
portion of them, crowded to the windows to
have a look at " Owt Ben's lass."

I've got well out of that," said Owt Bob
to himself with a chuckle. " I feared she'd
ha' cried and put her arms round my neck ;

A FRIEND AT COURT. 187

and if she had done, I could hardly have
said her nay, whatever she had asked me ;
and they call me keen and hard ! But
she has such winning ways, and that smile
of hers there's no resisting. . . . Gad ! it's a
good thing that I had never time to get wed,
for I do believe I'm a bit soft in th' bottom.
However, there is no harm done so far. I've
promised nowt as will be detrimental to th'
business. I don't think Miriam's cottage
hospital will gain us much credit with th'
hands. They are an ungrateful lot, always
hankering after higher wages, or something
quite as unreasonable ; but if it should ever
be said as we don't treat our apprentices
kindly, we can point to it as a proof to th'
contrary. The same with Nelson. We shall
be able to say that at Birch Dene, whatever
may be th' case at other factories, an apprentice
as shows ability is sure to get on. And I
can make him useful. He may save his
porridge by seeing as the daily hands stick to
their work ; and we want help in the counting-house.
Ben doesn't look after things as he

188 BIRCH DENE.

should, and Nutter is getting old and godless.
He did not take a single short-weight
off that last invoice of cotton. And if we
were to get another, he'd ten to one do no
better. A known nowt is better than an
unknown nowt. Ay, Nelson has shaped well,
so far — there's no denying that, though it
wouldn't do to tell him so ; and if he is
honest, and I believe he is, though there's
something queer about that Newgate business
however, I'll soon find that out — if he's
honest, I'll do as I promised. That will be a
good thing all round. Miriam will be pleased,
Ben will be pleased, and Major Dene will be
pleased, and, best of all, the concern will be
benefited."

As for Miriam, she had good reason to be
satisfied with the turn things were taking ;
her uncle was proving more tractable than she
expected, and though there was still much to
be done, she had made a good beginning. It,
moreover, pleased her greatly to think that
Nelson would be put in a position better
suited to his abilities and education than that

A FRIEND AT COURT. 189

of a common apprentice. She had also
ascertained the limit of her power; her uncle
evidently loved her, and was disposed to meet
her views, but it was equally evident that he
would refuse to sanction changes by which
the supreme object of his affection was likely
to suffer.

CHAPTER XII.

PROMOTION.

Robert Berry was not the sort of man
who lets the grass grow under his feet, and
on the following day, after a talk with his
brother, Robin was sent for to the counting-house,
whither he went, wondering whether
the summons boded him evil or good.

You make calculations sometimes for Jim
Rabbits, about speeds and that, I understand
? " said Robert, rather gruffly.

Yes, sir ; but only when Jim asks me,"
answered Robin, thinking that helping the
spinning master was going to be imputed to
him as a fault.

Oh, it's all right so long as you don't
make mistakes "

PROMOTION. 191

I don't think I have, sir. If you'll ask
Jim "

I have asked him " — (grimly) — " but
never mind that. Do you know anything
about bookkeeping ? "

Robin had to admit that he knew very
little about bookkeeping, his performances
in that line having been limited to making
an occasional entry in Mr. Bartlett's waste
book, and checking additions in the cash
book and ledger.

Well, that's summit, and I suppose you
could learn if you had the chance ? ''

Robin supposed he could.

Well, you shall have the chance, and
I hope you will make a good use on't." And
then the younger brother told Robin what
had been resolved in his behalf. He was
to spend part of his time in the mill, part
in the counting-house. As for his duties,
they were to be rather multifarious. He was
to see that the hands on daily wages did not
shirk their work, and report to Mr. Robert
any instances of neglect or waste which

192 BIRCH DENE.

he might detect, superintend the weighing
of cotton and yarn, and make himself generally
useful.

How useful you are depends entirely
on yourself," said Robert. " You have got
your foot on the first stave of the ladder.
Climb as high as you can — only no tumbles,
mind. . . . And don't you think you'd let
him keep th' petty cash, Robert % He'd
manage that."

But what would Nutter say % ,s

Oh, never mind Nutter ; he'd have more
time for other things. And you say he's
very slow."

He is ; and he gets slower. Very well,
let it be so then. This is it, Nelson " — (taking
up a long narrow book). " I'll give you
some money at the beginning of every week,
and you'll have to set down everything as
you pay — postage of letters, expenses to Manchester,
allowance to carters, and such like.
You'll soon see how it's done, and at the week
end I'll balance you up."

That is it," put in Robert. " All as you

PROMOTION. 193

have to do is to pay as little as you can,
and set down everything as you pay. If you
don't, you'll get wrong."

This was his expedient for testing Robin's
integrity. It would be quite within his
power to enter from time to time a few pence
or even shillings without paying them. But
he meant to watch him, and, as Old Bob
knew, or thought he knew, from past experience,
almost exactly how much the weekly
petty cash should average, he would soon be
able to make a pretty shrewd guess whether
Bobin was honest or otherwise. He had
probably heard the story of the ingenuous
youth who, on applying for a post as assistant-bookkeeper,
and being asked how much wage
he wanted, said " Thirty shillings a week'*
but if he might keep the petty cash he would
take twenty !

The change in Robin's fortunes, albeit
somewhat ungraciously announced, rejoiced
him greatly, and his thanks were warmly
expressed.

Never mind thanking me ; thanks are

VOL. II. O

194 BIRCH Des.

only words. I'd liefer have deeds. Thankful
is as thankful does. But if you must thank
somebody, thank my niece. It is more her
doing than mine."

This Robert Berry said because he hated
sentiment and did not believe in gratitude ;
yet nothing he could have said would have
given Robin so much pleasure. The youth forgot
the ungraciousness of the uncle, and thought
only of the kindness of Miriam, of which he
inwardly registered a vow to be worthy.

"Yes, sir' he answered, quietly — "when
shall I begin ? "

To-morrow. But you cannot go about,
and come here in them things " (pointing to
his greasy garments). " Have you a decent
working suit ? "

"No, sir."

You'll have to get one, then. There's a
ready-made shop at Topple ton ; you can buy
a good fustian suit and a couple of check
shirts for about thirty shillings."

Yes, sir. Shall I pay for them out of the
petty cash ? " asked Robin, smiling.

PROMOTION. 195

"He has you there, Robert!" laughed Ben.
How can th' lad find thirty shillings % We
shall have to help him."

Help him ! I don't know about that. I
was thinking he had happen as much laid by."

Laid by ! Did not Parson pick his
pocket, and you know how much he has had
since."

Oh, ay ! — I was forgetting. Well, I
suppose we shall have to lend him thirty
shillings then. But it must not go through
th' books. If you'll find one half, I'll find
t'other."

"Agreed ! But hadn't we better say 'give '
instead of 'lend?" put in Benjamin, who,
always more generous than his brother,
happened just then to be in an exceptionally
generous mood.

Give it him ! These aren't times forgiving.

I was thinking of stopping it at

so much a week. However, he shall have the

thirty shillings, and if he shapes right, we'll

say no more about it. You'll have to leave

th' apprentice house, Nelson."

o 2

196 BIRCH DENE.

Where must I live, then ? " asked Robin,
eagerly, as a wildly absurd hope crossed his
mind that it might be at Oaken Clough.

With Jim Rabbits. He can find you a
nook to sleep in. The concern will pay for

your tooth, and your wage will be Three

and sixpence a week, didn't we say, Ben ? "

We said five shillings."

The deuce we did ! Well, if we said so

It's a lot of money, though. Thirteen

pounds a year ! But you'll have to find your
own clothes, Nelson — no more loans or presents.
And now " — (turning to his brother)
" hadn't you better give him the thirty
shillings, and let him go to Toppleton and get
what he needs this afternoon ? "

Ben, nodding assent, produced the money,
which Robin (having no faith in his pockets)
dexterously tied in his shirt with a piece of
twine.

"That's all, I think," added the other, by
w r av of terminating the interview. " Bat
you'll just bear in mind, Nelson, that you are
still an apprentice, and willet be your own

PROMOTION. 197

master till you are of age ; and if you don't
give satisfaction, you'll have to go back to
your piecing, and live in th' bouse again. It's
just an experiment we are trying, as I said
before, to please Miss Berry. She thinks
you behaved well about Harney ; but, for my
own part, I don't expect much good will come
of it."

The purpose of which observation was to prevent
Robin from getting uppish and conceited,
or ascribing his promotion either to his own
merit or to Mr. Robert's kindness ; its principal
effect, to convince him that he owed nothing
to his masters, and everything to Miriam.

Great were the lamentations at the apprentice
house when it became known that " Lord
Nelson " had received orders to change his
domicile. Betty almost cried, Dick swore that
he was the cleverest young fellow he knew,
and expressed his belief that he had a " yet
and a loaf," and several of the maiden apprentices
shed tears.

Though, as may be supposed, Robin w T as by
no means sorry to leave the house, he could

198 BIRCH Dee.

not help being touched by these demonstrations
of affection, and he reminded his friends,
by way of consolation, that flitting to Jim
Eabbits' was not quite the same as going to
foreign parts," offering, at the same time, to
come in and read to them on Sunday afternoons
— an offer which was loudly applauded
and gratefully accepted.

His fresh quarters were nothing to boast of,
and had he gone thither direct from London
he would probably have thought himself ill-used
; but everything is relative, and compared
with the apprentice-house garret, his new bedroom
seemed almost luxurious. True, it was
small — about nine feet by six — and unpleasantly
near the slate ; and the bed barely big
enough to turn round in. On the other hand,
it was clean, and he had it all to himself; he
could fix a shelf on the wall for his books, and
find a place of safety for his guinea, which
Betty refused to 'bank" for him in her stays
any longer, and which he had been sharp
enough to prevent Robert Berry from making
him invest in a suit of clothes.

PROMOTION. 199

Old Bob's motive for ordering him to quit
the apprentice house for more expensive lodgings
was, nevertheless, not quite obvious. In
the first instance, Robin was rather disposed
to attribute it to the influence of his adored
protectress — an illusion which was, however,
speedily knocked on the head by Jim
Rabbits.

"What for has Mr. Robbut shifted you froth'
'prentice house to mine, seeing as it costs
him more ?" said the spinning master. " Well,
he hasn't told me, but I think it's middling
plain. You're too clever for th' 'prentice
house. You can read and talk, and he has
happen an idea as you'll be talking and reading
too much. If you took wrong ways, you
might play awkerd tricks — story up a strike, or
summit o' that short. He thinks you're safe
with me — and it doesn't cost him so much
more as you nut think. He beat me down
most terrible. I wouldn't ha' done it, nobbut
as now you are here constant I shall larn a
sight faster ; and when I can write and cipher,
th' owt devil may £0 and han hissed for owt

200 BIRCH Dee.

I care. I shall be able to mend my shop
then."

This deliverance surprised Robin. He had
always supposed that Jim and the junior
partner were on excellent terms ; but it was
evident that the latter was no better liked
by the spinning master than by anybody else.
He doubted even whether Miriam could really
like her uncle, and it pleased the young fellow
exceedingly to think that he owed her an
infinity of gratitude, and none whatever to
him, whom, rightly or wrongly, he regarded as
half tyrant, half rogue.

One of Robin's new duties was to examine
accounts, and a few days after his promotion
Robert Berry gave him some cotton invoices
to check.

See as they are right added up and cast
out," he said. Whereupon Robin, going diligently
to work, found an error of twenty
pounds.

"That's right!" exclaimed "Old Bob."
Why, you've saved your wage already !
Try if you cannot find another."

PROMOTION. 201

Robin did find another ; but on the other
side — ten pounds too little charged.

Humph ! " grunted Old Bob, when he
pointed this out.

Shall I make a note of it 1 " asked Robin.

"Ay, you happen better had. It'll look
honest. But th' next time you come across
owt o' th' sort, say nowt about it. It's no
business of ours to find out other folks'
mistakes — when they're against us."

Robin doubted whether this was seriously
meant, for albeit Mr. Robert seemed to be
in earnest, there was a something in his
manner which rather belied his words. At
any rate, Robin continued to note all the
mistakes he found, whether they were for
or against ; and he did wisely, Berry,
junior, being fairly honest, according to his
lights ; and, had the youth acted as he suggested,
he would certainly have drawn conclusions
unfavourable to his personal integrity,
or, as Old Bob put it tersely to himself, " If
he helps me to rogue other folks, he'll help
other folks to rogue me."

202 BIRCH DENE.

In one respect Robin's removal to Jim
Eabbits was not to his liking. He saw less
of Miriam than he would have clone had he
remained at the apprentice house. She called
there two or three times a week, had the
place thoroughly cleaned and whitewashed
inside and out, talked to the girls, and took
great interest in the conversion of the two
adjoining cottages into a hospital. Robin
seldom saw her, except at church, whither
he went every Sunday morning, rain or shine.
She had always a nod and a smile for him,
and they exchanged an occasional greeting,
but several months elapsed before he had a
chance of thanking her for the propitious
change in his fortunes which her influence
had wrought. It happened on a Sunday.
He was reading to the apprentices the story
of The Three Calendars, when a general rustle
and exclamation of surprise caused him to
look up, and he found that among his hearers
were Miriam and her father, who had stepped
into the room almost un perceived.

Pray go on, Nelson, " she said, taking a

PROMOTION. 203

chair, vacated for her by one of the maiden
apprentices. " We will wait till } r ou have
finished."

When the reading; was over she hinted that
she had something to say to him, and he
followed her out of the house, Mr. Berry
bringing up the rear.

"You read very well, Nelson, and The
Arabian Nights is interesting ; but don't you
think you could find some book more suitable
for the day ? "

Whereupon Robin explained that he unfortunately
possessed no more suitable book,
and that unless he read something rather
exciting, the apprentices either ceased to
listen or fell asleep; that even the reading
of the Bible produced this result, and they
would listen neither to Plutarch's Lives nor
Milton's poems. He observed, further, that
though The Arabian Nights might not contain
much useful information, or be religiously
edifying, it excited the children's imagination,
took them out of themselves, and made them
forget for a while the hardship of their lot.

204 BIRCH DENE.

I never thought of that," she said, frankly.
Yes, it must be good to make those poor
children forget, sad as it is to sav so ; and,
for my own part, I enjoy tales immensely.
Still, you know, this is Sunday, and I think

> I have a good many books at home,

and as you are a judge of books, why not
come with me, and we will try to choose
something which is edifying without being
dull J "

Robin protested that nothing would please
him better, and Mr. Berry making no
objection, he went with them to Oaken Clough.
The house was rather large of its class, containing,
in auctioneer phraseology, " four
entertaining rooms." One was the parlour
par excellence, beloved by the brothers. In
it they took all their meals, smoked their
pipes, and spent their rare moments of leisure.
The drawing-room was laid up in lavender,
and the dining-room was used only on Sundays
and three or four times a year, when Mr.
Berry gave a heavy dinner to half a dozen
hard-drinking friends. But Miriam changed

PROMOTION. 205

all this. It seemed to her a waste of good
things to have rooms merely for ornament,
so she had them swept and warmed everyday,
and on a Sunday evening would tempt
the brothers into the drawing-room by playing
a few old-fashioned hymn tunes on her
harpsichord — a present from her uncle. The
fourth room was her own. Beforetime it
had been called the " little room " and the
library " indifferently — albeit, until she came
home, it contained nothing more literary than
an empty bookcase. Now it was known as
Miss Berry's room " — for the word boudoir
had not yet come into use at Birch Dene. It
was a cosy little room, adjoining a small conservatory,
which she filled with choice flowers.
She moreover replenished the bookcase with
her own literary treasures, and hung on the
walls several of her water-colour sketches.

Into this room Miriam introduced Robin,
and as her father, who knew nothing about
books, and cared less, had betaken himself
to the parlour and his pipe, the two young
folks were left to themselves.

CHAPTER XIII.

AT OAKEN CLEUGH.

Here are my books ! " said Miriam.
"Now let us see if we cannot find among
them something — I won't say more entertaining,
but better adapted for Sunday reading
than The Arabian Nights

I am sure we can ; but you must remember
that Sunday is the only time factory
folks have for reading of any sort."

This, though a sufficiently appropriate
answer, had a purpose not obvious to Miriam
Robin being just then much more desirous
of leading up to a conversation about themselves,
and thanking her for her good offices
on his behalf, than helping her to select books
suitable for Sunday reading.

That is quite true. I wish it were not.

AT .OAKEN CLEUGH. 207

But so far as you are concerned, you have
surely more time for reading than you had ? "
said Miriam, falling straightway into the trap.

Thanks to you, I have ; and I do thank
you very much. Do not think me ungrateful
for not thanking you sooner. I had not the
chance. I shall never forget your kindness as
long as I live, Miss Berry."

It is very good of you to say so, but
I don't know what I have done to deserve
so much gratitude ; it was my uncle and
my father," returned Miriam who was both
amused and surprised by the impetuosity of
the young fellow's manner, and the warmth
of his words.

Oh, yes ; they advanced me and removed
me from the apprentice house, I know ; but
not because of any merit of mine. It was to
please you."

To please me ! "

"Your uncle said so. He said you had
asked him to put me in a better position,
and that I must thank you for my advancement,
not him."

208 BIRCH DENE.

Yes ; I believe I did suggest that he
might give you a better position, but had I
known that he would put it in that light, I
almost think I should have held my peace,"
said the girl, with a smile that belied her
words — for, in truth, Robin's gratitude was
by no means displeasing to her. "And I
am sure my uncle would not have advanced
you if he had not thought you worthy of it.
At any rate, he is quite satisfied with you sofar
— that I know."
Does he say so ? "

He was saying only yesterday to my
father that you were diligent and useful, and
would soon be a great help to them ; and
from my uncle that is high praise."

I am very glad. It is pleasant to know
you are giving satisfaction, especially when
you are trying your best. All the same, it
is to you I owe the opportunity of winning
your uncle's praise, and I decline to be grateful
to anybody but you."

Oh, but you must be grateful to mv
father and my uncle as well as to me — more

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 209

than to me, for I did very little," said Miriam,
with a slight blush. " But let us look at the
books. What do you think of this ? "

Robin answered by inquiring what she
thought, and there followed a little discussion
on the general subject, into which, however,
neither of them put much heart, for both were
thinking of something else. He wanted to
continue the personal narrative, which he had
left unfinished on the occasion of his previous
visit, yet hesitated to resume it without being
asked, and though Miriam was burning with
curiosity to hear it, she equally hesitated to
ask him — partly out of a feeling of delicacy,
partly perhaps from another and less definable
feeling.

From this embarrassment they were relieved
by an opportune accident.

Robin took up at random a book, the title
of which happened to be, Where Is Your
Father? It had a religious application, but
it applied in a special manner to himself.

This might be meant for me ? " said
Robin, showing Miriam the book.

VOL. II. P

210 BIRCH DENE.

So it might. How strange it is you
should light on that book ! Have you — I
suppose ) T ou have not yet been able to think
of the name of your father — your earthly
father, I mean — for the title refers to our
heavenly Father ? "

I am sorry to say I have not. You
said you might perhaps help me to remember
it.

Perhaps I might if I knew the whole of
your story. At the same time, if you would
rather not tell me, don't hesitate to say so.
I should be very sorry to give you pain, and
yon said "

But I rather would, Miss Berry, if you
would kindly let me. True, mine is a mournful
story ; but if I might — you said, you
know, that it might ease my mind, and that
you might perhaps help me to remember my
father's name and my own. You have no
idea what a strange feeling; it is not to know
your own name. May I ? "

Of course you may. The little you told
me the last time you were here interested

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 211

me so much that I shall be glad to know

all."

"And I will tell you all, Miss Berry.
It were ungrateful to have any secrets from
so kind a friend."

Miriam, slightly blushing, acknowledged the
compliment with a gracious smile, and signing
to Robin to take a seat (they had been
standing near the bookcase), took one herself.

If you are ready to begin I am ready to
listen," she said, simply. " My father and
uncle are in the parlour, and we are not
likely to be interrupted. We can look at the
books afterwards."

On this hint Robin spoke. He told Miriam
all that the reader knows, and something
more, for he began with his earliest recollections
— gave an account of his life in Hampshire
and a dimly-remembered visit of his
father ; of the summons to meet him in
London, and the journey thither; of the
gradual waning of his mother's hopes ; of
their deepening poverty and growing despair ;
of their expulsion from their lodgings ; of the

p 2

212 BIRCH Dee.

arrest, the trial, the terrible scene in the Old
Bailey, and everything that had since befallen
him.

To this strange eventful history the young
girl listened with intense interest and undisguised
sympathy ; and when Robin, in a voice
broken with emotion, told of his mother's
imprisonment, and described her death and
his own illness and despair, Miriam bent her
head and wept.

So much was she moved, indeed, that it
was some minutes after Robin had finished
his tale before her feelings would permit her
to speak.

"I never heard the like!" she said at
length. " Poor boy ! Poor mother ! If I
had not seen with my own eyes — if I had not
visited Newgate, I would not believe that
men could be so cruel. Yet I am sure your
story is true. But the pity of it — the pity of
it ! . . . Just now you called me your friend.
You did right ; I am your friend. Look on
me as a sister, and I will help you to find
your father and think of his name. We must

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 213

find him. Your heavenly Father, who has so
wonderfully protected you, will open a way.
Be sure that he has led you here to Birch
Dene for some wise end, though it is still
hidden from us."

Do you really mean that — that you will
let me call you sister — Miriam, and that you
will call me brother — Robin ? " demanded the
young fellow, with glistening eyes and
perhaps more impetuosity than the occasion
absolutely required.

Yes," answered Miriam, dubiously, after a
moment's consideration ; for she had not
expected to be so promptly taken at her word
" yes, I think so ; for if I am as your
sister, you are of course as my brother. But
only between ourselves. My father and my
uncle might possibly not view the matter as
we would like them."

That is what I mean — only between
ourselves. I would not mention it to anybody
for the world. It is happiness enough for me
to think of you as my sister, and to know that
you regard me as your brother."

214 BIRCH DENE.

I think we had better continue our
examination of the books," said Miriam,
dryly, at the same time rising from her chair
and suiting the action to the word.

Though Robin was quite at a loss to understand
what this sudden change of mood might
portend, he felt that he had somehow put his
foot in it, and with an abashed look, silently
resumed his inspection of the bookcase.

And perhaps it was as well he did, for
shortly afterwards the door was unceremoniously
thrown open, and Mr. Berry, fragrant
with tobacco smoke, entered the room.

What ! Among your books yet ? " he
exclaimed, good-naturedly. " I never saw
owt like it. It might be a big business.
How soon will you have done ? "

I think we have done now, father,"
returned Miriam, quietly. "The work of
selection has been — j must a little difficult. If
you take these four, Nelson, I dare say they
will be enough for the present. Use those
you think the most suitable, and when you
want more, you can come again. I suppose

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 215

you will want your tea soon, father ? I will
see after it myself. I have let Polly and
Phoebe go out, and there is only Margaret in
the kitchen."

Well, when it's ready for us, I dare say
we shall be ready for it. Will you be playing
on your harpsichord after tea, think you ? "

Certainly, father, I shall be very glad —
unless you and uncle prefer your pipes'

Nay, we'll have some music first ; th'
pipes will do later on. Are you going,
Nelson ? "

"Yes, sir. I think it is about time,'
answered Robin, as he tied a piece of string
round his books. " Can I do anything more
for you, Miss Berry ? "

Thank you, I am not aware that you can
at present. But there is no need for you to
go just yet. Tea will be on shortly. He might
stay and have a cup — oughtn't he, father ? "

Ay, let him stay if he likes," was the not
very gracious response.

"Would you like to stay and take tea with
us, Nelson ? " added Miriam, kindly, with a

216 BIRCH Dee.

glance which, as he thought, meant that it
would please her if he did, and which made
amends for his recent rebuff. So he thanked
her and said "Yes." This matter beinor
settled she betook herself to the kitchen, and
on Mr. Bilberry's invitation Robin accompanied
him to the parlour, where they found
Old Bob " sitting on a rocking-chair by the
fireside, wearing his Sunday spectacles and
deep in a newspaper. Working days being
too precious for such trivialities, he always got
up the news of the previous week on the
Sunday afternoon ; and, when he had not
been to church in the morning, squared the
account by reading a chapter in the Bible as
well.

It was the first time Robin had seen the
junior partner taking his ease, and he looked
so different from his usual self that it needed
an effort to believe him to be the same man.
His face had lost, for the nonce, its hard
cynical expression, his lips wore something
like a smile, his manner was mild, and his
voice subdued. Robin was at first disposed

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 217

to ascribe the metamorphosis to Miriam's
influence, and to this cause it may have been
in some measure due ; but he learnt afterwards
that Robert Berry was always
affable at home, and as popular with the maids
as he was unpopular with the hands. It was
the difference between a general at the head
of an army in the field and in the bosom of
his family.

"Oh, it is you, is it, Nelson?" he said,
looking up. " Willet you take a chair ?
How's th' petty cash going on ? " — smiling.

"It is hardly for me to say, sir. But I
think I have kept it right so far."

Ay, has he," put in Mr. Berry, heartily ;
"and what is more, he keeps it down. I've
balanced him up regular, and for the time ashe
has had it, th' weekly average is fifteen
shillings less than it used to be."

And that is how long ? "

Going in six months."
- " That's a fair average. One week does not
amount to much, but five or six months tells
a tale. Let's see ! Twenty times fifteen makes

218 BIRCH DENE.

fifteen pounds. That's a fine saving. Keep
it up, Nelson — keep it up ! Always do your
best for your employers, and they'll do their
best for you, to say nowt of the satisfaction it'll
be to your conscience. See how many folks
we find in porridge every week ! Yet I don't
believe as there's half a dozen on th' ground as
ever think how much they owe us, and if it
wasn't for our capital and the way we look
after things they'd have to clem [starve].
They think more of robbing us — and they
do, too."

And as if the mere idea of ingratitude so
base had touched him to the quick, the
speaker's face darkened, and his voice trembled
with sorrowful indignation.

Sobbing you ! " exclaimed Robin, moved
in turn to indignation by this sweeping imputation
on the characters of the hard-working,
ill-paid factory hands of Birch Dene. " Hardly
that, Mr. Robert. How can they rob you ? "

Oh, I don't mean as they actually carry
things off th' ground. They are too well
looked after for that. I mean as they idle

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 219

away a good deal of their time. When I see
a chap idling, I feel it just as much as if he
had his hand in my pocket."

"But most of them are on piecework, and
if they are idle, the loss is their own, you
know."

And isn't it ours too ? Aren't the fixed
expenses — rates and taxes, interest of money,
wear and tear of machinery — aren't they just
the same, whether we turn out owt or nowt 1
And if we don't turn out a good deal, we shall
soon be ruined."

Business again, uncle ! " said Miriam, who
just then came in. " I thought you did not
let it trouble you on Sundays ? "

No more I do, except when summit
brings it to my mind. Nelson here seemed
to think that hands on piecework can waste
their time without th' concern suffering, and I
was merely explaining that fixed expenses are
just th' same, whether we turn out much or
little."

"What deplorable ignorance! I hope he
has grasped the point. Have you, Nelson ? "

220 BIRCH DENE.

I think I have. All the same-never

mind all the same. If you say anymore,
uncle will consider it his duty to make
another explanation, and we shall be talking
business all the evening."

"That is right, Miriam — we shall," observed
her father. " Ay, let's talk about summit
else. What do j r ou think them bullocks
made, Robert, as I sent to Preston ? '

Oh, it has to be bullocks, has it ? " laughed
Miriam. " I think I would rather have a
discussion on fixed expenses than a talk about
bullocks,"

Why, God bless me ! what would the lass
have ? " exclaimed Mr. Berry, with a bewildered
look. " Neither business nor bullocks
! What must it be, then ? "

Uncle has been reading the papers all
afternoon. Has he no news to tell us ?
Perhaps he will oblige us by starting a subject
which has no relation either to bullocks or
fixed expenses ? "

"That is a good idea. Ay, do, Robert,"
interposed his brother. " I never read owt

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 221

but tli' market reports and cock-fights myself.
You read everything. Is there owt going
on?"

"Lots. There has been a mill between
Convey Jim and the Hammersmith Pet. Two
or three of the Royal princes were there, and
ever so many noblemen. They say as the
Prince Regent backed th' Pet to th' tune of a
thousand pounds. If he did, he lost it, forth'
Pet came off second best. Then there was
a bull bait last week at Leeds, and th' bull
broke loose and tossed six or seven folks over
his head, and as many more were thrown
down and trodden to death, and th' Carlisle
mail coach has been robbed by two highwaymen
between Garstang and Lancaster "

What ! I thought all the highwaymen
had been wiped out."

It doesn't seem so ; and, really, what wi'
robbery, riot, and murder, I don't know what
th' country is coming to. However, I'm glad
to see that th' authorities are acting with
vigour. Seven men and two women have
been sentenced to death at Lancaster — two

222 BIRCH DENE.

of 'em for stealing pieces off a croft — and a
meeting of weavers at Burnley to petition for
reform has been dispersed and th' ringleaders
arrested. And serve 'em right too ! I'd transport
every one of 'em. What do they know
about politics ? Let 'em stop at home and
mind their looms, and be contented with that
state of life as God has given 'em. I'm content
; why shouldn't they be ? — and I work
as hard as anybody. To hear some folks talk,
we might be the most down-trodden and ill-used
people as is, yet I'll be bound to say as
that there isn't anywhere a better governed ora
happier country than this."

Although, what with robbery, murder,
and riot, you don't know what it is coming
to, Uncle Robert," observed Miriam, with an
amused smile.

Did I say so ? I didn't mean ; I mean
I did not — you take one up so sharp, Miriam,"
he stammered, after a stare of annoyance and
surprise. " And if things are not quite what
they should be, it isn't the fault of the Government
or the laws. While the war lasted the

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 223

Jacobites were never tired of prating about
peace and plenty. Well, we've got peace, and
now plenty seems farther off than ever. Shows
what fools they are."

"That reminds me — talking of peace, I
mean — that reminds me of Major Dene," put
in Mr. Berry — " Colonel Dene, I should
say; he's got promoted, you know. Is there
owt about him in th' papers you have been
reading ? "

In what way ? There's been no Gazette
lately, has there % "

Don't you know ? I thought I'd told you.
His regiment forms part of the army of occupation
in France. He had been on furlough
since Waterloo — owing to his wound — and
when he was promoted to the colonelcy, had
to go off at a minute's notice. That's why
Mrs. Dene did not call on Miriam ; she went
with him. I thought the regiment might
have been ordered home. When it is he means
to retire on half-pay, and settle down at Dene
Hall for good. He doesn't think there's any
likelihood of another war for a long time, and

224 BIRCH DENE.

he would rather lead the life of a country
gentleman, and look after his estates, than
waste his time in country quarters. That's
what he told me."

He'll ten to one be back soon, then ? ' ;

He'll not leave the regiment before it
leaves France, and that mayn't be for twelve
or eighteen months ; at least, so th' steward
was saying t'other day."

Well, he hasn't been at home much since
he came into th' property, has he ? "

About six or seven months in as many
years. He has seen a lot of service, Colonel
Dene has."

"Colonel Dene was old Mr. Dene's nephew
wasn't he, father ? " asked Miriam. " I just
remember him driving about in a low carriage,
with a pair of piebald ponies. He always gave
me a kindly nod."

Ay, a fine old English gentleman was Mr.
Dene. Uncommonly fond of cock-fighting he
was ; never had less than a hundred brace of
game birds in prime condition. Many a main
I've seen 'em fight, and before he got so gouty

AT OAKEN CLE UGH. 225

he'd ride fifty miles any day to see a bull or a
bear bait. And the cellar of port wine lie
kept ! Nobody had to dine with Mr. Dene as
couldn't carry two or three bottles of it away
under his belt ; and he made a rule of getting
drunk at least once a week. He had a head,
he had. I never saw his like ; there's no such
heads now-a-days" — (sighing).

"What a pleasant old gentleman! Major
I mean Colonel — Dene doesn't seem to
resemble him much."

Not a bit. He hasn't a head worth a row
of pins. Why, he drinks claret, and I've
heard of him saying as he thought cockfighting
and bull-baiting cruel sports. But
then there was not much kinship between
them."

I thought old Mr. Dene was the colonel's
uncle."

Not quite. They came off th' same stock,
however. Th' colonel's mother was own niece
to Mr. Dene's half-brother. Th' old squire's
had nephews of his own, and all of 'em
expected to get th' property ; and they say as

VOL. II. Q

226 BIRCH DENE.

he left it to th' colonel just to spite 'em all.
And a good job too ; them nephews were a
rare lot of wastes."

He had to change his name, hadn't he ? "
put in Robert.

"Ay, that was the condition, I believe."

Indeed ! I did not know that," said
Miriam, in some surprise. " What used the
Colonel's name to be ? "

I've clean forgotten, lass. It's a longtime
since I heard it, and I've never known
him as owt but Colonel Dene. What was it,
Robert?"

Nay, I can't tell. I've quite enough todo
to mind my own business, without keeping
other folks' names i' my head, as I haven't
heard for years, and care nowt about. And
what does it matter? We know who he is

now."

At this point the door was furtively pushed
open a few inches, and Margaret (who was
given to shyness) informed her young mistress
in a stage whisper that " tay was ready."

Thereupon all filed into the dining-room,

AT OAKEN CLEUGH. 227

and Robin had the felicity of sitting at
Miriam's left hand.

The tea-service was of exquisite old china,
as fine and as transparent as a sea-shell, and
the teapot (which had belonged to her grandmother)
was something to live up to, and
would have made a modern collector die of
envy. But there were no plates — wooden
platters for tea and breakfast being still the
fashion at Oaken Clough. The bread was
served up in slices of wafer-like thinness, well
buttered, and there were muffins, crumpets,
boiled eggs, and ham collops in almost lavish
profusion. The beverage which gave its name
to the repast was strong and fragrant, which,
seeing that tea at that time cost from five to
six shillings a pound, was perhaps more than
might have been expected. But it was a
tradition at Oaken Clough to have everything
of the best, especially in the way of eatables
and wrinkles.

After tea the party adjourned to the ,
and Miriam, seating herself at the
harpsichord, sang and played, chiefly old

2

228 BIRCH DENE.

fashioned hymn tunes. Robin, who stood by
with beaming face, turned over the leaves of
her music-book. The improvised concert concluded
with the singing of the doxology, in
which " Old Bob " joined with seeming fervour,
and in a somewhat harsh, yet not untuneful
voice. The young fellow would fain have
lingered a little longer ; but when Mr. Berry
said something about whisky and water, and
its being nearly bedtime, he took it as a hint
that he had outstayed his welcome, and after
bidding the brothers and Miriam good-night,
and thanking them for their hospitality, he
went his way.

CHAPTER XIV.

REBUFFS.

What do you think of this reading and
going on, Robert ? " asked Benjamin of his
brother, as they were sipping their grog in
the parlour, after Robins departure.

Well, I cannot say as I particularly like
it. The less apprentices know about books
and such like the better, in my opinion. But
what can you do? It pleases Miriam, and
happen does not do so much harm, after all.
It isn't as if the apprentices were learning to
read — that wouldn't do at all. They'd be
glazier and more discontented than they are
now. But there's one thing you'll have to
mind. You'll have to take care as them two
doesn't get too thick."

Too thick ! What do you mean ? "

230 BIRCH DENE.

"What I say. What folks generally do
mean when they talk about lasses and lads
getting too thick."

But — you don't know what you are talking
about, Robert!" exclaimed Mr. Berry,
excitedly. " It is quite impossible. You
forget, I think, that Miriam is my daughter,
and Nelson nowt but a common parish
apprentice'

And she's a lass and he's a lad, and when
lasses and lads get together, they do sometimes
get too thick. However, it's nowt tome.
I only thought . . ."

It's absurd — impossible ! " interrupted the
other, angrily. " I wonder at you, Robert !
You are too suspicious — too suspicious by
half."

Well, I happen am ; but Miriam is very
young, remember, and when lasses are at that
age . . .

What does an old bachelor like you know
about lasses ? "

Humph ! There's many an old bachelor
knows more about lasses than married men

REBUFFS. 231

do," rejoined Robert, with a cynical laugh.
That's the main reason why they keep
single."

It's perfectly ridiculous, I tell you ! " said
Ben, now quite in a fume. " Such an idea
could not possibly enter Miriam's head. She's
as good as gold ! "

"You're right there, she is, but very
inexperienced and without a mother; and
Nelson is a good-looking young fellow, and
he knows about books, and can talk gradely
English."

What by that % He's nowt but a factory
lad, and she'd never think, and he'd never
dare . . . It's all nonsense ! I mean Miriam
to marry a man of birth and breeding, and
what I tell her she'll do."

Robert Berry leaned back in his chair
and laughed heartily.

You think so, do you ? " he exclaimed.
"Well, I don't reckon to be much of a prophet,
but I'll prophesy one thing : When th'
time comes she'll please herself, not you.
Mark me if she doesn't. All th' same, I shall

232 BIRCH DENE.

be fain if she does wed a highflyer — what
you call a man of birth and breeding — but
you may take your davy as she willet let
you pick and choose for her. Miriam isn't
a lass of that sort, and if you let on as you're
expecting owt of th' sort, it will just set her
against it. However, it's nowt to me. She's
your daughter, not mine. I only thought as
I would just drop you a bit of a hint."

A bit of a hint ! I call it a d broad

hint," growled Mr. Berry, as he mixed
himself a glass of punch. "And I don't
know as I want any hints. I dare say I
can see as far into a stone wall as anybody
else."

Robert smiled sardonically, as if he was
not quite sure about it. Ben, however, made
no further remark, but went on silently smoking,
as if his thoughts were too big for
words.

Although Mr. Berry resented his brother's
interference in his family .concerns, and affected
to despise his warnings, they made their
mark, and the longer he pondered them the

REBUFFS. 233

less he liked him. The contingency suggested
by Robert was at least possible, and
albeit he tried to persuade himself that Miriam
would have more sense," and Nelson " would
never have the impudence to think of such
a thing," the result of his musings (extending
intermittently over several days) was a
resolve to forbid him the house, and put
Miriam on her guard.

Have you seen owt of Nelson lately % "
he asked her, with assumed indifference, as
they sat one evening at tea. "You said
something about him having some more books,
didn't you ? "

"It is hardly possible he can have read
those he took already. It was only last
Sunday but one that he was here."

So you don't think he's likely to becoming
again just yet?"

Unless he finds the books unsuitable."

And he very likely will."

What makes you think that, father ? "

"For th' sake of coming here — and getting
asked to tea."

234 BIRCH DENE.

"And do you think so ill of him, father,
as to believe that he would tell an untruth
on the chance of getting an invitation to
tea ? "

"Why, no. I don't think I would go sofar
as to say that," said Mr. Berry, perceiving
that he was rather on a wrong tack.
But he likes coming —there's no denying
that — and if it isn't to get his tea, it must
be for something else."

What else can it be, father ? "

How should I know ? You are more
likely . I mean " — (abruptly) — " I mean
that I don't want him to come any more ;
and if he does come, I want you not to see
him."

Why, father, what has Nelson done wrong ?
You were saying only the other day that he
was shaping so well ! " returned Miriam, with
a surprised look.

So he is. But that's nowt — I mean,
it's business. Anyhow, I don't want him
here."

Because he is an apprentice, I suppose ?

REBUFFS. 235

All the same, father, he is a gentleman — and
of good breeding too."

Who says so ? "

"It is evident in his manner and appearance."



Well, that's the very reason I don't want
him to come here," said Mr. Berry, with
an impatient gesture, as if he found his
daughters questionings both embarrassing
and irritating.

You don't want him to come here because
he is a well-bred young man ! You are
talking in riddles, father."

I don't want him to come here because
because people might talk, if you will
know ! " blurted out Mr. Berry, now really
angry, albeit the next moment he bitterly
regretted both his display of temper and his
not very discreet remark, which he would
have recalled had it been possible.

I think I understand what you mean,
father, and it shall be as you wish," said
Miriam, with bowed head and burning cheeks ;
and when tea was over she quietly withdrew.

236 BIRCH DENE.

Of all this Robert Berry had been keenly,
though silently, observant.

Well, if anybody had tovvd me, I wouldn't
have believed 'em," he exclaimed, when his
niece was gone.

Believed what ? "

"That you could be such — that you could
be so foolish."

Why, what have I done ? " asked Mr.
Berry, defiantly.

The very thing you shouldn't have done.
You've put it into her head. She'll think
about nowt else now."

Come, come now ! Didn't she say as it
should be as I wished ? "

She did say so, meaning as she wouldn't
ask him here again ; but she didn't say as
she wouldn't think about him."

Well, I happen did say too much. I
know I said more than I meant to do. But
she put me out so with her questions. However,
it's very easy to find fault : what would
you have done ? "

I would have begun at the other end —

REBUFFS. 237

given Nelson to understand as he isn't welcome
at your house. He would have troubled
you no more after that."

I can do so yet. But wouldn't it be best
to set rid of him altogether — send him about
his business ? "

"You cannot. We are as much bound to
him as he is to us."

We might send him back to his spinning."

The very worst thing you could do. It
would set folks talking at once. Besides,
he is getting very useful, and the concern
would suffer. Best let it drop. At any rate,
you have put an end to her seeing him here,
and I don't suppose there is much likelihood
of her seeing him at the factory, or calling
on him at Jim Eabbits. Not as I think
there's owt between 'em, or as such a thought
has ever entered her head — unless you put
it there just now. I could tell that by her
face when she began to see what you were
driving at."

I wish you hadn't put owt o' th' sort
into my head," growled Ben. " It has

238 Bitch DENE.

bothered me ever since, and it bothers me

yet."

I wish I hadn't," returned Robert, with a
sardonic smile. " However, as we both seem
to have done our worst for our best, let's say
no more about it. Some things are better let
alone, and this seems to be one on 'em."

On a Sunday evening, some two or three
weeks after this conversation, Robin presented
himself at Oaken Clough and asked for an
interview with its young mistress.

Tell Miss Berry," he said to Phoebe,
who opened the door for him, " that I have
brought back her books, and should be glad
to have another or two."

Certainly, Nelson. If you'll wait here a
minute I'll let her know, and bring you
word," answered the maiden, graciously ; for
though she looked upon him as being socially
rather beneath her, he had a comely face and
nice manners, and the thought had more than
once crossed her mind that he w T ould make
an eligible sweetheart.

In five minutes she returned.

REBUFFS. 239

Miss Berry is sorry she cannot see you,"
said Phoebe ; " but she will be pleased if you
will step into her room and take what books
you like. Shall I go with you ? "

Robin, who looked very glum, nodded
assent, and accompanying the maid to Miss
Berry's room, restored to their places the
books he had brought, and took two others at
random.

What a scholar you must be to read so
many books, Nelson ! I wish I could read,"
simpered Phoebe, with a killing glance of her
big black eyes.

You don't read ! " said Robert, observant
of the glance, but unconscious of its meaning.

"No; I wish I did. Nobody never learned
me," murmured the girl, with a second glance,
even more eloquent than the first.

Why don't you go to school, then ? " and
with that Robin turned on his heel and left
the room.

Well, I never ! " exclaimed Phoebe, in a
towering passion. " Go to school, indeed !
Let him go to school hissed, and larn manners.

240 BIRCH DENE.

I wouldn't have him for a sweetheart at any
price — not if there wasn't another lad left at
Birch Dene."

After a decent interval Robin repeated the
experiment, with precisely the same result,
save that Phoebe gave him a cuttingly cool
reception, and he declined to take any more
books.

Tell Miss Berry that I am very much
obliged to her, but for the present I don't
require any more books," he said.

"Yes, I'll tell her," answered the young
woman, with a saucy toss of her head ; " and,
if I was you, I wouldn't come bothering anymore
about books, for I am sure she doesn't
want you."

Having delivered this Parthian arrow,
Phoebe, by way of driving it home, banged
the door behind him, and Robin knew, as he
already suspected, that he was no longer a
persona grata at Oaken Clough. And he half
guessed the truth — that his exclusion was
more Mr. Berry's doing than Miriam's, for
whenever they met casually, at church and

REBUFFS. 241

elsewhere, she always gave him the same
kindly nod, and, opportunity serving, a word
of friendly greeting. There were times, moreover
when he thought he could discern in
her beautiful eyes a wistful, pathetic look, as
if she regretted as much as he did a separation
which she had been unable to avert.
But it all came to the same thing : their
pleasant meetings and fraternal relations were
at an end, and he had little hope that they
would ever be renewed.

The brothers Berry were naturally cognizant
of Robin's rebuffs. They knew that
he had been twice at Oaken Clough, that on
neither occasion had he been seen by Miriam,
and they gathered from Phoebe that he was
not likely to come again.

Benjamin was jubilant ; he saw in this consummation
a proof of his superior sagacity,
and crowed loudly over his would-bes wiser
brother.

What do you say now ? " he exclaimed.
Wasn't I right in speaking to Miriam as I
did ? If I hadn't, he would have been coming

VOL. II. R

242 BIRCH Dee.

yet. You're very knowing about business,
I'll admit — nobody more so ; but about lasses,
and farming stock, and crops ."

I'm not up to much, you think. Well,
I never reckoned to know much about farming
; it is not in my line. Bat about lasses
I reckon to know as much as here and there
an odd 'un ; and I believe yet as I was quite
right about Miriam," said Robert, who never,
if he could help it, owned to a mistake.
I still think you went the wrong way to
work. Anyhow, if I hadn't spoken, you
would neither have seen nowt nor said nowt."

AVell — ay — happen," said the elder, rather
taken aback by this way of putting the
matter. "But I am not quite sure as there
was owt to see. Folks sometimes see trees
when there's no wood. However, it's happen
as well as it's put a stop to. A parish
apprentice, let him be as learned as he likes,
is no fit companion for my lass. Have you
heard as there's some talk of the Denes
coming back ? "

No. When are they coming % "

REBUFFS. 243

I haven't heard exactly when. To tell
th' truth, I don't think as anybody knows.
It's just talk. I wonder how soon after they
do come back Mrs. Dene will be calling on
Miriam ? "

"So do I," said Robert, with one of his
sarcastic laughs.

You mean as you don't think as she will.
I am sure she will. Colonel Dene is a man
of his word."

"I don't deny it. But man and wife are
not always of one mind, and highflyers like
Mrs. Dene don't take kindly to manufacturers'
daughters."

Manufacturers' daughters ! Ay, and summit
more. The Ruberrys are a good old
family, and I'm a country gentleman, though
I am in trade."

So you are — after a fashion. You'd be
but a poor one, though, if it wasn't for th'
factory. However, we shall see ; and I
wouldn't be so cocksure about it if I were
you. It's a bad thing to be cocksure about
owt."

R 2

244 BIRCH DENE.

What an unbelieving old sinner you are,
Robert ! Come now ; I'll bet you owt you
like as Mrs. Dene comes to see Miriam."

Ay, but when ? "

Within a month after she gets back."

Well, I'm not much given to betting — it
is not in my line — but I'll wager a five-pun
note as she doesn't."

Done with you ; and I hope you'll lose,
if it's only to punish you for being so doubtful
about everything, and going against everything
as I say. You haven't got quite all th'
sense, Robert."

CHAPTER XV.

A MOMENTOUS VISIT.

The drawing-room at Oaken Clough ;
Miriam reclining in a rocking-chair reading
a book, which, judging from the frequency
with which she lays it down and thinks —
or dreams — does not seem to be of absorbing
interest. Are her thoughts about Robin %
Possibly, for the day before she had seen him
at church, and they had exchanged greetings
in the porch, and when their eyes met for
an instant it seemed to her that his looked
reproach. And no wonder ; for had she not,
after promising to be his counsellor and friend,
and letting him call her "sister," refused to
see him when he called, and terminated their
intimacy, and let nearly a twelvemonth pass
without a word of explanation ? Yet how

246 BIRCH DENE.

could she explain — how tell hin that her
father . . . And as she recalled her father's
words, she bowed her head and blushed as
deeply as at the moment when their significance
first flashed on her mind. And yet —
and yet she would like to let Robin know
that he had not offended her, that his exclusion
from the house was not her doing, and
that her sisterly affection for him was unaltered
and unabated. True, she could write ;
but even though it were maidenly to do so
(as to which she had grave doubts), it was
quite out of the question, after her father's
warning, to open a correspondence with Robin.
For the letter would have to go either by hand
or post. In the former case she would need
to confide in a servant, and post letters were
so few and far between that nobody at Birch
Dene could get one without everybody else
knowing. So there was apparently nothing
for it but to wait with what patience she
might for an opportunity of putting herself
right with him. A word would do ; she need
only say that she still regarded herself as

A MOMENTOUS VISIT. 247

his friend (there could surely be no harm
in that), and would always take an interest
in his welfare.

And then, trying to dismiss the subject
from her mind, she resumed her reading ;
but before she had reached the bottom of
the page the door opened, and Phoebe appeared
on the threshold in a state of intense
though suppressed excitement.

"The carriage from the Hall has just
turned into th' coach-road," she said, eagerly.
It'll ten to one be Mrs. Dene. What shall
I do?"

Show her in, of course."

"And th' footman? — it's him wi' th' bio*
fat caves — must I show him in too ? "

Of course not," laughed Miriam ; " he will
wait outside with the carriage."

Thank goodness ! " murmured the maid,
with a sigh of relief. "That man frightens
me ; he's so grand ; a peacock's a fool to
him."

Notwithstanding Miriam's seeming coolness,
she felt both nervous and excited, for Mrs.

248 BIRCH DENE.

Dene was the greatest lady in the neighbourhood,
a " highflyer," as her uncle said, and
her visit a momentous event.

But her guest quickly put her at her
ease.

At last ! " she exclaimed, taking Miriam's
hand. " I promised myself this pleasure long
aco. But we were called away so suddenly,
it was quite impossible. I called on nobody.
But now we are at home for good, and I
hope we shall see much of each other. How
have you been ? Very well ! I am glad to
hear it. We have had, oh, such a pleasant
time in France, and my boy has grown so
much. You would hardly know him. I
would have brought him with me, but he still
feels the effect of the journey — took a little
rheum, in fact, from which he is not fully
recovered. Ah, you have been reading.
May I look ? I am a great reader myself.
Moliere. Vous savez le Francis?" — (with a
gesture of surprise).

Oui, madame, je le sais, un peu."

Whereupon Mrs. Dene said something fury

MOMENTOUS VISIT. 249

ther in the same language, but finding that
Miriam knew it better than herself, she fell
back on her mother tongue.

"It is so nice that you have a knowledge
of French," she went on. " I have brought
several French books back with me, and I
shall be glad to lend them you. And we are
expecting shortly a French visitor, Captain
de la Facile, an officer of the King's guard.
It will be very nice for you to talk with him.
He doesn't know a word of English, poor man.
Yes, I enjoyed my visit to France greatly.
The regiment was quartered at Bologna, not
Boulogne-sur-mer, but Boulogne-sur-mer,
which is quite near Paris. We attended all
the duke's receptions, and " assisted " at a
great banquet at the Tuileries, and went
out somewhere or another nearly every evening.
But I had one great anxiety. . ."

What was that, Mrs. Dene ? "

"My husband had to fight a duel. But
he was very good ; he did not tell me until
it was over. He says it is wrong for a
married man to risk his life except in his

250 BIRCH DENE.

country's cause, or to save the life of another.
But the quarrel was forced on him, and he
had no alternative. A Bonaparte officer, a
noted bully, publicly insulted Colonel Dene
in a cafe, and the Colonel knocked him down.
A challenge followed as a matter of course.
They fought in the Bois, and . . ."

Yes, Mrs. Dene ? "

The Frenchman was killed."

"Oh, how dreadful ! " said Miriam with a
shudder.

It was indeed," returned Mrs. Dene,
gravely ; " but it would have been much more
dreadful had my husband been killed. And
Captain Espinasse — that was his name — was
a bloodthirsty ruffian. He made a practice
of insulting and challenging our young officers,
whom he invariably killed, out of revenge
for Waterloo. He did not know that Colonel
Dene was one of the best swordsmen in the
British army. I think my husband did quite
right — don't you ? He put an end to a
career of murder."

I do think so. How brave he must be ! "

A MOMENTOUS VISIT. 251

exclaimed Miriam, warmly. " Birch Dene
ought to be proud of him."

I will tell him what you say ; the compliment
will please him," said Mrs. Dene, with
a gratified smile.

She delighted to hear her husband praised.

And, now, when will you come to seeme
? "

When you please, Mrs. Dene."

(t Shall we say next Thursday ? "

Certainly ! If it be convenient for you,
Thursday will suit me very well."

Come early, then, in time for luncheon,
and we can have a long afternoon ; and
Colonel Dene would like you to bring that
young man with you. I forget his name, but
he does something at the factory. I always
call him the lost heir."

You mean Nelson % "

Yes ; that is his name, I think."

I don't know," said Miriam, reddening.
I mean that he has his work to do, and —
I am not sure that he could be spared. He
is in the counting-house now, and they find

252 BIRCH DENE.

him very useful. But if you would write
a line to my father, I dare say they would let
him come."

"Certainly if you wish it; or my husband
shall," returned Mrs. Dene, with a slight
lifting of the eyebrows, and a keen glance
at the girl. "But isn't that your father
passing the window ? I might ask him now,
and save the trouble of writing."

The next moment Mr. Berry entered the
room, booted and spurred, a hunting-crop
under his arm and a jockey-cap in his
hand.

I must pray you to excuse this dress,"
he said, after greetings Mrs. Dene with orreat
respect. " I was just starting for Toppleton,
when I heard you were here."

Don't mention it, I beo\ I always think
it is the dress which best beseems a gentleman
especially a gentleman of the old school,
like yourself."

Mr. Berry (who had put on his best
company manner) smiled with all his face
and bowed in acknowledgment of the coma

MOMENTOUS VISIT. 253

aliment, which made him feel two inches
higher, and at least five years younger.

I have just been asking your daughter
to take luncheon with me next Thursday."

Mr. Berry bowed again.

And my husband would like Mr. Nelson
to bear her company, if you would kindly let
him."

Of course, certainly — anything you like,
madame," answered Mr. Berry, with effusion.
And he would probably have said the
same had she included Jim Eabbits and Old
Dick in her invitation.

On Thursday, then," said Mrs. Dene,
rising from her chair and shaking hands with
Miriam.

Mr. Berry accompanied her to her carriage,
the door of which was opened by the footman
with the " caves," and as she drove off he
doffed his hat and made another low bow.
Miriam, looking from the window, smiled.
She had no idea that her father could be so
courtly. Then he returned to the drawing-room,
exultant.

254 BIRCH DENE.

Didn't I tell you so ? " he exclaimed, with
a boisterous laugh, clapping Miriam on the
shoulder. " I knew as she'd come. And
wasn't I right when I said you would get
asked to th' Hall — though you are but a
tradesman's daughter. I wonder what your
Uncle Robert will say now ? Anyhow, I'll
make him pay me that five pounds, and thou
shall have it, lass, to spend as thou likes."

Robert did not say very much, but he
contrived to take the gilt off his brother's
gingerbread for all that.

You're right for once," he said ; " and
Mrs. Dene has more common sense and neighbourly
feeling than I gave her credit for ; but
I don't see what occasion there is for so much
scratching (boasting). Nelson has to go, too,
hasn't he ? That looks as if she doesn't see so
much difference between a parish apprentice
and — what shall we say ? — a country gentleman's
daughter. Does it ? And, what's
more, they'll be thrown together again. However,
if it suits you, I have nowt to say
against it."

A MOMENTOUS VISIT. 255

This was a consequence which, in his
excitement, Mr. Berry had overlooked.
He had almost forgotten, in fact, that he had
promised to let the young fellow bear his
daughter company.

"What a kill-joy you are, Robert!" he
exclaimed, in a deeply mortified tone. " I
never make the least bit of a mistake that you
don't pounce on it at once. But I don't think
Mrs. Dene had the least idea of putting Nelson
on th' same level as Miriam. It's just a whim
of the Colonel's. And I willet let him go
with her — I'll be hanged if I will. It came
so sudden, I really hadn't time to think."

Nay, nay ; that would never do. You
must keep your promise, or else the fat will
be in the fire with a vengeance. If one goes,
t'other must go. It's a pity you hadn't
presence of mind to make an excuse ; you
could easily have said as he couldn't be spared,
or as you would speak to me. However, it
cannot be helped now. You'll just have to
make th' best of it."

"Ay, it is a pity," repeated Benjamin,

256 BIPX'H DENE.

ruefully : " but to tell th' honest truth, I was
that pleased when I saw Mrs. Dene I never
gave Nelson a thought, confound him ! But
it's not likely to happen again ; and I don't
suppose any harm will come of it. Miriam's a
sensible lass."

Well, there's no telling. Harm does oft
come of it when lasses and lads gets together.
However, we'll hope for th' best," said Robert,
with an exasperating smile — so exasperating
that his brother disdained to reply.

The next question that arose was how
Miriam should travel. Birch Dene Hall was
within easy walking distance of Oaken Clough,
but Mr. Eu berry did not deem it becoming for
his daughter to proceed thither on foot. To
send her in the orion he thought, would be
equally infra dig., and as the old chaise, when
overhauled, was found to be in an extremely
dilapidated condition (it had not been used
since the late Mrs. Berry's death), there was
nothing for it but to get one from Manchester,
and horse it with a pair of Mr. Berry's own
animals. Still, another difficulty was the

A MOMENTOUS VISIT. 257

disposal of Robin. To let him walk while
Miriam rode might, feared Mr. Berry, give
offence at the Hall. On the other hand, tolet
him go inside the chaise with Miriam was
quite out of the question for several reasons.
So the matter was compromised by putting
him on the box with our old friend Gib
Ending, who, in default of the ostler (laid up
with rheumatism), had to act as coachman.

Mr. Berry flattered himself that he managed
this rather delicate business with consummate
address, so contriving matters as to keep
the young people apart without letting his
object be perceived.

After informing Robin of the invitation,
and telling him to be sure to " behave " (as
if he had been a small boy), he observed,
loftily, and as if it were quite an afterthought
—

If you'll be up at our house about half-past
twelve, you may happen ride in th'
chaise."

liobin, it need hardly be said, was punctual
to the minute, and he had an opportunity of

VOL. II.

258 BIRCH Dee.

greeting Miriam as she stepped into the
chaise.

I think you'd better get on the box,
and see as Gib doesn't take th' stoop [drive
against a post," he said, half laughing, to
Robin. Then, in an undertone, " See as he
drives careful, specially coming back. Gib
isn't as good a whip as Carroty Joe [the ostler].
Captain hasn't been in double harness afore,
and I shouldn't like there to be any lumber.
I'm a bit doubtful how he'll slap."

Robin, after promising faithful compliance
with these instructions, took his place beside
Gib, and the team went at a slapping pace
down the avenue — for, though Mr. Buberry
sometimes kept a screw, he had a rooted
objection to a slug.

It's a different concern this fro' that
owt cart as I once drum yo' fro' Manchester
in, isn't it ? " said Gib, proudly, as they
turned into the main road. "Th' master
thinks as I cornet tool a pair o' bosses. He
wor never more mistaken in his life. I won't
three year in a coaching stable for nowt. I'll

A MOMENTOUS VISIT. 259

drive wi' anybody, whether it be a plot ora
post-chaise. Bitumen, I never thowt as
I should be driving yo' to th' Ho wi' th'
young missus ! Yo' 've getting on, yo'
have that. And yo' deserve to get on,
if it's nobbut for never axing me for that
shilling as yo' last me when yo' coom at
most — and that's going i' two years sin'. I'd
ha' paid yo', but I haven't had as mich i' my
pocket sin' — I haven't, as true as . . . Th' wife
otus draws my wage, and hoo willet gi' me
more than sixpence a week for beer brass. . .
Whoa ! Steady, Captain ! — and it's hard slacking
yer thirst on sixpence a week. However,
I reckon as yo' and me's more than straight
now, and you'll be in my debt to th' tune
of eighteen pence after to-day."

"I in your debt to the tune of eighteen-pence
! How on earth do you make that
out ? Why, you owe me a shilling. But
as it's so long since . . ."

Come now ! Don't yo' think as driving
yo' and th' young missus to th' Ho in a chaise
and pair deserves loaf a crown — and th' chaise

S 2

260 BIRCH Dee.

new done up and th' losses as fresh as paint.
Eigliteenpence '11 just battle it. . . . And
I otus said as yo' wor a gentleman i' th'
bottom ; and your father wor one afore
yo', I'll be bun!"

Robin laughed, but the appeal, backed by
so handsome a compliment, was irresistible.
Gib got his eigliteenpence.

I knew yo' would," he said, complacently
pocketing the money ; " and if ever I hear
anybody say as yore not a gradely gentleman,
I'll punch his shins for him. . , And
look yo' here, now ! If yo' like to get inside
as we come back I'll say nowt — a nod's as
good as a wink, you know. It'll be toward
th' edge o' dark, I daresay, and I'm sure
hood liefer have yore company than be
boxed up aw by herself' ; and yore not th' lad
I take yo' for if you'd have owt ageean it.
Whoa, Captain ! Did thou never see a black
jackass afore, thou godless beggar?' 5

CHAPTER XVI.

AT DENE HALL.

An old historic mansion was Birch Dene
Hall, the oldest part of it dating from the
time of the first Tudor, to which had been
added one wing in the Elizabethan style,
and another in that of Queen Anne, the whole
forming a somewhat incongruous yet picturesque
building — a quaint mixture of dormer-windows,
timbered walls, high gables, and
red chimney-stacks, clothed in a mantle of
creeping ivy. Before the terraced front
stretched the park — a wide expanse of undulating
turf, studded with grand old trees —
and the long avenue wound between a double
row of ancient elms, which in summer met
overhead and made a cool and grateful
shade.

262 BIPX 1 H DENE.

If I lived here I couldn't help being as
happy as a king, even if I'd to wait on
myself' and nowt to eat but porridge and
blue milk; and they say as Colonel Dene
has ten thousand a year, to say nowt of
his handsome wife and that bonnie little
lad," observed Gib, as they sighted the
house.

The same thought occurred to Robin. It
was impossible not to envy the owner of
such a fine old place and so beautiful a
domain.

As they drove up to the door the gentleman
in question, with a gun under his arm
and a brace of setters at his heel, rounded
the corner of the house. On seeing the
carriage he hurried forward, and was justin
time to help Miriam to alight. Colonel
Dene greeted his guests cordially, and with
less of formality than was customary at the
period. Then he took them round the building,
pointing out some of its more remarkable
characteristics, and relating a little of its
history. The outer door, of massive oak,

AT DENE HALL. 263

was studded with enormous nails, and pitted
here and there with bullet-holes, the bullets
being still quite visible.

We are supposed to be very proud of
these bullet-marks," said Colonel Dene, pleasantly.
" My wife thinks all the world of
them, and they certainly are an interesting
historical relic — although, if I had been living
at the time, I fancy I should have been among
those who made them."

"You mean that the house was held for
the king, and the bullets were fired by the
Roundheads ? " asked Robin.

Exactly ; and a brave defence the garrison
made of it — I will say that for them, albeit
I think they were on the wrong side. But
come in, and I will show you something of
which I am proud."

As the Colonel spoke he led the way into
a spacious hall, panelled in oak, whereon hung
trophies of arms, tattered and moth-eaten
banners, and old family portraits, which
looked down on several suits of ancient
armour, standing erect on their pedestals.

264 BIRCH DENE.

What a glorious old place ! " exclaimed
Robin, enthusiastically. "It is like seeing
history, or the realization of a dream. How
proud of it you must be, Colonel Dene ! "

All the more so as I wasn't brought
up in the expectation that it could by any
possibility ever be mine. Yes, it is a dear
old place. See ! Here is something of which
I am a good deal prouder than of the bullet-marks
I showed you just now. This harness
was worn by an ancestor of mine at Flodden
Field. He led a hundred archers of Birch
to the battle, and, according to tradition, their
cloth-yard shafts did dire execution among
the Scots on that famous day. There is a
fine description of the battle in Marmion.
Perhaps you may have heard of it — by Scott,
you know, who wrote The Lay of the Last
Minstrel''

Oh, yes," said Robin. " I know Marmion ; "
and, with great fire and animation, he repeated
the well-known lines, descriptive of Flodden
fight.

Who is this declaiming Scott \ " said

AT DENE HALL. 205

Mrs. Dene, who had entered the hall unperceived,
as Robin, remembering where he was,
paused in some confusion. " I was not aware
you were a reader of poetry, and could recite
it so well, Mr. Nelson."

He has read a good deal, I think," observed
Colonel Dene, regarding him thoughtfully.
Would you like to look round the library
until luncheon is ready, Nelson ? "

Robin answered in the affirmative, and as
Mrs. Dene led Miriam off in one direction,
the Colonel led him off in another.

The library was a spacious room, furnished
in oak, and with deeply embayed windows,
between which hung a few choice paintings,
while the inner walls were covered with
books from floor to ceiling, and from end
to end.

We have a vast number of old works,
as you see," remarked the Colonel. " Nobody
reads them now. But I think we have also
the best of modern and contemporary authors.
Here are Scott's poems, for instance, Have
you read any of his novels ? There is a new

2G6 BIRCH Dee.

one just out, The Bride of Lammermoor — to
my thinking, one of the finest tragedies in
the language."

No, sir, I have never had the opportunity.
I cannot afford to buy books. Marmion was
lent to me."

'would you like to take one of these with
you ? They are splendid stories, and I am
sure would entertain you. We have them
all. The Waverley novels too . . ."

How are you getting on with the
Euberrys ? " asked Colonel Dene, after Robin
had accepted the offer and tendered his
thanks. " It must be horrible, living in that
apprentice house. At least, I have heard
so."

"I don't live there now, sir. I have been
promoted."

"To what?"

Robin told him.

"I am very glad. Yet, still — Miss Berry
seems to be a very nice young; woman. Is
she as good as she looks ? "

"As good as she looks! Yes — quite,"

AT DENE HALL. 267

stammered Robin, surprised, as well lie might
be, by the suddenness and irrelevancy of the
question. " Quite as good — and better."

Better than she looks ! She must be
very good, then. I suppose people like
her ? "

Yes, sir. Everybody likes Miss Berry.
She has persuaded her uncle to establish an
infirmary in connection with the apprentice
house. She looks after it herself, and goes
a good deal among; the tenants. It is thought
she would do much more if Mr. Robert would
let her. But, as it is, she has made great
changes, and since she came home, the place
is altogether brighter and better."

ft ft

Well, from all I have heard, great changes
were required at Factory Hollow, as folks call
it. How is that poor devil we locked up
going on ? "

Blincoe ! He has grown a good deal, and
begins to look something like a man. I don't

ft ft

think, though, that his imprisonment did him
much good."

"How so?"

2G8 Birch DENE.

"It seems to have made him more sullen
and revengeful, and he sometimes says
thing's which makes me fear that, occasion
serving, he may try to revenge himself.
They say he set Lowdham Mills on fire —
the place he was at before he came to Birch
Dene."

I hope he won't do anything of that sort
here ; he is not likely to get ofT with imprisonment
if he does. Fire-raising is a
capital offence, and he would not get much
mercy. Why should he hanker so after revenge.
Has he been ill-used ? "

Terribly. Worse than a negro slave."

Well, these factory masters, like everybody
else, must reap as they have sown. . . .
You are young, Nelson. Let me impress on
you this lesson : As you sow now, so will
you reap. No man can do wrong — ay, or
shrink from doing right — without paying the
penalty. Even an honest error of judgment
may cause widespread misery. . . Have you
warned your employers of Blincoe's threats ? 9l

They hardly amount to threats. And

AT DENE HALL. 269

it would be of no use speaking to Mr.
Robert. He despises the hands too much
to fear them. And he has been threatened
so often, without anything coming of it, that
he would give no heed — perhaps not even
hear me. Besides, I don't like to report expressions
that I have accidentally overheard.
The only effect would be to get Blincoe
punished, and so make him more revengeful
than ever."

Well, perhaps you are right. But couldn't
you speak to Mr. Berry ? "

Mr. Berry leaves the management
nearly altogether to his brother. He would
simply refer me to him, and I should probably
be set down as a busybody. And Blincoe
has really said very little that can be laid
hold of. I judge more from his character
and his antecedents than his words. I maybe
quite wrong."

Let us hope you are. You were speaking
of Mr. Berry. Do you know anything of
his late wife — who she was, or where she came
from ? "

270 BIRCH DENE.

No tiling whatever, sir. I dare say Miss
Buberry could tell you."

I dare say she could " — (dryly). " Have
you heard anything more of the gentleman you
were telling; me about — I forget his name — ■
who persuaded you to become an apprentice ? "
Moses Weevil. No ; but I should very
much like to have a word with him. What
lies he and that beadle did tell me ! "

He must have wanted to get rid of you
very badly."

I begin to think so. All the same. I
cannot tell why. Solomon thought Mr.
Bartlett had made a will in my favour, and
that Weevil had destroyed it. But in that
case why should he want to get me out of
the way ? I had no claim either on him
or on the estate."

Mr. Bartlett wasn't akin to you, then ? "
Not the least ; though if I had been really
his son, he could not have treated me more
kindly. He did more for me than my father.
Not that I blame my father ; it is no fault
of his."

AT DENE HALL. 271

"How then? . . . But there goes the
luncheon-bell. We must continue our talk
afterwards. I should like to know more of
Mr. Bartlett and yourself — if I may."

After the apprentice house and Jim Eabbits's
cottage, it was a strange experience for Robin
to find himself sitting next to Miriam in that
grand old dining-room, as assiduously waited
on by a butler so intensely solemn and respectable
that he could hardly help calling
him " Sir," and a tall footman with powdered
hair, as if he had been a young lord instead
of a nameless waif. Miriam was as bright
and cheerful as usual, and she and Mrs. Dean
did the principal part of the talking. The
host, though he said little, was quietly observant.
Robin said even less, and seemed more
thoughtful than befitted the occasion — perhaps
because his recent conversation with
Colonel Dean had roused painful memories.
When luncheon was over, the Colonel suggested
a walk round the grounds and a visit
to the stables — a proposal in which Miriam
and Robin gladly concurred ; and Mrs. Dene,

272 BTRCH DENE.

who lost no opportunity of exhibiting her
son and heir, sent for the boy that he might
accompany them.

The gardens were as old-fashioned as the
house — straight walks, rectangular grass-plots,
shrubs cut into the shapes of birds and
beasts, with here and there a mossy fountain
and a fish-pond full of fat carp. The conservatories
and vine-houses greatly delighted
Miriam, and an agreeable hour was spent
in inspecting the horticultural treasures they
contained.

Now for the stables," said Colonel Dene ;
and he was leading the way thither when a
servant came to inform him that Mr. Alport,
from Manchester, had just arrived, and desired
to see him on business.

"If it is business, you had better go at
once, Eustace," observed Mrs. Dene. " I can
show our guests round the stables, and we
will follow you presently."

Yes, perhaps it were better so. I do not
like to keep people waiting, and if Mr. Alport
has not gone when you return, Nelson would

AT DENE HALL. 273

perhaps like to go into the library and look
at the books until I can join him."

The stables were in excellent order, and
the horses well-bred and in high condition.
Robin admired them as much as Miriam had
admired the conservatories ; and " Master
Dene," as his mother, when speaking to
"inferiors," always called her son, insisted
on being placed astride his pony, which was
little bk^er than a Newfoundland mastiff.

He is young to begin riding, but I want
him to be a consummate horseman. Every
gentleman should ride well" — (strong emphasis
on "gentleman). "Do you ride, Mr.
Nelson ? " asked Mrs. Dene.

I have a faint recollection of riding either
a pony or a donkey when I was a small boy,
and when factory masters begin to provide
their apprentices with saddle-horses, I shall
probably have a chance of riding again,"
laughed Robin.

"That is not very likely, I fear; but I
thought, perhaps . . . Would you mind helping
Master Dene to dismount from his pony,

VOL. II. T

274 BIRCH DENE.

Mr. Nelson ? Thank you. Now I think we
have seen pretty nearly everything, and if
you have no objection, we will retrace our
steps. Are you tired, Miss Berry ? "

Not in the least. I never tire of walking
in a garden — your grounds are so very beautiful;
and I could look at the house for ever.
I have enjoyed my visit vastly, thanks to your
kindness, Mrs. Dene. Haven't you, Nelson ? "

I don't think I ever enjoyed anything
so much. Master Dene is very fortunate in
being heir to so fine a property."

"You are quite right, he is" — (looking
fondly at the boy). " All the same, I hope
it will be a long time before he comes into
possession. My dear husband is still in the
prime of life. Yet we cannot live for ever,
and it is pleasant to think that the property is
not likely to pass into the hands of strangers
that the son will succeed the father. . . .
Here we are at the Hall. There is the library,
Mr. Nelson. I have no doubt Colonel Dene
will soon have done with Mr. Alport. This
way, if you please, Miss Berry."

AT DENE HALL. 275

After making the tour of the library, and
examining with professional interest some
of the older books, he sought the copy of
The Bride of Zammermoor, of which Colonel
Dene had spoken, and seating himself in a
big arm-chair, began to read the first volume
of that incomparable novel. But hardly
had he opened the book when he gave a sort
of gasp, looked up with an expression of
intense bewilderment, and then, springing
from his chair, walked hurriedly round the
room.

At last, at last ! " he murmured. " I
have found my name — I have found my
name ! Never, please Heaven, to forget it
more ! It is almost the same as that
in the book. How strange ! I will look
again."

And with that he sat down a second time,
and, still holding the volume in his hand,
became so absorbed in thought that he heard
neither the opening of the door nor the
footsteps of his hosts.

You seem interested, Nelson. Deep in a

T 2

276 BIRCH DENE.

book — eh 1 What is it ? " asked Colonel
Dene.

The Bride of Lammermoor , sir," said
Bobin, with a start of surprise.

I knew you would like it. It is a splendid
dramatic story, but the denouement is tragical.
I confess I don't much like tragedies, though
if novels be true to life, they cannot always
end happily. And it is well to show how
cruel a strong-willed, over-bearing woman can
be, even to her own child. Is your mother
still alive, Nelson ? "

"No, sir. My mother died long ago."

And your father ? "

"I only just remember him, sir," answered
Robin, evasively ; for he felt that if he continued
to answer the Colonel's questions he
would end in telling him all, and he shrank
from letting this gentleman, who was so
kind to him, know T that he was the son of a
woman who had been convicted of a capital
felony.

You are very unfortunate to be cast on
the world at so early an age without a parent's

AT DENE HALL. 277

care. I have always a deep sympathy for
young men situated as you are. I never saw
my own mother after I was thirteen. How
old are you ? "

Exactly the same age as the century."

"So you were born in 1800 — twenty years
ago ? "

"Yes, sir."

And then the Colonel, either perceiving
that the young fellow answered his questions
reluctantly, or not liking to be inquisitive,
took up a newspaper and left him to read in
peace — or rather to think, as, albeit his eyes
were on the book, his thoughts were faraway.


After a while there came a knock at the
door, and a servant, quietly entering, informed
his master that coffee was served in the
morning room.

Come, let us join the ladies," said the
Colonel, rising from his chair. " Drinking
a cup of coffee in the afternoon is a habit
I contracted in the West Indies, where it was
once my ill-fortune to spend several years."

278 BIRCH DENE.

"Who is Mr. Alport, Eustace, and what
does he want ? " asked Mrs. Dene, as she
handed her husband a cup of coffee.

He is the chief constable's secretary, or
something of the sort, and he wants the local
justices to suppress or proclaim — I don't know
what is the correct legal term — a reform
meeting which the Radicals are proposing
to hold shortly in this neighbourhood."

And what answer did you give him ? "

None. I told him that I should like
to make further inquiries before consenting to
any such proceeding. Order must be maintained,
of course ; but I do not gather that
any breach of the peace is apprehended.
Alport says there will be seditious speeches,
and urges that prevention is better than
cure."

"And don't you think it is?"

"As a general principle, certainly. But
I have only Alport's word for it that the
speeches would be seditious ; and who is to
define sedition ? It were better, in my
opinion, to let the meeting take place, and

AT DENE HALL. 279

then, if any of the speakers do spout sedition,
prosecute them. For my part, I confess that
I rather sympathize with these reformers.
The country is in a very unsatisfactory condition,
and the Government seems to have no
remedy but repression — if it be a remedy. A
soldier on. active service has no business to
take a prominent part in politics, even if he
could, and I have been campaigning the
greater part of my life ; but now that I have
a free hand ."

"You would surely not openly take sides
with these Radicals, Eustace ! " interposed
Mrs. Dene, with an alarmed look.

I am not at all sure that I shall not. At
any rate, I will have no hand in suppressing
their meetings — so long as they keep the
peace. Do you know a man of the name of
Romford, Nelson ? "

Yes, sir ; he is a silk weaver. It was he
who lent me Marmion"

He has literary tastes, then ? ' :

"Yes; he writes poetry, and is extremely
well read."

280 BIRCH DENE.

■ ' And speaks at Kaclical meetings ? "

I believe so ; but I think he is a man of
very moderate views, and he takes even
greater interest in books than in politics."

I am afraid, though, that won't prevent
him from getting into trouble. His very
moderation makes against him. The police
think it is put on as a blind, and suspect him
of holding secret relations with the physical
force people ; and Alport more than hinted
that if Mr. Eomford does not mind what he is
about, he is very likely to be arrested. As
you know the man, it might be a kindness to
put him on his guard."

Robin was about to say that he certainly
would put Eomford on his guard, when a
footman appeared and announced that Miss
Berry's carriage was at the door, and as
both Miriam and himself feared to outstay
their welcome, they hastened to take their
leave. Before they went away, Mrs. Dene
expressed the hope that she would soon have
the pleasure of seeing Miriam again ; and the
Colonel, after reminding Robin not to forget

AT DENE HALL. 281

The Bride of Lammermoor, told bim to
come to the Hall whenever he liked, and
borrow from the library any book he might
fancy.

Nothing is more unfair," he said, " than
to monopolize books. They are so costly that
only the well-to-do can afford to buy them,
and it is the duty of those who have, to lend
to those who have not."

And so this memorable visit came to an
end, but not quite in the way which Mr.
Berry had planned ; for Robin, contrary to
his master's expectations and oblivious of his
injunctions, followed Miriam into the chaise
and took the seat opposite to hers.

You here ? " she exclaimed, with a look of
surprise.

I beg your pardon — I had no idea — I
mean I did not intend — I wasn't thinking.
Shall I get out and go on the box ? " he said
with bated breath.

Of course you must get out — and at once.
But, no, not now. We are off, and it would
look so strange to stop the carriage in the

282 BIRCH DENE.

avenue. Wait till we have passed the lodge
gates."

; Yes. I will wait till we have passed the
lodge gates," said Robin, humbly. " Miriam
I beg your pardon — I mean Miss Berry."

You may call me Miriam — when nobody
is by. I am still your sister."

"You are"— (joyfully). "Then why do
you always refuse to see me and keep out of
my way ? "

I cannot tell you. It is not my wish ; it
is my duty. I cannot see you at Oaken
Clough any more."

But do tell me why, Miriam. Otherwise
I shall think the fault lies with me — that I
have offended you, or you have heard something
to my detriment."

Not at alL Did I not say that I am still
your sister ? And now don't ask me anv more
questions. If you do I shall not answer."

So 1 I was right, then, in thinking I
wasn't wanted at Oaken Clough." ■

"That is asking — I never said so — but
perhaps. You forget, I think, that though

AT DENE HALL. 283

Oaken Clough is my home it is not my house.
Let that suffice" — (peremptorily).

After this a spell of silence, which Robin
was the first to break.

Miriam ! " he said, softly, as they passed
the lodge gates.

If you ask any more ."

I am not going; to ask. I'm sromff to tell
you something — something that will surprise
you . . ."

Yes, Robin. What is it 1 " — (eagerly).

I know my name."

You know your name ! How ? "

I found one so like it in this book — The
Bride of Lammermoor — that the very moment
I set eyes on it I remembered my own."

And that is . . . 1 "

Eavensmere. My name is Eavensmere,
Miriam."

"Eavensmere! Why, that was Colonel
Dene's name before he came into the property.
It is one of his names still."

But — but — it seems impossible. How do
you know ? Who told you ? " exclaimed

284 BIRCH DENE.

Bobin, excitedly. " Oh, no, I cannot believe
it."

Mrs. Dene told me. We were talking
about the old Denes, and she said her husband,
though descended from them on his mother's
side, was really a Bavensmere. His full name
is William Eustace Bavensmere Dene. . . Oh,
Bobin ! — the carriage ! It is turning over !
We shall be killed ! Help ! Oh ! "

A violent swaying of the chaise — an exclamation
of dismay from Gib — a rattle of iron
hoofs on the splash-board — and a shriek from
Miriam as she is thrown against Bobin, who,
by way of shielding her from harm, folds her
in a tight embrace.

CHAPTER XVII.

A SENSIBLE LASS.

It was not a very big smash, and no great
harm was done. Robin received on his hat
and partly on his head a piece of broken glass,
which, but for his promptitude in protecting
Miriam as he did, might have cut her face
and hurt her seriously. With some difficulty
he opened the door, and, after scrambling out,
extricated his companion — as the carriage
was still wobbling about, a somewhat delicate
operation.

Oh, Robin, I am so thankful you were
with me ! " exclaimed Miriam, fervently.
Whatever should I have done ? "

Two wheels of the chaise were in the ditch
two in the air. Gib, with nose badly
barked, and clothes covered with mud, was

286 BIRCH DENE.

at the horses' heads trying to pacify Captain,
who plunged violently, and showed a strong
disposition to kick himself loose.

Why, Gib, you are drunk ! " said Robin,
regarding him closely.

Well, I wor a bit on a while sin', that's
true ; but this do has gradely sobered me.
It's aw along o' that eighteen pence as yo' gan
me ; I supped it welly aw at th' ' Hare and
Hounds.' But it worst my fault — not a bit.
I couldn't ha' driven moor careful if th' chaise
had been a hearse and 3^0' two corpses wi'
brass plates on th' lids. It wor that black
jackass, th' same as Captain shied at as we
wor coming. And it had milk-kits on its
back this time, and th' Owt Lad doesn't hate
holy water moor than Captain hates a black
jackass wi' them dangling things on its back.
He cannot abide 'em."

"Nevermind the black jackass," said Robin,
sharply. " What is to be done ? That is
the question."

Will yo' unyoke th' bosses while I how
'em ? There's no use trying to poo th' chaise

A SENSIBLE LASS. 287

out; th' tackle isn't strong enough. . . Whoa,
Captain ! Steady, Smiler, my lad ! That's
it. We nun have some strength and a plank
or two to get them hind wheels out o' th'
dyke bottom. Th' best thing as yo' and th'
young missus can do is to go home by th' pad
gate (footpath) as fast as yo' can, and send
some o' th' chaps here, while I bide wi' th'
bosses."

Come, Miriam, let us go at once," said
Robin. " We can do it in twenty minutes
by the fields."

"Don't forget to tell th' master as th'
losses is no war, and it wor aw along o' that
their black jackass, curse it ! ' ; shouted Gib,
as they set off.

I am afraid my father will be very angry,"
said Miriam.

That is very likely, I think. He told me
to stop on the box with Gib, and see that
he drove carefully coming back, and instead
of that I got inside with you. But really I
was so full of what I had just learnt, and
wanted so much to tell you. . .

288 BIRCH DENE.

'•' It was very well you did come inside.
If you hadn't, I am sure I should have been
badly hurt. The glass that fell on your hat
would have fallen on my face, and perhaps
blinded me. Oh, Robin, your head is cut !
It is bleeding terribly. Let me tie this handkerchief
round it."

I don't think it is very much — only skin
deep," said Robin, carelessly ; but he made
no objection to the handkerchief.

What shall we say to my father ? " asked
Miriam, when the operation, which perhaps
took more time than was absolutely necessary,
came to an end.

I'll take the blame, say that it was all
my fault — that I quite forgot myself, in fact ;
and when you wanted me to get out I
refused."

"Oh, Robin, that wouldn't be true ! It
was just the other way about. You wanted
to get out, and I wouldn't let you. Besides,
I won't let you take all the blame. I shall
say that I wanted you to stay inside with me
for company till we passed the lodge gates,

A SENSIBLE LASS. 289

and that if you had not done so I should have
been very badly hurt ; that it was really quite
providential — and it was."

Do you think that is an explanation which
will satisfy your father ? "

I do. He will be so delighted that I
am safe, that he will never think of finding
fault with you.'"'

"And if he does, I don't think I shall
care much now that I know my own name
my father's."

Tour father's ! "

Yes. For if my name is Ravensmere, so
must be my father's."

"And Ravensmere was Colonel Dene's
name. Do you think — can it be possible ? "

The same thought has occurred to you,
then *? Yes, Miriam, I believe that Colonel
Dene is my father."

Then you would be . . . Oh, Robin, I
cannot realize it ! He is the lord of the
manor. It seems impossible. Are you sure ? "

It isn't possible to be sure — yet. But
I believe so ; although there are several

VOL II. u

290 Bitch Dee.

things that I cannot understand. His name
was William Kavensmere — so was my father's.
Whether he was also called ' Eustace ' I don't
know ; he may have been. My father was
a soldier — so is Colonel Dene ; and they must
be about the same age. The Colonel mentioned
to-day that he was a long time in the West
Indies. My father was also a long time in the
West Indies."

There cannot be a doubt of it, Robin ;
it must be so."

Wait a moment. I said there were some
things I did not understand. My father was
in the Marines — the Colonel belongs to a
line regiment ; and I did not gather, from
what your father said the last time I was
at your house, that he was ever married before
that when he married the present Mrs. Dene
he was a widower. Did you ever hear anything
of the sort ? "

No ; and I scarcely could have done,
seeing how much I have been from home."

That is true. All the same I should like
to find out. If he has been twice married,

A SENSIBLE LASS. 291

my belief would become certainty. But
then . . ."

Here the young fellow hesitated, and his
countenance became troubled.

r You were saying, Robin ."

A very unpleasant thought crossed my
mind, Miriam. How could my father marry
a second time while ignorant of my mother's
fate ? For anything he knew she might still
be living, and if any inquiry had been made, I
should surely have heard. No, it must be
some other Eavensmere — perhaps a cousin
of the Colonel's."

Why not tell him your story, and ask
him the question ? "

Because . I have thought over andover
again how I should act when I found
my father. How I should act, what I should
say, and what he would say. I used to think
that it would be very straightforward and
simple — that he would recognize me as easily
as I should recognize him. But lately I have
thought differently — perhaps because I have
gained in experience, and seen more of the

U 2

292 BIRCH DENE.

world and its ways. And, as you see, the
Colonel and I have not recognized each other.
Then, again, how am I to prove my statement ?
Wouldn't it look very strange if, the day
after hearing that his name used to be Ravens-mere,
I should go to him and say, ' My name
is also Ravensmere, and I am your son.' Anybody
could say his name was Ravensmere ;
and I have read stories about false claimants.
I read one not long ago."

But surely the Colonel would be glad
to find his longe-lost son, and he could make
inquiry as to the truth of your statements."

Is it so sure that he would be glad to find
his long-lost son ? ,! said Robin, sadly. " I
have always thought that my father would
be as glad to find me as I should be to find
him : and when the thought has occasionally
occurred to me that he had possibly no wish
to hear anything more either of his wife or
his son, I have said to myself, ' It is impossible.
My father is an officer and a gentleman.'
But if Colonel Dene be my father, he
must have married a second wife without

A SENSIBLE LASS. 293

making sure that the first was dead ; and I
am afraid he would not be very pleased to
know that I am alive."

But perhaps he did make sure."

He could not well have made sure without
hearing that his son was alive, which would
be a worse sign still."

"So it would. What will you do, then,
Robin ? "

Well, the first thing is to find out whether
the Colonel has been married before."

That is easily managed. I can ask my
father in such a way that he will not guess
my motive ; and if he does not know, I will
ask Mrs. Sirricold. She is a great gossip, and
knows everything about everybody."

The Sector's wife ? "

Yes ; but it seems to me that you should
ask the advice of some experienced person."

I should be very glad ; but who is there ?
Your father and uncle . . ."

They wouldn't do at all. I think my
father would believe you — at any rate, until
he had a talk with my uncle. But he

294 BIRCH Dee.

couldn't keep your secret an hour, and my
uncle . . ."

Wouldn't believe a word I said. And
as for Jim Rabbits . . . Stay, I have it !
Comfort is the man."

What ! The Eadical weaver, whom my
uncle so much detests ! "

The same. But your uncle's detestation
is no proof that the weaver is not a good
fellow. Comfort comes occasionally to Rabbits
on the quiet, so as not to get Jim into trouble
with your uncle. He is very shrewd, and I
think I might safely trust him'

But wouldn't you do better to consult
some man of education, or a lawyer ? '

Comfort is a man of education — though
for the most part he has educated himself,
I fancy. He is very well read, spends all his
spare money in books, and has seen a good
deal of the w T old — been at sea, and tramped
all over England. A lawyer might be better.
But how could I consult a lawyer ? There
are only two at Toppleton — one of whom acts
for the firm, the other for Colonel Dene."

A SENSIBLE LASS. 295

It must be Eomford, then. When will
you see him ? "

As soon as possible. When will you let
me know the result of your inquiry ? "

Also as soon as possible. But how shall
I communicate with you ? Let me see. . . .
I have to be at the hospital about eleven on
Saturday morning. Could you contrive to be
there at the same time ? "

"Easily. But . . ."

I know what you are going to say. We
shall not be alone. But listen. I shall bring
a book with me, and I shall say quite loud :
Here, Nelson, is a very nice book, which you
might read to the apprentices.' Then, when
you are by yourself, you will open the book,
and between the leaves you will find a
note."

Capital ! " exclaimed Robin, gleefully.
What a splendid idea ! And when I return
the book I will put into it another note,
telling you what Eomford advises, and how
I am going on."

I shall be very glad. But you must not

296 BIRCH DENE.

give the book to Phoebe. The note might
drop out."

No it won't. I'll put the note between two
of the leaves, and then gum the edges together."

Still, it would be as well . . ."

Of course I shall give the book into your
hands if I can see you, and failing that, put
it into the book-case myself; and if you
would tell me beforehand in what other book
you would put your answer, I could borrow
it — don't you see ? "

"If an answer should be needful. "Well,
I'll think about it, and let you know when
I write. . . . No, I don't think it would
be wrong. My father did not forbid me
to write to you, and if it turns out that
you are a Ravensmere, I dare say he will forgive
me" — (smiling). . ,. . " Oh, Robin, I never
thought of that before. If you are the Colonel's
son, you will be the heir, won't you ? "

I never thought of it before, either. Shall
I ? " said Robin, dubiously.

Of course you will. The eldest is always
the heir, and you are the eldest. And I

A SENSIBLE LASS. 297

know somebody who won't like it — Mrs.
Dene. She is so much set up in her boy,
and so proud of his being the heir."

Poor little fellow ! I should be sorry to
put his nose out of joint."

But you cannot help it ; it is not your
fault that you are the first-born."

"You are counting my chickens before
they are hatched. Suppose my father refuses
to acknowledge me ? "

Oh, but he must. . . . Isn't that Binfield
farmhouse ? How slowly we must have
walked ! I had no idea. Let us hurry on,
or it will be dark before we get home."

Meanwhile Mr. Berry was awaiting the
return of his daughter in a condition of
pleasurable expectancy. He liked the idea
of her driving home from her visit to the
Hall in a State carriage, and was exceedingly
curious to know " how she had gone on."
During the day he could hardly talk about
anything else, until Robert shut him up by
disrespectfully comparing him to a clucking
hen that had just laid a big egg, and 

BIRCH DENE.

pressing a hope that his egg would not
"turn out to be addled."

When Mr. Berry went home (much earlier
than usual), he inquired pompously whether
his daughter had returned from the Hall
(though he knew very well she had not),
and about the time of her expected arrival
he went into the garden, and paced about
where he might enjoy the sight of the carriage
coming up the avenue, Miriam inside, Robin
and Gib on the box.

It would never have done to let that
lad ride inside," he said to himself — " never
have done at all. It wouldn't have looked
respectable ; and though Miriam's a sensible
lass, and I don't think there's owt in what
Robert says — he's always so suspicious — and
she behaved so well when I spoke to her
about Nelson coming up to th' house, there's
no telling, and it's always best to be on th'
safe side. ' A stitch in time saves nine,' as
my mother used to say. And with her inside
and him outside, they are as wide asunder
as if they weren't in th' same parish ; and

A SENSIBLE LASS. 299

they wouldn't be thrown together much at
th' Hall — there's too many of 'em for that . . .
Hello ! Who can them two be coming up
th' road ? . It looks like . . . Bitumen,
it is — Miriam and Nelson, and him with a
clout round his head ! What the devil is
up now, I wonder ? "

And with that Mr. Berry hurried clown
the avenue to meet the returning wanderers.

What's to do now ? " he exclaimed.
Why are you walking ? What's become of
Gib and th' carriage ? I sent him off to
fetch you back nearly two hours since."

We left the carriage in a ditch, close
to the milestone this side of Dene Hall lodge
gates," said Miriam, calmly, as if leaving your
carriage in a ditch bottom was the most
ordinary of occurrences. And Robin thought
that in thus acting she showed great tact.
It was far better than getting excited and
making a fuss.

Why — how — what the devil did you do
that for ? " asked Mr. Berry, not at all
calmly, and growing very red in the face.

300 BIRCH DENE.

We have had an accident, father : nothing
serious — though Nelson has got his head rather
badly cut. The horses are none the worse,
and I don't think the carriage has taken much
harm. I will tell you all about it" — which
she did both cleverly and ingenuously ; for
though she kept nothing back, she made
everything appear to the best, and concluded
with mentioning Gib's requisition for planks
and "strength."

Nevertheless, Mr. Berry, albeit somewhat
appeased, seemed far from satisfied.

Didn't I tell you to stop on the box and see
as Gib drove careful ? " he asked Robin, sternly.

You did, sir ; but when the footman at
the Hall held the chaise-door open after
Mi — ss Berry got in — evidently expecting
me to follow — I did so, quite forgetful of
your injunction. I am very sorry; but I
was only inside a very short time . . ." .

And he was going to get out after we
passed the lodge gates," added Miriam. " He
would have got out before, but I thought
Mr. and Mrs. Dene would think it looked

A SENSIBLE LASS. 301

strange ; and it was very well he did not.
If I had been by myself my face would have
been cut all to pieces. You should thank
Nelson instead of blaming him, father."

Thank him ! What will you say next,
I wonder ? " exclaimed Mr. Berry, looking
very much surprised. "If he had done as I
told him, and looked after Gib, there would
have been no lumber [catastrophe]. It's all
his fault, that's what it is. It's nowt else."

How can you say so, father ? Didn't I
tell you that Captain shied at a black donkey
with two milk-tins on its back ? How could
Nelson have prevented that, wherever he had
been ? Could you have prevented it, father ? "

Well, happen not," returned Mr. Berry,
rather weakly succumbing to this argumentum
ad hominem. "If it had been owt else it
would have been different. But Captain
never could stand a black jackass "

And this was a very black one, father.
Gib says it was the blackest he ever saw."

And the horses are no worse 1 "

Not a bit ! There's nobody hurt but

302 BIRCH DENE.

Nelson. But don't you think it would be
well to send some men to raise the carriage
at once ? It will soon be quite dark."

You are right, lass. I'll take Brent and
two more chaps, and see the job done myself,
and drive the horses home. Gib isn't to
be trusted. I shouldn't wonder a bit if we
found him at th' ' Hare and Hounds.' ''

You had better go into the house and
have a wash, Nelson' said Miriam, " your
face is streaked with blood, and get some
plaster for your head."

An hour later, as Mr. Berry drove towards
Oaken Clough, he met Robin going home.

"Drat the fellow!" he muttered. " He
has been a bonnie time getting his head
patched. I should have seen him off th'
premises before I started ; but Miriam's a
sensible lass. I'm sure she's to be trusted,
whatever Robert says."

END OF VOL. II.

i\

LIB RAR.Y
OF THL

UNIVERSITY
OF ILLINOIS



W52\b

v.3

Digitized by the Internet Archive

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/birchdenenovel03west

BIECH DENE.

VOL. III.

BIECH DENE.

% Hotel.

BY

WILLIAM Stall,

AUTHOR OF

"HER TWO MILLIONS," "RED RYVINGTON," " NIGEL FORTESCUE,'

"JOHN BROWN AND LARRY LOHENGRIN," ETC,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
YOL. III.

gpjottbmt :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

1889.

[All Rights reserved,]

Richard Clay & Sons, Limited,
London & Bungay.

8£S ,

v.3

CONTENTS OF VOLUME III.

Clap.

I. WILL Comfort

II. THE HUSH SHOP

III. A CONFESSION

IV. PERPLEXITIES

V. FATHER AND SON

VI. OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE

VII. LOVE AND WAR

VIII. A PRESSING INVITATION

IX. THE LONG STRIKE .

X. BEFORE THE ATTACK

XI. A BAD NIGHT'S WORK

XII. A RACE FOR LIFE .
XIII. A TIMELY OFFER .

XIV. MR. GLAZEBROOK .

XV. ANOTHER FORTUNE

PAGE






























Vlll CONTENTS.

CHAP. PAGE

XVI. THE CAMPAIGN OPENS . . . 252

XVII. THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS . . 266

XVIII. THE MISSING LINK . . . 280

XIX. robin's CHOICE . . . . 293

BIRCH DENE.

CHAPTER I.

WILL Rumford.

A few mornings after the visit to the Hall
and the upsetting of the carriage, Bobin was
in the engine-house at Birch Dene. He liked
to see the engine started, sometimes even
started it himself, which he considered rather
a feat ; for the engine, though regarded asa
wonderful production, was a very complicated
piece of mechanism, and " setting
it on " and getting the crank safely " over the
centre " required very nice management.

Robert Berry was also present.

Now, Jim, it's about time," he said, after
looking at his watch.

It was before the time ; but when Old

VOL. III. B

2 BIRCH DENE.

Bob did not gain ten minutes or more at the
beginning of the day, and as many at the
close, he felt worse at ease with himself than
if he had omitted going to church on the
previous Sunday, or missed saying his prayers
the night before.

Jim put down the oil-can with which he
had been oiling the bearings, and, standing by
the cylinder, took the handle of the throttle-valve
in one hand, and that of the " exhaust "
in the other.

Hold on ! For Heaven's sake, hold on ! "
shouted Robin, at the same time pushing up
Jim's hand, which was in the very act of
opening the valve.

"Why, what's to'do?"

"Look at those wheels."

A bar of iron had been placed between the
main driving wheels in such a way as, but
for Robin's sharpness of vision and presence
of mind, would almost certainly have caused
a disastrous breakdown.

"By gum, that's a corker ! " exclaimed Jim,
as he removed the bar.

WILL Rumford. 3

AVhat ill-contrived devil can have done
this ? By Heaven, if I find him out, he shall
swing for it ! " said Old Bob, fiercely. " I
dare say it's one of the apprentices. I thought
no good would come of so much pampering
hospitals, reading, and such-like. But now,
not a word of this to anybody. We must
hold our tongues and keep our eyes open.
Them as has tried this once will trv it again.
Our game is to catch 'em, not to flay [frighten]
'em. You have saved us from a great loss,
Nelson. It was well done, and I shall not
forget it. Set on, Jim, or else they'll think
as there's summit wrong."

Mr. Robert said no more, but his stern,
preoccupied look showed that he was thinking
how he could best detect the culprit,
and guard against a repetition of the danger.
But on the following day there occurred an
accident which gave him something else
to think about, and could in nowise be
ascribed to malevolence. One of the boiler-plates
blew out, and entailed a stoppage of
several days.

B 2

4 BIRCH DENE.

Bobin profited by this unexpected holiday
to pay his proposed visit to Romford, as well
to warn the weaver of the peril that threatened
him as to ask his advice, in accordance
with the suggestion made by Miriam, from
whom he had received a letter which ran

thus —

To Mr. Rupert Nelson.

"Dear Brother,

I have asked my father the question
you know of. It seemed greatly to
surprise him. He said that he could not
think how I had got such an idea into my
head. Had Colonel Dene been previously
married, my father would surely have known,
and he has not the least doubt that Mrs.
Dene is his first and only wife. I have also
spoken to Mrs. Sirricold, and though she said
much more than my father, it was to the
same effect. She seems to know a great
deal about the Bavensmeres. Though not
wealthy, they are of ancient lineage and
highly connected. Colonel Dene served atone
time in the Marines, and was nearly
forty when he married. This seems very
strange, and you would do well, I think, to

WILL Rumford. 5

consult with Romford before doing anything
further.

Your friend and well wisher,

"M. R."

Pes. — I should be glad to hear, so soon
as convenient, what Romford advises and how
you propose to act. I much regret that I am
unable to give you more help."

Robin read this letter with a sense of disappointment
; it seemed so cold and formal — ■
not at all like a letter from an affectionate
sister. The postscript, however, consoled him
somewhat. It showed, he thought, that he
still had Miriam's sympathy, and that her
belief in his story was unshaken. Nevertheless,
he could not disguise from himself that
she was right in thinking the news she had
heard very strange. If Colonel Dene was
his father he must have been married to his
mother ; yet those who ought to know said
that he had been married only once. On
the other hand, now he had learnt that the
Colonel was at one time in the Marines, the
conclusion that he was really his father seemed

G BIRCH DENE.

almost irresistible. It was, in truth, "very
strange." Bobin could not see his way at
all, and he went on his visit to the weaver
with a perturbed and anxious mind.

Comfort lived some two miles across the
fields, in a white, one storey ed cottage, with
diamond-shaped panes, a bit of garden in
front, bounded by a hedgerow, and entered
by a little green gate. The garden was
evidently an object of loving care, but the
time being winter and the day dull, it wore
a somewhat dreary and desolate look.

As Bobin opens the gate, he hears the
monotonous cliketty-clack, cliketty-clack of a
pair of hand-looms. With superfluous politeness
(considering the custom of the countryside),
he knocks at the door — which is furnished
with a sloping weather-board, to
prevent the ingress of wind and rain — knocks
several times ; but, perceiving that his knocks
are lost in the rattle of the looms, he lifts
the latch and steps into the "living room."
The biggest thing in it is a four-post bedstead,
the next a chest of drawers, and next

WILL Rumford. 7

to that a case-clock. There are, further, a
one-legged mahogany table, a dresser, a hanging
bookcase, a few rush-bottomed chairs,
and, before the fire, in a rocking-chair, sits
a golden-haired little girl fast asleep, holding
on her lap a small kitten.

It was a charming picture, and, after pausing
a moment to gaze on it, Robin stepped
to the open doorway of the " shop," where
the weaver and his wife were toiling away
as if for bare life. Presently, as Romford
stopped to change shuttles, he caught sight
of his visitor.

Hello, Mr. Nelson ! " he exclaimed. " Is
that your'

I have brought back the Marmion you
were o-ood enough to lend me," answered
Robin. " I have read it with great pleasure,
but I fear I have kept it an unconscionably
long; time."

Oh, that's nowt. You could ha kept it
longer if you'd ha' liked. I'm fain it's pleased
you. I knew it would. Willet you sit
down a bit ? "

8 BIRCH DENE.

Whereupon Romford rose from his loom,
and shook hands with his guest. The weaver,
as lie stood up in his check shirt, open at the
throat, and his fustian breeches loose at the
knees, looked every inch a man ; for he was
lone-limbed and broad-shouldered, more than
six feet in height, and had a genial, good-humoured
face, yet shrewd and resolute
withal.

Sit you down, I pray you now, and let
us have a bit of a camp."

"Thank you," said Robin, acting on the
invitation ; " but you are busy. You must
not let me take you from your work."

"You willet do that. I wor born' to o-ive
o'er. I've been hard at it sin' afore dayleet,
and am fain of an excuse to lake a bit. We
handbook weavers are like the beo-o-ar in the
song — when we are tired we can sit us down
and rest ; and we are neither under overlooker
nor tied to a bell, thank Heaven. Come,
Susan ; stop thy noise, and draw us a stoup of
ale. I dare say he'll find thy brew welly as
good as Jim Rabbits."

WILL Rumford. 9

(The weaver, as a rule, spoke broad Lancashire,
considering it far more expressive than
ordinary English, into which, nevertheless, he
occasionally lapsed, either out of compliment
to his visitor, or to show that he could "talk
grammar" as well as anybody — as indeed he
could.)

Mrs. Eomford, a bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked,
flaxen-haired young woman, laid down her
picking stick and went into the buttery to
execute her husband's order.

"You have seen my wife," he continued.
"This is our only child"— (pointing to the
little lass in the rocking-chair). " We call
her Susie, to distinguish her from her mother,
whose name is Susan. Our abode is not
palatial, as you see. This is both living room
and bedchamber. Save the shop and the
buttery, we have no others. However, we are
contented with our lot, Susan and I ; and
that, I take it, is better than being rich beyond
the dreams of avarice — to quote a saying of
the great lexicographer. Here comes th' w T ife
with a jug of foaming ale. Let me pledge

10 BIRCH DENE.

you in a mug of home-brewed, Mr. Nelson !
Naa, what thinker yo,' isn't Susan's tap as
good as Jim Rabbits' ? "

Robin protested (with truth, for he was
very thirsty) that it was the best brew he had
ever tasted.

Ay, my Susan can brew and bake wi'
anybody. But it isn't much soft bread as we
gotten here — mostly oatcake and porridge, and
furmitty and a bit o' bacon and garden stuff,
when there is ony. Not as we couldn't afford
better fare, just now ; but there's no telling
how soon work may be slack ageean, and I
spend a sight o' brass i' books. Th' wife's
otus slighting me for it, and I'm otus repenting
— and helping to pave hell. How is it as
you've gotten off so soon to-day ? Has Robert
Berry gan yo' a holiday ? Oh, a boiler-plate
has boasted, has it ? That'll be two or
three days of a job, I reckon. Well, as you're
at a loose end, and th' wevvino- '11 wait, what
sayer yo' to a walk on th' moors ? I want to
stretch my legs a bit. They're stiff wi' sitting
and treddlinff."

WILL Rumford. 11

With pleasure' said Robin. It was
exactly what lie wanted.

"Aw rest. Tak' a book twotlny minutes
while I wash and don mysei'. Which will yo'
have ? My favourite poet, my favourite
novelist, or my favourite politician ? "

That is like asking me to buy a pig in a
poke. Condescend to particulars, and I will
give you an answer."

"That is easily done: Burns, Fieldenen, and
Cobbett."

Thank you. I'll take a volume of
Fieldenen."

Here's Tom Jones ! It is a rare book.
I've read it many a time. Fieldenen gives us
both humour and human nature ; and novels
as hanna gotten tone or t'other, is summit like
a mon as has neither brains nor guts. Foamy
shoon, Susan ; I'm going into th' buttery
to wish mysei'. "

Ten minutes later Eomford emerged from
the buttery with combed locks and well-washed
face, arid clad in a costume not unlike
that which, a few years ago, was affected

12 BIRCH DENE.

by well-to-do Irish peasants — a long-tailed
coat, bright-coloured waistcoat, corduroy
breeches, and a tali, weather-beaten beaver.

We're be back Ward six or seven o'clock,
Susan," he said, as he took a thick stick from
behind the door. " We're be back toward
six or seven o'clock, and as Mr. Nelson is
going to tak' pot-luck wi' us, thou'd best
mak' them pig-trotters ready. TWse be as
hungry as meet-hunters at breakfast time
when we gotten back. Come on ! We'll
go down th' loin and strike across th' moors,
and have a gradely good rand."

I like those moors," went on the weaver,
as they strode at a great pace down the
fenceless lane. " They are wild and lonesome,
it is true, and in winter time drear and wild ;
but the air as blows o'er 'em is fresh and keen,
the view is hindered neither by hedgerows
nor gardens, and the sense of being; free to
wander where I will makes me feel as glad
and joyous as a skylayrock."

''' I hope you will keep your freedom,"
said Robin, seeing his opportunity ; " and

WILL Rumford. 13

one of m) T objects in coming here to-day
is to warn you that it is in some clanger.

My freedom in danger ! What mean
you ? " exclaimed Romford, stopping short,
and turning right-about face.

Robin repeated what he had heard from
Colonel Dene.

I'm much obliged to Colonel Dene," said
the weaver, resuming his walk, " and if you
see him again, say as I said so, and as I shall
not forget his kindness. But tell him, at th'
same time, as Bill Romford will stand to
his guns."

"You mean you won't go away?"

"I do. Why should I ? I have only
exercised that right of free speech which is,
or should be, th' privilege of every Englishman.
I am a reformer, not a revolutionist.
I have always discountenanced violence. I
belong to no secret society, and I am as loyal
as th' head constable himself. All I ask for,
all as I ever asked for, is such a reform
of Parliament as will mak' it a truly representative
assembly. That obtained, all the

14 BIRCH DENE.

rest — a short-time Act, repeal of th' Corn
Laws, reduction of expenditure — will follow.
Them's my principles, Nelson, and I'm naytber
going to shut my mouth nor cut my stick.
What would be th' use ? I couldn't addle
owt ony where else, and I'm not going to
cadge for my living. Let 'em tak' me if
they like, and I dare say they will. I can
bide i' prison if anybody else can, and they
will not stop reform by shutting me up.
A mon as is not ready to suffer for his principles
doesn't deserve to have ony. Th' wife
can addle porridge for herself' and Susie withe
odd loom. I'se not love 'em till I'm
forced, and I shall happen not be forced just
yet. There's not going to be a meeting i'
these parts neither this week nor next.
We're going to bowel one next Sunday
over the border,' at th' top o' Blackstone
Edo-e, whiter the Manchester head constable
cannot mell [meddle] wi' us."

But willet he hear of it ? ' ;

"Ay, after it's o'er; and gradely mad he'll
be. But we mean to have a meeting at Birch

WILL Rumford. 15

Dene one o' these days, and then he'll be
madder than ever, rank owt tyrant as he is.
You willet miss conveying to Colonel Dene
my sense of his kindness. Where do you say
you saw him ? "

"At his own house."

"At his own house ! What wor yo' doing
their — if it's a fair question ? "

I made his acquaintance quite accidentally,
when I first came to Birch Dene. He seemed
to take an interest in so much of my story as
I told him, and the other day he asked me upto
the Hall."

The kind-hearted gentleman ! He is
kind-hearted, too, from all accounts. I'm
not surprised as he took an interest in you.
Mony a one has wondered what brown yo'
these parts, and I'm one on 'em."

"That means you would like to know.
Well, I well tell you ; but you must do
something for me in return."

To be sure I will, if I can. What is it ? "

'' Give me your advice. I'm in great
perplexity, and I want the advice of 

BIRCH DENE.

body older and more experienced than myself.
Will you ? "

Ay, will I. I'm as ready as anybody
else to give what costs me nowt. Say your
say, and 111 tell you my mind. Two yes
is better than one, if there's owt in til'
second."

Whereupon Robin told his story from the
beginning, keeping nothing back save his
intimacy with Miriam, and concluded by asking
Eomford whether he thought it would
be expedient to make himself known to
Colonel Dene.

CHAPTER II.

THE HUSH SHOP.

Well," said the weaver, when Robin (who
was becoming quite an adept at narration)
had finished his story, " tak' it aw in aw, it's
about the dearest yarn as ever I yard. Let's
walk on quiet, twothry minutes, while I
unravel it a bit. It's a case as requires
consideration. . . . Tell me now, Nelson,
have you any sort of proof that you are what
you say you are — that your name is Ellesmere
? Not as I have the least doubt of
your good faith. There's genuine sincerity
in your e'en, and the ring of truth in your
voice, to say nowt of th' fact that you can
have no interest in humbugging me. But
we live in a sceptical age, and a scrap o'
paper goes a long way."

VOL. III. C

18 BIRCH DENE.

I have nothing whatever to show,
Comfort. My mother had a letter, which
I dare say, in case of need, could be produced ;
but my name — the name of Eavensmere — is
not mentioned in it. I must be believed
on my word, or not at all."

I believe every word you have said,
Nelson, and, what's more, I feel welly sure
as Colonel Dene is your father."

"But if he has only been married once,
how can he be ? "

How can they know as he has been
married but once ? And there's another point
I don't want to hurt your feelings, and you
mustn't tak' amiss what I'm going to say.
You have asked my advice, and I'm bound
to speak plain. The Colonel may have been
wed but once, and be your father all th'

same."

You — you surely don't mean . . ."
gasped Robin, as the terrible significance
of Eomford's words flashed in his mind.

I mean nowt else. It isn't a nice tinner
to say ; but don't you think it's quite possible

THE HUSH SHOP. 19

as your father and mother were never wed
at all ? "

"No, no; it is not possible. I cannot
believe it — I will not believe it," exclaimed
the young fellow, passionately. " My mother
always spoke of my father as her husband — asa
brave officer and a noble gentleman. But
if it be as you say, he is a scoundrel, and
I owe him naught but hate."

"Nay, nay — I wouldn't say that. Because
a man has sinned once — ay, or a hundred
times, that doesn't make him a scoundrel.
Who is there that's reached middle-age as
hasn't done things as he'd give years of
his life to undo ? Doesn't th' Owt Book
say as there's more joy in heaven over one
repentant sinner than over ninety-and-nine
just men ? So long as a mon doesn't deliberately
prefer evil to good, I don't think he
should be called a scoundrel ; and so far as we
know, Colonel Dene is owt but a scoundrel.
Mind, I don't say it is so ; but as you've
asked me to sit in the seat of judgment, ita
side of the question which it's my duty toc

2

20 BIRCH DENE.

consider. But there's one thing clear. Your
father — if Colonel Dene be your father— has
some strong motive for keeping his marriage
with your mother secret. When a man
hushes up the most important event of his
life, you may depend on it there's summit
behind."

'' What would you advise me to do, then ? "
said Robin, faintly, and in a tone of deep
discouragement.

Get to know the truth as soon as you can.
Go to Colonel Dene, tell him your name, and
all as has happened to you."

But if it should be as you say, I would
rather not go near Colonel Dene. I owe him
neither duty nor affection . . ."

Stop, stop, my lad — not quite so fast ! I
did not say as it was so. I nobbut said it
might be so, just to prepare you for th' worst.
And you're like to go to him. Nobody
else can tell you who you are. The truth,
however unpleasant, is easier to bear than
doubt and suspense. You get used to th' one,
never to th' t'other."

THE HUSH SHOP. 21

"But will he tell me th' truth?"

"Well, I don't think Colonel Dene will
deny his own son, and if he isn't your father,
he's th' most likely mon to tell you who is.
If there be another William Eavensmere of th'
same age who served in the Marines at th'
same time as he did, he's sure to know. Ay,
tell him by aw means. You'll not be content
now till you know th' worst. And what if
him and your mother won't wed ? It
wouldn't be your fault."

"Oh, but you don't know how I have
thought of my father — how I have exalted
him in my mind ! " cried Robin, piteously.
I could have loved him so much. I want so
much to love him. I have nobody else ; but
if he deceived my mother — you have no idea
how good she was, Romford, and how she
loved him — if he deceived my mother, I
should hate and despise him, and I would
never bear his name — never."

Come, come — there's no call to tak' on i*
that way'' said Romford, soothingly. " Let
us not meet trouble loaf way, whatever we

22 BIRCH Dee.

do. If I'd ha' had any idea as you'd tak' it
so rough I wouldn't ha' said nowt. And I'm
happen wrong . . . Bitumen, when I come to
give it moor thowt, I'm cocksure I'm wrong''

But this well-meant attempt at consolation
came too late. The iron had entered Robin's
soul ; he answered at random, and they
walked silently on, each absorbed in his own
thoughts, heedless alike of the deepening
twilight and the ominous mist which, for the
last hour, had veiled the Yorkshire hills, and
was now creeping over the moor.

Romford was the first to speak.

Hello ! How on ! " he exclaimed, as the
sun disappeared behind an opaque mass of
ragged cloud, which loomed on the horizon
like an impassable wall. " How on ! It'll
be as dark as a dungeon in five or ten
minutes. I know my way middling well, but
when th' sun goes out and a fog comes on,
these moors are dangerous. They're full o'
bog-boles, and, according to some folks,
haunted by beggars. Come on. Let's hark
back by th' nearest road and put th' best

THE HUSH SHOP. 23

foot foremost while we can see what we're
doing."

As he spoke the weaver increased his pace
to a run, Robin keeping abreast with him ;
and they went on thus until the gloaming was
swallowed up in darkness and mist, and they
were compelled to reduce their pace to a
cautious walk.

This is confoundedly awkward," exclaimed
Romford, as he felt for the path with his feet.
It wor gradely godless on us to walk on
with our been shut and get lost i' this fashion.
If we can make th' White Gate or th' Owt
Moorcock Inn we shall do. But we are as
like as not to be rambling hereabouts till th'
mist clears off and th' moon comes at, or we
can catch a glimpse o' th' north star. But
there's no use stunning still. Let's potter on ;
we're get somewhere, somehow."

The words were hardly uttered when both
Robin and himself floundered into a hole.

There! Didn't I tell you so?" he
laughed, as he scrambled out. " We're no
war this time ; but if we don't keep a better

24 BIRCH DENE.

look at, there'll aether be broken bones or a
couple of handsome corpses for the crowner's
jury to sit on."

After this they went on, creeping, groined,
blundering, and stumbling for an hour or
more, falling over molehills, running foul of
trees, barking their shins against stone walls,
yet making so little progress withal, that,
as Eomford put it, there was every likelihood
of their having to lie out all night.

If we could nobbut see a leet," he groaned,
after coming a particularly bad cropper over
a tree root — " if we could nobbut see a leet,
we'd mak' for it, wherever it wor. . . . Bitumen,
I believe I yard summit. Didn't yo' ? "

I am sure I did — voices — people talking.
I can hear them now. . . . There they are
again. I will shout," said Robin.

No, no ! Turned shalt ! Let's harken a
bit most," answered the weaver, in a whisper.
"They're happen meet-hunters or tramps, or
war ? There's quare characters upo' this
moor sometimes. Let's creep toward 'em, and
harken afore we speak."

THE HUSH SHOP. 25

The wisdom of this proposal was evident, so
the two went forward cautiously, until they
were near enough to hear what was being
said.

Cheer hav' we gotten to ? " one of the
invisibles was saying.

I'll be hanged if I know," exclaimed
another; "but we shouldn't be far fro' Red
Nell's. We've a lantern, and if we could
nobbut get a leet, I could find th' pad in a
minute. Has ony on yo' a flint and steel ? "

No, but 111 tell thee what : if anybody
has a holy rag, or owt o' that short, I could
happen mak' a bit of a blaze wi' flashing
my pistol'

Flash away, then. I've gotten a bit of
owt Berry's waste i' my pocket. If a spark
falls on it, it'll blaze like hell. Here it is ! "

"How on a minute. Let me draw th'
charge most, or I'se happen be blowing some
o' yer yes off."

Ay, keep thy powder for Owt Bob ; thou
may blow his yet off if thou likes."

I mean to do, one o' these meets, and if I

26 BIRCH DENE.

don't, somebody else will ; and it'll be a
damned sight better than he deserves, th' owt
tyrant."

Ay, will it. He deserves his shins
punching, and then boiling wick in one of
his own boilers."

He's most terrible mad cause o' that
plate boasting, but there'll be war beasts afore
long, if he doesn't mind wdiat he's doing."

Ay, we'll brun th' factory o'er his yet one
o' these meets. It's aw along o' factories, and
new-fangled machinery, and such-like, as poor
folk is so ill off. But there'll be a revolution
in Lunnon afore long, and then we're get
our rests."

Naa, then, wheel's th' lantern \ Their !
it's sweeting. Leet th' candle afore it goes
at.

Crouch down under th' wall, or they'll be
seeing us," whispered Eomford. (i Now,
they've set off ; we nun keep th' leet i' view
and follow 'em. It looks as if there wor some
quare work going on. Who are they, I
wonder ? "

THE HUSH SHOP. 27

Some of our hands."

"One or two happen, but not aw. That
mon wi' th' pistol isn't one, I'll be bound.
Come od, let's follow 'em up ; but don't talk,
and mak' no more noise than yo' can help."

They followed as stealthily as Red Indians
on the war path, always keeping the lantern in
view, until they perceived, afar off, another
light, which grew more distinct as they went
on, and evidently proceeded from a building,
the shadowy outline of which it dimly
revealed.

"They've gone in," said Romford, as the
lantern disappeared. " We'll go in too, but
we nun wait a bit most. It's Red Nell's.
Let's go forrud and have a peep through th'
window."

It was as strange an interior as could well
be imagined. A long, low room, with bare
rafters and whitewashed walls ; a fire of logs
and peat, shooting lurid tongues of flame up
a wide-throated chimney ; men sitting and
lying about, some on up-ended barrels, others
on trusses of straw ; a party of card-players,

28 BIRCH DENE.

round a table, made of an old door supported
on trestles ; in one corner several casks on
villages ; in another a pair of double-barrelled
guns propped against the wall ; near them
a brace of hares and five or six birds, the
spoils of illicit chase, and a couple of sleeping
dogs. Among the men were two or three
who, as Eomford whispered, looked like night-hunters,
and several colliers, whose flannel
garments and black faces showed that they
had come straight from the pit.

On the only chair in the room sat a big,
gaunt woman, with tousled red hair, and a
still redder face, smoking a short black
pipe.

That's Eed Nell," said Eomford. " Come
away ; if we look any moor, they'll happen
be seeing us, and then there'd be the devil
to pay."

A strange sort of inn, isn't it ? "

It isn't an inn ; it is a hush shop — a place
where they retail bad spirits without license,
a cheep meet-haas for tramps and vagabonds,
wheel gambling and aw sorts o' shanks is

THE HUSH SHOP. 29

carried on, and a mon can get fuddled for
about fourpence, and dead drunk for a shilling.
Let's go in ; I don't think they'll hurt us.
I want to find out who them chaps is as is
going to shoot Bob Berry. They're making
a most terrible din."

Good-meet to you aw ! " said Romford, ashe
opened the door.

The clamour stilled instantly. The gamblers
ceased their playing and hid their cards, and
Red Nell sprang from her chair.

Who are yo', and what wanted yo' ? " she
shouted.

We are just two wanderers as has lost our
way on th' moor, and we want nowt but a bite
and a sup."

It's a lie ! You are gaugers. They are
gaugers, lads, come to spy "

Several of the men sprang to their feet
and " went for " the intruders. The gamblers,
in their hurry, overturned the table, sending
the two bottles that served as candlesticks
crashing on the floor, and the hounds, barking
loudly, joined in the fray.

30 BIRCH DENE.

"That's it! Kill 'em! Throttle 'em.
Hide 'em ! Punch 'em till they cannot
stan' ! " screamed Eed Nell ; and it looked
very much as if there were going to be battle,
murder, and sudden death, for the nio-ht-
hunters had seized their guns, and all, with
threatening gestures, were crowding round the
new-comers.

Hold on, chaps ! " said Eomford, good-humouredly,
as he pushed the foremost back.
You were ne'er more mistaken i' your lives.
We are neither gaugers nor blackwater (spies).
Is their nobody here as knows Will Eomford ? "

"Ay is there; but th' hoyle is so dark
we couldn't mak' yo' out afore yo' spoke. It's
aw rest, lads; Bill Eomford '11 tell no tales.
Let him sit down, and give him summit
to sup."

But what are they doing here at this time
o' meet ? " demanded Eed Nell, suspiciously.

That is soon told. We get lost on th'
moor, and made for th" most leet as we seed,
and coom in to wet wer whistles and ax,
somebody to put us i' th' road home."

THE HUSH SHOP. 31

And who is this young spark ? " (pointing
to Robin).

One of Berry's 'prentices' answered
another fellow. " They've made him a bit
of a master lately ; but I don't think as he'll
split. He's weel thowt on by th' hands."

Can yo' keep a still tongue, young mon ? "
asked the woman, sternly.

"You may trust me," answered Robin,
quietly.

"Ay, you may trust him," added the
weaver; "I'll answer for Nelson."

Come up to th' fire. You can sit down
upo' them barrels. What shall I draw for
you \

Romford asked for two muses of ale and
some oat-cake, whereupon the drinkers resumed
their interrupted conversation, the
gamblers their playing, and all went on as
if nothing had happened. Two or three
fellows lay fast asleep in the straw, and ina
small room adjoining the house part of the
hush-shop were several others who, judging
by the din they made, were both drinking

32 BIRCH DENE.

deeply and talking largely. Robin recognized
two or three of the Birch Dene hands, one
of whom was Black Jack, his quondam opponent.
He fancied, too, that among the
sleepers in the straw was Blincoe, but in the
dim light of the place he could not make
sure, and neither Comfort nor himself was
able to identify the people whose portentous
conversation they had overheard on the
moor.

Of all the company, one man only was
neither eating, drinking, smoking, nor sleeping
! He sat apart, and seemed so lonesome
and melancholy that Robin invited him to
join them — which the man did, with evident
pleasure, and gladly accepted an offer of cake
and ale.

"To tell th' truth," he said, "I have but
twopence on me — just enough for my meet's
lodgings ; and what's worse, I'm on the wrong
side o' my dinner."

That's bad ! No wonder you don't lookup
to th' mark," said the weaver. " Knock
some o' this hard bread into yo' ; and when

THE HUSH SHOP. 33

you've supped that ale you shall have another
mug. You're out o' work, I reckon ? "

Well, work is most uncommon scarce. But
I'm not a factory hand nor yet a weaver. My
name is Dooley — Dr. Dooley. I dare say you've
yard tell on me. I come fro' Frog Fold."

So I have. You're a verb doctor ? "

"Ay, what they call a quack. But I'm
reckoned to be a good hand with a lancet
and a pair of forceps for aw that. I go about
selling simples, and drawing teeth and bleeding
folks. But as I said just now, work is
scarce. Nobody seems to be badly, or to
want my physic. It is wrong time o' th' year
for bleeding, and I haven't drawn a tooth
for a month or more. . . . Ay, things is
gradely bad wi' me ; and th' worst of it is as
I've left a wife and two little chiltern hemming
at home, and I'm like to go back to 'em as
empty as I set off."

I'm sorry for that. It's hard to hear of
little chiltern hemming. Here, tak' this sixpence,
doctor. I'm a poor mon myself', or
I'd mak' it more."

VOL. III. D

34 BIRCH DENE.

"And here are two shillings," added Robin,
compassionately. "It is all I have in my
pocket, I'm sorry to say ; but if it will be
of any use to you "

Thank you kindly — thank you kindly,
both on you," murmured the quack, as tears
of gratitude sprang to his eyes. " It'll bea
bite and a sup for th' little 'uns when I
get home. And if so be as I can do aether
on you a good torn, I will. If ever you
want letting blood or a tooth drawing, I'll
do it for nowt. You know my name — Dr.
Dooley, fro' Frog Fold. . I come here
to-night partly because it's chap, partly on
th' chance o' picking up sixpence by bleeding
somebody. A chap sometimes drinks
hissed into a fit, and carding oft ends in a

fight By gum ! it looks like summit

o' th' sort now."

One of the gamblers had thrown his cards
on the table, and was charging his opponent
with cheating.

F thou says I che, I'll wring thy neck
for thee," said the other, fiercely.

THE HUSH SHOP. 35

It'll tak' two like thee to wring my neck,
thou rat-catching thief; and then you willet
do it. And for two pins I'd give thee a
damned good hiding now."

I wish thou would, thou meet-hunting
devil ; I want some sore bones. I'll feet thee
ony time, ony wheel, and ony end up."

I'm ready. I'll tak' thee ' while thou art
in the humour,' as the song says."

Let's have it out now," answered the
night-hunter, quietly, yet with resolute mien.

The onlookers were wild with excitement
and delight.

A feet ! — a feet ! " they shouted. " Doggy
and Ratten' s going to feet ! Let's go out into
th' croft and see fair play ! "

Doggy was the poacher. Ratten was so
called because he had once been a rat-catcher.

Torches were procured, lanterns lighted,
and all sallied forth into a paddock behind
the house — the scene of many a previous
encounter. A ring was speedily formed, torchbearers
and lantern-holders to the front, and
the two men, divested of their shirts, and

D 2

36 BIRCH DENE.

wearing only breeches, boots, and stockings,
stepped into the arena. They were pretty
evenly matched, almost the same height and
age, and if Fatten had a slight advantage in
weight, the balance was perhaps more than
redressed by Doggy's greater agility and
superior condition.

If I wor a betting man," said Romford,
I'd back th' night-hunter. He's in better
fettle than t'other."

Many did back him, but Ratten had also
his friends, and nobody seemed disposed to
offer odds. The betting was even.

The combatants did not " square " up to each
other in the ordinary prize-fighting fashion.
With outstretched arms and bended backs they
stood for a moment glaring at each other, then
commenced moving slowly round, watching
for an opportunity to close. This went on
several minutes, and the spectators, who had
so far observed the most intense silence, began
to show signs of impatience. At length
Doggy, thinking he saw his chance, rushed
in, gave his opponent a tremendous lack

THE HUSH SHOP. 37

below the knee, and locked him in a tight
embrace. But Eatten stood his ground
bravely, and the grip he gave the poacher
seemed like to crush in his ribs. After a
fierce bout of tugging, straining, and kicking,
both fell heavily on the turf, Doggy undermost.
Yet he kept his hold until Eatten,
removing one of his hands, seized his man
by the windpipe, and throttled him till his
eyes nearly started from his head. But when
almost, as it seemed, at the last gasp, Doggy
contrived, by a convulsive effort, to free
himself.

Both men were on their legs at the same
moment, and without any preliminary dodging
or " dogging," flew at each other like wild
beasts, plying fists and foot with might and
main. The blows on their shins sounded like
the breaking of sticks, and their stockings
were dyed with blood. Then they closed a
second time, and after a desperate struggle,
in which they went the entire round of the
ring, Eatten was hurled so violently to the
ground that the blood gushed from his ears

38 . BIRCH DENE.

and nostrils, and he lay to all appearance
dead.

My God, I've killed him ! " exclaimed the
night-hunter, kneeling beside his fallen foe.
I've killed him ! Speak, Kit ! I bore him
no malice. It wor a fair feet. We wor otus
good friends afore to-meet."

And the rough fellow, who had fought so
pluckily and borne so much punishment without
flinching, burst into tears.

"Let me look at him — let me look at
him ! " exclaimed a voice, which Robin recognized
as that of the herb-doctor. " I'm Dr.
Dooley, fro' Frog Fold. I'll bring him round
i' twothry minutes. He's nobbut 'astonished a
bit,"

For God's sake do, if you con ! " cried
Doggy, earnestly. "Him and me wor otus
good friends afore to-meet. He has a decent
wife and three little chiltern at home. It
would break her heart, and I should have
to run my country if he wor to dee."

Get out o' th' road," said Dooley, pushing
aside the people who were crowding round.

THE HUSH SHOP. 39

Fot a can o' water, one on you, and a tors
or two to put under his } 7 ed."

Then, kneeling beside the wounded warrior,
he whipped out a lancet, and dexterously cut
a vein in Fatten's arm, and a jet of warm
red blood spurted into the face of the still
blubbering Doggy.

Didn't I tell you so ? " exclaimed the
quack doctor, triumphantly. " He's as weak
as a snug. Now a sup o' water on his face,
and then two torts under his yet."

Eatten sighed and opened his eyes ; then,
shuddering, closed them.

God help me ! " he murmured. " Have I
wakened up i' hell ? "

The question was natural. The lurid glare
of the torches, the sooty visages of the colliers,
the unwashed and generally ill-favoured countenances
of the others, Dooley with his gory
lancet, Doggy with his bloodstained and tear-bedewed
face — all these made up a scene that
might well affright the soul of the half-conscious
rat-catcher, and lead him to believe, for a moment,
that it was more of Hades than of earth.

40 BIRCH Dee.

No, no, owt mon, thou art non dead
by a long way," said Doggy, soothingly.
"What made thee think thou wor i' hell?"

Because thou looks so much like a devil."

This sally was naturally followed by a roar
of laughter, and shortly afterwards Eatten,
being raised up, was able to walk into the
house.

The next proceeding was to reward Dr.
Dooley. Doggy gave him sixpence — all the
money he had not gambled away — and a brace
of pheasants ; and a collection was made
which brought him two or three shillings
more.

"Fin gradely set up. I haven't had such
a day this winter," he said gleefully, as,
lantern in hand, the " doctor " piloted Robin
and the weaver through the fields. " Th'
pheasants — I shall sell 'em of course — th'
pheasants and this bit o' brass will keep th'
pot boiling at our house till welly Christmas.
You've brown me luck, and I shall not forget
it. If ever you want a doctor, you know
where I live. Dr. Dooley, From; Fold. Here

THE HUSH SHOP. 41

you are ! That's the road. Turn to } 7 our
left and keep straight on, and you'll get to
th' far end afore ten o'clock. Good-meet, and
thank you."

Good-meet," said Romford, taking the
man's proffered hand. " But before we part,
I'm going to ax you to do me a favour."

Ax away — one good torn deserves another.
I'm Dr. Dooley, fro' Frog Fold, and
I've gotten a pair o' forceps i' my pocket,
likewise a lancet."

"It's not that. I don't want bleeding just
now, and I haven't an unsound tooth i' my
yet. I'm feared there's mischief brewing,
and I want yo' to find out who's at th' bottom
on't."

Mischief ! What sort o' mischief ? "

"Murder, fire-raising, and machinery-breaking."


Owt else 3 "

Well, happen some stealing and such-like.
There generally is when th' devil's let loose,
and one thing's sure : it'll end in a good deal
o' hanging, unless we can put a stopper on

42 BIECH DENE.

it. Now, look here, Dr. Dooley ! There's
them at Bed Nell's as knows all about it,
and there's one mon there as is at th' bottom
on it, and th' top too — unless I'm gradely
ill mistaken. He carries a pistol in his pocket,
and to th' best o' my belief, he doesn't belong
to these parts. We heard 'em talking as we
coom o'er th' moor ; but we didn't see 'em,
and they didn't see us. You're going to stop
at Eed Nell's aw meet, and if you keep your
e'en and your ears open, you may happen
[light] o' summit as will giv' us a clue. If
you do, it will be worth your while to let
us know — either me or this young mon. My
name's Eomford — I'm middling weel known —
and I live at Moor Cottage. His is Nelson,
and he lives wi' Jim Eabbits, th' spinning
master at Berry's factory. It will be
worth your while, and you'll do a good thing
at th' same time ; 'cause if there's ony lumber,
poor folks is sure to suffer, while them as
eggs 'em on will, ten to one, get off scotfree."


That is gospel truth. Well, I'll do my

THE HUSH SHOP. 43

best. One good turn deserves another. If
I hear owt, I'll let one on you know. Not
as I've much against machinery-breaking. It's
machinery, and such-like, as is ruining th'
country. But murder and fire-raising ! Them's
the very devil. Ay, I'll let you know ; and
if there's any tooth-drawing or blood-letting
wanted, you'll not forget Dr. Dooley, fro'
Frog Fold, as he's reckoned a handy chap
with th' lancet and forceps. Good-meet to
you once moor. We're meet again."

Come on, Nelson ! " said Eomford. " We've
an hour's hard walking before us, them sheep
trotters will be tired o' waiting, and I'm base
hungry. Eed Nell's oat-cake isn't filling, and
her ale is summit like what Bob Wesley's
wife brewed when hoo had no mat, and
couldn't afford to buy hops."

CHAPTER III.

A CONFESSION.

While Robin and the weaver were wanderings
over the moor, Colonel Dene sat in his
room at Dene Hall. Several papers and a
miniature lay before him on his desk, but
his pen was idle, his head rested on one of
his hands, and he seemed absorbed in thought
so absorbed that he heard neither the opening
of the door nor the footsteps of his wife
as she crossed the softly-carpeted floor.

Pardon me for interrupting you," she
says, laying her hand gently on his shoulder,
"but Walter (the head groom) says that he
fears Willie's pony is vicious ; it kicked
several times yesterday, and Walter has heard
of a Shetland that would just suit the child.
But I should like to have your opinion, so

A CONFESSION. 45

I have told him to send one of the men for

it, and when the creature comes What

have you here ? " (taking up the miniature
which her husband was furtively pushing
under a sheet of paper). " A young woman !
Who — what ? I never ! Here is an inscription
: ' Sophie, to her dear Will ! ' Sophie, to
her dear Will ! Ah, I remember ! They used
to call you Will at home. But who is Sophie ?
You never had a sister Sophie. Whose likeness
is this, Eustace 1 ? I want to know."

Mrs. Dene's voice, as well as her manner,
showed the emotions that were struggling
in her mind — surprise, suspicion, incipient
jealousy.

I want to know," she repeated, seeing
that her husband did not answer. " Did the
young woman, of whom this is the likeness —
did she give you this miniature \ "

She did. But it is long ago, and she
is dead."

She was very dear to you, I suppose ? "

She was," said Colonel Dene, with a
troubled look.

46 BIRCH DENE.

"And you said nothing to me of this before
! I deserved better of you, Eustace. I
have never loved but you — never had a
thought that you might not share. And
yet you have secrets from me ? Oh, Eustace,
it is cruel ! "

You surely don't think, Edith, that a
man of the world reaches forty without having
had affairs of the heart, and when once
a man is married they are best buried in
oblivion."

Ah ! But is it buried in oblivion ? If
you had forgotten this woman, if you loved
me half as well as I love you, I should not
find you adoring her miniature years after
her death. Are you sure she is dead ? "

Quite sure."

Oh, Eustace, this was no common affair
of the heart ! . . . Tell me, now, what was
this girl to you — sweetheart or mistress ? "

Colonel Dene rose from his chair, and took
both his wife's hands in his.

Edith, I implore you," he said, earnestly,
"let this subject drop. It is better for your

A CONFESSION. 47

peace of mind and mine, and for our mutual
happiness, that it should. Like most men,
I have had fancies and flirtations, but in all
my life I have loved but two women. One
is not ; the other, dearest, is yourself" (kissing
her).

Why, then, were you looking at — that
woman's miniature ? "

You are surely not jealous of a miniature,
my Edith ? Well, I will tell you. It struck
me that there was an extraordinary resemblance
between — this face and Miriam Ku-berry's.
Don't you see it ? "

No ; I cannot say that I do " (examining
the miniature). " At any rate, it is very
slight."

That is because you never saw the
original."

Who was she, Eustace ? Cannot you
trust me ? I must know ! Talk about peace
of mind ! I shall not have a minute's peace
until I do. What were your relations to her ?
You haven't answered me."

Are you in earnest, Edith ? Will you

48 BIRCH DENE.

uot accept my assurance, and let the subject
drop ? "

I cannot if I would. I should be able to
think of nothing else. It is better for us
both that you make a clean breast of it. I
shall then believe what I should otherwise
doubt — that you really love me ; for love
implies confidence, does it not ? "

"Very well. I will, as you say, make
a clean breast of it," returned the colonel,
gravely. " And I confess now that it would
have been better had I done so at the outset.
But I acted, as I thought, for the best ;
and — don't you remember once saying that
you would never marry a widower. The
original of that portrait, Edith, was my
wife."

Your wife ! Your wife ! And yet you
never told me. It was ill done, Eustace —
it was ill done. What if I did say that I
would never marry a widower ! I would have
married you had you been twice a widower.
But this deception — oh, it is more than I
can bear ! " and Mrs. Dene fell a-weeping and

A CONFESSION. 49

wringing her hands as if her heart would
break.

I admit it. I should have told you," said
Colonel Dene, looking deeply distressed. " I
ask your forgiveness for not telling you ; and
when you know all, I think you will both
pardon and pity me. Will you hear me ? "

Go on," murmured the lady, with averted
face.

"In 1798, when I was a subaltern in the
Marines, I spent several months with my
company at Port-of-Spain. It was there I
met Sophie Mendoza. She was both beautiful
and good, and I fell over head and ears
in love with her ; and though she had nota
penny for her fortune, and I only an allowance
of two hundred pounds a year from my
father, we married. If Sophie had had a
father or a mother we should probably have
acted less rashly. But she lived with an old
maiden aunt, who was too glad to get her
niece off her hands to throw any obstacle in
the way of her marriage. When the regiment
went home Sophie accompanied us, and

VOL. III. E

50 BIRCH Dee.

before the ship reached Plymouth she became
a mother."

Oh, heavens ! There was a child, then !
But not a boy, Eustace — not a boy ! "

Yes, a boy. I know what you are thinking
about. But the boy will never trouble
you, Edith ; he is with his mother, poor little
man ! We called him Eupert, for I did not
want to give him a family name ; but we
always spoke of him as Robin. I did not
tell my father of my marriage ; he would have
been wild with rage, and might have stopped
my allowance. I took lodgings for Sophie
and her child in a pretty village on the coast.
I spared her one hundred and twenty pounds
a year out of my allowance, on which, supplemented
with an occasional lift from my
prize money, she contrived to live — I hope
not uncomfortably. Whenever I had opportunity
— which, being nearly always on foreign
service, was not often — I went to see her.

'rand so the years wore on, until I was
again ordered to the West Indies. Before
my departure I spent a happy fortnight with

A CONFESSION. 51

Sophie and Robin. . I have never seen
them since. . . . After I had been on the
station a twelvemonth I fell ill of a fever,
and when I partially recovered, was invalided
and sent home in an armed transport, bound
for the Thames. The month before I left
I wrote to Sophie to meet me in London.
But ' Man proposes and God disposes.' When
half way across the Bay of Biscay we were
chased by a French frigate, double our size ;
and after a desperate engagement, in which
I was severely wounded, we had to strike
our flag. We were taken to Brest, and I
was sent as a prisoner of war to a central
prison in the interior of France. Months
passed before I got better of my wound, and
more than a year before I was exchanged.
I will not attempt to describe the agony
of that terrible time — agony of body and
anguish of mind, for Sophie was entirely dependent
on me. She had little more money
than would maintain her for a few weeks in
London, and I knew not what would become
of her and the boy.

E 2

52 BIRCH DENE.

When I was released I hurried to Walworth.
Nothing had been heard of her since
her departure, but through the carrier, who
had taken some of her luggage to London,
I obtained the address of her lodgings. I
went thither, of course, but only to learn
that when her resources were exhausted she
and her child were turned into the street.

I spent a whole month in seeking a clue
to their fate. I consulted the police, I went
to everywhere, and at length I found
Two days after she had been thrust by her
heartless landlady into the streets, two bodies
the body of a woman and the body of a
little boy — were taken out of the Thames,
below London Bridge, and from the description
given of them, there could be no doubt
that they were those of my wife and her
child. In a fit of desperation — homeless and
hopeless — Sophie had taken her life and his.
In any circumstances, so terrible a tragedy
would have been sufficiently heartrending ;
but my grief for their untimely end was
intensified by the pangs of remorse. Had I

A CONFESSION. 53

openly avowed my marriage the catastrophe
could not have happened, for my father and
my friends, however much they might have
blamed my imprudence, would at least have
taken charge of the hoy, and saved Sophie
from suicide and despair. God alone knows
how much I suffered, and I suffered in silence,
for not even to my dearest friend did I reveal
the cause of my sorrow. So soon as my
health permitted, I exchanged into a line
regiment, and joined the army in Spain, there,
if possible, to find forgetfulness in death.
But it was not to be. I seemed to bear a
charmed life, and beyond one or two trifling
wounds, I passed through every danger unscathed.
Meanwhile time, the healer, was
slowly blunting the sharpness of my grief.
Five years afterwards I met you, and forgot
my misfortune in the hope of a new happiness.
Were I to say that I never think
of Sophie, you would not believe me, yet
you and Willie are all in all to me, Edith.
My old love for her has served rather to
intensify than diminish my love for you.

54 BIRCH DENE.

Now that you know all, you may guess
why, in addition to the other reasons I have
mentioned, I desired to bury in my own heart
the one secret of my life. But I did wrong.
I should have told you all, even at the risk
of giving you pain and losing your love. It
was a weakness, just as it was a weakness
to conceal my marriage with Sophie, for fear
of offending my father and losing my allow T -
ance — a weakness and a mistake, one of those
mistakes which in certain circumstances may
have worse results than a crime. . I have
freely confessed ; can you as freely forgive
me, Edith ? "

For a few minutes Mrs. Dene was silent ;
but after a short, though, as her countenance
showed, a fierce struggle, her good angel
triumphed — for the time.

Oh yes, Eustace ; and, more than that,
I pity you. How you must have suffered !
You are right. Let this terrible episode of
your life be buried in oblivion. I will not
deny that I would rather have been your first
love ; but as my boy and I are all in all to

A CONFESSION. 55

you, and there is nobody to come between
us, and I have the best husband in the world,
I am content. I might be jealous of the
living ; it were wicked to be jealous of the
dead. And now no more of this ; we will
never mention it again. . . . Let us talk
about something else. What was it ? Oh,
dear Willie and his pony. He must really
have another."

By all means, if you think so."
And when this one comes that Walter
has heard of you will look at it, and give me
your opinion ? "

Of course I will. All the same, you
cannot tell, merely by looking at it, whether
a pony is quiet and safe. We must have
it on trial for a day or two."

"A good idea. It would never do to have
another kicker. I will let you know when
it comes — the pony, I mean, not the idea.
And now I will leave you to finish your
correspondence."

She might be jealous of the living, but
it were wicked to be jealous of the dead,"

56 BIRCH Dee.

murmured Colonel Dene, when he was left
to himself. " And yet I fear that deep down
in her heart Edith is jealous of the dead ; for
though she pitied me she had not a word
of pity for Sophie and that poor boy. . I
said, truly, I love Edith, but I shall never
forget Sophie — never. My first love, so
gentle and self-sacrificing : never a word of
reproach for the seclusion in which I kept her.
Even in her extremity she did not apply to
my people, poor girl. And Robin ! I can
still see him as I last saw him, when his
weeping mother held him up to kiss his hand
as the coach was driving away. Is he really
dead ? There were discrepancies in that
description, and unless Sophie had been really
out of her mind she could not — no, she could
not — have taken his life before taking her
own. The suspicion has long haunted my
mind, and especially since I met this Nelson,
that he still lives. . . . The same age, and
that white lock ! And there is something in
the lad's appearance and story that strangely
attracts me. . . . But no ; it is impossible.

A CONFESSION. 57

Robin knew who I was — my rank and name,
and he was quite old enough and sharp enough
to put somebody on the right track, if not
to find me himself. Then the name ! Yes,
it is impossible — utterly impossible. If he
lived he would have found me or I him long,
long ago."

Chapter IV.

PERPLEXITIES.

In addition to his other perplexities, Robin
had now to decide how he should communicate
to his employers the particulars of his
adventure on the moor, or so much thereof
as it concerned them to know. It would not
be expedient, he thought, to bring in the
name of the Radical weaver ; and after his
promise to Eed Nell to " keep a still tongue,"
he could not mention his visit to the hush
shop, much less whom he had seen there ; for
if Robert Berry knew, or even suspected,
that any of the hands frequented the place,
they would be in his black books, and, in
all probability, incur the pain of dismissal. It
was not only that Eed Nell's had an evil
reputation ; the hands were expected to do
their drinking at " The Hare and Hounds,"

PERPLEXITIES. 59

which well-accustomed inn was the property
of the firm, and those of them who went
elsewhere were sure to incur their masters'
displeasure. For those reasons Robin limited
his communication to the purport of the
overheard conversation. As he expected, Old
Bob tried to make light of the threats of his
unknown enemies ; but the angry look in
his eyes, and the nervous twitching of his
lips, showed that his indifference was more
apparent than real.

You did right to tell me, Nelson," he
said coldly ; " but I'm quite used to this sort
of thing. I have heard of such-like language
being used time out o' mind, and I'm here
yet. You know the proverb — ' Threatened
men live lone ! ' . . . These fellows had a
pistol among 'em, you say ? "

Yes ; they flashed it to get a light for
their lantern."

Was it loaded, do you think ? "

It must have been. They had to draw the
charge before they could flash the powder."

And you have no idea who they were ? "

60 BIRCH DENE.

Not the least."

But they were our hands ? w

Some of them were, at any rate. But
whoever they were, I could not see them ; it
was pitch dark."

Why didn't you follow 'em up ? "

I did as long as I could — until the light
disappeared — and then I lost them."

How did you find your way home, then ? ' :
(sharply).

Went on till I came to a house, where
I found a man who put me in the way."

What man ? "

He said his name was Dooley — Dr. Dooley ;
but he does not live hereabouts."

No ; he lives at Frog Fold. I know him
quack doctor and scamp."

Scamp ! "

"Radical, if you like it better. They're
both as one. But couldn't you tell any of
those fellows by their voices ? There's hardly
a man's voice on th' ground as I don't know."

But there are a good many that I don't
know."

PERPLEXITIES. 6 1

That's true. Well, I don't think it
matters much. There's talk o' that sort going
on every day, and if they think to flay me,
they're infernally mistaken."

Whereupon Robert Berry, as if he
wanted to have done with the subject, began
to open the letters which lay od the desk
before him.

Hello ! " he exclaimed, tossing one of
them to Robin. " Here's summit else ! Is
it from that chap as wants to shoot me, do
you think ? "

It was a threatening letter of the sort so
abundant in Ireland. Beneath a rude drawings
a coffin in black were pen-printed in red.
ink these words, which sprawled in a ghastly
fashion all over the paper :

Owt Nick to Old Bob.

If thou doesn't mind what t/iou art doiri ', and
give thy spinners a rise, thou 11 be a bludy corpse
afore th } month's out.

"Owt Nick,
"His mere [a gridiron."

62 BIRCH DENE.

Well, what think you ? " repeated Robert
Berry. " Is it a joke, or is it earnest ? ' ;

A joke, I should say," answered Robin,
though he had his doubts.

How if it's neither ? "

"It must be one or the other."

I'm not so sure. The writer of that letter
doesn't mean to kill me — not he. When
folks mean murder they don't write letters
beforehand. He wants to flay me, that's all.
But he has done me, the thief. He did not
repay th' letter, and it has cost me thirteen-pence.
I don't think any of the spinners has
done it — there's none of 'em as can read
or write, much less draw. But it has been
done in their interest, and there's them on
this ground as knows all about it."

Done in their interest ! I see. You are
only to be killed if you don't grant an advance
of wastes."

"That is it. Th' hands want a rise. They
say they are ill paid. It's a lie ; they are
well paid. They want a rise, but they
haven't the courage to ask me ; so they get

PERPLEXITIES. 63

some Eadical scamp, like Romford or Dooley,
to send me this letter. But they have got th'
wrong sow by th' ear this time. They'll find
as ' Owt Bob as they call me, isn't so easy
flayed as they think."

"It maybe so. Yet, taken in connection
with the attempt to smash the engine, and
what I heard on the moor, this letter has
certainly an ugly look. Won't you take any
precautions at all ? "

For myself, none. I'll not give in to 'em
so far ; while, as for th' factory, all I shall do
will be to make th' overlooker keep a sharper
look out, and do th' same myself. And — ay,
I'll clap another fie thousand on th' insurance
; we are a bit under the mark at present.
It's best to be on th' safe side — give ourselves
the benefit of the doubt, you know — and if
they clo burn th' factory down, I'll build
another twice as big while they're hemming.
A brand-new concern is so much better than
an old 'un that I've no doubt we should be
gainers in the long run. Ay, let 'em burn it.
I know who would suffer most."

64 BIRCH DENE.

After delivering himself of this tirade,
Robert Berry, without waiting for a reply,
resumed the reading of his letters, to two or
three of which he proceeded to write answers,
handing them, as they were finished, to Robin
to copy and address.

While they were thus occupied, the trampling
of naked feet and a sound as of hushed
voices were heard outside, followed, the next
moment, by a knock at the door.

What the deuce ! " exclaimed Robert
Berry. " Come in ! "

On which the door opened, and disclosed a
crowd of spinners, behind whom were gathered
several scores of piecers, card-room hands —
male and female — and others.

Old Bob could not have looked more
surprised if his visitors had been Red Indians
in their war-paint, or Chinamen with tails.

Well," he said, turning round and glaring
at the intruders as they trooped into the
counting-house, " this caps all ! I never
knew owt like this ! What's up ? What do
you want 1 "

PERPLEXITIES. 65

"Thee speak, Bill." — "Not I: speak
thyself— "Let Jim o' Jacks speaks"— " No,
Pe o' Bobs ; he can talk," whispered the
spinners, as they pushed each other forward ;
but none seemed desirous to take the post of
honour.

' What ! Dare none of you open your
mouths ? ' : sneered Old Bob. " Come, outwith
it ! You are the oldest spinner on the
ground, Plucked. What does this mean ? "

Thus appealed to, Plucked, a middle-aged,
broad-set man, with iron-gray hair and a careworn
face, stepped to the front.

"ewe want a rise of ten per cent, aw
rand," he said.

Ay, ten per cent, aw rand," chorused the
others, whose tongues were now loosened.

Ten per cent. ! Hadn't you better ask fora
hundred per cent, while you are about it ?
Would you like me to give you th' factory,
and all as I have besides, and spend th' rest of
my days in th' poor-house."

We haven't a living," quoth a man in the
crowd. " I work like a loss fro' Monday

VOL. III. F

66 BIRCH Dee.

morning to Saturday meet, and I turned addle
enough to keep th' chiltern i' porridge."

More fool you for having chiltern. I did
not ask you to have any, did I ? I've no
chiltern."

It is a good job for th' chiltern as you
haven't. You'd clem 'em to death ! " cried
a rough yet distinctly feminine voice.

"Who — who said that?" demanded Robert
Buberry, now almost beside himself.

I did," answered a big card-room lass,
thrusting her way through the throng. " I
said it, and you may bag me if you like. I
can nobbut go to th' poor-house, and I'se be
better off their than i' one of your cottages.
They're no better than dog-kennels. You
wouldn't put your bosses i' such-like holes."

Come, no more of this ! Now, I'll tell you
what, chaps. You want a rise of ten per cent.
Well, I'll not give you one per cent, not while
your hearts beat, and if you don't get back to

your work without any more bother, by

Oh, you'll not flay me. Stand back, I
say."

PERPLEXITIES. 67

Several of the foremost spinners, stung
by their master's contemptuous language,
made as if they would strike him ; but Robert
Buberry stood his ground, and though Robin's
sympathies were entirely with the hands, he
could not help admiring the old man's
courage, for a single blow from a spinner's
horny fist would well-nigh have annihilated
him. He more than stood his ground ; he
dominated them.

"Get back to your work, I say," he
repeated, stamping his foot on the floor, and
quivering with passion. " And if you are not

gone in two minutes, by G I'll stop the

factory for a month, and them may find
porridge for their chiltern as can. Turn out,
will you ? "Well, do it, then. But let me tell
you one thing : if you stop out till th' day o'
judgment, you'll not beat me. Back to your
work this minute ! "

And they went. First the women and
card-room hands, sullenly and silently ; then
the spinners, muttering threats of vengeance.

You see ! It is as I told you," said

F 2

68 BIRCH Dee.

Robert Berry, as the last of them withdrew.
Th' letter was written in the interest of the
hands. I begin to think it was written by
one of 'em, and sent to Manchester to be
posted. Have you learned anybody to write
besides Jim Rabbits ? "

"No."

Well, take care you don't. What business
have workfolks with writing ? Let me see —
didn't 1 hear summit about Blincoe having
learned to write while he was in prison ? "

"Yes. I believe he had learned once
before — a good many years since, and when
he was in prison somebody gave him a copy-book,
and with a bit of practice it came back
to him. At any rate, that is what he told

me.

Can it be him, do you think ? "
"Why should he write such a letter? He

is still an apprentice, and it can make no

earthly difference to him whether wages

are raised or not."

"That's true. All th' same, some of th'

others may have made a spoon-handle of him.

Perplexities. 69

I have a good mind to ask him But it

would be no use, he'd lie ; they all lie. And
now, Nelson, not a word of this — the letter I
mean — to anybody, not even to my brother.
I don't want it to be buzzed all o'er th' place,
and Ben never could keep a secret in his life.
Hello ! Somebody at th' door. They are
surely not coming back ? "

Here the door opened a second time, and
Miriam, with a pale and agitated face, entered
the room.

Oh, uncle," she cried, " what has happened ?
The yard is full of people, and they are saying
such terrible things, cursing you and my father,
and saying that you want to starve them to
death."

They were surely not rude to you, Miss
Berry ! " interposed Robin, with some heat.
If they were "

"Not in the least. They made way forme,
and one woman said, ' God bless you ! '
and something else" (blushing).

What ! Haven't they gone to their work,
then ? "

70 BIRCH DENE.

I think so. They seemed to be going.
But what is it all about, uncle ? What has
happened ? "

They have had th' impudence to ask fora
rise of ten per cent. — nowt else — and I told
them plump and plain that they shouldn't
have it while their hearts beat."

But some of them are so very poor. I
called just now to see Trimble's wife. She
is ill in bed, her children are only half clad,
and for a whole week they have had nothing
to eat but porridge without milk — and not
enough of that. If you could give them some
advance — if not ten per cent., then five —
it would be a great help and a great kindness."


Not it ! They'd spend it all in drink, and
want another rise next year. Besides, it
cannot be afforded. There's nobody I would
sooner oblige than you, Miriam, but the
concern must not suffer to please anybody,
and to yield to insolent demands like this
would be just ruination. You can see yourself
that the more we do for them the more

PERPLEXITIES. 71

ungrateful they are, and the worse to manage.
Haven't we built that cottage hospital as
you wanted, given th' 'prentices better food
and more liberty, and made most of th'
cottages weather-tight — and what's the return
we get ? A demand for a ten per cent, rise !
And one of th' card-room lasses had th' impudence
to say as our cottages are no better
than dog-kennels."

Some of them are worse, uncle. When
I saw Colonel Dene's kennels the other day,
I wished that our cottages were half as
comfortable."

Colonel Dene ! Do you think we can
cope with a man as has ten thousand a year,
paid every six months ? Besides, it would
never do to make th' cottages too comfortable ;
th' hands would be stopping in 'em all day
long instead of coming to their work. And
this is a free country. Them as doesn't like
'em can leave 'em. Isn't your father coming
down ? "

Not this morning. He wanted me to
tell you that he has gone, at Colonel Dene's

72 Birch DENE.

invitation, to have a day's shooting in the
home coverts."

Well, I dare say we can do without him.
I'm going into th' factory to see if those fools
have set to work again. Shall I see you
across th' yard ? "

Thank you, uncle. If you have done
with that book I last lent you, Nelson, I shall
be glad if you will let me have it back," said
Miriam, in a matter-of-fact way, but with a
reproachful glance at Robin, which her uncle,
who seldom missed anything, perceived and
wondered greatly what it could mean.

Certainly," he returned. " I will send
it tomorrow, or the next day — or bring it
myself."

"Thank you. That will do very well.
Good morning."

Robin was at no loss to understand the
meaning of Miriam's reproachful glance.
Though several days had elapsed since his
interview with Romford, he had not, as yet,
informed her what the former advised, or
what he himself proposed to do ; for how

PERPLEXITIES. 73

could he tell her of the appalling idea which
the weaver had suggested — that his father
and mother were possibly — nay, probably —
not man and wife? As yet, moreover, he
had not decided whether he would act on
his Mentor's advice. At one time he would
say to himself that the mere suggestion of
so hideous a possibility was dishonouring to
both his parents. At another time he would
reluctantly admit the possibility, with the
qualification that, if it were so, his mother
must have been deceived, and his father bea
villain of the deepest dye, to whom he owed
neither affection nor duty. And he had a
haunting fear that it was so. He could not
deny, even to himself, that the circumstances
of the case seemed to square with Romford's
theory, yet he thought that his present
suspense would be easier to bear than confirmation
of so terrible a suspicion.

On the other hand, he had a strong desire
to know the truth, and it was obvious that if
he refrained from revealing himself to Colonel
Dene, Miriam, and in all probability Romford

74 BIRCH DENE.

likewise, might set him down as an impostor
and his story as a fiction.

In the end, and after much perturbation
of mind, he resolved to let Miriam decide
for him. Seeing that he knew beforehand
what she would say, this was not a very
logical conclusion ; but he was not in a logical
frame of mind, and it pleased him to think
that he was making her the arbitress of his
fate. So he wrote her a short note, which,
bearing in mind the possibility of its being
intercepted, he so expressed that it could not
easily be understood by anybody else :

My friend thinks that CD. is my father,
and advises me to speak to him. If you are
of the same opinion, I will take the earliest
possible opportunity of doing so.

Robin.

He put the missive inside the book (a copy
of Mansfield Park), which, after folding in
brown paper, he took to Oaken Clough. He
would have liked to see Miriam, but hearing
that she was with her father and uncle, and

PERPLEXITIES. 75

fearing that if he asked for her it mio-ht excite
suspicion, he merely requested Phoebe to give
the packet to her mistress.

On the day following he received his answer
(enclosed in a copy of Belinda). It ran
thus :

I am of the same opinion as your friend.
By all means act on his advice, and let me
hear from you again as soon as may be.

Miriam.

CHAPTEK V.

FATHER AND SON.

The die was cast then, and albeit Robin
could not shake off his misgnvmors, his mind
was made up. He would know the truth,
be the result what it might, if only to satisfy
Miriam ; and he felt in his heart that, though
she did not know all the facts, her advice
was sound. The sooner he acted on it and
saw Colonel Dene the better, and as the only
times when Robin was not at work until
eight or nine p.m. were Saturdays (when the
engine stopped at four) and Sundays, it must
be one of these days. He elected for the
former, and on the first Saturday afternoon
following the receipt of Miriam's letter set
out for Dene Hall, taking with him the

FATHER AND SON. 77

copy of The Bride of Lammermoor to return,
which was the ostensible object of his visit.

He lingered long on the way, thinking how
he should broach the subject; but as none
of the plans which he formed seemed satisfactory,
he finally resolved to trust to the
chapter of accidents and the inspiration of
the moment. When he knocked at the door,
shortly before six, he was so agitated that
he could hardly command his voice, and it
was with a sense of relief rather than of
disappointment that he heard Colonel Dene
was not at home. His master and mistress
were out at a dinner-party, said the footman.
Would Mr. Nelson leave his card 1 Mr.
Nelson had no card, but he left a message
and the book.

"Tell Colonel Dene," he said, "that Mr.
Nelson has a communication to make, and
will call again tomorrow afternoon."

Then he returned to his lodgings, and spent
the rest of the evening in giving Jim Eabbits
a lesson in arithmetic, and though Robin
did not take very kindly to the occupation,

78 BIRCH DENE.

it was so far useful that it served to divert
for a while the current of his thoughts. But
night brought a renewal of his cares ; his
fitful slumbers were haunted by hideous
dreams, and he awoke so weary and unrefreshed
that instead of going to church, as
usual, he took a long walk in the fields. The
ramble and the respite did him good — calmed
his mind and restored his courage ; and albeit,
when he knocked for the second time at the
door of his father's house, his heart beat faster,
he could inquire without any show of nervousness
whether Colonel Dene was at home.

Yes, sir," said the man, respectfully ;
"he is in the library, and will be glad to
see you. Will you step this way ? "

Robin followed his conductor, and was duly
announced.

Colonel Dene, who had been reading, rose
from his chair and £ave his £rest a cordial
Greeting;.

"I am glad to see you," he said; "it is
good of you to come again so soon. Sorry
I was out when you called yesterday. You

FATHER AND SON. 79

brought back The Bride of Lammermoor.
What do you think of it ? n

Robin answered something, he hardly knew
what. He was struggling with tumultuous
thoughts, and trying to still the almost
audible throbbing of his heart, for now that
the supreme moment of his life drew near,
his old apprehensions revived in full force.

Won't you sit down ? Or perhaps you
would like to select another book ? The latest
editions are on the shelves next the window,"
said Colonel Dene, thinking thereby to give
the young fellow (whose agitation he attributed
to shyness) an opportunity of recovering
his composure.

Thank you," answered Robin, as he acted
on the hint. But he had no sooner reached
the window than he wheeled suddenly round,
and returning to the Colonel, looked him full
in the face.

Colonel Dene," he said in a broken voice,
1 ' I have not come for a book. I have come
to ask you a question."

61 To ask me a question ! What is it,

80 BTRCH DENE.

Nelson ? " answered the Colonel, kindly, but
with a look which expressed something more
than surprise.

I think, sir, you can tell me something
about my father. I . I have not seen
him for more than twelve years. You called
me Nelson just now. My name is not Nelson ;
it is Raven mere — Rupert Ravensmere."

Colonel Dene turned deadly pale, and rising
a second time from his chair, placed his hands
on Robin's shoulders and devoured him with
his eyes.

If your name be in truth Rupert Ravens-mere,"
he said slowly, and articulating with
difficulty — "if you are in truth Rupert
Ravensmere, you are my boy, my long-lost
boy. But if you are deceiving me, by
Heaven The truth, the truth ! "

I am in very truth Rupert Ravensmere,
Colonel Dene. My mother's maiden name
was Sophie Mendoza. I was born on board
the troopship Agricola, during a voyage from
Port of Spain to Plymouth, and the last time
I saw my father was on the day he left us

FATHER AND SOX. 81

at Lulworth, where we were living, on his
appointment to a command on the Vesta,
bound for the West Indies. We stayed at
Lulworth until he wrote to my mother from
Martinique, saying that he had been wrecked,
and was coming home, and that we were to

meet him in London "

The inspiration of the moment was serving
Robin well. He was recalling without effort
names and events to which for long years
he had been oblivious.

And then ? " said Colonel Dene, eagerly,

whose white face, damp with sweat, and

trembling lips showed the intensity of his

emotion. " And then — you went to London ? "

Yes, we went to London, and my father

did not come, and we fell into want "

"You fell into want, and — and But

your mother, boy — tell me about your mother !
Did she suffer much ? Were you — were you
with her to the last ? "
I saw her die."

Poor Robin ! Poor Sophie ! And she so
good and brave ! The horror of it ! — oh, my

VOL. III. G

82 BIRCH DENE.

God, the horror of it ! . . . She must indeed
have been maddened by want to abandon her
child and take her own life ! "

Take her own life ! My mother take her
own life and abandon me ! I don't understand.
You are quite wrong."

How ? Did not the poor creature drown
herself ? Her body was found in the Thames."

"Oh no, sir; my mother did not drown
herself."

"What then, boy — what then?" asked
Colonel Dene, in a barely audible voice ; for
the fearful thought had crossed his mind that
Sophie might still be living.

My mother died in the dock of the Old
Bailey, sir."

"No, no, no! That would be worse —
worse than starvation — worse than suicide !
My wife — the wife of a Eavensmere — die in
the dock of the Old Bailey ! Oh, my Sophie
my wife ! "

His wife ! The words conjured away all
Robin's mistrust, and his heart went out to
his father.

FATHER AND SON. 83

Oh no, I cannot, will not, believe it'
murmured Colonel Dene. " Say you are
deceiving me, boy, and I will forgive you."

It is only too true, my father May

I call you father ? "

May you call me father ! Ah, Robin, you
little know how dearly I loved you, how I
sought after and sorrowed for my lost darling
and her child, and though she is not, you
are restored to me . . . My little Rupert,
how well I remember him ! And now he is
as tall as myself. Come nearer. Let me put
my arms round you, and look more closely
at your face — my eyes are dim with tears . . .
Ah, yes, you are altered, greatly altered ; but
it is Robin's face still. Blind, blind that I
did not see it before ! And there is that
white lock your mother told me about in her
letters. When we first met I liked you, and
you interested me. And, strangely enough,
I had more than once a vague suspicion that
you might be my boy. But when I calmly
reviewed the facts, I laughed at myself for
entertaining so preposterous an idea, and

G 2

84 BIRCH DENE.

dismissed it from my mind. How could a
factory apprentice called Nelson, even though
he had a white lock and was of the same
age, be the child who I had reason to believe
had been dead for years ? Even now it seems
impossible, and if my heart did not acknowledge
But your mother — how did it

come to pass ? She was surely not a prisoner ?
Died in the dock of the Old Bailey ! Tell
me all, boy. Sit here, near me, and tell
me all quickly, from the time we parted at
Lul worth."

Again, and, as he wrongly thought, for the
last time, Rupert Ravensmere told his strange
eventful history.

For a while Colonel Dene listened in silence ;
but when he heard of all that his wife and
son suffered in London he became greatly
excited, interrupting Robin with frequent
exclamations and questions, such as :

Did ever anybody hear of so noble

a woman ? She knew where my people were,
and even though they might have blamed me,
they would have helped her for my sake.

FATHER AND SON. 85

And yet, rather than make known my secret,
she endured all this ignominy and want !
And you and she were turned into the cold

streets, my poor boy, and I ! But go on

what next ? Quick — what next ? "

And that wretched Jew actually gave

her into custody when she would have returned
the cloak ! Where is he, that I may
crush the breath from his vile body ? Go on,
go on ! "

When Robin told of his mother's imprisonment
and trial, and of the last scene of all,
the Colonel bowed his head and wept, and
his son wept with him. Then indignation
gained the mastery. He rose from his chair,
and gesticulating wildly, protested that he
would seek out the judge — Hardress — and
denounce him as the murderer of the best
woman who ever lived.

As Robin went on, the Colonel calmed down
somewhat, and his questions and interruptions
became fewer and more coherent.

"You were quite right, Robin," he observed,
when you said Mr. Bartlett was your second

86 BIPiCH DENE.

father ; lie did more to deserve your love than
ever I did. Would it were in my power to
thank him for his kindness to my desolate
boy ! Do you know what I thought when
you told me about him, and of your treatment
by Moses Weevil ? I thought you were
Bartlett's son, and had been cheated out of
your inheritance. It was that idea, as much
as anything, which threw me off the right
scent. I still think the scoundrel had some
strong motive for getting rid of you. So you
were persuaded to become a factory apprentice
of all things in the world ! ' ;

For several minutes after Robin had told
his story Colonel Dene remained silent, and,
as it seemed, lost in deep and painful thought.

"Rupert Ravensmere," he said, at length,
looking tenderly at his son — " Rupert Ravens-mere,
do you know that you are the heir to
Birch Dene?"

That is as you like, sir."

Not at all. The estate is settled on me
and my first-born son and his son after him.
You are my first-born, and therefore the heir.

FATHER AND SON. 87

And you shall be acknowledged as the heir,
Robin ; but not just yet. Are you in a hurry
to assume the position, or will you wait a
while — to please me ? "

I will wait, father, as long as you wish."

Spoken like your mother s son, dear boy ! "
said the Colonel, warmly. "And yet I have
no right to demand of you so great a sacrifice.
Bather do I owe you reparation for the wrong
I did you — you and her."

Wrong ! Oh no, there was no wrong.
If you had not fallen into the hands of the
French on your voyage home, all would have
been well."

"If! But I had no right to count on all
going well. In not providing for the contingency,
which I ought to have foreseen, and
which actually occurred, I failed in my duty.
And it could have been done so easily — a
letter to my father, to be forwarded to him
by your mother in the event of my death or
capture by the enemy. He would have been
highly incensed, I dare say, but he would have
done his duty. And I ought to have avowed

88 BIRCH Dee.

my marriage from the beginning. I tried to
persuade myself that if I did so I should
lose my allowance; but it was much more
fear of incurring my father's displeasure and
giving pain to my family. Fear of giving
pain to those I cared for was rather a weakness
of mine in those days . . . Yes, Bobin,
I owe you reparation, yet I am going to ask
you to make a great sacrifice . . . When I
openly acknowledge you, one of the first
persons to be informed must necessarily be
Mrs. Dene — I can hardly bring myself, as yet,
to speak of her as your stepmother — I ought
really to tell her before I tell anybody else ;
and as she is in a delicate state of health
just now, I fear the shock would be more
than she could bear. She has always looked
upon Willy as the heir, and her disappointment,
when she knows the truth, will be
great "

Let Willy be your heir, sir," broke in
Robin ; "I ask no more than to be your

son."

' A very noble offer, my dear boy, for which

FATHER AND SON. 89

I thank you with all my heart. It is more
than I deserve. But you cannot help being
the heir. I am only the life-tenant. If you
survive me, Birch Dene must one day be
yours. All I ask of you is that you wait
a few months until Mrs. Dene is so far
recovered that I may tell her, without risk
of serious consequences, that the son whom
I thought dead is still alive."

Do you call that a great sacrifice, father ?
Why, it is nothing at all ! Of course I will
wait, as long as you like."

And remain at the factory ? "

"And remain at the factory."

Keeping the name by which you are
known there, and not mentioning to a soul
either who you are or what has passed between
us to-day ? "

Robin's countenance fell. If he told Miriam
and Romford naught of what had passed between
his father and himself, they must needs
discredit his story, and look upon him as an
impostor.

Have you told anybody who you are ? "

90 BIRCH DENE.

I told Eomford, the Radical weaver, who
I thought I was, and asked his advice — in
the strictest confidence."

So you think he is a man who can keep
a secret, then ? "

I am sure he is."

Eomford is in evil odour with my brother
justices. All the same, I have heard a good
report of him, and I believe he is an honest
man. J will see him, and I have no doubt
he can be prevailed upon to keep his own
counsel. Have you told anybody else ? M

Yes, sir, I told all I knew about myself
to two persons — one of whom was Eomford,
the other Miriam Berry."

Miriam Berry ! Also in confidence, I
suppose ? How came you to tell her, Robin ? "

Robin explained that he and Miriam had
struck up a sort of platonic friendship, that
he told her his story before he had any idea
that Colonel Dene was his father, that it was
from her he learnt that . the Colonel's original
name was Ravensmere, and by her advice that
he had consulted the weaver.

FATHER AND SON. 91

Can she also keep a secret, do you think ? "

She has given me her word, and what
Miriam promises, that will she do. She is
as true as steel."

Do you love her, boy ? "

Do I love Miriam ? " answered Robin,
turning very red, and looking very self-conscious.
" Yes, sir — as a sister — nothing

more."

Of course, nothing more," answered the
Colonel, gravely, albeit the suspicion of a
smile hovered about his lips. " I understand
a purely platonic friendship ! But you
need not blush, Robin. To love a sweet girl
like Miriam would be no reproach "

I assure you, sir, I never thought "

broke in Robin, impetuously.

Would be no reproach to any young

fellow," continued the Colonel, quietly.
Rather the contrary. It would be a reproach
if you did not love her — more than
platonically. Not that I suppose you have
seriously entertained the idea of making her
your wife. You are just a little young for

92 BIRCH DENE.

that yet. But the experiences you have
undergone have developed your character, and
made you older than your years. I was not
very much older than you are when I fell in
love with your mother. However, this is not
to the purpose ; for though I am your father,
you need not make me your father confessor
unless you like. Be Miriam to you what
she may, I want you to keep our relationship
even from her, for the present."

But what must I do \ What shall I say ?
What will she think of me ? " demanded the
young fellow, passionately. " She knew I
was going to see you. She strongly advised
me to see you, and if I refuse to tell her
what I have heard she must think ill of me.
She will either think that I have no confidence
in her, or that my story is untrue.
And she would keep it a profound secret, even
from her father and her uncle. I am sure she
would."

So am I ; and I am equally sure she
would not think ill of you or ascribe your
reticence to any want of confidence in herself.

FATHER AND SON. 93

Listen, Robin : as I have already explained,
I am most anxious that Mrs. Dene should not
know you are my son for some time to come,
and that she should hear of it from nobody
but myself. Now, if you were to tell Miriam,
you would place her in a false position.
Whenever she came here — and I hope she
will come often — she would have to play a
part, and be continually on her guard — might
even inadvertently betray her secret ; for
Mrs. Dene is a woman of the world, quick
at reading character and drawing conclusions.
It is better, even for Miriam's sake, that
she should remain for a while in ignorance.

And if she has a regard for you Has

she ? "

"I— I think so "

If she has a regard for you — a sisterly
affection, let us say — she will give you credit
for sincerity, and be content to wait until
such time as you can tell her all — and it will
not be very long. Tell her so — tell her that
your lips are sealed, and ask her to trust you,
and keep to herself so much of your story as

94 BIRCH Dee.

she already knows. If she be the girl I take
her for, she will not hesitate."

Very well, sir, if you think so "

I do think so, and you will greatly oblige me'
If you put it in that way I cannot hesitate.
I will not tell even Miriam that you
are my father."

You are very good. I should not have
been at all surprised if you had refused. I
thank Heaven that you are what you are, and
not what you might have been. The trials
which would have utterly marred a less
sterling nature have made yours all the
stronger. I can be proud of Sophie's child
I am proud of him. And don't fear ; your
probation will not be for long ; and it shall
be made as tolerable as possible. I will speak
to Mr. Berry ; I will ask him to show you
all the consideration in bis power. I think
I can do it in such a way as will not excite
his suspicion."

You had better speak to Mr. Robert, sir.
He is the virtual master of the concern, and
his brother's keeper."

FATHER AND SON. 95

Mr. Robert let it be, then. But I shall
have to mind my P's and Q's. He is very-sharp
and keen, that old man. And now, my
dear boy, how are you off for money ? "

Oh, I have some laid by, and they give
me five shillings a week."

Five shillings a week ! And how much
have you laid by ? "

Nearly five pounds, sir."

Nearly five pounds ! " — (smiling). " Well,
how much shall I allow you ? You have a
claim, mind. You are my heir, and by good
right should be at college or in the army, and
at my charge. Instead of that, you are keeping
yourself, and I consider myself to be heavily
in your debt. How much shall we say ? "

■ " I would rather leave it to you, sir ; and
really I can make shift very well with what
I have."

And I would rather leave it to you.
Come now — how much ? "

"Well, if I must say, I think" — (hesitating)
— " I think ten shillings a week would
be quite ample."

96 BIRCH Dee.

Oh no, Robin ; I cannot allow you ten
shillings a week."

I am very sorry. Five shillings, then."

I did not mean that ten shillings was too
much. You must have a hundred a year at
least ; and. next year, when you are of age, I
shall make it a thousand."

A thousand a year ! " exclaimed Robin,
with a bewildered look. " What shall I do
with it?"

When you take your right position as heir
to Birch Dene, you will not find a thousand
a year too much. We may look upon that as
settled, then. Is there anything else ? Yes,
I must take down the address of that Mr.
Chubb . . . ' Mortimer Chubb, Lincoln's Inn
Fields,' I think you said. I shall not write
to him. I will see him when I go to town,
and if I can arrange it you shall go with me,
so that we may visit together your poor
mother's grave. . . We were talking just
now about Miss Berry. Has it ever struck
you that she is like anybody % "

"Yes, she is like my mother."

FATHER AND SON. 97

You saw it, then ! Yes, they are strangely
alike. When I first saw Miriam she quite
startled me. But the resemblance must be
accidental. There can be no relationship.
And she seems to be a good girl, and of a
sweet disposition."

Except my mother, I have never known
anybody so lovable and good."

And you love her ? "

Robin made no answer, but the flush on
his face and the light in his eye showed
Colonel Dene that he had guessed aright.

vol. in. xi

CHAPTER VI.

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE.

Bobin's predominant feeling, as he wended
homeward, may be best described as elation,
dashed by doubt. He had found his father —
a father who was all he could desire — who
realized his ideal of an officer and a gentleman,
whom he could unreservedly respect and love
with all his heart. He was heir to Birch Dene
and ten thousand a year ; and though it hardly
seemed possible that it could ever be his —
for Colonel Dene looked as if he mio-ht live too



be a hundred, and Robin hoped he would —
the position was a splendid one, and surpassed
his wildest expectations. He, the London
waif, rescued from the streets by the kindness
of a tradesman — then workhouse apprentice
and Lancashire factory boy — now the son of a

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE. 99

distinguished officer of ancient lineage, and
heir to one of the finest properties in the
county ! It seemed like a dream. Fortune
had, indeed, been very kind to him. What
more could he wish ?

Nevertheless Robin was not content. He
was forbidden to tell Miriam these glad tidings
of great joy. He must tell her nothing of
what had passed between his father and himself
— and he longed to tell her all. She, his
sweet counsellor, having shared in his anxiety,
it was natural that she should desire to share
in his triumph. And he loved her. Since
his father had opened his eyes he knew that
he loved her with a more than fraternal affection
— more passionately than he had once loved
his mother, and more devotedly than he now
loved his father. He could, moreover, indulge
in hopes and visions that only a few
hours ago would have seemed the merest
madness or the sweetest impudence. Mr.
Berry was not the man to refuse his
daughter to the heir of Birch Dene ; and
who but his father had detected the true

H 2

100 BIRCH DENE.

character of his love and fanned his smouldering
passion into a flame ?

Yet, until that same father unsealed his
lips, he must remain silent, arid bury in his
heart both the fact of his love and the secret
of his birth. For the two went together.
Eupert Ravensmere Dene might, without
presumption, woo Miriam Berry ; but if
Robin Nelson, factory apprentice, dared to
speak of love to his master's daughter, he
would richly merit the scornful repulse which
he was sure to receive. Unless Miriam loved

him as he loved her But no ; it was too

much to hope for. Such an idea, he felt sure,
had never entered her mind ; she was too
modest, too unsophisticated, too religious —
for the young fellow ascribed to his sweetheart
every perfection under heaven, and
several more. Then, again, he would have
to keep from her what she was eager to know,
repay her confidence with seeming distrust,
and so, as he feared (his father to the contrary
notwithstanding), lose her friendship and incur
her displeasure.

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE. 101

"Altogether a very hard case I" he exclaimed

aloud.

What is a very hard case, Nelson ? "

God bless me ! — you here, Comfort ? "

exclaimed Robin, as the weaver, who had

overtaken him unperceived, laid his hand on

the young man's shoulder. " I was thinking

aloud."

So it seems ; and a dangerous habit it is

unless you want folks to know your thoughts.

What is a hard case ? "

Something I was thinking about."

i( That means something as you don't want

to tell. Well, I'll ax you no questions, and

then you'll happen tell me no lies. Cheer

have yo' bin ? "

Isn't that a question ? "

It's nowt else. However "

Oh, I have no objection in the world to

say where I have been. I have been to the

Hall."

And have yo' seen th' Colonel ? "

"I have."

And how have yo' gone on ? "

102 BIPX'H DENE.

I am not at liberty to say."

Not at liberty to say ! "

No. I have given my word not to reveal
to anybody what has passed to-day between
my — between Colonel Dene and myself, But
he will see you himself, and then perhaps "

See me himself ! The deuce he will !
That's a queer tale. Mon I go to him, or he'll
come to me ? "

That I cannot tell you ; but I think it is
very likely you will hear from him, either
to-day or tomorrow."

Well, I dare say I can wait that long ; and
as you willet tell me owt, there's no use
saving no more about it. However, I'm fain
I've letter on yo', for if you've nowt to tell
me I've summit to tell yo'. I've seen Dr.
Dooley. He came to our house this afternoon,
and I've just been setting him on his
way home."

He has heard something, then ? ' :

He has. He yard summit that meet at
Ked Nell's, and he has yard summit sin'. It
confirms my worst fears. There's mischief

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE. 103

brewing, Nelson. The ringleader is a man
called Simon Peter."

Simon Peter ! But that cannot be his
name."

Anyhow, it's th' name as he goes by, and
that's enough for our purpose. I believe it's
him wi' th' pistol as talked about shooting
Robert Berry. He has gotten up a secret
society, him and a lot more, and most of th'
hand-wheel spinners and calico weavers in
these parts and many a mile round is in it.
They think as burning a few factories would
do 'em a power o' good, and flay th' Government
into granting reform, repealing th' corn
laws, and what not ; and they have some wild
ideas about marching to London in their
thousands, and overawing Parliament ! They
might as well try to overawe Holcombe Hill.
However, what most concerns us is as they
mean to begin wi' Bilberry's factory. But
when, is more than Dr. Dooley knows or I
can tell you. It may be next week — it mayn't
be for a month or two. Now, what are we todo
? I dare say Government knows all about

104 BIRCH DENE.

it ; they have Blackwater — that's to say spies
everywhere. But they don't believe in
prevention being better than cure. Their
plan is to let things get to a head, and then
make an example — which means shooting and
sabreing a lot o' poor, misguided, starving
rioters, and then hanging and transporting th'
ringleaders, or them as they choose to consider
ringleaders. This we must prevent — if
we can. But I'll be dashed if I know how !
You see, I'm a marked man. If I was to speak
to th' head constable at Manchester, he'd want
to know where I got my information, and as I
could not tell him — for it would never do to
get Dooley into a hobble — he'd ten to one
lock me up there and then ; for now the
Habeas Corpus Act is suspended, he can do
what he likes. And the magistrates here



abouts are just so many Justice Shallows —
they dare not call their souls their own.
Besides, they would not give me a hearing —
while as for Bob Berry, you know what
he is."

Why not speak to Colonel Dene ? " said

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE. 105

Robin, stopping short in the path. " Why
not speak to Colonel Dene ? He, at least,
dare call his soul his own, and he will know
what should be done, if anybody does. And
he wants to see you. It is not late ; go to
the Hall at once, and tell him what you have
told me."

Well, there's summit i' that. But do you
think he'll see me ? "

Of course he will. Haven't I said that he
wants to see you \ "

I wasn't thinking of him ; I wor thinking
o' them chaps wi' pigtails and big caves.
They look as if they could be mighty saucy
to a poor mon, and I'm not quite clad in
purple and fine linen," observed the weaver,
casting a glance at his corduroy breeches and
iron clogs.

Never mind that. Send in your name,
and say you want to see Colonel Dene on
particular business, and he is sure to receive
you. I don't think the footman will be saucy.
If he is "

I'll larn him manners."

106 BIRCH DENE.

How will you do that ? "

I'll punch his shins for him. Well, it
isn't a bad idea, take it altogether. Anyhow,
I'll try it on, and tomorrow meet I'll slip into
Jim Rabbits' and tell you how I have fared.
You willet be flitting to Dene Hall afore then,
I reckon ? "

The heir to Birch Dene was so taken aback
by this home thrust that he could only say,
very confusedly, he had no immediate intention
of changing his present quarters.

The deuce you haven't ! " said the weaver,
with a knowing laugh. " Well, I must be
off. Good-meet to yo', Mr. Eavensmere. I'm
not such a soo' as I cannot put two and two
together."

I have not mystified .Romford much, at
any rate," thought Robin, as he resumed his
walk. " He has evidently about guessed the
truth, and what he does not know my father
will have to tell him — probably intends to
tell him. Will Miriam put two and two
together in the same way, I wonder ? I don't
quite see why my father is so anxious to keep

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE. 107

her in the dark. It is not as if she knew
nothing. She knows my name is Ravensmere,
and that the facts of the case point to the
probability of Colonel Dene being my father,
while his continued kindness will be a sufficient
proof that my account of myself is not a
fiction. However, I have promised, and I
must keep my word."

Very correct reasoning, no doubt ; but it
did not occur to Robin that his father was
perhaps not quite as morally courageous ashe
was physically brave, and that in addition
to the other reason he had assigned for wanting
to keep his wife in the dark, Colonel Dene
was in no hurry to make a revelation which,
besides being painful to both of them, would
almost certainly cause an unpleasant scene, and
might not improbably imperil their domestic
peace.

There are some men so constituted that
they would rather charge a battery single-handed,
or lead a forlorn hope, than face an
aggrieved woman ; and it was quite certain
that when Mrs. Dene learnt that her darling

108 BIRCH DENE.

son had an elder brother the Colonel would
have to pass a very bad quarter of an hour.

Robin was too much busied with his own
difficulties to give much thought either to the
analysis of his father's motives or the doings
of the secret society which, according to
Dr. Dooley, was plotting the destruction of
Bilberry's factory. How to inform Miriam
that he had nothing to tell her was the great
question which occupied his mind, almost to
the exclusion of everything else. By letter !
The idea was conceived only to be dismissed.
The risk would be too great (at least, he so
persuaded himself), and in a letter, let it be
as long as it might, he could not possibly say
all he wanted to say. It would be far better
to see her, and it perhaps counted for something
that he wanted very much to see her.
But when and where they were to meet, and
how the interview (which must necessarily bea
secret one) was to be arranged, was not quite
apparent.

In the end, Robin decided (and perhaps
wisely) to leave this difficulty to be dealt with

OLD BETTY TALKS NONSENSE. 109

by Miriam. He would just write that he had
something to say which could only be communicated
in a private interview, and ask her
to give him a rendezvous.

So the next morning he indited a short note
in this sense, which he enclosed as usual, in a
book ; but instead of taking it to Oaken
Clough (and perhaps having to entrust it to
Phoebe, who was as quick at drawing conclusions
as Mrs. Dene), he confided the packet to
Betty, with a request to give it into Miss
Berry's own hands the first time she called
at the apprentice house, which he expected
would be on the following day ; and by way
of ensuring due attention to his instructions,
he tipped the old woman a shilling.

Betty, who could put two and two together
as well as most folks, gave Robin a stare of
surprise ; then, taking her pipe from her mouth,
she spat on the coin with great deliberation.

That's for luck, and much happiness to
both on jo" she said, with an expressive
wink. "Ay, I'll give it to her rest enough,
and say nowt to nobody. You're a gradely lad,

110 BIRCH DENE.

and a good plucked 'im ; but I never thowt as
you'd have th' porridge to buckle up to Miriam."

"You are quite mistaken, Betty," stammered
Robin, turning very red. " It is only a book
I am returning to Miss Berry."

Nobbut a book ! Why burnet yo' send it
back by Owt Ben or Owt Bob then, or one o'
th' carters ? — and why is it done up so tidy 1
paper and twine 1 — and what have yo' gan
me a shilling for ? Yo' never gav' me one
afoot. But never fear, Fse say nowt to nobody,
and I'se keep this shilling, and sup it when
you're wed."

You are talking nonsense, Betty," exclaimed
Bobin, turning redder than ever —
utter nonsense ; and if you say anything of
the sort to Miss Buberry, I — I'll never trust
you or speak to you again."

Do you think I've no more sense ? I'm
owt, I know, but I'm not silly. I'se not let
on to nobody, no more than if I wor dead."

Chapter VII.

LOVE AND War.

A day or two afterwards, Robin, sauntering
into the apprentice house at a time when
Betty had finished " siding up," found her
sitting by the fireside, solacing herself with a
pipe.

It's aw rest ; I gav' it her," she said,
without waiting to be asked.

You said nothing, I hope — nothing absurd,
I mean ? "

"Not a word. I gav' her th' book, and
just winked — that wor aw."

"You wdiat ? " exclaimed Robin, aghast.

I winked. Nowt wrong i' winking, I hope?
And hoo gav' me a shilling, too " — (chuckling).
I'se have loaf a crown, within sixpence, to

112 BIPX'H DENE.

sup when th' time comes. Bitumen, there'll
be fine doings ! "

Did Miss Berry say anything ? ' : demanded
the young fellow, severely, as if he
desired to put a stop to Betty's rather impertinent
loquacity.

Nobbut ' Thank you, Betty. This is from
Nelson, I suppose ? ' Hoo thinks some weel
on yo', hoo does that."

Don't talk nonsense, Betty, I beg of you
. . Hem ! What makes you think so ? "

I could tell by the glint of her been and
th' blush on her cheeks when I gav' her th'
book. You've nobbut to go in and win. I
know what lasses is. I wor a lass once myself'
and reckoned a bonnie 'un too ; though to
look at me now yo' happen wouldn't think
so.

Not being able to discern in the old woman's
wrinkled and not very clean face any traces of
former beauty, and desiring to close the conversation,
Robin merely observed that age
made a great difference.

It does that," said Betty, with a hoarse

LOVE AND WAR. 113

gurgle, which she probably meant for a sigh.
It takes th' gloss off everybody, let 'em be
as bonnie as they like ; and th' time will come,
if hoo lives, when Miriam '11 be th' marrow
o me.

The idea of Miriam ever being like old
Betty was quite too much for Robin, and with
a muttered excuse about having work to do,
he returned to the factory.

More than a week passed before he received
his answer, and he was beginning to fear that
he had so offended Miriam by asking for an
interview that she would have nothing more
to say to him, when one day, as he passed the
door, Betty beckoned him in.

Hoo left this for you, an hour sines'' she
said, giving him a small brown paper parcel.
Put it i' your pocket and get you gone.
Dick may be back ony minute."

Robin, nothing loth, put the parcel in his
pocket and went. The parcel, of course,
contained a book, and equally, of course,
the book contained a letter. The letter ran
thus :

VOL. III. i

114 BIRCH DENE.

"Dear Robin, — I am quite at a loss to imagine
what should hinder you from telling me by letter
how you went on at the Hall — or at least whether
the Colonel is your father or not. So long as
you dont come up to the house, nobody can suspect
anything. No, I ivont see you alone. My
father would not like it, if lie knew; and I dont
think it twould be right. You must put it all ina
letter. If you do not, I won't be your sister
any longer. — Your sincere well-wisher,

M. R.

Pes. — My father has to be at the rent-dinner
at Toppleton on Tuesday night, and if my uncle
goes to Liverpool on that day, as I think he will,
you may come up after the factory stops. But
dont come to the front door ; come to the French
window of my sitting-room — you know where it is
- — opposite the weeping ash — and rap gently on
the glass. But if nobody answers, you must go
away at once, for I am not at all sure that I
shall let you in. Only that I am so anxious, for
your sake, to know how you went on at the Hall,
I could not see you in my father s absence for
the world. Please burn this letter immediately."

LOVE AND WAR. 115

"With which request, it is scarcely necessary
to say, Robin did not think fit to comply.
After reading and re-reading the missive several
times, he put it carefully in his pocket, with
the intention of adding it^to the hoard of
similar treasures which he kept in his box at
Jim Rabbits'. Nevertheless, he found the
letter rather disappointing, and decidedly embarrassing.
Miriam acceded to his request for
an interview solely for the purpose of gratifying
her curiosity, not in the least because she
had any regard for him. And when she knew
that all he had to say was that he could tell
her nothing, what then ? Would she not —
and with good reason — be very angry, bid him
begone, and refuse to have aught more to do
with him ? Much as he wanted to see her, he
began to doubt whether he had done well to
ask for an interview, without hinting that his
lips were sealed as to what had passed between
Colonel Dene and himself.

So it came to pass that Robin went to the
rendezvous with very mingled feelings, and in
anything but a confident frame of mind,

I 2

116 BIRCH DENE.

fearing much and hoping little, and not knowing
what on earth he should say. All the same,
he had his wits about him, and took every
possible care to avoid observation, going by
the fields instead of up the avenue, and entering
the garden by a side gate. On reaching
the weeping ash he paused, listening intently,
and peering into the darkness. When he had
made sure that the coast was clear, he crept
stealthily to the French window, which was
overhung with greenery, and knocked softly
at one of the panes.

No answer ; and though Robin listened his
best, he could hear no movement within, and,
the shutters being up, he could see nothing.

After waiting a few minutes he knocked
again. Still no answer. A third trial proved
equally ineffectual, and he was going sorrowful
away, when a gleam of light fell on the path.
Turning again, he saw that the window was
slightly ajar.

Miriam ! " he whispered, eagerly.

Yes, Robin ! I — I think you may safely
come in ; but only for a minute, mind ! Quick,

LOVE AND WAR. 117

lest somebody should see the light ! " And
with that she opened the window (without
showing herself) just wide enough to admit
him, and, when he was inside, shut and
bolted it.

For a few seconds neither spoke a word, and
it would have been hard to say which of them
seemed the more embarrassed. Robin felt
almost tongue-tied, and after one timid glance,
Miriam, deeply blushing, lowered her eyes
before his.

I am so glad you opened the window,"
said Robin at length. " I thought you were
not within, and was just going away."

I heard your first knock — but I was afraid
my father does not want — I mean, he is
away, and I don't think it is right — but it is
only for this once, and you must not stay
many minutes. Why couldn't you write ?
Is Colonel Dene your father — or were you
mistaken ? "

I am very sorry," stammered Robin. "I
am very sorry, but I cannot tell you, Miriam.
I have given my word not to tell anybody —

118 Which DENE.

for the present. But it will not be for long!
As soon as I am at liberty to speak, you shall
be the first to know everything."

"Oh, Robin, why this concealment ? Can
you not trust me ? "

Trust you ! " exclaimed Robin, wildly.
I could trust you with anything of my own
with my very life ! But this secret is not
my own. 1 have pledged myself not to reveal
it for the present, even to you."

And you have come to tell me this ! " said
Miriam, who had now quite regained her
composure.

Yes, I have come to tell you this. I
wanted to see you, because I could not explain
myself in a letter. Speaking is so different
from w T rising. I feared you might misjudge
me, and fail to understand my motives for
this concealment, which is more painful to me
than it can be to you ; for I would like to tell
you so much, Miriam."

Why don't you, then ? "

Because I have riven my word not to. You
would not have me break my word, Miriam ? ' :

LOVE AND WAR. 119

But I don't understand. It would be so
simple to say whether Colonel Dene is your
father."

So it would — if I had not pledged myself
to Colonel Dene to keep it secret."

To keep what secret ? "

What he told me, and who my father is,"
replied Robin, in some confusion — for he had
only just missed letting the cat out of the bag.

He is not your father, then ? "

I cannot say. If I were to answer your
question, I should break my word."

He is your father, then ? "

No answer.

Will you tell me, at least, one thing ? Are
you Robin Nelson or Rupert Eavensmere ? "

I am under no pledge on that score," returned
Robin, after a momentary hesitation.
Besides, I have already told you my name,
and what I told you was true."

In that case Colonel Dene is either your
father or you are the son of some relative of
his 1 "

Again Robin remained silent.

120 BIRCH DENE.

Why don't you answer ? "

Because I cannot. I have no more to

J?
say.

You had better go, then. Indeed, I don't
know why you came — unless it was that you
raised my expectation merely to have the
pleasure of witnessing my disappointment.
Yes, go, and don't trouble me any more."

If you talk in that way, Miriam, you will
drive me wild," said Robin, turning pale.
You are unkind and unjust. If you cared
for me, you would trust me."

If you cared for me, you would trust
me."

"If I cared for you ! You little know.
Listen, Miriam, and I will prove that I do
care for you. As I said just now, I have
promised not to impart this secret to anybody.
If I break the promise, which, thinking
of you, I gave very reluctantly — if I
break this promise I shall both lose my own
self-respect and incur and deserve the displeasure
of a man whom I honour and esteem
above all other men. But if you sav to me

LOVE AND WAR. 121

now, ' Robin, break your word for my sake,
and tell me all,' I will do it."

You are a good, brave boy, Robin. You
said just now I did not care for "you. Well,
I care for you too much to let you do wrong
for anybody's sake. I will wait."

Oh, Miriam, you have made me so
happy!" and, without thinking what he was
doing, he clasped the girl in his arms.

How dare you, Robin ! Let me go this
instant ! " she exclaimed, as by a sudden
movement she freed herself from his embrace.
"If I had thought — oh, this is too bad !
Why did you do it, Robin ? — why did you

do itr

Because I could not help it," responded
the youth, now too excited to be regardful
either of prudence or propriety. " Because
I could not help it, and because I love you
with a love that is past telling. You are
more to me than all the world, Miriam."

This language to me!" said the girl,
drawing herself up and looking really angry-how
dare you ? You are taking a mean

122 BIPX'H DENE.

advantage of my kindness. I could not have
thought it of you, Robin. Go ! "

"Not until you have forgiven me for my
presumption. Yes, I was mad. But how can
I help loving you, Miriam ? When I came
here, a poor apprentice, fatherless, motherless,
and nameless, without a friend in the world,
who took pity on me, who became my friend,
saved me from despair, and filled my heart
with courage and hope —-who but you 1 "

And this is my reward ! Go, I say ! "

But she said it gently, almost imploringly ;
her manner had lost all its asperity, as her
face had lost all its anger.

"Not until ycu have forgiven me."

Yes, I forgive you. But it is more than
you deserve. Do go, please."

And you love me just a little — don't you,
Miriam? Not as I love you, but just a
little ? " — taking both her hands in his.

How can you ask me ? Will you go ? "

When you have answered me."

Just a little," she murmured, raising for a
moment her tear-filled eyes to his.

LOVE AND WAR. 123

Heaven bless you, Miriam ! " exclaimed
Eob"n, now wild with delight. " Words cannot
tell how much/how dearly I love you."

If you love me you will go."

One kiss, then — only one."

Oh, Robin, you are cruel ! How can you ?
It — it would not be seemly. What would my
father say % "

Only one ! "

This time Miriam made no answer, and
Robin, taking silence for consent, gave her
only one ; but it was well given, and then
Miriam, putting her arms round his neck, hid
her burning face in his breast.

The next moment she pushed him away,
murmuring :

Oh, what have I said, what have I done \
If you love me as you say, you will go at
once. Suppose Phoebe were to come in, or
my father or my uncle were to return ! "

As she spoke she unbolted the window.
Robin would have lingered a little longer,
but seeing that she w T as really distressed, he
silently kissed her hand and went into the

124 BIRCH DENE.

darkness ; but the light of love in his heart
made the night seem more glorious than
day.

Miriam held the door ajar until she heard
the last of his retreating footsteps, and then,
closing it softly, she threw herself into a
chair, and covering her face with her hands,
burst into tears.

I am a wicked girl," she murmured. " I
am a bad, wicked girl. What would my
Aunt Branscombe say ? How soon have I
forgotten her wise counsel, her lessons on
seemliness of conduct and modesty of behaviour,
on keeping a watch over my impulses,
and turning a deaf ear to the blandishments
of young men ! And I promised
that if ever I did marry, my husband should
be a man of piety and experience, several
years my senior, to whom I could look up
for guidance and support, and who would
lead me in the paths of godliness . . . And
I have allowed my heart to go out to a youth
only a little older than myself, and told him
that I loved him, and let him kiss me ! But

LOVE AND WAR. 125

lie would not go, and I could not help it, and
I love him. I do — I do . . . Yet surely it
cannot be wrong, for Robin is good and true
and brave ; and my Aunt Branscombe said
nothing was more sinful than to marry for
money or position, and Robin has neither. . .
Ah ! I never thought of that before. If he be
heir to Birch Dene — and I am almost sure he
is — the Colonel might refuse his consent, for
the Denes are an old county family — and, if
he is not, my father would be very angry.
God help us both, for if I were to lose him I
think I should die. . . But I do not think
my father would be hard, and Robin is true.
How nobly he refused to break his promise,
though I teased and tempted him ! Dear
Robin ! "

Miriam's reverie lasted for the greater part
of an hour, and would probably have lasted
longer, had it not been interrupted, first of
all by the sound of voices in the hall, and
again, a few minutes later, by Phoebe, who,
entering the room hurriedly and in a state
of great excitement, informed her that " Mr.

126 BIRCH DENE.

Bobbut " had returned, and she had better
come at once — "something had happened."

Where is he ? " asked Miriam, rising from
her chair.

"They have just gone into the breakfast-room."


Thither Miriam straightway went, wondering
who " they " could be. In the breakfast-room
she found her uncle, Gib Riding, and —
Robin ! All were in a state of great disarray.
Her uncle's hat was crushed out of shape, his
cloak covered with mud. Robin's head was
bleeding, he had lost his cravat, his coat was
rent, and his waistcoat buttonless. Gib had
no hat at all, one of his eyes was nearly
closed, and his stockings were cut and stained
with blood.

"Oh, uncle, what is the matter? What
has happened?" exclaimed Miriam, aghast.

Nowt much, as it has turned out," said
Robert Berry, confusedly. " A bit of a
scrimmage, that's all. But if it hadn't been
for Robin and Gib here, I should either have
been killed or beaten within an inch of mv

LOVE AND WAR. 127

life. I was walking home from th' Four Lane
Ends, where I got off th' coach."

Walking home ! Why didn't you take a
chaise ? "

A chaise would ha' cost half a crown, and
as th' nioiit was fine I thought I'd walk.
Well, I'd got within a mile of th' factory
gates, when three chaps came up to me. I
knew not where from ; they seemed to spring
out of th' ground, they came that sudden.
One of 'em said, as we were going th' same
road we might as well go together. I said
Ay,' if they liked. A bit after he asked if
I wasn't Robert Berry. ' What is it to
you who I am ? ' I answered, for I didn't
like their ways. Then another said he knew
devilish well I was Robert Berry, and they
all set agate upbraiding me — called me an
old tyrant, and I don't know what beside,
and said as they were going to give me a
damned good hiding. One of 'em — him as
spoke first — threatened to kill me, and throw
my carcase into th' dyke bottom. Then they
began to hustle me about, so I just planted

128 BIRCH DENE.

my back against th' wall, shouted for help,
and gave one of th' scoundrels a clinker o'er
th' topping wi' my stick, and defended myself
as I best could. In another minute they
would have been on th' top of me, but just
then Nelson came up running, followed by
Gib, and knocked one of 'em down. After
that I can hardly tell you what happened.
For two or three minutes it was a regular
up and down ; but we bested 'em, the
villains."

"Ay, we did that," put in Gib, gleefully;
and if they hadn't cut off so sharp we'd ha
catched 'em. I crashed th' biggest on 'em
down, and punched his ribs till they fair
cracked ; and Robin fought like a gamecock
one down, t'other come on. They've gotten
soon bones, whoever they are."

I wish I knew who they are. Not any of
our hands, I think."

I am sure they are not," said Robin.

But you may be sure of one thing : it was
our hands as set 'em on — because I refused to
give in to 'em, I reckon. Well, they'll get

LOVE AND WAR. 129

nowt by it. They shall not have a penny of
a rise — not if I dee for it."

Are you hurt, uncle 1 " asked Miriam,
rather coldly, for his vindictiveness shocked her.

Nowt to speak on. Got knocked about
a bit — that's all. When I have had a wash
I shall be all right. Gib, you can go into th'
kitchen, and have a mug of warm ale, with a
dash of rum in it, if you like."

"If I ]ike ! " said Gib, smacking his lips.
Hot ale and rum ! I'll have a black ee ony
time at th' same price. A good feet and hot
ale and rum ! It's th' best do as I've had
for mony a day. Good-meet to yo' aw."

Nelson has come th' worst off," continued
Old Bob. " That is rather a nasty knock he
has got on his head. See to him, Miriam,
while I go up-stairs. I'll be back in two or
three minutes ; and if he likes he can stop
and have supper with us."

Miriam told Phoebe to bring a basin of
hot water and a sponge, and herself fetched
a roll of plaster.

"Oh, Robin, it was quite providential!"

VOL. III. K

130 BIRCH DENE.

she said, as she tenderly bathed his wound.
How did it happen ? Where were you ? "

Well, soon after I got into the road I
fell in with Gib, and we were going on
together, when we heard a cry of ' Help !
Murder ! ' and running to the spot, found
your uncle struggling with three men."

"And you saved his life, and he is very
grateful. I can see it by his manner, though
he does not say much. So am I. How I
wish he would be a little more lenient with
the hands ! If he does not, I fear worse will
befall. You must tell me if I hurt you,
Robin. Oh, it is a terrible gash ! "

Hurt me ! It is just the contrary. I
would not mind having such a gash everyday
— if you might dress it for me."

But I should mind it very much. Think
how disfigured you would be ! Now for the
plaster."

When the plastering was done, Robin asked
if he might have another, only one ; and
albeit Miriam blushed and averted her head,
she did not say him nay.

LOVE AND WAR. 131

When he was going away after supper,
and rather a long time after, Robert Berry
said, as they shook hands : /

You have done me a good turn to-night,
Nelson. I shall not forget it."

And Miriam, who chanced to be near the
door as he went out, whispered :

God bless you, Robin ! "

K 2

CHAPTER VIII.

A PRESSING INVITATION.

Meanwhile Romford had made his promised
call at Jim Rabbits'.

You were right, Nelson," he said. " I got
to see Colonel Dene without much ado, though
one o' th' chaps — him as wears a black coat
and looks like a gentleman — would ha' sent
me away if I'd ha' let him. Ay, he's a kindly
mon. If I had been a cock-fighting squire,
wi' a balance at my banker's, he couldn't ha'
been civilly. He gav' me some supper, and
we had a long talk."

Did he say anything about me?"

A good deal, and I think However.

that's neither here nor there. A wise head
keeps a still tongue. You've nobbut to be
patient a bit, and you'll get your rests, Rupert

A PRESSING INVITATION". 133

Ravensmere. There's no fairer-minded mon i'
these parts than Colonel Dene. He has sense,
too ; he isn't a godless tupyed, like most
country justices. When I told him what we
had yard and what we feared, he grasped the
subject at once, and decided there and then
on the measures to be taken to prevent further
trouble."

What are they 1 "

Well, Colonel Dene is very strong on the
necessity of maintaining order. He does not
approve of the Government policy of suspending
the Habeas Corpus Act, suppressing reform
meetings, and locking folks up without trial ;
and though he isn't a Jacobin, he thinks as
there are many wrongs which cry loudly for
redress. All th' same, he holds that the very
worst thing as poor folks can do, even in their
own interest, is to resort to violence, and the
best way of preventing owt o' th' sort is to
make it plain beforehand that the means are
at hand to put it down. But that isn't all ;
if it wor, I'd have nowt to do wi' it, for order
as is produced by repression and kept up by

134 BIRCH DENE.

fear is good for nowt. Colonel Dene proposes
three things. He'll 2fo to Manchester, and
try to persuade the borough-reeve and t'other
magistrates, or whoever it may concern, to
quarter either a company of infantry or a
troop of horse-soldiers at Birch Dene. He
thinks that would put a stopper on any idea
of setting th' factory o' fire. So do I. Simon
Peter will think twice afore he leads a rook o'
spinners and weavers ageean red coats, wi'
that owt pistol of his. Gad ! I am not quite
sure as that fellow isn't a Blackface, after all.
That's number one. Number two is to hold
a meeting, not to petition for reform — that
might not be allowed — but to devise means
for the relief of the prevailing distress, or
summit o' that sort. Colonel Dene will beth'
chairman, and start a subscription for the
purpose in question. I shall back him up,
and exhort folks to be patient and orderly,
so will one or two other Radical working menas
doesn't believe the cause of reform will be
promoted by rioting and fire-raising. Number
three is to try and prevail on Robert Berry

A PRESSING INVITATION. 135

to be a bit easier with his hands, and give 'em
a rise — if not of ten per cent., then five ; for
some on 'em is most fearful ill off."

A very good plan, it seems to me. What,
think you, are the chances of success ? "

Well, the Colonel is a man of influence
and energy, and I should have no fear of his
success but for one thing."

"And that is?"

Stupidity. You have no idea what a lot
of stupidity there is in th' world. I heard
a sermon t'other Sunday on the mysteries of
creation. The biggest mystery as there is,
to my thinking, is why God created so many
soo's. I'd liefer have a knave than a soo' ony
day. A knave is sometimes reformed, but
bray a soo' in a mortar and he's a soo' all th'
same."

You speak bitterly, Romford."

Because I feel deeply. However, what
think you 1 "

"Well, I have no doubt Colonel Dene will
get his soldiers, and I dare say his meeting
will prove a success ; but I shall be very

136 BIRCH DENE.

much surprised if he persuades Robert
Berry to give an advance."

Ay, there's another of your mysteries of
creation ! "

Come now, Romford, you surely don't
mean to say Robert Berry is a fool ? ' ;

But I do. A man as sticks to a thing
for everlasting just because he has said it
once, and is that bent on getting his own
ends in his own way as he will hearken
neither to justice nor reason, is a soo', and
nowt but a foot."

"All the same, I don't think Robert
Berry is unteachable. It may require a
severe lesson, but he will learn in the end."

I'll believe it when I see it, Xelson.
Anyhow, it's a fine thing to have a gentleman
in th' neighbourhood like Colonel Dene,
as has a bit of sympathy for poor folk, and
is willing to put his hand in his pocket, and,
what's more, giv' himself a lot of trouble to
help 'em. Whether he succeeds or fails, such
an example can hardly miss doing good.
However, it is time for me to be going.

A PRESSING INVITATION. 137

Will you be coming oar way soon, think
you l .

"Very likely. I'll take an early opportunity."


"Ay, do, and we'll have a long camp.
And I've summit for you."

"What is it?"

You'll see when you come. But there's
no hurry. It willet be wanted just yet, I
reckon — never, I hope."

And with that the weaver went his way.

A few days later Colonel Dene called at
Factory Hollow and saw Robert Berry, who
received his distinguished visitor with great
deference ; for though Old Bob sometimes
laughed at his brother's tuft-hunting propensities,
he was by no means a democrat,
and held rank and station (especially when
they were accompanied by wealth) in high
respect.

The Colonel opened the conversation with
an inquiry about Nelson.

Well, I've no fault to find with him,"
said Robert, cautiously. "He's sharp and

138 BIRCH DENE.

diligent, and makes himself useful. In fact,
between you and me, I consider him a very
promising young fellow."

I am glad to hear it ; for I thought well
of him from the first, and I have now reason
to believe that he is not what he seems."

Not what he seems ! How so ? "

I think he comes of decent people."

Decent people ! "

"Well, the expression is rather vague,
I admit. I should rather say people of
position."

People of position ! You surely don't
mean to say as he is owt akin to Lord
Nelson ? " asked Robert Berry, now beginning
to be deeply interested.

Not that I am aware of, nor do I think
so," said Colonel Dene, smiling. " Indeed, I
rather doubt whether Nelson is his true

name."

The deuce ! What is it then ? "
Well, perhaps I shall be able to tell you
later on. I am making inquiries. My idea
is that Nelson has been robbed of his inherit

PRESSING INVITATION. 139

ance, and sent clown here to keep him out of
the way."

"You think there is money coming to him,
then ? "

Very likely. But for the present this is
little more than surmise. However, I have
got the address of a lawyer in London who,
from what I hear, is much more conversant
with the facts than anybody else, and when
I go thither, as I shortly expect to do, I shall
make a point of seeing him."

How did you get to know all this, Colonel
Dene ? "

I am not at liberty to say for the present ;
and really I know very little as yet. I am
only just at the threshold of the inquiry, so
to speak, and you will greatly oblige me by
not mentioning anything of this, either to
Nelson himself, or anybody else. It might
give rise to expectations — you understand ? "

Perfectly. It might give rise to false
hopes. Oh, I'll say nowt to nobody, not I.
I'm not a random talker — I never was. Is
it a good deal ? "

140 BIRCH DENE,

Well, I rather think it is a considerable
sum. But, mind, that is only my opinion."

So much a year % "

Yes ; so much a year."

Well, there always was something rather
mysterious about that lad. He is an uncommon
sort of apprentice, there's no doubt
about that. I remember being once a good
deal struck by a remark he made. Miriam
was saying something about Newgate, and he
said as he had been there."

In Newgate ! "

"Ay, in Newgate. He said he had gone
as a visitor. But I know I thought it very
queer that a child like him — he must have
been very young — that a lad like him should
go as a visitor to Newgate."

I am sure it could not be in any other
character."

Well, then, he must have been taken to
see a prisoner. Could it be anybody akin to
him as had got into trouble, do you think ? If
you could find that out when you go to London,
it might happen furnish you with a clue."

A PRESSING INVITATION. 141

So it might. I am obliged for the suggestion.
I will make a note of it. And now,
seeing what Nelson's prospects may be, I
should be glad — would take it as a personal
favour, in fact — if you would show him all
the consideration in your power."

Well, it does make a difference, doesn't
it ? But really, Colonel Dene, I don't see
what more we can do. He gets five shillings
a week and his board and lodging, and he's
doing useful work — useful for himself, I mean.
He'll be qualified for a manager's place in
another year or two."

I was not meaning that at all. I am
sure you do your best for him, and as for

money But your hours are rather long

they don't leave much leisure for reading,
and so forth ; and if you could let him off
an hour or two earlier occasionally, and allow
him to come up to the Hall sometimes "

"I'll do that with pleasure. I'll let him
off whenever he likes, either to go up to th'
Hall or owt else, I consider myself a good
deal beholden to Nelson, one way and another,

142 BIRCH DENE.

and if he comes into this fortune I shall be
right well pleased."

"Thank you, Mr. Robert. And now I have
another favour to ask of you, which I trust
you will be able to grant."

Whereupon Colonel Dene, as delicately ashe
could (for he knew that he was treading
on dangerous ground), spoke of the badness
of the times, the prevailing distress, and the
possibility of disturbances, concluding with a
hint that it might be worth the Ruberrys'
while, as a preventive measure, to grant their
work people a reasonable addition to their pay.
But as he went on he could see by the
hardening of Robert Berry's face that he
was foredoomed to failure.

You mean kindly, I am sure," said Old
Bob; "but you forget that the hardness of
the times hits us as hard as anybody else. A
rise of five per cent. — and if we gave owt at
all, we should have to give that — a rise of
five per cent, would cost us a matter of a
thousand a year. And them as says our
hands are ill paid says what isn't true. At

A PRESSING INVITATION". 143

any rate, we keep 'em going, and that's what
many a firm doesn't do. And I think you
will agree with me as when a man has been
in business as long as I have, he should bethe
best judge of his own interests."

After this there was nothing more to be
said. Colonel Dene could only make his bow
and retire.

What a hard, keen old fellow he is ! " was
his thought as he went away. " I hope I did
not say too much about Robin. His inference
about the visit to Newgate was rather startling.
I should be sorry for the fact of Sophie's imprisonment
and its terrible sequel to get bruited
abroad, either now or later. I must put Robin
on his guard. But I don't think Berry will
ask him any questions. He is too discreet,
and he would know that I should hear of it."

Contrary to his expectations, Colonel Dene
was no more successful with the authorities at
Manchester than he had been with Robert
Berry. They were sceptical as to the existence
of a plot for burning factories, and when
they found that he could not or would not

144 BIRCH DENE.

give the names of his informants, hinted that
he had been "humbugged." Sending troops
to Birch Dene was quite out of the question ;
they could neither be spared nor the cost
afforded. But if there should be any rioting,
and the local magistrates were to make a
formal requisition for a military force, it would
no doubt be placed at their disposal.

The mischief would be clone then' urged
the Colonel. "My object is to prevent rioting,
and I am persuaded that the presence of a few
red-coats at Birch Dene would have the desired
effect."

You are quite mistaken, Colonel Dene.
There'll be no rioting — not there," said the
chief constable, with a complacent smile.
And as for burning factories down, they
aren't do it. They know too well what th'
consequence would be. There's a good deal of
political discontent and underhand sedition, I
admit, and we are taking our measures accordingly
— putting down reform meetings and
arresting Jacobin ringleaders. I have my
eye on two or three in your neighbourhood.

A PRESSING INVITATION. 145

However, as long as they keep quiet, and I've
no complaints, they'll happen be let alone."

Who are they ? "

Nay, nay, it would never do to let the cat
out o' th' bag," said the constable, with a
deprecatory shake of the head and a sphinx-like
smile ; for he had a strong suspicion that
the object of his visitor, whom he regarded asa
potential, if not an actual Jacobin, was to
put the enemy on their guard.

So it came to pass that Colonel Dene had
to content himself with carrying out only one
article of his programme — the holding of a
meeting to " devise measures for relieving the
prevailing distress." So far as numbers and
enthusiasm were concerned, the meeting was
a success. The Colonel presided, made a
moderate, strictly non-political speech, announced
his intention of getting up a relief
fund, and himself started it with a subscription
of a hundred pounds. Eomford, who followed
him, was not equally prudent. True, he
deprecated violence, avowed his disbelief in
heroic remedies, counselled strict observance

VOL. III.

146 BIPX'H Dee.

of the law, and obedience to all constituted
authorities ; but this was no sooner said than
he observed that the authorities in question
were mostly either fools or knaves, likened
them to one of the plagues of Egypt, and
expressed a hope that when the people " got
their rights," they would send to Parliament
men with " heads on their shoulders and hearts
in their bosoms."

This sentiment was greeted with vociferous
applause ; yet, everything considered, it would
perhaps have been as well had the weaver
kept away, for his presence on the platform so
scandalized a number of respectable people
that they neither attended the meeting nor
loosened their purse-strings, and Colonel Dene
had the honour of being; almost the sole subscriber
to the fund which he had called into
existence. On the other hand, he became
straightway the most popular person in the
neighbourhood ; his praises were sung far and
wide, and his generosity was contrasted with
the stinginess of some other folks.

To Eomford the consequences were less

A PRESSING INVITATION. 147

satisfactory. Cn the Saturday night after the
meeting he received a visit from the chief
constable, who, after sarcastically observing
that he had come to see whether the weaver
had " a head on his shoulders," invited him
in the king's name to step into a posthaste
which was waiting at the door, under the
escort of half a dozen dragoons.

Eomford, who had a high spirit and a ready
wit, laughingly answered that he could not
possibly refuse so pressing an invitation ; and
after a few words with his wife — whom, as
well as little Susie, he tenderly embraced — he
let himself be handcuffed to one of the chief
constable's men, and, getting into the carriage,
was driven in the direction of Manchester ;
but as to his ultimate destination his captors
could give no information.

Robin heard of this portentous incident
within an hour of its occurrence, and went
forthwith to see Mrs. Eomford. He found
the poor woman in great trouble.

They've ta'en him, Mr. Nelson," she said,
weeping — "they've ta'en him away fro' me.

L 2

148 BIRCH Dee.

They wouldn't give us five minutes together,
and hardly let me have time to get him a
twothry things to tak' wi' him. Never a
better husband lee by a woman's side, and
nobody can say as he won't upright and
honourable in all his dealings. AVheer have
they ta'en him to ? — wheel have they ta'en
him to ? Shall we ever see him ageean, think
yo ? Susie, poor little lass, is welly heartbroken.
I've put her to bed, but hoo keeps
moaning in her sleep, and crying, 'Daddy,
daddy ! ' Oh, what mon I do ? — what mon
I do ? "

Robin tried to comfort her by saying that,
as her husband had broken no law, he would
probably be released after a very short detention,
and in the meantime he would see that
she did not want for anything.

I won't thinking o' that," she said, drying
her tears. " I can fend for myself' and Susie
while he's away, and if you think it willet
be long, I'll try to be patient. It'll be easier
for me than for him, locked up in a cold
dungeon meet and day, wi' barred windows

A PRESSING INVITATION. 149

and an iron door, and belike not enough to
eat. He £av' me aw th' bit o' brass as he had
in his pocket, except a shilling, and he wouldn't
ha ?-kept that if I hadn't made him. He sent
his respects to you, Mr. Nelson, and said as
he'd write to you as soon as he get a chance.
Do you think as they'll let him write ? It
would be such a comfort to get a line fro' him
now and then."

Robin told Mrs. Romford, much to her
satisfaction, that he felt sure her husband
would both be allowed to write to her and get
enough to eat, and on the following morning
he went to Dene Hall, and informed his father
of Romford's arrest.

Colonel Dene was both grieved and indignant.


"I am very sorry," he said — " the more
especially as it is in a great measure my
doing. I should not have let him speak at
the meeting."

Do you think it is that which has caused
his arrest ? "

"I am sure of it. Some busybody, or

150 BIRCH DENE.

perhaps a spy, has reported his remarks to the
chief constable. It is a most foolish proceeding,
for his arrest, besides removing a distinctly
moderating influence, will, I fear,
greatly exasperate the people, and make things
worse instead of better. Comfort was quite
right — though not very wise — in saying that
our rulers are mostly either fools or knaves.
I shall go to Manchester tomorrow, and try
to find out where they have put him, and how
long his imprisonment is likely to last. Tell
his wife, Robin, that I will allow her a pound
a week during his absence, and that, beyond
his imprisonment, I do not think he will take
much harm — State prisoners being always
treated with much more indulgence than
ordinary criminals."

CHAPTER IX.

THE LONG STRIKE.

Have you heard the news ? " asked Robert
Berry of Eupert Eavensmere when they
met at the factory the next morning.

Of Eomford's arrest, you mean ? "

Ay, they fetched him on Saturday night.
I thought I'd take the shine out of that
fellow."

It is your doing, then ! "

Partly what, I think ! " said old Bob,
complacently. " I just let the head constable
know what Eomford had been saying — as the
government and parliament is composed of
men who are mostly either knaves or fools —
and if that is not sedition I'd like to know
what is."

"All the same, Mr. Robert, I think you

152 BIRCH Dee.

have made a mistake. Comfort always discountenanced
extreme measures, and advocated
submission to the law and loyalty to
the throne."

He said so, I dare say ; but he meant
t'other thing ; everybody knows that. Anyway,
his talk made the hands discontented,
and I'm right glad they have lagged him ; and
unless I'm wrongly informed they'll be lagging
some more of 'em before long."

Robert Berry was not wrongly informed.
Romford's arrest was followed by half a dozen
other arrests, and as many more (including
Dr. Dooley) only escaped a like fate by precipitate
flight. Nevertheless these energetic
measures, though they caused no little consternation,
and put an end to public meetings and
open and advised speaking," served but
to increase the influence of the physical force
party and of the secret societies, whose projects,
now that one of his informants was in gaol
and the other no one knew where, Robin had
no means of ascertaining. For a while, however,
all went on as usual ; the hands, albeit

THE LONG STRIKE. 153

sullen and suffering, made no sign, and Robert
Berry was more than confirmed in his
policy of thorough.

Didn't I tell you so ? " he said, with the
self-satisfied air of a successful man. " Did
not I tell you so ? Some folks wanted me to
give in to 'em. But I knew better. There's
only one way with the working-classes — stand
up to 'em and keep 'em low. If I had given
in to our hands they would have been the
masters ; and set a beggar on horseback and
you know where he goes to. But they are
beaten and they know it. We shall have no
more bother, you'll see."

Robin himself began to be of the same
opinion, and if Old Bob had not forgotten the
proverb about the last straw his boast might
have been justified and his prediction fulfilled.
But in his anxiety to cheapen production
(business being really very bad ) he went to
Liverpool and bought a lot of cheap cotton,
which worked so badly that those of the hands
who were paid by results, that is to say, the
great majority of them, could not earn half

154 BIRCH DENE.

the wage which they usually earned and had
a right to expect, let them work as hard as
they might.

When Saturday came, and the people found
how little money they had to draw, a deputation
of spinners was appointed to wait on
Robert Berry and ask that they might be
paid by the day until the bad cotton was
used up.

His answer was short and to the point.

No, I'll not pay you by the day. The
cotton would last for ever if I did. The work
is as good as you are likely to have it for a
month or more. If you don't like it you can
leave it."

They left it. On the Monday morning not
one of the outside hands " answered the bell."
and as the factory could not be carried on
with the apprentices alone, the engines had to
be stopped and the gates closed.

And then, in his anger, Robert Berry did
a very unwise thing — took out summonses
against all the adult spinners for leaving their
work without notice, an offence for which the

THE LONG STRIKE. 155

penalty at that time and for many years
afterwards was a term of imprisonment. But
the spinners retained for their defence a very
acute lawyer, who contended that, by saying
that if they did not like their work they
could leave it, the managing partner had
given them the alternative of dispensing with
the usual notice ; and, further, that there was
an implied contract for the firm to provide
such material as would enable their hands to
earn the average rate of wages to which they
had been accustomed. This was so obvious
that, notwithstanding their evident desire to
convict the defendants, the magistrates were
compelled to decide in their favour.

The decision encouraged the hands as much
as it enraged Old Bob. He declared that the
cotton should rot on the ground before he
would give in ; and they on their part protested
that they would not go back to their
work unless he either found them better stuff
or consented to pay them by the day until the
"rubbish," as they called it, was consumed.

So began the long strike at Birch Dene,

156 BIRCH Dee.

which wrought so much evil, and for some
who were concerned in it, and some who were
not, ended so tragically.

A few of the men went off to seek work
elsewhere, others went assessing:, and left their
wives and little ones to shift for themselves ;
but most stayed at home, and as there were
no trades unions or societies to which they
could appeal for aid, their sufferings were
great. Miriam, terribly distressed at the turn
things had taken, helped, them all she could,
but it was very little, and had it not been for
Colonel Dene, who gave weekly largesses of
meal and flour, many would have died of
hunger. Miriam made several attempts to
soften her uncle's heart : but the struggle in
his mind between pride and self-reproach,
obstinacy and regret (for he was too shrewd
not to know that he had made a serious
mistake), rendered him so morose as to be
almost unapproachable ; and for the first time
in his life he was rude to his niece, telling her
roughly not to meddle with matters which she
did not understand. Every day he went to

THE LONG STRIKE. 157

the factory and spent there several hours,
though what he found to do nobody could tell.
The apprentices came and went as they liked ;
and Bobert Bilberry gave them full leave to
go altogether if it so pleased them, but as
they had enough to eat and nothing to do,
none thought fit to profit by his offer.

Another consequence of the strike was a
desperate quarrel between the brothers.
While the dispute with the hands was in
progress Benjamin did not interfere, but after
the abortive trial he bitterly reproached
Bobert for what he had done, protesting that
he was going to ruin both the business and
themselves, whereupon Bobert answered
fiercely that as he, and he alone, had made
their fortunes, he had a right to waste it if he
chose, that he should do just as he liked, and
ended by offering to dissolve the partnership
and pay Benjamin off there and then.

After this the brothers were not on speaking
terms for many days ; and the elder being
much put about, sought consolation in drink,
or rather, in more drink, for he had never

158 BIRCH Dee.

erred on the side of over abstemiousness. He
went nearly every day either to Manchester or
Toppleton, and seldom came back sober, often
indeed very far from sober.

All this was very hard on Miriam ; it rendered
her position well nigh insupportable,
and had it not been for Robin and the Denes
she would have broken down utterly, both in
health and spirits. Robin and she could now
meet almost when they would, for her uncle
never noticed them, and her father, either
because he was at variance with his brother,
or his understanding was dulled by drink, sofar
from objecting to the young fellow's visits
to Oaken Clough, openly encouraged them.

Nevertheless, the lovers said little of their
love. It was no time for self-absorption and
mutual admiration, honeyed words and soft
caresses. Miriam had both the house and
farm on her hands, and it was all she could do
to prevent confusion and waste, as her father,
even when he was at home, was seldom ina
condition to attend to business, and left
everything to her. But Robin and she fully

THE LONG STRIKE, 159

understood each other. He showed his devotion
by giving her all the help in his power,
looking after the men, seeing that her orders
were executed, keeping the farm books, and
sparing no effort to save her trouble and worry.
Miriam, on her part, treated Robin as he
treated her, with that perfect confidence and
frank unreserve which, in happy families,
prevails between brother and sister. He was
both her brother and her lover, and she was
both his sister and his sweetheart, and they no
more doubted each other's constancy and truth
than they doubted the goodness of God or the
glory of the sun. They had little time to
think or speak of the future, but when they
did it was always of a future which should be
common to both. " Marriage " and " engagement"
they never mentioned; but the little
word " we," so fraught with meaning, so
suggestive of hope, was continually on their
lips.

Miriam did not repeat her attempt to
capture Robin's secret. After she had once
seen him and Colonel Dene together there was

160 BIRCH DENE.

no need. For her, it had ceased to be a secret.
She read the truth in their manner to each
other, in casual words inadvertently spoken,
and, now that her perception was quickened
by love, in their voices, which, as w T ell as the
shape, colour, and expression of their eyes, were
singularly alike. She had, moreover, learned
from Robin that the Colonel regarded her
with an almost paternal affection, and that
their love had his full approval. This was an
inexpressible comfort to the girl, and reconciled
her, in a great measure, to the concealment
which they were obliged to practise.

Shortly after the beginning of the strike
Miriam received a note from Mrs. Dene, asking
Miss Berry to favour her with a visit later
in the day, and expressing regret that the
writer's indisposition prevented her from
conveying the invitation in person. Miriam
went, not in state as aforetime, but alone and
on foot, and finding Mrs. Dene reclining on a
sofa and looking far from well, she offered to
read to her, an offer which the invalid graciously
accepted, and when the time came for

THE LONG STRIKE. 161

her guest to leave she pressed her to come as
often as she could "without waiting for a
formal invitation."

After this Miriam went to the Hall nearly
every week, partly because her hostess always
seemed pleased to see her, partly because
Robin (doubtless in view of future eventualities)
had expressed a wish that she should
keep on good terms with Mrs. Dene. As for
the Colonel, he was kindness itself, and when
Robin was not with her, he always insisted on
sending her home in the carriage.

In the mean time there had been letters
from Eomford both to his wife and Robin.
The day after his arrest he was taken from
Manchester to London and lodged in the Fleet
prison. Beyond his imprisonment, and the
ignorance in which he was kept as to its
probable duration, he had little to complain
of, being supplied with writing materials and
books (though not exactly the sort he would
have wished), and he had plenty to eat and
nothing to do. But prison was prison, after all ;
he would rather have been weaving alongside

VOL. III. M

162 Birch Dee.

his wife, and if his detention lasted much
longer it would be hard to bear ; but as he had
been accused of no specific offence, and none
could be proved against him, he thought it
very likely that he would soon be home again.
He sent his respects to Colonel Dene, hoped
that all was well at Birch Dene, and that the
troubles which they had feared would never
come to pass.

And still the strike went on. It had now
lasted seven weeks, and, so far as appeared,
might last another seven. The hands were as
firm as ever, and nobody doubted that Robert
Berry would rather die than give in. Contrary
to general expectation, the "turn-outs"
were not only showing great fortitude, but
behaving with such singular moderation that
most people thought that the strike would
terminate (if ever it did terminate) as peacefully
as it had begun, and be marked by
no more untoward incidents than these which
had already occurred. Robin himself had
almost come to the same conclusion, albeit
knowing something of the temper of the

THE LONG STRIKE. 163

turn-outs," and remembering the incident of
the moor and the information obtained by Dr.
Dooley, he had his doubts, when one afternoon,
as he was returning from Oaken Clough,
he observed several suspicious looking strangers
loitering in the road, and, as it might seem,
reconnoitring the factory. Nearly all carried
bludgeons, and among them were several of
the hands, all talking earnestly, but as Robin
passed them they became suddenly silent and
eyed him curiously.

When he reached his lodgings Mrs. Rabbits
gave him a letter. " Mary Smith [a near
neighbour] brown it after yo' sect off this
morning," she said. " A man as hoo doesn't
know left it at their house last meet, and axed
her to bring it here most thing; but hoo
aether forgot or did not find time till a
bit sin."

The letter was undated, ill spelt, and pen
printed, and bore a strong family resemblance
to the threatening letter which Robert Ru-berry
had received a 'few months previously.
It ran as follows : —

M 2

164 BIRCH DENE.

If you want to keep a wool skin, and
happen loss, you'll not be neer aether Factory
Hollow or Oaken Loo, Friday meet. Yen-guns
is mine and I will repay seth the Lord.
Justin is groin' to be dan on the oppressors
of the poor and o' as belongs to 'em. This
warning is sent by one as wishes you well, and
wants yo' to keep out o' harm's w T ay so tak'
heed." *

CHAPTER X.

BEFORE THE ATTACK.

What was to be done %

Coupling the letter with the appearance
of so many strangers in the village, and bearing
in mind the threats of Simon Peter and the
rest, and reading between the lines, Robin had
no doubt that the factory and probably Oaken
Clough were to be attacked that very night,
and that the object of the writer (could it be
Blincoe ?) was to enable him to put the
brothers on their guard and Miriam in a place
of safety, for nobody who knew him could
possibly suppose that he would sneak away
and leave his friends in peril of their lives.

But the emergency was pressing and night
near at hand. What was to be done ?

Robin's first thought was to run back to

166 BIRCH DENE.

Oaken Clough, show Miriam the letter, and
propose that she should go with him forthwith
to Dene Hall. Yet even if she should consent
to leave her father and her uncle (and he felt
sure that she would not), they might meet
some of the rioters on the way, and so run
into the very danger which they were trying
to avoid. From their own people neither
Miriam nor himself had much to fear ; but
these strange men with bludgeons were not
likely to show much consideration either to one
or the other, for Miriam or himself.

There was only one feasible alternative :
to go straight to Dene Hall, and lay the
matter before Colonel Dene. Bv taking the
nearest cuts Robin could get thither in less
time than it would take him to run to Oaken
Clough, saddle a horse, and q;o by the road.

Where's Jim ? " he asked Mrs. Rabbits,
as he put the letter in his pocket.

The spinning-master was in charge of the
factory and "looked round" every day.

"At the factory. They are 'blowing
through,' I think, and ' stopping drops.' It

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 167

rained a deal last meet. He'll be coming
to his bagging [tea] i' twothry minutes, I
expect."

Well, tell him to lock the gates, and see
that nobody gets inside. There are some
fellows about whose looks I don't like. I
fear they are after no good."

Hadn't you better go and tell him
yersel' ? "

1 have not the time. I'm going out
again, and have no idea w r hen I shall be back :
but tell Jim if anything happens, to send
word to Oaken Clough at once."

The next moment Robin was on his way
to Dene Hall. As he crossed the road he
observed, not without a feeling of alarm, that
even during the few minutes he had been in
the house the number of strangers had
appreciably increased. More were coming,
and judging from their muddy clogs, travel-stained
garments, and hungry looks, they had
travelled far and eaten little.

Robin turned into the fields at once, and
so soon as he was out of sight, for he did

168 BIRCH DENE.

not want his object to be suspected, set off
at a run.

Half an hour later lie was in his father's
room at Dene Hall.

God bless me, Robin ! What is the
matter ! ' ! exclaimed Colonel Dene, for his
son was bespattered with mud from head to
foot, and breathless with exertion and excitement.


Will you please read this letter, sir ? "
gasped Robin, handing him the anonymous
missive.

You think it is genuine ? " asked the
Colonel, after he had read it.

"I do. The writer, whoever he may be,
could have no interest in deceiving me, and
there is already a crowd of desperate looking
men about the factory and Oaken Clough
gates, and more are coming."

At any rate it is best to assume that
the letter is genuine, and act accordingly.
There will be an attack on the factory, you
think ? "

"The house too. I think they mean to

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 1G9

burn them both down, and kill Mr. Robert,
perhaps Mr. Berry."

So bad as that ! Where are they — the
two Ruberrys, I mean ? "

At home. Mr. Robert came as I left,
and Mr. Berry has been confined to the
house the last two days with an attack of
gout."

We must act at once then, and energetically.
And we shall have to depend on ourselves.
There is no time to send to Manchester
for troops. They would be here about
this time tomorrow. Have they any arms
at Oaken Clough ?"

A shot-gun or two, and a brace of horse -
pistols."

Shot-guns will do. I have three or four
here, and my duelling-pistols, and the gamekeepers
have their fowling-pieces, and there
is Harker " (ringing the bell). " We shall
be able to make up a force of six or seven,
I think."

"Polit" (to the footman, who just then
entered the room), " I want the break round at

170 BIRCH DENE.

once ; and tell James to run for the gamekeepers.
They must bring their guns and
come immediately — no matter what they
are doing ; and send Harker here. Quick,
if you please ! There is not a moment to
lose."

Whereupon the footman, whom these orders
seemed greatly to surprise, went off at a
run.

We cannot defend both the factory and
the house. If we divide our forces we shall
be beaten in detail, and the only thing in
danger at the factory is property."

And it is well insured."

"And if it were not the county would
have to make good the damage. But that
is a mere detail. Though Robert Euberrv
were to lose a few thousands, I don't think
anybody would grieve much. This trouble
is all of his making. However, I should not
like him to be murdered ; and we must see
that no harm befalls Miriam and her father."

"Yes, sir," said Robin, reddening. "But
would it not be best to bring them all here

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 171

in the break ? These people have nothing
against you. They will not attack the Hall."

Perhaps not ; though were Robert Berry
here I should not feel very sure about it !
But, whether or no, the risk would be too
great. If the rioters were to block the road
and if they have any wit at all it is
exactly what they will do — if they were to
block the road we should be almost helpless.
We men might possibly fight our way
through the mob ; but how about the women ?
For you may depend upon it that the maids
won't want to be left. Behind walls, however,
we shall be able to make a good defence,
even against a thousand rioters. I don't
think many of them are armed. Ah, here
conies Harker."

Harker was an old soldier, and Colonel
Dene's body-servant, a bronzed and grizzly
veteran, minus an eye and a few fingers, all
lost in action, vet as straight as a ramrod
and hardly less vigorous than on the day
when lie first smelt powder.

We are likely to have some more fighting,

172 BIRCH DENE.

Harker," said his master. " Are you game
for another campaign % "

"Yes, sir; for a dozen — under you. Is
it agen the French ? "

No, some rioters, who are expected to
attack Oaken Clough."

Only them ! " exclaimed Harker, with a
disappointed look.

Well, as there may be several hundreds
of them, and we shall only muster six or
seven, the odds against us will be quite heavy
enough. Are my guns and pistols all in
order ? "

"All, sir. So is my old musket."

Good ! That makes three double-barrelled
guns and a musket, one a piece for us three,
and one over. Is there anybody at Oaken
Clough who can shoot, Robin ? "

"Yes, sir. Gib Ridings. He has served
in the militia. So, of course, can Mr. Berry
■ — he is Jars de combat though — but there is
Mr. Robert. I don't know whether he is
much of a shot, but he'll fio-lit."

Yes ; Robert Berry is of a fighting sort.

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 173

That will make seven, won't it ? We three,
the two gamekeepers, Gib Riding, and Mr.
Bobert."

"Yes, sir ; seven."

And all well armed. I think w T e shall
be quite a catch for the mob. One volley,
or at most two, ought to be enough — if it
comes to that, and I sincerely hope it will
not. I shall try both remonstrance and
threats before proceeding to extremities. All
the same, we must be prepared for the worst ;
so bring out the arms, Harker, and we will
take with us all the ammunition there is in
the house."

Yes, Colonel Dene, but we have no ball
cartridge."

Never mind. Buckshot and slugs will be
better than bullets for our purpose. We don't
want to kill any of the poor devils. . . . Why,
the break is round already. As soon as the
gamekeepers come we must make a start. I
can only give you ten minutes, Harker."

"That's exactly three more than I want,
Colonel," answered the old soldier, as he turned

174 BIRCH DENE.

on his heel and quick marched out of the
room.

During the interval Colonel Dene made a
hurried visit to his wife's sitting-room to tell
her what had happened and what he proposed
to do. When he came hack after (considering
the circumstances) rather a long absence, and
looking, as Robin thought, unusually grave, the
two gamekeepers were at the front door, the
arms and ammunition were safely stowed away
in the break, and all was ready for a start.

She does not want me to go," he whispered
to his son. " Thinks there is danger,
and I left her in tears. But I told her that
I was still a soldier ; and though I felt sure
the danger existed only in her imagination,
I must respond to the call of duty, though
it might cost me my life."

He did not tell Robin that, before it came
to this, there had been a most painful scene,
that his wife had thrown her arms round his
neck and entreated him, weeping, not to
leave her, and that he had been literally
compelled to tear himself away.

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 175

As they passed the lodge-gates Colonel
Dene informed his companions that he did
not intend to take the break beyond the
cross roads, about a mile further on. There
they would strike across the fields, and so
reach their destination unperceived, thereby
avoiding any risk of the carriage being stopped
by the rioters.

This plan was successfully carried out.
Half an hour later, and a few minutes after
sunset, they were at the door of Mr. Bilberry's
house.

When Miriam saw Robin and Colonel Dene
she uttered a cry of joy.

Thank Heaven ! " she exclaimed,. " Oh, I
am so glad you have come. I was nearly
at my wit's end. How kind of you to come,
Colonel Dene ! Who told you ? Robin ! I
thought so. Thank you, Robin, oh so much.
But what shall we do \ Jim Rabbits says
there are hundreds of people down at the
factory, battering in the big gates. They are
going to set it on fire, he says, and then
they will come here. Listen ! Don't you

176 BIRCH DENE.

hear their shouts ? What shall we do, Colonel
Dene ? "

"Defend ourselves and you. That is what
we have come for. There are five of us,
all well armed, and with the help of Gib
Ridings and your uncle — "

But my uncle is not here ? "

Not here ! Where is he then ? "

When he heard the factory was in danger,
nothing would keep him back. I did my
best to prevent him ; but you know how
headstrong he' is."

"Why," said Robin, "I thought the fate
of the factory was a matter of indifference
to him. I once heard him say that it was
well insured, and he did not care whether
they burnt it down or not."

He said so, I dare say ; but I don't think
he meant it ; very likely did not really
believe that anything so dreadful could possibly
happen. At any rate, I never saw him
so wildly excited in my life as when he heard
what was going on."

They will kill him."

Before THE ATTACK. 177

Oh, I hope not. Surely, Robin, they
will not be so cruel ! Besides, he disguised
himself, put on an old fustian suit, and blackened
his face and. hands with coal-dust. I
should not have known him myself. He
looked just like one of those men who go
about with the coal-carts."

"All the same, I shall be very much surprised
if he escapes being recognized," said
the Colonel. " But the wilful man must have
his way. It is quite out of our power to seek
him, much less to help him. Did he go alone,
Miss Rub err v ? "

No ; Jim Rabbits, the spinning master,
is with him. In fact it was Jim who proposed
the disguise."

Well, he may perhaps come to no harm,
after all. Let us hope so. But time is
running on, and we have none to spare.
Will you tell your maids to put up the shutters,
Miss Berry ? I know the front of
the house. What is the rear like ? Lead
the way, Robin, and we will make an inspection."


VOL. III. N

178 BIRCH DENE.

At the back was a large yard, surrounded
by a high brick wall.

They won't easily get over that," continued
the Colonel. " How about the door ?
Pretty stout, but a little staying and pinning
would make it all the stouter. Those clothes
are just the thing. See to it, Harker,
you and keepers, and then come to me."
His next inquiry was about Mr. Berry.
He is in his bed-room, but not in bed, I
think," said Robin.

Is the room to the front or the back ? "
The back."

So much the better. We shall have to
occupy the front rooms. May we see them,
Miss Berry ? "We will disarrange the furniture
no more than is absolutely necessary.
But a few mattresses would be useful."

Pray do whatever you think necessary,
Colonel Dene. Never mind about the furniture,"
said Miriam, bravely. " I have spoken
to my father, and he asks me to thank you
on his behalf, and say how sorry he is that
he cannot take part in the defence of his

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 179

own house. Ah, and I forgot to tell you
that before my uncle went out he sent a
man on horseback to Manchester to ask for
soldiers."

If they would come quickly they would
save us some trouble. The mere sight of a
few red-coats would be more effective than
all our powder and shot. . . . Here are Harker
and the keepers. Come, men, I want you.
Put the chairs and things out of the way.
You have tools, Harker 2 Out with the
window-frames, and then we shall have no
broken glass flying about."

Presently came Gib Ridings with exciting
news. The mob had burst in the gates and
set fire to the factory, beginning with the
old warehouse " — in which Robin and Blincoe
had once spent a night together.

It'll be aw in a blaze directly," said Gib.
"It is now ! See how red it is above th'
trees, yon ! That'll be th' warehouse. It's
just full o' cotton, and oil, and tallow, and
such like, and when it gets fair how — !
See yo', but — !

N 2

180 Birch Dee.

Out of the hollow where lay the factory
were shooting myriads of sparks, followed by
great tongues of flame, which flared up like
fire banners in the starless night.

Th' owt barracks makes a rare bonfire,
doesn't it ? " continued Gib, admiringly, as
if the fact were something to be proud of.
"Aw th' welkin's fair in a blaze. But it'll
cheat me if somebody does not get hanged
for it. It'll go hard wi' Mester Eobbut if
they getting how on him. They're coming
up here, and they swear as if we don't give
him up they'll brun th' house down and allas
is in it."

Have they any arms ? y ' asked Colonel
Dene.

"Not to speak on — beside their sticks. I
seed some spikes, but I don't think as there's
more than twenty or thirty guns and pistols
and such like among th' whole lot."

"It is as I expected. We are more thana
match for them. And now, men, to your
posts ! The front windows, which we have
barricaded with mattresses, command the

BEFORE THE ATTACK. 181

approach to the house. To each window one
man ! Harker at the middle window. Mr.
Nelson and Gib in this room to the right,
the keepers in the room to the left. Load
your guns and be ready to kneel behind the
mattresses when I give the word. But on
no account must a single shot be fired without
my order. I shall stand here, between
the two doors, so that all may hear me.
You have sharp eyes, Robin. Step out of
the front door and reconnoitre. You won't
be able to see very far, perhaps, but you can
listen. Put your ear to the ground. Don't
go far, and return the moment you hear
anything to report."

Chapter XL

A BAD NIGHT'S WORK.

Bobin explored the garden and the avenue
with all the stealth of an Indian on the warpath,
listening intently and looking well
about him ; and when his eyes had become
accustomed to the obscurity he could distinguish
objects at some distance. But no
living ones were to be seen, and very little
was to be heard, all the farm servants being
down at the factory or watching the fire from
some coign of vantage.

So Robin ventured further, keeping always
in the shadow of the trees, until he reached
the high road, a point from which he could
command a full view of the burning factory.
The oil-saturated floors and timbers were all
aglow, flames were curling out of the windows.

A BAD NIGHT 8 WORK. v 183

and lapping over the roof. The minor buildings,
and, as it seemed, the apprentice house,
were also blazing, Factory Hollow looked like
a veritable fiery furnace, or the crater of
an active volcano. By putting his ear to the
ground Robin was able to hear the hoarse
shouts of the rioters and the screams and
cries of the spectators. After a while the din
appeared to come nearer, and he thought he
could distinguish the tramping of many feet.

"They are coming; I must go," he said
to himself, and rose from the ground.

At the same moment there appeared before
him, as if it had also risen from the ground,
a strange wild figure, hatless, coates, with
blackened face, and carrying a half extinguished,
yet still glowing torch.

Nelson ! " exclaimed the creature.

Blincoe ! I am very sorry — you are not
surely one of the rioters."

Well, it was me as fired the old warehouse,
where Old Bob had me locked up,
and the 'prentice house, if that is what you
mean."

184 ' BIRCH DENE.

But do you know, Blincoe, that if this
is proved against you, they'll hang you ? "

Never mind, I've lived a dog's life ; what
matters it if I die a dog's death ? And after
we've thrown Old Bob into his blazing factory
they may hang me twice over if they like.
But neither of us has time to lose. I'm glad
I found you. Bun to Oaken Clough as hard
as you can, and get everybody out o' the
house as you care for. They'll be safe at
Dene Hall. There's a lot going' across the
fields already to set the haystacks afire,
and if Old Bob isn't found or 'livered up
the house will be set afire too, and they'll
kill Ben instead of his brother. But I've
nowt against Ben, so save him if you cam
Run now ! "

Robin required no second bidding. Without
asking another question he went off at
score, and did not stop until he brought up
at the front door. Miriam, who was on the
watch, opened it.

Thank Heaven, you are safe ! " she whispered.
" What a time you have been ! We

A BAD NIGHT'S WORK. 185

feared something had happened, and were all
very anxious. Have you heard anything ? "

Yes ; come up-stairs, and you will hear,
when I tell my — Colonel Dene. But first let
us bolt the door and put on the chain."

So they are going to fire the haystacks ! "
said the Colonel, when Robin had made his
report and answered a few questions. All
the better for us ; we shall be able to see
them ; and as the wind is south, none of the
sparks will come over this way. These people
are more desperate than I expected, probably
because they feel as if they were fighting with
ropes round their necks. . . . Six double-barrelled
guns and a musket ; that will make
thirteen shots for the first volley. Listen,
men ! When I give the word to fire — and
I fear it will come to that — take careful
aim and fire low. Then reload as quickly
as you can, and prepare for a second volley,

if a second should be necessary. Are

the hatchets and pikes ready, Harker, in case
we have to repel an assault ? ' ;

Yes, Colonel, and so is my bayonet."

186 BIRCH Dee.

That's right. And now we can only
wait the issue of events, and pray that even
at the last moment the shedding of blood maybe
averted.

After this there followed a rather long
spell of silence, all listening the while with
strained attention.

Harker, who was looking out of a window,
was the first to speak.

They are coming," he said. " I can see something
move in the avenue, like a great black
wave. There ! Don't you hear their voices ? ' :

And see, they have fired the thatch of
the big haystack," cried Miriam, who was
standing behind Robin.

Yes, a few minutes will decide whether
it has to be peace or war," said the Colonel.
Had you not better join your father, Miss
Berry ? "

Miriam would have preferred to stay until
the issue was decided ; but duty bade her
go ; and after a whispered, " May God bless
you and guard you from harm," in Robin's
ear, she went.

A BAD NIGHTS WORK. 187

Meanwhile Harker's great black wave w T as
surging up the avenue. In a few minutes
it had overflowed into the garden, and by the
murky light of the burning rick the little
garrison of Oaken Clench saw below them a
mass of upturned faces, gaunt and ghost-like,
glaring fiercely afc the house.

For a while the rioters hesitated, as if they
did not quite know what to make of the
complete stillness and darkness of the house.

Then, after a whispered consultation, several
of the men made towards the front door.

Halt ! Another step and we fire," shouted
the Colonel.

His own regiment could not have obeyed
the order more promptly.

What do you want ? "

"We want Robert Berry," said one of
the men, whom, from his voice, Robin judged
to be Simon Peter. " We want Robert Berry.
Give him up and we will go away quietly."

We cannot. He is not here."

Where is he then ? "

I don't know."

188 BIRCH DENE.

Will you let us come in and see for ourselves
? "

No ! "

We shall have to come in in spite of you,
then. We've got a baulk here as '11 crack that
door down in about ten minutes. You'd
better consider now, afore it's too late. Let
us in 'bout any bother and we'll not hurt a
hair of your yes. But if you force us to
break in you'll have to tak' th' consequences.
You shall have five minutes to consider ; nota
second moor. Have you that baulk ready,
lads ? "

Ay, have we."

Bring it forrud, then."

The rioters opened their ranks, and half a
score men came to the front, carrying a heavy
log of timber, which had been fashioned into
a rude battering-ram.

Clap it down till the time's up," said
Simon Peter, " and then pitch in."

Colonel Dene stepped up to the middle
window, and drew aside the temporary breastwork,
so that he misdit be seen by all.

A BAD NIGHT'S WORK. 189

Before we join battle, my friends — because,
if you persist in your determination, it will
be a battle — I would like to have a few words
with you," said he in a loud clear voice. " I
dare say there are some among you who know
me.

Ay, we do that, Colonel Dene. You're
not a factory master, and you're otus good
to poor folk."

Well, I have tried to be, and I want to be
good to you now, if you will let me. Take
my advice and hie you home. You have done
enough mischief for one night. I know that
things are bad with you, and I shall only
be too glad to help you to the utmost of my
power. I know, too, that hungry men with
starving children at home are not likely to be
in a mood to listen to reason. But destroying
property cannot help you in the least — to
say nothing of the risk you run of being
transported or hanged. Don't make bad
work worse by committing murder, or forcing
me to shoot some of you. For I am hereto
defend this house and its inmates, and

190 BIRCH DENE.

I shall do my duty ; though I would rather
face a hundred French soldiers single-handed
than be compelled to fire on my own countrymen.
You see this gun ; it is double-barrelled
; there are six men by my side all with
their fingers on the trigger, and I assure you,
on the honour of an old soldier, that if you
come a step nearer, or try to use that batter-ingram,
we shall shoot. Now for God's sake
hie you home, before it is too late. Troops
have been sent for and may be here any
minute."

This appeal would probably have been
successful, for the speech made a decided
impression, and the rioters were evidently
wavering, when a nameless somebody in the
crowd (as was afterwards said, with no evil
intent) fired a random shot at the house.

That random shot was Colonel Dene's
death warrant.

I am hit, Harker," he said, putting his
hand to his side and staggering against the
wall.

Fire ! " shouted Harker, savagely, and the

A BAD NIGHT'S WORK. 191

word was hardly spoken when the nine barrels,
which seemed to go off of themselves, were
fired into the thick of the throng.

The effect was magical. With a yell of
terror and surprise the rioters gave back, then
made off as wildly as if they had been a routed
army pursued by a relentless foe — even falling
over each other in their eagerness to
escape — and when the sound of hoofs was
heard in the avenue the panic increased tenfold.
"Th* loss soldiers is coming," was the
cry, and every man ran as if for his life ; someone
way, some another, over hedge and ditch,
through bush and brake.

A few minutes after they had come they
were gone. But in those few minutes terrible
evil had been wrought. Several of the rioters
were stretched bleeding on the lawn, and on a
bed up-stairs lay Colonel Dene, pale and almost
unconscious. By his side were Miriam and
Robin, she wiping the dew of death from his
brows, he holding his father's hand ; the
others looking silently and sadly on.

Go for a doctor, some of you ! " said

192 BIRCH DENE.

Robin. " You, Harker ! Gib will saddle a
horse for you. Saddle two horses ; let him
fetch one doctor, you another. The wounded
rioters will want attention. Let the keepers
bring them into the house. Go ! I will stay
with the Colonel."

Robin ! my son," murmured the stricken
man.

"Yes, my father."

Water ! "

Give him brandy and w T ater, Mr. Nelson ;
plenty of brandy," said the old soldier. " Keep
up his strength, till I get a doctor here, which
please God shall not be more than half an
hour."

The stimulant was given and Colonel
Dene revived a little.

"You two !" he said in an almost inaudible
voice. " I fear I am dying, my children."

No, no, no, my father ! " cried Robin.
You are badly wounded, but not that. God
would not be so cruel."

I — 1 am bleeding internally. . It is
death. . . . My dear boy, who was so long

A BAD NIGHTS WORK. 193

lost — Sophie's son. Kiss me, Rupert Ellesmere.
Miriam too. May God bless you
both. . I will tell Sophie. Listen, Robin !
You are my heir — in my cabinet — papers
look — Sophie and little Robin — I shall see
them — when I get home — "

Colonel Dene closed his eyes and sank back
on his pillow ; yet though he lingered a little
longer, he had spoken his last word.

"He is gone, Robin," whispered Miriam,
when she saw that all was over.

Robin, still holding his dead fathers hand,
put his arm round Miriam, and kneeling by
the bed-side wept bitterly, and in a very agony
of grief, while she, almost stricken dumb by
this overwhelming calamity, silently prayed
that her lover might have strength given
him to submit to the Divine will.

To lose him so soon ! To find him
only to lose him ! And such a father ! "
sobbed the lad. " It cannot be true. Tell
me, Miriam, that it cannot be true. Speak
to me, my father, one word, only one
word."

VOL. III. o

194 BIRCH DENE.

My poor Robin ! It is hard, hard for
us both. For I loved him, and my heart is
breaking for you, dear. But it is God's will.
He knows what is best — "

But I wanted to keep him longer,
Miriam. I wanted to keep him till he was
old, till I could feel that I really had a
father, and he could know how I loved him.
We were so little together, Miriam, only a few
times, and he was so gentle and good. . . .
That you should die thus, my poor father !
And is it not heart-rending that this
brave officer and noble gentleman, who fought
through so many campaigns, and survived
so many dangers by sea and land, should
perish, in a miserable riot, and at the hands of
men whom he desired only to benefit. If he
had been less pitiful he would not have
died."

Christ also perished at the hands of men
whom He desired only to benefit ; and death is
always heartrending — for the living. But
your father as truly died in the performance
of his duty as if he had fallen at the head of

A BAD NIGHT'S WORK. 195

his regiment, on the field of battle. What
end could be nobler ! May the lives and
deaths of all we love be like his ! ' ;

"Amen ! " said Robin, fervently. " You are
right, Miriam. The very first time I saw him,
he said that we were sometimes called upon to
risk our lives in the cause of duty and honour.
Oh yes, he was a father to be proud of. It is
very hard, but I will try — it is a privilege to
have known him only for so short a time —
and you are left to me — Hark ! what is
that ? "

11 The trampling of troops — the neighing of
horses — the ring of steel ! Can the soldiers
be here already ? Yes, it must be, and now I
think of it, Gib returned at the very moment
-it was the galloping of his horse that
frightened them so."

God ! if they had come only half an
hour sooner ! " groaned Robin.

Here Phoebe, pale and trembling with
excitement, burst into the room.

The horse-soldiers are coming up the
avenue, Miss Miriam ! " she cried. " One of

O 2

196 BIRCH DENE.

the wounded rioters seems to be dying, and
Jim Eabbits wants to see you and Nelson in
the kitchen. I think it is something about
your uncle."

Chapter XII.

A Race FOR LIFE.

Meanwhile it had fared ill with Robert
Berry.

It was as Miriam said. Although he pretended
to Robin — and possibly tried to
persuade himself — that the burning of the
factory would be rather a satisfaction to him
than otherwise, he felt very differently when
it came to the point. He had built it, made
his fortune by it, all but lived in it, and for
well nigh on thirty years let it occupy his
thoughts almost to the exclusion of everything
else. Its impending destruction, and the fact
that he had been virtually worsted in the
struggle with his work people, filled him with
rage and dismay. He had never doubted fora
moment that if he remained firm and " stuck

198 BIRCH Dee.

to his guns " the hands would ask " on their
bended knees " to be taken back. Instead of
that they were going to burn the place, and
with it the bad cotton which had caused all
the trouble, and which he had sworn they
should use.

The first thing he did on hearing of the
gathering of the rioters in Factory Hollow
was to send a mounted messenger to Manchester
with an urgent request for a military
force, the next to disguise himself and cm
down to the factory with Jim Rabbits. They
were just in time to " assist " (in the French
sense of the word) at the forcing of the big
gates, a proceeding which so incensed Robert,
that it was all the spinning master could do
to restrain him from committing some imprudence
that would reveal his identity.

If you don't how yore noise and keep
quiet, they'll be finding you out," Rabbits was
continually whispering, " and if they do, I
wouldn't give a brass farthing for your life.
They'd punch yer yet off." And considering
the frequent demands for information as to

A RACE FOR LIFE. 199

Old Bob's whereabouts, and the energy with
which many of the rioters were consigning his
soul to a place of torment, Eabbits was probably
right.

After a while the two got separated in a
sudden rush of the crowd, and Robert Berry
was left to take care of himself; and as by
this time the threats and execrations of which
he was the object, and the resolute bearing
of the rioters, had begun to frighten him
somewhat, he ceased his muttering and exclamations
and watched the work of destruction
in sullen silence, taking mental note of the
principal actors therein, with a view to ulterior
proceedings.

It'll be my turn next," he thought ; " and
if I don't make some of these scoundrels swing;
for this job my name isn't Robert Berry."

So far he had escaped recognition. Spectators
and rioters were alike too much occupied
to notice him, and none seemed to suspect
that he was other than he seemed. But when
the main building; burst into flames, rendering;
every object within a radius of several hundred

200 BIRCH DENE.

yards as visible as by day, lie heard an
exclamation which made the blood run cold
in his veins ; for though Robert Berry was
far from being a coward, he valued his life,
and had no particular desire either to be torn
in pieces or kicked to death.

That owt cart driver looks uncommon
like Bob Berry," said a young fellow near
him.

Not him," said another. " Th' owt beggar's
a damned sight too cause to be here just
now. They say as he has aether hidden hissed
up at th' house, or gone off to Manchester."

And then Robert Berry did a foolish
thing. Instead of standing his ground, or
going into the thick of the crowd, where he
might have escaped observation, he crept
away, a proceeding which naturally drew
attention and roused suspicion. The young
fellow who had first spoken expressed the
opinion that the supposed carter really was
Old Bob after all, and suggested that they
should " follow him up and have a gradely
look at him." This proposal was eagerly

A RACE FOR LIFE. 201

accepted, and a score or more of the rioters
set off in hot pursuit.

By this time the runaway had got a fair
start ; but as the way to Oaken Clough was
blocked bv the mob he was obliged to turn
in the opposite direction. When he saw that
he was being followed, he increased his pace
to a run, thereby confirming the suspicions
of his pursuers, who redoubled their efforts to
overtake him. But albeit no longer young,
the hunted man was sound in wind, limb, and
eyesight, and in fair condition, and spurred
by fear he went at a speed that would have
done no discredit to a professional athlete. It
w T as nevertheless evident that, being pitted
against much younger men, he could not hope
to escape by speed alone, and as he passed
an open gate he slipped furtively into a field.
This gained him a few minutes respite, his
pursuers overrunning the line several hundred
yards ; but quickly discovering their mistake,
they harked back and resumed the chase, for
though the fugitive was half-way across the
field he could still be viewed.

202 BIRCH DENE.

After this the chase became slower, rather
a good hunting run " than the (: fast thing"
it had been at first. The burning factory no
longer lighted the pursuers on their way, and
as the quarry occasionally disappeared behind
a fence or sank into a hollow, they were often
at fault. More than once he threw them outby
a double, and had he been able to keep up
the speed with which he started they would
probably have lost sight of him and been compelled
to give up the chase. But the pace
had told, he was getting terribly distressed,
breathing in gasps, and reeling as he ran.

At length the hunters and the hunted were
in the same field. A few minutes and he would
be in their grasp, and for the first time in his
life Robert Berry tasted the bitterness of
death. Yet on he went, and with a mighty
effort clambered over a lino-li furze covered
bank and dropped, utterly spent, into a deep
ditch on the other side. Though quite out
of breath, and unable to go on, he had just
strength enough to crawl twenty or thirty
yards lower down, and cower under a bush.

A RACE FOR LIFE. 203

A moment later the pursuers lead surmounted
the obstacle, and thinking that their man was
still ahead they went on at full speed.

But Robert Berry knew that they would
soon be back, and when he had recovered his
wind he resumed his journey down the ditch
bottom, and, sometimes bent double, sometimes
on his hands and knees, followed it
until he reached an old lane. In the lane
was a cottage with a light in the window,
and thither the fugitive hurried and entered
without knocking.

Before a bright coal fire a woman sat spinning,
and on a miniature rocking-chair by her
side sat a pretty little girl. At the sight of
a man without hat, with a black face, damp
with perspiration, bloodshot eyes, torn clothes,
and bleeding hands, they naturally set up a
scream.

Hush ! for God's sake, hush ! and hide
me somewhere," said the intruder, hoarsely.
I am in danger of my life."

But who are yo', and what's to do ? It
seems as I should know yo' — "

204 BIPX'H DENE.

I am Robert Berry."

Robert Berry ! Nay, sure — ly ! "

I am Robert Berry. They have burnt
the factory down, and a lot of 'em are after
me to kill me. Hide me somewhere, woman,
and I'll pay you whatever you like. Quick ! "

Nay, Robert Berry, I'll tak' no money
from you. I wouldn't soil my hands wi' it.
You're no friend of mine ; they say as you got
my dear lad sent to prison. If yo' did, God
forgive yo' ; but He'd never forgive me, nor
Will neither, if I refused to help yo' in you're
need."

Thank you ! You are Romford's wife ?
But where will you put me ? Quick ! They
may be here any moment."

"Well, yo' mustn't stop here. I have nota
place where I could hide a kittling, much
less a grown mon. But if you'll get into th'
owt elm-tree, at th' end o' th' house their,
I'll defy 'em to find yo'. Come on, and I'll
gie yo' a leg up."

Robert Berry followed the wife of the
man whom he had so much hated and injured,

A RACE Foe LIFE. 205

and with her help managed to reach the
lowest branch of the elm-tree. The further
ascent was little more difficult than going
up a ladder.

Get up as high as yo' can," she whispered,
"and when th' coast is clear I'll come and
tell yo."

Then she went back to the house and
quietly resumed her spinning.

Five minutes later the door opened a second
time, and in came three or four men, who
looked almost as wild and excited as her
previous visitor.

"Have yo J seen anybody groin' by?"
demanded one of them.

How could I see anybody groin' by and
me sitting here spinning, I should like to
know ? "

Have yo' yard anybody groin' by ? "

"No. What's to do? What are yo'
after ? "

We are after Bob Berry."

Yo' are after no good, then."

We know that. He's a gradely bad 'un,

206 BIRCH DENE.

and if we catch him, we'll launch his yet
off."

I hope you will not catch him, then.
It's bad work, punching folks' yes off, let
'em be who they will."

Can he be here, thinker yo' ? ' : asked
one of the men, peering into the weaving
shop.

Ob, yo' can look," said Mrs. Romford,
sarcastically. "Look under th ; bed, up th'
lover [chimney], anywhere yo' like ; you're
quite welcome."

He cannot be far off," observed another.
He was welly done. I thowt he'd never
ha' gotten o'er that last cop [bank]. He's

happen in th' dyke bottom aw th' while !
Let's go back and look. Thee stand in th'
loin, Tommy, and if th' owt beggar comes
this way, knock him down and jump on him."

On this they all went off, and Mrs. Eomford
once more resumed her spinning. Now and
then she would go to the door, look out
and listen ; then return to her work with an
expression of satisfaction. AY hen Robert

A Race FOR LIFE. 207

Berry had been up the tree about an hour,
she laid the table and spread the cloth, then
went to the buttery and fetched a loaf of
wheaten bread, a mug of beer and a bacon
collop, which after cooking on the coals, she
put on a hot plate.

This done, she looked out again, took a turn
down the lane, and feeling quite sure that the
coast was effectually clear, went to the foot of
the elm-tree, and told Robert Berry that he
might safely come down. He came down very
slowly, for he was stiff and cold, and it was as
much as he could do to walk into the house.

There ! " she said, pointing to her husband's
arm-chair. " Sit yo' down, and get
summit to eat. You look as if yo' wanted
it. There's a bacon collop, and there's home-brewed
ale, and there's a loaf o' soft bread,
and a pat o' fresh butter."

Robert Berry looked at the woman
wonderingly, with brimming eyes.

You have saved my life, you refuse my
money, and now you are giving me of your
best," he said.

208 BIRCH DENE.

Yo' mean that soft bread ? I get it for
Susie ; she likes a soft bread butter-cake ;
but I couldn't afford it if it was not for th'
pound a week as Colonel Dene 'lows me while
my lad's away."

"Ay, he has helped you; but I never did.
I was your husband's enemy. You are quite
rio-ht : I was the means of his being sent to
gaol ; I wrote to the chief constable, yet you
give me of your best ! ' :

Well, I never could bear malice," said
Mrs. Romford, simply. " Th' owt Book says if
thy enemy thirst give him to drink, and I'm
thankful as I've been instrumental in savins;
your life, and when my husband knows he'll
be thankful too. He wants nowt but what's
rest. You're a hard un, but the Lord's happen
put it into your heart to see different, and to
have a bit more feeling for poor folk. But
get yore supper, I pray yo' now, I'm sure
yo' look welly fit to drop."

Robert Berry bent his head and ate in
silence, for there was that in his heart which
made speech difficult.

A RACE FOE LIFE. 209

When he had finished, Mrs. Eomford took
him into the buttery and brought him water
to wash his face and hands. Then, perceiving
that he wanted to go, she produced an old
hat and a much mended cloak.

They aren't much to look at, neither on
'em," she observed apologetically ; " but you
could not go 'bout hat, and th' cloak'll keep
yo' warm, if it does nowt else. But wait a
bit till I run down th' loin and mak' sure as
there's none o' them chaps about as wants to
punch yore yell off. Susie will keep yo'
company."

When she returned, Susie was sitting on Old
Bob's knee. Mrs. Eomford seemed pleased.

Eh, Mr. Robert, if you'd had a little lasso'
yor own like her you'd ha' been a different
mon ! " she exclaimed.

And a wife like you ! Eomford is a
fortunate man."

He happen does t think so " (smiling).
All the same, I'd liefer have him than yo'
by a good deal. Here, let me help yo' on
with th' cloak. And tak' this stick ; and if

VOL. III. P

210 BIRCH DENE.

anybody meets yo' — But all's quiet outside,
and I mak' no doubt you'll get safe home.
Good meet to yo."

Good night ! You have done me a
great service, Susan Romford, greater than
you know of, and you'll not find me ungrateful."


Instead of finding Oaken Clough all dark
and silent, as, considering the lateness of
the hour, he had expected, there were still
lights in the windows ; shadows were flitting
about inside, and before the door a dismounted
dragoon strode to and fro. On
seeing a suspicious looking stranger, with a
battered hat and a thick stick, the soldier
demanded sternly who he was, and what
he wanted.

I am Robert Berry."

It's all right, you can go in. You'll
excuse me, sir ; but you look so uncommon
like one of them rioters that I was just rooms:
to arrest you."

The first person he encountered inside was
Phoebe.

A RACE FOR LIFE. 211

Oh, Mr. Robert, how you frightened
me!" she exclaimed. "Why, we thought
you was killed. They have gone to look for
you."

et Who has gone ? "

Nelson and Jim Roberts, and two of the
soldiers."

What are the soldiers doing here ? "

u Why, don't you know?" And then she
told him of the attack on the house, and the
death of Colonel Dene.

Colonel Dene dead ! This is terrible
news, Phoebe. But why did these people
attack the house ? What did they want ? "

They said they wanted you, and if you
was given up to them they would go away
quiet ; and little Blincoe, he lies a-dying in
the parlour. Miss Miriam is with him."

The girl added, that although eight or nine
of the rioters had been hit, no one, save
Blincoe, was seriously hurt ; their wounds had
been dressed, and they were under arrest in
one of the outhouses, which had been converted
into a temporary hospital.

p 2

212 BIP.CH DENE.

Robert Buberry took off his hat and cloak
and went into the parlour.

Blincoe lay on a sofa; his head was
bandaged, one of his arms had been amputated,
and he had evidently not long to
live.

Miriam sat near him.

"You, uncle!" she said coldly. "They
did not kill you, then ? "

No, I escaped with my life, but hardly."

"There are others who have not escaped
with their lives. You must have heard about
poor Colonel Dene. And this poor lad —
draw a little back, the sight of you might
excite him — he was rambling just now. The
worst is, he is so unrepentant. I have tried,
in vain, to bring him to a sense of his
condition ; but he seems to glory in what he
has done."

I do glory in it," murmured Blincoe ; " it
was me as set th' old warehouse o' fire, and
if I could ha' burnt Old Bob at th' same time
I would ha' done it. But I had nowt ao;en
anybody but him. I warned Nelson, and

A RACE FOR LIFE. 213

wrote him a letter. Nelson's a good sort, so
are you, Miss Berry — if they were all like
you and him ! "

"Oh, my poor boy, try to think about
something else," said Miriam, pitifully. " Turn
your thoughts to Jesus. He is full of compassion
for those who believe in Him, and
trust Him — and you are very ill."

I know what you mean ; you mean I am
going to die. Well, I don't think I can be
worse off than I have been, wherever I go.
And it's better than being hanged. . If
I could only see my mother, and I happen
shall, I happen shall — if God be as good as
you say He is — " He tried to say something
more, but his voice sank into an inaudible
whisper, and a little later he passed quietly
away.

Robert Berry wept.

Miriam," he said in a voice tremulous
with emotion, "I am answerable before God
for these two deaths."

Miriam looked sorely troubled; but she

214 BIRCH DENE.

made no answer, for she felt that what her
uncle said was true.

1 What is done cannot be undone," he continued
; " but in the time to come I'll try todo
different. My eyes have been opened.
May God forgive me ! "

CHAPTER XIII.

A TIMELY OFFER.

It was the day before the inquest. The
soldiers were gone, but Birch Dene swarmed
with constables : many arrests had been made,
and the entire country side was under a reign
of terror, for it was rumoured that all who
could be proved to have taken part in the
burning of the factory and the attack on Mr.
Berry's house would be tried for their
lives.

"What will you do now, Robin?" asked
Miriam, as they walked up the road from
Factory Hollow where they had been surveying
the ruins, and trying to comfort some of
the women whose husbands were either in
custody or " keeping out of the way."

About myself, do you mean ? "

216 BIRCH DENE.

Yes ; about asserting your claim. You
are the lord of the manor and the rig-htful
owner of Birch Dene."

"Most certainly I intend to assert my
claim. But would it not be better to wait
until after the inquest and the funeral % "

I don't think so. It would look like
an after-thought, and your motives might be
misconstrued. So long as your father lived
and desired you to keep your relationship
secret you had no alternative. But perhaps
you consider your promise still binding ? "

In the altered circumstances, not at all.
It is a matter for my own discretion. And it
can make no difference to Mrs. Dene now.
She must know sooner or later. How is
she ? "

Much better."

But the baby is dead ? "

"Yes, it lived only a few minutes. You
know it was arranged that I should break the
news to her, but I was too late, one of the
servants had blurted it out to her, and she
refused to see me."

A TIMELY OFFER. 217

But why ? "

"Partly because she was very ill, and it
seems that she has taken a violent dislike tous
all."

"All! You too?"

"Yes, to every one of us. She says that
if Colonel Dene had never known us, and,
above all, if you had not gone to him on that
fatal night, he would be still alive."

That is true, and if I could have foreseen
But no, I don't think I acted wrongly. She
might as well blame me for being his son, or
him for being kind and brave ; for had he
been cowardly or selfish, he would not have
risked his life as he did. And is not my loss
as great as hers ? Perhaps when she knows
that the same stroke that bereft her of a
husband bereft me of a father she will be
more just."

I am not so sure about that, Robin. She
is very much built up in little Willy ; and
when she learns that he is not the heir, and
that you are, how then ? "

Poor boy. I would not hurt a hair of his

218 BIRCH DENE.

head. Is lie not my father's son ? And T
should be very sorry to have Mrs. Dene's ill
will. But my duty is clear. I must vindicate
my mother's memory at whatever cost."

And take your true name. It was your
father's desire, and it is a duty which you owe
to yourself. And the sooner and the more
publicly the truth is made known the better,
in my opinion. You would not like to attend
Colonel Dene's funeral otherwise than as his
son, would you ? "

You are quite right, Miriam. I had not
thought of that. My head has been in such
a whirl that I could hardly think consecutively
about anything. But how soon shall I go
about it ? My father is dead and I have no
proofs."

Yes, you have. I can prove that Colonel
Dene acknowledged you as his son and heir
in my presence. Surely that is enough? "

It ought to be, and proof of my father's
and mother's marriage can be obtained from
Port-of-Spain, and my birth was duly entered
in the log-book of the Agricola : I know

A TIMELY OFFER. 219

all the dates and particulars. My father and
I had several conversations on the subject —
and didn't he say something about papers in
his cabinet ? "

Certainly he did. But I don't think that
in her present temper Mrs. Dene would let
you enter the house, much less examine the
cabinet. You must consult somebody, Bobin."

Whom can I consult 1 "

I'll tell you what. Let us speak to my
uncle. He is a man of business and very
shrewd."

Your uncle ! "

I know what is in your mind. But he
has greatly altered. Don't you see it ? "

He looks older."

He does. But I wasn't thinking so much
about his looks as his manner. It is quite
different. He is gentler and kinder. The
events of the last few days seem to have
wrought a complete change in his nature. He
says he won't be a party to prosecuting the
rioters, that they are more to be pitied than
blamed, and he is going to Manchester this

220 BIRCH DENE.

afternoon to see if he cannot prevail on the
head constable to obtain Eomford's release
from prison. I don't think you can do better
than consult him, Robin."

Let us see him then, and if possible before
he goes to Manchester. Is he at home ? "

I believe so, and if not we can easily find
him."

He was at home, and without any beating
about the bush, Robin laid the matter before
him.

It is a strange story," said Robert Berry,
after he had listened to the end, and asked
Robin and Miriam a few questions ; "a very
strange story, but I have not the least doubt
as it's true. I never knew either of you tell
a lie, and unless both of you are ready to
perjure yourselves, Colonel Dene owned Nelson
Eupert Eavensmere, that is — as his son
and heir. Besides, the Colonel said summit
to me as confirms it, and though I could not
quite make out what he was driving at then,
I can now. It wasn't just because you
were a bit of a scholar that he set so much

A TIMELY OFFER. 221

store by you and wanted me to let yo' go to
th' Hall whenever you liked. Ay, it's true,
every word of it, I do believe. But how to
get other folks to believe and make good your
claim is a horse of another colour."

Would not my testimony be sufficient,
uncle ? " asked Miriam, eagerly. " I am ready
to take oath that I heard poor Colonel Dene
say that Robin was his son, and the marriage can
be proved and his birth, on board that ship — "'

That's all very fine, lass. It may be easy
enough to prove as Colonel Dene was married
in th' West Indies and had a son born to him
as he called Eupert. Th' difficulty will be
to prove as Robin, here, and that son are one
and the same. He's never been called nowt
but Nelson since his mother died, and it was
only t'other day as he knew his own name.
That'll be rather a big pill for Mrs. Dene and
th' trustees to swallow, while as for Miriam's

testimony Now I'm going to ask you a

plain question, aud I trust you'll give me a
straightforward answer. You two are as
thick as ingle weavers. Is there owt between

222 BIRCH DENE.

you ? I don't put the question out of idle
curiosity. But I cannot advise you right
unless I know all the facts : and it might
make a difference. Is there ? "

The lovers exchanged glances.

I think I know what you mean, sir," said
Robin. " Miriam is very dear to me — "

"You are very dear to her. I thought so.
Well, I've nowt agen it, and shall not have,
whether Nelson proves his claim or not, butin
one way it is rather unfortunate."

Unfortunate ! How so, sir ? You admit
that I am Colonel Dene's son, and surely — "

Not quite so fast, my lad, not quite so
fast. Wait till I have said my say out. If
them as is concerned for Mrs. Dene and her
son gets to know — and the question is like
enough to be asked — they'll say as Miriam
is an interested witness, and her testimony
of no account."

"As if Miriam would perjure herself fora
thousand Birch Denes ! " exclaimed Robin,
indignantly.

Nay, nay, there's no occasion for you to

A TIMELY OFFER. 223

fly up. I only said as they would say so.
When some folks go to law, they will say
owt, and take every mean advantage as they
can.

In that case I would rather not go to
law."

I did not say everybody, I said some
folks ; and it isn't safe to assume as Mrs.
Dene and the trustees will not do likewise.
But this is a case for a lawyer, and when
I go to Manchester I'll see Glazebrook, and
talk it over with him."

I am greatly obliged . . ."

*' No, no," interrupted Robert Berry. " I
mean as you have no occasion to be obliged.
It's t'other way about. I consider myself to
be deeply in your debt."

In my debt, sir ! How so ? "

Because I have been the means of depriving
you of a father. Not as I expected owt
o' th' sort. But I was that bent on having
my way I would neither hearken to good
advice nor the promptings of my own conscience.
If right were done it's me as should

224 BIRCH DENE.

have been killed, not him. But right isn't
always done in this world by a good deal,
for which some of us have reason to be truly
thankful. Ay, there's no denying it, Nelson
Eavensmere, that is — I have been the means
of depriving you of a father. I cannot supply
his place, but I can and will see you through
this business. You shall have your rights,
lad, if it costs me ten thousand pounds."

Miriam's face brightened with pleasure, and
she was beginning to express her thanks, and
Robin, whom this unexpected announcement
had almost stricken dumb, w T as following suit,
when the old man stopped them.

"If you w T ant to do me a kindness, don't
thank me," he said. " I don't deserve it.
The only favour I ask is that you will accept
my help. It will make me feel a bit easier
in my mind ; I am glad of the opportunity."

"And the hands, uncle?' 3 said Miriam,
significantly.

You mean that I am in their debt too.
I don't deny it, and I must make it up to
'em as I best can. To the families of those

A TIMELY OFFER. 225

as has gone off or got taken up I shall
make such an allowance as will keep 'em
alive, and a bit more. I cannot start th'
factory, because it is burnt down. But weare
going to begin building another as fast
as we can, and what with knocking th' old
walls down and shifting rubbish, and one
thing and another, I dare say we shall be
able to find regular work at fair wages for
every able-bodied man about th' place."

Oh, uncle ! You make me so glad
and thankful ! " murmured Miriam. " Thank
Heaven ! Good may come out of this evil,
after all."

Let us hope so. But the misfortune is
as the evil is done and the good is all to
come. . . . And now, Nelson — Raven mere,
that is — while I think of it, let me advise
you to write to that London lawyer — Chubb,
don't you call him ? — and tell him what has
happened. You say he has papers, and that
Bartlett told you to apply to him in case
of need. He should be able to help us.
Write to him now, and I'll take the letter

VOL. III. Q

22(5 BIRCH DENE.

with me and post it at Manchester. Be as
sharp as you can. I have a lot to do. I've
the head constable to see, machinery to order,
and Glazebrook to talk to, and it'll ten to
one take a long while. He has a long head,
but I think his tongue is longer."

Robin made all the haste he could, and
by the time Mr. Robert was ready to start
the letter for Mr. Chubb was ready for the
post.

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. GLAZEBROOK.

Mr. Glazebrook (of the firm of Glazebrook,
Glasshouse, and Slightly) was a lawyer of
the old school, slim as to his person, and
past middle age. He wore a black coat with
broad lappets, black breeches, and black silk
stockings. His white hair was brushed away
from a high square forehead and tied behind
in a queue ; he had dark eyes, and a refined,
intelligent face, and his manner was quiet and
dignified.

Mr. Glazebrook paid marked attention to
his client's statement, interrupting him only
to make clear some point which he had not
fully understood.

Well, what do you think about it all ? "

Q 2

228 BIRCH DENE.

asked Robert Buberry when his tale was
ended.

Mr. Glazebrook raised his eyebrows, and
with his jewelled fingers took a thoughtful
pinch of snuff from a golden box.

You have confidence in this youth, I
suppose ; you think he is truthful ? "

I am sure he is, I have watched him
closely, and I never knew him tell a lie ordo
owt as was not straightforward. The best
proof as I can give of my confidence in his
story is as I am ready to back him up to
the tune of ten thousand pounds."

I am glad to hear you say so, my dear
sir, for this story is very improbable, and
the inducement to lie very considerable."

But assuming that it's true ? M

"Then I say, credit quest io. But allow me
to observe that it is a very great assumption,
and how are we to get other people to accept
it, I should like to know ? "

You don't think we have a case then?' 3

Don't draw hasty conclusions, my dear
sir. I did not say so ; but it is my way

MR. GLAZEBROOK. 229

always to look first at the weak points of a
case, the strong ones can take care of themselves.
It is likely enough that Colonel
Eavensmere Dene, then a young man, married
a young woman in the • West Indies, and
concealed the marriage from his friends ; that
a child was born on board the ship which
conveyed them to England, and that he hid
them both away in a Hampshire or Devonshire
village. Such things have happened
over and over again, and the marriage and
the birth, if they really took place, can easily
be proved. Moreover, it is likely enough that
Mr. Eavensmere requested his wife to meet
him in London, and failed — against his will —
to keep the appointment. But now comes in
the element of doubt and uncertainty. Mr.
Eavensmere returns from the wars, seeks his
wife and child, and after making a thorough
investigation, is so convinced they are dead
that he marries again. Meanwhile, a woman,
who refuses to give her name, is convicted
of felony and dies in the dock of the Old
Bailey, leaving a child who forgets his name,

230 BIRCH DENE.

and only remembers it a few weeks or months
ago, when he is brought in contact with
Colonel Dene. According to your theory this
woman was the first Mrs. Kavensmere ; and
the child is her son, and heir to Birch Dene.
But how are we to prove all this, prove to
the satisfaction of a court of justice that the
woman who refused to give her name was
Mr. Eavensmere's lawful wife, and the youth
called Nelson his legitimate son ? "

By Colonel Dene's acknowledgment and
his acts."

Acts may be differently construed, while
as for his alleged acknowledgment, Miss
Berry is, unfortunately, the only independent
witness, and it might be plausibly urged
that being in articulo mortis at the time, he
did not know what he was saying, or that
she misunderstood his meaning. All the
same, I freely admit that if Colonel Dene had
attached his signature to a deed duly attested,
in which the young man was clearly identified
and fully acknowledged, it would go a
long way — a very long way — towards contr.

GLAZEBEOOK. 231

wincing a jury. But even then it might be
urged . . ."
What ? "

"That he was mistaken."
Not he ; Colonel Dene was not a fool,
to be imposed upon by the first raw lad as
claimed to be his son. And Robin could
tell him of things that nobody knew of but
them two. But never mind that ; how is it
to be — font or give in ? "

"How can you ask so absurd a question,
my dear sir ? I am never eager for litigation
when a client has everything to lose and
nothing to gain by an action. I say compromise
or retire, lest worse befall you."

So that is your advice, Mr. Glazebrook ? "
said Robert Berry, with evident chagrin ;
you advise me to take no steps whatever
to make good Rupert Ravensmere's claim, for
I am as fully convinced as he is Colonel
Dene's son as I am of my own identity ? "

"Did I not warn you against drawing
hasty conclusions, my dear sir ? ' : said the
lawyer, as he helped himself to another pinch

232 BIRCH Dee.

of snuff. " It is just the other way about
with our young pretender. He has everything
to train, and nothing to lose. Therefore
I say fight, fight to the last ditch — the more
especially as you are good enough to provide
the sinews of war."

Now you speak ! " said Robert Berry
with a Gratified smile. " But what think you
of his chances ? ' ;

Until I have thoroughly explored the
case and pieced together the facts, which
will require a little time, you must kindly
permit me to reserve my judgment. And I
think we had better not begin operations until
after the funeral and the reading; of the will.
How do we know that it does not contain
some mention of our young pretender, or that
documents may not be forthcoming; which
will materially aid us in establishing his claim ?
Colonel Dene, as a man of the world, and
knowing the uncertainty of life, would surely
not leave the identification of his son to
chance ; and, if I understand rightly, he made
some mention of papers."

MR. GLAZEBROOK. 233

I never thought of that before. You
think, then, that we had better say nowt at
all till after the funeral 1 "

"JSo, I said we had better not begin active
operations till after the funeral. If our young
friend would like to give out that he claims
to be the heir I see no harm in it, but rather
good. And, by the by, I should be pleased
to see Mr. Rupert Ravensmere Dene — as, I
presume, he proposes to call himself — on an
early day, if it would quite suit his convenience
to favour me with a visit."

Of course you must see him. He shall
come the day after the funeral, and he'll
happen have news for you. Anyway, he can
tell you a good deal more than I can."

"Naturally. But I should also be pleased
to see him on purely personal grounds. A
young gentleman of so varied experience can
hardly fail to be entertaining company, and
I am curious to make his acquaintance. . . .
You must go ! Well, take care of yourself,
my dear sir — on your way home I mean.
These are terrible times, Mr. Robert, terrible

234 BIRCH Dee.

times. I fear that we are on the eve of
a sanguinary insurrection, a general uprising
of the lower classes. The magistrates here
have expressed the same opinion in a strongly-worded
memorial, which they have just addressed
to the Home Secretary. They decline
to be answerable for the peace of the district,
unless more troops are placed at their disposal.
Yes, terrible times, and the future of
the country is very dark. You will not forget
that it is expedient for me to see our young
friend as soon as may be. Good-day to you,
and a safe journey home."

From the lawyer Robert Berry went to
the chief constable. But he found that it
was not nearly so easy to get a man out of
prison as to get him in. The service rendered
by Susan Comfort did not seem to the chief
constable a sufficient reason for releasing her
husband.

Besides," he said, " I have nowt to do with
it. I have no more power to release him than
you have. It's a case for the Government, and
while these riots are groins on the very last

MR. GLAZEBROOK. 235

thing as they'll think of will be to enlarge
political prisoners. Instead of that they are
going to be more strict with 'em, and not
let 'em communicate with their friends as
freely as the 7 have clone, and shift 'em from
prison to prison so as to prevent any attempt
at rescue. And Eomford is a dangerous
character. You said so yourself; I can hold
out no hope whatever, Mr. Berry."

"But how long do you think they will
detain him ? "

Till the country is quieter, and happen a
bit longer."

This was final, for though the chief constable
might not be able to order Romford's
release, the Government were sure to be guided
by his opinion as to its expediency ; and
Robert Berry went away sorrowful, his mind
more than ever a prey to vain regrets, and
burdened with the sense of obligations which
he was unable to acquit.

CHAPTER XV.

ANOTHER FORTUNE.

When Robin (who had been subpoenaed
as Robert Nelson) appeared at the inquest and
was told to " take the book," he made a
preliminary objection.

I am quite willing to be sworn," he said,
but my name is neither Robert nor Nelson."

What is it, then ? " asked the coroner.

Rupert Ravensmere Dene."

"Dear me! This is very awkward. How
could such a mistake arise, I wonder ? "Were
you in any way related to the deceased
gentleman, may I ask ? "

I am his son."

God bless me ! But surely that is impossible.
You don't mean his legitimate
son — his son and heir ? "

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 237

Yes, sir, I do. But allow me to remind
you that I am here to give evidence, not to
answer questions about myself ." he was
going to say, when he was interrupted by
exclamations of surprise and incredulity from
the jurymen — most of whom were Birch Hall
tenants.

It's quite true," observed Robert Berry,
when the quiet was restored. " I know all
about it. Colonel Dene would have acknowledged
him openly if he had lived a while
longer ; but now that he is dead there is no
reason for Nelson — Eavensmere, that is — to
sail under false colours any longer."

I am glad to hear you say so — in one
sense," returned the coroner, "for I was beginning
to think that the young gentleman
had lost his senses — but this is no business
of mine. I shall enter his name as Eupert
Eavensmere Dene, commonly called Robert
Nelson."

Eupert," corrected Robin.

Eupert, then. And now let us proceed."

The jury, instructed by the coroner, had

238 BIRCH DENE.

no difficulty in arriving at a verdict. In the
case of Colonel Dene they gave it as wilful
murder against the rioters in custody, who had
taken part in the attack on Oaken Clough,
and " other persons unknown," and the killing
of Blincoe was declared to be "justifiable
homicide."

But for the moment, at least, the popular
mind was far less occupied with the result of
the inquest and the fate of the rioters than
Robin's claim to be the heir. The stories told
about him, and the theories by which it was
attempted to account for his having remained
so long* unknown, were stranger than the
facts themselves.

These tales bred others, until the number
of them became quite bewildering. The moorland
farmers did not know what to make of
it at all, and beyond the safe remark that
it was " a gladly queer do," declined to express
an opinion ; but the factory folk believed
in Robin thoroughly, and warmly espoused
his cause — many of them, indeed, finding confirmation
strong of his story in his striking

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 239

likeness to the late Colonel Dene, albeit, like
everybody else, they had foiled to detect it in
the latter's lifetime.

Robin, it need hardly be said, was not
invited to the funeral ; but he met the
procession at the church-gate, attended the
service in the church, and followed his father's
body to the grave. None of the mourners or
notabilities who were present addressed him,
yet he w T as the observed of all observers, and
the subject of much whispered comment ; some,
like the factory folks, thinking that they could
find in his features a decided resemblance
to those of the man whose son he claimed
to be.

On the following day Robin went to
Manchester to see Mr. Glazebrook, taking
with him a letter which he had just received
from Mr. Chubb. The gist of it was that the
writer felt all the more pleased to hear from
Rupert as he had latterly been trying to find
out what had become of him, in order to make
a communication arising out of the affairs of
the late Mr. Bartlett, and to take his instructions

240 BIRCH Bene.

thereanent. But as lie should have occasion
to make a journey to the north of England in
the course of a few days, he would travel byway
of Manchester, and make the communication
in question when they met. Mr. Chubb
was unaffectedly glad to hear that Mr. Ravens-mere
Dene had remembered his name and
found his father (though, alas ! to lose him so
soon), and that he was heir to a great estate.
His surprise, however, was not so great as it
might have been had he not felt convinced
from the first that he came of a highly
respectable family. When Mr. Chubb came
to Manchester he would brin with him all
his notes bearing on the case, and he concluded
by naming the day on which he
expected to arrive, and asking Robin to meet
him at the ' White Bear.'

This letter Robin showed to Mr. Glazebrook 3
with whom he had a long interview, in the
course of which the old lawyer questioned and
cross-questioned him almost as keenly as if he
had been examining; a hostile witness, making
the while a multiplicity of notes.

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 241

So far, good, Mr. Eavensmere Dene,"
he said at length, after refreshing himself with
a pinch of snuff. " I think I now know as
much about the case as you can tell me, and
I am free to confess that though, when Mr.
Robert Berry laid the matter before me the
other day, I deemed our chances of success
exceedingly remote, your statement is so clear
and coherent that I begin to think we may
possibly establish your claim after all. I
may say, too, now that I have had the honour
of making your acquaintance and the advantage
of hearing your story from your own lips,
I am as fully persuaded of your truthfulness
and honour as Mr. Robert Berry himself."

Robin bowed.

I believe everything you have told me,
but we cannot expect the Dene trustees to
give up possession of the estate on your mere
assurance that you are ColoneL Dene's son by
a previous marriage. Even your fathers assurance
to this effect, were he to give it, would
not justify them in doing so."

What is the use of going on then ? " asked

VOL. III. R

242 BIRCH DENE.

Bobin, with a look of intense disappointment ;
what proof can be stronger than my father's
acknowledgment made in the presence of Miss
Buberry and myself ? I think that Harker, his
body servant, also heard him call me his son."

Did he, indeed ? I must make a note
of that. I will tell you why his mere assurance
would not be sufficient. He niiodit be
mistaken or deceived. Cases of mistaken identity
are as plentiful as blackberries. But his
verbal or written acknowledgment, supported
by a few facts and corroborated by a chain
of circumstantial evidence, would render our
position impregnable. This is what we must
look for, and I hope Mr. Chubb will be able
to add a few links to our chain, which, as
yet, is far from complete. When he comes
to Manchester you must bring him hither.
Meanwhile, I shall take the first steps."

But is there any necessity for immediate
action'? I should be very sorry to do anything
to annoy Mrs. Dene. She must be in
great trouble, and her little boy is my half-brother,
you know."

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 243

"Don't alarm yourself on that score, my
dear sir, I am the last man in the world
willingly to annoy a lady. I am only going
to fire off a blank cartridge in the shape of a
very courteous letter to Mr. Pomeroy, the
family solicitor — with which the trustees
will have to deal. Mrs. Dene will no doubt
be made acquainted with the contents, but as
she has already heard that you claim to bethe
heir she cannot be much affected thereby.
In this letter I shall merely notify Mr. Pomeroy
that you are the late Colonel Dene's son, and
therefore heir to the settled estates, request
permission to lay before him a statement of
the case and particulars of the evidence with
which I have been furnished, and beg of him
to inform me, so soon as may be, what course
the trustees propose to adopt."
"Do you think he will answer it ? ' J
Certainly, if only as a matter of professional
etiquette. But what sort of answer it
will be is another question. Much will depend
on the papers which your father mentioned
as being in his cabinet."

B 2

244 BIRCH DENE.

"And suppose the answer is evasive, or
otherwise unsatisfactory, what then ? "

Then I think we should have to take out
a writ of ejectment."

That would mean a trial, I suppose ? ;;

Sooner or later. But I should not try to
bring matters to an issue for the present.
Our case, as yet, is by no means strong, and
we shall lose nothing by being deliberate."

A few days later Robin and Robert Ru berry
met Mr. Chubb at the ' White Bear.' He had
arrived the night before after a journey of
twenty hours.

You are altered," he said, as he and Robin
shook hands, " but I should have known you ;
could have picked you out of a crowd, in fact.
But how you got down to Lancashire is a
mystery. Moses Weevil managed to spirit you
away very cleverly. But with your consent
we will make the rascal disgorge."

Disgorge what ? "

The property left by Mr. Bartlett to you
and Solomon Slow."

But there was no will."

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 245

Yes, there was, and I have it now in my
possession. As you no doubt remember, I
was very ill when poor old Bartlett died, and

for several months afterwards quite unfit for

j.

business. They sent me to Bath, and when
I returned to town I was surprised beyond
measure to find that Weevil had swept
everything off, and that you had disappeared.
As I knew that Bartlett had made a will, I
concluded that his nephew had got hold of
the document and destroyed it, but having
not the slightest shred of proof to go on I could
of course do nothing. Neither could I find
out what had become of you. Moses protested,
with tears in his eyes, that he had an
ardent desire to keep you and cherish you,
but that you had not only repaid his would-be
kindness with base ingratitude, but runaway
with some of his money in your
pocket."

"The old rascal!"

Of course I did not believe him. I
applied to Solomon Slow, but neither did he
know whither you had gone ; he seemed hurt

246 BIRCH DENE.

that you should have left without saying
good-bye."

I called at his house, but he was not at
home, and I could not wait."

"All a part of "Weevil's plot, I have no
doubt. However, he is most beautifully hoist
with his own petard. But I am anticipating.
He was extremely deferential in his manner,
not to say fawning, and for some reason best
known to himself actually made me a present
of the oaken desk which used to stand in
Bartlett's room. I accepted it because I was
glad to have a memento of my old friend, and
had it sent to my house, where it remained
unused and little observed until one day
some two months ago, when my wife suggested
that it should be overhauled, the drawers
taken out, and thoroughly cleaned. I agreed,
of course, and all the more readily as I wanted
to use it. Well, what do you think they
found ? "

The will ? "

"Yes, the will."

"In a secret drawer ? "

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 247

There is no such thing in the desk. No,
it had been accidentally pushed over the end
of one of the drawers, and so remained hidden.
It is very small, written on a single sheet of
Bath post."

As likely as not Weevil did it himself,
when he was looking amongst poor Mr.
Bartlett's papers the night he died."

I have not the slightest doubt he did.
You should have seen the old rascal's face
when I told him. It was as good as a
play."

You have told him, then ? "

Of course ; I am one of the executors.
Mr. Yockleton is the other. But you will
want to know the particulars. Bartlett
directed that his business should be carried
on by Solomon Slow, with your help, until
you came of age. After that, if you were so
disposed, you and he could enter into partnership.
Meanwhile Slow was to take half the
profits, the balance to accumulate for your
benefit. In the event of your not agreeing
about the partnership, the business was to be

248 BIRCH DENE.

sold. Out of the proceeds Slow was to receive
five hundred pounds, the remainder, after payment
of fifty pounds a piece to his executors,
and a like sum to the Old Fogies' Club, and
legal and other expenses, to go to you. You
are the residuary legatee, in fact."

And how much might the remainder be, do
you think, Mr. Chubb 1 " asked Robert Berry.

I cannot exactly say. Weevil disposed
of Bartlett's business and converted all the
assets into cash, and if he were to give
an account I should not believe him. The
rascal could not tell the truth if he tried.
But I always understood that Bartlett was
worth about four thousand pounds."

But there was a good deal of it in books,
was not there ? "

Most of it — nearly all, in fact, save a bit
of freehold land in the city."

Call it two thousand then, to be on the
safe side. Well, two thousand pounds is better
than nowt. But can you make this Weevil
pay up ? Is he worth powder and shot ? '

Certainly ; Moses is a rich man, though

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 249

lie does plead poverty and pretends that lie
had lost every penny he had possessed in
unlucky speculations. Oh, I'll make him pay,
never fear ! "

"So Rupert Eavensmere is heir to two
fortunes — Birch Dene and a book-shop ! If
he does not get one he'll happen get' t'other.
You are lucky, Robin."

That remains to be seen. My life, so far,
has been a strange mixture of good and evil
fortune. It may continue so to the end. I
suppose Weevil took such pains to get rid
of me because he suspected the existence of
a will ? "

Of course he did. He must have had
a shrewd idea, too, that you were the heir.
That was why he was in such a hurry to
reduce the estate to possession. He is nothing
if not suspicious, and his calculation doubtless
was that, though a will might subsequently
be found, nobody would trouble him if you
were non est. Had he been a bolder man he
would probably have got rid of you in a more
summary fashion. However, the rascal took

250 BIPX'H DENE.

his measures well, I must give him that credit ;
and but for one or two of those accidents
which, fortunately, so often frustrate rascally
schemes he would have succeeded. Solomon
Slow is very wild about it all ; threatens towring
Weevil's neck, and expresses an ardent
desire to finger his eve hundred pounds.
I rather think he is indulging in a few
extra extravagances on the strength of it
already."

I should dearly like to see him. What
is he doing ? "

He is in a book-shop at Winchester — went
without leaving his address, and I had a
great difficulty in finding him. I suppose I
have your authority to proceed against
Weevil ? "

Certainly, and make the miserly wretch
disgorge to the last penny. However, he did
me a service without intending it ; for had he

not made me a workhouse apprentice I should
not have got to Birch Dene and found my
father and . . .
"Your fortune."

ANOTHER FORTUNE. 251

Yes," said Bobin, gravely. But the fortune
he meant was Miriam Buberry, not the
estate. " And now I think it is time we went
to Mr. Glazebrook's office. He said he would
expect us about two o'clock."

Chapter XVI.

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS.

The first proceeding, after the two lawyers
had been introduced to each other and a few
compliments . exchanged, was the perusal by
Mr. Glazebrook of Mr. Chubb's notes, which
were as full and clear as a barrister's brief.

These are important links in the chain
we have to forge, Mr. Eavensmere," said
Glazebrook, when he had gone through the
notes, read Colonel Dene's letter to Sophie,
and inspected the miniature and the trinkets.
True, this letter is not signed in full ; but
there will be no difficulty, I apprehend, in
showing that it is in your father's handwriting,
and that this miniature is his likeness.
The fact that they were in your mothers
possession is presumptive evidence that she

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS. 253

was the lady to whom he was married at
Port-of- Spain, and it can, no doubt, be shown
that you are the little boy called Robin,
mentioned in Mr. Chubb's notes."

"I can prove that," said Chubb* "so can
several others. That white lock alone would
be sufficient to identify him. How well I
remember pointing it out to Bartlett."

White lock ! I see, at the back of Mr.
Eavensmere's head. That is an important
point, and suggests an idea. Would it be
possible, do you think, to find somebody at
Lulworth who could recognize Mr. Ellesmere
by means of that lock, somebody who
knew him and his mother when they were
living there as the wife and son of the late
Colonel Dene?"

I think it would," said Robin. " I remember
the place quite well, and I have no doubt
that I could find people there who remember
us — my mother and myself, I mean."

You must go then and look them up ;
for I have received a letter from Pomeroy,
from which, so far as I can make it out, the

254 BIRCH DENE.

trustees regard you as an impostor. Listen ;
I will read it."

"Dear Sir,

I am favoured with your letter
of the 10 th inst., which I have laid before
my clients and taken their instruction thereupon.
They are aware, as well from papers
found in the late Colonel Dene's cabinet, as
from information communicated to them by
Mrs. Dene, that he was married in early life
to a lady of the name of Mendoza, who bore
him a son. But they are also aware, from
a statement made not many weeks ago by
the Colonel himself to Mrs. Dene, that lonsj
before his second marriage the lady in question
and her son died in London under very
melancholy circumstances. For this reason,
and for others that will readily occur to you,
my clients regard it as quite impossible that
your client can be the late Colonel Dene's
rightful heir, and I may add that it would
require very strong evidence indeed to convince
them to the contrary.
I am, dear sir,

Your obedient servant,

Thomas Pomeroy."

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS. 255

Well, there is not much of it," observed
Bilberry, "but what there is, is to the point.
No shillyshally or nonsense."

"As you say, it is to the point. At the
same time you must judge a letter of this
sort as much by what it does not say as
by what it does. Unless I am greatly mistaken,
the trustees are acting less on Pomeroy's
opinion than their own."

How so 2 "

"Because they are not acting as I think
Pomeroy would have advised them to act,
as I or any other sensible lawyer would
have advised them. What say you, Mr.
Chubb ? "

I am quite of your opinion. Had I been
in Pomeroy's place I should have advised the
trustees to receive your statement, if only
that they might form some idea as to what
sort of a case you have, and the nature of
the evidence on which you rely. Let us get
to know all we can, I should have said."

"And no doubt Pomeroy did say it. But
clients sometimes take the bit in their teeth

256 BIRCH DENE.

and act on their own opinion, and so, I
suppose, it has been in this case. I shall
now take out a writ of ejectment, just to
show them that we are in earnest. And we
have scored one point in the game. The
marriage and the birth of a son and heir
are admitted. We have only to prove that
this son is our young friend here. Rather
a big ' only ' perhaps ; nevertheless I think
that with patience and diligence it may be
done. Don't you think so, Mr. Chubb ? "

Mr. Chubb did think so, and before the
conference broke up it was arranged that he
should act as Mr. Glazebrook's London agent
in the matter, and accompany the plaintiff
to Hampshire in order, if possible, to obtain
further evidence in support of his identity.

Mr. Glazebrook was quite right in his
surmise that the trustees were not acting
altogether in accordance with Pomeroy s
advice. He had, in fact, strongly urged them
to let Glazebrook, as he proposed, state the
grounds on which Robin claimed to be the
heir, and had they been strong men and left

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS. 257

to themselves they would doubtless have done
so. But they were not strong men, and they
were not left to themselves. Before deciding
they consulted Mrs. Dene, and Mrs. Dene
absolutely refused to listen to reason. That
a miserable factory boy, as she called him,
should claim to be her son's elder brother
and heir to Birch Dene aggravated her beyond
measure. She spoke of him as a " base,
ungrateful impostor," and the bitterness of
her anger against him seemed to be even
greater than her sorrow for her husband's
death. The idea of taking any step which
implied that his claim might conceivably be
other than fraudulent was odious to her.
She even asked Mr. Pomeroy whether Bobin
could not be prosecuted, and wanted him to
treat Glazebrook's letter with silent contempt.
The trustees might of course have taken
their own line, but being good-natured, easygoing
men, in their sympathy with Mrs. Dene,
and rather terrorized by her passionate utterances,
they could not muster up courage to
oppose her wishes. Moreover, from her point

VOL. III.

258 BIRCH DENE.

of view, which was in a great measure theirs,
"the miserable factory boy" had not a leg
to stand on.

Was it not absurd on the face of it, she
asked, to suppose that if Nelson were really
Colonel Dene's son, he would have kept the
fact to himself until after the Colonel's death ?
Did anybody believe that a gentleman's son
would consent to work in a factory for a
single day, much less for years ? Was it not
plain that Nelson had somehow or other discovered
the secret of-the Colonel's previous
marriage, and was now making a nefarious
attempt to supplant her son ? Did anybody
ever hear of such villainy ? After all the
Colonel's kindness to him, too ! But her
husband always had an unfortunate weakness
for low people, and this was the result. It
was to please him that she had taken up
Miriam Berry. She had once thought hera
nice girl — for her station — but she felt
persuaded now that Miriam was just as bad
as Nelson, and that this vile plot had been
hatched between them. To enter into a cor-the

CAMPAIGN OPENS. 259

respondence on the subject, either with Glaze-brook
or anybody else, would be nothing less
than a degradation.

Yet, though Mrs. Dene's influence with the
trustees was great, and they felt as sure as
herself that Robin was an impostor, and his
claim a fraud, they could not, as men of the
world, altogether ignore the advice of the
family lawyer, and after some hesitation
allowed him to return a civil and guarded
answer to Glazebrook's letter. But when
Glazebrook fired his first shot, in the shape of
a writ of ejectment, their confidence received
a rude shock, and it began to dawn on their
minds that there might be 'something in it"
after all. This w r as undoubtedly Pomeroy's
opinion.

Of course there is something in it," he
said. "Do you think that Glazebrook would
take up a palpably fraudulent case, or that
Robert Berry, who is one of the keenest
men alive, would place his purse at the
disposal of one whom he knew to be an
impostor ? "

S 2

260 BIRCH DENE.

He perhaps thinks we will buy him off,"
rather weakly suggested Mr. Giles, who was
a sleeping partner in a large banking-house.

"That's it — an attempt at blackmailing,"
observed Mr. Tilbury, the other trustee, a
neighbouring county gentleman, who, except
when his wife or Mrs. Dene interposed her
veto, invariably followed his lawyer's advice.

Pomeroy shook his head.

I don't think so at all," he said. " Glaze-brook
is neither a sharper nor a pettifogger,
and you may be sure that Robert Berry
would not risk his money in such a hopeless
speculation, for they cannot help knowing
that there is no possibility of any blackmail
being forthcoming. You have no power, as
trustees, to buy the claimant off, and I don't
think either of you gentlemen " (smiling) . . .

No, by jingo ! " exclaimed Mr. Tilbury,
with superfluous energy. "It is quite enough
to be a trustee, without having to pay the
piper."

And in justice to a family of nine children,
I positively decline to incur any responsibility

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS. 261

whatever," said Mr. Giles, as he buttoned
up his breeches-pocket. " But what is to be
done ? That is the question — what is to
be done ? "

We must put in an appearance, of course,
and let the action proceed. It is not merely
our duty, we have no alternative. The heir
in possession is the infant, William Ravens
Dene. We know no other heir, and
until and unless the plaintiff proves his case
there can be no other, so far as we are concerned.
I advise you neither to yield nor
compromise. It is our clear duty to protect
the interests of Mrs. Dene and her son. My
only regret is that you would not let me
accept Glazebrook's offer to give us a statement
of his alleged facts. We should have
been all the wiser and none the weaker for it.
It is always a mistake to hold an opponent
cheap, especially such a dark horse as this
Nelson. We know our own case, but we don't
know his, and many an equally improbable
story has turned out to be true."

The serving of the writ made an impression

262 BIRCH Dee.

even on Mrs. Dene, albeit she would not for
the world have admitted it in words.

Their impudence is as great as their
folly ! " she exclaimed. " What do they hope
to gain by it ? Nelson is a villain. He
wormed himself into my poor Eustace's confidence,
only to betray him. I shall begin to
think soon that he contrived the attack on
Oaken Clough, in the expectation that my
husband would be killed. He is quite capable
of it, or of any other atrocity. While as for
those Ruberrys, I have not words to express
my detestation of their conduct. Surely the
fact that my husband lost his life in defending
their property should be enough to prevent
them from taking part in this vile attempt to
rob his son of his inheritance. If the claim
were not so utterly preposterous there might
be some excuse for them. But it is so entirely
unsupported by evidence, so altogether impossible
and absurd. Don't you think it is,
Mr. Tilbury, impossible and absurd ? ' !

Quite so, madam, quite so. Impossible
and absurd," answered Mr. Tilbury confidently,

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS. 263

though he was not nearly so sure about it ashe
pretended. " What I cannot understand is,
how Robert Berry, who is sound in politics
and a man of means, can mix himself up
in such a discreditable affair."

What can you expect from tradesmen, Mr.
Tilbury ? Everybody knows that they make
their money by robbing their work people and
cheating their customers. If my poor husband
had kept the Ruberrys in their place this
trouble would never have happened."

"You are quite right, madam, it is always
a mistake to be too familiar with inferiors,"
responded Mr. Tilbury, who made it a rule never
to contradict Mrs. Dene — or his own wife.

Meanwhile Robin and Mrs. Chubb were on
their way to Hampshire.

They were so far successful in their quest
that they found several people of undoubted
respectability — the parson, the doctor, and
others — who had a perfect recollection of Mrs.
Ravensmere and her son, and could corroborate
Robin's story to the letter. But when it came
to identifying the young man who called

264 BIRCH DENE.

himself Ravensmere Dene with little Robin
Ravensmere, who had left the village a dozen
years previously, there was a difficulty. He
had greatly altered, and no wonder. The
doctor and the parson's wife recognized the
lock of white hair, and an old servant of Mrs.
Dene, after a minute examination of Robin's
features, professed her readiness to swear that
he was the same, quite independently of the
fact that he was able to remind her of many
matters and incidents which could be known
only to themselves.

Chubb made copious notes, and took down
the names of all whose evidence was likely
to be of use.

We are getting on," he observed to Robin,
adding a few more links to our chain, as
Glazebrook would say. But it is not as
complete as I should like it to be yet. We
want something more from your father. His
recognition of you is good, as far as it goes, but
his failure to acknowledge you openly looks
queer, and will want a good deal of explanation.
Your evidence and Miss Berry's

THE CAMPAIGN OPENS. 265

will be taken cum grand, as that of interested
parties, and against it we have Mrs. Dene's
positive declaration that her husband distinctly
told her not many weeks before his
death, that his first wife and her child died
in London ; aDcl he certainly acted as if he
thought so. And it is an unfavourable feature
that he did not mention you in his will,
though, to be sure, the will was made several
years before you found each other. Still,
he might have added a codicil. These are
points that would tell very much with a jury,
and we must try to get over them, somehow."

CHAPTER XVII.

THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS.

One of the minor results of the riots was
the reconciliation of the brothers and the restoration
of domestic peace at Oaken Clough.

The elder, being neither critical nor unbelieving,
not only credited Robin's story at
the first telling, but, like many other of the
wise-after-the-event order, affirmed that he
had suspected something of the sort all along.
When he heard that Miriam and the heir to
Birch Dene had " made it up," his delight was
unbounded, and expressed, occasionally, in a
fashion which was not altogether agreeable to
the parties chiefly concerned. He evidently
thought that the realization of his hopes for
his daughter's matrimonial future was in great

THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS. 267

part clue to his own management and forethought.


Didn't I tell you, Robert % " he said one day
to his brother. " Didn't I tell you as Miriam
would marry a real gentleman by birth and
breeding ? And you only laughed at me.
Let them laugh as wins. Who is right now,
I should like to know ? Tell me that ; who's
right now % "

Well, if it comes to that, I don't think
you are much righter than anybody else,"
returned Robert, with a touch of his old
cynical humour. "You said as she would
marry a highflyer, and I never said she would
not. All I said was, as she would please
herself; and that is just what she has done.
They made it up before she knew as he was
owt but a factory lad."

Nay, nay, Miriam has more sense."

Ask her then. And if you guessed ashe
was a highflyer all along, why did you
fight so shy of him and warn her ? "

Well, I never heard owt like that in all
my life ! Who but you put me up to it ? "

268 BIRCH DENE.

What if I did ? It only shows as I was
just as blind as you ; we've no occasion to
scratch [boast], neither of us, Ben."

Ben was silenced, though he did not seem
convinced, and he took an early opportunity
of putting to Miriam the question which his
brother had suggested, albeit in a roundabout
and (as he thought) rather a delicate way,
his respect for his daughter having been
greatly increased by her betrothal to the
heir.

"Where's Robin this morning?" he asked
Miriam, by way of leading up to the subject.

Down at Factory Hollow, helping my
uncle to plan the new buildings."

Ay, they're very throng just now, and
if it wasn't for my gout I'd be there too.
Bobin seems to be making himself very
useful."

"Yes, he takes great interest in the work.
Uncle says that Bobin is his right hand
man."

"And it is very creditable to the lad, and
him a gentleman born and the owner of Birch

THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS. 269

Dene — when he gets his rights — to be messing
about among bricks and mortar. . I
was just thinking, Miriam, as I should like
to know — if you wouldn't mind telling me —
when Robin must spoke to you ? "

When Robin first spoke to me ? " returned
the girl, looking delightfully innocent and
demure. " Let me see ! Yes, I think it
was shortly after I came home — one Sunday
morning."

God bless me, Miriam, so long since as
that ! And what said he — if it's a fair
question ? "

Miriam knitted her brow as if she were
trying to recall the exact words.

He said, i Good morning, Miss Berry.' '

11 Oh, be hanged to that tale."

Father ! "

I did not mean — it was a twinge of this confounded
gout. I mean, did he say nowt else ? "

Very likely. But you were present ; you
should know as well as I. It was that time
he came up to ask you to get a doctor fora
poor lad who had been hurt."

270 BIRCH DENE.

Oh, that was the time, was it ? But I
closet mean owt of that sort. I mean, when
did he first say owt particular ? "

'that is a difficult question to answer.
He has said so many particular things. You
must be more precise."

Well, then, when did you first know as
you had a liking for one another?"

"That is more than I can tell you, father;
for I think we liked each other before we
knew it ourselves. It grew from small beginnings,
and I believe is growing yet."

That is not it, neither ; and you know
quite well what I mean, I do believe. However,
I'll try to put it plain this time : did
Robin and you begin a sweethearts before
you knew as he was the heir, or after ? Tell
me the truth."

Certainly, father, why not ? " said Miriam,
with a bright blush and glistening eyes. " We
have nothing to conceal. It was before."

(" Robert was right, after all," thought Mr.
Berry.)

Oh, before, was it ! But suppose now, as

THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS. 271

things was to turn out awkward (not as I
think they will), and Robin was to miss getting
the property, how then ? "

"What do you mean by, how then ? Robin
would be Robin all the same, wouldn't he ?
And it is him I love, not the property."

Oh, ay, he would be Robin sure enough,
and as poor as one too."

So much the better. It would be manifest
then that I loved him for himself alone."

Come now, Miriam, you don't mean
that ? "

Yes, I do, father ; and if it were not that
Robin holds it his duty to prove beyond a
doubt that he is Colonel Dene's son and no
impostor, as Mrs. Dene and the trustees pretend
to believe, I really doubt whether he
would go on with the action."

Not go on with the action ! Why, what
on earth for ? "

"Because it is really against his own
brother, and it does not seem kind and
Christianity for brothers to go to law."

Why, what childish nonsense you talk !

272 Bitch DENE.

And you used to be a sensible lass, Miriam.
However, I suppose that when love comes in
at the door sense flies out of the window.
If Robin has any ideas of that sort, it's a
good job as his interests are in safe hands.
And talking of the action, I wonder when it
will come off. It seems to me as if it was
hanging fire a good deal. Glazebrook maybe
as ' safe ' as they say ; but there's one
thing sure — he's slow."

Mr. Berry was so far right that the case
of "Doe Dem, Eoe Dene against Falstaff"
(the tenant who had been selected as the
nominal defendant) did not appear to be
making much progress. Since the opening
of the action it had moved hardly at all,
and when Mr. Glazebrook was questioned on
the subject he always answered that he had
not finished the pleadings, which, he explained,
were rather complicated, and required
to be very carefully drawn. The truth was
that he was dilatory with intention — playing
a waiting game. He had a good case ; a case
which, in ordinary circumstances, he would

THE DOOM OF THE Rioters. 273

have had no hesitation in bringing to a speedy
issue, and which he would have backed himself
to win.

But the circumstances were so far from
being ordinary, that if Robin came short of
success, if he failed to make good his claim,
he would be pronounced guilty of fraud and
branded as an impostor.

For this reason Mr. Glazebrook was desirous
to make his position so strong as to render
failure impossible. As yet, however, the case,
fairly good as it was, had a flaw ; the difficulty
of explaining to the satisfaction of a
jury, why Colonel Dene had made so close
a secret of Robin's existence, keeping it even
from his family solicitor and omitting to place
anything on record whereby, in the event of
his death, his son's identity might be established,
had not been met. Knowing something
of the character of the man, Glazebrook
felt sure that he had not neglected so obvious
a duty, and that, either in a letter to a friend,
or otherwise, he had set down the facts and
formally acknowledged Robin as his heir

VOL. III. T

274 BIRCH DENE.

The shrewd old lawyer, moreover, hoped that
the publicity which was being given to the
case (it was the talk of the county) would
result in the discovery of the "missing link"
as he called it. Should this hope not be
realized — after waiting a reasonable time —
he would have to &o with the case as it stood,
and put his trust in the evidence which he
had already obtained.

As for Robin, though the suspense was
hard to bear, he was too well occupied to let
it fret him overmuch, and as Mr. Berry
had insisted on his taking up his quarters
at Oaken Cleuo-h he had the consolation of
seeing and conversing; with Miriam every day.

Then there came the trial of the rioters —
at a special assizes held at Lancaster — whither
Robert Berry, Jim Rabbits, Gib Ridings
and himself, together with many
others, were subpoenaed as witnesses. And
a memorable and painful trial it was, reminding
Robin, in some of its incidents, of ibis
mother's trial at the Old Bailey, and maintain
ost as deep an impression on his mind.

THE DOOM OF THE Rioters. 275

Seven of the prisoners, one of whom was
a woman, were condemned to death, eight
or nine to transportation for life, and several
others to shorter terms of transportation and
imprisonment. The scene in court when these
sentences were pronounced baffles description.
As the dread words, " May the Lord have
mercy on your souls," fell from the judge's
lips, one of the victims, a wretched little
apprentice only just in his teens, shrieked
wildly for pity, and the wails and exclamations
of the women, some of whom had
travelled three score miles on foot to " take
a last look" at those they loved, were so
heartrending as to melt to tears even the
case-hardened officers of the court.

In two instances the capital sentence was
commuted to transportation for life, yet
among the few that were left for execution

o

was the little factory lad who, as the hangmen
dragged him to his doom, moaned continually
the same prayer, " Mother, mother !
God help me ! "

Robin looked on with pallid face and closet

2

276 BIRCH DENE.

set teeth, his heart almost bursting with indignation
and pity. For he knew that these
unfortunates were the victims of cruel laws
and a merciless Government, that after being
degraded and demoralized by incessant toil,
they were provoked to crime by want and
despair. And now. for the one offence of
their lives, they were as severely punished
as if they had been criminals by profession
and evil-doers by choice.

This is no imaginary picture, the coinage
of a romancer's brain. All happened as has
been described — the riots, the fire, and the
trial — and little more than twenty years
before the accession of Queen Victoria to
the throne of England, a lad of sixteen was
hanged at Lancaster for alleged participation
in the burning of a Lancashire cotton factory.
One of his companions on the scaffold was
a woman of fifty-four, whose offence was stealing
some potatoes from Shudehill market
during a riot at Manchester.

Nobody was more affected by the trial and
its results than Robert Berry. It seemed

THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS. 277

to complete that moral transformation of his
character, which recent events at Birch Dene
had begun.

"Let us go home," he whispered to Robin,
when the last of the prisoners had been
removed from the dock.

Robin took his companion's arm, for he
looked faint and feeble, and led him slowly
down the hill to the ' King's Arms.' On
their way thither, neither of them spoke ; their
feelings just then were too deep for words.
When they reached the inn, Robert Berry
sank into a chair and covered his face with
his hands, as if to shut out some dreadful
sight.

Ay, let us go home," he repeated. " I
shall never get over this, Robin. I used to
talk about hanging as if it did not amount to
much. I know what it means now. The cry
of that poor lad will ring in my ears till my
dying day. His blood will be on my head.
God forgive me ! If I had behaved a bit
kindlier to him — and he wasn't a bad lad —
and treated th' hands like human beings, this

278 BIRCH DENE.

would never have happened. But I never
thought it would come to this. Robin. If
you'll believe me, I never did. . If it had
lain with me, they would not have been
prosecuted. But th' Crown took it up, and
though I was like to give evidence, I said as
little as ever I could."

This was true. His evidence had helped
the prosecution hardly at all, and he positively
refused to identify any of the men who had
sought his life. But for the " Blackwater " and
the leaders who betrayed them, after luring
them to their ruin, the prisoners would, in all
probability, have been acquitted.

By way of consoling the stricken man,
Robin called his attention to this side of
the question, and said something about the
iniquity of the law and the severity of the
judge. But Robert Berry refused to see in
this any extenuation of his conduct.

Ay, th' law is bad enough to have been
made by devils," he said. " But what by
that ? Haven't I been saying all my life
as ours is the finest constitution under the

THE DOOM OF THE RIOTERS. 279

sun. and denouncing all who wanted to reform
it as traitors and rebels ? As for the judge —
I wonder how he can sleep in his bed o'
nights. But he's what the law has made him
and I'm no better. It is no use talking,
Robin, I'm no better . . . / A} r , let us go
home, I cannot bide here any longer. Order
the post chaise, and find Jim Rabbits, he can
ride on th' box. And there's some women
yon' fro' Birch Dene. Take this five-pound
note, and tell Jim to order 'em a good dinner
and let 'em ride home on th' coach."

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE MISSING LINK.

The trial of the rioters was followed by a
period of comparative cairn, for albeit the
condition of the factory folks was in no way
improved they were completely over-awed,
and most of their leaders either in hiding orin
gaol. The Government, regarding this as a
favourable sign, thought it expedient to relax
somewhat the rigour of their rule, an opportunity
by which Robert Berry profited
to make still another effort to obtain Rom-ford's
release. But instead of applying as
before to the Manchester chief constable, he
addressed himself to the County members,
who, believing him to be still the good old
Tory he always had been, did their best to
forward his views. He also sought, through

THE MISSING LINK. 281

Robin, the co-operation of Mr. Chubb, who
had powerful friends in the administration.
The joint efforts of these intercessors were
crowned with success, and a few weeks later
Robert Berry received an intimation that
William Comfort would be discharged from
custody almost immediately. This was
followed by a letter from the Radical weaver
himself, stating that he was to be set free on
the following day, and that the Government
were behaving well; they had given him
a small gratuity and the amount of his coach
fare to Manchester. But having been so long
locked up he had a great longing to stretch
his legs, and take a big breath of country air.
So he meant to walk home, and "save the
brass." He expected to reach "th* far end "
towards the end of the week, but as prison
life was not conducive to good fettle he could
not be " rightly sure " to a day or two.

This was disappointing to Comfort's numerous
friends and admirers, for they would have
liked to give him a public welcome and escort
the returning hero, "flags flying and music

282 BIRCH DENE.

playing," to his own house. But as there
was no telling at what hour of the day or
night he might come, this project had to be
abandoned. All the same, a sharp look-out was
kept on the Manchester road, and Rupert
Eavensmere called on Mrs. Romford, and asked
her to send him word the moment her
husband arrived.

I'll send Will hissed, Mr. Eavensmere,"
she answered in a voice tremulous with joyful
excitement. " I'll send him most thing, unless
he turns up late at meet, as he very like will.
You may be sure as there's nobody he'll tasso
much pleasure in seeing as yo' as has been
so good to me while he wor' away. I'm rest
sorry as he's walking. It's a most terrible
long way fro' Lunnon, and him wake wi'
living on skilly and such like, and getting
neither exercise nor fresh air. And there worn
need for him to walk. But he is a gradely
kindly lad is my Will ; he thinks I have been
hard put to it and wants to bring a bit o' brass
home wi' him. But he doesn't know as Robert
Berry continued th' allowance as I had fro'

THE MISSING LINK. 283

your father. I did not like taking it, at th'
most, and if it had not been for yo' 'shading
me I shouldn't ha' done. Well, what wi' that
and th' weaving I've saved — how much
thinker yo' V

I really couldn't tell, Mrs. Eomford. I
have no idea."

Guess ! "

"Well, perhaps a couple of pounds."
"Five! A fi'pun note."

Five pounds ! Why, what a thrifty little
woman you are ! But where do you put it ?
Aren't you afraid of being robbed ? "

No, I'm not. I put it where nobody can
find it. Where thinker yo' ? "

"In that chest?"

"Nay, that would be th' most place where
anybody would look. I'll show yo', but yo'
mustn't tell — "

"Certainly not. I'll be as secret as the
grave."

"Look under th' bed."

Robin looked.

I see nothing but a child's shoe," he said.

284 BIRCH Dee.

"And there is nowt else. But see you,
now!

With that Mrs. Eomford put her arm under
the bed and pulled out the shoe. Then with
her forefinger she extracted therefrom a piece
of crumpled paper, which on being unfolded
proved to be a five-pound note.

There now ! " she exclaimed, holding it up
in triumph. " Don't yo' think it's safe ? "

"As safe as if it was in a bank," said
Robin. " Why, you are quite rich ! "

I shall be when my dear lad comes home.
He's sure to bring a pound or two wi' him.
And I'll tell you what — we'll have a supper —
roast goose. I know where there's a gradely
thumper as I can get cheap. Not as it's
roasted yet, but it will have to be. Roast
goose and barm dumplings. Will you come ?
You're a gentleman now, I know, and we are
nobbut poor folks, only I thowt "

I'll come with pleasure, Mrs. Romford.
When is it to be 1 "

Let me see. Next Saturday meet — no,
next but one. There'll be Jim Rabbits

THE MISSING LINK. 285

and th' wife, and yo' and us — nobody else,
unless — "

Yes, unless what, Mrs. Comfort ? " said
Robin, seeing that she hesitated.

"Unless you think — if I might make so
bold — Miss Berry would come wi' you.
I should be gradely fain if hoo would do us
th' salver."

I think she would," returned Robin with
a smile. " I'm almost sure she would. I'll
ask her."

That is aw rest, and thank yo' kindly,
for if yo' ax her, I'm sure howell come. That'll
just mak' six, and if we don't manage to eat
th' goose among us, and about fifteen dumplings
as weel, it'll be a quare do. . . . Do
you know, I've gotten into my yet as Willful
be here o' Saturday meet. I know he will
if he can, and if he is I'll send him up to
yo' i' good time o' Sunday."

Mrs. Romford's prevision was confirmed by
the event. Her husband did return on the
Saturday night ; and on the following morning
he appeared at Oaken Clough, looking rather

286 BIRCH DENE.

pale and worn, yet in fair health and good
spirits.

Robin and he exchanged warm greetings,
but Robert Berry kept in the background,
and his face was troubled.

Won't you two shake hands ? ,: said
Robin.

I shall be very glad," said Robert, " but
I did you a great wrong, Romford, and I
feared — "

"You mean as you get me sent to prison ;
but you get me out again, and you've been
good to th' wife. That is enough for me,
and folks speak as well of you now as they
used to speak ill. I'm not one as bears
grudges. And, after all, I'm not sure as you
didn't do me a good turn in getting me taken
up. If you hadn't I should have been among
th' rioters — though not of them — for I hate
violence, and as sure as we're alive some o'
them Blackwater would have sworn my life
away. Ay, let's shake hands, by all means.
We have summit to forget and forgive, everyone
on us. And so your father is dead, Mr.

THE MISSING LINK. 2 87

Ravensmere ! I am right sorry, for he was
a kind neighbour and a noble gentleman. I
only heard about a fortnight since. I was
shifted about from prison to prison, and my
letters went wrong. If I had heard sooner
I might have saved you some trouble. Th'
last time I saw him — you mind when — he
gave me a bit o paper for you. Here it
is " (handing Robin a sealed letter). " We had
a long talk, and he told me what I may say
I knew already, that you were his son and
heir, but he wanted me to say nowt about it
for a few months on account of his wife's
health. I promised, of course, though I do
not quite understand his scruples. If I had
been in his place I should have owned you
at once. My wife isn't a fine lady, thank
God. She never ails much even at them
times, and does not know what nerves is.
And then I chanced to say that it might be
awkward for you if owt happened to him
before he made it known. He said the same
thought had occurred to him, and he would
provide for that chance at once. And then

288 BIRCH Dee.

he sat down at his desk and wrote out that
paper, and signed it, and asked me to attest
his signature, which I did, as you will see.
His first idea was to lock it up in his desk,
along with his other private papers, but at
th' last minute he changed his mind.

"rit might get overlooked,' he said, 'or
fall into careless hands. You are my son's
friend, I confide it to you. Give it to him,
either now or later, as you may think best.
I don't think I am likely to die just yet.
But life is uncertain, and the worst thing a
man can leave to those he loves is a legacy
of trouble. I will instruct Pomeroy to adda
codicil to my will the next time I go to
Manchester, but meanwhile that document
will suffice.'

I took it home and put it in my old kist
[chest] thinking to give it to you the next
time you called, but as ill luck would have
it, the head constable called before you."

Silently and in tears — for the weaver's
narrative had revived the poignancy of his
grief — Robin broke the seal and read the

THE MISSING LINK. 289

paper. It began by saying that, in view of
the uncertainty of life, and there being reasons
why the disclosure should not be publicly
made for some little time, the writer desired
to place on record the fact that the young
man known as Rupert or Robin Nelson was
his son by a previous marriage, and that a
certificate of this marriage and proof of the
birth would be found among the other family
papers in his cabinet. He then w T went on to
explain briefly how he had lost sight of his
wife and child, and come erroneously to the
conclusion that they had been drowned in the
Thames, and why, owing to the partial loss
of Eupert's memory, following on a brain
fever, they had not sooner found each other.
As to Rupert Nelson (so called) being his son,
there could, he said, be not the least doubt.
The account he gave of their life at Lulworth
was true in every respect, and he had told
him of many things which could be known
to none save themselves. Colonel Dene concluded
with the expression of a hope that in
the event of its being necessary to " produce

VOL. III. u

290 BIRCH DENE.

this plain statements"' the trustees, his wife,
and all his friends would have no hesitation
in recognizing Rupert Ravensmere Dene as
his elder son and rightful heir.

Will it be of any use in this law as is
going on?" asked Comfort ; "for though I
witnessed it I did not read it."

Of very great use," answered Robin. " It
is what Mr. Glazebrook has been looking for
this long time. It completes our case and
ought to make a trial unnecessary. At any
rate, I hope it will. How good of my father
to make so full a statement, and I'm greatly
obliged to you, Romford, for suggesting the
idea to him."

"Well, I don't know. I dare say he would
ha' made it all th' same, and a man shouldn't
want his memory jogging about a thing o'
that short. Duty isn't all o' one side between
parents and children ; if there be ony difference
it's agen th' parents, though some folks
doesn't think so. A child cannot help being
born, but a mon needn't be a father, nor a
woman a mother, unless they like. As for

THE MISSING LINK. 291

being obliged to me, happen the less as is
said about that the better. It won't vary
sharp on me to keep th' knowledge o' that
paper to myself' all this time. But it's not
too late yet, you say, and better late than
never."

This was exactly what Grlazebrook observed
when Robin gave him his father's statement,
which he did on the following day. The old
lawyer called it "the missing link," and said
it made their case so strong, that if the other
side knew all the facts they would probably
throw up the sponge."

Why not tell them all the facts then,
and so put an end to the strife ? " asked
Robin.

For several reasons, my dear sir. To
begin with, it is contrary to all the rules of
the game — once proceedings have begun — to
show your opponent your hand. And as your
character has been publicly assailed so it must
be publicly vindicated. Why, in the very last
Guardian, it is given as a positive fact that
the action of ' Doe Dem, Roe Dene against

u 2

292 BIRCH DENE.

Wagstaff/ lias been abandoned, and more than
insinuated that the plaintiff is an impostor.
Another reason. It is well for you, well even
for the trustees, that your claim should be
examined by a court of justice and ratified —
as I take for granted it will be — by the verdict
of a jury."

I am in your hands, Mr. Glazebrook, and
I think you are right. When do you propose
to bring the matter to an issue ? "

At the next Lancaster assizes, three
months hence, before a special jury. The
pleadings are all but ready, and I do not
suppose that Mr. Pomeroy is likely to put
any hindrances in the way."

CHAPTEK XIX.

robin's choice.

Three months later a rather mixed
company were gathered under the roof of
the old "King's Arms" (now, alas, among
the things that have been) and at another
ancient hostel, hard by. Besides the usual
frequenters of the house — during the assizes
barristers, attorneys, deputy sheriffs and
other major and minor limbs of the law —
there were the plaintiff and the defendants
in the suit of " Doe Dem, Eoe Dene against
Falstaff " their solicitors and their solicitors'
clerks, Mrs. Dene, Miss Berry and her
father, Mr. Chubb, Dr. Yockleton and
Solomon Slow, Will Eomforcl, and Harker,
three or four people from Lulworth, and
two eminent physicians from Manchester, who

294 BIPwCH DENE.

were ready to swear that cases of partial
loss of memory, after brain fever, were of
common occurrence.

Robert Berry had not come. He said
that, unless he were forced, he would never
enter Lancaster Castle again, but on the
day before their departure he had a long
talk with Miriam and Robin, which led to
important consequences later on.

The lovers met Mrs. Dene two or three
times, both in the corridors of the inn and
the precincts of the castle ; but she held
her head high, and did not condescend to
notice them even with a look.

The Nisi Prius Court house was crowded,
for the suit bid fair to be a cause celebre, and
among the advocates engaged therein were
several legal luminaries of the first magnitude.
The trustees had specially retained the Attorney
General, while the plaintiff's leading counsel
was no less a personage than Sir Slingsbyby
Slasher, who had the reputation of being the
most successful verdict winner of the day.
Rather to Robin's surprise, however, he did

robin's choice. 295

not make a slashing speech. Quite the contrary,
in fact, for he spoke in a quiet, subdued,
colloquial tone, very soothing to the feelings,
and much more effective with the jury than a
set oration would have been. He metaphorically
buttonholed them ; his manner was so
insinuating and confidential that they could
not possibly help thinking for the moment
that he and they were about the most
knowing fellows in the world ; and the
way in which, from time to time, he said,
I need not tell you, gentlemen," was simply
inimitable.

But the evidence was the main thing, and
there was fortunately plenty of it. Robin
himself was the first witness examined, and
though he stood two hours in the box, and
though Mr. Rufus (one of the Attorney
General's juniors) asked him all the unpleasant
things he could think of, and was very sarcastic
and scornful touching his temporary
loss of memory, he came well out of the
ordeal. Next, the witnesses from Lulworth
delivered their testimony, and to them

296 BIRCH DENE.

followed Chubb, Yockleton, Solomon Slow, and
the others. Romford was the last, and Sir
Slingsbyby Slasher so contrived matters that the
weavers evidence and the "putting in" of
Colonel Dene's " statement " came as the
finishing stroke, and when he said, " That is
my case," and sat down with a " Didn't I tell
you so?" glance at the jury, he knew that
the case was won.

He did not, however, expect that the
verdict would be delivered before the following
day, and probably no one was more surprised
than himself when, just as the Attorney
General was rising to address them, the
foreman of the jury put a question to the
judge, which caused the learned gentleman to
resume his seat with a gesture of disgust and
a look of dismay.

Do you think there's any use in going
on wi' this, my lord ? " asked the foreman,
a stalwart, shrewd-faced farmer from Grange-overhangs.


I beg your pardon," said the judge,
politely, " but really I don't quite understand

robin's choice. 297

the question. Would you kindly be a little
more explicit ? "

Well, what we want to know is, if it be of
any use going on — because, unless it can be
shown as that statement is a forgery we are of
opinion that the plaintiff has proved his case,
and we shall give a verdict accordingly."

"That is not a point which I can decide.
If the defendants elect to go on with the case,
we must hear it to the end. Perhaps, in the
circumstances, you had better take the opinion
of your clients, Mr. Attorney General."

On this the Attorney General, Mr. Pomeroy,
and the trustees held a hurried consultation.

Well, what say you, Sir Charles ! " asked
the judge, when they seemed to have made up
their minds.

My clients desire me to say, my lord, that
they have no personal feeling or pecuniary
interest in the matter whatever. They could
not decide it on their own authority alone,
but as the jury are of opinion that the plaintiff
has proved his case, and I am not prepared
to say that he has not, my clients are willing

298 BIRCH DENE.

to let the case close now, with a verdict in
his favour. There remains only the question
of costs — "

There will be no difficulty on that score,"
put in Sir Slingsbyby Slasher. " Mr. Heavens
Dene is quite willing, desirous even, that
the costs should be borne by the estate'

This was the end of the case of Doe Dem,
Eoe Dene against WagstafT, so far as the
legal proceedings were concerned, but what
may be termed the final settlement and
general wind up took place out of court.

An hour or two later, as the trustees and
Mr. Pomeroy were talking over the events of
the day in their sitting-room at the " King's
Arms," one of the servants brought a note
from Mr. Eavensmere Dene, asking for an
interview, as he had something of importance
to communicate.

You have no objection, I presume ? " said
Mr. Pomeroy, addressing the trustees. "As
the fight is over we may as well be friendly,
and as the family solicitors, it behoves us
to be on good terms with its head."

robin's choice. 299

"Let us see him by all means," said Mr.
Giles ; "I shall be delighted to make his
acquaintance, and I hope he will give our
house his account."

"So shall I," echoed Mr. Tilbury, "and I

hope we shall be good neighbours. There is

some very fine shooting on the Birch Dene
moors."

Give our compliments to Mr. Dene," said
Pomeroy to the servant, " and say that we
shall feel honoured by his company whenever
it suits his convenience to pay us a visit. Or
stay, I will write a note. It will be more
respectful than a verbal message."

A few minutes after the missive was despatched,
Robin, accompanied by Mr. Glaze-brook,
answered it in person.

I have come to make a proposal," he said,
after the usual commonplaces had been exchanged,
" and as it affects the interests of my
brother, I should like to make it in the presence
of Mrs. Dene, — if she would favour us with
her company for a few minutes."

She is in her room, I will go and fetch

300 BIRCH DENE.

her," replied Pomeroy, albeit not very confidently,
for he greatly doubted whether she
would oblige them with her company.

But curiosity prevailed over resentment,
and he presently returned with the lady on
his arm. She looked very downcast and had
evidently been weeping. After greeting
Robin with a scarcely perceptible nod, Mrs.
Dene sank sullenly into a chair and leaned
her head on her hand.

Without any further preface Robin proceeded
to business.

I need hardly say," he observed, " that I
am very well satisfied with the result of our
action. It makes me the possessor of a fine
property, and what I value much more highly,
gives me a Dame and a position, and vindicates
the fair fame of my mother and the character
of my father. As touching the property,
however, I think it gives me more than
is rightly my due. Willy Dene is as much
my father's son as myself, and it does not
seem fair that I should take the lion's share.
But as I am only life tenant, I cannot dispose

robin's choice. 301

of the property as I would, yet what I can do
I will, and I intend to make over to him,
so long as I have the power, or to trustees
acting on his behalf — that is to say, during
my lifetime — one half of the income arising
from the property, and to leave Mrs. Dene
in undisturbed possession of Birch Hal], with
an allowance of a thousand a year, in addition
to her settlement. Her lawyers will put the
matter into proper shape. That is my proposal."
And a very noble and generous proposal,"
exclaimed Pomeroy, warmly ; "all the more
so as your brother's portion would otherwise
be very inadequate, and his mother has by no
means a large settlement. Do you understand,
Mrs. Dene ? Mr. Dene will convey to your
son an entire moiety of the rental of the estate
and make you further an allowance of a
thousand a year. He deserves our heartiest
thanks."

"And I do thank him," said Mrs. Dene,

rising from her chair and offering Robin her

hand. " I have thought ill of you and spoken

ill of you, for until to-day I would not — could

302 BIRCH DENE.

not believe that your claim was genuine. But
now I ask your forgiveness and tender you
my thanks, my warmest thanks for this great
generosity, It would have been better for us
all if my husband had been more frank with
me. He meant to be kind, I dare say, but it
was very mistaken kindness. However, that
is all past, and I trust that for the future we
shall be good friends."

She spoke fairly and her manner was not
ungracious, yet Robin fancied that if she had
spoken all her mind she would have said that,
though she preferred half a loaf to no bread,
she still considered that her son was morally
entitled to the entire loaf, and the imputation
of blame to his father grated on his feelings.

But as Robin wanted peace and could afford
to be generous, he took her hand and assured
her that, so far as it depended on him, their
re-cemented friendship should never be broken
again.

You are good enough to say, Mr. Dene,"
observed Mr. Pomeroy, " you are good enough
to say, that you will leave Mrs. Dene and your

robin's choice. 303

brother in undisturbed possession of Dene
Hall. It is very kind of you, I am sure, but
where, then, may I ask, if it be not an impertinent
question, do you intend to reside
yourself? I think I heard a whisper that —
ahem — that there was some likelihood of your
leading a certain fair lady to the hymeneal
altar ? "

Yes. I think it is very likely that I shall
be married before very long — and as for a house
I intend to fit up the Old Hall (an ancient
moaned mansion, about a mile from Oaken
Clough, latterly used as a farm house) and
live there. The situation is very convenient
near the factory I mean — and I prefer the
active life of a manufacturer to the more
tranquil existence of a country gentleman.
The new mill which Mr. Robert Berry is
building will be much larger than the old one,
and, though he will retain an interest in the
business and give me .the benefit of his advice,
I shall be the principal partner and sole
manager. I like having to do with machinery
and work people. I don't think I could find

304 BIRCH Dee.

a more congenial occupation, and I cannot be
idle."

And Mr. Berry ? "

He will retire from business and devote
himself to country pursuits. And, now, what
do you say to celebrating the settlement of
our differences in the way customary with
Englishmen ? Will you all honour me with
your company at dinner this evening ? "

On this all present declared that nothing-would
give them greater pleasure.

Robin wanted to include in the party all
the witnesses without exception, both gentle
and simple, but Romford asked to be excused.
You are very kind, Mr. Dene ; but if it's
all the same to you I'd rather not."
Why ? "

Well, to begin with, I have not a wedding
garment ; and I don't think as Mrs. Dene and
them lawyers and trustees would like to sit
down wi' a radical weever ; and, what is more,
I wouldn't like to sit down with them. They're
rank old Tories, every one on 'em. But I'll tell
you what we'll do, if you like. Mr. Slow and

robin's choice. 305

me, and two or three more on us will dine at
your expense at the ' Shoulder o' Mutton ' — "

But Slow will dine with us ! "

Not for choice. He says as he prefers
the society of the free and easy to the company
of the polished and polite. I've yard, too,
as he sings a good song ; and as I can do a bit
i' that line myself', we shall have a fine time
on't — better than you ! I don't think as G-iles
and Tilbury could sing a song between 'em to
save their souls, and you nut as well try
to make a sucking pig whistle th' Doxology
as get music oat o' them leather-faced old
lawyers. It will be a deal comfortable for
everybody. What say en yo' ? "

"was I want everybody to be comfortable, I
say, yes ! "

That's aw rest then, and we shall not
forget to drink your health and wish you and
her much happiness."

Shortly before the dinner hour Mr. Chubb
drew Robin aside.

I shall have to leave to-night on my way
south," he said, " and as I may not have

VOL. III. x

30G BIRCH DENE.

another opportunity of speaking to you. I
would like your instructions about this money
I'm to have next week from Weevil."

You think the old villain will pay up ? ' :

I am sure ; because if he doesn't he will
be sold up first and locked up afterwards, and
he knows a good deal better than that."

Three thousand four hundred, I think you
said, was the amount."

As nearly as possible, of which five
hundred will go to Solomon Slow ; and then
there are the smaller legacies and expenses."

Of course. Well, you may remit me the
balance in a draft on some Manchester banker.
But I shall not spend the money on myself.
I mean to devote it to a purpose of which, I
am sure, our dear old friend Bartlett would
highly approve."

And what is that, pray ? "

The building and endowment of a free
school and library at Birch Dene."

You are quite right. The money could
not be more usefully applied. To combat
ignorance is to combat vice. Your career. 31

robin's choice. 307

far, has been a very remarkable one, Mr.
Dene, but we may almost say, I think, that
the story of it ends with to-day's denouement"
The first part of it, Mr. Chubb," answered
Robin, gravely. "My life as a waif ends
with this trial ; but the second part — my
life and work as a man — begins only from
to-day."

THE END.

Richard Clay & Sons, Limited, London & Bungay.

V
