RYVIXGTQK

K ffi^^fc*^N~S^~«y?s»*<<-

K

RED Lymington.

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE Libraries.

Gabrielle DE Touraine. By Mrs. John Kent

Spencer, author of " Godwin's Ordeal," &c. 3 vols.

NEW BABYLON ; or, Daughters of Eve. By Paul

Mekitt and W. Howell Poole. 3 vols.

DAISY BERESFORD. By Catharine Child, author

of " The Future Marquis." 3 vols.

SAINT AND SIBYL : A Story of old Kew. By C. L.

Piekis, author of " A Very Opal," " Wanted, an Heir," &c. 3 vols.

THE MERCHANT PRINCE. By John Berwick Har-wood,

author of " Lady Flavian," " The Tenth Earl," &c. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

WILLIAM Stall,

Author OF

"LARRY LOHENGRIN," "THE OLD FACTORY
&c, &c.

3?

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

All rights reserved.

Til*

V.

DEDICATED

TO

MY "WIFE

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/redryvington01west

CHAPTER I.

THE BELLS.

A SUMMER morning in the valley of the
■*"*- Upper Rhone.

A wayfarer in orthodox pedestrian costume —
knickerbockers, Norfolk jacket, helmet-shaped
hat, and mountain boots — is walking leisurely
down the Furca Road. In one hand he carries
a stout alpenstock, strong enough to sustain a
man's weight over a crevasse ; from his belt is
suspended a geological hammer. A strap
slung across his right shoulder holds a light
waterproof coat ; a second, slung across the
other shoulder, supports a light hand-bag.
VOL. I. B

Other incumbrances the traveller has none.
He has discovered that Switzerland possesses
the cheapest and best organised parcel post in
Europe. Before setting out on a journey he
puts a postage stamp on his baggage and consigns
it to the nearest post office, addressed to
his next destination, where he never fails to
find it on his arrival thither.

Our wayfarer is young ; he does not look
more than five or six and twenty, and his countenance,
equally with his dress, attest his English
nationality. The bronze tint of it, and the
peeled appearance of his cheeks, show that he
has lately spent much time in the open air, and
probably made more than one excursion among
the glaciers of the high Alps. As touching
stature he is rather under than over middle
height, wide-shouldered and deep-chested ; and
the breadth of his hand, as it grasps his alpenstock,
shows that it has been accustomed to
wield heavier tools than painter's brush or
writer's pen. His face is oval and perhaps too
long to suit a fastidious taste, albeit the defect
is rendered less apparent by a long tawny
beard, which, moreover, so completely covers

his mouth and chin that it is difficult to determine
whether these important features denote
firmness of character or weakness of purpose.
To complete our description, it remains only to
add that the traveller has a broad, intelligent
forehead, a somewhat large, though straight,
nose, well-marked eyebrows, and large, deep
blue eyes — the whites of them remarkably clear
and bright — a sign of health and high spirits
often observable in persons of temperate habits
who have passed some time in the open air at
great altitudes.

From time to time the pedestrian stops in
his walk to break a geological specimen from an
erratic block, to gather from the wayside an
alpine flower, or to gaze on the prospect around
him ; as well he may, for the scene is one of
stupendous grandeur. He is between two
mountains, the Galenstock and the Grimes.
Behind him rises the great mass of the cloud-pinnacle
Furca. Peaks still loftier — the alps
of the Valais and the Oberland, the Shreckhorn,
the Finsteraarhorn, andtheMischabel — crowned
with their eternal diadems of snow, are in view.
The road he is traversing, cut in the flank of the

b2

Galenstock, skirts the great Rhone glacier,
which gleams in the unclouded sunshine like a
frozen Niagara, as if some mighty cascade,
leaping down the gorge, had been stopped in
full career and turned into ice by the stroke of
an enchanter's wand.

As the traveller advances, the character of
the scenery changes. Hardly a sign of vegetation
is visible. He is enclosed between great
ramparts of rock. The ground is strewn with
huge blocks of weird shape, like the ruins of a
shattered planet, while great ribs of granite,
which might be the bones of a buried world,
thrust themselves from the ground. A tremendous
rift intersects the valley, down which the
new-born Rhone, as if mad with joy at being
released from its icy prison, forces its way ; but
so deep is the abyss that in the upper air the
wild uproar of its foam-churned waters sounds
like the murmur of a summer stream.

The road is a marvel, winding now between
frowning crags, now, where the valley widens
out, through green meadows, brilliant with cowslips,
primroses, and the blue gentian — skirting
ever and anon the gloomy gorge through which

rushes the turbid torrent, swollen by the melting
of alpine snows. Seen from afar, the road is

'Like a silver zone.
Flung about carelessly, it shines afar,
Catching the eye in many a broken link,
In many a turn and traverse as it glides ;
And oft above and oft below appears,
Seen o'er the wall by one who journeys up
As though it were another, through the wild.
Leading along, he knows not whence or whither.
Yet through its fairy course, go where it will.
The torrent stops it not, the rugged rock
Opens and lets it in, and on it runs,
"Winning its easy way from clime to clime,
Through glens locked up before.'

In plain prose, the Furca road, like other
alpine roads, is a zig-zag, and however picturesque
zig-zags of this sort, when seen from a
distance, may be, they are terribly round about ;
and pedestrians who want to save their legs,
and dislike heat and dust, do not disdain to
take short cuts through the w T gods or meadows
that border the way, varied by an occasional
scramble over a promontory of rock. This expedient
Randle Lymington often adopted, all the
more willingly as the trees with their heavy
foliage offered an agreeable shade, and the footpaths

were free from the dust that rendered the
high road well nigh unbearable. After making
one of these short cuts, whereby he saved
several miles of road walking, he threw himself
down on a mossy bank at the foot of a tall pine-tree,
near which flowed a tiny stream of crystal
water. Then, drawing from his pocket a case
of sandwiches, he proceeded to eat with good
appetite, as indeed he might, — for it was well
nigh noon, and he had been afoot since early
morning, — washing down his repast with an
occasional draught from the rill. He next lit a
pipe, and, after solacing himself with a smoke,
lay down at full length, his head pillowed on a
piece of velvety turf, and looked up at the
patches of blue sky that showed through the
verdant fretwork of the tree tops. The attitude,
the hour, the place seemed favourable to meditation,
and Handle set himself to meditate
accordingly ; but the circumstances were still
more favourable for repose, and after several
vain efforts to collect his ideas, and resume the
thread of thought which he had begun with his
pipe, he fell into a deep sleep, well earned by
the fatigues of the day.

He had slept, he knew not how long, when
he awoke with a start and the sound of bells in
his ears, his first thought being that he was in
his own bed at home, and that the Whitebrook
factories were ringing in the hands to their
work. A single glance at the blue sky overhead
showed him his mistake, and the continued
tinkling of bells and the cracking of whips in
the distance roused him to full consciousness.
Rising to his feet, and looking upward through
the trees, he perceived that his " knocker-up '
was one of those huge vehicles known in German
Switzerland as a post wagon, and in the
Swiss Romance as a diligence — a sort of Noah's
ark on wheels, carrying a ton of luggage and a
score of passengers, and strong enough and
heavy enough to have outlasted the life of an
antediluvian patriarch. The ponderous concern
was dragged by six horses, three abreast, to
each of whose collars were attached two or
three bells, the ringing of which had wakened
Randle from his sleep.

The diligence, driven at a tremendous speed
in a cloud of dust, descended the hill. After
waiting until the dust had somewhat subsided,

our traveller went down into the road ; for the
footpath, which for some time had been little
more than a faint track, had now ceased altogether,
and the hillside was fast becoming too
steep and rocky to afford even foothold for goats
or vantage ground for fir-trees.

Randle Lymington resumed his walk, little
thinking that the tinkling of those diligence
bells, which he could still hear faintly in the
distance, marked a turning point in his destiny,
or that they had summoned him to save a human
life. He was thinking rather of Whitebrook
and its factory bells ; that his holiday was nearly
over ; that he must soon make for home, and
wondering what news the letters he expected
to find at Ouchy would bring him.

He had walked briskly for the greater part
of an hour, neither the geological features of the
country nor its botanical productions seeming
to attract much of his attention, and reached
the bottom of a steep incline where the way
diverged abruptly to his right, when he heard
again the sound of bells, this time behind him.
Looking round, he perceived an open travelling
carriage descending the incline at a fast trot.

To keep as much out of the dust as possible,
Randle drew aside into the angle formed by the
turn in the road, and there waited for the
vehicle to pass by. The point at which he
stood overhung the Rhone, whose white swirling
waters, as they dashed themselves against the
rocky sides of the gorge, he had only to turn
his head to see.

He watched the carriage curiously ; for both
pace and place were eminently suggestive of
the possibility of accident, — what sort of accident
Randle shuddered to think. But when he
saw that one of the wheels was firmly locked
with a shoe and a chain, another held in check
by a strong brake, and that, as the carriage
n eared the bend, the driver pulled his horses
into a jog-trot, he felt re-assured.

'These fellows know their business,' he
muttered ; e why should I feel concerned ? Besides,
the penalty of a mistake would be so
terrible that they dare not be reckless.'

The carriage, he noticed, contained two
ladies and a gentleman, besides a fourth passenger
on the box. They also noticed him.

i That young fellow looks very like an Englishman,'

observed the gentleman, ' pedestrian-rising,
I suppose.'

'I have no doubt he is,' said one of the
ladies. ' See how solidity he stands there, bolt
upright, his alpenstock firmly planted and his
countenance unmoved.'

Yes, he looks more like a sentinel on duty
than a youth on pleasure bent. But young
men now-a-days do take their pleasure sadly
not as they used to do when I was young.'

Meanwhile the object of these remarks was
just about to leave his post and continue his
walk, when he heard another jingling of bells,
and saw, rather to his annoyance, a second
carriage coming full trot down the incline ; and
no sooner had it shot round the corner, and
disappeared in a cloud of dust, than a third
hove in sight.

Not wanting to be choked, he decided to wait
until this, too, had gone by.

He was watching its progress with some impatience,
when, as the carriage reached the
middle of the brow, he was surprised to perceive
that its speed, instead of slackening, suddenly
increased. Then he heard a snap ; the

horses broke into a canter, which almost
instantly became a gallop ; and the driver, after
a vain attempt to pull them up, threw down
the reins and leaped into the road, leaving his
passengers — who, as Randle Lymington now
saw, were two ladies — to their fate. His first
impulse was to seize the horses' heads and 
stop them by main force before they reached
the precipice ; for turning the corner at the pace
they were going was out of the question, even
if there had been anyone to guide them. But
this expedient was conceived only to be abandoned.
To attempt it would be to sacrifice his
life to no purpose, for a single glance sufficed
to show him that the horses, even with the
best will in the world, could not stop. If he
tried to withstand them, he must of necessity
be thrown down and trampled to death, or
hurled over the precipice. As it seemed, nothing
short of a miracle could save them and
the inmates of the carriage from destruction.

So Randle, despite his burning desire to do
something, had to stand helplessly by, and with
white face and sternly compressed lips await
the issue.

Another minute, and-the

horses are now almost abreast of him ;
they are making straight for the abyss. One
of the ladies, half rising from her seat, her lips
blanched and terror-parted, utters a piercing
scream and looks at Randle with appealing eyes.

Now or never !' he says to himself, and as
the carriage flashes past he leans forward,
seizes the lady in his arms, and, exerting all his
strength, lifts her clean over the wheels, and
lands her safely beside him.

The next moment the carriage is on the
narrow ledge below the road. For a second it
seems to dwell there, and then, with a wild cry
of fear, the horses with their living freight
plunge into the boiling Rhone.

Then Randle Lymington turned and looked
at his companion whom he still held in his arms.
She was deadly pale and half fainting, but, asher
rescuer thought, very beautiful. Her hat
had come off, and her long black hair, loosened
by the descent from the carriage, fell over
her shoulders like a veil. She seemed young
not more than eighteen, Randle thought, and
tall for her age.

He asked her if she felt better, if she was
hurt at all. She answered him with a half-dazed,
inquiring look, as if she had heard his
question without understanding it.

Is it a dream or is it real V she murmured,
pointing to the precipice. 'Has the carriage
gone down there? Where is Miss Jo T ce?'

fc The carriage has gone down there,' said
Randle, solemnly, ' and Miss Joyce, if she bethe
lady who was with'you, has gone too. You
will never see her alive again.'

And I am saved — you have saved me from
a terrible death. Oh, sir, I know not who you
are, but I owe you my life.'

1 You owe it, not to me, but to God. I was
called to save you. If it had not been for the
ringing of the bells But we are forgetting
the driver. See, he is up yonder, writhing
in the dust. He did not act a very noble partit
is true, but we must try to help him for all
that

'Do you think it was his fault that the horses
ran away V

< I am not sure that the horses did run away,
but in any case he ought not to have left his

post without making more of an effort to stop
his horses. I think the shoe must have slipped
off the wheel or the chain snapped — perhaps it
was never properly secured — and, the man not
having his horses well in hand, they were
pushed into a gallop. When he left his seat
all chance of stopping them was, of course,
gone. A little pluck and presence of mind,
and all might have been well ; but the fellow
thought of nothing but saving his own wretched
life.'

You must not be too severe on him. You
know " all that a man hath that will he give
for his life." '

And quite right, too — all that he hath. But
you see this man risked two lives and lost one
that he might keep his own.'

By this time they had reached the spot
where the driver lay, apparently unable to rise.
Handle submitted him to a rapid examination,
and asked him a few questions, in which he
was assisted by the young girl, whose knowledge
of German was much superior to his
own. The man was less hurt than they had
expected. The blood on his face came from a

superficial wound on the head, which was easily
staunched by a pocket handkerchief. His
other injuries consisted of a few contusions and
a severely sprained ankle. Randle, after giving
him a drink from his pocket-flask, helped
him to the roadside and made him as comfortable
as was possible in the circumstances. His
account of the accident was that the horses,
startled by the snapping of the chain, and feeling
the carriage almost on their haunches,
rushed madly down the hill. When he found
it impossible to stop them he jumped into the
road. He did not appear conscious of having
in any way failed in his duty, and Randle could
not command enough German to tell him what
he thought of his conduct. He did not object
to be left. A vehicle of some sort was sure to
pass before long, he said, that would give him
a lift as far as Viesch.

CHAPTER II.

TALK BY THE WAY.

rpHE next question with Handle was what to
-*- do with the fair girl whom he had rescued,
and who was evidently so overcome with
agitation and distress as to be in no condition
to judge for herself. He could not ask her
what she proposed to do, so he inquired what
he could do for her, and whither she would like
to go. If she would remain there, he said,
with the post-boy he would hurry on to the
nearest village and fetch a carriage, so that she
might continue her journey.

Oh, no,' she replied, 4 1 would not like to
remain here. If you will let me ' (timidly) * I
would rather walk on with you. When the
others find that our carriage does not come
they will wait and we can overtake them.'

'The others? You belong to the party
in the two carriages that have just passed,
then !'

'Yes, my father and mother and the courier
are in the first, my sisters and the maids in the
second. We are on our way from Chur to
Zermatt. Miss Joyce — the lady — the lady who
was with me, was our governess. She has been
with us ever since I was a little girl. She
was so good and kind, and we all loved her —
oh ! we loved her.'

Here the poor girl's lip quivered and a sob
choked her utterance.

'Are you quite sure, sir,' she exclaimed, when
she was again able to speak, 'I mean, do you
think she is surely killed — that there is no
possibility she may have escaped V

I fear, none. No creature could fall down
that precipice and live. It is a sheer descent
of nearly a thousand feet. But before we go I
will look; though the gorge hereabouts is so
deep, and the river so rough, that I do not
expect to see any trace either of the carriage or
the horses.'

As Randle spoke he let himself down from

VOL. I. C

the road to the narrow ledge bordering the
precipice five or six feet below, and, lying full
length on the ground, gazed long and intently
down the face of the rock and into the seething
water. Then he rose and rejoined his companion,
who had been anxiously watching him.
I can see nothing whatever of the carriage
and horses he said, ' but on a piece of jutting
rock, out of which grows a bush, about a
hundred yards down, I thought I saw the fluttering
of a robe. It may be part of the poor
lady's dress, or even her body.'
< Alive V

Handle shook his head.

The concussion alone, the slightest touch
against the side of the gorge, after so tremendous
a fall, would be enough to cause instant
death, even if the flight through the air had not
caused it already. But it would be well for
somebody to go down and see. And if it is the
poor lady's body it must be brought up and receive
Christian burial. And now, if you feel
sufficiently recovered,, we had perhaps better
go on. The other carriages will be a long way
ahead of us by this time.'

The young lady, who. as Ran die perceived,
could not trust herself to speak, bowed, in token
of acquiescence, and they set out on their walk.
He began by adapting his pace to hers, but he
soon found that she was almost as good a pedestrian
as himself ; and having the advantage
of falling ground they made rapid progress,
doing four miles in little more than an hour.

Oh, how thoughtless and selfish I am,' exclaimed
the girl suddenly, breaking silence for
the first time since they had left the scene of
the disaster. f I hope I am not taking you out
of your way. Am I, or were you going in this
direction V

4 Yes ; I was on my way to Viesch and
Brigue.'

1 1 am so glad. It would be really too bad,
after all you have done, to make further demands
on your kindness. But I should like you
to see my father and mother, that they may
thank you for having saved their daughter's life
at the peril of your own.'

'No, no ; you mistake ; I risked nothing.
There is no danger in lifting a young lady from
a carriage.'

C2

Not when the horses are going full gallop
and the carriage is on the edge of a precipice !
It was a feat that required great courage and
presence of mind, and you might easily have
been crushed under the wheels or thrown into
the gorge. Suppose your foot had slipped at
the moment you leaned forward to lift me out !
I shall always consider that you saved my life
at the risk of your own. You have placed me
and my family under an obligation that we can
never repay ; and I am sure my father and
mother will say the same.'

6 Less than you think for. As I said a little
while ago — but you were probably too much
agitated to hear me — I was called to save you.'

Called to save me V said the girl, wonderingly.
* flow V

By the ringing of the bells. I was fast
asleep up there in the wood, and if it had not
been for the ringing of those bells I might have
been there yet ; and if the diligence had passed
by five minutes sooner or later, I should certainly
not have been at the turn of the road when
your carriage went into the Shone '

And I should have gone with it,' interposed

the young lady, the returning colour again deserting
her cheeks.

1 1 am afraid so,' returned Handle, whom the
incident seemed to have deeply impressed. ' But
you see it was not to be ; it had been ordered
otherwise''

4 Poor Miss Joyce !'

4 Yes, one is taken and another left. Life is
fall of mysteries. It is only a question of a few
years with the youngest and the strongest of
us. There is an appointed time for all men, and
when our time comes we must shuffle off this
mortal coil as those have done who have gone
before us.'

Do you belong to our church V said the other,
somewhat timidly, for she had not been used to
this sort of talk, and scarcely knew what to say.

I think so. At least, if you mean the Church
of England, 1 do — in a fashion.'

Are you High or Low V

That is a difficult question to answer. If I
wanted to be very precise I should say a little
of both and not very much of either,' said Randle,
inwardly amused at the turn the conversation
was taking.

Perhaps you are Broad V

'In some things I am — very. In others people
say I am very narrow. But is not that a
carriage crawling up the next zig-zag ? It
seems empty, too.'

Yes ; I do not see anybody but the driver.'

4 If it is empty, do you not think it would be
well to get the driver to turn round and take
you to Viesch ? Your parents will be there by
this time, and may be anxious about you.'

You will go with me V

Certainly, if you wish it.'

Oh yes, I do wish it. Papa and mamma
would be very sorry if they were not to see you
and thank you.'

1 1 shall be very glad to make their acquaintance,
I am sure ; but if it were possible I should
be glad to be spared the thanks.'

I mean,' added Handle, fearing that the
remark might appear somewhat rude, whereas,
in fact, it was attributable in about equal
measure to bashfulness and modesty — f I mean
that you have already thanked me quite as
much as I deserve, and you know in what a

strange manner I happened to be near when
the accident befell.'

1 Yes, I know. It was God's doing, and it is
our duty to thank Him. But it was your doing
also, and we should fail in our duty if we were
not to thank you, and I am sure my father and
mother will say the same. I shall never forget
it as long as I live — never.'

Here comes the carriage,' said Handle, glad
of an opportunity to turn the conversation*
The man seems to have no passengers. I do
not suppose he is likely to make any difficulty
about taking us to Viesch.'

Nor did he — at least none that did not yield
to an offer of full fare and double Trinhgeld —
and in half an hour they were at Viesch.

As the carriage drove up to the hall door, a
stout, middle-aged gentleman, of commonplace
though pleasant countenance, destitute of beard
or whisker, came forward, looking very much
surprised.

'How is this, Muriel? What have you been
doing so long ! Where is Miss Joyce ! And
and — who is this gentleman V

1 1 do not know who he is, papa, but he has
saved my life, and Miss Joyce is — is '

And here Muriel burst into tears.

'What has happened? Has there been an
accident? Why, this is not the same carriage.
There has been an accident.'

4 There has, indeed. The driver lost command
of his horses, and the poor lady who was
with your daughter was carried down into the
Eh one.'

4 And Muriel?'

'This gentleman saved me, papa — dragged
me out of the carriage only one second before
the horses rushed over the precipice, at the
peril of his life.'

Thank God, thank God, and' (turning to
Handle) ' may God bless you, sir, for your courage
and devotion. You have made us your
debtors for life. Might I ask to whom we are
beholden for this great service ?'

My name is Handle Lymington. But you
make too much of what I did, sir ; you do, indeed
; and when you know all the circumstances
'

It is sufficient for me to know that by an

act of courage and devotion you saved nay
child from a frightful danger. No explanation
can minimise it, my dear sir, or lessen the
obligation under which you have placed me
and my family. But it is time, I think, that
you knew something more of us. I am Lord
Lindisfarne ; the young lady whose life you have
saved is Lady Muriel Avalon ; and if you will
kindly accompany me into the hotel I will
introduce you to the countess and my other
daughters, who will, I am sure, add their thanks
to mine.'

So Handle, not being able to resist a request
so kindly put, followed his new acquaintance,
and had the honour of being introduced to Lady
Lindisfarne and her eldest and younger daughters,
the Ladies Maude and Mary, one of whom was a
few years the senior, the other a few years the
junior, of Lady Muriel, and, notwithstanding
the young man's shyness — of which, however,
there was little outward manifestation — he did
not find their gratitude embarrassing. For
though the expression of it was warm and, to
all appearance, sincere, not a word was said
which gave him any sense of discomfort or of

being overpraised. They all seemed much
shocked and distressed at the terrible death of
Miss Joyce, yet it seemed to Randle that their
grief was less acute than Muriel's had been.

CHAPTER III.

RAISING THE DEAD.

6 "PiO you think, Mr. Lymington.' said Lord
*J Lindisfarne, after the story of the accident
had been told and retold, and its causes
and consequences curiously discussed, ' that
poor Miss Joyce's body was caught on that
bush and still remains there?'

'I think it is very likely — so likely that it
would be well to place the matter beyond doubt
by sending somebody down to see.'

If it be there we must, of course, have it
brought up and buried. But will not that be
very difficult ? How far down did you say it
was V

Three or four hundred feet, I should think.
I do not think there will be any great difficulty
either in ascertaining if the body be there or of

bringing it up if it is — with proper appliances,
of course. I have given my mind to a little
practical engineering occasionally, and if I can
be of any use T am sure I shall be very glad.'

Thank yoa very much, your help will be
most welcome,' said Lord Lindisfarne. 'You
are really too kind : not content with conferring
upon us one inestimable obligation, you seek to
confer upon us another. But can you remain
here all night without inconvenience to yourself
V

Certainly. In no case should I have gone
farther than Brogue, and I am not sure that I
should not have stayed here

'It was our intention to go on to Brigue this
afternoon ; but we cannot, of course, continue
our journey without making an attempt to
recover poor Miss Joyce's body, and give it
decent burial. You spoke of appliances just
now. We shall want a long rope, I suppose,
and some sort of hoisting tackle?'

'If any is to be had here, which, from the
look of the place, I greatly doubt. But I will
just look round the village and see what they
have got. There is sure to be a forge, and

somebody-who can do a bit of iron and woodwork
; and if there is not I daresay I can contrive
what is necessary myself.'

■ If you will permit me I will go with yon.
I can perhaps be of some use, for 1 was once a
sailor.'

f A sailor, LordLindisfarneT

4 Yes, I was a few years in the navy in my
young days ; but it is so long ago that I am afraid
I have lost all my cunning in the matter of
ropes, though I think if I tried I could still reef
a topsail and tie a bowline knot

'By all means come. Your advice and help
will be most useful, and my knowledge of German
is so very limited that I fear that alone I
should not be able to make these fellows understand
what I want.'

In that case I am probably worse equipped
than yourself, for I hardly know German at all.
But that is easily arranged ; we must have the
courier with us ; he will interpret for you.'

After taking counsel with the innkeeper they
visited the blacksmith and the joiner, the latter
of whom also acted as master-builder ; but, as
Candle expected, the best hoisting machinery

available was of the most primitive description,
and not at all suited for the purpose required.
He was obliged, therefore, to make shift with
such rough tackle as he could devise, and the
village workmen put together on the spur of
the moment. A cat-head was contrived by
fixing a strong though extremely clumsy block
to the end of a stout post, which Handle proposed
to make fast at the edge of the precipice
with iron clamps, forged after his instructions
by the blacksmith. Ropes there were and to
spare, but a good deal of splicing had to be
done before the length Randle deemed necessary
was prepared. To the end of it was attached
a wooden seat like that of a swing, and
a short rope with hook and eye to loop round
the body, if it should be found.

When all was ready an expedition consisting
of three vehicles and seven or eight men,
besides Lord Lindisfarne, Randle Ry winston, the
courier, and a young Englishman of the name
of Voules, who volunteered to accompany them
and lend a hand, set out for the scene of the
accident. The days were fortunately then at
their longest, and, though the hour was somewhat

late, nobody doubted that the object they
had in view could easily be accomplished before
nightfall. And so, if all had gone well, it
might have been. They only forgot, as people
generally do, to allow for the unforeseen.

4 Which of these fellows do you propose to
lower into the gulf?' asked Lord Lindisfarne of
Handle, as their carriage toiled slowly up the
steep ascent near —

Where the swift Rhone cleaves his way between
Heights which appear as lovers who have parted
In haste, whose mining depths so intervene,
That they can meet no more, though broken-hearted. 1

4 To swing down there at the end of a rope five
hundred feet long were a fitting feat for a
maintenant

Or a North Country steeple-Jack,' said Candles
with a smile. f I do not propose to ask
any of them to go down ; I mean to undertake
that job myself.'

You, Mr. Lymington ! Oh, no, that would
be too bad. You have done enough for us
already, my dear sir ; more than we can ever
repay. Let one of those men go down. I
have no doubt they will be quite willing enough

for a sufficient consideration. For a couple of.
napoleons I daresay everyone of them would
volunteer

I should think that is very likely. At the
same time you must remember that we do not
know these men, nor what they can do, nor
what sort of nerves they possess. They
probably do not know themselves. Now it
would be a very sad thing if one of them — perhaps
a man with a family— when he had been
lowered away and beyond the reach of help,
should grow faint or giddy, lose his hold, and
fall into the river. If one has nerve the thing
is easy enough, hardly more dangerous than
sitting in an arm-chair at home. I have no
doubt about my nerves. I have proved them
lately in several alpine excursions, much more
perilous than being swung over the Rhone at
the end of a long rope, and quite as trying to
the nerves. 1 think you had better let me have
my way, Lord Lindisfarne.'

I cannot deny that there is much force in
what you say, and I should certainly be very
sorry for one of these men to make the
attempt and come to grief for want of nerve.

Yet I am very reluctant to tax your kindness
still further. Is there no other way?'

Of getting up the body, you mean ; for I
am almost sure it is there?'

< Yes.'

'I do not think there is ; and you would not
like to leave it where it is.'

1 Certainly not. It is only a sentiment, perhaps,
but it would seem the height of unkindness
not to put the poor creature decently
under the ground after all the years she has
been with us ; and the very suggestion of such
a thing would be intolerable both to Lady
Lindisfarne and my daughters, especially to
Muriel, who was really warmly attached to Miss
Joyce.'

It shall be done, Lord Lindisfarne, and do
not think that you are overtaxing my kindness
as you put it ; for 1 like to do things, and this,
after all, is so small a thing to do.'

f Be it so then, Mr. By winston. But whatever
you may say I do not consider it a small
thing to do ; and you are placing us under
obligations which we shall never be able to
repay. But you will know how to take the

VOL. I. D

will for the deed, and if ever the opportunity
offers there shall be no lack of deed. Of that
you may be assured.'

Handle bowed. He could not think just then
of any suitable answer, and was glad to be
able to divert the conversation by pointing out
to his companion the scene of the accident,
whither they had now almost arrived, and explaining
his plan of campaign.

The first thing to be done was the fixing of
the bathed as nearly as possible in a direct
line with the bush whereon the drapery, supposed
to be that of Miss Joyce, could still be
seen fluttering in the breeze, a work which
Handle's forethought in providing the clamps
rendered easy of accomplishment. For greater
security the concern was further stayed with
ropes, which were fastened to two stout fir-trees
hard by. The long rope was then run
through the block, and Randle seated himself
in his chair, which, by means of a strap passing
round his body and the rope, was so arranged
that he had the free use of his hands. He
carried with him a revolver and a supply of
cartridges for signalling purposes. One shot

meant stop ; two, go on lowering; three, hoist
up. As there was no winding tackle the rope
would, of course, have to be paid out by hand.
To Mr. Voules w r as assigned the duty of
watching the cat-head, and seeing that the men
lowered steadily, and not too fast ; while Lord
Lindisfarne undertook to stand by the coil of
rope and keep it from fouling, a duty for which
his experience as a sailor well fitted him.

When these arrangements were completed
the word was given to lower away, and Handle
found himself swinging in face of a huge wall
of rock of forbidding appearance, with the
purple sky above and the raging Rhone beneath
him. The oscillation was his greatest
difficulty, and the more the rope was paid out
the worse it became. It was all he could do
to keep himself from being dashed against the
side and seriously hurt, for the rock was far
from being as smooth as it appeared from
above. It w r as seamed with age and the action
of the weather, and abounded in sharp angles,
hollows, and elevations, which rendered Randle's
task much more onerous, and, as he confessed
to himself, more dangerous than he had looked

d2

for. But be had little leisure for reflection — all
his wits, as well as all his limbs, were in constant
requisition. Nor was he the man to
withdraw from any work to which he had once
put his hand. The very strangeness of the position,
moreover, had a charm for him — dangling
between two mighty crags, in presence of the
immensity of Nature, as much cut off from the
world as if he had been in the bowels of the
earth. The consciousness that his life hung on
a frail rope that might at any moment be
severed by a sharp corner of rock tended rather
to give zest to his excitement than to damp his
spirits. Men of adventurous temperament, high
courage, and youthful energy find a pleasure in
dangers which they can combat, and delight in
perils that call forth their supreme capacities
of action and endurance.

At length Randle, unhurt but breathless,
found himself immediately above the place,
where, as he could see, lay the body of the
unfortunate Miss Joyce. He calculated the
distance to a nicety, and a minute before he
came level with the spot, fired the shot which
was to give the signal of stoppage.

CHAPTER IV.

A DROP TOO MUCH.

Troubles, who was on the lookout, saw the
flash before he heard the report.

Stop !' he sang out.

Foret auf !' shouted the courier.

The sound of the shot, faintly heard, was
followed by a series of echoes, as if Randle were
engaged in a combat with unseen foes.

Has he found anything. Can you see what
he is doing?' asked Lord Lindisfarne.

'I think he has found something; but what
he is doing I cannot make out. It is growing
dark down there, and objects are very indistinct.'


I daresay ; the sun is getting low, and even
at full noon there cannot be much light in that
gorge.'

A few minutes passed in complete silence, all
listening intently, while Voules, with one hand
on the cat-head, looked down the precipice.

1 One,' said Voules, as a sharp flash of light
shot upward in the deepening gloom, * two —
three ; hoist slowly.'

Heat langsam auf,' shouted the courier, and
amid a volley of smothered echoes, the men
began to pull the rope home, keeping in mind
the caution to heave slowly, and a second
exhortation, given by Lord Lindisfarne, to
heave steadily.

Pity we have not some sort of capstan,' said
the peer, after the pulling had been going on
four or five minutes. ' I don't much like this
hand work. The men must jerk more or less,
do as they will. Do they find it a heavy pull,
courier V

6 Not as heavy as they expected, my lord.
They are rather surprised at its lightness ; for
Mr. Lymington is sure to be bringing the
body up with him, I suppose?'

No doubt, if he has found it ; and Mr. Voules
seems to be sure that he has. We shall soon
know

'My God! what has happened?' exclaimed
his lordship, as Voules uttered a cry of dismay,
and the bolsters fell in a confused heap on the
ground.

4 The rope has parted,' said Voules, hoarsely,
in his agitation hardly able to speak, ' and —
and '

'You surely don't mean that Lymington has
gone to the bottom — that he is killed V

1 1 am afraid it is so, my lord,' put in the
courier. ' See, the rope is quite slack ; there is
evidently no weight at the other end.'

1 And I saw it break said Voules ; ' at least
I saw the one end fly up and the other go
down.'

Poor fellow ! poor fellow !' muttered Lord
Lindisfarne, ' and he was so confident about
there being no danger. I shall never forgive
myself for allowing him to go down. I wonder
who his friends are? Can we do nothing — is
there no possibility of his being alive? Ask
those men, courier; they know the place and
the river. Ask them if there is no chance of
saving him. He might swim, you know.'

The courier shook his head.

'They say, my lord, that the gentleman
could not possibly reach the water without
striking against the side ; that if he did, he
could hardly miss striking against one of the
huge boulders which lie in thousands in the bed
of the river. And even supposing that, by a
miracle, he has escaped these two dangers, the
Rhone is so full of whirlpools, and it is so far to
any place where he could land, that swimming
would be quite out of the question. They
think, my lord, that there is not the . least
hope.'

c Poor fellow ! and, beyond his name, we know
nothing of him. We shall have a sorrowful
tale to tell when we get back to Viesch. It is
very, very distressing.'

He was a brave fellow,' said Voules, as a
tear rolled down his cheek; ' a fine fellow.'

A noble fellow ; a young man of rare courage
and presence of mind. He saved my daughter's
life this morning, and now, in trying to do mea
service, he has lost his own. What made the
rope break, do you think? It seemed strong
enough to carry three or four people.'

'Cat by chafing against a sharp point of rock,'

said Voules, who by this time had got the remnant
of rope hauled in. e See here.'

4 Yes, cut as if with a knife. What shall we
do? How communicate with his friends ? Poor
young gentleman ! What a death !'

And Lord Lindisfarne, who appeared deeply
affected by Handle's tragic end, peered,
shuddering, into the gulf; but so deep was the
gloom that hardly anything could be seen, and,
beyond the beating of the wild waters of the
river on the rocks beneath, nothing heard.

The men are right, Mr. Voules, I fear,' he remarked
to the young Englishman, who was
standing near him. ' He is dead beyond a doubt,
and I do not suppose we shall be able even to
recover his body. Ah ! what is that?'

A tongue of flame flashed for a moment in the
darkness, followed at an interval of two or
three seconds by a faint yet distinct crack, which
startled all the echoes of the gorge, and they
answered back as with muffled breath.

'It is he! He is not dead, then!' exclaimed
the peer ; 'but where can he be ? How has he
escaped V

By this time the courier and all the helpers

were lying full length on the ground and craning
over the brink of the precipice.

Then came another shot, followed by another
round of echoes.

The men think, my lord,' said the courier,
that the gentleman was not on the rope when
it broke, that he sent up the body of the lady
first, thinking to follow himself afterwards, and
that he is still on the ledge of rock where he
found the body. That is the reason it was so
much easier to haul up than the men expected.
The pistol shot is to tell us that the gentleman
is alive, and to ask for help

1 You think he is down there, clinging to a
ledge of rock % Good heaven, what a position,
and we here doing nothing ! Lower the rope ;
tell the men to lower the rope at once, courier.'

It is a great deal too short, my lord ; the
greater part of it is broken off and fallen into
the river.'

True, true ; I had forgotten that. What
shall we do, then? Look here, Mr. Voules.
Will you kindly remain here with two or three
of the men — you can send one of them to the
nearest inn for some refreshment — and I will go

with the courier and the others to Yiesch for
more rope ? We shall use all possible speed,
and be back, I hope, in two or three hours.'

Certainly, Lord Lindisfarne. I will remain
with pleasure. But should we not do something
to let Mr. Lymington know that we have heard
the shots, and that help is coming.'

6 You are quite right. What shall we do ?
Shout V

4 1 do not think he could hear a shout ; the
rush of the river would drown our voices, even
if we were to shout our loudest and all together.
We must answer his light with another light.
I will see if I cannot manufacture a torch out
of paper and some of these rotten fir branches
that are lying about, and then we will make a
bonfire, the glare of which he is sure to see.'

6 Very well ; I will leave all that to you. The
sooner we get away the sooner shall we be able
to deliver Mr. Lymington from his purgatory in
that terrible gorge.'

CHAPTER V.

LEFT SITTING.

THE thing Randle had taken for a bush proved
to be a stunted fir-tree. It grew on a narrow
ledge of rock — too narrow to give a man
foothold, yet wide enough to hold a- bit of soil
wafted thither by the wind. Here the tree had
taken root, and solidly anchored itself by shooting
its tough tentacles into the interstices of
the cliff. On this shrub — for it was little more —
Miss Joyce had fallen, and, as Randle at once
saw, life was utterly extinct. Her poor body
was fearfully mangled. He shuddered as he
looked at it, and almost regretted that he had
not yielded to Lord Lindisfarne's advice, and
let some other person undertake the job. But
the hesitation was only momentary, and after a
few minutes' thought he addressed himself to

his task. His original idea had been to fasten
the body under his seat with the loop he had
caused to be made for the purpose, and carry it
up with him. But when he recalled the difficulties
of the descent, and thought of the increased
stress on the rope the ghastly burden
would entail — for Miss Joyce was a much bigger
woman than he had expected — he altered his
plan. He resolved to send the body up first,
and wait where he was until the arm-chair, ashe
had jokingly called it to Lord Lindisfarne,
could be lowered a second time.

It was a choice of evils, and, like a wise man,
he chose the one that seemed to him the least.
The body going up alone would doubtless get
a good deal knocked against the rocks, but that
was decidedly a smaller evil than getting
knocked about himself, and, perhaps, badly
hurt, to say nothing of the greater strain on the
rope and the risk of its breaking, while the poor
governess would be none the worse for a few
additional bruises.

Having arrived at this resolution, Ran die
hooked the body to the rope, placed himself on
the stunted fir-tree, and gave the preconceived

signal to hoist, by discharging two barrels of
his revolver.

He found the shrub decidedly less comfortable
than the seat he had just quitted. That at
least was a seat ; this was literally a perch, and
about as unpleasant a perch as could well be.
In the first place, it was exceedingly rough and
covered with little branches, which made a very
bad substitute for cushions. In the next place,
he could not sit sideways for fear of losing his
balance and falling head foremost into the Rhone,
which, as he reckoned, was a good hundred
yards below him. So he was obliged to
straddle.

Now, sitting astride of a horse, or a tree trunk
of respectable dimensions, is one thing ; straddling
across a stunted fir-tree, half way down
a precipice a thousand feet deep, with nothing
save space between yourself and a raging flood,
is quite another thing. It is not easy to get a
good grip of a thing not more than three or
four inches in diameter, and Randle's perch was
so painfully narrow that, in order to preserve
his balance, he was constrained to lean forward
and grasp the tree firmly with his hands. It

was 'sitting on a rail ' with a vengeance, Handle
said to himself, and he did not care how soon
the penance was at an end. He might have to
endure it some twenty minutes, he thought,
that being about the time it would take to
hoist up the body and let down the ; arm-chair.'
As he arrived at this conclusion he heard a
noise overhead ; but, before he could raise his
head to look, something whizzed closely past
him — so closely that, in the involuntary movement
he made to avoid it, he almost lost his
equilibrium. Following the object with his
eyes, which had now become accustomed to the
obscurity, he saw the fated body of poor Miss
Joyce, after bounding from point to point of the
rocky wall, plunge into the milk-white water of
the Rhone. Then he looked upward and saw
the broken end of the rope dangling in mid air.
What an escape !' he murmured, breathing
at the same time a prayer of thankfulness to the
Divine Being, to whose interposition he ascribed
his escape.

It was only by degrees, as his preoccupation
subsided, that he realised the full peril of his position
; but as he looked down through the gloom

towards the cruel foam of the surging flood,
and upward to the unreachable brink of the
precipice, his heart for a moment failed him,
and he doubted if he should ever again put his
foot on solid earth. But he quickly shook off
his despondency. 'If my hour had come,' he
thought, ' I should not be here now; I should
have gone up with the body — and down with it.
It will be time to despair when I can do nothing
else. I can hold on an hour yet. But I must
let them know up there that I am still alive,
and in need of help.' And with that he drew
his pistol and fired the two last shots it contained.
But he had still a few cartridges left.

Then he began to consider his position w r with
a view to making it safer and more endurable,
for, roused by his danger to greater sharpness
of observation, he perceived that the impact of
Miss Joyce's body had greatly impaired the
integrity of the tree. Some of its roots had
been torn from their fastenings, and, when he
moved, it yielded to his weight in a way that
was anything but re-assuring. He thought too
albeit this apprehension may have rendered
him fanciful — that the tree was sinking

very slightly perhaps, yet still perceptibly,
giving way under his weight. Whether ill orwell
founded, the idea was not a pleasant one,
and he resolved to lessen the pressure, and get
some support for his back, by turning round
and creeping nearer the rock. The operation
was a sufficiently ticklish one, for even when
sitting still he had a difficulty in keeping his
balance ; and if his surmise as to the condition
of the tree were correct every movement would
tend to make it still more precarious. When
he swung his leg round, the branch bent and
creaked in a way that would have made a more
nervous man give pause ; but Handle went on,
and when he reached the rock, and leaned
against the ledge and the roots, he was pleased
to see that the shrub, relieved from a portion of
his weight, raised its drooping head by several
inches.

Though the change rendered Handle's position
more tolerable and much safer than it had previously
been, it was still one of extreme discomfort.
His legs, arms, and back ached to a
degree that nobody who has not undergone the
experience of sitting astride the slender branch
VOL. I, E

of a tree for a considerable time can have any
idea of. He could not lean against the rock
for long together, as not only were its angles
and projections painfully sharp, but water
trickled down it, and he was soon wet to the
skin. Then it grew bitterly cold ; for although
the day had been warm the sun's rays reached
the depths of the ravine during only a few hours
of the twenty-four ; and the river brought with
it a wind keen enough, as Handle thought, to
have been iced by the glaciers in which the
Rhone had its birth. But few predicaments are
so bad that they might not be worse ; and,
rightly regarded, there are no evils without
their consolations. As luck would have it,
Handle had his pipe with him, tobacco, and
matches ; and after several vain essays he succeeded
in striking a light and treating himself
to a smoke. The moment this match went out
and as it might seem in answer thereto —
there came a red glare overhead, brightly reflected
in the opposite side of the abyss, in
which he rightly read a response to his signal
and an intimation that help was not far off.
Then he thought of the varied incidents of

the day, of the strange contrast they offered
to the somewhat monotonous routine of his life
at home, and how seemingly trivial incidents
lead sometimes to momentous results. Who
could have supposed that his sleep in the wood,
and the tinkling of the diligence bells, would
be the means of saving the life of an earl's
daughter and bringing his own into deadly
peril — for what purpose time alone could tell.
For Randle Lymington firmly believed in a
divine influencing of human affairs, and his
early training had given his character somewhat
of a bent towards fatalism, which subsequent
circumstances had tended rather to confirm than
relax.

Then he thought of his past life, of the
incidents of his Swiss tour, of Whitebrook, of
business, of a hundred things besides — until
little by little a feeling of intense drowsiness
overcame him, his ideas grew faint and confused,
his head drooped, and he fell into a dose
from which he awoke with a start so violent
that he almost lost his hold of the tree and fell
down the precipice. But the heaviness — in
which he recognised an effect of the bitter cold

E 2

LIBRARY

HNmcDcnv nc u niif s

still clung to him, and so great was his inclination
to sleep that even the consciousness
that to indulge in it would be death hardly
sufficed to keep him awake. He shook himself,
he let the water from the rock trickle down his
back, he tried to count and identify the stars
in the narrow strip of purple sky that vaulted
the gulf; he reckoned over and over again how
soon he might be released from his strange
prison ; he struck match after match to see how
sped the time ; he smoked all the tobacco in his
pouch.

At length, when he had exhausted all these
and sundry other devices, and had begun to
feel that, die or not, he must sleep, he heard
what seemed to his fevered mind like voices
from the stars, and, looking upwards, he saw
lights in violent agitation.

The sight gave him new courage ; his sleepiness
vanished like a dream ; he knew that relief
was at hand.

A few minutes later the lights began to descend.


Handle loaded his pistol so that he might
give the signals.

As the lights drew nearer he perceived that
they came from two torches fastened to the
cradle, or seat, in which he was to be carried
to terra firma. In his excitement he stood up,
and placed one foot on the shrub, the other
on the ledge of rock, a feat that in cool blood,
and by daylight, he had hardly dared to
attempt.

The moment was an anxious one, for the rope
carrying little weight it oscillated considerably,
and the cradle might easily pass so wide of the
fir-tree as to be beyond his grasp. When it
reached the level of his shoulder he gave the
signal, and a few seconds thereafter it stopped.

What he feared had come to pass. The
cradle, swaying to the right, was prevented by
a roughness of the rock, or some other obstruction
from returning to where Handle stood.
Reaching it was out of the question. It was
two yards off, at least.

There was only one way, as he thought, of
meeting the emergency. He gave the signal
to pay out more rope, and returning the revolver
to his pocket, braced himself for the
desperate effort he had resolved to make.

When the cradle reached the level of the tree it
came a little nearer, and Handle, after measuring
the distance with his eye, leaped boldly towards
it, and succeeded in grasping the woodwork
with both hands. As one of the torches,
dislodged by the shock, fell through the darkness,
leaving behind it a scattering route of
sparks, Handle found himself dangling in mid-air,
while the cradle, still descending, swayed
violently to and fro. But he retained his
presence of mind and kept his hold ; and after
steadying the rope by planting his legs against
the rock, he succeeded, without much difficulty,
in mounting to his seat, when he lost no time
in firing the signal to hoist. The next moment
he was moving in the opposite direction, and
although in constant apprehension of the rope
again parting, he reached the goal without
further mishap, save a slight bruising of his
hands and face against the rock.

CHAPTER VI.

WORDS OF GRATITUDE.

i S Handle stepped from his cradle into the
-*-*- full light of a blazing fire, he was greeted
with loud cheers. The news that an Englishman
was holding on to a fir-tree half way
down the bed of the Rhone had spread far and
wide, and the road was crowded with people
from Viesch and Munster, who had come to
witness his deliverance or shudder over his fate.
Among them were several carriages, in one of
which were seated Lady Lindisfarne and her
two elder daughters.

This was more than Randle had bargained
for, and he felt somewhat embarrassed at being
under the necessity, in his present not very
presentable condition, of appearing before so
distinguished a company. And he looked

worse than he knew. His hat was gone, his
hair dishevelled, his face blackened with smoke
and streaked with blood, and his clothes were
wet, dirty, and torn.

But if he had been a prince returning from
a successful war he could hardly have received
a warmer welcome. Voules was the first to
greet him. Then the rough-handed, hearty
fellows who had been pulling the rope insisted
on shaking his hand and complimenting him on
his courage. It was some minutes before Lord
Lindisfarne could find an opportunity of offering
his congratulations, and leading him to the
countess and the ladies Maude and Muriel, to
receive their congratulations.

All this embarrassed Handle exceedingly. He
would much rather have been allowed to go
quietly away, as he said to himself, without
fuss. But it was not to be.

4 You are a brave man, Mr. lymington,' said
Lady Lindisfarne, after he had assured her, in
answer to her inquiries, that he was none the
worse, and that the wounds on his face and
hands were the merest scratches, and she had
expressed her satisfaction at his escape. ' We

shall never forget how much we owe you —
shall we, girls V

'Never,' said Lady Maude, emphatically.
We shall never be able to thank Mr. Lymington
enough.'

1 Never,' murmured Lady Muriel, softly. ' He
saved me from a terrible death, and I shall be
grateful to him all my life long.'

'And he has increased the obligation by
risking his life a second time to recover poor
Miss Joyce's body,' continued the countess.
'I blame my husband very much for having
allowed you to undertake such a dangerous
task; but he says you were so determined, and
that you both thought there was no risk.'

c It was quite my own doing, Lady Lindisfarne.
Lord Lindisfarne did his best to dissuade
me, but I would not let myself be
dissuaded. As for the risk, all I can say is
that I was very much mistaken. Had I known
what I know now, I greatly doubt if I should
have made the attempt;

f But you did make the attempt, and the
danger is too evident to be denied; so evident,
indeed, that I shudder to think of it. I am

sure if I had been here I should neither have
allowed you nor anyone else to run so frightful a
risk.'

4 1 do not regret having made the attempt,
Lady Lindisfarne. I only regret not having
succeeded. We have lost poor Miss Joyce's
body after all.'

I know, and am very sorry ; but poor Miss
Joyce will be none the worse ; and as you have
saved a life to-day you have good reason for
contentment, and we, I am sure, have great
cause for thankfulness.'

She accompanied these words with a glance
at her daughter, who, while murmuring echoing
her mother's words, bent a look at Handle
so eloquent with gratitude that he felt more
than rewarded for all the perils he had undergone.
He did not say so, however, for just ashe
was thinking how to put his thoughts into
speech Lord Lindisfarne came bustling up.

Come, come,' exclaimed the peer, whose
countenance rather suggested that he had a
weakness for good cheer, ' this will not do at
all, you know. You are forgetting that Mr.
Lymington has been holding on to that fir

bush four or five hours, that he is sure to be cold,
and cannot fail to be hungry. He must have
something to eat and drink forthwith. Hallo,
courier, bring hither the hamper.'

The hamper was brought accordingly, its
contents were unpacked, and Handle, who was
quite as hungry as Lord Lindisfarne thought,
seating himself, by order of the countess, next
to her and opposite to Lady Muriel, made a
vigorous attack on a cold fowl, which he washed
down with some excellent vin du pays mixed
with water from a neighbouring well.

Then as a substitute for a hat Lady Muriel
with her own hands bound round his head,
turban-wise, a soft white shawl, which they all
declared became him amazingly.

1 May I keep it as a memento of the day V
asked Handle.

Of course you may,' said the countess, with
a keen glance, first at him, then at Muriel ; ' but
I should like to give you some worthier memento
than a shawl.'

The worth of a memento consists in its
associations,' answered Randle, sententiously.

1 You are quite right,' observed Lady Maude ;

1 and that shawl will serve to remind you that
you saved my sister's life.'

4 1 shall not require reminding, Lady Maude.
Never, so long as I live, can I forget the events
of to-day.'

Nor I,' said Lady Muriel, softly.

'None of us will ever forget, Mr. Lymington,
the service you have this day rendered us.
Gracious heaven ! but for you, my child would
have been down there in that terrible gorge
with poor Miss Joyce ! What a fate !'

And, as if the picture her imagination had
summoned up was more than she could bear,
the countess, with a visible shudder, drew her
shawl about her and sank back into her seat.

CHAPTER VII.

FORGET ME NOT.

T ORD LINDISFARNE made particular *
query the next morning as to the likelihood
of recovering Miss Joyce's body. Opinions
greatly differed. It might be found the very
next day ; it might not be found for days and
weeks : and it was far from improbable that it
might never be found at all. The river was
extremely high, and running with rapid-like
swiftness. The body might be carried down
without once rising to the surface, and buried
under the sand and mud which the Rhone is
constantly discharging into the Lake of Geneva.
In these circumstances Lord Lindisfarne did
not think it necessary to remain any longer at
Viesch. After offering a reward for the finding
of the body, which he caused to be extensively

advertised, and arranging with the local
authorities that, in the event of the body being
recovered, it should be decently buried, and
himself at once informed of the circumstance,
he and his family, accompanied by Handle,
went on to Brigue.

Here they had to part, for the Lindisfarne
were bound for Zermatt, and Candle, who
telegraphed for his letters to Ouchy, said that
he must leave by the first train next morning
for Bouveret, on his way to England. He
pleaded pressing engagements as a reason
for not accepting Lord and Lady Lindisfarne's
invitation to spend a few days with them at
Z'ermatt.

At any rate, Mr. Lymington.' said the earl,
as they were about to separate for the night —
the early hour at which Randle intended to
leave in the morning rendering it improbable
that they would meet again before his departure
— ' you will favour us with an early visit at
Avalon Priory V

i Oh, yes, you must come, Mr. Lymington ; we
will take no denial. There is no compulsion,

you know — only you must,' added the countess,
with a smile.

Lady Muriel made no remark, but Handle
read in her expressive eyes a warmer and more
sincere promise of welcome than that which
her mother had spoken.

You are very kind, Lady Lindisfarne ; I am
sure I shall be very happy to visit you sometime
at Avalon Priory,' answered Handle.

'Have you Mr. Ryviugton's address,
Reginald?' asked the countess of her husband,
that we may write to him when we return
home.'

1 Yes, I have his card in my pocket. He gave
it me a few minutes ago. We shall probably
spend the greater part of the summer in Switzerland,
Mr. Lymington, but immediately we
get back to the Priory you shall hear from us.
We shall expect a long visit, you know.'

4 1 fear I may not be able to spare time for a
very long visit, Lord Lindisfarne ; I am rather
a busy man. But at any rate, whatever maybe
my engagements, when I hear from you I
will come.'

And then they said good night and good-bye.

As Handle stepped out of the Hotel de la
Poste shortly after six the following morning,
on his way to the station, he thought he heard
a soft voice calling his name. Looking upwards,
whence the sound seemed to come, he perceived
at a window which opened on a balcony the
.charming face of Lady Muriel. She held in
her hand a bunch of forget-me-nots, and was
bidding him a last good-bye and wishing him a
pleasant journey.

'You will be sure to come to Avalon?' she
said, and as she leaned over the balcony one
half her bunch of forget-me-nots fluttered to the
ground and fell at Handle's feet.

4 1 have promised, Lady Muriel ; I am sure to
come,' answered Handle, as he stooped to pickup
the forget-me-nots.

Then he stood uncovered for a moment before
the balcony and bowed his adieux. When
he turned his head for the last time, before
losing sight of the hotel, Lady Muriel was still
at the window, holding in her hand the remainder
of the forget-me-nots.

CHAPTER VIII.

ON LAKE LEMAN,

rpHE railway from Brigue to Bouveret, 
though it bears the imposing name of ' Ligne
dTtalie/ and, in all probability, is destined
sooner or later to make good its designation by
linking together Switzerland, France, and Italy,
and forming part of a great highway between
England and the East, is chiefly remarkable at
present for the preternatural slowness of its
trains. If the management, as has been suggested,
are trying experiments with a view to
seeing how slowly trains can be made to go, it
must be admitted that they have achieved a
great success.

Though the distance Randle had to travel on
this sleepy line was not more than eighty or

VOL. I. F

ninety miles, it was almost noon when he
reached his destination — Convert, at the head
of Lake Leman — whence he proposed to proceed
by water to Nyon, where he had a call to make
before continuing his journey homeward.

The day was all that could be desired. The
sky was clear and blue, the higher mountains
were of a dazzling whiteness, and as the azure
wavelets of the lake danced in the sunlight they
sparkled like liquid diamonds.

The view from the deck of the steamer was
superb, and Randle — who had an inquiring
mind — anxious to know the names of some of
the peaks around him, put a question, in what
he imagined to be the French tongue, to one of
the crew.

4 1 don't understand English, monsieur,' said
the fellow, with a deprecatory shake of his head.

Randle bit his lip. Not to be understood is a
common experience, but to have your French
taken for English is somewhat humiliating ;
above all, when you have carefully prepared
your sentence beforehand and said it over
several times in your head before letting it see
daylight.

These men are really too stupid said a
voice near him. ; That snow-clad mountain
before us is the Dent du Midi ; the other is the
Dent de Jlorcles. The strangely-shaped one
with the two peaks., like two horns, is the Dent
d'Oche; and the mountain above Chillon yonder
where you see vineyards, meadows, chalets, and
forests, surmounted by a fantastically-formed
rock, that is the Col de Amant. The others
are the Horne and the Naze.'

This was spoken rapidly and in excellent
English, albeit the intonation and accent had a
decidedly foreign ring.

4 Thank you very much,' said Randle, turning
to the speaker, whom he was surprised, now he
looked at him, not to have noticed before ; for
his appearance was rather striking.

Tall, and rather slightly built, a nut-brown
beard hung low on his breast. He had regular
features, but a complexion almost devoid of
colour, and his eyes were so dark that the
pupils of them could hardly be distinguished
from the iris. When he smiled he displayed a
row of brilliantly white teeth, the upper parts
of two of which were covered or adorned with

two thin crescent-shaped plates of gold. The
face seemed to Handle, albeit its owner was
evidently little older than himself, that of a man
who had suffered. It showed much power and
courage, yet it wore, when in repose, an expression
of wistful sadness which both won
Handle's sympathy and roused his curiosity.
What could have happened to this man, still in
the heyday of youth, to stamp his features with
as deep a shade of melancholy as if he had
drunk the cup of life's bitterness to the dregs V

These thoughts passed rapidly through Handle's
mind as he gazed in the direction indicated
by the stranger.

'And that point in the far distance, right
away to the south, slightly powdered with
snow?'

'That is the beginning of the St. Bernard
range. One of the lower spurs — I have heard
the name often enough, but just now I cannot
recall it.'

Thank you very much. It is of no importance.
You have told me more already than I
shall probably remember. You seem to be well
acquainted with this part of the country V

Yes, I like it. I often make the tour of the
lake.'

1 1 am not surprised at that, if you live in the
neighbourhood. If I lived hereabouts I think I
should always be on the water — in weather of
this sort, pretty often in it. I suppose you are
Swiss.'

4 1 have not the privilege, for it is a privilege,
to be a native of the freest of European
countries. It was my misfortune to be born in
Russia, where there is no freedom, neither in
fact nor in name.'

1 Oh, you are a Russian. No, I do not suppose
there is too much liberty in the dominion
of the Czar, though, to own the truth, Russia
is not a country I know much about.'

That is well for you. Fuller knowledge of
the country would not tend to increase either
your respect for it or for human nature. Russia
is a prey to tyranny. Its masses are sordidly
ignorant. Its upper classes either frivolous or
corrupt ; the few who dare to utter a word of
remonstrance, or point out the way to reform,
are sent into exile or consigned to a dungeon.'

This was spoken with much warmth, yet the

stranger's mobile face and kindling eye were
even more eloquent of indignation and disgust
than his words.

I could a tale unfold,' he continued more
quietly ; ' but I must not ; I am under a promise,
I must correct you on one point, however. You
called me just now a Russian. I am not a
Russian.'

I beg your pardon, but I thought you said
you were born in Russia V

So I was, yet 1 am no Russian. I have
abjured my nationality. My country has cast
me off, so I cast it off. I have no country ; I
am a cosmopolitan, a citizen of the world. Do
you mark how the vast volume of the Rhone
rushes, arrow-like into the lake, and changes ina
moment its turbid whiteness into translucent
blue ? A curious sight, is it not ? Let us go
nearer the stern that we may have a better
view of it.'

It was a curious sight, and interested Randle
greatly ; but his curiosity was less piqued by
the natural phenomenon to which the citizen of
the world called his attention than by the
startling way in which that gentleman, without

pause or change of voice or any apparent reason
whatever, had gone, metaphorically speaking,
from Russia to the Shone.

6 They say,' continued the stranger, as Handle
and he crossed the deck, ' that the lake is blue
because the river is white ; that the colouring
matter which gives the water its beautiful tint
is contained in the powdered rock ground by
the glaciers and brought down by the stream.
I daresay there is some truth in the theory, for
no lakes that I know of, fed by springs or clear
streams, are blue as Lake Leman is blue

It is perhaps the mingling together of "glacier
milk " and clear water — there are clear streams
flowing into the lake, I suppose — that produce
the colour.'

4 That is very likely, I should think. And
now ' (lowering his voice and giving a glance
over his shoulder), ' I suppose you would like
to know why I changed the subject of our conversation
so very abruptly. It was very kind
of you to take the hint. You followed my cue
admirably.'

f I followed you, if I did not follow your cue,'
replied Handle, with a smile. ' I did think it

rather strange, but I presumed you had a reason.'


I had. Did you observe that man who came
and sat down near to us and pretended to be
reading a newspaper?'

Do you mean that stout little fellow with a
game eye and a bottle nose V

'Exactly. Well, unless I am much mistaken,
that fellow is a spy.'

4 God bless me, a spy V returned Randle, considerably
astonished. ' Spies in this country !
Why, you said just now that Switzerland was
the freest of European countries.'

So it is. But that man is a Russian, not a
Swiss, spy. He is a servant of His Imperial
Majesty the Autocrat of All the Russians, King
of Poland, Duke of Finland, and I don't know
what besides. You are perhaps not aware that
the Russian Government have a regular police
bureau at Geneva, and a full staff of detectives,
whose chief— I should rather say sole — duty it
is to watch the poor fellows who eat here the
bitter bread of exile — men most of them of
whom their country was not worthy — until it
shall please Heaven . But, see, that cursed

mouchard is creeping round this way. Let us
promenade round the deck awhile, and when
we pass him I will change the subject.'

e Do you know the man V

I never saw him before in my life, but he has
been described to me by those who know him
only too well. Besides, I recognise moucliards
the moment I set eyes on them. An unerring
instinct tells me when I am in their presence.
I believe I could scent them in the dark. I remember
once at St. Petersburg . Yes, that

is Chillon Castle. You remember Byron : —

"Lake Fenian lies by Chillon's walls ;
A thousand feet in depth below
Its massy waters meet and flow ;
Thus much the fathom-line was sent
From Chillon's snow-white battlement
Which round about the wave enthralls."

Snow-white battlements ! That is poetic
license, I suppose ? A dirty yellow I call them.'

'You are too matter-of-fact, Monsieur anglais.
You forget that poets view things through
a medium of their own. What is imagination
worth if it cannot transmute dirty yellow into
snow white ¥

1 Especially when dirty yellow will not scan.

Yellow will, though, and it would not sound
badly either.

From Chillon's yellow battlement." '

Perhaps it was really snow white when
Byron saw it. Let us suppose so. You were
saying that once at St. Petersburg V

Yes, I was going to tell you of a little adventure
I once had with a spy — one of many ; a
trifling incident enough in itself, but it will serve
to show you how wary one has to be. I was
on my way to a secret printing-office with some
manuscript in my pocket, a little matter I had
written for distribution among the peasants, in
which I tried to show how greatly their economical
condition was susceptible of improvement,
and to explain what is meant by constitutional
government, and to set forth its advantages.
There was nothing alarming in it — no
advocacy of violence or revolution ; but no
printer could have printed it openly without the
risk — the certainty rather — of having his establishment
shut up by the police and being himself
imprisoned, and, as likely as not, sent off to
Siberia. So I had to take .my manuscript to a

clandestine office belonging to the political
society of which I was a member. I did not go
the most direct way, as you may suppose. I
was already suspected of revolutionary tendencies
— in other words, of entertaining doubts as
to whether ours was the best of all possible
governments, and the Czar an earthly deity —
and I knew the police had their eye on me.
Well, I had not gone far when I saw before mea
man in the dress of a peasant, looking through
a shop window. There was nothing unusual in
this, and the fellow had the appearance of a
real moujik ; but I felt at once — something told
me — that he was a spy, and had been sent to
watch me. I knew that unless T could get rid
of him it would be madness to go to the ,
and I wanted particularly to go ; not
so much about my "copy-which could wait,
as that I expected to find a friend there whom
I wanted to see. I had heard he was in danger
of arrest, and it was necessary to warn him. So
I resolved on a bold stratagem. Instead of
trying to dodge my mouchard — an attempt in
which I should probably have failed — I spoke
to him, asked him if he wanted a job. He pretended

to r be very much delighted at the idea,
and said he would be glad to do anything forme.
Then I walked on and told him to follow
me, looking ever and anon over my shoulder, as
if I were in dread of being followed. Telling
the man to wait outside I went into a cafe which
had the reputation of being frequented by revolutionary
characters. I looked about me as if
1 expected to find somebody, and then with a
gesture of disappointment called for pen and
paper and wrote a note. I knew, of course,
that my spy was carefully scanning all my
movements through the window. After sealing,
not simply gumming, my letter — it was merely
an invitation to dinner and a word or two in
cypher — I went outside, gave it to the false
peasant with a handsome gratuity, told him to
take it to its destination, and bring me back an
answer. Then I re-entered the cafe, but the
moment he was out of sight I ran to the printing-office,
gave in my copy, spoke a few words to
my friend, and then walked quickly home.'

'Are you sure the man was a spy '? I don't
think he was very sharp to let you get rid of
him so easily.'

I don't think he was. Spies are often very
stupid people, I think. But you see this fellow
fancied he would find valuable information in
that letter, and was in a hurry to turn it to
account.'

Did he deliver it V

i Oh, yes, after it had been opened and read.'
You saw the seal had been tampered with, I
suppose V

4 Yes, and very clumsily tampered with.'
So there was no mistake about the fellow's
being a spy V

'None. He was that and more.'
That and more — what do you mean V
6 He was a traitor,' said the Russian, savagely,
his face darkening with a look of hatred that
made Handle shudder. 'My friend recognised
him as one of ours. He had been affiliated to
the society at Kieff, and entered the service of
the police at St. Petersburg, where he thought
nobody knew him, the hound. But Paul Demi-doff
saw through his designs at once, and '

4 What became of him?' asked Randle, seeing
that the Russian did not seem disposed to complete
the sentence.

c Became of whom — Paul Demidofff

No, of the spy.'

He was found a few days afterwards in the
Neva with a bullet in his brain,' said the Russian,
speaking slowly and almost in a whisper.

Good heavens !' exclaimed Randle, with a
horror-struck look, 'you don't mean that
you '

Oh clear, no rejoined the other, indifferently.
I had nothing to do with it. I only read of
the incident in the newspapers. I would not
have soiled my hands by touching the wretch.
But — ah, here is Montreux and Lion ; a little
further on is Cares.

" Cares ! sweet Cares, birthplace of deep love !
Thine air is the young breath of passionate thought ;
Thy trees take root in love ; the snows above
The very glaciers have his colours caught." '

Byron again ! You are better up in Byron
than I am. I have dipped into his poems from
time to time, but I never studied them, or got
Child Harold " off by heart, as you seem to
have done.'

1 1 can easily believe that Byron is not
esteemed by his countrymen as he deserves, and

unless I am greatly at fault he is much more
read abroad than at home — perhaps because he
is the poet of freedom and passion, and of the
little respect he shows for the great ones of the
earth. Freedom you English have in a great
measure gained, and are, therefore, no longer
enthusiastic about it — though you are not quite
so free as you sometimes think yourselves — and
passion and irreverence are qualities that do
not command your admiration. You are too
respectable and conventional. But Byron is
the poet of peoples who are fighting for freedom.
How often in our secret midnight meetings
have we repeated those magnificent lines
of his that might have been written for
Russia : —

4 " Yet, Freedom ! yet thy banner, torn, but trying,
Streams like the thunderstorm against the wind ;
Thy trumpet voice, though broken now and dying,
The loudest still the tempest leaves behind ;
Thy tree hath lost its blossoms, and its rind,
Chopped by the axe, looks-rough and little worth,
But the sap lasts — and still the seed we find
Sown deep, even in the bosom of the North ;
So shall a better spring less bitter fruit bring forth." '

The stranger began the stanza in rather a

low voice, but as he went on his excitement increased,
and he repeated the last two or three
lines in a style that made everybody look at
him.

You are forgetting the spy,' whispered Handle,
who was beginning to feel much interested
in his new acquaintance.

He will not know that I am quoting Byron y
and if he does it is of no importance. But I
have thought of a way of getting rid of him.
We shall be at Vevey in a few minutes.'

< How V

You will see. Only one thing — take as a
matter of course anything I may do.'

'All right. Do you suppose he knows
English?'

1 Certainly. You may be sure the Russian
Government would not go to the expense of
sending — how do you say it ? — duffers to Geneva.
It would be too costly, and useless as
that, as the Americans say.'

How well you speak English ! I quite envy
your command of languages.'

As to my command of languages, there is
nothing extraordinary in that — my own, that

goes without saying ; and besides that, German,
French, and a little Italian. German and
French we learnt from our governesses without
knowing that we were learning. English is my
second mother tongue, for my mother was half
English, and we had also an English governess.
So if I did not know well your tongue I should
be a very stupid fellow.'

■ You have been in England, of course V
'Never. But I hope — ah, here we are at
Vevey. I will now put my little plan into execution.
If you do not object, we will resume
our conversation afterwards.'

And then the citizen of the world took off his
hat, spoke a few words in French, and joined
the throng of passengers who were hurrying
across the gangway to the landing stage.

Why, he has gone,' said Handle to himself.
I never knew such a thing in my life. How
can he resume the conversation? I suppose
that gibberish was meant for good-bye. Ah,
he was right about that fellow, after all ; he is
landing too. How will he get rid of him, I
wonder V

By this time the Russian was on the landing
VOL. I. G

stage, and catching Randle's eye took off his
hat a second time. Candle did the same. Then
passengers began to come on board. When the
last of them had embarked, and just as the men
were beginning to unship the gangway, the
Russian, who was a little beyond the supposed
spy, whipped quickly round, and the next
moment had regained the deck. The spy
would have followed, but he was too late.
Just as he put his foot on the gangway, the men,
who had not seen him, pushed it back, the
steamer began to move, and the moucJiard, losing
his balance, went head-foremost into the water.
Then ensued a terrible commotion ; everybody
ran to and fro, shouted vociferously, and told
everybody else what to do without doing anything
himself. If a lad who was fishing had
not thrust into the man's hands a rod by which
he held on until picked up by a small boat, he
might have been drowned, for he did not seem
to have much swim in him. The steamer
stopped for a few minutes, but when the captain
saw that the fellow was in safety he sang out
En route, 9 the French equivalent for ' Go ahead,'
an order that was promptly obeyed.

f That is better than I bargained for,' said the
Russian to Randle. ' I meant to give him [the
slip, but I had no idea that he would take an
involuntary header into the lake. It might
have been better, though.'

'How?'

He might have been drowned.'

1 Do you mean that you would have let him
drown V

My dear sir, I would not have raised a finger
to help him,' said the other, fiercely. f If I had
the power, I would drown every spy in existences
any rate every Russian spy. You are
shocked, I can see ; but if you only knew what
I— what some have suffered, you would not be
surprised.'

4 Why was this man following you — have you
any idea V

1 I suppose he has been ordered by the Third
Section to write a report about me. They very
likely want to know how I am spending my
time — what I am doing, with whom I associate,
and, above all, if I meddle in any way with
politics. These gentlemen of the Third Section
are very curious, I assure you.'

g2

But are all Russian gentlemen on their
travels followed about in this way ? It must
take quite an army of spies, to say nothing of
the expense.'

Oh dear, no, not all. Only a few of us are
honoured in this way. Why I am one of the
select few I may some time tell you — if we
should ever meet again.'

And if you come to England, as I think you
said a little while ago you intended to do, we
may meet again.'

1 am sure it would afford me much pleasure.
Yes, I mean to visit England. I want to seethe
country, and I am particularly anxious to
study the condition of the people.'

Do you mean of the working classes V

6 1 do. The proletariat — peasants and people
who live from hand to mouth. The highly
educated, and what you call the upper classes,
are pretty much alike everywhere ; they are too
monotonous. I don't care for them, and the
bourgeoisie I detest. Traders, mammon worshippers,
and such like, I have no sympathy with
whatever ; their lives are unlovely and their
characters uninteresting.'

4 Is not that rather a hard judgment?' said
Candle, with a smile. 'My character may be
uninteresting — I daresay it is ; but I know
some traders who are men of most original
character. And, though the lives of some of us
are unlovely in all conscience, that cannot truthfully
be said of all. Besides, a trader is not necessarily
a mammon-worshipper.'

I You speak warmly. I fear I have hurt your
feelings. If so, 1 am very sorry ; but I had
really no idea you were a '

Mammon-worshipper. Well, I hope I am
not. Nevertheless, I am a trader, or, at least,
a manufacturer, which is pretty much the same
thing.'

I I was thinking of people who merely traded,
who created nothing. A manufacturer creates,
and if he does not exploits his employed he maybe
a useful member of society and worthy of all
respect.'

f Well, I don't think we exploits our employed,
if by that you mean getting all we can out of
our hands, paying them the lowest wages they
can be persuaded or forced to take, and then
letting them go to the devil, if they are so

minded. That is not our way, though T am
sorry to say it is the way of some. But come
and see for yourself. You will find some things
to blame, but many things, I hope, to praise.
And as to character, you will find as much
originality among our Lancashire folks as in
any part of England, perhaps more.'

You are from Lancashire, then 1 You are
right ; it is socially the most interesting part of
England. It is there, is it not, that the associative
spirit among artisans has reached its
highest development, where the system of cooperation
both in production and distribution
has been most successful? I thank you very
much for your invitation. I accept it. I certainly
will come.'

But you must know where to come. See,
I have written my address on this card.'

< Thank you. " Mr. Randle Lymington,
Whitebrook, Lancashire." I suppose I shall
easily find Whitebrook — there is a railway V

1 Oh, you will find it right enough. Make for
Manchester, and then ask for a ticket for White-brook
; that is all you have to do.'

And when I arrive at your station I will demand

to be directed to the house of Mr. Randle
Lymington?

No, I would not advise you to do that. Ask
which is the way to "Red Ryviugton's," or
better still take a cab and drive there.'

But here on the card is the name of Mr.
Randle Lymington, and you say ask for "Red
Lymington" — that is rather droll, is not V

I daresay you find it so ; but the fact is I
am better off than some people. I have two
names — that given me by my godfathers and
godmother, and a post-baptismal one, by which
I am best known in the town and district of
Whitebrook ; and as I am not the only Randle
Lymington it is rather a convenience than otherwise.'


Ah, I see,' said the Russian, albeit he still
seemed somewhat puzzled. ' 1 will write " Red
Lymington" on the back of the card, so that I
may not forget it. And now permit me to give
you my card.'

It bore merely two words, ' Sergius Kalouga.'

Being, as I have already mentioned, a
wanderer, a sort of cosmopolitan vagabond,'
continued Kalouga, ' I have no fixed address.

My home is wherever I happen to be. At
present it is at Divonne, a hydropathic establishment
not far from Nyon, where I am making
a cure of water.'

Nyon ! Why, that is where I am going.'

Indeed ! I fancied you were going to
Geneva.'

'I may afterwards, then on to Lausanne, but
only to pass through on my way home. I must
get back to my mammon-worshipping, you
know,' laughed Candle.

f Come now, Mr. Lymington, that is too bad.
I never said you were a mammon-worshipper ;
and I am sure you are not one. You have not
the air.'

'Thank you, Mr. Kalouga. I hope I have
not the reality either. But about Nyon. Do
you know a house there called — let me see —
Villa Artemisia?'

1 Yes, I pass it in driving to Divonne.'

6 Well, I have to make a call there. Perhaps
you will be good enough to point it out tome
V

With pleasure. I will, if it please you, do
more. A carriage waits me near the landing

stage. You shall go with me as far as the
Villa Artemisia, and I will put you down at
the gate. It is a pensionnat des demoiselles, is it
not ? At least, I often see some very charming
young ladies walking about.'

1 Yes, it is a young ladies' boarding-school,
and I am going to see one of them.'

1 Your sister, probably V

i No ; the young lady I am going to see is
not my sister. She '

• Tant mieux — so much the better. You are
in luck, Monsieur Lymington. I congratulate
you. But here we are at Nyon. If you have
any baggage you would do well to look after it,
I think.'

CHAPTER IX.

VILLA ARTEMISIA.

TflLLA ARTEMISIA was a large, old-fashioned
house, with high-pitched roof, tall
chimneys, rounded corners ; and at one side
rose a nondescript sort of thing bearing a faint
resemblance to a tower. It was embowered in
trees, and its general appearance was rather
suggestive of a castle, or a baronial hall of stunted
growth, than an educational establishment,
and before Mademoiselle Vieutemps turned it
into a ladies' boarding-school, and changed its
name to Villa Artemisia, it had been known in
the neighbourhood as the Chateau de la Roche.
Beautifully situated on the summit of a gentle
acclivity, it commanded a superb view of the
lake, the mountains of Faucigny, and the Pennine

Alps, with the rocky ramparts of the Jura
for background.

'You will not forget your promise?' said
Handle, as Malaga put him down at the outer
gate of Villa Artemisia.

I will not forget. You rmiy count on seeing
me sooner or later, and rather sooner than later,
at Whitebrook. Au revoir. I wish I was going
to visit a beautiful young lady.'

Au revoir said Handle, and opening the
gate he walked briskly up the fine avenue of
chestnut-trees that led to the villa, while the
Russian drove rapidly towards Divonne.

When Randle arrived at the house he rang
the bell, and, handing his card to the smart
bonne who answered his summons, demanded an
interview with Miss Dora Lymington.

Perfectly, monsieur,' said the girl. 'Will
monsieur give himself the trouble to enter.'

Randle entered accordingly, and presently
found himself in a room quaint as the house
itself, and very charming. There were two
windows at each end, reaching from floor to
ceiling. One set looked into a garden, gay
with flowers and rich with trailing vines and

heavily laden fruit-trees ; the other looked
over the lakes, the mountains, and the Alps.
A few old pictures, the subjects mostly rural,
hung on the walls. The furniture, all of
antique design, was upholstered in crimson
cloth, and the dark oaken floor so brightly
polished that walking across it, for the unpractised,
was quite a risky undertaking. The
tables, the nick-nacks on them, the cabinets,
the clock on the mantelpiece, the mirrors,
more numerous than the pictures, were in perfect
keeping. The only modern thing in the
room was the piano : for the books, albeit
the literary part of them was comparatively
modern, were bound in old-fashioned style to
match the furniture.

Randle sat down in a fauteuil and took up
one of the books in which he soon became so
absorbed that he did not notice the opening of
the door ; and on hearing an eager, silvery
voice speak his name, he looked round in
momentary surprise.

Handle !'

Dora !'

Then he rose, took both the girl's hands in
his and gave her a cousinly kiss.

'How well you are looking, Dora. Why, I
do believe you have grown

There was no mistake about her looking
well. She looked bright and happy too, and
delighted at seeing her cousin. Dora was
eighteen, tall and sylph-like. Face and head
rather small, but exquisitely formed. Dark
hair, rich complexion, small mouth, a good nose,
yet perhaps a little too large to be in perfect
keeping with the rest of her features, and
large grey eyes, full of fire and animation.

Do you think so ? Well, you are quite
right,' said Dora, giving a fleeting glance at
herself in one of the many mirrors that adorned
the walls. ' I have had to let my frocks out a
full inch since I came here, and I do believe I
am growing yet. I am so glad ; I want to be
tall. How are they all at home V

i Very well, when I heard last. But I daresay
your news is later than mine.'

'I had a letter yesterday. Nothing new
except that either Handle or papa is coming forme
next year.'

Then I suppose you are perfect in French '?'

1 Oh dear, no, not perfect. One may easily

know French pretty well, but to learn it perfectly,
to be able to write a good style without
faults, is extremely difficult. What do you
think Professor Maigre said to me yesterday ?
and he thought he was paying me a compliment,
poor man. He said if Mademoiselle
Wellington would stay in-switzerland one
more year and talk and write during that time
nothing but French, she would know the
language passablement pour une anglaise V

Not very flattering, I must say. But you
will know enough to pass muster at White-brook.'


Whitebrook ! I should think so indeed.
Why, who is there at Whitebrook except
Monsieur Hubert and his daughter that can
speak French fluently? And though I cannot
write to satisfy Monsieur Maigre I speak it
easily and presque sans accent, je reassure

You must not despise Whitebrook folks,
Dora. You know you are one of them, though
you do live at Deepened.'

Yon quite mistake me, Kan ; it is not that
at all. I am not proud, I despise nobody.
I like the farmers and people about Deepened,

and the factory folks at Whitebrook, but some
of the masters I do not like at all ; they are
vulgar, purse-proud, and pretentious.'
Not all, Dora ; not alls

I did not say all. I only said some ; and I
think the brewers, rich as they are, are worse
than the manufacturers and shopkeepers.'

1 Why, Dora, what books have you been 
have you got your ideas? You
might have been talking with Mr. Kalouga.'

'Mr. Kalouga, who is he? But here comes
Mademoiselle Vieutemps ; you must be very
polite to her,' whispered the girl to Handle, as
the schoolmistress entered the room.

Whereupon the cousin made a profound bow,
which the lady acknowledged with a courtly

reverence.

Mademoiselle Vieutemps was about sixty
years old, petite as touching her person, yet
with enough of vigour for a person half her
age. Though her hair was almost white, her
fresh and rosy face showed hardly a wrinkle ;
and her keen, dark eyes could still read a character
and detect a fault of French composition
at a glance. Her toilette was perfection. As

Randlesaid to himself, she looked like a picture,
and ought to have been kept in a gold frame.

1 am vary glad to make your acquaintance,
Mr Lymington,' she said, out of consideration
for her guest speaking the best English she
could muster. 'I hope you find your sister
looking good V

Dora is '

Here Dora, who was behind Mademoiselle
Yieutemps, gave Randle a glance which it was
impossible to misunderstand, even ifshehadnot
supplemented it by placing her finger on her
lips.

So instead of saying ' Dora is not my sister.'
as he was about to do, he said, ' Dora is looking
remarkably well, Mademoiselle Vieutemps,
as I was just telling her ; and no wonder, for
the Villa Artemisia must be as healthy as its
situation is superb.'

Yes, as you say, monsieur, the situation is
superb,' answered the schoolmistress, evidently
much pleased with the compliment, ' and all my
girls do enjoy the very best of health. And
your sister does not fret for her home ; she is
very happy and mignonne, very darling, we

all do love her very much ; is it not so, ma fille
clierie.''

And I love you very much, dear Mademoiselle
Vieutemps. I shall be glad to go home,
because home is always home, you know, but I
do not think I shall ever in all my life be so
happy as I have been at Villa Artemisia ; and
if papa will let me I shall come and see you
every year.'

1 And you will always be very welcome, my
cabbage,' said the old lady, pinching the girl's
fresh smooth cheek with her little white hand.
4 Do you make a long sojourn at Nyon, Monsieur
Lymington?'

No. I must go on to-night, either to Geneva
or Lausanne. In three or four days from this
I should like to be at home.'

In that case you will have to leave by the
half-past eight o'clock train. But we cannot
let you go without offering you of our hospitality.
I will order a little route ' (a light repast)
1 for you. It shall be ready in an hour ; that will
leave you plenty of time. Meanwhile, Dora
will perhaps show you round our grounds, let
you see our vineyards and orchards, and take

VOL. I. H

you for a little promenade in the village

f May I, mademoiselle V

Parfaitement. Why not V

'A thousand thanks, mademoiselle. I will
run and put on my hat. I shall not keep you
waiting three minutes, Ran.'

CHAPTER X.

DORA.

T\ORA was as good as her word, and, before
*-* Mademoiselle Vieutemps had finished
the little speech descriptive of the beauties of
Villa Artemisia and its eminent suitability fora
pensionnat, the young lady returned to the
room, hatted and gloved.

'I always keep my word, Ran,' she" said. 'I
am ready.'

Yes, Mademoiselle Dora, you are always
very punctual. And as your brother has so
little of time at his disposition, and the repast
I have ordered will soon be ready, you would do
well to make your walk at once. It would be
very sad if he were to depart without well seeing
our vast and beautiful campagne.'

1 Why didn't you want me to say I was not

h2

your brother?' asked Randle, as soon as they
were outside.

4 Don't you know ? Why, mademoiselle would
not have let us be alone for three minutes ;
while as to walking with you tete-astute, she
would rather have perished than permitted such
a thing.'

'But why?'

It is their way here. And the French are
stricter than the Swiss; and mademoiselle is
French, you know. She would never think of
letting the biggest girls in the school, even two
together, leave the grounds unaccompanied
by herself, a teacher, or a bonne. And it is not
considered proper for a young girl to speak to
a male cousin in the street if she happen to
meet him alone ; she must just nod and move
on.'

That is absurd enough. At least it seems
so, according to our English notions. But will
not mademoiselle be annoyed when she knows
what our relationship really is? I would not
like to vex the old lady.'

'Don't fidget; I will tell her afterwards.
When it is done it will be all right, though she

could not give her consent beforehand. She
knows that English ideas in these matters are
much less rigid than French ; and when I assure
her that aunt, or mamma, if she had been living,
would have let me go out for a walk with my
cousin, I do not think she will be angry. She
is a dear, good creature. And now, give an
account of yourself. Where have you been for
the last three or four weeks, and what have
you been doing?'

'Generally, knocking about in Switzerland.
To descend to particulars, I have done the
Wetterhorn, the Matterhorn, the Galenstock,
Naegeli's Grantly, Mount Pilatus, and a variety
of [smaller mountains. I have walked a good
many score miles, visited Basle, Berne, Zurich,
Lucerne, Thun, and Interlaken, and saved, or
been the means of saving, the life of an earl's
daughter, and made the acquaintance of a
Russian revolutionist.'

Oh, how nice ! But never mind about
Matterhorn, Wetterhorn, and the other horns ;
tell me about saving the earl's daughter.'

What a brave, noble fellow you are, Ran,'
said Dora, looking at him admiringly when he

had told her the story, in which, as she discerned,
he had spoken very modestly of his own
part in it. ' I knew you were brave and good,
but I did not know how brave and good. And
now you must tell me more about Lady Muriel
Avalou. flow old is she ! Is she pretty V

1 About your age — seventeen or eighteen.
Yes, I think you would call her pretty.'

But give me a description of her. Is she
tall or short, slim or stout ? Tell me all about
her this minute. If she is not good-looking, I
shall be dreadfully disappointed.'

Well, she is slim, but neither tall nor short
rather between the two; though, if she be
as young as I take her to be, she may grow a
little yet.'

'Come, go on. What sort of hair has she?
What sort of a face f

Her hair is chestnut, complexion likewise.
Eyes brown and soft, with very long lashes ?
face oval, nose rather aquiline, dimpled chin,
rosy mouth, and lofty forehead. Altogether, I
should pronounce her a handsome, high-bred
girl.'

I knew it,' said Dora, with a merry laugh.

'I knew it from the first. One never reads
of plain girls being rescued, though I am sure
I do not know why. Well, Ran, the next
thing is for you to marry her.'

i I marry Lady Muriel Avalon !' exclaimed
Sandal, looking as much surprised as if the
possibility of such a consummation had been
absolutely strange to his thoughts. ' How very
absurd ! What could put such an idea into
your head, Dora V

'Everything. What could be more natural?
You have saved her life. The least she can
do is to give you her hand. Besides, it would
only be — what do you call it? — poetic justice.
When a lady is rescued by a gentleman, it
seems the proper thing for her to marry her
deliverer.'

'But suppose the gentleman is bespoke,
Dora?'

Are you bespoke, Ran V said Dora, with anarch
look.

Ran die laughed.

i I know you are not. You are only joking.
Now, pay attention to what I say. You must
marry Lady Muriel. Think what an honour

it would be to have an earl's daughter in the
family ! Why, you would be the greatest man
in Wbitebrook. You might get into Parliament,
and I don't know what besides.'

All very tine, Dora ; but suppose the daughter
is not willing, and the father objects to her
marrying a manufacturer — what then V

1 No fear about the daughter. She is in love
with you already, take my word for it. I
know girls better than you do, which is only
natural, seeing that I am a girl myself. As
for the father, I really don't see why he should
object. You have placed him under a great
obligation. We Lymington are at least respectable;
and papa and my brother, you
know, have found out that ours is one of
the oldest families in the kingdom. And
really, Ran, I do not see that because a man
happens to be an earl he is better than anybody
else. Why should he be V

1 Why, you said only just now what an
honour it would be to have an earl's daughter
in the family.'

Well, so it would, in the eyes of the world.
But, realty, you know, it. would amount to

very little. Lady Muriel would riot make you
a better wife, love you more, or make you any
happier, simply because she happens to have
a title, than if she were plain Miss Muriel.'

• That is exactly what I think myself, Dora.
She might even make me a worse wife on
that account. No, Dora, when I have made
up my mind to marry, I shall look nearer
home.'

I hope you are not thinking of me, Ran,
because, if you are, I tell you frankly you
have no chance,' said Dora, with a mischievous
look at her cousin.

8 Why, what have I done to offend you,
Dora ? Or perhaps you do not think I would
make you a good husband?'

On the contrary, I think you would make
the best in the world. You are as good as
gold. That is just it ; you are too good.
The man I fall in love with — and, unless 1
fall in love, I shall not marry— must be justa
little bit wicked — a dare-devil, dark-complexion,
piratical kind of a man, you know.'

What ! have you been reading Byron V

How did you know ? A little. His memory

is greatly honoured in these parts. He and
Rousseau together made the Lake Lernan famous,
they say; and there is a copy of his
poems in almost every house — at any rate of
Child Harold " and the " Prisoner of Chillon."
We have been reading them aloud, and
the "Corsair" and the "Bride of Abydos.' "

1 Well, it is not exactly the sort of reading
I should choose for a young ladies' school,'
observed Ran die.

We don't use Byron's poems for lesson-books,
you old fogey ; we read them, or rather
such of them as mademoiselle allows— she is
very strict, you know — amongst ourselves,
when it rains, and that, and we cannot go
out. But never mind Byron, tell me about
the others;

'What others V

Why, the Countess of Lindisfarne and the
other daughters.'

What shall I tell you about them?'

{ How stupid you are, Ran ! Or perhaps you
had eyes for nobody but Lady Muriel. I only
want to know how old they are, what they
look like, and how they were dressed.'

'Only! Good heavens, what an only ! Well,
1 will do my best. Lady Lindisfarne is on the
side of forty, but very well preserved, middlesex,
and rather stout, nose slightly hooked,
eyes dark, hair ditto, and streaked with grey,
full face, chin rather tending to double, complexion
good, cheeks red, general expression
masterful and decided, yet not ungenial.'

1 And what had she on V

That you will have to guess, for if I might
be shot this minute I could not tell you.'

1 Did she wear a hat V

Yes, that I do remember, and a very ugly
one it was — brim about a yard in circumference.'


1 Well, she is not my ideal of a countess —
she is more like a duchess:

'Why?'

1 I always picture countesses as being tall,
shapely, and haughtily handsome ; duchesses
as stout, hook-nosed, arrogant, and double-thinned.
Now tell me about Lady Maude.'

1 Tall, plain-featured, sandy-haired, freckle-faced,
and, as it seemed to me, rather proud and
reserved.'

1 Jealous of her sister, perhaps.'

You absurd girl— what will you say next V

'I am sure I don't know

I don't think you do.'

1 Yes, I do, though. What is the other like
there is another, is there not V

4 Yes, Lady Mary. Twelve years old, short-flocked,
long-legged ; and the child has a good
face and pleasant ways. Anything else?'

Yes. Are there no sons V

6 Two or three, I believe ; but I may tell you
at once that I know nothing about them. I
heard just one mention of the boys, and I
suppose the earl's sous were the youngsters
spoken of.'

4 That reminds me. I was forgetting about
the earl. What is he like?'

A middle-aged gentleman of rather ungainly
figure and homely countenance. Not very
clever, I fancy, and a good deal led by his wife ;
but very courtly in manner, and, I should think,
very kind-hearted.'

'Now, I think that is all,' answered Dora,
thoughtfully. ' You will go to Avalon Priory,
of course V

4 If they invite me, and I can find time.'

'Find time! Of course you can, and if you
cannot you must, if only that you may take
notice what they wear and tell me afterwards.'

'But you know I never do take notice
what ladies wear,' remonstrated Handle, rather
alarmed at this suggestion ; 'or, if I do, I forget
immediately afterwards. I could not possibly
remember, Dora.'

That difficulty is easily got over,' returned
Dora, with one of her most mischievous glances,
for she delighted in teasing her cousin. ' You
shall write every day and tell me everything;
and then there will be no danger of your forgetting,
you know. It will be so nice — almost
as good as being at Avalon Priory oneself.
You will now — won't you — like a dear, good
old Ran V

4 1 can try, you know said Handle, dubiously,
not feeling quite sure whether Dora was in jest
or earnest ; ' but it will be time enough to think
about that when I get my invitation. Who
knows? It may never come.'

'No fear of that. And now, tell me about
your other adventure.'

What other adventure?'

'With that Russian you spoke about.'

It was no adventure. I merely said that I
had made the acquaintance of a Russian revolutionist
on the steamer. We exchanged cards ;
see, here is his.'

Ah, Sergius Kalouga. How do you know he
is a revolutionist V

4 1 gathered as much from his remarks, and
then there was a spy following him.'

f Oh, how romantic ! Did the spy catch
him?'

4 Not exactly. He caught the spy.'

Perhaps he is a Nihilist,' observed Dora,
thoughtfully, when Randle had told her of the
disaster that befell the spy at Vevey.

4 Who— the spy ?'

Of course not. How can the spy be a
Nihilist ? This M. Kalouga, of course.'

4 It is possible. But really I don't know
much, about these Nihilists. What are they
like ?'

4 Like ! Why, they are the most dreadful
people in the world. Madame Vieutemps says
they are worse than Thugs or cannibals. They

believe in nothing, and kill everybody they
don't like.'

1 hope Kalouga is not one of them, for I
have invited him to Whitebrook.'

Oh, Ran, invite a Nihilist to Whitebrook !
He will blow somebody up, or do something
else equally dreadful.'

'Nonsense! Kalouga talks rather wildly at
times, it is true, but he is no Nihilist.'

I hope he is not, Ran, for all our sakes, if he
goes to Whitebrook ; but there are a great
many of them about here. Is he very fierce-looking?'


Quite the contrary, and very quiet and gentlemanly
in manner ; but I fancy he can be a
good deal of a dare-devil if he likes. And,
now I think of it, he has very dark eyes. Justa
man after your own heart, I should think,
Dora.'

4 Thank you, cousin. My ideas have certainly
enlarged since I came to Switzerland, but one
must draw the line somewhere, and I draw it
at Nihilists.'

But 1 tell you Kalouga is not a Nihilist.'

I am not at all sure about that, Randle.

From your description, I rather think he is

'If you are at home when he comes to White-brook,
I will introduce him to you, and then
you may judge for yourself answered Handle,
with a laugh.

Thank you very much, Ran, but I don't want
to be introduced to him. At any rate, you must
have him searched first, to see that he has no
dynamite or bomb-shells about him, and '

Here comes a young woman who wants to
speak to you, I think, Dora.'

The young woman proved to be a bonne (servant),
who came to announce that Monsieur
Lymington's repast was served, and that Mademoiselle
Vieutemps awaited him in the diningroom.


CHAPTER XI.

ANOTHER PARTING.

rpHE cousins, in obedience to the summons
■*• conveyed by the bonne, returned to the
house, and, when they entered the dining-room,
found Mademoiselle Vieutemps at the head of
the table, of which, on no consideration whatever,
would she let anyone but herself do the
honours.

i By taking your repast now, Monsieur Lymington,'
she observed, ' you will have time to walk
leisurely to the station, whither Dora can accompany
you and make her last adieux. Did
you show your brother the Promenade des Mar-runners,
mignonne V

'You mistake, mademoiselle,' said Dora, demurely.
i Randle is not my brother — he is my
cousin.'

VOL. I. I

Quelle horreur V exclaimed the schoolmistress,
falling back m in her chair as if she were
going to faint, her face expressive of the deepest
dismay. 'Mais, mon Adieu, mademoiselle,
this is too much. Did you not tell me this
gentleman was your brother ; and you, monsieur,
did you not say that Mademoiselle Lymington
was your sister?'

Neither one nor the other, Mademoiselle
Vieuternps/ said Dora, coolly. ' He was announced
as Mr. Ran die Lymington.'

'Very well; Mr. Randle Lymington is your
brother, your only brother, as you have often
told me.'

1 So he is, and my cousin too.'

1 Pray be serious, mademoiselle. This is an
affair very grave, I assure you. Do not attempt
any clamours or mauvaises plaisanteries — any
ill-timed jokes — if you please. How can this
gentleman be at the same time your brother and
your cousin ? You mock me ; you amuse yourself
at my expense, Mademoiselle Dora.'

1 beg your pardon, Mademoiselle Vieux
; I did not say that he was.'

But, Mademoiselle Dora, what mean you ?

You will tell me next that I have no ears.
Did I not this moment hear you say so V

i I said that Randle Lymington was my cousin,
and I said that Randle Lymington was my brother,
and what I said was true.'

Excuse me, Mademoiselle Dora, that cannot
be true — it is impossible — it is a thing unheard
of. But I see how it is ; you are making a
little joke. He is all the time your brother.
Are you not, Monsieur Lymington V

I am her cousin, as she says,' answered
Randle, who thought the mystification had
gone far enough. * Yet she is quite right. Her
brother, my cousin, bears the same name as
myself. She has, therefore, a brother Randle
and a cousin Randle.'

Oh, mecJiante, to deceive me in such a
fashion,' said the schoolmistress, shaking her
finger, but not unkindly, at Dora. 'What
would monsieur your father say if he knew !
And it is not convenable — it is not comme il faut
what do you say? Proper ! It is not proper
for a young girl to take walks tete-astute with a
young gentleman, though he is her cousin.'

Why, papa asked him to call, Mademoiselle



Vieutemps ; and as for talking tete-astute, Handle
and I have walked tete-astute hundreds of
times. You must remember that we are
English, and English girls are not jeunes gilles?

I daresay it is true observed Mademoiselle
Vieutemps, thoughtfully. 'It is certainly tome
altogether incomprehensible ; yet 1 have
heard that such enormities are committed in
England. Still, if I had known, Dora, you
would not have walked out with your cousin
alone. But you will promise me one thing,
my cabbage — you will not let it be known that
this gentleman is not your brother. The
example would be frightful, it might demoralise
the whole school. On this condition I think
you may go with monsieur your cousin to the
station to make your last adieux ; but Julie
must accompany you both there and back.
We are not in England, remember. How young
girls who are allowed such liberties can possibly
turn out well is to me absolutely incomprehensible
— absolutely incomprehensible. But
the English always were a people apart, and I
suppose their way of bringing up their children
is only in keeping with the national character

We have no reason to be dissatisfied with
the results, I think — at least, so far as our girls
-are concerned,' said Randle, who was not at all
disposed to admit the superiority of the French
system of girl training, which Mademoiselle
Vieutemps seemed to take for granted ; ' I have
not, it is true, seen much of continental young
ladies ; but I cannot admit that they are one
whit better, or more modest, than our English
maidens.'

If Randle had not feared to give offence, he
would have said that the maidens of England
were in every way superior to the jeunes filles of
France.

Dora rewarded him with an approving
glance.

1 It is very well of you, monsieur, to defend
your country and your compatriots ; and it is
only right that you should think highly of
them; but you know our French proverb,
chacun a son gout — everyone to his taste ; and
you must let an old woman retain her belief
that the system under which she was brought
up, and in which she tries to bring up the
jeunes filles committed to her charge, is the best

possible— except perhaps for English girls, who
are like none other.'

I do not know if you intend that as a compliment,
mademoiselle,' answered Handle, ' but
I take it as one. You are right. English
girls are like none other.'

The repast over, Handle took leave of the
schoolmistress, and Dora, followed by a servant,
who, however, remained so far in the rear that
they were practically as much en tete-astute as
before, went with her cousin to the station.
They walked slowly, and Dora had ample time
to point out, and Handle to admire, the
beauties of Nyon — its superb situation, its
trees, terraces, and gardens, its quaint houses
and Gothic towers, and the unrivalled views
which it commanded. The evening was calm.
The blue wavelets of the lake broke noiselessly
at the foot of the hill on which Nyon sits enthroned.
Fishermen's boats, laden with lacustrine
spoil, were returning slowly homewards ;
and a fleet of lateen-rigged barques, their wing-like
sails bellying lazily to the dying breeze,
were bearing up for Yvoire and Geneva. The
sun, now low in the west, had veiled his face

behind a mass of trailing clouds which rose
from the crest of Mont Result ; and his mellowed
rays shed on the green meadows and
fragrant woods, the white villas and grey
castles of the Savoyard shore, a golden glory ;
and made the wild desolation of the Pennine
Alps and the eternal snows of Mont Blanc resplendent
with a more than earthly beauty.

There is nothing like this at Whitebrook,
Dora,' said Handle, softly. l Do you think you
can live contentedly in Lancashire after being
so long in Switzerland?'

1 1 shall regret Nyon often, no doubt. All
my life long 1 shall think of it, and my stay
here, with pleasure. But then you see, Ran,
Lancashire is home, and Nyon is not. It might
become so, though — any place might.'

'How, Dora?'

4 Home is wherever the heart and affections
are.'

e And yours V

1 Are going with you to Whitebrook, Ran.'

Where you will soon follow them,' answered
Randle, carelessly; for he saw in his cousin's
remarks nothing more than a confession of

girlish home-sickness, albeit the time came
when they appeared to him in another light, and
he saw in her words a deeper meaning. « You
are not alone in wanting something you do not
possess. It is a very common complaint. When
we are at home we want to be abroad, and
when we are abroad we want to be at home. I
only wish I could stay all the summer in Switzerland.'


< Why don't you, then V

What would become of the concern, I should
like to know, if I were to stay away all summer
? Since my father died the whole weight
of it has rested on my shoulder — before he died,
I might say, for he was ill several months.
This is the first holiday I have taken since, and
I feel that I have already been away too long.'

'There is Bob.'

So there is, and he does not do amiss ; but
he is little more than a lad yet, remember.'

1 That means, I suppose, that he is not much
of a help to you.'

Not much, though I manage him better than
my father did, I fancy. He is a bit wild and
harum-scarum at times, and my father was

afraid of trusting him, and did not give him
much to do. That was a mistake. I act quite
differently. I tell him a thing must be done,
and make him responsible for the doing. Then
he works and pays attention. When Bob is a
little older, I think he will do very well. In
fact, if he had not been shaping well of late, I
could not have taken so long a holiday. But
father and he never pulled very well together.
I think Bob's occasional wildness rather frightened
him. You know how very strict and old-fashioned
in his ways and ideas my father used
to be.'

Bob and he were antipathetic, I suppose,'
suggested Dora. 'They did not understand
each other, and when people do not understand
each other they are apt to get on badly. At
least, that is what I was reading in a book.'

1 The book is right, Dora. I daresay that is
why your brother and 1 do not always get on
very well together — we are antipathetic'

4 Then you and I must be sympathetic, Ran,
for we always got on very well together,' observed
Dora, with the gravity becoming the
discussion of a somewhat metaphysical subject.

Exactly. And you and Bob always got on
well together, I think

Always. I like Bob. Does not he come of
age next year?'

Yes, early in June — the 5th, I think.'

w I shall be at home then. What are you
going to do 1 ?'

By way of keeping it up, you mean V

• Yes. You will have to give a dance, of
course, and a treat to the hands.'

i Really, I have hardly given the matter a
thought yet. I don't know about the dance ; I
am not sure that my mother would like it. The
hands must, of course, have a treat. We shall
see when the time comes. In any case we will
not decide till you get back. I suppose you
would like to have a finger in the pie?'

You must give a dance or something, and I
should certainly like to have a finger in that
pie ; and I will make papa or Handle fetch mein
May, so that I may be at home in good time.
But here we are at the station. Don't you think
you had better take your ticket V

1 Decidedly, and register my belongings,
which I ordered to be sent here from the

landing-stage, if you will kindly excuse me a
moment.'

Ran die had hardly taken his ticket, watched
the rather tedious operation of weighing his
luggage, and obtained the voucher for it, when
the whistle of the train was heard.

Three minutes later he was gone, and
Dora was returning wistfully towards Villa
Artemisia.

The bonne who formed Dora's escort, when
talking next day with her fellow-servants, told
how very fond Mademoiselle Lymington was of
her brother. She made her adieux without
shedding a tear; but when the train was out of
sight, and she no more waved her handkerchief,
• my faith how she wept,' said the girl, 'and she
had such a headache afterwards that she could
not come down to supper, and spent the rest of
the evening all alone in her room.'

As for Randle, he sped towards Lausanne
(if travelling by a Swiss train can be called
speeding), whence he intended to proceed, via
Montpelier, to Paris, thinking sometimes of his
business, sometimes of the girls he had left
behind him. Though he had been greatly

struck by Lady Muriel Avalon, he did not feel
as if he had lost his heart to her ; and he
had so long looked on Dora as a girl, that
it did not occur to him she might have begun
to feel and think as a woman.

CHAPTER XII.

AN Old-fashioned FIRM.

A LONG, straggling, loose-jointed, monotone
vous manufacturing town in Mid-lancashire
— a multitude of chimneys, 'tall as masts
of some high admiral,' tossing their smoke in
the sombre air — a wilderness of streets and
lanes, running in all directions until they are
lost, miles away, in brick-fields and waste
places. The streets, for the most part, except
about the central square and the outskirts,
are passages between gaunt and gloomy
factories, foundries, machine-shops, and mean-looking
cottages. Here and there is a sooty
church, save for its stumpy steeple, hardly
distinguishable from a warehouse, or slab-sided
chapel of depressing aspect. Near the middle
of the town is a space free from long chimneys,

and occupied by the town hall, marketplace,
banks, and other buildings, which, if
they were a little less dingy, might be deemed
almost handsome. On the rising ground towards
the north are clusters of comely villas,
surrounded by gardens and embowered in
trees ; and, beyond the chimneys and the
smoke, the outlook is as picturesque and attractive
as the town itself is ugly and repellent.
Yet, unlovely as Whitebrook undoubtedly
is, something may be urged in its behalf —
it might be worse. There are places still less
lovely. It is not, for instance, quite as dismal
as Heywood, which has been aptly likened
to a petrified funeral procession ; nor as hideous
as Wigan, which could hardly be blacker
if it had been quarried from its own coal
measures; nor as gloomy as Bolton, whose
dingy buildings and hindered roads might
well suggest the idea that the town is sorrowing
for its sins in soot and ashes. And
though the air of Whitebrook cannot truthfully
be described as balmy, nor as reminding him
who breathes it of Araby the Blest, it will
compare favourably with that of a large town

ill another part of the county, where, in a dry
summer, the manufacturers are wont to fill
their boilers and draw their supplies of condensing
water from the main sewer.

Whitebrookers of this generation might also
urge in extenuation of judgment that the
town is pretty much as they found it, and
that by far the greater part of it was inexistence
long before the esthetic idea came
into vogue, or sanitary science into being.
They are, moreover, making creditable efforts
to repair the faults of their forefathers, and
the town is visibly, if very slowly, emerging
from the condition of unredeemed ugliness in
which it was so long content to abide.

The working people of Whitebrook are a
sturdy, independent, and industrious race, somewhat
lacking, perhaps, in sweetness and light,
and too much given to quarrelling over their
cups and punching each other's heads, but
thoroughly in earnest, gifted with considerable
shrewdness, and possessed of a rich store of
mother wit. The masters are of all sorts, from
the overlooker just starting for himself, who
lives like one of his own hands, and makes

his lads work harder than hired servants, to
the cotton lord who counts his looms by the
thousand, and his spindles by the hundred
thousand, educates his sons at Oxford, and his
daughters at Paris, drops his is, and aspires to
Parliamentary honours.

The Lymington, though they were supposed
to have some connection with Livingston Pike,
had long flourished in Whitebrook. The first
of them, according to the family tradition,
settled in the town about the middle of the
last century, when it was little more than a
large village of timbered houses, clustering
round the parish church in a green and shady
valley, through which meandered the White
Brook, the stream whence the place derives its
name, at that time clear, if not white (some
local archaeologists hold that ' white,' in this
case, is a corruption of 'wide), and not, as
now, of the consistency of porridge, and the
colour of ink.

The first of the Whitebrook Ry vingtons was
not supposed by his neighbours to have any
ancestors to speak of, and he died in ignorance
of the fact, discovered in a later age by one of

his descendants, that his name was one of the
most illustrious in the North of England, and
his house remotely akin to the royal race of
Barbarossa. Seeing, however, that he was a
hard-working draper in a small way of business,
whose chief concern was to make both ends
meet and bring up his family creditably, it maybe
questioned if the knowledge would have
afforded him much satisfaction. A little legacy
or a large order would have been more to the
purpose. His son Randle, who succeeded him
in the shop, was a shrewd and prosperous tradesman,
who conceived the happy idea of himself
manufacturing some of the goods in which he
dealt. So he bought him yarn and gave it out
to weave, manufacturing in those halcyon days
being open to anybody who could hire a weaver
or two and find a few cops and warps. Some
of the pieces which he produced he sold in the
grey, and acquired considerable local celebrity
for the excellent quality of his bumps and meetings
; others he got bleached, and sold as shillings
or stuff for shifts. As his business increased
he opened up a connection in Manchester,
took his sons into partnership, and
VOL. I. K

when he died, left his firm in good credit and
his family in easy circumstances.

His descendants honoured the memory of
their ancestor by making Randle a family name,
and perpetuating the designation of Randle
Lymington and Sons, which he had bestowed
upon the firm, a designation that after the lapse
of a hundred years it still retains.

This Randle — Randle the first, he may be
called — and the two sons that succeeded him —
just and God-fearing men all of them — gave the
house a character and a tone which it never
lost. Their influence, as does that of most of
us, either for good or for evil, lived after them.
In disposition they were prudent and cautious,
in their dealings honourable and straightforward.
They were slow in adopting new inventions,
deliberate in making changes, and looked
with distrust on new-fangled ways. They clung
to hand looms long after some of their neighbours
were making fortunes by power looms ;
and adopted the innovation only when they saw
it was an assured success. They were equally
backward in substituting self-actors for hand
mules, loose reeds for fast reeds, and two picking

sticks for one. They never increased their
business or put up a new building until the
money was ready beforehand. They had always
a balance at their bankers, and would rather
have perished than have had anybody ' astride
of the ridging ' of house or factory.

We should feel as if th' place was not our
own if we parted with th' writing,' said a member
of the firm one day to a neighbour who was
talking about mortgaging his mill. ' I'd liefer
sell it out and out, and be a tenant, than go on
in th' name of owning a property as somebody
could sell o'er my head.'

This was not the way to make a large fortune
or build up a big business ; and considering,
further, that the Lymington always divided
their substance fairly among their children,
making no difference between sons and daughters,
it is not surprising that the 'concern,' as
they always called it, did not equal in magnitude
some establishments of much later growth,
2ior that, after several generations, they were
rather well-to-do than w r wealthy.

But they had their compensations. They
were free from the greatest of troubles that

k2

can beset a business man — shortness of money.
Even in the worst of times their credit was
never questioned, nor their power of keeping
their mills going and their people employed impaired.
' Lymington ' never either stopped or
ran short time; and as they had no need to
'grind' their hands, always paid full wages,
and used good cotton, they had rarely a turnout.
Their honesty was proverbial. They
gave so full weight and measure, and were so
correct in their accounts withal, that even the
keenest buyers accepted their invoices without
examination. They never tried to pass off
faulty pieces as perfect. Goods in respect of
w r which abatements had been made from the
weaver's wages were kept scrupulously apart
and sold as ' rejects.' It was sometimes said
that Lymington' ' bates,' as faulty goods are
occasionally called, were better than some people's
' regulars.' They paid their accounts to
the day, and with those who did not treat them
in like manner they would have nothing to do.
It was a rigid rule of the concern to close the
account of any buyer who, either by unpunctual
payments or any other lapse, showed that he

was not careful to keep bis engagements ; and,
albeit by thus acting they lost a few good customers,
they escaped bad debts and saved
themselves an infinitude of worry.

It is hardly necessary to say that Lymington
and Sons had never anything to do with bills.
They regarded them as an invention of the
devil. Even when they imported cotton, which
shippers invariably draw against at a usance
of a certain number of days or months, the
concern always took up the drafts under
discount.

It is almost superfluous to say that a family
firm so old-fashioned in their ways and ideas
were orthodox in religion and conservative in
politics. They were faithful, if not very ardent
supporters of the Church as by law established ;
and though they did not mix themselves up
much in local matters, having generally other
fish to fry, they always thought it their duty,
when Whitebrook was contested, to place their
vote and interest at the disposal of the Tory
candidates.

As befitted their antiquity, there being no
other family in the borough that could boast of

so long a pedigree, the Lymington were somewhat
reserved in their manner and exclusive in
their choice of associates, holding themselves
studiously aloof from new comers and upstarts.
They made an exception, however, in favour of
those of their old hands who had set up for
themselves and seemed to be getting on.
These the r graciously patronised, and sometimes
substantially helped.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE RED SCAR RYVIXGTONS.

fPHE home of the Lymington, though tecbni-
■*■ call within the borough of Whitebrook,
was some distance from the town proper. At
the time of the first Reform Bill the parliamentary
boundaries of the borough had been considerably
broadened, and made to include a
wide extent of open country. Redscar, as the
place was called, lay in a little valley at the
very extremity of the boundary. It was shut
off from the town and sheltered from its smoke
by an intervening-wood-crowned hill. The
situation had been chosen by the first Randle
for its water privileges and other advantages,
including proximity to a canal which, reaching
as far as Wigan and Liverpool, formed, before
the advent of railways, a medium for the

supplies of cotton and coal of inestimable
value.

It goes without saying that the mills were
near the canal. They formed a grotesque and
rather confused mass of buildings— from the
four-storeyed, narrow windowed, ivy-mantled,
weather-worn little factory, nearly a hundred
years old, now used as a warehouse, to a
modern loom shed with a glass roof, and a
stately, six-storeyed, fireproof mill with a flat
one, and windows evidently designed to justify
the final cause of windows and give the utmost
possible amount of light. But the wonder and
triumph of Redscar was a most remarkable
chimney, in shape and appearance rather
resembling an Italian campanile than a Lancashire
f lover,' a chimney, strange to say, that
never smoked. Careful observers averred that
they could occasionally discern a cloud-like
something hovering about the top of it ; but
even the most censorious admitted that this
appearance was more like condensing steam
than factory smoke, and that if all the chimneys
in Whitebrook were fitted up on the same principle
it would effect an immense improvement

in its aspect, and probably an important saving
in the consumption of coal.

At right angles to the mills were two long
rows of cottages, as old fashioned, some of
them, as the factory of the first Randle, yet by
no means bad dwellings, since, having been
built with ' shops ' for the reception of hand
looms, they were more roomy than many
modern erections of the same class. The style
of the majority of them, however, was of a later
age, and a new row was in course of building
so superior to the rest that they promised, when
finished, to fulfil the boast of their designer, and
be a comfort to look at and a pleasure to live
in.

On the brow of the wooded hill which I have
mentioned as cutting off Redscar from White-brook
were two houses, about half a mile apart,
embowered in trees, surrounded by gardens,
and approached by winding, grass-bordered
avenues. They were square, substantial structures
of grey sandstone, and, though sufficiently
well-looking, had evidently been planned rather
with a view to comfort and solidity than to
outward appearance.

One of them was called Redscar Hall; the
other bore the name of Redscar House. In the
former, some years prior to the opening of our
story, had lived Randle Lymington, uncle of
the Randle whose acquaintance the reader has
already made, and Dora's father. In Redscar
House lived the younger Randle, better known
in the neighbourhood as Red Randle and Red
Ryvingtou, and his brother Robert, generally
spoken of as Bob, to distinguish him from his
father, whose name was also Robert. This
Robert had died the year before Randle's visit
to Switzerland, shortly after taking his elder
son into partnership, and some ten years after
the elder Randle had dissolved his connection
with the firm of Lymington and Sons, and left
Redscar Hall for Deepdene Park, a place on the
other side of Whitebrook. As Randle senior
had also a son Randle, the male members of the
Lymington family consisted at that time of
three Randies and two Roberts, a state of
things which naturally led to one of the families
being distinguished as the Redscar and the
Deepdene Ry vingtons. By a natural transition
these designations were shortened respectively

to 'Red' and 'Deep;' and the cousins Randle,
who were almost exactly of the same age, and
so like each other as often to be mistaken for
twins, became par excellence-deep Lymington'
and ' Red Lymington,' while their fathers were
invariably spoken of as 'Mr. Lymington' and
1 Mr. Robert.' In this respect they were exceptionally
fortunate, nearly every other manufacturer
in the neighbourhood being dubbed with
some post-baptismal name, often more expressive
than flattering.

Robert Lymington had devoted himself nearly
all his life long to the concern, to which he
considered it to be one of the greatest of earthly
privileges to belong. He loved it as a sailor
loves his ship, an officer his regiment, a squire
of old family his hereditary estate. He looked
upon it as something apart from himself, as
having an almost sacred character. He placed
its interest above his own personal interest, or
that of any other person. * The concern must
not suffer,' was his final and invariable answer
to every proposal which seemed adverse to its
welfare. It was a joke among his neighbours
that when Mr. Robert died he would take the

latest balance-sheet with him to show to his
father in the other world.

When his brother Randle first proposed to
retire from the concern, Robert could hardly
believe his own ears. It was the first time in
the history of the concern that any Lymington
had wished to sever his connection therewith ;
and the state of mind which could make such a
consummation seem desirable was simply incomprehensible
to him. Although his brother's
retirement would leave him sole proprietor of
the concern, he tried hard to turn him from his
purpose ; but Ran die had made up his mind,
and their partnership was dissolved — in some
measure also their friendship, for they were
never the same to each other again, and Robert
marked his sense of his brother's lack of loyalty
to the concern by erasing his name as executor
from his will. Shortly before his death, however,
he repented him of this resolve, and renominated
Randle as one of his trustees.

Two years after Randle's retirement, Robert's
elder son, then about eighteen, finished his
education, and began to learn his duties as a
future member of the concern. As the lad was

sharp, arid had a bent for science, his father,
after he left the Whitebrook Grammar School,
sent him for two years to Glasgow, where he
studied mechanics and chemistry under two
celebrated professors of those branches of knowledge.


The day his son was of age Robert made him
a partner, an arrangement that gave the old
gentleman unspeakable satisfaction ; for the
thought that in the event of his death the concern
would be left to manage itself, and might,
in such a dire contingency, even cease to exist,
had longed caused him mortal anxiety. From
this fear he was now relieved, and, as Handle
had already proved himself an able coadjutor
and an excellent man of business, his father
felt that, with a little more experience, the lad
might be trusted to bear the burden alone
should the need arise. The need did arise. A
few years later Robert slept his last sleep in
the family vault in the parish churchyard.
When he knew his end was approaching he
called his son to him.

1 You are young to be left with such a weight
on your shoulders, my dear lad,' he said. ' I

would I might have been spared a few years
longer; but God's will be done ! Be cautious ;
don't stretch your arm further than the coat
sleeve will reach. You are sharp enough — I
have no fear about that, but young folks are
sometimes apt to be a bit too venturesome. Bea
father as well as a brother to Bob ; he's not
like you, he'll want looking after. I need not
tell you to be good to your mother, yon always
have been; you have been good to us both.
Nobody could wish for a better son. God in
Heaven bless you, my lad ! Do your duty ;
stick to the concern.'

'I will try, father said Randle, struggling
with his tears. ' And, God helping me, I will
do my duty by the concern, as you have done
yours.'

He gave the promise freely, though he would
rather his father's thoughts at this supreme
moment had not been so entirely taken up with
worldly affairs.

I know you will ; good lad, good lad.
Now I shall die easy. I know the concern in
your hands will be safe. It makes me feel
better; may be I shall pull through after all.'

The day after this conversation Robert
Lymington died. His last words were, ' Duty —
concern — Randle.'

He appointed as his executors Sophia, his
wife, Randle, his brother, Randle, his son, and
Leonard Pleasington, of Whitebrook, his
trusty friend and legal adviser. His second
son, then about twenty, was to have the option,
two years later — of which there could be little
question that he would avail himself — of entering
the concern as partner, if Randle should at
that time be of opinion that his brother could
fill the position with credit to himself and advantage
to the business.

Among other provisions of the will was one
to the effect that on each of the testator's sons
and his wife should be settled a sum often thousand
pounds, so that, as Robert, when he was
explaining his intentions in this regard to his
lawyer, observed, there would always be bread
and cheese for them, whatever happened. As,
however, Randle did not think that so large a
sum could at once be spared from the working
capital of the concern — seeing that they had
lately built a new loom shed and spent a good

lot of money on machinery and other improvements
— it was agreed that the amount in question
should form a first charge on the Redscar
estate. When this expedient was first proposed,
Handle objected that it was against a longstanding
rule of the concern to borrow money,
either on mortgage or in any other way. To
this objection Mr. Pleasington replied that the
transaction would involve neither borrowing
nor payment, and that the property would be
just as much the property of the family as
previously ; whereupon Handle yielded the
point and the arrangement as proposed was
carried out.

The year following his father's death, Randle,
who besides bearing almost alone the burden
of a large business — for Bob had not long left
school, and was not yet of much use to him — had
been compelled to undertake many extraneous
matters arising out of the winding-up of his
father's affairs, and was beginning to suffer
somewhat in health, made a trip to Switzerland,
in the course of which, as the reader is
aware, he formed the acquaintance of Lord 
his family, and of Sergius Kalouga.

CHAPTER XIV.

IN MOSLEY STREET.

/TVBREE days after quitting Switzerland, Dora,
■*■ and Lady Muriel, Randle was in the midst
of murky Manchester. The change was startling.
It could hardly have been more so if he
had gone to bed .in fairy-land and awoke in
pandemonium. Instead of snow-white peaks,
vaulted over with cerulean skies, were black-throated
chimneys overhung with smoky
clouds. The arrowy Rhone was replaced by
the inky Irwell, the pathless pine-woods b$,
crowded streets, the blue expanse of Lake
Leman by a babel of sooty buildings. Randle,
as he walked down Mosley Street towards
Lymington and Son's warehouse, breathed a
sigh of regret : for, man of business and devoted
to duty though he was, he had a strain of
VOL. I. L

romance in his character, and glancing at the
sights around him, and mentally comparing
them with the scenes he had so lately quitted,
he thought, if the alternative had been
open to him, he would willingly have exchanged
Lancashire and his present lot for some

Fair clime where every season smiles
Benignant o'er those blessed isles,'

and, perchance, a companion equally fair and
benignant. But the atmosphere and associations
of Mosley Street are not altogether
propitious for 4 winged wanderings of the
fancy ;' and when Randle reached the door of
his warehouse he was roused to the reality of
things by the sight of a load of shillings fresh
from Redscar ; while the grasp of old Oates's
hand, and the sound of his cheery voice, completed
the shattering of his day-dream, and
Banished from his mind — for the moment at
least — the last vagrant yearnings for a mountain
land and an angelic face.

'Glad to see you back, Mr. Randle; glad
to see you back. Your trip seems to have
done you a power of good. Why, you are as
brown as a bit of old mahogany. I hope

you liked Switzerland, sir. A fine country,
they tell me. Don't you feel as if you were a
ticket-of-leave man going back to penal servitude?
I always do when I come back to
Manchester after my holiday at the sea-side.'

Oates was the salesman, a dapper little fellow
with big eyes, so very wide open as to suggest
that the owner's mental condition was one of
chronic astonishment. Though everybody
called him Old Oates, and he had been a longtime
in the service of the concern — for which he
had an immense respect — he was not a very old
man, and, despite his sixty years, ' sound in
wind, limb, and eyesight,' as he often took occasion
to observe.

Well, it is rather a trial, buckling to after a
pleasant holiday, which you would gladly have
made longer if you could. But life is not all
beer and skittles, you know. We must not put
pleasure before business. And how have you
been this long time, Oates V

Salubrious, Mr. Handle ; salubrious. Never
better in my life, as I know of — sound in wind,
limb, and eyesight ; and there isn't many men
of my age can say that. And what is more, I'll

l2

back myself to run np a flight of steps with
anybody in Manchester ten years younger ; or
anybody else, weight for age. Ah, ah, ah !'

The capability of physical exertion denoted
by Mr Gates's last observation was one of considerable
importance to a person in his position,
for a Manchester salesman passes about half his
working life in getting up stairs, and a failure of
leg power, or a tendency to broken-mindedness,
would be almost as fatal to his usefulness as to
that of a racehorse in training or a foot soldier in
war time.

I am glad you keep so well and hearty,
Oates. Why, you are as fresh as when you
first came to us, and that is — let me see— how
long since?'

Eight and twenty years come next September.
I entered the service of the concern the
year your father was married — that was before
you were born, and I hope I shall live to see
you married also, Mr. Randle.'

Thank you for the information,' said Randle,
with a laugh ; ' and now about business. How
have things gone on while I have been away V

Very well, Mr. Randle. Nothing special has

happened, at least Dot at this end, and I have
not heard of anything at the works. Deliveries
are all in order ; everything up to time.'

Sold anything?'

Very little — for the time, I mean — perhaps
20,000 pieces of one sort and another. I took
an order yesterday from Madder and Mordant
for 3,000 railways at seven and six.'

By ' railways ' Mr. Oates meant a description
of cloth on which that name had been conferred
to signify the extreme rapidity with which,
owing to their lightness of texture, they were
woven.

But is not that rather a low price V asked
Handle. ' The last price we got, if I remember
rightly, was seven and nine.'

So it is, but the market has been as flat as
ditch water — all the time yon have been away,
I think. But we are not badly off. We have
orders on the books that will keep us going for a
fortnight or more ; and there was decidedly a
better feeling on 'Change yesterday afternoon.
There is more doing at Calcutta, I'm told, and
"Wild and Savage sent over, an hour ago to ask
for quotations ; [and that's a good sign. They

know the time o' day, Wild and Savage do.
But they won't catch old Oates napping, let 'em
get up as early as they like.'

1 You did not quote, I suppose V
Not exactly. I said I'd slip across in the
course of the morning. I don't mean to name
a price to anybody until I know what the feeling
is here, and what is being done in Liverpool.
When Wild and Savage want a quotation early
in a morning, I says to myself, " Keep your
weather eye open, Oates," says I. It is not
easy to catch an old bird with chaff, Mr.
Handle.'

Not an old bird like yon, Oates, I'm sure. I
shall leave everything to you to-day, for I'm so
completely out of the swim that if I were to
meddle I should muddle. Will my brother be
here to-day, do you suppose V

I believe so. He was here on Friday, and
said he should very likely run up to-day to see
what was going on. A smart young man Mr.
Robert, sir. With a little more experience he'll
make a capital man of business. He knows
what he's about, he does.'

Yes, Bob is no fool. I think sometimes he

is even too sharp — too sharp and sanguine.
His ideas are very large.'

1 Why, yes, they are, just a little. It is a
fault of young people, being very hopeful, and
believing they know better than anybody else.
And it's maybe as welles it is so, or else what
would become of 'em when they get older, poor
things, and found what a terribly disappointing
world it is? Depend upon it, Mr. Randle, a
hopeful disposition is a wonderful help to a man
in the battle of life. As for Mr. Robert, you
have only to keep a tight hand on him, and
he'll do first-rate. But here is Blezzard coming
down the steps. He was here on Friday, inquiring
when you'd be back, very anxious ; and
as he would not say what his business was,
neither to me nor Mr. Robert, I expect it is
something private. 1 think I'll just see how
many pieces have come up this morning. Wild
and Savage are very pressing for the completion
of their order for madapollams.'

Lymington and Sons' warehouse was a large
cellar, divided into a room for the reception of
pieces, and two small offices. Their standing
and the extent of their business would have

fully warranted the firm having a more imposing
place ; but they had been tenants of this particular
cellar upwards of thirty years ; and, as a
rule, the concern was very conservative, especially
as touching outlay or changes, the influence
of which on future stocktakings was problematical
or remote.

If you will undertake to get a halfpenny a
piece more on our production the year round,'
said Mr. Robert Lymington one day to Oates,
when the latter was urging him to take a large
first-floor warehouse in Portland Street, ' we
will flit tomorrow.'

The salesman, notwithstanding the soundness
of his wind, limbs, and eyesight, and his unequalled
capacity for getting up stairs, being
unable to accept this condition, the lease of the
cellar was renewed for a further term of fourteen
years.

Well, Blezzard,' said Randle, as the individual
whom Oates had seen descending
the steps entered the office, ' you wanted
to see me, I hear ; what can I do for you today!'


It is gradely warm to-day,' rejoined Blezzard,

taking a big blue pocket-handkerchief from the
crown of his hat and mopping his face therewith
— a pleasant, clean-cut face, with plenty of
colour, which, however, it did not owe to drink,
the man being a teetotaller. ' Wor it as warm
wheel you've bin, Mr. Frank V

4 Warmer, a good dealt

With, mon, yo' worst frozen, then ? Do yo'
want a boss, thinker yo', Mr. Frank — a gradely
good un, rising seven, stand as a bell, and 'anson
as paint; just suit yo' or Mr. Eobbut, to ride a-
hunting.'

I have not time to go a-hunting, Blezzard,
and Robert has a hunter : if he had another, he
would be hunting too much, I am afraid.'

< Well, could yo' do wi' a cart loss, then ?
That grey mare as goes in th' shafts — Patty,
turned they call her? — is getting too stiff for
you're work. I've gotten one as would jest do
for yo', same colour, too, but a loss — you never
seed such legs and such a barrel i' your life.
Stan's sixteen hon's and a loaf ; as strong as a
elephant and draws like a devil. What sayer
yo', Mr. Frank?'

I don't know, Blezzard. I think the grey

mare will do yet awhile. When I make up my
mind to part with her, I'll let you know.'

Are yo' wanting' ought i'th shuttle or bobbin
way, thinker yo"? We are gradely weel fit
up now for morning 'em out fast, and I can put
'em in chap.'

You know we always give orders for these
things at the works, Blezzard. I'll inquire how
we stand when we get back, and you can call
on Friday. Is that all V added Handle, with a
shade of impatience in his voice; for he was
growing rather weary of the man's importunity.


1 Nay, not quite. I wanted to speak to yo'
about summit else,' said Blezzard, as he again
vigorously applied the pocket-handkerchief to
his face, which, without apparent cause — for the
cellar was cool enough — was now perspiring
more profusely than ever.

< Well, what is it, Blezzard V

'About that their account as is due next
Friday. I wanted to ax yo' to let it stan' o'er
till next month end.'

What is it for, and how much V

4 Them twothry skips o' yarn ; they coming" to

welly' (nearly) 'a hundred pounds — £98 15s. 6d.
after the discount's taken off.'

Well, you know our rule, Blezzard. When
people don't keep faith with us — that is, when
they don't pay according to agreement — we
have nothing more to do with 'em.'

1 That is hard law, Mr. Frank.'

4 Law always is hard to those who break it.
You must pay the account when it is due, Buzzard,
or take the consequences. I should make
the same answer to the best house in Manchester,
even if I knew they had a million at their
bankers.'

Blezzard wiped his forehead more furiously
than ever. He was an old Redscar overlooker,
and had known Handle from a lad. Some years
previously he had given up his situation, and
started for himself as a sort of jack-of-all-trades.
He was partner in a small weaving concern, rana
bobbin mill and a sawmill, made glue, pickers,
and soap, dealt in horses, and traded in timber.
A spirit of enterprise, however laudable in itself,
is apt to land a man in pecuniary difficulties.
This was Blezzard's position on the present
occasion. He was desperately hard up. The

request he had made of Handle he would never
have dreamt of preferring to Handle's father ;
but he had counted — as it seemed without warrant
— on the son being more complaisant. If
he could have persuaded him to buy the hunter
or the cart horse, the amount to be paid on the
following Friday would have been materially
reduced, so that Handle's refusal to trade was a
great disappointment.

Well,' he said, after a long pause and another
application of the handkerchief, c I nun see if I
cannot scrape it together. This is Tuesday ;
I'm three days afore me ; I can happen manage
it. I suppose if I bring yo' th' brass i' good
time o' Saturday morning that'll do V

6 No, Blezzard, it must be Friday — as late as
ever you like, but Friday.'

Well, yo' are hard, Mr. Handle, and me as
tackled ' (overlooked) ' five and twenty year for
you're father and you're grandfather, and wor a
wey ver at Hedscar factory afore yo' were born !
Good day to yo', Mr. Handle.'

Wait a moment,' said Handle, as Blezzard
turned to go, f I am, perhaps, not as hard as
you think. How is your business, or, I should

rather say, how are your businesses going on —
are you all right V

1 Yo' mean con I pay twenty shillings t' pound,
I reckon V

Handle nodded.

Ay, con I, and have as much left as will keep
our Mary and me i' porridge as long as Ave live.
And what is moor, I shall have plenty of brass
coming' round in a month's time — enough to pay
everybody.'

6 Well, I'll tell you what I'll do for you. The
concern must be paid. I can have no parley
about that. But I'll lend you £200 — give you
a cheque on my own private account, I mean.
Half that will, of course, go to pay your debt
to the concern ; the other half you can use until
your money comes round — say until the end of
next month.'

'That's gradely good on yo', Mr. Handle,'
said Blezzard, shoving the blue pocket handkerchief
into the crown of his hat, for a sunny smile
was drying up the perspiration that bedewed
his face. ' If ever I can do yo' a good turn for
this kindness, I will.'

The cheque was written out and Jack Buzzard

left the warehouse with a light heart. He
took the steps two at a time, and went at such
a rate that he nearly overturned a young man
who was leisurely descending them, whom in
his hurry he had not perceived.

Hulloa ! By Jingo, you nearly knocked me
down,' exclaimed the young man. ' Why, it's
Jack Blezzard. You have got your seven-leagued
boots on this morning, I think, Jack.
But I would not advise to go at such a bat up
Mosley Street. If you do the police will be taking
you up for overruling, or on suspicion of
being an escaped lunatic'

'I ax you pardon, Mr. Robbut. I did not
see you.'

'It's a good job I saw you. If I had not you
would have knocked me into the middle of next
week. Has my brother turned up this morning,
do you know V

'Ay, you'll find him their i' th' office.'

All right. Good morning, Jack ; and, I say,
the next time you feel inclined to try how fast
you can get upstairs, just see that the way is
clear before you start.'

< Well, I will, Mr. Robbut ; I promise yo' that.

It wouldn't do to knock yo' into th' middle o'
next week ; you'd happen be stopping their. I
went so fast because I wor so fain ; if you'll ax
you're brother he'll happen tell you why. Good
day.'

Whereupon Blezzard turned into Mosley
Street, while Robert Lymington completed his
descent of the steps, and, after exchanging
greetings with Oates, entered the little glass-partitioned
inner office, where his brother was
looking over a list of the orders that had been
taken in his absence.

1 Hulloa, Bob, is that you V said Randle, looking
up. - How are you, old fellow V

'Tip-top. And you — but I need not ask —
your face is the colour of a piece of ancient oak.
Enjoyed yourself 1 ?

Very much. I have had a most delightful
trip. You must have a run on the Continent
one of these days, Bob.'

'1 shall be delighted, I am sure. You could
not name a day for the start, could you, Ran I
I am ready.'

Not at this moment, I am afraid. We will
see later. How is the mother V

'Very well in body, but rather uneasy in
mind

What about V

4 Her son Handle. When she heard you
were on the Alps, she was afraid you might
be tumbling down a precipice, or getting yourself
smothered by an avalanche. But her
latest fear — I might say her present (for we
were not sure on what day you would be back)
was that you might be lost in crossing the
Channel.'

Poor mother ! she is too anxious.'

4 Well, if there had not been you to fidget
about there would probably have been some
other source of anxiety for her rejoined Bob,
with a reflective air. ' A certain amount of
misery seems necessary to mother's happiness.'

4 How have you gone on at the works % All
right !

4 Could not have gone on better, Ran, if you
had been there yourself. For that matter you
might have taken another month. You have
not been missed in the least.'

4 That is because of your excellent management,
I suppose,' said Randle, who had made

such complete arrangements before bis departure
that it was hardly possible for things to
have gone otherwise than smoothly during his
absence.

'Well, 1 think my management has had
something to do with it. By-the-by, I bagged
Robin o' Kits the other day.'

1 What for ? Robin is a a very good weaver,
and has been with us a long time.'

1 He checked me, and I could not stand that,
you know.'

4 1 thought Robin had more sense. I have
always found him very respectful. What did
he say to you. Bob V

1 He did not say it exactly to me,' rejoined
Bob, reddening, 'but I heard him, and that is
the same thing, you know,'

1 But what did he say V

6 Well, there was a lot of them— a lot of the
hands, I mean — going up New Factory Lane,
and I was close behind them, but they did not
see me, and they were talking ' (here Bob reddened
a second time) 'about my — about my
moustache.'

Indeed,' observed Randle, gravely, though

VOL. I. M

with the least suspicion of a smile lurking
at the corners of his mouth. ( And what did
they say?'

One of them was saying that young Rob-but
seemed to have a good conceit of that top
lip of his. " Top lip be hanged' said Robin ;
if our Betty couldn't grow a better moustache
than young Bob's, I'd give her a good
hiding." That made me rather mad, as you
may suppose, Ran, so I just stepped up and
asked him if he thought that was a right
way to speak of his employer, and what
do you think ? — he had actually the impudence
to maintain that they were not talking about
me at all, and that the Bob he meant was
bandy-legged Bob — the self-actor minder in
number five, you know ! That was more than
I could stand, so I told him to go about his
business, for a cheeky young rascal.'

And you think he did mean you V

c Think ! I am sure. Why, bandy-legged
Bob has no more moustache than a new-born
baby.'

Still I don't think Robin o' Kits meant to
be disrespectful ; he did not know you were

within earshot, and you remember the proverb,
u Listeners never hear any good of themselves !"
When he found you had heard him, he tried to
get out of the scrape the best way he could. If
he asks to come back, as I daresay he will, I
think yon had better give him a talking to,
and take him on again.'

Well, if you think so, Ran, I will. But
I'll give him a good blowing up first,' said Bob,
with a fierce pull at his fluffy moustaches, of
which, being all the hair he had on his face, or
was likely to have, he was excusably proud,
and submitted them to frequent caressing and
stroking. For the rest, Bob Lymington was a
tall, well-proportioned lad, with an intelligent
eager face, and keen grey eyes. His hair was
light, his complexion blonde, and his nose
retrousse. He wore his hat rather on one side,
which gave him a rakish air that was foreign to
his disposition, dandyism not being one of his
foibles. The habit was involuntary, due, not
to deliberate intention, but to physical peculiarity
; for his skull, being slightly subsided, he
could not, do as he would, prevent his hat
from tilting a little towards his left ear. This

M 2

difficulty and his extremely youthful appearance,
owing to the almost nakedness of his
face, were for the present Bob's greatest
troubles.

'Have you had occasion to draw anything
out of the bank V asked Handle.

I have not drawn a single cheque. There
has been nothing to pay but wages and some
small accounts since you went away, which
have been more than covered by moneys received.
The bank balance has improved by as
many thousands the last two or three weeks.'

After some further conversation on divers
topics, and a conference with Oates, on the all-important
question of prices and sales, all three
left the warehouse on various errands relating
to the business of the concern.

CHAPTER XV.

RED RAXDLE AT HOME.

FTVHE compartment in which Handle and his
■*■ brother travelled to Whitebrook was filled
with manufacturers. It was market day, and
there was probably not a person in the train
that did not own allegiance to King Cotton.
As was natural in the circumstances, a good
deal of shop was talked.

'Done any business to-day, Lymington?' asked
a portly, pompous gentleman, with a red face,
and a white waistcoat, who seemed gifted with
great fluency of speech, for he talked as much
as all the rest of his companions put together.
He was the active partner in the firm of Oliver
Tugwood and Co. His brother was one of the
borough members. Their father, in days gone
by, had kept the 'Nag's Head,' in Leather

Lane, a circumstance which the people of
Whitebrook strove to keep in remembrance
by calling the Tugwood Mills ' PiDchnoggin.'

A little answered Handle ; ■ about 15,000
pieces, I think, of one sort and another.'

Shillings V

6 Some of them — about half, I fancy.'

4 What did you get for eight and a quarters,
if it's a fair question V asked Tugwood, who
was noted for his thirst for information, especially
about other folks' business.

Handle told him.

Ton my word, Ry winston, you always
seem to get better prices than anybody else.
Why, I have not got as much by sixpence a
piece.'

'That perhaps comes of the difference in
quality,' suggested Randle.

'But you surely don't mean to say, Lymington,
that your shillings are sixpence a piece
better than ours? A trifle better they may be,
but not that much.'

Buyers don't seem to be of your opinion,
Tugwood, and the proof of the pudding is in
the eating, you know.'

< What do yon think about it, Twister V inquired
Logwood of the man next to him. ' Do
you think that Lymington's shillings are better
than ours?'

'Ay, do I. Why, there's sixteenth moor
cotton in 'em than yours, let alone better weaving.
Yours is nobbut rags, mon, with th' holes
filled up wi' china clay.'

Twister had risen from the ranks, and, having
made money, he naturally thought himself as
good as any other body. He always spoke his
mind with uncompromising bluntness, and without
the least respect for persons. A roar of
laughter followed his answer, for Tugwood,
besides being too inquisitive and patronising to
be popular, had the name of putting more filling
in his goods than any other manufacturer in
the trade. Not having a rejoinder ready at the
moment, he judiciously gave the conversation
another turn by asking if anybody present had
received his assessment under schedule D,
which he pronounced ( saddle.'

1 1 guess we all have said Twister, his stiff,
red beard bristling with indignation. 'I know
I have, and a bonny beggar it is.'

You don't mean to say, Twister, that they
have stuck you something on V

< By gum, but haven't they ! Only £2,000.'

They have increased our assessment too —
very considerably,' said Tugwood.

'And mine,' joined in several others.

1 1 call it a right down hard case,' observed
Twister, 'that we should be taxed for* bigger
incomes when we are making less brass.'

6 Are you going to appeal V

t What is the use % I should get nowt off.
I did go to Smalley one time, and tried to
convince him as he had assessed me a deal too
high ; and 1 showed him figures as proved what
I said. " And so you have not made that much,
Mr. Twister?" he said, quite pleasant like.
"That I haven't, Mr. Smalley," says I, "and
I hope you'll take my case into consideration,
and knock me a thousand or two off," says I.
You assure me, then, Mr. Twister," says he,
that you have really not made within £2,000
of the amount of profit for which you are
assessed ?" " I have not, Mr. Smalley," says I,
call my rags if I have." " Then you ought
to have, Mr. Twister," said th' owt beggar,

and I am quite unable to comply with your
request to make an abatement of your assessment.
I consider it to be most reasonable, and,
if what you say be true, you are managing your
business very badly. If you like to appeal, you
can, of course, do so ; but I am really afraid you
would only have your trouble for your pains." '

6 And did you appeal V

1 1 wasn't such a fool. What would have
been the use of losing both time and money?
Another thing, I've given o'er making any
return. I just pays what they put down. A
time will happen come when they'll put down
too little, and if it does, call my rags if I'll tell
'em.'

1 How do you get on with these income tax
chaps, Bradshaw ? Do they treat you as badly
as they seem to be treating everyone else?'
asked Tugwood of an individual who sat
quietly smoking in a corner of the compartment,
and who had hitherto taken no part in
the conversation. He was a heavy pasty-faced
man with a large nose, little eyes, and a
very big head — like a book, some people said it
was — for he possessed a marvellously retentive

memory, and could calculate things mentally
and instantaneously that other people had to
waste a good deal of time and blockhead over.
These qualities, combined with good business
capacity, had raised him from the position of
warehouseman and outlook to that of
partner in one of the largest concerns in the
county.

Well, gentlemen,' he observed, in answer to
Tugwood's appeal, 'you may say what you
like about the income tax being this, that, or
the other. All I can say is as I'm d — d glad
I have it to pay. I never thought I should
have had at one time. Them as doesn't like
income tax can easy mend themselves — they've
only to look cuts ' (cotton pieces) ' and cut their
income down to a pound a week.'

This phase of the conversation, like that
about the price of Lymington's shillings, ended
in a laugh rather at Tugwood's expense, and
in no very long time thereafter the train arrived
at Whitebrook.

A great gathering of horses and vehicles was
ranged in front of the station — a handsome and
roomy edifice — waiting for the home-coming

manufacturers. Among them was the Lymington
four-wheeled drag, and the brothers mounting
thereon. Bob took the reins and drove
rapidly in the direction of Bedscar. After
passing up a narrow street, bounded on one
side by coal wharves and foundries, on the other
by breweries and factories, and rising a steep
hill, they entered a broad, macadamised road,
whose whiteness contrasted pleasantly with
the coal and soot-darkened pavement they had
left behind them — the more especially as the
surrounding country was agreeably undulating
and. for that part of the county, well-wooded.

A short spin on this road brought them to
the lane leading to Redscar, which ran at right
angles with the main road.

Shall we go round by the counting-house,
Handle,' asked Bob, 'or drive straight home?'

I think we will go home. It is almost too
late to do any good at the counting-house, and
I daresay mother will be anxious to know if I
am back.'

'All right; here we are, then. Kenyon,
jump down and open the gate. Old Jane is as
deaf as a post. If she does not happen to be

on the watch, you have to shout at least fifty
times before you can get her out of the lodge.'

Redscar House, though as to externals solid
and unpretentious, was a spacious, and by no
means an unhandsome dwelling ; and being set
in a fair show of greensward and garden, and
approached by an avenue of old lime-trees,
populated by a colony of rooks, its general
appearance was rather that of a country
gentleman's seat than a manufacturer's mansion.

The drag had hardly pulled up before the
substantial portico which adorned the front of
the house, when the door opened and a tall lady
in black silk dress and a widow's cap appeared
at the threshold. Despite her sixty years, her
tall form was unbent and her dark hair only
slightly streaked with grey. Her features
were rather large, and their expression in
repose was somewhat hard and stern ; but,
when she caught sight of Handle, they lit up
with a glow of pleasure which changed their
look as if by magic into one of deepest tenderness
and love.

Handle jumped from the drag, took both his
mother's hands in his, and. kissed her.

'I am thankful you are safe back, child,' she
said. ' 1 was beginning to be anxious about
you.'

1 So Bob has been telling me. But, dear me,
mother, what was there to be anxious about ?
There is no more danger in a trip to Switzerland
now-a-days than in a journey to London.'

■ We can never tell what may happen,' rejoined
Mrs. Lymington, who always looked at
the dark side of things. 'Even a journey to
London has its dangers. Are there not railway
accidents? And I am always uneasy
about my children when they are away from
me.'

1 It is very well you have no more of them,
then ; or whatever would become of you ? How
would you do if you had two or three children
in every quarter of the globe, like Mrs. Maitland


4 1 suppose I should have to bear it. God
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, you know.
But won't you come into the dining-room and
have some tea ? I am sure you are hungry.'

1 Well, I do feel rather peckish. Yes, thank
you, mother, I will have some tea.'

Would you like something to it V

'I don't know whether Ran would or not,'
put in Bob, who had at this moment joined
them, ' but I know I should. Besides, what a
queer tea it would be without anything to it !'

Randle knows what I mean. Would you
like some meat V

By all means, mother, let us have — but I
know you have something ready, and I am
sure it is good.'

So am I, because I know,' interrupted Bob.
*' I heard a whisper this morning. It's boned
turkey and cold boiled ham. When will tea
be ready, mother?'

In ten minutes.'

'All right. In ten minutes I'll be ready too,
and I bet Ran will also.'

The Redscar Lymington kept up the old
custom of early dinners and evening teas,
which latter on special occasions, such as
Randle's return, were particularly strong teas,
differing little from the more substantial meal
save in the addition of the beverage that cheers
but not inebriates.

Have you seen much of uncle while I have

been away V asked Randle, as his mother was
pouring out his second cup of tea.

Not very much. He has only called twice,
I think; but he has been pretty often to the
counting-house. Has not he, Robert?' (Mrs.
Lymington never called her second son Bob.)

f Rather — every day nearly. I never saw
such a tiresome old beggar in my life,'

'Robert!' exclaimed his mother, in a tone of
remonstrance, 'is that the way you speak of
your uncle V

1 1 don't care, mother, he is tiresome. He
never lets a fellow alone. He was always
wanting to know everything, and patronised
me, and gave me fatherly advice, until at last
I ran out of the counting-house whenever I saw
his carriage coming over the hill ; and old Pitt
had standing orders never to be able to find
me so long as Mr. Lymington was on the
ground. I suppose, as Randle was away, he
thought he would have his fling.'

4 Uncle Randle has a passion for meddling,
there is no doubt,' said Red Randle, and, if I
had not been partner as well as executor, I
don't know what I should have done. But

since the time I reminded him that I was both,
and that, though I would listen to his advice,
I was the sole manager of the concern and
meant to remain so, he has let me alone.'

Only wait until I am partner, and I'll give
him a bit of my mind too.'

4 He will have nothing more to do with the
concern after you are a partner, Bob; he will
simply be one of the trustees for the settlements.'


So much the better, for I don't like Uncle
Handle a bit.'

'Robert! what are you saying?' exclaimed
his mother.

'It's true, mother; and one ought always to
speak the truth, you know. And, if you were
to speak your mind, I don't think you like him
much either — any more than Ran does. What
do you think he was saying the other day in
Whitebrook V

'I have not the least idea, Robert. What
was it V

1 Why, that he kept " those lads " on their
legs — meaning Randle and me.'

'I think I have heard of him saying something

of that sort before,' said Handle. 'He
probably thinks it his duty ; he is always great
on duty, you know. At any rate it is of no
consequence. If it pleases him to say so, it
does us no harm.'

'You are too patient, Ran. I call such
statements downright annoying — as if we
could not get along without him.'

Never mind,' observed Handle, helping himself
to a slice of boned turkey, ' let him think
and talk what he likes. But I will have no
meddling, and that he knows. Hulloa ! what
is that V

I Wheels,' said Bob.

I I declare, it is Uncle Handle,' exclaimed Hed
Handle, as a carriage drove past the diningroom
window.

1 Talk of the devil,' muttered Bob, as the
door opened, and a smart waiting maid
announced Mr. Lymington and Mr. Handle
Lymington.

VOL. I. N

CHAPTER XVI.

Deepened Candle.

MR. Lymington was a tall, rather stout,
grey-haired gentleman, with a short neck,
a ruddy countenance, and a somewhat high-coloured
nose, a peculiarity, as also an occasional
attack of gout, which was probably attributable
to the fact that he thought it his duty to
drink the greater part of a bottle of port wine
every day with his dinner. He tried to put on
a stately manner, but only succeeded in being
pompous, and, as is often the case with pompous
people, his words were apt to be bigger than
his deeds.

His son Randle was strikingly like his
nephew Randle. Apart, they were often mistaken
for each other ; albeit when they were

together it was impossible to doubt which was
which. Deepdene Randle, though in height,
feature, and complexion so much resembling his
cousin that they might have been twin brothers,
was slightly stouter than Redscar Handle ; his
eyes were a shade smaller, his face, too, was
fuller, and his general aspect, some people
thought, less frank and winning.

Glad to see you back, Randle, lad said Mr.
Lymington, as he shook hands with his nephew,
after having greeted his sister-in-law. ' I hope
you have enjoyed yourself in Switzerland. I
travelled there myself when I was a young
fellow — did it all. Times were different then,
though. How long were you in going from
Lausanne to London?'

■ Twenty-six or seven hours, I think.'

1 Just look at that, now. I was twelve days
on the road, and did not let the grass grow
under my feet either. But that is forty years
since — things are very different now.'

Here Mrs. Lymington interposed to ask if he
would not take a cup of tea.

'Ah, thank you, Sophia, just a cup, but
nothing to eat. We dine late, you know, and

n2

I don't want to spoil my dinner. We just called
en passant — on our way back from Warrington,
you know — been to look at some property
there, which I think I shall purchase, if they
will take my price. I will give £9,500, and as
I told Chipping — that is the agent, you know
the money is ready when he is ready, cash
down, and no questions asked. Ah, ah — that
is the way to do business. If I had not been
well trained in business we should not have
occupied the position we do now — eh, Randle,
my lad V (This was spoken to his son.) ' My
father, whom you two boys resemble so much,
knew how to bring up a child in the way he
should go, I can tell you. But it answers — that
sort of bringing up answers. You will not find
many men, taking it all together, who have
succeeded better than me — than my brother
Robert and myself. He has left you very well
off, though I have perhaps been more fortunate
than he has, and, please God, I'll put the family
in its proper position before I have done. Is
Ancient Families of the Northern Counties "
out yet, Randle V

Not yet,' answered his son. 'I don't think

it will be out for two or three months. But
Peter Wiswell expects a proof every day — we
have to revise it together.'

Ah, yes ; I was forgetting. Did I tell you,
Handle ' (to his nephew) ' Did I tell you that
we have traced the family pedigree back to
Adam de Lymington of Angelzark, who obtained
a grant of Lymington Pike from Edward III.
for his valour at the battle of Agincourt V

Yes, you told me,' said Randle, rather
indifferently, for he had heard the story— of
which he did not believe a word — at least half
a dozen times before.

It has cost me a deal of money having these
researches made, as you may suppose. But
that is not all. Peter Wiswell found a document
the other day that carries the pedigree
back a stage further, and it appears that the
father or grandfather of this Adam was a
soldier of fortune, served in the Imperial Guard
at Constantinople, and afterwards in Germany,
where he married Hildegarde, daughter and coheiress
of Prince Hermann Barbarossa, one of
.the first and oldest families as is, Peter says.
If he is right we have royal blood in our veins,

Ran die, lad. And we have got a portrait of
the reigning prince, and everybody that has
seen it thinks that him and me are very like.'

He has got a big red nose, then,' whispered
Bob to his brother.

It is all going to appear in the '* Ancient
Families of the Northern Counties." You shall
have a copy as soon as it comes out. I have
ordered fifty.'

< Fifty !'

1 Yes, fifty at two guineas, that's the '

'Never mind about the pedigree just now,
father,' interrupted his son, just in time to prevent
his parent letting the cat out of the bag.
We are forgetting all about Dora. I suppose
you saw Dora, Ran V

Whereupon Randle told how he had found
the young lady, and delivered the various messages
with which she had charged him. After
this he was asked to give some account of his
wanderings — where he had been and what he
had done. His first idea was to say nothing of
his adventure in the Furca Pass, but remembering
that he had told the story to Dora, and
she might mention it in her letters home, he concluded

— lest his silence should be misconstrued
to tell it a second time.

'Oh, Handle, you might have been killed,'
exclaimed his mother, when he had finished ; and
her emotion was so great that she felt constrained
to retire a few minutes from the room,
as her son rightly supposed, to offer up a thanksgiving
for his escape.

I And you saved the life of Lord Lindisfarne's
daughter, of Lady Muriel Avalon !' observed
Mr. Ry winston, in an awe-struck tone. ' How
very providential !'

And the earl asked you to Avalon Priory,'
said Deep Handle, with a look of envy. ' You
are in luck, cousin !'

I I did not say he invited me. I said he promised
to send me an invitation when the family
returned to England.'

It is the same thing.'

Not quite ; he may forget, you know.'

Why, it is one of the oldest earldoms in the
kingdom, isn't it, Handle V asked Mr. Lymington.

1 Earl of Lindisfarne in the peerage of Scotland,
and Baron Avalon of Avalon in the peerage
of the United Kingdom answered Deep

Randle, who was very knowing in such matters.
But the present earl is not very rich, I believe.
He came into the title rather late in life — succeeded
his uncle the late earl — and as he has
two or three dowagers on his hands, besides
other encumbrances, his income is not exactly
princely. At least so I have heard,'

But think of his high rank — Earl of Lindisfarne
in the peerage of Scotland, and Baron
Avalon of Avalon in the peerage of the United
Kingdom — his ancient lineage and honourable
name!' urged Mr. Lymington. 'What is mere
income compared with such priceless advantages
V

They would be of very little use without income,
I fancy,' said Red Randle. ' But do you
think the earl is as well off in the matter of
lineage as we are, uncle ? At any rate he is
not descended from the Prince Hermann 
— Barbarossa — and I don't think
he has royal blood in his veins.'

But that is different, you know. Not that I
don't think our pedigree is as good as his, but
Lord Lindisfarne is — however, there is no use
talking to you about these things. You are a

Radical, and would like, I daresay, to level all
our ancient institutions to the ground.'

4 Do you consider the Lymington pedigree, as
prepared by Peter Wis well, to be an ancient institution,
uncle?' rejoined Handle, with a significant
smile.

What does it matter to you whether I door
not V returned Mr. By winston, angrily. ' At
any rate you are not worthy of such a pedigree.
I am sorry, very sorry, Randle, to see you are
such a Radical. If my poor brother could have
foreseen that his son would have deserted the
old flag, how it would have grieved him V

i I have not deserted the old flag, uncle. I
have been a Liberal ever since I began to think
seriously, that is since I went to Glasgow ; and
I believe that in keeping my opinion in abeyance
during my father's lifetime I did what was
right. But I never pretended to be what
I was not.'

f Well, well, it is a subject about which we
shall never agree, so let it drop. We are unenlightened
individuals, and you are wiser than
me, your father, and your grandfather all put
together.'

1 thought you said let it drop, uncle V

1 Well, I have doue, haven't I ? But ' (looking
at bis watch), ' bless me, how late it is ; we must
be going, Handle ' (to his son). * I think you will
find all right at the factory, Handle' (to his
nephew). * I have called nearly every day during
your absence — I thought it my duty, you know
as Robert will tell you, though I am sorry to
say he was not always there. I had a good
deal of fault to find at times — I thought it my
duty, you know — but the men knew I was not
to be trifled with, and, as I said, you will find
things all right.'

Thank you, uncle,' said Handle, gravely. ' I
am sure you have been very good.'

Confound his impudence,' said Bob, sotto voce.
Why, he never came that he did not set
everybody by the ears, and it was all I could do
to persuade the fellows to be civil to him.'

I try to be, lad ; I try to be ; and if you
would only follow ray advice about everything
you would do well. But we cannot put old
heads on young shoulders. You know the saying
: Young folks think old folks are fools ; old
folks know that young folks are. Come, Handle.

lad, let us be off. We shall be half an hour late
for dinner as it is.'

1 1 think my uncle is getting slightly crazed
about the antiquity of the Lymington family,'
said the other Randle, as he returned to the
dining-room after seeing that gentleman and
his son into their carriage. ' It was always a
weak point with him, but he talked greater
nonsense to-night than I ever heard him talk
before. If he swallows that story about our
descent from Prince Hermann Barbarossa he'll
swallow anything.'

But do you think he does believe it, Randle V
asked his mother.

'I fancy he does. When a vain man wants
very much to believe something that exalts
him in his own estimation, and, as he thinks,
in that of his neighbours, he generally succeeds


Peter Wiswell makes a nice penny out of
him.'

Rather. And Peter will go on making bogus
pedigrees as long as he is paid for them. That
was really a fine stroke of his to connect us
with the Barbarossa family. Why, Prince Barbarossa

is half-cousin to the Queen, brother-in-law
to the Emperor of Austria, and akin to
half the royal houses in Europe.'

It will all appear as large as life in the
"Ancient Families of the Northern Counties," I
suppose ? That's another of Peter's speculations.
Oh, he's a very downy gentleman, is
Mr. Wis well. Did you hear what my uncle
said — that he had agreed to take fifty copies at
two guineas each? And he would have said
more if my cousin had not stopped him.'

'What would he have said?'

That his taking fifty copies was the condition
on which his bogus pedigree was to figure
among those of the ancient families of the
northern counties.'

4 And then V

Why, he thinks it will be the means of attaining
the great object of his ambition — getting
the Lymington of Deepdene recognised asa
county family, and himself admitted to the
intimacy of such people as the Slaughters, the
Myerscoughs, and the Stalmines.'

Do you think he will succeed V

No, they don't like him. They don't like

his bumptiousness. They have heard of his
meanness, and they laugh at his claims to
ancient lineage. He would have had a far
better chance of getting his ends if he had
not pretended to be more than he is — a retired
manufacturer of honourable family. It is
Deepdene that has spoiled my uncle. My
father used to say that, though my uncle was
always a bit soft on the pedigree question, he
was a very sensible man so long as he was in
the concern. But he is not the first, by a
long way, who has been demoralised by prosperity
and the possession of land.'

'But he is very shrewd in some things,
Randle,' observed his mother. ' See how well he
manages his property. And I have heard your
poor father say that the purchase of Deepdene
was almost a stroke of genius.'

1 Shrewd ! I should think he is. In money
matters there is nobody more so. Very few
people have anything to do with Uncle Handle,
except Peter Wiswell, that don't come off
second best. As Jack Blezzard would say,
they generally get hold of the dirty end of the-stick.'


And some people say the deep 'un ' (this was
a designation Bob had conferred on his cousin)
4 is quite as keen.'

1 I don't know about that. But it is likely
enough, for he looks at everything from one
point of view — that of his own interest. He
did at school, and I don't suppose he has
altered much since.'

But does not everybody do the same V put
in Bob.

'Every unregenerate person does, Robert,'
observed his mother, with a little sigh, ' and I
am afraid your cousin Handle is one.'

'And not the only one, by a long chalk,'
muttered Bob.

Very likely,' continued Handle, not heeding
these interruptions; 'but there are degrees.
What I mean is, that whenever anything happens
that can touch himself or the family, the
first thought that occurs to Handle is : How
will this affect me? And he never tries to rise
above this egoism, or to fight against the selfish
impulses from which nobody is wholly free.
And, unless his actions belie him, he is shaping
his life on the principle of placing his own comfort

and ambition before every other consideration
— before even his duty to his father or the
affection he owes his sister, to say nothing of
outsiders.'

4 Are you not judging him rather hardly, my
dear?' rejoined Mrs. Lymington. 'I know he
is very worldly, but to say he is utterly selfish
seems rather uncharitable.'

I merely say what I believe to be true,
mother. You know Handle and I have been
schoolfellows, and I have very good grounds
to go upon. Time will show whether I am
right or not. If I am not, so much the
better.'

CHAPTER XVII.

PEDIGREE PETER.

COUSIN Candle is in luck,' said the
other Randle to his father, as the two
drove away from Redscar.

In having rendered so important a service
to Lord Lindisfarne's family, you mean V

'Not so much that as in having got introduced
to the family, and received an invitation
to Avalon Priory.'

Yes. I wish it had been your luck instead
of his. If we were on visiting terms with the
Lindisfarness, Sir Humphrey Stalmine would
think twice before refusing my invitations to
dinner, as he did the last time I asked him.
But do you think you would have had the presence
of mind, Randle, to have plucked that
girl — the Lady Muriel — from the carriage V

• Oh, yes, I think so. And very likely my
cousin makes the most of it. I don't suppose
it was so much of a feat as he makes it appear.'

'I don't agree with you there, Handle. I
have no great cause to love my nephew ; he is
not too respectful, and refuses to follow my advice
; but, whatever may be his faults, he is at
least sincere and truthful.'

A man may exaggerate, may he not, without
absolutely lying? Well, I think Handle's
story of the rescue, and that, is too strange to
be altogether true. Let us see whether he
is really asked to Avalon Priory or not. That
will be the. test. If he is not, we shall know
what conclusion to draw.'

'If he is, he will perhaps introduce you and
me, so for goodness' sake don't let him suppose
you doubt his word. If we could ask the
Stalmines and Myerscoughs to dinner to meet
the Earl of Lindisfarne it would be the making of
us. Until we can do something of the sort,
or can get you a high-born wife, I am afraid we
shall not be admitted into the county set. I
should like you to marry well, Handle.'

'And I mean to marry well if I can get a
VOL. I.

chance. But how am I to go about it 1 These
people never invite me to their houses. I
should like to propose to Miss Houghton, but I
never see her except in the hunting field.'

'But you will be very well off, Handle, and
Miss Houghton is not rich. They say her
father cannot leave her more than five thousand
pounds, and will not give her a penny
down.'

That may be. But you will worsen my
chance of marrying blood much, father, if you
persist in dividing the property equally between
Dora and myself.'

There is no help for it, Randle. I promised
your mother before she died that I would leave
you equal. Besides, it is in the settlement.
Your mother's fortune was twenty thousand
pounds, which I thought a great deal thirty
years since — it was as much almost as I had
myself — and we agreed, and it was put down
in the deed, that my property as well as hers
should be equally divided among any children
we might have. It is an engagement to which
I have put my hand and seal, and there is no
getting out of it. But I promise you one

thing, Randle, that my will shall be made in
such a way that it will be entirely your own
fault if you do not come into all my property,
with the exception of a small legacy to Dora
in addition to what she takes under her mother's
settlement ; and that she will, of course, have
when she is twenty-one. I don't believe inlarge
fortunes for girls.'

But how on earth will you manage that,
father?' said the young man, eagerly. s I cannot
conceive.'

4 1 daresay you cannot, and I do not mean to
tell you. You will know soon enough ; that is,
when my last will and testament is read.
Meantime you have no reason to complain.
You have the interest of your mother's ten thousand
pounds, and that, with your allowance from
me, is equal to £1,000 a year, besides which
yoo live free of charge at Deepdene, and I keep
your horses. It is more than Sir Humphrey
Stalmine allows his son. You are very well
off, my lad, whatever you may think.'

'I was not complaining, father; only, if you
want me to marry blood, I must be in a position
to do so ; and, if it were given out that I

o2

am to inherit all your real estate, I should be a
deal more of a catch, don't you see V

'All right, my lad. You find the blood, and
I'll find the groats. Talking of marrying, do
you think your cousin Randle cares at all for
Dora V

4 1 do think so. Ran is very close in some
respects, and hard to read ; but I think he is
fond of Dora, and I am sure she likes him. At
any rate, they have always cottoned to each
other a good deal. Why do you ask the question
— would you like them to make a match of
it?'

Not particularly ; I was only asking for information.
As for Dora marrying, it will be
time enough to think about that two or three
years hence. I don't believe in girls marrying
so very early,' with the utterance of which sentiment
Mr. Lymington fell into a brown study, of
which his son took advantage to light a cigar,
and indulge in a smoke that lasted until they
reached the gates of Deepdene Park.

Deepdene lay about two miles from White-brook,
but the estate to which it gives a name
was almost conterminous with the northern

boundary of the borough. Its purchase by the
elder Byvington was regarded, not only by his
brother, but by the world of Whitebrook generally,
as a stroke of genius. From almost time
immemorial Deepdene had belonged to the Earls
of-falleth, and been under settlements so strict
that, although much of it was most desirable
building land, nobody could be persuaded to
build upon it. The longest lease the Falleth
trustees were empowered to grant was sixty
years, and Whitebrook manufacturers absolutely
refused to build factories on a tenure so onerous.
Mr. Lymington had often cast his eye on the
property and calculated its value to an enterprising
man unfettered by absurd restrictions,
and he resolved, if ever the opportunity should
arise, to become its owner. The opportunity
did arise. When Lord Morton, the Earl of
Falleth's heir, attained his majority it was
arranged to sell the Lancashire estates and invest
the proceeds in land in Staffordshire. Mr.
Lymington, who was on friendly terms with the
local steward, getting a word of this before anybody
else in the neighbourhood, went up to
London, saw the lawyers engaged in the matter,

and succeeded in buying the whole estate at the
rate of twenty-five years' purchase of its agricultural
value. It would have been cheap at
double the money. Some rich Whitebrook
people, who would gladly have bought Deep-done,
when they knew how acutely Mr. Lymington
had out-generally them, were much annoyed
that he should have acquired the property
for so inadequate a price; and it was
broadly insinuated that he had bought the
steward as well as the estate, if he had not
bought the lawyers. To these insinuations — if
they came to his ears — he paid no heed, but
busied himself almost day and night in developing
the resources and increasing the capabilities
of his purchase. Being just outside the borough,
and therefore escaping the heavy borough rates,
yet close to the railway and well supplied with
water, it quickly came into vogue as a site for
factories and cottages, and grew so fast in
value that when Robert Lymington died his
brother was a man of £10,000 a year, albeit the
possibilities of the property were by no means
exhausted.

One of Mr. Lymington's first proceedings,.

after paying off the mortgage which he had
raised io order to enable him to complete his
purchase, was to restore the old house in Deep-done
Park, into which no Falleth had put his
head for half a century. It was a fine old timbered
mansion, standing on a grassy knoll,
flanked by a small lake, and approached by a
grand avenue of chestnut-trees. When its
owner sent out invitations for his house-warming
he felt that he was at length on the point of
reaching the secret ambition of his life, and becoming,
not only a country but a county
gentleman, as he was already a county magistrate.
Bitter, therefore, was his disappointment
when none of the gentry of the neighbourhood
accepted his invitation. They all replied very
courteously and made very plausible excuses.
One had the influenza, another had a wife in the
straw, another had a sick son, others had previous
engagements — all had something, and the
end of it was that the county families were conspicuous
by their absence, and their places had
to be filled up at the last moment by an equal
.number of the despised people of Whitebrook.
It next occurred to Mr. Lymington that the one

thing needful was a pedigree, that if his family
could be proved to be of a respectable antiquity
and he had an impression derived from his
own consciousness that the proof would be easy
the position to which he aspired would readily
be accorded to him.

In this emergency he bethought himself of
Peter Wis well, a local genealogist, journalist,
antiquarian, author, and poetaster; for Peter was
as great a hand at turning verses for puffing
tradesmen as in making pedigrees for aspiring
manufacturers. In early life Peter had come to
grief as a bookseller and stationer, whereupon,
to use his own expression, ' he had betaken himself
to a literary career.' His greatest achievement
in this line, the one of which he was most
justly proud, was his ' Whitebrook As It Is.'
He was commissioned to write the work for an
enterprising publisher, who proposed to bring it
out in combination with a directory. There
was a little preliminary difficulty about the
terms. Peter wanted a lump sum for the job ;
the publisher wanted to pay by results. In the
end Peter agreed to accept so much a sheet,
and the price was so low that the publisher

thought he had made a most excellent bargain.
But the poor mau had forgotten to make any
stipulation about quantity, the amount of 'copy '
to be supplied being left implicitly to the
author's discretion, and he sent in, week after
week, such piles of manuscript, that the unfortunate
publisher was driven to the verge of
despair. Peter wrote both a preface and an introduction.
In the former he had much to say
about the ancient Britons, the Romans, the
Angles and Saxons, and the Danes, ' who
harassed this part and made sad havoc in their
incursions.' The introduction was a philosophical
treatise in which Peter expressed his
views on things in general in sentences of portentous
length. ' The irregular progression of
society,' he observed, 'in intellectual development,
in moral force, in religious fervour, and in mercantile
prosperity — its advances, retrogradations,
aberrations, and intervals of quiescence are
phenomena hard to understand and difficult to
explain. There are, indeed, known to thoughtful
observers and students of humanity, physical
causes and ethical combinations on which
philosophy is accustomed to base its estimates

oi particular social epochs and political revolutions
; but there would seem to be something
more recondite than their agency, which produces,
at fixed intervals, an unwonted activity
of mind and removes the time and ages in
which it occurs from the common roll of history
and its records ; and it is because of the faithful
tracing from cause to effect of unbroken concatenation
in the chain of great events and momentous
cataclysms, and of the well-detailed and
practical illustration which furnishes a complete
clovis to their connection with, and affinity for,
each other, that I experience such deep and unfeigned
pleasure in bringing a work of this
nature forward, as being a history of the ancient
and renowned town of Whitebrook, a town
whose present commercial development is on a
par with its local importance in the days of the
Plantagenet and Tudor monarchs of this realm
of England.'

There was no event in the history of the
borough that Mr. Wiswell thought too trivial
to be chronicled. When he came to the year
183 ( .) he observed: 'About this time we were
chequered in our business,' a euphemism by

which the few who were still cognisant of the
circumstance were reminded that 1839 was the
year of Peter's bankruptcy. He devoted three
chapters to the market house alone. He told
of the time when, in the infancy of the town,
old women who sold sweet stuff and potatoes
were exposed without any protection, save such
as their umbrellas afforded them, to all the inclemency
of the weather ; and drew a pathetic
picture of their sufferings. He next described
iii great detail a wooden shed — the first attempt
at a covered market — which had been erected
by a charitable townsman at his own expense
to protect ' these poor but industrious and
honest creatures from the fury of the elements
And so he went on, until he came to the newmarket
house, which he described from its very
inception to the weather vane on its top, and
wound up his narrative by observing, that ' over
the principal entrance is a handsome lantern
(by Messrs. Hodges and Lodges, of this town),
placed there for the purpose of giving light.'

The bookseller declared that he was going to
be ruined, and offered to give Peter double the
lump sum he had at first asked, on condition

that he should keep his ' copy ' within reasonable
bounds, an offer that the writer of ' Whitebrook
As It Is ' accepted with feigned reluctance but
inward rejoicing.

Peter's fame as a genealogist dated from the
time when he found a pedigree, a new name,
and a coat of arms for the Bellows family. Joe
Bellows, its founder, had started life in White-brook
as a working blacksmith and beershop
keeper. He was so illiterate that he could
hardly write his own name, yet so shrewd and
energetic withal that he won wide renown and
a large fortune as a maker of boilers and steam
engines. All that he knew of his ancestry was
that his father had been transported for life for
killing a fellow workman in a drunken brawl ;
and when his two sons, to whose industry his
success was largely due, suggested that his new
carriage could not be considered complete without
a crest on the panels he had to be told what
a crest was. But he let the lads have their
way.

'It make no difference to me,' said honest
Joe, * what mack ' (sort) ' of a picture they
painted on th' panels

So Peter Wiswell, who had really a fair smattering
of heraldic and archaeological lore, was
called into council, and speedily produced a
coat-farms and a crest which made a very
pretty show when emblazoned on the new
carriage. Nor was this all. Joe's children did
not like their name. It was bad that the father
was generally spoken of as Old Bellows (among
the hands in familiar converse this became ' Owd-
Bellies-torment '), but what most hurt their
feelings was, that the family at large should always
be designated as " them Bellows.' This
grievance suggested to Peter one of his happiest
inspirations — rather, let us say, one of his most
remarkable discoveries. He found out that the
true, original name of the family was not
Bellows at all, but Bellasis. Bellows was a
modern corruption, a proposition which Peter
supported by documentary proof — extracts from
registers and so forth — and a pedigree that
carried conviction to the minds of the entire
family, except the head of it, who, when it was
proposed to change his name, swore with a big
oath that Joe Bellows he was born and Joe
Bellows he would die. But few men can withstand

the importunity of wife and children ; and
the old blacksmith and boiler-maker is described,
on the marble tablet which chronicles his virtues
and records his death, as ' Joseph Bellasis, Esq.,
deputy lieutenant and justice of the peace of
this county,' and his grandchildren, if not his
children, are fully convinced that they come of
an aristocratic stock.

In short, Peter was a genius ; and, as may be
supposed, he had not much difficulty in providing
Mr. Lymington with a pedigree entirely
to his satisfaction. Knowing his man, he did
not hesitate to give him a very distinguished
ancestry indeed. Perhaps the only person at
Whitebrook who believed that the Lymington
were akin to the royal house of Barbarossa was
the owner of Deepdene himself.

As for Wiswell, his celebrity as a genealogist
won for him the name of 'Pedigree Peter,' a
name which he retained to the day of his death.

CHAPTER XVIII.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

"PvORA was as good as her word. The spring
*J following Randle's memorable excursion in
Switzerland, she returned from Nyon under the
escort of her brother, reaching Deepdene a few
days before Robert Lymington's twenty-first
birthday, and in time to take part in the informal
council which was held to consider in
what manner the event should be celebrated.

'I am going to Redscar this afternoon, Dora,'
said Mr. Lymington, as they were taking breakfast
together the morning after his daughter's
arrival ; - will you bear me company ? I daresay
your aunt would like to see you.'

4 Certainly, papa. It is my duty to see Aunt
Sophia, you know, and I think I should have
gone to Redscar to-day — at any rate, tomorrow

even if you had not been going. What is
going to be done about Bob's birthday 1 ?'

6 That is one of the things we have to talk
about. Your aunt hinted the other day that
they would like to have my advice, though Tarn
not sure that I shall give it.'

Why not, papa?' asked Dora, in a tone of
some surprise ; for she had observed that advice
was the only thing her father ever gave freely.

Well, you see, Dora, my authority as executor
ceases the day Robert is of age. He goes into
partnership with Randle, and henceforth they
conduct the concern on their own responsibility.
I shall have nothing more to do with it.'

But if they ask your advice, you know V

It is exactly what they have not done. Your
aunt has, but I have had to complain ever since
my brother's death of the little attention the
young men have paid to my wishes. I am only
afraid, now that they are their own masters,
they will make ducks and drakes of the property ;
and I should be sorry indeed if the concern were
to go down. But I fear it will ; I fear it will.'

'But I thought Randle was such a good
business man, papa. I have heard people say

that the Redscar mills are almost the best
managed in Whitebrook.'

< Who says so V

4 Why, did not that Mr. Riser who was here
last night say so V

Ah, yes, I remember. But he forgets that
Randle has never yet been left to himself.
Since his father's death he has always had me
to look after him ; and, though he has not observed
my advice as he ought to have done, my
position as executor has enabled me to veto
more than one questionable scheme. And he
has notions about treating the hands that will
never answer.'

'How, papa?'

1 Why, he thinks he can rule them by kindness;
but he'll find it out; they will let him see.'

'But is it not our duty as Christians, papa, to
treat everybody with kindness, whether they
are hands or not ? You know we are told to
love our neighbours as ourselves.'

1 Do you consider that our work people are
our neighbours, then V

'Cousin Randle's work people are his neighbours
at any rate, papa.'

VOL. I. P

You are much too literal, Dora,' rejoined her
father, tersely. ' Besides, girls do not understand
these things. When you are older, you
will think differently. But I must be going ; I
have an appointment with Riser at nine o'clock.
How that man has got on, to be sure ! I can
remember him being a weaver at Redscar, and
now he wants to take land for another loom
shed, and he has nearly one thousand looms
already.'

'Will Randle go with us to Redscar V asked
Dora, who did not seem greatly interested in
Mr. Riser and his looms.

I am sure I don't know. You can ask him
when he comes down to breakfast. I shall be
out all morning. We leave at two o'clock,
remember ; I have some matters of business to
arrange with my nephews.'

'Very well, papa. I will be ready.'
Half an hour after Mr. Lymington's departure,
his son Randle sauntered languidly into the
morning-room, where the Lymington generally
breakfasted when they were without guests.

How late you are, Randle !' said his sister.
4 It's past nine o'clock !'

Nine o'clock ! Do you call that late ? I call
it early.'

It seems very late to rne. At Villa Artemisia
Ave breakfasted in summer at half-past six, and
in winter at seven o'clock.'

1 That is all very well for Swiss schoolgirls,'
yawned Deep Randle, as he drew a chair to the
table and cut himself a slice of ham, 'but you
won't persuade me to breakfast either at half-past
six or half-past seven, nor even half-past
eight. Pour me out a cup of tea, there's a good
girl. Where has the governor gone V

4 He's gone to see Mr. Riser about some
land.'

Glad to hear it. That means an addition to
the value of the estate. I hope my father will
make Mr. Riser pay a good price. I think he
will, for our revered parent is not easily beaten
at a bargain. What are you going to do with
yourself to-day, Dora V

c Papa and I are going to Redscar after luncheon.
Papa has something to arrange with
Randle and Bob, and I want to see Aunt Sophia.
Will you go with us, Ran V

'No, I don't think I shall.'

p2

6 Why f I am sure Aunt Sophia and the cousins
would be glad to see you.'

c I am not. At least, so far as the cousins
are concerned, and Aunt Sophia wearies me
with her canting conversations.'

Aunt Sophia never cants, Handle. She hasher
faults, perhaps — who has not ? — but insincerity
is not one of them; and she is always
very kind.'

1 1 will say, then, by her frequent references
to religion, and the tacit assumption of infallibility,
which is the badge of that party in the
Church to which she belongs. She speaks of
me as worldly, I believe ; that means, I suppose,
that I am not, like herself, a self-elected saint.
At any rate, I am as saintly as either of her sons,
even as that paragon of perfection, my cousin
and namesake. Did you hear of that wonderful
exploit of his in Switzerland — the rescue of
Lord Lindisfarne's daughter, I mean V

Yes, I heard ; what then V replied Dora,
with a contemptuous curl of her lip.

What then ! Why, it is all a cram, or at any
rate a gross exaggeration.'

'You don't mean what you say, Randle ; you

cannot mean it,' exclaimed Dora, passionately.
You know as well as I know that Randle
Lymington of Redscar is utterly incapable of
telling a deliberate falsehood.'

Oh, we are indignant, are we !' said the
other, with a sneer. ' Well, since you put it in
that way, Dora, let me tell you that I don't
know that my cousin Randle — or anybody else,
for that matter— is utterly incapable of telling
a deliberate falsehood, if the inducement is sufficient.'


Oh, Randle, if you talk like that,' rejoined
the girl, in a voice trembling with emotion, ' you
will make me almost dislike you. But you cannot
mean what you say. You are only trying
to tease me. Besides, I know that my cousin
did rescue Lady Muriel Avalon, when she was
run away with in the Furca Pass.'

How do you know ? Were you there V

'No, but I saw an account of it in the Gazette
de Lausanne.'

'I don't know anything about the Gazette de
Lausanne,' answered Deep Randle, whose scepticism
this statement seemed somewhat to
shake. ' But just tell me this. If my cousin

really did what he says he did, he laid the
Lindisfarne family under a great obligation.
Yet they take not the slightest notice of him.
He said he was going to see them at Avalon
Priory, but he has never been, and, so far as I
know, has received no communication from
them. Is it credible that if he had rendered
them so important a service they would not
acknowledge it in some way V

The invitation never came, then V
Not it — shouldn't we all have known if it
had ? I have asked Randle two or three times
when he was going to Avalon Priory. The
last time I asked him he seemed rather waxy,
and wanted to know what business it was of
mine ; so, seeing the subject was a delicate one,
I just let it drop.'

c I don't wonder he was vexed. Such ingratitude
would vex anybody, let alone your
sneers, and I daresay you did sneer,' exclaimed
Dora, with great warmth. 'But I don't care.
Randle did rescue Lady Muriel, and nearly lost
his life by trying to get up the body of the
governess from the place where it had fallen.
I am as sure of it as if I had been there myself;

and, after what be has done, the conduct of the
Lindisfarness is simply disgraceful. If Handle
is vexed it is because of their ingratitude. As
for their invitation, I don't believe he cares for
it one bit. I don't believe, if it came now, he
would accept it.'

1 Xot care for an invitation from the Earl of
Lindisfarne V rejoined Handle, with a mocking
laugh. ' I pity your innocence, Dora. Why, it
is exactly what he does care for. He would
give his ears for an invitation.'

4 You would, I daresay. But I will talk no
more with you, Randle. I shall not be able to
keep my temper if I do. Do you want anymore
tea ? I am going into the garden.'

No, I don't want any more tea. By all
means go into the garden if you want to go.'

If that young lady is not in love with her
cousin Handle,' muttered her brother, as the
door closed behind Dora, i the female mind is
an unfathomable mystery.'

They met a little later in the garden, as
Randle was returning from the stables, when
Dora again asked him to accompany her father
and herself to Redscar. He again declined, but

this time a little more graciously, adding that
as he was under a long-standing engagement
to be present at an agricultural show in the
neighbourhood he could not go if he would.
Dora had her doubts as to the entire accuracy
of this statement ; but it was so far satisfactory
that it might seem to account for her brother's
non-appearance at Redscar.

During the remainder of the morning Dora
thought of little else than her cousin and the
Lindisfarness. Though since Handle's visit to
Nyon she had not once heard from him, she
never doubted that he had made the contemplated
visit to Avalon Priory ; she had even
reproached him in her thoughts for his failure
to write to her as he had promised, a failure
which she was disposed to attribute to the
fascinations of Lady Muriel, with whom she
made up her mind that he had fallen in love.
The news that he had not been to Avalon
Priory at all was almost startling. This contingency
was one the possibility of which had
never occurred to her. Despite her brother's
assurance that Randle had received no communication
from Lord Lindisfarne since their

parting at Brigue, Dora finally came to the
conclusion that it was more probable he had
received and refused — for reasons best known
to himself — an invitation, than that he should
not have received one at all, a refusal with
which she had a vague suspicion that she herself
might be not remotely connected.

This theory was, however, rather rudely
shaken by a conversation she had with her
father on their way to Redscar. She told him
what had passed between her brother and herself
on the subject, and asked him what he
thought about it.

8 It's a very strange affair,' said Mr. Lymington.
■ T don't understand it at all.'

'But are you sure, papa, that Randle has
received no communication whatever from Lord
Lindisfarne V

i He says he has not.'

How long ago did he say so V

I don't know exactly how long. Three or
four months, perhaps.'

'May he not have heard something since?'

1 He may, of course ; but, when I saw that
Randle did not like being questioned on the

subject, I questioned him no more. He's rather
testy if you tread on his corns., my nephew is.
Still I don't think he has heard. If he had
received an invitation to Avalon Priory we
should all know, of course.'

But suppose the invitation was so long
delayed, or so coldly given, that Handle, feeling
hurt, declined it, and told nobody V

Mr. Lymington, instead of replying, shrugged
his shoulders and smiled. No more than his
son could he believe in the possibility of anybody
refusing an invitation from an earl,
whether long delayed or coldly given.

I know what you mean, papa, but I am sure
that Cousin Randle is quite capable of declining
an invitation from Lord Lindisfarne, or any
other lord. Bat you surely don't share in my
brother's opinion that Randle never met the
Lindisfarness, and that it is all a made-up
story V

No,' said the old gentleman, reflectively.
It is queer, certainly — very queer ; but I don't
think that. As I have said before, though my
nephew Randle is not always as respectful as he
might be, he is, I believe, an honest man. At

any rate, he is not a fool, and I do not see
what he could hope to gain by inventing such
a story, and above all by saying that he was
going to Avalon Priory, if he had no ground to
go upon. Such a proceeding could only bring
upon him discredit and expose him to ridicule.
As it is, many people believe that it was a piece
of bounce — about the invitation, I mean.'

Did he tell many people, then V

No, I don't think he did ; but these things
get out, you know. Your brother mentioned it
to the Stalmines and one or two others — that is
what makes him so sore ; and, for my own part,
I did not think it my duty to make a secret of
it, you know. I did not see the necessity.
Altogether, it has been a very annoying piece
of business for us all.'

Mr. Lymington judiciously omitted to mention
that both he and his son had told pretty nearly
everybody they knew of Red Ran die's exploit
in the Furca Pass, and of his expected visit to
Avalon Priory. They had even gone so far as
to hint that Lord Lindisfarne was expected at
Whitebrook in the course of the winter, and
that Mr. Lymington, as head of the family,

would give a grand dinner in his honour at
Deepdene, to which all the gentry of the neighbourhood
were to be invited.

f Sara glad, however, papa, that you do not
think, with my brother, that Handle has been
deliberately deceiving us.'

No. I don't think so,' replied Mr. Lymington,
but rather less confidently than before, for the
conversation had revived the bitterness of
his disappointment about the dinner party, on
which he had counted to launch himself, once
for all, into county society. ' But I do not
think that the matter requires explanation.
Either the Earl of Lindisfarne said he would
have my nephew at Avalon Priory or he did
not. If he did say so, why has the invitation
never come? The supposition that his lordship
has failed in his promise is not admissible,
for noblemen of his rank are always as
good as their word. Noblesse oblige, you
know. At the same time, I should be sorry
to think that my nephew, for some incomprehensible
reason '

Your nephew is quite incapable of doing
anything dishonourable,' interrupted Dora,

impetuously. ' 1 know very little about noblemen
and their ways, but I do know Cousin
Ran die ; and I would rather take his word than
that of any duke or earl or baron in the kingdom.
In my opinion, Lord Lindisfarne and his
wife, and his daughter, whose life my cousin
saved, are ungrateful wretches. Their treatment
of him is disgraceful ; they may be noble,
but they are not gentle. The acquaintance of
such people is no honour ; I would rather associate
with honest factory folks.'

1 Dora, Dora, what are you saying V exclaimed
her father, almost breathless with astonishment
at the vehemence of his daughter's language.
f Never let me hear you utter such sentiments
again. They are low, they are radical, they
are unladylike, they are — in fact they are bad
form in every way. I do hope they have not
turned you into a nihilist, or a republican, or
something equally dreadful, at Villa Artemisia.
If I thought so, I do believe '

Mr. Lymington's belief in the matter was
destined never to be known, for the suggestion
that she could possibly have learnt anything-politically
heterodox from Mademoiselle Vieux

tickled Dora so much that she interrupted
her father with a merry laugh.

'Why, don't you know, papa dear, that
mademoiselle is far more conservative than you
are yourself? She adores the memories of
Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette, hates all
republics with undying hatred, and would
rather have a rattlesnake in her house than a
radical. Oh, Mademoiselle Vieutemps is the
most correct person in the world, I do assure
you.'

I am very glad to hear it ; but where have
you got your ideas, then? I am sure you did
not get them at Deepdene.'

4 1 do not think I did,' replied Dora, with a
look which, if her father's quickness of apprehension
had been on a par with his sharpness at
making a bargain, he would have understood to
imply that, in her opinion, Deepdene was not a
place especially rich in ideas.

Well, then, I hope you will get rid of them
at Deepdene ; for they are not ideas that I like
my daughter to hold. But here we are at Red-scar.
Driffield will drive you up to the house.
I will get out here and walk down to the mill,
where I have to meet my nephews.'

CHAPTER XIX.

A Peace-offering.

YT7HEN Mr. Lymington joined his daughter
" at Redscar House he was in high good
humour. His nephews had presented him with
a handsome chronometer repeater, striking the
hours and quarters, furnished with a perpetual
calendar, and emblazoned with the Lymington
arms. They offered it to him, Randle said, asa
token of their respect, and in acknowledgment
of his services as executor during Robert's
minority. The old gentleman was lifted into
the seventh heaven of delight, and expressed
his thoughts in a long, but slightly incoherent
speech ; and when he showed the watch to
Dora it was easy to see, by her kindling eye
and the increased animation of her countenance,
that she, too, was deeply gratified.

In answer to an inquiry from herself and
her father, Handle said that he had ordered the
watch at Geneva, but that watches with highly
complicated movements are only cased, finished,
and regulated in that city, the mechanism being
made in the valley of Jour, near the lake of
that name, in the Vaudois Jura. He further
told them that, albeit that Genevan and other
watchmakers sell timekeepers of complex construction
as entirely their own manufacture,
they are an exclusive speciality of the Jour
Valley, the geologists of no other locality, in
Switzerland or out of it, being able to make
these movements, or at any rate to make their
production a commercial success.

1 Well, I suppose there are tricks in all trades,
and you were always clever at rooting things
out, Handle said Mr. Lymington, whose present
disposed him to be complimentary. ' I
have heard your poor father say it of you many
a time, and I have perceived it myself. It is
an excellent quality in a business man, that
power of rooting things out — getting to the
bottom of 'em, eh, Bob? I was good at rooting
things out myself when I was a young fellow.

They could not palm much false-packed cotton
on me, those Liverpool fellows. I always took
the cotton buying when I was in the concern,
you know. Well, about this watch, you know '
(regarding it complacently), f as I told you
down at the counting-house, I shall prize it and
wear it as long as I live. I consider it my duty
to do so, and after my death I shall give it — I
mean before my death I shall transmit it as an
heirloom to my son, to remain in the family as
as — yes, as an everlasting memorial of this
day — of Bob's twenty-first birthday, I mean.'

Mrs. lymington gave her sons a significant
glance, which they both rightly interpreted as
meaning ' I told you so.' The idea of the present
had, in fact, originated with her, and been
carried out almost at her sole instance, for
Handle did not regard the project with much
favour, and Robert had vigorously opposed it.

1 We owe Uncle Ran die no gratitude,' he had
said, ■ and I will be no party in making him a
present.'

Randle knew his mother's motive. The
relations between the two families had become
unpleasantly strained, and in the interest of

VOL. I. Q

peace and goodwill she was desirous to mark
the occasion of Robert's majority by strengthening
the fast-weakening ties which had formerly
united Deepdene and Redscar. She
had also another and less disinterested motive
; for, whatever might be the case with the
elect, Mrs. Lymington in her dealings with
the world showed much more of the cunning
of the serpent than the meekness of the dove.
She feared that a feud between Redscar and
Deepdene might militate against the interests of
her sons. She could not foresee exactly how,
but she had a very strong presentiment to that
effect ; and on general grounds she was of
opinion — an opinion which she strove very
earnestly to impress on Randle and Robert —
that young people, at the outset of life, should
spare no pains to make friends ; and that, seeing
the wealth and the influence of their uncle,
it was well worth their while (worldly speaking)
to be on good terms with him. In the
end she had her way, and the watch was
bought, although neither Randle nor Robert
was quite convinced that the gift would have
all the effect she anticipated from it.

1 It may please ray uncle, though I am not
quite sure even about that,' said Handle ; ' but
it will not propitiate my cousin. He is no friend
of ours, and never will be, do what we may.
However, let it be as you say, mother. It is
well to try to promote goodwill, even if we
have little hope of success.'

The mention of Bob's birthday by Mr. Lymington
suggested the question as to how it should
be kept.

'Robert wants to give a dinner party and a
dance,' observed Mrs. Lymington, in a tone as
serious as if she were discussing the day of
judgment ; ' but a dinner party would give a
vast deal of trouble, and dancing, I am afraid,
is very worldly. Besides, it is hardly two
years since his father died, and it might bethought
we were not paying proper respect to
his memory. No, I do not think I should like
to have a dance in the house.'

Bob, to whom these arguments did not altogether
commend themselves, was on the point
of asking his mother if she objected to a dance
out of the house, when he was anticipated by
Dora.

Q2

Well, then,' she said, ' suppose we have a
picnic, aunt. Take some carriages, start early
in the morning, and have a long day in the
country

6 Capital exclaimed Bob, who at length saw
his way to the much-longed-for dance ; ' I beg
leave to second that motion.'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Byvington, who felt that
Dora's plan would remove a great weight from
her mind, for there was nothing she more disliked
than such a disturbance of the regularity
of her household arrangements as the giving of
a party would have entailed. ' I think that
would be very nice. What do you think,
Handle?' (to her brother-in-law).

I quite agree with you, Sophia ; nothing
could be nicer. But, look here, why not have
your picnic at Deepdene ? We have plenty of
room in the park, and we will have dinner or
tea, or something, out in the open, under the
trees. Yes, by all means come to Deepdene.
And then after sunset, you know, we could
light up the terrace and the garden with
Chinese lanterns.'

That would be very, very nice, papa, but I

do not think it is exactly what we want. We
want a long drive in the country; the drive
would be the best part of it. Don't you think
so, Bob? It has to be your entertainment, you
know. I am only suggesting.'

You express my opinion exactly, Dora — the
drive, by all means. At the same time we are
very much obliged to Uncle Handle for the
offer.'

f Yes, it is very kind of papa ; but we mean
to have a fete cliampetre at Deepdene all the
same, although not on Bob's birthday. But I
don't believe in eating on the grass — there are
always nasty earwigs and ants and things
about.'

Well, everything considered, I prefer sitting
on a chair myself,' observed Bob, sententiously.
Could we not regale ourselves in some country
inn and '

And get up a dance,' he was going to say,
but fearing some objection from his mother he
prudently checked himself in time.

An excellent idea, Bob,' rejoined Dora, ' 1
vote for the country inn. Don't you think so,
Cousin Handle?'

It's Bob's birthday we are going to keep,
you know, and whatever pleases you and him
will please me. Yes, let us have the drive and
the country inn, by all means.'

Thereupon followed an animated conversation
as to the direction they should take, and it was
finally decided to drive to Salley Abbey, and
after a ramble by the Ribble to hold their revels
in the inn at Chat burn.

All the available vehicles of the two families
were to be placed in requisition, and if those
did not suffice additional carriages were to be
hired at ^Yhitebrook.

You will come, of course, uncle V said
Candle.

4 Certainly,' answered Mr. Lymington, as he
trifled with the chain of his new repeater. ' It
will be a great pleasure, and even if it were
not a pleasure it would be my duty to be
present on the occasion. We old folks — your
mother and I, you know — and my sister will all
go together in our pony phaeton.'

No, Handle, you must let me stay at home
said Mrs. Lymington, as she laboriously rubbed
her spectacles with her pocket-handkerchief.

'Handle and Robert will both be away, and
there is no telling what might happen. I shall
be quite happy here, th i . g 1 1 w y a r e a 1 1
er;;yi:;g yourselves.'

'Bother'" exclaimed Bob. 'How can anything
happen? It won't be the first time the
place has been left to itself for a lay."

sis-.1 am sure I should

Oh, but we cannot do without you, aunt,'

put in Dora.

• Y illy must go with us, Sophia." observed
Mr. Winston. *I consider it is nothing
less than your duty to g:.'

'I think you had better make one of us.

moth-io* said Handle, quietly, putting his hand

on hers : ' you know Bob will never be tweiity-

again. This is the last coming of age we

shall have tc celebrate.'

Thus pressed Mrs. Lymington was constrains
to yi:l.h ;/.!.:: :. : who. vet a long-drawn
sigh and a deprecatory shake f the head, as it
to signify that she was .tf the same opinion still
and yielded only to overwhelming force.

• You made a mistake just now, Cousin Ran-die,'

remarked Dora, when this knotty point
had been settled. 'Bob's coming of age is not
the last we shall have to celebrate, unless indeed
you count on my never being twenty-one.
Be good enough to remember that even
now I am in my twentieth year.'

I beg your pardon very much, Dora,' laughed
Candle. ' I meant our family, of course. I
hope we shall live to celebrate your "majority ina
manner becoming the occasion.'

i Please God, we may,' sighed Mrs. Ry winston,
who was feeling decidedly unhappy at the
idea of the house and the mills being deserted
by every member of the family for a whole day.
'But there is no telling what may happen.
We know not what a day may bring forth,
and your uncle and I are getting into years ;
maybe '

You forget that other text, mother,' interposed
Handle, who could see that her last remark
was not at all to his uncle's liking.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof." We
have now to decide how many we shall ask, and
whom.'

All right,' said Bob, 'and then we shall be

able to organise the transport and commissariat
departments. We shall ask the Bellasis, don't
you think V

I suppose so,' replied Randle, though with
a shade of hesitation in his voice. ' They are
rather stuck up and give themselves airs, it is
true; but we are on friendly terms with them,
and they are likely to take it amiss if we don't
ask them.'

Yes, you had better ask them,' observed Mr.
Ry winston, gravely. ' They are doing a splendid
business, I am told, and I know they are
rich. Old Joe left those lads very well off, and
they know how to take care of it ' (their fortune,
Mr. Lymington probably meant).

'Yes,' said Handle, 'he left his two sons
more than £100,000, and his daughter only
£15,0C0. I don't think that right.'

I differ from you there, Randle,' said his
uncle. 'I look upon £15,000 as being a very
handsome fortune for a girl.'

She was just as much Joe Bellasis's child as
William or Henry, and she ought to have been
left equal with them. Besides, they have the
business, which is a fortune in itself.'

Anyhow,' interposed Bob, rather irrelevantly,
and perhaps somewhat more emphatically
than the occasion required, ; Flora Bellasis is a
deuced fine girl.'

'Robert!' exclaimed his mother, in a tone ot
horror, 'what are you saying?' The poor lady
entertained a shrewd suspicion that her second
son had a weakness for the sex which might
some day lead to unpleasant results, and she
feared that the admiration he expressed for
Miss Bellasis pointed to a possibility that she
would have strongly deprecated ; for, c fine ' as
the young lady in question undoubtedly was,
Mrs. Lymington did not look upon her as an
eligible daughter-in-law.

4 1 don't care what you say, mother,' returned
Bob, rather sulkily, for he thought it was high
time she ceased to treat him as a child, ' she is
a fine girl.'

e And a haughty and a proud one said Mrs.
Lymington. ' She is not a girl I admire.
Handsome is that handsome does." '

Do you know what the hands say about
the Bellasis V asked Handle, by way of putting
a stop to this altercation.

No, what do they say V

• That old Joe was a rough casting, and his
children want to pass themselves off as fine
gold.'

4 Ah, ah laughed Mr. Lymington, l not bad,
not at all bad. But it serves them right. What
business have they to pretend to have a high
pedigree, and try to persuade people that they
come of an old stock? Very high, indeed, I
should think. Why, old Joe's father was
hanged for sheep-stealing, wasn't he if

1 believe there is a tradition of that sort,'
said Ran die, * but I rather think it was a case
of manslaughter and transportation beyond the
seas ; and maybe, after all, the story is a pure
invention. However, it is no business of ours.
The only fault I find with the Bellasis is their
trying to ignore that which constitutes their
chief, if not their only, claim to distinction and
respect — the lowness of their origin. It is
surely not less honourable to have for forefathers
men who have won their bread by the
work of their hands than to belong to a family
that has lived for generations on the labour of
others. Will the time ever come, I wonder — '

Don't you think it would be well to settle
about the invitations, Randle '? Perhaps there
is somebody you might like to ask,' put in Mrs.
Lymington, who was apprehensive that if her
son went on he might say something that
would give his ■ uncle as much offence as the
repeater had given him pleasure, and so mar
all the good effect she anticipated from a present
which she regarded both as an investment
and a peace-offering.

Certainly,' said Randle, gravely, but inwardly
amused at this display of his mother's
anxious watchfulness. 4 Is there anybody in
particular you would like us to ask, uncle V

No, I don't think there is. It is Robert's*
party, you know. Had you not better leave
the invitations to him V

4 In consultation with Dora,' suggested Bob,
with a smile. ' It is too big a job for me to
tackle alone, I think.'

Agreed,' said Randle. ' You and Dora form
the invitation and organisation committee.
Are you willing, Dora V

I shall be delighted, Cousin Randle, to give
Bob every help in my power, and all the benefit

of my experience,' answered Dora, with mock
seriousness.

1 1 am sure we are greatly indebted to you,
Miss Lymington,' returned her cousin, gravely.
And now, I think, we may consider this meeting
adjourned until the day on which Bob
becomes a man.'

CHAPTER XX.

BOB S BIRTHDAY.

rpHE sun rose auspiciously on Robert Ravings
ton's birthday, and the promise it gave of
brilliant weather was justified by the event.
The guests numbered more than a score, without
reckoning the people from Deepdene and
Redscar. The first vehicle to leave was a large
waggonette, drawn by four horses, in which
rode Robert and most of the maiden and bachelor
members of the party. The rear was
brought up by carriages which were chiefly
affected by the married and middle-aged.
Ran die Lymington of Deepdene, who looked
upon the whole proceeding as being somewhat
beneath him, and accepted his cousin's invitation
only out of deference to the paternal wish,
had chosen to drive his own drag, and was

accompanied by his particular friends, Mr. and
Mrs. Tom Cliviger. Not caring to be publicly
identified with what he rather scornfully described
to the lady and gentleman aforesaid as a
juvenile picnic, he did not leave Deepdene until
the others were well on the road.

In the waggonette that led the van there
rode, besides Robert and Handle, Dora, Miss
Flora Bellasis, her brother William, and five or
six others.

Flora fully answered to Bob's description of
her as a fine girl. Though rather tall, she was
exceedingly well proportioned, and her dark
hair and eyebrows, brilliant complexion, and
regular, if somewhat too heavy, features would
almost have rendered her worthy to be called
beautiful if she had not posed as a beauty, and
sought by every petty artifice of which she was
mistress to call attention to her charms. Although
the criticism she thus challenged was
not always favourable to her claims, she had
many admirers among the young men of White-brook
; but the one she most desired to captivate,
Red Lymington, had hitherto shown an
insensibility to her attractions as provoking as

it was incomprehensible. As for Bob, she
looked upon him as a boy ; but as it was easy to
see that he admired her, a sentiment that, with
time, might not improbably develop into something
warmer, she judiciously decided to give
the young fellow a little encouragement, to
keep him in hand, as it were, so that, if the
elder brother should fail her, there might be
somebody else to fall back upon. It must not,
however, be supposed that Miss Bellasis was a
mere man-hunter, for, as she one day confided
to her friend, Mrs. Tom Cliviger, she could
have had half-a-dozen offers any day by lifting
up her little finger. But she fully believed in
the Bellasis pedigree, and had made up her
mind that the Lymington family was the only
family in Whitebrook into which it would not
be beneath her to marry.

William Bellasis was a gay young bachelor of
forty, heavy as to build and stolid as to countenance.
The greatest of his minor troubles
was the bigness of his hands, a peculiarity
which he probably inherited from his iron-working
ancestors, and which he sought to
minimise by wearing the tightest-fitting gloves

he could thrust his fingers into. He affected,
moreover, an airiness of attire, particularly in
the matter of neckties, which were often of
gorgeous hue, that, together with a habit he
had of sporting a bright flower in his buttonhole,
had procured for him among the White-brook
people the name of ' Blooming Bill.'

Notwithstanding his foibles, William Bellasis
was an acute man of business and a shrewd
politician. He was chairman of the Whitebrook
Conservative Committee, and his powers of
organisation were highly thought of by his party.

Whitebrook men never come together, however
sad, solemn, or festive may be the occasion
of their meeting, without talking shop, and the
wagonette was hardly under way when Blooming
Bill introduced the topic that was ever
uppermost in his mind by asking Handle if he
had anything fresh in business. Randle answered
in the negative, and gave his gossip the
opening he desired by inquiring in turn if
he had anything new.

4 Only that there's trouble brewing among
the hands,' said the other, ' they're getting confoundedly
uppish, that's what they are. I've

VOL. I. B

just bad a rumpus with our chaps, aud had to
give in too.'

'Indeed ! How was that?'

4 Well, you see, we've got some rather good
contracts lately . We've one for ten locomotives
from Australia ; we are making a pair of
fifties for Riser's new factory, and we are fitting
the Blackamoor colliery up with new
engines and pumping gear. One way and
another we've jobs on hand that will keep us
busy for six or eight months. Well, the beggars
got wind of this, and last Saturday they
sent a deputation to my brother and me to say
that if we did not give them an advance of
five per cent, all round they'd knock off work.
I told them at first to go to the devil, but
when we came to talk it over it was plain to
see that there was nothing for it but submission.
We could not afford a turn-out — that's the
plain truth — so we just gave them what they
asked for. But it was a very unfair thing todo,
and I shall not soon forget it. If hands
take advantage that way, it will be impossible
soon to do any business at all.'

'Upon my word, Bellasis,' said Randle, 'I

don't see that you have much cause for complaint.
You got off very cheaply : the men
might have asked ten per cent., you know.'

4 What, Mr. Lymington ! You, an employer
of labour, think that hands are justified intaking
advantage of their masters being under
contract?'

Why not V

It was clear from the bewilderment expressed
in Mr. Bellasis's countenance that this question
had never before either occurred or been
put to him. In disputes between masters and
men he always assumed that the masters were
in the right, or, conversely, that the hands
were in the wrong, and he had not believed it
possible that there could be any difference of
opinion as to the recent conduct of his own
work people. Nevertheless, being somewhat
slow of utterance, and not very quick of thought,
he did not find it very easy to answer Handle's
question.

4 Because,' he said, after a rather long pause,
it is not right. I mean it is not right to take
an unfair advantage.'

There I quite agree with you. But I don't

R2

see that your men were taking an unfair advantage.
Political economists are never tired
of telling us that labour is a commodity, the
price of which is regulated by supply and
demand, and the cost of living. Hence your
men, having something to sell — to wit, their
labour — have the same right to sell it to the
best advantage, as you have to sell your
engines for the utmost you can obtain. You
have pressing need of their services for the
next few months, and they, in the exercise of
their strict right, profit by the circumstance to
demand a higher price for their labour.'

That is all very well, Lymington, as to
theory ; but come to practice. How can I ever
take a contract again if I know that the day it
comes to their knowledge the beggars will be
down on me for a rises

How do you secure yourself against a rise in
the price of iron when you make a contract for
engines V

By making a contract for iron at the lowest
prices of the day.'

Why not adopt a similar course with your

Why, if I did that I should never be able to
take a contract without asking their leave. Nay,
by Jingo !'

'You may call it asking their leave if you
like. I should call it making a bargain. It
seems to me a very easy matter to call your
people together, tell them you are tendering for
some large contracts, and inquire if, in the event
of your obtaining them, they will agree to work
until their completion at whatever wages you
scan afford to give them.'

'Nay, by Jingo, we have not come to that
yet. I'd rather take my chance.'

'Very good. But then you must not complain
if your men, knowing that you are busy,
and have need of them, profit by the opportunity
to ask a higher price for their services.'

4 It is all very fine talking, Lymington'* replied
Blooming Bill, whose strong point was not
readiness of reply, ' but just wait a bit until the
shoe pinches you, and then we shall hear what
you will say. And it will pinch you, take my
word for it, and soon. There's going to be a
big turnout at Eibbleton, and the factory hands
at Whitebrook are deuced fractious ; at any

rate, they are at our Nova Semble mill

'Yes, I have heard there is trouble brewing at
Ribbleton, but I fancy we shall escape it at Red-scar.
We hardly consider ourselves as belonging
to Whitebrook, you know. But it is not wise
to meet troubles half-way ; sufficient for the day
is the evil thereof.'

Come, now, I like that, Randle,' put in Bob,
with a serio-comic air. ' " Sufficient for the day
is the evil thereof" — the day being my birthday.
I suppose you and Mr. Bellasis consider the
whole thing a bore. A nice compliment to the
ladies, 'pon my word. Did you hear what my
brother was saying just now, Miss Bellasis?
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof." A
pleasant sentiment for a fellow to hear the day
he comes of age, isn't it V

We were not talking about you, Bob ; we
were discussing business,' replied Randle, with a
smile.

4 That I can well believe,' said Miss Bellasis,
sarcastically, as she adjusted one of her bracelets
on her shapely arm ; ' my brother talks business
everywhere, in season and out of season. It is
business at our house morning, noon, and night.

I wish with all my heart there was no business.
You are very fortunate, Miss Lymington'
(turning to Dora), ' in not having any brothers
in business.'

1 1 am not very sure about that,' returned
Dora. ' T rather think my brother finds having
nothing to do hard work sometimes. Depend
upon it, Miss Bellasis, if your brothers were out
of business, and did not take to some other
occupation, you would have far more cause for
complaint than you have now.'

You are of my opinion, I can see, Miss Lymington
— that every man ought to have some
occupation,' observed Bellasis.

'A hobby sometimes answers as well said
Randle.

Exactly, because it provides a man with occupation.
And, as for business, I daresay we
do become too much absorbed in it sometimes.
And my brother and I have often matters to
talk over at home that we have not time to
talk over at the works. But you should not say
anything against business, Flora. It has made
us what we are.'

1 It has helped to retrieve the family fortunes,

I know,' said the young lady, proudly ; ' but the
Bellasis were not always in trade, as I daresay
you are aware, Miss Byvington. If Bertram
Bellasis of Bowland had not joined Prince
Charlie in 1745, and lost all his property, my
brothers would not be making engines and boilers
at Whitebrook now.'

6 Well, I am sure we are all greatly indebted
to Bertram Bellasis of Bowland,' said Bob,
gravely. ' You see but for him we should not
have had the pleasure of your acquaintance,
nor of your company to-day. Your misfortune
has been our gain, Miss Bellasis.'

It is really very kind of you to say so, I am
sure,' returned Flora, with a gratified smile.
i Still, you know, I cannot help feeling sorry
that our ancestor was so unfortunate. But it is
some little consolation to know that he did not
lose his estates by gambling or speculation, or
anything of that sort, but by his devotion to a
great cause. How many acres were forfeited to
the Crown, William V

I do not just remember — several thousands,
I think,' answered William, with a large vagueness
becoming the subject and the occasion ;

and there flitted across his face the suspicion of
a smile, which suggested to Robert Lymington,
who was rather quick at drawing inferences,
the idea that Flora's implicit faith in Peter
Wiswell's version of the family history might
possibly not be quite so implicitly shared by
her brother.

He must have had a fine property, this
Bertram Bellasis ; and it was in a fine country
too. Whereabouts in Bowland was it, did you
say V asked Bob, with an appearance of great
interest.

4 Well, you know,' said Blooming Bill, ' on
that point the family history is just a little
obscure — some of the records lost and that, you
know. But I don't think the property was
exactly in a ring fence. There w T ere several
estates, in different parts of the West Riding,
and some in Lancashire. This Bertram Bellasis
my sister has been speaking of lived in the
neighbourhood of Bolton, I believe ; that is
where my father came from. The house he
lived in was burnt down ages ago. But it is
really too bad to inflict all these details upon
you. You must find them very tiresome.'

Not at all; I find beni very interesting, I
assure yon. I think the history of old families
is one of the most fascinating of studies. You
have, of course, paid many visits to the cradle
of your race, Miss Bellasisf

'I am ashamed to say I have never been
there once, Mr. Robert. I have often asked my
brothers to take me, but they are always too
busy ; and then, until just lately, I have been
almost always at school

Well, then I will tell you what we will do,'
said Bob, with the eagerness of a man who conceives
a brilliant idea. ' You must see Bolton,
you know. It is not far from Chatburn ; weare
well before the others ; we have four good
horses ; we will drive to Bolton, take a look at
the church, perhaps stroll a few minutes in the
park, and get back in time for the banquet.
What do you say V

Thank you very much, Mr. Robert exclaimed
the young lady, whom the proposition seemed
greatly to delight. ' It will be so awfully nice
don't you think so, William? I want so
much to see Bolton.'

1 What's that you were saying about a

banquet, Mr. Robert?' asked William, ignoring
his sister's question, from which Bob rightly
inferred that he did not much care about going
to Bolton.

1 Oh,' said Bob, carelessly, ' I call it a banquet
because I do not know what else to call it.
Three o'clock — that is the time fixed, you know
is either too early or too late for dinner, and
the wrong time for luncheon. It seemed to
require a name out of the common, so I called
it a banquet. Perhaps, though, banquet sounds
rather too swell, but I don't know any better
word.'

'Refection,' suggested Dora.

Yes, refection is, perhaps, better ; but if we
could find a word between refection and banquet
it would be better still. Can you, Dora V

Dora had to admit that she could think of no
middle term between refection, which signifies
a light meal, and banquet, which signifies a
rich repast.

1 Well, never mind,' Bob went on ; ' we will
call it refection, then. It will not be grand and
rich, but good and substantial, as becomes a
country inn. Now look here, this is the programme.

After the refection we — that is,
those of us that are so disposed — inspect the
ruins of the abbey or wander by the banks ot
the Ribble for an hour or two. Then we return
to the inn and have some music, and perhaps
a little dancing in the cool of the evening, and
drive home by moonlight.'

■ Oh, how nice !' exclaimed several young
ladies in chorus. ' But where will the music
come from V

That is all in perfect order answered Bob,
with business-like precision. ' I have arranged
everything. There is a very fair piano at the
inn, which I have had tuned expressly for the
occasion. A musician is coming from White-brook
to work it. He brings with him a clever
lady harpist and her harp, and a blind man who
plays divinely on the harmonium.'

Oh, how awfully nice !' exclaimed the chorus
of young ladies.

CHAPTER XXI.

MISS BELLASIS HEARS SOMETHING ABOUT HER
ANCESTORS.

T Took there, Dora,' exclaimed Randle, as the
■*-• party in the wagonette sighted S alley.
1 See the bright river winding past the ivy-clad,
weird-looking ruins of the old abbey — the green
pastures and yellow corn-fields, with the background
of dark wood towards Bolton Hall. Is
it not as beautiful as anything ever seen in
Switzerland? And those whitewashed cottages,
are they not as picturesque as Swiss
chalets V

'At any rate they suit the landscape better,
and they have the quality of cleanness, which
Swiss chalets do not always possess. I do
not know how it is, but in Switzerland, I
think, no place can compare with it ; yet when

I return to England, it seems — where it is not
scarred by coalpits and made hideous by long
chimneys — the most beautiful country in the
world. How do you explain the contradiction,
is it natural prejudice V

i Well, I suppose we are all more or less
prejudiced in favour of our native land,
though that would not, of course, account for
your preference for Switzerland. Perhaps latest
impressions are the strongest. In order to
make a fair comparison, it would be necessary to
have the most characteristic features of English
and Swiss scenery side by side, and look at
them together. My own idea is that, while
Swiss scenery is unquestionably the finer, our
English scenery is the more beautiful. There
is nothing in England to compare in grandeur
with the Furca Pass, the gorge of the Russ, or
the lake of the four cantons — to say nothing of
the Alps ; and then there is nothing in Switzerland
to equal the rich beauty of this part of the
valley of the Kibble, and many another spot in
what Shakespeare calls this precious stone set
in a silver sea.'

And demi-paradise !' put in Bob. ' It might

be, perhaps, if it were not quite so muggy at
times, and bad a better climate of its own.'

'And a little more sunshine,' suggested
Dora, ' and a loftier sky, and not quite so much
rain.'

I am not sure about that,' returned Candle,
who seemed, as Bob whispered to Dora, to be
in an unusually patriotic mood. f The low sky
you speak of is much more favourable to
enjoyment than eternally blue skies and glaring
sunshine. It mellows the landscape, too,
keeps the grass green, and fills the streams.
If we had a continental climate, all those fields
and meadows would be burnt brown, and the
country robbed of more than half its beauty,
and ourselves of more than half our energy.
Our climate has its faults, but I don't know any
other that I would like to exchange it for. It
gives us the finest horses, the most beautiful
women, and the most laborious working people
in the world.'

'Bravo, Lymington, you express my sentiments
to a T,' exclaimed Blooming Bill, whom
this laudation of the British climate greatly
pleased. 'But here we are at Salley. Do you

mean to drive on without stopping, Robert V

Oh, dear, no ; we must stop a few minutes,
and let the horses have some meal and water

Well, then, I shall get out and wait here
until you come back.'

8 What, won't you go on to Bolton with us V

'No, thank you. I have been to Bolton
several times before. I would rather stroll
about here, and go over the ruins of the
abbey.'

As you like, we shall be back in an hour
or so

Before Bellasis alighted from the wagonette,
he whispered a few words to his sister, to
which the only reply she vouchsafed him was a
negative and almost angry gesture.

The arrival of a carriage and four at the
quiet village of Bolton naturally caused somewhat
of a sensation, and a crowd of gossips
and sightseers quickly gathered near the church
gate, where the wagonette was brought to a
stand. All the party alighted and entered the
quaint old building. The object that attracted
the most attention was the curious
monument of Sir Ralph Pudsay (the faithful

follower of Henry VI., who sheltered that
unfortunate monarch at Bolton Hall after the
disastrous battle of Hexham), with the effigies
of his three wives and twenty-five children.

'I don't see any of the Bellasis amongst
them ; do you V whispered Flora to Bob, by
which she probably meant to intimate that she
did not see the name of Bellasis recorded anywhere
in the church.

'Nor I,' answered Bob, with becoming
gravity, ' but they have perhaps got rubbed
out ; they are so old, you know.'

Yes, I daresay that is the reason. I wonder
if my ancestors were much respected in the
neighbourhood.'

'Not a doubt of it, I should say. Perhaps
you would like to ask? I see there are some
very old people near the church gate, there.
Shall I inquire if the name is still remembered
hereabouts V

'Thank you, Mr. Robert; if it would not be
too much trouble. I am so anxious to learn all
I can about our family, and it is so interesting
to be in the place where they lived so
long.'

VOL. I. S

As they crossed the road towards the park,
Bob exchanged a few words with an aged villager,
and presented him with a shilling, whereupon
the old fellow gave a grin of delight, muttered
something which Bob did not quite understand,
and hobbled off.

'Confound the old beggar,' muttered Robert,
4 he has taken me in. He knows nothing.'

They did not linger long among the stately
elms and ancient oaks of Bolton Park. The
time when they had promised to be back at Salley
was nearly up, and after one glimpse at the
grey old house, so rich in historic memories,
they returned to the village.

As Robert, who was walking with Flora,
crossed the road a second time, he was accosted
by an ancient woman. She could not have been
less than eighty, and might have been a hundred,
yet though bent and shrivelled and white-haired,
her eyes were not dim, and she seemed
sharp of hearing and quick of speech.

Which on yo,' she inquired, with a look directed
at Robert, * has been axing if anybody
here knew aught o' th' Bellowsisis V

1 Bellowsisis ! That must be the local pronunciation

of Bellasis,' thought Flora, for she did
not remember her father, and the alteration of
the name had occurred before she was born.

'Yes, I was asking, on behalf of this young
lady, who is a Bellasis,' said Robert. ' Her father
came from somewhere hereabouts, I think.'

1 Oh, shoo's one o' th' Bellowsisis, is shoo ?
Father's name was Joseph, won't it V

Yes, my papa was Mr. Joseph Bellasis,' answered
Miss Bellasis, haughtily, and with a
strong emphasis on the ' Mr,' as if to intimate
to the old body that her manner was vastly too
familiars

Ay, ay,' returned the ancient woman, dreamily.
'I knew Joseph Bellows weel, if ever ony-body
dud. But that wasn't th' name as he went
by i' these parts, though I alius called him Joseph
mysen. He went by th' name o' Joe o'
Fat Sam's i' this country. Ay, ay, him and me
should ha' been wed ! and if we had been, who
knows, my bonny wench '

Woman, you lie !' exclaimed Flora, who was
beside herself with rage, and trembling lest the
woman should say something still more unpleasant,
for the rest of the party had now come up,

sand

many of the villagers were within earshot.
1 What do you mean by insulting me in this
way ? My father could never have been married
to the like of you.'

Oh, couldn't he V said the old woman, quietly,
but with an angry twinkle in her dark eyes.
i It was t'other way about. I couldn't be wed
to him. Do you know, my proud young lady,
why my mother wouldn't let me be wed to him
as you call Mr. Joseph Bellasis ? It was because
his father was sent to Botany Bay for killing
Black Ned, fra Slaidburn ; and if he hadn't been
worse for drink when he dud it, and Ned hadn't
provoked him, he'd ha' swung for it. I seed
your grandfather, wi' my own been, marched
down this here road between two constables,
wi' gyves on his wrists, my braw Miss Bellasis.'

'It is not true, it cannot be true,' exclaimed
Flora, passionately. ' You are a wicked, wretched
old woman to tell such untruths. I will
have you punished — pat in prison — that I will.
Do let us go ; please take me away, Mr. Robert

As Robert led her to the carriage, she burst
into a flood of tears, which he greatly feared
might be the forerunner, of a fit of hysterics ;

but he bad under-estimated the young lady's
power of self-control, and before they were well
out of sight of Bolton she was sufficiently composed
to ask him if he could imagine what had
induced that wicked old woman to say such
terrible things.

I really cannot tell answered Bob, hesitatingly,
' unless it was that you said she lied.
That made her mad, I expect.'

But she did lie, didn't she ! You don't think
for one moment, Mr. Robert, that what she said
was true V

Seeing that Bob believed every word of the
old woman's story, and was moreover rather
1 spoons' on Miss Bellasis, this was a sufficiently
embarrassing question. But he was a youth of
resource, and, by simply saying 'Impossible,'
came happily out of the difficulty.

This answer seemed to give the young lady
great satisfaction.

t Impossible, indeed,' she exclaimed. ' Impossible
and preposterous. But can nothing be
done to her — cannot she be punished for telling
such untruths ! Is there no law against defamation
of character V

Not, I am afraid, against defaming the character
of one's grandfather.'

This was an unfortunate answer

And do you really believe, Mr. Robert,' exclaimed
Flora, her voice trembling with indignation,
* that the wretched convict this miserable
woman spoke of was really my grandfather
? Don't you see that there is some dreadful
mistake, or that the malignant creature
made it all out of her own head, just to annoy
me V

6 Exactly, exactly. Yes, of course, decidedly,'
replied Bob, in some confusion. ' And that, you
see ' (briskly, as if struck by a happy thought)
'makes it all the more difficult to do anything,
for if you could not punish her for slandering
your own grandfather, it stands to reason that
you could not punish her for slandering some
other body's grandfather.'

Still, I should like,' said Miss Bellasis, vindictively,
' I should like to do something at
that old woman, and at those Bolton people
too, for I saw some of them laughing, and they
looked as if they believed her. I will certainly
speak to my brother about it the moment

we get to Chatburn. 1 wish be had been
here.'

By all means ; that is decidedly the best
thing you can do. Yes, it was a pity he did
not come,' said Bob, who felt, however, by no
means sure that when Blooming Bill heard
what had come to pass he would be of the
same opinion, nor that apprehension of some
such fiasco as had actually occurred was not
his motive for staying behind.

When, a few minutes later, they arrived at
Salley, they found that the remainder of the
party had been waiting for them half-an-hour
or more, and that the repast which Robert had described
as being something between a confection
and a banquet was ready to be served.

4 Well, how did you like Bolton-by-Bowland?'
asked William Bellasis of his sister, as they
walked towards the inn.

Not at all,' answered Flora, with an angry
toss of her head. ' It's nothing but a common
little village, and I was grossly insulted by a
wretched old woman — I may say by all the
people of the village, for they evidently sympathised
with her.'

Well, I wanted you not to go, you know.
Who was this old woman, and what did she
say V

What else passed between the brother and
sister was never exactly known ; but, as Robert
Lymington remarked that Miss Bellasis did not
refer again to the unpleasant incident at Bolton,
and that she rarely thereafter spoke of her
family, or boasted of her distinguished ancestry,
he drew the conclusion that she had profited by
the lesson he had been the unwitting means of
giving her.

CHAPTER XXII.

Pudsey S LEAP.

Aye that the viands composing it were cold,
U the repast that Robert had provided for
his guests deserved better the description applied
to it by himself than by the word which
his cousin had suggested. As touching abundance
and variety the meal was rather a
banquet than a refection. A splendid Ribble
salmon reposed at one end of the table, a
magnificent sirloin of beef adorned the other,
These lords of the larder were reinforced by an
appetising array of side dishes, such as roast
capons, boned turkeys, ox tongues, Strasbourg
pies, and cold hams, over which a small army
of bottles, headed by a large contingent of
gold-helmet champagne flasks, stood guard.

As Robert, who bad occasionally shrewd
ideas, albeit he did not always act shrewdly,
explained to his guests, he had thought it well
to order such a meal as they saw before them,
rather than a regulation dinner, for several
reasons. In the first place, the day was warm,
and hot dishes, he opined, did not go well with
hot weather. Then, the house being only a
country inn, he did not want to put too great a
strain upon its resources ; and last, though not
least, as the excursion partook somewhat of a
picnic character, it seemed in accordance with
the fitness of things that their principal repast
should be as little formal as was compatible
with comfort.

This explanation was received with warm
approval. Everybody applauded Robert's idea,
the ladies one and all declaring that a cold
collation was 'greatly to be preferred to a warm
dinner, which would have taken up much
time which might be used to better purpose
than eating.

Bob, who was in such excellent humour that
he had forgotten all his grudges against his
uncle, requested Mr. Lymington to take the

head of the table, and, although the old gentleman
made a show of resistance on the ground
that the place was properly his nephew's, he
ended by accepting the honour and carving the
sirloin, while Robert took the second place and
served out the salmon.

Notwithstanding the drinking of a few toasts,
the refection was soon over. The principal
health drunk was of course that of the hero of
the day, proposed by Mr. Lymington, who
described his nephew as ' an honour to our ancient
family and a very promising young man.'
Bob blushed, but replied with a point and discretion
that surprised many who heard him.
When Tom Cliviger proposed the married ladies,
and expressed a hope that both Mr. Robert Lymington
and his brother would before long
4 enter the land of Uz ' (by which he was understood
to signify the holy estate of matrimony),
Bob blushed again and stole a sly glance at
Flora Bellasis, to whom a few glasses of Most
and Canton had restored the equanimity which
the old woman at Bolton had so rudely disturbed.
He fancied that she blushed too, and
felt flattered and gratified thereat ; but seeing

that she had just drunk the greater part of a
glass of champagne he may possibly have been
mistaken in connecting the young lady's seeming
emotion with Mr. Cliviger's witty and suggestive
Biblical allusion.

When the toast-drinking came to an end the
younger ladies withdrew to equip themselves
for the proposed walk, and so soon as they were
ready were joined by most of the gentlemen.
A few, however, among whom were Mr. Rye
and his son, Tom Cliviger and William
Bellasis, preferred to stay where they were, and
round off the repast with brandy and water and
cigars.

After a stroll through the ruins of the abbey,
where Mrs. Lymington and Mrs. Ford (Mr. Lymington's
sister-in-law and housekeeper), and a
few more of the old and middle-aged signified
their intention of remaining until the young
folks should return from their walk, the pedestrians
set out on their excursion.

The walk chosen by Robert led by the riverside,
through fat pastures and green meadows,
in which scores of beautifully-marked and
heavily-uttered cows were feeding on the rich

grass for which Craven is so famous. The
stream, broad, shallow, and bright, was bordered
by a row of gnarled old thorns, of age so great
that they must have outlived many generations
of men. Round some of them, as if seeking the
protection of their strength, clung the tender,
sweet-scented honeysuckle ; and prompted, perhaps,
by a kindred feeling, the wild white rose
had mingled its pale petals with their dark
green leaves. Further on, the valley takes the
form of an amphitheatre, the sides of which are
clothed with shady woods. The turrets of Bolton
are visible in the distance, and old Gentle,
his rugged outlines softened by a silvery haze,
beams benignantly on the scene.

Among the foremost group of saunterers were
Handle, Robert, Dora, Miss Bellasis, and several
others, but these gradually fell behind, some to
gather wild flowers, others to lie on the grass
and listen to the music of the river, others again
to take a line of their own ; for Bob had declared
liberty to be the watchword of the day,
and that everyone was free to follow his own
fancy.

The brothers were not far from each other,

but it somehow came to pass, rather to Robert's
disappointment, that the elder paired off with
Miss Bellasis, the younger with Dora ; and in
this order they strolled until they came to a
picturesque part of the river known asRainsber
Scar, or Pudsay's Leap.

The scar is a tall cliff, crowned with noble
trees, and mantled with ferns, mosses, and clustering
ivy. At its base flows the yet limpid
Ribble — soon, alas, to be polluted with unspeakable
abominations — mingling its silvery voice
with the i wood-notes wild ' of the feathery denizens
of the vale.

i Let us sit down here,' said Randle ; ' we shall
hardly find a lovelier spot to while away a few
minutes in, I think

The proposal was received with acclamation,
and the four seated themselves on the trunk of
a fallen elm, not far from the edge of the
stream.

1 Well, what say you to this, Dora V continued
her cousin, directing her attention by a look to
the rustling trees as they bent graciously over
the Scar, the gliding river, and the rich emerald
of the grass, spangled with cowslips aud wild

hyacinths. ' Did you ever see the marrow of it
in Switzerland?'

Your thoughts seem to be running a great
deal on Switzerland just now, Randle. Why
are you so wishful to know my opinion on the
comparative merits of English and Swiss
scenery? What does it matter which I prefer?
Besides, I have told you already.'

Yes, I know your general views, but it is
well sometimes to descend from generals to
particulars. It seems to me that the scenery
hereabouts cannot be matched out of England,
and I was curious to know if you thought the
same.'

'It is certainly very beautiful, but I think I
could find the marrow of it, as you say, in the
Jura; and in the Jura, moreover, there is hardly
a stream, a well, or a mountain that is not
consecrated by some quaint or graceful legend,
and legends always seem to add to the interest
of a place, to throw a glamour over it, as it
were, and to heighten the beauty of nature by
the charm of association.'

4 Well, there is a legend about this place.
Mv brother has been here before, he knows all

about it. Can you tell us the story of Pudsay's
Leap, Bob V

1 1 daresay I can, especially as there is very
little to tell. William Pudsay, who was the
owner of Bolton Hall some time in the sixteenth
century, had a lead-mine at Remington-craven.
Whether he was a clever metallurgist,
and hit upon a method of extracting the silver
that lead ore almost invariably contains, or he
found a vein of the nobler metal in some other
form, nobody knows. Anyhow, as the story
runs, silver he got and coined into shillings.
And although these shillings were good — better
probably than the coin of the realm then current
coining was and is still a royal prerogative,
and nobody had a right to make money, save by
leave of the sovereign, at that time Queen
Bess; who, moreover, by an old law of the
realm was seized of all the gold and silver
mines in the kingdom. Thus Mr. Pudsay
committed a double crime. He appropriated
the Queen's silver and illegally stamped it with
Her Majesty's image and superscription. When
this came to the old lady's ears, as it did in
course of time, for Pudsay flooded all Yorkshire

and Lancashire with his shillings, she was
mighty wroth, and sent off a pursuivant and a
posse— I think that is the right word — of men-at-arms
to catch him and bring him up to
London. But our friend William did not
believe in being caught. When he heard the
men-at-arms come clattering up the avenue he
knew that his little game was up, and made up
his mind from Bolton to bolt. Calling for his
seven-league boots — I mean for his horse,
Wanton Grey, which always stood ready saddled
in the stable — he jumped on its back, and
at the very moment the pursuivant was hammering
with his sword-hilt at the front door,
and demanding admittance in the Queen's
name, Pudsay galloped off towards Rainsber
Scar, leaped clean over it down into the river
there, and got clear away. And of all the
Queen's horses, and of all the Queen's men,
there was neither steed nor rider that dared to
follow him. The place has been called " Pud-say's
Leap " ever since.'

1 A rare jump, wasn't it V added Robert,
looking up at the cliff; 'a hundred feet, if it
was an inch

VOL. I. T

c I don't believe it exclaimed Miss Bellasis.
Why, the man would have been killed.'

'Ah, but you don't know. You have not
read the ballad. Here it is ' (taking a book
from his pocket). ' This contains the true
version, I think; but we must not criticise
legends too narrowly, you know. Do you
criticise your Swiss legends, Dora?'

Oh dear, no. We accept them in faith.'

Exactly. That is the right thing to do ; it

is what I do myself. Well, according to this

poetic version, William Pudsay was a very

popular gentleman hereabouts, " loved and

honoured by every degree," and a special

favourite with the denizens of the nether world,

two of whom, Lob and Michel, invited him one

moonlight night to revel in Either Hole, a

cave up in the woods yonder, and —

They gave him there a magical bit,

The strangest thing you ever could see,
And charged him aye to remember it,
If ever he chanced to be forced to flee ;

For it would nourish a drooping horse
From evening red to morning grey,

And help him by its magical force
To gallop away for the live-long day." '

I wish I had a bridle like that said Bob,

looking up ; 'a fellow might ride the same
horse to hounds every day of the week, and
always be in the first flight. It would save a
mint of money in horseflesh, a bridle like that
would.'

Well, you must emulate the example of
William Pudsay; try to be a popular gentleman,
and make friends with Lob and Michel,'
said Dora.

You think it is all true, then, Miss Lymington
exclaimed Miss Bellasis, ' and that this
Mr. Pudsay had really a magical bridle !'

4 1 believe every word of it,' observed Robert,
only I am afraid that Lob and Michel haunt
the woods of Bolton no more. The shriek of
the railway whistle, if nothing else, would be
enough to scare them away ; and I daresay, if
the truth were known, they went out long
before railways came in.'

'Does the ballad say nothing else?' asked
Flora.

1 Oh, yes, lots ; but I do not think you would
care to hear it all read. It tells how he made
his money, " thinking no ill ;" how he escaped,
and how —

t2

Out of the gates himself he flung,
Rainsber Scar before him lay ;

Now for a leap, or I shall be hung,

Now for a leap,' quoth brave Pudsay !

If of death I must meet the shock,

Since it may no other be,
Better a leap from my own good rock.
Than from a ladder at York,' quoth he.

Into his steed he drove the spur,
Fearfully did he snort and neigh ;

Yet, though at first he was hard to stir,
Over the Scar sprung Wanton Grey."

The last verse seems rather mixed, though,
don't you think V remarked Bob, with an interrogative
look. ' Which of them was it that
did so fearfully snort and neigh — the rider or
his horse V

i The horse, of course. How could the rider
snort and neigh ? Why, you were talking only
two or three minutes since as if it were almost
sacrilege to criticise a legend, and here you
are the first to find fault ! I am surprised,
Bob.'

Permit me to observe, Miss Ry winston, that
I was criticising, not the legend, but the wording
of this ballad, which, being quite modern,
has nothing sacred about it. I daresay, as you
seem to think, the writer does mean that it was

Wanton Grey who snorted and neighed, though
he might have been a little more precise ; and a
jump like yon is quite enough to make any
man snort, and, if not neigh, at any rate, say
nay." '

Bob, you are becoming insufferable,' exclaimed
Dora. ' What a wretched pun ! Have you
no more of the ballad ? What became of
Pudsay after he leaped the Scar V

4 He galloped off to London as hard as he
could go, to ask the Queen's pardon, found Her
Majesty on board a ship in the Thames, threw
himself on his knees before her, and being a
good-looking chap, and her own godchild to
boot, she let him off with a wigging. As the
ballad says —

She gave him her hand to kiss ;
So, while the tear stood in his ere,
His heart was brought from bale to bliss,
But no more Pudsay shillings !' said she."

Is that all?' inquired Miss Bellasis.

That is all,' answered Bob, putting the book
in his pocket. * And now' (looking at his
watch) ' I think we had better be retracing our
steps. I expect my musicians have arrived by

this time, and I must see that the preparations
for our dance are in proper train.'

All right,' returned Randle, ' you three goon.
I will follow in a few minutes. There are
some fine snap-dragons up there, which I would
like to get.'

I will wait for you, Cousin Randle,' said
Dora, reseating herself on the fallen elm. ' You
two go on ' (to Robert and Flora), ' we will
come presently.'

Miss Bellasis would have preferred a somewhat
different arrangement, but not being of
the family she acquiesced in the proposal with
seeming alacrity, and went away with the
younger brother in the direction of Chatburn.

CHAPTER XXIII.

A COUSINLY TALK.

WHILE Randle gathered his snap-dragons,
Dora sat musing on her elm-tree.
Her cousin's manner puzzled her. Though,
since her return home she had seen little of
him, she fancied he was quieter and more
taciturn than of yore ; and if he did not seem
less happy, he was decidedly less mirthful.
Did the cause, she asked herself, lie in his increasing
business responsibilities, or had it
some connection with his adventure in the
Furca Pass ? Could disappointment at not
hearing from the Avalons be the source of his
melancholy ? Was he, after all, as she had
jestingly suggested at Villa Artemisia, in love
with Lady Muriel? As for her own feelings

towards Handle, they were complex and contradictory.
She had a greater liking and respect
for him than any man she knew, or was
likely to know. If he had asked her to be his
wife she would have said * yes without much
hesitation. And yet, strange to say, she felt
no jealousy of this great lady who, she began
to suspect, had really stolen her cousin's heart,
albeit she felt indignant at what she deemed
her ingratitude, and the ingratitude of her
kindred, and deeply sorry that Randle's noble
conduct should have brought him only vexation
and an unquiet mind. That-the disparity
in rank between her cousin and Lord Lindisfarne's
daughter — even if they should meet
again, and all else were favourable — might prove
a bar to their union, never so much as occurred
to her. Dora's knowledge of the world was not
very profound, and it seemed, she thought, only
in accordance with the fitness of things that
Randle's guerdon should be the hand of the girl
who owed him her life — if he asked for it and
she returned his love. Her only misgiving was
lest, if they did marry, Lady Muriel might not
make him happy. She was proud, of course —

that went without saying — and, what would be
much worse, she might be gay and frivolous,
and always wanting to go to balls and parties ;
and Handle did not like balls and parties. He
looked upon them, as she had heard him say, as
necessary evils, and as involving a frightful
waste of time.

It fell out that, when Dora had arrived at this
stage of her reflections, she raised her head, a
movement which chanced to coincide with Handle's
descent from the bank where he had been
botanising. The incident interrupted the flow
of her thoughts, and suggested to her that she
had, perhaps, been travelling a little too fast.
She had omitted from her calculations the rather
important consideration that Lady Muriel's
family, so far from being eager to wed her to
Randle, had never, since the parting at Brigue,
condescended to acknowledge his existence.
She possessed, moreover, no positive evidence
that her cousin reciprocated the love which she
had once ascribed to Lady Muriel. She might
easily be mistaken, but the difficulty was easy
of solution. She would ask him. Her cousin
and she had always been on good terms. He

bad ever treated her in a brotherly fashion,
while her feeling for him was that of a sister fora
favourite brother. She had no secrets from
him, and she felt sure that he would make no
difficulty in telling her whether he had lost his
heart to Lady Muriel or not.

I am glad we let the others go on, Handle,'
she said, so soon as he came back with his snapdragons.
4 I want to have a talk with you.
We have not had a talk since I came back, you
know.'

Talk away then, Dora,' answered her cousin,
rather absently. 'I am always glad to hear
anything you have to say. Is there anything I
can do for you V

Talk away, indeed !' returned Dora, with all
her wonted liveliness of manner. ' It must bethe
other way about. I want you to talk to me.
Have you nothing to tell mel'

Nothing very particular, I think,' replied
Handle, seriously, as if he were trying to recall
something that might interest her. e Oh, yes, I
have, though ' (briskly, as if struck by a happy
thought). ' You remember Mary Waddington,
that girl who was so badly hurt in our card-room,

and whom you took so much interest in 1
You will be glad to know that she is quite recovered,
and was married the other day to
Dick-o'-Dolly's — a decent lad is Dick, and doing
well.'

1 How provoking you are, Handle ! Of course,
I am glad to know that Mary Waddington is
well, and happily married to Dick-o'-Dolly's.
What a name., though ! I suppose she will be
Mrs. Dick-o'-Dolly's? But it is yourself 1 want
to know about.'

What do you want to know about me, Dora,
that you don't know already?' was Randle's
somewhat ungracious answer.

4 Well, first of all, is it true that Lord Lindisfarne
has not written to you V

1 Quite true.'

4 What can be the cause, do you think V

Handle shrugged his shoulders and walked a
little faster.

c I really don't know, Dora, and I don't think
1 much care.'

This answer, and the manner in which it was
given, w T ere so irreconcilable with the theory
she had formed that it seemed hardly worth

while to question him further ; but, having
started the subject, Dora felt that she ought to
continue it, if only to express her sense of Lord
Lindisfarne's conduct.

But cannot you conjecture V she said, after a
short pause.

The only ground on which 1 can account for
Lord Lindisfarne's silence is that he wishes to
drop the acquaintance. I am only a Lancashire
cotton-spinner, you know, and he is a peer of
the realm.'

• Did you tell him you were a cotton-spinner V

I do not think I did. I said no more about
myself than was necessary. It was rather an
exciting time, and we were not long together.
But I think he understood I was in business. I
gave him my address, too, and he must know it
is hardly possible for a man to live in a Lancashire
manufacturing town and not be in
business.'

4 But he promised he would write to you and
name a time for you to go to Avalon Priory,
did he not?'

'No. I don't call it a promise. It was
merely an expression of his intention to do a

certain thing. Circumstances, or further reflection,
have caused him to change his intention,
that is all.'

I Still you must feel very much annoyed.
You cannot help seeing that you have been
treated in an unworthy manner. You have rendered
Lord Lindisfarne a priceless service — you
saved his daughter's life — and yet, because you
happen to be a cotton-spinner, he treats you with
contumely. Ito may say what you like, Handle,
I call it shabby in the extreme, and if you
are not very much annoyed you ought to be.'

I I do not say that I am not annoyed, Dora,'
said Randle, smiling at his cousin's vehemence,
'yet less because Lord Lindisfarne has acted,
as you. say, shabbily, than that he has acted, as
it seems to me, insincerely. I claim no credit
for saving his daughter's life ; I should have
done just the same if she had been his coachman's
daughter; and it was quite open to him
to have gone on his way without taking further
thought about me. But instead of that he and
the others showered thanks on me far beyond
my deserts, treating me, during the short time
we were together, almost as one of themselves,

and pressed me to make them a long visit after
their return to England. And I liked them.
I had an idea that earls and " ladies" were stiff
and formal, if not high and mighty, in manner.
But I am bound to say the Avalons were extremely
pleasant and agreeable Their kindness
could hardly have been greater if I had
been a member of the family. It seems now,
though, that it was all put on. I suppose they
forgot all about me before I was well out of
sight. Yes, Dora, I am disappointed, or, rather,
I was. I have given over thinking about it
now.'

< And Lady Muriel V

Lady Muriel. What about Lady Muriel V
You said she was so nice, you know.'
1 A little hypocrite, rather ! I expect these
people make it the study of their lives to be
gracious and courtly. But it is all veneer.
They are what my father would have called
hollow.'

You don't care then '

Dora hesitated. It seemed absurd, after what
Handle had said, to suggest that he might, after
all, have a tender feeling for Lady Muriel Ava-ion.

Perhaps if she had known of a certain
bunch of forget-me-nots that her cousin kept
hidden away in a private drawer at home she
might have thought differently.

1 1 see what you are driving at, Dora he
went on, with a laugh. ■ You think, because I
was instrumental in saving a girl's life, I ought
to fall in love with her. That is the way in
novels, perhaps ; but novels are one thing, real
life is another. You are too romantic, coz.'

'And you are too matter-of-fact. It would
have been so very nice, you know.'

Nice ! to fall in love with a girl that I shall
very likely never see again, and who would not
have me, or be allowed to have me, if I were to
ask her. Besides, a lady with a handle to her
name is not a right sort of wife for a plain manufacturer.
But I think it is now my turn to ask
you a question or two. Are you sure that nobody
— no sturdy Switzer or fascinating Frenchman
— has stolen your heart, Cousin Dora ?'

I should just like to hear you put that question
to Mademoiselle Vieutemps, Ran. She
would resent the mere suggestion of such a
possibility as a foul libel on her establishment.

Nobody has stolen my heart yet, cousin, and
that is a more straightforward answer than you
gave me returned Dora, who had an uneasy
sense of not having obtained quite all the information
she desired.

What is the matter, I wonder ? Why, they
are coming back.'

This seemingly irrelevant observation was
caused by the appearance of Robert Lymington
and William Bellasis, who were making towards
them — apparently in great haste — from the direction
of Chatburn.

Why have you come back, Bob 1 Nothing
wrong, I hope,' said Randle when they met, as
in a few minutes they did.

'lam sorry to say there is,' answered Bob,
who was evidently much agitated. ' There has
been an accident.'

Nothing serious, I hope. Is anybody hurt V
1 Yes, but not seriously — not fatally, I mean

said Bob, looking earnestly at his cousin.

Is it my father or my brother V asked Dora,
with trembling lips. She had rightly interpreted
Bob's look.

< Your father ; but I hope it is nothing very

bad. He got knocked down by a brewer's cart
as he was crossing the road to the Abbey
grounds.'

Was he run over V asked Handle.

'No, only thrown down by the shaft ; but the
horses were going at a trot, and the fall was a
bad one. He could not speak at first, but he
seemed to be coming round a bit when we left.'

Is my brother there V inquired Dora, faintly.

'No, he w r went off for a doctor first thing.
He thought it would be better than sending a
messenger.'

1 Oh, this is terrible,' cried the poor girl, as the
tears ran down her cheeks. ' And to happen on
Robert's birthday, too, when w r e were all so
happy. It is terrible. Poor papa ! Let us goon,
please, as fast as w T e can.'

Do not distress yourself, Dora,' said Randle,
gently. ' It may not be so bad as. you think.
I do not gather from Bob that your father is
very badly hurt — that he has any bones broken,
for instance — has he, Bob V

6 I do not think so. Do you think he has,
Mr. Bellasis V

'lam sure not. I helped to carry him in.

VOL. I. U

He is slightly cut about the head— scratched,
rather — for the wounds are quite superficial.
But he was stunned, you know, and I daresay
rather badly shaken ; that is the worst, so far as
I am aware.'

You hear, Dora. Nothing worse than a bad
shake. There is nothing to fear. I have no
doubt that, with careful nursing, uncle will be
all right again by tomorrow, or at any rate in a
few days.'

Notwithstanding this expression of confidence,
Candle was not without fear that, to a man of
his uncle's years and habits, the consequences of
a ' bad shake ' might be very grave.

CHAPTER XXIV.

ONE RAXDLE LESS.

A N" excited, chattering crowd had gathered
"■ before the inn door. Everybody was telling
everybody else how the mishap had come to
pass, and there were naturally almost as many
versions as individuals. The great point of
contention was whether Mr. Lymington had
been knocked down by a brewer's cart or a
butcher's van. One gossip averred that a railway
lorry had done the mischief, another laid
the blame on a carriage and pair. As to the
extent and nature of Mr. Lymington's injuries
opinions were equally conflicting : some had it
that his head was cut open, and that he had
sustained a compound fracture of the thigh ;
others asserted that both arms were broken, one

TJ 2

so badly that it would have to be amputated.
The suggestion of a sceptical shoemaker that
i t'owd gentleman was nobbut in a bit of a faint,'
and that ( a glass or two of brandy would bring*
him rand directly,' was received with general
indignation ; and the rebuke of the dogger's
wife (the originator of the compound fracture
theory), that it was ' the most unfeelingly
saying as she had ever heard come out of a man's
mouth,' was warmly applauded.

When Dora and Randle appeared the clamour
was instantly hushed, and as they walked
swiftly towards the inn door all respectfully
made way for them.

They found Mr. Lymington in a room on the
ground floor. He was lying on a sofa, with
closed eyes ; and his pallor, and the black court-plaster
with which his cuts had been dressed,
gave him a look so ghastly that Dora was almost
startled into a scream, The rustle of her
dress, or the creaking of the door, attracted his
attention, and he opened his eyes. When he
saw Dora he smiled. This made him look more
natural, and, recovering herself, she went forward
and kissed him.

Dear papa,' she said, ' I am so very, very
sorry. Are you much hurt — have you pain V

A little, child ; but perhaps when the doctor
comes he will be able to do something for me.
Kiss me again, dear.'

This was so tenderly spoken that Dora could
hardly restrain her tears.

Can I do anything for you, papa dear V

i I do not think you can, child. Your aunt "
(looking towards Mrs. Lymington, who was the
only person in the room besides themselves) ' is
very kind, and has done all that was possible.
I am pretty comfortable, thank you. But if you
would leave Randle and me alone a few minutes
I should be very glad.'

As the door closed behind them the expression
of cheerfulness which the stricken man had put
on in his daughter's presence gave place to one
of pain and misgiving.

What is it, uncle?' said Randle, anxiously;
do you feel worse V

Not worse just now, but no better. I am done
for this time, Randle, lad.'

'Nonsense, uncle ; you must not talk in that
way. You will live many a year yet. Y r ou are

only a little shook. You have no bones broken,
you know.'

But I am afraid I have something broken
here (pressing his hand to his side). ' I feel it ;
something tells me I am not long for this world.
And I am not easy in my mind, Randle.'

'Can I do anything for you, — anything to
make your mind easier V

Thank you kindly,' said the old man, plaintively.
< You were always good and kind,
Randle. I only wish others were more like
you. It is about my will, Randle. I fear much
I have made a foolish will, — that it may lead
to trouble, especially for Dora. It opens a man's
eyes when he gets his death-stroke, as I have
got mine.'

Not so bad as that, uncle, I hope. You
must keep up your courage, you know. That
is half the battle. We shall have the doctor
here soon, and he will tell you that you are
quite mistaken. But about this will ; can it not
be altered V

That is what I want to talk to you about.
I want you to telegraph for Pleasington to

come over by the first train ; there may perhaps
be time.'

Yes, uncle ; I will go at once.'

Wait a minute. Don't tell anybody ; above
all, don't tell your cousin Ran die. When
Pleasington comes let him be shown in here at
once, and send everybody else out of the room.
Till then, not a word. And, Randle, I have
made you one of my executors. You will act,
won't you V

4 Certainly, uncle, if it will give you any
satisfaction.'

It will, it will. And if so be that — that this
will cannot be altered, you will do your best
for Dora. You will not let her be put upon in
any way, I mean.'

I don't know altogether what you mean,
uncle ; but so far as it depends on me she shall
not be put upon by anybody. Of that I give
you my word. I will watch over her interests
as if she were my own sister.'

1 Thank you, Randle ; thank you. I wish my
own lad had been more like you. But go and
send that message to Pleasington. I acted

against his advice in making my will as I did,
but I would not heed him. I see now, though.
It is not a right will, and may lead to trouble.
But go — time presses — and send Dora and your
mother here.'

When the two women re-entered the room,
Mr. Lymington asked his daughter to sit
beside him. Then he took her hand in his and
closed his eyes. Mrs. Lymington, who was an
experienced nurse, noticed with alarm that his
paleness had increased, and that his voice was
weaker ; but Dora thought that her father seemed
more tranquil, and therefore better.

As Handle returned from despatching his
telegram to the lawyer, a two-horse drag was
driven at a fast trot to the inn door. His
cousin had brought a doctor — a grey-haired old
gentleman — who was at once conducted into
the patient's room. His first proceeding, after
asking a few questions, was to request the
ladies to withdraw for a minute or two. Then,
while the two Randies looked on, he made a
careful examination of Mr. Lymington's body
and limbs.

You are right,' he said, when the inspection

was over, turning to Deep Randle. 'No bones are
broken, nor is there much internal injury. It is
a case in which a surgeon is almost powerless —
one of nervous shock. We can look for cure
only to time, good nursing, suitable diet, and
perhaps a course of tonics. At present the
quieter Mr. Lymington can be kept the better.'

You do not think it would be safe to take
him home, then?' asked Deep Randle.

The surgeon shook his head and looked very
grave.

• Xot at present, certainly,' he said. ' I think
the ladies might come in now.'

As Dora and Mrs. Lymington returned, the
doctor left the room, remarking, with a significant
glance at the two Randies, that he would
be back in a few minutes.

Both the young men followed him.

Well,' said Deep Randle, as soon as they
were outside, * what is your opinion, doctor "?
Do you think there is any danger ¥

1 am afraid there is considerable danger.
Your father has a weak heart ; the shock to the
system has been very great ; and — I always
like to be plain in cases of this sort — if he does

not rally very speedily you must prepare for
the worst.'

'But can nothing be done ? Cannot you give
him something.'

1 1 am going to do. We must try stimulants.
But tell me first, please, what have been your
father's habits. I mean has he taken much
wine or spirits V

'No, I do not think you can say he has taken
much; that is, not too much. He drinks half
a bottle of port, sometimes a whole one, with
his dinner.'

And takes a nightcap, I suppose V

Yes, he generally takes a glass or two of
brandy and water before going to bed.'

I feared so. Well, we can only do our best \
but I should be doing wrong if I encouraged
you to look for a favourable issue. But I must
now return to my patient and give some instructions.'


This is terrible. I did not expect this. The
doctor means that it is impossible for my father
to get better — that he must die,' said Deep
Handle to his cousin.

He looked much distressed, as, indeed, he

was ; for although his own interest was always
his first consideration, and he had often thought
of the day when he should receive his inheritance
and become master of Deepdene, contemplating
the possibility of his father's demise
with perfect equanimity, the stroke had come
so unexpectedly that he felt completely unmanned.
Now that he was about to lose his
father, he recognized for the first time how
much he owed him, how kind he had been, how
he had schemed and striven to raise his family
to a higher social position ; and he remembered,
not without remorse, that he had not always
rendered him that respect which was his due —
had openly sneered at his old-fashioned ways,
his closeness in money matters, and even his
educational deficiencies.

1 Terrible indeed. I do not think the doctor
expects him to live many hours observed Red
Handle, who was surprised at his cousin's evidently
genuine emotion. He had not given
him credit for so much feeling.

Do you know anything about his will V
asked the other, after a short pause.

This was rather an embarrassing question.

Handle disliked concealing the fact of his having
sent for the lawyer ; yet he did not feel
that it would be right to disobey his uncle's
injunction to keep it from his cousin's knowledge.
So he was constrained to do the thing
he most disliked — dissemble.

4 Only that he has made a will, and that I am
to be one of the executors. I thought you
knew all about it.'

4 Hardly so much as you know yourself. I
was not aware, for instance, that you were to
be one of the executors.'

This was said with a slight tinge of bitterness,
as if the news did not altogether please
him. The first shock over, Deep Handle's grief
was already giving place to an anxious curiosity
as to the tenor of his father's testamentary
dispositions.

I was not aware myself until half an hour
ago.'

4 Will you act?'

4 That is a strange question at such a moment
as this. I have no ambition that way, I assure
you. An executorship is about the most thankless
office a man can have. But I can give you an

answer. I promised my uncle that I would act,
and I shall keep my word.'

I do not think you will find the office a
thankless one so far as Dora and I are concerned,
Ran said the other, to whom it had
just occurred that, as his cousin was appointed
and determined to act, it might be as well to
keep on good terms with him. 'And there will
be very little to do. It will not be like winding
up a manufacturer's business, you know. The
principal thing will be the investment of my
sister's fortune, and that, I make no doubt, is
made a charge on the estate.'

'That I know nothing about,' returned Red
Randle, coldly. ' But don't you think our place
just now is in your father's room ? The doctor
evidently thinks he may not survive the day.'

Yes, let us go,' answered the other, annoyed
as well at his cousin's rebuke as at his own
failure to illicit information from him ; for, in
spite of his denial, he was convinced that Randle
knew all about the will.

The surgeon's prognosis of the probable result
of Mr. Ryviugton's accident was realized even
more speedily than he had anticipated. In less

than an hour after his arrival, Mr. Lymington
passed away, so quietly and painlessly that
Dora and the two Randies thought he had sunk
into a deep sleep, and it was only when Mr.
Thyme placed his hand on his patient's heart
and said, f It is all over,' that they knew their
father and uncle was no more.

Amid the solemn silence that followed the
surgeon's words, Dora bent reverently over the
dead man's face and touched the cold forehead,
with her trembling lips. Then she knew that
her father was gone from her for ever, that in
this life they could never meet again, and her
heart seemed dead within her. In his lifetime
she had not been blind to her father's faults.
What child is? Bat at this solemn moment
she remembered only that he was her father,
and that he had loved her as she had loved him.
And there fell upon her a foreboding that, as
his death had brought her trouble, so it might
bring her evil, and that the brightness of her
young life would be buried in her father's
grave.

Her brother, too, in that supreme moment,
was conscious only that he had lost a father.

Death for a while banished every thought of
self. He forgot even that the event to which
he had so long looked forward had at last come
to pass, and that he was now master of Deep-done
and £10,000 a year, with full liberty to
shape his life according to his liking.

But this abnegation was not of long duration,
and jealousy of his sister and cousin, and an
uneasy doubt as to the provisions of the will,
despite his father's assurances that they were
in his favour, began speedily to assert themselves
— doubts that were far from being allayed
by an incident which occurred shortly after his
father's demise. As he and the other Handle
left the chamber of death they met Lawyer
Pleasington, looking very hurried and disturbed.


1 Am I in time?' he asked of Red Randle. ' I
started the moment I got your telegram. How
is your uncle going on V

4 1 am sorry to say my uncle died half an
hour ago.'

Dear me, dear me, it's a thousand pities ;
but I set off the moment I received your telegram,
and if there had not been a train on the

point of starting I could not have got here for
an hour or more.'

What telegram V exclaimed Deep Handle,
to whom this conversation was altogether
enigmatical. ' What does it all mean V

'I telegraphed for Mr. Pleasington at your
father's request,' said the other. ' He wanted
him to make some alterations in his will, and
he particularly desired that I should not mention
the circumstance to anybody, not even to
you.'

'I ' began Deep Randle, angrily, and

then, restrained doubtless by prudential considerations,
he stopped short ; but his look said
as plainly as words could say, ' I don't believe
you.'

What alterations did he want to make, Mr.
Pleasington?' he asked, after a short pause.

That is more than I can tell you.'

Can you guess, then Y

'It is against my principles to guess, Mr.
Handle.'

'But his present will — you made it — is it all
in order V

'Perfectly.'

■ And valid V

1 Of course

1 What is its purport V

1 That I am not at liberty to say. But you
will not have to restrain your curiosity long
Mr. Lymington,' said the lawyer, sarcastically,
recognising for the first time the young man's
accession to the headship of the family. * On
the day your father is buried you will be fully
enlightened.'

This answer did not seem to give Deep
Handle much satisfaction, and, after remarking
that he had several pressing matters to attend
to, he left Mr. Pleasington and his cousin to
themselves.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XXV.

MRS. Lymington AND HER NIECE.

< TF it could only have been ; if it could only
•*• have been ; if even yet it might please the
Lord to bring it about !' And then Mrs. Lymington
stopped short, as if afraid of going
any further, or, perhaps, to watch the effect
of this rather enigmatical utterance on Dora,
who, by her own wish, was staying at Redscar
until after the funeral.

1 If what could only have been, aunt V asked
Dora, with wondering eyes, still red with
weeping.

Oh, Dora, my love, it will be lonely for you
in yon big house, all by yourself, for your
brother will be often away, and your aunt
Ford is not much company for one of your age.

And if the estate is left to him, as I daresay it
is, you may have no right to live there

You surely do not think Randle would turn
me out of the house, mother 1 And I am sure
dear papa will have left us both alike. Am 1
not as much his child as my brother V

1 As far as that goes, yes ; and I think
parents should make no difference between one
child and another. But everybody does not
think so, and your poor father, I know, wanted
to keep Deepdene in the family. He is almost
sure to have entailed it, and, even if you lived
there for the present, Handle might marry, you
know, and then what would you do V

6 Oh, aunt, you are too anxious. I cannot
think about such things at present. I am sure
poor papa will have arranged everything for
the best ; and he once told me that he had
promised mamma to leave us both alike.'

If it could only have been ; if it could only
have been,' exclaimed Mrs. Lymington. again
with a heavy sigh, and a look as dolorous as if
she, not Dora, had been left an orphan.

1 How mysterious you are, aunt,' said Dora

x2

smiling in spite of her sorrow. ' If what could
only have been V

1 If it might have pleased the Lord to make
you one of us.'

But am I not one of you already ? We are
all Lymington, you know,' answered Dora,
quite unable to conjecture what her aunt was
driving at. 'Tell me plainly what you mean,
for I am sure I shall never guess.'

4 That if it might please the Lord in His
goodness to bring you and my son Handle
together the great wish of my life would be
realised.'

'Oh!'

For a few minutes nothing more was said.
Mrs. Lymington was watching anxiously for
some indication of the effect of her words,
while Dora seemed to be thinking how she
should reply.

Does — does Handle know of this V she said
at length.

4 Not at all, Dora. He has not the least suspicion
that I have any such wish. You may
think it strange that I have chosen this time,

when your poor dear father is lying dead, to
moot such a matter to you. But it seemed tome,
seeing that the Lord has taken away your
only parent, that it might comfort you to look
forward to having a house of your own, and
living where your father and mother lived and
you were born.'

'You forget, aunt, that I have no right to
look forward to any such thing. I have always
looked upon Randle as a dear brother, and I
am sure he has never thought of me in any
other light than as a sister.'

4 But if so be '

You are mistaken, aunt, I am sure. Randle
and I are brother and sister, and I do not think
we shall ever be anything else. And' (hesitatingly)
■ it seems hardly right to discuss such a
subject now. Let us talk about something
else.'

Mrs. Lymington was far from being dissatisfied
with this answer. The question was, as it
were, left open, and Dora had said nothing to
indicate that she w r ould refuse Randle if Randle
at some future time should ask her to be his

wife. Meanwhile the matter had been laid
before her. She could not help thinking about
it if she would. Mrs. Lymington knew, moreover,
that when the heart is softened by a
great sorrow, we crave more for sympathy, and
are more thankful for any manifestation of it
than at other times ; and nothing could exceed
the kindness and delicacy of Handle's attentions
to his cousin since her bereavement,
attentions which left as little doubt in his
mother's mind that his love for Dora was
more than the love of a brother as that they
were exceedingly grateful to the young lady
herself.

As Mrs. Livingston had told her niece, a marriage
between her and Handle had long been
one of her day-dreams. She honestly thought
they were well suited to each other, and would
make each other happy ; and, as a woman who
knew the value of money, she was fully alive to
the advantage her son would derive from marrying
a girl with so large a fortune as Dora
would be sure to possess.

In the evening she mentioned the matter to

Handle. She thought it might be expedient to
put the idea into his mind also, if peradventure
it were not there already.

Poor Dora,' she began ; * it will be very
lonely for her at Deepdene. Her aunt Ford is
no company for anybody. When the funeral
is over and everything settled she will feel the
loss of her father more than ever

4 She will, indeed, poor girl,' answered Handle,
pityingly. 'But we must have here often. She
is always pleased to come to Reclscar. I have
heard her say she feels more at home here than
at Deepdene.'

1 I am afraid that cannot be, Randle. You
forget that Dora is now a woman. People
would talk.'

What would they talk about ? Let them
talk,' exclaimed Randle, who had a great contempt
for what he called ■ twaddle,' meaning
thereby gossip and scandal.

1 It is very easy for you to despise talk, but
Dora would probably be less indifferent. Suppose
they said she came here to see you V

1 Suppose they did, what then V

Dear me, Handle, how obtuse you are !
Would you like it to be said of Dora that she
came here to look for a husband V

Oh, that is it, is it V

'Yes, that is it. Has no such idea ever
occurred to you V

What, that Dora came here to look for a
husband?'

No, you know what I mean. Has the thought
that you might do worse than make her your
wife never occurred to you V

6 Honestly, mother, it never has. I have always
looked upon Dora as a sister, and the idea
of marrying her, now you mention it, seems tome
positively unnatural.'

Perhaps when you have thought a little more
about it, it may seem less so. And oh, Handle,
nothing would please me more than to see you
and Dora united.'

Has Dora any such idea, do you think V
asked Handle, sharply.

That is more than I can say ; but I almost
think so. I think if you were to ask her she
would not say you nay.'

I hope you are wrong, mother. I should be

sorry to think that Dora's feeling for me is other
than sisterly, for great as is my affection for her
it falls far short of the love a man ought to have
for the woman he means to marry, I have a
warm brotherly love for her, but nothing more.'

1 The more would come in time, Handle. At
any rate, think about it.'

6 You put it in such a way that I cannot help
thinking about it, mother. I shall think about
it a great deal, though perhaps not in the sense
you desire.'

And he did. As he said, the idea of being
more than a brother to Dora in affection, or a
cousin in fact, had never entered his mind, and,
as it seemed to him, there was no particular
reason why he should make haste to marry —
either her or anybody else. But if his mother
were right in her conjecture that Dora loved
him, that she had misinterpreted his attentions,
the matter would wear an entirely different aspect.
For he liked her so well that he would
have been deeply grieved to know that she
cherished an unrequited love, and he admitted
to himself that if he should resolve to marry he
could not find anywhere a better or more suitable

wife than Dora. True, he could not offer
her that higher love, that thorough devotion of
heart and mind which are the tokens of a great
passion ; but these, as his mother had suggested,
might come with time.

And then he thought of Lady Muriel, of her
last words of farewell, and of the bunch of 
which he still kept hidden away in
one of the drawers of his w r ri ting-table. Long
past as the time was, the thought almost made
him tremble. The passion that he lacked for
Dora he could, had circumstances been propitious,
have felt for Lady Muriel — had almost
felt indeed. But the rubs of time had already
dulled the vividness of the impression she had
made upon him, and if the memory of their
meeting and parting came back to him, as it
sometimes did, he would thrust it aside, with a
smile at his own folly for allowing his thoughts
to dwell on one who could never be his and whom
he might never see again.

As for Dora, there was no need for a present
decision. Even if he should come to the resolution
which his mother so evidently desired, it

would not be seemly to broach the matter for
some time after Mr. Lymington's funeral. Meanwhile
he would watch his cousin and try to find
out if his mother's surmise as to the nature
of her affection for him had any foundation in
fact.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

3 0112 056531996

RED

RyviKgtqK

P^, ~C*^ |^»Q»^% ~"*i£^* *&&*

■■■-

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS


W52lr e
v. 2

RED RYVOGTOff.

VOL. II.

BY

WILLIAM Stall

AUTHOR OF

« LARRY LOHENGRIN," " THE OLD FACTORY,
<fec, &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

All rights reserved.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/redryvington02west

RED Lymington.

CHAPTER I.

rpWO days afterwards, Mr. Lymington was
■"• buried.

The funeral, as be would doubtless himself
have desired, was conducted with considerable
pomp. The hearse was drawn by four horses,
brought expressly from Manchester ; the tenants
and workmen of the deceased gentleman followed
his remains to the grave. The Mayor of White-brook
attended the funeral in person ; many of
the notabilities of the town and several of the
neighbouring gentry sent their condolences and
their carriages ; and altogether Mr. Lymington

VOL. II. B

was more honoured in his death than he had
been in his life.

When the time came for reading the will, Mr.
Pleasington caused it to be intimated to the
members of the two families that he awaited
them in a room which the late Mr. Lymington
had been in the habit of calling his study. Besides
Mr. Yardley, steward, agent, and land surveyor,
none but kinsfolk of the deceased were
included in the lawyer's invitation. Yardley
had been Mr. Lymington's man of business, and
knew better than anybody else the value of his
property and the ins and outs of his affairs.

I do not think it is necessary,' observed Mr.
Pleasington, when his audience was assembled,
to read every word of the will. It will save
time if I read only the principal passages and
tell you the purport of the rest. The executors
and beneficiaries can, of course, be supplied with
copies of the document after the w T ill has been
proved.

Well, the testator leaves all his estate, real
and personal, to Thomas Pleasington, Randle
Lymington, the younger, of Redscar, and
Reuben Yardley, of Whitebrook '

Here the lawyer paused and took a pinch of
snuff, and Deep Handle, who had never before
heard a will read, believing that he had been
cut off even without the traditional shilling,
turned deadly pale, and was on the point of
uttering an exclamation, which as likely as not
would have been an imprecation, when the
reading was resumed.

On the following trusts. The ready money
that is to say the bank balances and any
moneys that may remain in the hands of Mr.
Yardley after payment of funeral expenses,
debts, and residuary charges — has to be equally
divided between the testator's two children,
Randle and Dorothea, the latter's share to be
paid over to her on her attaining the age of
twenty-one.'

How much will that be?' interrupted Deep
Randle, sharply.

1 That is hard to say until we know what
them residuary expenses come to,' said Yardley,
who, albeit a man of fair education, had fallen
so much into the habit of talking broad Lancashire
that it was difficult for him to speak good
English. * Happen a couple of thousand pounds.'

B 2

'All the residue of the property, with the
exception of a few trifling legacies continued
Mr. Pleasington, ' has to be held in trust for
five years after the testator's death, or until
one or both of his children shall marry. If at
the end of that time they are still unmarried,
the estate has to be divided equally between
them. Should they both marry commoners, or
if one marries a commoner and the other
remains single, the same. In the event of the
son marrying first, and marrying a woman of
rank — defined as one who, either by courtesy
or in her own right, enjoys the title of lady —
he takes all. If, on the other hand, the
daughter marries first, and marries a man not
lower in rank than a baronet, she takes all.
Until one of these events comes to pass, or if
they do not happen till the lapse of five years
from the present time, the rents and profits
arising from the estate are to be equally divided
between Randle and Dorothea. That is
about all, I think, except some directions as to
the devolution of the property in the event of
either or both of the testator's children dying
unmarried before the expiration of the time in

question, which it is not needful to read

For a few minutes after the lawyer had finished
his reading, silence prevailed among his
listeners, partly from surprise, and partly, perhaps,
because they had not quite taken it all in.

Then Dora whispered a word to her two
aunts, whereupon they all rose and quitted the
room.

'Well,' said Yardley, when the men folks
were left to themselves, 'that's the cobbett'
(queerest) ' will I ever heard read, and I've
heard many a one. It requires some elucidation,
that will does. I was always aware that Mr.
Lymington wanted his family to be summit
more than common, but I never thought he was
so keen to mate his chiltern wi' quality as that
comes to. As I understand, if Mr. Randle here
can light of a nobleman's daughter as will
have him, he may take all, and Miss Dora will
get nowt.'

4 Provided the lady has a title.'

'And hasn't all noblemen's daughters
titles V

No, only the daughters of earls, marquises,
and dukes, I think.'

Would a widow do, thinker you V

1 Certainly, if she were a " lady.' 1 '

1 Do you think the will is good V asked Deep
Randle, quietly ; for, though small annoyances
often caused him to lose temper, he could
keep cool when coolness was necessary, and
quarrelling with Mr. Pleasington and his father's
trustees could profit him nothing.

1 If you mean do I think the will is a wise
one, I say no ; for I think nothing can be more
foolish than for a father to attempt to impose
conditions on his children such as those contained
in this will. But if you mean do I think
the will is valid, I say yes, decidedly.'

That is what I mean. I put the question
because my father told me a short time ago
that he had left the estate practically to me.'

So he has.'

c How do you make that out V

6 Don't you see ? It is easier for you to
marry a " lady " than for your sister to marry a
lord. You can put yourself forward. You can
ask, and if you are refused by one woman
of rank you mays propose to another. But
your sister cannot ask, or, with due regard

to modesty, put herself in the way of
being asked. In my opinion your sister is
most unfairly dealt with. She is put in an entirely
false position.'

1 You are rest, Mr. Pleasington,' put in Yardley.
' That was the first thowt as struck me
when you read that part of the will out.'

I, too, am quite of Mr. Pleasington's opinion,'
observed Handle. ' It is a most unfortunate
will, and likely, I fear, to lead to grave complications.
I am not surprised my uncle wanted
to cancel it. If I had not given him my promise
to act, I should certainly have refused to be
one of the executors under such a will.'

6 Well, there is no use crying over spilt milk.
It is past altering now, Nil nisi bonum, you
know. Don't let us be finding fault with our
departed friend when he is hardly cold in his
grave. None of us here are responsible for his
will. He took his own course, in spite of my
remonstrances. All that remains to be done is
to make the best of it, and do our duty as trustees
faithfully. And I am sure we may count
on the cordial support of the young squire.
May we not, Mr. Lymington V

I only want what is right, Mr. Leamington
said Deep Handle (he dearly liked to be called
the ' young squire') * I do not deny that I am
disappointed with the will. It is not what I expected.
But, as you say, it is past altering, and
I do not mean to raise any difficulty. It is for
you to act. As for me '

At this moment the door opened, and Dora,
hurriedly entering the room, walked straight to
Mr. Pleasington. She seemed greatly agitated.
Her face expressed in equal measure grief and
indignation ; and she was twisting her pocket-handkerchief
with both hands, as if she would
tear it to pieces.

Will you please tell me, Mr. Leamington
she said, speaking slowly, and in a suppressed
voice, as if she had difficulty in mastering her
emotion, 'what 1 have done that my father
should have cast such a slur upon me V

My dear young lady, I do not understand.
How has he cast a slur upon you V

6 What ! Is it not casting a slur upon me to
suppose I am so eager to marry a baronet or a
lord that in order to do so I would deprive my
brother of his inheritance ? Did he think I

would offer myself and my fortune as a prize to
the first man of title that offered himself? Oh,
it is cruel ! Papa did not know what he was
doing ; he did not think, or he could not have
made such a will. But I have made up my
mind, Mr. Lymington. I refuse the condition,
and I renounce the bequest. Let Ran die keep
the estate. I have the fortune my dear mother
left me ; that is enough.'

My dear Miss Dora, you do not know what
you are saying. I can quite understand your
feelings, but in a day or two, when you have
thought the matter calmly over, I think you
will view it in a different light. And as for
your father, though I regret that he should have
made such a will, we must remember that it was
prompted by a desire to promote what we
deemed the interest of the family and your
happiness.'

4 That may be, Mr. Pleasington,' replied Dora,
whose excitement seemed to be subsiding ; f and
I have nothing to say against papa — perhaps I
allowed my feelings to carry me too much away
just now. He had a right to do what he liked
with his own. At the same time, I adhere to

my resolution. I shall transfer all my interest
in the estate to my brother.'

'Happily, Miss Dora, that is not in your
power ; and before it is in your power you will,
I am sure, have changed your mind. You are
not yet of age, remember, and in any case the
estate remains vested in the trustees, until one
or both of you are married, or until the five
years' interregnum has expired. It will be
quite time enough to decide what you will do
when one or other of those events has come to
pass.'

It all seems very strange,' she replied, wearily,
for her excitement was now giving way to
lassitude. ' Perhaps I shall understand it better
presently. But I do not think I am likely to
change my mind, even in five years ; and I shall
certainly never marry a lord, even if one should
ask me, which is not very likely, I think.'

Weil, well,' said the lawyer, as he opened
the door for her to pass out, « do not let us come
to a hasty decision, whatever we do. Many a
thing may happen before your next birthday,
and many more before the trusteeship expires.'

CHAPTER II.

TOM CLIYIGER S ADVICE.

A Though Deep Handle, or, to give him
■"■ the designation he now considered his
due, Mr. Lymington, had heard his sister's declaration
with considerable satisfaction, he was
by no means free from anxiety as to the possibilities
which the strange provisions of his
father's will opened up ; and a few weeks after
the funeral he took occasion to talk the matter
over with his particular friend, Mr. Thomas
Cliviger.

Thomas, or, as his intimates generally called
him, ' Tom,' was a yarn agent in a large way of
business, with one office at Whitebrook, another
at Manchester, and a house in the neighbourhood
of Deepdene. Yarn agents have been

defined by a great authority as a class of men
who spend their lives in cheating for fractions
of farthings. It has even been suggested that
the most of them deserve no better fate than to
be hanged in their own yarn, like the weaver of
the song. But these, doubtless, are merely
samples of the unfounded aspersions so frequently
cast on the characters of men who get
their livings, and sometimes grow rich on fees,
beverages, and commission. The fact that
yarn agents, like stockbrokers, exist is proof
presumptive that they are indispensable. Men
who are indispensable cannot be otherwise than
useful, and useful people, though they may not
invariably be endowed with all the virtues, are
worthy of respect. At any rate, Tom Cliviger
thought himself as good as the best, and associated,
as he frequently boasted, with the creme de
la creme of Whitebrook society. He had a nice
place in the country, a grouse moor in Yorkshire,
went a-hunting, had ridden in more than
one steeple-chase ; and he liked to deal in
horseflesh, of which he had the reputation of
being a capital judge, even better than a transaction
in yarn. There was probably a little

hoarseness in his character, as there certainly*
was in his appearance ; for albeit he always
dressed well, and in good taste, the cut of his
trousers, the shape of his coat, the nattiness of
his boots, his figure even, and, above all, a
certain jockey-like keenness of look suggested
a decided affinity for things equine. Tom had
not the reputation of being rich, yet he never
seemed either short of money or afraid of
spending it. But it was generally supposed
that he added considerably to the income arising
from his yarn agencies by shrewd dealings
in cotton and judicious operations on the Stock
Exchange, and that he spent pretty nearly all
he made.

He had called at Deepdene on the occasion in
question to inquire if Randle would accept the
mastership of the "Whitebrook harriers from the
beginning of the coming season. At a meeting
of the subscribers, held a few days previously,
the present master had announced his intention
of resigning, and they all thought, saidCliviger,
that no one was so well qualified in every way
to become his successor as Mr. Lymington.

1 1 don't know, Tom, I am sure,' replied Randle

(who, despite his doubts, was well pleased that
the offer had been made to hin). * You see, it
is only a few weeks since my father died.
Would it be right — I mean, would it be proper
for me to take a public position like that so
soon after his death V

i It would not be soon after his death.
Freckles will keep the mastership until November,
and that is something like four months
off; and you could wear a black coat for a
while, you know. There would be no impropriety
in that, I am sure.'

'No, Tom,' returned Handle, with a smile.
4 1 don't suppose that anybody, even my aunt
Sophia, would object to my wearing a black
coat ; and, so far as the proprieties are concerned,
I daresay I might, as you propose, take the
hounds from November next. But there is
another difficulty that weighs on me rather, and
I am glad you have called, as I wanted to talk
to you about it. You have heard something
about my father's will, I daresay V

Not very much, or rather not much that is
trustworthy. There are all sorts of stories
going. You have to marry the Princess Beatrice,

I suppose?' said Tom, with a merry twinkle
in his eye as he took a sip of his brandy and
water.

Nay, hang it ; not so bad as that. But it is
bad enough though. We want to keep it as
quiet as possible ; but there is no secret about a
will of which anybody can get a copy for a
guinea ; and I may as well tell you all. If I
marry a u lady " before my sister marries a lord
I take all the property. If my sister marries a
lord or a baronet before I marry a " lady"' she
takes all the property. If we both marry untitled
persons, or if we don't marry at all during
the next five years, the property is divided
between us, share and share alike, you know.
That is the gist of it. But Miss Lymington
declares that she will not marry the best lord
that ever breathed, even if one should ask her,
which is perhaps not as unlikely as she imagines.
The will assumes, she says, that she
would be willing to buv a husband — exchange
her fortune for a title — and she is annoyed past
everything that her father should have thought
her capable of such an enormity.'

Then you are all right.'

'Do you think so? I do not see it in that
light ; I only wish I did. It is all very well
talking ; but even a romantic girl will think
twice before she throws away £12,000 a-year ;
and if a chance of keeping it — and getting a noble
husband into the bargain — were to come in her
way, I am very much afraid she would accept
it, in spite of her protestations.'

< Twelve thousand a year ! Is it so much,
then?'

'Quite. None of us thought the governor
had such a pile; but he had a lot of railway
stock that I knew nothing of. He was always
very close about his affairs, you know. Yes, its
a great deal too much to run the risk of
losing.'

I understand now. The case seems clear
enough. You must marry some earl's or marquis's
daughter — that's all.'

c That's all ! Better say a duke's daughter,
while you are at it,' laughed Handle. ' But,
unfortunately, I do not happen to number any
earls, or marquises, or even barons among my
acquaintances. You could not introduce me to
one, could you, Tom? Old Pleasington says

the will is much more in my favour than my
sister's. But, really, I do not see it. There
are hundreds of spendthrift younger sons with
handles to their names, and impecunious
baronets, who would only be too glad to
marry a pretty girl of good family with
£12,000 a year — if they had the chance — and
she will have offers before long, too, see if she
has not. But no lady of title is likely to seek
me out, and make me an offer.'

Still there are doubtless many who would
be glad to have you, if they only knew, and
had the chance. A man with £12,000 a year
is not to be picked up every day, even in
aristocratic circles.'

1 Therein lies the difficulty, my dear Cliviger.
How am I to let them know ? I cannot advertise,
or go knocking promiscuously at the doors
of earls and marquises, and ask if they have
any daughters to marry. And I am not going
to marry an 7 body. 1 shall not be very exacting,
but I must have youth, good looks, and
good temper.'

1 So you may, if you go about it the
right way — and there is a way,' said

VOL. II. C

Tom, sententiously, as he lit another cigar.

1 What is it ? I am sure I shall be greatly
indebted to you, if you will tell me.'

1 You must get into Parliament.'

1 But how?' exclaimed Randle, eagerly; for
the idea had already occurred to him, but its
realisation seemed so hopeless that he had long-ago
dismissed it from his mind.

1 Stand for Whitebrook at the next election.'

'Nonsense! I should not have a ghost of
a chance. How could I hope to oust James
Tugwood. who has sat for the borough fifteen
years and more? And were not the two
parties so evenly matched at the last election
that they agreed to divide the representation
between them, and have no more contests?'

An agreement like that does not stand forever
— even if half a dozen men had a right to
pledge a whole party, which they certainly
have not. Besides, some important changes
have taken place since the last election, and
the changes are all in our favour. In my
opinion, if we run two candidates at the next
election, we shall get them both in. Most of
the new mills that have been built the stour

or five years are Conservative ; while warrington's,
and two or three smaller concerns —
all Liberals — have failed, and either been floated
(converted into joint-stock companies) or stopped
altogether. The balance is decidedly in
our favour now, whatever it was at the last
election.'

1 You think, then, that the factories return
the members X

4 Of course they do. Tell me how many
horse-power — the best measure of political influence
— there are on the Conservative, and how
many on the Liberal side, and I will tell you
how an election will go. Of course, I mean
other things being equal, and in quiet times :
for if you were to pit a popular against an
unpopular candidate, a good speaker against
a bad one, or if some great question were at
stake, then my calculation might be at fault.'

'Precisely. And, if I were to contest the
borough with Tugwood, I should be an unpopular
pitted against a popular candidate.'

Xot you. James Tugwood is respected by
respectable people, perhaps, but he is not
popular with the masses. The Tugwoods

c2

grind their hands too much for that, and. he
is a wretchedly poor stick of a speaker. Now,
you speak very fairly. With a little practice,
you would speak really well. Your family is
well known, you live in the neighbourhood, and
have property in the borough. You are nota
master, so that the hands can have nothing
against you. If the party will adopt you as
their second candidate, I think you cannot miss
getting in.'

Do you think they will, though V

'They shall, if you are willing to stand.
I'll be answerable for that. Will you V

i I will, Tom. Apart altogether from my
father's will, and that, I should be glad to be
member for Whitebrook. It is the height of
my ambition.'

All right, Mr. Lymington. Only do as I
tell you, and you shall be member for White-brook,
and it will be your own fault if you do
not marry a duke's daughter. Once in London
with M.P. to your name, rich and a bachelor,
you will have no difficulty in finding a wife
with a handle to hers.'

1 1 daresay you are right, Tom. But I am

afraid I shall have an awfully long time to wait.
There can hardly be an election under two or
three years at the soonest.'

I am not so sure about that,' answered
Cliviger, with a knowing look. ' I heard something
the other day that will surprise you.
But this is entirely between ourselves, you
know.'

1 Certainly, if you wish it.'

4 Well, the Tugwoods were very heavily hit
in the American war. They lost immensely.
But everybody thought they could stand it,
and that they had made money since. They
have not ; it came to my knowledge the other
day, quite accidentally, that they have been trying
lately to retrieve their losses by operations
in cotton futures, and that sort of thing. Now I
know — by the way the market has gone lately —
that they have only made bad worse; and I doubt
if Tugwoods, highway they stand, if they were
wound up tomorrow, could pay twenty shillings
in the pound. And Oliver Tugwood has
not the look of a solvent man. I have made as
many bad debts as most folks ; and there is a
troubled, hunted expression in his eye, which I

have often noticed in men who were going to
fail. I do not think James Tugwood will ever
stand for Whitebrook again, and I should not
be surprised if he had to resign long before the
general election. At any rate we must be prepared.'


■ You had better speak to Bellasis and the
others at once, then.'

No, Lymington, that is not our little game.
It is too soon to show our hand yet. I would
not say a word to anybody until the time comes,
if only to keep the other side quiet, and leave
them in the belief that they have no opposition
to fear. All that you have to do for the present
is just to show yourself a little more. Goto
a meeting now and again — it does not matter
much what it is about — and make a speech.
Increase your father's subscriptions to the local
charities ; double his subscription to the registration
fund; take an interest in schools and
churches, and such like. But say as little
about politics as you can, and, above all, don't
let it be seen that you mean to offer yourself asa
candidate. Then, when the time comes, and

there is question of an election — either by
reason of Tugwood's resignation or a dissolution
— I will tell our fellows that they must fight ;
and that I have a man ready. They will not say
nay ; and if they do we will have your address
out, and commit them to a contest before they
know where they are. Talking of addresses,
it would not be amiss to have one or two ready
sketched out.'

Capital, splendidly conceived,' exclaimed
Randle, warmly. ' Why, what a clever fellow
you are, Tom ! You ought to set up as a professional
election agent. How can I sufficiently
thank you? In any event, I shall be
greatly obliged to you ; but, if by your help I
get into Parliament, 1 shall be your debtor for
life. If I can do anything for you, now or
at any other time, you have only to speak.
But I say, how much will it cost?'

1 That is what I was just going to speak to
you about. I don't suppose the legal expenses
will stand you in more than five or six
hundred pounds. Anything over and above
that, I will see to ; but, of course, you must
know nothing about that '

Of course not ; still I don't quite understand
where '

'The sinews of war are to come from,' said
Cliviger, completing the sentence. * That is
what I am coming to. I can arrange it all, so
that nobody will be the wiser, and you can dome
a good turn at the same time

I am sure I should only be too glad if you
will tell me in what way,' observed Randle,
incautiously.

Well, you see, we are holding a large stock
of cotton and yarn just now, besides being
under heavy advances to our spinners. I am
afraid to say how much money we have out.
This is all very well in one way, because it brings
lots of grist to the mill — indeed, we were never
doing so well — but it takes a lot of tin, and I
have had to ask our bankers to increase our
overdraft. They are quite willing, only they
want cover of some sort, and I thought perhaps
you would give us your guarantee for
about £3,000. It will be quite temporary, and
I could do with less, but I intend to provide
out of it what is necessary for — you know
what. A nod is as good as a wink in these

matters. And then, when the time comes,
or rather when it has gone by, we can square
up.'

This proposal was far from being agreeable
to Deep Handle. Though he knew nothing of
Cliviger's means or his business, he could not
help drawing from his style of living inferences
not altogether favourable to his solvency. At
any rate, he would not have trusted him £3,000,
or even a much smaller sum, from choice; yet,
seeing that the yarn agent's co-operation was
almost indispensable to the success of his
schemes, and that the granting of the accommodation
he asked for would attach him to his
fortunes, he closed promptly with the offer.

All right, Tom, I'll do it,' he said, after a
short pause.

1 Thank you very much. You will not regret
doing me this kindness, Lymington. If we both
live till the next election, you are as sure to be
one of the members for Whitebrook as you are
sitting there. You may look upon that as settled.
I must not forget about the hunt, however.
You will take the mastership, of
course V

Yes, and you can say that I shall double my
subscription.'

Your message shall be duly delivered. 1 am
sure it will give great satisfaction. And now I
think I must leave you. I will call one of these
days to obtain your signature to that little
document.'

'Whenever you like, Tom,' replied Randle,
who was politic enough not to let Cliviger see
that he had any misgiving as to the consequences
of his complaisance.

6 Dash it,' muttered the yarn agent, as he rode
homeward, ' I wish I had bled him a bit more.
He would have done £5,000 I do believe.'

Confound it,' said Mr. Ry winston to himself,
so soon as his guest was out of earshot, ' I am
very much afraid I shall have to find every
blessed halfpenny of that £3,000 myself. I wish
I were as sure of being member for White-brook.'


CHAPTER III.

THE RIBBLETON STRIKE.

A S may be supposed, Mr. Lymington's will was
-*"*• a frequent subject of conversation at Red-scar.
The more he thought about it, Randle
said, the less he liked it. He saw in its conditions
a deeply-laid scheme to give the whole
of the property to the son, and virtually disinherit
the daughter. The promise made by his
uncle to Dora and her mother, w r hile kept to the
ear, was broken to the hope. He could hardly
speak of him with patience, and he held the old
man's memory in little honour. One consequence
of the will was Handle's decided refusal
to comply with his mother's wish that he
should 'think of marrying Dora, or at least of
proposing to her. To do so, he said, would

simply be playing into her brother's hands —
making him a present of the estate. For however
unlikely it was that any man with the
requisite qualifications should make Dora an
offer, or that if such an offer were made she
would accept it, the contingency was at least
conceivable, and it was not for him to render it
impossible. He did not feel, moreover, that he
loved his cousin well enough to marry her, nor
had he seen anything in her manner to justify
his mother's suspicion that Dora's affection for
him was other than it had ever been, or more
than sisterly.

Mrs. Lymington acquiesced in this conclusion
with more equanimity than her son had expected.
Like him, she probably thought that it
would be wrong to stand in the way of Dora's
marrying a man of title. It is conceivable, too,
that the forfeiture of her niece's contingent interest
in her father's estate, which her marriage
with Randle would have entailed, may have
helped to reconcile Mrs. Lymington to the abandonment
of her match-making project. Her
kindness to Dora, however, continued unabated,
and some time after the funeral the two

went together for a long visit to the sea side.

Bob, who had a passion for paradox, and for
tracing events to remote causes, one clay startled
his mother by suggesting that she was the
involuntary cause of all the trouble.

4 That watch has done all the mischief, mother,'
he said, ' and the making a present of it to uncle
was your idea.'

Whatever do you mean, Robert ? What has
the watch to do with it V

Why, don't you see ? If we had not given
uncle the watch, he would certainly not have
gone with us to Chatburn. If he had not gone
toChatburn, he would not have been killed, and
he would have had ample time before he died to
alter that wretched will of his ; or perhaps Dora
or Ran die might have married, and then he
would have been forced to make other arrangements.'


i How absurdly you talk, Robert ! I might
just as well say that, if you had not chosen to
celebrate your birthday by a trip to Salley and
Chatburn, your uncle would have been still
alive.'

1 Anyhow,' returned Bob, to whom this view

of the matter bad not previously occurred, ' the
watch has not proved a good investment. If I
had known, I am sure I should not have joined
in making Deep Randle a present of £100, and
that is what it amounts to.'

Is your cousin wearing the watch already,
then V

< Rather ; and very proud of it he seems.
Shows it to people as what he calls a remarkable
specimen of zoological skill ; but he takes
care never to say how he came by it.'

Indeed !' said Mrs. Lymington. ' That is not
very candid, I think ;' and then the conversation
took another turn, for Bob saw that, albeit
his mother had so little to say, she was far
from being pleased. She had a particular distaste
for bad investments, whether of hope or
cash ; and it was a very sore point with her
that her ingenious scheme for the reconciliation
of the two families should have resulted only
in placing her nephew Randle, between whom
and herself there was the least possible love
lost, in possession of a remarkable specimen
of zoological skill at her son's expense.

Meanwhile, Randle of Redscar had his hands

full. The administration of his uncle's estate
demanded more of his time and attention than
he had anticipated. At the same time his own
business, owing to the unsatisfactory state of
the cotton market and several heavy failures
in Manchester, was giving him some anxiety,
and the difficulties between the Ribbleton masters
and their hands, which had been the subject
of a conversation between William Bellasis
and himself on the way to Chatburn, had resulted
at length in an open rupture. The
work people contended that they were worse
paid than any other work people in the county;
that, while their employers professed to regulate
their wages by the standard list in vogue at
Whitebrook, matters were so contrived that
they earned from five to ten per cent, less than
the Whitebrook weavers. To this the masters
replied that, if their hands earned lower wages
than other hands, it was because they worked
with less energy. The difference, in fact, as
they contended, arose from a difference of skill,
not from a difference in the rate of pay. This
the work people denied, alleging that when Rib-breton
weavers went to Whitebrook, as they

frequently did, they earned quite as much as
the Whitebrook weavers. After a long and
acrimonious war of words, and several vain
attempts to effect a compromise, the Ribbleton
people turned out.

The controversy by which the strike was
preceded excited general attention. The cause
of the hands was warmly taken up by their
fellow work people throughout the district.
Enthusiastic meetings were held on behalf
of the strikers all over the county, and collections
made for them in every factory in Mid-lancashire.


The excitement among the Whitebrook work-people
was intense. A Ribbleton Strike Committee
was organised, and a levy of a certain
sum per loom ordered and rigidly exacted.
The few weavers who refused to pay were
boycotted in fact, if not in name. Their names
were published in the weekly subscription lists
with opprobrious comments, sarcastic remarks,
and hardly veiled threats. After reciting, for
instance, that the weekly levy at Redscar had
produced £48 15s. 9d., there would follow such
observations as these : —

That great hulking woman as weaves i' th*
nook has only paid 3d. a loom this week. If
she doesn't do better next Saturday, she'll get
summit as she does not like.'

'Mary Ann, at number sixteen and seventeen,
paid nowt last week. If she does not pay up
next, she'll be getting that red head of hers seton
fire.'

Neddy Wag (Ned the Wag) has not paid
a half-penny since last Saturday but one. He
says as he cannot spare th' brass. They say
as he wants it all to get his dandy breeches
out o' th' popshop.'

1 Brandy-nosed Bill says as he'll pay nowt.
Shout him home, lads.'

The shouting home consisted in following the
recusants from the factories at which they
worked to the places where they lived, with
an accompaniment of howls, reproaches, and
derisive cheers, finishing up with a serenade
of taunts and execrations. This mode of treatment
was probably quite as effective as open
violence would have been, and possessed, moreover,
the incidental advantage of not being
flagrantly illegal. The victims did not general.

II. D

ally hold out more than a week. To live ina
' white light of publicity,' to be gibbeted
every Saturday in print, and followed about
the country every day by a howling mob, was
an ordeal that none liked, and few were resolute
enough to withstand. The weekly levy
was more punctually paid than if it had been
a government tax. It produced a sum large
enough to maintain the trouts in comparative
comfort, and, unless the masters should
give way, it seemed as if the strike might go on
for ever.

In these alarming circumstances, the Ribble-ton
masters appealed for help to their confreres of
Whitebrook and of other localities. Their cause,
they said, was the cause of all. If they gave in —
and without help they would be compelled to
give in — the masters all over the county would
be attacked in detail and constrained to concede
a general advance of wages. The force
of this argument was admitted, and a general
advance of wages not being regarded as a
desirable contingency, measures were taken to
afford substantial aid to the Ribbleton employers
in the contest in which they were

engaged. Whitebrook took a leading part in
the movement. An association of masters was
organised, and a meeting called to receive a
deputation from Ribbleton and devise means
for procuring the sinews of war.

x\ll this was very disagreeable to Ran die.
He neither wanted to isolate himself from his
neighbours nor to engage in a struggle with
his hands. The firm's relations with their
work people were excellent, and the brothers
had no reason to suppose they would be otherwise,
whatever might be the issue of the contest
at Ribbleton. Though in Whitebrook they
were not of it. Most of their hands had been
with them all their lives, not a few belonged to
families that had lived and wrought at Redscar
for three generations ; and as Ry winston & Sons
manufactured a special class of goods, for which
they had a name, they could afford, and found
it worth their while, to pay relatively high
wages. They were thus in a somewhat different
position from their neighbours, and Randle
SSLVt no reason why he should join in the proposed
subsidy to the Ribbleton masters.

These outside matters, as he called them — his

D 2

uncle's trust, the strike, the aberrations of the
markets, and the failures of merchants — were
all the more annoying to Randlo that he had
lately conceived a great idea, which he was
anxious to make an attempt towards putting
into execution, and which would necessitate a
long series of preliminary experiments. This
idea was nothing less than to effect the transmission
of power by electricity. Accustomed to
look into the nature of things, he had long regretted
the waste of energy involved in the moving
of machinery by means of the wheels, shafts,
pulleys, and belts which are at present used for
this purpose. After much cogitation he had come
to the conclusion that it might not be impossible
to substitute for these complicated appliances
a system of wires and small dynamo-machines
which, placed in metallic communication
with current-generating dynamo-machines
near the engines, would transmit swiftly and
noiselessly, without friction and waste, and
almost without cost, power to every part of a
mill where power was required.

Such an invention as this would revolutionise,
not the cotton trade only, but every industry

in the country, lighten labour, and economise
beyond estimation the production of all machine-made
articles. But its successful accomplishment,
even if success were possible — as to which
Handle had not as yet thoroughly satisfied
himself — might demand years of undivided
attention. This Handle could not give. He
nevertheless resolved to do his best, and all the
time he could snatch from his regular work and
imperative duties was spent in his private
workshop, where he had the help of a very
clever practical mechanician, for, apart from his
latest scheme, Handle had always something
new in hand. He was never satisfied with
things as they were if he could see a way of
making them better.

One afternoon, when the Ribbleton strike had
been going on two or three weeks, he left his
batteries and lathes, with which he had been
busied the greater part of the day, and went,
according to his wont, to the counting-house to
overlook that department of the business.
There he found Robert.

• Anything new, Bob?' he asked.

Nothing very particular. Bellasis and Isaac

Potter called about an hour since ; but I told
them you were very busy, and as they seemed
in a hurry they had better say to me what they
had to say. They wanted to see you about the
Masters' Defence Association, you know, and
this strike.'

Yes ; what about it V

There has to be a meeting next Wednesday
night at the "Rainbow." six o'clock sharp, to
hear what the Ribbleton masters have to say,
and consider what should be done for them ;
and they want you to be there, and no mistake

Did they give you any idea as to what was
likely to be done V

Yes, Bellasis intends to propose a weekly
levy of ten shillings a horse power — the least,
they reckon, the Ribbleton people can do with
just to help them to keep their factories in
order, and leave a trifle towards depreciation
and loss of interest.'

'And what did you say?'

1 I said 1 would talk to you, that you would
certainly go to the meeting, and that I had no
doubt we should do what the others did.'

That was going a little too far, Bob. I

am not sure we shall do as the others do

1 But won't it look very mean, Ran, to refuse
to subscribe when every concern in the neighbourhood
is subscribing? Besides, we ought
to stand by our order. See how united the
hands are.'

By all means, when our order is in the
right. But we should be fools to pay £70 a
week — and that is what it will come to — to
prevent ourselves being thought mean, and to
support people who are in the wrong.'

1 Why, Handle, you surprise me ! I never
heard you talk like that before. How can the
Ribbleton masters miss being in the right ?
Are not they willing to pay by the standard
list, and have not the hands struck against the
standard list V

Not, as I understand, so much against the
standard list as against its results, in the
shape of earnings which they say are considerably
less at Ribbleton than they are here. That
is really the question in dispute, and before I
agree to pay £70 a week, or seventy pence, to
these Ribbleton employers, I must be satisfied
that their hands earn as much as our hands, or

that, if they don't, it is their own fault. You
know how greatly earnings are affected by the
way looms are geared up and speeded, the
sorts of yarns used, and goods produced, and
a variety of other causes.'

1 What do you mean to do, then V
6 1 mean to look into it myself. I have plenty
of irons in the fire just now — more than I can
keep hot, I am afraid — but tomorrow I mean
to ride over to Ribbleton, see the strike committee
there, and hear their side of the question.
There is nothing like a bit of cross-examination
for getting to the bottom of things. Then, at
the meeting on Wednesday, I shall ask the
Eibbleton deputation a question or two, and
try to do the right thing, whether it pleases
or displeases. Our interest in the dispute is, it
seems to me, very slight. Still, if I find that
the demands of the Eibbleton hands are unreasonable,
I will cast in my lot with my
neighbours. If not, I won't, come what may.'

CHAPTER IV.

A masters' meeting.

rPHE ' Rainbow ' was the largest, and, as a
"*■ Whitebrook magnate once publicly observed,
the ' most respectable ' inn in the
town. If it had been in a continental town,
it would have called itself a ' grand hotel.'
Yet the ' Rainbow ' was far from being an
imposing edifice. Built of soot-blackened brick,
slab-sided, and flat-windowed, with a heavy
portico, and a flight of steps adorned with
black railings on each side of the front door,
its aspect, especially in bad weather — and the
weather at Whitebrook often was bad — was
funereal in the extreme. But for the frequent
arrivals and departures of cabs, carriages, and
omnibuses, the ingress and egress of guests,

and the huge sign that hung above the door,
the ' Rainbow' might have passed for a great
undertaker's shop, or the madhouse of the
church hard by. Inside, however, there were
both cheerfulness and good cheer. The corridors
were wide, the rooms lofty, the liquors
good. The bar-parlour was snugness itself,
and the landlord and landlady were an old-fashioned
couple, who had always a pleasant
smile and a warm welcome for their friends.
Hence the ' Rainbow ' was as popular as its
proprietors were prosperous. To tell the truth,
it was a little too popular for the health and
good repute of a good many folks at White-brook.
A great deal too much whisky, some
people said, was drunk in the bar-parlour even
by the fathers of the town, and in a cosy and
retired room upstairs the gilded youth of
Whitebrook were wont to hold nightly revels.

The 'Rainbow,' moreover, possessed a large
apartment which served as an assembly room,
and wherein large dinner parties, balls, and
semi-public meetings were occasionally held.
This was the room in which the meeting of
the Whitebrook masters was appointed to take

place, and there, on the Wednesday evening-after
the conversation recorded in the foregoing
chapter, were gathered nearly all the manufacturers
of the town and neighbourhood.

Among them were Randle and Robert
Lymington.

Randle had been informed the da T before that
the Masters' Committee had resolved to submit
to the meeting two alternative propositions:
one to subsidise the Ribbleton masters in the
way already described, the other to lock out the
Whitebrook hands for a fortnight, or until the
Ribbleton weavers should agree to resume their
work on the old conditions. It was considered
that, the \Yhitebrook operatives being the warmest
supporters of the turn-outs, a stoppage —
which would, of course, render it impossible for
them to continue their subscriptions — could
hardly fail to bring the strike to a speedy termination.
The hands, it seemed, had guessed,
or been told, what was in contemplation, for an
excited crowd had gathered in front of the
1 Rainbow '; and the Ribbleton masters, as they
entered the inn, were greeted with a round of
groans.

The first business of the meeting was to elect
a chairman, and the choice, almost as a matter
of course, fell upon Mr. Roger Stubbins, a broad-set,
pasty-faced man, with protuberant stomach
and out-starting eyes, who boasted with justice
that he was the largest employer of labour in
the borough. His other qualifications for the
position were an overbearing manner and a total
inability to make a speech of which anybody
could make sense. But he could sit in a chair,
call upon the secretary to read the report of the
committee, and exhort the meeting from time to
time not to come to ' an 'hasty conclusion.'

It is not necessary to describe the proceedings
of the meeting in detail. The Ribbleton
masters told their tale, and were asked some
questions by Randle and others. Several
speeches were then made, and as the plan of
attempting to bring the Ribbleton strike to an
end by starving the Whitebrook weavers seemed
to find more favour than subsidising the Ribble-ton
masters, it was embodied in a resolution and
put to the meeting. On this Randle rose and
asked permission to say a few words. After exposing
the injustice of the expedient proposed,

in that it would involve the punishment of innocent
women and children for the supposed
sins of their men folks, he dealt with the
questions at issue between the Ribbleton employers
and their hands ; showed that the latter,
albeit nominally paid by the Whitebrook standard
list, earned, from no lack of diligence or skill
on their part, less money than the Whitebrook
hands ; and concluded a pithy and well-delivered
speech by announcing that the firm of
Lymington and Sons would neither contribute to
a subsidy nor join in a lock-out.

'And as for myself,' he concluded, ' my sympathies
are with the Ribbleton weavers, not
with the Ribbleton masters.'

The speech acted as a sort of moral bombshell.
It created a great sensation, and was
followed by a general hubbub. Everybody
talked at once. The Ribbleton masters were
furious ; several of the men near Randle uttered
angry remonstrances ; one or two, who had
risen from the ranks, audibly cursed. The
chairman loudly expressed the opinion that Mr.
Lymington had come f to an 'hasty conclusion, a
very 'hasty conclusion,' and warmly exhorted him

to reconsider his decision — ' it would do so much
'arm among the 'ands.'

The commotion was so great indeed that a
still greater commotion which was going on outside
passed for a time almost without notice.
The innocent cause of it was a certain knight
of the needle, by name John Gully, well known
in Whitebrook, though not of it. John's establishment
was at Ribbleton, but he visited White-brook
once a week to drum for orders and meet
his customers. He had a room in the ' Rainbow,'
known as the Marlborough, where every market
day afternoon he held a sort of levee ; and
possessing some mother wit and a ready tongue,
and being withal clever at his calling, his receptions
were well attended, especially by the
cotton-spinning youths of the town, who, much
to the disgust of local snips, gave John the most
of their custom. Among his clients were Randle
and Robert Lymington ; and Bob liked nothing
better than to drop into the Marlborough
after the market ordinary on a Wednesday, and
drink a glass of brandy and water and smoke a
cigar with Gully and the young fellows whom
he generally found there. For the tailor was

lively and entertaining, a capital storyteller, and
as he went about a great deal be bad always
something new to tell.

But, like everybody else, John bad a secret
sorrow. Though a prosperous man, with hardly
a real care, he allowed a crumpled rose leaf to
mar bis happiness. He was dissatisfied with
his lot ; his soul rebelled against the destiny
which had made him a tailor and draper ; be
felt that Nature had fitted him for a higher vocation.
It was only rarely, however, and in ibis
most confidential moods, that he unburdened
his bosom of its bidden grief. Although Robert
Lymington and he were the best of friends, and
Gully had breeches him from his boyhood, Bob
learnt for the first time on the day of the masters'
meeting that the tailor was less happy than he
seemed.

They chanced to be alone together ; all the
others had gone out. John was directing and
preparing for despatch to his customers a
number of parcels, a proceeding which led
Robert to remark that he seemed to be doing
a good business.

c I am doing a good business, Mr. Robert,'

replied the tailor, as he slapped his hand on
a bundle which he had just tied up. ' You see
all these parcels ; they are going out this evening,
and I have booked as many orders to-day
as will keep me busy cutting out for a fortnight
to come. Yes, I am doing well ; better
than all the tailors in this town rolled together.
But ' Here John, who was in his shirt-sleeves,
put his hands in his breeches pockets
and sighed.

But what, Gully ? Are you not content V
'As a tailor, yes; as a man, no. I am not
content, Mr. Robert ; and the more prosperous
I become in my vocation the less happy I amin
my heart,' replied John, who was a large,
good-looking man, stretching his arms impressively
towards the sofa on which Bob sat.
'For I feel that the energy and perseverance,
the ready tact and aptitude for affairs that
have raised me to the head of my profession
in my native town might, under happier
auspices and in another walk of life, have made
me somebody — have brought me honour and
renown, sir.'

God bless me, Gully exclaimed Robert,

greatly surprised at this outburst, and quot
certain whether the tailor was in jest or
earnest, ( what would you like to be?'

'I ought to have been in the law, that is
what I ought to have been. A friend of mine
said to me the other day, '■ Gully," he said,
f; you have gab for anything." It is true,
Mr. Robert ; I feel it. I have gab enough
for anything. I could jaw a judge frantic,
and talk a jury out of their senses; I am
sure I could. But, failing that, I should have
liked to be a cotton-spinner. There is no
telling what it might have led to. The Peels
were cotton-spinners. Bright and Barley are
cotton-spinners; so are both our borough members.
But a tailor — good heavens ! — who ever
heard of a tailor becoming a senator or a
statesman?' And John shrugged his shoulders,
and twisted his face into a comical expression
of disgust.

'But really, you know, Gully,' rejoined Bob,
with a laudable desire to comfort the man,
1 1 don't think you could be doing better. A
tailor may be a very honourable man, and
tailoring is a useful and respectable calling.'

VOL. II. E

So it is, very respectable ; and, as you say,
a tailor may be a man of honour. I believe
I am a man of honour. But what is the use?
When folks talk about me, I know what they
say. "Gully? Oh yes, he is a very decent
fellow ; but he is only a tailor." Look here !'
continued John, excitedly. ' I'll tell you what
happened to me the other day. I was walking
down Southgate, and when I walk I attract
some attention. My gait is peculiar ' (which
was quite true ; he always went at a tremendous
pace, and flung his arms about like the
sails of a windmill). 'I know I look queer,
but I cannot help it. A chap is as he is made,
you know. Well, I passed two fellows in the
street, and I could see at once they were
talking about me. I have very quick ears, and
as I passed I heard one of them ask who that
swell was (meaning me). " I forget his name,"

the fellow answered ; " only some d d tailor

or other!" What do you think of that, Mr.
Robert? Nice, isn't it, that a man cannot go
about his native town without hearing himself
spoken of as a d d tailor ? How would you

like it? How would you like to belong to
such au ignoble profession V

Here Gully threw himself into an attitude,
and looked so melodramatically indignant that
Bob burst into a loud laugh, in which the
tailor, after an unsuccessful attempt to maintain
his gravity, heartily joined.

But it's no joke, Mr. Robert. You have
no idea how my feelings are hurt sometimes.
Don't I wish I was a cotton-spinner ? — that's all.
See how they get on.'

Why don't you become one, then? Everybody
goes into manufacturing now-a-days —
butchers, bakers, and candlestick-makers. You
only want a few thousand pounds, and you
have got that.'

'No, thank you, not if I know it,' rejoined
the latter, spreading out his palms and shaking
his head. 'I should be a fool if I did; and,
if I know myself, Mr. Robert, I am not a fool.
If I don't like tailoring, I understand it, and
I don't understand cotton-spinning. When a
man get to my time of life, and has given
hostages to fortune, when he is the father

e 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

of an infant seven weeks old at this present
moment, mewling and peking in its mother's
arms — with a possibility of almost indefinite
increase of his responsibilities — shunting on to
another line of rails is not to be thought of.
No, Mr. Robert ; a cruel destiny has made
me a tailor, and a tailor I must remain until
by the favour of my friends — the nobility,
clergy, and gentry of this neighbourhood — I
am enabled to retire into private life with a
competency. Ah, that's a knock at the door,
I think. Come in, please.'

On this entered a lady with two small boys,
who wanted to be measured for two new suits ;
whereupon Robert withdrew, and shortly afterwards
joined his brother in the assembly room.

When the tailor had taken the measure of his
little customers, and the difficult questions of
style and pattern were satisfactorily arranged
with their mamma, and he had directed the last
of his parcels, folded up his pattern-books, and
put everything into shipshape in readiness for
his departure by the eight o'clock train, he
suddenly bethought him that he had promised
to call on a customer in a street hard by to

receive an order. He looked at his watch, and,
finding that he had still ample time, he bustled
off to keep his appointment, little thinking of
the ordeal that awaited him outside.

CHAPTER V.

ONLY A TAILOR.

TN front of the 'Rainbow' was a wide, open
-** space of ground that almost attained to
the dignity of a square, where many streets
met. About this open space were scattered
several groups of factory operatives, a considerable
number of whom were standing near the
inn door, waiting to hear the issue of the
masters' meeting.

To Gully's great surprise, his appearance on
the steps that led into the street was the signal
for an outburst of groans.

He's one o' them Ribbleton masters,' sang
out a rough-looking fellow in a paper cap.

'And a gradely faa' (ugly) 'un, he is,' said a

woman near the bottom of the steps. ' Look
what a gret ugly nose he's gotten.'

'It is to be hoped he'll never get into no
trouble,' observed another lady, ' for bi' th' mon,
if he does, that face of his will hang him. I
never seed owt like it out o' th' Preston House
o' Correction.'

'And them legs,' remarked a spindle-shanked
self-actor minder, with a short pipe in his mouth.
'Did anybody ever see th' like? Why, he
couldn't stop a pig in a gunnel ' (entry), ' not
to save his life, he couldn't.' (John's legs were
just a little bowed, and, being somewhat sensitive
on the point, he felt the insult keenly.)

'And just look at that good pin in his dickey '
(shirt front). * It's cost five sovereigns, if it's
cost a penny. There's a diamond in it, isn't
there?'

Not there ; it's nobbut a bit o' glass ; and if
it be, he's boat it out of his weavers' bates'
(abatements) 'and quarterings ' (fines for being
late).

This was certainly rather rough on the tailor,
but he bore his calumniators no grudge, for
had they not taken him for a manufacturer?

And, descending into the street without the
slightest foreboding of evil, he politely asked
the people nearest the steps to let him pass.
They did so, though sullenly, and he had some
difficulty in shouldering his way through the
press ; for every now and then somebody would
call out, ' Give him a shove, he's a Ribbleton
master.'

Deuced unpleasant this muttered John, ashe
fought his way among the surging crowd.
I shall begin to wish soon they had not taken
me for a master.'

Bonnet him,' was the next cry, and, before
he could look round, his hat was knocked over
his eyes, as he afterwards explained, when
giving an account of the affair, ' by some person
or persons unknown.'

This was too much.

1 It's all an infernal mistake he shouted,
struggling the while to free himself from the
castor, the lining of which had fouled on his
nose. ' I am not a master. I tell you I am nota
master. I am a '

f Thou should ha' said that sooner. Does
thou think anybody '11 believe such a lie as

that?' said a black-faced moulder, as he gave
Gully a push forward. ' What does thou want
here, trying to take th' bread out o' poor folk's
mouths V

By this time Gully, after being sorely
buffeted, had got through the thickest of the
crowd, and was beginning to think himself in
safety, when from a group of young fellows in
iron clogs, a few yards to the right of him, rose
the portentous cry of 'Punch him ; let's punch
the beggar.'

John Gully was far from being a poltroon,
but, with two or three hundred pairs of Lancashire
clogs clattering behind him, a braver man
than he might well have deemed discretion the
better part of valour, and so the tailor, dashing
aside the few people about him, sought safety
in flight.

Punch him !' shouted his pursuers. ' He's a
Ribbleton master.'

I'm not,' yelled Gully. ■ Fm a tailor ; only
a tailor ; only a tailor.'

In spite of the speed at which he ran, two
or three of the men overtook and dealt him
several kicks, which, if both pursuers and pursued

had not been going fast, might have been
dangerous. Even as it was, they were anything
but pleasant, and he never ceased protesting
as he ran that he was not a master.
4 I'm only a tailor!' he exclaimed, <a poor, poor
tailor.'

But this seemed only to add fuel to the fire ;
the men thought he was fooling them, and poor
Gully began to fear that if he did not soon
reach a place of refuge they would kill him outright
or badly hurt him. The nearest shop was a
butcher's, and, as he saw, the lower part of the
door was closed, but so great was his terror
that he did not wait for it to be opened. With
an agility at which nobody was more surprised
than himself, he went for the obstacle like a
steeplechaser at his first fence, cleared it at a
bound, pitched head foremost into the carcase
of a pig, and, colliding against the astonished
butcher, knocked him heels over head, while
the butchers wife, who happened to be just
then coming out of the room behind the shop,
was dropped, as it were by the wind of the
shot, into a sitting position on the floor. On
this, the butcher's dog, evidently under the impression

that the house had been burglariously
entered, and that his master and mistress were
being grievously maltreated, made a grab at
the intruder's leg, and held on to it.

■ Oh, Lord ! he is biting yelled Gully. ■ Call
him off, Radley. Call him off, I say. Oh, Lord,
he'll be the death of me. Who knows that the
brute is not mad V

But Radley was past speaking. Every atom
of breath in his body had been knocked out of
him, and he lay there gasping, and grasping
his great stomach with both hands. Mrs. Radley
was the first to recover her presence of mind
and resume her perpendicular, and, taking the
dog by the throat, she made him loosen his
grip. Then Gully got up and helped the
butcher to his feet.

'By gum, Mr. Gully,' exclaimed Radley,
after he had felt himself, to see if any of his
bones were broken, ' that was a rum do, that
was. I never saw owt like it in my life. How
you did lep o'er that door, to be sure. I wonder
you didn't jowl your head against th' top,
and knock it clean off. I never see owt done
cleverer at a circus. You would make your

fortune as a bacrobat ; you would that, Mr.
Gully.'

Oh, my goodness,' groaned the tailor, ' what
next ! Kicked by factory lads, taken for a
burglar, bitten by a dog, and compared to an
acrobat — all within the space of five minutes.
To what base uses may we come, Horatio !" '

Ay, base enough to punch a chap i' that
way. But you're mistaken, Mr. Gully ; my
christian name isn't 'Oratio, it's Arthur.
But what's been up V

Up ! Why, they thought I was one of
those rascally Ribbleton masters, to be sure.
Ton my word, Radley, things are coming to a
pretty pass. I am insulted for being a tailor,
kicked because I resemble a manufacturer, and
bitten by your dog as a burglar.'

Dear, dear,' said the butcher's wife, kindly,
it is hard on you, Mr. Gully, that's true. Is
there anything as we can do for you ? I hope
you are not much hurt.'

'Not much,' answered John, though he rubbed
himself in a way that rather belied his
words. 'But I must creep round the corner
and get another hat. I cannot go home in this

thing, you know,' holding up his battered and
shapeless castor ; ■ and, if you have any thing like a
clothes-brush, I'll try to make myself a little
more presentable.'

'Ay, that I have,' said Mrs. Radley; 'and
there's one of your coat laps half-rent off; let
me pin it up for you.'

While this operation was going on a great
shout was heard, and people were seen running
from every part of the square in the direction
of the ' Rainbow.'

'What's up now, I wonder?' exclaimed
the butcher. ' I'll be hanged if they're not cheering
somebody this time. Them's cheers, sure
enough.'

The butcher was right, they were cheering
somebody, and that somebody was Red
Lymington.

Shortly after making his speech, Randle
retired from the meeting, and he reached the
inn door just as Gully jumped into the butcher's
shop. The hands, by some means or other,
had become acquainted with the purport of his
remarks, and heard that he had refused to
countenance the proceedings of the Ribbleton

masters, or join in a lock-out ; and his appearance
was greeted with uproarious cheering.

« Hurrah for Red Lymington !' shouted the
crowd ; ' he's spoken up for th' poor folks.
He willet lock his hands out. He willet pay
nowt to the Ribbleton raaysters.'

'God bless his bonny face!' exclaimed the
woman who had been so uncomplimentary
about Gully's nose. 'Give him three cheers
moor, lads.'

And three cheers more they gave him; Ran die
looking all the time greatly surprised, for he
was far from expecting so warm a reception, or
indeed any reception at all.

Let's lift him up, lads. Let's carry him
home,' cried another voice ; and, before the
object of the ovation could enter a protest
against the proceeding, a dozen strong fellows
had taken him in their arms and raised him
high above their heads.

'Come, come, lads,' said Randle, when he
had recovered from his surprise ; ' this will
never do. Put me down. Come, now ; the
greatest kindness you can do me is to put
me down. It's all nonsense to talk about

carrying me home. Put me down, I tell you
'Ay, we'll put you down,' said the man
nearest to him, a burly blacksmith; 'but we'll
take you across th' road most, Mr. Red Lymington,
just to let th' folks see who's their friend.
Come on, lads.'

And, suiting the action to the word, they
carried him, amid continued cheering, in the
direction whither they had kicked and hustled
John Gully ten minutes previously, and set him
down not far from the butcher's shop.

Considerable excitement prevailed meanwhile
in the masters' meeting. Most of those present
were gathered about the windows, gazing curiously
on the scene which was being enacted
below.

• Yon's hopeful,' exclaimed Mr. Stubbins, who,
being both timid and hard of hearing, mistook
the cheers for howls of execration ; ' perfectly
hopeful. If they are using Lymington in that
way, what will they do at me, I wonder? Are
they going to murder him right out, do you
think, or are they only going to throw him in
th' brook, or hang him to a lamp-post, or
something of that sort? I'll tell you what,

gentlemen, I think we'd better creep out at
th' back door. I know I shall.'

But the masters were bolder than their chairman.
They let him creep out at the back door
alone ; and before the meeting separated, notwithstanding
Handle's defection, it was resolved
to give notice on the folio wing Friday of a
general lock-out, provided that in the meantime
the Ribbleton strikers did not return to work
on their employers' terms.

CHAPTER VI.

AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL.

1 TTO^ 7 do you, Mr. Byvington V said a voice
- LJ - at Handle's elbow — a voice which, though
it struck strangely on his ear, seemed not unfamiliar
to him — almost at the same moment
that he was placed by his admirers on firm
earth. ' I am glad to see that you are so
popular. You said rightly. If you were not
good to your people, they would not make a
hero of you.'

Turning round in some surprise, Handle
recognised in the pale face, dark eyes, and
the white, gold-mounted teeth of the speaker,
the well-remembered features of his cosmopolitan
acquaintance of Lake Leman.

God bless me ! Mr. Kalouga, you here !'
VOL. II. F

1 Did I not say I would come ? I try always
to be true to my word.'

You have been a long time about it, though.
I had quite given you up. When did you
arrive V

About an hour ago. I was just rambling-round
the town to see what sort of a place
it is, when I beheld this crowd, and remained
here to await — that is good English, 1 think —
to await the issue of events. Are all your
Lancashire artisans — your workmen — like those
of Whitebrook, Mr. Lymington V

Why, yes ; I think they are all pretty much
alike.'

Ma foil they are a wonderful people, then.
As I stood here 1 saw an unhappy gentleman
kicked right across the street. He came flying,
and jumped into this boucherie, so that I thought
the poor man was killed ; but he has just come
out looking not much the worse. And then I
hear a great cheering, and behold Mr. Ravings
carried on men's shoulders like a conquering
hero. What does it all signify?'

'I will tell you afterwards. Excuse me just
now ; I want to get out of this. They are

actually cheering again, the fools. I hate to
be made conspicuous in this way,' said Handle,
as he took Kalouga's arm and led him from
the crowd. 'You will go home with me, of
course ? Where have you left your things V

6 You are very kind. Yes, I shall accompany
you with pleasure, if it is quite convenient;
and my things, they are at the station.'

Of course it is quite convenient. And are
you not here in answer to my invitation ? We
will go to the " White Bear," where I have left
my drag, and, after we have called at the
station for your luggage, we will drive to Red-scar.
My brother is here, but he goes home on
horseback.'

Randle felt really glad to see Kalouga, and
the invitation was as cordially given as it was
kindly meant, for the circumstances in which he
had first met Kalouga had made a lasting impression
on his mind. There was nevertheless
some mental questioning as to the expediency
of taking home with him and introducing to his
family and friends a man whom he had seen
only once before, and touching whose antecedents
and position he was completely in the

E2

dark. It was not, be admitted to himself, a
very prudent thing to do. But he had a shrewd
eye for character. He knew that Kalouga. was
well-educated and highly intelligent, and there
could be little doubt, he thought, that both by
birth and breeding he was a gentleman. His
manners, moreover, were pleasant, his personal
appearance was striking and attractive; his
mobile face, in moments of repose, might almost
be described as saintly ; and there was a nameless
something about the man which suggested
that he had gone through great trouble, a something
that attracted Handle's sympathy as much
as it piqued his curiosity.

But, whatever the Russian might be, Randle
had offered him the hospitality of Redscar, and
he had no alternative but to make his offer good
and play the part of host to the best of his
ability. He was glad, however, that his mother
was still at the seaside, whither she had gone
a few weeks previously with Dora. She liked
always to have ample notice of the coming of a
guest, and she did not get on very well with
strangers. The idea of entertaining a foreigner
would almost have appalled her. It was well,

therefore, that Kalouga should be installed at
Redscar before her return.

As they drove homeward, Ran die explained
to his guest the meaning of the scene they had
just witnessed.

'Ma foil it is true what I said. You are a
wonderful people, and your work people they
have a spirit. Why, in a continental city — or
at any rate in Russia or in Germany — a disturbance
like that would have frightened the
authorities out of their senses. They would
have seen in it the beginning of the end. The
garrison would have been called under arms, the
place declared in a state of siege, and a thousand
people arrested. Yes, your workmen have a
spirit ; they are bold fellows.'

I don't think they showed much spirit in
kicking poor Gully across the street, though.
A very cowardly thing, I call it.'

c It was rough, certainly ; but I do not think
they meant to harm him much. As you say,
however, it does not need great pluck for five
hundred men to kick one. It is not very chivalrous,
and I do not admire your workmen for
that. What 1 admire is their spirit in defying

their masters, and supporting the others who
are out on strike.'

Your sympathies are on the side of the working*
people, I think.'

They are. Oh, my friend, I have seen them
so crushed, so down-trodden, so spiritless, that
when I witness a scene like that of to-day it
makes me think I am in another world.'
You speak of Russia, of course V
6 Of Russia. Many thousands of our peasants
are always on the brink of starvation. They
live on food that your English dogs would refuse
to eat; every year hundreds and thousands
die of hunger. And in our factories — for we
have some factories in Russia — the people work
fourteen hours a day for just enough to keep
body and soul together. You should see the
houses where live the silk weavers of Moscow.'
6 Do you mean hand-loom weavers V
Yes, I mean hand-loom weavers. They
weave the most costly stuffs, you know, with
beautiful patterns, like those at Lyons.'
1 Then they are jacquard weavers?'
Exactly ; they are jacquard weavers. Well,
these poor wretches who work this rich material

live in filthy dens not worthy to be called
houses, and there they are night and day, working
and sleeping. And they sleep where they
work ; their loom is their only bed.'

Their only bed their loom !' exclaimed Handle.
c How can anybody sleep on a loom?
Have you ever seen a loom, Mr. KalougaT

'I have seen a loom, Mr. Lymington. These
looms I speak of are large, square machines.
At each corner is a column — a pillar — on these
pillars are arranged boards, and on these boards
sleep the weavers.'

4 Ah, I see ; the poor beggars sleep over their
looms, not on them. That is what they call
protecting native industry, I suppose. I have
always thought, and what you say confirms it,
that the tendency of protective systems, like
that of Russia, is to make the rich richer and the
poor poorer.'

It is so,' said Kalouga, simply. ' Ah, Mr.
Lymington, it is very sad, and our lower orders
are so debased, so ignorant, that it is almost
impossible to make them raise a little their
heads. They believe, poor, wretches, that those
whom they support by their labour are their

benefactors, and kiss the hand that smites
them. The Tsar, who takes every year three
or four million pounds of their money for his
pleasures, his mistresses, and his favourites, and
wastes the substance and lives of his people in
foreign wars — in which they have no interest —
they look upon as an earthly deity. Ah, if
they had only a little of your English pluck !
But tell me, please, if that gentleman the people
so much kicked just now had been a great mana
noble, for instance — would they still have
kicked him V

4 Yes. I think if John Gully had been even a
duke, and they had taken him for a Eibbleton
master, he would have been kicked all the
same.'

Tant mieux. So much the better.'

'God bless me, Mr. Kalouga, what do you
mean by saying so much the better ? Do you
think it is right for a crowd of people to set on
a single man — whether he be a tailor or a duke
and beat him perhaps to death V

i I do not mean in that sense. I think that
would be very bad. Yet, bad as it might be, I
would rather see it than see as I have seen in

my own country (if I may still call a country
mine in which I am not permitted to live), and
it is of daily occurrence there — a man kissing
the hand of a master by whom he has just been
flogged. What think you of that, Mr. Byv-
iugton — which is the more degrading to
humanity ?'

Well, if you put it in that way, I think I
prefer the kicking. It was a barbarous sort of
thing, certainly ; but it was an exception, and
the hands are a good deal excited just now.
Anyhow, they are not slaves ; they would not
stand much flogging, you may be sure of that;
and, like you, I would rather have independence,
even with an occasional outburst of ruffianism,
than cringing servility. I do not wonder
that your sympathies are with the poorer
classes of your own countrymen, if they are so
badly off as you say.'

Yes, my sympathies are w T with the poor and
lowly. And there are other countries than
Russia where the hewers of wood and drawers
of water are no better off. In Alicia, in Austrian
Poland, though the peasants are pretty well todo,
the labourers can scarcely exist. They

must work sixteen hours a day, and their pay
is little more than threepence of your money.
And in Italy I think it is almost worse. Since
you were in Switzerland I have travelled in
Italy, and I have seen with my own eyes. The
brigandage, the secret thieving societies of that
country, the Mafei and the Camera, they are
caused by misery and misgovernment. People
think Italy is a country of peasant proprietors.
It is not ; it is a country of great landowners
and starving labourers. In Apulia a labourer
must work thirteen, fourteen, fifteen hours a
day to gain threepence halfpenny. He lives on
black bread, and sleeps on a sack of straw. In
Lombardy, where 1 have also been, one of the
most fertile districts in Europe, the condition of
the peasants is almost equally deplorable. Their
food is also black bread, and a horrible soup,
made of the dust of rice, a handful of haricots,
a few drops of rancid oil, and sometimes a
morsel of bacon. Though Italy is so rich in
cattle that she sends every year thousands of
beeves over the Alps into Switzerland and France,
the peasants of Lombardy never eat meat.
Though the land is covered with vineyards they

never drink wine. The father of a family may-earn,
perhaps, eighteen a day. His wife,
when she can go out into the field, may earn
also a few pence. But the women are old
before their time. At thirty-five, if they live so
long, they are bowed and wrinkled, and grey
haired, like women of seventy. Perhaps it is
better so ; lives that are full of sorrow cannot
be too short. And the hovels they live in, Mr.
Lymington, they are worse than the cabins of
those miserable Irish peasants I have read
about. A rough wooden shed without door or
chimney, unlighted and unpaved — that is all.
And they are decimated by a terrible disease
called the pellagra— a, wasting fever engendered
by privation and overwork — of which thousands
perish every year, even under the shadow of
one of the most glorious buildings ever raised
by man for the worship of God — the cathedral
of Milan. There is frightful misery in Russia,
but Russia has a hard climate and an ungrateful
soil. It has been reserved for Italy to show
how the richest gifts of nature can be most
perverted ; to solve the problem how those who
till the most fertile soil in Europe — by whose

labours all live — may be maintained on the
smallest modicum of its produce. No wonder
that there are Socialists in such countries, Mr.
Lymington.'

'Are you a socialist?' asked Handle, who was
even more impressed by the earnestness of his
companion's manner than by the matter of his
remarks.

I am nothing now, Mr. Lymington, a mere
outsider. But when I was in Russia I belonged
to the revolutionary socialist party. I am
afraid, however, my friends would look upon
me as an apostate, if they knew how much
my views have changed since I have seen other
countries than Russia.'

1 Revolutionary socialist,' said Randle ; t that
means that you were a nihilist, I suppose.'

4 None of the Russian revolutionary parties
call themselves nihilists. It is a name applied
to them by Tourgenieff in one of his novels ;
but they do not acknowledge it.'

Let us say revolutionary socialists, then.
What are their principles — what do they aim

atr

Political revolution and social anarchy.'

Anarchy !'

Yes, the abolition of all existing institutions,
including government and private property.'

Comprehensive, certainly ; but what would
they put in their places?'

1 What they call Collectively. Society, they
think, would spontaneously reconstitute itself
on the principle of one for all, and all for one.
Workmen would organise themselves in groups,
according to their trades, and labour for their
common benefit. No one would ever want
work or bread ; for the produce of labour would
be distributed fairly amongst the labourers ;
and as trade societies all over Europe would
be affiliated to each other, there could never
be a glut of labour in any particular trade ;
frontiers and standing armies would cease to
exist, and Europe become one great confederation.'


'But all that implies organisation, government,
laws.'

Collective anarchists do not think so. They
believe that, ancient institutions once swept
away, all the rest would come, come spontaneously.
There might be some little confusion

and disorder at first, perhaps, but out of the
chaos would be evolved a new and better
order, a society in which there would be neither
oppressor nor oppressed, neither rich nor poor,
neither capitalists nor proletariat, neither luxury
nor misery.'

And they really think, these collective
anarchists, as you call them, that if the bonds
of society were unloosened, and capitalists,
employers, and so forth, abolished, people,
without any sort of compulsion, or discipline,
and solely on their own initiation, would unite
in the way you describe, and work fairly and
conscientiously for themselves and each other V

That was Bakounine's idea, an idea, however,
that he borrowed from Prudhon, and
Bakounine was the apostle of the Russian communistic
movement.'

Bakounine must have been very ignorant
of human nature then ; and I am sure of one
thing, he never had a lot of hands to manage.'

1 He had the courage of his convictions,
though. He spent eight years of his life in
prisons, and four years in Siberia ; yet his
ardour for the redemption of the proletariat,

and bis faith in the ultimate triumph of the
communistic cause, never wavered.'

That only proves he was an enthusiast.'

More than that, he was a fanatic. And,
without the aid of enthusiasts and fanatics, no
great revolution was ever achieved. The early
Christians, the Crusaders, the Protestant martyrs,
Cromwell and his Ironsides, the leaders
of the great French revolution — all were enthusiasts
and fanatics ; but what would have
been the world without them V

1 But enthusiasm must have a motive, an
inspiration. What is the inspiration of your
communists V

'The cause of humanity, the abolition of
inequalities, the extinction, as far as may be
compatible with physical conditions, of poverty,
misery, and crime — the union of all mankind
in one great brotherhood, the accomplishment
of the aspiration uttered nearly two thousand
years ago that all nations of the earth may
dwell together in unity. And why should it
not be, Mr. Lymington ? This mother earth
on which it is our lot to dwell has room in
her great bosom for all her children. She

yields food enough to feed all, fibrous plants
enough to clothe all, stones and timber enough
to house all. There are places enough for all
at the banquet of life. Why, then, should not
all live, if not in ease, at least in plenty ? Is
it in the nature of things, or is it because of
bad laws and an imperfect social organisation
that, while a chosen few, most of whom produce
nothing, eat their fill, and waste even
more than they eat, the vast majority of mankind,
by whose labour all are fed, must eat
only the crumbs that fall from the table, must
starve in hovels that others may grow fat in
palaces V

'I see,' rejoined Handle, with a smile, 'you
want to make everybody happy. And a very
good thing too ; but how will you go about it?
That is the question. To begin with, you cannot
make folks happy whether they will or not.
You talk about extinguishing poverty. Well,
in this country, whatever it may be in others,
the chief causes of poverty are idleness, shiftlessness,
and drunkenness. Tell me how to get
rid of these. Persuade people to be industrious,
self-helpful, and sober, and I will answer

for the extinction of poverty, or at any rate of
pauperism.'

'Ah, Mr. Lymington, are you quite sure of
that? Those poor Italian labourers I spoke of
just now are all that you say, yet they can
hardly earn enough to keep body and soul
together; and there are thousands and thousands
of our Russian peasants who are constantly
on the verge of starvation — not because
they are idle or drunken, not because the earth
does not bring forth its fruit in due season — but
because of the heavy burdens laid on them by
the State, and by their old masters, the men
whose slaves they once were. Bad laws, not,
as you say, lack of industry or thrift, is the
cause of their sufferings.'

'I was speaking of England. Our laws are
imperfect in many ways, I know, but I do not
think you can call them altogether bad. And
there are some of us — we call ourselves Liberals
who are constantly striving to get them
made better. It is slow work, I know, but weare
always making a little progress, and we
have a proverb in these parts that says, " Slow
and sure go far in a day." '

VOL. II. G

< That is all very well, but you make no
attempt to organise labour.'

We do better than that, Mr. Kalouga,' said
Kanclle, as he pulled up his horse at the lodge
gates at Redscar House. ' We let labour
organise itself.'

4 That is the laisser faire — the let alone system
; and if you will consider the present condition
of the proletariat on the Continent, and
even in your own country, you must, I think,
acknowledge that this system is anything buta
success.'

1 What can you suggest better,' asked Randle,
c that will work'' What remedy is there that
would not be worse than the disease V

Before Kalouga could reply, they were at the
front door, and the bustle of descending from
the drag, getting out the baggage, and the
rest, checked the answer which he would
doubtless have made.

'Anything from the counting-house for me?'
asked Randle of the servant who admitted him,
after the Russian had been shown to his room.

Yes, sir, three letters and a telegram.'

The telegram was from his mother, saying

that she intended to return on the following
afternoon, and asking that somebody might
meet her at Whitebrook Station at an hour
which she named. Dora, she added, w r ould
accompany her, and stay a few days with them
at Redscar.

Shortly afterwards Robert arrived, and they
had high tea, which Kalouga, whose tastes
seemed to be of the simplest, said he greatly
preferred to dinner. The evening was spent
in desultory conversation, chiefly concerning
the places Kalouga had visited — for he had
travelled much — and the manners and customs
of his countrymen, but he said little about
himself, and no further mention was made of
the subjects which had engaged the attention
of Randle and himself on their way from White-brook.


g2

CHAPTER VII.

KALOUGA MAKES A SUGGESTION.

A T breakfast next morning, the time for
-* *- which at Redscar House was eight o'clock,
an hour or more after the brothers had made
their first visit to the factory, Ran die asked his
visitor if he would like to look round the mills.

Kalouga declared that nothing would please
him better. He took a great interest, he said,
in every sort of industry.

Have you ever seen a cotton factory V inquired
Randle.

Yes,' answered the Russian, with a smile, * I
have seen several in Russia — at Moscow.'

I am glad of that. You shall tell me what
you think of our concern, compared with those
you saw at Moscow.'

Handle took his guest first through the factory
most recently built, an establishment constructed
and fitted up on the newest and most
approved principles. The rooms were large
and well lighted, the engines and other machinery
almost brand new, and everything
seemed to be working with the regularity of
clockwork. All this excited Kalouga's admiration,
but what appeared most to please him
was the provision made for the comfort of the
hands. For those who could not go home to
their meals there was a comfortable diningroom
; facilities were provided for cooking their
food ; there were cloak-rooms, where, while at
work, they could leave their superfluous garments.
There was a library, too, and Randle
informed his visitor that a workman's club and
a reading-room had been opened in the village.

But that is their own affair,' observed
Randle. ■ The hands have taken a couple of
cottages, for which they pay full rent. I did
nothing but fit them up. They manage and
support the club entirely themselves. And it
is better so. I do not approve of treating hands
as if they were children.'

And how is it organised V

Just like any other club. There is a small
entrance fee, and a subscription of so much a
month. What the members drink they pay for,
of course.'

They can have drink, then % I have heard
something of these workmen's clubs before, but
I thought they were all teetotal places.'

Ours is not, and if it were, I do not think it
would succeed. One of my friends, wbo is a
great teetotaler, wanted me to use my influence
to make it a temperance concern, but I refused.
J don't believe in forcing people to be this or
that ; teach as much as you like by precept and
example, but no compulsion. And a club is
not a tavern. It should be a man's own house,
where he can drink or not, as he likes. At an
inn he must drink, or he will not be allowed to
stay; drinking is the condition of admittance.
And really I do not see any objection to a
spinner or a weaver, when his work is done,
enjoying his glass of beer — if he prefers it to
tea or coffee — smoking a pipe, and having a
social chat with his neighbours.'

'Chat? Chat? What is that V

A talk ; " camping," they call it here.'
But tell me, Mr. Lymington, are not your
people terrible drinkers ? We Russians are bad
enough, but, from all accounts, you English are
still worse.'

Well, there is room for improvement, I daresay
; but you must not believe all you hear.
We are far from being a sober people, and it
would be greatly to the advantage of our working
classes, both in pocket and in health, if they
were to drink less, and I should be glad enough
to see them all teetotalers. But nothing is to
be gained by exaggeration, and I do most
firmly believe, and my belief is based on something
more solid than fancy, that, man for manour
artisans consume less drink than any similar
class on the Continent ; and if fewer temptations
were thrown in their way, they would
drink so little that temperance societies would
almost find their occupation gone. I can give
you a proof. When this club was opened I
shut up the public-house we used to have herein
the village. It belonged to us, and I did
not think there was any further necessity for
it. Well, there are three hundred members of

the club, they have drink always at command,
and yet since it was started, more than a year
ago, there has not been one case of drunkenness
or misbehaviour. What do you think of
that, now V

1 It confirms an opinion I have long held,
that workmen can exercise more self-restraint,
and have a greater capacity for organisation,
than the world gives them credit for.'

Oh, they can organise. There is no mistake
about that. Look at the co-operative stores.
We have a very good one here, managed entirely
by the hands. And some of the trade
societies, too, are very well managed

What do you think would happen, now, Mr.
Lymington, if you were to give this mill and all
it contains to your employed, and tell them to
work it for their own benefit?'

Upon my word, Mr. Kalouga, that is a possibility
that has never occurred to me, and I
do not think it is likely to come to pass, unless,'
added Randle, with a smile, ' you anarchists get
the upper hand, you know.'

I am not an anarchist, Mr. Lymington ; but
never mind that now. I only put the question

hypothetically. I merely wanted to know
what you thought would happen in the event
I suggested.'

1 Confusion. How could a property like thisbe
transferred to a promiscuous lot of hands 1
If you transferred it to the adult men only, you
would exclude the majority, for the majority
consists of women and children. If, on the
other hand, you included women, you would
give an unfair advantage to a man with a wife
and two or three grown-up daughters. And
families are so broken up, one member working
at one place and trade, and another at another,
that you could not hand it over to them.
Supposing even you got over that difficulty,
though I do not see how you could, how would
you deal with the share of a workman, or a
workwoman, who died or went away ; on what
principle would you divide the profits, or
apportion the losses ? Then there are the
questions of discipline and management.
The managers and overlooker would be
elected by the hands, I suppose V

I suppose so,' said Kalouga.

Well, do you think that managers and over-lookers,

chosen by the bands, and dependent on
them for their places, either could or would
maintain that order, discipline, and close supervision
over individuals without which the
whole thing would come to an end in a twelvemonth
V

Don't you think that the consciousness that
they were working for themselves — for their
own exclusive benefit — would render close
supervision of the work people unnecessary,
that they would do voluntarily all that they
now do under compulsion 1 ?'

1 They have that consciousness now. They
are paid, most of them, by results. The harder
they work the more they gain. Yet we have
to enforce punctual attendance by penalties,
and attention to work by constant watchfulness.
Now, do you think — can any sensible man think
who knows what hands are — that the possibility
of receiving a few shillings at the end of
the year or half year in addition to their wages
would serve as a substitute for discipline ? If
they were all sensible, sober, and middle-aged,
it might be so. But they are not. Many of
them are just the reverse, in fact, and the young

and the careless will not sacrifice present pleasure
for future benefits. The wild schemes you
have been telling me about, for making everybody
equal and happy, are just dreams, the
dreams of men who have no practical acquaintance
with affairs, and, to speak plainly, don't
know what they are talking about.'

You have hit a real blot there, Mr. Lymington.
It is true that Russian Communists are
nearly all pure theorists ; they have never had
any political training, but that is not their fault.
Nobody in Russia outside the official class possesses
any political influence, or can exercise
any political function. "Without the permission
of some board, official, or department we can do
nothing save what is strictly our own personal
business. These workmen's clubs, for instance,
would not be allowed. The authorities would
see in them something subversive and revolutionary,
and, if they did not forbid them to begin
with, would suppress them afterwards.
Even a co-operative store could not be started
without a concession which, if it were obtained
at all, could be obtained only at a ruinous cost.'

1 Cost ! Why should it cost anything V

f Because the Russian official class is utterly
corrupt, from top to bottom, and you can get
nothing without paying for it. I can give you
an instance. Once at St. Petersburg an
acquaintance of mine came to me with a new
idea which he asked my help to carry out. He
had discovered that dealers in old clothes cheat
their customers — all poor people, for only poor
people buy second-hand garments — frightfully.
Their profits average I do not know how many
hundred per cent. Well, my friend's idea was
to start an old clothes society, with branches in
several parts of the city. He proposed to buy
second-hand things outright, and resell them at
a moderate profit, or accept them as consignments
for sale on commission, charging only
just enough to cover expenses. He was a poor
fellow without money of his own, but a banker
had promised to find whatever capital might be
necessary, and he wanted me to lay the project
before the minister of the interior and
obtain his sanction

And do you mean to say that a pure matter
of business like that cannot be put through
without Government leave V

Yes ; the Russian system is just the reverse
of yours. Here everything not expressly forbidden
is allowed ; in Russia, everything not
expressly allowed is forbidden. It is even forbidden
to an unauthorised person, under pain
of imprisonment, to teach another to read.
Well, I went to the minister. He listened to
what I had to say with the greatest interest,
expressed warm sympathy with my friend's
motives, and approved of his scheme. But he
must consult with the Minister of Commerce,
he said. There are a great many old clothes
dealers in St. Petersburg, and it would not
do to ruin them all right off. He would communicate
with me further in a few days. Ina
few days, accordingly, rather to my surprise,
for I had expected a much longer delay, I
was requested to call at the minister's office,
when I should learn from one of his secretaries
under what conditions the concession would be
granted. What do you suppose they were?'

1 That the old clothes dealers must be compensated
for the loss of their business V

'No,' said Kalouga, drily, 'that was not it
at all. The minister cared no more for the old

clothes dealers than for the Ojibbeway Indians.
That was merely a pretext. The conditions
were that the minister should have fifty percent,
of the profits, and the office (his chief
secretary and two or three others) twenty-five.'

Well, what did you say to that?'

• I went and informed my friend, the projector
of the scheme. Of course he had to give
it up; for, as the banker who had undertaken
to provide the capital demanded forty per cent,
in the shape of interest, he would have had
to pay to one and another all the profits and
fifteen per cent, more.'

But why did not you expose the beggars ;
write to the papers, and make a row — complain
to the Emperor, even V

My friend, we knew better. The papers
would not have published our letters, and even
if the Tsar had believed our story, which is
very unlikely, and dismissed the minister, his
successor would have done just the same. And
if the Russian government dislikes one thing
more than another it is disagreeable truths,
and they are apt to make it very unpleasant
for those who draw attention to them. The

Governor of Tomboff was recalled a short time
ago for reporting bat there bad been a failure
of crops in his province, and that, unless means
were taken to prevent it, a famine was inevitable.
Only the other day the chief of the
Third Section reprimanded several newspaper
editors for stating that the work people in a
certain town were badly fed and lodged ; and
the press is strictly forbidden to make any
allusion whatever to the condition of the
peasants, which in several governments is
wretched beyond description.'

'God bless me!' exclaimed Randle, 'what a
country ! I am sure, if I had the ill-luck to
be a Russian, I, too, should be a revolutionist.'

Ah, but you do not know the worst, Mr.
Lymington,' said Kalouga, bitterly. ( What do
you think of people being arrested without
cause, and kept for years in prison without
trial; of men acquitted by a jury being sent
to hard labour in Siberian mines ; of Old
Believers, merely because they dissent from
the National Church, being confined in a fortress
for a quarter of a century?'

1 But, Mr. Kalouga, can these things be f

Excuse me for seeming to cast a doubt on
your statements, but really they are so very
strange as to be hard to believe.'

They may seem so to you, Mr. Lymington ;
but they are only too true, and 1 have not told
you the worst. The Russians are not naturally
a rebellious people, they are gentle and long-suffering
; and only unbearable tyranny and
oppression have turned so many of us into
revolutionists. For years past the reign of
the Tsar has been a reign of terror, and I am
afraid it will have a terrible ending. It has
created Nihilism, and by mere force of persecution
converted an organisation originally peaceful
into an organisation for repaying terror
with terror. Oh, I could tell you many things
that would surprise you still more — perhaps
another time, if you would like. But now I
am keeping you from your duties. You have
your business to attend to, and we have not
finished our inspection of your mill.'

Well, perhaps we had better be going on,'
said Randle, in a voice full of sympathy, for
there was a sadness in the Russian's manner
that deeply affected him, 'though I could goon

listening to you all morning. I should like
another time, if you have no objection, to hear
something about yourself; how you got mixed
up with these revolutionary societies, and what
you did to get sent out of the country.'

I will tell you, with pleasure, Mr. Lymington,
all about myself. You have a right to be told,
for have you not, in receiving into your house
one of whom you know nothing, except that he
is a poor political refugee, done me a kindness
which I shall never forget and can never repay.'


1 Oh, never mind that ; it is nothing.'

I beg your pardon, it is a great deal. I had
heard that Englishmen were reserved and
haughty, but you are neither, and if ever '

Never mind that,' repeated Randle, with a
deprecatory smile. ' About your story ; will you
tell us it to-night V

Gladly.'

'My mother and cousin — the young lady I
called to see at Nyon, you remember — are coming
home this afternoon, and I dare say will form a
part of your audience. And now I will take you
through a few more of the rooms, after which I

VOL. II. H

will show you my laboratory and workshop.'

As they went through one of the spinning
rooms, containing some 8,000 spindles, Kalouga
remarked on the' largeness of the mules and the
fewness of the hands who ' minded ' them.

How many spindles to a side have you V he
asked Handle.

Sixteen hundred to a pair of mules.'

'And how many people have you to look
after them V

4 As you see — one big piecer and two little
ones.'

Why, in a Russian mill for this size of machine
they would require at least a dozen. The
what do you call it? — the space between these
spinning mules '

4 The warehouse,' suggested Randle.

Thank yon. I did not know how you called
it in English. The warehouse would be crowded
with men and boys, and I think machinery
here goes at a much greater speed than in
Russia. What counts are you spinning here —
forties V

Not far off said Randle, greatly surprised
at this manifestation of Kalouga' s knowledge of

spinning. ■ These wheels are on thirty-sixes.
Yon seem to have some knowledge of the cotton
trade V

A little. I once worked a tew months in a
cotton mill near Moscow.'

Worked in a cotton mill !' exclaimed Randle,
in astonishment. ' What as V

Not as a self-actor minder,' answered the
Russian, whom the perplexity depicted in Handle's
countenance seemed rather to amuse. ' I
could not piece one of these threads to save my
life. My work was carpentering, and in going
about the mill I managed to pick up a few facts ;
that is all.'

• Carpentering ! Well, you are the most remarkable
carpenter I ever saw.'

This remark made Kalouga laugh.

• Wait until I tell you my story he said,
'and you shall hear how I became a carpenter ina
cotton mill.'

After they had completed their inspection of
the factory, Randle took his guest to his own
workroom and laboratory, and explained to him
what he was trying to accomplish. He seemed
greatly interested, and after half an hour's 



sensation Randle had to admit to himself that
the Russian's knowledge of electricity and its
capabilities was superior to his own, and when
Kalouga volunteered to assist him in his experiments
he gladly accepted the offer, and they
began forthwith a series of trials which occupied
them the greater part of the day.

CHAPTER VIII.

twister's first champagne.

IN the course of the morning Robert came
into the laboratory to consult his brother
about something.

'Who is going to meet mother and Dora?'
asked Bob, when the business was concluded.

1 Let Duffield go. Tell him he must take the
carriage and be at the station in time for the
;">.30 train. And now when I think of it, Bob,
you had better go with him.'

1 Why ? This is a busy day, Randle, and 1
really do not see the necessity. Duffield will do
quite well.'

4 So he would in ordinary circumstances. But
you know how fidgety mother is. She will
worry herself in any case ; but if she only learns

when she gets here that we have a stranger in
the house she will be in a '

'Fearful fume,' interposed Bob. 'I understand.
I will go and prepare her for the worst.
It won't take me long.'

1 But look here now, you young scapegrace,
I will not have her frightened.'

All right, Ran, you may trust me to soothe
her; I'll stroke her down the right way,' rejoined
the junior partner, gravely, but with a
mischievous gleam in his eye that rather belied
his words.

Take care you do, then. And as you are
going into town you might call at the " Rainbow
" or Twister's, and ask if they have heard
what the hands are going to do — whether they
will give in or be locked out.'

1 In that case I'll start a few minutes earlier
and look in at the " Rainbow," ' answered
Robert ; ' it's always the best shop for news.'

I wish I had not mentioned the " Rainbow," '
said Randle to himself, as his 1 brother left the
laboratory. ' I am afraid he is getting rather
too fond of the " Rainbow." '

Bob started nearly an hour sooner than he

needed to have done in order to be at the station
in time to meet his mother and Dora. He
liked driving almost as well as riding, and the
only part of a carriage where he felt really content
was on the box. So, seating himself beside
Duffield, he took the reins and drove
straight to the 'Rainbow:'

■ Walk the horses about a while, and be back
here ten minutes before the train is due,' he
said to the coachman, as he was about to spring
from his seat. ' I shall not be long.'

He walked straight into the bar, a spacious
and comfortable room, where he found, as he
expected, several young and old manufacturers
drinking bitter beer and eating bread and cheese,
and two or three town gossips, whose favourite
tipple seemed to be whisky, ' cold without.'
Among the former was Mr. Twister, a leading
member of the Masters' Association, upon whom
Randle had suggested that his brother should
call to obtain information concerning the impending
lock-out.

A tall, good-looking man was posing before
the fireplace with legs wide apart, a walking-stick
in one hand and a glass in the other. His

eye was heavy and his countenance gloomy,
and as Bob entered he greeted him with a
solemn nod and a melancholy smile.

The nodder was Harry Hopps, the eldest son
of a local brewer of large means and considerable
influence, whom rumour had marked out
as a future candidate for the borough on the
Liberal side. It was whispered, too, that if the
son had been ' steady ' his father would have
liked him 'to try his luck with Miss Lymington.'
But the former's steadiness was unfortunately
subject to frequent lapses. Bob saw at a glance
that Harry was several days gone in one of his
periodical ' sprees.' At the beginning of his
orgies young Hopps was boisterous and drank
champagne, which at such times he declared he
could drink in bucketsful. ' Fiz ' would be followed
by spirits, and the third and last of the
spree ' was devoted exclusively to beer, which
he took by way of sobering himself. He generally
finished up at the ' Rainbow,' where he
would stand, as Bob saw him, with his back to
the fireplace for a whole day, hardly ever speaking
and never sitting down. He even ordered
fresh supplies of beer by a gesture. In these

moods he was rather apt to be mischievous,
and sometimes played pranks with his walking-stick
that cost him dear. Notwithstanding
Harry Hopps's c seeing ' propensities, he was
credited with good business capacity, and had
inherited from his father a turn for money-making
— the final test of merit at Whitebrook.
Though his ' boils.' as the hands called them,
sometimes lasted a fortnight, he only ' broke
out ' on the average about every three months :
and ' springs provided it did not become
chronic and lead to neglect of business, was
regarded by public opinion rather as a venial
sin than a serious fault. Between his outbreaks,
moreover, Mr. Hopps never touched alcohol in
any shape, even in the shape of his own beer.
If he was an occasional drunkard, he more than
balanced the account, his neighbours thought,
by being an intermittent teetotaler.

A few minutes after Bob had taken a seat
and ordered a glass of bitter beer, and before
he had found an opportunity of asking for the
information which it was his object to procure,
Mr. Twister, whose acquaintance the reader
made in a previous chapter, related a little personal

anecdote that seemed vastly to amuse
his hearers. Twister, though he could write a
well-expressed and correctly-spelt letter, and
was probably worth £200,000, spoke broad
Lancashire on principle. He spoke it even on
the bench of which he was one of the local
ornaments. The terms in which he invariably
pronounced sentence on delinquent drunkards
who were brought before him for judgment —
1 1 am very sorry for thee, my lad, but thou
must pay five shillings and costs ' — and a habit
of profane swearing, had procured for him the
nickname of ' Owt Five-shilliug-and-cosses '
(curses).

The subject of conversation when Bob joined
the company was the appropriate one of drink,
with, as it seemed, special reference to
champagne.

1 can weel mind me,' said Mr. Twister, ' of
th' time as I most tasted champagne. It worst
after dinner, and I wor busy i' th' warehouse
looking cuts (calico pieces), when th' wife
come in and told me — we lived close to th'
factory i' them times — as th' boots fro th'
Rainbow" had brown word as Mr. Farrow, of

Farrow and Smith, fro Manchester, wor their,
and wanted to see me. They wor goody customers
o' mine then, wor Farrow and Smith,
and they're good customers yet, so I washed
and donned myself and see off most thing. We
wor wanting some yell yarn (heald yarn) and
good thread, and I thowt I could kill two birds
wi' one stone and order 'em as I coom back. I
fun Mr. Farrow upstairs their, i' th' " Wellington."
There wor Sykes and Collins, and two
or three moor wi' him, and they wor drinking
some stuff as fizzed, out o' glasses i' th' shape
of a bell turned upside down.

" Will you take a glass of champagne with
us, Mr. Twister V ses Mr. Farrow, after we'd
shaken hands and told one another what a fine
day it word

" Thank you kindly," I ses, " it's a short o'
liquor as I never tasted — to tell th' truth, I
could never begrudge th' price on't — but as
you're standing treat I willet say nay."

Wi' that he filled me a glass.

"•'What do you think of that now, Mr.
Twister ?" he axed.

4 " It's not bad," I ses ; " tastes to me like a

superior short o' pop ' (gingerbread) ; ' but there's
not much strength in it. I think I could go on
supping stuff like this aw day and be no war
for it."

4 I'd no sooner spoken than he ordered
another bottle in, and we supped that ; then
another, and we supped that ; and we went on
supping till I bethought me o' my yell yarn and
good thread, and said I inn be going. So,
after shaking hands wi' Mr. Farrow and t'
others, off I went. I get downstairs rest
enough, though it seemed somehow as there
wor moor on 'em than when I went up. But
when I get on to that big flag, at t' top o' th'
steps outside their, it set agate a-going up and
down to that end as I'd to how on to th' railings
to keep fro falling flat o' ray face. Then I
knew what wor up. I wor gradely drunk ; and
I wor that shamed as I should ha' gotten drunk
by dayleet as I didn't know what to do, and I
poked off hum by all th' back streets as I could
find. It wouldn't ha' done to go in at th' front
door i' th' state I wor in, so I crept round by
Blackamoor Lain and get o'er a wall as there
is into a field at th' back o' th' house. It work

biggish wall, and I went into th' field head
most, just like a chap diving, and knocked such
a lump on it as I couldn't put my hat on for
welly a week after. There wor a long flight o'
steps to our back door wheel we lived then,
and, if you'll believe me, I could no moor ha*
walked up 'em than I could ha' flown to th'
moon. So I crawled up 'em on my hands and
knees. When I'd gotten about loaf way up
th' wife coom to th' door.

" What's to do !" hoo axed.

'"Corat" (cannot) "thou see?" I ses.

Well, hoo coom and helped me up and get
me to bed, and I lay there th' most part o' two
days, and I wor that peeled ' (peeled) ' about th'
head and face as I couldn't show myself i' the
town for a week after.

That wor th' most time as I tasted champagne,
and I shall not soon forget it, I con tell
yo. It wor no sham for me. I've never been
as drunk or as drunken sick, either afore or sin,
and '

The conclusion of Mr. Twister's remarks was
lost in a tremendous crash. With a single
movement of his stick, Mr. Hopps had swept

every glass and bottle from the table on to the
floor, a proceeding which seemed highly to
amuse some of the bibbers in the bar.

That's the way Hopps does when he's going
to stand treat,' observed a veteran customer of
the ' Rainbow.' ' What has it to be, I wonder V

The gentleman in question, who had resumed
his position before the fireplace, looked on the
smash with an unmoved countenance, and
pointing with his stick to the shattered glasses,
and nodding to the barmaid, uttered two words,
4 Six shams.'

A few minutes afterwards six bottles of
champagne and twice as many glasses were
placed on the table which Mr. Hopps had cleared
in so summary a fashion.

4 1 suppose you want us to drink your 'earth,
Mr. Hopps V asked the veteran, regarding the
six bottles with a thirsty leer.

Mr. Hopps nodded.

4 All right ; we'll drink it with much pleasure.
But you'll take a glass with us, won't you, Mr.
Hopps V

The gentleman addressed shook his head,
and pointed to his beer, as if to signify that he

was on a strict regimen of malt liquor, and
therefore all but a teetotaler.

f Mr. Hopps means well,' observed a second
veteran customer, ' and he is always generous
in his cups; but it is not everybody as understands
his ways. Last time he was having a
fling he cleared th' table as he has done now,
and a lot of beer went all over a cotton broker
from Liverpool, messed his shirt front, and
played the augment with his white breeches.
I think I never saw a chap so mad in all my
life. Before anybody could have said " Jack
Robinson " he had jumped up and knocked Mr.
Hopps down.'

4 And served him quite right,' said Bob, sottovoce.
c And what did Hopps do V

c He lay where he fell. He could not have
picked himself up to save his life. They had to
fetch a cab and send him home.'

Robert took occasion, while the wine was
being poured out, to inquire of Mr. Twister if
he had heard what the hands were going todo.


f Ay, they are going to be stiff, and we're
going to be stiff. The Masters' Committee has

telegraphed from Ribbleton as nowt can be
done — no compromise, you know ; and we are
all going to give notice of a lock-out to-meet.'

Your carriage is at the door, Mr. Ry vington/
announced one of the attendant nymphs ; and
after drinking a second glass of champagne,
Robert hurried from the bar.

As he went out he met his cousin Randle and
Tom Cliviger.

Hullo, Bob !' exclaimed the former, ' you are
exactly the man I want to see. Do you know
when Dora is coming back?'

In ten minutes. I am just going up to the
station to meet her and my mother. She will
not be at Deepdene to-day, though ; she is
going to stay with us a bit.'

All right. If I can find time tomorrow I'll
call and see her. You have a visitor, I hear.
Who is he V

A Russian,' said Bob, who, being afraid that
the train would be at the station before him,
made his reply as short as possible, using the
first words that occurred to him. 'Friend of
Ran's — awfully clever — very distinguished —
knows every dead language and most of the

living ones — tremendously scientific — great
swell — awfully rich.'

1 A remarkable man, I am sure. I should like
to make his acquaintance. Yes, I will certainly
call at Redscar tomorrow.'

I expected that would draw him,' muttered
Bob, as he drove towards the station. 'My
cousin Randle had always a weakness for swells.
It's hereditary, I suppose.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW BOB SOOTHED HIS MOTHER.

4 "\7"OU got the telegram, I suppose V asked
-*- Mrs. Lymington of her sod, when they
were seated in the carriage, Bob having gone
inside to tell his mother the news.

Of which my presence here is proof,' answered
Robert. 'We did not expect you for
several days yet. You came away rather in a
hurry, I think.'

Yes, we were getting tired. Two months is
a long time to stay at the seaside. I might
have stayed a little longer, though, if there had
been a sound gospel preacher in the place ; but
there is not one, and the way they go on in
some of the churches is really scandalous. The
ministers behaved more like Roman Catholic

priests than clergymen of the Church of England.'


I Yes,' said Dora, with a half smile, ' we went
to every church in Rockborough, and could not
find one low enough ; and then we went the
round of the chapels. I think you liked that
minister we heard in the Particular Baptist
meeting-house though, aunt V

Mr. Bradley. Yes, he knows the truth. But
he has gone away, and won't be back for a
month or more, or else we would have stayed
another week. Is all going on right at home,
Robert V

Admirably.'

The girls have been steady V

Could not have been steadier if your eye
had been constantly upon them, mother.'

Are you sure they have not broken anything
V

Well, now you speak of it, I believe I did
hear last week something about a teacup being
smashed.'

Which set 1 I hope it was not one of the
blue china V

I I am really afraid it was, mother.'

i2

'Dear, dear, that makes three broken in less
than two years. They will all be gone soon,' said
Mrs. Lymington, in a deeply-grieved voice, ' and
I have had that set ever since I was married.
Do you know if Susan has changed the curtains
in the green bedroom, as I told her before I
went away?'

'Upon my word, mother, I cannot tell. Anyhow,
the green bed-room has an occupant at
present.'

'The green room an occupant! What do
you mean, Robert V

I mean that we have a visitor, and that he
sleeps there.'

'A visitor, and you have never let me know I
Who is it V asked Mrs. Lymington, excitedly.

Seeing that he only came yesterday, we
could not very well have let you know, mother,
unless we had telegraphed. He is a friend of
Randle's — name, Kalouga. Randle made his
acquaintance in Switzerland, and invited him
over.'

What is he V

A Russian.'

A Russian !' repeated Mrs. Lymington, with

a look that could hardly have been more expressive
of horror if her son had said a polar
bear.

1 Oh, I know now,' said Dora, who seemed to
have recovered nearly all her wonted vivacity.
1 It is Handle's nihilist. They met last year at
JBouveret, and Sandal asked him.'

'A nihilist ! What is that?' asked Mrs. Lymington,
whose knowledge of foreign countries and
their affairs was about on a par with that of an
average French general. ' Is it the same as a
Russian?'

'Not quite. I don't think all Russians are
nihilists, though a good many are. Nihilists
are something like Guy Fawkes, aunt, and the
gunpowder plotters, only there are a good
many more of them, and as they use dynamite
instead of gunpowder they are much more
dangerous.'

'Is he very ferocious-looking, this Mr. Ka-lough,
Bob?'

1 Oh, dear no — at least, not very said Bob,
deprecatingly, with the air of a man trying to
make the best of a bad job. 'I have seen
worse-looking fellows than Kalouga.'

'I hope you examined his luggage to see
that he had no bomb shells, or anything of that
sort, in his possession. He might blow up the
house, you know.'

'I don't know anything about bombshells,'
rejoined Robert, with a gesture which seemed
to imply that, although the contingency suggested
by Dora had not occurred to him, there
might, nevertheless, be something in it ; ' but
he is very clever at electricity and chemistry,
and he was working with Handle in the laboratory
all this morning.'

And Randle has put a man like that into
my best bed-room ! Why, we shall all be
blown to atoms !' exclaimed poor Mrs. Lymington,
sinking back into her seat with a groan.
She had always distrusted electricity as something
incomprehensible and superhuman ; butin
combination with nihilism, chemistry, dynamite,
and bomb shells, she regarded it as nothing-less
than diabolic.

Nonsense, mother ! There is nothing to be
alarmed about,' said Bob, who thought the
joke had gone far enough, and it was high time
he began to stroke his mother * the right way

4 Kalouga is very quiet, and pleasant spoken.
Handle sa's he is very clever, and a thorough
gentleman, and I am sure he looks like one.'

But it was no use. Mrs. Lymington refused
to be reasoned out of her fears, and she entered
her house fully expecting to be confronted with
a fiend in human shape. Her elder son was
there to meet her, but she was almost too
nervous to answer his inquiries, and, after a
hurried greeting, hastened to her room. Handle
attributed his mother's agitation to the
fatigue of her journey, and saying that a cup
of tea would do her good, asked her to comedown
as quickly as possible, and ordered tea to
be served in ten minutes.

Dora had much ado to pacify her aunt, and
it was only by suggesting that Handle would
be displeased if she manifested any repugnance
to meet his guest that she succeeded in prevailing
on her to go down to tea.

They found the three gentlemen awaiting
them in the drawing-room ; and when Mrs.
Lymington set eyes on Kalouga she was probably
even more surprised than she would have
been had he appeared in the traditional costume

of Guy Fawkes, and armed to the teeth. Instead
of the ferocious being her imagination
had pictured she saw before her a man of
strikingly prepossessing appearance, with manners
as gentle as those of a woman, and a voice
of silvery sweetness. Dora, too, was surprised,
for albeit she had not expected to find in her
cousin's friend a Russian Guy Fawkes, she had
an idea, derived probably from Mademoiselle
Vieutemps' school, that revolutionists without
exception were uncouth creatures of Antonio
aspect and low breeding.

'Tea is ready, I believe,' said Handle, after
the introductions were over, as he offered his
arm to Dora. <I am sure you are hungry; let
us go to the dining-room.'

Kalouga gave his arm to Mrs. Lymington, and
he was so quiet and kind and spoke so nicely,
as she observed afterwards, that she began to
suspect Dora and Robert had been making fun
of her ; and her awe of Handle's friend wore
away so fast that, before tea was over, she
made bold to ask him if he was a married man.

'I have not that pleasure, Mrs. Lymington,'
was Kalouga's answer. f And a waif, you know,

a man without a country and home, would hardly
do well to take a wife.'

'Without a country. Why, I thought you
were a Russian.'

1 So I am. But it is my misfortune to be contraband
in my own country.'

1 He means, aunt said Dora, who perceived
that her aunt did not quite take in Kalouga's
meaning, ' that he is forbidden to enter Russia.
Is it not so, Mr. Kalouga V

1 You are quite right, mademoiselle. I am, as
you say, forbidden to enter the dominion of the
Tsar.'

■ Supposing you did return,' asked Dora, curiously,
' what would happen V

'I should be arrested, imprisoned, and probably
sent to join my brother in Siberia,' answered
Kalouga.

Oh,' said Dora compassionately, as if sorry
for having suggested so painful a memory.

Never mind about that, now, Dora,' interposed
Randle. f Mr. Kalouga has promised to
tell me his story this evening — all about himself,
you know — and if you would like to hear it,
and he is agreeable, he shall tell it in the 

after tea. What do you say V

1 Oh, I should like it of all things,' exclaimed
Dora, eagerly. ' I have read hundreds of stones,
but I never heard a story of adventure told by
the hero himself, and I am sure Mr. Kalouga's
life has been a very eventful one.'

And I should like to know,' added Dora's
aunt, * why Mr. Kalouga has been deprived of
his home and driven from his country, if he will
be so kind as to tell us.'

I will tell you, dear Mrs. Lymington, I cannot
say with pleasure, for my story is rather a
sad one, but very willingly. As I said to your
son, you have granted me your hospitality, and
it is my duty to give you some account of my
antecedents. I am glad also to have an opportunity
of explaining to you that Russian revolutionists
are not necessarily bad men. Perhaps
even, when I have told my story, you may
agree with me in thinking, that every goodman
in Russia must be a revolutionist in spirit
if not in deed.'

And then they returned to the drawing-room,
and at Dora's suggestion drew near the fire,

for the days were growing short and the nights
chilly.

Mrs. Lymington, who was beginning to take
quite a motherly interest in Kalouga as a man
without country and home, made him take the
place of honour, a wonderful easy arm-chair,
which had been the favourite seat of her late
husband.

Shall we have the gas lit, mother V asked
Bob.

Oh no, please don't, aunt,' pleaded Dora ;
'the gloaming and the firelight are so much
pleasant for talking and story-telling than
the flare of gas.'

Now, Mr. Kalouga,' said Randle, after his
mother had signified her approval of Dora's
suggestion, 'I think we are all ready to hear
your story.'

CHAPTER X.

KALOUGA S STORY

1 II TY father,' began Kalouga, after a short
-*-"-*- pause, ' was a landed proprietor — as you
would say here, a country gentleman — near
Novgorod, in the west of Russia. He had
served in the army, and attained the rank of
general. His ideas were old-fashioned, and,
as became a military man, he was a strict disciplinarian.
I think he regarded the Tsar as
only a little lower than the angels, and considered
loyalty to him, and obedience to his commands,
as the first of religious duties. The
obedience he rendered to his Sovereign he exacted
from all about him — from his wife just as
much as from his children. We were three,
two brothers and a sister. Peter was a few

years older than myself, Zeneide a few years
younger. So far as money and education went
we were liberally treated ; for my father, unless
crossed, was not unkind. We had servants and
horses always at our disposal, and so many tutors
and governesses that we learnt the principal
European tongues almost unconsciously ;
and as my mother was half English, and knew
well the language, it became like a second
mother tongue to us. I think I spoke it better
when I was a boy than I do now. But it
would profit nothing to dwell at length upon
this part of my life. My boyhood was far
from being unhappy, and I was sixteen or
seventeen years old before it occurred to me
that this was not the best of possible worlds,
and Russia the happiest and best governed
country in it. My eyes were first opened by
reading Buckle's u History of Civilisation ;" then
Lecky's " History of Rationalism " fell into my
hands, and I became acquainted with Herbert
Spencer's books. I read many other works on
philosophy, science, and political economy. I
learnt how low was my country in the scale of
civilisation, and I dreamt of a new and emancipated

Russia under the sceptre of a Tsar who
should be rather a beneficent chief magistrate
with extraordinary powers than an hereditary-despot.


My father wanted both his sons to enter the
army. Peter readily consented ; his bent was
for a military life, and I, though the idea of
becoming a soldier was abhorrent to me,
stipulated only that I might first spend a few
years at St. Petersburg, and study at the
University. As yet the idea of having any
other will than my father's had not so much as
occurred to me.

So to St Petersburg, full of enthusiasm and
hope, eager for knowledge, and well supplied
with money, I went. At the University I met
with spirits as ardent as myself, and of opinions
much more advanced, both in religion and
politics. There was liberalism in the air. The
enthusiasm excited by the emancipation of the
serfs had not yet subsided. We enjoyed comparative
freedom, and you will not be surprised
when I tell you that before the end of my
second term I belonged to the most advanced
set in the university. Of course, my father

knew nothing of this ; for I was careful, when I
went home, to keep my new political principles
to myself. I should tell you, however, that
from an English point of view there was nothing
alarming in them. They went no
further than representative institutions, constitutional
government, individual liberty, and
freedom of speech and the press. As for the
Tsar, I still looked upon him as the chief hope
of my country, and I would have died in his
defence.

1 Ah, if we might have had a little real freedom,
only a beginning — if Alexander could
have granted us a first instalment of constitutional
government, Russia to-day would have
been a happy land, and he the most beloved
of earthly monarchs. But it was not to be.

'It was in the middle of my sixth term, I
think, that I received a peremptory order from
my father to leave the University and enter the
army. I temporised, begged permission to
complete my course and take my degree. He
refused. Then I asked him to let me, if I must
enter the army, enter it as a surgeon. This
made him furious ; he considered it a degradation

for a Kalouga to be anything save a soldier,.
a courtier, or a diplomatist ; and he ordered
me a second time to quit the University. I
said no more, but simply remained at the University
and continued my studies. Then he
stopped my allowance, forbade me to return
home, and my mother, sister, and brother to
hold any communication with me. But I have
inherited some of my father's obstinacy of
character. I was resolved to finish my course,
come what might, and I was equally determined
not to go into the army.

• Happily, I was not in debt, and by going
into the cheapest possible lodgings, selling and
pawning everything I could do without — and
when you try it is surprising how many things
you can do without — I contrived to go on for
several months. But the time came when I
had exhausted every resource, when I had
not even wherewithal to buy bread or pay
rent.

One evening when I went to my poor room,
weary and dispirited, the door was closed
against me, the proprietor had taken possession
of it, and refused to admit me unless I paid the

arrears 1 owed him. He might as well have
asked me for a million roubles.

'I folded my cloak around me and turned
into the street. It was snowing and bitterly
cold, and I had eaten nothing since daybreak.
I walked about for several hours until, utterly
worn out and unable to stand, I sank down on
a doorstep.

I had lain there I know not how long,
semi-conscious, and too weak even to think
consecutively, when I felt a hand placed on my
shoulder and heard a voice.

'hallo, my friend," it said, "this is a cold
couch for a winter night. Where is your
home ?"

'" I have none."

6 " No home ! That is bad. Come with me ;
you shall share mine."

i He helped me to rise, he lent me the support
of his arm, he took me, as he said, to his home.
It was rather a rough place, and he shared it
with several others. But they gave me a kindly
welcome, supper, and a bed, and, seeing the
condition I was in, they asked me no questions.
In the morning I told my new-found friend who

VOL. II. K

I was, and what had befallen me. He commended
my spirit for refusing obedience to my
father's unreasonable commands, advised me to
go on with my studies, and invited me to take
up my quarters and throw in my lot with himself
and his companions. They lived in common,
he told me. Every man put his earnings or income
into a general fund, and so long as one
had anything there was something for all. I
needed not, he assured me, feel under any
obligation to them, for, sooner or later, I should
earn something, perhaps when the others were
earning less. KarasakofF — that was my good
Samaritan's name — was an artisan — a watchmaker,
he told me ; two or three of his companions
were artisans also, and two students at
the university. Altogether, at that time, there
were six, I think. I made the seventh, for I
thankfully accepted Karasakoff's offer. It was
the only alternative to starvation or surrender.
And the offer was not so strange as it may
appear to you. Russian refugees at Geneva,
London, and elsewhere, live together in exactly
the same way. There is less of individualism

among us than among Englishmen and Frenchmen,
less of self-seeking. Communism seems
more natural to us — perhaps because the industrial
spirit is so weak in Russian society, and
individualism is kept down by the pressure of
an all-pervading despotism.

8 It did not take me long to find out that
Karasakoff was other than he seemed — something
more than an ordinary artisan. He was,
indeed, highly educated and very clever ; and,
as I learned later, a leading member of a revolutionary
society which had its ramifications allover
Russia. His ideas were more advanced
than mine, but in the end I also joined the
society.'

t Was it a secret society?' asked Randle.

'Everything in Russia is secret,' answered
Kalouga, ' and as our objects were deemed
revolutionary we had to guard the utmost
secrecy possible.'

You had to practise a sort of Freemasonry,
then V suggested Bob, who, having recently become
a Master Mason, thought he had a special
knowledge of the subject.

k2

1 Freemasonry !' exclaimed Kalouga, with a
slight laugh. 'Freemasonry is only playing at
baby house.'

1 Playing at baby house, indeed !' returned
Bob, in high dudgeon. ' Why, Freemasonry is
one of the finest and most beneficent organisations
in existence. Its principles are the principles
of eternal justice, its '

I beg your pardon, Mr. Robert,' interposed
Kalouga. 'I was not aware that you were a
Freemason. I only meant that Freemasons, in
this country, at least, were in no danger, and
that their proceedings are secret only because
they choose to make them so. Russian political
societies must be secret, and all who join them
do so at the risk of their liberty, if not of their
lives.'

But you have initiatory rites, passwords,
occult signs of recognition, and that sort of
thing, I suppose V inquired Randle.

1 None of them.'

How do you recognise each other, then I 3

'By knowledge; and we admit to our
intimacy and our meetings no member from a
distance, being a stranger, who is not furnished

with proper credentials. If we trusted to
signs and grips, such as Freemasons use, we
should be lost. Spies would learn them. As
for neophytes, those only are admitted who
have been well watched, their characters carefully
studied, and their antecedents ascertained.
If a man seems lacking in courage or enthusiasm,
however sincere he may be, we refuse
him. A weak friend is more dangerous than a
powerful enemy. The only initiatory rite we
have is an invitation to a meeting, and freedom
to be present at all future meetings. We have
neither chiefs nor oaths of obedience. There
are groups, of course, and though the groups
are all in communication with each other, yet
each acts independently. Neither the Executive
Committee, which is merely the principal group
in St. Petersburg, nor any of the smaller groups
ever resolve on any important action unless
they are practically unanimous. We have consequently
no dissatisfied minorities. Nor is
any member of the society ever bidden, or
chosen by lot, to undertake a dangerous duty ;
for we think that if a man is compelled to
attempt something contre coeur — against the

grain — he is very likely either to betray us or
himself. When need arises we call for volunteers,
and volunteers are never wanting. The
difficulty is to restrain them, and it sometimes
happens that men make desperate ventures on
their own account without the concurrence, or
even the knowledge, of the society. Solovieff
was a Terrorist, but the society was in no way
responsible for his attempt to shoot the Tsar.
The principal work of the society to which I
belonged is the propagation of revolutionary
opinions by means of clandestine publications
and volunteer emissaries, most of whom have
the courage of heroes and the devotion of martyrs.
Their efforts are chiefly directed to rousing
and instructing the working classes ; for
all the educated classes, except such as are
directly or indirectly in government pay — and
even many of them — are revolutionists in spirit
if not in deed. Karasakoff was one of those
apostles of revolution. A visionary, perhaps —
some people might call him a fanatic — but a
right noble soul, as fearless as a lion, and the
truest, best friend man ever had. Ah me ! poor
Karasakoff!'

1 Why poor Karasakoff V asked Dora. ' What
happened to him V

'He was hanged,' said Kalouga, with an
abruptness that startled everybody, and almost
made Mrs. Lymington scream. 'I will tell you
about him afterwards, and show you his photograph,'
he continued, after a momentary pause,
in his usual quiet manner. ' But let me first
conclude my own story. Through Karasakoff 's
influence I got literary work, which enabled
me to contribute something towards our common
expenses ; and as my brother, notwithstanding
my father's injunctions, gave me also
some little help, 1 was enabled to finish my
course at the university, and take my M.D.
degree.'

1 You are a physician, then V

Kalouga gave a nod of acquiescence.

CHAPTER XI.

THE STORY CONTINUED.

T) Y this time,' Kalouga went on, { I had bes
come a very active member of the society.
I was one of the editors of a clandestine paper,
which made some noise both in Russia and out
of it. The police were not able to lay hands
on our press, but we received information
(having always friends in the enemy's camp)
that some of us were suspected and in danger
of arrest, I among the rest. We held a meeting
to consider the matter, and it was deemed
expedient that certain of our number should
disappear for a season.

Some went in one direction, some in another.
As for myself, disguised as a common
workman, and provided with an alias and false

papers, I set out for Moscow. I am a very fair
amateur carpenter, and through the influence
of a political friend I obtained employment ina
cotton factory near Moscow. After a few
months' sojourn there, I travelled to another
part of the country, and got work in a. similar
way as assistant master in a village school.
Then I acted for a while as assistant to a surgeon.
I did not stay long in a place, for 1
wanted to see as much of the country as possible,
and learn the condition of the people by
living amongst them. I carried on at the same
time an active propaganda, distributed our publications
wherever I could safely do so, and
promoted the formation of new revolutionary
groups whenever opportunity offered.

While engaged in this work I read in a
newspaper the announcement of my father's
death. He had died suddenly of apoplexy.
This was a great shock to me, as, in spite of
the sternness of his character, and the distance
at which he kept us, I had always loved my
father. He was a true Russian gentleman, and
a fine soldier of the ancient type. As you may
suppose, I hastened home at once. I was quite

prepared to find myself a disinherited son, but
"whatever his intentions might have been, he
had died without making a will, and I received
my full share of the family property.

'For more than a year I stayed at home with
my mother and Zeneide, dividing my time between
my duties as country gentleman and
scientific and literary studies. My services as
physician I gave gratis to my poorer neighbours,
and I strove earnestly to improve the
condition of our peasants.

It was a happy time — the happiest I had
ever known, the happiest I ever shall know.
Yet I had frequent misgivings. I feared that
my long absence from St. Petersburg might
look like desertion of my post, and that I ought
to be combating in the cause of reform by the
side of my comrades. But always when I
spoke of going to St. Petersburg my mother
and sister, who knew the dangers that threatened
me there, begged me with tears to remain,
and I always ended by yielding to their
entreaties.

But one day I heard that Karasakoff and
several other of our friends had been arrested,

and I was asked to attend a meeting of the
Executive Committee, as the principal group of
the capital calls itself, to decide what should be
done ; for the little indulgence once granted to
liberal opinions had long since been withdrawn.
The people were delivered over to the tender
mercies of the military and the police, and the
reign of terror, which still continues, had
begun.

1 The call was one I felt it my duty to obey,
come what might. I told my mother that I
must go to St. Petersburg, and seeing that I
was not to be moved from my purpose, she said
that I should not go alone, that she and Zeneide
would bear me company. I had no objection
to offer, and the next day we set out on our
journey.

I My first duty on arriving at St. Petersburg
was to see my brother, who was in garrison ;
the next to communicate with my political
friends, and find out the time and place of the
next meeting of the group.

I I heard then for the first time how poor
Karasakoff had fallen into the hands of the
enemy. The police had discovered the whereabouts

of one of our printing-offices ; they broke
into it, and, of course, arrested all whom they
found there, Karasakoff among the rest, though
not without a struggle, in which wounds were
given and received on both sides.

I went to the meeting. We had a long
discussion as to the action it was most expedient
in the circumstances to take. The younger and
more hot-headed members were all for adopting
immediate reprisals, meeting terror with terror,
and striking at some of the principal personalities
of the Government and the Third Section.
Some wanted to attempt the rescue of Karasa-
off, and at least a dozen offered themselves fora
service which would have involved the certain
sacrifice of their lives. But a strong minority
were in favour of moderate counsels and a
waiting policy ; and it was decided to consider
the question further at another meeting to beheld
in a few days.

1 When I returned to my hotel I noticed
several gendarmes loitering about the door, and
as I sat at supper the same night with my
mother, my sister, and my brother, a whole
posse of them entered our rooms, searched all

our baggage, seized every paper and letter they
could find, and led me off to prison.

*I remained in prison nearly two years. I
was often examined, but I saw from the first,
though the police suspected much and pretended
to know a great deal more, they really knew
very little. They did not know enough even
to frame an indictment, or make a specific
charge against me, and T was never tried.

When I had been in prison a month I heard
that Karasakoff and the companions found with
him in the printing-office had been condemned
to death, and they were shortly afterwards
executed. The punishment for being connected
with an unauthorised press is only penal servitude
or exile ; but because they had resisted the
police they were hanged. I heard,, too, that my
friends outside had not forgotten me, and that
if I could suggest any plan of escape they were
quite ready to lend me their aid.'

'But how did you hear all this? It must
have been a very easy sort of prison, I think,'
asked Handle.

Easy ! You would not think so if you were
shut up in it for a few months,' answered Ka-lough,

with a bitter laugh. ' My correspondence
was, of course, conducted by stealth, yet with
less difficulty than you might suppose. Sympathy
defies even bolts and bars ; and there is
always sympathy for political prisoners. The
victims of tyranny obtain, openly or secretly,
indulgences that other inmates of gaols are
unable to command. It is so in Russia ; it used
to be so in Italy ; and if you should ever have
prisoners of State who represent a cause, it will
be so in England.

Though I was permitted to have books,
writing materials were denied to me. But I
procured ink and made myself pens ; and when
you have books you have paper. Letters have
come to me in a loaf, in a marrow bone, in the
fold of a collar, in pieces of soap, and when I
was sick in a powder. I have received and
conveyed letters in the shake of the hand — in a
kiss, even.'

In a kiss !' exclaimed the two ladies, simultaneously.


Yes : I will tell you how. On certain days
my friends were allowed to see me, always, of
course, in the presence of a turnkey, who was

supposed never to take his eyes off us. Now,
if you write very small, you can say a great
deal on a very tiny bit of paper ; and by dint of
practice and patience I succeeded in writing a
hand of microscopic minuteness. When I had
written what I used to call a kiss, I would
fold it inside a piece of leather, cut from the
lining of a book, and roll it into a ball.
Then, when Peter and Zeneide came to
see me — they generally came together — I
would place it furtively in my mouth, and
as we kissed each other — it is the custom in
Russia for men to kiss, you know — push it with
my tongue into Peter's mouth.

'Once, 1 remember, a missive of this sort
slipped from my lips and fell on the floor. It
was a terrible moment, for if the turnkey had
seen it, or found it afterwards, my brother and
some others would have been frightfully compromised.
In order to distract the man's attention
I turned to my sister, put my arms round
her, laughed, talked loudly, and made as much
noise and fuss as I could ; and while the turnkey
stared at us, Peter contrived to pickup and
conceal the letter. But such stratagems are no

longer possible. A new rule has come into
force that, when prisoners have interviews with
their friends, they must be separated from each
other by a grating, through which nothing can
be passed.

Then there came a time when poor Zeneide
had to visit me alone, and, worse still, when —
when '

Here Kalouga bowed his head and covered his
face with his hands, and Dora thought she heard
a stifled sob.

Don't go on, if it pains you, Kalouga,' said
Handle. ' I had no idea your story would be so
sad.'

You are very kind,' said Kalouga, more
calmly. 'But if you will permit me I would
like to continue. It is the memory, not the utterance,
that gives the pain, and the memory of
my sorrows is always with me. I was going to
tell you what befell my brother. While I was
in prison he happened, when writing to an old
friend of the family who was studying at Paris,
to mention my imprisonment, and very imprudently
he expressed the indignation he felt at
my treatment — that I should be kept so long in

confinement, a confinement that was injuring my
health, untried, and without any specific charge
being alleged against me. The letter was
opened, handed to the police, and for having
written it Peter Kalouga was arrested in the
middle of the night. The next day he was sent
off to Siberia in chains, without trial, and without
being allowed to see his mother or his sister,
or say farewell to his friends.'

4 Oh, how terrible!' exclaimed Dora; f and is
he — is he there now V

He went to Siberia four years ago. If alive,
he is there still.'

Alive! Don't you know whether he is alive
or not V

Though untried, he is treated as a convict.
I am an exile, and we are not allowed to correspond,'
said Kalouga sorrowfully.

1 My brother, I should tell you, had committed
no political offence whatever. He may have
sympathised with us — there are very few educated
Russians who in their hearts do not —
but he held himself strictly aloof from our proceedings,
and minded only his military duties*
His sole offence was too much love for me. His

VOL. n. L

fate preyed terribly on my mind, and, together
with the dampness of my cell and bad and insufficient
food, so affected my health that I had
to be removed to the hospital, where I remained
under treatment for several months. When
sufficiently recovered I was reconsigned to my
cell; but, my cure not being considered complete,
I had to make a daily visit to the hospital
for examination by the surgeon on duty. Although
the prison and the hospital were within
the same outer wall, the two buildings were some
distance apart. In going from one to the other
it was necessary to traverse a wide court and
pass near the principal gate.

'This gate was often open for the admission
of carts bringing forage and provisions, the
place being at once prison, barracks, and fortress.'


CHAPTER XII.

LIBERTY OR DEATH.

c TH VERY time I passed that gateway I looked
-*-* at it with a yearning that can be understood
only by those who have been long deprived
of their liberty, and who know not if they
will ever be free again. I never saw the gate
open — and it was often open — that I did not
feel an almost irresistible impulse to take to my
heels and try to gain the wide street that fronted
the fortress. But I was always checked by the
thought of what then ? In my walks to and
from the hospital I was invariably accompanied
by two soldiers with fixed bayonets, loaded
rifles, and in full marching order. They had
strict orders to fire on any prisoner who attempted
to escape. I might be shot before I

l2

reached the gateway ; and even if I got outside
I could not hope to get clear away. I should
either be shot, or overtaken and captured by
some of the gendarmes and soldiers who were always
strolling in the neighbourhood of the prison.
But it was just conceivable that if, after passing
out of the gateway, I could jump on a horse
or into a carriage, I might bid defiance to my
pursuers and make good my escape.

'I communicated this idea to my political
friends. They promised me their heartiest
help, and we agreed upon a plan. They knew
at what hour I generally crossed the courtyard,
and it was arranged that on certain days (not
every day, for fear of rousing suspicion) they
should have a carriage waiting outside, and that
the playing of a violin should be the signal that
the coast was clear, and everything in readiness
for my contemplated flight.

'I had still a fall week before me, and I turned
the interval to account by walking always
as rapidly across the court as possible — partly
to get myself into training for my run, partly
to accustom my escort to the idea of my being
several yards in advance of them. The escort

did not, of course, always consist of the same
men ; but, as I was seen at one time or another
by all the soldiers of the garrison, none saw
anything strange in my going on ahead, or had
the least suspicion that I was preparing to give
them the slip.

Intense expectation made my senses almost
preternaturally acute ; and one morning as I
quitted the hospital I felt, rather than heard, that
the signal was being given. When anticipation
became certainty, and I knew that the
moment on which depended my liberty, and
perhaps my life, was at hand, my heart beat
so violently that I thought I should have fallen
to the ground, and a mist that obscured everything
filled my eyes. A minute afterwards I
was as cool as I am now, and, drawing a
deep breath I went, as usual, ahead of my
escort, but rather more rapidly than usual.

When I came in sight of the gate I saw that
it stood wide open. It had been opened to
admit a cart laden with hay.

If I could only put that cart between myself
and the soldiers !

1 First casting a glance over my shoulder to

see how near they were, I increased my walk to
a trot. One of the men called out to me to
moderate my pace. On this I turned my face
toward the gate, and, muttering to myself
liberty or death," I ran with all my speed.

'Fortune favoured me. The soldiers, either
for lack of presence of mind or from reluctance
to shoot down an unarmed man, held their fire,
and with their bayonets at the charge, gave
chase.

Long confinement and illness had made me
weak, and had T had far to go my pursuers might
have overtaken me. But I ran round one side
of the hay-cart, while they, hoping to intercept
me, ran round the other. This manoeuvre
gained me a few yards, and before they could
come up I had passed out of the gateway and
jumped into the carriage which was waiting hard
by. Quick as thought a military cloak was
thrown over my shoulders, a shako put upon my
head, and the next moment I was on my way,
as fast as two fleet horses could take me, towards
a place of safety.'

You got clear away then exclaimed Dora,
eagerly ; 'they did not follow you V

1 1 got clear away, and I might have kept
away, but — however, I am anticipating. A
hiding-place had been prepared for me in advance.
In a great city it is always easy to
lose yourself. It was arranged that I should
remain in close concealment until the heat of
the pursuit had slackened; and that then, provided
with passports, which, notwithstanding
the precautions taken by the police, it is never
difficult either to procure or fabricate, I should
make for the Norwegian frontier aud travel
that way to England.

'Everything had been prepared for my
journey, and I was just on the point of leaving
St. Petersburg, when I heard that Zeneide had
been arrested on suspicion of being privy to
my escape ; although she did not so much as
know that I had a thought of escaping, and
was first told of my flight by the police themselves.


1 I could not go away and leave my sister in
prison. Whatever might become of me, my
poor mother must not be bereft of her one remaining
child, the stay of her old age. I told
my friends, the members of the group by whose

help I had escaped, that I should offer to give
myself up on condition of Zeneide's immediate
release. They tried to dissuade me, saying
that the police were not to be trusted, and that
even if I should give myself up it was by no
means certain they would let my sister go.
But I would not believe them. Unscrupulous
as I knew the Third Section to be, I could not
believe they would violate a solemn promise
deliberately made.

So I wrote to the Chief of Police that my
sister had neither helped me to escape nor convey
T ed one message either from me or from my
political friends ; and I offered if he would
release her to give myself up. In order to leave
no loophole for equivocation, I was very explicit,
and I asked for an equally explicit answer.
The answer was to appear on a certain
day in a newspaper which I named ; and in
order to prevent the police from surmising my
whereabouts my letter was posted at a town
some distance from St. Petersburg.

The answer appeared in due course, and
was, as I expected it would be, in the affirmative.
Tt was also explicit, and on the following

evening I went by a roundabout way (so as to
avoid implicating the friends who had sheltered
me) to the office of the Chief of Police and gave
myself up. He said that Zeneide Kalouga
should be set at liberty the next morning, and
ordered me to be taken back to my old quarters.
To prevent my escaping a second time, I
was loaded with chains, and a soldier stood
sentinel at my door, night and day.

Then 1 was examined, re-examined, and
questioned day after day. They tried to find
out, first by cajolery, then by threats, then by
other means, who had helped me to escape,
which of the prison officials had conveyed my
correspondence, and where 1 had lodged while
I was at large. They offered, if I would tell,
to procure me a free pardon, to set me at
liberty, to let me go whither I would. If I
refused, they said, I should be kept a prisoner
in chains all my life long.

'I always gave the same answer. I said
that, whatever might be my fate, I would
never betray those who had helped me in my
need.

'And then something happened which I must

not tell, which I have sworn never to reveal.
Oh, but I suffered cruelly in that prison. I was
very ill, and I think I must have been at the
door of death ; for when I knew myself, when
my memory came back to me, I was once more
in the hospital. The people there treated me
very kindly. I read pity in their eyes. Little
by little I regained my strength. But I felt
that I would rather die than live — death would
be rest ; imprisonment in chains life-long torture.
Yet in spite of my wishes I grew better. Soon
I began to walk a little. Another month, I
said to myself, and they will take me back to
my dungeon and my chains — for life — for life
always those words seemed to be ringing in
my ears.'

CHAPTER XIII.

SET FREE.

IS I have already mentioned,' continued
•*•*• Kalonga, * the people in the hospital
were very good. The physicians showed me
every possible favour. I was a confrere; they
knew how much I had suffered, they knew the
fate that awaited me, and they kept me on the
sick list as long as they dared. But the time
came when they could keep me no longer ; and
I was on the point of being taken back to my
cell and my chains when I received a visit from
one of the chiefs of the Third Section. He had
come, he said, to make me a proposal. On certain
conditions the Government were prepared
to set me free.

You will perhaps think that the black cloud

of despair was at once lifted from my soul ; that
I accepted the offer as eagerly as a drowning
man grasps the hand that saves him from
death. But similar offers had been made tome
before, and until I knew the conditions I
was less grateful than suspicious.

c The conditions were these : I was to swear
not to reveal what had befallen me in the dungeon
; travel under escort to the frontier without
seeing any of my friends ; remain abroad
until permitted to return ; give my word of
honour while abroad neither to take any part in
politics, whether by word or deed, nor to correspond
with the members of any Russian secret
society.

1 Not very hard conditions, you will perhaps
sa J> y e t they involved renunciation of the
dream and passion of my life — the regeneration
of my country by the destruction of the despotic
system which enslaves and corrupts her. But
what could I do ? If I remained in prison I should
be equally impotent, while out of it I might
perhaps be able to do something for humanity,
if not for Russia. A pledge to abstain from
political action would not debar me from influencing

the action of others. And I was not
the only one. There would be others left to
carry on the work when I was gone. I
balanced one evil against the other, and chose
the least.

I pleaded hard for an interview with my
mother and sister ; to be allowed to say farewell
to two or three friends of my family. But on
this point, as on all others, the authorities were
inexorable. The agent's instructions left him
no chance, he said. My answer must be a yes "
or (i no."

I said " Yes."

The very next day I started for the frontier,
accompanied by two agents of police, and,
until we set foot on German land, one or
other of them never lost sight of me for a
moment. But they were by no means bad
fellows. They did all in their power to make
themselves agreeable and the journey pleasant.
At the moment of parting, the border being-passed,
and their mission fulfilled, one of the
men, unseen by his companion, handed me a
letter. u I was asked to give you that," he
said, and then I knew, what I had already

suspected, that he was a member of the society.'

'How could you tell?' interposed Bob. 'I
thought you had neither passwords nor tokens
of recognition.'

'I knew from the letter. It would have been
entrusted to none other than a member.

f When the agents of police were gone,' resumed
Kalouga, 'I opened the letter. It was
from one of my political friends, and it told
me (here his voice became almost inaudible) —
it told me that I had no longer a sister — that
Zeneide was dead. They had killed her.'

'Killed your sister! Oh, don't say so; it
is too horrible,' exclaimed Dora, piteously.
i Was she — you do not mean that she '

'No, she was not executed. I will tell you
how they killed her. It fell out as my friends
had foreboded. Although I had given myself
up that my poor Zeneide might be free, and
the police had given their word, they would
not let her go. Yet they had nothing against
her, as the chief himself admitted to one of
our relations who went to him to ask why she
was not liberated, as he had said. He acknowledged
both her innocence and his promise ;

but he said that, as the Tsar had been informed
when she was arrested that Zeneide Kalouga
had connived at her brother's escape, she must
remain in prison. To release her would be
tantamount to saying that the police had been
mistaken, and might lose them his majesty's
favour. In a few months, possibly, when the
affair had blown over a while, they might let
her go ; but, for the present, she must remain
where she was. My sister had a high spirit
in a frail body, and she bore her sufferings
bravely ; but deprivation of fresh air and sunlight
undermined her health. She faded like
a delicate flower struck by the breath of winter,
and, a month before I entered the hospital,
Zeneide had left it for the grave.'

4 And your mother was left all alone in her
sore trouble said Mrs. Lymington, whose mother's
heart Kalouga's narration had deeply
touched. 'Poor woman! poor woman! The
Lord pity her !'

You are very good, Mrs. Lymington,' answered
Kalouga, in a tone of deepest grief.
But my mother is dead too. She died three
months after the death of Zeneide.'

1 Then the Lord had pity on her, and took
her to Himself said the old lady, solemnly,
and may He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb send His spirit to comfort you !'

To this Kalonga made no reply, and there
followed a silence of some minutes' duration,
broken only by the crackling of the blaze on
the hearth and the ticking of the mantelpiece
clock. The Russian was almost hidden in his
huge armchair, and the deepening twilight
darkened every object in the room ; but when
a leaping flame lit up Dora's face, he could
see that she was deeply moved, and her cheeks
were wet with new fallen tears. Robert, who
did not much like the gloaming, and to whom
long silence was intolerable, was the first to
speak.

Wasn't it rather strange they let you go V
he said, addressing Kalouga, 'after saying they
would keep you a prisoner in chains all your
life.'

'Ah,' answered Kalouga, in a voice trembling
with emotion, w I did not tell you. I owed my
release to my sister's death. I gave myself
up, hoping that she might thereby gain her

liberty ; and her death set rae free. When
she died, the Tsar heard of it — they could not
keep that from him. He caused inquiry to be
made, and when it came out that Zeneide was
innocent of all offence he was very angry;
the Chief of Police got a severe reprimand ;
and, as some amends, I suppose, for the wrong
that had been done to us, my imprisonment
was commuted into banishment.'

1 Then the Tsar is not such a bad fellow,
after all?' said Handle.

'Ah, no,' said Kalouga ; 'I loved him once,
and I feel sometimes as if I loved him still.
He is only weak, and lately I think he has lost
his nerve. Instead of advancing boldly, however
slowly, on the path of reform, and giving
Russia a little more liberty, he has withdrawn
all that in his better days he granted. His advisers,
who are interested in the maintenance
of the existing system for the same reason that
Turkish pashas are interested in the maintenance
of the existing system in Turkey, because it
gives them power and opportunity for plunder,
persuade him that, unless every liberal aspiration
be ruthlessly repressed, neither himself nor
VOL. II. M

his dynasty will be safe. And they go further
than he either wishes or knows. It is a terrible
position, and though I have conspired against
his government, and would, if I could, overturn
it tomorrow, there is no man in the world I so
much pity as our Tsar.'

'You said you would show us a portrait of
your sister,' interposed Dora, who did not seem
very much interested in the character and
shortcomings of Alexander II. i I should so
much like to see it. Was she like you V

i You shall judge. I will go and fetch it — it
is in my room.'

Mrs. Lymington rang the bell and ordered
the lamps to be lit.

When Kalouga returned, he drew from his
pocket a coloured photograph, enclosed in a
velvet-covered case. He handed it first to
Dora.

It was the likeness of a young girl about
Dora's own age, with large dark eyes, heavy
masses of black hair, rolled backward from her
brow, a pale skin, and refined and intellectual
features. The resemblance to Kalouga was
unmistakable.

After a long look at the portrait of this Russian
girl, as young and as innocent as herself,
who had died in a dungeon to save a minister's
credit, Dora passed it on to the others. She
was too much moved to trust herself to speak.

It seems a great pity,' sighed Mrs. Ry winston,
as she handed the photograph to her sons,
1 and she so young, too. If that is what revolutionising
leads to, I hope that nobody that
belongs to me will revolutionise. It must cause
a great deal of trouble in families.'

As Kalouga replaced the crimson case in his
pocket, there accidentally fell from it a card,
containing, as it seemed, a number of cartes-devise.


Have you a photograph of your brother in
your collection?' asked Dora, who had by this
time recovered her equanimity.

Unhappily I have not, Miss Lymington.
This card contains the likenesses of some of
our heroes and martyrs ; but my brother's is
not amongst them.'

4 Heroes and martyrs ! Oh, I should so like
to see them. May I, please V

Of course you may, Miss Lymington ; but

M2

don't you think' (glancing at Mrs. Lymington)
6 that it is rather late ? Another time would
perhaps be better.'

Yes,' said Bob, with a scarcely suppressed
yawn. ' It would perhaps be as well. Mother
has had a long journey. She seems sleepy

In point of fact, Mrs. Lymington was nodding
desperately, and could hardly keep her eyes
open ; and though she thought it her duty to
protest that she had never felt more wideawake
in all her life, and was quite eager to hear all
about Mr. Kalouga's heroes and martyrs, she
accepted her son's suggestion, and allowed her
niece to lead her to her room.

Oh, Mr. Kalouga,' said Dora, with her sweetest
smile, as she bade him good night, * I am
so sorry for you.'

The Russian replied with a look more expressive
than speech. He had never heard
words so tender, so tenderly spoken, since his
last interview with his sister Zeneide.

CHAPTER XIV.

AN INVITATION.

WHEN Dora went down to the breakfast-room
next morning she found it untenanted.
Her aunt, who, despite her years, was
generally an early riser, not feeling very well,
had asked her ' to see to the breakfast,' her
cousins were at the factory, and Kalouga had
not appeared. So she sat down and waited.
She sat with her head poised on her hand and
gazed through the window, over the tops of
the long chimneys, towards the brown moors
and green meadows, dotted here and therewith
grey farmhouses and belts of dark woodland,
which stretched beyond. But she looked
without seeing ; her mind was busied with the
strange story she had heard the night before.

She pitied Kalouga, yet she pitied still more
Kalouga's sister. He at least was free, but
Zeneide had died in a dreary dungeon. It
almost seemed to her, since she had seen the
photograph, that she had known Zeneide.
There was a tender wistfulness in the poor
girl's eyes, an expression of sadness about the
mouth, which seemed to foreshadow her fate,
to mark her out as destined for an early death.
And then Dora tried to think what life in a
prison could be like. She knew what it was
to be kept in the house by bad weather; to
see the clouds hang low on the hills, and the
air thick with moisture ; to hear the swish of
water against the windows, and watch the
melancholy rain-drops as they drip from leaf
to leaf, and sink ghost-like into the sodden
ground. This was bad enough, and even with
the aid of books, work, and music, the society
of friends, and the prospect of finer weather
on the morrow, is hard to bear. What, then,
must it be to be shut up in a dungeon, even
when the sun shines, even when the birds sing ;
to be denied all sight of the sun, save perhaps
an occasional gleam through a grated window

at an unreachable height ; to be denied even
the sorry satisfaction of seeing it rain ; never
to hear music, or behold flowers and green
fields ; never to go out ; never to see anybody
but turnkeys, and prison women as unfortunate
as herself? No wonder Zeneide died; Dora
would have died too — she was sure she would
and have thought it a happy release. Yet
Kalonga had been two years in solitary confinement.
How had he borne it, she wondered?
How nobly he acted in giving himself up, when
they arrested his sister ! How he must have
suffered when he heard of her death, and that
his self-sacrifice had been in vain ! No wonder
he looked sad sometimes. What could have
happened to him in prison, that he had promised
not to reveal ? What

4 Good morning, Miss Lymington,' said the
object of her thoughts, who at this moment
entered the room. 'I hope I have not kept
you waiting. I did not know what time it
was. My watch is not quite right, I think.'

Dora explained that her aunt would not be
visible for a while, and that she was waiting
the return of Handle and Robert from the

factory. She thought that Mr. Kalouga might
perhaps have gone with them.

No, he had been walking round the garden
and going through the conservatory with the
gardener, who had shown him some rare orchids
from South America, which had just arrived ;'
and then, after a short pause, he said, ' I have
to thank you, Miss Lymington, for the kind
sympathy you expressed for me last night.
At the moment my emotion was too great to
permit me to speak, but now I thank you withall
my heart.'

'You were thinking of your poor sister?'

Yes, I was thinking of Zeneide, la pauvre
malheureuse, and my emotion was all the greater
that it seemed to me you were not unlike her —
in character I mean, for your face is much more
beautiful.'

What can you know about my character V
said Dora, with a blush. ' Why, you never
saw me before yesterday.'

'Oh, but it is easy to see, Miss Lymington,
that yours is a noble nature, and that, like

Zeneide, you are tender and true '

I beg pardon for interrupting you, Mr.

Kalouga,' said Dora, to whom the reference
to herself, however flattering, was somewhat
embarrassing ; ' but I wanted to ask you — if
you could let me have — if you could spare mea
photograph of your sister for my album. I
should be so much obliged.'

Certainly, with the greatest of pleasure. I
shall esteem it an honour that you place
Zeneide's likeness in your album. I will fetch
it now.' And before Dora could protest that
there was no need for hurry, that it would
do any time, he had left the room. In a few
minutes he returned with the photograph in his
hand.

'It is very like the one you showed us last
night,' observed Dora.

'Yes, it is very like,' returned Kalouga,
gravely ; but he did not tell her that it was
the same, and that it was the only one he
had.

You have not one of your brother, I think
you said?'

1 Unfortunately I have not.'

'Nor of yourself?' asked Dora.

1 Xor of myself. But, if it would please you

to honour my poor likeness with a place in your
album, nothing would be easier than to procure
one.'

Oh, no, Mr. Kalouga, I did not mean that
at all,' answered Dora, colouring a second time.
It is only because I like to arrange my cartes
de visite in family groups; and I thought it
would be nice to put your brother's photograph
on one side of your sister's, and yours
on the other. Have you the other photographs
you showed us last night, or rather, which you
promised to show us V

" The Heroes and Martyrs' you mean V

4 Yes, that is what you called them, I think.
I like looking at photographs ; it is almost as
if you saw the people themselves. And if it
would not give you too much trouble '

It is no trouble at all ; it is here in my
pocket.'

As he spoke he produced a card, some six
inches by four wide, and handed it to Dora. It
was surrounded by a black border, and contained
nine photographs of small carte-de-visite
size. Eight were portraits of men ; the ninth
was the likeness of a young girl. Each of them

was in the form of a medallion ; four of the medallions
were edged with rope, five with chains.
At the right hand upper corner of the card was
a gallows, erect in a heap of skulls and fetters.
In the opposite corner the gallows appeared
lying on the ground, and the fetters were
broken and the skulls had vanished. Between
the two uppermost medallions gleamed the
fearful face and terrible eyes of a Medusa.
In each of the lower corners were an axe and a
block. In the centre of the card appeared this
inscription : —

RUSSIAN REVOLUTIONIST
HEROES AND MARTYRS.

How dreadful ! What does it all mean V
asked Dora, with a shudder. 4 Who are they V

4 Victims of the Russian Government and heroes
and martyrs of the Russian people,' answered Ka-lough,
in a hushed voice, as if he were a religious
enthusiast speaking of some sacred mystery.
The portraits surrounded by ropes are those of
martyrs who died on the gibbet ; the others are
those of heroes who have perished in prison, or
are still expiating in dungeons and chains their

love of liberty and country. I knew some of
them personally. I know their stories — all are
deeply pathetic, some tragic. If you would
like to learn who they were and why they
suffered, I am always at your disposal.'

Not now, thank you, Mr. Kalouga,' said
Dora, turning pale, for she felt as she remembered
once to have felt when she glanced for a
moment into Madame Tussaud's Chamber of
Horrors. ' I expect my cousins every moment.
But I shall be glad if you will some time tell
me about this girl. She has an interesting
face. But surely ' (in alarm) ' they did not
hang this girl V

6 No, her name was Marie Saboutina, and
she died in prison. Yes, I will gladly tell
you her story, Miss Lymington. It will show
you what our Russian girls are capable of.'

At this point the conversation was interrupted
by the arrival of Robert, who announced
that something had gone wrong with one of the
engines, and that as Randle was staying to see
it put to rights, he wanted his breakfast to be
sent down to the counting-house. After breakfast
he would be in the laboratory, where he

should be glad to meet Mr. Kalonga. who
might, perhaps, if he were not otherwise
engaged, like to walk down with Robert when
he returned to the factory.

To this proposal the Russian gladly assented,
and after breakfast he and Robert went off
together.'

'Am I right in supposing,' said Kalouga, in
answer to a remark of Bob's about Dora, ' that
your cousin lives with you — that this is her
home V

'No. What gave you that impression? Her
home is at Deepclene Park, a few miles from
here, on the other side of the town.'

I thought so because your brother said that
she and your mother were coming home.'

Well, Dora often calls this her second home.
She was born here, and she always says that
she likes Redscar better than Deepdene.'

She is fiancee, of course ?'

'Fiancee? Ah, I understand. Engaged, you
mean? No, she is not engaged. Mr. Right
has not come yet.'

Mr. Right ! That is a pretending, I suppose
a suitor, do you not call it in English?'

4 Ob, no,' laughed Rob. 'Mr. Right is the
right man — the man she falls in love with, you
know. If she fell in love with yon, for instance,
you would be Mr. Right. But Dora has to
marry a titled swell — somebody who can make
her at least a " lady," or she will lose her
fortune.'

'Indeed, how is that V asked Kalouga, carelessly.


I don't mean that Dora will have nothing,'
Bob said, after explaining the purport of his
uncle's will. ' She will have something nice in
any case. Her share of her mother's fortune is
£10,000, and she will have a nice sum in
accumulated interest to draw when she comes
of age. Then she has half the income from the
estate; and unless her brother finds a titled
wife very quickly, that will soon swell up to a
considerable sum.'

Your uncle must have been very anxious
to ally his family with the aristocracy to make
such a testament as that.'

Wasn't he, just ! He repented of it, though
too late, unfortunately. I daresay the "Deep
Un " — that's my cousin Randle — is looking out

for an earl's daughter already, if the truth were
known. But Dora protests that she will not
have a sprig of nobility at any price; that she
will marry neither for rank nor money. And I
believe she will be as good as her word. She
knows her own mind, Dora does.'

You think, then, that even if a titled Mr.
Right were to come he would have no chance V

If he had a title, I don't think he would be
Mr. Eight at all ; he would be Mr. Wrong.
Dora would have nothing to do with him. She
says no lord will ever want to marry her except
for her money, and she declines to sell
herself either for twelve thousand or any inconceivable
number of pounds a year.'

And she is quite right,' exclaimed Kalouga,
warmly. ' I admire her spirit.' And then more
quietly he said:

'But if young ladies in some other countries
in France and Russia, for instance — were
equally independent, there would be very few
marriages, I am afraid. A French bourgeois
would no more think of marrying a bride without
a dower than of lending money without
interest : and I have seen often in French

matrimonial papers advertisements from girls,
or from their parents, offering themselves and
their fortunes in exchange for a title.'

It is not so here, though. But I am not
quite sure. There's old Hicks, the banker ; he
has married two or three of his daughters to
peers or peers' sons, and, by Jove, they say he
has regularly bought them. I do believe if
Dora were to advertise she might have her pick
out of a baker's dozen.'

The conversation continued until they reached
the factory, Kalouga now and again putting ina
word, but Bob doing most of the talking.

Confound it,' the latter mentally exclaimed,
as they parted near the laboratory, * what a fool
I am ! Here I have been telling a fellow I have
hardly known two days all about our family
affairs. It is true what my father used to say.
1 shall never learn to put a bridle on my
tongue.'

This was in allusion to a habit Bob had of
being too communicative concerning the affairs
of the family or the firm, and allowing himself
to be ' pumped.' This facility of disposition had
drawn upon him several reproofs from his father

and mother, and been the subject of remonstrance
from Handle. But, as in the present
instance, he rarely bethought him of his failing
until after he had committed an indiscretion.

In the afternoon Kalouga walked into White-brook,
as he said, to make a few purchases for
the replenishment of his wardrobe. Handle
offered him a horse, but he preferred to go on
foot. Before setting out he wrote a letter to a
friend at St. Petersburg, and at one of the shops
at which he called he asked to be directed to
the best photographer in the town.

When he returned to Redscar House, whither
he arrived before the brothers came up from the
factory, he entered the drawing-room and
found there a gentleman whom at first sight he
mistook for his host.

Dora introduced him as her brother, Mr.
Lymington.

Shall I say Mr. Kalouga or Dr. Kalouga V
she asked. s You know you told us last night
you were an M.D.'

1 Whichever you like,' answered the Russian.
1 am a very idle physician at present, and
hardly worthy of so honourable a designation.'

VOL. II. N

'I think you had better say "Doctor," Dora
Deep Randle said, with a smile. ' When a man
has a title, particularly when it has been earned
by study and research, the least one can do is
to address him by it. My sister has been telling
me something of your history, Dr. Kalouga. I
knew things were bad in Russia, but I had no
idea they were in such a terrible state. It is a
country I never liked, and now I shall like it
less than ever. 'Pon my word, I think I would
rather live in Dahomey or Timbuctoo.'

1 It is not the country that is in fault, it is the
government,' said Kalouga, gravely ; and an
acute observer might have detected in his
manner a slight touch of irritation.

'Exactly; that is what I meant. I never
thought of blaming the people. As you say, it
is only the government that is to blame,' replied
Mr. Lymington, reminded by Kalouga's
remark that indiscriminate condemnation of
Russia in the presence of a Russian was hardly
in the best of taste. ' By-the-bye, Dr. Kalouga, if
you are staying here any time, I hope you will
honour us with a visit at Deepdene. We shall
be delighted to see you, I am sure.'

< Thank you very much, but I doubt if I shall
have time. I cannot stay more than a few days
longer, I am afraid.'

Come now, Kalouga, that won't do at all.
"We shall not let you go yet, and to that you
must make up your mind. Why, you have only
just come,' intervened Ked Handle, who had just
entered the room.

You are really very kind ; but I feel that I
am taking up too much of your time, and your
time is so very valuable.'

It is quite the other way about, I assure
you. Your lessons in electricity are worth
more to me than a great deal of time ; and
unless you feel that you really must go, that
your engagements will not permit you to prolong
your visit, I shall take it as a great favour
if you will stay a little longer and help me
with my experiments.'

As you put it in that way,' said Kalouga,
frankly, ' and you are good enough to think
that I can be of some little use to you, I will
stay a little longer, Mr. Randle.'

1 In that case, Dr. Kalouga, you will pay usa
visit at Deepdene and stay a few days,' put

N 2

in Deep Randle. ' I daresay we shall be able
to amuse you. If you care for sport, we can
find you both hunting and shooting. We shall
have our first meet in a few days, and the partridges
are not all killed yet by a long way.'

Kalouga seemed to hesitate, but just as he
was about to speak, and possibly to refuse, he
happened to cast a fleeting glance at Dora, unperceived
by anyone save herself. Perhaps he
read in her face a confirmation of her brother's
invitation. At any rate, he answered in the
affirmative, and it was settled that, before leaving
the neighbourhood, he should spend a few
days at Deepdene.

It was a common subject of remark at White-brook
about this time how greatly young Mr.
Lymington had improved since his father's
death. That event and his increased responsibilities
were considered to have at once ' softened'
and ' settled ' him. He went about more.
He tried to make himself useful. He had even
presided at a Sunday-school tea-party, and
made a highly appropriate speech, in which he
introduced an exceedingly apt quotation from
one of Dr. Watts's hymns. His name was seen

in every local subscription list ; his ancient
haughtiness was replaced by a promiscuous
affability, and out of his own house he was
never seen in a bad temper. He made it a
point to keep on good terms with his kinsfolk
at Redscar, and he treated Mrs. Lymington
with so much deference that she thought her
nephew's heart was ' touched at last,' and the
good lady was disposed to see in the circumstance
a providential leading. Even Randle
and Robert were constrained to admit that
their cousin was improving. They were, nevertheless,
all somewhat surprised at the warmth
and spontaneousness of the invitation which he
had extended to Kalouga. They thought it did
him credit, and Mrs. Lymington regarded it as
another proof that her nephew was undergoing
some mysterious process of moral regeneration.
Perhaps, if she had heard a remark he made
a few days subsequently to his friend and
mentor, Mr. Thomas Cliviger, she might have
been of a rather different opinion.

I have invited that Russian doctor to the
Park,' he said. ' He is a good-looking sort of
chap, clever and that, and has a romantic history

behind him. Just the sort of fellow girls
take an interest in. Who knows 1 Perhaps
Dora may fall in love with him. I wish she
would, for until she is married to a commoner,
and I take to wife a " lady' I shall never feel
that Deepdene is really my own.'

CHAPTER XV.

A PREDICTION FULFILLED.

J" NEVER was so much surprised in all my
-*- life as when I heard it this morning. You
might have knocked me down with a feather,
as the saying is. How much did you say they
have gone for, Mr. Sugar?'

The speaker was John Gully, who, divested
of his coat, and with his tape thrown carelessly
round his neck, was holding converse with a
few friends and customers who were smoking
their cigars and sipping their brandies and
water in his room at the 'Rainbow,' some three
or four weeks after his memorable jump into
the butcher's shop. The event that had so
much surprised him was the failure of Tug-wood
Brothers, which had been announced, or

rather had oozed out, a few hours previously.
The exact amount has not been stated yet,
but it's somewhere about £300,000, I'm told,'
answered the gentleman addressed as Mr.
Sugar.

By the Lord Harry, but that's a thumping
sum. Why, a year's interest on it at five percent,
is more than I shall be able to save by a
life of assiduous toil. Who's in — who are the
principal creditors ? I daresay you can tell us,
Mr. Copskewer ; you generally know all about
these things.'

Copskewer was a yarn agent from Manchester,
with lantern jaws and a long nose, who,
if he had minded his own business as closely ashe
minded other people's, might have been a
rich man.

Yes he said, complacently, in answer to the
tailor's appeal. 'I do sometimes contrive topick
up a bit of information. I heard a whisper
on Saturday of what was coming. It was the
bank that stopped them, or, rather, would not
let them go on. Tugwoods had overdrawn
their account £30,000, besides discounts and
that, and Mr. Oliver asked for £10,000 more,

and when they did not get it he pulled up —
could not go on in fact. The brokers are ' in '
nearly £20,000, Rammers, the Manchester
agents, nearly as much, and a whole lot more for
smaller amounts.'

Do you know, I am rather glad the bank has
got it so hot V observed the tailor.

What on earth for, Gully V

1 Well, for one thing, the more a bank is in,
the less others are likely to be in, and banks can
stand a bad debt or two without taking much
harm. A loss that would make no appreciable
difference in a dividend might ruin a dozen
decent tradesmen outright. Then bank directors,
and managers, and sub-managers, and the rest,
are often such awfully conceited chaps. They
are none the worse for a bit of financial phlebotomy
now and again.'

6 You are not a bank shareholder, that's clear,'
said Sagar. 'Anyhow, I hope you are not
in.'

I do not consider myself in, Mr. Sagar, although
I have an account both with Mr. James
Tugwood and Mr. Oliver — have had these many
years. But, bless you, I am not in the least

uneasy. Gentlemen always pay their tailor's
bills, don't they, Mr. Robert?'

I suppose they do, if they can ; but suppose
they cannot, what then V asked Bob Lymington,
who, as usual on a market day, was enjoying
his post-prandial smoke in the tailor's room.

i Then they are not gentlemen,' said Gully,
decidedly. ' Anyhow, in this case I am sure to
get paid. I shall rank on the private estates,
you know. But you have not told us all yet,
Mr. Copskewer. Is anybody in this town in—
anybody besides the bank, I mean V

A lot of tradesmen, of course ; but none for
large amounts.'

< Mr. Cliviger V

'No. Tom has managed to keep out this
time. I think he was like me — he had an inkling
beforehand.'

Well, I suppose the next thing will be an
election,' observed the tailor, as he lighted another
cigar. ' Mr. Tugwood cannot well keep
his seat after this.'

He is not going to try. He was to apply
for the Chiltern Hundreds yesterday. I met the
town-clerk not many minutes since. He says

the writ may be here by Monday ; and, as
likely as not, the election will come off next
week.'

1 Whom are you going to put in V

1 Hopps, of course. He was fixed upon long-since
as the next Liberal candidate, whenever
there was a vacancy. It was all settled at a
meeting of the Liberal Committee last night, and
his address will be out tomorrow morning.'

Are not the Conservatives going to run
anybody V

1 No ; it will be a walk over this time. After
the last election the leaders on both sides agreed
that the representation should be divided. The
two parties are so evenly balanced, you know ;
neither can get in more than one man. And
very well they did, for, what with the turn-out
at Ribbleton and the lock-out here, the hands are
in such a state of excitement that a contested
election coming on the top of it all would play
the very deuce. There would be hats on the
green, and no mistake. They were breaking
windows in John-street last night, and things
don't look very pacific to-day. There are more
lads in clogs knocking about than I quite like.

Yes, I am glad there will be no contest.'

4 You are mistaken, Sagar, my boy ; there will
be a contest.'

The gentleman who made this observation
had entered the room while Sagar was speaking.
He was middle-sized, broad-shouldered, and had
a bright intelligent face and keen dark eyes.
In one hand he carried a walking stick, in the
other a piece of paper that looked like a
placard.

Nonsense, Slasher ! Who says so V returned
Sagar.

I say so ; and it's true.'

1 I don't believe it.'

What do you say to this, then V exclaimed
Slasher, opening and holding up his paper,
which turned out to be a big poster — great blue
letters on a white ground.

Deep By winston !' shouted everybody in
chorus.

That's what I call a corker,' said a young
loom maker with very red hair and a very big
mouth, who had just come in ; ' a regular corker,
by Jingo.'

'It's a gross breach of faith — an infernal

shame exclaimed Sagar, who was a shining
Liberal light. * An infernal shame. The Conservatives
agreed to take one seat and leave
us the other.'

The Conservative Committee did, perhaps,'
Slasher replied, quietly. * But I was no party
to the agreement; neither was Mr. Lymington
nor a few thousands more, and we mean to
fight, and, by Jingo! we'll win.'

1 think I'll go,' said Sagar, who seemed a
good deal put out.

You had better,' said Slasher, sarcastically.
'You'll be wanted. Why, you Liberals have
been asleep. Old Hopps's address is not out
yet, and Mr. Lymington's is being posted all over
the town ; and what's more, we are going
to have a big meeting to-night at the theatre.'

'Did you know your cousin was coming out,
Mr. Robert V asked Slasher, turning to Bob
Lymington,

'Not I, indeed ; nor any of us. Nothing less
than seeing that address would have made me
believe it. He must be crazy. He cannot have
the ghost of a chance, you know.'

Cannot he, though ! He has every chance.

You think, perhaps, because the old committee
have not brought him out they cannot support
him. Well, we have formed a new one ; Tom
Cliviger is the chairman, and the old committee
cannot help rallying to us before the nomination.
In the end your cousin will get the
undivided support of the Conservative party.
Then what you may call the accidents are all
in our favour. Old Hopps would be a bad
candidate at the best. He is a poor speaker,
and personally unpopular ; and, to cap all, the
chairman of his committee, and several of his
leading supporters, are the principal promoters
of the lookout. The hands will be all against
him. Now, your cousin '

What is the use of talking in that way,
Slasher?' interrupted Bob. 'The Conservative
masters are just as responsible for the lock-out
as the Liberals.'

Quite true ; but the Liberals have been more
to the front, and that makes all the difference.
This lock-out has been a stupid thing from the
first. I am going to open my mill tomorrow ;
the others may do as they like. Your brother
was quite right. If the Liberals had only brought

him out now, instead of old Hopps, they would
have won in a canter. What business have we
to be helping the Ribbleton masters to underpay
their hands, I should like to know? I
never '

< Hullo !' shouted Gully.

Hullo !' echoed Bob.

'Oh, my goodness, what is the matter?'
exclaimed Copskewer, turning pale.

Why, what is the row V said Slasher, who,
being Irish on the spindle side, had a born
liking for rows.

The cause of these exclamations was a tremendous
uproar in the street, followed by a
great crash of splintered glass and a terrific outburst
of cheers and groans.

The 'lads in clogs' mentioned by Sagar were
smashing the windows of the ' Rainbow ;' for the
house was looked upon by the hands as the
masters' headquarters, and considered, therefore
as deserving exemplary punishment.

The window of Gully's room was fortunately
not to the front. The inmates could, therefore,
look out without much risk of getting their
heads broken with brickbats, or their faces cut

with splinters of glass. But their position
enabled them to see only what Slasher called
the tail-end of the crowd, which seemed to
consist rather of lookers-on than of active
participators in the riot. Among the former
were several policemen — too few, unfortunately,
to interfere with the rioters, who numbered
several hundreds.

A few minutes after the first volley of stones
a cab drove up the street which ran under
Gully's window, and was proceeding quietly
past, or rather through, the crowd, when it
suddenly became the object of considerable
attention. The horse's head was seized, people
ran from all sides towards the vehicle, and the
policemen, doubtless with the intention of protecting
the inmates from ill-usage, made hastily
in the same direction.

6 Who are they V said Robert Lymington.
Who can they be, I wonder V

1 1 don't know who they are,' observed Gully,
but I know I am precious glad I am here, and
not in that cab. I would not change places
with them for fifty pounds — no, nor for a
hundred.'

'Gad!' exclaimed Slasher, excitedly, <1 believe
it's Stubbins — yes, it is. I can see his
face, and the other is old Twister — president
and vice-president of the Masters' Association
the two most hated men in the town. You
are right, Gully ; I would not be in their shoes
for any money. If those policemen cannot get
to them, they'll get half punched to death —
and I daresay Stubbins is half dead with fear
already.'

As Slasher spoke a four-wheeled drag and
pair came in sight, following almost in the
wake of the cab. In the front were two
gentlemen; a servant in livery sat behind.
When the drag could advance no further,
owing to the press, the gentlemen jumped
out, and, after speaking a few words to the
servant, plunged into the crowd.

1 Is not that your brother, Mr. Robert V asked
Slasher.

1 It's my brother and Kalouga,' replied Bob,
with heightened colour and glittering eyes ;
'they are going to help Stubbins and Twister,
and I am going to help them. Who will go
with me?'

VOL. II. O

I will,' said Slasher. * Come on, lads. Who's
for a fight V

1 This is exactly the thing I want,' remarked
Bob, as he picked up a thick walking-stick
with a big knob that somebody had left in the
umbrella-stand. It belonged to Copskewer,
who had suddenly and mysteriously disappeared
at the time of the window smashing. He
was found, an hour later, under a sofa in the
next room in a state of utter prostration.

Til go, too,' exclaimed Gully, after a moment's
hesitation. ' They shall see that, tailor
though I be, I have the spirit of a man. But
I must temper courage with prudence. I will
not encounter clogs weaponless a second time.
What can I get ? By the Lord Harry, here's
the very tool ! Hurrah !' And, seizing a salamander
which the boots had left in the grate
when he made the fire, John rushed after the
others, who were already half way downstairs.


CHAPTER XVI.

CHARGE, Buzzard, Charges, GULLY, ON.

rPHERE was no possibility of egress by the
■*■ front door. Not only had it been barred,
bolted, and barricaded, but the lads in clogs
were so many, and their appearance was so
threatening, that it would have been impossible
to force a way through them, and foolish to
attempt it. So Bob and his friends were compelled
to make a strategic movement to the
rear, and proceed to the scene of action by
the back door and through the ' Rainbow '
yard.

A powerful diversion had meanwhile been
effected in favour of Red Randle and the two
men whom he and Kalouga were endeavouring
to rescue. The latter had hardly reached the

o2

spot where the handful of policemen were trying
to defend Stubbins and Twister from the
onslaught of the lock-outs, and getting much
the worst of it, when a man on horseback came
at a sharp trot down the narrow street, and,
greeting Handle's groom, whom he seemed to
know, asked what was up.

The man was our old friend Jack Blezzard.
His riding equipment and his steed were equally
remarkable. He wore an old-fashioned, wear
drab coat, ornamented with enormous
brass buttons, a red-plush waistcoat,
corduroy trousers, fastened round his ankles
with twine, and a white hat a good deal the
worse for wear. Round his neck was twisted
a scarlet comforter, and in his right hand he
flourished a big iron-handled hunting cup. His
saddle was black with age, and, if his stirrups
had been a hundred years old, they could not
have been rustier. His horse was a great, long-bodied,
raw-boned, piebald, marked very like
a cow. Its face was black on one side, and
white on the other. It had a big Roman nose,
a ewe neck, and the merest apology for a tail.
Jack had got Geroff (Lancashire for giraffe)

from a travelling menagerie, shortly after the
poor beast had had the greater part of his tail
bitten off by a bear, in exchange for a dead
cart horse and a few loads of sawdust. Geroff
was certainly ' a rum 'un to look at but his
master protested, and with truth, that he was
a rare 'un to go.'

1 And is Mester Red Randle yon V asked
Blezzard, pointing to where the struggle was
going on.

1 He is,' answered the groom, 'and I am feared
he'll be getting some sore bones. There's too
many on 'em for him and Mr. Kalouga and
them twothry policemen to best, I'm thinking.'

Yo' are rest, there is. But it'll never do for
Mester Randle to be hurt. Some on us nun
help him.'

And then, rising in his stirrups, and waving
his old white hat round his head, Jack shouted
at the top of his voice, and it was not a weak
one :

'Come on, lads. Who'll feet for Red Lymington
? Who'll feet for Red Lymington, th'
best free as yo' han, lads ? Who'll feet for Red
Ry winston V

'Me, me, me,' cried a score of stalwart fellows.
' Where is he V

'Yon, among them policemen ; and if he is
not soon helped they'll be punching him to
death. Come on, lads, who'll feet for Red Lymington
V

4 1 will,' said the burly blacksmith who had
helped to carry Randle across the square on the
night of the masters' meeting ; and by way of
a beginning he knocked down a great hulking
fellow who was standing hard by, hands in
pocket, quietly looking on.

ager up and feet, thou gret lazy beggar.
Cannot thou,' exclaimed the blacksmith, as he
started to follow Jack Blezzard, who was already
pressing his piebald into the thick of the
crowd. When attempts were made to stop him
Jack had only to pinch Geroff behind the saddle,
whereupon the sagacious creature would
kick and plunge with a vigour that scattered
his assailants like foam before the wind.

When Robert Lymington and the others arrived
on the scene of action they had no need
to ask how things stood. Even if they had not
recognised Blezzard and Geroff the shouts of

1 Hurrah for Red Lymington,' mingled with cries
of ' Down with owt Stubbins,' would have been
sufficient to inform them. They followed quickly
in the train of Jack and his volunteers, and
had not much difficulty in reaching the neighbourhood
of the cab. where Randle and the
policemen were being hardly pressed by an
ever-increasing mob of belonged roughs, who
seemed determined, if possible, to ■ get at '
Twister and Stubbins. The latter were cowering
at the bottom of the vehicle to avoid the
stones and brickbats that were being showered
on it from every side.

Randle was well supported by Kalouga. The
Russian struck out straight from the shoulder
with a vigour which considerably astonished Bob,
who had been under the impression that none but
Englishmen knew how to use their fists. He
was very nimble, too, and more than once
caught the legs of the fellows who were trying
to kick him and threw them heels over head.
Both he and Randle were hatless, and Kalouga
had received a blow on the head from which
the blood was flowing freely. Slasher seemed
to be in his element ; he laid about him with

his stick like an Irishman at Donnybrook Fair.
Bob, albeit less powerfully built than his companion,
played a good second ; but next to Jack
Blezzard the hero of the day was unquestionably
John Gully. His salamander did terrible
execution. Though no longer red it was still
very hot, and a grinder in greasy garments and
iron clogs who tried to wrest it from him let it
go like lightning, and, clapping his fingers in
his mouth, howled dismally. A big coalheaver
stood in John's way and defied him to ' come
on.' John touched him lightly in the pit of the
stomach with the tip of his salamander and the
coalheaver collapsed.

As the tailor neared the field of battle he
found a single policeman hotly engaged with
two of the rioters, and getting decidedly the
worst of it. John, who like most of his craft
had some knowledge of practical anatomy, laid
his still warm weapon for an instant on one of
the fellow's trousers where they were most tightly
stretched, and rapidly operated in similar
fashion on the other, whereupon both, uttering
frightful imprecations, turned and fled.

c Revenge is sweet,' muttered John. 'Those

are two of the beggars that kicked me the
other Thursday. I marked them then, and by
the piper that played before Moses, I have
marked them now.'

The reinforcements brought up by Jack Buzzard
were not long in turning the tide of battle
; the terror caused by the tailor's salamander
and the prancing of the piebald steed completed
the discomfiture of the lads in clogs,
and the cab, the prize of victory, was led triumphantly
into the ' Rainbow ' yard.

Twister took the affair very coolly, but the
face of Stubbins expressed the extremity of
fear. He reeled like a drunken man, and his
eyes were probably further out of his head than
they had ever been before.

'That wor gradely weel done, that wor,' said
Twister. ' I thowt we wor going to get ewer
heads knocked off at one time, an' with mon,
we should ha' done, but for Mr. Lymington and
Blezzard here. We'll stan' glasses round for
this, willet we, Mr. Stubbins V

Stubbins, putting his hand in his breeches
pocket, gave an apoplectic sort of nod, intended
doubtless to signify acquiescence in his friend's

proposal, the greatest employer of labour in the
borough being still too much frightened to
speak.

There were many in the yard who had taken
no part in the rescue ; but it was impossible to
discriminate, and cheese and bread, and whatever
they liked to drink, were ordered for all
alike.

No, thank you,' said Blezzard, in reply to a
pressing invitation from Twister, ' I never sup
nowt, I'm a totally' (Jack objected to ' teetotaller
' as being a word of intolerable length).
'But I'll sell you summit if godlike. Turned
yo' want ony bobbins, or pickers, or shuttles, or
wheel grease, or a new cart, nor nowt o' that
short. Or I'll sell yo' a loss. I've two gradely
annum coats, rising five — they'll be worth a
mint o' money some day — an' a chestnut mare,
welly thoroughbred, as ud just do to run i'
your new phaeton, Mr. Twister. What dun yo'
say, now?'

Well, I think you do deserve a border,
Blezzard. You can send us one hundred gross o'
winders' bobbins, one hundred throstle, and a

twothry shuttles — let me see — thirty or forty
dozen.'

All right,' said Jack, entering the order in a
greasy pocket-book, which he took from the
crown of his hat. ' Ony losses V

6 No, I think not, to-day, Blezzard. But I
don't know — if you'd sell th' piebald, now, we
might happen trade. What's th' price on him V
asked Twister, with a good-humoured yet
somewhat sarcastic laugh.

A thousand sovereigns, but I'll take less fro 5
yo' than fro' anybody else ; you shall have him
for five hundred said Blezzard, with the utmost
gravity. 'He's a rare 'un, he is. There isn't
such another tit i' th' country side. He can
feet, mon. He get how o' one chap as wor
wrastlin' wi' a policeman by th' breeches behind
and lifted him clean off his legs. He's worth
ony brass, a boss like this is. What sayer yo'
now; will yo' trade?'

'But it would hardly be fair to salver'
(favour) 'me i' that fashion, Blezzard, would it?
Why would yo' take less fro' me than fro' ony-body
else?'

'Cause you'd match him so weel said Jack,
with a grin.

This sally elicited a roar of laughter, for
Twister was a long-limbed, ungainly man, the
reverse of fat, with a big head and a very
thin face, and almost as droll-looking as Buzzard's
piebald tit.

After Handle had expressed his thanks to
Blezzard for his timely help, and received the
acknowledgments of Stubbins and Twister for
the service he had rendered them, he accompanied
Kalouga to Gully's room in the * Rainbow
' to repair damages. They were not much
the worse. A basin of warm water, Gully's
needle, and a piece of sticking plaister for the
Russian's head quickly put them to rights.

Well, I must say,' observed Randle, * that
for a lover of the people, and a believer in the
virtues of the working classes, you laid about you
very vigorously just now, Kalouga. I wonder
how many you knocked down and tripped up f
What do you think of your protegees now V

I don't think any the worse of them,' returned
the Russian, philosophically, 'for what
they have done to-day. They were excited,

that is all ; and when people so far yield to
excitement as to become violent, they must be
opposed and, if necessary, restrained. And
they had cause for excitement ; they had been
unjustly treated. If their employers had not
locked them out there would have been none of
this trouble, for they would have been in the
factories, and not in the streets.'

That is true enough, and, as you know, I
am far from approving of the lock-out. Still, I
do not think it is fair to saddle the masters
with all the responsibility of these disturbances.
It just amounts to this : they have chosen to
close their mills for a while, after proper notice.
Surely that is within their strict right?'

1 Within their legal right, perhaps, but not
within their moral right. The community, of
which the workmen form a part, just as much
as the masters, protects the latter in the enjoyment
of the capital which the labour of others
has created for them. Hence capitalists are
doubly responsible — to the society which protects
them, and to the labourers who have
made them. If capitalists — I don't care whether
they are manufacturing capitalists or abandoning

capitalists — are under an obligation to
make a proper use of the possessions which
they enjoy solely by favour of their fellow-men,
private property loses its justification and social
revolution becomes a necessity. It appears tome
that this lock-out is a piece of grievous
oppression. Because these poor work-people of
Whitebrook use a part of their earnings in a
way their employers do not like they are deprived
of their right to labour and condemned
to death — or at any rate severe suffering — by
starvation. No worse act of tyranny was ever
perpetrated even by the despotic government
of Russia.'

The lock-out is a bad thing,' Handle answered,
'there can be no doubt about that. But,
so far as your remarks imply that the employed
have all the virtues and the employers all
the vices, I do not agree with you at all.
Neither do I think that the institution of private
property is anything but a good thing,
though like all good things it has its incidental
evils. If capital is created by labour it is saved
by the thrifty, and the more capital there is in a
country the better it is for the classes whom it

provides with remunerative work. The proof
of the pudding is in the eating. During the
last half century capital in this country has
increased enormously, and wages, except, perhaps,
in the agricultural districts, have risen
pari passu. Don't suppose, however, that I
think we have reached perfection ; there are
many and terrible evils in our social system ;
but the only cure for them is more light and
healthier public opinion. I don't hold, however,
that because a man has large possessions he
should lead an idle life ; and I hope the day
will come when a social ban will be placed upon
people who live on their rents and their dividends,
and do nothing but amuse themselves.
They don't think it, perhaps, but they are little
better than swindlers, and almost as dangerous.
There is my cousin Handle, now. I don't believe
he ever did an honest day's work in all
his life, and if '

1 Hullo ! Handle, my boy, glad to see you are
all alive. How do you do, Mr. Kalouga? I
hope you are not much hurt V

The speaker was Deep Randle, who having
heard that his cousin was badly hurt, and

Kalouga all but killed, had hurried over from
his headquarters at the ' Mitre ' to ascertain by
personal inquiry how far the story was true.
He was not very anxious on his namesake's
account, but he would have been very sorry
if the Russian had got knocked on the head
just then.

I hope this will not prevent you from going
on to Deepdene,' he observed, after a short conversation,
about the riot and the election.
Dora is expecting you, and I shall of course
join you at dinner.'

When they encountered the mob, Red Randle
and Kalouga were on their way to Deepdene.
the former to bring back his mother, who had
gone thither with Dora a few days previously,
the latter in fulfilment of his promise to make
a visit to the Park.

After a feeble protest that he was hardly ina
condition, with his plaistered head and
scratched nose, to present himself before ladies,
the Russian acquiesced in his host's proposal,
and he and Red Randle resumed the journey
which had been so rudely interrupted.

Before Deep Randle returned to the s Mitre,'

he asked his cousin for his vote and interest.

1 I cannot vote for you, Handle,' said the
other, kindly, for he thought if his uncle's son
could get into Parliament, and begin to take a
serious interest in politics, it might have a
favourable effect on his character. ' It would
be contrary to my principles. But I have no
great admiration for your opponent, and I promise
you one thing ; I will do no more than
vote for him, and I shall neither speak nor in
any way use my influence in his favour or
against you.'

This answer was very satisfactory to Deep
Handle. His cousin had considerable influence
in the borough, and was just then very popular,
and he had greatly feared that Red Lymington
would be among the Liberal candidate's most
active supporters.

Blezzard's services on this day, so remarkable
in the annals of Whitebrook, won him both
profit and renown. The order perceived from
Twister was followed by several others. He
opened a valuable connection with the firm of
which Mr. Stubbins was the head, and the
mention of his name in the papers brought

vol. ii. r

him business from many other quarters.
John Gully was less fortunate ; for albeit he
received great praise, which was very grateful
to him, he received something else, which has
embittered his life ever since. The week after
the fight, when he was hurrying, just as the
factories were ' loosing,' from the ' Rainbow Inn '
to Whitebrook station, a group of lads in clogs
and lasses in shawls saluted him, amid a chorus
of laughter, as 4 Salamander Jack.' The cry
was taken up by others, and it followed him all
the way to the booking-office door. A similar
unpleasant incident happened a few weeks
later. The nickname still sticks to him ; and
John finds it so very disagreeable that he is
seriously thinking of disposing of his White-brook
business to some brother snip who has
not earned unenviable fame by exchanging the
goose of peace for the salamander of war.

CHAPTER XVII.

TV3UB, thousand and fifty votes for Handle
■*■ Lymington, of Deepdene Park, gentleman ;
three thousand four hundred and ninety for
Jeremiah Hopps, of Whitebrook, brewer, was
the result of the poll, as announced by the mayor
at eleven o'clock p.m. on the day of the
election.

Many people were greatly surprised that
Deep Handle had won at all ; that he should
have won by so large a majority astonished all
Whitebrook, and nobody more than Mr. Cliviger
and himself.

1 I reckoned on a hundred or, at most, a hundred
and fifty,' the astute Thomas said. ; But
five hundred and sixty ! That beats cockpit



fighting. The Liberals are licked this go, and
no mistake. Regularly knocked oat of time, by
Jingo ! I don't think they'll come up to the
scratch at all the next time. At any rate, they'll
not run old Hopps, though he has a hundred
and fifty tied houses, and no end of tin.'

The times were critical, political feeling ran
high, and the election excited considerable
attention as well in Lancashire as in the country
at large. All the London papers made it the
subject of leading articles. The Trimmer observed
that, although it was a common error to overestimate
the importance of by-elections, yet the
result of the contest at Whitebrook was not
without its significance, and both of the great
political parties into which the nation was divided
might learn from it a useful lesson. It
might well serve as a caution to the Tories and a
warning to the Liberals, and it would be as unwise
for the former to regard it as a great victory
as for the latter to deplore it as a great
disaster, &c.

The Daily Light said that, albeit the Conservatives
would doubtless hail the election of Mr.
Lymington as an important success, as another

proof of the Conservative reaction of which they
were always pretending to discern the signs,
and as a presage of still more brilliant victories to
come, it could be regarded at the utmost as no
more than a drawn battle. Mr. Lymington had
triumphed less because he was a Tory than because
his opponent was a brewer. Whitebrook
was one of the soberest communities in the kingdom.
Many of the electors were teetotalers
first and Liberals afterwards. It was against
their conscience to vote for the producing of an
article which they looked upon as a thing accursed.
They voted for Mr. Lymington, in fact,
not because they loved him more, but because
they loved his opponent less. This was the
simple and natural explanation of an event
which seemed so much to surprise some of the
Daily Light's contemporaries, and the .Daily
Light had the utmost confidence that if the
Liberals of Whitebrook could fight the battle
over again with a better candidate, they would
retrieve their defeat and return him at the head
of the poll.

At a time when imperial interests were at
stake, and the fate of England was trembling in

the balance, the Daily Trumpet declined to discuss
the Whitebrook election from the paltry
standpoint of party politics. The mental horizon
of Mr. Hopps seemed to be limited to the narrow,
though glorious, island in which he lived. He
had never studied,, as he was constrained to
admit, the geography of Kamschatka or the
history of Timbuctoo. He was unaware — he
did not even seem to suspect — that the Emperor
of China, the King of Siam, and the Mikado of
Japan had entered into an unholy alliance for
the conquest of our priceless Empire of the East.
Mr. Lymington was a man of another mould.
He advocated a vigorous foreign policy. He
was resolved, so far as in him lay, to transmit to
our posterity, intact and undiminished, that
magnificent heritage which we had received from
a long line of heroic ancestors, and, come weal,
come woe, to retain in our hands those splendid
possessions into which Heaven had ordained
that we should carry the light of civilisation and
the blessings of the Gospel. The election of
Mr. Lymington by so splendid and unexampled
a majority showed that the great heart of Lancashire
was true to the best traditions of English

greatness, and that the teachings of the Daily
Trumpet had not been in vain.

Deep Randle read these effusions with great
delight. A week ago he had been a nobody —
save in his own estimation — and now he felt as
if all England had its eye upon him. As he satin
his room two or three days after the election,
a pile of papers, every one of which had made
him the subject of a leading article, on a chair
by his side, and a pile of letters addressed to
Randle Lymington, Esq., M.p,' on the table
before him, he saw himself in imagination the
husband of a lady of title and fortune, the
greatest man in the county — perhaps even a
baronet, possibly even a peer. The estate he looked
upon as already his. After those leading
articles, after the compliments he had received
from the papers of his party for having
wrested a seat from the Liberals, every Tory
drawing-room in London would be open to
him, and he might choose at his leisure a
bride with the necessary qualification, and
wealth and beauty in addition. He began to
look upon his father's will, which he had once
regarded as a misfortune, as a positive blessing

; for had it not caused him to stand for
AVhitebrook, an enterprise that, in ordinary
circumstances, he would never have had the
audacity to attempt, and placed greatness
within his reach ?

Yes,' thought Randle, as he toyed with his
letters (the contemplation of the magic capitals
appended to his name giving him unspeakable
pleasure), ' my father knew what he was about,
after all. He had a long head. If he could
only have foreseen that, within a twelvemonth
of his death, his son would be member for the
borough, and marry a ' lady he would have
died happy. The next thing is to find the
lady— the sooner the better, perhaps. There
is no telling what Dora may do. It won't do
to be too confident. I must not play the part
of the hare in the fable. Encourage Dora to
fall in love with this Russian fellow, and be
looking out myself at the same time — that is
my little game. By Jove ! what is this V

One of the letters was sealed with a coronet.
It seemed an answer to his thoughts.

6 Already !' he exclaimed, joyfully ; for he
was vain enough to imagine that the missive

might contain an invitation from some peer
desirous of making his acquaintance; and he
looked a second time to see if the letter was
really addressed to him.

Yes, there was no mistake on that point :
Handle Lymington, Esq., M.P., Whitebrook,
Lancashire.'

Then he opened the letter with great circumspection,
using for the purpose a paperknife,
and taking particular care not to damage
the seal. He meant to put the envelope
(coronet upwards) into the card-basket on the
drawing-room table, so that all the house, and
everybody who called, might know what a
great man he was becoming, and how high
and mighty were his friends. But no sooner
had he cast his eye over the letter than his
look of elation was exchanged for one of bitter
disappointment and disgust.

'Hang that!' was the new M.p's emphatic
comment, as he threw the coroneted envelope
into one corner of the room, and the letter into
the other.

After this outburst he fell into a reverie
which lasted several minutes. Its conclusion

was marked by a big thump on the table, and
an exclamation that seemed to denote some
important resolve.

<I will!' he muttered through his set teeth.
i It is a chance not to be missed. I'll risk it.'

Whereupon he picked up the letter which
had caused him so much perturbation of spirit,
and proceeded to write the reply it seemed
to demand. The task appeared to be no easy
one ; for, although the answer was short, the
agony of composition was long, and Handle
wrote and wrote his letter many times before
he got it entirely to his mind. The next thing
was to direct the missive, after which, with a
muttered, f I'll post this myself,' he placed the
mysterious epistle in his pocket.

Then he took up the coroneted envelope and
the letter which had been enclosed therein, and,
after a few minutes' painful hesitation, threw
both into the fire, on the principle, as he said
to himself, that burnt letters, like dead men,
tell no tales. This done, he rang the bell, and
ordered the servant who answered his summons
to tell Giles to bring Topsy round to the front
door.

Topsy was a fast-trotting hack, and in less
than half an hour Deep Handle was riding up
the steep, straggling, and sombre street by
which Whitebrook is entered from the north.
As he passed the post-office he dropped into
the box with his own hands the letter that
had cost him so much pains to write. Then
he went on to the warehouse of Messrs.
Thomas Cliviger and Co., where he found the
head of the firm standing at the door with
a straw in his mouth, examining with critical
eye several cartloads of yarn which were on
the point of departure.

'How's the M.P. for Whitebrook to-day V
he exclaimed, so soon as he caught sight of
Handle. 'Won't you come in for a moment?
One of these fellows will hold Topsy. Would
you like her put up? No? All right.
Here you, Roger, walk Mr. Lymington's mare
about. Take care you don't let her stand still
and get cold.'

This is my private office, No. 1 ,' said Tom
Cliviger, as he ushered his visitor into a large
and severely business-like room. The furniture
consisted of a few chairs and a plain writing

table, strewn with books of account and samples
of yarn. The walls were covered with diagrams
showing the fluctuations in the prices of cotton,
yarns, consols, and calicoes for twenty years
back. Over the mantelpiece hung a huge map
of the world, on which the great ocean steam
routes were marked in red lines, and the natural
productions and principal manufactures of every
civilised country indicated by an ingenious system
of hieroglyphics.

This is where I receive my customers and
clients. And this,' he continued, throwing open
a glass door, ' is my private office, No. 2. Here
I receive my particular friends, and now and
again a customer who is not too strait-laced to
enjoy a cigar and a glass of sherry.'

The second room was the very converse of
the first. The furniture and fittings of it were
almost luxurious. The walls were adorned
with pictures of race-horses, prize cattle, hunting
scenes, and of moving accidents by flood
and field. In place of the big map in No. 1 was
a portrait of the yarn agent himself, and his
horse, Jumping Jerry, as they appeared at a certain
steeplechase (owners up), in which Tom

had won the second prize, a silver cup, that
stood in the centre of the mantelpiece under a
glass shade.

1 Have a glass of wine, Ry winston V said
Cliviger, as soon as his friend was comfortably
seated in a cosy smoking chair, at the same time
pushing towards him a cigar box filled with
cabala kings.'

Deep Handle accepted the offer and helped
himself to a ' king,' and after a short conversation
about nothing in particular, he imparted
to his friend the purpose of his visit. It was to
inquire about the promissory note for £3,000
he had signed for Cliviger some six months previously,
which would shortly fall due.

1 Oh, the note,' said Tom, carelessly, as if it
were the merest trifle. ' You need not trouble
yourself about that. The bank will renew, and
glad to do it.'

But I want to know how much I have to pay,
and have a squaring up,' urged Handle, who,
though not a business man, would hardly have
been his father's son had he not possessed some
business instincts and a keen sense of the value
of money. 'How much has the election cost V

1 Too soon to tell yet. I have not got the
agent's statement, and the bills are not all in by
a long way.'

But you know how much you have paid sofar.
You can form an idea.'

Yes, I can form an idea,' returned Cliviger,
leaning back in his chair, and looking keenly at
the M.P. through the smoke of his cigar. ' There
won't be much left out of that bill, perhaps
nothing at all.'

Then 1 shall have it all to pay myself V said
Lymington, repressing with difficulty an almost
irrepressible desire to give the yarn agent a
piece of his mind.

4 That is about the size of it,' answered the
other, coolly. ' But, as I said just now, the
bank will renew, if it's any convenience.'

No. I think I would rather pay it,' rejoined
Handle, who, though paying in any circumstances
was no great pleasure to him, had a
strong feeling that it would be both infra dig.
and inexpedient for the newly-elected member
for Whitebrook to seem short of money. * But
£3,000 is a very heavy sum for expenses, isn't
it"? I never heard of any candidate spending

more than twelve or fourteen hundred at
previous elections.'

Of course you never heard. Do you think
candidates are so green as to publish in the
papers all that they spend ? Have you never
heard of the difference between official and actual
expenses ? There are some things a newly-elected
member should know nothing about,
and this is one of them. Leave it all to me, and
keep yourself as much in the dark as possible.
And even if your election has cost £3,000, what
of that ! Are there not hundreds who would
pay ten times as much to be able to write 'MJV
after their names ? And there are special reasons
in your case, you know. You may think what
you like, Lymington, but you are a lucky fellow.
Shut your eyes and be thankful, that is my advice.
As for this promissory note, if you would
really prefer to pay it, by all means do so. The
bank will be all the readier to do something of
the sort another time. You can give me a
cheque, and I will see to it.'

What is the use of troubling you, Tom ? I'll
call one of these days and take it up myself.'

As you like, Ry winston,' said the other, drily.

1 And when I have got all the accounts in, you
shall have a correct statement and the balance,
if there be any.'

1 may be going away for a few days next
week remarked Randle, as he rose to take
his leave ; ' perhaps you will kindly look after
the hounds for me a bit, and arrange the fixtures.'


Going away and hunting only just beginning.
But perhaps there is a "lady" in the
case. Have you heard of a suitable partie
already f

1 Not exactly, but it is possible I may hear of
one before long.'

4 All right,' said Tom, with a wink. ' I understand.
Yes, Fll look after the hounds for
you.'

Confound the fellow's impudence muttered
Randle, as he rode slowly homeward. * What
business has he to wink at me, I should like to
know? He is too familiar by half. And that
£3,000, I am almost sure it's a dead swindle.
But what can I do ? I am in his power, and
must just submit, dash him! — shut my eyes,
as he says ; but I'll be hanged if I am thankful

Yes, I understand,' repeated Tom Cliviger,
as he helped himself to a fourth glass of sherry
in his private office No. 2 ; ' and I understand
something else. He means to pay that bill
himself because he won't trust me with the
money. He thinks I might apply it to some
other purpose, and leave him in the lurch, as if
my name were not on the note as well as his,
the fool. He had better not begin to cut up
rough ; if he does, I'll deuced soon be even with
him. But never mind, I have made £1,500 out
of the transaction — not a bad profit on £3,C00
and got a good lift out of him into the bargain.'


And then Mr. Cliviger took a fifth glass of
sherry, and solaced himself with another cigar.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MRS. Lymington TALKS TO HER SON.

MRS. Lymington never had been a very
joyful woman. It was her nature, if not
her pleasure, to look at the dark side of things,
and meet trouble half way. But she was not
of the querulous sort that are constantly complaining,
and take a delight in confiding their
griefs to all who can be persuaded to listen
thereto ; and as her sons generally made light
of her anxieties, which in truth were often
either exaggerated or imaginary, she had fallen
into the habit of cherishing her sorrows in
secret. It was only on special occasions
that she imparted them even to Handle, who
understood her better than anyone else, and
who knew that under a somewhat cold

exterior, due rather to early training than to
natural bent, she concealed a shrewd understanding
and a tender heart.

One afternoon, a few weeks after the White-brook
election, Randle entered his mother's
room, where she sat alone busied with her
knitting. She had chosen the room because it
overlooked the factories. She liked to see the
hands pass to and from their work, to watch
the carts laden with cotton, coals, and
pieces, as they went and came. She was
never so content as when, after the mills
were lighted up on a winter evening and all
Alas quiet, she could sit in the darkness and
listen to the faint hum which told her that all
was well, that thousands of deft fingers were
earning good wages for their owners and an
honest profit (a favourite expression of hers)
for her sons. She liked, too, to know how the
markets were going, whether prices were good
or bad, and if the concern was solicitous to
keep up its ancient reputation for fair dealing
and good work.

albeit she was careful never to say so, Mrs.
Lymington had a particular pride in her eldest

Q2

son — in his scientific acquirements, business
aptitude, and, above all, in the esteem in which
he was held by all who knew him.

'I am glad you have come, Handle,' she
said, as he opened the door, for though it was
twilight, and she could not distinguish his
features, she had recognised his footstep on the
stairs. ' I wanted to talk to you.'

About anything particular, mother V

4 Yes, it is something I have had on my mind
for some time, but I did not like mentioning it
before. I feared you might think I was making
myself uneasy and troubling you without
cause. How much longer is Mr. Kalouga going
to stay?'

Oh, Kalouga is the trouble, is he?' answered
Handle, in a tone of banter. ' Why, I
thought you rather liked him. What has he
done amiss V

I am sorry for him, but I don't like him to
be making such a long stay. He came for a
visit of a few days, and he has now been here
two months !'

You forget, mother ; he is at Deepdene.'

'That makes it all the worse. If he had

stayed with us, and helped you in the laboratory,
as he did at first, I should not have
minded, but he spends more than half his time
at the Park hunting and shooting.'

'And no wonder, seeing how much they
make of him. My cousin has taken to Kalouga
as he never took to anybody before. He won't
let him come here for a day, if he can help it.'

'Of course he won't. Cannot you guess
why?'

I You surely don't think '

'I think, nay, I am sure, that your cousin
Randle is trying to make a match between
this Russian and Dora. If you had not been
so wrapped up in your business and your
experiments you would have seen it long since
yourself.'

4 Well, that is a new light, mother, and no
mistake. I daresay you are right, though.
Women have sharper eyes for these things
than men. Yes, it would suit Raudle's purpose
very well. But Dora. I don't think
Dora cares about Kalouga, do you V

I I am not sure. I am rather afraid she
does. In any case, Randle, you ought to take

some steps. You were the means of bringing
Kalouga here, remember, and we know nothing
about him except what he has told us himself.'

4 That is true, mother,' said Handle ; ' but
I think Kalouga is a decent fellow for all that.'

4 1 hope so. But he has been in prison, and
it is always against a man to have been in
prison. I daresay the Russian government
would give a very different account of him
from what he gave us. Be that as it may,
I should be very sorry for Dora to marry him,
on several grounds.'

So should I. As I have said, I think Kalou-
ga is a man of honour ; still we know nothing
of his antecedents except what he has told
us himself; of his means we know even less,
and his prospects do not seem to be particularly
brilliant. It would be an imprudent marriage,
to say the least, and, what I should particularly
regret, Dora would lose every vestige of interest
in her father's estate. For you may depend
upon it that, now Handle is in Parliament, he
will not be long in finding the sort of wife he
wants.'

And there is another reason that weighs

with me more than any other,' said Mrs.
Ry winston, in a tone of great earnestness. ' I
don't like to say it, but I very much fear Mr.
Kalouga is an infidel. He has only been twice
with us to church, and I noticed that he
yawned several times during the sermon. Yet
I am sure they were excellent discourses. Mr.
Owlett knows the truth, and proclaims it with
no uncertain voice. And did not Mr. Kalouga
say something about those Nihilists who died
in prison, or w T ere executed, being at rest ?
How does he know they are at rest ! I do
not think, from what he said, that they were
converted persons. If you could get a lord for
her,' continued the old lady, after a pause, of
which her son did not avail himself to offer any
observation, ' a nice, steady young man, of
proper principles — that would be the best.'

That is very easily said, mother, but how
would you go about it?' Handle, though inwardly
much amused, remarked, with becoming
gravity.

I think it might be done,' replied Mrs.
Lymington, in a tone which implied that she
had thought the matter well over. ' Mr. Pleasington

has agents in London ; I once heard
your father say they were a well-connected
firm. Now, why could not they be asked to
look out for a suitable person — if it were made
worth their while, I mean. I am sure there
is many a nobleman's son who would be glad
to marry Dora, if they only knew.'

And her money,' put in Randle, with a
laugh. 'Unquestionably. But how about
Dora? Suppose she refuses to have anything
to do with your nice young nobleman
of correct principles V

That is a difficulty — the chief difficulty, one
might say; for Dora is very wilful. Still I
think it might be got over. I would not introduce
the young man in his true character all
at once. For instance, if his name was Lord,
Lord '

'Lord Tom Noddy,' suggested Handle.

'Lord Tom Noddy!' said Mrs. Lymington,
pensively. ' It seems to me that I have heard
that name before — or seen it in a book. But
never mind that. Well, in that case I would
introduce him to Dora as Mr. Thomas Noddy.
We might have him here for a few days; or

mr. Pleasington would perhaps invite him —
he has a very nice house — and not tell her
he was a lord until she began to take an
interest in the young man.'

'How if she did not take an interest in him,
mother?'

1 1 hope she would take an interest in him. In
any case, we should have the satisfaction of
knowing that we had done our best and left no
stone unturned. And if nothing came of it no
harm would be done.'

'It might be a terrible disappointment for
the nice young nobleman, though.'

That would not matter much. Men are not
affected by disappointments as women are. And
if he failed to please her he would have nobody
to blame but himself, you know.'

Well, mother,' said Handle, with perfect
seriousness, ' I think I must mention your
scheme to Mr. Pleasington, and see if he is
willing to play the part in it you assign to him.
But the first thing is to see Dora, and find out
if she is at all spoons on Kalouga: Whether or
not he is on her does not matter, I suppose. If
I appeal to her in the double character of cousin

and guardian, I think that she will tell me:

I am sure she will. I never knew a more open

girl ; and she always was fond of you, Handle.

Oh, if it might only have pleased the Lord '

8 Never mind that, mother,' interposed her
son. ' I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll ride over
to the Park tomorrow afternoon. My cousin
andKalouga are going on a shooting excursion,
Robert tells me, and I daresay I shall find Dora
alone, or, what amounts to the same thing,
there will be nobody with her but her aunt
Ford.'

CHAPTER XIX.

MUTUAL CONFIDENCES.

TT7HEN Handle rode up the avenue at Deeps
dene on his visit to Dora, the day was
far spent. A keen frost had hardened the roads
and rarified the air, and trees and hills were
sharply defined in the ruddy light of the setting
sun. Handle was musing on the singular chance
that had brought him into so close relations
with Kalouga, and asking himself what might
be the issue of their acquaintance — how his
cousin would answer the question he had come
to ask her, and how he should put it to her,
when, at a turn in the road, he caught sight of
the object of his thoughts a few yards in
advance of him.

A minute afterwards he was by her side.

As she turned to greet him he thought he
had never seen Dora looking so well. The
sadness of her attire, for she still wore mourning,
was in striking contrast with the brightness
of her face, and it seemed to Randle that there
was a light in her eye he had never seen there
before.

This is indeed a pleasure she exclaimed, ashe
slid from his horse and offered her his arm.
f It seems an age since I saw you. I was beginning
to fear you were forgetting me, and
that, you know, would be a double dereliction of
duty — for are you not my guardian, and am I
not your ward V

'I was never in less danger of forgetting you
than now, my dear Dora, though it is more thana
fortnight since we met ; and my presence here
this afternoon is proof that I am not derelict to
my duty as one of your guardians

Oh, then, you have come to see me about
business. What is it, Ran?'

'Well, if it is not exactly business, it is
something that concerns you very nearly. But
where is all the world V

If you mean my brother and Ser — Mr.

Kalouga— all our world has gone a-shooting,
and won't be back for an hour or more.'

'God bless me,' thought Handle, 'she nearly
called him Sergius ; that does not bode well for
my mission, I'm afraid.'

'What is it, Ran,' said Dora, after pausing fora
reply, ' this something that so nearly concerns
me?'

Well, I think the best way of entering on
the subject is to ask you a question.'

As my guardian V

'No, Dora; I would rather not put it in that
light. I would rather ask it as your cousin
who, when you were a wee baby, and he was a
small boy, dandled you on his knee ; who
romped with you when you were a little girl;
who has always loved you as a brother, and
who promised your father on his death-bed to
cherish you as a sister.'

Dora placed her hand in his, as she used todo
when they were children together.

■ Dear brother Ran,' she said, ' ask, and I will
answer.'

How do you like Sergius Kalouga V

Is there any reason why I should not like

him, Ran?' answered the girl, softly, with
drooping eyes, while a blush, bright as the
setting sun, overspread face and neck.

I know no reason why you should not like
him — I like him myself; but there are good
reasons why you should not — it is best to speak
plainly — why you should not love him.'

Here Handle paused, but as his cousin made
no sign he continued :

He is a foreigner and a stranger ; that alone
is sufficient reason why. As I have said, I like
Kalouga. I like him very well. I believe he
is a man of honour — a gentleman, in fact. But
I am not infallible — I may easily be mistaken.
All we know of his antecedents is of his own
telling, recollect ; and, although I have faith in
the man, I should not consider it right to acton
that assumption in any important matter
to accept him as a partner, for instance —
without some independent testimony to his
good faith

Is that all, Ran V said Dora, quietly.

'Not by a great deal,' returned Randle, who,
albeit he felt he was labouring in vain, considered
it bis duty to say all he had come to

say. 'Kalouga is an exile, a man without a
home, and married life without a home seems
something like a contradiction of terms. And
I am not quite sure that, even if he were
allowed to return to Russia, it would be
any better (I mean for his wife, if he should
marry some English girl). You know what
wild ideas he has about politics and that. He
would be mixing himself up with those secret
societies again, and either get sent to Siberia
or worse. In any case, Dora, I don't think
you would like to become a Russian, and pass
all your life away from England and the friends
who love you. I cannot tell you how much it
would grieve me, Dora, and I know my mother
would be very sorry. Still that is nothing ; at
least not very much. Your happiness is my
chief concern.'

Dear Randle,' she exclaimed, ' how good
you are ! I know your only object is my
happiness, and I take all that you have said in
good part. But it is too late. Sergius and I
are engaged.'

So soon,' said her cousin, in a hurt voice ;
and neither of you thought fit to tell me?'

1 Oh, don't speak in that way, Ran. It was
only last night, and, if Sergius had not promised
to go with my brother to-day, you would
have been informed this very morning. He is
going to see yon tomorrow. We both wanted
you to know before anybody else.'

6 1 am afraid it has been a very hasty affair
returned Handle, regretfully. 'I did not
think Kalouga would have taken advantage
'

'Do not blame Sergius, please,' interposed
Dora, with some feeling ; ' if he is to blame, so
am I. Let me tell you all about it. Perhaps it
will come better from me than from Sergius ;
for I want you not only to sanction our engagement,
both as cousin and guardian, but to help
us with the others, who, I daresay, will consider
me very foolish. You must not blame Sergius.
fie won my heart without intending it, as
Othello won the heart of Desdemona — by telling
his story. Oh, how I pitied him ! and pity,
you know, is akin to love. And then he told
me afterwards many more things about his
home and his early life ; and he is so good and
so brave, so considerate for others and so selt-

sacrificing, that I — we are speaking as brother
and sister, you know, Ran — that I could not
help liking him. But I did not know that I
loved him, or suspect that he was necessary to
my happiness, until yesterday. I felt pleasure
in his company, and thought a great deal about
him in his absence — that was all. It came upon
me like a flash. I was in the conservatory cutting
some flowers, when Mr. Kalouga came in,
looking very serious and resolute. I had never
seen him in such a mood before. He had come
to tell me, he said, that he would have to leave
Deepdene early on Thursday morning ; and, ashe
might not see me alone to-day, he wanted
to take that opportunity of saying how grateful
he was for all my kindness and hospitality, and
how he should never forget the sympathy I
had always expressed for the martyrs and heroes
of Russian liberty.

1 Oh, Ran, I cannot tell you how I felt when
I heard him say that. It seemed as if the light
of the sun had suddenly gone out. I knew
then for the first time that I loved him ; but I
did not know that he loved me.'

" But you will come back," I said, " you
VOL. II. R

are only going to Redscar. We shall meet
again."

'"No, Miss Lymington, I must go away. I
must leave Whitebrook, never, I fear, to
return."

e I went on cutting my flowers. I feared to
look at him, and I dared not trust myself to
speak.

" You will not think ill of me, Miss Lymington,"
he continued; and his voice, which a
moment before had seemed hard and unfeeling,
was now soft and low.

< « Oh, why should I think ill of you?" I exclaimed.


'■" It is a saying we have in Russia when weare
parting with a friend, and I thought perhaps
"

And then he paused, as if unable to go on.
1 gave a fleeting glance at his face — our eyes
met, and I saw that his were filled with tears.

" But why must you go away, Mr. Kalouga ?"
J asked.

4 " Because I have indulged in a hopeless love,
Miss Lymington."

That was his answer ; and then, Ran, I cannot

tell you what happened. My head was ina
whirl. I suppose I must have said something.
I only know that I found my hands in his, and
and he discovered that his love was not hopeless,
and — I felt very happy, Ran. Then he
told me how my likeness to his sister Zeneide
had made him love me almost from the first ;
how, though he had struggled against it, his
love had deepened, how at last he had resolved
to tear himself away, for he did not think, he
said, that I could love, or that any of my
friends would allow me to marry a poor exile
like him. You may fancy what I said. I told
him I knew differently. I told him I was sure
you would be a friend ; as for the others, I do
not suppose they will make any difficulty, and,
if they do, I shall soon be my own mistress,
you know. Sergius wanted to tell my brother
last night. Oh, he is the soul of honour, Ran,
and so thoughtful. But I would not let him.
I wanted you to know first, dear old Ran.'

4 You may count on your brother's consent
with the utmost confidence observed Randle,
drily.

I know what you mean. He will get all the

restate.

Let him ; I don't want it, Ran. I have
got something better, the love of a good man.
And I shall have some fortune, you know ; and
Sergius has an estate, I think, and he has his
profession. Oh ! we shall do very well, Ran ;
but he will talk to you about all that. And as
for what you were saying just now, Sergius
said you would of course want to know something
more about him, and that yon could write
to the Russian ambassador at London, who
would give every information. And he is not
going back to Russia. He has given his word
we — he shall live in England. Now, Ran,
are you satisfied now V

And the girl looked up to her cousin with a
face so bright, so smiling, so full of eagerness
and happiness, that none but the veriest churl
could have helped smiling in return, andRandle,
not being a churl, did smile in return.
You approve, Ran ; I knew you would.'
1 suppose I must. Even if I did not, it
would come to the same thing in the end ; for,
as you say, you will soon be your own mistress
and able to dispose of yourself as you list.
And I freely admit that what you tell me removes

some of the objections I suggested just
now. It is rather droll, though, is it not,
for a Nihilist to name the Ambassador of Russia
as one of his references.'

• Sergius is not a Nihilist, Ran ; you know he
is not. He is only a Revolutionist said Dora,
with as much warmth as if she were resenting
a personal imputation.

'A Revolutionist, then, if you insist on the
distinction,' returned Randle, with an amused
smile at his cousin's impetuosity. * There is
one thing more I have to say, and after what
has passed I am not sure that I ought to say it.
Yet if I do not, somebody else may, and you
had better be prepared. Just before 1 left
home my mother was saying — you know what
importance she attaches to religion — that she
feared Kalouga was an infidel.'

4 That's because he does not like Mr. Owlett's
sermons, I suppose. I am an infidel., too, then
for I do not like them ; and 1 do not think you
do, either, Ran.'

My mother is mistaken, Dora,' Randle went
on ; ' Kalouga is not an infidel. He is a man of
intensely religious character, nevertheless he is
not a Christian

But, Randle, how can that be — religious, yet
not a Christian.'

1 mean that a man who has done the things
he has — sacrificed himself for others, and suffered
martyrdom for a cause from which he cannot
possibly reap any personal benefit — must
have a faith in the invisible — something that
cannot be seen, handled, or proven — whether
he admits it or not. But he professes not to
believe in the immortality of the soul, which is
the beginning and the end of revealed religion.
I am not blaming him, mind ; people are little
more responsible for their beliefs than for their
existence. If I had been exposed to similar
influences, I daresay I should have had similar
views. Perhaps you will say it is no business
of mine what Kalouga thinks ; but it was I who
brought him here, you know, and it would not
be right to keep anything back from you. My
sole motive in what I have said is your happiness,
dear Dora.'

'You are very kind, Ran, and I am truly sorry
Sergius is not a believer. But don't you
think that is a good reason why — why V

Why he should have a wife who is a believer,'

said Handle, completing the sentence.
1 Well, perhaps you are right, Dora. And Kale
is not a stiff-necked unbeliever. I never
met a man with a mind more open to conviction.
Who knows that you may not bring him
to a better way of thinking ? But you should
think what you will say when people ask why
he does not go to church.'

'He will go to church with me,' returned the
girl, with great decision, 'and that will stop their
mouths. Besides, people say such absurd
things. It has been said that you are a freethinker,
Ran.'

1 And so I am, if thinking for himself and not
caring for parson-made creeds makes a man a
free-thinker. But I am a believer in the Old
Book for all that, Dora. I don't go to it for
history or science, and I no more believe in
the verbal infallibility of it than I believe in
the infallibility of the Pope. The bible is
like crude ore which, amid a mass of foreign
matter, contains true gold. To those who have
faith and are willing to learn it reveals the Divine
will. That is all I want. It lightens my
footsteps through the world, helps me to do

my duty, and makes life worth living. I do
believe that if a man reads the Book and strives,
however much he may stumble and fall, to follow
its teachings, and listens to the higher
voice within him, he will be both happier and
better. I should fall into black despair if I
thought this world was all— if I could not, as
Tennyson says, look forward to

Some far-off divine event
To which the whole creation moves.'

I don't know why I am talking to you in this
strain, Dora. It must be that we are both in a
mood for mutual confidences. I am not sure
that I ever told anybody as much of my opinions
on religion before. I never told my mother,
and she guesses rather than knows that I
do not think as she thinks, and as she brought
me up to think. I daresay, though, if the truth
were known, she believes that I shall come
round to her views in the end, and prays that I
may. You are right in supposing that I don't
much care for old Owlett's sermons — to say the
truth, there are few sermons I do care for. But
it would pain her if I did not go with her to
church, and so I go. Dear old mother, she is

as good as gold in spite of her old-fashioned
ways. And now, I think, we have about finished
our talk. I do most sincerely hope you
will be happy in your love. I would rather you
had chosen an Englishman ; but unless I am
greatly mistaken Kalouga is a true man, and
will make you a good husband. May God
bless you both !'

And he bent down and gave Dora a brotherly
kiss.

Thank you, Ran, so much. Sergius will
thank you, too. He feared so much you would
be against it. Oh ! Ran,' continued the girl,
looking up to him with swimming eyes, ' I wish
you could be happy too. Tell me, now, tell me
truly, don't you love Lady Muriel V

i I might have done, perhaps,' said Randle,
dreamily, * if circumstances had been more favourable.
But it is better as it is — better not
to think of it — the distance between us is too
great.'

Nonsense !' exclaimed Dora, stamping her
foot impatiently on the ground. ' There is
some great mistake. I am sure there is. The
Lindisfarness could never intend to treat you so

cruelly. At any rate, they are human. Let
me write to Lady Muriel. She would not take
it amiss from me, I am sure. 1 will not compromise
you in the least — do let me

Never, Dora. I forbid you to do anything
of the sort replied Randle, almost sternly. ' It
is better as it is, I tell you.'

And then, after saying that he should be glad
to see Kalouga at Redscar in the morning, and
giving Dora another cousinly kiss, he mounted
his horse and rode away.

That same night, before Randle sought his
couch, he took the withered bunch of forget-me-nots,
given to him by Lady Muriel, from the
drawer in which he had so long ago laid them.

Shall I throw them away V he asked himself.
' They are but the shadow of a dream,
and only serve to keep alive a painful memory

But after a few moments' hesitation he restored
the poor flowers to their place, muttering
as he did so, ' What a fool I am ! Why cannot
I forget her V

CHAPTER XX.

A HARD CASE.

ALL seemed to be going well with Deep Randle,
or Mr Lymington, as he now expected
to be called, and generally was called. He had
been member for Whitebrook nearly four months,
and he liked the honour and consideration the
position brought him exceedingly. He had
even dined at Stalmine Hall, for, although Sir
Godfrey Stalmine still looked on the retired
manufacturer's son as a good deal beneath him,
the squire of Deepdene had dished the White-brook
Whigs, and the old Tory baronet would
probably not have hesitated to invite our ghostly
foe himself to dinner, if his satanic majesty
had wrested an equally important seat from the
hated Liberals.

Another source of satisfaction was the approaching
marriage of Dora with ' that Russian
fellow,' as Mr. Lymington occasionally described
his future brother-in-law. His cousin had behaved
very well in the affair, he told Tom Cliviger.
Old Pleasington, and Yardley, and Mrs. Lymington
were a good deal against the match at
first, but Red Randle had brought them all
round, and the engagement had received the
approval of the trustees and of every member of
the two families.

Red Randle had written about Kalouga to
Count Dimity Dragamanoffsky, one of the
attaches of the Russian embassy at London
(Dora was mistaken in supposing that her lover
intended to name the ambassador himself as his
reference), and received a reply in every way
satisfactory. Sergius Kalouga, the Count said,
was a man of honour, and belonged to an honourable
family. As to the value of hia property,
the Count, not having been lately in Russia, was
unable to give precise information, but on this
point, as on all others that concerned him, Sergius
Kalouga's representations might be implicitly
trusted. The only thing he knew

against Begins Kalouga was his revolutionary
opinions ; but as he was now an exile, and had
given his word not to meddle with politics
during the Czar's pleasure, and as the Count understood
that Mr. Ranclle Lymington was fully
acquainted with Sergius Kalouga's Socialistic
sentiments, the Count did not deem it his duty
to make any further reference thereto ; and he
begged his correspondent to accept the assurance
of his distinguished consideration.

When Handle, on Dora's behalf, mentioned
the engagement to his co-trustees, they received
the news with decided disfavour. Mr.
Pleasington seemed greatly annoyed. He said
that, if Miss Lymington was resolved not to
marry an English nobleman, she might at least
marry an English gentleman ; and he declared,
with an old-fashioned oath, that nothing should
ever induce him to consent to her marriage with
a beggarly foreigner.

1 Themes exactly my sentiments also,' said
Yardley, who thereupon asked Randle if it was
not the habit of Russian gentlemen to clout
(he meant knout) their wives every Saturday
night, and received his assurance to the

contrary with a smile of complete incredulity.

But when Randle pointed out to his friends
that, seeing Dora would so soon be of age, it
made very little difference to her whether they
gave their consent or not, and produced the
attache's letter, they saw the matter in quite
another light. The letter, written on a big
sheet of foolscap, bearing the Russian Imperial
eagle at the top and the Count's wonderful signature
at the bottom, made a great impression.

I regard this as a highly satisfactory communication,'
observed the lawyer, as he handed
the letter to Yardley. 'Mr. Kalouga is evidently
a gentleman, although he is a foreigner.'

He nun ' must) i be a mon of importance,'
said Yardley, as he vainly tried to spell the
Count's signature. ' What do you call him?'

'Sergius — Mr. Sergius Kalouga,' answered
Mr. Pleasington, rather surprised at the question.


s I don't mean him. I mean this t'other.
Timothy Dragomonoffisdonky, I read it.'

It is nearly as bad. Count Dimity Drags
is the gentleman's name.'

'Bi' th' mon, it is war,' said Yardley, with a

laugh. * I don't wonder at their being Nihilists,
or owt else, in a country where they have such
names as that.'

As touching money, Randle informed his co-trustees
that Kalouga not only desired, but insisted,
that every shilling of Dora's fortune,
present and to come, should be strictly tied
up and settled on her for her own separate
use.

Legal business is always satisfactory to lawyers,
though not always to their clients, and
the prospect of drawing Dora's marriage settlements
restored to Mr. Pleasington all his wonted
good humour. He expressed the opinion, moreover,
that everything considered, Dora might
perhaps do worse, especially as Randle was able
to assure him that Kalouga, though not a rich
man, had a fair estate.

It would have been more, the latter said, if he
had not spent so much money in ' the cause,'
and a great deal less, probably, if his long imprisonment
and subsequent exile had not constrained
him to an involuntary economy.

As Kalouga could not go back to Russia, and
did not want to go anywhere else, it was

arranged that he and Dora should live at
Redscar Hall, where Dora was born. So everything
was settled to everybody's satisfaction,
not excepting Mrs. Lymington, who, on receiving
her niece's assurance that Sergius had
agreed to attend with her regularly the means
of grace, gave Dora a kiss and expressed a
hope that their union might be blessed.

All was going so well with Deep Handle,
indeed, that he began to think nothing would
ever go wrong with him ; and he had cause for
further contentment in the fact that he had
lately made an acquaintance which he believed
would eventually lead to the full consummation
of his hopes. True, he had not yet ventured
to ' pop the question ;' but in less than a week
Parliament would meet, his sojourn in London
could not fail to give him opportunities for the
prosecution of his suit which he at present lacked,
and he made no doubt that, before the end of
the session, he should be the husband of a
'lady' and the sole owner of Deepdene.

Thus ran Mr. Lymington's waking dream ashe
lay in bed one morning a month or two
before the time fixed for his sister's marriage.

Yet though his prospects were so bright, and
his thoughts so pleasant, Deep Randle was ill
at ease. His head ached, and he was suffering
from that moral and physical nausea with
which Nature punishes over-indulgence at the
table. The evening before he had dined at
Tom Cliviger's with a party of bachelors, composed
chiefly of his political supporters. There
had been heavy drinking, as there generally
was at the yarn agent's parties ; the new M.P.,
as he generally did., had taken ' kindly to his
liquor,' and, the counting of his unhatched
chickens and his reflections anent his matrimonial
schemes, were interspersed with mental,
and sometimes audible, cursing of his host for
having pressed him to drink, and his own folly
for having yielded to his host's seductions.

At length, daylight having appeared, Mr.
Lymington rang his bell and ordered his man
to bring a brandy and soda. It would 'pull
him together,' he thought. The dose having
had the desired effect, he asked for tea and the
papers.

But he was in an essentially bad humour, and
if the editor of the sheet he first glanced at

VOL. II. S

could have heard his comments thereon, he
would not have felt particularly flattered.

" The duty of members of the House of
Commons in the approaching parliamentary
session," he muttered. ' What conceited
beggars these newspaper writers are ! Why,
this fellow talks as if he were wiser than
Queen, Lords, and Commons all put together!
"We, we, we!" Confound him and his week.
I should like to shove his wretched paper down
his miserable throat. And even his news is
worth nothing. " Another child murder. - " Who
cares about children being murdered ? Let 'em
be murdered. " Murderous outrage in Ireland."
That is no news. It would be news worth
telling, now, if there had been no outrage.
Sir Hooker Poker, M.P., and Mr. Merrygo-
round, M.P., on the state of the country."
Stupid fools ! what do they know about the
state of the country? And a nice lot of rot
they seem to have been talking too. But they
will never be M.p's again — at least not for the
county — sure to get turned out at the next
election, Sharp says. Gad, I never saw a

paper with less news in all my life, and the
little there is, is the merest fribble. Hallo,
what's this !' And Deep Randle jumped out
of bed as suddenly as if a small earthquake had
propelled him therefrom, and, dancing wildly
round the room, uttered imprecations both loud
and deep. Then he looked at the newspaper a
second time, and after convincing himself that
there was really no mistake about it — that it
was only too true — he took another sip of
brandy — this time to steady his nerves — and
proceeded as fast as possible to dress himself.

The news in this needless journal which had
thrown Mr. Lymington into so violent agitation
was an announcement that the Prime Minister
had decided, for reasons best known to himself,
on an immediate dissolution of Parliament.
The writs were to be out in a few days, and
the elections would probably begin the following
week.

It was certainly rather rough on Deep Randle
to be so summarily deprived of an honour
he had enjoyed so short a time and bought at
so high a price— to be turned out of Parliament

s2

before he had seen the inside of the House of
Commons. There were other considerations,
too, which caused him serious disquiet, and he
reached Mr. Cliviger's office boiling over with
rage and sick with disappointment.

The yarn agent calmed his excitement by
telling him that there would be no contest; that
he might count with the fullest confidence on a
walk over.

'The Liberals won't fight,' he said. 'We
gave them such a drubbing the other day that
they won't toe the scratch again in a hurry.
I'll lay three to one they don't. Besides, they
haven't a man worth a straw. They'll have
nothing more to do with old Hopps ; they've
had enough of him already. There's nobody
else in the borough that'll stand, whom they
could run with any hope of success ; and as fora
stranger, why, if an angel from heaven were to
offer himself, and he was not a ratepayer, White-brook
wouldn't have him. Keep up your pecker '
(slapping Mr. Lymington on the back, to that
gentleman's great disgust). ; It's only a bit more
speech-making — the old address will do — and
canvassing, and Richard will be himself again.'

How much V asked the ex-M.P., whose
spirits this harangue did not seem much to
raise.

Oh, a mere trifle. Five hundred ought to doit
this time, I think.'

4 That will make my seat have cost me exactly
at the rate of £1,000 a month for the time I have
held it groaned the late member. ' You may
say what you like, Tom, I call it a dashed hard
case.'

In the after-part of the same day a hastily
convened meeting of the leading Liberals of the
town was held at the 'Rainbow,' to consider
whether or not they should attempt to win back
the seat they had so lately lost. Though they
were not so downcast as Cliviger supposed,
there was no question of running two candidates.
But there was a strong feeling that, with a
really good man, they had a very fair chance of
returning one. A name was mentioned which
met with general approval. But could the
owner of the name be prevailed on to stand?
That was the question. The doubt could only
be solved, as Twister put it, by 'axing,' and a
deputation was named to wait forthwith on this

really good man and ask him — if necessary
entreat him — to step into the breach and lead the
Liberal forlorn hope.

CHAPTER XXI.

RED RYV1NGT0N IS ' AXED.'

Tied RYVTNGTON was in his private office
discussing with his head mechanic, Jim
Filings, the details of a scheme he had determined
to put into immediate operation for warming
by steam a row of cottages, situated near
the factory, and by enabling their occupants to
dispense, wholly or partly, with fires, effect an
important economy in their consumption of coal.
Pipes, connected with one of the boilers, were
to be laid in the dwellings in question, and arranged
in such fashion that they would not only
efficiently heat them, but boil water and perform
all ordinary cooking operations — do everything
culinary, in fact, save brown meat and toast
bread. If the plan proved a success, Handle

meant to apply it to all the cottages owned by
the concern.

1 I'm nobbut feared as some on 'em will be
blowing themselves up,' observed Jim Filings,
after he had received his master's instructions ;
they're terrible godless ' (stupid) ' about pipes
and valves and cocks, and such like, some folks
is — specially women.'

4 Nonsense, Jim ! How can they blow themselves
up? The apparatus w T ill be almost self-acting,
and safer than either gas or the closed
kitchen boilers which so often burst in frosty
weather.'

It will be a great boon to your workpeople,'
said Kalonga, who was present, and took much
interest in the scheme, 'and no great cost to
you.'

No, it will not involve any great outlay, and
I do not think it will run away with very much
steam — that, however, remains to be seen. But
you are mistaken if you suppose I mean to make
the tenants a present of all this, for I intend to
make an addition to the rent of the cottages,
sufficient to give us a fair interest on our outlay
and cover the cost of steam. Don't you see that

it is to the advantage of the hands themselves
that we should do so V

'Not exactly. It seems to me that you are
going to deprive the boon of much of its value.'

Not at all. I don't look upon it as a boon,
if by that you mean a gift. People prize a
thing all the more if they pay for it, and I want
to encourage others to adopt the same system
if it answers — by making a commercial success
of it. Philanthropy is a very fine motive, but a
safe five per cent, tells more with common folks;
and we must take the world as we find it, Mr.
Kalouga. As for the hands, unless I am greatly
out in my calculations, the balance of advantage
will be very much in their favour. Even supposing
the steam and interest on outlay cost
them as much as coal would cost them — and I
am sure they will not — they will be gainers.
Have you ever thought of the trouble and misery
of kindling a kitchen fire (and the kitchen
is where work people live, remember) on a cold
winter's morning? Even at the best it takes a
good hour to get the place well warmed ; and
if a woman wants to prepare a cup of coffee fora
husband who has to be at his work at six

o'clock, she must be down at five at the latest.
But with the plan I propose the house will be
warm night and day ; and in five minutes after
going downstairs a housewife may have the
family breakfast on the table. It will lighten
the labour of a working-class household by one-half,
and make home pleasant for all. 1 have
more faith in schemes of this sort for rendering
life easier for the multitude than in most social
and political remedies of the heroic sort — though,
so far as sweeping abuses away, you will find
few more ardent reformers than I am. That reminds
me of the election. You have been to
Whitebrook this afternoon, Kalouga. Did you
hear what they are going to do there ? Is my
cousin going to stand again ? I can imagine
the rage he will be in. And it is rather hard fora
fellow to be turned out of his seat before he
has had time to get warm in it.'

At this moment Bob came in, looking very
much excited.

I say, Ran, here's a lot of people wanting to
see you — such a lot.'

A deputation from the hands, I suppose.
What's wrong V

1 No, a deputation from Whitebrook. Twister,
Stubbins, Striverr, old and young Hopps, and a
dozen or two more.'

1 God bless me — what on earth ! But ask
them to come in, Bob. I must not keep them
waiting.'

Whereupon the door was thrown open, and in
marched a deputation, of dimensions so portentous
that Randle had to retreat before it until
he was literally driven into a corner.

This is indeed an unexpected pleasure, gentlemen,'
he said, with a puzzled look, when the
crowd had filed into the room. f If you had
only given me a little notice of your coming, I
would have provided a few more seats.'

1 Never mind about offering us seats,' replied
Twister. ' We have come to offer you one:

4 You have come to offer me a seat V returned
fled Lymington, who now for the first time
began to divine his visitors' object.

1 Yes,' answered Twister, who was so much in
earnest that he actually forgot for a minute or
two to express himself in his native Doric, 'to
offer you a seat in Parliament — to make a Hem
P. of you. We want you to stand for White-brook

in the Liberal interest. We think you are
better qualified for the position than anybody
else in our town, and that, if you will come out,
you are sure to get in.'

No, no ; I cannot let you say that, Mr. Twister,'
said Handle, deprecatingly ; ' there are
several others who are decidedly better qualified
than I am.'

I don't think that is a point we need discuss,
Mr. Lymington,' put in the elder Hopps, who was
by no means of Twister's opinion as to Handle's
being the best-qualified man in the borough.
4 It is not altogether a question of claims or
qualifications. It is a question as to whom we
can run with the best chance of success. Nobody
but you has the slightest chance of success;
and if you will not consent to stand we shall be
obliged to let the Tory candidates have a walk
over.'

But really, gentlemen,' pleaded Handle, ' I
have no ambition for parliamentary honours.
My work lies here, I am fully occupied, and I do
honestly believe that I can do more good in
Whitebrook than in London. I am very, very
much obliged to you, gentlemen. To be chosen

by the Liberal part) 7 as a candidate is a distinction
I never expected ; but I am afraid I must
decline. Yes, I must decline.'

No, no, no,' cried a dozen voices, ' we will
not let you decline. Mr. Lymington, you must
stand.'

Don't come to an 'hasty decision, Mr. Lymington
; don't come to an 'hasty decision,' said
Stubbins, speaking for the first time.

'I can quite understand your feelings, Mr.
Handle,' observed Twister, sympathetically.
When I'm in London, I always feel as if I was
in foreign parts, like. It isn't a bit like home,
and them Londoners' twang I never could abide
it isn't gradely English ; while as for the fine
buildings they talk so much about — th' Parliament
House and Buckingham Palace, and suchlike
— why, I'd liefer see a new thirty-bay factory
with a big chimney than all on 'em put together.
But it's sometimes a mon's duty to make a sacrifice
for a cause ; folks has deed afore now for
their principles — martyrs and that mak ' (sort)
1 o' chaps, you know. You are a Liberal, aren't
you?'

Handle admitted the soft impeachment.

Well then, if you willet come out, Liberal
principles will suffer, for Whitebrook will be
represented by two Tories — gradely owt rank'
(rank) ' uns too, though one of them is your
namesake, and you willet have done your
duty. That's the way I put it. But think
it over, Mr. Ran die, think over for an hour
or two, and meet us to-meet, if you'll be
so kind, at the >; Dancing Billy Goat,"
in Toad Lane. Th' working men voters
don't like to come to the "Rainbow" — they say
it's too fine for 'em.'

Certainly, Twister, that is the least I can do
after the trouble you have taken in coming all
the way here to see me,' said Randle, grasping
eagerly at the proffered respite, for he wanted
leisure to reflect. * What time?'

Say nine o'clock.'

< Good. I will be at the " Dancing Billy
Goat" at nine o'clock.'

'Well exclaimed Randle, turning to his
brother and Kalouga, after he had shaken
hands with every member of the deputation,
and the last of them had taken his departure.

Oh, Ran, you will stand, won't you V said

Bob, eagerly. ■ It is true what Twister says.
There is no one in Wkitebrook that will
make half so good a member as you. And,
whether you know it or not, you are the
most popular man in the town. Ever since we
refused to join in the lookout, the hands have
sworn by you.'

Your opinion is too flattering to be true, I'm
afraid, Bob,' said Randle, smiling at the young
fellow's impetuosity. ' What do you think about
it, Kalouga V

4 You must accept this invitation, my friend,'
replied the Russian, earnestly, laying his hand
on Handle's shoulder. ' I think, if I were an
Englishman, I should never be content until I
was a member of the House of Commons. It
has its faults, but it has a grand history, and it
is the oldest and most illustrious legislative
assembly in the world. Belong to it. You
have ideas, and you are honest. The house
needs more men of your stamp.'

Is honesty then so rare a quality in the
most illustrious legislative assembly in the
world V said Randle, with a smile.

I mean honesty of opinion, courage to speak

as you think, without fear or favour, neither
minding whether it vexes your party or pleases
your constituents.'

Tell the truth and shame the devil, you
mean. Well, I suppose it's every man's duty
to do that, whether he is in Parliament or not.
But as for speaking — well, there's only too
much of that, both in the House and out of it.
I should like to see less talk and more work.
T think I am better here, Kalouga ; and I have
the interests of the concern to consider, you
know. I don't quite see my way yet ; but I
must make up my mind, I suppose, before nine
to-nights

Before going to the 'Dancing Billy Goat,'
Handle told his mother what had come to pass,
and asked her advice.

Well,' said Mrs. Lymington, rubbing her
spectacles, and making a vain effort to hide
the satisfaction which the news of her son's
having been asked to stand for Whitebrook
gave her, ; it has been several times borne on
my mind that, if a Lymington was to be member
for Whitebrook, it should be you, Raudle. You
are far better qualified than your cousin. And

this deputation, and your being the only
person in the borough, as they say, that is likely
to succeed, seems to me almost like a leading
of Providence.'

1 But the business, mother ; you forget the
business. You know what my father used to
say, " The concern must not suffer." Now I
fear that if I go away it will suffer ; and I gave
him my word always to stand by it, you know.'

'I know you did, my dear lad ; and that promise
was a great comfort to him on his deathbed.
But if it should so be that you are elected
I hope the Lord, who has done so much for us,
will not let it be any detriment to the concern.
And Robert is coming on to be very useful, and
you could get somebody to help him. Besides,
you would not always be in London, you know.
You could run down here two or three times a
month in the session ; and you would not have
to be in London more than six or seven months
in the year altogether.'

Yet Randle could not make up his mind.
Never in all his life before had he been in so
painful a state of indecision. His present pursuits
suited him. He liked the active duties of

VOL. II. T

his position as head of a large business ; and he
took so much interest in the various schemes he
had in hand that to give them up, or confide
their execution to others, would be positively
painful to him. He feared, too, that the concern
might suffer, in the event of his being returned,
by his frequent absences ; and he held the fulfilment
of his promise to his father to maintain
intact the ancient reputation of the firm as a
sacred duty. On the other hand, he was far
from being insensible to the high compliment
involved in the invitation to offer himself as a
candidate for the borough, of the honour a seat
in Parliament would confer on the family, and
the chances of usefulness it would throw in his
way.

Nevertheless, Handle could not make up ibis
mind, and when he and Robert and Kalouga,
who accompanied him, arrived at the * Dancing
Billy Goat ' none of them knew what would be
his answer.

CHAPTER XXII.

RED Lymington's ANSWER.

rpHE 'Dancing Billy Goat' was one of the
■*■ oldest houses in one of the oldest streets of
"Whitebrook. Once upon a time it had been a
highly-renowned inn, much frequented by the
gentry of the neighbourhood; but.it had long
ago fallen from its high estate, and was now
frequented chiefly by working folks and small
tradesmen. The apartment in which the flower
of the Liberal party had assembled to hear Handle's
answer was the club-room of the ' Ancient
Codgers,' a secret benefit society, whose gay
banners and glittering insignia, hanging on the
walls, were in striking contrast with the bare
floor and scanty furniture, and gave the place
a quaint and unusual aspect.

T 2

The room was quite full. The greater part of
those present were working men, among whom
Randle and Robert recognised several of their
own hands.

1 Well, Mr. RyviDgton,' said Twister, when
the cheering which greeted the former's appearance
had subsided, ' I hope you have brought us
good news — as you've made up your mind to
step into th' breach and lead us on to victory.'


That's rest, Mester Twister,' cried a voice.
'Bi' th' mon, he talks like a book.'

How can he miss ? He's a head like a boss's.
Give Mester Twister a cheer, lads.'

No more of that just now, if yo please ; we
have come to hear Mr. Lymington's answer, not
to shout,' exclaimed Twister, who did not seem
altogether to relish the reference to the somewhat
equine proportions of his skull. 'Now,
Mr. Ryvingtou.'

6 1 am afraid, gentlemen, I cannot give the answer
you desire. I have thought the matter
over, and it seems to me that I can do more
good in a private capacity here than in a public
capacity in London. And there are reasons,

reasons of a kind personal to myself, which
would render it inexpedient for me to accept the
honourable position which you have so unexpectedly
offered me. Surely there are others
who would have an equal chance of success.
I could name several gentlemen, any one of
whom would, 1 am sure, be proud to come forward.'


On this a young man with a high forehead and
pale, intellectual features, the appearance of
whose trousers, rubbed smooth in front by frequent
contact with the cloth beam of his loom,
showed that he followed the calling of weaver,
stood up and asked permission to say a few
words.

He spoke with force and fluency, and though
his accent was broad his English was unexceptionable.
Bentley, in fact, was a very fair
scholar, and had contributed to the local press
several poems of more than average merit.

Mr. By winston's suggestion, he observed, that
they should select some other candidate was
quite out of the question. A candidate could
not be made to order, like a pair of clogs or a
piece of shirting, and there was no other man in

that town than Mr. Lymington that he and his
mates would strip off their jackets to work for.
Even before Mr. Lymington had endeared himself
to the working classes by his noble conduct
in striking against the lookout, he was well
known and much liked. They knew him as a
master who dealt justly with those that worked
for him, and was consistently solicitous for
their welfare ; and altogether, irrespective of
politics, Bentley believed that the majority of
the Whitebrook workfolks would liefer be
represented by Mr. Lymington than by one of
their own order. They could trust him — that
was the main thing. They trusted him so
much that, even if he differed in opinion from
them on any question that might arise, they
would rather take his judgment than their own.
They felt that he sympathised with them, and
knew what would be good for them better than
they knew themselves. He could answer for
his mates — they had asked him to be their
spokesman, and on their behalf he begged of
Mr. Lymington to go to the House of Commons
(for if he consented to stand they would pledge
themselves to return him) and do what he could

for the working classes — for all classes, in fact
of his native town.

Bentley's speech elicited round after round of
applause, and was followed by such a manifestation
of sympathy from all present that Randle
felt he could resist no longer, and being for the
moment at a loss for words in which to express
himself he was fain to signify his assent by a
nod.

A long conversation then ensued touching
the business of the election, the organisation of
ward committees, the appointment of ward
canvassers, and other details. At Handle's
instance, Bentley was appointed vice-chairman
of the general committee, the chairman being
Mr. Striverr, an extensive manufacturer and old
Redscar hand.

In reply to a question from Twister, Randle
declared his intention of writing his address
before he went home. The Rubicon being passed,
he threw himself into the contest with as much
energy as if it had been an invention for
weaving by lightning, or a scheme for making
stalwart idlers do a fair share of the world's
work.

Before his friends separated, Handle made a
short speech.

Now, lads,' he began — ' I beg your pardon —
gentlemen.'

'No, no, led it be lads ; lads is best shouted
several of the audience.

That would not be respectful to many who
are present,' continued the candidate, with a
smile ; ' but as I must now, as far as possible,
be all things to all men, I will try to meet your
views by saying "lads and gentlemen." I am
very wishful that the contest in which we have
decided to engage should be conducted honourably
— straightforwardly as touching ourselves,
and kindly as touching our opponents. The
only difference between them and us is a
difference of opinion as to what is best for the
country. Meet argument with argument by all
means, but mere abuse will win us neither votes
nor credit. I come of a Conservative stock
myself, some of my best friends belong to the
opposite camp, and, although I believe their
views to be mischievous, I give them credit for
the same sincerity of purpose as I claim for myself.
Another thing. I want no man to be

pressed to vote for me. If, after reading my
address, and hearing what I have to say, and
being respectfully asked for his vote, an elector
does not seem disposed to give us his support,
let him alone. I am sure nobody here would
attempt to obtain votes by unfair means — by
either direct or constructive bribery or intimidation.
But if any person should be contemplating
anything of the sort it is well for him to know
that he would not only be committing a penal
offence, but that his breach of the law would
fail of its intended purpose. For on the fact
coming to my knowledge I should resign my
seat. 1 would never submit to the dishonour
of being turned out by an election commission.
That is all, I think, except that I want to thank
you again for having invited me to become
your candidate, to assure you that, now the
die is cast, no effort on my part shall be wanting
to justify your confidence and secure you
the victory.'

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE TUG OF WAR.

GREAT was the consternation in the Conservative
camp, and deep the dismay of Deep
Ran die and Tom Cliviger, when they heard of
the meeting at the ' Dancing Billy Goat ' and
that Red Randle had been adopted as the
Liberal candidate. The blow was all the
greater in that it was altogether unexpected.
Ry winston of Redscar was so seemingly devoted
to his business, and had hitherto taken so little
part in politics, that neither his cousin nor his
cousin's supporters had counted on him as a
possible opponent. His appearance in the field,
backed by the working men interest, was an
event which rendered Cliviger's ingenious
system of computing the relative strength of

parties by the extent of their engine power
utterly useless. Nobody knew now which way
the election would go. It was generally thought
that the battle would be between the two
Lymington. The senior member, Mr. Mello-dew
a retired manufacturer — of large means
and conservative opinions, who had lately
bloomed into a Cheshire squire— had sat for
the borough so long, had done so much for the
local charities, and was so popular and respected
withal, that neither he nor his friends had
the slightest doubt of his return at the head of
the poll.

Still, as the yarn agent sagaciously suggested
to Deep Handle, there was no telling; and
the very confidence of the Mellodew Committee
(for, though wishing Mr. Lymington every
success, they declined to act with him) might
militate against their success. Three-cornered
contests were proverbially fertile in surprises.
Very curious changes might be wrung on
plumper for Red Lymington, and splits between
him and Mellodew, and between Mellodew and
Deep Lymington. Many of the former's supporters,
under the belief so industriously spread

by his committee that he was sure of a majority,
would give their second votes to one of the
other candidates — in some cases, probably, split
between the two Randies — for in times of
excitement there was no end to the vagaries of
Whitebrook electors.

I think the measures I am taking,' said
Cliviger, with a significant wink, ' will get you
in anyhow — whoever the other is — and in my
opinion, though it would not do to say so to
Bellasis and that lot, it's quite on the cards for
you and your cousin to get in and old Mello-dew
to be left out in the cold.'

'May the devil fly away with my cousin,'
exclaimed Deep Handle, furiously. 'What
business has he to offer himself, I should like to
know, in opposition to the head of the family ?
It's a piece of infernal impudence — impudence
and ingratitude — for if my father had not retired
from the concern Red Lymington would
not have been what he is. My father made him,
in fact, and now he is turning against me.
He's a dashed turncoat too — wasn't he brought
up as a Conservative? Damme, if his present
conduct is not enough to make both his father

and mine rise from their graves. I'll never
speak to the sneak again, never as long as his
heart beats. I'll cut him dead the next time
I meet him, by Jove !'

I wouldn't advise you to do that, Ry winston,
at least, before the election. Ride on his back,
rather.'

What do you mean V

6 Don't you twig ? Your cousin is very
popular with the hands; they swear by him.
If you cut up rough, and show unfriendly, you
will repel votes instead of attracting them.
You must go on the opposite tack. Let it be
supposed that you are on the most amicable
terms possible, that you wish him well, and
that the difference between you is only one of
detail. Trim between his Radicalism and old
Mellodew's Toryism ; pose as a Liberal Conservative,
in fact, and then you will get splits
from the supporters of both. You want to get
in, don't yon, whatever becomes of the others?'

1 Oh, yes ! dash the others.'

1 Exactly. Then you must do as I tell you.
If you don't you will cut your own throat.
After the election you can do what you dashed

like. At the same time, I don't much believe
in making enemies unnecessarily, or showing a
grudge before you can gratify it. It's like
showing your hand at cards. Bide your time
and keep your own counsel — that's my advice.'
Deep Handle's vexation at the turn things
were taking was enhanced by the necessity
under which he found himself of spending a
great deal more money than he had expected.
Cliviger declared that, unless he spent at least
£2,500, he would not have a ghost of a chance ;
and Mr. Ryvingtou, not having that sum at his
disposal, it was raised, as the cost of his first
contest had been raised, by discounting their
joint promissory note at the bank. He was
fully aware, though the yarn agent had carefully
avoided telling him in so many words, of
the purpose for which the greater part of this
sum was destined, and the consciousness that
his retention of the seat, even if he should win
it, would depend on Cliviger's goodwill and
pleasure, did not tend to put him in a better
humour, or make his thoughts any the pleasant.
But it was too late to draw back. The
liabilities he had incurred, both in connection

with his election and otherwise, rendered it
absolutely necessary for him to get the estate
entirely into his own hands by marrying in
accordance with the terms of his father's will,
and this, he opined, could be most easily and
quickly done by regaining the position of which
he had been so summarily deprived.

It goes without saying that he followed
Cliviger's advice to keep on a friendly footing
with his cousin. Mr. Ry winston was far too astute
a gentleman to cut off his nose to spite his
face. He even bettered his Mentor's instructions.
People who observed the cordiality with
which the cousins greeted each other in the
market-place, and whenever they met, thought
them the best friends in the world. Deep Handle
even went the length of saying that, if Red
Randle had not been quite so much of a Radical,
he would have retired in his favour, so great
was his respect for him. This saying was repeated
at the Liberal headquarters, where it
made an excellent impression, being regarded
as a proof of the Conservative candidate's goodwill,
and of his affection for the Redscar branch
of the family, and doubtless gained him many

split votes that would otherwise have been
given to Mr. Mellodew. It seemed to ardent
Liberals that the next best thing to getting
their own man in was to keep the senior candidate
out, an object that could most surely be
effected by recording their second votes in favour
of him of Deepdene. This policy, moreover,
was tacitly encouraged, if not openly
sanctioned, by the Liberal managers ; for they
regarded Mellodew as a much more formidable
opponent than his colleague.

Meanwhile Red Handle was throwing himself
into the work of the election with characteristic
energy. Now that his blood was up, he took a
positive pleasure in the contest, and, as he had
promised his supporters, spared no effort to deserve
success. He made five or six speeches
every day, answered innumerable questions, and,
albeit he absolutely refused to solicit individual
votes, he was always willing to explain his
views to any elector who sought an interview
with him.

Although Ranclle had not taken a leading
part in previous elections, he had reflected deeply
on social and political questions, and it is

probable that his views od these subjects may,
unconsciously to himself, have been influenced
by his conversations with Kalouga. He had a
keen sense of the disadvantages under which
the poorer classes labour in the struggle for existence
— how hard are their lives, how few and
sordid their pleasures ; and whilst deprecating
violent remedies, as likely to be worse than the
disease, he promised to advocate and support
every measure likely to ameliorate the lot of the
poor, and obviate the evils resulting from a too
unequal distribution of wealth. He denounced
as grossly unjust the imprisonment of poor
debtors, under the pretext that non-compliance
with a judicial order to pay constitutes a contempt
of court, while larger debtors are exposed to no
analogous liability. In reply to a tradesman
who contended that, in the event of this law
being abolished, shopkeepers would be constrained
either to shorten, or altogether withdraw,
the credit they were in the habit of giving
to their humbler customers, Handle replied that
the less credit the working class, or any other
class, had the better. Ready money meant
thrift, credit bred extravagance, and extrava-
VOL. II. U

gance led to impoverishment. One of his
ideas was the establishment of. schools for the
superior education of poor lads of proved ability
at the public expense, so that they might have
an equal chance with the well-to-do of competing
for higher appointments in the Civil Service,
and making themselves otherwise useful to
the community. In none of his speeches, however,
did Handle commit the fault of flattering
his audiences. He told them plainly that laws
could do little for them compared with what
they could do for themselves.

1 You cannot make a man better his condition,'
he said, 'you can only show him the way and
give him a chance.'

He did not say much about the organisation
of labour, for he knew that anything of the sort,
to be effective, must be a spontaneous growth,
and that the less the State interfered without the
better. He knew, too, the difficulties of co-operative
production, the so-called co-operative
mills at Oldham and elsewhere being merely
joint-stock companies, in which the factory operatives
may or may not hold a considerable number
of shares. The system in question is,

nevertheless, a great step in advance. It encourages
thrift, and enables every operative who
has sufficient self-denial to save a few pounds
to participate in the profits he helps to create.

One of Handle's most potent allies was Bentley
the weaver. He went with him to all his
meetings. After Ked Lymington had been
heard there were always loud calls for Bill
Bentley. The man was naturally eloquent.
He possessed a shrewd and caustic humour
which never failed to delight his auditors, and
the working men among them were proud of
him as one of their own order. If Bentley had
been gifted with a talent for money-making
{'coal-rake sense,' as they call it in Lancashire)
he might have got on, have become a successful
shopkeeper, or even a master manufacturer.
As it was, he remained a four-loom weaver.

Bentley's case was frequently adduced by
Handle in support of his proposal that lads of
exceptional ability and inadequate means should
be educated at the expense of the State. He
said that, so far as natural capacity went, the
weaver was far fitter to represent Whitebrook
than himself.

TJ 2

As the time of trial drew near, the excitement
in the town became intense. The partisans of the
three candidates strove might and main to win
the day. Although the country at large was in
the throes of a general election, the singular
character of the contest at Whitebrook attracted
to it a more than local interest, and its issue
was awaited with keen expectation.

On the day of the nomination Deep Ranclle
had a great stroke of luck. His greyhound
Fleetfoot won the Trafalgar Cup — an event
which, in any circumstances, would have been
highly gratifying to him ; but he had backed
the dog heavily to win, and its victory, being
considered a credit to the town, brought him
a considerable accession of popularity, put
money in his pocket, and increased his chances
of success at the same time. How he blessed
that greyhound ! Tom Cliviger reckoned that
Fleetfoot's ' pulling off the cup ' was equal to a
hundred votes, and he had now good hopes, he
said, that, whoever might be at the head of the
poll, Mr. Lymington would not be at the
bottom.

The event justified his anticipations. When

the ballots were counted it was found that, although
Deep Lymington was nearly a thousand
votes behind his cousin, he was exactly five
ahead of Mr. Mellodew.

We've won !' exclaimed the yarn agent, when
the result was announced ; * but, by Jingo, it

w r as a tight shave. If I had not . But

never, mind. We have nothing to fear from the
Liberals ; they have won too ; and the Conservatives
won't foul their own nest by lodging a
petition against us. You must be as affable as
an angel with a new pair of wings to the Mellodew
lot, Lymington.'

Past midnight though it was, each of the
newly-elected had to make a speech. The Conservative
member made his from the balcony of
the 'Mitre'; while the Liberal M.P., as in duty
bound, spoke from the steps of the 'Rainbow.'
As Deep Randle had been engaged at intervals
during the day in allaying the agony of suspense
and keeping up his courage by numerous
libations of sherry and champagne, his remarks
were slightly incoherent ; but he was
understood to tender his warmest thanks to his
supporters for the honour they had conferred

upon him, and to say, that the only alloy to his
satisfaction in that, the proudest moment of his
life, was that they had not returned Mr. Mellodew
to keep him company in the House of
Commons.

Red Handle, after ascribing his success chiefly
to the exertions of working-men voters, recommended
his supporters, while rejoicing in their
victory, to abstain from unseemly exultation, tolet
bygones be bygones, and not to suffer political
differences to interfere with private friendships.
Mr. Mellodew, Conservative though he
was, merited their warmest sympathy. He had
been a generous benefactor to the borough, had
represented "Whitebrook in four Parliaments ;
and he stood so high in the opinion of his fellow-townsmen
that even those who differed from
him regretted his defeat — a defeat which in
some quarters was attributed to very questionable
causes. With that, however, conscious as
they were that they had fought fairly, they had
nothing to do ; but he would ask his friends before
they separated to testify their respect for
Mr. Mellodew as a man, and their sense of his

services to Whitebrook, by giving him three
cheers.

The three cheers, followed by three times
three for Randle himself, were given with great
heartiness, and, if compliments could weigh
against failure, the unsuccessful candidate would
have had no reason to be dissatisfied with his
defeat.

Whatever may have been the case with the
Conservatives, the Liberals went home in high
good humour, and the lads in clogs behaved
with exemplary moderation — they neither
kicked each other's shins nor broke other peo-

WB.

It was early morning when Randle, Robert,
and Kalouga, who had been watching the election
with eager interest, arrived at Redscar, but
Mrs. Lymington and Dora were waiting up for
them, eager to learn the result of the contest.
Dora was delighted beyond measure to learn
that the two Lymington had been returned ;
and besides warmly congratulating the hero of
the day, rewarded him with her brightest smile
and a cousinly kiss. Mrs. Lymington breathed

a silent thanksgiving. On great occasions her
thoughts were often too big for words.

Then Randle, worn out with excitement and
fatigue, betook himself to bed and slept for
twelve hours without once opening his eyes.
He did not go down to the counting-house until
late in the afternoon, where he found plenty todo
in looking over the correspondence that had
taken place while he was electioneering, and
answering the most pressing of his letters.
So absorbed did he become in his work, that the
electric bell at his elbow rang twice before he
heard it.

'Yes,' he said, speaking through the telephone
which communicated with the general
office and the principal departments of the
business.

A gentleman wishes to speak to you,' came
the answer.

Show him up at once,' answered Randle,
thinking the gentleman might be his election
agent, from whom he expected a call.

A minute afterwards the door opened, and
Randle, raising his head, saw before him the
Earl of Lindisfarne.

CHAPTER XXIV.

AN EXPLANATION.

1 r] OD bless me V exclaimed the new M.P.,
^ after a moment's startled pause. ' You
here, Lord Lindisfarne P And then he requested,
rather coldly, his guest to take a seat.

4 You seem surprised to see me, Mr. Lymington,'
said the earl ; l audno wonder. I suppose
you thought we had quite forgotten you. My
presence here shows that we have not. I come
to offer an apology and make an explanation —
so far as I can explain. As to that, however, 1
think I shall have to ask you to help me out a
little. You remember, when we parted at
Brigue, I said that, on our return to England,
I would write to you, and you gave me your
card. Unfortunately, I either mislaid it at

Brigue or lost it on the way to Zermatt. At
any rate, though I sought high and low 1 could
not find it, any more than I could remember
either your Christian name or your place of
abode, which, seeing that I put your card in
my pocket without looking at it, is perhaps not
very surprising. Thinking you might possibly
have written your address in the visitors' book
at Brigue or Viesch, I wrote for it to both these
places, and from both received the same answer
that you were Monsieur Lymington from England,
an answer which, as you may suppose,
did not help us much. It was thus impossible
to communicate with you; and we were all
greatly annoyed, especially Lady Muriel, who
said you would deem us both ungrateful and
sadly lacking in courtesy. We hoped, however,
that we should either meet with you somewhere
or hear of you. I thought, even, you might
not improbably conjecture the cause of our
silence and write to us.

1 We made several inquiries in various quarters
without result, and had almost given up
hope, when we saw an account in the papers of
the last Whitebrook election, and the return of

a Mr. Handle Lymington. As we had an idea,
from an observation or two that you let drop
when we were together, that you belonged to
the North of England, it occurred to us that
this gentleman might possibly be the Mr. Lymington
we knew and wanted to find, or, if not,
he might put us in the way of finding him. So
I wrote, explaining the circumstances and making
the inquiry. I mentioned, too, how happy
we should be (in the event of my surmise
proving correct) to renew the acquaintance and
see him at Avalou.

'I addressed my letter to Randle Lymington,
Esq., M.P., Whitebrook, Lancashire, and this is
the letter' (handing it to Randle) 'I received
in reply

The letter was dated 'Deepdene Park.'
Every sentence of it had evidently been well
weighed. It expressed the pleasure which the
receipt of Lord Lindisfarne's letter afforded the
writer, stated that the peer was quite right iu
his conjecture that the Randle Lymington w 7 hom
he had met in the Furca Pass and the newly-elected
M.P. for Whitebrook were one and the
same person, and concluded with the assurance

that he would be delighted to renew the
acquaintance and make a visit to Avalon
Priory.

The letter was signed 4 Handle Lymington.'
f Well,' said Randle, in a voice tremulous
with anger, after he had read and re-read his
cousin's treacherous missive, ' I knew that
Handle Lymington of Deepdene was a cad,
but T did not think he was capable of forgery
and personation. But pray go on, Lord
Lindisfarne. I will enlighten you as to my
namesake's motives presently. Did this — did
the individual who wrote this letter actually
visit you at Avalon V

i Yes ; he stayed some three weeks with us, I
think, and we were expecting him for a second
visit before the meeting of Parliament. You
will perhaps think that we were remiss in not
detecting the imposture — that if we had used
our eyes properly we should have perceived that
he was not the real Simon Pure. But you are
really so very much alike — though now I look
at you I can see many decided points of difference
— and when you have only met a man once
you may easily, after a lapse of nearly two years,

confound him with somebody else. In truth the
idea of imposition never occurred to us. Mr.
Rvvington was a member of Parliament, a gentleman
of family and position, and we knew no
reason — I know no reason yet — why he should
seek to pass himself off as somebody else.
When I say " us." I should, however, exclude my
daughter Muriel. Not that she set him down
as an impostor, but after he had been with us a
few days she began, in spite of herself, to distrust
him — to be haunted with a vague suspicion
that he was not sincere. He seemed rather to
avoid her, too, and this, seeing the circumstances
under which they first met, somewhat surprised
both Lady Lindisfarne and Lady Mary. For my
own part, I must confess that I observed nothing
of this. I only remarked that Lymington
did not improve on further acquaintance — that
he was not so nice a fellow as I had at first
taken him to be. Yet, now 1 think of it, there
was one circumstance which, if the possibility of
imposition had ever occurred to me, might well
have confirmed my suspicions. He of course
knew about the incidents in the Furca Pass, yet
he never seemed to like talking about them —

looked embarrassed when they were mentioned,
and appeared anxious to change the subject.
Still there was nothing inexplicable in this. It
might arise from shyness, or from distaste to
hear himself talked about.

'So far as it depended on me, indeed, and I
may add on Lady Lindisfarne, your cousin might
have gone on deceiving us for his own inscrutable
purpose as long as he pleased. Lady Muriel
was the first to suggest that he was other than
he seemed ; but though, as I have already said,
she had conceived a mistrust of him almost from
the first, it was only the other day that we
were made aware of the fact, and of its why and
wherefore.

We have been spending part of the winter at
Paris. We were at Paris when the Premier
issued his fiat, like a bolt from the blue, for the
dissolution of Parliament. We naturally took
an interest in the Whitebrook election, and commiserated
the hard fortune of Mr. Lymington in
being compelled to undergo two contests in the
course of a few months. When I observed the
names of two Randle Lymington in the list of
candidates I thought there was some mistake,

that our friend's name had been accidentally
printed twice, and I pointed it out to the countess
and my daughters. But, as both names
were repeated in the papers on the following
day, this explanation did not long hold water,
and I was expressing my surprise at so strange
a coincidence, when Lady Muriel, to whom I had
just passed the Times, startled us by exclaiming,
<; There is a mystery ; I was sure of it. Listen."

And then she read a paragraph commenting
on the singular character of the contest at White-brook,
in that the opposing candidates were cousins
and namesakes. It was further stated that
they bore a striking outward resemblance to each
other, and that the people in the neighbourhood
were in the habit of calling one ( Deep ' and the
other ' Red ' Ry winston.

Then Muriel told us of the doubts she had all
along entertained concerning the soi-disant Mr.
Lymington's identity — doubts so vague, however,
that she had hardly defined them even to herself,
much less mentioned them to us. She felt, she
said, he was a man of altogether different character
from that of the Mr. Lymington who had saved
her life in the Furca Pass. She was haunted at

times by a suspicion that his features were not
the same, and he more than once showed by his
answers to her remarks that he was either imperfectly
acquainted with some of the incidents
that took place, either in the Pass or afterwards,
or that he had forgotten them — in the circumstances
a very unlikely supposition.

Had this been all, I might have passed it by
as the hallucination of a too romantic mind.
But there were other circumstances that suggested
a similar conclusion. Muriel said that the
forefinger of our Mr. Lymington's right hand was
malformed as if it had been some time severely
crushed. It is so, is it not?'

Yes said Handle, holding up the finger in
question. 'I got it caught in one of the
machines shortly after I left college.'

When she mentioned this fact,' proceeded the
earl, ' I remembered it perfectly, although till
then I had forgotten it, for I observed your finger
when you were preparing the rope for your
descent into the Rhone gorge. I had taken no
notice of your namesake's fingers, but Mary and
Muriel were agreed that the index finger of his
right hand was as perfect as any of his other

fingers. Then, though he talked a great deal
about himself and his family, he never mentioned
the fact of his having a cousin of the same name.
The omission was significant.'

1 1 suppose he equally avoided telling you anything
about his father's will V

On the contrary, he seemed very frank on
that score. I am not sure that he told us the
truth, though. He said, among other things,
that the family estates were strictly settled on
himself, and that their net rental was about
£15,000 a year. But to proceed. My suspicions
were now so far awakened that I could not rest
content without putting them to the test, and I
did not require much pressing from Lady Muriel,
who had taken the lead in the affair, to induce
me to make a visit to Whitebrook and find out
the truth. So on our way north I left the express
at Preston and came on here. And now
you know all, I think. But why on earth has
your. cousin been practising all this meanness
and chicanery ? That is what puzzles me. A
man does not act as he has done for nothing.
What V

Oh, my cousin had plenty of motive,' said

VOL. II. X

Handle. And then he acquainted the peer with
the provisions of his uncle's will and the necessity
under which Lymington of Deepdene lay of
marrying a lady of rank.

Ah, I understand now !' exclaimed Lord Lindisfarne.
' The gentleman was seeking a wife
that he might gain a fortune. And, when I
think of it, his attentions to my eldest daughter
did become very marked shortly before he left
us. I remember her mother once laughingly
observing that she thought Mary had made a
conquest of the member for Whitebrook.'

4 Suppose he had proposed to Lady Mary?'
asked Handle, rather eagerly.

'In that case I cannot tell you what would
have happened,' laughed Lord Lindisfarne.
The question rather concerns Lady Mary and
her mother. But it seems to me that your cousin,
who, as you said a little while ago, must bea
terrible cad, was a fool for his pains. A man
in his position and with his expectations ought
surely to be able to find a wife with all the qualification
she wants without resorting to subterfuge
and deceit. At least I should think so.'

There are some men who have a natural turn

for deceit, Lord Liu Jisfarne. They prefer crooked
ways to straight ones. My cousin is unfortunately
oue of them. Aud the sooner he marries
his lady, you know, the sooner will he make
sure of his fortune aud double his income.'

1 1 hope he never will come into the property,'
exclaimed the earl, with much energy. l He
does not deserve a penny of it. What shall you
say to him V

I shall say very little,' replied Handle, with a
grim smile ; ' but I shall give him a good horsewhipping.
I thrashed him when we were lads
for playing me a shabby trick, aud I shall thrash
him again.'

Let me advise you not, Mr. By winston,' returned
the earl, earnestly. ' I am an older man
than you, and I never saw any good come of
stirring up foul water. Don't, whatever you do,
make a scandal. Leave your precious cousin to
his reflections ; they will not be very pleasant.'

1 I will take your advice, Lord Lindisfarne,'
said Handle, after a minute's thought, ' not because
I fear a scandal, but for the sake of my
cousin Dora, who is a dear, good girl, and because,
were the affair by any chance made 



lie, your name, and possibly your daughter's,,
might get mixed up with it, and that would be
agreeable to none of us.'

1 am very glad,' returned the peer, who seemed
much relieved, for whatever might have been
the case with Handle he greatly feared a scandal.
i You have acted very wisely.'

I shall, however, write a few lines to my
cousin,' continued Red Lymington, ' and if you
will allow me I will write them now.'

Then taking a pen he wrote as follows : —

Randle Ry winston of Deepdene, — I have had
a visit from Lord Lindisfarne and I know alL
For the sake of your sister and the honour of the
family I refrain from inflicting upon you the
chastisement and the exposure which your rascality
so richly deserves.

Randle Lymington of Redscar.'

Laconic, certainly,' observed the earl, to
whom Randle handed the note for his perusal,
4 and very much to the point. I do not think
you could say less, and it is not necessary to
say more. And now, one question more, Mr.
Lymington, and my mission will be fulfilled.

When may we hope to see you at Avalon?
You promised, you know.'

1 And I shall only be too glad to keep my
promise, Lord Lindisfarne ; but when, I am
unable to say. You see they have made an
M.P. of me, and in a fortnight or so I must be
in London.'

1 You are mistaken. Not nearly so soon as
that. The elections are going dead against the
Government, and I have it on the best authority
that the Premier has resolved to resign before
the meeting of Parliament. That will entail an
adjournment to give time for the formation of
a new Ministry, and for the re-election of those
of them who are members of the House of
Commons. The session cannot begin in earnest
for five or six weeks to come. Why not go
with me tomorrow? The ladies will be dying
to see you when they know I have found you,
and I shall telegraph to them at once. Let me
say you will accompany me — do now.'

If Handle had been guided solely by a sense
of duty he would probably have answered the
earl's invitation with a prompt negative, for he
had much to do. But the scene in the Rhone

valley rose before his mental vision. Once more
he held Lady Muriel in his arms, watched the
bloom return to the fair cheeks from which her
deadly peril for a moment had banished it ;
saw those beautiful eyes, eloquent with gratitude
to Heaven and her deliverer, raised to his ;
and walked by her side down the romantic
Furca Pass. He was with her at Viesch, he
beheld her in the balcony at Brigue as she
waved him her last adieux, and he pressed to
his lips the bunch of forget-me-nots which he
still cherished as a memento of the most remarkable
episode in his life.

'Do I interpret your hesitation aright?' asked
the peer. ' May I say you will come?'

'Thank you very much, Lord Lindisfarne.
Yes, I will go with you, but I can only stay
with you two or three days. You do not, of
course, think of starting before tomorrow
morning?'

As to that I am entirely at your disposal.'

Let it be tomorrow morning, then. And I
hope you will dine with us and make our house
your quarters for the night.'

Thank you, with very great pleasure. If

you will oblige me with a form I will telegraph
the Dews to Avalon.'

While the earl was writing his telegram
Handle scribbled a line to his mother informing
her that Lord Lindisfarne would dine With
them and stay the night, and that he had
accepted an invitation to go with him the next
day to Avalon Priory.

You will meet some of my political supporters
observed Red Lymington, when the peer
had finished writing his telegram. f I have
invited the three to whom I am most indebted
for my success to dinner this evening. They
are not of very exalted rank '

1 Oh, that does not matter in the least,'
interrupted Lord Lindisfarne. ' I shall be
delighted to meet them, I am sure. God bless
me, what is that V

This exclamation was called forth by a
sudden and brilliant illumination, coming, as it
seemed, from without, which filled the office
with a flood of light.

4 They are turning on the electric light,' said
Randle. ; We have not succeeded in utilising it
inside yet on account of the deep shadows it

casts ; but outside, on the belfry there, it answers
admirably, lights " up the yard and the
boiler houses, lights the people on their way
home, and enables us to dispense with road
lamps altogether.'

'Really. It is certainly the most powerful
single light I ever saw. If it would not give
you too much trouble, Mr. Ryviugton, and
there is time, I should be glad to take a nearer
look at your establishment. I never was inside
a cotton mill in my life, I am ashamed to say.'

'Come now, then. There is still time before
the engines stop to look through the principal

END OP THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

HED

RyyiXgtok

>.

<»v--QiCKh-^^Cpwv ^-^^Ci^ ^e^Op-^ .«.<>;• -.

#.♦•■"1 ""'♦ .• ^•• ^'^'^^♦^••'^'^-^►»^*^ f*^<*M«***t ■*i

RED RTVINGTON

VOL. TIL

BY

WILLIAM Stall,

AUTHOR OF

LARRY LOHENGRIN," "THE OLD FACTORY,'

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. m.

LONDON:
Hues AND BLACKETT, Publishers,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

All rights reserved.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/redryvington03west

RED RTVIXGTOK

CHAPTER I.

MEETING OF EXTREMES.

Candle's note announcing the arrival of
■^^ Lord Lindisfarne put his soother into a
terrible flurry. An ordinary stranger was bad
enough, but a lord ! She had never spoken to
a lord in all her life ; she was not sure that she
bad ever even seen one.

Whatever shall we do T she exclaimed, in a
tone of anguish, handing the note to her niece,
who was staying at Redscar House that she
might the more conveniently superintend the
furnishing of Redscar Hall.

A'-OL. Ill, B

Dora's answer rather surprised her aunt,
and it was certainly not very much to the
purpose.

'1 was right,' she cried, with a joyful laugh,
at the same time clapping her hands and making
a little pirouette on the hearth rug. ' 1 told
Ran there was some dreadful mistake. I knew
it would all come right in the end. And now
he is going to Avalon Priory and he will see
Lady Muriel. Oh, it is quite delightful ! I am
dying to ask Ran how it all came about. Are
sou not glad, aunt? I am, oh, so glad!'
and the girl laughed and clapped her hands
again.

'I don't think I am — at least, not very,' said
the old lady, dubiously. ' I am not used to
great folks. It is weighing on ray mind very
much how we shall treat Lord Lindisfarne.'

Just like any other gentleman,' returned
Dora, promptly, ' for a peer is, or ought to be,
simply a gentleman with a title.'

'You don't think he will want his meals
separately, then, in his own room and all by
himself.'

Oh dears no. Do not make the slightest

difference. Treat him as an ordinary guest.
That is the best compliment you can pay
him.'

'I am very glad to hear you say so said
Mrs. Lymington, with a sigh of relief. ' It is
a great weight off my mind, and the dinner
party was quite enough. It is the first we
have given since your poor uncle died. Did you
ever meet a lord, Dora V

eyes, Lord Canton, Edith Canton's father.
Edith was my great friend, you know. He
came to see her at Nyon, and we made an
excursion together to St. Leagues and the Dole.
He was a very nice old gentleman. And I once
met a prince and princess at Ouchy.'

A prince and princess !' exclaimed Mrs.
Lymington, in a slightly awestruck voice.
Dear me, what Avere they like V

'They were only Poles,' replied the girl,
somewhat disdainfully, ' and Polish princes are
not of much account, you know. They had a
letter of introduction to Madame Yieutemps,
and invited all the school to Ouchy ; that is
how I came to know them. The prince was a
little old man with the longest face I ever saw,

band

the princess was quite young, and smoked
cigars after dinner in the garden.'

Then I don't believe she was a real princess,
Dora. Women who smoke cigars in public are
no better than they should be , you may be sure
of that. But I must go and see after the
dinner. If cook does not keep her fire clear
that turkey will be underdone, and it would be
such a pity, for I never saw a finer. You know
who is coming of course?'

^ Yes ; Ran told me before he went down to
the counting-house. Mr. Twister and Mr.
Striverr and Bentley. It will be a strangely
assorted party, I must say. A peer of the
realm, a member of the House of Commons, a
Russian physician, two manufacturers of humble
origin and indifferent education, a weaver of
genius, and you and me, aunt. A meeting of
extremes, I should call it.'

^ Yes. I don't know what the earl will think
about it, I am sure. I daresay Randle has told
him, though. He has his own ideas about these
things. But I must really run into the kitchen
or all will be going wrong. I do hope Susan
will make the custards nice. I gave her strict

orders. But the girl has a head like a colander
everything seems to run out of it.'

Mrs. Rjvington might have spared her
anxiety. The dinner was excellently cooked
and admirably served ; and, as the good lady
the next day observed to her niece, fit to set
before a king, let alone a lord. As for the
guests, albeit, as Dora had remarked, they were
somewhat strangely assorted, they were not
badly matched. Nobody was dull. The earl,
who possessed an observant mind, had an
opportunity of studying types of character, and
a phase of society which, being entirely new to
him, interested him greatly, and Handle's
friends learnt that an aristocrat need not
necessarily be ' bloated,' and that a peer might
be a man of pleasant disposition and unassuming
manner.

Randle, who had reason to believe that
Lord Lindisfarne's opinions were Conservative,
kept the conversation clear of politics, and the
talk ran chiefly on local and personal topics.
Allusion was made to the rapid fortunes sometimes
acquired in Lancashire, and to the fact
that so many who have aided in the industrial

development of the county palatine — or their
fathers — were men of humble origin.

Yon were poor once, Mr. Twister,' observed
Ran die.

I was that,' said Twister, who, out of consideration
for the earl's probable ignorance of
the dialect, condescended for the nonce to discard
— or rather to modify it. -I began with
nowt, I may say less than nowt ; for our folks
had relief fro' th' parish one while, when I was a
lad. They were hard times, they were. Folks
talk of the times we have had lately being bad !
But they know nowt, nowt at all. Why, I can
mind th' time when a working man's family did
not taste flesh meat once a week. It was all
spoon work — morning, noon, and meet. A hard-bread
butter cake was a luxury. And they
wrought twelve and fourteen hours a day, then,
and no schooling for th' chiltern. Yes, Mr. Lymington,
I had a hard bringing up, I had that.'

And how did you attain your present position,
Mr. Twister, if I may take the liberty to ask V
inquired the earl. ' You have a mill of your
own now, I believe f

'I have three,' said Twister, complacently.

'and a 'state of laud beside. Well, I started
work at seven years old as sweeper in a cotton
factory. They used to sweep the carriages while
they were running in them days, Mr. Handle,
and for a long time after. It was a dangerous
job. I have known many a poor lad get crushed
to death between the roller beam and the mule.
And the spinners used to be terrible hard on us.
They thought nowt of flogging their sweepers
and creepers wi' th' buckle end of a strap, or
knocking 'em down with a clearer ; and I have
known little lads of seven and eight years old
made to strip themselves stark naked and sit on
a hot steam pipe — and them that feared as
though their skin was burnt into big blisters,
they aren't scream. Ay, things are very different
now-a-days, Mr. Lord Lindisfarne. And I
will say this — that it's a good deal owing to a
lord as they are different.'

You mean Lord Shaftesbury I suppose T
said the earl.

Yes, that's him as I mean. He got the Ten
Hours' Bill passed, you know ; and though I
didn't approve of it at th' time, being then a
master myself, I can see now as it is a very good

thing, both for employers and employed. But
I must get on with my tale, or else I shall never
reach th' far end. Well, after I had been sweeper
a while I got promoted to be a creeper, next
to be a piecer, and as I was sharp and active,
and strong for my age, I got a pair of wheels
before I was twenty. After that I took to barbering.'


To what T asked Lord Lindisfarne.

'I set up as a barber. I began wi' shaving
and owing some oft' other chaps of a Saturday
night '

I beg your pardon T interposed the earl,
puzzled a scent time with Mr. Twister's lingo.

He means that he practised his prentice
hand on his fellow workmen,' explained Bentley.


That's . it, Bentley, and gradely well put,
too said the manufacturer, with an approving
nod. ' Owing means 'air-cutting i' these parts,
Mr. Lindisfarne. Well, I started a barber's shop
in a cellar, and between whiles, when there was
no shaving or owing going on, I learnt myself
to read and write. It's favourable to learning,
barbering is. A barber may pick up a good

deal of information if he has got his head
screwed on right. There's always somebody
coming in. as can tell him summit. I shaved a
waste dealer one day as knew I had saved a bit
o' brass, and he recommended me to do a bit of
waste dealing. And I did; and I had soon so
much to do as I had to give up my bartering
altogether. But I'll tell you what ' (with sudden
earnestness), ' Mr. Lord Lindisfarne , I've
never been as happy sin' as I was in that cellar,
though I have land and factories, and middling
o' brass.'

The old story,' observed the earl, with a
smile ; ' there is more pleasure in pursuit than
achievement.'

When I had made a nice little nest-eggs with
my waste dealing continued Twister, ' I fit up
a little mill with five or six pairs of mules and
about a hundred looms. Ever since then I have
always gone on th' same tack, and as fast as I
have made money — sometimes faster — I have
built factories, except the last time, when I
bought that 'state of land Mr. Lymington has
told you about.'

Thank you very much, Mr. Twister,' said the

earl. 'You have told us a very interesting
story. I congratulate you on your good fortune,
which I am sure you deserve.'

Yes, I have been rather lucky, taking it altogether,'
assented the manufacturer, though
with an air that seemed to imply that all was not
gold that glittered. 'But I have had my ups
and downs. I have had to knock at Lancaster
Castle door — and more than once, too — but they
never let me inside.'

Mr. Twister means,' explained Randle, who
perceived that the peer did not understand the
metaphor, 'that he has more than once been
almost under the necessity of taking the benefit
of the old Insolvent Debtors' Act which Avould
have involved a sojourn in Lancaster Castles

Bentley did not say much, but Avhat he did
say was well and modestly spoken, and he
surprised the earl by the shrewdness of his remarks
and the extent of his information. Tergiversation
turned on the opinions and condition
of the working classes, with which the
weaver was naturally well acquainted, and there
were some lively passages between Kalouga
and himself on the subject of Socialism. He

assured the Russian that the leaders of opinion
in the class to which he belonged neither coveted
the wealth of the rich nor asked for social
equality ; all that they wanted were equality
before the law, a fair day's wage for a fair
day's work, impartial administration of justice,
and such reforms as these demands implied.
Justice as at present administered, he continued,
gave the well-to-do a great advantage over the
poor. They did not want patronising, and
they would rather help themselves than be
helped by the State. As for Socialism, he did
not think there were ten workmen in all White-brook
besides himself who had the most remote
idea what it was. On this Kalouga gave some
account of continental Socialism, and of the
theories of Proudhon, Bakounine, and Mars.

Collective anarchy, do they call it V said the
weaver, ' and you think the theory originated
with Proudhon ? You are mistaken ; it was
originated by an Englishman.'

By an Englishman V

^ Yes, by an Englishman. I think you will
find in Shelley's "Queen Mab" the root idea
of these theories that Mr. Kalouga has been

telling US about. I will try to recall the lines
in which the thought is expressed: —

Nature rejects the monarch, not the man ;
The subject, not the citizen ; for kings
And subjects, mutual foes, for ever play
A losing game into each other's hands,
Whose stakes are vice and misery. The man
Of virtuous soul commands not, nor obeys.
Power, like a desolating pestilence,
Pollutes whate'er it touches ; and obedience,
Bane of all genius, virtue, freedom, truth.
Makes slaves of men, and of the human frame
A mechanised automaton." '

'A very apt quotation, Mr. Bentley,' said the
peer. ' Poets sometimes see farther than anybody
else ; and, as you have observed Shelley
in those lines seems to have anticipated the
latest development of Socialism. They do
right to call it anarchy. By-the-by, Mr. Bentley,
the working classes hereabouts are loyal, I
presume — no Republicanism among them, eh V

It would be more correct to say they are
not disloyal. Lord Lindisfarne. If they are not
passionately attached to the Royal Family,
they are at least not hostile to it. Their attitude,
in fact, is one of indifference. I can perhaps
best explain my meaning by a bit of an
anecdote. I read in a paper a little while ago

that Prince Leopold had endeared himself to
every class of the nation, and I took a fancy to
ask a number .of my fellow-workmen who
Prince Leopold was. Not one of them had
ever heard of him, or, if they had, they had
forgotten. It is not easy for us that have to
work for our living to take much interest in
folks we never see, Lord Lindisfarne. As for a
republic, I have no doubt the Whitebrook lads
would vote for a republic tomorrow if they
thought it would raise their wages ten percent.
— ay or five. That's about the true state
of the case, I think.'

x4t this point Handle, fearing that the harmony
of the evening was in danger of being
marred by a discussion on politics, judiciously
changed the subject.

When the time came for them to separate,
Lord Lindisfarne shook hands cordially with
the weaver and the two manufacturers, and
said that he was indebted to them for a very
pleasant evening.

Twister was heard to say afterwards that the
earl was a very pleasant gentleman. The only
fault that he had to find with him, he said, was

his twang ; but for real cleverness he was not
fit to hold a candle to Bill Bentley. Bill could
talk ' pottery.'

Chapter 11.

BEWITCHED.

BEFORE Randle set out on his journey With
Lord Lindisfarne, he was waylaid by his
cousin.

Oh ! Ran,' she exclaimed, eagerly, ' how was
it ? Tell me all about it? Why has Lord Lindisfarne
come ? Why did he not write ? And
Lady Muriel, what does she say?'

The explanation is very simple, Dora. Lord
Lindisfarne lost the card on which 1 had written
my address, and, as he knew neither my
Christian name nor where I lived, it was not very
easy for him to write. He has come because
he saw my name in the papers in connection
with the election, and thought I was the man.

That's all said Randle, who had not the heart
to tell her about her brother's treachery.

Just as I expected. I knew there must be
some misunderstanding. Why would you not
let me write, you foolish old Ran?'

'It is better as it is, Dora. Lord Lindisfarne
is a peer and a great man. I am only a manufacturer
and a very insignificant person ; and if
I had written, or permitted you to write, it
would have seemed as if I wanted to intrude
myself on his notice ; and I never toadied
to any human being in my life and I never
will'

why, Ran, I do believe you are proud —
prouder than Lord Lindisfarne himself. Indeed,
he does not seem proud one bit. But
never mind thai. All's well that ends welland
it is going to end well. Put me down as
no true Lancashire witch if it does not. But
you have not told me what Lady Muriel
says.'

I will tell you when she says it.'

That is a promise, remember, which I shall
expect you to honour at maturity, as people
honour bills. Now stoop — stoop, I tell you,'

she repeated, with a peremptory stamp of her
foot. Randle stooped.

There now ' (waving her fan over his head),
I have bewitched you — woven a spell that will
win you the love of the lady of your dreams.
Don't deny it, now. I am a Lancashire witch,
recollect, and I can read hearts and control
destinies. But you want to go, and I am not
surprised. Just think, Ran, you will see her
this very day.'

What nonsense you talk, Dora !' said Randle,
trying to look a reproof, but smiling in spite of
himself.

Oh, no, Ran, it is true sense, not nonsense.
But I think I have teazed you enough. Kiss
me and get you gone to Avalon. We are both
bespoke now, you know, so nobody has any
right to be jealous.'

Randle kissed her accordingly.

You can take one for Lady Muriel, if you
like, old Ran,' she whispered, demurely, yet with
a look so bewitching that her cousin thought
Sergius Kalouga, in spite of his misfortunes,
ought to be esteemed one of the most fortunate
of men.

VOL. III. C

It was impossible to resist such an invitation.
Randle kissed his cousin a second time.

*That is for Lady Muriel, remember,' she
exclaimed, with a monitory shake of her forefinger.
' If you do not give it to her, I will
have you prosecuted for breach of trust.'

And then, with an arch glance and a merry
laugh, she tripped away, leaving her cousin to
his thoughts, which if not quite roseate-hued, as
she had tried to make them, were certainly free
from any tinge of sadness.

*That Mr. Twister seems somewhat of a
character, eh?' observed Lord Lindisfarne,
shortly after he and his host had left White-brook.


^ Yes, Twister has his peculiarities, but he
isn't a bad fellow for all that.'

Rather close-fisted, I should say ! Men of
that stamp generally are, I think.'

He is and he is not. Tn business he shaves
very fine indeed ; but he can be liberal after his
own fashion. For instance, he is subscribing
£500 towards my election expenses. Nobody
asked him, but he said he did not think it was
right that I should give both my time and my

honey ; and be would put down £500 if anybody
else would.'

And was the challenge accepted'

Yes, Striverr accepted it.'

So your election will not cost you much V

Very little, indeed ; two or three hundred
pounds, perhaps. Twister is no more capable
of giving thoughtlessly than of doing business
recklessly. He gave his £500 in such a way as
to ensure another subscription of equal amount.
The other day he treated all the inmates of the
workhouse to high tea. But he took precious
good care not to pay too much for his tea. He
w^eut to two or three wholesale houses in Manchester,
got their lowest quotations, and gave
the order where he could get the best terms.
And he is behaving very well about Bentley.'

*Do you know, I feel sorry for that man.
Setting him to weave is like putting a racehorse
in a plough. Can nothing be done for
him

Something is going to be done for him. But

his case is rather a difficult one. Though not

an extravagant man, Bentley does not appear

to have the knack of saving money. I fancy

• C 2

all he can spare goes in books. And he married
young and has several children. It is extremely
hard for a man so circumstanced to rise unhelped,
and I happened to remark to Twister
the other day that, if anybody would join me, I
Avould try to put Bentley into a better position.
All right, Mr. Kandle," he said ; '' I will do as
much as you will, whatever it is." So we are
going to make Bentley into a barrister. He
will study privately until he can matriculate at
London University, and then eat his dinners
and pass his examinations.'

And how about the family V

We shall allow the family the amount of
Bentley's present wages ; that will be enough
to keep them until he begins to earn something,
and, as all Whitebrook takes an interest in him,
he is sure to get business. He will become the
weavers' attorney-general some day, perhaps.'

You are very generous I am sure. I hope,
for your sake as well as for his own, Mr.
Bentley will get on and be a credit to all concerned.'


Avalon Priory was in an adjoining county,
some seven or eight hours' railway journey from

Whitebrook. A fine Gothic edifice, originally
built in the vigorous style of the fourteenth century,
but allowed to fall into ruin, it was restored
by the present possessor's grandfather
early in the nineteenth at an enormous cost,
and has ever since been the show place of the
neighbourhood. Everything about it is on
a scale of corresponding magnificence. The
park is almost as large as a town-ship. A
regiment of dragoons might be quartered in
the offices, and their horses housed in the
stables.

It is a great deal too big,' said Lord Lindisfarne,
in reply to a remark of Handlers about
the vastness of the park, as they were driving
through it from Highthorpe Station, where they
had left the train. ^A great deal too big a
place is Avalon, and very expensive to maintain.
You see the property is strictly tied up. I am only
tenant for life. I cannot cut down a tree without
the consent of the trustees, and, though the
rent roll is handsome, it is not exactly ducal.
At any rate, with two dowagers on my hands,
a place like this to keep up, a castle in Scotland,
and a house in London, three daughters and six

younger sons to provide for, I don't find it too
much, I assure you.'

It was certainly a very hard case, and Randle
said so in suitable terms , albeit his host's confession
of comparative poverty, or rather his
complaint of a superfluity of mansions and a
plethora of children, gave him more pleasure
than if he had heard that the peer could
dower his daughters with £100,000 each and
leave his sons a million apiece.

Yes,' continued the earl, with a little sigh,
it is not very easy when you have ten children
to give each of them a fortune, especially when
the eldest takes the lion's share. I think I shall
have to follow the example of the Duke of
Dunoon and put some of my boys into business.
They cannot all go into the services, and the
professions are crowded to repletion.'

Lord Avalon is in the army, I believe?'

Yes, he is a lieutenant in the Horse Guards
Blue, and my second son, Algernon, is in the
navy. He is at home just now on leave. You
will meet him this evening. The others are at
school and college. Ah, there are some friends
of yours, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Lymington.'

Randle looked in the direction indicated by
the earl.

Coming down the grassy ride to the right of
the avenue were two ladies on horseback, followed
by a belted groom. As they drew nearer,
and perceived the travellers, they let their steeds
go free and raced for the carriage.

It was a pretty sight. The towers and turrets
of Avalon showing grandly in the distance
two fair amazons galloping gaily over the
verdant turf in the purple light of the setting
sun, between two rows of dark and stately elm-trees
— colonies of rooks flying and cawing overhead
— groups of graceful deer drinking their
fill from a crystal brook that purled through the
park. The sight interested Handle keenly, for
in the horsewomen he recognised his friends of
the Furca Pass, the Ladies Maude and Muriel
Avalon.

'Lady Muriel is riding Sprightly, I think?'
said Lord Lindisfarne to the coachman, as he
eyed critically the galloping horses.

Yes, my lord ; and Lady Maude is riding
Rattler.'

And Sprightly has the best turn of speed. I

should hardly have thought it. But I do not
think he has equal staying power. We must
have a match one of these days.'

At any rate Sprightly was the first, and Lady
Muriel reached the carriage a good two minutes
before her sister.

Yes, papa, it is he she exclaimed, as she
reined up and offered Randle her haud ; ' there
is no mistake this time. How could we have
been so deceived ? I am so glad you have
brought him. AA^elcome to Avalon, Mr Lymington.
You do not think us rude or ungrateful ?
Papa has explained V

Kandle murmured something in rep', he
hardly knew what. He was absorbed in the
contemplation of Lady Muriel and her horse.

Lady Muriel, though perhaps a little taller,
more developed and woman-like, was still the
same as when he parted from her at Brigue.
There was the same winsome smile, the same
gracious, unaffected manner, the same dark
brown eyes, so soft and expressive, the same
sweet mouth, dimpled chin, and golden hair.

Her horse was worthy of his fair rider.
Sprightly was a little thorough-bred flea-bitten

grey, as perfect in form as Nature could make
him. A small, intelligent head, well set on ;
wide, red nostrils ; a long arched neck ; a
short, thick body, sloping shoulders, powerful
quarters, well-bent hocks springy fetlocks, and
legs, though fine, as muscular as the limbs of
an athlete, as hard and elastic as steel.

As Handle watched them — Sprightly in his
excitement pawing the ground and tossing his
head, while Muriel, her colour heightened by
the excitement of the gallop, and her eyes
bright with pleasure, leaned back in her saddle
and talked to her father and himself — he
thought he had never, in all his life, seen a lovelier
picture or a more charming group.

Then Lady Maude came up, and they moved
on towards the house, the sisters riding on
either side of the carriage.

'Any news, Maude !' asked the earl.

Nothing very particular, I think. Oh, yes ,
there is, though ; the hounds meet tomorrow
at Highthorpe Green, and Algy wants us to go
out with him. I suppose we may ?'

'Certainly. Are you a hunting man, Mr.
Lymington V

T have hunted, aud I used to be very fond
of the sport ; though, since my father died, I
have had little time for that or any other amusement;


'At any rate, you are no novice. Would you
like to go out with my son and my daughters
tomorrow ? I promise to mount you well.'

Oh, yes, Mr. Lymington, do come,' chorused
Ladies Maude and Muriel. 'It will be so nice.
Highthorpe Green is one of the best fixtures in
the county.' .

Nothing would give me greater pleasure, but
unfortunately I have no hunting things with
me returned Handle, who, in his present mood
and with the present company, would have been
delighted to go to the worst fixture in the country
on the slowest horse in the earl's stables.

Do not let that trouble sou, Mr. Lymington,'
said Lord Lindisfarne , ' we can find you everything
you want, I think. And you shall ride
Ferryman. He rushes his fences rather, but he
never makes a mistake, and he will jump anything
he can see over.'

So it was agreed that Randle should go a-
hunting next day, with the Ladies Maude and

Muriel and the Hon. Algernon Avalon for ibis
companions.

He did not see the countess until he met her
in the drawing-room shortly before dinner.
She received him very kindly, but made not the
most remote allusion to Deep Randle and his
doings, from which Red Randle rightly inferred
that it had been decided to say no more about
him. And it was better so. His cousin had
deceived the Avalons, abused their hospitality,
and personated him, and it would profit nothing
to discuss a matter which had already been
sufficiently explained.'

Randle took Lady Muriel down to dinner.

Oh, Mr. Lymington', she said, when they
were seated at table, ' I have read your speeches
with so much pleasure. Nothing could have
been in better taste than your remarks about
that poor Mr. Mellodew. My mother said that
one speech alone was enough to stamp Mr. Lymington
as a true gentleman. And I quite
agree with what you say about the working
people and the upper classes. Our lives, I am
afraid, are very useless and idle. But what can
we do ? Above all, what can a girl do ? You

are very fortunate in being able to do so nrnch
good. Papa was telling us before you came into
the drawing-room about your mills and your
improvements, your electricity, and that, which
interested him very much, and what you are
doing for that very remarkable workman he
met at your house.'

But where have you read my speeches. Lady
Muriel V said Handle, very much surprised.
none of them so far as I know, have been
mentioned in the London papers, much less
reported.'

It is not to you, then, that I am indebted
for the two Whitehrooh Guardians I received
this morning?' replied Lady Muriel, in her turn
surprised. ' Who can have sent them, then V

That is exactly what I am asking myself. I
have it !' he went on, after a moment's cogitation.
' It must be ; yes, it can be nobody but
Dora.'

And who is Dora, pray V

My cousin.'

Is she a young lady V

'About your own age, I fancy, Lady Muriel.'

And nice-looking?'

She is nice in every sense of the word,' answered
Randle, warmly, ' and dearer to me
almost than a sister

'Indeed, she must be quite a paragon.
I hope some time to have the pleasure of making
your Miss Dora's acquaintance,' said Lady Muriel,
coldly and as she spoke she turned her face the
other way and entered into a lively conversation
with her left-hand neighbour, the rector of
lighthouse.

This sudden change of manner, which continued
throughout the evening, both puzzled
and provoked Randle. He thought it augured
badly for the hopes which, although he knew it
was dangerous to cherish, he yet found it impossible
to repress. For, Whatever might be the
case with Lady Muriel, Dora's spell was working
with hiQi most potently. He felt like a man
bewitched, and asked himself more than once if
it were not all a dream.

CHAPTER III.

DITCHED.

"Before Randle rose next morning the 
want who had been told off to look after
him brought into his room a heap of hunting-clothes
and half a dozen pairs of top boots, from
which, after several tries-on, he succeeded in selecting
a suit that, as his attendant observed,
could not have fitted him better ' if it had been
ordered express.'

In the breakfast-room he found Lady Muriel,
who was the earliest riser in the family, like
himself, attired for the chase.

Here are some letters for you, Mr. Lymington,'
she said, after they had exchanged greetings
; and Randle, with a sinking of the heart,
remarked that her manner was little less constrained

that it had been the night before. He
began to fear that he had done something to offend
her ; what, he could not imagine, though
be would have given a great deal to know.

One of the letters was from Dora.

I guessed rightly, Lady Muriel,' he said,
after casting a glance at the letter. ' It was
irjy cousin who sent you those newspapers.'

I am very much obliged to her, I am sure.
Is she a sister of the — the other Mr. Lymington


'Yes, she is Miss Lymington of Deepdene.
But she is staying with us at present. She is
to be married next month, and her future
home '

'married !' interrupted Lady Muriel, as Randle
thought, rather abruptly. ' And you are the
happy man I suppose? I congratulate you ,
Mr. Lymington.'

Oh dear, no,' replied Randle, with an amused
smile. ' Sergius Kalouga is the happy one.
And he ought to be happy for he has won a
prize any man might be proud to win.'

Kalouga ? That is the name of the Russian
gentleman papa met at your house, I think. I

hope he is worthy of so peerless a bride, and
that your cousin will be happy in her marriage,'
rejoined Lady Muriel, brightly, and with a
change in manner so marked as to suggest to
Randle a suspicion which made him as confident
and elated as a few minutes before he had been
doubtful and depressed. ^ When you next write
to Miss Lymington kindly convey to her my best
wishes, and say that I hope soon to have the
pleasure of making her acquaintance.'

At this point their colloquy was interrupted
by the advent of Algernon, who was every inch
a sailor, bluff, frank, and high-spirited. Next
came Lady Maude, then the earl, and when the
countess appeared it was almost time to mount.
The nearest way to the meet, for many members
of the hunt, lay through the park, and red-coated
horsemen could already be seen pricking
across the turf in the direction of Highthorpe
Green.

'See the hounds are in sight! We must
have the horses brought round at once,' exclaimed
the Honourable Algernon as he rang the bell
to give the order.

He had hardly spoken when the pack

passed the house, headed by a keen-looking,
clean-limbed huntsman, whose purple visage
matched well with his weather-stained pink.
Two whippers-in, who seemed as fit to go as
the horses they bestrode and the hounds they
followed, brought up the rear.

You ride Sprightly, I suppose T said Alger-non
to Muriel.

Of course, and Maude rides Rattler. What
else have we to ride? Papa cannot keep a stud
for each of us, you know. Ah ! here they come.
Look at Sprightly. Isn't he a beauty ? And
he is all the better for the gallop I gave him
yesterday, Prancer says.' (Prancer was the
stud groom.) ' That is Ferryman, Mr. Lymington,
the big chestnut with the three white
legs. He will carry you well. Avalon — my
brother Clarence, you know— says there is not
his equal in all Moreland.'

A few minutes later all were mounted and
mingling in the equine stream, which was
now flowing, in ever-increasing volume, towards
the meet. The earl, who rode a powerful
grey, was with them, but he informed Randle
that his riding-foxhounds days were over, and

VOL. III. D

when he had seen Low Gyll Gorse drawn he
meant to return to the Priory.

Papa always says that,' laughed Lady Muriel.
Yet he sometimes contrives to be in at the
finish when some of the first flight are nowhere.
Don't you, papal'

Yes,' said the earl, smiling in return, ' the
old feeling does come over me sometimes. I
am like a superannuated war-horse, who, when
he hears the bugle call, forgets age and infirmities
and joins in the charge.'

The scene on Highthorpe Green — a broad
expanse of unenclosed heath in the neighbourhood
of a quaint, old-fashioned village — was
animated and picturesque. The hounds, watched
by the huntsman and his whips, were reposing
at the foot of an ancient oak. A hundred
well-mounted horsemen in pink, among whom
were interspersed two or three score others in
costumes as nondescript as their steeds, paced
to and fro, stood at ease near their horses, and
lolled carelessly in their saddles. Other
cavaliers and. carriages, some of them filled
with bevies of fair girls, whose presence lent

additional life and variety to the gathering,
were arriving every minute.

The appearance of the master was the signal
for action, and a few minutes after his arrival
the cavalcade moved off in the direction of
Low Gyll Gorse.

Which way do you think the fox will break,
papa?' asked Lady Maude, when they had
reached the gorse.

'That's hard to say,' answered the earl, *for,
though it could hardly be possible to have a
finer hunting day, there is no wind, and therefore
no telling which way he will break ; but I
think we had better remain on this side,
although many of the others seem to be of a
different opinion.'

Low Gyll Gorse was an extensive enclosure,
half gorse, half wood — a sure find, but difficult
to get away from with hounds. An awkward
gully, too wide to be jumped, and too deep to be
scrambled in and out of, intersected the covert,
and ran far into the fields at either end of it.
There was only one place where this gully
could be crossed — in single file — and people

d2

who happened to be on the wrong side of it at
the beginning of a run had a very remote chance
of seeing anything of the finish.

Lord Lindisfarne's prevision was justified by
the event. Ten minutes after the huntsman
had waved his hounds into the covert a whimper
was heard in that part of it near which
the party from the Priory were awaiting the
signal

Hark to Venus !' shouted the huntsman, and
the note he blew on his horn was followed by a
melodious din from the deep-throated hounds,
which, in the ears of many who heard it, sounded
as sweetly as strains of heavenly music.

Tally ho, gone away !' sang out one of th
whips, and Randle was the first to sight the
fox as he stole from the covert, and with a
saucy fling of his white-tipped brush ran out
into the open.

Hold hard; give them a chance !' cried the
earl, as some of the riders near him began to
move too eagerly forward.

Then the hounds, followed by the huntsman,
tumbled pell-mell out of the enclosure and rushed
frantically after the flying fox.

Now,' said the earl, when the pack had
fairly settled to their work, and, giving their
chafing horses the rein, all who were on the
right side of the gully went off at full speed.

Randle and Lady Muriel led the field. Al-vernon
and Lady Maude were close behind
them. The earl took a line of his own. It was
Handle's first day with foxhounds, and as he
raced over the elastic turf, the hounds in full
cry, Lady Muriel by his side, and the world
before him, he felt, in the excitement of the
moment, as if he had only just then begun to
live.

The fences were easy. Buckthorn hedges,
rarely rising to the dignity of goldfinches, with
a ditch on one side, low banks, and an occasional
flight of hurdles, offered no difficulties to a
man who had been accustomed to ride among
the small enclosures, big cops, and high stonewalls
of the country about Whitebrook. The
most formidable obstacle they encountered was
a drain some sixteen feet broad, with a fence
on the taking-off side.

Candle pointed to it with his whip.

Lead, and I will follow,' cried Lady Muriel,

who seemed little less excited than himself.
Ferryman, who had gained his name by his
capacity for water jumping, took the drain in
his stride. Sprightly followed in the chestnut's
wake, and the next moment Lady Muriel — her
hair, which had escaped from its fastenings,
streaming behind her — andRandle were galloping
side by side. Then came some soft ground,
which tried the stamina of their steeds, and
made them moderate their pace. Then some
more grass, a few more fences, another gallop,
and after a brilliant burst of twenty-five
minutes the fox was run into before their
eyes.

Randle dismounted and helped Lady Muriel
to dismount, for their horses had gone bravely,
and well deserved a few minutes' rest.

Why, how you two went !' exclaimed
Algernon when he came up. ' I never saw you
ride so well before, Muriel. Maude generally
beats you by a long way, but you have the pull
over her this time, and no mistake. The way
you went over that drain was a caution. Why,
it stopped half the field.'

There is something in having a good pilotis

there not, Muriel?' said Lady Maude , with a
sly glance at her sister.

Lady Muriel was saved the trouble of answering
by the huntsman, who came, hat in
hand, to offer her the brush and the master's
compliments.

• Oh no, thank you,' said Lady Muriel, turning
with a shudder from the astonished Nimrod, 'I
don't want the poor creature's brush. Take the
horrid thing away , please.'

that is the worst of hunting, don't you
think, Mr. Ry winston V

The foxes tail? It is the end, at any
rate.'

Please don't make fun of me, Mr. Ry winston,'
rejoined the young lads, earnestly. 'I
thought you would understand me. It seems
so cruel to kill a wretched animal — to set dogs
to worry it— for our amusement. I enjoy the
gallop, but I hate the kill. I have only seen
one before, and I 'do not want to see another.'

Well, Lady Muriel, 1 don't quite agree with
you as to the exceptional cruelty of fox-hunting.
A fox is a carnivorous animal, and it is as much
in the nature of things for dogs to hunt foxes

as for foxes to prey upon poultry, rabbits, and
other small deer. To be occasionally hunted is
a necessary condition of their existence, and if
they were not preserved for sport their plundering
propensities would very soon be punished
by complete extirpation. I don't know, either,
bow their numbers could be kept down more
mercifully than by hunting them. They have
always a chance of escaping, and when they are
killed they die at once, not by inches, as do
hundreds of poor maimed hares and rabbits and
partridges every shooting season. Hare hunting
is altogether different — that is cruel ; and
the cruelty of the sport is the principal reason
why I have given it up, and why I shoot so
little. Anybody who has heard the death-cry
of a poor hare when seized by hounds, or when
she springs into the air, mortally wounded by
a shot, has heard the most pitiful sound, I
think, that ears can listen to.'

Oh, yes, it must be terrible ; but T never
beard it, and trust I never shall. I cannot tell
you how glad I am, Mr. Lymington, to find
somebody who thinks as I think. But I would
not advise you to repeat what you have just

said to — to anybody else. I am afraid they
would not appreciate it.'

*I know what you mean. I should only get
laughed at for ray pains. You may rely on my
discretion. I do not think I ever said so
much on the subject to anybody before.'

'Hulloa there, aren't you coming?' shouted
Algernon. ' They are going to draw Cheveron
Avoid. A fox was seen there not an hour ago.'

would you like to go, Lady Muriel?' asked
Handle.

Yes , I think so. It would look strange not
to, you know. And you do not think fox-hunting
cruel ; and the riding across country
is so very enjoyable.'

And if there is another kill I will take care
you do not see it.'

The reynard that had been seen an hour ago
"seas not long in being found, and proved himself
an unusually tough customer. He led the
chase over a decidedly rough country, and a
good deal of it. Handle, who had a keen sense
of his responsibilities as pilot, was content to
keep the hounds well in view, and made no
attempt to ride for glory. And he had his

reward, for, after a while, when some of the first
flight were no more to be seen. Ferryman and
Sprightly were going well, taking their fences
easily, and showing no signs of distress. Some
of the fences were * big 'uns,' and no mistake,
and they were in great variety — banks with
double ditches, banks with rails and banks
without, hurdles, drains, stone walls, quick-thorn
hedges with wattled tops and an occasional
bullfinch dark as night. The field thinned
rapidly, falls were frequent, and more than
one riderless steed was galloping at the tail
of the hounds.

The run had lasted more than an hour, with
only one slight check, and there was no sign
of it coming to an end, when Kandle, who was
riding a few score yards ahead of Lady Muriel,
the better to show her the way, saw before him
a whitish ditch with a low rail on the hither side.
Choosing what seemed the easiest place, he
went at it with a slack rein. He had found
that Ferryman always jumped best when his
head was free.

He had almost reached the brink of the ditch,
his horse was gathering himself for the leap,

when he heard behind him a great shouting,
followed by a piercing scream.

Hold hard !'

For God's sake, look out !'

Out of the way or you'll be killed,' and other
cries of warning and alarm were repeated in
rapid succession.

But they were all too late. Ferryman was
in midair. A riderless horse cannoned against
him with tremendous force. A blinding light
flashed before Randle's eyes. He felt as if he
were being hurled through space. Then there
was a great smash, something struck his head,
and he remembered no more.

CHAPTER IV.

RELEASED.

WHEN Randle came to himself his first impression
was that he had awakened
with a very bad headache in a damp bed under
a portentous pile of blankets. But when he
tried to rise he found he was lying, not in a
damp bed but at the bottom of a damp ditch.
And well for him it was damp, for the weight
that oppressed him was a part of Ferryman's
body, and nothing but the softness of his couch
had saved Randle from being crushed to death
or desperately hurt.

x4.fter making several strenuous efforts to
regain his footing, and finding them ineffectual,
the horse, as horses are wont to do in such
circumstances, had resigned himself to the
inevitable, and was tranquilly munching the

long grass that covered the sides of the ditch.
There was a small crowd about, and among
the faces that looked down upon him Randle
recognised that of Lady Muriel — pale, pitiful,
and distressed.

See he is opening his eyes,' he heard her
exclaim, ' he is coming round. Are you much
hurt, Mr. Lymington V

Not much,' he murmured, ' if I could only
get up.'

'We have sent a man for ropes. Oh, what a
time he is ! When he comes they will pull
Ferryman up and release you.'

Stirrup leathers,' gasped Randle.

Do you hear, Algernon ? Mr. Lymington
has more wit than all of you put together.
Make a rope of stirrup leathers. Why did we
not think of it before f

The sailor, without answering a word,
rushed off to make a collection of stirrup
leathers.

Can anyone oblige me with a brandy-flask,
please f asked Lady Muriel.

A brandy-flask was immediately forthcoming,
whereupon, gathering her skirts about her, she

slipped into the ditch, and raising Handle's
head with one hand gave him to drink with the
other, for he was evidently very faint.

Are you in much pain, Mr. Lymington V she
whispered, kindly. ' But I need not ask ; you
must be.'

'I am not in pain at all. Lady Muriel,' he
whispered back ; ' the ditch is soft, and you are
near.'

What does he say V asked her brother, as
be plunged into the ditch with his stirrup
leathers.

Nothing very particular — something — something
I did not quite catch,' said Muriel, though
with a heightened colour that somewhat belied
her words. ' I am afraid, Algy, he is growing a
little delirious.'

Poor fellow ! He came a terrible cropper.
I daresay his head is a bit touched.'

Heart,' muttered Red Lymington, and Lady
Muriel blushed a second time.

Did you hear that, Muriel ? He is off his
head sure enough,' said the sailor, compassionately.
' The sooner we get him out of this hole

the better. Stand back, and let me run this rope
round old Ferryman's carcase.'

This done, the ends of the improvised rope
were handed to two or three rustics, whom curiosity
had drawn to the spot, with instructions
at a given word to pull as hard as they could,
while Algernon and another of the hunters stood
by to drag Randle from under the horse, as soon
as the latter began to rise.

Yo, heave ho !' cried the sailor, whereupon
the rustics gave a long pull, a strong pull, and a
pull all together, and their efforts being seconded
by Ferryman the horse was raised sufficiently
to admit of Red Lymington's extrication before
the animal began to make play with his
hoofs.

The next thing was to hoist Randle out of
the ditch, an undertaking which, seeing that
his legs were so stiff and benumbed that he
could not use them, was not unattended with
difficulty. But it was done, and Ferryman, apparently
not much worse for his mishap, scrambled
out of the hole almost at the same time.
As for the cause of all the trouble, the runaway

horse, he lay with his legs upward and a broken
back, and a day or two afterwards became food
for the hounds he had so often followed.

Randle was in a far worse plight than when
he emerged from the bed of the Rhone in the
Furca Pass.

After walking about a little, supported on
one side by Algernon and on the other by the
gentleman who had helped him out of the ditch,
he recovered the use of his legs ; but he had got
an ugly knock on the head, from which the
blood was flowing freely, and he seemed very
weak and dazed.

Lady Muriel looked on with mute pity — during
the last few minutes she had been strangely
silent — and gave him to drink a second time,
for he was wet through and shivering with
cold.

Thank you very much,' said Randle ; ' I feel
better now. How long was I down there, Mr.
Algernon V

Not more than ten minutes, I think. But
you came very near being killed, Mr. Ry winston.
When I saw you go down, and, as it
seemed, both those horses on the top of you, I

thought you were done for, and no mistake.
Do you still feel better V

Much. I think I might mount again if
Ferryman is fit to carry me. Where are the
hounds V

'Out of sight long since. But you cannot
follow them any more to-day, my dear sir.
We must get you home at once, and have
your hurts attended to. Let me help you
up.'

When Handle tried to place his right hand on
the cantle of the saddle, he fell back with a suppressed
groan. The arm, either by reason of a
severe sprain or a fracture, was useless. But he
made a second effort, and, aided by Algernon,
succeeded in gaining his seat.

Oh, Algy !' said Lady Muriel, with outward
calm, though in reality greatly agitated, ' Mr.
Ryvingtou is badly hurt. He cannot possibly
ride to Avalon. What shall we do V

Oh, yes, I can ride very well,' said Randle,
as he tried, not very successfully, to steady himself
in the saddle.

On this one of the hunters came forward, and,
saying that his house, Cheveron Hall, was hard

VOL. III. E

by, offered to send Mr. Lymington home in his
carriage.

The offer was gratefully accepted, and the
owner of Cheveron Hall galloped off to give the
necessary order, while Randle and the Avalons
rode slowly after him.

The carriage was soon ready, and Randle,
who, though not seriously hurt, was sufficiently
so to be glad of the change from pigskin to
cushions, had got inside, when Lady Muriel
suggested a difficulty.

He might faint or something, you know,'
she said. ' Somebody should go with him.'

Suppose you go with him, Muriel,' suggested
Lady Maude, in an undertone, looking mischievously
at her sister. * You and he seem to
get on very well together.'

Oh, Maude ! how can you tease at such a
time?' returned Lady Muriel, reproachfully.
*Is he not our guest? Did he not save my
life V

I tell you what,' said Algernon, who had not
observed this little by-play, ' you two shall go
in the carriage with Mr. Lymington, and I will
ride round by the village and send Dr. Popjoy

up to the Priory. One of the grooms can
return with the carriage and bring your horses
home.'

This proposal was immediately acted upon.
Algernon rode off at a canter, and the two
ladies stepped into the carriage. Lady Maude,
heedless of a mild protest from her sister, so
contrived matters as to compel Muriel to sit
beside Randle, an arrangement to which, as
may be supposed the member for Whitebrook
offered no objection.

Very little was said by the way. Maude
leaned back in her corner and closed her eyes
as if in sleep. Randle did not feel equal to
making his voice heard above the rattle of the
carriage, yet the sense of Muriel's presence, the
opportunity his position gave him of looking at
her unobserved, of watching her every movement,
and trying to read her thoughts, rendered
him oblivious to such trifling ills as aching
limbs and a throbbing head.

His companion passed most of the time gazing
in quiet pensiveness from the carriage
Window; but once or twice, when she turned
towards Randle, their eyes met, and there

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUWOf

flitted over her face the sweet shadow of a
smile which told him, as plainly as words could
tell, that her musings were not unpleasant, and
his heart beat wildly at the thought that he
might be the subject of them. For the intoxi-^
cation of love was taking hold of him, and he
felt its power with an intensity of which a man
of weaker mould had not been capable. The
flame first kindled in the valley of the Rhone,
and kept alive by the promptings of his cousin,
was being developed by intercourse with
Muriel into a passion as strong as his own
native. But he cherished no illusions. He
knew as well as he had ever known that the
disparity in their rank might prove an insurmountable
barrier to the consummation of his
hopes. He had not sounded the depths of
Muriel's character ; he did not forget that, even
if she should love him she might not love him
sufficiently to brave the opposition of her
family and marry a man who, in the opinion
of the society to which she belonged, was
so far beneath her. Yet, knowing all this,
he never for a moment thought of drawing
back, or of trying to bury his love in his own

heart. Just as sometimes a man who has
never gambled in his life will risk his all iu a
single speculation, so Randle, as he sat therein
the carriage, with his bandaged head and his
body aching all over, deliberately resolved to
stake his happiness on a single cast of the
die and swore to himself that, before he left
Avalou, he would ask Lady Muriel to be his
wife.

CHAPTER V.

BETROTHED.

Candle and the ladies reached the Priory
only a few minutes before Dr. Popjoy (a
large, heavy man, with big eyes that looked as
if they had been boiled) and the Honourable
Algernon. The countess and Lord Lindisfarne
(who had left the field after the first run) expressed
great concern at the accident which had
befallen their guest ; and the earl helped him to
his room and remained with him until the
doctor had delivered his report. Besides the
wound on his head, Randle had received contusions
in various parts of his body. His right
arm was badly sprained, his left leg ditto, and
he had been so chilled by lying in the ditch,

and by the ride home in his damp clothes, that
Dr. Popjoy hinted at the possibility of fever,
ordered a warm bath, and enjoined rest and
perfect quiet.

That arm won't be of much use to you fora
week or more,' he said ; ' but if you keep perfectly
quiet, and the feverish symptoms do not
increase, you may possibly be on your legs again
in three or four days.'

• You surely do not mean to say that 1 shall
have to keep my room for three or four days V
exclaimed Handle, with a look of dismay.

'Not your room merely, but your bed, my
dear sir. Bed, Mr. Ryvingtoii^ is one of our
most efficient remedial agents. But do not suppose
I shall keep you on your back one moment longer
than is absolutely necessary. I know too well
what enforced idleness is. A fellow-feeling
makes us wondrous kind, you know. I once
had a bad spill in hunting myself ; my horse fell
on me just as yours did, and I was compelled,
or rather, I compelled myself, to stop in bed a
fortnight. It was a weary time, and you have
my warmest sympathy. A medical man ought
to be sympathetic, you know.'

Dr. Popjoy was a fairly successful practitioner,
but if be had been less garrulous and less ostensibly
sympathetic, he would probably have been
more successful. He was an irrepressible talker,
and though his patients might know when to
expect him, they never knew when he would
leave them. He made a speciality of sympathy.
He had suffered according to his own account,
from nearly every ill that flesh is heir to, and,
whatever complaint people might be suffering
from, he invariably assured them of his warmest
sympathy, ' having himself felt the same,'
and adduced the fact of his happy recovery assure
ground of hope. He had once, from mere
force of habit, when presiding at the introduction
into the world of the son and heir of a
neighbouring squire, tried to cheer the lady by
a reference to his own experience ; and it became
a standing joke on the country side that,
though Dr. Popjoy (who was a childless man)
had never been a father, he knew what it was
to be a mother.

Handle stayed in bed all the next day, as he
had been ordered; he was so stiff and sore,
indeed, that he could hardly have done otherwise.

Every care was taken of him. A servant
was always at his call. The earl came several
times to see him, and Algernon, who was a
great rattle and capital company, sat by his
bedside a great part of the day reading and
talking to him. If it had been confine il faut,
Muriel would doubtless have paid him a visit
also ; but, that not being possible, she made particular
inquiry of her brother, whenever she
met him, as to how Mr. Lymington was doing.

1 am afraid he is off his head again,' said the
middy, with a portentous shake of his own, on
one of these occasions.

'Oh! I hope not, Algernon. What makes
you think so V

Well, 1 asked him just now what was the
name of the place he lives at ; and what do you
think he said V

^ I am sure I don't know, Algernon,' replied
the girl, looking innocently at her brother.
MVhat did he say?'

'Muriel.'

Yes, Algernon.'

You do not understand. I mean that Mr.
Lymington said, "Muriel' Don't you think

that looks as if there was still a little — what do
yoii call it? — pressure on the brain, you know I'

'Perhaps he was dreaming,' returned Muriel,
demurely, who, though she blushed somewhat,
did not lose her composure ; ' dreaming about
yesterday you know.'

Perhaps you are right,' said Algernon,
thoughtfully. ' I think he did doze a little sometimes
when I was talking to him ; but the blind
was drawn on account of his headache, and I
could not see very well. I daresay you are
right;

I am sure 1 am,' replied Muriel, with an air
of great decision. ^ And if 1 were you I would
not suggest to any of the others that Mr. Lymington
is off his head ; they will only laugh at
you.'

Muriel's suggestion was so far true that if
Randle was not actually asleep when he gave
the answer which so naturally surprised Alger-non,
he was between sleeping and waking, and
hardly conscious of what he said. But 'Muriel'
was the clue to his thoughts, and herself the
substance of them.

After Dr. Popjoy had seen him on the following

morning, assured him of his sympathy,
and told him that, if all went well, he would,
perhaps be able to leave his room on the next
day but one. Handle resolved to get up forthwith.
So he summoned his attendant, and took
a hot bath, followed by a cold douche, which so
soothed his aches and raised his spirits that he
felt quite fit to go downstairs. Guided by a
hint from his man that the ladies often spent a
part of the morning in the library, and that, in
any case, he would be very quiet there, he proceeded
to the apartment in question. It was a
noble room, stored with literary treasures of
priceless value ; for the Avalon library was a
family heirloom, and the most famous collection
of books and manuscripts in the county.

Kandle, with his arm in a sling — wearing a
skull-cap to conceal the wound on his head, and
leaning heavily on a stick, which gave him the
appearance of an invalided soldier returning
from the wars — pushed open the door and entered.
A lady sat in a cozy little chair near the
fireplace, bending over a book, in the reading of
which she was, or seemed to be, so deeply
absorbed that she did not observe the opening

of the door, and the soft Turkey carpet on
which he trod rendered Handle's footsteps inaudible.
Although her back was turned to him
a single glance sufficed to show that the lady
was Lady Muriel. There was no mistaking the
golden hair, the exquisitely-shaped head nor
the long white arm, destitute of ornament (for
Muriel's attire was generally of almost Quaker-like
simplicity), which rested on the table by
her side.

Randle went nearer — near enough to see
that although an open book lay on her knee,
and her fingers touched its pages, her thoughts
were far away ; and, judging by the direction
of her glance, she seemed to be intent rather
on watching the flickering flames of the fire
than studying her author.

Good morning, Lady Muriel,' said Eyed Lymington,
softly.

You, Mr. Ry winston !' exclaimed the girl,
with a start that threw the book into the fender
and almost made a holocaust of it. 'Oh, how
imprudent I The doctor told papa this morning
that you must stay in bed at least till
Saturday, and here you are downstairs.'

'And feeling all the better for it. My aches
seem to have left me already. I can rest downstairs
quite as well as up, and you have no idea
how much pleasant it is.'

But standing is not resting. You must sit
down at once — here, in this fatifeidl'

And Muriel with her own hands wheeled up
the easiest arm-chair in the room, placed a rest
for his foot, and commanded him peremptorily
to sit down, a command which Ran die was nothing
loth to obey.

He was hardly seated when his letters were
brought in ; but, as he could not use his right
band, he was obliged to ask Lady Muriel's help
to open them.

How will you answer them V she asked,,
when the opening was finished and the reading
was done.

Really I don't know,' said Randle, ' unless I
engage a private secretary. Is there anybody
you can recommend for the post?'

Will you deign to accept me as your private
secretary, Mr. Ry winston f returned Muriel,
with a smile, yet very earnestly. ' I have

often acted as papa's amanuensis, and I like
writing letters.'

• You are very kind. I accept your offer with
pleasure. But we must settle the terms, you
know. What salary do you require ? Don't be
afraid of asking, for whatever you ask I will
give.'

'I ask you not to make absurd suggestions,
then. I am indebted to you for my life, and
yet you talk of rewarding me for writing a few
letters for you?' replied Muriel, with an indignation
not wholly assumed. 'Come, I am
ready ;' seating herself at a writing table.

Among the letters which had to be answered
was one from Kalouga laying that he had
heard of a man eminently qualified to act as
assistant to Robert during Randle's absence in
London. He was a Swiss of the name of Auf der
Mauer, whose acquaintance Kalouga had made
when he was joining in the mill at Moscow.
He had received a superior education, Kalouga
said ; was thoroughly conversant with commercial
matters and the English language ; a good
book-keeper ; and, from his experience at Moscow,
fairly acquainted with factory economy.

In short, just the man Randle wanted. Aiif der
Mauer was presently in the employ of a large
house in London, but, not liking the situation,
he had written to ask Kalouga if he could find
him some more congenial occupation.

I can answer for his probity and capacity,'
wrote the Russian, in conclusion, ' and as the
recommendation comes from me it may not be
superfluous to mention that Auf der Mauer, who
belongs to a highly respectable Swiss family, is
neither a revolutionist nor a member of any
secret political society.'

What a strange name !' said Lady Muriel,
after she had written Randle's letter in reply,
which conveyed a request to Kalouga to tell the
man to come to Redscar at once. ' Auf der
Mauer : that means on the wall.'

Yes, it sounds like a name with a history
behind it. I have heard or read somewhere
that there are several such quaint designations
in Switzerland. Im Thun, Im Busch (in the
bush), and so forth, and their owners are as
proud of them as if they were titles of nobility.
But I am afraid Kalouga's friend will not often
get called by his right name at Redscar. lie

will have to be content with Mauer, or some
Lancashire version of it, I think.'

Then there was a long talk about Dora and
Kalouga, followed by a discussion as to how the
letters were to be signed; as to which it was
finally agreed, anaid some laughter, that the
writer should subscribe them 'Randle Lymington,
his mark,' Randle touching the top of the
penholder, while Muriel made the cross which
served for his signature. All this took time, and,
when the gong sounded the hour of luncheon,
the secretary was not more than half through
with her work.

Never mind,' she laughed, ' we must finish
afterwards.'

The other members of the family were as much
surprised to see Red Lymington as Muriel had
been. The earl appeared pleased that Randle
had taken his cure into his own hands. Lord
Lindisfarne had a poor opinion of doctors. They
Avere all more or less humbugs, he observed, and
Dr. Popjoy was perhaps the biggest humbug of
the lot. Nobody seemed surprised that Muriel
had helped Randle with his letters. She often
helped her father With his, and was considered

to possess a particular talent for correspondence.


It thus fell out that the member for White-brook
and his amateur private secretary were
occupied three or four hours every morning in
the library ; moreover, as Muriel could not very
well answer letters without reading them she
soon knew a great deal about Handle's affairs,
in which she began to take a lively interest, and
between whiles there was necessarily a good
deal of conversation. The two learned more of
each other's views and characters, likings and
disliking, in a few days of this sort of intercourse
than they could have learned in a
twelvemonth of casual meetings 'in society'
It was fortunate from this point of view, that
Randle's arm was an unconscionably long time
in getting well. Long after his head was
healed, and he had ceased to limp , he complained
of the aching of his arm and the weakness
of his hand, and continued to carry both ina
sling. As for Whitebrook, if it had not been
for his letters, he might have forgotten it altogether,
and only the pleasure he experienced in
employing Lady Muriel as his amanuensis in-vol.
III. F

duce him to answer them. He watched her
closely, and he came to have a confident hope
that his love was returned. But he shrank
from ascertaining the truth. He feared to break
the charm. She might love him, yet not sufficiently
to brave the opposition which he anticipated
from the family. Now he saw her everyday,
spent hours with her in the closest intimacy,
and the more he saw of her the more
did he find in her to admire, and the more indispensable
did she become to his happiness.
Life without her would not be worth living, he
thought, and he knew that the day he declared
his love he must either be accepted as the future
son-in-law of Lord Lindisfarne or leave Avalon
Priory a rejected suitor, probably never to
return.

But the time came when the issue could no
longer be evaded. A sprained arm is not incurable.
Lady Maude smiled sarcastically when
she asked Handle if it still pained him, and the
countess began to look very dubious when the
member for Whitebrook and his charming secretary
entered the dining-room at luncheon

lime after their labours in the library. Handle
saw this, and determined to tale the final
plunge without further pausing on the brink.

The usual procedure, when the business of
the day began, was for Muriel to open the letters
and hand them to Randle, who sometimes
read them aloud, sometimes gave them to his
amanuensis to read for herself. One morning,
the last on which Muriel was to perform her
secretarial duties, there came a letter from Dora.
After reading it silently through, Red Ryviug-
ton passed the missive to his companion. It
was a long gossipy letter, containing nothing of
importance except the postscript, which ran
thus : —

I hope you have given Lady Muriel the souvenir
with which I charged you.'

Really Mr. Lymington said Muriel, with
well-acted indignation, after she had read the
letter, ' I must take you to task. Is this souvenir
something your cousin gave you for me
before you left homes'

»Itis.'

And you have kept it all this times

f2

I have kept it all this time.'

You dare to confess it I AYhat have you to
say in arrest of judgment f

Nothing. I throw myself on your mercy.
I plead guilty, and ask forgiveness for my
fault.'

On one condition only will I forgive you.'

I accept the condition beforehand, whatever
it is.'

It is that you give me this souvenir at
once.'

As the words left her lips, Randle, stooping
down, touched them with his.

Mr. Lymington I' cried Lady Muriel, really
surprised, and with a becoming attempt to
appear really indignant.

1 most humbly crave pardon, Lady Muriel.
But the gift Dora sent was a kiss ; and you
insisted on having it, you know,' said Red
Lymington, with a smile. * I would have given
it you sooner if I had dared.*

Then he drew her to him and continued in alow,
intense voice that trembled with emotion i
Oh, Lady Muriel, Dora divined that I loved
sou. And the love that was born when I held

you in my arms up there in the Furca Pass, as I
hold you now, but which, deeming it hopeless,
I tried to crush and forget, has revived in full
force, and gone on increasing every hour since
I came to Avalon. And though you should
punish my presumption by never speaking tome
again, though I should have to leave your
father's house this very day, never to return, I
must speak out. Muriel Avalon , you are dearer
to me than all the world besides. You are
my life, my love, my queen !'

She put her arms round his neck, she raised
her beautiful eyes, bright with unshed tears of
happiness, to his.

You say I am your life,' she murmured,
who has so much right to it as you have '?
Did you not save it? And, Randle dearest,
when you saved my life you won my heart. It
is yours and only yours.'

Then Randle drew her still closer to him,
and kissed her again — this time on his own
account.

But what will your father and mother say V
he asked, after a long, delicious silence. * Will
they be for or against?'

'Papa will be for; he likes you. He has
little pride of caste, and he could not, if he
would, do anything to make me unhappy. But
he is greatly influenced by my mother, and she
is very proud, and anxious for her daughters to
make great matches. Still I think, with papa
on our side, and when she knows that my happiness
is at stake, even she will sanction our
engagement. Speak to papa first. But whatever
comes, Randle, I am yours. Never, never
swill I be another's.'

There were no letters written that morning.
The lovers talked of themselves, their hopes
and fears. Randle told Muriel how he still
cherished, as a precious keepsake, the bunch of
forget-me-nots that she had thrown him from
the window at Brigue. She told him how she
had resolved, in the event of their not meeting
again, to live and die a maid, and how she had
never for an instant been deceived as to his
cousin's identity. She felt, the moment she
saw Deep Handle, that he wasn't the man who
saved her life, and when she found that he
remembered — or knew — nothing of the conversation
on the Furca road, nor of the

parting at Brigue, suspicion became certainty.

I knew from my own heart she said, ' that
my Mr. Lymington (as I always called you to
myself) could not have forgotten what passed
between us at that time so momentous in the
lives of both.'

When the family met at luncheon the earl
invited Randle to go with him to the home
farm, where some extensive improvements were
in progress ; for he had discovered that his
guest was a very fair amateur engineer,
and that about most practical matters he
had valuable ideas. And Randle, reading-assent
in the eyes of his betrothed, cordially
accepted the invitation, which he hoped would
afford him an opportunity of telling Lord Lindisfarne
what had come to pass.

CHAPTER VI

WHAT THE EARL SAID.

Candle had already discovered that his
-^^ host, if not a very busy man, had at least
a great deal to do. His income, though considerable,
was not so large, relatively to his outgoings,
that he could afford, even if he had
been disposed, to trust the management of his
affairs altogether to paid agents. He held frequent
consultations with his steward, looked
keenly into details, and suffered nothing of importance
to be done on any of his estates without
his sanction. He acted, in fact, as a man
who regards property rather as a trust than a
chattel should act. He had, moreover, a large
home farm, which when he was at Avalon he

visited every day, and virtually managed.
"With politics Lord Lindisfarne did not much
concern himself. He never spoke in Parliament,
and thought his duty as a legislator sufficiently
discharged by voting with his party on important
occasions.

Handle and the earl spent nearly the whole
of the afternoon on the home farm. As Lymington
and Sons possessed a home farm of their
own, bought by the present proprietor's grandfather
with a view to supplying the Redscar
Avorkpeople with pure milk and good butter at
reasonable prices, Randle had given some
attention to husbandry, and was fairly conversant
with the theory and practice of agriculture.
There was thus at least one comprehensive
subject in which the peer and the cotton
spinner took a common interest, and which
rendered their companionship mutually agreeable.
As, moreover. Lord Lindisfarne was
putting up new farm buildings, re-arranging his
machinery, and going in for steam cultivation
he took frequent occasion to consult his guest,
and profited much by his advice.

It was not imtil they had set out on their

walk homewards that Eel RyvingtoD, albeit
constantly on the watch, found an opportunity
of turning the conversation to the subject which
Jay nearest his heart.

I am glad you take so much interest in
these matters,' observed the earl. ' T was under
the impression that you manufacturers were so
occupied with your own special business that
you gave little thought to anything else, and
least of all to farming.'

'Nothing is easier,' said Randle, with a sm-ile,
'than to get hold of a wrong impression. Before
I came to Avalon, for instance, I was under
the impression that large landowners led comparatively
idle lives, and left the management
of their estates to others. But I find that you
are almost as sally occupied as myself, and look
after your business of land-letting as keenly as
I look after mine of cotton manufacturing.'

You are quite right ; it is a business. And,
when a man lives by the land, the least he can
do is to give it his personal attention. A good
landlord makes good tenants ; that is ray experience.
I consider it is a man's duty to do all
he can to secure them, and when he has secured

them to keep thei. How much land did
you say you had on your own hands at White-brook
?'

Oh, a mere nothing compared with your
home farm. About seventy acres.'

Mostly grass, I suppose V

And a few roots. We have tried wheat as
an experiment, but it does not answer very
well. Oats do better. Bat ours is essentially
a dairy farm.'

You have a good market for your milk and
butter, of course.'

So far as demand goes we could not have a
better. But we only sell to our own work-people,
and charge them no more than my
grandfather used to do fifty years ago — a shilling
a pound for butter, twopence a quart for
new milk, and when we kill a cow as sometimes
happens, we sell them beef at sixpence.'

Very good of you, I am sure ; but how
about the result ? You must lose heavily.'

Oh, dear no. Our farm account generally
balances, and that is all we look for. The
prices we get from the hands are, after all, not
very much less than many farmers get from the

dealers ; and we have certain, advantages that
ordinary farmers do not enjoy. The land was
well bought, the interest of it represents a very
reasonable rent, it is in excellent condition, and,
as the hands fetch their own supplies, we are at
no expense for carriage. We might, of course,
fairly demand much higher prices ; but we like
to do all we can in a reasonable way for our
work people. We live by them as you live by
your tenants , and, as a good landlord makes
good tenants, so a good master makes good
hands ; and I do think we have the best set of
hands in all Whitebrook, and the most contented.'


I don't wonder they are contented when
you let them have beef at sixpence and butter
at a shilling a pound,' laughed the earl. ' Still
I think you are quite right, and I daresay in
the long run you lose nothing by your liberality.
But to return to our muttons, which in this instance
is my farm. When do you think you
can draw out that plan which you were good
enough to promise me for utihsing waste steam
for drying hay and corn V

Oh, it won't take me long. I will try to doit

to-night. As I told you, a fan will be an
essential part of the arrangement. Wind dries
more than heat, you know.'

'It is an excellent suggestion, and I am
greatly indebted to you for making it. I wish
you were nearer to me, Mr. Lymington. You
are an admirable counsellor.'

I only require your permission, Lord Lindisfarne,
to be very much nearer to you.'

Only require my permission to be very much
nearer to me!' replied the peer, looking both
surprised and puzzled. ' Oh , I see ' (with the
air of a man who feels sure he has hit the
right nail on the head) ; ' you like this neighbourhood
— everybody likes this neighbourhood
and you want permission to build on my land
By all means ; I shall be delighted. Choose
any site you like, and '

'I am going to ask you for something far
more valuable — to me, at least — than all the
land you have, Lord Lindisfarne,' interrupted
Red Lymington.

God bless me ! Something far more valuable
than all the land I have !' exclaimed the
earl, as he turned round and stared his guest

full in the face with a more surprised and
puzzled look than before. ' What can that be V

'Your daughter, Lady Muriel.'

^ Oh, that is it, is it?' said Lord Lindisfarne,
drily, as he resumed his walk. 'Does Muriel
know of this V

She does, Lord Lindisfarne. If I had not
won her heart I should not have ventured
to ask for her hand. I am fully aware of the
great disparity in our rank ; and Muriel's love,
and the fact that her happiness as well as my
own is at stake, are my sole excuse for making
a request which I fear you will deem very presumptuous,
as I acknowledge it is. Yet, if I
know myself. Lord Lindisfarne, there is no
other ground — none personal to myself, I mean
on which 1 am unworthy to become her husband
and your son-in-law. True, I am not a
rich man, as riches are counted now-a-days.
On the other hand, I am not a poor man. My
father left me a very fair fortune ; I have already
somewhat increased it, and my prospects are
good '

We will not go into that now, if you please,
Mr. Lymington,' interrupted the earl. ' You

are a gentleman, you love Muriel, and you
would not, I am sure, ask her to marry you
unless you had the means of giving her the
position which your wife ought to occupy.
Personally I have a great regard for you. AVe
all owe you a heavy debt of gratitude, and
there is no man of ray acquaintance to whom I
would more willingly give one of my daughters
than yourself. I waive the difference in rank.
It exists, but to urge it against you were both
ungracious and ungrateful, and I waive it. I
am not sure, however, that Lady Lindisfarne
will see the matter in the same light, and my
consent must be contingent on hers.'

but surely. Lord Lindisfarne, if you give
your consent the countess will not withhold
hers.'

'I am not so sure about that, Mr. Lymington,'
said the earl, with a slight but-expressive
grimace. ' Wives are not always as complaisant
with their husbands as might be desired, and as
you may suppose. They have opinions of
their own sometimes. And the countess had
other views for Muriel. She hoped to arrange
a marriage for her with Guy Merlin — Lord

Mastadon's eldest son, you know — a distant
relative of ours. She might not succeed, it is
true ; but ladies are apt to mistake their intentions
for accomplished facts ; they do not always
take into account the possibility of failure
and I am afraid she may be rather difficult ta
manage.'

'Is Muriel acquainted with this project?'

I do not think so ; and I may go so far as to
say, Mr. Ryviugton, that I will never be a party
to forcing a daughter of mine into a marriage
which she dislikes.'

Then I may count on your good offices with
Lady Lindisfarne , for I am sure Muriel will
never be persuaded to '

Marry anybody but yourself said the earl,
completing the sentence. 'I understand. That
is a consideration which will doubtless have
great weight with the countess — with both of
us, in fact. I will talk the matter over with herat
once, Mr. Ryviugton, and you shall have
your answer as soon as possible. But don't be
too confident.'

The earl was wise in making this reservation,
for he had a keen recollection of several prior

schemes of a domestic if not matrimonial
character which, until submitted to the more
critical understanding of his wife, seemed to
him altogether unexceptionable.

As the two men, who were walking through
the park, emerged from a coppice in the neighbourhood
of the Priory, they caught sight of a
robed figure in the path before them. It was
that of Muriel, whom they shortly overtook.
After a few words had been exchanged, Handle,
reading in the eyes of his lady-love a wish
to be left alone with her father, dropped
behind.

Is this true, Muriel,' said the earl, drawing
his daughter's arm in his, * that Ry winston has
been telling me — that when he saved your life
you lost your heart.'

I don't think he put it quite in that way,
papa ; but I am sure he told you only the simple
truth. I cannot recall the exact moment
when — when T lost my heart,' said Muriel, firmly,
though with downcast eyes ; ' but I love
Handle very, very dearly, and I can never love
anybody else.'

Has she heard anything of the Guy

VOL. III. G

Merlin project, I wonder V thought the peer.

And when you talk to mother you will tell
her so, will you not V continued Muriel. ' She
might think otherwise — that I have accepted
Candle out of gratitude. But that is not so. I
am too grateful, and esteem him too much, to
marry him without truly loving him.^

'That settles the matter,' said Lord Lindisfarne
to himself. * She has heard.'

After a little further conversation, the earl,
who could never refuse his daughters anything,
gave his consent to her engagement with Red
RyvingtoD, and undertook (though with a few
inward qualms) to make it all right with the
countess. He even congratulated Muriel on
her choice, and wished her every happiness.

As they entered the house, Randle joined
them.

'I am going to speak to Lady Lindisfarne,
Candles said the earl, calling him for the first
time by his Christian name. ' Perhaps you had
better be somewhere about. She may want to
speak to you herself, you know.'

We will both be in the library, papa returned
Muriel. 'And, papa dear,' (whispering).

'do not keep us longer in suspense than you
can possibly help.'

The earl nodded, and went in search of his
countess, and the lovers betook themselves to
the library.

Muriel had heard of the Guy Merlin project.
Maude, whom she had taken into her confidence,
had told her.

'sly sister teases sometimes,' observed Muriel,
' but she is very good. She likes you very
much, and quite approves of our engagement.
As for Guy Merlin, I do not think that, even if
I had never known you, I should have been able
to care for hai. He is very good, but he has
neither ideas nor energy. I have thought,
sometimes, that he is so good because he has
not the energy to do wrong. But whatever he
was, dear Randle, I could never love and respect
him as I love and respect you.'

To so kind a speech there was only one possible
answer, and Handle gave it in true lover-like
fashion.

Do you know, dearest,' he said, a few minutes
later, 'that I have had some misgivings
about asking you to share my comparatively

g2

lowly lot ? You will find a great difference.
Redscar is not Avalou, and I cannot offer you
an establishment even remotely approaching it,
either in extent or magnificence.'

You will be at Redscar, won't you V she
asked.

Except when I am in London.'

And you will let me go with you to London
sometimes, will you not T

Handle swore that they should never be
separated for a moment, that wherever he Event
she should go.

That is all I ask,' she said, with a tender
look and a loving caress. ^If I am with you I
shall be happy, and I shall like Redscar for your
sake. You must live your own life, and I shall
live it with you. I care no more for grandeur
than you do. I mean to look after your work-people
and take an interest in all your pursuits.
You will let me go with you to your works and
teach me all about electricity and cotton spinning
and that, won't you dearest T

Red Lymington, whilst smiling at his lady-sweetheart's
simplicity in supposing that he
could teach her ' all about electricity and cotton

spinning and that,' and rather doubting if her
presence would be altogether favourable either
to business or research, declared, as in duty
bound, that nothing would afford him greater
pleasure than to have her company in his counting
house and laboratory all day long.

The conversation had lasted the greater part
of an hour, although to the lovers the time
seemed much shorter, when the butler, an old
fellow who had grown grey in the service of
the family, and had a shrewd suspicion which
way the wind lay, entered the library and informed
Randle, in a confidential undertone, that
Lord Lindisfarne begged the favour of Mr. Lymington's
company in his lordship's room.

CHAPTER VII.

WHAT THE COUNTESS SAID.

rriHERE was a look ofauuoyaDce on Lord 
disfarne's good-natured face, and au angry
glitter in Lady Lindisfarne's eye, from which
Randle inferred that the earl and countess had
either come to no resolution whatever, or that
their decision was unfavourable to his hopes-they
had, in truth, been unable to agree as to
the answer which should be given him ; for
albeit the peer, for the first time in their married
life, had declined to be guided by his wife
in a purely domestic question, he had not succeeded
in persuading her to view the matter ashe
viewed it, and yield a graceful assent to
Randle's suit. She had set her mind on her

daughter marrying the Honourable Gnv Merlin,
Who, she was sure, had a liking for Muriel, and
she contended that for an Avalon to marry a
manufactm-er would be something like a degradation.
This the earl warmly disputed. A
mesalliance it might be, but not to an extent
that rendered it inadmissible. Similar matches
were made every day. If Lymington had a
sister with a fortune of £100,000, he said, the
countess would be delighted to accept her as a
daughter-in-law. Dukes' sous went into trade
now-a-days, and Lymington, though a manufacturer,
was a gentleman and a member of
Parliament. He had, moreover, saved Muriel's
life, and the earl had Muriel's own word for it
that she loved Randle and would marry nobody
else.

Love !' said the countess, impatiently ; ' say
rather a girl's romantic fancy, of which a little
firmness would soon cure her. And 1 am sure
Mr. Lymington would not press a suit which he
knew we could not countenance.'

'You know better, Eleanor. Muriel is a girl
with considerable firmness of character ; she
possesses a spirit as high as your own, and I

am quite sure of this, that, unless she herself
dismisses him, Kyviugtou will never give her

lip.'

In short, Lord Lindisfarne, who had taken a
great liking for Handle, and was persuaded
that he would make Muriel happy, showed unwonted
resolution, and the countess was driven
from one point to another until she had nothing
to urge save a doubt as to Handle's means.
She could not possibly approve, she said, of
Muriel engaging herself to a man as to whose
pecuniary position they were quite in the dark.
To this the earl replied that he believed Ry winston
was in easy circumstances and had a good
business, and suggested that the doubt could
easily be solved by calling Randle in and letting
him give an account of himself.

This was the state of things when Randle
appeared on the scene.

The countess, who was before anything a
lady, quickly smoothed her ruffled feathers and
waved him urbanely to a seat. After mentioning
that she and the earl had been discussing
his proposal to Lady Muriel, and remarking on
the shortness of their acquaintance and the

rapidity of their courtship, to which Ran die
made a suitable reply she inquired if he was
aware that Muriel had no present fortune, and
that, owing to the Lindisfarne property being
so strictly settled, the earl would be able to
leave her very little at his death.

1 ask for no fortune, Lady Lindisfarne,' said
Randle, promptly ; ' and, not only so, I am prepared
to make settlements.'

I am glad to hear that,' replied the countess,
graciously", though her words were not without
sting. ' Settlements are so necessary, especially
when one is exposed to the vicissitudes of
business.'

There is not much fear of vicissitudes in our
case was the rather proud answer. * The concern
of By winston and Sons has been in existence
more than a century, and it was never
stronger or more likely to endure than at this
moment. But I am quite of your opinion,
Lady Lindisfarne, that when a man marries it
is his duty to make special provision for his
wife and those who may become dependent on
him. I can settle £20,000 on Lady Muriel for
her separate use. Then there is the sum of

£10^000 settled by my father on me and my
family if I should have any. I shall be fm-ther
entitled on my mother's death to a moiety ot
£lO,OOOj my interest in which I propose to include
in the settlement. That will make altogether
a sum of £35,000, which , well invested,
would render us in a great measure independent
of the vicissitudes you speak of. As touching
business, I may explain that my capital account
in the concern (and everything is taken at a
very low valuation) stands at something over
£70,000. Taking one year with another my
share of the profits will average, I daresay,
£7,000, and our profits are more likely to increase
than diminish,'

A very satisfactory statement, I am sure.
Your frankness merits our warmest thanks, Mr.
Lymington,' said the countess, seemingly much
gratified. ' What do you think now, Reginald V

What do 1 think now?' answered the earl,
rather nettled at the apparent imputation that
he, not she, had been the spoke in the wheel.
What I have thought from the first, that it is
our duty to approve of Muriel's choice and welcome
Mr. Lymington as her future husband.'

'I think the same, and'(offeriDg Red Ravings
her hand) ' I wish you and Muriel every happiness,
Handle — I shall call you Handle now,
you know. She is a dear good girl, and you
may well be proud of having won her love.
Yours will be a real union of hearts, and such
unions, I am sure, offer the best promises of true
happiness in married life.'

Handle acknowledged her ladyship's compliments
and complaisance in fitting terms. He
was by no means certain, however, that he owed
her much gratitude ; he shrewdly suspected that
his settlements and his profits had been far more
potent in procuring her consent than any merits
of his own.

After a little further conversation Randle
asked leave to withdraw. He wanted to tell
Muriel the good news.

By all means,' said the countess ; ' and you
may bring the child here, Randle. I must not
be the last to congratulate her, you know.'

Muriel was brought by her lover and congratulated
accordingly. Their relation as an
engaged couple being thus officially recognised,
the Ute-a-Utes in the library suffered no interruptions

their happiness was complete, and everybody
seemed content. Randle, it is true, began
to hint that it was time he went back to White-brook,
but his sweetheart did not find much
difficulty in persuading him that he could stay
just a day or two longer — it was always a day
or two — especially as she continued to help him
with his correspondence.

But everything has an end. The time arrived
when the demands of duty became too imperative
to be ignored, and Red Lymington was
compelled to hie him home.

CHAPTER Vii

EPISCOPAL COUNSEL.

TT came to pass, some ten days after Handle's
-^ recognition as Muriel's fiance, that the
Bishop of Aside and the Hector of Avalon
were invited to lunch at the Priory. Just as
the Right Reverend Father in God concluded
saying grace one of the footmen brought the
member for Whitebrook a telegram. Ran die
laid it on the table.

'Pray open it, Randle. Telegrams are not
like letters, they generally require immediate
attention,' observed the countess, who, womanlike,
was burning to know what the message
was about.

After reading the despatch Randle handed

it to Muriel, who on a sign of acquiescence from
her lover passed it across the table to her
mother. It was from Bentley, inquiring if it
would suit Mr. Rjvington's convenience to be
present on the following Saturday at a demonstration,
whereby the working men of White-brook
proposed to celebrate his return to Parliament
and the Liberal victory in which they
had borne so important a part.

'You will have to accept, I suppose?' said
the earl, after he also had perused the message.

Yes; the invitation is one which I could not
well refuse, though I have no great liking for
these demonstrations.'

but you will not need to go away until the
day after tomorrow,' murmured Muriel.

Not until the night after tomorrow night,'
returned Randle, in a passionate whisper. ' I
shall defer my departure to the latest possible
moment.'

Ah, the telegram is signed by your protege,
Bentley said the earl. '1 was talking to the
bishop about him just before we came in to
luncheon. Do you think he Alas right in his
opinion that the Whitebrook lads, as he calls

them, would throw up their hats for a republic
if they thought it would bring them an increase
of wages?'

No. It may be so as regards some, but not,
I am sure, as regards the great majority of the
Whitebrook work-people. I do not think they
can be so cynical. Bentley as a weaver is altogether
out of his element. He is dissatisfied.
He despises those about him ; and the dissatisfied
are rarely impartial judges. There is,
nevertheless, some truth — more perhaps than
we are aware of — in what he said. I remember
in my school-days being very much startled by
a remark of one of my father's workmen almost
to the same effect. Torr, the man in question,
was an overlooker, one of the best we had—
exceedingly well read and a frequent speaker
at teetotal meetings. We were talking about
the Napoleonic wars, in the history of which he
took a great interest, and I chanced to remark
on the eminent services of Nelson and Wellington,
and how fortunate it was that Napoleon
had been foiled in his design to conquer
England.

"Perhaps you are right in thinking so," said

Torr ; " but I do not see that it has made any
great difference to me. Even if Napoleon had
conquered England, I daresay I should have
been able to earn at least thirty-five shillings a
week, and that is all I earn now." '

What answer did you make T inquired the
earl.

To tell the truth, I was so much surprised
that there could exist an Englishman who did
not feel a pride in his country, and Torr's way
of looking at the question was so novel, that I
had literally nothing to say. It was the first
glimpse I had ever had into the real mind of au
intelligent man of a class lower than my own.'

This Torr was of course a great Radical V
suggested the bishop.

'I do not think he took any part in politics
whatever. It was before the last Reform Bill,
and he had no vote.'

At any rate he was an infidel.'

On the contrary, he was a religious man and
an active Sunday-school teacher.'

« A Dissenter, then V

*■ Yes, Torr was a Dissenter.'

*Ah, I thought there was something. No

Church-bred man could possibly entertain such
sentiments.'

Unfortunately for your theory, bishop, Torr
Alas a Church-bred man. He became a chapel-goes
only because a clergyman whom he loved
was succeeded by one who did not win his confidence
— perhaps because he never tried.'

How, then, can you account for a man so
well off for an artisan, and so exceptionally
intelligent as this Torr, being so devoid of
patriotic feeling V

May not his lack of patriotism have been in
some measure due to his superior intelligence ?
Patriotism, I take it, is a good deal a question
of property. If all of us here were reduced to
the condition of farm labourers and factory
operatives, and our lives were one continual
struggle for existence, I do not think we should
display much public spirit. If we were unlearned,
and believed our catechisms, we might perhaps
accept our fate as a dispensation of Providence.
If we had a little education, and were
therefore more or less sceptical, we should probably
begin by doubting that this was the best
of possible worlds, and end by being desperate-vol.

III. H

Jy discontented and frightfully unpatriotic, like
Bentley and Torr.'

You think, then, that education has a tendency
to make the lower orders discontented V

Under certain conditions I do. Look at
Germany. There is no country in the world
where education is more widely disseminated,
none in which Socialism is more rampant.'

^ Ah said the bishop, gravely, ' Socialism, I
fear, is the great danger of the future. There
is only one remedy for it — religion.'

I do not say you are not right,' rejoined
Kan die. ' But how are you to apply the remedy
'^ Working men, as a rule, go neither to
church nor chapel. The other day I had a sort
of religious census taken at Redscar, from which
it appears that of the adult men in our employ
not more than 1 in 40 attend any place of worship
whatever, and I daresay it is pretty much
the same through all the manufacturing districts.'


'But surely this is a terrible state of things,
Lymington,' observed the earl. * If you are
right, the advocates of education are all Avrong,

and it would have been better to leave the
masses iu blissful ignorance.'

I am not sure that it was blissful,' returned
Kandle, ' and I do not think you could have
kept them ignorant. The masses had learnt
enough to want to know more ; and they are
in the majority, recollect.'

'What is to be done, then, to conjure this
evil of Socialism, which I agree with the bishop
is the great danger of the future V

I am afraid that is a question which it is
beyond my power to answer, Lord Lindisfarne.
My friend Kalouga will have it that all Europe
has entered on a process of social evolution
which will go on until what he calls the redemption
of the disinherited is achieved. But I have
great faith in individual effort and commonplace
expedients. We must try to broaden the
basis of society by reinforcing the ranks of the
"haves" and diminishing the number of the
*' have not," by encouraging thrift and providing
facilities for the profitable investment of
savings. If I were a great landowner, for
instance, I would give every labourer on my

h2

estate the chance of taking, at a fair rent and on
a long lease, a small plot of land sufficient, say,
to keep a cow and grow a few vegetables, and
quicken his energies by securing to him th
value of his improvements.'

By way of giving him a stake in the country,
I suppose ; and what would you recommend
great manufacturers to do ? What is sauce for
the landowner should be sauce for the millowner,
you know.'

'A very fair retort,' laughed Red Lymington.
Well, in most parts of Lancashire factory operatives
have already chances which firm labourers
are far from enjoying. A saving man may
acquire a share in a mill, and if he prefers a
steady interest to a fluctuating profit the joint-stock
companies will take his money on deposit
at four or five per cent. I am not sure, however,
that the Oldham system is the best possible,
yet it is a good beginning, and we can only
arrive at satisfactory results by going through
an exhaustive series of failures. The worst of
the joint-stock plan is that it encourages speculation,
and leads sometimes to chicanery and
disaster. I have been trying lately to think

out a scheme for enabling the thrifty among
our hands to participate in the profits of the
concern without exposing them to the risk of
loss or encouraging them to speculate, but I do
not quite see my way yet.'

'Do you intend to treat on these topics in
your speech at the Whitebrook demonstration V
asked the earl, as he and the bishop rose from
the table.

I do not think so. They are rather subjects
for a quiet lecture than a demonstration. I
must leave social questions aside this time, and
go in for practical politics.'

Take my advice, Mr. Ry winston,' said the
bishop, ' and leave social questions aside, not
only this time but at all times. As I have remarked,
I regard Socialism as one of the great
dangers of the future ; but that is no reason
why we should bring it nearer by talking about
it. There is no safer rule for a public man than
to let awkward subjects alone as long as he
can. Depend upon it, that is one great secret
of success both in Church and State.'

CHAPTER IX.

RED Lymington MAKES A SPEECH AND DEEP
Lymington A SUGGESTION.

BEFORE Randle left the Priory it was decided
that the marriage should take place
towards the close of the London season and in
London. It could not well take place sooner.
It would be impossible for the member for
Whitebrook to absent himself from his Parliamentary
duties in the middle of the session, and
he could not, for several months to come, conveniently
provide the £20,000 he had engaged
to settle on Muriel.

Muriel hinted a desire that their honeymoon
might be spent in Switzerland. She had conceived
a romantic wish to revisit, in Randle's
company, the scene of their first memorable

meeting, a desire with which Randle was of
course only too happy to promise compliance.

She drove with him to the station.

'Be sure to send me a paper containing a
report of your speech,' she said, before they
parted. * I agree with all you said when the
bishop was here. We are too much wrapped up
in ourselves, and think more of the interests of
our order than the welfare of the community.
I will try to help you in your schemes, dearest.
We will work together. And now promise me
one thing : you must speak in the House.'

When I have anything to say that is worth
listening to, I will.'

Then you will speak very often returned
Muriel, confidently, as if it were quite out of the
question that her lover could possibly say anything
not worth listening to.

'And give my love to your mother and cousin
; and you can tell Dora that I received her
present with much surprise '

And pleasure,' suggested Handle, roguishly.

'Certainly not, Mr. Lymington. With much
surprise and indignation — be sure you do not
forget the indignation. And' (smiling) 'you may

take the present back to her. I decline to keep

it;

It is hardly necessary to say that Randle did
take it back, and something naore.

A few minutes later Muriel was riding homeward
through the fast deepening twilight full
of sweet thoughts, sad at parting with her
lover, yet not unhappy ; for in less than a fortnight
they would meet in London, and his
absence would be rendered tolerable by the
daily letters which he had promised to send
her.

For some time after Red Lymington left
Avalon his mind, as was natural, ran mainly on
Muriel and on the strange fortune which had
made him the betrothed husband of Lord Lindisfarne's
daughter. His thoughts went back
to the very beginning of their acquaintance — to
the fateful call of the bells as he lay sleeping in
the Furca Pass — to his first sight of Muriel, as
she stood up, terror-stricken, in the doomed
carriage — to the terrace at Brigue and the
withered bunch of forget-me-nots. He dwelt
fondly on every incident of their courtship, from
his declaration in the library to their parting at

AvaloD. He could still see her as she stood,
beautiful and bright,' waving her last adieux ;
and the fortnight which was to elapse before
he could see her again seemed to him of portentous
length. But even a lover's day-dream
cannot last for ever and as sober reason resumed
her sway his reverie became a little less
rose-coloured, and, as if to remind him that here
below there is no such thing as unalloyed
happiness the shadow of a cloud came to mar
the perfection of his joy.

He began to fear that in promising to settle
£20,000 on Muriel prior to their marriage, he
might possibly have promised more than he
could perform consistently with his duty to the
concern. A month or two previously he had
arranged for the erection of another mill which
would involve a considerable outlay, and this,
in addition to the £20,000, might be more than
the concern could conveniently spare, and conduct
its operations on the firm's traditional
principles of taking no credit and incurring no
debts. If things went well — if profits continued
fairly good and orders plentiful — he anticipated
no difficulty ; yet there was always the off

chance that they might not, and the contingency
rather troubled him ; for he felt certain that, if
the money were not forthcoming. Lady Lindisfarne's
consent, and probably Lord Lindisfarne's,
would be withdrawn.

Randle found his mother, whom he had informed
of his engagement only the day before
his return, in a tremor of mingled delight and
dismay, delight that her son had formed so
brilliant a connection dismay at the idea of
becoming mother-in-law to an earl's daughter.
But after Randle had described Muriel's character
(of course making her out to be only a little
lower than an angel) she was greatly comforted,
and came to the conclusion that they would be
sure to get on very well together. Mrs. Lymington
could not, however, bring herself to
view the financial part of the arrangement with
entire approval. It did not seem to her in
accordance with the fitness of things that the
money should all come 'from their side;' and
Lord Lindisfarne's inability to dower his
daughter greatly lowered that nobleman — and
the aristocracy generally — in her estimation. If
she had spoken her mind (which, out of consideration

for her son's feelings, she discreetly
refrained from doing) she would probably have
said that, how great soever might be the honour
of an alliance with the house of Avalon, Randle
would have acted more wisely had he chosen a
young lady of his own rank, ' with a nice fortune,'
rather than a peer's daughter whose portion
had to be provided by the concern.

As for Dora, she was overjoyed beyond
measure at the turn things were taking. She
demanded of her cousin if she had not proved
herself a true witch, and privately informed
Kalouga that it was she who had made the
match. When Randle informed her that Muriel
returned her souvenir, she laughingly told him
to present her with another of the same sort,
which I warrant she will keep,' said Dora.
Randle of course promised compliance, and took
charge of the commission on the spot.

The working men's demonstration was a
great success, and Red Lymington, as he had
agreed, sent to Lady Muriel a report of his
speech, which greatly pleased her. One passage
of it especially struck her. It caused, also,,
some sensation among his constituents.

It happened that one of the speakers by
whom he was preceded, a certain Mr. Thoroughpin,
had much to say about ^ the overweening
power of the aristocracy and our never-ending
struggle with the landed interest.' Of this
speech it was hardly possible for Randle to
avoid taking some notice; but, contrary to
general expectation, instead of applauding, he
held it up as a warning.

*■ It is a great mistake he observed, ' to confound
words with things, to continue a cry
after it has ceased to possess a meaning. I am
not aware that now, Whatever may have been
the case in the past, the aristocracy — by which
I suppose is meant great landowners — exercise
a predominant influence in this country. It appears
to me that in this sense a great manufacturer
or a great ironmaster is just as much an
aristocrat as a great landowner, whether titled
or untitled. Capital is always a power, and the
chief difference between them is that, while the
capital of one class is invested in land, the
capital of the other is invested in buildings,
machinery, and stock in trade. One privilege
only a landowner possesses that a millowner

does not enjoy ; if the former mismanages ibis
business be comes to grief and his property
passes into more competent hands, while, so far
as the majority of milliners are concerned,
a like cause does not produce a like effect.
This is the result of a law equally unwise and
unjust, which I hope will soon be repealed. All
classes, as classes, are selfish, and prefer their
own interest to the interest of the State; but,
owing to the operation of causes which I do not
propose on this occasion to discuss, there is no
government in existence, save, perhaps, that of
Switzerland, so free from class influence as that
of England. You have not here, as they have
in the United States, whole industries levying
blackmail on the community, and protected
from competition at the cost of the commonwealth.
These are aristocracies if you will, and
where they exist there can be no real freedom.
After all, the difference between one capitalist
class and another is as nothing compared with
the difference between those who possess capital
and those who possess none — between landowner
and labourer, manufacturer and artisan.
But this is a subject which cannot be advantageously

discussed at the fag end of a speech.
I will content myself now with suggesting to
my friend, Mr. Thoroughpin, that it is not our
mission as Liberals to combat this or that interest
or class, but to convince public opinion.
If we can do that wee shall win, and, though
every aristocrat , millocrat, and plutocrat in the
realm be against us, our views will prevail. If
we fail in this, we shall fail in all, even if everyone
of us were acred up to the lips, and consoled
up to the chin.'

When, a few days later, the Morning Post and
several society papers announced that a marriage
had been arranged between the senior member
for Whitebrook and one of Lord Lindisfarne's
daughters, Mr. Thoroughpin (who had a keen
recollection of the way in which he had been
taken down a peg at the demonstration), and a
few others of Randle's supporters, shook their
heads in a portentous fashion and opined that
he had found a Delilah at Aval on, and that his
Radical locks had been shorn by a woman of the
aristocracy. But the majority of his constituents
where decidedly pleased. They looked upon his
betrothal to an earl's daughter as reflecting

credit ou the town. It was regarded as being
equal in that respect to the winning of the
Trafalgar Cup by Deep Lymington's greyhound,
Fleetfoot ; and there was a general feeling that
Whitebrook was rising in the world. When the
story (graphically written and slightly embellished)
of his first meeting with Muriel found
its way into the local paper (Randle could never
tell how, but he strongly suspected Dora of
having furnished the facts and suggested the
article), the Whitebrookers were more delighted
still, and the new member's popularity, especially"
with the fair sex, became greater than ever.
They looked upon him as a hero of romance,
and he received daily applications — sometimes
from buxom factory lasses in person — for photographs
of Lady Muriel and himself.

All this, as may be supposed, was gall and
wormwood to Mr. Lymington of Deepdene.
Ashen asked about his cousin's approaching
marriage, as he often was, he could hardly command
himself sufficiently to refrain from insulting
his questioner.

I know nothing either of my cousin or his
concerns,' was his stereotyped answer on these

occasions, given with a curtness that showed
how unpleasant he found the subject.

You have not been wide awake this time,
Lymington,' said Tom Cliviger, the first time he
saw his friend after the news had become the
town's talk. ' What have you been doing tolet
your cousin kale' (get before) 'you in this
fashion ? Why didnH you put up for one of
Lord Lindisfarne's daughters V

This observation was not without intention,
for the yarn agent had a shrewd suspicion of
the truth, and felt somewhat annoyed that
Deep Lymington had not made a confidant of
him.

'Confound my cousin,' exclaimed the other,
furiously. ' He's always ealing me. I wish he
was far enough. I wish he had never been
born. I wish he was dead, and I was trampling
on his grave. I say, Tom, if you can put
a spoke in his wheel — do him an ill-turn — anything,
in fact, to take the shine out of him and
stop this marriage. I'll — I'll refuse you nothing.
I'll pay any sum that you like to
name.'

Wild talk, Lymington,' said the yarn agent.

smiling at this outburst of impotent rage.
How can I put a spoke in your cousin's
wheel V

I don't know. Get him into a bad speculation
and ruin him.'

Get Red Randle into a bad speculation ! I
should like to see anybody try. It would take
a sharper fellow than me, or sou either, to do
that. You may not like your cousin, but you
cannot say he's a fool.'

'But Bob is. At any rate he is conceited,
impulsive, and inexperienced, and when his
brother goes to London he'll be left in charge,
you know. Try to let him in for something.
It will do as well. I'll make it worth your
while all the same.'

The yarn agent smiled again, shrugged his
shoulders, and changed the subject. He had
nothing against Red Lymington, and did not
feel in the least disposed to make himself the
instrument of Deep Randle's revenge. The
risk would be great, and the advantage
doubtful ; for, although the squire of Deepdene
reade large promises, there was no security for
their fulfilment. A contract to ruin a man can-vol.
III. I

not be reduced to writing and enforced by a
lawsuit.

The suggestion, nevertheless, sank deep into
Cliviger's mind, and was destined to bear evil
fruit. He had formed a very decided opinion
as to the future course of the cotton market.
He thought prices would rise, and wanted to
make a combination, or ring, for buying heavily
and holding largely. But he lacked means to
put 'the big pot on' unaided; and the friends
whose help he could command were not
especially strong in the matter of credit. But
if he could persuade Kyviugton and Sons, a
house whose word was as good as their bond,
and whose bond was as good as bank-notes, to
join in the operation, he might carry it out on
almost any scale he liked. At any rate, he
thought so. He knew quite well that any proposal
of the sort laid before Handle would meet
with contemptuous rejection. But Randle was
going to London, and his brother, as Deep Lymington
had observed, was young, impulsive,
and inexperienced. Bob might perchance be
hooked in,' thought the yarn agent ; and before
the day was over he had made up his mind

to ' try it on.' He knew himself to be gifted
with considerable powers of persuasion, and he
concluded that, on the whole, the odds were in
his favour.

i2

CHAPTER X.

KED RAXDLE DOES NOT COME HOME.

ri^HE fortnight tilsit passed between his return
-^ from Avalon and his departure for
London was a busy time for Red Lymington.
His first and most pressing duty was
to reorganise the management of the business
and take such measures as might most
effectually ensure its well-being during the
period of his absence an absence that, with a
few short intervals, would probably extend over
several months. Next in importance came the
arrangements connected with his cousin's marriage,
which was to take place in a few days.
Dora's choice of him as one of the trustees
under her settlement involved frequent consultations

with Kalouga aud Mr. Leamington, and
much reading of legal documents. His accession
to the House of Commons had greatly increased
his private correspondence, aud he
allowed nothing to hinder him waiting this
daily letter to Muriel. One way and another,
Randle at this time, to use a Lancashire phrase,
was uncommonly ' throng,' and had quite
as many irons in the fire as he could keep hot.

He found that he had done a good thing in engaging
Kalouga's friend, Auf der Mauer — how
good a thing the Swiss was to learn later. So far
as appearance went, he did not at all answer to
the ideal Randle had formed of him. Instead
of a rather dried up specimen of a middle-aged
clerk, with formal manner and a foreign air,
Auf der Mauer was under thirty and looked
younger. He had an almost round face, dark
hair, and keen grey eyes, while his rich complexion
and stalwart limbs showed that the mean
was mountain bred. But there was not much
of rustic simplicity about him. He had received
an excellent education at the Polytechnique of
Zurich, and, besides his experience in Russia, he
had served a mercantile apprenticeship at

Hamburg and Havre, and passed several months
in a London financial establishment of the first
rank. He spoke English well, and wrote it
better ; he excelled both as a book-keeper and
correspondent ; and, after half an hour's talk
with him. Handle decided to place Auf der
Mauer at the head of the office department of
the concern, and agreed to give him the salary
he asked — high though it was — without demur.
He was to take entire charge of the accounts
and correspondence, and furnish Randle with an
elaborate weekly report of sales and purchases,
payments and receipts, consumption and production
— of everything, in short, that it behoved
the head of a business to know, who meant,
though at a distance, to keep the reins in his
own. hands. Robert, assisted by two or three
of the senior overlooker, was to take the technical
direction of the concern, and attend the
Liverpool and Manchester markets. The only
counting-house work that his brother requested
him to undertake was the signing of cheques,
and the custody of the bank-book, duties which
in accordance with the traditional usage of the
firm Randle had hitherto himself performed. But

he would have done better ashe had eventually
bitter reason to know, if he had included these
also in Auf der Mauer's avocations. In the
event of Bob's absence, the Swiss was to take
the supreme command.

These arrangements made, Handle thought
he might go to London and attend to his parliamentary
duties, and devote himself to Muriel,
with a quiet mind. He would be able to control
the business, except as to details, almost as
effectively as if he were at Redscar, whither
(besides running down to Manchester two or
three times a week), he intended to make frequent
flying visits. The possibility that anything
could go seriously wrong without its
coming forthwith to his knowledge hardly so
much as occurred to him. It was a source of
further satisfaction to Randle that Kalouga
had undertaken to continue the electrical experiments
and keep him well advised as to the
progress he might make. The Russian intended
also to give a portion of his time to the
healing art; but exclusively among the poor,
-and gratuitously.

Two days after Dora's marriage, Red

Kyvingtou left Redscar for the metropolis.
It required only a short experience of life in
London to show him that every moment of his
time would be occupied, and that his visits to
Lancashire were likely to be few and far between.
Parliament alone kept him well employed
; for, having a high ideal of dut', he desired
to discharge faithfully the trust conferred upon
him by his constituents. The epoch, moreover,
was a history-making one, and questions of
great moment in which he took a deep interest
were to the fore. Then he had to write almost
daily letters to Whitebrook and Manchester,
and the study of Auf der Mauer's weekly reports,
and the correspondence arising therefrom,
made further heavy drafts upon his time. All
this he had anticipated ; he had also counted on
making frequent visits to the Lindisfarne mansion
in Grosvenor Square, and spending any
leisure moments he might be able to command
in the society of his fiancee. But what he had
not counted on were the social calls which his
friendship with the Avalons brought upon him.
How could he refrain from going to the opera
when he knew Muriel was going? How refuse

an invitation to a party at which he knew she
was to be present '^ And invitations were showered
upon him to an extent that made the mere
answering of them burdensome. For the
story of the adventure in the Furca Pass had
found its way from the obscure Whitebrook
journal in which it first appeared, via Manchester,
to London, and a London paper, famous for
its encyclopedia learning and the splendour of
its diction, made the incident the subject of a
leading article in which the member for ^Yhite-
brook was eulogised for his courage, and Lady
Muriel Avalon, after having been complimented
on her beauty, was praised for her spirit, 'in
rising superior to the conventional distinctions
of mere rank and the shallow sophistries of
fashion, and bestowing her hand where she had
given her heart.'

About the same time Randle, greatly to
Muriel's satisfaction, made a speech which
attracted some attention. True, it was not
much of a speech , nor the subject to which it
related of great importance. But it was one
which Red Lymington thoroughly understood.
He spoke briefly, and to the point, and as he

ventured to express approval of a government
measure which the majority of his party condemned,
the minister complimented him on his
independence, and declared his intention of
profiting by several of the 'valuable suggestion
which the honourable member for White-brook
had been good enough to make.'

Although Lady Lindisfarne was much pleased
with her future son-in-law's growing celebrity
(it seemed to make the match less of a mesalliance)
she strongly objected to the article in the
Penny Trumpet ; for the writer thereof, doubtless
with a view to rhetorical effect, had somewhat
exaggerated the difference in rank between Lady
Muriel and her lover.

To read it,' said the countess, ' you might
suppose that Mr. Lymington was a low-born
factory operative, whereas he is a gentleman by
birth and education.'

Li speaking of Randle's means, it pleased her
ladyship to make an ingenious use of that convenient
but misleading word ' about.' Mr. Lymington's
income, she said, was ^ about ' £10,000
a year, and the settlement he proposed to make
about £40,000.

In this there was probably no conscious exaggeration,
for there are sanguine souls in the
world who look upon £7,000 as very little short
of £10,000, and regard an eventual £35,000 as
almost equivalent to a present £40,000. Stories,
especially when they concern money, never
lose in the telling; and before Randle had been
many weeks in London rumour credited him
with a fixed income of £20,000 a year, and the
possession of a large amount of ready money.
The result of his reputation for wealth, of his
celebrity as the hero of a romantic adventure,
and a rising member of Parliament was so
great a multiplication of his engagements that
he found it quite out of the question to make
any visits either to Manchester or Whitebrook.
He might, it is true, have occasionally gone
thither between Saturday and Monday, but
Sunday (when he sometimes lunched and invariably
dined at Grosvenor Square) was precisely
the only time when he had the opportunity
of enjoying a quiet tete-astute with his
lady love — and love won the day. Yet not always
without a struggle, for almost every Monday
morning Handle vowed to himself that he

really would run down to Eedscar on the following
Saturday. But as the week wore out
his resolution wore with it, and Sunday found
him again at Grosvenor Square. And no wonder.
Those Sundays were Elysium. What
joy to accompany Muriel to church, to watch
her as she bent over her bible, to sit near her
and kneel beside her ! Never in all his life before
had Randle been so devoted a church-goer.
And then the hour — often extended to two —
they were permitted to spend together in one of
the drawing-rooms, the evening hymn which
they always sang together before parting, the
last embrace, the walk home with the savour of
a kiss still lingering on his lips, the feeling as if
Muriel's arms were still around him, and the indescribable
elation arising from a sense of requited
love — how was it possible to exchange
delights like these for Redscar and business?

Nevertheless Handle's conscience was not free
from reproach. Nobody knew better than he
how difficult, or , rather, how impossible, it is to
control a large business entirely by correspondence,
and even his business correspondence was
beginning to suffer from the pressure of his

social and political engagements. He could not
blind himself to the fact that he was leaving
the management of his affairs too much to
others that he was letting the reins slip from
his hands ; and it was often, as his mother would
have said, borne on his mind that he was failing
in his promise to his father to make the interest
of the concern his chief care. But he consoled
himself with the reflection that the session would
not last for ever, and that after his marriage he
could give the whole of his time and attention
for several consecutive months to the business
of the firm. And all seemed to be going on so
swell. Auf der Mauer's weekly reports were
satisfactory ; there was no cloud in the commercial
sky ; profits, though not brilliant, Avere
fair ; and he would be able, without strain, to
raise the £20,000 for Muriel's settlement.

Yes, all seemed to be going on well ; so well,
indeed, that when the Easter recess came, Randle,
who had resolved to spend it at Redscar,
changed his purpose and went with the Avalons
to Brighton.

CHAPTER Xr.

DORA HAS NEWS.

WHILE he was at Brighton Red Ryvingtoii
was further re-assured by a letter from his
mother iu which she said that, so far as she
could ascertain, all was well with the business.
True, she added, the burden seemed almost too
much for Robert, and that he was looking rather
pale and anxious. But this Randle attributed
to his mother's inveterate pessimism. She was
quite capable of seeing signs of anxiety where
none existed, and as for the qualification, 'sofar
as she could ascertain,' that was nothing,
for Mrs. Lymington rarely, if ever, committed
herself to a positive statement. If his mother
could say that ' all was well ' all must be well,

SO Randle wrote her a comforting letter, laughed
at her fears, and promised, as usual, to make an
early visit to Redscar.

Mrs. Lymington was nevertheless very uneasy,
and her son's letter did not console her much.
It did not seem to her in accordance with
the fitness of things that the head of a business
should rule it altogether from a distance, and
never before had the active management been
entrusted to a stranger and a lad only just of
age. But she never complained, not even to
Dora, and, with one exception, scrupulously
kept her own counsel. She sometimes relieved
lier mind by talking to Lydia Fulshaw, but the
old woman had been a faithful friend and
retainer of the Lymington family for three generations
and was as close as the grave.

Lydia was very old — how old she could never
be induced to tell. Her husband had been an
overlooker at Redscar in the time of Randle's
grandfather, and, in consideration of his services
and her merits, the firm had voted her, more
than thirty years before, a small but sufficient
pension. In her younger days Mrs. Fulshaw
had been a woman of such strong personality that

her name was given by common consent to her
progeny, and even to her husband. As often as
not he was called ' owt Lyddy's mon,' sometimes
even ' owt Lyddy ;' while her children
were invariably spoken of as 'Jack, Bob, Ben,
Mary, and Sally o' Lyddy^s,' as the case might
be. As Lydia was a notable housewife and
an excellent nurse, her services (before she
became too infirm to render them) were
always acceptable at the hall and the house
on the occasion of a birth or a death, or whenever
her help could be useful. She had thus
acquired an intimate knowledge of the past
history of the family ; and Red Randle's father,
and Randle himself, always enjoyed a talk with
Mrs. Fulshaw about old times.

Three or four times a month Lydia paid ]airs.
Lymington a visit, when she was received in
that lady's own room, for their talk was often
of a confidential sort, and it was the custom on
these occasions to allow the old body the solace
of a glass of gin and a pipe (borrowed from the
coachman). Mrs. Lymington did not care much
for gill, but she generally took a drop to keep
her visitor in countenance, and always gave

her a little ia a bottle to take home with her.

On an afternoon several weeks subsequently
to Randle's trip to Brighton his mother and her
ancient guest were enjoying their usual gossip
with its usual accompaniments.

'My mind misgives me much, Lydia,' Mrs.
Ryviugton was saying. ' They say all is well
with the business, but Mr. Randle has been
away five months — five months and never once
come near — and Robert looks more anxious
than I like. I do hope there's nothing wrong.'

Why should you be anxious, Mrs. Ryviug-
ton ? Young folks Avill be young folks, you
know,' answered Lydia, who, though an excellent
listener, was not as quick of apprehension
as she used to be, besides being a little hard of
hearing. 'Mr. Randle is only having his fling
a bit in London. He'll settle down when he
gets wed, you see if he doesn't. That is the
way with the Lymington — they always settle
down when they get wed.'

But my son Randle has always been so
steady and attentive to business,' returned Mrs.
Ryviugton, rather nettled at the suggestion
that Randle was ' having his fling a term

VOL. III. K

"which in Whitebrook signified drink and dissipation.
* He never gave me a heartache in his
life, dear lad — until — until now.'

'Ay, ay, I daresay. But I never knew a Lymington
yet as didn't have a fling i' one shape or
another. It may be drink or it may be lasses.
One or t'other it's sure to be — unless it's both.
Ay, ay, I mind me well when th' young master'
(Red Lymington's grandfather) 'left
school and began to go about th' factory. There
were fine carrying on, there wor that. When
ony on us had brewed, he liked nowt better
than to come down wi' two or three of th' chaps
and sup all th' brew. He was a rare un, the
young master was ' (gleefully, as she took a
sip of her gin), 'a rare un for seeing and a
rare un for work. There was never his marrow
on Redscar ground. You should ha' seen when
the top rasevoy ' (reservoir) ' burst, and broke
into th' bottom spinning-room — how he waded
i' th' water, ay, and swum, and wrought and
wrought to that end till he welly got his death.
But he got into a scrape at last as made th' owt
master insist on his getting wed, and wedding-cured
him. He had been into th' town one Saturday

night and taken a sup too much, and when
he wakened up next morning soon after five, he
clean forgot as it wor Sunday mornings wondered
why th' factory bell did not ring. It was
a word and a hows wi' th' young master, and
th' idea had no sooner come into his head than
he up and rung th' bell hissed ; and he went on
ringing it welly ' (nearly) ' twenty minutes, till
James — that was my husband — run down to
th' factory and stopped him. And then there
was a bonny do. Folks came running fro' all
th' country side, three fire engines came galloping
fro' Whitebrook, and five or six from other
places. And folks kept coming all day ; for it
got out as th' Redscar factories had all gotten
burnt down. We made it up to say as it was
our James — as he had rung th' bell in a mistake
when he was a bit th' worse for liquor. But,
bless you, nobody believed us. Everybody
knew it wor th' young master. Th' owt
master and th' owt missis wor fearful angry,
as you may well suppose; and they were that
shamed as they could not face up at church fora
month or more. Th' owt master went fair
stamping mad; and he said as if the young

k2

master didn't get a wife most thing, and behave
hissed, he'd have nowt more to do wi' him.
And he did. Three months after he was wed
to Miss Strange ways fro' Garden — your husband's
mother, ma'am, and fro' that day forrard
he was as steady as a growing tree. Take my
advice, Mrs. Lymington, and get Mr. Randle
wed ; he'll never settle down gradely till he
does. Why don't he and that young lady ashe's
courting buckle to? I've never known
much good come o' waiting when a lad and a
lass is of one mind. I've known ill come of it.
Get 'em married as soon as you can, ma'am.'

They have to be married in less than three
months, Lydia, all being well, and very thankful
I shall be when the time comes. I never
could have believed that Randle could be so
bitten by a girl as he is by Lady Muriel, fov I
am afraid it is she more than his Parliament
work that keeps him so much in London. It
will be a mercy if no harm comes of it. No
business can long prosper when the head is
away, and the burden is too heavy for Robert ;
I am sure it is. Don't you think Robert is
looking very pale and anxious, Lydia V

*May I come in, please?' was the rather singular
response to Mrs. Lymington's query ; but
it did not come from Mrs. Fulshaw ; the speaker
was Dora, who , without waiting for an answer
to her question, walked into the room, and,
after kissing her aunt, shook hands cordially
with Mrs. Fulshaw.

What ! Drinking gin again, Lydia !' she
exclaimed, jestingly. ' How dreadful ! Don't
you know that it's slow poison V

Yes. I'm drinking gin again, Mrs. Kalouga,'
said the old woman, slowly, as she stirred the
mixture with her spoon ; • and I am smoking a
pipe o' baccy as your aunt has got for me froth'
coachman ; and I drink a drop o' gin and
smoke a pipe every day. I'm a lone woman
now, and they are th' only comforts as I have
left, Mrs. KaloTiga ; and if so be as you lose
your husband and get to my time of life, you'll
find a drop '

'Don't say any more, Lydia — please don't,'
cried Dora, horrified by the suggestion that,
whatever time of life she might get to, she
could possibly find consolation for her husband's
death in gin and water and tobacco. ' 1 was

only teasing, you know. I'm sure a glass now
and again does you good. Dr. Kalouga says
that old people really require a little stimulant,
and I sent a bottle of port wine yesterday to
old Jenny Tasker. She has been rather ailing
lately, and my husband prescribes for her.'

Ay, I yard on it. You sent it by Harry o'
owt Matt's, did not you V

Yes, I think that is the name they give him
Jenny's son-in-law, you know.'

'Ay ; but Jenny has never clapped her e'en'
(eyes) ' on that port wine yet. Harry supped it
all afore he got home — every drop on it.'

Oh, the wretch !' exclaimed Dora, indignantly.
' I never heard of anything so wicked.
And he actually said how grateful they all were
for our kindness, and how careful they would be
of the wine, and give Jenny just two small
glasses a day; and I told him to fetch another
bottle in a week.'

Oh, he'll fetch it ; there's no fear o' that,'
said Lydia, with a grin. ' Harry o' owt Matt's
would go to th' world's end in his barefoot feet
for a bally ful o' red port.'

He will get no more from me, at any rate,

the sot. 1 will either take the next to old
Jenny myself or send it by one of the servants.
And when Harry the son of Matt comes, as I
suppose he will, I shall give him a good talking
to, and try to bring him to a sense of the
enormity of his conduct.'

Ay, ay ; you may talk as much as you like,'
muttered Lydia, ' but Harry will sup red port
whenever he can get how on it, for all that.'

'Never mind about Harry of old Matt's now.
What news have you brought, Dora?' put in
Mrs. E-yvington, rather impatiently, for she inferred
from the time and manner of hsr niece's
visit that Mrs. Kalouga had come to tell her
something.

News that will surprise you , aunt. It never
rains but it pours, you know, and this morning
Sergius had news from Siberia and St. Petersburg,
and I had news from London. I will
begin with my news. My brother has found a
wife at last, or rather a lady who is willing to
be his wife — a lady of title, I mean.'

Indeed ! And who is she V

The Dowager Lady Conjure.'
' She is an old woman, then V

Oh, dear no. At any rate, Randle says she
is not more than five and twenty, and very
good-looking. A dowager must be a widow, of
course; but widows are not always old, you
know. That is all my brother says about her.
He could hardly say less, and I have written to
the other Randle to find out what sort of a person
she is. I hope for my brother's sake she
is really a lady, and will make him a goodwife.'


Ay, ay,' mumbled Mrs. Fulshaw, who seemed
to be disposing herself for a short snooze. ' Get
him wed ; no mon is good for much till he
gets wed, 'specially if he be a Ryvingtou.'

Well, I am very sorry,' said Mrs. Ry winston,
with a sigh.

'Sorry for whom, aunt?' returned Dora, with
a smile. ' For my brother, or for Lady Con-acre.'


I am sorry because your brother will get all
the estate. Nothing can prevent him now, I am
afraid.'

Oh, that does not trouble me at all, aunt.
I gave up the estate long ago — in intention —
and quite finally when I married Sergius. Indeed,

1 have enjoyed half the income much
longer than I expected. I am quite content, I
assure you.'

Do you really think he will keep it all — that
he will give you no part of it?'

I think it is very likely. He is very fond of
money, and he thinks the estate is his by right.
The marriage is to take place soon he says, and
he wants Sergius and me to go to the wedding ;
but I am not sure that we shall be able.'

Why V

Because we are very likely going to St.
Petersburg.'

Going to St. Petersburg ! Oh, Dora, surely
not !' exclaimed Mrs. Ry winston, in a tone of unfeigned
horror.

Only for a visit, aunt ; not for good said
Dora, smiling at her aunt's dismay. ' Sergius
has had a letter from his brother. The Tsar
has pardoned, or, rather — for there was nothing
to pardon — has given him permission to leave
Siberia and join his regiment at St. petersburg"*


That is very good of the Tsar , isn't it V

In the same sense in which it is good of a

burglar who robs your house not to cut your
throat, it perhaps is. At any rate, Sergius does
not seem to be very grateful. But he wants to
see his brother very much, the more especially
as Peter is bringing a wife and family with him
from Siberia ; and he has written to the Russian
Government, through the ambassador at London,
for leave to make a short visit to St.
Petersburg, and if the answer be favourable we
shall go.'

*0h, Dora, my child, it is a terrible undertaking
!' said Mrs. Hyvingtou, who seemed much
moved. 'Have you no fear that they will be
putting Sergius in prison again, like they did
before; or perhaps — or perhaps' — hanging him,
she was going to say, but the words died on
her lips.

Sergius does not seem to have any fear,' replied
Dora, turning pale at her aunt's suggestion.
If the Government grant him a safe conduct
through the ambassador, he is confident they
will respect it ; and he wants so much to see
his brother. Just think how long they have
been parted, and how many things have happened
since — how they have both suffered!'

'Please God, Sergius may not be mistaken!'
said Mrs. Ryviugton, earnestly ; ' and that he
will come back to us safe and sound. But
surely you need not go, Dora ? It is like a
tempting of Providence for two to run into
danger.'

If there is danger, it is my duty to share it
with my husband. My place is with him. Oh,
aunt, how could I let Sergius go alone T

When do you think of starting V asked Mrs.
Lymington, who perceived from her niece's answer
that any further attempt to dissuade her
from her purpose would be of no avail.

Oh, we do not know yet whether we shall
be allowed to go or not ; but we shall leave for
the continent in three or four days. Sergius
has received a letter from an old and dear friend
at St. Petersburg, who expects shortly to be in
Switzerland, and as, before he leaves, Peter
Kalouga will probably have arrived, he may
bring news of him; so Sergius has agreed to
meet this friend, who is also a great friend of
his brother, at Geneva or Vevey.'

And so you are going to Switzerland V

Yes, we shall stop a few days in London,

and of course call upon Randle, and spend perhaps
a week in Paris, by which time Sergius
thinks his friend will have arrived in Switzerland.'


My Randle, you mean V

Of course I mean your Randle.'

Oh, Dora, give him my best love. And you
will write and tell me how he is looking, won't
you, dear, and if all seems well with him ? And
and would you mind asking him how he is
off for shirts ? I asked him in my last letter,
but he does not answer. Perhaps he has
forgotten.'

Certainly, aunt. But would it not be better
for you to come with us , and then you can see
for yourself how he is looking, and mend his
shirts for him ? Come, now ; let us give him a
surprise.'

No, no, no, Dora,' replied Mrs. Lymington,
with a triple shake of her head , and looking
unutterable things. 'It is bad enough for
him to be away. If I went away too, and anything
were to happen, I could never forgive
myself.'

CHAPTER XII.

LADY Conjure.

INSTEAD of proving, as he had confidently
anticipated, a social success in London,
Deep Randle proved so decided a social failure
that he experienced great difficulty in suiting
himself with a wife. He was not even popular
with his own party, for, although he won their
gratitude by gaining Whitebrook for them at his
first election, he incurred their disfavour by defeating
]mr. Mellodew at his second — as was reported,
and generally believed — by unfair means.
Then the story of his personation of his cousin in
some inscrutable way got wind, and albeit, owing
to the reticence of those concerned, it could
not be authenticated the rumour did not tend.

to improve his reputation. For these reasons,
or from pure ill-luck, the greater part of the
session passed away before Mr. Lymington was
afforded an opportunity of effecting the object
for which he had chiefly entered Parliament.
True, he received occasional invitations from
the leaders of his party, and made the acquaintance
of some people of title ; but, as he quickly
found, there is a great difference between meeting
a man at dinner, and marrying his sister or
his daughter.

To make matters worse, Deep Randle, owing
to the cost of the two elections, a rather profuse
expenditure, and some losses on the turf, was
extremely short of money, and the singular
character of his interest in the Redscar property
rendered it unavailable, save on onerous terms,
as security for a loan.

He was in this condition of impecuniosity and
despair when he found a friend in need in the
person of Charles Alexander M'M'Mullen, Esq.,
M.P. for Rorytown, and made the acquaintance
of the Dowager Lady Conjure.

By profession Mr. M'M'Mullen was an auctioneer
and local political agitator, in which capacities

he bad developed so wonderful a power of
speech and strength of lung that, on the recommendation
of the leader of the Irish
Irreconcilable, the patriots of Rorjtown
had sent him to Parliament ; and as he was
always ready to disco-se at any length on
any subject, and at any time, and could do
without sleep or a clean shirt for a week, he
soon became a distinguished member of his
party, and a thorn in the side of the House of
Commons.

Deep Handle met this gentleman quite by
accident, and if, during the conversation that
followed, Mr. M'M'Mullen had not alluded more
than once to ' me cousin Lady Conjure ' (it was
an allusion he was very fond of making), the
acquaintance would probably have been dropped
the day it began, for the only thing the two
men had in common was a liking for whiskey.
When, however, the junior member for White-brook
found out (by consulting his ' Peerage
and Baronetage) that Lady Conjure was a
young widow, he took an early opportunity of
inviting the member for Rorytown to dine with
him, an invitation which Mr. M'M'Mullen, who

had never been known to refuse a ' square meal'
in his life, accepted with effusion. When they
got well into their third bottle of burgundy, Mr.
Lymington took occasion to hint to his companion
that he should like to make Lady Conjure's
acquaintance.

'Nothing easier,' said the ex-auctioneer, ' I'll
take you down to Bayswater and introduce you
whenever you like. Shall we say tomorrow
night T

Deep Randle said sto-morrow night.' The
introduction took place, and from the reception
accorded to him, and from other circumstances,
Mr. Lymington rightly inferred that he was at
last within sight of his matrimonial goal.

In truth, Lady Conjure had come to London
on an errand similar to his own ; and with the
help of the member for Rorytown, who was as
sharp at business as he was ready of speech,
they were not long in arriving at an understanding.


The late Lord Conjure was an eccentric nobleman
who had been equally notorious as a rack-enter
and for the irregularity of his life. After
h^ had buried his second wife, and passed his

sixtieth year, he fell violently in love with the
fine proportions, rich complexion, and bright
eyes of Kate Sullivan, the daughter of one of
his tenants, and as the only offer Kate would
accept was the offer of his hand, and her father
chanced to have a long lease and could not be
turned out of his holding, the peer, who never
denied himself anything which he could obtain
by fair means or foul, made Miss Sullivan the
third Lady Conjure. She had received a fair
education for her position, and Lord Conjure
engaged for her a lady companion, from whom
she acquired a few superficial accomplishments
and a certain knowledge of the usages of polite
society.

Two years after their marriage Lord Conjure
was shot dead at his own gates. The papers
called it an agrarian murder, but, as the police
could discover no clue to the crime, its real motive
was never satisfactorily determined.

The whole of Lord Conjure's property went
to his heir-inlaw, and the only charge with
which it was burdened in favour of the widow
was an annuity of £500, but enjoyable only so
long as she remained unmarried.

VOL. III. L

This was a great disappointment to Lady
Conjure, for she had no vocation for single
blessedness, and no desire to relapse into the
position from which she had risen. She had a
great wish, moreover, to see something of the
world of fashion ; and when her cousin, Charles
Mullen, after his return for Rorytown, suggested
that it would be a pleasant change for
her, and might otherwise answer her purpose,
to spend a few months in London, she lost no
time in acting upon the hint, and established
herself in the lodgings in Bayswater where Mr.
Ryviugton found her.

It was not a case for any great show of delicacy
; and, when Deep Randle explained his circumstances
and his hopes to Mr. M'M'Mullen, the
latter declared that nothing could have fallen
out better, that Lady Conjure and Mr. Lymington
were made for each other, and that he looked
upon their meeting as simply providential.

In these circumstances, as may be supposed,
there was not much time lost in courtship, and
before Mr. Lymington and Lady Conjure had
known each other two weeks they were engaged
to be married in two months.

CHAPTER XIII.

A BOLT FROM THE BLUE.

rpHREE days after Dora had told her news to
-^ Mrs. Lymington she received a letter from
Mrs. Lymington's sou, saying how delighted he
should be to see her and Sergius in London,
and how the pleasure with which he looked forward
to her visit was shared by Lady Muriel,
who charged him to say that, albeit she had not
yet seen Mrs. Kalouga, she felt as if they had
long known and loved each other and was sure
they would be the best of friends.

Randle also mentioned that he was making
inquiries about Lady Conjure.

On their way to London Kalouga thought it
well to inform his wife of the march her brother
had tried to steal on her cousin, and of the fors
l2

mer's visit to Avalon Priory. He feared that,
if she were not told, her ignorance of the circumstance,
especially in view of her brother's
approaching marriage, might lead to some
awkwardness during their intercourse with the
Avalons, with whom, as he knew from Red
Randle, Deep Randle was a here noire.

Dora was both grieved and indignant at this
new revelation of her brother's baseness. She
declared that she would neither see her brother
in London nor go to his wedding.

It is not nice, quarrelling with your relations,
if you can help it ; there are black sheep in
every family, you know,' said Kalouga, philosophically.
' We will make our stay in London
very short, and our approaching visit to the
Continent provides you with a good excuse for
neither going to the wedding nor calling on
Lady Conjure — if you would not like to call
upon her.'

'I am sure I should not like. She is only
marrying him for his money, and he is marrying
her for her title. But 1 suppose we shall hear
more about it from my cousin. Do you know,
Sergius, my brother's conduct, his treachery

towards Kandle, his eagerness to possess the
estate by any means, however ignoble, almost
make me wish that he may not obtain it? I
do not covet the property for myself, as you
know, and, if my brother had behaved properly,
I should not be sorry to see it pass into his
hands. But after what you have just told
me '

You would rather your brother did not have
Deepdene, my Dora.'

I am sure he does not deserve it ; at any
rate, not the whole of it ; and Mr. Pleasington
was saying the other day that E-andle is very
much in debt already ; and he thinks, if the
estate goes to him, he will make ducks and
drakes of it. I wish it could go to the other
Candle instead.'

Well, perhaps your brother may not get the
property after all.'

What do you mean, Sergius? If he marries
Lady Conjure — and they are certainly engaged
he is sure to have Deepdene, is he not T

Oh, there's many a slip between the cup and
the lip,' answered Kalouga, carelessly. ' He
has been disappointed before, and he may be

disappointed again. It is always the unexpected
that happens, you know. But we shall
soon be at Euston — let me put your things
together' for you.'

Lady Muriel's anticipation that she and her
frances cousin would become good friends Alas
fully realized. They liked each other from the
first, and during the Kalougas' short sojourn in
London were almost constantly together. Dora
was willing to talk, and be talked to, all day
long about Ran die, a complaisance for which
Muriel rewarded her by sometimes talking
about her friend's husband, and saying how
much she admired him. Sergius was , moreover,
fortunate enough to find favour with Lord
and Lady Lindisfarne and the other members
of the Lindisfarne family.

The evening before their departure for Paris,
Mr. and Mrs. Kalouga were invited to dine at
Grosvenor Square. Among the guests were
two or three members of Parliament, and others
who, when they found that Kalouga was a
Russian and an exile, tried to elicit his views
on the condition of his country. He had to

answer many questions, and to relate some of
his own personal experiences.

One of bis interlocutors ventured to cast a
doubt on the sincerity of Russian revolutionists,
and, quoting from a leading daily paper, expressed
the opinion that they were composed
chiefly of cashiered officers, doctors without
patients, and lawyers without clients — of menin
short, who had failed in life, and who looked
upon disorder and rebellion as a means of
retrieving their fortunes and enabling them to
begin life afresh.

You might as well say the Christian martyrs
who suffered under Nero and Diocletian were
not sincere,' answered Kalouga^ quietly. * Men
do not sacrifice their lives for a cause in which
they do not believe, nor do those who want to
retrieve their fortunes begin a career which is
almost sure, sooner or later, to lead them to
Siberia or the scaffold. A cause that produces
heroes and martyrs cannot be an imposture,
and it cannot perish. If the blood of Christian
martyrs was the seed of the Church, so will the
blood of our martyrs be the seed of Russian

liberty. You do not know of what our Russian
revolutionists are capable — not only strong
men, but weak girls. Let me give you an
instance. I knew three sisters of the name of
Soubotiua. They were young, well-born , gently
nurtured, and highly educated. Filled with
compassion for the sufferings and ignorance of
the common people, they went, with the free
consent of their aged mother, to work in a
cotton factory at Moscow. They lived just as
the others did , wrought at their looms fourteen
hours a day , lived in filthy and crowded rooms
that would disgrace a tramps' lodging-house,
and in summer went about without shoes or
stockings. They taught the poor people to
read and gave them books, told them of the
faults of the Government and the need of
reform, and whenever they could sowed the
seeds of revolution. In the end they were
found out, and with fifty others, whose sole
offence, like theirs, was making a peaceful propaganda,
condemned to a long term of hard
labour. Marie, the eldest and the boldest, did
not long survive the hardships of prison life.
Her sisters are now working out their sentences

in Siberia. If necessary, I could give you
scores of such instances. Whatever else they
may be, our revolutionists are at least in
earnest.'

But do you think or, rather, do these revolutionists,
as you call them, think — for I suppose
you are out of the running — they are going the
right way to work, Mr. Kalouga V put in Lord
Lindisfarne. 'Admitting that there is pressing
need of reform — that (as to which I think there
can be no question) the Russian Government,
next to that of Turkey, is the very worst in
Europe — admitting all this, would it not be
better to submit quietly and wait patiently fora
change that must come than to rush into all
the unknown horrors of anarchy and revolution?'


Oh, Lord Lindisfarne !' exclaimed the Russian,
warmly ; ' you do not know what it is to
live under a despotic Government ; to have no
rights ; to feel that you are not a man ; to be
denied all voice in the government of your
country ; not to be able to speak in company
without measuring your words ; not to dare
write your thoughts to a friend, your own

brother even ; to see people suffering, yet fear
to complain ; to see corruption usurping the
place of justice, yet fear to expose it ; to see
vice successful, yet fear to denounce it. Would
you, if you were a Russian, bow in meek submission
to such a system, make no effort to
overturn it, lift not up your voice to protest
against it ? And even submission is no security
against oppression. My brother did not interfere
with politics. He kept himself studiously
aloof; he was a faithful soldier of the Tsar, yet
he has had to waste five years of his life in
Siberia. My poor sister was as innocent of all
offence against the Government as a babe unborn,
yet she perished in a dungeon. And
there are at this moment hundreds in prison as
innocent as she, hundreds who, like her, will
die untried and unaccused and be buried in
unvisited graves. Do you think educated
people, people who have read and travelled and
thought who know right from wrong, can — I
say can, not will — submit to such a rule ?
Every honest Russian except the most ignorant
revolts against it in spirit, but only the bold
conspire and rebel. And if some go to great

lengths and preach strange doctrines — give
back violence for violence, sounds for wounds,
death for death — who that knows the truth can
blame them ? The blame is with those who
provoked the contest. English people think,
and all the world has been told, that the
nihilists, as they call them , are ruffians and
murderers. They are the most devoted patriots
the world has ever seen. Save in self-defence,
or to punish a criminal whom the law was
powerless to punish, they have never either inflicted
a wound or taken a life. Yet, fearless
and devoted though they are, if they did not
possess the sympathy of their countrymen, if
they did not represent a great cause, they
would be as impotent as they are strong, and
the Tsar might crush them with a nod.'

Lord Lindisfarne gladly left to one of his
guests the task of replying to the Russian's
passionate protest. ^I don't much believe in
the disinterested patriotism of these nihilists,'
he observed to Red Lymington, who sat near
him, ' or in the fitness of the great mass of the
Russian people for freedom. But you cannot
argue with enthusiasts. Argument implies

reason, and enthusiasts are not reasonable.'
The conversation recalled to Handle's mind
all the painful details of Kalouga's story, and
he took an opportunity, later in the evening, of
trying to dissuade him from his proposed
journey to St. Petersburg, as to the expediency
of which he was beginning to have grave
doubts.

What has happened once,' he said, ' may
happen again. They may put you in prison as
they did before, in spite of promises and safe-conducts,
and for your sake, as well as for
Dora's, I should be sorry indeed if further harm
were to befall you.'

Nobody has greater reason than I have to
distrust the Russian Government, my dear
friend, and if I had the slightest fear of treachery
I would not go to St. Petersburg, much as
I want to see my brother. But I have not.
You see they let me go when they might have
kept me, and since that time I have been true
to my word; they have no further cause of
offence against me, and I really cannot think
that the safe-conduct I have asked for, if granted,
will not be respected. But in the course of

a fortnight I hope to meet my friend Autonomy
in Switzerland. He will bring with him the
latest information from St. Petersburg, and, if
I gather from him that there is any probability
of treachery, I promise you friend Lymington,
that I shall not go. For myself it perhaps does
not much matter, but I would not for the
world take any step which might cause unhappiness
to Dora.'

With this assurance Randle was obliged to be
content, and the next evening he bade adieu to
his cousin and her husband at Charing Cross
station. The parting, though not outwardly
sad, was not without an element of pain ; for if
the Kalougas carried out their intention of
going to St. Petersburg Handle could not expect
to see them again for several months ; and, albeit
a journey to Russia is far from being a
perilous undertaking, he greatly feared that it
might prove so in the present instance, and that
Sergius would have reason to regret his temerity
in venturing into the lion's den.

Dora left London without seeing anything of
her brother. For reasons best known to himself
perhaps because he was afraid of coming in

contact with the other Randle — he had kept out
of the way ; and from the information Sergius
had received about Lady Conjure he did not
think it was desirable that his wife should call
upon her.

From the station Red Lymington took a hansom
to his lodgings in Bury Street, whence,
after getting any letters that might have come
for him in the afternoon, he intended to go down
to the House.

He found lying on his table quite a pile of
missives, ' whips,' parliamentary papers, and
one telegram, which he naturally opened first.
It was from Auf der Mauer, and ran thus : —

Sorry to say Robert left this afternoon for
Liverpool, with intention, as I have reason to
believe, of taking passage for America by tomorrow's
steamer. Cause, speculations in cotton.
Very bad business. If you could go straight onto
Queenstown, you might perhaps intercept
him.'

This was a bolt from the blue, indeed, and
when the full import of the message flashed on
his mind, Randle reeled as if he had received a

heavy blow, while great beads of perspiration
started on his brow and rolled down his cheeks
like tears. But, feeling that instant action was
imperative, he pulled himself together, and
wrote an answer to Auf der Mauer on the spot.

Gone to Queenstown ;' it said, * expect me at
Eedscar on Monday.'

Then he wrote a line to Muriel, saying that
important business called him away for a few
days ; scribbled a note to the ' Whip ' of his
party, asking that gentleman to find him a pair
for a week; threw a few things into his dressing
bag, jumped into his hansom, and drove off at
full speed to catch the Irish express.

CHAPTER XIII.

LADY conjure's COUSIN.

liTOBODY, probably, left London that night
•^^ with a more uneasy mind than Red Lymington,
who only an hour before had esteemed
himself one of the most fortunate of men. He
suffered both from anxiety and suspense ; for
Auf der Mauer's message, while hardly giving
a gleam of light, suggested the darkest possibilities.
Randle knew that Robert was impulsive,
but the lad was no fool, and he had never
seen reason to doubt either his loyalty to the
concern or his affection for himself. It could be
no slight cause that had led him to take the
desperate step which Auf der Mauer suspected
he had taken. Could Auf der Mauer be wrong ?
It was possible, certainly, but little likely. The

book-keeper was not the man to send so arming
and significant a telegram without some
grounds to go upon. Randle ahxiost feared indeed,
that there was worse to come. The
message spoke of speculations in cotton, of ' a
very bad business.' Who could have led Robert
into cotton speculations ? For led he must have
been. Some scoundrel, taking advantage of
his facility of disposition and inexperience, had
made a tool of him — used him for his own purposes.
Who could the scoundrel be ? And
Randle ground his teeth with rage, and vowed
all sorts of vengeance against the unknown
tempter. Then he remembered, with a bitter
pang, that he had not been near Redscar for five
months. He saw clearly that the burden he had
laid on Bob had been too heavy for him to bear
that more power had been placed in his hands
than he Alas competent to wield ; and he said to
himself that, if he had only gone to Redscar a
few times, or even met his brother occasionally
in Manchester, this trouble might have been
spared.

In the agony of the moment he perhaps dealt
himself harder measure than he deserved ; for,.

VOL. III. M

after all, his fault was a very venial one. Much
may be forgiven to a man who, under the spell
of a great passion, becomes temporarily oblivious
to humdrum duties. But the world is unfortunately
so constituted that the consequences
of a slight error may be more disastrous than
the consequences of a great crime, and Red Lymington
was apprehensive that his long sojourn
in London, natural and excusable as it might be,
had wrought irreparable evil. Though there
was nothing in Auf der Mauer's message to shove
that Robert's speculations had seriously involved
the concern, the expression ' very bad business '
made him infer the worst. In any event, it was
hardly possible that he would be able to find
the £20,000 for Muriel's settlement, albeit the
matter had gone so far that, only the day before,
he had informed Lord Lindisfarne's lawyers
the amount should be in their hands in the
course of the following month, at which time
the documents were to be ready for signature.
If he should be unable to comply with the condition
on which Lord and Lady Lindisfarne had
consented to his union with Muriel, it would be
quite within their right to withdraw their consent

to the marriage, and even insist on the
rupture of the engagement. The thought was
torture.

And then his mood changed. Hope raised
her head a little. He was perhaps taking too
dark a view of the matter. There might be
nothing worse than the loss or lock-up of a
few thousands and a short postponement of his
wedding day. It was bad policy to meet
trouble half way. He would try to keep up his
courage, cease to anticipate evil and ponder
dark possibilities until he had seen Robert
and AufderMauer and all the facts were before
him.

When Randle arrived at this stage of his reflections
he chanced to turn his head from the
window through which ever since he entered
the carriage, he had been sadly gazing into
the night. As he did so, he became conscious,
for the first time, that he was not
alone, and a voice at his elbow politely inquired
if he would take a cigar.

No, thank you,' he said, absently.

But the question served to rouse him from his
reverie, for the voice seemed familiar to him

M 2

and he glanced curiously at its owner. Yes,
there was no mistaking that coarse hard face,
with the turned-up nose, wide nostrils, long
upper lip, big mouth, unabashed eyes, and high
colour. It was an overbearing, impudent face,
with a wonderful capacity of stare about it ; and
for a minute or more it stared as hard at Red
Lymington as it knew how.

Unless I am greatly mistaken, we are colleagues,
you and I,' observed the owner of this
unpleasant face.

'Colleagues!' exclaimed Randle, somewhat
surprised at the imputation.

Well, we sit on the same side of the House,
if we do not always go into the same division
lobby. You are one of the members for White-brook,
I believe?'

Randle nodded.

The senior member?'

Handle nodded again.

'A most remarkable coincidence that both
members for the borough should bear the same
name. You and the other Mr. Lymington are
brothers, I believe V

Cousins,' replied Randle, who began to be

rather amused at bis colleague's evident determination
to force him into a conversation.

Brother's sons I meant to say. That makes
you cousins, of course. I have the honour of
your cousin's acquaintance, Mr. Lymington.
He is engaged to be married to me cousin,
Lady Conjure.'

God bless me !' thought Handle, for though
he had heard that Lady Conjure was not
exactly nobly born, it never occurred to him
that she was akin to the like of the member
for Rorytown. ' I wonder if she resembles
him?'

Indeed, I did not know you were related,'
he said.

We are first cousins. Her ladyship's mother
was a M'M'Mullen, and my late father's only sister.
The family is one of the most ancient and
respectable in the province of Connaught, Mr.
Lymington.'

After this flourish the member for Rorytown
looked as if he expected a reply ; but seeing
Randle did not seem disposed to make any he
tried another tack.

That is a very fine property your cousin

has at Whitebrook, Mr. Lymington— £12,000
a year, I am told, and rapidly improving.'

It is not bis property,' said Randle, abruptly ;
it is the property of his father's trustees, who
pay over to him half the rental. The estate is
not vested in him at all.'

But it will be when he marries me cousin,
Lady Conjure.'

I suppose so,' said Randle, reluctantly ; ' unless
'

'By the jabers, you surely don't mean to
insinuate that there is a chance of the sister
being left a widow, and marrying a man with
a handle to his name in the next four or five
weeks !' exclaimed the Irishman, excitedly.

Heaven forbid !' said Randle, and then,
tickled by the absurdity of the idea he burst
into a loud laugh in which Mr. M'MuUen
heartily joined.

'But seriously,' urged the latter, 'nothing
but that can stop my friend coming into the
property, if he lives long enough to marry me
cousin, Lady Conjure.'

And does marry her?'

Exactly, and does many her. And I will
see to that, Mr. RyvingtoD.'

This implied, Randle thought, that, in the
event of his cousin trying to back out of his
promise to marry Lady Conjure, he would be
likely to pass a very bad quarter of an hour
with Mr. M'M'Mullen.

In fact, though Red Lymington did not know
it, the member for Rorytown had staked his
fortunes on the marriage coming off at an early
date. Deep Randle, as we know, was hard up,
a circumstance which he one day communicated
to M'M'Mullen as an excuse for not being able to
make that gentleman the trifling advance of
one hundred pounds sterling for the short period
of one calendar month.

Why don't you raise something on your
expectations V asked the patriot, surprised at
this revelation.

Deep Randle explained that a money-lender
to whom he had applied refused to make him
a loan, except on very onerous terms indeed,
on the ground that Mr. Kalouga might conceivably
die, and Mrs. Kalouga marry a titled

husband, before Mr. RyvingtoD had provided
himself with a titled wife.

That's absurd,' observed the member for
Rorytown. *And now that you are engaged
to me cousin, Lady Conjure, there should be
no difficulty. I know a man in Dublin that I
am sure would accommodate you with a few
thousands.'

So the man in Dublin was communicated
with, and a loan of £5,000 arranged at a comparatively
moderate rate of interest. Out of
this amount Deep Randle agreed to lend
M'M'Mullen. £500, besides giving him £200 for
his trouble ; and a further sum of £500 was
to be placed at the disposal of Lady Conjure
for the purchase of her trousseau and the payment
of a few debts she had contracted in
London. The money-lender, who was a cautious
man, as money-lenders ought to be, had
insisted that , in addition to the loan being-made
a charge on Mr. Lymington's interest in
his father's estate, it should be guaranteed by
M'M'Mullen. Not, he said candidly, that he looked
upon that gentleman's signature as being
good for much ; but it would constitute a sort

of pledge of bis good faith , and the accuracy
of the representations he had made on behalf
of the borrower. This condition the member
for Rorytown had rather reluctantly accepted,
and he was now on his way to Dublin to
complete the transaction, and draw the money.
After leaving Holyhead, Red Randle lost
sight of his cousin's new connection, a loss
which, as may be supposed, did not cause lira
any particular regret.

CHAPTER XIV.

TEMPTER AND Tempted.

Then Bed Lymington boarded the Cunard
' liner in Queenstown his keen eye sharpened
by excitement, was not long in detecting
among the figures on the quarter-deck that of
his brother. He saw Robert before Robert saw
him, and although, when the young fellow became
aware of Randle's presence, he turned
deadly pale, he made no attempt to evade
him.

Oh ! Robert,' said-candle, in a low, intense
tone, •' why are you deserting those who love
you ? This is worse than all. Get your things
together, and let us go home.'

Albeit Randle had good cause for anger with
his brother, for the latter had acted very weakly,

and been lamentably lacking in loyalty towards
himself and the concern, he resolved,
before setting foot on board the Bithynia, to
treat the prodigal with all possible kindness
and forbearance, as much because he deemed
this the best policy as because it was most in
accordance with his own feelings. If the position
in which Robert now found himself failed
to bring him to a sense of the error of his
conduct, scolding was not likely to be more
effective. Randle was, moreover, painfully conscious
that his own sins of omission had, in all
probability, rendered possible, if they had not
directly caused, Robert's sins of commission.
It was no time for recrimination ; what they
had now to do was to put their shoulders to
the wheel, and extricate the firm from the
difficulties in which it was almost certainly
involved.

The first question Randle asked his brother
when they were alone together, was naturally
what he had been doing, and why he had runaway.


Robert's story, save for technical details
which would little interest the reader, was

short and simple — a story of cunning and
knavery on the one side, and weakness and
credulity on the other.

Randle had hardly left Redscar when Tom
Cliviger , whom Robert often met at the 'Rainbow
' on going to and from Manchester and
Liverpool, and with whom the firm had an
occasional transaction in yarn, began to talk
to him about operations in cotton, and try to
allure him by telling how much money had
been made, and still could be made, by judicious
buying and selling for future delivery.
Tom had himself ' pulled a lot of money off'
in this way, and he suggested to Bob what a
pleasant surprise it would be to his brother,
and what a fine feather in his own cap, if during
Randle's absence he could add a thousand
pounds or two to the ordinary profits of the
business by ' playing off his own bat.' This
was taking Robert on his blind side, for he was
greatly lifted up by being placed in exclusive
charge of the business : and he had not yet
learnt by painful experience to distrust the fallibility
of his own judgment or doubt the disinterestedness
of other men's motives. The

yarn agent next laid before him a series of
elaborate calculations to show that nothing
could possibly prevent cotton beginning to
rise in price at a certain date, and to go on
rising thereafter for several months. Robert
was greatly impressed by these calculations.
They seemed flawless, and he allowed himself
without much difficulty to be persuaded into
joining a combination for buying cotton — to a
strictly moderate extent — for future delivery.
He did stipulate for a limit, but the paper by
which, on behalf of the firm, he gave Charger
authority ' to operate ' was so ingeniously drawn
that, while seeming to a careless reader strictly
limited, it really allowed the widest discretion.
And the hapless youth did read it carelessly,
or, rather, his confidence in the yarn agent's
honesty was so complete that he accepted his
construction of its meaning with undoubting
faith.

The great charm of the scheme was that no
money would be required. As prices were sure
to go up, the cotton bought to arrive would be
resold before delivery was tendered, and thereby
made to pay for itself. It would be simply

an affair of pocketing the profits, which were
to be divided in certain proportions among the
concerned ; for Cliviger really believed in the
accuracy of his calculations, and thought he
was putting Bob in for a good thing. Two or
three other persons were interested in the combination,
but they were the yarn agent's nominees,
and little better than men of straw. In
short, the speculation was so organised that, if
there were a loss, at any rate a heavy loss, it
would have to be borne by Lymington and
Sons, the only wealthy members of the confederacy
; while, if there were a profit, more
than half of it would fall to Cliviger and his
associates.

When all was in order, the yarn agent began
to put the big pot on.' At first he bought
cautiously; then, as the cotton seemed to be
justifying his previsions by tending upwards,
more largely ; and he went on until he stood
to lose or win a very considerable stake. He
generally gave the name of Lymington and
Sons as his principals, but by way, as he
thought, of increasing the importance of his

own firm, he sometimes gave that of Thomas
Cliviger & Co.

A few of the earlier purchases turned out
well. They were resold at a fair profit, and
Bob began to think himself a good deal cleverer
than either his brother or his father, and to look
upon his elders as having been strangely lacking
in foresight and enterprise.

Then an event or two befell which Mr. Olivier
had omitted to include in his calculations.
A great State, whose circulating medium consisted
chiefly of postage stamps, suddenly resolved
to resume specie payments , and bought
up all the gold it could lay hands on ; and
Prince von Bismarck, in a fit of indigestion,
brought on by excessive indulgence in cervantes
and lager beer, made a warlike speech
in the Reichstag and threatened all Europe
with his displeasure. On this the rate of discount
went up two per cent., everything else
went down, and a few thousand persons were
ruined. The yarn agent, after observing that
nobody could possibly have foreseen such a catastrophe,
and that he wished Bismarck — well, a

very long way off — informed Robert that they
must either sell their cotton as delivery was
tendered, at a severe loss, or hold it. Courage
failed Robert to close the speculation and confess
to his brother what he had done, and he
made bad worse by deciding ' to hold.' But
holding means finding money, and as Charger
vowed he could find none, it devolved upon
Bob to provide all the needful. This he did in
the firm belief that the stress was only temporary,
and that in a few days the cotton market
would be in such a condition that they
might dispose of their purchases to a profit.
But weeks went on, prices did not improve,
and the unhappy youth continually pressed by
Cliviger, drew cheque after cheque until he had
completely exhausted the balance at the bank
(upon which Randle was relying for Muriel's
settlement) and overdrawn the account by
nearly £15,00C. Every cheque, his tempter
assured him, should be the last ; and the more
he became involved the more impossible did he
find it to extricate himself from the toils. It
was hell upon earth, he told Randle, as the
tears rolled down his cheeks ; and at length.

torn by remorse and aghast at the frightful
difficulties into which he had brought the concern
and himself, he felt that if he did not get
away somewhere beyond Cliviger's reach he
must either kill himself or go mad.

His flight was hastened by a discovery of
Auf der Mauer's, who opened a letter asking
for money which the yarn agent had inadvertently
addressed to the Arm instead of to
Robert ; and when the latter went away the
book-keeper inferred , from a hasty remark which
he had let drop and the wildness of his manner,
that he had gone to Liverpool with the intention
of proceeding to America.

Oh ! Bob, do you know what you have done ?
You have ruined yourself and wrecked the concern,'
groaned Handle, when his brother had
concluded this doleful story.

Oh ! surely not, Handle it cannot be as bad
as that !' gasped Robert, almost too agitated to
articulate. ' Dear brother Ran, do forgive met
I have done very wrong, but God knows I did
not mean to do so — and — and the losses cannot
be greater than my credit balance — my share —
you know. I will pay them all ; indeed I will.

VOL. III. N

Do forgive me, Ran. I will pay everything, and
work for you all my life.'

Say no more, Bob,' said Randle, putting his
arms round his brother's neck. ' That expression
was wrung from me in the agony of the
moment. It is true that you have done
wrong, very wrong. But I, too, have failed
in my duty ; and, if you need my forgiveness,
I need yours almost as much. But that
is past ; what we have to do now is to hurry
home, get out a full statement of your transactions
with that scoundrel, and see what
can be done to keep the old ship off the
breakers.'

CHAPTER XV.

DEEP WATERS.

A After a weary and melancholy journey the
-^ brothers arrived at Redscaron the Monday
morning, as Randle had expected. Tired
though they were, they went straight to the
counting-house, and, after sending word to their
mother that they should not be home till late in
the evening, called Auf der Mauer into council,
and with his help proceeded to an examination
of Bob's papers and his correspondence with
Cliviger. The books and accounts were fortunately
in good order. Robert had kept a record
of everything, and, though the analysis of
them was long and laborious, the task was less
complicated than they had anticipated.

The result of the investigation was appals



ling. Instead of having upwards of £20,000
with their bankers, as Randle had supposed,
there was a balance of £15,000 against them.
The aggregate of these two amounts, some
£40,000, had been paid to Cliviger (who had
financed ' the cotton purchases with various
Liverpool brokers) as margins, and the value of
the cotton held on account of the firm reached
a total of £160,000. In addition to this there
were a few hundred bales still to arrive, of
which delivery would have to be taken in the
course of the following month.

I see nothing for it but to suspend payment,'
exclaimed Randle, with quivering lips, after he
had gone for the twentieth time over the
figures, vainly hoping to find in them some
gleam of light.

He spoke to Auf der Mauer, for Bob, overcome
by anxiety and excitement, was in a state
of mental and physical collapse.

Don't lose courage, Mr. Ryvington,^ replied
the clerk. ' There are times when the head of
a firm requires courage as much as the commander
of an army, and this is one of them.
Why should you think of suspending payment ?

Even if all these margins represent loss and I
can show you that they do not, you will still
have a handsome property left.'

That is quite true. But don't you see that
the £40,000 that has been paid and the £10,000
still to be paid will almost exhaust our working
capital, and we cannot carry on business
without capital, you know.'

Some of your neighbours carry on with very
little, though.'

I know they do. They get advances from
their agents ; they are in debt to their brokers ;
they borrow from their bankers. But that is
not the way Lymington and Sons do business,
and, while I am at the head of the concern, Mr.
Auf der Mauer, it never shall be. If I cannot
carry on this business honourably and independently,
as my fathers have done before me,
I would rather — inexpressibly bitter and humiliating
as the alternative would be — I would
rather pull up now, while I can pay every man
his due — and make a fresh start in some new
country.'

I know you have a high sense of honour,
Mr. Lymington, and I admire your spirit. But

don't you think you are carrying your independence
just a little too far? You surely
would not suspend payment — that is to say,
wreck the concern utterly — if you could honourably
do otherwise. Now, I think you can
honourably do otherwise. This forty or fifty
thousand pounds of margins does not represent
a total loss, nor anything like it. Cotton is
firmer already these last few days ; it is almost
sure to go up, I think. A little rise would
reduce the loss to very insignificant proportions;
a good rise would bring you out with
a profit. Look at these calculations and estimates
; they are based on the latest information,
and carefully made.'

So far as that goes, I am of your opinion
answered Randle, after glancing at the bookkeeper's
figures. ' We have the cotton, and
our best policy is to hold it for a rise. It
cannot well fall. But the question is, how?
We may have to hold it for two or three
months yet.'

Not so long as that, I think. With £15,000
more, we could do it and do it easily.'

'No, Mr. Auf der Mauer, that would not be

enough. We want £30,000. You are assuming
that the £15,000 we owe Bargolds will be
allowed to remain. I have a rooted aversion
to overdrafts, and the concern has never been
in the habit of borrowing from its bankers.
Yet I am no blind observer of traditional rules,
and in the present emergency, and so long as
I know that we are far more than solvent I
would not hesitate to keep this overdraft. But
I fear we shall not have the chance. Mr. Bar-gold
Badger has very sharp ears; he is as sure
to hear of ray brother's speculations as we sit
here, and when he does hear, we shall be asked,
with very little ceremony, to pay up. No, I do
not see that it is possible to make head against
this trouble with less than £25,000 or £30,000.'

^ Could you not raise that much by way of
mortgage T

Not very well. The property is encumbered
with a settlement of £30,000 in favour of my
brother, my mother, and myself. It is just
conceivable that we might obtain an advance
on the security of a second mortgage but it
would be an affair of weeks, perhaps months,
and we want the money at once.'

Would not Mr. Twister, or some other friend
help you V

Twister is a very good fellow, and if it were
a matter of two or three thousand pounds, or
even more, I daresay he would be willing
enough. But be is not the man to have
£30,C00 lying idle at his banker's; and I am
sure he could not, however much he might be
disposed, find so large a sum in a few days.
Indeed, I know no one who could.'

Are you quite sure Badgers would not go
further V

*I think it is very unlikely. My individual
experience in borrowing money from bankers —
or anybody else — is happily nothing. But I
have always understood they are easily frightened,
and never so little disposed to give a
man a lift as when he most requires it. Now,
I could not ask Badgers to lengthen our tether
without telling them the reason why, and explaining
our position ; and, if they knew how
deep we are in cotton, I fear they would not
only refuse us further help, but insist on the
repayment of what they have lent us. I am
not at all sure that I could bring myself to ask

the favour of them ; but I want to argue the
matter from your point of view. No, Mr. After
Mauer, I cannot see my way at all. I wish I
could.'

Oh, but you must not think of stopping.
Despair is a bad counsellor, Mr. Lymington
exclaimed the book-keeper, with an energy that
somewhat surprised Handle. ' We are not at
the end of our resources yet by a long way,
and time is in our favour. At least you will
not take any irretrievable step for the present.
There is really no reason why you should. We
can pay our way for ten days yet, easily, without
drawing a single cheque, or incurring a
single additional liability, and there are no
cotton engagements to meet for a fortnight or
more.'

Perhaps you are right,' said Candle, wearily,
for he was utterly worn out with anxiety and
want of rest. ' 1 daresay your judgment is
sounder than mine just now ; and I quite admit
that, the existence of the concern being at stake,
I ought not to throw away even the remotest
chance. I accept your advice, Auf der Mauer,
and I will see what the week brings forth, before

seeking any other advice, even that of my
old friend Mr. Pleasington ; but it will be a week
of misery.'

Red Lymington had now another painful task
to perform. He had to tell his mother. He
would fain, if he could, have spared her the ill
news for a few days. But she knew of Robert's
sudden disappearance and of his own sudden
return. She had already, he did not doubt,
come to the conclusion that there was something
seriously wrong, and any attempt to keep
back the truth would, he felt sure, cause her
greater unhappiness than a full statement of the
facts. He therefore resolved to tell her all, and
did tell her all.

For a little while she did not speak. It took
her some time to realise that the firm of Lymington
and Sons was on the brink of ruin, and
that this position had been brought about by
the neglect of one of her sons and the weakness
of the other.

After sitting several minutes with compressed
lips and tightly folded hands Mrs. Lymington
looked Ran die full in the face.

Oh, Randle,' she said, 'don't be hard on Robert.

He is very young, and I have only him
and you.'

Dear mother answered Randle, tenderly,
taking both her hands in his, ' how could I be
hard on the lad ? I am quite as much to blame
as he is. It is not for me to reproach him. I
should have looked after him better.'

No, Randle ; I cannot let you say that. My
heart bleeds for the lad; but truth is truth.
You are not so much to blame as he is. You
should have come down to look after things, it
is true ; but that does not justify him in deceiving
his partner and his mother ; for whenever I
asked him, and I asked him often, how the
business was doing, he always said it was doing
well. You have made a mistake, and he has
committed a sin ; that is the difference between
you. But we all need forgiveness ; and though
Robert has been culpably weak he has not been
deliberately wicked. But I take blame to myself
for having encouraged you to go to Parliament
; that is the root of the evil.'

To this remark Randle made no answer.
Whatever might befall he could not regard with
regret an event which had enabled him to unmask

his cousin's villainy and win Muriel's
love.

It is a sore trial for you, my dear lad,' she
continued ; ' almost the sorest, not being death,
that could have come upon you. But we are
blind creatures ; it is perhaps all for the best,
and the Lord in His own good time will open a
way of deliverance. Follow this Auf der Mauer's
advice — he seems a sensible man — and wait a
while. Whether for good or for evil, none of us
can tell what a day may bring forth. Let us
lay our case before the throne of grace. " The
Lord is a very present help in time of trouble." '

When Handle met his mother the next morning,
she looked very pale and worn. He knew
as well as if she had told him that she had
passed the greater part of the night on her
knees.

After a more than usually affectionate exchange
of greetings she produced some papers
and a bank book, for Mrs. Lymington was botha
thrifty housekeeper and a woman of business.
She never troubled her sons with her money
matters. She might consult them on occasion,
perhaps ; but she invested her savings strictly

on her own judgment, drew her own dividends,
signed her own cheques, kept her own bank account,
and she took good care that nobody ever
cheated her out of a penny.

This is what I have got, Randle,' she said ;
if it will be of any use to the concern you must
take it. What is not in a money shape can
soon be turned into money. I have no doubtful
securities. I think you will find that altogether
there is about £d,000. Here is the
list.'

'Oh ! mother,' exclaimed Randle deeply moved,
'I cannot take this from you.'

'Why not f

'Because, in the first place, it is not enough,
and in the second, it may be all you will have
to live upon — for a while.'

'How so? Have we not £30,000 settled?'

We have, secured by a mortgage on the
property. But if we do not get over this trouble,
and the mills ' (here a lump seemed to rise
in Handle's throat) ' and the mills have to stop,
there will be nobody to pay the interest. There
would be no interest forthcoming, in fact, until
the property was either sold or let.'

Mrs. Lymington reluctantly acquiesced in this
reasoning, and folded up her papers.

'But promise me this, dear. If it should so
be that you can use it, and it will be ever so
little help to the concern or yourself, you will
use it.'

I promise, always provided I am sure of
being able to repay you. Why, what a pile you
have, mother said Ran die, smiling for the first
time since he had left Queenstown. 'I had no
idea you were half so rich.'

It has been saved little by little answered
the lady, seriously ' the greater part out
of my housekeeping money, and I have been
very fortunate with my investments.'

Mrs. Lymington was not the only member of
the family who looked ill, and Auf der Mauer
was so alarmed by the pallor of his employer's
face that, fearing inferences might be drawn
therefrom unfavourable to the credit of the
concern, he sent a paragraph for insertion
in the local papers stating that the senior member
for the borough, having suffered in health
from his Parliamentary labours, had paired with
Sir Twofold Finespinner, the member for

Murkford, and was eDJoyiug a few days' repose
at Redscar. As for Bob, he looked so
woebegone that Handle sent him off to Scarborough
with instructions to stay there until
he was told to come back.

For Randle the week that ensued was one
long agony. So far from taking rest he was
never still, and his sleep was fitful and refreshing.
He went about with a foreboding of
impending calamity that almost crushed the
life out of him. He thought of the factories as
closed, the busy hum of the spindles as hushed,
the rooms empty, the hands, most of whom
he had known from his boyhood, gone ; and
-when he pictured to himself the misery a stoppage
would entail, not only by the temporary
loss of wages to so many who had only their
wages to depend upon, but by the severance of
old ties, the separation of families in search of
work, the disappointment of hopes, he could
hardly look his work-people in the face. One
night when he event home, he threw himself into
his mother's arms and wept like a child.

Meanwhile nothing altered ; the position at
the end of the Aveek remained substantially ashe

bad found it on his return from London.
Cotton was, perhaps, slightly dearer, and that
was so far good ; but, though the rise gave good
ground for hope, it was too insignificant to
afford material relief.

Randle wrote to Muriel as cheerfully as he
might, carefully avoiding all mention of his
troubles. But the loving girl could read between
the lines. The letters were not the sort
he was wont to write. She knew, as well as if
he had told her, that his mind was ill
at ease, and she besought him with affectionate
solicitude to tell her what was amiss. If she
was worthy of his love, she said she deserved to
be made the partner of his cares.

Ran die received a letter to this effect, being
the second of the sort Muriel had written him,
on the Monday morning following his arrival at
Redscar. He received at the same time another
letter of a very different sort, a letter which
promised to bring his affairs to a crisis. It ran
thus : —

[Private.] ' Badger's Bank, Manchester.

Messrs. Bargold Badger and Co. present

their compliments to Messrs. Ryviugton and
Sons, and will be glad to see them at their early
convenience with reference to the state of their
account.'

There,' exclaimed Red Rjvington, bitterly,
as he showed the missive to Auf der Mauer. ' I
told you how it would be. I declare I would
rather live on potatoes and salt than be dependent
on the caprice of the best banker that ever
breathed, or be a banker. Bankers have neither
conscience nor bowels.'

You are less than just, Mr. Lymington,' said
the book-keeper, quietly. 'Bankers are very
useful people; business could hardly go on
without them. And I do not think that Badgers
have done badly. They have let us have
£15,000 without asking a question or making a
demur. Perhaps all they require is a little explanation
; and they have a full right to ask for
it, specially if, as you surmise, they have heard
anything about Robert's cotton operations.'

You are right, and I am wrong, Auf der
Mauer. I spoke too hastily. But what is ta
be done — that is the question.'

VOL. III. O

You will see Badgers V

Of course, I will go to Manchester for that
purpose by the early train tomorrow morning.'


Well, if I may venture to advise you, Mr.
Lymington, you will tell them that the account
was overdrawn by your brother without your
knowledge ; that it is due to a temporary lock-up
; that the concern is far more than solvent,
and ask them to let you have £5,000 or £10,000
more.'

'I do not think I could do that, Auf der
Mauer. Lymington and Sons never asked a
favour of their bankers since they were a firm,
and I fear I am too proud to begin.'

But you have begun, for if the firm has not
asked a favour it has taken one, and that is
pretty much the same thing. The question is
whether for a scruple — honourable though it
may be — you will throw away a chance,, not
only of saving the concern, but of coming out
of this difficulty without loss. In any case, you
should speak Badgers fair. Every day gained
counts in our favour. Cotton was stronger

again on Saturday, and I count on a still
stronger market to-day.'

You advise well, Auf der Mauer,' returned
Randle, after some minutes' thought. 'And
now hear my decision. Come what may, I will
not have a penny of Badgers' money on any
false pretence whatever. I shall tell them the
whole truth. I shall tell them further that, if
they are disposed to let us have £10,000, we
shall get over our difficulties. I will even go sofar
as to say that, if they will make this additional
advance, we shall take it as a favour. But eat
humble pie I will not, and I do not think it
would be of any use if I did.'

Auf der Mauer was of the same opinion. He
thought, too, that Red Byvington's independence
and frankness might perhaps prove more
effective in the circumstances than deference
and humility.

Randle wrote the same day a letter to Muriel,
in which he told her that he was in truth in
sore trouble and needed all the sympathy she
could give him. As to the nature of the trouble,
it arose entirely from business difficulties hardly

o2

susceptible of explanation in a letter. They
might either pass away or become still more
aggravated, as to which the next twenty-four
hours would probably decide. He hoped for
the best. But whatever befell he had the most
implicit confidence in her constancy and affection
; the assurance of her love was an inexpressible
comfort to him. It was his pole-star,
a light shining in darkness. He asked for a
letter every day, and, though his own letters
might sometimes be unavoidably brief, he
promised to write to her every day until they
met again.

CHAPTER XVI.

DRAWING A BADGER.

T)ARGOLD, Badger, and Co. were a firm of
-^ high repute and old standing. The original
Bargoldj a country grocer, laid the foundations
of its prosperity, at a time when paper money
was inconvertible and hard cash scarce, by
changing bank-notes for his customers. ' No
purchase, no change,' was an inflexible rule
with him. Those who wanted notes ' doing '
had either to buy an ounce of tobacco, a pound
of candles, a pot of treacle, or a barrel of flour
according to the character and extent of the
transaction. But this was a clumsy way of
doing business, and it one day occurred to Mr.
Bargold that it would come to the same thing
in the end, and be a good deal easier for everybody

if, instead of making people who wanted
hard money for soft take groceries which they
did not always want, he charged them a
moderate percentage byway of remuneration
for his risk and trouble. This innovation, after
considerable questioning, was adopted, and led
to so great an increase of business that, in a
few years, the money-changing beat the grocery
out of the field. The shop was turned into a
bank, and Mr. Bargold, who though eminently
safe was not particularly pushing, took into
partnership his son and a young man of the
name of Badger who had a wonderful head
for figures and a genius for finance and
the firm became Bargold, Badger, and Co.
Badger married his senior partner's only daughter,
and when the two Bargolds died, leaving
him nearly all their money, the bank became a
family possession of the Badgers, who, not
finding in the country town where old Billy
Bargold had sold groceries and cashed notes
sufficient scope for their energies, betook themselves
to Manchester, where, in course of years,
the house became a great institution and its
wealth a tradition.

At the time when Need Lymington received
the unpleasant missive set forth in the preceding
chapter, the head of the firm was Mr. Bar-gold
Badger (so called after the pions founder).
Seeing, however, that, contrary to the wont of
his tribe, he had no partners, it would perhaps
be more correct to say that he was both head
and tail of the firm. Inside his bank he was
like Robinson Crusoe on his island, lord of all
he surveyed.

When Red Lymington reached * Badgers ' (as
the bank was popularly called), the business of
the day had just begun. Managers were reading
their letters and giving instructions, senior
clerks posting up ledgers, junior clerks writing
up customers' pass-books, and tellers counting
out their money. Absorbed in his thoughts,
which were naturally none of the pleasantness,
Randle walked rapidly past the long shining
counter, with its array of scales, shovels, and
ingots, towards a sort of compartment not unlike
a confession box, to which access was gained
by a half-glass door which swung noiselessly
on its hinges. This box, with its mahogany
framework and crystal panels, many a poor

penitent entered quaking and left unshriven.
Several times already had Randle been therein,
but merely to make inquiry touching the stability
of some new or doubtful customer, on
which occasions he was always treated with the
effusive politeness that bankers never fail to
show to clients who keep a good balance to their
credit and give them no trouble.

A small counter divided the compartment from
the interior of the bank; over against this counter
was a door opening into a small parlour,
and almost at the same moment that Randle
stepped into the box there walked into the parlour
a somewhat undersized man of ruddy
countenance devoid of beard and whisker, with
abundant iron-grey hair parted in the middle.
He wore a flower in his button hole, and
his general appearance was rather that of an
amateur gardener or country gentleman than a
financial magnate.

When the banker caught sight of his visitor,
he came forward and greeted him; yet, though
his words were as fair as his manner was courteous,
Randle thought he discerned a hardness
in his face and a coldness in his tone which boded

ill for the outcome of the interview. lu this
Caudle may have been mistaken ; for, although
Mr. Badger was fond of power and capricious
in its use, he was not often deliberately harsh.
But he liked to make his power felt, and whether
he did a man a favour or a disfavour he took
good care not to leave him in ignorance of the
fact. He seemed to think, moreover, that he
had a semi-divine mission to reward the virtuous
and punish the wicked — the virtuous being
those who kept active banking accounts
and paid twenty shillings in the pound; the
vicious those who omitted to observe either or
both of these supreme obligations. In Mr. Badger's
estimation, not to keep a banking account
was to commit an unpardonable sin. But he
considered it his duty on occasion to read even
the virtuous a lesson, and he had made up his
mind that, before Red Byvington left the confessional,
he should feel to the marrow of his
bones that he was at the mercy of the house,
and that he would owe any respite he might
receive to the goodwill and pleasure of Mr. Bar-gold
Badger. It appeared to the banker indeed,
that Handle had been getting on much

too fast lately (in everything except his business
of cotton spinning), and a lesson would do
him good.

I was sorry to see by a paragraph in the
papers that you are rather out of health,' said
Mr. Bargold. ' I hope the rest you are taking
will do you good.'

Randle said he thought it would.

*You have been working too hard at your
parliamentary and other duties, I suppose, and
keeping late hours. I hope there is no other
cause.' As Mr. Bargold spoke he threw his
head back as if to watch the effect of his thrust,
in a way that suggested to Randle the attitude
of a barndoor fowl when it gobbles up a worm.

Cause for what V

'For your illness.'

I am not ill; I am only a little out of sorts.
A few days' rest will put me to rights, I hope.'

I trust you find business satisfactory. All
been going on well in your absence, eh?' asked
the banker, throwing his head back and eyeing
Randle keenly.

Business generally is satisfactory, I believe.
As to our own concern, to speak candidly, I

fear it has rather suffered by my absence.'

You mean that your brother has been buying
too much cotton, and cotton is sick, eh?'
(Here Mr. Badger made as if he had gobbled up
another imaginary worm.)

*It is better now, though; the market was
stronger yesterday, with higher prices.'

'I am glad to hear it for your sake. but'
(abruptly) 'this is trifling. You got a letter
from us, I suppose V

That is why I am here.'

'Precisely. Our friends rarely omit to
respond to our invitations. You have been
overdrawing your account.'

Unfortunately, yes.'

You are right. It is unfortunate when people
go away and leave their business in incompetent
hands. I do not know what your opinion
may be, Mr. Lymington, but I think I have
treated sour firm with great indulgence in this
matter; and that you have somewhat presumed
on my good nature. I remember my father
once offering your father any overdraft he
liked. But your father refused it. You were
independent at Redscar in those days. In any

case, your father, I am sure, would never have
thought of overdrawing his account without
making an arrangement beforehand; and it is
really quite irregular to draw cheques at large,
as you have been doing lately, without either
leave or notice. Suppose we had refused them,
where would you have been then ? If it had
been a matter of five or six thousands, or even
of ten or twelve, I should probably have said
nothing, for you are among our oldest customers
; but one must draw the line somewhere, and
when I saw the amount running up to twenty
thousand I thought it was time to make a
stand.'

Twenty thousand ! ' exclaimed Randle, who,
although exasperated by this harangue almost
beyond endurance, was restrained from turning
his back on Mr. Badger, aud quitting the box
without answering a word, by a sudden fear
that Bob had overdrawn the account even more
than he had told him.

*I said 'running up to twenty thousand."
However, if you want to know exactly how
much it is I will soon tell you. Mr. Topps '
(raising his voice and clapping his hands).

Almost as the banker spoke, Mr. Topps appeared,
and very 'topsy' he looked, being a
little man of girth so great in proportion to his
height as to suggest a resemblance to two tops
fastened together. It was said that he could
balance himself indifferently on either end; and
he really looked as if he might. But he had a
bright, intelligent face of his own, and seemed
very much alive.

Ryvingtou and Sons' account,' said Mr,
Badger.

Yes, Mr. Badger,' and the little man whipped
out of sight with a celerity, considering his
bulk, perfectly astonishing.

In less than a minute Mr. Topps re-appeared,
holding open in his hand a book about the size
of a copy-book, but considerably thicker.

'Lymington and Sons' account,' he said, looking
at the book, ' is £15,155 to credit.'

The banker's healthy face flushed a deeper
crimson, and his eye emitted an angry glance.

Why, how is this ? ' he exclaimed. ' You
told me on Saturday that it was £15,000 to
debit.'

It was very nearly— £14,845. But £30,000

were paid to Messrs. K-yvington's credit in
London yesterday, through — yes — through
Redshields.'

Were you aware of this V asked Mr. Badger,
turning to Red Lymington.

I was not ; but I left home this morning
without seeing my letters. I may find the advice
on my return,' replied Randle, who,
though utterly astounded at this godsend, had
wit enough to keep his countenance and not let
the banker perceive how little he was expecting
such a deliverance.

*" Will,' observed Mr. Badger, with a mien as
gracious as a moment before it had been austere,
' I suppose there is nothing more to be
said. If I had known you were arranging for a
payment to credit in London I should not, of
coarse, have thought it necessary to ask you to
call. But, as you are here,, had we not better
put this question of an overdraft on a proper
footing? How much do you want? . I make
you the same offer my father made to your
father — name your own limit.'

And I make you the same answer my father
made to your father,' said Randle, proudly. ^ I

thank you for your offer and decline it. This
is my first experience of an overdraft, and it
shall be my last. Good morning, Mr. Badger.'
And the member for Whitebrook left the banker's
presence with a feeling of relief as great as
if he had been escaping from the torture-room
of the Inquisition.

CHAPTER XVII.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

"P Angle's feeling of relief was followed by a
-*-*^ feeling of intense curiosity. Where, he
asked himself (and the oftener he asked himself
the more his wonder grew), had the £30,000
come from? Who was the friend in need?
Eedshields were, of course, merely the intermediaries
— the spout through which the golden
stream had reached him. A mistake? The
idea was conceived only to be dismissed.
Bankers do not make mistakes when thousands
are concerned. Knowledge of the critical
position of the concern was confined to Bob,
Auf der Mauer, his mother, and himself. The
book-keeper alone, besides himself, knew how
much was required to enable them to meet

their engagements. But it was out of the
question that the book-keeper could find so
large a sum at so short a notice, or at any
notice, and if he had been contemplating anything
of the sort there Alas no conceivable reason
why he should have concealed the fact from
his employer. Yet, if Auf der Mauer had not
himself found the money, he might know who
had ; and Red Lymington was so eager to get
at the bottom of the mystery that, after a short
conference with Oatesatthe warehouse and half
an hour on 'Change, he returned to Redscar.

The moment Randle reached the office he
sent for the book-keeper, who was in some other
part of the factory. Then he took up the letters
that lay on his desk. One of them bore
the Paris post-mark.

From Kalouga,' he muttered, as he opened
it.

The Russian's letter ran as follows : —

'Paris, Sunday.

My dear Friend,

'Three days ago I received a letter
from Auf der Mauer, in which he told me that,
VOL. III. P

owing to a temporary lock-up of capital, you
were in rather pressing need of £30^000. As,
thanks to a sale of some of my property in
Russia to a railway company, I chanced to have
this sum at my disposal, I immediately arranged
v/ith the house of Redshields to have the amount
in question paid to the credit of your bankers
in London. This, 1 am told, will be done on
Monday, so that the money ought to be available
for you in Manchester on Tuesday.

'You must not regard this, my dear friend,
either as a loan or a gift. It is yours. I never
earned a rouble of this money, and I am not
sure that I have any special right to it. In
any case, it was of no earthly use to me, and if
you can do any good with it for yourself, or
those about you, you will add another to the
many favours which I already owe you. Should
I ever, on my part, be in want of money, you
will, I am sure, let me have what I require ; for
though we are not sons of the same mother,
nor even natives of the same land, we are brothers
in spirit, and that which one of us has the
other will never lack.

When you receive this letter we shall probably

be in Switzerland, but whether at Yevey
or Geneva I am not yet sure. Pending our
further news you had perhaps better write to •
us at the Hotel de la Croix, Geneva.
Your faithful friend,

Sergius Kalouga.
Pes. — I am sure you will not blame Auf der
Mauer for having written to me. He is a very
good fellow and has your interest at heart, and
though he may have committed a breach of
regulations, there are times, you know, when a
man has to be a law to himself, and I trust you
will think with me that, in this matter, Auf der
Mauer exercised a wise discretion. — S. K.'

Dear old Ban,

I asked Sergius to leave me a
corner, and like a dutiful husband he has done
as he was told. I have never seen him so
pleased since we first met as when he knew
that it was in his power to help you in your
need. I quite agree with all he has written.
You will perhaps say it is a Quixotic notion,
but unless you use your money to make those
you love happy I really don't see the good of

p 2

it. Self-help is a principle often highly commended,
but, as Sergius said the other day,
help others " is a far nobler rule of life.

My best love to aunt and — yes — you may
kiss Lady Muriel twice for me. There, now.
Your affectionate cousin (in fact) and sister (inspirit),


'Dora.'

Red Lymington was still poring over this
letter, which was hardly less of a surprise to
him than the payment of the £30,000 by Red-shields
had been, when Axis der Mauer entered.
After a moment's hesitation Randle gave him
the letter to read. He thought the clerk deserved
this mark of confidence.

I knew of the payment,' said Auf der Mauer.
Here is a letter of advice from Redshields
which, being addressed to the firm, I opened.'

Of course. But what induced you to write
to Mr. Kalouga in the first instance ? Had you
any reason to suppose that he could , or would,
find the money V

No special reason. I knew he was a true
friend of yours, and I felt sure that, if he could

help yon, he would. I knew, too, that he belonged
to a highly respectable family, and that
his father had left him a fortune, but how much
I had not the least idea.'

I hope you did not ask him in so many
words to lend us the money V

Certainly not, Mr. Lymington. 1 merely
mentioned the fact that you were in a temporary
difficulty, from which £30,000 would
extricate you. In fact, I wrote, as you would
say, on the off-chance of his being able to lind
the money ; as to his willingness, I had not a
shadow of a doubt, and I did not think you
would make the suggestion yourself.'

'You are right. I know his noble nature,
and I should have shrunk from giving him the
pain which the consciousness that we were in a
difficulty, and that he could render us no help,
would have caused him ; for I had not the
remotest idea that he either had, or could raise
so large a sum. At the same time, Mr. After
Mauer, as things have turned out, I am
glad you took it upon you to write, and I
thank you heartily for having done so. Sergius
Kalouga is the only man in the world, I think.

from whom I could receive so great a favour
without any sense of humiliation. And yet I
feel under the deepest obligation to him for his
timely help, and the Vv^ay in which it has been
given. Nothing could have been more generously
or delicately done. As to this money
being as much mine as his — rather more, in
fact — that is just his wild way of putting it.
I shall, of course, repay him, and before very
long, I hope ; and the loan must carry interest
in the usual way. You will please open an
account with Mr. Kalouga in the private ledger,
and give him credit as from yesterday, with
interest at the rate of five per cent.'

'It shall be done at once, Mr. Lymington.
But ' (hesitatingly) ' do you think Mr. Kalouga
will accept interest V

Of course he will. I shall insist on that, at
any rate. And now I want you to see Cliviger
and arrange with him. We take over at once
all the cotton that has been bought in our name.
I will have nothing whatever to do with him or
his combinations ; and let the brokers with
whom he has financed the cotton be advised
by this evening's post that we, and we alone,

are their principals. And look here, Mr. Ans
der Mauer, advise Cliviger to keep out of my
way for, if I should happen to meet him, I am
afraid he would pass a very bad quarter of an
hour ; and, if he shows himself here at Kedscar,
as sure as he is alive, I will have him ducked
in one of the lodges.'

Raudle had still another unpleasant task to
perform. He had to inform Lord Lindisfarne
of his inability to provide the £20,000 for
Muriel's settlement as arranged. True, in the
event of the undelivered cotton being resold
before delivery (as the market was shaping a
not unlikely contingency), he might be able to
spare the money — if he did not repay Kalouga.
But he felt that to repay Kalouga at the earliest
possible moment was an imperative duty. Until
he had discharged this obligation, or was
absolutely sure of his ability to do so within a
given time, it would not be right to take
£20,000 out of the business for his own purposes,
and, until the greater part of the cotton
they held was actually sold, absolute certainty
was out of the question.

So he wrote a short, straightforward letter

to Lord Lindisfarne, in which, without going
into unnecessary detail, he set forth his position,
and explained why he would not be able
to complete his agreement touching the intended
settlement on Lady Muriel. But in the
course of a few months, he said — perhaps in a
month or two — when the present stress was
over — his resources being virtually intact, he
should be able to find the money without difficulty.
Meanwhile, in order that there might
be no postponement of the marriage, he proposed
to contract with the trustees under the
settlement to pay the £20,000 at a date which
he named. This would constitute him a debtor
to the trustees for the amount in question,
which he offered further to secure by making ita
charge on the whole of his interest in the
Redscar property.

At the same time, he wrote at length to Lady
Muriel telling her of his troubles during the
past week, of the opportune help he had received
from Kalouga (whose letter he sent hers,
and of the proposition he had made to her
father. By return of post. Handle received
letters from the earl and his daughter.

Lord Lindisfarne simply expressed his regret
that circumstances should have occurred to prevent
Ran die providing the money as arranged,
thanked him for his frank and manly letter,
and, as touching his proposal, promised him an
answer in the course of a post or two.

Muriel's letter was as long as his own. It
was full of sympathy and affection. She felt
unspeakably grieved and humiliated, she said,
that the course of their true love should be
troubled by a question of money ; and she was
more sorry than she could tell that Handle's
anxieties should be increased by the necessity
laid on him of providing a settlement for her.
She did not want any settlement — was he not
all in all to her? — and whatever course her mother
might take she would be constant to her
troth. Then she went on to say that Lady
Lindisfarne was very much annoyed at the
difficulty about the £20,000, and that although
her father was quite willing to accept Randle's
proposal and let the marriage take place at the
time appointed, the countess was not. The
countess had repeated her remark about the
vicissitudes of business, and insisted that the

fact of his failure to find the money for the
settlement was a very good reason why the
marriage should not take place until he did
find it. She even hinted at the expediency of
breaking ofi" the engagement, but to this the
earl demurred, and in the end, as they could
not agree on the answer which should be given
to Randle, it was decided to put ofi" answering
him until they were both of one mind.

CHAPTER XVIII.

BY ORDER OF THE EXECUTIVE C03DIITTEE.

11 Meanwhile Kalouga and Dora had arrived
■^'■^ in Switzerland. The afternoon of the day
on which Randle received the letters described
in the preceding chapter they were at the Hotel
de la Croix, Geneva, in a room overlooking the
lake and the Alps, and commanding a view of
the Brunswick monument. Kalouga had spent
the greater part of the previous day with his
friend Antonoff ; and several Russian refugees,
with whom he had been long in conversation in
their own language, had just left him.

He was pacing restlessly to and fro, and
Dora was looking at him anxiously, for he
seemed disquieted and unhappy.

What have those men been saying to disturb
you so much, Sergius V asked Dora.

Yes , I am disturbed, very much disturbed.
I am unhappy for my country and the cause.
The revolutionists are developing too savage a
spirit. They are converting what was a peaceful
propaganda into a murderous warfare. They
forget that though an assassination destroys an
enemy it forfeits sympathy and alienates friends.
When I was an active member of the party we
refused to sanction — even in principle — the extreme
penalty, except in cases of proved treachery,
and, though several such cases happened
among the southern groups, none, up to the
time of my imprisonment, had happened in
ours. Of course, I do not speak of lives taken
in fair fight — in defending ourselves from arrest,
or in rescuing our friends who had fallen into
the hands of the police. For instance, all the
attempts hitherto made on the life of the Tsar
have been isolated acts, prompted either by
individual fanaticism or private vengeance.
But now, unless I misunderstand the hints let
drop this morning, the societies have condemned
him to death, and are concerting measures to

carry out their sentence. I quite admit that
there may be circumstances in which tyrannicide
is justifiable. Yet I think in this instance
they are making a terrible mistake. How do
they know that the Therewith may not prove
a greater tyrant than his father? And it is
quite a sufficient objection to the attempt that
it is hardly possible to kill the Tsar without
involving in his fate others who are no more
responsible for his acts than the Brunswick
monument there.'

Oh, Sergius, do you think they are really
going to murder the poor man ? Can nobody
warn him V

Ee has been warned already, or if not he
will be. The executive committee will not
strike until he has been formally notified of his
sentence, if sentence has really been passed, of
which, however, I know nothing certain. I aman
outsider now, you know. And a long time
may elapse between sentence and execution —
months, years even. I have profound faith in
the cause — the cause of liberty in Russia, I
mean — but I begin to fear that its triumph maybe
delayed by the violence and intemperance of

its partisans ; yet our people have been terribly
provoked. They are suffering more now than
ever before, and they look upon the Tsar as the
cause of their sufferings. How can you expect
prudence , abnegation, and farsightedness from
men who have been hunted like wild beasts,
who never for an hour together can call their
lives and their liberty their own ? If Alexander
falls, his blood will in a great measure be on his
own head. But he is not bad, he is only weak ;
and, for the rest, he is what circumstances have
made him — as we all are — and his death can no
more destroy the system of which he is the head
than the fall of an avalanche can destroy a
mountain. Le roi est mort ! Vive le roi ! '

'Did you say this to the people who were
here just now, Sergius? I cannot remember
their names. They are gentlemen, I think.'

'Unquestionably, and well-informed gentlemen.
Two of them have been university professors,
one is the son of a general in high command.
Yes, I talked to them pretty much as I
have been talking to you. But while here they
are, of course, quite unable to exert any influence
on the movement in Russia. They have

a general idea of what is going ou or perhaps
may even form a shrewd guess what is about
to happen ; but that is all. The latest arrivals
are necessarily the best informed, and it was
from Tchernechevski, the general's son, that I
gathered what I have been telling you. Anton
too, says there are rumours flying about
that the executive committee are hatching a
plot against the Tsar's Kfe. They are losing
their heads, and, as I told Tchernechevski and
the others, striking both wildly and blindly.
They are trying to achieve the impossible. The
first thing to aim at is something like constitutional
liberty ; when that is obtained it can.
be used as a lever for effecting further reforms.
And the peasants must be educated — that is the
most pressing need of all. But they want to do
everything at once — make a political revolution
and regenerate society by a coup de main — atone
stroke. They will find it quite work enough,
for one generation, to clean out the Augean
stable of Russian administration, instruct the ignorant,
and extinguish pauperism ; and I said so
this morning. They simply laughed at me.
They think that my sufferings have unstrung

my nerves, and that my sojourn in England has
sapped the integrity of my revolutionary faith.
Perhaps it has ; at any rate, I am beginning,
like your cousin, to prefer commonplace remedies
to heroic methods. Russian revolutionists are
going on the opposite tack. They believe that
emancipation can be won only by bloodshed and
terror ; and they are acting according to their
belief. I fear there are evil days in store for
Russia. But T feel as if I wanted a breath of
fresh air, Dora. Shall we have a walk?'

With all my heart. I am dying for a walk.
We have not been out to-day.'

As they passed through the hall of the hotel
the concierge told Kalouga that, a few minutes
previously, two strangers had been inquiring if
he were in the house, and that when asked their
business they said they would call again.

'Two of my poor countrymen who want a
little help, I suppose,' remarked Kalouga ; ' and
if they are decent fellows they shall have it.'

Outside, on the opposite side of the street,
Dora noticed two men walking slowly, and deeply
engaged in conversation — not a very phenomenal
sight in Geneva at four o'clock on a

summer afternoon; but one of the men in question
wore a fur cap so low down on his head as
almost to cover his eyes, which, seeing how
warm the day had been, was somewhat remarkable.
At any rate, Dora thought so, and called
her husband's attention to the circumstance.
She said it made her head ache to look at the
man.

Don't look at him, then, my Dora,' laughed
Kalouga. 'A fur cap has certainly an uncomfortable
look on a day like this. There are all
sorts and conditions of men in Geneva, you
know. Perhaps he is a Tartar, who has never
worn any other sort of hat.'

They strolled over the island bridge, and
after watching for a few minutes the vast volume
of the swift-flowing Shone as it rushes tumultuously
under the arches, and sweeps, broad and
blue, past the wooded heights of St. John, they
made towards the Plainpalais, a wide expanse
of turf bordered by trees. At the further side
of it — not far from the point where the Awe,
grey with the glacier grindings of the Pennine
Alps, joins the Rhone — they turned into
a shady avenue of ancient elms which led

VOL. III. Q

them to the entrance of the public cemetery.

Shall we go in V asked Dora.

If you like, certainly. Yes, let us go in.'

There was nothing remarkable about the
cemetery, except that it was surrounded by a
magnificent panorama of mountains, and that
the epitaphs on the tombs were in various languages
— several in Russian, which Kalouga
translated for the benefit of his wife.

Once when he did so she noticed that his
voice faltered, and, looking up, saw that his eyes
were filled with tears.

What is it, Sergius dear?' she asked. ' Was
the person who is buried here some friend of
yours V

No, Dora, he is quite unknown to me ; but a
cemetery always affects me in this way. I
never go into one that it does not cost me an
effort to refrain from weeping. I do not mean
for the dead— their troubles are over — but for
the living. The very air of a burying ground
seems to me heavy with tears and blighted
hopes, dark with grief and black despair. Oh,
my Dora ! if I were to lose you, what, what '

But we should not be separated for ever.

dearest Sergius. We should meet again. I
know you did not think so once ; but you think
so now V

Yes, darling,' said Kalouga, in a low voice,
as he took her hand in his ; ' you have almost
persuaded me to believe in a life beyond the
present. I understand now how to some minds
immortality is the complement of love, just as
love is the complement of life. The one implies
the other, they think. And the followers of the
mystic Swede have a beautiful theory that life
and love are one, and that those who love will
never die. Oh, Dora ! can it be true that I shall
one day see Zeneide and my mother, and that
you and I, when we shuffle off this mortal coil,
may know and love each other in another state
of being ? What happiness to believe it ! Yet
where shall I look for proof, by what sign
know that the doctrine is true? That is the
question.'

It is beyond positive proof, Sergius. It is a
divine mystery, which we must accept in faith.
Yet it seems to me that the longing for immortality
implanted in every heart, to which nearly
all these gravestones bear witness, is strong evil



deuce that our spirits will never die. If you try
to believe, Sergius, I am sure you will end in
believing. Look at that poor woman. She believes,
and I daresay, although her lot is one of
toil and poverty, her faith makes her life
tolerable, and even happy.'

As she spoke, Dora pointed to a woman engaged
in dressing a lowly grave. She was
perhaps sixty years old, and the basket on her
back and her dress showed that she was a
woman of the people. The grave was marked
by a single headstone, mantled with ivy, and a
box-bordered enclosure in which were growing
a few simple flowers. After the woman had
trimmed the border and watered the flowers,
she knelt down, kissed the stone, crowned it
with a garland of immortelles, and then walked
slowly away. As she passed Kalouga and
Dora she raised her eyes, and her face wore
a look of quiet happiness that struck them
both.

When she was out of sight they went to have
a nearer look at the grave on which she had
lavished so much loving care. The stone bore
the following inscription : —

Lucre Delmar
Agee 17.

Avec le Seigneur defence en paix, ma bien
aimed ; prie-le dans sa misericorde de tenir ta
mere, et du lui garder ime place pres de toi'*

That was the mother ; I am sure it was,' exclaimed
Dora ; * none but a mother would keep
the poor girl so long in pious remembrance, and
tend her grave so lovingly. See, she has been
dead nearly twenty years. What do you think
of that for faith, Sergius ? This is no Catholic
grave, bear in mind, the epitaph is no stereotyped
form dictated by a priest. It is the spontaneous
outpouring of a mother's heart. Do
you think she is mistaken — that the faith which
is the consolation of her life is an illusion, and
her hope of meeting her child beyond the grave
a baseless dream V

So far from thinking so, I would not for the
world attempt to deprive her of that which you
rightly call the consolation of her life,' replied
Kalouga, earnestly. ' How can I prove she is

♦ Dwell with the Lord in peace, my darling ; beseech
Him in His mercy to bless thy mother, and to keep a place
for her near thee.'

wrong — what could I give her better ? And
Dora, dearest, the greatest philosopher among
us might well exchange his philosophy for that
poor woman's simple faith. Her foolishness is
better than our wisdom.'

And then they continued their walk among
the tombs in silence ; both for the moment feeling
more disposed for thought than discourse.
Dora was well satisfied with the turn the conversation
had taken. Like nearly all continental
Liberals — whether wild Socialists or sane politicians
— Kalouga (before his arrival in England)
had come to look upon religion as a superstition
identified with priesthood and tyranny, and like
them to be opposed and denounced. Of late,
however, especially since his marriage, his views
had much altered, and his acquired scepticism
seemed to be yielding to the influence of his
wife and his surroundings, acting on the religious
impressibility of his temperament, the
existence of which Ran die had long ago discerned.
But never before had he gone so far or
admitted so much ; for the immortality of the
soul was his great stumbling-block. If he could
accept that, he said, minor difficulties would

vanish ; and from his manner Dora drew more
encouragement than from his words. She little
knew how priceless a consolation the recollection
of that visit to the cemetery would prove
to her before the rise of another sun.

As they were walking up the avenue of elms
on their way back to the hotel , Dora gave a
sudden start and uttered a half-frightened
exclamation.

Oh, Sergius, just look there ; if there isn't the
man in the fur cap again !'

So there is said Kalouga, eyeing the fellow
curiously. * What does he want here, I wonder ?
If I could conceive any reason why anybody
here should want to watch me, I should almost
think he was a spy. But it is probably only a
coincidence. Geneva is not a big place ; there
is nothing extraordinary in seeing the same individual
twice within a few hours.'

In the evening they went to the theatre to
see Verdi's opera of ' Aidaa.' The music was
beautiful, and the acting and singing were all
that could be desired ; but the conclusion was
melancholy in the extreme. Madame, the hero
and an Egyptian general, is beloved by Aidaa,

the captive daughter of an Ethiopian king, and
loves her in return. After winning a great victory
for his country, Madame, under the influence
of his passion, commits an indiscretion
which draws upon him the hatred of the priests,
whose power is greater even than that of the
King of Egypt. They seize him, judge him,
and condemn him to be buried alive in a crypt
of the temple of Isis. Aidaa, anticipating her
lover's fate, conceals herself in the crypt, and
at the moment when the stone, which cuts him
off from life and hope, is lowered into its place,
she throws herself into his arms, and, as the
priests in the temple overhead chant their death-song,
dies at his feet.

Oh, how sad !' exclaimed Dora, when the
end came. * It makes me shudder. Let us go,
Sergius dear.'

In returning to their hotel, they had to passover
the Pont de Flsle, the same which they had
traversed a few hours previously on their way
to the cemetery. They wc. more than halfway
across it, and were just about to turn into
the street called the Quai des Leagues, which
borders the Rhone, when Kalouga was startled

a second time by an exclamation from his
wife.

Oh, that man again, Sergius,' she said; 'he
really haunts us. I am sure he is after no good.
What can he want. Let us hurry home,
dearest"*

There is nothing to be alarmed about, my
Dora. The man is certainly a spy ; there can
be no mistake about that now. He is watching
us. I suppose the Russian secret police here
think I have come to Geneva for some political
purpose. Let them watch me. It is disagreeable,
certainly, but it does one no real harm.
And see, the fellow has gone on ; he has disappeared.
We shall perhaps never see him
again.'

'I shall be very glad if we don't,' said Dora,
fervently ; ' he makes me uncomfortable every
time I see him.'

The air was balmy, the night, though moonless,
was fine ; millions of stars looked down on
the silent lake and foaming river, and they
walked slowly onward — pausing often by the
way — for there was a fascination in the semi-obscurity,
in the music of the waters, and in the

veiled beauty of the scene around them that
charmed them both.

We are nearly at home now,' said Dora, as
they reached an archway a few yards from the
hotel. ' I don't know when I enjoyed a walk so
iQuch. See, Sergius, how the stars gleam in
the lake and how large the mountains loom in
the darkness. What a beautiful night !'

The words were hardly spoken when she
heard behind her the sound of a stealthy footstep.
Looking round she saw a shadowy form
rush swiftly from the archway — saw something
bright flash in the darkness. With a quick
movement and a piercing scream she threw up
her arm, yet not in time to prevent the assassin's
dagger from striking Sergius between the
shoulders.

Oh, Dora, they have killed me !' he cried, ashe
fell heavily forward. But she threw her
arms round him, and by leaning against the
wall managed to sustain his weight.

A moi, a moi, au secours .'' she cried.

The next moment two or three passers-by
and a gendarme came running to her help.
They supported Kalouga in their arms and carried

him to the hotel. Dora, dazed and tearless
walked by her husband's side, holding his
pulseless hand in hers.

Who has done this V asked the gendarme.

A man in a fur cap,' said Dora, * he has been
following us about all day.'

When the gendarme, with the commissioner
of the quarter, who had been sent for in all
haste, went back to the archway, they found
lying on the ground the dagger with which the
foul deed had been done. Round the handle
was wrapped a piece of paper on which, rudely
written in French, were these words :

By Order op the Executive Committees

XIX.

A NIGHT Alarm.

nOME three hours later, Red Lymington, lying
^ asleep in his bed at Redscar, was roused by
the ringing of a bell, followed by a tapping at
his chamber door, and a barking of dogs.

Yes, what is it ?' he exclaimed, drowsily.

'The front door bell has rung twice within
the last few minutes, l^m afraid there's something
wrong,' said his mother's voice.

What can it be V asked Randle, now fully
awake, as he sprang out of bed and put on his
dressing gown.

I'm afraid there's something wrong at the
factories. One of them is on fire, perhaps.'

That cannot be. They would ring the big
bell if it were. I will go down and see.'

Handle found his mother on the landing folded
in her wrapper ; two or three frightened and
night-capped maids were peeping over the balusters,
while Bob, protruding a dishevelled head
from a half-open door, inquired if he should
bring his revolver.

Yes, Robert, you had better,' said his mother,
perhaps it is a burglar.'

'Burglars don't ring before they come in,'
answered Randle, with a smile, and taking the
candle which she offered him he went downstairs.


You cannot tell, they perhaps might, some
people are wicked enough for anything. Take
your revolver and go after him, Robert,' said
Mrs. Lymington, earnestly.

When Randle opened the door he found
standing before it a small boy with a telegram.
It was addressed to himself, and thus expressed
: —

They have killed him ; he is dying. Oh, come

to me.

Dora,'

Randle without speaking a word, went slowly
upstairs, holding the despatch in his hand.

A telegram ! It is bad news ; I can see by
your face it is exclaimed his mother. * Where
is it from V

From Geneva,' gasped Randle, whom the
shock had almost deprived of the power of
utterance.

It was no use trying to minimise evil tidings
with his mother ; he gave her the despatch.

My poor Dora, my poor stricken lamb cried
Mrs. Lymington. ' May the Lord have pity on
her ! Oh, Randle, my mind misgave me when
they went abroad. I feared some ill would befall
them. I did, I did. What will you do ?
you will set off to-day, won't you V

*At once. I shall drive to Manchester and
catch the nine o'clock train to London, travel
to Paris by the night mail, and reach Geneva I
hope, tomorrow night. Robert, ring the bell
for Kenyon and tell him to get the carriage
ready. And go down to the counting-house ;
there is money in the safe. Bring me fifty
pounds. As you pass Auf der Mauer's lodgings,
ask him to come here. I should like a word
with him before I go.'

Randle, I shall go with you said Mrs. B.y-
vingt, quietly yet firmly.

You go with me I Impossible. Think of
your age ; and you are not very strong at present.
It will be a hard, long journey, and you
are not a good traveller, remember.'

It does not matter, Randle, I shall go. That
poor girl must not be left in her trouble without
one of her own sex to speak a word of comfort
to her. As for the journey, the Lord will give
me strength.'

'Very well, mother,' said her son, after a
minute's thought, seeing she was determined.
'You shall go with me. But you must have
breakfast first. Let the servants make some,
and get your things ready, for we must be away
in an hour.'

Randle found time in Manchester to telegraph
to Dora that he and his mother were en route,
and at what time they expected to be at
Geneva. At the same time he sent a telegram
to Muriel saying that he would call at Grosvenor
Square about four o'clock, and another to one
of the whips of his party asking that gentleman
to provide another pair for him.

Oa reaching London they drove to Charing
Cross Hotel, where Red Lymington left his
mother while he went to see Muriel. She was
anxiously awaiting his arrival ; for in his message
he had mentioned having received bad news
from Dora, and that he was on his way to
Geneva.

*" Oh, Randle,' she exclaimed, when she had
read his cousin's fateful telegram. ' Poor Mr.
Kalouga — only just married ! This will kill
her ; she will die too.'

I hope not. Still it will go hard with her,
I fear. She has a tender heart, and loved her
husband so passionately. And I too loved him ;
he was a noble fellow, a true friend. This is a
terrible blow. '

*My poor Randle! you are being sorely
tried,' said Muriel, as she gently stroked the
hair from his forehead. ' How pale you are,
and your eyes show how you are troubled. It
has been very hard for you since you went
away, dearest.'

Yes, my darling. I have gone through a
great deal since we parted. But this is the
worst of all. The other was an anxiety, a

danger; this is an irreparable misfortune. I
almost dread meeting Dora. I am glad my
mother is going with me. Her presence will bea
great comfort to the poor girl.'

Your mother going with you ! Where is
she?'

I left her at the hotel to rest for an hour or
two before we continue our journey.'

How good of her to go with you I I shall
call upon her, Randle. You will take me to see
your mother, will you not V

Randle gladly acquiesced in this proposaL
Though he had not liked to hint as much, he
knew that a visit from her would be very
gratifying to his mother, and he felt deeply
grateful to Muriel for the quickness with which
she had divined his wishes and the delicacy
with which she had made the suggestion. He
was just then in a mood to be sensitive about
seeming trifles, and he saw in the incident
another proof of the worth and affection of his
betrothed.

Muriel then told hoi that her mother and
Maude were at Richmond, but that her father
(to whom she had shown her lover's telegram)

VOL. III. R

was at home aud had expressed a wish to see
him. On this, as time was winning short, they
both went to Lord Lindisfarne's room.

The earl shook Ran die cordially by the hand,
and began at once to speak about his journey to
Geneva and its cause.

*I am truly sorry,' he said, *not only for
your cousin's sake, but for Dr. Kalouga. I liked
him, notwithstanding his strange opinions. But
really I can hardly believe, as this telegram
you have received seems to imply, that they
have murdered him.

There is no mistake about that, I am afraid,'
answered Randle, sadly. *Dora distinctly says
they have killed him, that he is dead.'

No, that he is dying. I see a gleam of hope
in that. He was clearly not dead when that
message was despatched. While there is life
there is hope, you know. People recover from
terrible wounds sometimes, and Kalouga was a
very temperate man, I think. That will count
greatly in his favour.'

This was a view of the question that had not
previously occurred to Red Lymington, and he
admitted the fact pointed out by the peer did

perhaps afford some slight ground for hope.

Who do you suppose the " they " are Mrs.
Kalouga mentions here, Lord Lindisfarne ? I
cannot, for the life of me, conceive why anyone
at Geneva should want to murder
Kalouga.'

Some of those Nihilist fellows, no doubt.
They swarm at Geneva, and they are frightful
scoundrels, I believe.'

But Sergius has not mixed himself up in
politics for years — not since some considerable
time before he left Russia, in fact.'

Perhaps they wanted him to do so, and he
Avould not. At any rate, I shall be very glad if
you will telegraph us fully as soon as you reach
Geneva. Say whether poor Kalouga is alive or
not, and why and by whom his life has been
attempted. You leave by the night express, I
suppose V

Randle answered in the affirmative, and said
that his mother was with him, and that Muriel
had kindly offered to call upon her.

*Mrs. Lymington in London,' said the earl.
*Then I must pay my respects to her. I will go
with you, Muriel.'

r2

Handle returned at once to his hotel, and half
an hour after his arrival thither Lord Lindisfarne
and his daughter made their promised visit,
accompanied Mrs. Lymington and her son to the
platform, and refrained with them until the
train was in motion.

Before they parted the earl took Randle
aside.

I wanted to tell you,' he said, ' that I consider
your proposal about the settlement satisfactory.
The lawyers say the arrangement you
offer to make will be quite legal and binding ;
and, if I have confidence in your ability to carry
it out, they advise me to accept it. I need
hardly say I have confidence ; I am sure you
would not enter into an engagement which you
are not prepared to fulfil. Lady Lindisfarne is
certainly not altogether of my opinion, and —
But never mind that. Ladies cannot always
have their own way, you know, and I mean to
have mine this time. I thought I would mention
this before you went. It may be a little
weight off your mind, and you are having
rather an anxious time of it just now.'

Randle warmly expressed his sense of the

eats kindness, and then observed that if
Kalouga were really dead, of which he feared
there was hardly the shadow of a doubt, he
thought he would like the marriage to be deferred
for a while ; for, though Sergius was only a
cousin's husband, the affection for each other
had been almost more than fraternal, and Dora
and himself had always been to each other assister
and brother.

The feeling does you honour, Lymington,'
said Lord Lindisfarne. * 1 quite understand
it, and fully agree with you. Let the question
be an open one until you return from Geneva.
Pending further information, I shall continue
to hope that the worst has not happened.'

Handle, in an ' aside ' with Muriel, told
her what had passed between her father and
himself. She seemed very much pleased.

Dear papa ! he is always good , and you area
great favourite of his. But I quite agree with
you. We could not be married while your
poor cousin is in the depth of her grief. But
I am like papa; I cannot believe that Mr.
Kalouga is dead. It is really too terrible to be
true.'

And then a few more words were said which
brought back a little colour to Handle's pallid
cheeks, and some of the old light to his eyes ;
and he went on his wslj with the weight
of sorrow and apprehension which he had
brought with him from Redscar perceptibly
lightened.

CHAPTER XX.

MADAME LA PRINCESSE.

rpHE travellers reached Geneva late on the
following night.

On entering the Hotel de la Croix, they were
received with effusive politeness by a gentleman
— probably the manager or secretary — with
elaborately curled and richly perfumed jet
black hair and whiskers — the former beautifully
parted in the middle — bejewelled fingers , and a
fat face crumpled with constant smiling. He
spoke English fluently, but as the construction
of his sentences was occasionally somewhat
mixed, and he made a free use of foreign words,
his meaning was not always quite as clear as
might have been desired.

'Mr. and Madame Lymington' exclaimed

this individual, making a low bow, and washing
his hands energetically with invisible soap
and imperceptible water. ' Good evening,
monsieur and madame. Your rooms have been
commanded, numbers 43, 44, and 45, to the
second. Will you be elevated in the hoist V

Madame Kalouga ordered the rooms, I
suppose?'

Perfectly, monsieur.'

'And' — Randle was almost afraid of asking
the question — sis her husband '

Monsieur le Prince still lives,' answered the
manager, who was by no means dull of apprehension,
often, indeed, answering questions
before they where well asked.

*Whom do you mean by "Monsieur le
Prince " V asked Randle, sharply. * I was asking
about Monsieur Kalouga.'

Perfectly ; I understand. Monsieur still
lives, thanks to the devotion of Madame la
Princesse.'

Madame la Princesse !' muttered Randle.
What can the fellow mean V

Then, addressing the manager :

We will go to our rooms for a few minutes.

and if Madame Kalouga will receive us we
should like to see her at once, please.'

Perfectly. I will make Madame la Princesse
know that you are arrived, and demand if she
will receive you ; and then I will make myself
mount with you in the elevator and make you
see your rooms.'

Madame la Princesse?' said Handle to himself.
The man is mad.'

The manager had hardly ushered Red Lymington
and his mother into their rooms when
a servant came and whispered something in his
ear.

'Madame la Princesse will be happy to receive
you at once. She attends you in her
salon, and she hopes you will drink with her a
cup of tea.'

You have been drinking something a good
deal stronger than tea,' thought Red Lymington
; ' that is quite clear.'

Whom do you mean by Madame la Princesse?'
he asked. ' It is Madame Kalouga I want to
see.'

Precisely, Monsieur Ree-langton. Madame
la Princesse Kalouga.'

The fellow is certainly crazed,' muttered
Handle ; ' or perhaps it is a way they have here
Then aloud, * We shall be ready to go to Madame
Kalouga's room in two or three minutes.
Perhaps you will kindly wait and show us the
way.'

The manager, who was nothing if not polite,
waited accordingly, and, when Mrs. Lymington
and her son were ready, conducted them to a
room in another wing of the building.

Their conductor knocked with his bejewelled
fingers at the door. A voice they well knew
said ' Entrez,' and the next moment they were
in Dora's presence. She was very pale, and her
eyes were weary with watching ; but there was
nothing in her look or attitude that denoted
either lack of courage or loss of hope, and when
she caught sight of her aunt and cousin her
face brightened with pleasure.

Mrs. Lymington ran forward and clasped her
niece in her arms.

Oh, thank God, Dora, it is not as we feared T
That man told us the truth. Sergius is not
dead ; I can see by your face he is not.'

He is not, aunt ; and he will live. He is still

very weak, but out of danger. And 1/ said the
girl, exultingly, ' I saved his life. When I sent
you that telegram I had given up hope ; I
thought he was dying. I sent you another a
few hours later to say there was hope. Perhaps
you did not receive it V

'It would not reach Redscar until after we
had left said Randle. ' But how did the frightful
thing happen, Dora ? Who is it that has
been trying to kill Sergius?'

You are right in calling it a frightful thing,
Randle,' answered Dora, with a shudder. 'It
has been terrible. I will tell you all — all I know
if you are not too tired to listen.'

If you are not too tired to tell us, Dora, I am
sure we are not too tired to listen.'

After telling how her husband had been struck
down, as they returned from the theatre, she
continued :

When they brought Sergius into the hotel
he was quite unconscious, and as pale as death.
Everybody thought he was dying. The doctor
who first came said he feared the wound was
mortal, and that in any case, if the bleeding
went on, he could not long survive. For a

minute or two I felt as if I were losing m}? senses ;
and then, like a flash, there came into my mind
something that Sergius had said only the day
before about the transfusion of blood. There
was a surgeon at Geneva, he told me — in this
very street — whose writings on the best methods
of transfusing blood had won him a European
reputation, and who had invented the best apparatus
for the purpose in existence, fie meant
to call on him before we left Geneva. I sent
for this surgeon — Dr. Clause, he is called — at
once. Almost the moment he saw Sergius he
said the only means of preventing a fatal result
was by a transfusion, so as to keep him alive
until the bleeding could be stopped. The
blood was taken from my arm, and my husband
"vas saved.'

'Poor Dora !' murmured Mrs. Lymington, compassionately.
' What a trial !'

'It was not so very terrible, aunt. As Dr.
Clause said, the loss of a few ounces of blood
can harm nobody in good health ; and I would
have given my life for Sergius. When they examined
the wound they found that the dagger
had just missed touching any vital part. The

blow was well aimed, but my arm, they think,
must have turned the dagger a little aside.'

So you have saved his life twice over, Dora.
I suppose he is still very weak, though V

Very. He is always quite still, and speaks
only in a whisper. Nobody but the nurses and
myself, besides the doctors, can see him for the
present. Perhaps you may see him tomorrow ,
though. I will ask Dr. Clause when he comes
in the morning.'

They have caught that scoundrel, I hope ;
the fellow in the fur cap, I mean.'

They have not found a trace of him. The
police are quite puzzled. M. Cartier — he is the
head of the detective department, I think — has
been to see me several times. He is coming
again in the morning, and will perhaps have
something to tell us. He is such a nice old
gentleman, not at all like a detective, and so
intelligent.'

There is one thing more that I want to ask
you before we separate, Dora,' said Ran die,
after some further conversation. ' That fool of
a manager, or whatever he is, spoke of you
several times as " Madame la Princesse," and of

Sergiiis as Prince Kalouga. What did he mean
by it, do you think V

*He meant what he said,' answered Dora,
-with her old roguish smile. * The man was
quite right.'

'Nonsense !'

'Oh! but it is quite true, I assure you.
Sergius is Prince Sergius Kalouga, and I am
Madame la Princesse.' (Here she rose from
her chair and made a stately obeisance.)

But, Dora, this is quite bewildering. How
is it you never told us before V

For a very good reason — because I did not
know it myself. It is all very simple. Sergius
comes of a princely family. He was born a
prince. But you know what peculiar notions
he has about equality and that. When he left
Russia he left the prince behind him, and called
himself, wherever he went, simply Sergius Ka-lough.
He thought it more democratic, and it
spared him a great many troublesome attentions.
At^Redscar he found another reason for not disclosing
his title. He heard —from Bob, I think
the particulars of my father's will, and that 1
had made up my mind not to marry a man with

a title ; and he naturally did not desire it to be
supposed that he wanted to marry me for my fortune.
I only learned this at Paris. There were
some Russians at the hotel we stayed at who
knew him, and then he told me. fie was also
known here. He would have told me — told us
all — sooner, only he feared that in the circumstances,
being a stranger and that, his motives
might be misconstrued. As if anybody who
knew Sergius could possibly misconstrue his
motives.'

I never knew such a thing in all my life —
never I' exclaimed Mrs. Lymington, rubbing her
spectacles with unwonted energy. ' I can hardly
believe it. Dear me, aunt to a princess, and
going to be mother-in-law to an earl's daughter
! But I thought a way would be opened.
I always thought a way would be opened.'

A way to what, mother ?' asked Randle,
who, though he generally apprehended her
metaphors quickly enough, did not quite understand
at the moment what she was driving
at.

'I never thought the Lord would let your
cousin Randle come into the property. It's a

mysterious dispensation, I know, but I thought
a way would be opened, and I was right,'
answered Mrs. Lymington, complacently, as she
replaced her spectacles.

Of course,' said Randle. ' That is a circumstance
which in my excitement I had
overlooked. The estate is yours now, Dora.'

If I choose to take it. If my brother had
not behaved so badly he might have had it
all. As it is I do not think he ought to have
more than half — do you V

'Not even that. I am afraid it would do
him no good ; he is far from steady and very
extravagant ; and 1 fear he would soon run
through it. Make him an allowance if you like,
but keep the property in your own hands.'

Perhaps you are right ; at any rate, we need
not decide at present. We can talk about that
afterwards when Sergius is better.'

By all means. There is no need for hurry,
and it is a matter that wants thinking about.
At the same time I think your brother should
be informed, if only to give him a chance of
breaking off with Lady Conjure.'

'But he cannot, they are engaged.'

'There will be do difficulty about that, I
fancy,' rejoined Red Ryviugton, with a smile.
When her ladyship knows there is nothing to
be got by marrying him, marry him she will
not — she will be the first to renounce the engagement.
On that you may depend

'In that case we must by all means let my
brother know. 1 am sure I don't want him to
marry Lady Conjure, although he richly deserves
to do. But we need not write at once.
The marriage does not take place for three
weeks, you know.'

'Yes,' acquiesced Randle, 'it will be time
enough next week, and until I have had some
conversation with Sergius I shall not be in a
position to state positively — in my capacity as
trustee, you know — that you really are a
princess.'

Oh, you shall have an abundance of proof,
old Ran, but we do not intend to be Prince and
Princess at Whitebrook for all that. And now
let us say good night ; aunt is quite worn out,
and you look very tired.'

Tired though Randle was, he sent off a long
telegram to Muriel before going to bed.

VOL. III. S

CHAPTER XXI

REVELATIONS.

DORA, as she had anticipated, was waited
upon next morning by M. Cartier, of the
Geneva detective police service. She introduced
him to Randle, who would, she said, act
as her representative, and to whom she requested
him to communicate any further facts that he
might have gathered in the course of his investigation.
The doctors were expected every
moment, she must remain with her husband,
but Mr. Lymington would inform her afterwards
what had passed.

M. Cartier was a gentleman past middle age,
with tangled grey hair and a rugged, yet intelligent,
countenance, and so benevolent-looking
withal that his general appearance was rather

that of a parson than a policeman. He had a
fair knowledge of English, so that Handle and
he were enabled to converse without difficulty.
The former's first inquiry was naturally whether
anything had been heard of the would-be murderer
or not.

Nothing whatever,' said M. Cartier ; ' and it
is very strange, for we have spared no effort.
The police, both here and across the border are
making the most active exertions. Madame la
Princesse has offered a reward of 20,000 francs
for the apprehension of the assassins; such reward
was never offered in Geneva before. There
is no lack of zeal I assure you. What makes
the affair so remarkable is that, within half an
hour of the attempt being made, a hot pursuit
was begun. The railway stations where watched,
our most trusty agents placed on the alert, the
roads leading to the frontier beset ; we telegraphed
descriptions of the men to the French
police at Bellegarde and Montpelier and other
places, and notified them of the magnificent reward
offered by Madame la Princesse. It is
truly incredible ; they must have sunk underground.'


• s 2

*They? Alas more than one man concerned
in the attempt, then V

We think there are two. The man in the
fnr cap was observed by several people both on
the day of the attempt and previously ; and
he was often in company with another man, t;
description of whom we also possess. Now both
have disappeared. The conclusion is inevitable.
They are confederates, and they are together.'

*But what can have been their motive? Why
did they want to murder Mr. — Prince Kalouga?'

Madame la Princesse, she has told you about
the finding of the dagger and the paper?'

Yes. But that does not seem to make the
matter much clearer. Why should the executive
committee desire M. Kalouga's death?'

'Madame has perhaps not told you of the
letter V

What letter ?'

A letter she received yesterday in Russian.
I have had it translated. Behold the translation.'


The letter was to the effect that Sergius Ka-lough
had been condemned to death by the
committee because he was suspected of having

applied to the Tsar for permission to return to
Russia with the intention of making a full confession
of his connection with the revolutionary
movement, and revealing the details of its organisation
and the names of the Nihilist leaders.

'But that is utterly absurd. Nobody who
knows Sergius Kalouga could possibly suspect
him of conduct so atrocious. He is not the stuff
traitors are made of. Where does this letter
come from?'

It purports to come from St. Petersburg.
But don't you see that it may be a device V

'How?'

It may have been written to throw us off
the scent.'

Then you do not think this letter emanates
from the Executive Committee at all,
or that they are in any way connected with the
attempt V

I would not affirm that too absolutely,' said
M. Cartier. ' These Nihilists are an unaccountable
sort of people. They are not to be judged
by ordinary rules. But I regard the paper
found with the dagger, and this letter, as nothing
at all. It requires to be proved that they

are geaiiine; and if it were a common case I
should look upon them as almost certain proof
that the persons to whom the crime is imputed
are precisely the persons who did uot commit
it. Moreover we are in the presence of two
theories — perhaps three.'

'Two theories ! You have heard something
more then V

I have. When I read that letter I communicated
with some of the leading Nihilist
refugees here one of whom only left St. Petersburg
a fortnight ago, and was himself a member
of the Executive Committee. All indignantly
deny that the committee, or any other
revolutionary society, had any reason for desiring
M. Kalouga's death, or that they are privy to
the attempt on his life. They say that the real
authors of the attempt are the Fraternity Sacred
the Holy Brotherhood.'

'The Holy Brotherhood? Who are the
Holy Brotherhood V

'Ah, you don't know. The Holy Brotherhood
is a secret society of Russian Royalists,
formed for the purpose of combating Nihilism
with its own weapons. One of these weapons is-said

to be assassination. Leading Nihilists and
other refugees who may have rendered themselves
particularly obnoxious to the brotherhood
are secretly condemned to death and executed by
the society's emissaries. This is what I have
heard at least. I have myself no proof of the
existence of this society. At the same time, I
am bound to say that a colleague of mine, a
sous-chef of the detective department of the
French police, who probably knows more about
secret societies than any other man in Europe,
and whom I have consulted, quite believes in
the Holy Brotherhood.'

Still, M. Cartier,' rejoined Randle, 'I do not
see how this brings us any nearer to a solution.
Assume that the Holy Brotherhood does exist,
what then ? Why should they attack Kalouga ?
He has long since ceased to be a Nihilist, if ever
he was one. He has faithfully kept his promise
not to meddle with politics, and has lately
been living quietly in England,, as I can personally
testify. AYhat can they have against
him % — why do they want to kill him 'l Until
that point is explained, we are as much in the
dark as ever.'

'Precisely, and this is the point I am coming
to. I am told — for this is all hearsay, remember
— I am told that the brotherhood have
adjudged Prince Sergius Kalouga to death
because he has broken, or is suspected to have
broken, one of the conditions on which he was
set free.'

I don't believe it,' said Randle, warmly.
He has not meddled with politics at all ; he
has been most guarded. The charge is false,
M. Cartier,'

It is not that ; it is something very different,'
said the officer , drily. ' Did he ever tell you
what befell him in prison V

Yes. He told me about his life in prison ;
how he was confined in a damp cell and so
insufficiently fed that some of his teeth dropped
out — that is the reason he has to wear a
gold plate in the front of his mouth — how he
fell ill, was taken to the hospital, and managed
to escape ; how he gave himself up and was
eventually released.'

That is all ? He never told you about being
put to the torture V

'Put to the torture!' exclaimed Randle,

aghast. ' You surely don't mean that — you
cannot mean that '

I mean,' interposed M. Cartier, ' that Prince
Sergius Kalouga was put to the torture to make
him reveal the names of the confederates by
whose help he escaped from prison.'

Great Heaven, is such a thing possible ?
Yet now, when I think of it, he did say that
something had happened to him when in prison
that he could not tell us, that he had sworn not
to reveal.'

Precisely; that was it, no doubt.'

But how do you come to know this, M.
Cartier ? I am sure poor Sergius has kept his
word. If he had told anybody he would have
told me.'

I, too, am quite sure, Mr. Ry winston, that he
has kept his word. I obtained my information
from a newspaper. A few weeks ago the Nihilist
journal, the Popular Will, published a full
account of the torturing of Prince Kalouga, and
their account has been reproduced in the Nihilist
organ published here.'

And how did the Nihilists get to know f

As they get to know a great many other

things — through their confederates. They have
confederates in the Third Section itself; some
of them even are members of the secret police.'

'I begin to understand now. The government
would naturally not want it to be known
that they had been guilty of such a frightful act
of cruelty.'

*Not so much the government — if you mean
the Tsar, for I am sure he knows nothing of this
as the police. When the Tsar ordered M.
Kalouga to be set at liberty, those who had
caused him to be put to the torture feared that
he might expose them and thereby discredit the
Russian administration in European opinion,
besides compromising them with the Emperor.
So, before releasing the prince, they made him
swear not to reveal what had passed.'

You think, then, that the Holy Brotherhood,
being of opinion that the account published in
the Popular Will emanated from M. Kalouga,
resolved to punish him for his supposed perjury
with death V

'Possibly. But there may be another reason.
The statements of the Popular Will prove
nothing. They may be denied, and doubtless

have been denied, but so long as the prince
lives he may be called upon to confirm them.
If the matter should come to the Tsar's ears,
for instance, he might release M. Kalouga from
his oath, and authorise him to tell everything.'

I see. They wanted to put him out of the
way on the principle that dead men tell no
tales.'

'Exactly; but you will please remember that
this is all hypothesis and inference, which maybe
more or less mistaken. The only fact we
have at present to go upon is that the life of
Prince Kalouga has been attempted by an individual
of whom we know nothing whatever,
and whom we have not yet succeeded in taking.
If we only lay hands on him the mystery will
speedily be unravelled.'

You think he will confess V

I do think so,' said M. Cartier, significantly.

'You surely don't mean to torture hims exclaimed
Randle, in a tone of horror.

Oh no, we don't do anything of that sort
in Switzerland now. But I must tell you
that we have a very clever juge cVinstmction
here. For worming a guilty secret out of a

man there is not his equal in all Europe

^I see. Cross-examination and solitary confinement,
I suppose ; that is very effective, but
it is torture, nevertheless. But about Prince
Kalouga, M. Cartier. Have you any idea in
^vhat way M. Kalouga was tortured? Do they
really keep racks and thumb screws in Russian
prisons V

Oh, dear, no ; racks and thumb screws are
like bows and arrows — they are obsolete. The
prince was tortured by electricity.'

The demons ! Ah, I understand their object.
By means of electricity they can convulse a
man's body with agony, yet leave on it no external
marks of violence. Poor Sergius ! how
terribly he must have suffered, and how bravely
he bore his sufferings ! AVith all their devilish
ingenuity, his tormentors did not succeed in
wringing from him a single avowal.'

'If the Tsar had not ordered his release,
though, they would have killed him in the end —
at least, the Popular Will says so.'

^ I have not a doubt of it. No man, even
if he were much stronger than M. Kalouga,
could long outlive the exquisite torture

which electricity can be made to inflict.'
When shall I see you again V continued Red

Lymington, as M. Cartier rose to take his leave.
Not before I have something more to tell you.

Perhaps tomorrow — perhaps in two or three

days. All plaisir de vous revoir, Mr. Lymington.'
When Randle, an hour later, saw Dora, she

told him that the doctor's opinion of Sergius

was favourable, and that he might see him fora

few minutes in the afternoon.

CHAPTER XXII.

LOST IN THE RHONE.

nnOUR days after Red Lymington's arrival at
-■- Geneva, Kalonga had gained so much
strength that the interdict on conversation was
removed, and the doctors allowed him to sit
and talk with his friend. The patient was still
very weak, for he had lost much blood, but the
wound was doing well, and all the feverish
symptoms had disappeared.

Randle imparted to his friend all he had
heard from M. Cartier (whom he had not seen
since their first interview), and asked his
opinion as to the two theories which the chief
of the detective department had propounded.
Kalouga without hesitation attributed the attempt
on his life to the Holy Brotherhood. It

was absurd on the face of it, he said, to ascribe
the attempt to the Executive Committee. It
was not likely that, after undergoing cruel
sufferings rather than betray his comrades and
those who had helped him to escape, he should
voluntarily propose to disclose their secrets and
give their names to the Russian government.
They knew him too well to believe that he
could be guilty of so base an act. Moreover, if
he had wanted to play the traitor it would not
have been necessary for him to go to St. Petersburg
for that purpose. A letter through the
post or an interview with the Russian ambassador
in London would have been quite as effectual
and much safer.

I know very little of the Holy Brotherhood,'
said the prince, in answer to a remark made by
Randle, ' but I know something of the men who
are believed to be connected with it. Several
of them are capable of anything ; and the members
of the Third Section, who were cognisant of
the treatment I received in prison, have the
strongest motive for desiring my destruction
as M. Cartier seems to have found out.'
You think the two bodies are connected, then f

Of course they are connected. The brotherhood
is simply a creation of the Third Section.
Do you imagine that such an organisation
could exist without the sanction and active
connivance of the police? The ways of
despotism are dark and crooked, my friend.
The first thought of a despotic ruler is necessarily
the preservation of his authority as the
first thought of his agents is necessarily the retention
of their places. The interest of the
nation is only secondary. The final argument
of a minister when recommending to the Tsar
a measure, a policy, or a war, is that the interest
of his dynasty demands it, and the argument
is one which his majesty never resists.
In the same way, his servants offer a determined
opposition to every proposal for the reform
of a system of which they are a part, and with
which they identify their interests. They treat
reformers as the Roman emperors treated the
early Christians, as the Roman Catholic Church
once treated heretics ; or, to adduce a more
modern instance, as the slave owners of the
United States treated abolitionists. This is
-why so many enlightened Russians, whose

instincts are naturally conservative, have come
to the conclusion that reform without revolution
is impossible ; that for so gigantic an evil
the remedy must be radical. People say that
Russia is not fit for constitutional rule —
that the alternative of autocracy is anarchy.
They are wrong. I kiiow our peasants ; and,
though they are not as intelligent as your English
working classes, they are little, if at all,
inferior in shrewdness to the peasants of
France. They are quite capable of choosing
men in whom they have confidence to represent
them in a legislative or, if that should bethought
too strong a measure in the beginning,
a deliberative assembly. But it is idle to dis-^'
cuss the point. Nobody who knows Russia
believes that even that first step towards freedom
will be taken save as the consequence of a
successful revolution.'

As to what had befallen him in prison, Ka-lough
was more reserved than Randle had
expected. While unable to deny the substantial
accuracy of the account in the Popular
Will, he did not consider that the revelation
freed him from the obligation of his oath.

VOL. III. T

'Besides he added, with a shudder, 'the
subject is so very painful to me — the mere
thought of what I endured is agony — that I
do not think I could bear to talk about it.
Let us talk about something else, my friend —
about yourself, your plans, and Kedscar.'

Randle profited by this opening to repeat the
thanks he had already expressed by letter for
the timely help that the prince had so generously
afforded him — help without which the firm
of Lymington and Sons might have failed to
weather the storm. Words, he said, were
powerless to express his sense of Kalouga's
kindness, and nothing he could ever do would
be sufficient to discharge the debt of gratitude
which he owed him.

'And yet you begin by proposing to do me a
positive unkindness,' observed Kalouga, with a
smile, in which, however, there was more of
earnest than of jest.

'Proposing to do you an unkindness !' rejoined
Red Lymington, in great surprise.
'What do you mean, Sergius?'

You say in your letter that you intend to
pay me interest — five per cent, was it not ? I

think five per cent, is one of the most revered of
your minor English divinities.'

'But what is your objection ? Why should I
not pay you interest V

Because I am not a usurer, Randle. Because
I would rather lose my right hand than profit
by my friend's necessity. Because I know that
if I were in need you would do to me as I have
done to you.'

But urged Randle, rather taken aback by
this very uncommercial view of the matter , ' I
am employing your money in my business. It
is of great service to us. How can it be wrong
to pay you something for the use of it ? It
seems to me it would be wrong not to do so.'

Look on this picture, my friend. It is night.
I am driving, amid fast-falling snow, through
one of our Russian forests. The trees are bending
to the blast. In the intervals of the storm
can be heard the terrible bowling of hungry
wolves, eager for the hunt of death. As I pass
on I see something in the snow. It is an overturned
sledge. Near it stands a traveller ; his
horses are utterly exhausted; If he remains
where he is one half hour longer, he will either

perish of cold or become the prey of wild beasts.
I offer him a place beside me ; I give him a
cloak, and take him to a place of safety. What
should I say to that man, do you think, if he
proposed to pay me for the hire of my sledge
and the use of my cloak V

'But the circumstances are quite different,'
pleaded Randle. ' It is quite true that you
helped me in my need ; but don't you see that
I profit — commercially, I mean — by your money,
and it is only right that I should give you a
part of my profit V

Xo , my friend,' said the prince, quietly, yet
firmly, ^I will not take any interest from you,
neither will I take back the principal.'

No, no, Sergius ; I cannot suffer that. You
must take it back. In two or three months I
shall really have no further need of it.'

Well, then, wee must try to do good with
the money in some other way. I have already
thought of a plan. It shall be put into trust —
I think that is the term — and the interest arising
therefrom devoted to the higher education
of poor \Yhitebrook youths of promise, such as

your protege Bentley. What do you think of
that V

I say it is a splendid idea and a noble gift,'
replied Randle, warmly. 'I do not think the
money could be put to a better use.'

Good. You will help me to carry the idea
out, then?'

With all my heart,' said Red Lymington,
who now saw his way to clearing his commercial
conscience by paying, if not interest , at
least something in lieu thereof. ' You Avill
make all Whitebrook your debtor.'

Whitebrook has done a great deal for me
rejoined Kalouga. ' It is time for me to do
something for Whitebrook.'

Here Dora entered the room. She said that
M. Cartier was in the salon, and desired to see
Monsieur Lymington.

Handle went into the salon forthwith.

You bring news — you have caught those
fellows f he asked the chief detective eagerly,
almost as soon as he set eyes on him.

They have caught themselves,' said the
other, grimly.

They are in custody, the !'

More than that — they are executed.'

You are joking, M. Cartier,' said Randle, a
little impatiently. 'It is impossible. Besides,
there is no capital punishment in Switzerland.'

They have executed themselves answered
the other, quietly. ' They would have done better
to give themselves up to me. The worst
that could have happened to them should have
been fifteen years' imprisonment ; and, as M. le
Prince is not dead, they would doubtless have
got the benefit of extenuating circumstances,
and received a yet milder sentence.'

All this is a riddle to me,' rejoined Red Lymington
still more impatiently. ' Will you
have the goodness to be a little more explicit,
M. Cartier V

Precisely. I am about to explain everything .
It is a very strange story. But first of all I
must ask if you ever heard of the Perte du
Rhone r

I have read about it in the guide books. It
is where the Rhone loses itself— disappears underground
near Bellegarde — is it notes'

Precisely. It would be more accurate to say

partially disappears, for in summer a part of the
stream descends into the gulf, a part flows over
and beyond it ; and, although the river reappears
a little further on, no substance that goes
down the Perte is ever seen again. Well, on
the day I was here last, directly after I had
seen you, I received a communication from the
police at Bellegarde, stating that on the previous
Monday a boat containing two strangers
had been lost in the Perte. They informed us
of the circumstance because, the men being unknown
there the Bellegarde people thought
they might possibly have descended the river
from Geneva, or some other part of the canton.'

'But how did they know these men were
strangers ? You said just now that whatever
went down the Perte was irrevocably lost.'

I will tell you. The navigation of the
Rhone from Geneva to Bellegarde is extremely
difficult and dangerous. The river, as it issues
from the lake here is more than two hundred
yards wide. Lower down, even after there has
been added to it the vast volume of the Are, it
is compressed between high walls of rock to a
M'idth of forty or fifty feet. It is, moreover, the

swiftest stream in. Europe. From here to the
French frontier, indeed, the river is almost one
continuous rapid, and to descend in a boat is a
feat only to be attempted by experienced boatmen.
The sole way of passing Bellegarde is to
follow a channel which has been cut immediately
above the Perte for the service of the mills
in the neighbourhood. Well, on Monday afternoon
last, a boat containing two men was seen
approaching Bellegarde, and to the horror of
the people belonging to the mills, instead of
making for the channel it went straight on towards
the gulf. An effort was made to warn
the men of their danger ; but, not understanding
or not heeding the excited shouts of the bystanders,
they continued their fatal course.
When they discovered their mistake they made
a desperate attempt to save themselves, and
cried frantically for help. It was too late ; the
next moment they and their boat were lost forever.
The day after, an oar, which had been
swept over the Perte, was found lower down
the stream.

When I heard of this incident,' continued M.
Cartier, ' it occurred to me that these men might

be the two who were concerned in the attempt
to murder M. le Prince, and 1 proceeded to make
a searching investigation with a view to ascertain
how far my conjecture had warrant On
inquiry among the boatmen here, I found that
on the very morning after the attempt, a small
boat was missed from the quay opposite this
bouse. The chain by which it was fastened had
been broken, as appeared, with a stone, and the
owner had neither seen nor heard anything of
his boat since. My next proceeding was to
send to Bellegarde for the oar, and despatch
one of our best agents down the Rhone valley
^vith instructions to make careful inquiry at
every village on the banks of the river if anything
had been seen of the boat and the two
men.

My agent returned yesterday. Here is his
process verbally

The procts verbal, or report, a rather lengthy
document, recounted that, shortly after sunrise
on the morning following the attempt on Prince
Sergius Kalouga's life, a boat was seen to pass
the Moulin (Mill) sous Vernier, a romantic gorge
in the Rhone valley. There were two men in

it, one of whom, according to the testimony of
the miller, wore a fur cap. They were seen
again at La Plaine, where one of them went
ashore to buy food. He also purchased a hat
from a peasant, saying that he had lost his own
in the river. The boat and its occupants were
noticed at several other places between the
French frontier and Bellegarde, and, finally,
the man whose brit had been taken recognised
the oar as his own, and was ready to swear to
its identity.

You think, then,' said Ran die, after reading-^
the report, 'that the man with the fur cap was.
the one who stabbed the Prince, and the other
his accomplice ?'

There is not the shadow of a doubt about it.
The escape was well planned too, and if they
had not gone down the Perte they might have
got clear away. We watched railway and road,
and searched all over Geneva, but it never occurred
to us that they would have the hardihood
to make off by the river. Once past Bellegarde,
they might easily have reached Lyons without
attracting attention, for they would doubtless
have disguised themselves, and the fur cap, as

we know, was thrown away before they got as
far as La Plaine. They were great scoundrels
and richly deserve their fate. Yet I must confess
to a feeling of regret ; for with them perishes
our only chance of solving the mystery.'

I am afraid so.'

'Their employers will not give us any clue,
you may be sure of that.'

You still think they were emissaries of the
Holy Brotherhood, though?'

That is certainly my opinion, but it is only
an opinion, after all. It is always conceivable,
you know, that the men may have been personal
enemies ofM. le Prince, or even Nihilists who
for some reason unknown to us, and possibly to
him, want to get him out of the way. For
among the Nihilists, as I happen to know
(though I daresay M. Kalouga does not think so)
there are black sheep — men who for a sufficient
consideration are willing to play the part of
traitors. But all this is conjecture. We have
not succeeded in unravelling the mystery. When
that is said, all is said.'

After M. Cartier's departure, Candle told Sergius
what had come to pass.

It is better so my friend,' said the latter,
gravely, after a few minutes' thought. ' If M.
Cartier be right — and I think he is — these men
have met their deserts — no emissary of the
Holy Brotherhood deserves to live — and as they
have disappeared they will not have to be tried.
Dora and I will not have to remain in Geneva
and give evidence; and I shall be spared the
pain of having my name and nearly every incident
of my life bruited all over Europe. Yes,
it is better so.'

There was now no necessity for Red Lymington
to prolong his stay in Geneva. The investigation
could be pursued no further, and Ka-lough,
although he would have to keep his bed
for two or three weeks longer, was quite out
of danger. So the next day Handle, leaving his
mother to keep Dora company, started for
London.

CHAPTER XXIII.

MARRIED IN HASTE.

rpHE conversation with Red Lymington on the
-*- way to Holyhead left a decidedly unpleasant
impression on the mind of Charles Augustus
M'M'Mullen. He thought, to use his own
expression, there was ' something behind ;' some
contingency that might prevent the marriage of
the other Lymington and Lady Conjure, or
otherwise mar his plans. But after long and
deep cogitation he came to the conclusion that
the only eventuality he had not taken into account
was the death of his cousin or her swain
before the day fixed for the wedding. The contingency
was not a very probable one , perhaps,
both the individuals in question being young
and in good health. Still there was no telling;.

life was confoundedly uncertain, and, on the
principle of leaving as little to chance as possible,
the member for Rorytown made up his mind
that, so soon as he had finished his business
(which included the delivery of an address to
his constituents on the ' Bloodthirstiness of
Englishmen and the meekness of the Irish
race '), he would hasten back to London and
insist on the lovers being forthwith married by
special licence.

When he laid this suggestion before the parties
concerned, they were naturally taken rather
aback, and Lady Conjure (who wanted to have
a grand wedding and a great flare-up) offered
numerous objections ; but her cousin adduced
reasons so weighty in favour of the course he
recommended that her ladyship ended by giving
a grudging and somewhat sulky consent.

As for the bridegroom expectant, he fell in
with M'M'Mullen's views at once. He' had grace
enough left to be a little ashamed of what he
was doing ; he did not want the eclat of a grand
wedding, and he did want to obtain possession
of Deepdene at the earliest possible moment.
-But for this last consideration, Lady .Conjure

was probably about the last woman in the world
that Mr. Hy winston would have cared to marry.
Though a peer's widow she Alas a peasant's
daughter, and, what was worse, a peasant's
daughter spoiled. Her sudden elevation and her
life at Conjure Castle had developed all that
was bad in her character, at the expense of
most that was good in it. Her manners were
"those of a pert barmaid ; her taste in dress was as
tawdry as that of a gipsy fortune-teller. She
was frightfully passionate , and when much provoked
either used very bad language or relieved
her excitement by a violent bout of hysterics. If
Deep Randle did not know all this, he had seen
quite enough to make it manifest that his
union with her ladyship was not likely to conduce
much to their mutual happiness, and he
had already half resolved (as soon as he decently
could) to send her back to Ireland with an
allowance of a thousand a year (which amount
was secured to her by settlement in the event
of her surviving him), and so relieve himself of
her company. With the balance of his income
he could make himself very comfortable, he
thought, even without a wife.

Four days after JM'Mullen's return to London
they were married. As the shortness of the interval
did not admit of elaborate preparation,
the proceedings were of the simplest. The wedding
guests consisted of some half dozen friends
of Lady Conjure's, and the member for Rory-
town acted as Mr. Rj^vington's best man.

When the knot had been duly tied the bridal
party were driven to her ladyship's lodgings in
Bayswater, whence, after the breakfast (Mullen
had insisted on the breakfast), the newly
married couple proposed to set out for Paris.

In the interval between the return from
church and the breakfast the two M.p's found
themselves alone in the drawing-room.

*Now, my boy,' exclaimed M'M'Mullen, slapping
the other on the back (Mr. Lymington hated to
be slapped on the back), ' you are all right now.
Twelve thousand a year and a handsome wife.
You are the luckiest man in London this day,
I congratulate you, my bo', on ^-our marriage
with me cousin. Lady Conjure.'

Randle muttered something which might have
been either thanks or the reverse ; and his companion,
seeing that he was not in a very companionable

mood, took up a morning paper
which was lying on the table, and began to
read. He had not read many minutes when a
portentous change passed over his countenance.
He became red and pale by turns, and then, rising
so quickly from his chair as to overturn it, be
literally rushed at Mr. Lymington and thrust the
paper in his face.

Look at this, you villain !' he shouted, in a
voice hoarse with passion ; ' look at this !'

Deep Handle, thinking that the member for
Rorytown had suddenly gone mad, did 'look at
this.* It was a paragraph headed 'Mysterious
Occurrence at Geneva and gave a full, true,
and circumstantial account of the attempted
murder of Prince Sergius Kalouga. It contained,
too, several particulars concerning his antecedents,
mentioned that he had been living for
some time afc Whitebrook, in Lancashire, and
that he had married there an English'^lady (described
as ' the Princess ') sister of one of the
members for Whitebrook and cousin of the
other.

Mr. Lymington read the account a second
time, dwelling on every word, and then, feeling

VOL. III. U

that it was all too true, he turned almost sick
with rage and disappointment. His sister was
the heiress, himself a ruined man, and he
had just been tied for life to a wretched
woman without either money, breeding, or
education.

He was roused by an exclamation from
x\rMullen.

Did you know this he asked. 'Did you
know it? — did you know it? — did you know it,
I say V

Know it ? Do you suppose if I had known
it I would have condescended to associate with
a blackguard or marry a creature like your
cousin?'

You are a liar. You did know, and I'll
have you punished. I'll have you prosecuted for
obtaining money and procuring my guarantee
to a loan under false pretences.'

This was too much for Deep Handle. Without
answering a word he dashed his fist full in
the Irishman's face. M'M'Mullen returned the
blow with interest, and a fierce fight was only
prevented by Lady Conjure, who ran shrieking

into the room and threw herself between the
combatants,

Oh, you blackguards ! What are you after
doing?' she exclaimed. 'Fighting on my 
! Are you not ashamed of yourself,
Randle? What does it all mean, Charles
Alexander?'

'It means that this man has deceived us.
His sister is the wife of a prince, and takes all
the property. He has not a shilling. You lose
your five hundred a year, and T am liable to
Corny M'S\viney for five thousand pounds.
That's what it means.'

'Is this true V she asked, turning fiercely to
her husband.

It is not true that I have deceived you. I
am deceived myself. Do you think if I had
known my sister was entitled to the property
I should have been such a fool as to marry you V
answered Mr. Lymington, savagely.

On this her ladyship snapped her fingers in
his face, and after calling him a ' murdering villain,
' and otherwise abusing him in language
more forcible than polite, she threw herself on

U 2

the floor ia a perfect paroxysm of hysterics.
Deep Randle took advantage of the confusion
caused by this incident to slip quietly from the
room, and a few minutes later he left the house.
On reaching the street he chartered a passing
hansom, and ordered the driver to take him to
the hotel in Jermyn Street at which he lodged.
All was over now, and it was necessary for him
to decide what he should do. If his sister alone
had been concerned, he might have asked her to
make over to him a moiety of the estate. But
he judged others by himself, and being now fully
persuaded that Kalouga was a penniless adventurer,
who had married Dora for her fortune,
and conscious that he had treated him of late
with scant courtesy, he felt certain that the
request, if made, would be peremptorily rejected.
The best thing he could do, he thought, was to
leave England at once. Not only was he overhead
and ears in debt, but he was threatened
with the loss of his seat, and possibly with a
prosecution for bribery. Tom Cliviger had
written to say that, unless Mr. Lymington could
lend him £10,000, he should have to suspend
payment, in which event — as his books and

papers would pass into other hands — all the
facts connected with the two elections were
sure to become known, with the certain result
of a petition against Mr. Lymington's return.
Yes, it was quite clear he could not remain in
England.

As it happened, Deep Randle was in funds,
the balance of the loan raised in Dublin being
almost intact. When he had finally made up
his mind to go away, he called for another hansom,
went to the city, drew his money (some £3,500)
out of the bank in which it was deposited, and
took passage for Australia by the overland
route. The next day he left London for Melbourne.
His intention was to go up the country
and buy land, but he never got any further than
Melbourne, where he fell into bad company,
became a confirmed drunkard, and little more
than a year after he landed in Australia died a
drunkard's death.

When the circumstances in which her brother
had left England came to Dora's knowledge, she
paid all his debts (though not before M'M'Mullen
had been made bankrupt on his guarantee to the
Dublin money-lender) ; and, if Red Lymington

had not dissuaded her from doing so, she would
have granted an allowance to Lady Conjure
equal to that which the latter had forfeited by
marrying Deep Lymington. He advised her
rather to pay the deserted wife a sum down
without conditions, and 'cut the connection
and the dowager, much to her surprise, received
four thousand pounds on the strict understanding
that she was to make no further demands on
her husband's sister.

CHAPTER XXIV.

ERE WE PART.

ONCE more in the Furca Pass.
It is the beginning of October. Mountain
hotels are closed, Alpine routes deserted, and
most of the tourists, who a little while ago were
crowding the railways, the steamboats, and the
highways of Switzerland, are either hiding them
towards the south or returning to their northern
homes and native fogs. But though the summer
is past the weather is gloriously fine. The
air is clearer, the sky bluer, the outlines of the
mountains are more clearly defined, and the
views grander than in the height of the season.
A travelling carriage, in which are seated a
ladyandgentleman,is descending the Furca road.'
At a sign from the gentleman the carriage stops.

See, Muriel,' says the gentleman who, as
the reader has already guessed, is Red Lymington,
' that is the place where I lay asleep
when I heard the diligence bells.'

When you were called to save me, dearest.'

'Yes, darling, when I was called to save you
and receive the greatest blessing of my life —
your love.'

I am doubly your debtor, Randle dear, for
you both saved my life and gave me your heart.'

And in saving your life did I not save what
is more precious to me than my owne said Randle,
fondly taking her hand in his. ' Am I not
repaid a thousand-fold?'

You did right to say you were called. If it
had not been for that sleep in the wood and
those diligence bells—' (Here she paused and
shuddered.) ' Our fate depended on those bells.'

Yes, and the fate of others— of Kalouga and
Dora, and of how many more I know not. I
retain enough of my mother's creed to believe
there is an appointed course for all of us — that
a divinity doth shape our ends, rough hew them
how we will.'

They stopped again at the point where the

carriage had been carried down the precipice,
and recalled the strange events of the day on
which they first met, and Muriel paid the tribute
of a tear to the memory of poor Miss Joyce.
Then they strolled, hand in hand, down the
road along which they had once Walked when
neither knew the other's name.

We stay to-night at Viesch, I suppose f asked
Muriel.

*Yes, and tomorrow night at Brine. Weare
going over the old ground, you know.'

'And we meet Dora and Kalouga at Nyon?'

That is the arrangement. I must send them
a post card to-night to say when they may expect
us.'

'Kalouga is very much better, Dora said in
her last letter.'

Yes ; he is quite strong again. The waters
of Divonne have restored him to more than pristine
vigour.'

It will be pleasant going home with them.'

'Very. And I shall be glad to get home, for
I have much to do.'

'And I am longing to see Redscar and begin
my new duties, dearest. Were the letters you

received this morning on business satisfactory?'
Quite so. Since we have taken Auf, der
Mauer into partnership, I can leave home without
fear of unpleasant surprises.'

The programme sketched by Randle was
duly carried out. Sergius and Dora met him
and Lady Muriel at Nyon (where they all made
a call on Mademoiselle Vieutemps), and after
spending a day or two at Divonne they returned
together to England. Randle received a
hint from his brother that there was some intention
on the part of certain enthusiastic White-brokers
of meeting them at the station, unharnessing
their carriage, and drawing them home.
The execution of this kindly-meant design,
which approved itself neither to Red Lymington
nor his bride, was , however, prevented by the
arrival of the party a day sooner than they
were expected. But Randle could not prevent
a deputation of factory girls waiting on Muriel
and presenting her with a charming miniature
of her husband (copied from a portrait in the
possession of Mrs. Lymington) and an epithalamium
specially written for the occasion by Bill
Bentley.

Muriel was delighted. She acknowledged
the compliment in a pretty little speech, shook
hands with every member of the deputation,
and invited them to take tea with her. Handle
capped the invitation by asking all the Redscar
lasses and their men-folk to an entertainment
best described by the French term soiree
litUraire et musicale, in the new loom shed
which had just been roofed in. Among the
performers on the occasion were Muriel and
Dora, who sang some of their best songs and
played several choice pieces on the piano.
Randle and Kalouga could neither sing nor play
but they made some chemical and electrical
experiments which greatly pleased all who witnessed
them.

Lady Muriel won golden opinions from the
work-people. 'Th' master's new wife,' they
said, ' was a gradely nice lass,' which was the
highest praise they could give her.

Nobody was better pleased with the arrival
of the newly-wedded pair and the turn things
had taken generally than our old friend Twister.
He went to the * Rainbow' and ordered champagnes
round (first stipulating with the landlord

that, as he was ' going in for a lot,' it should
be put in' at a low price). He drank a lot himself,
albeit no more than he could carry comfortably
home. But, as he subsequently confided
to his friend Striverr, he was ' that dry ' the day
after that he kept a little lad ' running all day
fetching him bitter beer.'

The year in which these events took place was
marked in the annals of Whitebrook with a
white stone, and the general feeling of the town
was happily and exactly expressed by Twister
in the speech he made at the 'Rainbow' when
proposing the health of the bride and bridegroom.


A Whitebrook lad,' he said, ' has getteu wed
to a Herl's daughter; a Whitebrook lass has
gotten wed to a Prince ; and a Whitebrook dog
has won th' Trafalgar Cup. If that isn't coming
it strong, I should just like to know what is.'

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE

MESSES. HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

^m

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

THE Friendships OF Mary Russell

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G-. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," and Author of
The Life of the Rev. W. Harness," &c. 2 vols, crow-n 8vo. 21s.

Among other persons whose letters are recorded in these volumes are : — Lady
Dacre, The Duke of Devonshire, Lord St. Germans, Lord Holland, Sir William
Belford, Dean Milan, Eev. A. Dice, Mrs. Trollope, Mrs. Holland. Mrs. S. C.
Hall, Mrs. Jameson, Mrs. Opie. ills. Clive, Mrs. Hemans, Miss Edgeworth, Miss
Strickland, Miss Martineau, Miss Barrett, Miss de Quince, Miss Jephson, Miss
Porter. Miss Sedgwick, Joanna Ba ill ie, William Cobbett, Macready, Kemble,
Douglas Ferrol, Walter Savage Landor, Eliot Warburton. Barry Cornwall,
John Ruskin, Tom Taylor, Serjeant Balfour, Crabbe Robinson, Charles
Young, Digby Starkey, Bayard Taylor, George Harley, George Tickler, X. P.
Willis, the Hewitt, &c.
"Few collections of miscellaneous letters are so well worth reading as these.
The ideas of the writers are so various and the styles so different, that it is impossible
to grow weary of them. Entirely apart from their connection with Miss
Mitford, there is much to please and much to be learnt from the book. Everyone
will find some favourite author or poet among the correspondents, and therefore
find it worth their while to read at least some of the letters included in the present
volumes. Mr. L'L'Estrange has performed his task with care, and it has evidently
been a labour of love." — Morning Post.

To have been a friend of Mary Russell Mitford is, paraphrasing the language of
Steele, a liberal education. As a correspondent, Miss Mitford was hardly inferior
to Cowper, her faculty being derived from her mother, whose letters are admirable
specimens of easy, confidential, sympathetic communication. These letters are all
written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss Barrett is one of Miss
Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired with a sense of excellence
in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely interesting, and
they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which will hold the reader's delighted
and serious attention'" — Daily Tdegrcqjlt.

"In this singular and probably unique book Miss Mitford is painted, not in
letters of her own nor ia letters written of her. but in letters addressed to her ;
and a true idea is thus conveyed of her talent, her disposition, and of the impression
she made upon her friends. It seldom happens that anyone, however distinguished,
receives such a number of letters well worth reading as were addressed
to Miss Mitford : and the letters from her correspondents are not only from interesting
persons, but are in themselves interesting"' — St. Jame.-i's Gazette.

"One of the first successes of the literary season has been made by 'Miss Mit-fords
Friendships." It is a thoroughly literary book, in which literary subjects
are dealt with by writers who were called upon by their profession to handle them.
It possesses a singular interest from the effective manner in which it transports
the reader into the past"" — Standard.

No one has left a happier memory behind her than Miss Mitford. Her books
are fresh with all the freshness of country life. The letters addressed to her are
extremely miscellaneous ; there are some characteristic ones from Cobbett, some
really clever ones from Sir William Belford, and some full of pleasant gossip from
Mrs. Trollope." — Athenaeum.

Twelve years have passed since ' The Life of Mary Russell Mitford ' was published,
and it might fairly be thought that the public was quite ready and willing
to hear more of one of the most popular women and vivacious writers of the
generation preceding our own. The two collections, therefore, fit and complete
each other"— Pall Mall Gazette.

"Some of the most delightful specimens of friendly and literary correspondence
which exist in the English language. On the various interesting reminiscences of
Miss Mitford's contemporaries we cannot here enlarge, but they will repay the
readers search'' — Trie Queen.

"Mr. L'L'Estrange gives his readers several letters written by Miss Mitford, and
these will be found even more interesting than the others." — Globe.

This book is in many parts highly attractive. Not the least pleasant passages
in the collection are casual notices of passing acquaintances and strangers." —
Saturday Review.

NEW 'WOmiS—Co7it{nued.

CONVERSATIONS with M. Tiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. SOs.
"Mr. Senior had a social position which gave him admission into the best literary
and political circles of Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who
knew how to take full advantage of such an opening. These conversations he
wrote down with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his
friends, that they might correct or modify his report of what they had said. This
book thus contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation,
and afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question.
The book is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without
some memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and
literature — the three great interests that make up life — are all discussed in turn,
and there is no discussion which is unproductive of weighty thought or striking fact."
Athenaeum.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Late

Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Simpson.

2 vols. 8vo. 303.

"A large part of this delightful book is made up of studies by various critics,

from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon, and of more or

less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The work contains a

few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M. Tiers. There are some

valuable reminiscences of Lamartine. and among men of a somewhat later day, of

Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Montalembert, Victor Cousin, K^nan, and the

Chevaliers"— ^^Aer«of«»L

It is impossible to do justice to these ' Conversations ' in a brief notice, so we
must be content to refer our readers to volumes which, wherever they are opened,
will be found pregnant with interest"' — The Times.

Many readers may prefer the dramatic or literary merit of Mr. Senior's ' Conversations
' to their historical interest, but it is impossible to insert extracts of such
length as to represent the spirit, the finish, and the variety of a book which is
throughout entertaining and instructive"— .Sai«?-rfa2/ Review.

CATHARINE OF ARAGON, and the Sources

OF THE English Reformation. Edited, from the French of Albert

DuBoTS-with Notes by Charlotte M. Yo^tge, Author of "The

Heir of Radcliffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"This book is valuable as an able compendium of documents about Catharine,

and also as a statement of the causes which led to the English Reformation. It

Should be read by all who want to take a comprehensive view of the period. Miss

Tone's work is thoroughly and conscientiously done." — Graphic.

A CHRISTIAN WOMAN; Being the Life of Madame

Jules juillet, nee Oberkampf. By Madame de Witt, nee

Guizot. Translated by j\Irs. H. N. Goodhart. With a Preface

by the Author of "John Halifax." Foolscap 8vo. 5s.

"A work of great interest, and full of noble inspiration." — Brit. Quarterly Review

The story of the life and labour of the good woman here commemorated has

much to interest readers on both sides of the Channel"— /o/!« Bull.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of '^ John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. lOs. Gd.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Cranks volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— /SY. Jan's Gazette.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS ix Quarters,
Cajip, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, Cab.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy !"' 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations.' 15s.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS; or, London

UNDER THE FlRST GeORGES, ITl-i — 17G0. B}' J. FiTZGERALD

Molly. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"Mr. Molloy's pages contain abundance of amusing anecdote. He writes in a
brisk and fluent style." — Athenaeum.

"Mr. Molloy has found a subject congenial to Ms taste and fitting to Ms lively
and facile pen. His amusing gossip will be found very pleasant and easy reading'"
Daily Neics.

"These two volumes are very pleasant reading. Mr. Molloy has much to say,
and says it in a witty and pleasant manner ; nor does he forget the men and women,
poets, authors, and playwrights who made the reign of the first Georges the
most brilliant literary epoch since the days of Elizabeth. The anecdotes of Pope
and Addison, Swift and Steele, Colles Gibber, Gay, Congreve, Susanna Centlivre,
Lady May Worsley Montague, and others, are all interesting"' — Sunday Times.

These volumes recall scenes and anecdotes which will long continue to amuse
those who read only for amusement. The description of the Drawing-room at St.
James's is written in a very graphic and vivacious manner, and contains many
good stories about lords and ladies which are neatly and effectively put together"'
St. James's Gazette.

Mr. Molloy produces some curious anecdotes which have not before appeared
in print, and he is always lively'' — Pall Mall Gazette.

ROYAL WINDSOR. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and II. Demy 8vo. sos.

'Royal "Windsor' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aims
at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round
Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who
liked 'Her Majesty's Tower' will find these volumes equally pleasant. "—4fA«?««7?i,

"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English
history; worthy of Mr. Dixon's fame, worthy of its grand subject"— J/onu'w^ Post.

These volumes will find favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman "Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story of this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way'" — Daily Telegraph.

"Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Royal windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Royal House and every other part of
"Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground"— Z»ai/(/ Xeics.

VOLS. III. AND IV. OF ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. sos. Completing
the Work.
"Readers of all classes will feel a genuine regret to think that these volumes
contain the last of Mr. Dixon's vivid and lively sketches of English history. His
hand retained its cunning to the last"' — Athens um.

"Mr. Dixon's is the picturesque way of writing history. Scene after scene is
brought before us in the most effective way. His book ia not only pleasant reading,
but full of information." — Graphic.

GRIFFIN, AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant.

and Wanderings in Egypt, Stria, The Holt Land, Greece, and
Italy in 18S1. By Gexer.vl E H. Maxwell, Cab. One vol.
demy 8vo. "With Illustrations. 15s.
"The cruise of the Grinin affords bright and amusing reading from its beginning
to its end. General Maxwell writes in a frank and easy %ty\e~Morning Post.

"General Maxwell writes with a facile and seductive pen, and in his chapter on
the Lebanon and anti-Lebanon he touches on comparatively unknown regions
where it is instructive as well as pleasurable to follow 'iii ''— Daily Telegraph

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN. By W. Hepworth Dixon.
Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy 8vo. sos.

"In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon here gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents in
1 very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English history"—
Athensewn. . ,

"In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers
and finest endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pains
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insights —Morning Post.

The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, 'History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable
contribution to English history." — Daily News.

VOLS. III. &> IV. OF THE HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS : CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.

By W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8yo. Price sos.

Completing the York.
These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's ' History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. Whilst no less valuable to the
student, they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's story affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be found in every library"— Poss.

HISTORY OF ^ WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By tv. Hep'^orth Dixon. A New Library Edition

1 vol. demy 8yo. "With Portrait. 12s.
Mr. Dixon's ' William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his books. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much fresh matter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
readers, who will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England"— £':rami«er.

VOLS. III. & IV. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the Work. Third
Edition. Demy 8vo. sos.

FREE RUSSIA. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. With Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its readers
and it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful eS.ecV'— Saturday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland. It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions .and, like all
?ilr. Dixon's books, is eminently readable"— Z)a% News.

OUR HOLIDAY IN THE EAST. By Mrs. George

Sumner. Edited by the Rev. G. H. Sumner, Hon, Canon of Winchester,
Rector of Old Ah-effort, Hands. Second and Cheaper Edition.
One vol. crovrn 8vo. With Illustrations. Gs. bound.
' Oar Holiday in the East ' may take its place among the earnest and able
books recording personal travel and impressions in those lands which are consecrated
to us by their identification with Bible history"' — Daily Telegraph.

"A most charming narrative of a tour in the East amongst scenes of the deepest
interest to the Christian. No one can rise from the perusal of this fascinating
volume without the pleasant conviction of having obtained much valuable aid for
the study of the inspired narrative of Our Blessed Lord's life's'— Record

LIFE IN WESTERN INDIA. By Mrs. Guthrie,

Author of '• Through Russia"" " ]\Iy Year in an Indian Fort"' (tc.
2 vols, crown Svo. With Illustrations. 21s.

"This is a remarkable book, for the variety and brilliance of the pictures which
it sets before us. Mrs. Guthrie is no ordinary observer. She notes with a keen
interest the life and character of the native population. Altogether this is a
charming book, in which we can End no fault, except it be an embarrassing richness
of matter which makes us feel that we have given no idea of it to our
readers ; we can only say, Let them judge for themselves"' — Pall Mall Gazette.

Mrs. Guthrie's ' Life in Western India " is worthy the graphic pen of this accomplished
writer. Her familiarity with Indian life enables her to portray in
faithful and vivid hues the character of Hindoo and Mohammedan tribes, noting
the peculiarities of their social and religious traditions, and representing their
personal habits and manners with picturesque flJelity.'' — Daihi Telegraph.

MY JOURNEY ROUND THE WORLD, via

Ceylon, Xe-^\- Zealand, Australia, Torres Straits, China,
Japan, and the United States. By Captain S. H. Jones-Parry,
late 102nd Royal Madras Fusileers. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s.

A very pleasant book of travel, well worth reading'" — Spectator.

"It is pleasant to follow Captain Jones-Parry on his journey round the world.
He is full of life, sparkle, sunlight, and anecdote'" — Graphic.

'A readable book, light, pleasant, and chatty." — Globe.

A VISIT TO ABYSSINIA ; an Account of Travel

IN Modern Ethiopia. By W. Instantly, late with (Queen's Own)
Hussars. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s.
"A capital record of travels, cast in a popular mould. The narrative is written
in a lively and entertaining style." — Athenaeum.

MY OLD PLAYGROUND REVISITED ; A Tour

IN Italy in the Spring of 18S1. By Benjamin E. Kennedy. 1
vol. crown Svo. With Illustrations, by the Author. 6s.
'"My Old Playground Revisited' will repay perusal. It is written with the
ease that comes of long experience"— Graphic.

PRINCE CHARLES AND THE SPANISH

Marriage: a Chapter of English History, 1017 to 1G23 ; from

Unpublished Documents in the Archives of Simancas, Venice, and

Brussels. By Satchel Ra-son Gardiner. 2 vols. Svo. sos.

"We doubt not that the reception of Mr. Gardiner's valuable and interesting

volumes will be such as is due to their high merit. For the first time in our literature

the real history of the Spanish match, and what took place when Charles and

Buckingham were at Madrid, is here revealed. Mr. Gardiner has brought to bear

upon his subject an amount of historical reading and consultation of authorities

which we believe to be almost without a parallel" — Lutes and Queries.

"These valuable volumes are profoundly and vividly inteve&ting.'—Ttlegraph.
"Mr. Gardiner has given us a more complete and perfect account of this interesting
period of our history than any which has yet appeared"— Odserw.

NEW Works— Continued.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"Madame de "Witt has doue justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his Use. Mrs. Simpson translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the snbjecVSaturday Review.

"This book was well worth translating. Mrs. Simpson has written excellent
English, while preserving the spirit of the French"— The Times.

We cannot but feel grateful for the picture that time. de Witt has given us of
her father in his home. It is a work for which no one can be better qualified thana
daughter who thoroughly understood and sympathised with him." — Guardian.

M. Guizot stands out in the pages of his daughter's excellent biography a distinct
and ife-like figure. He is made to speak to us in his own per.' o. The best
part of the book consists of a number of his letters, in which he freely unfolds his
feelings and opinions, and draws with unconscious boldness the outlines of his
forcible and striking character." — Pall Mall Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s. bound.

"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature'' — Athenian.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julia
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of theliie."— British
Quarterly Review.

This' touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen, who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined'" — Standard.

"These letters are exceptionally graceful and touching, and maybe read with
profits'— 6'/-</jj/(/c.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS diaries and CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.
2 vols, large post 8yo. With Portrait. 24s.

"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hummel, "V^'eber, Czemy,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Haldvy, Schumann, Cherubini, Spohr, Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer. Clement, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann, Kalk-
brenner, Kiesewetter, C. Klingemann, Laplace, Dragonetti, Sontag, Persian!,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Ronzi de Begums, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, Schroder-Devrient, Mrs.
Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers, Berlioz, Veluti, C,
Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their time, will recall a
flood of recollections. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr Liszt, Bernstein, Dr von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of our native artists : Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. Hullah, 'Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jefferson, of Bellingham
House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jefferson,
Author of "A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crown 8 vo. 21s.
"Two volumes of very attractive matter: — letters which illustrate agriculture,
commerce, war, love, and social manners, accounts of passing public events, and
details which are not to be found in the Gazettes, and which come with singular
freshness from private letters'" — Athenaeum.

"Two agreeable and important volumes. They deserve to be placed on library
shelves with Pepys, Evelyn, and Hereby. The Jefferson letters add very much
to our knowledge of other people, and of other acts than those recorded by Pepys,
Evelyn, and Hereby, and are pleasantly supplementary in sketches of contemporaneous
men ani manners." — Notes and Queries.

MY YOUTH, BY SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to

1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the Royal Navy,
late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"Major Loftus played the part allotted to him with honour and ability, and he
relates the story of his life with spirit and vigour. Some of his sea stories are as
laughable as anything in ' Peter Simple,' while his adventures on shore remind us
of Charles Lever in his freshest days. A more genial, pleasant, wholesome book
we have not often read." — Standard.

MY LIFE, FROM 1815 to 1849. By Charles Loftus,

Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"The praise which the Athenaeum gave to the first portion of 3Iajor Loftus's
work, may be fairly awarded to the second. These reminiscences are pleasantly-told.
There is a cheeriness about them which communicates itself to the reader."
Athenaeum.

A thoroughly interesting and readable book, which we heartily recommend as
one of the most characteristic autobiographies we ever VQd.d."'— Standard.

A LEGACY: Being the Life and Remains of John

]Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. Written and Edited by the

Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait. 21s.

"A remarkable book. It records the life, work, aspirations, and death of a

schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but ambitious soul. His writings brim with

vivid thought, touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and

books, expressed in scholarly language." — Guardian.

THE VILLAGE OF PALACES ; or, Chronicles of

Chelsea. By the Rev. A. G. L'L'Estrange. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"Mr. L'L'Estrange has much to tell of the various public institutions associated
with Chelsea. Altogether his volumes show some out-of-the-way research, and
are written in a lively and gossipping style." — The Times.

"Mr. L'L'Estrange tells us much that is interesting about Chelsea. We take
leave of this most charming book with a hearty recommendation of it to our
readers." — Spectator.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life in

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 2nd Edition. 8vo. 15s.
"A charming book; fresh, lively, and amusing." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.
A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any
we have yet met with." — Daily Neics.

WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF 'JOHN HALIFAX;

Each in One Volnme, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

John HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF ' SAM SLICK.'

Each in One Volnme, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

WORKS BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

Each in One Volume, elegantly printed, hound, and illustrated, price 5s.

ADAM Gramme.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV.

EDWARD IRVING.
A ROSE IN JUNE.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

WORKS BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each in One Volnme, elegantly printed, hound, and illustrated, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE Fifty-second EDITION FOR 1883 IS NOW READY.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility, It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches cf the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility cf arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.
Historical View of the Peerage. • i The Archbishops and Bishops of England

Parliamentary KoU of the House of Lords. and Ireland.
English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their I The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

orders of Precedence. [ Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain I members of Noble Families,

and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood RoyaL

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families oi such Extinct Peers as have left
"Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the

Peers. I lated.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and trans-this

work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject"— .S/>ec<a(or.

"A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Posh. , . . j ^

The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage It is the standard
authority on the subject"— i'fanc/ard



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HUNT, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TENNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C,

Each in a Single Volnme, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.
1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The flrstvolume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking,
Nature and Human Nature' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
productions, and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits of
being well illustrated and elegantly bound." — Most.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households." — Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is
its reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good." — Athenxuyn.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"A book of soit counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

A Story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, powei% and truth which can hardly be surpassed-/"os^

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS & MODERN INSTANCES.

"The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's Novels.
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue the
subject of universal admiration." — Messenger.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has treated a special subject with so much geniality, that
his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination." — Athenaeum.

9. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"In 'A Life for a Life' the author is fortunate in a good subject, and has produced a
work of strong effect" — Athenaeum.

10. THE OLD COURT SUBURB. By LEIGH HUNT.

"A delightful book, that will be welcome to all readers, and most welcome to those
who have a love for the best kinds of reading." — Examiner.



11. MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

"We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming." — Athenaeum.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

The publications included in this Library have all been of good quality ; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome ■omiovai.'''— Examiner.

13. DARIEN. By ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands"— ffZo6e.

14. FAMILY ROMANCE.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.
"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting "books"— Standard.

15. THE LAIRD OF NORLAW. By MRS. Oliphant

"The 'Laird of Norlaw' fully sustains the author's high reputation." — Sunday Times

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

■'Mrs. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instruction," — Times.

17. NOTHING NEW.
BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax
one of the most popular works of the day"— Pos.

18. FREER'S LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Freer's story of the life of Jeanne
D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Post.

19. THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."
"If asked to classify this work, w e should give it a place between 'John Halifax ' and
The Cantons'" — Standard.

20. THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.
A work of singular interest, which can never fail to ch&vm.'"— Illustrated News.

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

'" Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting." — Athenaeum.

22. STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"These ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished authors"— Saturday Review.

23. GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

"We commend Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

24. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS. By J. C. Jefferson,

"A delightful hook"— Athenaeum. "A book to be read and re-read; flt for the study
as well as the drawing-room table and the circulating library." — Lancet.

■"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book." — Athenaeum.

28. MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN Halifax, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instruct
" A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest. It is a vigorous novel." — Times.
A novel of rare excellence. It is Mrs. Norton's best prose work." — Examiner.

28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.

AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT ENGLISH TRANSLATION.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as ' Barbara's
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very graceful
and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and sentiments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like." — Times.

30. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography"— Saturday Review.

31. ST. Slave's.

"This charming novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as
well as experience and knowledge of the world. ' — Athenaeum,

32- SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize"— Point.

33. CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN Halifax GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. Even if tried by the standard of
the Archbishop of York, we should expect that even he would pronounce ' Christian's
Mistake' a novel without a fault." — Times.

34. ALEC FORBES. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant former works." — Athenaeum.
A story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Post.

36. A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks
out of a generous heart the purest truths of life." — Examiner.

37. NEW AMERICA. By HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well" — Times.
"We recommend every one who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting book." — Saturday Review.

38. ROBERT FALCONER. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.



39. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic stories. — Athenaeum.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASEXT, D.C.L.
"A racy, well Written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole-work
sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

41. DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of readers"— rtmes.

42. A BRAVE LADY. By the Author of " Join HaHfax.'"

"A very good novel; a thoughtful, well-written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with human nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit" — Examiner. '

43. HANNAH. By the Author of "John HaHfax."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"The author of 'John Halifax 'has written many fascinating stories, but we can
call to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work." — United Service Magazine,.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of j\Irs. Oliphant, and may hold its
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this book. The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Times.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn." — Times.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.
"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of Hare Antoinette." — Spectator.
"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest." — Academy,

50. SIR GIBBIE. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— Pa/Z Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike." — Athenaeum.

51. YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman''

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.
"There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum

52. LORD Brandenburg. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general 'verve' in the book" — Athenaeum.

'lord Brandenburg' is pleasant reading from beginning to en"— Academy.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS. By Mrs.

Oliphant, Author of " Mrs. Margaret Maitland," " Adam Gramme
of Mossgray," " Agnes," &c. 3 vols.

FETTERED YET FREE. By Alice King, Author

of " Queen of Herself," &c. 3 vols.

EXCHANGE NO ROBBERY. By M. Bethany

Author of " Kitty," '' Doctor Jacob," &c. 2 vols.

A STORY OF CARNIVAL. By Mary A. M.

Hoppus, Author of " Five-Chimney Farm," &c. 3 vols.

SANGUELAC. By Percy Greg, Author of '' Ivy :

Cousin and Bride," &c. 3 vols. fin Jaauarij.)

A GOLDEN BAR. By the Author of *' Christina

North," " Under the Limes," &c. 3 vols.

'"A Golden Bar' is pleasant reading, every page being instinct with refinement
; while there is freedom from exaggeration and gentle humour in the drawing
of every character." — John Bull.

'this story is one to be read with a pleasure greater than that derived from
more ambitious and pretentious efforts." — Daily News.

In ' A Golden Bar ' the author attains effects which are really charming, and
the narrative flows on in a very agreeable and entertaining fashion. It is a relief
to turn to a work which can be inherently interesting without being wildly improbable"—
^cac/^my.

RED Lymington. By William Stall, Author

of " Larry Lohengrin," &c. 3 vols.

Mr. Stall writes of the manufacturing districts with knowledge, and in his
hands the rough Lancashire folk and the grimy purlieus of the cotton towns lend
themselves not unpicturesque to the needs of fiction." — Athenaeum.

One of the most readable novels of the year. The conversations are both interesting
and amusing, preserving, as they do, the racy and humorous manners
and modes of expression of the self-made men who hold them." — Daily News.

"A forcible and interesting story. It possesses a good plot, a great deal of
technical knowledge, and considerable thought and intelligence." — JoJai Bull.

GABRIELLE DE Touraine. By Mrs. John

Kent Spender, Author of " Godwin's Ordeal," " Both in the
strong," &c. 3 vols.
"We advise all who can enjoy a pretty story, well told, to read 'Gabrielle de
Touraine.' It is the best of Mrs. Spender's novels. It is in her character-drawing
that the author shows so marked an improvement." — Standard.

' Gabrielle de Touraine ' is a pleasant story in its quiet and simple way. It is
readable and Sittra.cti\e."—Athenceum.

SAINT AND SIBYL. By C. L. Pirkis, Author of

A Very Opal," " Wanted, An Heir," &c. 3 vols.
" In ' Saint and Sibyl ' there are some excellent pieces of writing, some touches
of poetical art, some highly dramatic scenes, some pretty and pathetic pictures."
St. James's Gazette.

'^ A cleverly written, readable story. The two girls, Rose and Sibyl, are ably
contrasted : Sibyl in especial is an original, clever conception." — Daily News.

DONOVAN. By Edna Lyell, Author of " Won by

Waiting." 3 vols.
' Donovan ' is distinctly a novel with a high aim, successfully attained. The
character-drawing is vigorous and truthful." — Fall Mall Gazette.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

I HAVE LIVED AND LOVED. By Mrs. Forrester,

Aiitlior of "' Viva," " Miguon," " My Lord and my Lady,"
&c. Third Edition. 3 vols.

Mrs. Forrester has written a number of lively novels, and none of them is
more lively than her last, ' I Have Lived and Loved.' "daily News.

"Mrs. Foresters novels are invariably worth reading. Her present work is no
exception to the rule. Mrs. Forrester not only thoroughly knows what she writes
about, but knows also how to display the facts of her knowledge in a really artistic
fashion. 'I Have Lived and Loved' is written with extreme cleverness, and
the plot is constructed with skill. It deals with certain phases of society in which
the readers of novels are very generally interested. It is a transcript of what
actually goes on in a good many drawing-rooms and country houses, and therefore
it will come with a pleasantly piquant familiarity to those who are of the smart
world, and with a sense of revelation to those who are not. Everyone who reads
this book will know that the pictures drawn are not merely fancy sketches, and
will acknowledge that the delineations of character are true to life." — The World.

THE Brandies. By the Right Hon. A. J.

B. Beresford More, M.P., Author of " Strictly Tied Up." Second

Edition. 3 toss,
In ' The Brandies ' we have a sequel to Mr. Beresford Hope's clever novel of
Strictly Tied Up,' and we may add that it is a decided improvement on his
maiden effort. Mr. Hope writes of political life and the vicissitudes of parties
with the knowledge and experience of a veteran politician. Not a few of the
casual pictures of society are exceedingly faithful and lively. The novel is one
which will repay careful reading." — Times.

NEW BABYLON. By Paul Merit and W.

Howell Poole. 3 vols.

This story is clever and amusing. Vivid and graphic scenes follow in changeful
succession'' — Daily TekgrajJh.

'• 'New Babylon ' hurries' along from one stirring incident to another, and compels
the reader to admire the inventive power of the writers, and their ingenuity
in weaving a complicated series of incidents." — Era.

FORTUNE'S MARRIAGE. By Georgians M.

Craik, Author of "Dorcas," " Anne "Warwick," &c. 3 vols.

"fortune's Marriage" is gentle, tender, and exaggerated. It is carefully
written and has been carefully thought out." — Daily News.

' Fortune's Marriage ' is naturally and pleasantly written, like all Miss Craik's
stories. Both Fortune and Ronald are thoroughly well drawn"— ^i. James's Gazette.

REDEEMED. By Shirley Smith, Author of

'• His Last Stake," " All for Herself," &c. 3 vols.
"Her Majesty the Queen and Princess Beatrice have perused this story with
great interest, and they have been especially pleased with the manner in which
the incidents that led to the death of the Prince Imperial have been introduced in
the latter part of the novel." — Nottingham Guardian.

DAISY BERESFORD. By Catharine Child,

Author of " The Future Marquis." 3 vols.
"miss Child has written a pretty pleasant story, full of varied character and
entertaining talk. Daisy Beresford is a charming creation." — Daily News.

A FAITHFUL LOVER. By Mrs. Macquoid,

Author of-patty," " Diane," ttc. 3 vols.
"A pretty, graceful, and agreeable novel, in which there is plenty of charming
portraiture and abundance of love-making"— ///wsimfecZ London News.

IRIS. By Mrs. Randolph, Author of " Gentianella,"

Wild Hyacinth," &c. 3 vols.
' Iris' has all thepteasant characteristics which are peculiar to the writer. As
usual, the story is refined, agreeable, and interesting throughout"— /o/j/i Bull.



MY LORD AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester,

Author of "Viva," " Mignon," &c.

This novel will take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as
fresh a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of
novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of lite"— World.

A love story of considerable interest. The novel is full of surprises, and will
serve to while away a leisure hour most agreeably"— Z)rti7y Telegraph.

A very capital novel. The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quit
at home in the society which she describes. It is a booli to render"— Standard.

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its
spell from first to last"— Pos.

SOPHY:

OR THE Adventures OF A SAVAGE.

By Violet Fane,

Author of "Denzil Place," &c.

' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of
a strikingly unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human
interest. It is, in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

"A clever, amusing, and interesting story, well worth reading." — Post.

This novel is as amusing, piquant, droll, and suggestive as it can be. It overflows
with humour, nor are there wanting touches of genuine feeling. To considerable
imaginative power, the writer joins keen observation"— Z)ai7.v Dews.

' Sophy' throughout displays accurate knowledge of widely differing forms of
character, and remarkable breadth of view. It is one of the few current novels
that may not impossibly stand the test of time." — Graphic.

STRICTLY TIED UP.

By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.

A clever story. In ' Strictly Tied Up ' we have vigorous sketches of life in
vei-y different circumstances and conditions. We have the incisive portraiture of
character that shows varied knowledge of mankind. We have a novel, besides,
which may be read with profit as well as pleasure"— TZ/Hes.

' Strictly Tied Up ' is entertaining. It is in every sense a novel conceived in a
light and happy vein. The scheme of the story is well proportioned and worked
out in all its complications with much care and s]s.i\\."—Athenceum.

"This novel may be described as a comedy of life and character. There is
humour as well as excitement in the book, and not a few of the descriptions both
of people and scenery are exceedingly graphic and piquant"— ^a^M/'cZa^/ Review.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER: and Other Tales.
By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten'— .S7. Jatnes's Gazette.

"The Author of 'John Halifax' always writes with grace and feeling, and
never more so than in the present volume." — Morning Post.

' His Little Mother ' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells
better than anybody else"— /o/<« Bull.

This book is written with all Mrs. Craik's grace of style, the chief charm of
which, after all, is its simplicity"— G'tef/oi/' Herald.

"We cordially recommend 'His Little Mother.' The story is most affecting.
The volume is full of lofty sentiments and noble aspirations, and none can help
feeling better after its perusal"— C'owri Journal.

LONDON: Hues AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

3 0112 056532010
