~«sf-SisrKiBBKas:'='i Fn?- .-* - -^ .

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

W572Ky\

V.I

OR

THE WOOING OF IPHIS

A PASTORAL

BY

EDWIN Shelton

AUTHOR OF 'A Lincolnshire HEROINE* ETC.

'A daughter of our meadows, yet not coarse;
Straight, but as lissom as a hazel wand'

Tennyson

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 1-5 WATERLOO PLACE

^ 1884

[All rights reserved]

^ OF

S THE First VOLUME.

PAGE

A Hatfield 1

A NORTHERN FARMER . . . . . . 35

DAWN OF LOVE 54

GRACE 79

CANVASSED 103

POLICY IIB

A LOVE FEAST 138

HARVEST 473

A SPY ESPIED 192

A BLUE JACKET . . . . • . . 216

DANGEROUS GROUND 244

COQUETTING ^59

EXPATRIATION .•• 2-9-

•^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/meadowsweetorwoo01whel

MEADOW SWEET,

CHAPTER 1.

A HATFIELD.

Moist is the scent of the fallen meadow grass,
the mower ' draws in his last breed and the
heavy-headed grass-bents lie prostrate. A
sigh of satisfaction and relief escapes the toiler
as he takes up a handful of the wet grass and
wipes the bright edge of his scythe. From
four o'clock in the morning he has been swinging
it, leading off with two men behind him,
scarcely giving himself time to look round, for
his reputation is dear to him. His two comrades
have left him to finish out the corner,
departing to other expanses, not exactly of
bright screen, but of dull red bronze.

VOL. I. B

^A heavy swaitlie/ mutters the mower.
His face is dark with freckles, with sunburn,
dirt, and sweat. His brawny arms carry no
superfluous flesh ; they are as freckled as his
face, as sunburnt, and as dirty. His wife
stands at his elbow — a comely woman if
weather-worn, on her arm a basket, covered
with a clean, white napkin. There is something
substantial under for the inner man. In
the hand of the other arm a huge stone jug
pendent, yeasty at the nose.

^ Heigh ! ' ejaculates she, commiseration
and assent m the tone of her voice, also wifely
love and consideration for her bread and bacon
winner, ' where wilt ee be ? '

^ By the beck, Ninphia ; 'tis cool there.'

They descend, until from where they stood
one sees the man's legs no longer, then only
his head and shoulders continue visible ; his
wife lost to view. They then emerge ; ascend
again until they reach a bank sloping to a
swift, running brook, which holds forth the
attraction of a delicious coolness to the toiler.

As lie casts himself down, a vapour of chill
refreshing air seems to him to arise from the
dark water. The willow-leaved dropwort
grows luxuriantly with reach, the deep pink
flower with the eye of crimson in a happy
surprise of contrast to the retiring gi^een of its
foliage. Here and there a tuft of marsh marigold,
the lavish flower yellow through. Black
spiders dart in and out along the edges of the
stream with the nonchalance of experienced
skaters at their ease, avoiding the sunlight —
fellows too wide awake to disport themselves
elsewhere than in cool shadows. He does not
fail to note that which lies about him ; he sees
the tiny fish bolt and double in the shallows.
After such toil his mind is open to regard
Nature's smallest wonders. His heavy boots
hang but a few inches from the water ; his
wife has taken her place beside him, but a little
above him, and he takes from her the gallon jug,
and slowly but dexterously reverses its position.
One * seeks ' better out of jug or bottle
than out of mug or glass. Silence is golden.

His wife above him hears nothing, but from
her coign of vantage the steady flow is suggested
to her by the rising of the apple in lier
husband's throat. There is some little tact in
drinking from a bottle. It is a long time
before the jug is withdrawn from his lips, and
then breathlessly he gasps, ^ Ah m ! '

Silently he takes from his wife's hands the
extended food, for he has not yet sufficiently
recovered himself to venture upon conversation.
In her eyes the sympathy still continues,
the work is hard and toilsome, the
money is well and honourably earned.

Kindly though he is to her in look and
gesture when it is impossible for him to convey
to her his affectionate regard for her verbally,
the mower's mind rather soured. Of
his two comrades, one has been disposed to
act unfairly, and not do his share of the
tek.' Himself and the other always found
idle Jack far behind, requiring some help if all
were to start fair again. He was senselessly
idle, slow, or incapable.

But Farmer Cowlamb, on his white cob,
coming up to view progress, soon observed
the state of affairs. Farmer Cowlamb had
an eagle eye, a quick brain, and a sardonic
mind.

Put him isn't middle, lads ; he'll move
then, a scythe behind him — and lead on, lad,'
shouted the farmer, frothy and somewhat
sinister.

Farmer Cowlamb came into ' this part *
with a terrible character, but no one ever said
he was other than straight with a straight
fellow. Willowby labourers fomid out that
his eyes were always upon them, that he was
always after them, but he paid to the last
farthing, and never ' baffled.'

The farmer's policy was shrewd. It was
acted upon, and idle Jack moved along, like
any other scoundrel, abjectly nervous when
found out. Moreover, the one behind him
thus enlightened and encouraged by the
farmer, in no choice or measured terms continually
kept on admonishing the culprit.

I'll be main' thy legs off, Jack, if ta
doesn't look alive.'

And Adam Pant's chin being underling,
and his reputation for doggedness as unchallengeable
as idle Jack's bravery was impeachable,
idle Jack at length proved that capacity
was in him, if it lingered.

Before the repast was over, into the field
came the haymakers, five women and one old
man.

^ Here they be,' said the mower's wife.

^ Ay, suer,' assented he.

She was an easily distinguishable object ;
his battered straw hat only at intervals
gleamed in the sun. By-and-by she observed
the old man making for them.

^ Decimus nun lev a pari.'

Ay, suer,' replied he, the tone different
only because his mouth was full.

Eager desire in his face, the eager garrulity
of old age, Decimus was now nearing them.

Warm to-day, maister,' cried Decimus,
in a thin voice.

^ Ay, suer,' said the mower, unconscious
of his habit of repeating himself.

I thowt we should ha' hed some showers
to-day, it's been so gleamy.'

The wrack's hio;]!,' observed the mower,
glancing up at the clouds, high in the sky,
saiHng across the sun.

Ay, true. Ya be gong to yar mates
then next,' assumed Decimus confidently, his
haycock stuck in the ground at such a convenient
angle that it was comforting to feel
one had no anxiety about one's weight.

I nun be off now, or happen they'll think
me long a coming,' said the mower.

An' I nun go to my mates,' observed the
haymaker, with a chuckle meant only for
himself, but showing yet no hurry, ' or t' owt
man '11 be ester me soon. He! he! he! I
took a Bible oath forty year gone I'd be a
slave to no man.'

He ant scar'd o' hearing hissed speak.'

^ ^y goes he ant,' said Decimus, quickly.

^ Ya got a bit o' dress land course.

Ralph ? ' continued Decimus ; ' is it good
land that o' yours, or nobbut middling' ? '
It's t'one'r.' (One or the other.)
Noah. Ha' ye got it down yit ? '
JSloa, it's fast by the roots yit.'
I won't hurry if I was thou. Lard,
what a hurry they're in nowadays to git their
bit o' hay. No man i' th' township got his
hay better nor my father, and he didn't hurry
it. He'd let it stop spread out for long enow,
and i' windows ; he'd ted it over and over
aegean, and let it stop i' cock for days and
days till it was almost white. He'd go in a
morning and shove his hand until it, and say
Bon it, it isn't hay yet : it's weet, it doesn't
smell like hay, and of a meet he'd tremble ^ the
owt cocks — semble ^ 'em over. Yard better
let your hay spoil in the close than spoil in
the stack. If ya lead afore it's fit, nowt '11
eat it ; it '11 heat and stink, and get fusty and
mouldy, if it doesn't get rotten, eh ? '
I like to mak suer on't.'
I doubt it'll be weet,' said Decimus,

^ Remove. ^ Upset.

peering upward in sheer hopelessness ; then,
looking down, ' the frogs thee are dark he
reasoned, turning one over with his fork,
they're alla i' fine weather.'

What ha' ye done with the barns, missis ? '
asked the mower of his wife.

They're pulling headaches in a cornfield.'


The mower rose to his feet stiffly. ' I
think I'm almost harried out, and a dele of
the day to look forrard to. The sun's hed a
dele of power the day.'

A day's main' goes far to tire a man,'
said Decimus, sympathetically.

He was up betimes,' said the woman.

^ Hes t' many toties ? ' inquired the inquisitive
haymaker. He meant much land set
with potatoes.

^ A nice few,' said the mower, moving away.

It's a nice thing a bit o' land to a cottage
if 'tis nobbut a bit, it all rhymes up.' In
Decimus's opinion Ralph was of the fortunate
ones to possess a cottage with the bit o' land.

^ Heigh, maister ! maister ! ' came a shrill
voice from the other end of the field.

Heigh, heigh, lass ! ' answered Designs,
only loud enough, though, for himself to hear,
and leisurely extracting his haycock. ' It's
that long-waisted Polly ; she can't abide to
see other folks having a pari if she's not in it.
Good morning to ye, maister. / nun buckle
to now.'

The sun gleamed again overhead, clouds
drifted under it, gloomy and dark, but tipped
with silver and gold. In the south, from the
horizon upward, the sky was densely blue,
and in the air was that overpowering heat that
is felt when a change in the atmosphere maybe
expected.

Xow then,' said Decimus, reaching the
women, ' here I be. Lard, what a stew ye
make to lev a man among ye.'

^ say, not we ; thou owt stick i' th' mud,
let's ha' none o' thy softness. We sell have
owt Sammy here by-'m-by.'

i'll be bound it'll rain,' said another

of the women, a Job's comforter in all
weathers.

^ Ay, 'tis so,' agreed another. ^ One gets
it into fine fettle, then there comes a shower.
I thowt if we nobbut got it into windows it
ud take no payment. Some folks reckon it's
better for a drop o' ram, but I hadn't o' that
opinion my sen.'

Xor me,' agreed another, who, relating
the history of a haycock to her next neighbour,
broke off to coincide with the philosopher in
petticoats. She returned to her story. ' I
boat it o' owt Bellamy, poor thug ; it was a
real steel-tined un, and this is nobbut iron.
As pretty a little fork as ever ya seed, and
now one has to ffo borrowing.'

Heigh,' observed another resignedly, ^ if
ye gits owt uncommon ye're suer to lose it.'

^ There's alius another as good i' everything,'
remarked Decimus, as if out of temper
with such invidiousness ; ' I remember well a
farmer he'd a farming' man as was a-o-oinc; to
leave him. He'd got it into his addle-head

maister couldn't do bout him. '' I'll put thee
ill the bury-hole, and then we'll see if we can't
do bout thee," ' says farmer.

Aye, that was true enow ; folks is forced
to do bout 'em then.'

All ceased gossiping. Two huge loads
of hay passing in a narrow lane below attracted
the haymakers ' attention . The waggons swayed
in the ruts, so that the top-heavy loads seemed
to almost get out of the perpendicular. The
air was so still, they could hear the jolts and
lurches of the wheels on the axletrees, the
energetic exertions of the horses, the sound
of then' fore hoofs on the sand. ' They mean
to nick' suer o' theirs,' said one woman at
last.

The small farmer to whom they belonged
left his horses, clomb the steep bank, holding
himself up by some rails in the wild-grown
hedge. * Now,' shouted he jocularly, ' how
does that man treat you poor women ? '

The sun blazed out again from the obscuring
clouds, lighting up his red face, revealing

the beads of sweat standing thereon. He was
stripped to his shirt. The sweat the Almighty
decreed was standing on many human brows.

I think 'tis t'other way, maister,' ventured
the aggrieved male.

Heigh? Well, then, I meant say no
more,' returned the joker, slipping down the
bank, his huge body swaying from side to side
as he hurried with the awkward gait of a true
son of the soil to regain his horses.

Until noon the five haymakers went up and
down the length of the meadow, turning the
swathes of grass, sometimes silent, sometimes
objects on the road or in the distance suggesting
gossip. They had a distinct view of the highroad,
for it and the sandy lane ran parallel. This
day was one of extra bustle on the highway.
It was market-day at the small town, but little
more than a mile away. The haymakers
could on the brook side catch a glimpse of the
steeple of the town church, and behind it, the
range of the wolds with the farmers' houses
dotting the slope, the grey churches, the dark

patches of wood and copse, the huge fields of
green swaying corn, the ens and oaks on the
ridge skirts; the old Woman road. Sometimes
the hill side was brilliant in sunlight —
minute objects discernible, the window-panes
of the farmhouses of a ruby-red, trying to the
eyesight ; at another moment draped in sombre
shadow.

People going to market — the farmers but
sparsely, owing to the time of the year.
Quant bodies stopping to open out their
budget, to deliver themselves of bucolic
aphorisms, their own wit or their progenitors.
Teams horsed with four fine animals, waggoner
with whip under arm, his eyes blinking,
his walk measured and slow. Sleepy
the horses' gait, yet dignified with sober
gravity, the fore horse proudly conscious of
his position, his neck arched, his nose at his
knees, the steady old mare, his mother, in the
shafts. Waggoner first, second horseman
next, next plough lad. Oh, what indignity,
if the waggoner's right of precedence, leaving

the farmyard, comes to be ignored. The
carrier's cart after a time, jolt, jolt, jolt, up
and down on the dusty road. To those
inside, the sameness, the slow progress, accepted
with meekest patience. Butter and egg
baskets piled on the tilt top, pigs under a net
behind, a rascally lad swinging under, taking
advantage of the oblivious driver's eyes being
strained forward. What tedious progress —
there were the certain evidences of stonehenge
being passed like the hours by the minute-hand
on a clock face.

Decimus looked up.

They don't go over fast to-day. I think
them bosses ud trot an hour on a cabbage
leaf.'

^ Forget me not,' said a woman, reading
the carrier's motto.

One isn't likely,' said Decimus, cynically.

The meridian passed, the heat seemed to
have increased. The doo; roses on the hedge-es
seemed to be having a mazy dance, and even
the tender brown-tipped sprays of tl;c Vjuick '

(hawthorn). Nor did this escape the eye of
Decimus.

Thee,' said he to a woman at his elbow,
Robin Hood and his little men.'

But below, on the banks, the star-like
bramble flowers remained a solace and rest
for the eyes. Here and there the Psyche of
honey-hunters, the improvident suppers of
nectar, with closed wings, reposed or gorged
themselves on the petals. It strained the
eyes, looking earnestly ; the haymakers' eyes
were easier, fixed on the dying grass at
their feet — an overpowering drought causing
one, then another, to look up towards the
road with wistful eyes of anticipation — the
women with their hands shading their eyes,
the man not taking that trouble. The
expression on his face not a sanguine one,
who would hurry to administer to his creature
comforts? At last a figure of Indian
red, with light-hued head gear, was descried,
and expectation soared high. At first there
was some difficulty in determining whether

the figure was advancing or receding, but by
noting certain fixed objects a decision was
arrived at.

I swe-at like a brock,' said Decimus,
carrying his finger round his shirt collar.

But hopefulness had asserted itself. More
briskly the swathes rolled over ; but on coming
up again it was discovered to be a child
in a crimson and black check frock, a tiny
yellow straw hat with blue ribbon. Then
came heavy disappointment, Decimus chuckling
at his superior wit and penetration.

Who tell ye they'd bring us some sleek ? '
he queried incredulously.

I thowt it mud be th' dower,' humbly
and moodily apologised the woman who had
raised the hopes of the other four. She was
the woman known by the pseudonym of
long-waisted Polly.' Her voice was quite
out of character with her muscular development.
She had the limbs and height of an
Amazon, and her voice might have been
given to her by a ventriloquist, it sounded as

VOL. I. c

if it Lad travelled some distance before it
reached her, and had become wheezy, squeaky,
and thin.

I daresay,' observed Designs sneeringly.

One is led to be curious to learn who the
person so anxiously looked for might be. It
was none other than Farmer Cowlamb's
daughter. Farmer Cowlamb was not noted
for a lavish style of living, nor a free ale
barrel. But as it was the rule for ale to be
sent into the hay or harvest-field, custom was
bowed to. The farmer's daughter at that
moment was making her way to them. The
large stone jug she carried was a trial on so
hot a day, but her organisation, although
physically she felt it toil, would not suffer
her to look upon her self-imposed task as a
hardship. The hatfield was some distance
from the farmhouse, although from the upper
windows the field could be seen. Indeed, the
house, standing on a hill, commanded every
field on the farm. The labourers knew that
CoAvlamb had a glass in his bedroom, and

could tell without stirring from the house
when they were or were not doing their duty.
It was almost impossible to skulk behind
hedges, for he had them all cut low, and trees
were an abomination in the agriculturist's
eyes for they shadowed too much soil. The
ditcher was the only happy fellow who could
cheat him, and then it was a poor satisfaction,
stooping ankle deep in water and loam, for
the privilege of taking things easy. Farmer
Cowlamb had a habit of prowling round and
surprising his men. True, when he so
suddenly showed himself he had a smile on
his face, but it was one so sardonically
shrewd, it did not add to the comfort of a
man's mind if he had been remiss. Ever on
tenter-hooks, the labourers felt themselves
bound to be ever stirring. And yet they had
all a good as well as a hard word for the
maister.' If they did their duty he was no
grumbler, if they shirked their work he was
not chary of his tongue ; and although lie
counted out his money, he surrendered it as

c 2

if they had a right to it. Abuse them as he
would, he never swore, being a professing
Christian, a zealous Dissenter, and a class
leader.

Down a long green lane Iphis Cowlamb
hurried. The descent was easy, and to a
certain extent exhilarating, for a slio;lit breeze
caught her and wafted the scent of the wheat
flower into her nostrils — a scent that gives
one a faint sense of suffocation, for all the
world the same, only balmier, as that which
greets one's nose in an ancient dusty flour
mill. It was scarcely a flower, so insignificant
and frail — a sharp wind and it was gone ; but
no, it held on tenaciously — it only feared hail
and an excessive blast.

In about six weeks we'll be into harvest,'
had said Farmer Cowlamb at breakfast, ' wheat's
looking well and heavy i' th' head, forrard ;
hope nowt '11 hurt the flower now.'

Iphis, remembering her father's remark,
looked over the hedge into the waving green.
She was not one to regard the beauty of vegetation

sentimentally, she came of far too hardheaded
a sire. Her conjecture ^as on the
yield there might be. Her father thought
there would be six quarters to the acre. Like
him she was engrossed with speculations,
speculations on her own futurity, if she had
luck. Had she not her ' said ' lambs, her own
broods of chickens and ducklings, her odd
calf. But although her determined old father
cropped his hedges, he did not eradicate the
honeysuckle and the dog-rose, the fetches and
the snapdragon, and the bindweed hated most
of all showed the white gauntlet of defiance.
They straggled over the hedge and through
it, intertwined themselves with the bramble
and the persistent ash growth. All were in
flower now, fetches yellow and lilac, white
combine, little pink heads of pimpernel,
blue harebells and juicy stalked dandelions on
the bank below, charming the eye with colour,
soothing the senses with enduring fragrance.
In spite of her matter-of-fact way of looking
at things, the result of her training, the girl

was not insensible to this prodigal display.
Her nature was truly feminine. The country
life and country air were her life. She had
known what it was to be away from unfettered
sylvan sights, had sighed for them, had lived
her prolonged season at a finishing school,
possessed with a hungry craving for freedom,
and returning, had stood out in the open with
a voracious desire to take in deep draughts of
native air, of native scent, and to sight at one
comprehensive glance familiar objects and
landmarks. To grasp again that sense which
is so inexpressible, so indefinable, yet so real
because it has grown up with us, and which
a stultified air, a confined area, seems to crush
out of us. The cows, the horses, the sheep,
seemed to emit in the air a healthfulness she
was glad to breathe. She had an intense love
of her life, like her old father up early and
a-bed early. She possessed no idle temperament,
and her active mind was allayed with
daily duties. She milked and made up butter,
she fed calves and the motherless lambs, she

hunted up the eggs, and her butter, she believed,
was sweeter than her neighbours, her
eggs more spotless. As the old cock crows
the young one learns. Farmer Cowlamb believed
himself equal to any man in farming,
and perhaps he was, and his daughter Disbelieved
herself the equal of any woman in
the dairy, not even age and experience to be
considered. The mother had excited emulation
in Iphis in such pursuits from her earliest
years. Mrs. Cowlamb now had to rest somewhat
on her laurels, her precocious daughter
stoutly resisting encroachment on what she
now considered her own domain.

Iphis's face was red, perspiration stood
under her eyes when she reached the hatfield.
Even the slight breeze which had arisen was
not sufficient to cool her. Her appearance
was the signal for inaction. This she noted
with an inward humour. Pier father's own
been,' she had a keen insight for salient
points of advantage takers. Hayforks were
stuck upright in the ground, like so many

sentinels closed in, retaining their positions.
Only Decimus carried his, which he extended
at his favourite angle, both hands at the end
and his chest on his hands.

^ I should ha' come afore,' said the minis -
grant, simply ; ' but I been to market and held
my butter and eggs. I made haste home an'
all, I knew you'd want some drink.'

The voice was weak and thin — the voice
of a child, while the figure was that of a
maturing maiden.

I'm all of a lily-low,' said Polly of the
long waist, in wheezy call for pity and first
turn.

A nice lass she is to bring us some drink
to us dinners,' said Decimus, with the obsequiousness
of a flatterer.

Their encomiums, it was plain to see, were
taken at their worth. No yielding or simpering
was there in the sharp, clear face. A
Circe in a hatfield. She did look round critically
at their work, but without depreciating
it, or giving them reason to believe that she

undervalued it. It was a second nature with
her to take an estimate ; had it been necessary,
she Tvas qualified to take the farm in
hand.

Aye muttered long-waisted Polly, ' shea
chip o' th' owt block ; ya don't gammon owt
Cowlamb easy, nor her a neither.'

The women threw themselves down where
the dying grass was thickest, and then Dedimus
essayed to settle do^Ti into the same
position, but being stiffer in his joints with
him it was a work of time.

Thou hadn't eppen at getting down,
Dedimus,' said Polly, mischievously.

Maybe thou went be when t' gits thotty
more year o' thy back. Thou's a knack o'
saying nasty things. Poll.'

^ And thought such, an' a whimsy clammy
man,' said Polly's bosom friend.

What call was there now to put thy
vary in? ' said Decimus hotly.

'If ye can't joke wi' them ye know, who
are ye to joke wi' ? ' retorted Polly.

^ As if I was that ken specked for ye all to
set o' me.'

Here, take the jug, Decimus, and pour
up

^ Glad I be. Aye,' cried he, in servile surprise,
and groaning at the jug's weight, ' thou
carried this ? thou's as strong as a belly-boy.'

Decimus poured into the pot mug, the jug-resting
on the ground, and drank off first himself.
There was a chorus of deprecation which
did not effect Decimus 's steady drinking. But
when, breathless, he took the mug from his
lips, too exhausted to speak, his face was for a
moment the incarnation of surprise. Then
he relaxed into stony apathy, mulish obstinacy,
and thick utterance.

Thou's used thy time badly — all on ye —
if ya aunt got to know yit, the drawer alius
les first and last. I don't feel so bad mysen
now,' said he gravely.

It braids o' me thought like the owt
woman. " I'll go home and hot some ale to
warm us," she said. Ester she'd got home

and warmed lessen by the fire, and drunk a
lot of the hot ale, she said to lessen as she
went back to 'em, " I don't feel a bit cold
mysen, they'll want no hot ale." '

When one's own need is over, one sympathises
less with the needs of one's neighbours.
Decimus cackled loudly —

Human nature, human nature,' said he.

A decrepit man on the footpath looking over
the hedge eyed the recumbent party hungrily.
The old man in the field had the advantage of
him ; Decimus was not yet past work. With
the aid of his stick, but with feet scarcely responsive
to his eagerness, he reached the gate.
Seeing he was not viewed unfavourably, he
ventured to draw back the catch and push the
gate open, and totter into the field, proceeding
carefully because of his more uncertain foothold
on the grass.

Hello ! here's Mister Tritt,' said one, as he
crept up to the party, his face expectant yet
submissive, showing a willingness for gossip,
a faint hope for alms.

^ Billy Tritt,' corrected lie deferentially, the
queerness and quaintness of his voice affording
some mirth even for them. ' I dont like folks
to call me mister.'

'Well-a-day, you was such an a gentlemanlike
man, dressed up, and wi' a long hat
on, I couldn't speak to ye another way.'

It was a hat, Mrs. Hazelbyby, as was gen
to me, or I couldn't make so bold as to
wear it.'

That's very well, Mr. Tritt, bud we know
you seen better days.'

Yis, Mrs. Hazelbyby, that's right enow.
I been unlucky all my life. Some folks starts
well and ends wi' nowt, and some starts wi'
nowt and ends wi' rucks o' money.'

'Tis strange, Mr. Tritt, thou made so bada
out, and got no relations to look ester you.'

No. I'd nobbut one brother, Mrs. Towne,
and he behaved real bad to me — he did. He
got out of a place, and so I tell him he mud
come to my lodge and live wi' me till he did
get something. And he wore my clothes, and

I got him some shirts, and found him in Hs
living. And one morning when I was going
out, I says to him, " Robin, you'll not go to
Moortown Statius?" and he says, '' Xo, not
I ; there'll be no good i' me gong there
spending money." And he went out wi' me.
Be dal'd if he didn't go back to the lodge, and
git my best clothes on, and go off to Statius,
and I've never seed him fra that day to this.'
That's a long while since, Mr. Tritt.'
^A vast o' years, Mrs. Towse. Old
Corbett was parson here, then ; and alius
maister-beast he would be ; and I remember
the next day he shouted after me — "Hi!
Tritt! " and I turned round and seed who it
was ; so I made a bow ; and the parson shouts
" So the butterfly's gone ! " "I don't
know what you mean, sir," says I puzzled
like; and says I — "I don't know what ya
mean ! What d'ye mean? " " Why, Robin's
gone!" says he. "Eh, joy and tuppence go
wi' him," says I. "I hear he's done you out
of about ten pound," says he. " That's about

the figure, I do believe, sir, your reverence,"
says I. '' Well, Tritt," says he, '' if you'll
come up to my house I'd gie you a sarch-
warrant," says he. AVell, now, I couldn't
stand that nohow. Lor', I couldn't ha'
gone up aegean him, and hed him locked up,
nor no man. If he took all ee hed, nobbut
keep out o' the road, I wouldn't meddle wi'
him. So I says to him, " That I shan't, then;
I want no search-warrants ; let him go, the
jumped up haymaker." And the parson he
stared at me, and says he, " Why, Tritt,
you've a better principle nor me. If it had
been my brother I should ha' hed him up."
*' Heigh, bud I'm riot going to hevhim up,"
says I, and I moved mysen oiF. He was
such an owt maister-beast i' th' parish, I
thowt nowt mud do, but if I stopped coffin
wi' him he'd make me lie Robin up.'

The farmer's daughter, the flower of the
field, the true queen of the meadow, and
standing, had listened to the old man's story
with kindly interest. Feminine pity about

her mouth, seeing even a ne'er-do-well accepting
the whirlwind of his life. His spirit, so
abject and cringing, did not excite in her a
feeling of contempt, but a soreness of heart.
Billy Tritt was old and tottering, his face was
colourless and fleshless, his eyes lacked lustre,
and his hair was tim and dead. Was life
now of any value to hun?

One woman, with the true instinct of
charity, proffered a huge piece of bread with a
flat slice of bacon resting thereon. Another
woman at her feet handed him a table-knife,
wherewith on the bread he could cut the bacon.
He ate ravenously.

^ I'm afread, Billy, thou don't git over
much to eat,' said the charitable one, with
some feeling.

True it is, missis. One can't do much
to help one's sen, and parish pay went go
very far.'

The farmer's daughter took the jug and
poured out some ale into the mug which
Decimus held. She placed the jug on the

ground, took the mug out of Decimus's hand,
and advanced to Mister Tritt.
Here, thee, drink ! '

Nay, missis, I doesn't harding ; it ud git
into my head maybe

^ Drink,' repeated she, laconically.

Heio:h ! ' encouraged the women and
Decimus, ^ drink a sup on it, it'll put heart
into thee.'

^ I'm suer it'll stand me i' th' steed of a
dinner th' day,' said Mr. Tritt, unctuously,
returning the mug to Iphis.

She's like the old man,' commented the
haymakers one among another, ' she'd lev her
pennyworth, and them as didn't suit her ud lev
a time like a toad under a harrow, but she'd
be crowd enow wi' them as did fair, eh? '

Better be like t' owt man than t' owt
woman.'

She'd rob a workhouse been of his breakfast.'


A clatter of horse's heels, first on the footpath,
then on the road, and now muffled

somewhat on the grassy wayside, caused all
of them to strain their eyes towards the highroad.
A young chesnut colt at break-neck
speed was coming, a bare-back rider, holding
on with but simply a halter, a ^ rule ' only in
the horse's mouth. The horse carried its
head well, its neck finely arched ; it had
splendid shoulders, and that action of the
knees which is only seen in chargers or in the
draught horse. It was a half-bred, possessing
the mettle of the sire, some of his fineness, the
mare's bulk and action and ghastliness of mane
and tail and fetlocks.

That be your young boss,' said Decimus
indignantly to the girl ; ' Maister ud be fine
and mad to see him galloped a' day like this.
He's making him up, an' all, for Hardcastle
Fair.'

The farmer's daughter did not answer
Decimus, her eye though following the rider,
who was leaning back taking his situation as
something highly exhilarating and enjoyable,
because there was a spice of danger in it. His

VOL. I. D

hair was flying, tis shirt fluttering with the
slight breeze he met.

• That blacksmith lad '11 ride owt. That
colt ant broken a neither.'

Still she answered not, but a smile traversed
her face. She could see him branch off
the turnpike road and turn up the lane. Proceeding
up the hill his pace somewhat moderated,
this hair still fluttering in the breeze, an
atom of the blue shirt now and again distinguishable
above the hedge.

He's ofl" the ramper now,' said Decimus,
he'll ha' to guide hissed, or maister '11 have
summits to say.'

Still Iphis answered not.

I think yon chap tees her eye,' whispered
a woman.

I've heard,' whispered another, ' he mud
lev for the ain ; eh, Mrs. Towse? '

Nay, never,' muttered she, ^ 'tis not for
such as he.'

CHAPTER 2.

A Northern FARMER.

Farmer CowLA:\rB was of recent settlement in
Willowby, but lie lead been long enough in
the village to gain the reputation of a man endowed
with high and sterling common sense.
His character was discovered to be unimpeachable,
his rectitude undeniable. He was a man
who compelled deference and respect. He
was popular because he had no one but himself
and a kind Providence to thank for his
social uprising. It was no shame to him that
he had begun life as a uttermost hid of a
day labourer. Looking back, it was some
satisfaction to him that his intelligence and
shrewdness commanded a master's confidence.
He had not to live under a man long, his

D 2

cleverness undiscovered. When he married,
some people considered the woman who had
accepted him had not looked high. She did
not bring him any dowry other than her sweet
face, good character, and gentle manners, but
the young man idolised her, and exerted himself
to the utmost to make home happy. She
had been brought up comfortably — her father
a small shopkeeper — she had received a fair
education and was somewhat more refined
than the girls about her. When Cowlamb
found himself with such a pearl of a wife he
began to think — to deem it unsatisfactory that
his intelligence, which was worth so much to
a master, should not be brought into play for
his own profit. He had ever been minutely
careful with his money.

Ten years he laboriously gave his best
energies to a small farm. At that time science
in farming was a thing undreamed of; Cow-lamb
was far in advance of his day. The
tenant before him had been mus a backbone,
always backward with his rent, in some years

had been ' forgiven ' it, as they say ; the land,
he averred piteously each rent lay, vas 'bitter
bad, ringing clay,' conducive to foot-rot in
sheep, and unmanageable. In after years,
when he could freely talk, Cowlamb declared
that he had averaged a hundred a-year clear savings
off this small farm, and gave it up in fine
fettle.' He was enabled to take a larger and
better farm. He had no difficulty in finding
a ' friend ' to advance him money. But here
the wife of his youth left him with two boys.
He had not had the best helpmate in her.
Pier early education had not fitted her to work
with such a plodder. But he never complained.
She gave of her best ungrudgingly,
to herself confessing her deficiencies. He
never complained. Without a word or
thought against her, he strove to balance any
slips in economy she might make by extra
exertion on his own part. He begrudged her
nothing, but he treated himself as a slave, and
he had a vigilant eye over those alium he
employed .

The wife should have lived. When success
had crowned his efforts she would have graced
his home. Her gentle influence would have
done much to soften the asperity of Cowlamb's
character, which increased strikingly after he
had passed his meridian.

For near upon a score of years Farmer
Cowlamb remained a widower. He had loved
his wife, but he had his time too much occupied
to sit repining ; only for a long season he
missed her cheerful and sweet presence. At
meal-times he sat down with an ache at his
heart — the presence of her two boys brought
her forcibly to his mind ; in the evenings he
brooded, and was much preoccupied. On
Sabbath mormons he missed her — missed her
as he walked down to chapel, his eye roving
over his own crops or those of his neighbours.
She was not by his side to listen and pay
attention to what he said. She had always
evinced interest. He missed her at his side
in the long narrow pew in which he had such
scant space for his knees. He did not now

regard the greater plenitude of space with
satisfaction. He missed her when the
minister and his wife paid their quarterly
visit of ceremony, staying tea and supper.
She made tea for them in her best gown,
in their honour wore the brooch and bracelets
he had squandered money over at a feast as a
falling for her years ago. It only made him
sad when he looked at the oil picture he had
of her. It was an extraordinary picture, too,
but in his judgment most faithful ; the
brooch and the bracelets were beyond
criticism. Neither of the two lads had her
face, neither of them her character or temperament,
and that he regretted. They were
clever boys, and he had a fancy that she
would be pleased if she could only know how
well he was having them educated, a deficiency
in himself he had ever deplored
They should learn also the practical part of
farming as well as the theoretical ; they should
stand in the front rank of agriculturists.
Nlliil est melius agriculture. They should

grow up good farmers and well-informed men.
He could read and write, and lie could talk
fluently if the staple of conversation was
confined to his own pursuits, but in company
where other topics were pre-eminent, he found
his stock of ideas most meagre. He couldn't
talk to Mrs. Robinson or the other ministers'
wives. The minister's wife sat where his
own dear wife used to sit, rustling in silk,
superior, feeling herself superior. They were
suave, his contributions were liberal, but he
could not rid himself of the idea that they
made talk for him, that the minister prided
himself on accommodating his language to
a person of Mr. Cowlamb's acquirements.
For some time, unless he was going to
market, Cowlamb felt uncomfortable in his
Sunday clothes, if he donned them on a week
da3^ When he looked at his grey knees they
looked unnatural. The minister knew that
he wore his Sunday clothes in honour of the
company who favoured him with their sleek
and urbane presence. Cowlamb was respectful,

but lie felt the affected patter of the
minister's 'good lady' was contemptible, and be
had wit enough to believe himself at the bottom
A\-orth a hundred of the ministers as far as the
stamp of man went. He was beyond them
all in shrewdness, talent, and capability.

So passed the years, and the two lads
were reaching manhood, tall as himself, and
likely to be as broad-shouldered. He ' fixed '
one, the other staying with him a little
longer, but only biding his time. A year or two
passed, and a farm was found for him. Bear
it in mind, Cowlamb had changed from form
to farm. He Alas now a person of some
weight. He had one of the largest and best
farms in the county, and his elder son established
in the farm he had last vacated, the
younger, though little over twenty, already
proving himself excellent among stock, and
thriving as a grazier.

And now Farmer Cowlamb was alone.
He startled the neighbourhood, however, by
marrying again. No one had the faintest

conception of the widower contemplating
matrimony. He was married before any one
suspected his intention. This time his choice
fell upon his own servant girl. What business
was it of any one's who he married, or
for people to cavil at his choice? The wonder
was a nine days' one. The sons did not ride
the high horse, show or express dissatisfaction,
so Cowlamb's neighbours, perhaps, felt
a little ashamed of themselves. Farmer
Cowlamb was a man who had never relegated
a whit of his authority. His two sons still
looked up to him ; he left them to themselves
to give them confidence, but they felt him at
their back. There was no fear in them that
he would be biassed unduly — they knew it
was almost a thing impossible for any one to
lead him by the nose. The servant ghi
Alas a staid woman to them — it was the
neighbours' spleen terming her a girl, they
considered. She had been six or seven years
in Cowlamb's service, a kind of working housekeeper,
diligent, exact, most scrupulous, of

few words, her very person, as lier towels and
linen and the other household gods, the
perfection of sweetness and cleanliness. She
possessed some good looks, but she certainly
was not a woman to spend her time
before a mirror. It was very possible it had
never crossed her mind that personal appearance
beyond cleanliness was anything m this
world. Moreover, she was a devout Wesley an,
and as strait-laced as the most arrant Puritan
could desire.

Cowlamb's second wife bore to him a
daughter — our heroine. And after the birth
of this child, Mrs. Cowlamb the second, from
careful began to be noted as stingy, grasping,
and full of endeavour to cut down expenses.
She was so rigid, even Cowlamb himself
chafed, and at last came to open rebellion, the
element of discord arising from the periodical
supplies of plumage being cut off, Mrs. Cow-lamb
considering that currants and raisins
and lemon peel encroached too much on her
egg and butter and poultry money. However,

their own table was better supplied ever after,
if the same parsimony still held among the
men and maids.

So ten or twelve years passed, until Farmer
Cowlamb began to feel his knees stiffening, a
desire for rest, a wish to see Sam in the great
farm, and himself in a lesser one. Tom could
have Sam's farm and retain the land he held
as well, then either lad would have nothing to
complain of. Cowlamb' s desire was to have
a snuo^ little farm to exercise his wits on and
keep his mind occupied — a few hundred acres
to farm to a wonder.

Mrs. Cowlamb at first resented the plan ;
but this was only one way of making her
husband more obstinate and stubborn. He
was three or four years, though, before he
found the farm to his mind. Many landlords
gave him the refusal when they heard of his
intention ; it was even looked upon as a
feather in the cap to have such a man as
Cowlamb for tenant.

The farm was at last found and taken, and
a new house was built upon it, and Cowlamb's

wishes consulted in the erection. His predecessor's
farming having been somewhat lax,
Cowlamb obtained many concessions from the
landlord.

Iphis, the farmer's daughter, did, indeed,
regret leaving; Snailhorn, though her regrets,
not knowing scarcely how to justify them,
she kept to herself. Not even the brand-new
house reconciled her. There could be no
house so comfortable as the quaint one at
Snailhorn. In old times it had been the inn.
The coach had changed horses there, and a
tremendous business had been carried on,
although there was no village to speak of, and
it lay remote from any town. The old farm
buildings had been something wonderful in
their day ; inscriptions in a tongue unknown
to her were still legible, and they had often
exercised her mind, even after Mr. Gerlimore,
the parson, had given her the English of them.
She had once climbed a ladder to observe
more closely the coat of arms at the end of
the barn, and lingered over the inscription
below it.

Hjlc Doiivs Dat Mat Pynit

COXSERYAT HOXOEAT EQYITIAM

Paces CRiiiixA Lyra Boxes.
1620.

The almshouses carried a tablet — ' Adeo
et Divinities. Ao.Do., 1620.' According to
tradition, all Snailhorn had once been charity
land, rapaciously encroached upon, until only
a few paddocks remained to support the two
decrepit albumen, who could remember the day
when there were many participants ; but the
old men were almost afraid to open their lips,
afraid lest the charity should not last out
their day.

She was told to leave the roomy old house,
its deep embayed windows looking out upon
verdant pastures, shaded with prodigious
elms. She had completed her schooling, and
set herself steadfastly to walk and do her duty
in that state of life unto which she believed
it had pleased God to call her. She did not
desire any other life. She had her day-dreams.
She hoped, she did urgently hope.

that she should get a husband, and they woukl
live on a farm as her father and mother had
done, and make money, and be great folks,
and be highly respected, so that her tombstone
should carry an inscription similar to the one
on ]errs. Sarah Horsnayle's in Snailhorn
Churchyard : —

She was a Dutiful Daughter, ax Affectionate Wife,

A Tender Parent, A KlXD And BeXEYOLEXT Friend.

Her plain, honest, and unadorned Virtues were ax

Ornament to the PtAXK WHICH SHE HELD IX Society.

There Twas a defect in the lines, in that
they did not rhyme, but the sentiment was
everything that could be desired. The last
line to Iphis's mind was very impressive.

And to leave vSnailhorn! But there was
no help for it. Sam had a wife, if he and she
were not always on the best terms with each
other. Anyhow, Sam could not do with this
sister there.

She hated the new house, with its thin
brick walls and light doors and gingerbread
woodwork, but she was fain to submit.

Cowlamb jokingly endeavoured to soften
the blow by telling her that she would find a
sweetheart there roaybe. Had Sam been a
bachelor Cowlamb would not have left his
Iphis behind him. She was the solace and
joy of his declining years. Great rejoicing
take place in a family when the boy comes ;
Cowlamb was as full of delight with a girl
after his boys. Her education in the essentials
of farmhouse life had almost been complete
before she went to boarding-school. AVhen a
wee toddler, the mother by precept was teaching
her child, and by example. The quondam
servant, thrifty, had become the thriftier wife,
and saw no higher or more enviable rank than
the one in which she was placed, superintending
her house, careless of any relaxation, abhorring
dressy people — ' fine folks ' — her eye resolutely
set upon the uttermost farthing. Mrs. Cow-lamb
used to rehearse her sparse opinions to
Iphis until Iphis was inoculated with the
same prejudices, imbued with the same interests
— ready to look upon those people with

contempt who were careful of their hands.
It was one of Cowlamb's proudest boasts that
his girl had the light hand for butter, and was
second to none when her sleeves were rolled up.
Between father and daughter a great
affection subsisted. She liked her father best,
had always liked him best. The mother's
temper was sour and cross, the whine of her
voice was harassing. When her father was
absent, a chill seemed to rest upon the house,
and all undergoes found it almost unendurable.
The mother was unsympathetic ; there seemed
to be something in the house dashing to a
young buoyant spirit. Ij)his had been precocious
and was treated more like an elderly
person than a young girl. She had the best
of clothes if they were quiet in hue ; Iphis
followed the fashion only as near as Mrs. Cow-lamb's
sense of decorum would admit that
fashion was to be followed. When taken to
market she had no lack of money where with
to indulge her girlish whims, but at the same
time, daily, from morning until night, homilies

VOL. I. E

were dinned into lier ears of its value. She
did not absolutely weary of them ; but she
came to regard the hard set people who might
cross her path as in some way responsible for
their sorry condition. The mother had her
maternal solicitude for the girl ; but hers was
never the bosom to invite exuberant affection.
Iphis never confided in her mother, but became
self-contained, preferring men's company.
Sometimes she had extraordinary fits of wilfulness,
for which the mother had cold, complaining
censure, soon to fall upon ears careless of
such reproof. But tother father these wilfulness
were food for mirth, for admiration.
In them he saw a high spirit — his own. She
favoured him in character and temperament, in
looks ; everyone told him so. His pride in
his fine stalwart lass was only equalled by his
affection.

She's a stomach for work,' boasted he
proudly ; ^ she'll not go far away.'

She had abundant health, the common ailments
of childhood had scarcely reached her.

Once only had blanched cheeks given cause
for alarm, causing advice to be sought. She
would never be better, the wise man said, unless
she milked a red cow. But her constitution
being robust, she tided over this defection from
health, the morning air acting like a tonic, the
healthful smell of the cattle, no doubt, working
wonders. That was long' before she was in her
teens ; it was her initiation into the secrets of
the dairy. From her infancy she had been a
diligent and successful searcher after eo'srs.

How happy was the day when she whispered
to herself ' no more school I ' Her whither
she preferred his world-wise experience to all
the cleverness and polish of the acquaintances
she made at Register. Her country bluntness
and longing for home had always been a
standing joke against her. She never took
kindly to the finishing school ; school fare
was not like farmhouse fare. And those who
ridiculed her sometimes regretted their spleen,
for Iphis, like her father, was keen and subtle
in retort.

LIBRARY
University OF ^tU^r

When she reached home it was seen that
she had matured. Even to the untutored
eyes of her parents, besides an accession of
physique there was abundant promise of all
those feminine attributes which call forth admiration.
She was lithesome and tall, her
figure was excellently proportioned, her step
elastic, one could fancy every muscle was
nervous when she stirred. But it was the
same sweet, homely face, the same eager, clear
gaze ; there was the old wilfulness, but an m-
crease of the latent mischief lurking in her
eyes and about her mouth. It had been
dormant, now it was waking, was waiting, for
what?

She's as gallus as ever I ' the farmer
shouted fondly and boisterously.

And yet she could look very cross and
severe when out of temper. In her ordinary
mood her face canned an interested, ready expression.
There was good-nature and frankness.


But her eyes as she sprang out of the

trap were full of honest fun, with a spice of
some added element. The old farmer chuckled ;
she would make mischief amonix the fellows.
There would be a fine scramble for her, and
Cowlamb rubbed his hands m great glee.

'When a young fellow comes round there'll
be a mean-mischief invitation to come to closer
quarters,' commented he to his wife. ' She'll
dare a fellow to make a fool o' listen, an' want
to git his ames round her.'

If I see her behaving' like that '

'Bah! get on wi' thy searching,' said Cow-lamb,
giving his wife an impatient push.

CHAPTER 3.

DAWN or LOVE.

Life at Willowby was not the same full life
as at Snailhorn. Iphis lead less occupation.
Cowlamb felt it at first. A little country
town was near, but Iphis did not trouble it
much. On market days she carried thither
farm produce ; sometimes on a Sabbath evening
she went to the pretentious chapel. There
were seasons when her time hung heavy upon
her hands, and then she would wander out
into the lane ; but more often her steps were
directed towards the faroi- buildings. The old
farmhouse was subdivided, and under its roof
a labourer and the parthian lived, both men
having elected to come from Snailhorn with
the farmer. Cowlamb often looked upon the
old house ruefully, half regretting he had not

made shift with it. A farmer likes to look out
of his window upon the crew-yard. Iphis was
often there. The parthian had a numerous
brood of children, and Iphis was good among
them, her appearance always being hailed with
uproarious tokens of good will. Homely herself
and companionable, here indeed was a life
full of charm for her, homeliness to a degree,
and a flavour of sweet domestic concord. Her
unpretentious ways with the grown-up people
had long ago gained over their hearts. In and
out the cottages she went without ceremony,
no ill-look or subdued resentment to intimate
they only bent under pressure. Iphis was as
familiar to them as their own children. In
their eyes, with her position, the money that
had been spent over her, her winsome looks
and her clever housewifely notions, Iphis
Cowlamb was the beau ideal of what a maiden
should be. Daughters of their own just as
fresh and fair to look upon they could not
rank with her. It would have almost been a
profanity to have harboured in their placid
bosoms such a pretentious thought.

O

To Iphis the house filled with children,
namely the parthian's, was more generally-favoured
by her. The day following her walk
down to the hay field she wandered up to the
parthian's cottage. Dinner was over with
them, excepting for one, a little fellow who
had been missing at the proper hour. But
while the child was eating, the mother was
not losing time. With ten children the mother
had to look sharp about her.

Drat the stockings ! ' the good wife cried,
with resigned but cheerful impatience as she
took up the eleventh pair, and, weary of her
seemingly endless task, surveyed the dilapidation
; ' they've as many holes in 'em as days
in a week.'

You've no time to sit still,' said Iphis,
sympathetically ; ' let me help you. And
there's Joel going to sleep over his dinner.'

The little fierce fellow, weary with his
morning's run upon his young legs, could
scarcely keep his eyes open. He fairly nodded
over his pudding. His hair, with the rough

administration of cap-replacing by rongli
plough-lads, stood upright. The urchin had
a pugnacious profile, a defiant curl of the lip,
and a sturdy little nose. A child to admire,
chubby and intelligent, alive to every movement
of those about him, having a ready construction
upon every one's intentions and character.
Fierceness was outrageously manifest
in every gesture.

^ Wacken up, wacken up, Joel, and eat his
dinner. I'm suer,' declared the mother, turning
to Iphis, ' in his way he works harder 'n
any man on the farm. He's alius on the landor
ester their heels. He'll be a man,' said she,
with fond pride, and in a louder key, to attract
the drowsy child's attention. ^ Joel, wacken
up, and ester dinner thou sell go i' the granary
to Eli to help break cake. Eat up his pudding',
then he sell ha' meat. No pudding', no meat —
not that th' been's dainty,' the mother defended.


But the weary Joel seemed more inclined
to weep drowsily, and to himself causelessly.

He is cross, lie does hing his lip said
Iphis, her light laugh doing more to compose
the infantile mind of the impressionable Joel.
Ah, ah,' cried Iphis, clapping her hands, ' if
he doesn't eat his pudding' he'll never be a man
to 2:0 wi' me to the land o' o-reen srino-er, where
houses are thatched wi' pancakes and haystacks
buttered wi' wool.'

Joel struggled to regain complete consciousness.
He so far succeeded as to look
into his mother's eyes comprehending, impressed
with the gravity that lay there, content
with the affection beaming m them.
Then he turned to Iphis, concerned that she
should not lose faith in him ; it was his desire
to be her henchman. He regarded her very
gravely, and after a moment or two's thought,
his spoon halfway in his mouth, inquired,
with abrupt seriousness —

^ How owt art thou, Iphis Cowlamb ? '

As owt as my tongue and a bit order
than my teeth, Joel,' answered Iphis.

Joel was vaguely conscious of having been

answered with the same enigmatical reply on
some pre\doas occasion when his inquiring
mind had been on the same track.

Tush, been,' said Mrs. Towse, reprovingly,
to ax such questions. Eat his pudding.'

Joel seemed desirous to inquire further,
but the mother again interposed with uplifted
finger.

Sh ; hear, see, and say nothing,' which
to Joel was another axiom difficult to grass) ;
so Joel occupied his mind with his pudding,
and at length, the platter being clean, Joel
uplifted it in his chubby hands and commenced
to frugally polish it with his tongue. Mrs.
Towse, occupied with her darning, was for a
few moments forgetful of Joel and his idiosyncrasies.
Her eyes at last were raised to
Iphis, when she caught a glimpse of her boy.
Joel ! Joel ! Joel ! ' cried she in consternation
and shame. ' Joel, put down that plate. !
'tis naughty to lick your plate like that.'

Joel showed as much surprise as his mother
consternation. He obeyed her, opening wide

his eyes, and, partly in fright and partly rebellious,
posed her.

Why dont ee do so other days ? '
Between peals of laughter from Iphis were
protestations from Mrs. Towse. Then she,
seized with the humour of the thing, joined in
with Iphis, until Joel's wonder increased to
such an extent he did not know for certain
who was the craziest of the trio.

I think nobody ever hed such an a cretur,'
at last said Mrs. Towse, when calm enough.
But it was some time before she could return
to the subjects which she was always expounding
to Iphis and those who would listen
to her — namely, Towse's anxiety about the
stock, her family cares, her poultry cares.
Iphis was not garrulous herself, but she would
listen attentively. If people answered for her,
she was not one to raise objection with occasional
wilfulness ; she Alas satisfied with not
having any say, verbally. But often Iphis
was thinking, contemplating, when apparently
listening to Mrs. Towse's perorations. She

had not observed Joel until the horrified look
on the mother s face warned her that something
was o^oino; wrong'. And now Mrs.
Towse had taken up the thread again.

As I said, we didn't want that owt goose
to sit ; we kicked her owt nest over times
and times, but 'twas no use, Ave couldn't git
no eggs. But I run be handy,' said she, with
a complete change of voice, ' that lad 'ill be in
for his things. He said he'd take 'em back
wi' him. You see, poor lad, they do his
weshin'; bud law, there's a lot o' jobs a man
can't do for hissed, and I tell him if he wanted
a bit o' mending' coin' he nun bring' it dovrn
to me. I plenty to do, bud he was my hase
sister's been. His father married aegean, and
there's a lot on 'em by the second woman. and
I don't think she looks over kindly on
Epliraim. One can't blame Epliraim's father
'twas a queer fix for him to be in, left i'
that way. I'm suer he did well to })nt her
lad 'prentice.'

We were all treated alike,' said Ij)his ; ' I

was a long while before I could understand
that Sam's mother wasn't mine.'

There was two on 'em. T' oldest was
in good service, but silly lad got reading
Captain Cook, such lies they put i' print, and
he never settled no more.'

What became of him, then, Mrs. Towse? '

He went to sea. Ephraim says he serves
the Queen. She doesn't pay 'em over well a
neither, if she gives 'em fine clo's. Bud if he'd
hed his poor mother to think on, he'd never
ha' groan. Poor thing, she'd never ha' shep o'
nights, for fear he'd be drownded.'

Mother alius made Sam and Tom comfortable,'
said Iphis with great confidence.

^ There's such a difference i' women,' the
parthian's wife remarked, her voice carefully
under control. ' A sight o' difference,' she
repeated, hurriedly collecting clothes and linen
and tying them up in a crimson cotton handkerchief.


I wished his handkerchief, and a piltripely
thing it is, and his shirts — I put' 'em through

some fresh water, they was such a bad colour,
laws-aime. I tell Ephraim as soon as he feels
hissed on his legs ester he's lose, he nun
pick up wi' some likely lass. It'll never do
for him to be beholden to this body and
t'other body. They tell me i' towns a man
can't get so much as a button set on ; they're
over nice to be wise.'

Where's thy mother ? ' asked a voice outside.


Here he be, almost afore I've done.
Come in wi' thee,' shouted sj'he.

The door was pushed open wider, but the
incomer seeing some one else beside his aunt
in the kitchen, hung back shyly.

^ He ! ' cried his aunt, derisively, ' come in
wi' thee. What's tha got to be scar'd on I '

He needn't be scar'd o' me,' said Iphis,
simply.

It was the blacksmith's apprentice. Iphis
Cowlamb might speak with apparent self-possession,
but a flush of colour suffused her
face, and some interest shone in her eyes. As

for him, lie scarcely had courage to meet those
wide open eyes with his own. But he did
not know how his garrulous aunt had been
exciting interest for him in the breast of the
farmer's daughter.

Here, thee,' cried the hospitable Mrs.
Towse, affection for her departed sister stimulating
her. She pushed a plate towards him,
on which reposed a huge curd cheesecake,
currants studding it, as many black eyes in
its lemon face as Argus had. Mrs. Towse
had a serious notion that the lad never got
anything nice and toothsome, and the pastry
would have given a dyspeptic the horrors.

I ain't hungry,' said he, shamefacedly.

Boo, eat it up, or thou needn't bring
me any o' thy duds to fettle up. Here is a
sup o' beer left i' th' pitcher to wish it down
wi.'

The beer was of the palest tint, home-brewed,
sweet, and washy; not anything like
the sharp ales of the reader's imagination.
The parthian kept two of the lads in the

house; lie had so much bacon a year, so many
stone of potatoes, and he had his modicum of
malt ; but the brewing was not conducted
on scientific principles. As Towse remarked
sometimes, ' A fellow might burst but he'd
never git drunk on their beer.'

Joel's knocked over,' said Ephraim, finding
his voice.

'He's feared his sen out,' said Mrs.
Towse.

It's dirty work — blacksmith's,' said
l23his.

• Yis, 'm,' said Ephraim, deferentially.

Iphis was fain to .laugh, not at Ephraim's
deference, but at being dubbed ' 'm.'

I nun be coins, Mrs. Towse,' said she.

I nun go an' all,' said Ephraim, but
without the slightest intention of being bold.
Iphis Cowlamb went out of the house first,
Ephraim hard after her, but he kept behind
her. At a gate they were about to take
separate paths. Iphis turned and spoke.

Which way were you going, Ephraim? '

VOL. I. p

Top o' th' wheat close.'

There's no pad.'

Neo, but it's a near cut

Thou meant let father catch thee.
You'll ha' to git over a hedge, and he is
particular about his hedges.'

^ Maybe I'd better go round.'

Maybe thou hed.'

A mischievous twinkle lit up her face, but
he took her warning seriously. She came
to a stand and looked at him ; the expression
on his face was solemn and concerned. He
thought she would doubtless believe that he
made a practice of trespassing over wheat and
forbidden fields ; he was not aware of Cow-lamb's
strictness. While she was speaking
she scanned his face closely. Actually he had
dimples ; they were not manifest when he was
speaking, but only when his lips were closed.
But under all this solemnity of visage there
lurked a dash of something that made her
heart jump. If she could only tantalise him
until he overstepped his shyness and fear of

her ! It was her father beg so well off that
overawed him, she thought. She trembled
lest her position should frighten wooers away.
She wanted a sweetheart she could like, not
some hard-headed suitor with his mind a-
wondering what Father Cowlamb would give
her. The best fellows would be frightened of
her dreadful matter-of-fact father. But she
would have a sweetheart if she defied everybody.
She was getting old enough. She
wondered if Ephraim would ever find courage
to kiss her. She trembled at the very
thought, but there was a tremulous pleasure
in the thought. Xo, she could scarcely suffer
him to go so far on so short an acquaintance.
But Ephraim was a shy fellow. Her grandfather
was. She had heard her grandmother
say that her sweetheart had never ventured to
kiss her all the years they were courting, and
then very timidly after they were wed.

He's a gallas 'un,' Iphis decided to herself
; 'them shy fellows are alius the worst.'

He was now in advance of her, looking

F 2

neither to the right nor to the left nor behind
hmi, but staring straight ahead, feeling himself
out of place and awkward. "Where she
was bold, he was most shamefaced.

Even when couples have decided to walk
out together, the lad walks a few paces in advance,
his hands carefully stowed in his coat
pockets. He rolls from side to side, content
to hear the lass hurrying behind, with maybe
her bonnet awry or at the back of her head.
Little conversation can be carried on, and all
the female has to think about is not to let the
distance between them increase. The desire
to keep company is mutual and understood.
By-and-by he will have courage to meet her
eyes, and bear with her elbow in his ribs.
Ephraim was most constrained ; he would have
wished to step out, only it seemed a discourtesy.
It seemed to him, too, that he had been
a terrible time absent from the shop ; not that
that troubled him much — only it was as well
to keep clear of ^ blowing up.'

They reached the field gate, and by the

side of it was a stile. Generally Farmer Cow-lamb
kept this gate padlocked, but this year
the field was fallow. While Ephraim was inhaling
the gate she climbed the stile and sat
upon the rail. Ephraim stood with a three-quarters
aspect to the girl. He did not
exactly turn his back upon her, but looked at
her over his shoulder. He had scarcely the
courage to look her in the face. He could not
get over her parentage and position.

What a shy owt lad I ' exclaimed she,
maliciously.

Her sally brought no response, only the rich
blood mounted under Ephraim' s ruddy skin.

Her eyes were full of laughter ; bright
sparks seemed to dance in the pupils ; her lips
curved with innocent malice. She moved her
position, and Ephraim somehow seemed to
realise that she was nearer to him.

If ye don't speak, I'll pull sour hair.'

Was ever such a backward swain ! She
straightened herself, and looked as if she
meant what she said, and fnrtlicr mischief.

Ephraim's diffidence gradually melted away ;
a faint smile crept into his face — he was not
afraid of feminine vengeance. It was a caprice
of the farmer's daughter. She would never
look at him.

There was silence a moment longer. Their
eyes met and as suddenly fell. It was as if
some tacit understanding was arrived at. He
became bolder; a new hope stated in him; he
could feel his heart beat pit-a-pat, thickening
the utterance of his tongue. To her it was
full of the music of first love and fancy.

I seed you yesterday ! '

I seed you yesterday ! ' echoed she.

When you was milking.'

No, afore ; galloping our young horse.'
'It was fresh. I could harding hold him.'
Let father nobbut see you galloping it.'
Shall you go malkin' to-night — by course

? ' inquired he, huskily, a little appalled

with his own daring.

'What's that got to do wi' you, Ephraim ?'

said she, sternly.

I'd know,' apologised he, awkwardly
balancing himself on his heels, with the gate
for his firm friend. He coughed to clear himself
and to explain. ' I mud be there, if thou
went by thy sen.'

We'll see.' It was ambiguous, but its
meaning was plain enough to him. He had
become so bold, he had rolled himself london
his heels until he was so near she became
apprehensive.

Get away,' she cried, making great feint
of struggling away. He withdrew his arm
and retreated a little, somewhat disconcerted.
He felt that he had been bold. He had made
a fool of himself. The farmer would hear how
he had been ' going on.' She would tell him,
maybe. He stood looking very crestfallen
indeed.

I hadn't going to let thou kiss me thou
needn't think ; ' indignation ruling to the
comma, relenting to the semicolon. She was
deeply regretting that he had not succeeded
after all, that she was so strong and lusty as

to be able to bold ber own. Sbe felt malignant
with bim, because be was so easily rebuffed.
Off ye go, Ephraim.'

Epbrami opened the gate, obediently. He
bad not proceeded many steps when sbe cried
after bim — ' I say ! '

Ephraim stopped and turned.

Never mind. Nothing.'

She sat on ber perch and watched bim
descend the bill. Sbe laiigbed to herself most
whimsically. Sbe laughed to think bow easy
after all it was to be able to obtain a sweetheart.
He bad meant to kiss ber. If be
hadn't ventured on such a thing so soon —
the colour rose on ber face. Sbe came into
the lane, ber eyes following the bead and
shoulders of the descending figure. Ephraim
turned to look back, but, seems bis movement
was observed, quickly recovered himself. She
stood a moment, then turned in at the green
gate which opened towards her father's house.

Farmer Cowlamb and his wife were at
dinner. Christopher Swallow, a Willowby

jobber, had come up to bargain, and was the
farmer's guest.

Will you have a bit o' meat now, Mister
Swallow? ' asked Mrs. Cowlan^b.

How on, missis ; maybe Mester Swallow;
'11 have this bit o' pudding. If he doesn't,
awiver, I will.'

Mr. Swallow no doubt felt that he could
not express a wish for more pudding after the
farmer had thus signified insatiate predilection.
Mr. Swallow, with downcast eyes, licht
his lAatQ at an angle With one hand and industriously
scraped it with the other, Mr. and
Mrs. Cowlamb watching him with some interest.


Xow, then, mester, will ye lia' this bit ? '

Xo, thanked,' said Mr. Swallow, A^'ith
cheerful decision.

'Then I will,' said the farmer, jocularly.
I nun as well take the dish, missis, and
scrape it out. Wilful waste makes woful
want, eh. Swallow ? ' The farmer chuckled
as he took the dish on this plate.

Hearing a foot the farmer looked behind
him, and, seeing Iphis, spoke sith some concern.


Heigh, missis, is there ony for her? '

^ I put a bit in the oven for her,' replied
Mrs. Cowlamb, quietly.

That'll do,' said the farmer, reassured.

Wherever lies t' been, not to git home by
dinner?' inquired Mrs. Cowlamb, complaining.


At Towse's.'

Thou's strange and fond o' Towse's,' said
Mrs. Cowlamb, disparagingly, her voice thin
and cracked.

AYhy, ye see, Mrs. Cowlamb,' interposed
Mr. Swallow, unctuously, ' there's lots o'
barns. I'll uphold it she's fond o' company.'

Who's that thou wast talking to in the
lane ? ' asked Mrs. Cowlamb, still detractmgly.

It was unusual for her to look at husband
or daughter when talking to them. Only to
strangers did she accord this courtesy.
Hectoring the servant, which she was mostly

eno^ao;ed in, was never carried on at close
quarters. Mrs. Cowlamb generally stood in
the pantry or in the kitchen when the girl
was in the scullery, and vice versa, at such
time raising her voice, modulating it when
she wished to pursue the commentary thereon.

Her mother's question did not disconcert
Iphis.

A chap ! ' said Iphis, laconically.

^ A chap ! What chap? ' asked the farmer,
with a mouthful.

Ephraim ! ' replied Iphis, impatiently,
knowing that her face was now red, her father
having become interested.

^ Oh, Ephraim ! Mister Ephraim would
look better getting on with his work.'

He'd done.'

*Done! Then he ought to make haste
back. He's not good to much, I warrant
him.'

Iphis would have retorted had not mr.
Swallow been there. She did not want Mr.
Swallow to speak for her again. He might

tlioiio'li be on the adverse side, knowing; that
Ephraim was not of much weight. Iphis in
her mind had now a supreme pity for
Ephraim' s poverty, his dearth of friends in
his neo23hancy.

Now, Mister Cowlamb, am ee to lev
them timbers ? ' said Swallow rising, taking
his hat and stick.

At my figure.'

islay, I can't ; I really can't do it.'
^ Fetch the gin, missis.'
^ Nay, nay, don't, Mrs. Cowlamb ; I can't
stop ; I nun be on — now, Mr. Cowlamb ? '
Sixty-three ! '
And what luck ? '
Luck ? '

Say a fie-pun note,' suggested the jobber,
holdings out his hand to strike baro-ain.

Xay, my lad ; thou'd nearly lev 'em at
thy awn price.'

I'm sorry we can't bargain,' said the j obiter
resignedly, his arm falling and getting
nearer the door.

Xow, Mister Cowlamb ? ' persuasive and
•wdth fresh vigour.

The farmer shook his head.

The jobber passed through the door, then
returned, but without showing himself, cried
loudly, ' I'll take them culls ^ on ye at your
awn price.'

I'll consider on it ; I'll see to-morrow
how things are going.'

They'll be down tomorrow, Mr. Cow-lamb.'


Thou sell ha' first chance. Awiver I
went bargain to-day.'

Thank you, Mister Cowlamb. Good-day.'

Swallow ! ' shouted the firmer. The
jobber again put his head in at the outer door,
replying eagerly,

Yes, sir.'

Thou can ha' th' culls.'

Nay-a, I shan't wi'out brothers.'

Oh, very well,' returned CoAvlamb, carelessly.


^ Inferior ones.

The jobber stood a few moments, but,
hearing nothing; more encouraging, took his
departure, in his soul much incensed to think
that lie had not got the better of Farmer
Cowlamb.

So thou wast sweethearts,' said the
farmer to his girl, mischievously.

Nay, I wasn't,' said Iphis, strenuously ;
which meant ' Yes, I was,' if he liked to take
it so.

Get out wi' thee. What dost ee want to
be talking to chaps for? '

I sell ha' to lev a sweetheart some day.'

Iphis spoke aggrievedly.

Heigh, heigh, I'll find thee one,' said her
father, with cheerful confidence, ' an' not a
humbugs like that blacksmith's lad. I'll find
thee a sweetheart, never fear.'

But somehow Iphis did not respond cheerfully
to such an assurance.

CHAPTER 4.

GRACE.

Iphis Coaat^a^ib was a singer in the ugly
little Dissenting Chapel at Willowby. She
sat with other young girls in the ' singing loft,'
a gallery just behind the pulpit. They occupied
a very prominent position, and faced the
whole of the congregation. Iphis was sometimes
mischievous, exciting her neighbours
to laughter, making peculiar remarks on the
head of the preacher below. If he happened
to be a local, familiarity with his person and
traits perhaps fostered more fun and liberty.
A bald patch was sure to excite disabilities.
As their fancy chose to take it, it was a face
without features and expression. Sometimes

the consternation were scandalised with the
singers' behaviour. Farmer Cowlamb would
look reprovingly across at Iphis, but he never
had the heart to scold her. ' They're young,'
he would say ; ' they'll be steadier when they
get order.' But had not Iphis been among
them he would have had something caustic
for the jades, and he would have stayed
waiting outside to deliver it. Farmer Cow-lamb
had soon got to be an important
personage in ' society,' as represented in
Willowby.

The young preachers had peculiar and
gracious smiles for the country belles above
them. Mounting the pulpit steps their faces
were directed towards the singers ; it was their
only opportunity. But their unctuous smiles
and tender glances were principally aimed at
Iphis Cowlamb. She was, indeed, worth
looking after. But, as yet, she was little
impressed with any one of them. Else it was
not considered a bad step socially, marrying a
travelling preacher. Some of the other girls

vere diiiio'liters of small farmers iii a comfortable
way, but Iphis was generally regarded as
one for whom there would be a fortune. One
swain, finding Iphis cold, turned to another,
a well-favoured lass with a parent considered
warm.' He was regarded with some favour,
but papa, one of the elders, so far forgot his
principles and his religion as to chase his
would-be son-in-law from his house with the
carving-knife when he discovered the minister's
true drift. The young girls were not the
only occupants of the gallery. Some staid
men sat at one end, behind were ranged
musicians with chariots, fiddles, deep bass,
and a horn ; on forms by the wall the more
promising of the Sunday scholars. As all
sang in the chapel, following the girls' voices
and the instrumental music, there was a tolerable
volume of sound surging Within the four
walls. When the single door was opened it
came out into the open air with fervid abruptness,
as when one removes a finger from a
closed ear. In summer, when the windows

VOL. T. G

were open, out in the fields the effect was
most pleasant and suggestive.

Now, a great exertion was being made to
bring more professing members into the body.
Week-day revival services were being held.
Laughter was mmgied with tears, tears
led to astonishing outbreaks, prostration,
appeal. One man alone was able to console
and bind, that was the exhorter, and at the
penitent form. His auxiliaries paced up and
down the length of the pews, keenly scrutinising
every face, urging submission and repentance
in low and earnest tones. Indeed, Farmer
Cowlamb took his turn ; he had been a
leading member of the body here and at
Snailhorn for so many years that he occupied
this position almost by courtesy.

The Reverend Peter Macwhortle, whose
name betokened nativity in the North, was
here in Willowby by special invitation. He
was a man of the people, some said a collier
when he was young. Peter's discourse
at its earliest stage was enlivened with

the broadest anecdote and the broadest application.
It went beyond humour, although
his speech and his manner gave all he said
that character in the ears of his auditors. He
strove to create mirth, he waited for the broad
grins on his hearers' faces, their hearty-laughter,
then the transition to the antithesis
was more quickly reached.

Nightly Farmer Cowlamb, with wife and
daughter, attended the little chapel. 2 So^ie
exultation that success crowned Peter's efforts
was felt by the former. But a greater thankfulness
took its place in Cowlamb' s bosom
when he saw his own daughter tearfully rise
in the gallery to appear in the body of the
chapel. Xo hesitation marked her progress,
no fear of public comment ; she cast herself
upon her knees by the side of those who had
already responded to Mr. Macwhortle's thunderous
appeal.

It seemed as if her response was the signal
for successive penitents, hitherto wavering,
and all young. Mr. Macwhortle knew the

condition of I lie fair penitent. He had
accepted the hospitality of Farmer Cowlamb,
and was a guest at the farmhouse. He had
expressed a wish that Iphis should get religion
under him. It was at evening prayer, and
the admission startled Iphis then, as also her
father's fervent ' Amen.' 'Mr. Macwhortle
observed her submission with some satisfaction.
Plis eyes ranged over the young heads,
and he did not forget to improve the occasion.
Amidst the group v^dio were weeping and crying
out in their frenzied excitement was one
vrhose figure and head seemed familiar to the
farmer. Cowlamb eras some few moments
before he could reconcile his knowledge to
the traits and carriage which arrested his
attention. At length the head was raised,
and by the dark-brovrn- curls the farmer
discovered it to be that of the blacksmith's
apprentice, Ephraim Sparrow.

A certain consternation seemed to take
possession of the farmer, but he overcame it
when something from the pulpit called for

deep attention from all. CoTrlamb reached
this pew, and sat with a serious face, assenting
with implicit faith to Mr. Macwhortle's views
and theories of futurity, his stern realities and
tender mercies, his literal renderings of sacred
writ. But the farmer was only human, he
could not help his mind from being concerned
with things mundane, nor his eyes from roving
towards the end of the penitent form, but
some one now blocked Ephraim Sparrow from
his view, and he could see only a portion of
Iphis's head. He did not connect the two,
but he felt vaguely perplexed.

Had these two observed each other?

Not until the brown locks revealed their
possessor to Iphis's father did Iphis discover
that Ephraim had followed his idol. When
she looked up she detected him regarding her
furtively. Her eyes were tear-stained, detracting
from her good looks she knew; but
the lad's face, with no tears to mar it, from
a half-ashamed seriousness changed, a couiic
light danced in his eyes, and she could not

maintain the gravity of her own demeanour ;
her lips parted with a smile. Then, recollecting
herself, she bent her face down, forced a
frown upon it, as some remonstrance and self-reproach
against such levity at such a time ;
but, to her confusion — horrible it seemed to
her — all her religion seemed to have as suddenly
gone out of her. Was Ephraim a
hypocrite, taking his cue from her? She
began to make sundry comparisons, not
favourable to the preacher, on his voice, on
his attitude. She even went so far as to
believe that mr. Macwhortle was only giving
his best work for good money. Her father
said the labourer wasn't worth his huge if he
didn't ' addle ' it. Mr. Macwhortle was conscientious
; if his work was irksome to him,
he was doing it honestly. Perhaps it
had e'ot to be like an old song; with him.
Iphis thought he did not look as if he really
felt all he said himself. He was fat; his tim
locks encircled a ruddy, oily face ; he had a
short neck and a scratchy beard, his voice was

coarse, his clothes ill-fitting and sniifF-
besprinkled and flavoured. She began to feel
ashamed that she had been so impulsive — she
had made herself quite conspicuous. However,
she could not run back now. She began
to be impatient — she sighed for the close of
Mr. Macwhortle's threats and promises. At
last he read two lines of the hymn — •

God, the offended God Most High,
Ambassadors to rebels sends.

Oh ! the interminable handshaking: at the

o

chapel door after all was over. The entreaty
to those who showed sims of o-oino; to stay
prayer-meeting. Such hearts of flint had to
face eyes of reproach, hands relaxed ; there
was less cordiality when determination to
breathe freer air, to leave such surcharged
excitement, was not to be overcome. The
preacher thundered their fate, and the perverse
ones retreated like craven curs, believing him,
either half regretting: the hour had not come
or filled with a spirit of resentful antagonism.
Iphis was glad to be relieved. She rose

from her knees and load her way to her
father's pew. She had won the sympathy of
the old people. Her father held the pew door
open for her, she, passing Inn, felt herself ingrate,
hypocrite, worse.

Ephraim Sparrow stayed, that she saw.
But never once while the exciting half hour
lasted did she detect him other than grave
and downcast. Her father almost expected
some outspoken manifestation from her.
Some of the converts were vociferous. But
I his' s lips continued closed. His own were
free in ejaculation. At a teljmg sentence Mr.
Macwhortle paused for the antistrophe ; sometimes
it came from fervent lips with bewildering
contradiction. But then the hypercritical
were conspicuous by their absence.

There was a press at the chapel door.
Those who had succeeded in o-ettino; out still
hung around like moths at a candle, waiting
for those who had had sufficient grace to stay.
The young must be encouraged with sympathy
and the outspread palms of the elders. With

others, Ephraim Sparrow was surrounded, his
hand grasped over and over again. Perhaps
Ephraim was overwhelmed when the Reverend
Mr. Macwhortle extended his chubby hand.
Indeed Ephraim was so abashed and confused
he found himself the next moment grasping
the hand of Farmer Cowlamb, and the former's
face an inexplicable enigma to him. Then
Mr. Macwhortle took the side of Mrs. Cow-lamb,
and, with the farmer on the other, Iphis
was pushed aside or had to give way. Looking
round, Farmer Cowlamb was astounded
to behold the blacksmith's apprentice, Ephraim
Sparrow, in the act of taking Iphis's hand.
Farmer Cowlamb was never nearer making
the exclamation which stood with him in the
place of an imprecation. No doubt he was
restrained by the presence of Mr. Macwhortle,
the knowledge that the lad was now of the
elect ; still, Ephraim should keep his place.
But the farmer's movement had also caused
mr. Macwhortle to turn too. He regarded
the youth and maiden with bombastic approval

ignorant of the status of Ephraim — and
rolled out the phrase, ' Young men and
maidens raising the Lord.'

The farmer groaned inwardly, and turned
of a 'goose coat,' as he mentally put it. It
was an encouragement. Mr. Macwhortle erred
no doubt thrush ignorance. The farmer
could not well complain, but he felt very much
disturbed. All Willowby would be agog ; the
village would champ over Ephraim' s sudden
conversion and equally sudden acquired arrogance
; and he. Farmer Cowlamb, would come
in for a share 'of foolish conjecture.

Cowlamb could not refrain from occasional
glimpses over his shoulder. The farmer's
body swayed to each foot, at once indicating
that he had followed the plough, and this trait
was more noticeable when he was weary or
bothered. He saw that Ephraim Sparrow was
still with Iphis. Both had serious faces. He
would have liked to overhear their conversation,
and thus have satisfied himself that

Ephraim was confining himself to topics not
secular.

Mr. Macwhortle continued rolling; out his
platitudes with undiminished fervour, until
Cowlamb felt in a state of exasperation.

Labourers are alius scarce at this time o'
year,' said Mrs. Cowlamb.

There are labourers always wanted for
the Lord's vineyard,' said Mr. Macwhortle.

^ AYe've had a fine owt smothering,' said
Cowlamb, referring to the full chapel ; ' but
there's a many more mud ha' been there.'

^ Ah,' sighed the preacher, ' a cold heart
and a warm fireside keeps a many away from
chapel.'

This was Mr. ]\Lacwhortle's pet phrase.
But Cowlamb could not rid himself of his
torture. What, with his uncertain walk — to
which though his wife was accustomed, accommodating
her walk to his — his futile attempts
to look behind him, to listen, and his inattentive
mind, he jolted so extraordinarily against

his wife that now and again she forced mr.
yilacwhortle off the path.

]Mr. Macwhortle knows the young man
whose name is on the plan, that's coming m
place of Mr. Greenwood at Moortown,' murmured
Mrs. Cowlamb.

His mother is a Moortown person.' said
j\[r. Macwhortle ; ' a pious woman. Her husband
was in the ministry. After a powerful
meeting' and gathering; in of souls the Lord
took him. Poor man, he was walking home,
a long distance, a lonely road, and he was not
found for some time. Visitation of God —
indeed, it was, my dear mem. A man
worthy of the vocation unto which he was
called.'

Ah ! ' assented the farmer, curtly, the
balance of his mind overthrown.

His wife is a Dorcas of our body. It is
her faith that she has seen her husband in the
spirit mair than once ; that he directs her in
the way of salvation.'

Indeed,' said Mrs. Cowlamb in a lachrymose

key ; ' poor woman, it must ha' been a
trial to her. Her son's a young man ? '

Young in years and ministry, but, like
Saul, full of zeal and fervour. lie would have
gone out a missionary ; it was revealed to him
that his mother was aged, he could not leave
her. '\\ with her husband, indeed, it eras 'the
zeal of thine house hath eaten me up." The
widow receives sustenance from the superannuation
fund. Her husband was an old
and faithful minister of the Word.'

Next Sunday '11 be the first time the
young man preaches in the circuit,' Farmer
Cowlamb at last found opportunity to say.

You are right, my dear sir. I hope he
will carry on the good work already bcgiui
under my poor superintendence.' Mr. Mac-whole's
eyes turned upwards with pious
modesty.

Here the farmer had to look behind him
again. Ephraim Sparrow was still walking
at iphis's side. They were laughing. That
was horrible. But Ephraim Sparrow, quick

to note the movements of the trio before them,
had observed the farmer turn his head.
Ephraim's face became grave, he met Cow-lamb's
critical eye with assurance seriousness
which abnost maddened the enduring farmer.
CowL^mb wondered what the youthful couple
behind sere laughing at. Perhaps he would
not have laughed with them had he known.

Iphis saw her father's head repeatedly turn,
but not the slightest idea entered into hers
that walking thus with Ephraim Sparrow was
in any way reprehensible. Ephraim had a
good-looking' face, had a fair suit of clothes on
his back ; in his work-a-day suit no one could
say he was ugly, and smoke and grime, one
knows, are never conducive to appearance.

She had been a little surprised at Ephraim
shaking hands with her father and Mr. Mac-whole
; her hand went out almost unconsciously,
and then she dragged it from him
saucily. But Ephraim did not look vexed or
perturbed ; he seemed to have acquired a grave
confidence. She did not feel surprised to

find him walking by her side for a few moments.
Then she looked at hin with some
pertness, and he spoke, as if ignoring what
he knew was the tenor of her thoughts.

^ Mr. Macwhortle preached a fine sermon,
didn't he?'

Maybe he did,' she retorted. There was
a tinge of suspicion in voice and look. ' You
was brought in.'

^ And you was an' all, wasn't you ? '
questioned he. She fancied there was that in
his voice to imply that if she said she wasn't
he would not be so sure of himself.

I don't know,' she replied. ' I wished
ester I hadn't gone up. I don't know what I
shall do. I don't feel somehow as if I hed
got religion ester all. What would you do,
Ephraim, if you was me ? '

Keep going while ee did git it.'

Iphis looked at him incredulously.

No. If you felt so just now, should you
wish you hadn't gone up? '

'No.'

'Why?'

Because I shouldn't ha' gone up if you
hadn't.'

Ephraim I ' She gave a cry of horrified
surprise, but for all that was a little taken
with such devotion.

^ Then you're no more converted than I
am? ' Her eyes opened wide as she came to
this startling conviction.

I don't thmk I am,' he acknowledged.

Whatever would father and Mr. Mac-whole
say ? ' pondered she with great simplicity,
but with some secret satisfaction.
They would be horrified. Her thin voice
gave her question the character of that of a
child's. She looked into Ephraim' s face
almost breathless. But in his eyes there was
only the look an animal may have, say an intelligent
dog, in whom some comical rascality
has been seen through, and he knows you
know his depravity.

What made you think of going up,
Ephraim? Xow speak the truth,' demanded

she, with a gesture of command that was far
from haughty.

Why — I thowt I couldn't be far wrong if
I did just exactly as you did.'

He laughed wickedly, and she laughed
too. Just then Farmer Cowlamb turned his
head and caught them before the fit was over.
They became grave again.

I wouldn't ha' father and Mr. Macwhortle
know for all the world. What '11 folk think
to you, Ephraim ? '

I sell keep on. It's a dele better being
religious than not. I son that out already.
I never shook hands wi' so many folks i' my
life afore as I done to-day. Nobody bud my
father ever shook hands wi' me as I can remember.
Nobody ud ever do me a turn but
her at the farm up yonder, and they so many
barns I feel ashamed to take owt up to her.
Blamed if I don't think everybody was dead
aegean me, and I'm no worse than the rest o'
folks that I knows on.'

There had come to her a hazy impression

VOL. T. II

that after all Epliraim Sparrow was not the
innocent liobbledelioy this bearing towards
her during; their first interview had led her
to believe. He had tried to snatch a kiss.
But a woman is always attracted by a rascally
man. She is fascinated with his contempt
for beaten paths. A woman counts
much upon her power. If a rascal tells her
that under her guidance he will mend his
ways, what sacrifice is there she will not
make for him? Ephraim was placing himself
in her hands to be moulded and invested
with some social rank. He had been left to
his own devices, with no one to direct him.
There was abundant excuse for him. It
showed how frank he was, making no scruple
of avowing the impulse which moved him to
make a public exhibition of himself, all because
she had done so. But his unvarnished
statement of his friendlessness won her more
than all besides. Iphis's nature was preeminently
generous. He was a waif and
friendless, and fast sinking into a slough of

despond, crediting every one with a stony and
inaccessible heart.

^I would do yon a bit o' mending' afore
you should be bet.' She stammered and
blushed, placing herself a little further apart
from him, and looking at him from under her
parasol with modest, diffident looks. ' I — I
mended a pair o' your stockings that day you
was at the parthian's.*

Ephraim stood stock still for a moment
and did not speak. Xo, he could not speak
for surprise. Did he hear aright? Was he
dreaming? She stopped too and laughed —
not an over-confident laugh. His heart rose,
it was laden with an amount of grateful feeling
he could not find expression for ; greater he
knew than the occasion demanded, but it was
more because she had expressed herself willing
to repeat the service. He looked so serious
the laughter went out of her face. She bea'an
to be afraid that her conduct had been reprehensible.


Pshoo,' excused she, ' it was nowt.

n -2

Thou'd do as much i' thy way for me. Bud
I didn't do it for thee altogether ; I did it for
Mrs. Towse, she seemed so hard Laid on. I
an't neither sick nor sorry.'

I couldn't do as much for thee,' said he,
earnestly. ' I'd know how I'd set about it.'
There was more thought and honesty in
Ephraim from this moment. She detected
the ring.

I meant stop,' said IjdMs, looking ahead ;
thee, they're at the town end.'

^ Nay, I'll go no further.'

Well, say " Good afternoon," ' said she
with a little gesture of fond reproof

Good afternoon,' answered he, absently.

He did not move from the position in which
she left him. Ephraim was not one given to
thought ; his hands sank deep in his pockets ;
he seemed as if he could scarcely keep his
balance. So profound was his rumination, heat
last found himself in the hedge, and was
brought round by some girding thorns.

He began to realise that he was placing

himself in a position open to criticism. What
other fellow in the village had dared to look
at her ? The wheelwright's apprentice — his
father was in a two-horse farm ; the shoemaker's
— his father had promised to give him
twenty pounds to start for himself. It had only
been fun and frolic on his part, a natural sequence
after the meeting with Iphis at Towse's.
His march to the penitent form was a sudden
impulse he could now scarcely account for.
He began to think that he must be in earnest,
but felt a little alarmed at the prospect of
having to keep up the hand-shaking. He was
scarcely confident whether his profession was
strong enough to carry him through ; whether
this profession of grace went hand in hand
with courtship ; whether Farmer Cowlamb
would consider such profession privileging
him to sweetheart his daughter. Then there
were his old companions ; he rather winced — ■
he had been accustomed to retort and go
further, at any taunt or jeer. But then they
would gape to see him walking Iphis Co\vlamb

out after chapel. She had never given them
so much as a glance, they all felt at arm's
length. He set off at last in the way Iphis
Cowlamb had ozone, but she and her friends
were now well out of sight. Three roads
met and at the angle of intersection stood the
old thatched smithy where he worked. A
knot of his old companions stood there, but
they had not a word for him ; yet he fancied
they eyed him with some respect. Evidently
they had been discussing the day's doings. He
went on. He would have liked to join them,
but was scarcely determined whether consorting
with those long exhorted, but still remiss,
was consonant with his new profession.

CHAPTER 5.

CANVASSED.

The farmer had waited for This at the mter-
sectmg roads. She could tell by her father's
expression that he was not over well pleased
with her. As soon as she showed signs of
coming uj) with them he led his party on
again. But when she reached them he never
turned his head to speak to her. He did not
know what to say to her, how to couch reproof
; language with him was not a medium
for varnish; his thoughts. Had she been a
lad there would have been no difficulty. But
she was a girl, and he had never thwarted her,
never been stern with her. He had always so
impressed his boys and led them that they had
come with him to regard her as a delicate doll

to be carefully considered. Cowlamb was
thoroughly out of his depth. He felt that he
could not entrust any delicate mission to his
wife, he had long ago discerned that mother and
daughter were far from being one in sympathy ;
his wife would ' nag,' and that would perhaps
precipitate matters. Opposition Cowlamb was
shrewd enough to know was one of the worst
tactics to employ against a woman. He cogitated
whether, ignoring what had passed,
closing his eyes would not be the surer policy.
The lad would have his day and the affair
blow over. It could not have gone so very far,
but he could not forget that Ephraim was the
chap ' Iphis was talking to in the lane a week
ago. This was not reassuring.

Iphis noted her father's disturbance, not
so Mr. Macwhortle. Cowlamb was not very
attentive to his guest, the canny north countryman.
There was a nervous quiver about the
farmer's lower lip, which protruded more than
usual. It was temper. There was some
viciousness in the expression of his eyes. He

walked on eyeing things obliquely. Mr. 
was quite unconscious of any such
turmoil ; but that is not to say he had not
observed peculiarities of temperament in the
bucolic mind, and oddities in Farmer Cow-lamb.
Mr. Macwhortle reasoned to himself
that the farmer's absent mind and wandering
thoughts were but new phases, and, naturally
a bon vivant, he was looking forward to the
well-spread table, the singing of the kettle, the
fragrance of the steam from the tea cups, the
luscious cream and sparkling lump sugar.
The comforts of an assured possession of
future bliss may be a theme worthy for an
apostle to extemporise upon, but to latter-day
saints creature comforts are not contemptible
indeed, pioneers find wholesome quarters
after their toil is over. Mr. Macwhortle took
his pleasant places as natural appendices to his
apologies.

I2:)his, though not afraid, nor disconcerted
at her reception, awaited with a shade of concern
the explanation that must come after her

father's show of compressed and confined
temper. But it did not come that night.
Cowlamb's attitude puzzled wife and daughter,
and even Mr. Macwhortle. Cowlamb was
jerks, and loud, and emphatic. It at last
dawned on Mr. Macwhortle's mind that the
farmer's mind was unaccountably askew. Mr.
Macwhortle was rather crest-fallen the following
morning at the farmer's fuss and exhilaration.
It almost seemed as if Brother Cow-lamb
wished to get him off. Indeed, it was so.
It was with grim satisfaction this odd-mooted
man beheld Hosea bringing up horse and trap
to convey Mr. Macwhortle to Moortown railway
station. The women felt it a relief. They
could divest themselves of company manners
and apparel, and, untrammelled, get to their
household duties. The servant girl had
churned the butter an hour ago ; it lay in the
cold water ready for making up, yellow and
firm and sweet. There was a scent of buttermilk
in the kitchen, of triturated carrots ; the
utensils were there all ready for Iphis's hands.

and Ipliis was impatient at being so delayed.
As soon as the wheels of the trap moved on
Iphis retreated indoors, leaving her parents to
wave Mr. Macwhortle parting adieus. Then
began Iphis's attention to her business ; tucking
up her sleeves she commenced to work up
her butter. How nice she was in her judgment
of salt, how deft in her method of weighing,
working the butter into rolls, laying it in pounds
on a second board ! The patterned roller
left in relief a design not Pompeii, nor Louis
Quatorze, but a curious compound of the
vagaries of old potters and the rude talent of
a savage. Anyhow it was quite in character.
She contemplated the array for a moment with
some satisfaction, finally carrying off each
successive board into the cool dairy, there to
repose on the cold brick gentry.

When Farmer Cowlamb re-entered the
house his manner was taciturn and ungracious.
He sat by the fireside in the best
kitchen, replying monosyllabically to his
wife's platitudes on Mr. Macwhortle. She

was full of pride in having had so distinguished
a person as a guest. She was brimful
of his sayings and thoughts, of her impressions
of him, of echoes of his hon mots. What
with the depressing sameness of her voice and
the J) at of Iphis's utensils, he soon became
wearied of it all. If Cowlamb had been a
rational man he would have solaced himself
with a pipe of tobacco. But he was not a
great smoker. In his young days he had
been abstemious with luxuries. Xow he was
better off he kept a box of cigars in the house
for company, but he had not the jaunty style
of one accustomed to a Havana when he
attempted to smoke one. Cowlamb at last
remembered that he had to go ito the village
to see the wheelwright, a man who was
necessary to him, a good worker, but for
whom Cowlamb had often much sarcasm,
because he was not good like himself at early
rising.

It was a morning in August, a dense but
genial fog having risen from or settled down

upon the earth, so completely defying the
warm summer air as to give one the idea of
an October or November morning slipped in
by mistake, but eventually to succumb to the
fierce rays of an irresistible sun. A morning
that brings the corn to the ripening, and the
farmer to the conclusion that he must think of
bestirring himself, or have his corn shake in
the ear before it is cut. Farmer Cowlamb
paused to look at one of his own fields changing
to a glorious russet yellow, stalks bowed
down with heavy heads and Saying slightly
without wind. His eyes ranged further ; a
field of a neighbour's, exciting some sardonic
humour in his mind — a field of pulse crimson
with poppies, here and there though invaded
with patches of yellow, from this point of view
equally disgraceful, great lank ' fetlock.' It
had no beauty for him ; it was a crying testimony
against a slovenly farmer.

At the wheelwright's there was some conversation
beings carried on — the Wheelwright
at his chamber window, the blacksmith below.

Everything was askew this morning. There
was the skiggarcl but just rising. Early
birds had partaken of their worms already.
Cowlamb thought it was no wonder some
people found it difficult to make any headway
in the world.

'Did ye hear Peter, then?' the blacksmith
was shouting. The blacksmith, whose
surname was abbreviated to Brad and Brandy,
was seated on his haunches under the shade of
an elder tree hanging over some white palings.

Heio'h, he's a rum owt fellow,' responded
the wheelwright — who was Sear
familiarly — now visible to Cowlamb, in his
shirt.

What a mind he lies ! ' said Brad, the
blacksmith. He drew a heavy breath, overpowered
with the conviction ; ' he does Hp it
out.'

Law, how melcli it is I ' put in the wheelwright's
wife, in and out the house with her
asian, cleaning up the fireside after fire-lighting.


^ It's beautiful,' said Brad, ecstatically.

I know ; ya and Searbb wouldn't be over
hot in a brick oven she declared, irately.

^ Not if door wasn't shut,' said the incorrigible
Brad. ' Law, low ya folks lig i' bed,'
he observed, looking up at the chamber
window.

I was at work till half-past twelve,' said
Mrs. Searbb, excusing herself

^ Heigh,' criticised the blacksmith, ' some
folks never can set to to do owt by daylight,
they nun lie a lamp or a candle lit. Ya
could git up i' th' morning and do it, couldn't
ye?'

Bud I was ironing' and one can't fesscn
on work o' that sort till the barns are safe i'
bed.'

^ Bed ! heigh, bed ! Somefolks git a dele
over much on't ; nature nobbut wants five
hours, wickedness ten.'

Well, we've hed eleven offers,' declared
she, recklessly.

Oh law, yare bad, yare worse than I

took you to be. Will that sweetheart o'
thine do me this little job afore he gits his
break' as t.'

Happier the farmer would have been had
he at that moment showed himself. But he
stayed playing the part of eavesdropper. Hearing
their appreciation of Mr. Macwhortle's
labours, he had begun to feel better satisfied
with his part in the work, namely, furthering
the cause by having Mr. Macwhortle at his
house. He had almost forgotten that his
temper had been tried.

Why, Ephraim's turned religious I ' said
the blacksmith.

'D'ye think he'll stand?'

Nay, I'd know. Him and me are o' two
sides at times. He's a shy lad till he gits
used to folks, then there isn't a more mischievous.'


Well, it's to be hoped he'll keep it. Bud
they tell me he walked off wi' owt Cowlamb's
dower. St! it almost takes one's breath
away. That's a feather in his cap. That'll

the owt woman make on him? I seed him
shake hands, and wi' the owt man an' all, and
Ephraim was heart enow. Law, one would
almost think the world was comme to an
end.'

Make haste down wi' thee,' shouted the
blacksmith, somewhat nettled at the fulsome
admiration the wheel wright was exhibiting:
for Ephraim ; ' I can't be standing here all
day flattering wi' thee. Oh, here's Mester
Cowlamb,' added the blacksmith, With cheerful
humility, ' how are ye, sir? '

^ As A7ell i' health as temper,' retorted
Cowlamb, thus showing to the blacksmith
that he had heard their nonsense with but
little pleasure. ' Hasn't carpenter got his
first sleep over?' added he, sourly.

He's down, I think, Mester Cowlamb.
They be strange folks to lig i' bed.'

I wonder their eyes don't git bunged up.'

The farmer rode his white cob into the
yard among the timber, the impotent farm
implements, the chips, and other refuse. A

VOL. I. I

devious route lie had to take. He shouted
out impatiently —

^ Searbbbb ! ' and louder, ^ Searbbbb ! '

The wheel wright was heard shuffling into
his boots, his wife's voice, not in an undertone,
urging expedition. Presently he
emerged, and the farmer, twitting the somnolent
wheelwright with some asperity, broached
his business, and turned his cob's head.
Both men wished him good morning, to
which he responded most ungraciously. He
was filled with greater annoyance. Iphis's
name was already bandied about the village,
linked too, with that of a ne'er-do-weel. He
had always reckoned on his girl marrying a
young fellow with a farm and substantial
prospects. Her conduct was not likely to
enhance her chances. He did not know how
to nip the affair in the bud, but that it should
be stopped before it went further he was
determined. Before he would be beaten he
would pack her off bag and baggage to Sam's.
Then the farmer groaned. Lately he had

been much troubled in this mind about Sam.
Sam had shown sits of turning out unsteady.
Sam had quarrelled with his wife, and now
they were living apart. Sam had gone in fora
fine dashing woman. But Sam's dashing
wife had exasperated him. She was net
prepared to take things in the same way ashe
had been used to see the women of his own
family take them. She had tastes the matter-of-fact
Sam did not appreciate, his temper
culminated in some brutality — an attempt to
crush her between the door and the jamb-sand
the terrified woman sought shelter at a neighbour's
and originated scandal. Sam was
prepared to eat humble pie, beg pardon, promise
no more of such brutality. He was
humiliated when he came to himself, cursed
the drink which had excited him, her tongue
which had incensed him ; but for all that
felt himself vile. Farmer Cowlamb professed
never to believe that Sam had been so ,
Ijoth his lads had always been so good
and kind and affectionate with Iphis. Tout

Cowlamb could perceive the heavy nature lay
in both, if roused and dormant. He could
not hide it from himself now, that there had
been occasions when he had had his misgivings
about his lads. Their temper was stubborn
and fierce as his own. Now Sam was
drinking and the talk of the countryside,
Snailhorn way. Cowlamb had gone over, but
had only succeeded in checking Sam while he
remained there. Then had come to him in
some mysterious way after he had returned
home, reports that Sam had broken loose
again. Worse tales reached him, and Cow-lamb
was near on desperation. However
highly Cowlamb might regard the efficacy of
the work of such men as Mr. Macwhortle, there
was no Macwhortle who could arrest Sam, he
feared. Iphis might be his redemption, but
Cowlamb hesitated sending her there, she never
had had to contend with vice or weakness of
that shape. Sam must take his chance, if
Iphis would ou\.y behave herself at home.
Of her two brothers the younger was

Iphis's favourite. He was unmarried. She
would have gone to him gladly. It had been
discussed. She would have gone, but for her
father's heart-hunger. But Sam — Iphis had
thought very much of him, had a sisterly love
for him, but the farmer could not keep all the
evils tales from her. The mother was prone
in her * nattering ' moods to dilate on Sam's
evil courses. His housekeepers were not
immaculate, or they left him in disgust. But
if Cowlamb determined to send Iphis to Snail-horn,
Mrs. Cowlamb would as soon think
of flying as of opposing him.

So the farmer, as those who hope against
the worst, waited. If matters got no further
advanced, there was still room to hope that
Iphis would think better of her giddiness and
mend her ways.

CHAPTER 6.

POLICY.

Alas for the congregations who sat under Mr.
Macwhortle's successor! Alas for the poor
woQ^.an who called Mr. Macwhortle's successor,
son ! Her boy, who was to tread m the
footsteps of her husband, whose unpretentious
memory still upheld her, a comfort to her,
showed only too glaringly traces of the old
Adam, caring: too much for the vanities of the
world, the raiment he should wear, what he
ate, what he drank. What Mr. Macwhortle
had planted he was to water. But the young
minister was not a transcript of Paul's Apollos,
no one could believe it, rather a ' ,'
possessed with desire to emulate a
heathen character of similar name. He had

the afflatus, but his ardour and zeal could
scarcely be confined by the elders within due
bounds. He was so impetuous — he wished
to enter strongholds before carrying the outworks.
His first movement in a villa sre was
to corp-anise his congregation into a battalion
and storm it, singing through and back again
to the square, ugly chapel. Pleasant to the
ear came the hymns, sung with zest if not
with excessive harmony and concord. Resolute,
he pushed his nose the farthest forward
in the line, singing louder than any, raising
his hymn-book high, swaying it up and down
with impressive sanctimoniousness. He wore
spectacles, which quickly in invidious AYil-
lowly was set down to pride, and first gave
the cue to an outlook for other traits of
imperfections. His clothes were much too
glossy, and their cut aped too much the Establishment
— in old-world folks' eyes. Scandal
at length got busy with him. It was commonly
talked that his mother had remonstrated
with him, would no longer tolerate him

because he would not discard rings. Why did
he wear patent shoes, and walk on his tiptoes,
if he were not vain of his white stockings ?

But the young ladies of his congregation
were scarcely so severe. The neat white tie,
the spotlessness of his linen as contrasted with
their brothers' and sweethearts' rough and
tumbled dickies, made him a called darling in
their eyes, if they did sometimes irreverently
poke fun at him. Unfortunately for him they
had known him long before he entered the
ministry, long before he had even ' got '
religion. The body taking an interest in
him, his indentures of apprenticeship had
been cancelled, and he was lost to St. Crispin.
Some, more bold than nice, did not hesitate
to tease him about an old flame, cook in a
gentleman's house ; but he did not wince.

^ Yes,' said he, ' with that girl it was like
walking in paradise ; her conversation was
imbued with piety.'

If he was offended he did not show it, and
was quite ready to accompany his teaser home.

and after tea return Truth her to the square
chapeL

He preached there the first two Sundays ;
afterwards he was to take his turn with the
other ministers located at Moortown, local
brethren filling up. Criticism did not meet
him sharply at first ; people thought his
prayers beautiful, only rather long. In course
of time they palled.

Pray short, pray quick, and to the point
when people want to go home,' remonstrated
a deaf local brother not unduly irritated, but
without a thought of irreverence.

Once let a community be stirred with the
faintest whisper of disapproval, it is like a
fuse. First one shook his head without
speaking, then another shook his and was
sorrowful. So the train was laid. But no
one had heard Farmer Cowlamb's animadversions.
Every one knew what a hatred
Cowlamb had for pretentious people — dandified,
fine gentlemen, people spending their
entire income. There began to be wonder

that Cowlamb should encourage the young
man as he did. He was often at the farmhouse.
But it was not Farmer Cowlamb who
encouraged the young travelling preacher, but
Mrs. Cowlamb. If Mrs. Cowlamb was an
obedient wife, professing the sanie contempt for
fine folks as her husband as in duty bound, if
she herself had no hankering after the fleshpots
of Egypt, she was mightily impressed
and flattered if fine folks made talk or paid
court to her. She was in raptures with the
new minister, continually singing his praises
to Iphis, continually insinuating how well she
and the young man looked together walking
up the lane — her* father had said it. But
Iphis grew weary of such repetition, although
as yet she showed no aversion to walking with
him. Cowlamb chuckled. He saw his wife
playing into his hands. He said nothing.
Iphis would be distracted from that scapegrace.
Women were like a steer diverted with
a bit of red rag. If the young man got too
forward, Iphis supple, Farmer Cowlamb was

not Avitliout weiu'lit in the connexion, coming;
out liberally as he did in money and kind,
sewing' meeting's, &c. He was also alive to
the fact that other elders were already regarding
the young man gravely. A word
from him, then would come the explosion ; not
loudly, no, the young man would easily be removed
and get quiet words of counsel and
admonition at parting. So it is easily seen
that Farmer Cowlamb was not at all smitten
with the prospect of a maister for his son-in-law.


But at last Mrs. Cowlamb's iterations of
perfections to be found in the young maister
sickened Iphis. Mrs. Cowlamb had not the
discretion to stay and let a well-chosen word
work its way. As fast as she discovered
perfections Iphis found flaws ; she began to
curl her lip whenever her mother brought
forward her j)rote(j(?s name. ]airs. Cowlaml)
became more and more enraptured with mr.
Macwhortle's successor, continuing blind to
Iphis' s increasing antipathy to such a lover.

Ipliis had submitted to his attentions good-naturedly.
Her mother's eulogies were becoming
so extravagant the girl could see
plainly that nothing would please her mother
so much as accepting his suit when he offered
himself. The mother felt it was coming and
Iphis began to realise it, and was quite determined
to act decisively — to resolutely pull him
up and send him to the right-about. In
Mrs. Cowlamb's mind a minister's wife was a
notable personage, the glory of the minister
scintillatmg on his helpmeet. How they were
^ made on,' such a couple, wherever they went !
True, ministers' salaries were not large, but
then every increase was considered, and
Iphis' s father would be no churl, he would
never stand in the background, his hand on
his j)o<"'ket. Ah ! poor woman, she soared
too high, her ignoble offspring was captivated
with no dream of social dignity. She had
rather a contempt for junketing preachers
and their wives. A mild suggestion of Mrs.
Cowlamb's, that there were women who would

jump to be ministers' wives, was flouted by
IjDliis.

I wouldn't,' declared Iphis in unqualified
contradiction, ' and I wouldn't have that fini-kin
fellow that's alius a coming here. I'd
rather lev a joskin fra the plough-tail.
He would addle me a living; as a man
should. His face is like a cow's elder. Poor
creature ! '

And Iphis's nostrils expanded with disdain.


Poor Mrs. Cowlamb, she may be excused
if she was dumb for a reply; if she went afterwards
and rasped at the servant girl until the
girl's bed relieved her from her ' missis's '
nattering tongue.

Iphis's retort was more a sudden explosion.
The remembrance of it did not rankle
in her mind. After, when she thought of it,
no twinge of penitence disturbed her ; she had
but resented coercion.

Cowlamb was not slow to perceive the
marked coolness now sprung up between Iphis

and lier mother, or rather the hurt silence
maintained 'by his wife. Cowhimb believed
that his wife had overdone her part, and that
her favourite was nowhere ; he was not sorry
that it was so. He was rather proud to find
that Iphis had nothing but contempt for such
a man. He had only desired a diversion, a
suitor to banish from her mind the reprehensible
Ephraim, who continued a fervent member
of the congregation. But Mrs. Cowlamb
was too much in awe of her husband to give
him the true merits of her repulse, and Iphis
did not deem any appeal to him necessary.
Cowlamb had only to go by his own perceptions.
A walk down to ]\Ioortown one evening
with the young minister came opportunely.
The young minister was sentimental, showing
a disposition to gather in knowledge of farming.
He asked many questions on corn and
cultivation which pleased the farmer. Sometimes
his questions and remarks were silly
enough, causing Cowlamb to wonder what a
man country bred did with his eyes. Unluckily

correcting Farmer Cowlamb's nomenclature
of a tree, the minister blundered.

Hush,' said Farmer Cowlamb.

^Asli, Mr. Cowlamb, ash,' corrected Lis
companion.

'I said "liesh,"' maintained the farmer,
doggedly.

They walked on silently for some time,
until the younger man began to think that
perhaps the farmer had really taken less
offence than his tone implied. It Alas a sign
to him that he had judged correctly by the
farmer resuming conversation.

'A clever young man like you, one 'ud
think, would marry i' good time,' said the
farmer, smoothly. ' Thou wast clever enough
to tell me the name o' the tree though thou
didn't know the tree by bole or bark nor leaf ;
has t' begun to think o' marrying ? '

Clever as the young minister might be, he
jumped to the conclusion that the former descried
in him a son-in-law. He could not see
through old Cowlamb's sardonic humour —

that the farmer was bent on leading: him
out.

Well,' said the minister, his eyes bright
with hopeful feeling, prepared to accept good-naturedly
all such quaint reproof, and disposed
to make a complete breast of his sentiments,
'I for some time wished to broach such
a matter to you. I — ah — ahem — I hoped I
had made a favourable impression upon the
mind of Iphis, but I always thought the best
course for me would be to ask you first if this
was agreeable to you.'

That's right, young man,' said the
farmer, approvingly; but with an acute glitter
in his eyes the young man was not quick
enough to comprehend. ' But what does
Iphis say ? '

Well — ah, I scarcely know yet. I haven't

really asked her ; and Mrs. Cowlamb, she '

stammered the young man. 'I think she is on
my side.'

Oh, thou deep dog, thou's been at the
owt woman, then — sweethearts her a bit,

has ta ? All, well, I knoweth from the first
thou wast a pawky chap.'

Cowlamb's banter caused the young man
to blush, but yet to feel himself more and
more self-satisfied.

then, Mr. Cowlamb,' said he boldly, 'you
don't object ? '

'Object ? No, not I, if thou thinks thou's
a chance ; but stop habit, lad, I had forgot, thou
has to travel a certain time. Unless thou
thought o' giving up the preaching ? Hasta
? '

I can't say I have contemplated that.'

Well, don't my lad, stick to thy preaching
; the man that's got hold on the plough
hails 's not to look back. Ester thou's seen
Iphis we'll see about it.'

It will be some years '

It will, and she's changeable thou thinks.
But look what a while owt Jacob waited, and
then they palmed another into him. It was
a mucky trick, and if it had been this time
o' day, he'd have had to put up with her.

VOL. I. K

There's no letting 'em lia' two. I can't say I
mncli opinion o' women ; some change about,
and I known 'em stick to a fellow like
cobbler's wax.'

In two ways Cowlamb's simile struck him.
He began to chuckle : from former experience
of the ' seat ' the young fellow would know
what wax was. But if the women were so
adhesive, Iphis might still be sticking to
Ephraim. The chuckle was strangled.

Me and my first wife,' continued Cow-lamb,
without pausing, ' was a courting' for I
don't know how many years — years. We
couldn't afford to git married, 'cause there was
nobody to git us a house ready to wer hands,
and I was determined I wouldn't git married
on trust. Now, when I considered to git
married aegean, I pulled the owt woman on
my knee, and we made it up in five minutes.
She was there in the house — I think she
wanted me ; she never said " Oh ! " and thou
sees I'd everything ready then. Xow, what I
thinks, every man ought to be certain suer he

can afford it afore he gits married. It'll
maybe turn out strange and expensive ; some
folks aren't o;ood at making ends meet. But
for a fellow as goes and gets married afore
he's ready wi' means aforehand, my opinion
is, aU such it serves 'em right if they comes to
break stones on the ramper.' ^

The young man felt so very nervous after
a sermon so much more to the point than any
he had ever delivered, that he began to have
grave doubts whether Farmer Cowlamb's
permission to court his daughter was such a
grand prerogative. He even went so far as to
feel considerably doubtful whether he should
have the nerve to ask Iphis to marry him, and
wait until he was ready. Still he leaned on
the farmer.

You have been a successful man, Mr.
Cowlamb.'

^ And dost ee know the reason? Because
I alius seed my work was done afore I tliowt
o' charo-ino; ; alius rallied a think; afore I 2;ave

^ Iliglnvay, from rampart.

K 2

a price. Would ta like to hear bow I made a
start?'

The young man expressed an inclination
in polite but awkward deference. There were
points and matter-of-fact sense in Farmer
Cowlamb be had never before considered. He
had hitherto looked upon Cowlamb as a hardheaded
old flint, absorbed in farming and the
routine of his life, never looking; beyond it, or
thinking of anything else.

When I was thy age,' began Cowlamb,
I didn't look forrard to gittin' a living' without
work. And I was main careful o' my spend -
kings ; I'd nobody to stand at my back. First
time I seemed to make a mark after I got a
bit o' land was at Pardney Fair. Me and a
man called Butter Humming made it up to
go and speculate. I got all the money scraped
together I could, twenty-six pounds, and we
went wi' Butter's boss and cart. We had to
be up long afore daylight, it was back end o'
th' year, and thirty mile afore us ; it was dark
a long way on the road. When we got as far

as Linea Avoid I observed Butter pull up
summit out o' th' cart bottom, and he says
to me —

" Is thy money all right, Cowlamb? "

'1 says, "It is, my lad."

i " Where ha' ye got it? " says he.

Says I, "In my pocket, to be suer, in a
bag — twenty-six pounds."

" Mind and take care on it, Cowlamb,"
says he.

I told him he needn't be alarmed about
that, and I says to him, " Adhere's thine,
Butter? "

He stopped the owed boss and got out o'
th' cart. I thowt it was to see if the axle or
the springs was all right. Then he got in
aegean, and he says, " Aye, Cowlamb, mme's
safe as houses."

We jogged on and Butter kept that thing
in his hand he took oat o' th' cart bottom,
and I began to be curious about it, so I says
to him, " What has ta got there? "

" A pistil," he says.

I laughed at him fit to end mysen.
Why," I says to him, " thou surely ant
scar'd o' being robbed?"

^ " I don't know so much about that ; ita
lonesome owt road," says he. " Anybody
mud pop out o' that dark owt wood and rob
us."

^ I laughed at him. Butter was a timid
feller. When it was daylight I wanted bad tolet
it off, but Butter wouldn't let me. " I
wouldn't yit, Cowlamb ; you may let it off as
we come home," says he.

We got to Pardney Fair wi'out beg
robbed, and Butter, when we got out, crew
underneath the cart, and untied a bag off the
axletree, and then after a good deal of unrolling,
he pulled another little bag out of it, and
his money was tied up in that.

" Thou sees, Cowlamb, thou didn't think
o' looking their," says he, that deep. He was
a little fellow, with such a little face, and a
great high straight-brimmed hat. I can just
see him now.

•• Thou's been at a vast o' trouble," I
says, laughing aegean, '• bud now thou's got
thy money, let's be gone. Best customer's a
morning customer."

We spent wer money well. Beasts
wasn't the figure they are now. I had a
pound or two left and I thowt Butter
hed an' all, so I happened to light on a sweet
alla heifer, and I boat it. I thowt Butter
would lend me the rest, but when I came to ax
Butter, he'd nobbut thirteen shillings left, and
I was in a mess, I thowt. If it had been now
I should ha' gone to the man and told him
who I was, and how I was fixed, and taken it
away with the rest. And Butter no more
dare go ax any o' th' jobbers he knew, and I
didn't wonder — we was fresh starters and they
would ha' been glad to cut wer throats.
Butter went and drive the beasts out first,
while I sneaked the loss out o' th' stable, and
drive ofi* without looking round. I just felt as
if we'd stolen something, but we was young
and soft.

^ I would lia' the pistil when we got back
aegean to Linea Wood, an owt loss-pistil wi'
flint and steel ; it ga me a black eye ; I
thowt it had knocked me out o' th' cart. I
tell Butter he'd only to let a robber fire it off
listen to be safe fra being robbed. I rued I
missed that alla heifer ; it was a pretty un.
Butter alius comes to me when he wants owt ;
he come last week and made me a bid for
some vows. I might ha' stickled for a shilling
a-head more. We often talk about the alla
heifer, and how well we did do wi' them we
did get. I nobbut got two . black eyes in my
life ; th' tother was fighting at Rundleby
feast. Ya preach at our chapel o' Sunday
aegean ; ya nun go home with us. If ya
mean to ha' my lass ya meant flag. If I'd
nobbut stuck to the alla heifer I should ha
gotten it, but I thowt I wasn't man good
enough.'

The crafty fanner thought there were signs
that the young man saw too many difficulties
before him, was growing disheartened, and

the tendency strong in him to retire from the
field.

Yes, it is my Sunday adam. In fact I
preach in the morning too, if you look at the
plan.'

Then, I sell expect you'll go home wi'
me and have your diner with us. We sell
ha' something good, we alius lev on a Sunday.
0' Monday we sell be into liars,' murmured
the farmer with worldly satisfaction.

CHAPTER 7.

A LOVE FEAST.

There's a smell of a good taste,' said Hosea,
the waggoner, to Towse, as leaving chapel
they neared the farmhouse, Cowlamb, his wife
and daughter and the preacher some score
of yards behind them.

^ I think that'll be thy share on it, Hose,'
returned Towse, with a dry chuckle. ' Thou
sell lev a bit o' nice fat bacon.'

Xay, now, don't dishearten one. I wish
I had been a preacher,' said Hosea, pitying
his condition from the bottom of his soul ; ^ I
might ha' been made on and gone to eat at
houses and been at no cost to my sen.'

Thou'd ha' liked that,' said Towse, candidly.


I should that. And married a fine young
woman wi' rucks o' money for me to spend I
hadn't hed a hand i' addle.'

Thought turning softer said the garth-man,
frankly.

Why he'll lev her, I'll uphold it. Look
how the maister makes on him, and the missis
almost sweethearts him lessen.'

And how about the wench ? ' interposed
Towse ; ^ she doesn't matter him much, it
braids o' me.'

Why, how dost thou know, Towse ? ^

Why ? — Sad. Thou alius ud go thrust
the criss-cross row o' questioning. Why, if
I was to tell thee all I snowed or guessed at,
thy long tongue ud spread it fra one end o'
th' township to the other, and maybe git me
into some hobble or other. But I don't know
nowt, and, what's more, I don't want to know.
Father thou nor me's a chance.'

Their own dinner was awaiting them, and
there was less opportunity for a benign mentor
to correct the raw conceptions of an ingenuous

Telemachus. Domestic topics absorbed Towse
counsels, admonitions, threats. A criticism
of the morning's discourse was expected by
the wife, which never failed to gain the attention
and respect of the lads in the house.
Towse was an oracle of common sense in his
own domestic circle. He was not devoid of
a dry humour, and scarcely ever giving ways
to laughter himself, he had the reputation of
a quirks fellow.

Dinner at last was over and the table
cleared. Mrs. Towse had removed everything.
One of the children swept the floor,
another was washing up. Xo time was lost,
for every Sabbath Mrs. To^vse had her labour
of love in getting her children ready for
Sunday school. Joel required much attention
; his hair had to be brushed up to a curly
ridge after the trying operation of f ace-wash -
inof. It was as sunshine after rain when the
Sunday coat was held out temptingly for Joel
to insert his arms in the sleeves.

Towse was dozing still, not oblivious, and

the two lads regarding Joel with a sleepy
good-natured look of merest on their sleek
faces. The room contained yet the aroma of
dinner. The investiture of the proud Joel
was at last complete.

They tell me he was such an a good boy
this morning said Mrs. Towse — ' who reached
thee, Joel ? '

Ephraim ! I did as I liked, 'said Joel feeling
the advantage it was to have a friend in camp.

I'll uphold it he won't say thee nay
said Mrs. Towse, confidently. ' And,' added
she, with mental surprise, ' to think o' Ephraim
turning religious and a teacher ! He'll maybe
git to be a preacher.'

I can't see,' said Towse with half closed
eyes, ' wdiy folks can't be good wi'out giving it
out they're religious. A lot o' chaps has to signa
pledge afore they can gie over gittin' drunk.
AYhy, laws-aime, I could alius make it up in
my mind to be teetotal wi'out writing my
name and gittin a bit o' tin or card.'

Aye, bud,' said Uvs. Towse, ' they hadn't
all like thou, Towse.'

^ Some better and some loss,' said he.
Here's a many on us bound to be bread
and butter saints. There was a dele o'
Catholics about where my father came fra.
He used to call 'em that to hissed, 'cause he
could remember their father s being Protestants
till they'd a chance of a good farm under
a Catholic landlord, and their barns turned
out ranker than the regular sort — bosses and
cows hed to be Catholic an' all added he
caustically.

Ye see,' said one of the men, with utterance
so painfully slow and voice as husky and
indistinct, ' they put summits in the beer. I
seen chaps as nobbut had a quart so far gone
they couldn't see thrust the rungs of a see.'
Evidently Eli's faculties had only followed
Towse as far as the abstinence question. So
Towse cried back.

It caps me,' said Towse, ' the many names
they lev for a man being drunk, as if saying
'' drunk " was as bad as ripping and swearing.
One says he's tight, and another says he's

on thelowse. Same as when a man's money's
getting low they say he's hard up.'

Now then, Joel,' said Mrs. Towse, briskly,
show Hoseyy how tine thou art.'

Joel eagerly crossed the floor. Hosea,
who often teased, was still a great favourite
of Joel's.

Bendigo ! ' cried Hosea.

Joel put out his tiny fists, and these
coming in contact with Hosea's unresisting
body, Joel came to grief unexpectedly.

*Fellow,' said Eli a little brisker, ' thought
do^TL at thy awn stroke.'

Hosea bent over and uplifted the prostrate
Joel with one powerful hand.

'Dang it ! I do believe he's broken a
brick ; what a weighty chap it is,' said Hosea,
affecting amaze.

Naughty,' said Mrs. Towse reprovingly ;
no Bendigo o' Sundays for suer.'

Mother,' cried a voice from above,
Rachel's a hitting me ! '

Ha done, or I nun bring the strap to ye

both. Come you cloTrn, you bad tells. Xow,
Joel is a good boy.'

Presently two of the elder children
emerged from the stairs, having dressed
themselves, but coming to the mother for a
finishing; touch. That given, Joel, nothing
loth, left his friends to accompany them.
Mrs. Towse at last had to go upstairs and
rout others. Then, when all were despatched,
she sat down opposite her husband.

It is a good thing there is Sunday school
said she, with a sigh of relief. *

There was nowt o' the sort when I was
a lad,' said Towse.

Ah, dear, I'd know how poor mothers
did wi' their torn-down barns,' mused his
wife.

A light step outside Mrs. Towse at once
recognised.

It's Iphis,' said she, uplifting a finger.

An' left the preacher ? ' queried Towse,
hypocritically.

Heigh,' said Mrs. Towse hurriedly, but

with an inflection of impatience at her husband's
thinly veiled humour, her nose curled
in contempt or non appreciation of preachers.
Hush ! ' admonished she."

Eli and Hosea had smiles on their fat
faces, smiles of menservants and sat back
silently as if attitudes statuesque were the sine
qua non of respect and humility before betters.
They were all ears, however, when Iphis had
entered, and their round eyes never for a
moment left her face.

^ Begin harvesting' tomorrow then, Iphis ? '
said Mrs. Towse.

Yis,' she returned without interest.

Dead ripe some on it. I wanted to start
o' Saturday. It's got fitter this last two
days, they been so welch. But tli' maister
knows best,' said Towse dutifully, waking up.

Can't ye sit down ? ' asked Mrs. Towse,
persuasively.

Heigh, sit down ; it's as cheap sitting as
standing,' echoed Towse.

A look from Mrs. Towse was understood

VOL. I. L

by Eli and Hosea. They rose to their feet,
and, taking prodigious strides, left the kitchen.

'Tint wise to let chaps hear everything,'
said Mrs. Towse, affecting mystery ; ^ that's
the worst o' not having one's house to one's
sen. Bud, poor chaps, they nun ha' shelter.'

A bit o' out doors went hurt 'em,'
murmured Towse ; ' I'm sure it's better than
being cooped up inside. I'm sitting ageanthe
fire, but we're letting it go out.'

^ Thou's left th' young minister ? ' said
Mrs. Towse.

Iphis moved impatiently in her chair.

^ Hes he groan to th' school ? '

He hadn't when I left. I got away. I
thowt he'd want me to go wi' him.'

^ Thou doesn't care about being bothered
wi' a pack of barns ? '

I don't care about being; bothered wi'
him. It is my Sunday an' all ; I sell maybe
go down when I think he's nicely on the way.
I can git there afore him, by going across th'
top o' th' wheat close.'

Thou hadn't partial to him then ? ' said
Mrs. Towse.

I hadn't, I think. I don't know what
they want wi' him so much at om' house. I
been tired on him along while ; I sell tell him
so soon. They'll ask him to bring his box
next.'

What tales they do get up ! ' said Mrs.
Towse with a nod of her head implying more.

Who gets 'em up ? I never would lev

him, I'd ha' Eli sooner, as is nobbut a

lad, or soft Hoseyy. It's all mother ; she's
crazed o' preachers and ud give 'em the best
i' the house, the best she hed, if she'd to go
beofirhis: for the next.'

A fine takin' she's in,' said Mrs. Towse
to her husband, as, shading her eyes, the goodwife
watched the girl's fine figure sweep
across the short clover, lier head and shoulders
only to be seen as she made her way swiftly
down the long corn-field, a golden fringe on
either side of her, a stunted hedge hidden
from view by taller corn-stalks.

There was to be a love feast at the chapel
that afternoon. Iphis was hurrying on to
marshal her class into the square Zion.
Towse intended following with his wife.
Sunday school commenced at two o'clock,
the love feast at three. Iphis passed Hosea
and Eli idly sauntering thitherward, each
breaking the stem of a flower into bits as they
slowly pursued their way.

Looking' behind her when she reached the
road, Iphis beheld three figures. She was
some distance ahead of them, but she knew
them to be her parents and the young
preacher, and her temper did not become
more equable. Some explanation, perhaps,
would be expected of her for taking herself
off so unceremoniously. She was in a proper
frame of mind to do anything perverse, to
even ffo against will or wishes.

Farmer Cowlamb, looking forward, also
recognised her, and to the young man by
whose side he was watkins: he said —

Why, yon's our Iphis afore us.'

She went on to the garthman's/ whined
Mrs. Cowlamb. ' She's strangely taken np
wi' 'em ; alius m and out.'

Ah,' commented the farmer to the young
man in an undertone, • she's gen thee th' slip.
Thou nun look ester her. You'll lose her
else, like I did the alla heifer, if ta doesn't be
determined.'

The suitor did not answer him. He felt
his difficulty ; he already despaired of winning
this wilful girl, of securing himself from the
wind's blast and the stomach's needs. He
was not to "be pitied ; it was no genuine love
prompting him, rather conceit, and the conviction
that it would scarcely be possible for
him to marry better. Nevertheless he felt
piqued and humbled. Cowlamb had already
divined his wife's protege had not the ghost
of a chance, and with perversity and malice
urged the young man on to greater efforts.

Follow 'em up now, then let 'em follow
you up.'

But Cowlamb waxed less aud less urgent ;

he began to divine that IpMs goaded might
make the leap he wished to avert, be determined
to hold out for Ephraim Sparrow and
none other.

The children were trooping out of the
schoolroom into the chapel as they arrived.
Iphis looked flurried and hot, as though she
had scarcely recovered from the effects of her
hurry. She pretended to be unconscious of
her parents' eyes, but gave the young mana
quick scornful glance, in which was also
repugnance if not hatred, and shot as if she
wished him to comprehend as much. The
young preacher started with a dim fear. He
believed he must have unwittingly wounded
the girl. Then he realised the moment after
that his suit was ended. He was possessed with
some shame ; the girl read his sordid motives,
and she had a contempt for his shallowness.
Nothing is more humiliating than to have
it brought home to one that one's fancied
cleverness and superiority is a sham, and that
we have furnished food for a grin and mockery.

iU

That look meant that she would have him
understand he was never the lover for lier,
nor any man who went creeping up the old
folks' sleeves first. It was a horrible afternoon
for him. All along he had been buoyed
up in spite of doubts. He had recovered
himself after the first shock after hearing the
story of Pardney Fair. He was naturally a
cock-sure person, fancying himself above the
ordinary run of mortals, a more stylish personage
than the ordinary run of Nonconformist
ministers. The prize was beyond
him, after having, as he had fancied, made
everything leading up to it secure.

His eyes unconsciously travelled up to
the singing loft, for he had not yet occupied
the pulpit. A ruddy fellow was sitting there
alone, with a grave and serious expression on
his face, waiting for others to join him.
Eventually Iphis Cowlamb went up there
too.

The chapel filled, Hosea and Eli and the
Towses came up. Hosea and Eli, with a

hankering after the square slices of seed-bread
bread flavoured with carrara — Which
would shortly be handed round on willow-pattern
plates, the water, in blue and white
pint-mugs, having to partakers a taste somehow
different, as if the occasion sanctified it.
But every one knew that it was Willowby well
water.

The preacher took his place m the pulpit,
and gave out two lines of the hymn : —

Father, supply my every need ;
Sustain the life Thyself hast given.

He could hear Iphis's voice behind him
distractingly clear. Hosea's mouth and also
Eli's watered when he gave the concluding-lines
of the verse, the singers stopping in the
middle of the tune with abrupt precision : —

Call for the never-failing bread,

The manna that comes down from Heaven.

The preacher did not sing himself, but,
holding the hymn-book in his hand, waited
attentively. Succeeding two lines were given.
He could not resist turnings to look behind

him, and Ipliis Cowlamb detected him, although
from the direction in which her eyes
were really straying, he discerned they were
resting on the ruddy face of the youth who
had been sitting so quietly and patiently in
his appointed place when he with Co^iamb
and his wife entered the chapel. He withdrew
his glance and read : —

Let me no more iii deep complaint,
My leanness, O my leanness, cry.

With his thoughts it \^'as not comfortable
readings out such lines. Even the concluding;
ones to this mind breathed but cold comfort
:—

But my full soul shall still require
A whole eternity of love.

Perhaps not many people give a high
standard to the poesy of the "Wesley, but it
must be admitted that it breathes a pure and
true feeling. People's minds go straying
even under the best of preachers, and without
so much irreverence as one is asked to credit.
The minister applied every line where it could

have an application. Perhaps his mortification
was to be for him a wholesome lesson.
Even leaders in religion have their sensibilities,
their humanity, their errors ; it is only
the weak-minded in Establishment or Dissent
who look upon their pastor as without spot or
blemish. Xo doubt things carnal possess the
mind of a preacher when mounted high above
his flock expounding things spiritual. The
vicar sees a head, and is embittered ; he cannot
help thinking of his trumpery tithe. The
minister has got into hot water with some
cantankerous but influential member of his
flock ; he sees the sour face regarding him,
and all his fervour seems to him empty and
powerless. The young minister was miserable
now, because he felt that the rejected ones
in a love suit generally have the laugh against
them. He felt that he had been made a fool
of, that the time was coming when he would
be a subject for mirth. Every one, he believed,
had seen him the self-confident lover of Iphis
Colambre

minister was at his worst this afternoon.
It had been remarked that Mr. Mac-whole's
fire, like Elijah's mantle, seemed to
have descended upon his successor. There
came the supplication after the hymn, but the
minister's heart was not in it. To himself
it was a sickening jargon of repetition, to
which the amiens and hallelujahs and other
antistrophe of the congregation were encouraging,
because they were more fervent and
honest. He felt lukewarm, wounded pride
more than wounded love in his heart.

It was but a short service, consequently
soon over. During the closing supplication
an elderly man among the singers passed his
hymn-book in which he had written with
some effort : — ' The singers is last to stay at
the end of the servis.'

It was only to practise a tune over for the
evening. Often the singers stayed behind,
regarding the odd half-hour so spent with
some pleasure. Every face was grave as if
impressed with the importance of the message.

But as soon as the preacher concluded
the service it seemed the signal for disorder.

The same elderly man who had passed on
his hymn-book now held in his hand one of
the willow-pattern plates, upon which remained
a solitary square of bread. Many
eyes regarded it. But quick as thought it
was snatched by Ephraim Sparrow, and
nearly the whole of the crumb bitten out at one
bite. A laugh came from Iphis Cowlamb,
enjoying the discomfiture of the others. In
spite of the elderly man's grave gesture, the
disorderliness became general.

Cowlamb had beheld Ephraim Sparrow
up aloft. Had seen Master Ephraim eating
his seed-bread with the sanctimoniousness of
a long-professing member. The farmer was
convinced in his own mind that this Sparrow
was an arrant young hypocrite, as well as a
specious and audacious rascal. He would
have felt much more comfortable with this
blacksmith's lad in the body of the chapel.
Who had requested him to become a singer ?

What did lie know about siiioinii: ? He
would like to find out the zany whose officiousness
had been so prominent as to ask
such a scoundrel to sit up there.

To Cowlamb everything went contrary.

He waited for Iphis outside the chapel
gates. An old member, surmising the reason
why he lingered, acquainted him that the
singers were stopping to practise.

I've a good mid to wait on her,' thought
the farmer, and he looked his thoughts to
the young minister, adding, warnings
You'll ha' to look ester her ? '

Shall I go back and wait for her ? '
suggested the young man.

Well, if I was thou I should,' said Cow-lamb,
rasping. ' Thou oughtn't to wait o'
me telling thee what thou should'st do, Lord
bless my soul ! '

Farmer Cowlamb did not consider his
ejaculation infra dig, for a Christian. He
would have argued otherwise.

The young man went back, clonib the

narrow staircase. As his head emerged he
beheld a curious sight — Miss Cowlamb most
undignified struggling with the ruddy-faced
fellow for the possession of a crust of bread
he was endeavouring to bite, Miss Cowlamb
endeavouring to prevent him, all the others
laughing. He tried to laugh, but it was nota
laugh — his smile even was a sickly one.
But they all began to say in meek propitiation
—

It's Mister Systrick ! '

You are having a little fun,' commented
he, endeavouring to be smooth. He could
tell the way their thoughts went — that he
was a third wheel to the cart, that he would
have been much better away, thus coming
to repress all mirth. He met all their faces
with an effort, but Iphis Cowlamb's was the
worst to meet of them all ; in the bloom
suddenly raised there was vexation, defiance,
contempt. She still stood by Ephraim, his
wrist relinquished. And the ruddy-faced
fellow was as imperturbable as a statue, his

face, though, evidently plastic to the mirth
or gravity of Iphis Cowlamb's mood.

They all made way with some respect for
the minister when they saw it was his intention
to speak to Iphis. The elderly man at
the first blush was framing an excuse for
them all, scoring to youth the defection from
continence.

^ Mr. Cowlamb asked me if I would stay
to accompany you home ' — Mr. Cowlamb had
really not gone so far as to ask him that —
will it be agreeable to you ? '

Xo ! ' returned Iphis, bluntly. ' I can
find my road home by mysen, thank you. I
have done oifens.'

Then she turned her back upon him, as
if she sought approval from the ruddy face
she now hid from him. She still held the
fellow's wrist.

The young minister whispered with some
entreaty —

Your father desired me Miss Cow-lamb
'

Did lie ? ' muttered she sarcastically.
Oh, you needn't wait, Mr. Systrick ; you
can go.' Then she changed her voice, and in
an undertone of sulky recklessness she whispered,
' And you'll go tell him. Well, you
may. I don't care what you tell him — there.'

She looked to Ephraim as if looking somewhere
for an ally ; but Ephraim' s face was
opaque. Only in the eyes shone a twinkle.
She found it there after a little delay, and
something of the sympathy she sought. A
word from her and Ephraim' s religion would
have gone to the winds ; the pertinent young
minister, long and likely as he was, a mark
for Ephr aim's prowess.

But no thought of such violence entered
Iphis's mind. She only T\dshed her favoured
suitor to declare with his eyes he was with
her through thick and thin.

Oh, no ; I shouldn't think of such a
thing,* said the young preacher, crestfallen,
but with pride. ' I must catch up Mr. Cow-lamb,
I suppose.'

They needn't wait o' me, tell 'em — tea, I
mean.'

Epliraim who heard her, and one or two
others, were reminded in her voice and temper
insensibly of the farmer. She brooked no
temporising. Even Ephraim felt a little
startled. The young minister needed no
other dismissal.

Once out on the road, he hurried along
swiftly to overtake the farmer and his wife.
Cowlamb saw him coming, and he stopped in
his slow walk and waited for him. Mr. Sys-trick
quickened his pace almost into a run.

^ Now, then ? ' interrogated the farmer,
eyeing him critically. The young man had
a jaunty carriage, holding his head high, to
Cowlamb his manner suggestive of a small
wit. Indeed, the preacher felt there was
more conceit in his gait than there ought to
be under the circumstances. ' Now, then,'
repeated Cowlamb, spitefully, ' went she lia'
thee? '

She will come alone; alone'

VOL. I. M

'And she didn't thank thee for offering
thysen? ' twitted Cowlamb. ' And thou took
her at her word. Lord ! when thou's lived as
long as me you'll larn better nor that. If
she'd said '' Go " to me, ever so ridgy, I
should ha' stopped as solid as a judge.'

But you are her father.'

Heigh, but if I was thou, I mean,' said
Cowlamb, impatiently ; ' thou comes to me
and tells me thou wants her, and then thou
can't look ester her. Everybody's seen what's
been going on ; thou's making a fool o' me,
and that I can't bear.'

And Cowlamb affected force and indignation.
He was vexed with Iphis, and he
vented his ire on her rejected swain.

But the young man had a faint suspicion
that Cowlamb had been using him, was now
laughing at him, though full of displeasure.
Cowlamb plodded on silently, a pace or two
in advance of his wife, and the minister was
fain to walk on undignified behind, neither
in a line with Mrs. Cowlamb nor well behind

her. He felt like a whipped boy, his influence
with her waning, for she was much less
gracious. He began to wish he had never
returned to the familiar town and so kept clear
of this ill-starred village. Xo man was ever
a prophet in his own country. He had fancied
the hearty welcome he would receive in the
town where he was bred, had counted upon
the social courtesy he would receive — the distinction
which comes to a man who has done
credit to the spot which should be dear as
familiar to him. The crafty farmer, unchris-
manlike, had a little satisfaction in the thought
that he was having a little revenge. The
preacher must feel himself a little humiliated.
Still Cowlamb was mortified ; lie had meant
to use this dandified preacher as a foil to
Ephraim Sparrow, but the ' poor creature '
had not enough in him. Cowlamb was not a
little content that this young man was not
her fancy. He felt that if there had been a
sign of the preacher's suit growing into anything
he would soon have been up in arms.

ii 2

Teaching the farmhouse, Cowlamb went
upstairs, leaving the minister to himself.
There Cowlamb waited patiently, his glass at
his eye, or close at his elbow upon the chest
of drawers. The young man below, as uncomfortable
as he well could be, eaten up with
his own thoughts and his discomfiture. He
had not even Mrs. Cowlamb to talk to, and,
even if he had had her company, he felt that
the uneasiness he had learned from older men
of his cloth, of class, of district meetings, the
cause, and other topics, would have fallen flat.
Mrs. Cowlamb was in no amiable mood,
although her face was smooth as her manner
to him was polite. She was not so unjust as to
hold the young man responsible for Iphis's wilfulness,
or for the servant-girl, a laggard, listening'
to the soft nothings of her swain, merino;
the after-clap ; but it was trying to the best
of tempers having to get tea ready single-handed.
She came in and out the room with
the tablecloth and her tea-service. On no
account would she have suffered a blundering

lass to touch her sacred china or her glassware
— even Iphis with some fear and trembling
; but she had had to make the fire up,
which was low. All these little things affected
her, and her manner to the preacher was icy
or distraught. Once she had to set her sugar
bowl down hurriedly and hasten back into the
kitchen, the kettle boiling over, to the prospective
sullying of her polished grate and
fire-irons and spotless hearthstone. The
minister worried her too with putting in his
sentences edgeways, as if he felt himself bound
to say something. But it was the way of
inconsiderate young men. Why couldn't he
sit quiet and take up the ' Recorder ? ' — What
was Cowlamb doing upstairs ? But she had no
time to go and see, only to shout at the stairs
foot, ^ Maister ! Maister ! you might come down
and sit with Mester Systrick.' ' Heigh !
heigh ! heigh ! ' replied her husband carelessly.


The preacher realised that his reign was
over, and that henceforth he would be received

only on sufferance. Cowlamb judged that he
had something' else to do but sit T^ith Mr.

o

Systrick. The preacher was scarcely worth
his salt now in Farmer Cowlamb's estimation.
Hospitality henceforward was to be a most
ceremonious affair for this poor travelling
preacher.

The farmer was looking over his fields,
over the waving vrheat, the nodding barley,
the tremulous oats, green and heavy and rank
yet, unto the winding road. Xow and again
he raised his glass and took a wide range.
A few pedestrians were walking along laboriously,
elderly and zealous brethren from the
town so near the extremity of the village.
They had been delayed interchanging courtesies,
or sitting for a few minutes in a brother's
or sister's house, engrossed with the cause
and their own growth in grace. Some were
honest, some specious. But no Iphis as yet.
He would know her among a thousand, the
fine lithe fio-ure of which he had Ions; been so
proud, the firmly poised head on the even

shoulders. Her springy walk he believed had
scarcely its equal, in repose there was in her
carriage a suggestion of unconscious grace
and reserved force.

Taking the glass from his eye he waited a
minute or two.

Mester ! ' shouted Mrs. Cowlamb, ' are we
to make a start or wait on her ? I've mashed
the tea.'

Wait ! ' shouted Cowlamb back again,
frothy laconic.

He swept the road. Yes, there she was
coming along decorously enough — some one
with her. Ah, sure, it was that confounded
lad again ! But they came along soberly
enough. He felt exasperated to find that she
was taller than her companion.

Who'd ha' thowt she'd taken up wi' such
a shortened creature,' muttered he, his mind
returning to the preacher below, who was tall
and well built, if he had a pasty, sallow face.
How she turned her head to her companion ;
she was much too liberal of her favours, Cow-lamb

thought, where she would bestow them.
The pair reached the lane end ; they seemed
as if they were about to part. What was the
soft lass's megrim ? She stretched out both
her arms and touched him with her fingertips,
as if pushing him away bantering. It
was will-hee nill-he work, the farmer thought,
with a sardonic grin. It was she, he thought
with some indignation, who was doing all the
courting.

^ I'll sweetheart her,' muttered the farmer,
without any definite idea of how he would
carry out his threat, for threat it was.

Cowlamb's eye never left them. The lad
evidently was gaining courage, he caught the
fingers in his hard hands, held them fast, she
struggling to fi-ee them. He as suddenly
relinquished them, had his arms around
her. Cowlamb gasped with rage and excitement.
She turned her face away, but the
lad was not to be baulked or turned aside.
It was a rough scramble, but he at last was
successful in accomplishing his object. He

had kissed her, and she was as suddenly let

Cowlamb's exasperation was boundless.
The hussy, well might she hang her head !
Then, it could only have been fancy, only a
north-east breeze was blowing, and his window
was partially open, but he fancied he could
hear her laughter. Xo, there was not a jot of
evidence to show that she had resented this
freedom. They did not separate. Up the
lane they came, he with his arm around her
waist, her head near upon his ; it could not
rest very well on his shoulder, for she was
fully as high as he.

The farmer would have liked to complete
the discomfiture of the swain below, but his
pride went against such an exhibition of his
daughter's disgraceful conduct. Iphis should
laugh and dance to a tune of his piping, not
to a wild extravaganza of her own, or he
would bury her alive somewhere — at Sam's.
There, at Snailhorn, she would be well out of
the way.

He would talk to lier ; it was of no use
letting this thing go on any longer. If only
the miserable cnr below was out of the house,
she would have his meaning at once. Only if
he went out to meet her and stormed at her,
she would make it too apparent when she
came in that there had been fracas between
them, and he did not wish things to look at
their worst before their guest. But he would
stop at home from chapel and have Iphis to
himself, if only for an hour. It had gone far
enough. He would go to the blacksmith and
threaten him with the loss of his work if he
did not talk to and discourage his apprentice,
and show him his unparalleled effrontery.
And if Ephraim still continued stiff the blacksmith
must be as peremptory : give him a
hard time of it, so that the lad should take
himself off gladly. If he once ran away,
Cowlamb thought, he would never dare show
his face in Willowby again. If every other
action failed, then Ipliis must be packed off
to her brothers.

Poor Ipliis ! she came in singing, joyous asa
lark, proud and conscious of her Sunday
bravery. But her song ceased when she saw
her father's soured visage and his condemning*
eyes. He went into the room without a
word to her. She, as soon as she had
divested herself of hat and jacket, which she
laid neatly on a table in the kitchen, followed
him rebelliously, although scarcely realising
why she should be out-of-the-way rebellious.
It was not a crime refusing: to allow Mr.
Systrick to wait for her. Pier father, if he
was cross, must get pleased again. She was
not going to show anything but scant favour
to the man who she surmised was now in the
house. Iphis carried her head jauntily. Her
stern old father had never crossed her in his
life but he had come to, and always with
some sign or token of fondness. He would
come to in this. Maybe he had seen Ephraim
leave her at the gate. She wasn't going to
marry Ephraim straight off. She thought he
would court her until he was loose, then her

father would give in when he saw there was
no help for it. Only a few weeks had elapsed
since her first rencontre with Ephraim, although
she had regarded him with interest
previously ; but she realised how rapidly love
assimilates, conquers, and overthrows ; what
a persistent foe it is to fight ; what an un-diplomatic
factor it is in human destinies.

CHAPTER 8.

HARVEST.

God smiles upon ns in the bountiful harvest.
A tropical sun, a prodigal cornucopia. No
other month of the year so profuse, so rich in
its gifts. At one time an intensely bright
moon shone upon high-piled pains, patient
horses, labouring husbandmen. But now the
work is done so quickly, the seed sown so
much earlier, the true harvest moon comes
in too late. Better drainage has forwarded
the ripening, improved the soil, and made it
less cold and backward.

Into the towns of this fine farming
county came bodies of immigrants, upon
their shoulders scythes' and gathering rakes,
their countenances eacrer and earnest, their

gestures and their tongue uncouth and barbarous
to those native to the soil. A full
measure of contempt and dislike these poor
foreign toilers had to contend with. To the
English labourer the ways of the Irish, their
cooking, the way they slept — in sacks in the
farmer's barn, or in a stable — their religion
and their observances were repulsive, outlandish,
and hoggish.

Talking' such muck ! ' the English labourer
growled, hearing them converse together. To
him it was irritating. What might they not
be saying about him?

The English labourers worked aloof The
farmer himself counted the immigrants slippery.
Perhaps they were, and only to be
dealt with at piece-work. But they toiled
hard on scanty or coarse fare, walked mile
upon mile sweeping the plains, then ascended
the wolds where corn was later ripening.

Farmer Cowlamb had his complement of
Irish here as at Snailhorn. They would
come, the same Irish, for a couple of years or

longer, then they would be forestalled by
another party, the consequent dispute to be
settled with fighting, the aggrieved party
departing with deep curses and maledictions
on their lips, sending malevolent glances
behind them. The English labourers beheld
these skirmishes with some satisfaction; it
was all one to them which side got the worst,
they would have been equally stolid had both
factions been annihilated.

Sometimes a pitiful farm maid-servant or
labourer's wife would cook them their bacon
after some Paddy, glib and better-looking
than his fellows, had appealed to woman's
tender nature. This and bread was their
staple food ; one or two days a week they
had a feast of vegetables. Sometimes after
the day's work was over a parley would beheld
between the two nationalities — a no-man's
land between them — the Irish feeling
themselves on sufferance, uttering vociferous
blarney, accepting humbly the Englishmen's
implied superiority, their dull wit and sarcasm.

They were savages for whom there
was only one or two months' use in the year.
Sometimes an Irishman ingratiated himself on
a farm and stayed behind, becoming a factotum
in the reward and about the stables, cutting
straw for the horses, getting in hay and
other fodder, crushing corn, doing work an
English labourer would consider of no particular
quality. Tim or Michael would bethe
butt of those native born, but the Irishman
would hold his own. His tongue would
curry favour, he would accept his position
with great good humour, telling stories of
the ways of * ould Ireland ' with much naive
drollery. In time he would begin to be considered
not only an useful adjunct on the
farm, but a jester who was invaluable for
keeping all other workers cheerful.

From Moortown Cowlamb's few Irishmen
came up on the Sunday night, received their
sacks, and took to their quarters, and the first
bottle ' day of the week, though so early the
sun had not risen, every man was setting out,

eager to commence the most important function
of the year — ' harvest.'

They gathered in small knots before
getting out of the old seeds close, waiting
for the farmer. Every available man was
there. The parthian left his sheep and the
cows, the steers had long been sent to Cow-lamb's
marsh-feeding land twenty miles away.
Towse's eldest boy remained in charge of the
farm buildings, sith Iphis in authority over
him, parthian to give odd minutes when he
could, and start the boy fair, so that all
should go well. Hosea and Eli yoked a pair of
horses to the reaper, and an extra man or two
came out of the village. Mowing round for the
reaper — that innovation which has carried the
day and brought hand-labour to a minimum
was let to the Irish. Soon the jar of the
machine was heard, and men, women, and
children were busily occupied following it,
the women raking or o:atherin<T, the children
making bands, the men gathering and tying.
Towse's wife was the only helpmeet who did

VOL. I. N

not go with lier husband ; she had enough todo
at home.

By an ordinary breakfast hour some portion
of the great field was cut, and sheaves
lay irregularly in the wake of the reaper.
Perhaps an odd stook would be raised, but
under its arch a scarlet-hooded infant lay
ensconced on a shawl or petticoat, with a
luncheon basket and a stone jug to keep it
company. At intervals the mother would
seek the stook, fondly call to the infant, and
the infant Avould crow to her or cry out plaintively
for the breast. But the exigencies of
the day forbade her lingering. After hurried
caresses the toiling' mother had to lay down
her babe again, and follow wearily until the
setting of the sun and after.

In the middle of the morn each man
straightened himself and gathered breath, and
sought the basket and the jug. stow, there
was a moment or two for gossip. The Irishmen
were mowing; out a corner where the
wheat was ' laid.' The men turned, surveying

with an ill eye the Irish, who gave themselves
no rest. These people, uncanny in
their language, had uncanny ways, seeking to
curry favour with so much zeal.

A labourer from the village wiped the
sweat off his brow.

'We sell ha' to work a bit harder, my
lads, shop things is dearer, so my missis here
says. Time o' th' year one doesn't want to
lev a light to go to bed wi', thank the
Almighty, still one doesn't like to be weout
a bit o' candle i' th' house when one les a
houseful o' barns, owt happening' i' th' dark.
An' they're dearer. They said at the shop
tallow was up.'

'They's going' to be war — I'll u2:>hold it,'
said a woman. ' When I was a been, iv'ry-thing
got that dear, there was a war on somewhere,
and for six weeks we'd nowt greasy i'
th' house barren' a tallow candle, and that we
couldn't lessen on nohow thoff wer minds
were good enow.'

Heigh, I remember that time. Caroline.

I remember seen' my father wi' this crust o'
rye bread. He was sought', be nobbut got
a day or two in a week — i' back end it was.
He said he never hed bed to live o' dry bread,
and be never would, so be s walled it about i'
til' ditch water.'

^ 'Tis all true for martin.'

^ Them was bad times.'

I think when things a poor man eats gits
up, corn and shop things, it's martin the headmen's
fallen out.'

Well,' put in Towse soothingly, ' one can
do wi'out candles this time o' year.'

Why,' said Hosea, in simple amazement,
' are they going' to weight by candlelight
? '

Law, I'd know, like as not. They can't
kill anew by daylight, and maybe days is
short there. They do say when they're long
here they're short somewhere and t'one'r way
on. 'Here's nobbut so much light for the
whole world, and it les to be shared out. I'
summer we gittin' more than wer share, so i'

winter we lies to do wi' less. Ya can't burn
a candle at both ends.'

As the wiseacre of the neighbourhood,
there was no one bold enough to contradict
him. Caroline, as if immersed in thought,
said gravely —

We sell ha' to mind and make both ends
meet.'

But Caroline was the last person in the
world to rise up as oracle. She did not gain
wisdom by bitter experience. Herself and
liege lord were notoriously improvident, living
royally the fore end of the week ; on
short commons the remaining days. Treacle
and bread is not invigorating; food for outdoor
work, toiling hard ; but she and her
brood had the good sustenance of opening
days to think of. To the thriftier ones Caroline's
conduct was a puzzle. It is a delicate
subject speaking to any one for their good, but
if a word was said to her she treated it with
perfect good humour, cavalierly acknowledging
that she was one of the incorrigible sort.

Moreover, Caroline could detect her own
faults without outside assistance, but the
mischief was, she never commenced her own
reformation.

*Now, if 'twas fighting' by fists,' said the
wiseacre from Willowby, ' I think we should
maister all comers. We've had some good
fighters hereabout, lout they gotten out o'
practice, 'isn't so much o' th' go as it used to
be. If a fellow starts fighting' he's " drunk
and disorderly," and he's soon walked away
and locked up. Thou won't know owt
Adam Baxter, Towse. '' I can weight, I'm a
relation o' Fireman's," he used to swagger
when he was hase drunk, and he hed as
pretty a little lass as ever a man's mouth
watered after, and smart and nimble, and
they used to call her " Fireman's pretty little
lass." '

Owt Bess Constable,' said Caroline, contemptuously.


Maybe she is nowt to look at now,' said
the male gossip, warmly ; ' bud if I'd nobbut

lia' clapt love to lier ear, I shouldn't lia' Led
any occasion to go violin' to the end o' my
days. She saved a thousand pounds out o'
dress-making and shopkeeping. She'd saved
a hundred o-olden sovereigns afore she left
home, 'cause her father found her i' clothes
and vittles ; and she used to keep her money
i' little heaps in her box bottom — and it's the
Bible truth, lier brother tell me with his own
lips, that once when he was hard up, he took
a pound oft' every heap, and she never son
him out.'

And what good did all her money do
her ? ' inquired Caroline, hotly. ' They
reckon she never let her man lev a new suit
o' clothes fra the day he married her to the
day he deed. She killed him wi' hard work
an' empty belly. What good did all her
money do her, I want to know ? '

Kep her off th' parish, (Caroline,' said
her antagonist with keen emphasis.

Well, I been on the parish, and I s'U goon
again,' said Caroline, recklessly. ' And if

there's going' to be a war, we sll be on the
parish maybe sooner.'

They hadn't going' to weight,' said Towse,
to quiet the storm. ' My missis les a nephy
that's Ephraim's brother — and he's some
sort of a soldier ; but he's on a ship on water.
And he's coming' over here to our house : he's
no sort of a home.'

Oh,' said the man of the village, ' he'll be
suer to know whether it's to be peace and
plenty or war and shorts. Ha' they let him
come home afore he goes, thinks ta ? They
lev such deep ways, them head men ! '

Nay, how should I know ? ' answered
Towse, somewhat less confident of peace.

It's that owt Napoleon aegean stirring'
up the owt bother,' said Caroline with some
decision ; ^ my father used to talk about him.
He took a lot o' leathern', but they bet him
out at last. They was continually 'listen' then.
He's at it aegean, and must be near a hundred,
I'se think. Maybe it's a son ; fighting' runs
i' the blood. All the Baxter were fighters ;

all the Aireymans was an' all they tell me,
and was much thowt on. One got to live like
a gentleman, just to show great folks how to
weight and ha' pitch battles. And all the
Baxter about here ud rather drink and weight
than go to work.'

Napoleon,' said Caroline's arraigner, with
Bunyan perhaps in his head ; ^ yis, I've heard
tell on him. 'Tis all in the Bible, isn't it ? '

^ No-a,' said Towse, ' there's nowt about
him there, I'm thinking.'

'Bud I'm telling thee,' emphasised the
man of the village stubbornly, ' 'tis i' the New
Testament ony road.'

Nay,' said Towse, ' I never seed it ; man
and boy for forty year I've read odd chapters
to pass time, I nun ha' gone thrust it all it
braids o' me.'

Thou might ha' missed that.'

Towse shook his head incredulously, but
with some quaver in his mind that he might
have missed a portion.

There's summits else tied to the Bible

then isn't there ? ' questioned the man of the
village in desperation.

There used to be, but they've left it out
now they tell me. Ask Iphis. They'd some
reason for it, I'se think, but it's not for us
know-nowt to tell whv. It's the Great
scholars that's done it.'

Towse's admission was some comfort to
the man of acquired reputation.

Dost ee remember owt about ifc ? '

It's in owt Bibles,' said Towse. ^ Our
owt woman yonder at Burney les one that
lies it in wi' the Prayer Book, and King
Charles, wi' th' tents o' Israel and a lot o' such.
A dele more in it then as we uses nowadays.
A man could believe a lot more i' them
days.'

It was a comfort,' said a woman, 'to think
i' them days how full o' religion one could be.
Nowadays 'tis such a bit as one les to believe ,
there's plenty o' room for other things to git
into one's head besides goodness. One hadn't
room afore.'

I'm afread there'll be a many more lost
than time years back,' came from a despondent
voice, wife of the wiseacre.

Hed they a name for what they left out ? '
asked her husband of Towse, returning to the
point which interested him.

I never could tongue it. I didn't read it
much ; if 1 did I've forgotten.'

I'll uphold it there VI be all about Napoleon
there, an' that England ud be lost an'
won i' one day, and not an Englishman left to
say how it was all properly done'

I've heard o' all that afore,' said Towse,
agreeing, ' bud I didn't know there was owt
about it in the Bible, labour. We nun
last Iphis, she knows the far end o' such
things.'

Bud nowadays they tell me they nobbut
let common folks larn out o' Bibles ; there's
grander books for folks to larn out on that can
afford to pay.'

Things ha' altered i' thy an' my bit o'
time,' said Towse.

They lie for certain. Ill uphold it
Cowlamb would lev her larn the very best
money could pay for, Johnny Wesley ashe
is

An' a creature an' all,' said a discontented
soul, ^ peeping' back o' hedges an' coming' on
one unbeknown, to see if a poor labouring' man
addle his money.'

^ Oh, bless ye,' said Towse, ' he's not all
bad ; he's good i' his way, bud he's such an a
man for his pennyworth.'

A way that been' brown up i' the Church
respectfully doesn't larn,' said the discontented
one, aggrievedly. ' I never heard tell on an
out-and-out Churchman levin' such mucky
ways.'

True for ye, Seth,' agreed his companion
from the village ; * thought not a man to talk,
but thought a devil to think.'

This was all rank heresy to Hosea and Eli,
who stood with open mouths. They perhaps
had come under Cowlamb's scathing and
energetic criticism at times ; but, confined at

Towse's, their life seemed to them to be pretty
smooth and pleasant.

We comfortable,' said Hosea.

Heigh — bud if ya lived i' th' house yard
be under his thumb a dele more.'

The men was i' th' house at Snailhorn,'
said Towse, ' an' they alius stopped till May-day,
if they nobbut settled at the first. Ya
should ha' seen the rhubarb puddings the
missis used to make for 'em. I say — we nun
be at it aegean ; yonder she is.'

It was Iphis entering the corn-field. york
was renewed with fresh vigour. It was reprehensible
to be discovered leaning on their
tools gossiping at such a time. They had
scarcely assurance to meet her eyes.

Have you seen father ? ' cried Iphis, before
she reached them.

Xot sin' he was i' th' swath close,' replied
Towse.

Great anxiety seemed to them to cloud
her face. But they could not interpret the
expression. Something urgent in the affairs

of the farm called for her father's immediate
attention, she was in search of him. She retraced
her steps.

She seems in a peck o' troubles said the
man from the village.

why, Tosses whispered Caroline,
Ephraim walks her out.'

What ? ' cried Towse in amaze.

Why didn't thou know ? — Ephraim
turned religious and school teacher, an' courts
Miss Iphis ? Why, Farmer Cowlamb and
Peter shook hands wi' him that Sunday.'

Oh law,' groaned Towse, ' I hope the final
went mi us into no hobble.'

A suspicion of Iphis' s cause for agitation
now passed through Towse's mind. Her imprudence
had come to her father's ears.

Why, laws-aime, Cowlamb's nowt to brag
about. When he began he was no better
fellow than poor owt Ephraim.'

Heigh ! heigh ! ' groaned Towse, with
dull abstraction, drawing with his rake a shock
of corn to his boot. He tied up his sheaf and

turned to look behind him. * What can the
wench be thinking about ? ' he muttered ;
^ there's such lies gets about, Caroline said he
bravely.

'Lies ' retorted she, 'it's Bible truth. I
seed 'em thither mysen.'

• Oh, well,' returned Towse, resignedly,
• he'll soon put a stopper to that.'

CHAPTER 9.

A SPY ESPIED.

Farmer Cowlamb had made the attempt.
He had had his say. He did not stay away
from chapel the Sunday evening, and keep
Iphis indoors, as he at first thought that he
would. The most honest person in the world
has to think of appearances. At the last
moment the farmer considered that his absence
would be noted. He had never missed service
since he had come to Willowby. He had
never been away from home on a Sunday.
When he was at Snailhorn he went once a
day to church to keep neighbourly with the
parson ; and for another thing, only one Dissenting
service a day was held there. Hereat
Willowby the rector was an absentee ; it

was certain lie could not be in three places at
once, and he was a man who had no desire to
be. Cowlamb was stern upon naturalists, upon
all people who received money they did not
earn. Out of his five hundred a year for
Willowby the rector paid his curate one
hundred and fifty to preach to empty benches ;
for somehow Cowlamb and Willowby had a
desperate opinion of the poor curate. It was
neither more nor less than pure prejudice.

Cowlamb went to chapel, deferring the
hour of remonstrance, of an understandings.
He did not invite the minister to return home
with him ; he had had enough of that incapable
young man. As if fearful of being-saddled
with him, Cowlamb walked curtly
out of chapel as soon as service was over,
never looking behind him. His wife followed
him with an undefined remonstrance against
herself, against her husband, for being out of
chapel first people almost, for not staying to
walk with the minister, for not staying to
parley with him.

VOL. I.

If the young man wasn't to be made on
any more,' reasoned she, ' we ought to cool
down by degrees.'

There was nothing of that kind about her
ungracious husband. Pie never paused to
soften his sentence. The young man saw only
too palpably that his reign was over. The
farmer had horribly neglected him that afternoon,
had scowled at every one and no one in
particular at the tea-table, and had been
grumpy all the way to chapel.

Again Iphis lingered behind, and the
preacher saw that the ruddy-faced, reckless-looking
young fellow was close at her elbow.
The preacher felt himself a bad second in the
race, that the prize had slipped away from
him. He walked along in the direction the
farmer had taken ; he could see Cowlamb and
his wife some distance before him, but he did
not attempt to overtake them, feeling crestfallen.
Every now and then he could not
refrain from turning to look behind him. It
was opening the wound. But soon, measured

and slow as was this pace, the girl and lier
favoured lover fell back until he could scarcely
discern them. The came alone' at a snail's
pace, as if haste or briskness were not in the
category of their virtues. The poor preacher
felt himself now for ever severed from participation
in the history of this rebellious
daughter.

All Ephraim's shyness had gone. He
had no hesitation now. When out of the
village and out of sight of the inordinately
curious or critical, he linked his arm within
hers. It was the picture of ' a lover and his
lass,' as they walked along the white road,
edged with sufficient yellow stars of dandelions
and tufts of ladies' fingers to satisfy any
aesthetic pre-raphaelite. They had all the
abandonment of summer lovers. Nor did
they exercise their minds for stilted platitudes.
Conversation flowed as softly from their lips
as ripples in a purling brook. They told each
other their respective ages, birthdays, their
first impressions of one another ; some annals

of their uneventful lives were provocative of
mirth. There were peals of laughter and not
much seriousness at any time. Sometimes
Ephraim's cheek rested against Iphis's. It
was suffered to remain ; then it was repulsed
but not indignantly. He was but an untutored
fellow, but there was something persuasive
and gentle in his manner. No vicious
light shone in his eyes, which were truly
amorous lidded, his lips full and red, the eyes'
mirth and mischief always seconded there. If
anything, she could read him and admire him
none the less ; he was disposed to be unstable
and easily entrapped into any mad frolic.
She inherited from her father an immense
amount of penetration ; but a heritage of excessive
wilfulness, perhaps from some other
progenitor, neutralised the usefulness of such
an element in her nature. Her lover, too,
was quick in judgment ; he was aware that
he had had no difficult task winning her
favour, but he also divined that the calm look
of her eyes went through and through him,

suspecting him of instability and recklessness.
The pouting lips could be serious, and
stern, and resolute, as well as tender, and inviting,
and wilful. Only Ephraim was not
one to Imo'er over his thoughts.

^ You'll ha' to come harvesting aegean,
Ephraim,' said she, with the ecstatic self-complacency
that Such would afford her a
glorious opportunity for flh'tmg. ' You came
last year to give us a hand. AYhat a strange
thing I never seed you to notice you ! ' Her
voice protracted her love-notes like a cooing
dove.

I seed you,' said Ephraim, with the
accent of a lover who had worshipped his
divinity afar off, afraid to prostrate himself too
near.

Did you pick or loaded ? '

Pick,' answered Ephraim, laconically.

They dawdled up the lane as if summer
evenings, bright and cool and breezy, were
especially ordained for them, and they were
determined to have fill enjoyment out of

them. No thought as yet obtruded itself
unpleasantly on Ephraim that the farmer
would surety object to his suit. The manifest
encouragement of the farmer's daughter had
emboldened Ephraim to take the first plunge ;
taken, he suffered himself to drift into the
balmy flood — it was not a whirlpool yet. He
had no mercenary views. He had insensibly
suffered himself to fall under the spell of a
subtle, illusory intoxication, but he was not
so earnest as was Iphis. In fact he had not
her earnestness, nor even her fickleness. She
had reached the point when preference becomes
a passion, to reach its height and be sustained,
or cool down. It was astonishing how
eager she would be in her fancies and actions,
then seen again, lymphatic and pulseless.
The object not to be obtained, her desire to be
frustrated, a rebellious discontent and persistency
; anything easily attained, a wish or
desire unopposed, careless acceptance and
quick weariness.

It had not occurred to her as yet that her

father would violently set his face against the
lover she would choose. He might be disappointed,
or declare he had other views for her ;
but naturally he would give in, as he always
had done. She would not be too bold in
accepting Ephraim's company even to the
house door. Of that even Ephraim was
a little rueful. It was tacitly understood
between them that they must not be too
impetuous. He must leave her in the lane
outside the gate.

The linked arm was withdrawn, his arm
passed across her back, so that her shoulder
touched against his. She suffered her hand
to rest in his on her hip, after a simulated
gesture of remonstrance. It was slow progress
in such a fashion. It was much easier
walking cheek against cheek ; lips met lips
oftener, and with less effort. Here every
motion was seconded, and felt if retarded.
He could tell that her pulse beat rapidly, his
own ran as fast.

Shall we be sweethearts, Ipliis ? You'll
be my lass ? '

Sweethearts ? what should I do wi' a
sweetheart ? ' murmured she.

What do all do wi' sweethearts when
tie comes — marry 'em.'

You'd see somebody else you'd fancy
better.'

Xay, never. I'd never look at anybody
else.'

They alius say so.'

Ephraim, easily disheartened, loosened his
hold, causing in Iphis's breast a flutter of
concern. Had she repelled him? Her eyes
sought his face, it was troubled and clouded.

Ephraim, would ye be scar'd o' me? '

Xo,' answered he, dubiously.

And I won't be jealous o' thou.'

Low laughter caused his face to brighten.
Her eyes were dancing, a mischievous,
tempting, daring look in them was not to be
resisted. Quick as thought his arms gathered
her in. She did not repel the embrace, her

own lips went out to his, every barrier of
restraint seemed broken down.

They stood clasped and oblivious for some
few moments, until Ephraim looking up, the
hedge behind him, Ephraim fancied, stirred.
It stirred again, some long thorns hanging
over into the ditch still swaying. Ephraim
fancied an eavesdropper, Eli or Hosea from
the farmyard, but so near the farmhouse, that
was scarcely likely.

What's that ? ' whispered he.

What ? ' echoed she in a whisper
likewise.

That hedo;e rustling; ? '

An owt yow nibbling' it,' she panted
timorously, but fearful.

I thowt,' said Ephraim threateningly, ' it
was Hoseyy or Eli watching' us.'

Nay, they durst,' returned she confidently
; ' if it was, I'd give 'em it,' lie added
fiercely.

She disengaged herself, sprang up the
bank, holding by twigs, her fingers delicately

grasping the bramble thorns. She looked
over. What was her surprise to be confronted
with the red, passionate face of her
father as he rose from a stooping posture.

She sprang back as quickly, looking
towards Ephraim with some consternation,
for very shame not daring to meet her father's
gaze.

*' It's father,' whispered she, in a fright.

Ephraim at once commenced to move
backward.

The farmer's face was red with rage.
Ephraim could see that, for Cowlamb no
longer lay concealed. His tall figure towered
over the hedge, his expression furious. Cow-lamb
had not expected to be caught himself
This added to temper that had long been
gathering. He took off his old work-a-day
hat which he had donned, and rubbed his
bald head with his handkerchief A tall man,
and stooping so long in such an uncomfortable
position, his posture had caused the perspiration
to gather in beads on his forehead.

Now he knew the full extent of his daughter's
folly. It was shameful.

Hadn't t' shamed o' thysen ? ' shouted he
hoarsely over the hedge to Iphis. ' I'm
shamed o' thee — ah — git i' tli' house wi' thee,
thou hussy. Though come along home with
me another Sunday night. Ephraim, off
thou goes. I'll battle thee another day. I'll
see thou doesn't int thy foot upo' my place
aegean. Come along, thou jade! '

It's not Ephraim's fault,' defended she,
passionately ; ' an' I will lev him for a sweetheart,
reason or non.'

Wilt tha ? ' ejaculated the farmer, determinedly
incredulous, ' we'll see about that.
Now, then, my lad, thou'd better be off, or I
sell be ester thee.'

Ephraim, thus admonished, continued
moving backward a few paces at a time,
coming to a standstill at every assertion or
asseveration the obdurate father made, commencing
his retreat again as the farmer Avaved
his hand commandingly.

Epliraim lead discretion as well as valour.
Farmer Cowlamb mis^ht be 2:ettino; on in
years, but he would prove an adversary not
to be considered lightly. Over six feet high,
he was still powerful. Cowlamb believed
himself as strong now as ever he was in his
life. Ephraim was considerably undersized.
However valorous a man may feel himself,
in the grasp of a giant and lifted off his feet
a stroke from the shoulder is then puny and
harmless. Moreover Ephraim felt like a
poacher.

The distance between Iphis and her lover
was now increasing, Iphis slowly obeying her
father's injunction to get into the house —
Ephraim discreetly taking the farmer's hints
to make himself scarce. But while Ephraim
was escaping, Iphis felt that she Alas gong
to meet a further measure of upbraiding.

A jawbastin' I shall git,' thought she with
philosophical concern.

The farmer climbed over an iron hurdle
and passed through a belt of shrubs and

young trees, planted when the house was
built, to screen the outbuildings a little from
the lane. He met her at the gate and opened
it for her. The outburst was over, though
his face was still heated ; she could see the
blue veins standing' out on his forehead. He
was a fine old man, looking bolder and
grander in his rage. Iphis could not divest
herself of her long standing admiration of
his physique. But now he looked sullen,
and in his eyes there was some plaintiveness
and wounded love.

Come in ; I ant going' to fall out wi' thee.
But I'm not going' to let thee throw thysen
away on such a chap as yon. They tell me
he's fuller o' mischief than sense. He's no
great shakes a neither. He'll never addle
thee a living.'

Why can't I lev a sweetheart ? ' complained
she with petulance and childish
obstinacy.

Thou may ha' one, if he's nobbut o' the
right sort.'

Why isn't Ephraim o' the reiglit sort ? '
persisted lie.

^ Ho'd thy noise an' come in, thou
bess.'

Below this wilfulness she had always on
hand an extravagant affection for this hardheaded
old father. She was obedient from
habit, accepting his dicta as authoritative,
receiving perversely, but considering wisely.

She was perverse now.

If I can't lev him I'll ha' nobody.' '

The farmer stared at her mutely ; pausing
before he ventured to reply. A gleam of
sarcastic ire and cunning gleamed in his
eyes.

Tliou'll not lev Jim. I'll see to that.'

Cowlamb refrained from further recrimination.
He was a man of few words invariably,
but always emphatic. He was satisfied with
himself. His mind was made up. He sat in
his Windsor arm-chair by the best" kitchen
fire-place, his hand grasping one arm tenaciously,
mentally holding hard his temper

and steadying his perturbed mind. He did
not look at Iplils any longer, but relieved
himself by glowering sourly at his wife. ]airs.
Cowlamb had become acquainted with Iphis's
defection, and although she deplored the fact
that the young preacher had not made his
mark, and was incensed at the time thereat
with Iphis, if anything now, although as she
put it to herself, ' she didn't matter this new
sprung,' her sympathies went with Iphis.
She had seen Iphis and her lover at the foot
of the lane, and she had observed somewhat
anxiously her husband sauntering deliberately
down the hedge side in the field. She was
aware that if Iphis still kept with the ' runagate,'
Iphis's father must hear their colloquy.
And that jarred upon Mrs. Cowlamb's notions
of propriety. Lovers ought not to be pestered
with spies. When Iphis came in Mrs. Cow-lamb
could tell that there had been an explosion,
but as she felt that between Iphis
and herself there was now no breach, she did
not receive her daughter with bitter, reproachful

looks. Yet, when she spoke to
Iphis, it was m a most colourless deliberate
manner, wholly ignoring her husband's eyes.
It intimated to Iphis that the mother's notions
of propriety went with her husband's, but
that she wished to be neither pillar nor post
between them.

Iphis sat like one condemned, watching
her father with the look of an animal which
resents the chain. She was not one to tide
over her troubles or hide her temper with a
book ; sitting there under the dominion of
plaintive yet relentless eyes inaction gnawed
at her heartstrings. She rose to go out again.
She passed into the outer kitchen, her father's
eye narrowly scrutinising her as she passed
along. Her hand was upon the outer door
when his voice, loud and authoritative,
arrested her, so startling Mrs. Cow lamb that
she jumped in her chair.

Iphis, where art tha going' now ? '

Towse's,' replied Iphis, rebelliously.

Thou may stop at home, it's close on

bedtime ; and I weaned ha thee going there
so much.'

Iphis, still dutiful, stopped, leaning with
her back now against the kitchen door-jamb.
A tear dropped on her cheek, which she
dashed away angrily. AVhat had the Towses
to do with it all ? Had any girl so cruel a
parent ? She began to doubt what she had
fondly imagined — her father eventually giving
way when he saw that her preference for
Ephraim was no passing fancy. Milking time
occurred between tea and chapel, or she might
have had that as an excuse for getting down
to Towse's.

Eventually she exulted. Her father might
bar her from encouraging Ephraim to walk
home with her, or hinder her from meeting;
Ephraim in the lane, or going in to Towse's,
but he could not help her meeting Ephraim
occasionally. He would always be in the
tinging-loft. There would be moments and
long minutes. She could give Ephraim looks

VOL. I. p

and balances that he would understand. Then
she was a little alarmed lest some harsh plan
was hatchmg'in her parent's head — he was
fell and memorable if he was religious — of
settling ' Ephraim.

The night closed in heavily with her. All
went to bed early to wake early, for the
morrow harvest was to commence. She lay
awake thinking a long time. She did not
pull down her blind, and the summer night's
lio-ht seemed to her comfortless and cheerless.
She fell asleep troubled, and woke with an ill
dream. The night had come, but there was
no real darkness. She could distinguish
objects in her room. Everything was so still,
but the stillness was oppressive to her. She
fell asleep again, and awoke adam with a dim
presentiment of evil hanging over her. In
the morning her father's manner to her did
not dispel the shadow that had crept over
her mind. He did speak to her, but it was
curtsy, consolatory, yet disconsolately.
Cowlamb was miserable himself The old

cob outside was saddled and waiting patiently,
its placid eye winking at early stirring flies,
lifting one foot then another with remonstrative
energy, some sharper bite reviving
some of the old temper, but the faithful animal
never for a moment budgmg from the spot
where its master had left it.

Iphis went out and stroked the nag's neck
gently, patted it, placed her finger under the
bridle and smoothed its mane ; the animal
recognising her, raised its nose to her cheek,
and returned her caress. She did not repulse
it. To her an animal's affection was welcome.
The nose was soft as velvet one way if a little
harsh the other.

Her father came out — at any other time it
would have pleased him to see Iphis fondling
his faithful old cob, but now he paid little
heed, and mounting, pressed his knees on the
saddle. The nag understanding turned, and
Cowlamb gave his daughter a look, scrutinising,
inflexible, and implying his determination

to have his Away and not be trifled with.
Iphis met his gaze with a look of appeal, but
her father's expression did not soften, so she
turned and went into the house, feeling herself
a martyr, and more firmly bent on immolation
herself. It never crossed her mind to consider
whether Ephraim was worth all this ;
or whether Ephraim so craven or his love all
surface, a word from her father to the blacksmith
would be sufficient to deter him from
crossing her path again, even to the extent of
his becoming a backslider.

Iphis 's distress was apparent in the harvest
field. Those who connected her trouble with
Ephraim as the cause, Farmer Cowlamb as
the effect, were not so far to seek, although
their surmise might be disturbed with the
graciousness shown in hand-shaking. Iphis
was in some tremor about her father ridings
the village ; he had not told her what his
business was there. She had a little compunction
about meeting her father now, for
she had some desperate news for him in an

envelope. A letter from Sam's housekeeper.
Sam's wheat was almost shaking. Sam's
foreman dare not start without the word,
Sam's manner of beg master consisting in
not allowing any one on his farm to do anything
of any importance unless and until he
had ordered it to be done. And Sam had not
yet returned from Register market, whither
he had departed a week ago. He had left no
instructions nor sent any. should the master
come over and start all hands ? A painful
of Irishmen were waiting. So the letter
ran.

Iphis met her father on the turnpike road,
the cob walking briskly, as if intelligent
enough to understand that life at such a
season was important, and time money. Cow-lamb
took the letter with something like a
dull thud at his heart. He comprehended
that Iphis might be in low spirits, but lier
face revealed other concern and agitation.
He read the letter slowly, then looked at her
bitterly, and said, with heart-broken emphasis,

I doubt I'm going' to ha' some bother wi' ye
alL'

There was injustice to her she felt, and
still her father was rio-ht. She was near
upon casting herself upon the ground and
telling him she would be obedient and follow
his wishes without any demur. But a tone
in his condemnation rankled, her spirit was
hot, her pride was great. If she did humble
herself he would spxirn her. She felt her
heart at a white heat, then icy cold, with fear
for Sam, for her father, for herself.

The farmer rode throned the o-ate of the
wheat-field she held open for him.

^ Towse,' said he hurriedly, 'you nun see
to things. I nun go look ester yon creature'.
Iphis, tek^'Tet" up.'

Towse understood perfectly.

^ I shall ha' time to catch the train. I s'U
be at Snailhorn sooner than driving,' continued
Cowlamb, still hurriedly. ' Maybe I
shan't git home to-night.'

Iphis stood against the nag's saddle, the

reins in her hands, and her father, judging
that she meant riding, gave her a lift on the
horse, and without another word Cowlamb,
with head downcast, walked out of the field
into the road again.

CHAPTER 10.

A BLUE JACKET.

Although little more than twenty miles from
the sea as the crow flies, Moortown was an extremely
inland town, with but little grasp of
phases of life beyond the agricultural. There
was some petty trade, but that was conducted
feebly, the townspeople were prejudiced, and
beyond an occasional tried to the sea they
knew little of the life so near to them, the
life of seafaring men. They were little less
puzzled with those who went down to the sea
in ships than the manner in which the way
about was known on such a trackless highway.
The advent of a sailor in a tar's uniform
of blue, and cap with gold letters thereon,

excited no small degree of interest in the
town. He was a stranger in the land, for he
inquired the way to Willowby.

Ephraim had a horse's hind leg in his lap,
and did not look up even when the doorway
was filled and his light shadowed. He was
accustomed to idlers leaning against the door-jamb,
sleepily and silently watching him at
his work. He was too intent with hammer
and pincers turning the nails he had driven
through the horse's hoof to look up.

Ephraim, my lad ! '

Something familiar in the voice, something
affectionate in the tone, caused Ephraim to
drop the horse's foot suddenly, to lean, somewhat
taken by surprise, on the horse's flank.
He could scarcely recover himself for surprise
and pleasure.

Bob! Could this tall, well-built fellow
be his brother?

He remembered him as a stripling very
little taller than himself. Moreover, Ephraim's
back having been bent, and labouring diligently,

to stand erect suddenly was almost
beyond him.

Who'd ha' thowt o' seem' thou,' replied
Ephraim, pleasurably. ' Hes t' been to
Towse's ? '

Xo,' returned Ephraim' s brother. It
was the same voice as Ephraim' s, but brisker
and better controlled, sharpened up with
discipline. ^ I don't know where they live.
Do they live anywhere near ? '

When I shoed this owt horse maybe
maister '11 let me go down wi' thee. We
hadn't so out o' way throng.'

Ephraim went to the bellows and commenced
to blow, turning his back on the fire
to be able to regard his brother, whom he had
not seen for so many years. He talked,
falling in with the motion of his arm up and
down and the swaying of his body ; it was
the habit of an automaton. His face was
black with smithy dust, so that his eyeballs
shone out with preternatural ghastliness.

Ephraim' s brother did not speak much,

but listened, for it seemed to him that
Ephraim's tongue was unloosed, and that
ordinarily Epliraim was silent on compulsion
and for want of sympathy. Epliraira relinquished
the bellows, raked down the fire,
throwing on coal and sprinkling on water,
then commenced to blow again. Then the
shoe was taken out of the fire, a punch
hammered into a nailhole — his brother leaching
from the sparks — and Ephraim hurried to
the horse's other hind leg, which he burnt
down to fit the shoe.

AVe have smiths on board,' said the
sailor.

I wish I was as high as thou,' said
Ephraim.

They like little men best — thought high
enough for thy job.'

Oh, heigh ! ' said Ephraim, resignedly.

A semicircle of children, from two feet
six downward, had gathered round the doorway.
The sailor caught a glimpse of them
over his shoulder, and gave a spring out of

the door sideways which dispersed them, a
complete rout, to halt again at some distance
and survey the new importation with the
same fearfulness a flock of sheep may have fora
strange or uncouth dog. Warned by such
evident fiendish intent they concluded to
remain at the safer distance, and those who
wished to take off home, having to run the
gauntlet of the smithy door, gave it a wide
berth, creeping along noiselessly by the hedge
until they felt they had gained the moment's
advantage when safety might be secured by
the celerity of their heels.

The blacksmith at last came up, smiling
unctuously. The smart clothes, the figure
and carriage inspired Ephraim's master with
respect, but his toadyism was tainted with a
little patronage. Fine fellow as the sailor
might be, the brother was under his thumb.

I thowt o' austin' leave to go up to Farmer
Cowlamb's,' ventured Ephraim, diffidently,
not raising his eyes from the horse's frog,
when I got the owt mare shod.'

Thought fond o' going' up to Farmer Cow-lamb's,
hadn't tha ? They tell me — sweethearts'
? Ephraim's a droll lad, got converted,
goes a courting.'

Ephraim's brother gave a short, incredulous
laugh. He was not much impressed with
his brother's master. There was artificiality
in the man's mirth, as if unaccustomed to
mirthfulness with Ephraim, as if now some
spleen and jealousy stirred him.

Oh, thou can go,' said Ephraim's master,
with an amount of graciousness Ephraim could
scarcely credit his ears. ' We hadn't to an
hour, an' if we was thou could make it up.
We don't kill a pig every day.'

Ephraim followed up his work briskly,
turned the nails, filed the horse's hoofs, and
coated them over with a mixture of tar and
grease.

Am ee to take the owt mare home ? '

No, Greenfield '11 call for it hissed. Heat
the Nag's Head now.'

Ephraim had hoped to be free of that.

Thus relieved he rushed through the smithy
to seek a pump at the back of the house, soused
his face and arms, and, with a drop of Vater
at the end of his nose, blundered back again
with eyes closed to dry his face with his
pocket handkerchief. With but one arm in
his jacket, the other to be inserted as they
went on their way, he motioned his brother on
before him.

^ And how do you get on, Eph ? You've
never told me,' asked the brother, with a
shrewd surmise that the unctuous master was
something of a tyrant.

Oh, fairish,' said Ephraim, cheerfully.
I sell be glad when I'm lose. It's a
Imngry job ours. He once tell me I owt to
work, I eat finely. I filled my sen out one
while out of the tate heap ; bud,' said Ephraim,
laughing, ' one day I cooked over many on
the hot bricks, I heard him coming, so I just
chucked one to the owt cow. I forgot it was
hot — law, what a flummery sweat I was m.
I thowt I'd killed her for martin. I promised

mysen I'd chuck lier no more, hot or
cold.'

^ Thought not afraid on him, Eph? '
^No — not now said Ephraim slowly. 'I
was one while, he foot a^^^ate o' cousin' me.
I tell him to set his stall out ; two, thou
knows, can play at that. Law, he's a man
for his pennyworth, for all he reckons to be a
good chapel-goer. I ha' to do his books every
Sunday morning afore breakfast, if I mean to
go to chapel, that's the mischief o' have' learnt
to read an' write. He's a poor hand hissed,
he can harding battle a bill. I am not so bad
off i' one sense, thoff I am in another. I been
worst off for clothes. Uncle Bean, I think he
seed I was poor. He ga me a sovereign last
May, and I bought a Sunday coat, and a mean
un it is.'

^ Father 'd no business to marry again,'
declared the sailor, 'if he meant to have
another family. He'd better have let you
gone out to service. He could have married
an oldish woman, if it was a housekeeper lie

wanted. A foreman ought not to be so bad
off. But I can see, I can see ; lie spends all
she can rap and rear.'

How is it thou got here sooner ? ' asked
Ephraim.

^ I found out it was time I went ; the poor
owt chap's right, but when you fancy somebody's
watching every mouthful you get, you
don't feel comfortable, and then a lot o' poor
little barns, and all up o' sixes and sevens.
Why, lad,' said the sailor, brightening with a
happy thought, 'there's my clothes — they'll
all be in the box I left behind me.'

She'll ha' cutter 'em up by this.'

Xay, she won't. Aunt Towse has the
key ; she had it, however. We shall see.
When I took off to sea, I sent it in a letter to
her.'

It's at home

ril see thou has it. I shall go home and
see father before I go back to sea.'

How much longer ha' ye ? '

Leave? — a fortnight. It's a queer-looking

customer our ship, I can tell you. One would
almost wonder she floated. She is more in
water than out. She's like a floating fort.
We scarcely know where we are going, but I
think it'll be Mediterranean.'

^ Bio wed if I know where that be,' said
Ephraim, candidly.

When one's been on a foreign station,
they reckon to put one on a home station, but
I'd as lieve be away. A home station, maybe
one's as tied and far enough away from any
kin. I shouldn't mind if we had a welt in
with this new ship.'

D it,' said Ephraim, ^ ya might git

killed yarsen. Bob.'

Hollo, young fellow,' said the sailor,
thunderstruck ; ' I thowt the maister said you
was religious.'

Dal it, 1 forgot,' said Ephraim, feeling his
character was at stake.

'And what about that sweetheart', young
fellow ?' asked the sailor brother, poking
Ephraim mischievously in the ribs.

VOL. I. Q

^Wliy, it's maister's — and still it isn't,'
said Epliraim, candidly. ' You know, I believe
they're jealous as sin o' me, 'cause I gone part
way home wi' th' lass on a Sunday night.'
Ephraim blushed through his fireburn. ^ We've
hed a word or two an' all afore, as I have been
coming away fra Towse's.' Ephraim' s brother
was regarding him with a look of surprise.

Why, it isn't the farmer's daughter Towse
is with ? Ephraim, thought going to do well ;
stick to the lass. Thou mustn't let her slip
through thy fingers.'

I'd know, th' owt man doesn't look so
amiable at one as he used to do.'

When thou wast first converted,' said the
sailor, cynically, imitating the blacksmith's
broader speech.

Hadn't thou a sweetheart once? ' posed
Ephraim. ' I ain't forgot. Didn't you, first
time you come over, show me some hair — a
lovers' knot — what became on her ? '

^ I'd know ; married somebody else, I'se
think.' There was a tone of sorrowfulness,

^

not unmixed with bitterness, that did not
escape Ephraim. Ephraim felt that he was
trespassing on fenced-in ground.

Our maister's son's at Moortown's larnin'
to be a draper ; he paid a raort o' money with
him : he used to do his writmo:. He's turns;
out a preacher, which looks to me like a lot o'
money wasted, Bud, if they got him a rich
young woman '

Like your lass? '

I won't say they've set their eyes on
her, it 'ud be a madness for 'em to see a
common chas like me walking off with her,
and them a Ions; while finding one of the rio^ht

o o o

sort.'

The sailor rapped out a sailor's expletive,
and admonished his brother hj all that was
secular to follow her up.

^ She's not a waster,' said Ephraim enthusiastically,
' you'll be sure to see her — why,
she'd fit thou, I believe Bob, better nor me.
If she was to fancy thee afore me, don't be
scar'd o' me, I won't mind so much if t' was

Q 2

thou,' Epliraim regarding such a not unlikely
contretemps philosophically.

Pshoo, lad, I don't want thy sweetheart.'


'It's like fighting,' argued Ephraim; 'if
you put in a cut for somebody, put in two
for yarsen. You wouldn't ha' to go sailoring
no more wi' all her money.'

Nay, when you marry her, maybe I shall
be tired by then ; the owt man '11 put you in a
farm, and I'll come and work for you.'

Aye, aye, that's very fine talking', better
riding than walking. He catched me wi' my
ane round her o' Sunday meet, and he les to
battle wi' me for that. I'd know what he
means to do.'

Phew,' whistled the sailor ; ' then it isiit
all plain sailing ? '

Why, yon's him ! ' exclaimed Ephraim
under his breath. ' Ho'd hard habit Bob, let
him git on.'

Something in Cowlamb's weary walk
excited Ephraim's wonder. The farmer was

not hurrying, but lie walked like a hopeless,
despairing man.

He's a fine old claps said the sailor,
higher than I am, I believe.'

'He is,' said Ephraim, measuring his
brother with his eye. ' Here, we'll go in at
this gate ; they gotten well started into harvesting'.
I come and did a bit o' pickin' last
year. I'se think he weaned ha' me t' year.
There's Towse, thee, by goes, he's going
in.'

The women were the first to look up.
There was something: for a woman to admire
in the stalwart sailor, picturesque, spotlessly
clean, and the element of careless hardihood
in the open throat and loose knot. Then the
men turned more slowly.

Be that him ? ' inquired the village
wiseacre.

I'll uphold it, it's Bob,' said Towse.

An' Ephraim, he's catched owt Brandy i'
fine fettle to hap his fire,' said one of the
women, shrewdly.

^ Adhere's Joel ? ' inquired Towse as the
brothers approached.

'Law, he was here a minute sin.'

Here he is,' said a woman dragging the unwilling
urchin from behind a couple of prone
sheaves; Hie's hiding'. What ails the been?
Why th' been's scared ; he went hot thee ? '

The arrival had terrified Joel. A policeman
was Joel's hate noire. The threat of
fetching: one to check his infantile wilfulness
or quell loud wailing had not been used vainly.
Joel imagined his oo^re had come at last — a
martinet of an uncommonly vicious order.
Joel had been most forward, Towse threatening
him direly, and storming at his absent
wife for not keeping the ' brat at home.' Joel
began to weep silently. Loud wailing and
his general bad conduct had precipitated the
catastrophe.

We seed th' owt man going' down the
road or we won't ha' come in,' saidEphraim,
apologetically.

Thou won't, thou means,' said the

parthian, sternly, ' if all be true I hear.
Thou gits into hobbles thy sen often enow.
Xobbut mind thou doesn't drag nobody else
in. It mustn't be comfortable for us moving
this time o' year.'

'I sell non git thou into no hobbles. I
couldn't keep) out on 'em my sen if I tried ever
so, it seems to me.'

Ephraim talked in a propitiatory way.
He knew Towse was never very amiable when
working hard.

My lad I nowt aegean thee, mind,' said
Towse.

Thought good-tempered when clean,' said

Ephraim. ' What's th' owt man piked off

so sour about ? '

'Not about thee,' returned Towse, comically.
' It's his son this time that's patten'
him out, gone ois a drinking an' worse maybe,
an' corn shaking.'

Now he owt ta git married,' said the
elderly man from the village in a wheedling
voice.

^ Bud said Towse, exasperated at mortal
obliquity, ' it just isn't him as isn't married,
but him as is.'

— ah ! ' ejaculated the wise man, collapsing.
.

Maister says he's done all he could to git
the t'other to marry as isn't, for fear he should
start an' all, but he went. Marrying' made
t'other chap worse, I think. It's such an a
lottery is marrying ; some gits good uns,
some gits bad uns, jostling they're bad uns
to the fore. They don't bring 'em up right
nowadays ; no bellies for work — no bellies
for work.'

^ They'd like it statius all the year round,
an' wear fine hats an' ha' plenty o' money i'
their pockets to spend.'

^ What d'ye know about it ? ' rasped out
Caroline, impatiently contemptuous. ' Men,
what are they ? Alius at alehouse, wishing
pints were as big as chimney pots.'

Heigh, old lad^J ' cried Hosea in delight.

The ancient was notorious for his partiality
for the Nag's Head and the Brown Cow.

Towse at last recollected that he had never
thought good to address his nephew by
marriage, extend to him hospitality, inquire
after his health, and trim his face up complaisantly.


How a' ta ? ' said Towse at last, cordially.
Thou'lt find the missis at home ; thou'lt feel
edgish if thou's lied nowt sin' thou left home.
Will tha lev a drink o' beer ; it's sore wish,
but it's such as it is,' and Towse made for the
jug embedded in a sheaf

Xo ; I'm not thirsty. I mustn't keep
thou beyond thy hour, Eph,' said the sailor,
turning to Ephraim.

Oh, don't bother thy head about me,'
responded this most careless individual, in his
happiest mood. Ephraim never cared a straw
for prospective trouble.

At this moment Iphis Cowlamb, having
stalled her father's horse and replenished its

crib with hay, lingered outside the house for
some few minutes. She had a little of her
father s suspicious nature. When the cat's
away the mice play, her father was wont to
observe sardonically. She went to the house
corner and shading her eyes looked down
upon the corn-field. Actually — they were —
all at a standstill. They knew that her father
was now well out of the way, and they were
taking; advantage of his absence. She had
always had faith in Towse, he was left in
charge, he ought to see to the others — but he
was only mortal after all.

A woman moved aside, Iphis had observed
a peculiarity over her head, now she could
tell it was the head of some one in dark
clothes.

Mother ! ' she cried, ' mother, come
here ! '

Why, what ? ' said Mrs Cowlamb, without
a vestige of interest, not looking up from
the milk passion she was wiping before
placing on the rack outside the door.

^ Here's somebody i' th' corn-field in blue
clothes — it isn't a sower ! '

^A soTvjerl' ejaculated Mrs. Cowlamb,
now a little roused, sufficiently, however, to
seek the side of her daughter, wiping her
hands on her apron as she walked. She shaded
her eyes as Iphis was doing. There they
stood side by side as if saluting.

Dost t' know who t' is ? '

Xo,' said Iphis, ^ I nun go see.'

No, thou meant. Thought alius so banish.
Stop at home. What would they think
o' thee? Besides, thou'd better mind what
thought about, thou knows thy father's gone
off i' fine fettle.' Mrs. Cowlamb spoke desperately,
in plaintive monotone. She felt the
heavy responsibility of this wilful girl on her
hands.

Iphis replied with a toss of her head.

^ I will go see who it is. It might be
somebody I know.'

When Mrs. Cowlamb looked around Iphis
had already started for the corn-field.

Well, well,' muttered she, clespairmgiy,
if she will make a rod for her own back — I
done all I can.'

In Iphis's mind her mother's swords still
lingered, but like an echo, an echo of someone
else's. Her father's word would have
been law ; her mother's went to the winds.
Iphis ran at full speed while she felt she could
do so without being observed by the people
below. When she knew that she was well insight,
she steadied herself, gathered in her
breath, walking sedately, assuming a discreet
and most guarded expression.

She was soon observed. A woman below
turned and spoke to Ephraim.

Yon's thy lass a coming.'

His lass,' said Towse witheringly, ' she'll
never lie him I '

What did the lass say,' said Caroline,
with a pause to excite interest, ' when they
reckoned she shouldn't lie her chap ? She
said she'd neither be obligated nor yit consulted,
bud she'd lev her own postulate way.'

^Wliat did she mean?' asked Hosea,
slowly.

Why, she'd lev hmi if he hadn't a rag to
his back.'

— ah ! ' returned Hosea, quenched.

^ Now, lads,' cried Towse, impatiently,
vexed at the reference to Ephraim and Iphis,
a little disconcerted that Iphis should come
upon them all at a standstill, so soon after her
father had left them ; ' we nun make up for
lost time.'

He heard Iphis's voice, speaking to him
hurriedly.

Towse ! Thee — here's that lass drinking;
the men's beer.'

^ Heigh, saving time,' commented Ephraim.
Iphis had reached his elbow.

Iphis laughed, but Towse was indignant.
He did not approve of the beer going up in
that way, good or bad.

Heigh, guts ; thou great greedy guts.
Oglethorpe, that's thy lass, I believe.'

'Tis, awiver. Law, Liz likes beer,' said

Palethorpe, calmly. ' But it's not a bit o' use
veneris' at her, she'd threap ye out on it
she'd never hed a drop.'

Towse was scarcely satisfied with Pale-thorpe's
easy way at looking at disaster. He
commenced to work vigorously, muttering
savagely the treatment Liz would have had
from him if she had been one of his.

How's them Irish getting' on, Towse ? ^
asked Iphis, to say something, but her eyes
admiringly sweeping the outline of the picturesque
and stalwart fellow with Ephraim.

Oh, they'll bide a bit. The maister's
been to them. It's all tek work.' Towse
turned with serious face to his fellow-workers.
^ "We nun git on or them Irish 11 git the
wind on us.'

Iphis was now standing close to Ephraim' s
brother ; Ephraim feeling a little mortified
that she had no eyes at all for him now. He
spoke, she smiled absently, her eyes remaining
fixed on the taller brother. Her face was
lit up with admiration — but not for him.

Ephraim had graciously offered to forego ibis
claim, but now be felt that it would be with
some soreness. Tbe green-eyed monster was
already asserting itself. Sbe stood band in
palm, her attitude would bave been ridiculous
but for the bright look of interest in ber eyes.
Sbe read the gold letters on bis cap. Denoted
the brawny, open throat, the careless
knot, the wide full trousers, and bis easy
careless pose.

You're Ephraim's brother, then ? I
didn't know be bad a brother — be never told
me.'

Yes, I'm bis brother ; I'm the oldest,' he
returned a little awkward in bis explanation.

Do you like it ? '

Like what ? '

Being a sailor.'

Yes — I'm forced to like it. But I do
like it ; I wanted to go to sea.'

but should you like it if there was to
be war ? The ship might sink — it must be
dreadful,'

I don't know.'

^ You haven't been in any fighting' yet,
then ? '

No.'

Nor don't want ? '

No, not particular.'

^ You would like to have one battle, and
come out safe. I'd rather be horse sower,
and just have one battle, and come out safe.
I think it must be a dele safer on land.'

^ You oughtn't come out safe there.'

^ Then I shouldn't like to go. I'se think
you aunt so much to do as powers.'

Oh, it's not the idle life anybody would
think. If there isn't work, they make
some. We have to be drilled nearly the
same.'

Oh, have you ? ' said Iphis, surprised.
I thought all you had to do was to wrap the
sails up when it blew over hard, and stand on
the poles, same as I saw 'em at Havelock
once, when the Prince o' Wales come.'

^ Bob, I'll see thee up to Towses,' interrupted

Epliraim in a whisper ; ' then I mungo
back.'

Thought bipeds said Towse, with a
chuckle. It was but a whisper, but Iphis
heard it.

Xay, I hadn't asseverated Ephraim,
quickly.

• Thou needn't bother, Ephraim ; I'll go
wi' liii. If you was to 'list, Ephraim, one
would be a sailor and tother a sower ; bud
you hadn't big enough.'

Towse was in the seventh heaven of delight
hearing Iphis taking Ephraim down a
peg or two, and Ephraim felt himself disparaged
and thrown over. Well, she was
fancying Bob all in a hurry ; she had taken
her time with him ; she had not shown him
favour so suddenly.

His brother's eyes turned kindly on lion.
The sailor was older, sharpened with discipline,
contact ; he had a firm mouth and chin,
rather thoughtful, far-reaching eyes, and evidently
was a quick, observant fellow.

VOL. I. R

Thy hour must be gone, Eph. I don't
want thee to get into any scrapes. I'll comedown
to-night when work's done. She's a
fine lass,' whispered he aside, ' I could like
her my sen — nay, nay, don't be jealous, Eph.
What could I do with her ? '

I ant,' said Ephraim, ' bud thou may lev
her if she will ha' thee. I'd rather thou, if it
was anybody else but me.'

Take no notice, 'tis a lass's way to flout
her sweetheart afore other folks.'

What's he whispering' about ? ' demanded
Iphis, jealously.

Oh,' said the sailor, ' I durst tell you.'

If it's anything about me, it's all stories.'

Oh, it's not stories,' said the sailor,
seriously.

Iphis was determined to know from
Ephraim the purport of this whispered intercourse.


Ephraim watched them up the field — his
brother erect and tall, but with a sailor's roll ;
Iphis tall and lithesome and slender. They

were made for each other, he was fain to
think, and he could not stifle his soreness.

^ Here, get thee gone ; you'll lev owt
Brad pattern' at thee. It's not the way to
git another odd hour,' cried Towse.

Other eyes were watching — Mrs. Cowlamb
had not stirred from the house front. Here
was Iphis bringing somebody up — a soldier of
all folks. If Iphis was going to take up with
him, it would be a worse catastrophe than her
freak with Ephraim Sparrow. What lives
soldiers did lead, especially those among
whom Mr. Macwhortle had laboured and
failed to bring in.

She saw that Iphis was diverging from
the farmhouse ; she now wondered to which
of the farm labourers lie belonged. She felt
a little more assured when she saw that Iphis
was simply showing him the way. She
hoped the ' sower ' would not stay long, but
then Cowlamb would be home in a day or
two, and if Iphis didn't behave herself he
would ' rei^'htle ' her.

R 2

CHAPTER 11.

DANGEROUS GROUND.

CowLAMB was at this own farm again by
eleven o'clock of the following forenoon. He
had come direct from Moortown railway
station. He was sour and perturbed, as Mrs.
Cowlamb expected he would be. She wisely
said nothing beyond —

Thou's gotten back.'

Leaving him to speak and question, lie
content to reply and answer. The farmer
looked round for Iphis, then recollected that
it was market day, and that to save time he
had come by the rural back road of the town,
and so had seen nothmo; of the market stir.

Who took her butter and e^^s ? '

The sower ! '

What sower,' demanded Cowlamb, abruptly.


Yell, he's not exactly a sower, though
he serves the Queen. He's come to Towse's.'

She could not tell whether her husband
was displeased or dispassionate. He was
drying his hands on the towel before sitting
down to a hastily improvised luncheon.

Yon creature' goes on nicely,' said the
farmer, with his eyes on his plate, ' I'd know
what's u'oin' to 'come on him. It wasn't so
afore he married that fine wife. His housekeeper's
gen him a month's warning, she'll
be gone i' three weeks. What's to be
done ? '

They'll never make it up ? ' hazarded
Mrs. Cowlamb.

^ What I Him and his wife ? ' shouted her
husband, 'not they. He was a dele over
banish and dungeons,' added he, despairingly ;
Iphis '11 ha to go.'

Iphis ! ' Mrs. Cowlamb almost allowed a
dish to slip through her fingers ; recovering

it lie continued, 'I'm suer it's no place for
her. Him coming home at all hours.'

He'd be different if she was there, maybe.'

They're bad to hold in, once they get
started.'

What do you know about it, woman ? '
cried her husband, irately. Although he
could disparage his son himself, he could not
brook others condemning hun. He felt that
if this wife of his had been the lad's mother
she would now have been making excuses for
him.

'Well, well,' said Mrs. Cowlamb with
subservient acerbity, ' one can't say a word
without having one's head bitten off. I said
nowt aegean him.'

Bud you would wi' very little coaxing.'

Let Iphis go, then,' assented she resignedly
; ' she's as much yours as mine. If
you can bear her to be there I can. I used to
think you was very choice on her.'

An' hadn't ee ? ' demanded Cowlamb,
bringing his hand down upon the table

heavily. 'Who's done more for her than I
have ? Who's done more for this barns than
me, eh ? '

Mrs. Cowlamb felt the futility of reply.
She filled both her hands with dishes and
retired into her sanctuary, the pantry. He
knew he was blowing up a storm in a teacup,
and that his wife could not help Sam's misdeeds,
and that he did not like Iphis going
himself.

If he could have beheld Iphis returning
from market, and her escort, what would he
have said or thought ? Iphis had been proud
enough of her gallant. She recollected now
hearing Mrs. Towse once allude to a nephew
who was on shipboard, but lie always pictured
him as a shabby marine, like those she
lead seen in Haveluck — disreputable looking
undersized redcoats, but he was a blue-jacket.
She did think the willow baskets, though tied
down neatly with spotless white napkins,
looked somewhat out of place on his arms.
Lie had bestowed some little extra attention

on her dress, and then she felt that she
scarcely looked equal to her cavalier. For
the nonce Ephraim was forgotten. She had
reckoned upon creating quite a sensation
among the market folks, bearing the town
they met many people. She felt proud. The
fine elms and horse chestnuts skirting either
side of the road in all their summer glory of
leaf contributed, she knew, to the luminosity
of the picture. Her cavalier left her at the
butter market entrance with a nod and
smile, promising to look in occasionally.
When she was ready to return he would
carry her baskets back. She had some marketing
to do — the empty baskets to fill with
shop things. Busy shopping she was continually
catching a glimpse of him threading
his way through the knots of people — burly
farmers showing samples of last year's corn,
their wives and daughters gossiping ; all
turned to look at him, and to ponder over his
rolling gait. Their eyes met at every rencontre.
He judged at last that she must be nearly

ready for home. She came out of a shop with
her basket heavy with groceries and linen
goods. She placed it on the ground at her
feet, counting' over chancre she held in her
hand. He approached her and took up a
basket. It was all pretence, but she appeared
to only j must grasp the fact that he was near.
Eyes around she knew were attentive, ears
contiguous she knew were alert. The remarks
would not have surprised her.

Oh ! owt Sam Cowlamb's dower's a
gallas un.'

^ Now, fancy if that gay chap hooks off wi'
her ! '

I won't be a bit surprised.'
He's clapping love to her ear, sitliee.'
Who is he, an' what is he ? He's a fine
lashing' chap ! '

They do say there's been a bit of a gift on
already about some common chap.'

Well, if I was a young chap '

^ Aye, but thou hadn't. An' then thou
mud be as fur off as t'iirt now.'

Where there is smoke there is fire. Iphis
gave some occasion for all this quizzing. She
rather enjoyed it ; and her saucy eye was
met by one equally quick.

Here, I'll carry this,' said he.

^ It's a shame.'

Oh, no.'

I'll be dal'd if he ant going' to carry her
basket,' muttered a spy.

That looks like seeing on her home

Ha' ye seen th' owt man about ? '

• Awhile agone, i' th' back street, hotcliin'
off home, sour as wig.'

Iphis and her gallant walked past them.
They had the flags to themselves until they
reached an inn-door where many congregated.
Every head turned, Iphis tossed hers defiantly.


• I should thmk you think course a fine
fellow,' said she, mischievously.

What will other people think ? I have
as great an opinion of myself as you have of
yourself.'

ignis coloured at the retort. At the town-end
Iphis began to reveal the mischief in
her.

^ I'll help you to carry this basket,' said
she, passing her arm through the handle.
This brought them closer ; any one might have
imagined them walking arm-m-arm, but when
any one approached near enough to be certain,
Iphis withdrew her arm decorously.

^ You ant so much like,' said Iphis, mentally
comparing the brothers ; 'you're bigger.'

'Not better.'

Ko, maybe not. I aunt much opinion o'
powers an' sailors. I wouldn't believe one
any further than I could throw him.'

How far could you throw me ? '

I'm not going to try.'

I think we are very straight.'

As straight as a bent pin.'

I had an idea you were a droll girl.'

You are getting very free. Mister sailor.
I shall not come up to Towse's while you are
staying there.'

I'll send one of the bairns to let you know
when I am going out.'

Oil, don't put yourself to that trouble on
my account.'

Every caustic retort one or other dragged
at the basket, one or other being pulled to an
extremity of the footpath. The man's strength
prevailed ; he would not allow her to withdraw
her arm. At last she cried for mercy.

Well, walk as a lady should. You'll not
be so torn down when we get in sight of the
house.'

'Do you thmk I'm afraid? Xo AYhat

a queer cap it is you wear. Are the gold letters
sewn on ? How would a woman look in it ? '

Try it on if you like.'

^ No ; I shouldn't like.'

Yes, do. Do — now,' begged he persuasively.
His face was eloquent. She had a
long time coveted it, if but for a moment.
There's nobody in sight.'

He placed down the basket and held his
cap in his hand, the other hand was on her

shoulder. Ipliis coquettishly removed her
own hat, and a moment after the sailor's impulse
was to snatch a kiss.

It was what she expected. It was what
she really had tempted him to do. She threw
his cap in his face, she pushed him away.
Forgetful of the basket, he stumbled over it,
overturning it. Several packages rolled out
upon the footpath ; one burst in the basket, a
large paper bag, and the contents — rice —
scattered on the path.

Now you have made a mess,' said she,
sternly.

It was all you.'

You began it, and you ought to pick it
all up. What will mother say ? '

But the bag has burst.'

Turn it upside down and put it in at the
other end.'

^ It is a good thing the road is not dirty.'

I expect you'll get grits in, and all our
teeth '11 be edged.'

She did not offer to help him. She stood

by carelessly, readjusting her hat. While thus
occupied a pedestrian passed them. She looked
after the man and was somewhat taken aback,
discerning her father's coadjutor in the stewardship
of the chapel. Seeing her replacing her
hat, her companion gathering up the scattered
rice, he would judge there had been some
scuffle. He might be mischievous enough to
go to her father with some tale of her romping,
hint that her conduct was scarcely in
consonance with the character of a convert, or
of a modest maiden. More decorously she
carried herself as they proceeded up the lane.
Her father might have reached home, be
scouring the country with his glass, and she
recollected the lapse which had excited her
father was yet but a few days old. She was
certain that he would not be in the best of
humours ; it was an open question whether he
would view this relative of Towse's as a proper
escort for her.

Cowlamb lead finished his luncheon, and
was coming out of the house just as they were

approaching it. He stopped a moment to
examine Ipliis's companion. With all Cow-lamb's
hard-headdress. he had an eye for
colour and contour, also some reverence for
men who had been beyond seas, and sojourned
in far lands. A missionary was the most
acceptable guest at his house.

Cowlamb eyed the stranger so graciously,
Iphis was astonished. He even waited for
them to come up, and took the baskets in.

Come in, sower ! Xow, will ye have a
glass o' beer ? '

Thank you, su,' replied Ephraim's
brother, gratefully and politely.

Draw a pitcher of beer. Missis,' said
Cowlamb. ' Come in. sower I '

]airs. Cowlamb was amazed, but she
seemed pleased to take the pitcher and go
down into the cellar.

There,' said the farmer, pouring from a
<xreat heii^'ht, ' that's a o^lass o' o'ood beer out
on a cold cellar.'

Iphis sat down by the long table before

the window, took off her hat and held it in
her lap, breathing wearily.

It's hot, oh deary me, I'm nigh melted.'

*And the sower hugged thy baskets.
Why thou foot, what has t' done to harry
thysen,' said her father in his best manner.
He was jocular, blunt humour in his eyes,
banter on his lips. Thus was it always; if
he left home for a day full of fault-finding, if
he returned sour and cross, all his ill-temper
vanished at the sight of Iphis.

You're related to Towse's wife, hadn't
ye ? Going' to stop a bit. We're throng
harvesting'. I can gie ye a job if you like.'

Oh, I shouldn't mind,' but the sailor
looked at his clothes.

Ah, thought scar'd o' thy fine clothes. If t'
spoilt 'em, thou'd git into trouble. Stand up.

Why, thou'd be fitted easy, thought nigh

as hisfh as me. I'll find thee. Towse nun
lend thee a smock — eh, what d'ye say ? An'
stop and lev a bit o' dinner wi' us, all in a
plain way. That'll save Towse's ; there's a

lot o' barns that wants filling there, I know,
an' Towse is a trusty fellow.'

Iphis looked up in the greatest astonishment
; her mother, too, regarded the speaker
blankly, as if through trouble his senses were
going. Then she shook her head to herself ;
her husband had always some ' deep fetch ' at
the bottom of his generosity. Iphis sat up
briskly, forgetting her sudden sense of lassitude,
wondering whether her father realised
that this was Ephraim Sparrow's brother.

Farmer Cowlamb certainly had not comprehended
that. After a moment's reflection,
Iphis felt sure that her father had not realised
it, unless he had some crafty motive. If he
was an innocent man, Iphis felt ready to laugh
in her sleeve. What an opportunity for her !
and she would take it. She would flirt
with this new Phoebus — draw him on to admiration
and infatuation. She had seen his
eyes glisten. He was very quiet, and had a
sunburned, oppressed look on his forehead,
indicating that he lead been under the rays of a

VOL. I. s

hot sun; but she saw a gleam of Ephraim when
he attempted to kiss her. What fun to enjoy
Ephraim's discomfiture! Of course, in her
mind she would place a line of demarcation
he must not overstep. She checked herself.
What if she were to cause the brothers to
quarrel! But she flattered herself that she
could prevent or bridge that over, she liked
both too well to cause an estrangement. She
should give the sailor to understand that she
was Ephraim's sweetheart, but torture poor
Ephraim with agonies of fear and doubt, and
still hold him in hand with a look of reproach,
were he disposed to look with the eyes of Cain
on his brother. Poor Ephraim ! she reasoned
that it was cjuite proper he should be drawn
through the fires of purification, have all his
bad tempers, if he had any, purged out of
him, and after a period of humiliation be
exalted.

CHAPTER 12.

COQUETTING.

Ephraim Sparrow's brother went away from
Farmer Cowlamb's somewhat surprised at his
reception. Had Ephraim, his aunt Towse,
Towse himself, magnified a passing displeasure
of the farmer's? Mrs. Cowlamb that
morning had sent over to Mrs. Towse for
some one to carry down Iphis's baskets,
and he had volunteered. Thereupon Mrs.
Towse had entered into a diffuse narrative of
events and analysis of character. He walked
back to Towse's contemplating the extraordinary
turn of affairs. It was natural they
would be civil — he had rendered them a service,
if a slight one. He rather liked the
fanner, brusque as lie was. His aunt Tow.se

had said he was far from being a churl if anyone
looked to him for help.

He hates to see folks making bones about
what they do said she.

Not oddly, his thoughts went from the
father to the daughter. She was audacious,
"but he considered she was not of the sensuous.
A fine girl — bold, and brave, and pure ; if
he CO aid marry her he should wish to be
something different to what he was. But
no, he could not reach her. Then he recollected
that Ephraim had, but perhaps it
was only a passing show of favour. Towse
and his wife had railed at Ephraim' s folly
imagining himself good enough for her, or
that Cowlamb would ever yield. He wondered
if Ephraim invested her with the
admiration he already had for her. He
wished Ephraim had not talked so resignedly
of yielding her up to him, if her fancy turned
lightly as a weathercock. He was grateful
to the farmer for his cordiality, for his generosity
; Cowlamb would have him smoke, and

brought out a spirit bottle. But Cowlamb
was hungry for information, and although his
guest was not a raconteur the farmer looked
upon the odd hour after dinner as one of
the most entertaining hours he had ever
wasted in his life.

A smile was on Robert Sparrow's face
when he met his aunt, and told her how well
he had been treated.

He looked on you like a gentleman ; well
your job is a good dele above a hedge-plaster's,'
commented she.

Do you really think so ? ' laughed he.

To be suer I do. Why, if it had been a
haw-baw like Eli or Hoseyy, they'd been sent
off hase an hour afore her, or else sent ester
her, as if they wasn't good enough to tread
the same ground. Thou come in eppen.' ^

Wish, wish, missis,' said Towse at his
dinner.

Way, with thee, thou harding durst hear
thy sen speak. A cat may look at a king.'

1 Handy.

Heigh,' said Towse, ' words travel with
twig wind almost. But sit thee down an' lev
a bit o' dinner.'

Xay,' said Robert, ' I been telling aunt he
asked me to have beer, and then I had dinner.'

What ! ' ejaculated Towse, his knife and
fork emphasising perpendicularly his surprise.
• Some folks long for cheese when they've
none in the house, bat when there's no lack
then is their desire gone,' added Towse, with
a cheerful determination to take surprises
philosophically ; at the same time imagining
the latter part of his sentence a quotation
from Scripture, to the point, and his memory
commendable.

Fm going to help you folks in the morning,'
said Robert, expecting to surprise them
more.

You'll spoil thy clothes. Why, now,
look at thy cadi, it is all road-muck. River
mind, I'll brush it.'

They're going to lend me clothes.'

Thought in luck's way,' said Mrs. Towse.

I'll know what sort on a morning 'twill
be. It'll teem down wi' rain afore very long.
That makes th' owt chap anxious. Well, /
meant dawdle here. Get's some drmk, missis.
He's home and down aegean by this. Law,
thought i' high feather, Bobby.'

The weather-wise parthian was not far
to seek in forecast. Before the afternoon was
over there floated up small black clouds like
tufts of coarse black wool or curls of smoke,
water-whelps ' Towse called them. These
increased in size, floated wildly across the sky,
gathered together, eventually obscuring the
sun. Xo relief from heat was felt ; the air
was clammy, overpowering ; languor succeeded
marchioness. At last large rain-drops
pattered down, each at a respectful distance
from its neighbour. Cowlamb continued
eyeing the threatening sky nervously, and
not with thankfulness.

I hope we hadn't going to have it weet ! '

I hope not for certain,' said Towse.

^ The Almighty does as He likes,' said

Cowlamb, ' bud I wish it was a sparing time,
this time o' year.'

They say it all comes for good — i' th'
end, but it's amazing aggravating at th' time.'

Drop it,' said the farmer at last, shaking
his head ominously, as the ram came thicker,
faster, and now closer together ; ' git all up ye
can. I nun be off to yon Irishmen.'

It'll come on heavy, I'll uphold it,' said
Towse.

Towse was correct in his judgment. The
night closed in gloomily enough, shower
succeeding shower, a settled downpour
steadily flushing the parched earth. The
farmer sank into a dismal humour, meetings
more than half way, seeing his crops
that year ruined, Sam's too — sprouting,
stooks growing fast to the ground, and
stacks rotting and heating until they blazed.
There was nothing for him but to sit in the
house thus brooding thinking; ao-ain about
Iphis and Sam. He was too sore to speak of
his son to his wife — too proud. He had been

SO boastful of Sam's cleverness and abilities
to her ; he had prophesied i;vith too much
certainty of Sam's future prosperity and
standing. She was not Sam's mother, lie
always considered ; she was Iphis's. She
could not have a mother's feeling; for him — it
was natural she should place her ' ain bairn '
first. He had not placed the other lad anything
like so high as Sam. He had always
considered the elder first, and the younger
was always given to understand that Sam
was first, and first to be considered. And
this was his return ! Cowlamb's invidious -
ness was brought home to him with bitterness.
Is it not so ? Do we not too often
centre our hearts and affections the most
strongly upon the oue who shall cause us the
most trouble and woe, giving but scant love
and appreciation to the dutiful and law
abiding ?

Cowlamb sat silently eating out his own
heart while the women sewed. The cock of
their needles was necessary to him ; it was

the familiar sound at nio^ht time ; the sio-ht of
the work-basket always made the evening
seem thrifty. Had they sat idle this night
his unrest would have been more pronounced.
Their occupation was evidence of a proper
employment of spare hours.

At ten o'clock in the summer, at nine in
the winter, the household retired, the servant
girl always leaving the kitchen one hour before
them. That hour matters were discussed
which could not be ventilated in the girl's
presence, for although she sat at a respectful
distance, in a shadowed corner, Cowlamb
believed the lass's ears were pertinaciously
set to gather in crumbs of information.
AVhen the girl had gone, Cowlamb turned to
his daughter.

What does t' say to going back to Snail-horn
— to keep Sam's house ? '

Snailhorn ? ' questioned Iphis.

I spoke plain, didn't ee ? ' said her father
curtly.

Am I going ? '

^ I don't know, we sell see. He can't get
along: bv listen. Thou used to reckon tliou'd
rattler be at Snail horn than here.'

Iphis recollected that well, but now her
wishes in that respect were somewhat modified.


There was half an hour's silence, during
which neither woman looked up, Iphis
occasionally biting' off her thread, while her
mother cut it with the scissors, Cowlamb's
eyes directed into the fire-grate. Both suddenly
looked up, for the farmer having
stealthily unlaced his boots, now kicked them
ofi^, and stooping down carried them away in
his hand to their proper position for the night.
He marched across the floor.

Where art ee going' ? ' asked Mrs. Cow-lamb.


^ To bed, to be suer,' answered be tartly.

Then we'll go an all,' said she agreeably.
^ Iphis, put the basket away. Thou can finish
thy work another night.'

It was against all rule sitting up after the

head of the house thoiio'ht o-ood to seek his
couch. On rare occasions, exceptions had
been attempted, but every ten minutes his
voice would be heard demanding the cause of
delay, warning them they would be asleep
when they should be awake, railing because
of improvident lamp-burning. There was no
rest for them or for him.

Thy father's hed a long day, an's harried
and worried, Iphis ; he's dog-tired,' excused
Mrs. Cowlamb.

^ One always has to bundle off just when
it suits him to go, whether one's ready to go
or not,' complained Iphis, peevishly, but
obeying.

'AVell, well, thou's lived long enough to
know his ways.'

I don't want to go to Snailhorn,' declared
Iphis, ' and be in the house wi' that drunken
Sam.'

I don't suppose he'll force thee to go.'

But Iphis was not so confident of this.
Morning came with a clear sky but a watery

chill in the air, as if the cessation of rain might
only be regarded as temporary. As Iphis
was dressing she heard voices in the lane.
She looked out of the window, and her eyes
rested upon a group of the men, the Irish and
English labourers, in colloquy. Their position
was pleasing and picturesque. Trees in that
particular spot still remained on either side
of the road, reasons for such charity lying in
the conviction that on one side of the lane
they screened the house, on the other they
were on a less cabalistic farmer's holding.
The early sunlight through the openings
flooded patches with refreshing and exhilarating
effect. The men had their gathering
rakes and other tools, a few lads stood with
stone jugs on their backs, which they held
painfully, the string cutting their fingers, but
of too conservative a temper to set them down
on the ground. The rain had caused a stoppage
of labour, the cause of the preamble
now progressing. Wit was prominent, rude
perhaps as much in manner as in speech, the

Irish subtle and less boisterous, their strong:
brogue at times rendering them unintelligible,
disqualifying their keen retorts in the ears of
the English labourers. She could hear their
short laughs. She raised her sash and listened.


Palethorpe, advancing from the village,
now reached the group, and was roughly
seized by the shoulder.

This is one, lads.'

Mind who yare seizin' at this time o'
morning,' cried Palethorpe, ostentatiously ; 'dost
know who thought seizin' ? '

Thou needn't be so big, man. Ha' they
catched them two crazed men ? '

I never heard a word.'

It's right. They've gotten away fra
'asylum, an' reckon they lookin' for har'stin.'

There's been a policeman up here austin'
if they been any such marching' for work,' said
Towse.

'^If that's it, I'm off and away,' said Pale-thorpe.


Oil, not for thou. Bud we're stopped
said Towse.

I knew it 'ud be weet as thick,' said
Palethorpe, ' it tern down wi' rain all meet ;
did thee hear it ? '

Noa ; I was over harried to keep awake,'
returned Towse, ' bud I nun be off.'

An' I nun,' said Palethorpe. ' I want
to do some odd jobs. One nun keep right
or I won't ha' come ujd.'

• Maybe if thou'd as much money as some
folks thou won't ha' bothered.'

Xot I, Eli. They say them as is killed
wi' work goes to Treminster to be buried.
I'm so fond o' work I could go to sleep by it,
bud not i' a weet wheat-field. I'd never rob
no man of a day's work if I wasn't main
forced. They make it out riches is sinful,
and it says i' th' Testament roughish tidings
o' rich men, bud I think one's a better chance
o' been' good when one's well ofi". An' ya
don't find folks wi' plenty o' money more
anxious than poor folks, and they hadn't

scar'd by what it says. Poverty aggravates
one into been' a rascal. Parson says o'
Sundays we're main bad, 'cause there's no
collections to speak on.'

Them fellows said Towse withering,
^ wi' live or six hundred a year considers
their sens poor, or they'd never stand in a
pulpit telling poor folks they hug their
money; they'd nobbut like to hug more
on it.'

Maybe,' said Palethorpe, who was a
staunch Churchman, and contemptuous of
Dissent ; ' the more money one gits the worse
off one feels.'

^ I never hed that feeling, Paley, so I can't
tell thee.'

'Oh, well, lad,' said PalethorjDe, 'if one's
to be strung up for breaking that last commandment,
I broken it no end o' times.
When I seen a young heifer i' full profit I ha'
wished it was mine, nobbut. I've hung my
liver ester fat pigs, an' wished I'd th' murthering
on 'em. 0, an' bless ye, a bit o' land

o' somebody else's I've felt as if it oughtn't to
have gone beside me.'

Heigh,' assented Towse, gravely shaking
his head, ' them little commandments take a
vast dele more keeping than them big 'uns,
for all them little 'uns one can remember the
best. No man but a nat'ral fool 'ud bow and
scrape to a penny doll. One used to be able
to read 'em up i' churches times by occasions,
when one felt one's memory was going', bud
now they've got to print 'em in such print as
no plain body can make out. It's high learnt
folks that wants the surest direction — us
common folks must last 'em if we want to
know or remember what parson tells us.
One mud be breaking; 'em thrust ignorance,
now then I '

^ Running' away wi' somebody else's wife
or

Xay, now, that's among the very littlest ;
that one can't help but remember. '

'Or running' away wi' somebody else's
dower '

VOL. I. T

^I harding know whether that's in, ony-where
said Towse, uncertain. 'In consequence,
if it isn't there it couldn't be a sin.'

'Xo, certainly not,' said Palethorpe.

Iphis put the window sash down gently.
Eun away with somebody's daughter — was
something in the air of her father's annoyance
? If things came to the worst, exiled to
Snailhorn, even if placed under lock and key
there — she knew what a determined man her
father was — there were ways and means of
communicating with a lover ; trust a woman.
she flattered herself that she was of the sex.
Would Ephraim run away with her ? Would
he be bold enough ? Iphis laughed to herself,
to her own face in the looking-glass, as she
brushed her hair a little smoother, and wiped
the corners of her mouth with a towel coquet -
tilly . She even admired her own lips ; no one
could deny their colour, their fulness and
ripeness, and oh, coquette! she practised a
pitiful, entreating look before the glass, ad
then a coaxing one, the tear not there but she

felt when occasion required it could be there.
But she would not run away while Ephraim's
brother stayed.

She raised the window sharply and the
breeze rushed promptly into her chamber.

Towse — you can't start yet, can you ? '

^No 'm, we can't that.'

sit's a bad job.' |i

But she was thinking it would baulk her
of seeing Robert Sparrow in the harvest-field.

There was no enduring prospect of fine
weather, but the sun gleamed out at breakfast
time, and at noon the farmer decided that
work should be resumed.

^ If it's over chatty,' said he, ' we nun
drop it.'

The sailor suggested a beautiful moth returned
to chrysalis or caterpillar. I'lie metamorphose
was disheartening. But to Iphis
a little of his former glory hung about him.
For one thing, he retained the open throat.

I wonder you don't git cold,' remarked
she.

T 2

Use is second nature, Miss.'

She discovered her father's trousers were
too long for him. He had rolled them over a
pair of Towse's high-lows. They were ample
too. He saw that her eyes were scrutinising
his get-up.

They were full long and big, but that
makes 'em^cool and pleasant, more like my
own.'

A touch of impatience overcame the farmer
as he noted the complete understanding which
seemed to have been arrived at between them.

Now, is the bess gong for to fancy this
chap now ? '

His greater impatience was perhaps that it
looked like leading to 'much talk, little work.'
If she did nothing herself, she ought to know
better than hang about hindering when the
weather was so treacherous. And he was not
accustomed to seeing faults in what she did.
To cure her of a megrim he would have paid a
man to hangs about doings nothing if he had a
guarantee the man would not in turn become

presumptuous, and go beyond what he was
paid for.

It'll turn her mind fra the t'other,' philosophised
Cowlamb, as he pressed his spotless
heel into the almost white nag as a signal for
it to proceed.

It's shameful how that lass does go on
wi' chaps,' remarked Caroline.

Law, missis, what would ye ? A lass
has to give a look, or a chap durst speak.
They tell me ya was as gallas as anybody.'

Now, now, Palethorpe, thou never come
ester me.'

I was over far gone wi' somebody else.
Law, one doesn't alius wed the one one fancied
best, but the one one gits turns out jostling
useful and needful to one.'

That's true,' said Caroline ; ' I never
meant having my man. They used to lia'
picture o' folk cut out o' black paper. He'd
i>:ot one o' them black things of a lass I did
know, an' I thowt she shouldn't lev liii.
Law ! I'd that thing put by years, an' I used

to go look at it, I was nobbut a soft young
tiling. I gave it to one o' th' barns to play
wi', an' lie cut her head off her neck, an' so
she was done wi.'

You women are alius so dead unto one
another.'

Thee, she's making bands for Towse's
sower.'

Well done him.'

^ But how about that blacksmith chap ? '

'Tis all i' the family.'

Iphis set herself this task in a spirit of
partisanship. She wished Robert to make a
good show of work done. She could talk to
him and help him as well, she only wished
the straw was less damp. But Robert was
quick and deft. A little raw at first he soon
showed that he had not entirely forgotten a
pursuit he had followed before sailoring days.

Iphis habited herself to frequenting the
field to watch her protege, so that whenever
her father asked what had become of her, his
wife replied, desperately —

She's off to the wheat close.'

And the farmer screwed his eyelids in
dull perplexity. He could not fail to notice
how attentive the girl was to the fellow at the
diner-table, anticipating his wants, pouring
into the guest's glass even to the last drop of
beer. That a certain anxiety began to show
itself in his auxiliary's countenance, hopelessness
and tenderness, his eyes watching Iphis's
movements with some fondness, admiration —
some confusion in her talk, her eyes falling.
Ah, this was again a pretty piece of business !
Cowlamb was now fully aware of the sailor's
relationship to Ephraim Sparrow, and had
half repented himself of his generous impulses.
The sailor was not such good company
as at first ; he seemed too absorbed now
to enter into any talk with him.

The wheat was all in stook, the oats were
all cut, and the barley was fast becoming
white, and the barley harvest was the most
tickle. It should stand out, but a rain might
depreciate it several shillings a quarter.

Robert's leave of absence was fast expiring.
He bad intended going borne to spend ibis
last few days with bis father. Day by day
be put it off until be bad reached the last day
but one of bis leave. Ipbis saw little of
Ephraim, and those few occasions sbe met
with bim sbe treated biui with provoking-coolness.
Ephraim retired each time with
the conviction that bis day was over and that
be must abandon all hope. Tbe first pang
over, Ephraim' s nature prevented such usage
from cutting deeply — resignation was one of
Ephraim's strong points. He saw that ibis
brother was drifting into a strong passion ;
its apparent depth appalled bim. Ephraim
was quick enough to conceive that bis brother
was not of so elastic a temperament as be
was. A fever of desire lurked in the elder
brother' s eye, there was worship in the little
attentions be bad for Ipbis when they met,
bis voice was wistful and tender. Robert's
polish caused Ephraim to feel himself more
of a clown, more awkward and rude : and

although Robert's words were few and quiet,
and well chosen, Ephraim knew it was
intense passion that kept them calm and
moderate. Ephraim felt himself unworthy
before all this. It was only in Ephraim's
presence the elder brother had qualms, feeling
himself a supplanter, acting a Jacob's part.
When conscience smote him he met it sadly.
He would have to go away soon, and the field
would remain for his younger brother, her

first lover, and she would No ! he did

not wish to think that she would entirely
forget him. He hoped that he would dwell
in her memory and be remembered kindly.
He was foolish ; her goodwill from the first
was owing to him beg Eph's brother.
Then lie could not overlook the impression
that of late there had been little communication
or concord between the farmer's daughter
and his brother. Why had he come at
all ?

When does he make a finish ? ' asked the
farmer.

To-morrow ; he's going by the night
train from Moortown to see his father,' said
Iphis with guilty knowledge.

They're ordered to fm-ren parts, Towse
tells me,' added Mrs. Cowlamb.

There's likely to be fighting' ; cornell getup,'
remarked the farmer with some satisfaction.


He hasn't persuaded his brother to
go ? ' said Cowlamb, venturing on dangerous
ground.

'I don't know,' returned Iphis impatiently,
off her guard, then turning
away.

The former repented himself of his
temerity. Shortly after Iphis left the house,
a little disturbed. She had not treated
Ephraim well. In despair he might enlist.
According to gossip, he had no light time of
it with his master. This and her treatment
of him might make him feel restless, reckless.
She had not failed to notice Ephraim looking
downcast, despondent, without a struggle

giving up the field to his more favoured
brother. He set too little store upon himself.

They were leading wheat that day. She
wandered up to the backyard, it must be confessed,
a little aimlessly. To her surprise,
Ephraim was there, seated on a huge draught
horse, not astride of it, but as the plough
lads sit. She could see that he had no stockings
on, but whether that was because of
poverty or a desire for comfort she was
scarcely able to determine. Ephraim was
spinning out his errand to its utmost, ignoring
Farmer Cowlamb's prohibition, wishing
to steal a few minutes to be near his brother.
Robert was in a waggon throwing up sheaves,
which Towse on one side of the stack deftly
disposed, while another waggon on the other
side was ministered to by Hosea and the
sheaves taken by Palethorpe.

Robert's waggon Alas nearly empty ;
Ephraim, idly seated on the horse, was talking
at his ease, while Robert's words Averse
jerked out after every exertion.

None of them saw her at first, and she
stood observing them interestedly. The
fraternal affection of the brothers touched
her. When the waggon was empty, Robert
sat down at the tail ; then leaving his fork in
the waggon, sprang to the ground. At the
same moment Ephraim slipped off the horse,
and Eli carrying gears on his head, advanced
to the horse's tail, and adroitly threw them
upon the animal's back.

'Nobody would believe ya two was
brothers,' said Palethorpe, his waggon now
emptied. With his fork in the stack he accomplished
a clever sliding descent.

Who ! ' grinned Eli to Ephraim, ' thou
looks like a slice chopped off" o' Bob.' Then
addressing the horse authoritatively, ' Come
whether a woy-ah. Tinker ! — Gee ! '

The sailor could not divest himself of the
effects of discipline ; he stood erect, and his
carriage was good, while Ephraim' s locomotion
was plunging and loose. Ephraim was
quite ready to admit his inferiority, regarding

his taller brother with pride and affection.
Long years had parted them. No envy was
like to take its place in the breast of either.

Why doesn't t' 'list ? ' asked Eli.

I TTodn't much mind,' said Ephraim.

Xay,' said Robert, ' stop thy time now;
thou can do that when thou art beat.'

Why should t' 'Must ? ' asked Iphis, indignantly
addressing Ephraim.

I'd know '

Thou'd better stop an' serve thy time.'

But Ephraim would not meet her eyes.

^ I nun be off,' said Ephraim awkwardly,
or my owt moody-warp '11 be down unto
me for been' a long while, an' 1 no business
here.'

agit into no scrapes, Ephraim,' advised
the prudent Towse.

Father thinks maybe there'll be war,'
said Iphis with a measure of anxiety, following
with Robert Swallow in the Awake of the
waggon. Though terrible to her, there was a
glamour of the heroic. This young fellow

before her would likely enough take part
in it.

Has he seen the paper ? '

The Mercury had something about it.'

^ Well, lots of our men will be eager.'

^ And shall you ? '

I can hardly say now. I don't think I
shall be so much as I have been.'

why?'

Xay,' Robert Sparrow shook his head
with tender diffidence. ' I might tell thee,
if '

No ifs,' said she, with bewitching encouragement.


'I hadn't free. Is it true that there's
aught between Eph an' thee ? '

You can ask him that,' she' replied.

It's true ; thou doesn't deny it.'

He appeared to think it would be as well
not to explain himself. She was disappointed.


But if Ephraim fancied me, and I didn't
him '

This was certainly reasonable. Men had
made themselves foolish over women who
would not hearken to them. Could he expect
a modest girl to volunteer her preference ? It
was possible Ephraim had had no real place
in her heart before he came. If he had
caught her ear, she had listened out of sheer
wilfulness and the spirit of coqucttishness. A
yellow centred sunflower, the ox-eye daisy,
she held in her hand ; one by one the white
petals were dismembered ruthlessly by remorseless
fingers.

Thou only plays with a fellow said he
solemnly.

Xay, I don't,' denied she earnestly.

Are you sure of it ? '

I'm sure I don't.'

Thought not playing with me ? ' he asked
with strong feeling, but with some doubt of
her.

Xot now.'

Well, then, I wish I could come and
work here to be near thee. I'd work hard an'

try to better my sen for thee.' His voice was
tremulous and entreating and full of the
purest emotion. He had no rough modes of
courtship, no violent seizure ; he was a suppliant
and held himself apart, until voice or
gesture showed him that which was faintly
denied might be taken freely.

Hasn't t' said as much to others afore
me,' temporised she ; ' powers and sailors can
git a fresh sweetheart wherever they go, they
tell me.'

'Never — not,' he stammered, ' as I mean
now.'

She laughed in a low tone. ' Oh, Robert,
thou left a sweetheart where thy ship stopped,
I'll be bound.'

He only shook his head disconsolately.

I could buy myself off, maybe '

He stopped and looked in her face appealing
ugly ; he failed, though, to interpret her
sphinx-like face.

Thou couldn't do that just now, maybe,'
said she, with a feeling of pity.

Maybe not But if thou doesn't care

for anybody else,' he took her hand, ' tell me,
Iphis. I do love thee. I didn't think I
should, really ; but every day I been getting

worse. If I stopped here much longer

Well,' said he, ' 'tis as well I am going,
maybe. Thou doesn't like to tell me ? ' He
was anxious even to find her an excuse for
her hesitation. ' Isn't that it ? Thou could
easily draw thy hand away if it was so.'

He felt himself bound to ask her the
question to quiet his conscience with regard
to Ephraim. If it had been any one else, he
felt that his wooing would have overlooked
such an obstacle as a previous lover, one who
still had pretensions. But it was his own
brother. His heart sank, when he felt her
hand stirring ; resistlessly he let it go.

I thought so it's Eph ? '

Iphis inclined her head. 'But I like you ;
but it is Ephraim, it is Ephraim ! ' confessed
she with some agitation and remorse.

They heard a horse's feet behind them.

VOL. I. u

Both were roused out^of their other world by
the sensibilities of the world about them. It
was Cowlamb riding up. He had been observing
them for some minutes, walkmi^: his
horse on the grassy hedge side. His reflections
until the last moment or two were
buoyant and comforting to himself.

Oh, well, we sell soon be out on Mm.
He's put t'other chap out on her head, I'se
think. Oh, well, if she begins aegean wi' him,
oiF she packs to Snailhorn.'

But now close upon them he heard her
say distinctly, ' I like you ; but it is Ephraim,
it is Ephraim ! '

She shall go to Snailhorn,' muttered the
farmer, savagely. A peculiar sound made
with tongue and palate, and he was abreast of
them.

Now, then,' cried he, addressing the
sailor, ' shall you git thrust ? '

I think we shall, sir,' said Robert quietly.

Yes, they would have all wheat in that

nioflit, and harvesting;, as far as he was concerned
in it, would be over. If he had had
longer leave of absence he could not have
stayed another day now.

xj 2

CHAPTER 13.

Expectation.

The corn was all led, even the barley, and
some of the wheat was thrashed, for Farmer
Cowlamb had a weakness for being one of the
first in the market with a sample of new
wheat.

Sam's housekeeper was leaving him this
very day. Iphis's boxes were packed and
stood in the kitchen. She was going back to
Snailhorn, to the home of her childhood. • It
would have had its measure of pleasure and
delight for her but for the feeling that it was
a genteel kind of transportation. Iphis appeared
in the kitchen dressed for her journey.
She passed through, scarcely deigning to look
at any one.

Where art tli' going ? ' asked her father,
jealously.

To Towse's, to bid the barns good-bye,'
vouchsafed she,

'Don't be long; about it,' cautioned he:
then to his wife adding, with deep offence,
though with a grim chuckle, 'fine and rear
and rank she is.'

Ij^his hurried across the two fields. Her
heart was somewhat heavy. Her mettle, too,
was curbed and bitted down. She seemed to
be bound down with an iron chain. She was
going to live with Sam, keep his house, but it
was on compulsion. She could leave a word
behind with Mrs. Towse ; it was not likely
that Ephraim would be there. She had not
seen him to steak to since his brother's departure.
She had seen him in the chapel, but
Ephraim seemed to fight shy even of looking
at her, and her father had insisted upon her
vacation; her seat among: the sin<]^crs to sit
with him in their narrow pew.

She did not know that her father had

done his best to make Ephraim's place almost
too lot to hold him. The blacksmith, not
ignorant of Ephraim's escapade, was treating
the lad with some consideration, if a little
envy rankled with it ; but a word from the
farmer, intimating a change of smith if
Ephraim Sparrow were sent on his place
again, caused that worthy to return to and
improve upon his old tyranny ; curtness,
grumbling, and grievance implied by looks
and gestures more than words. The blacksmith
gave the farmer to understand that he
would curb the presuming Ephraim, and give
him more work to take the folly out of him.

Happily, away from his hardships.
Ephraim was blithe as any lark, looking
forward to the day of his release. There was
the faintest chance of Iphis meeting Ephraim
at the parthian's. Already the Towses were
aware of the proscription, but delicacy would
have prevented them from mentioning it to
Iphis. They rather held with the farmer.

that he was justified in the course he had
adopted.

The Towse children and some of the
neighbours' were at pLay on the house floor.
Joel, a towel thrown over his head, and the
other children around him, chanting a burthen
in a dreary key —

Be he old or be he young,

He hath not learnt his mother tongue.

'Husht! Imsht! barns, you do make such
a noise,' said Mrs. Towse, the moment she
saw Iphis enter.

The silence was profound, and Joel, affected
by it, though disappointed at the interruption
of the rite of which he was the mystic,
removed the towel from his head angrily.

Thou be going' to leave us, then ? ' said
Mrs. Towse.

I am, but not by my good will,' declared
Ipliis ; then softening a little, she said, ' Sam
was alius a good brother, but he isn't what he
used to be. I think you're always mending'
stocking's when I come.'

^ Alius filii' or unending' nets.'

Have ye heard fra Robert, Mrs. Towse? '

Well, Ephraim lies — lie doesn't know
whether there'll be war, bud they're ordered
off. It's a good way off, but it's not the
Indies, it's a harder name than that. I doubt
we sell never see Robert no more.'

Ipliis looked so much distressed, Mrs.
Towse felt concerned.

I haven't seen Ephraim to speak to him ;
he fights shy of me, and I don't know what
I've done amiss to him. Has he said anything
to you, Mrs. Towse ? '

But Mrs. Towse shook her head, mentally
determining to be neither pillar nor post.
The first precept with Mrs. Towse was duty
and obedience to parents.

Oh, I see,' said Iphis, with some temper,
there's nowt to be got out o' you.'

We meant git into no trouble,' said Mrs.
Towse, apologetically.

'I wish I had been a boy,' said Iphis,
v/ith a forced laugh. ' I once tell father so

when I was little, and he said, '• And I wish
thou lied;" and then I said, "Then, why
didn't ye christen me different ? " He tells
everybody that.'

Well, it was a queer thing to say,' said
Mrs. Towse, laughing. ' Fancy I An' are ye
o;oin' to Snailhorn for o-ood ? '

I expect so,' said Ipliis, despondently.
I once reckoned o' going, but I hate to think
about it now. But I nun say good-bye, or
I sell have father here safe enow ; we have to
catch the two train. Joel, what shall I bring
thee when I come back — a silver new nothing;
to pin on thy sleeve ? '

Xo,' replied Joel ; * I want a sword,
and a gun, and a monkey.'

Xow, thmk o' that,' said Mrs. Towse,
hands outspread, juvenile assurance and
tenacity of memory thus exemplified in her
own offspring. ' Once we boat him one o'
them monkeys on a stick, at liisby feast. He
broke it first day, he did. He would make
the monkey go clean over in a way he was

never meant to, an' wi' licking', the paint came
off on to his face, an' a clean pinny. He
was pitch an a sight as never was seen. I
thowt he'd forgotten all about it.'

I ain't, though,' said Joel, proudly.

^ Hush, hush ! mustn't be naughty, Joel.'

I hadn't naughty,' declared Joel, in hurt
surprise.

Xo, I'm suer he isn't,' said Iphis, mercifully.


'Yell, I meant bide no longer, Mrs.
Towse, so good-bye. I shall come and see
you when I come home, if it's nobbut for a
day. Good-bye, Joel, and be a good boy,'
advised Iphis, kissing Joel where his face
was cleanest.

Mrs. Towse, watching Iphis hurry over
the fields, sang to herself in low tones a song
old as the hills, but which did not strike her
as apposite — ' Brangiin' no more ' — but then
Mrs. Towse' s wit, humour, and philosophy
was like that of her neighbours, innocent of
forcing, the spontaneous outcome of her mind.

Readiness of response, happiness of retort is
native to illogical, untrained minds. Before
Ipliis was settled in the train, her father at
her side, the wayward girl had passed out of
the matron's mind.

It is a cleanly county; there are cleanly
houses and cleanly people, clean streets in the
small market towns, and well ordered sewers.
But go on the railway, the cars are deplorably
dirty ; soap and soda is certainly not a strong
point with directors !

A vignette of a farming acquaintance
attracted Cowlamb's attention. He made for
the compartment where this face beamed as
complacently as the bull's head on the
mustard tin.

Come on, Iphis, we'll be in here.'

What a dirty carriage ! ' said Iphis,
ready to be disgusted with anything ; * but
they're all alike — they always are dirty.'

Here, thee been, sit o' this paper,
they're not fit for women-kind,' said her
father's acquaintance. Iphis was not in a

gracious mood ; she took the paper though,
then met his eyes with a look akin almost
to horror. What a fat man ! He smiled at
her, and she felt ready to sink through the
carriage floor. \Yhat a ponderous human
being ! It was easy to see the complaisant
fellow sat at a good table, although he must
sit some distance from it, and no weak armchair
to support his twenty stone odd. His
hands were now clasped across his monstrous
stomach. His features were not unpleasantly
caricatured with wreaths of fat ; he seemed
to have numberless chins. He loved good
living, no doubt, and when he was out drank
many threepenn'orths. He looked benignantly
at Iphis, his bearing suggestive of
thankfulness that he showed in his person
abundant evidence of his prosperity and
power to make any friends comfortable who
might favour him with their company, that
was, so far as eating and drinking and a free
house went.

Iphis did not feel at all inclined to melt.

She sat staring disconsolately out of the
window. She listened to her father and his
friend talking — wheat, barley, oats ; oats,
barley, wheat, but it interested her. Crops
on either side came in for criticism.

Bad land — heads badly filled — thin.'

^ Not so forrard about here as down wi'
us,' from Farmer Cowlamb.

Transition from bad land to better effected
by the puissant locomotive. But bad farming.
Some one known to both coming in for
censure and sarcasm.

A good farmer afore a kitchen fire, or in
publics wi' a glass afore him ; eh, Cowlamb ? '

Cowlamb nodded.

He can discourse there mightily o' stock,
an' harvest, an' hay gittin', an' how to keep
fly ofl* tonnes, but somehow he's alius
backward at rent-day. He's hed ill luck i' all
his venture.'

"Tis not to be wondered at that, seeing
how he leaves all his business for other folks
to transact, while he's gadding about parish

business or some contains o' other follies,'
said Farmer Cowlamb, cynically.

I see, Cowlamb, thou knows the man as
well as me.'

I good reason '

Cowlamb' s face, as an old writer puts it,
was almost actionable ; his fat friend regarded
him gravely, then both nodded — one sourly,
the other sympathetically.

That's a different place,' said the fat
farmer, pointing out of the window, ' to what
it was when I was a lad. Law, I seen the
owt man busy paring sods an' laying 'em on
th' bank tops. The warren — blowing sand,
short ling. That was the owt man's way o'
keeping the bunches within bounds.'

And that was Squire Dick I ' said Cow-lamb.


On Sunday he rid an owt galloway to
Cuckoo-field, eve mile away, wi' his owt bassoon,
for he was that fond o' church music.
That was his one deli^'lit.'

And that son of his never got married,

an' died, an' towers still single — owt
maids.'

Scar'd for fear chaps should want 'em for
their money,' said Cowlamb's friend.

Better keep single than that,' said Cow-lamb,
looking significantly at Iphis, who
tossed her head to herself.

How queer things go I A man spends his
life a stratton' to be a money man, an' put
forrard his barns ; they don't alius fit into his
notions.'

Xo ; that's true,' replied Cowlamb, fervently.


Aye, a young lad's taken a farm i' our
parish, rucks o' money there is th' family, an'
nowt too hot nor too heavy for him. Dal it,
they tell me he's a thousand pounds worse
since he began. Xow if he'd started

poorish '

It ud ha' been th' making on him, maybe,'
finished Cowlamb.

swell, I sell soon be home. T sell git
out directly. The train stops a Ijit. AVill ye

git out and lie a threepenn'orth, Cow-lamb?
'

No, thank ye.'

Well,' offering a fat hand, ' good-day.
Good-day, my dear, I hope you'll get a good
husband. Heigh, oh, bless thee, all my lasses
lev husbands, barns and all — all the sorts
there is. Thou's the right sort, I can see.'
He stood outside talking. ' I knew thou had
one lass beside them lads, but she's a
woman.'

He's a nice man, Mr. Hezlewood,' ventured
Iphis, as soon as the farmer moved on.

Nice enough, if he wasn't so fond o'
threepenn'orths. I once saw a man change
him a sovereign. " Now, you'll come an'
lev a threepenn'orth?" says Hezlewood.
Nay, there's no need o' that," says the man,
awiver I can't just now." A bit ester
Hezlewood meets him. "Here you!" says
Hezlewood, " come on, I owe tha a three-pennyworth,
an' I hate beg in debt." '

Iphis laughed.

^ I see nowt to laugh at said her father,
crabbedly, ' throwing good money away.
There was nine or ten more he was in debt
wi' somehow or other. Then, when another
man wanted to treat back, Hezlewood says
'• Xay." Awiver, the fellow got mad, an'
swore he'd never ride in Hezlewood' s cart ony
more if Hezlewood wouldn't be treated. Law,
what a while they do keep one at these pattern'
places.'

More often Cowlamb took train to Have-luck
to get to Snailhorn, but this day Sam's
trap was to be at Stamford. When they
reached the inn it had not yet been heard of.
The farmer fumed, but there was nothing else
Jut waiting. In the snug bar a party of jobbers
were sitting returned from some fair.
They were full of bounce and talk, compounded
of simplicity and shrewdness. Clever
in their calling, outside of it guileless of ordinary
intelligence, of the constitution of people
keeping more than an ordinary pace with the
world. They saw Cowlamb enter, but none

VOL. I. X

of. them seemed to know him. Altliouo-h
talking among themselves, they were not
altogether unmindful of foreign ears catching
gist of their conversation; indeed they
talked to be heard, rather flattered if they
gained an interested ear. Happy recollections
of fortunate days, old stories retold, as
if to stimulate in the face of darker days.
One would tell a story, the others simulate
interest, for they had perhaps heard it over
and over again, but their Jesuitry was to
entrap the stranger into attention and regard.


Just guess how many he boat at Rugby
fair?'

^ A thousand ! ' with mock eagerness.

'A thousand?' — a moment's pause to
excite surprise — ' six, and cleared 4/. a-piece
at Sleepless market — twenty-four thousand
pound. Here, landlady, ester that we can
drink another glass, it puts heart into one.'

I think we can,' said Cowlamb, taking
up his glass. Iphis v»'as inclined to be indigo

30

nant, to think that her father should doubt
the man. Xo doubt he was speaking the
truth. Only Iphis knew her father so well —
he was not a credulous man, he would not
place implicit faith m such brag.

^ It's true, sir,' affirmed another ; ' he's
even up jobbing an' taken to farming.'

I didn't dispute it, sir,' said Cowlamb,
drily.

Iphis noticed that they Averse shy of their
experiences after this. To Iphis, jobbers bargaining
was always an interesting scene.
Leading the seller away from the throng,
affectionately resting one hand upon a shoulder,
the buyer ^ indulges in much whispering
and many gestures. At one moment one
expects osculation imminent, at another there
is such repulse that one believes the odd
grimaces indicate scorn, contempt, and recourse
to fisticuffs. But the arm fills pointless,
the bargaining recommences, the pair
of slices touch almost, some letter understanding
seems to prevail, they cast each

other off with sudden movement, the vendee's
hand is outspread pain Upward, and down
with a smart shock comes the hand of the
vendor.

A trap went past the window, a horse
with a proud neck and fine action. It drew
all to the window.

A fine animal,' said one.

It's Sam's,' whispered the farmer to his
daughter — then to the landlady in an undertone,
' tell the chap he needn't lose out ; last
him if he'll lev a pint o' beer. We'll go in a
minute, Iphis : I'll just finish my glass.'

I like a good topped loss,' said the
jobber, again.

Aye, thou ought to know a good loss
when thou sees one ; thou's done a bit o' loss
cousin' i' thy time.'

I lev, but I was once at Hardcastle and
there was a fellow, every time I spoke about
a loss, kep' putting' it down in a book. I'd
been up (before the magistrates) the week
afore. I thowt he was eurus about me and

was set on to watch me, so says I, "I hope
you're putting' it down correct." Says he, " I
hope so." So I says to hmi, '*' Maybe you
want to know who I be ; I'll tell you straight.
I'm Jack Moody, the reprobate boss dealer o'
Haveluck." I heard no more on it.'

It settled him, I'll uphold it,' said the
landlord, who had come in. ' I went to a
horse-breaker when I was a lad, and my
father said to me, '* Make up thy mind, lad,
for I do think a horseman that dies worth his
saddle and bridle he's not a bad fellow." I
often thowt o' what he said, often est when I
was mounted i' th' stable. I ridden a boss ina
dark stable for Aveeks, we durst let 'em
see daylight — when we brown 'em out they'd
blinkers on. Romping six-ycar-owds, thoroughbreds
nobody liked fettling. One cold
morning I thowt I'd go to a bit o' plain
.service ; my finger ends was frozen nearly, an'
I bed to how my boss that tight, buck as lie
would when he'd th' least chance, and I seeth'
owt tailor come out and rub his iroosc on

the door mat; thinks I, he's a better job nor
me, so onehow or other I got a trade.'

^ Iphis, we'll be going,' said Cowlamb.
Good-day to ye.'

^ Good-day, sir,' said the landlord, obsequiously.


^ Who is that? ' asked the jobbers.

'AYhy, don't ye know? Why, Cow-lamb.'


I thowt I'd seen him afore,' said the
story-teller, scarcely recovered from his discomfiture
; ' he's a clever farmer, I hear.'

Them two sons o' his are turning out
queer,' said another ; ^ they tell me when Sam
Cowlamb comes here or goes to Haveluck or
Treminster market there's no telling when
he'll git by adam.'

^ He's parted from his wife, isn't he ? '

The owt man looks sour. He's a good
dele put on.'

Iphis saw all the faces at the window.
She knew instinctively that the party inside
were canvassing; them. Having: her father's

nature, she met the quizzical eyes crossly and
defiantly. She could not hear the broad
lauo'h that went round after one of them
said —

That's his lass, an' a chip o' th' owt
block. That sour look 's the owt man up
an' down.'

The town was a pleasant one, more picturesque
than Moortown. It was a beautiful
country around it. The road passed through
a rich area, old pasture, gentle slopes, and
lush hollows, the wool of the sheep yellow,
the red beasts sleek and ' solider ' than those
about Willowby. Copses of young slim trees,
broad hedgerows, with ancient oaks and elms,
skirted the road for miles, wide strips of green
on either side, the villagers' cows grazing,
and a lad ^ tent in ' them.

A good road,' said Cowlamb. ' I tell
our overseers they ought to conic an' look at
the roads about here. They use gravel, not
that soft clay or limestone. The first frost,
if it isn't sharp enough to bear a duck

on a dyke, it's all splish-sposh, like soft
mortar.'

There is some line trees an' all,' said
Iphis, won over with the beautiful entourage.


Almost too many on 'em,' said her father,
critically.

There's a few trees about our lane, else
they're all stubbly thorns i' th' hedgerows.'

They look nice when they're white over
wi' May, or red wi' cat-haws.'

Xot so pretty as them loss-chesnuts when
they're i' flower.'

They're good to nowt, not much more
wally than thorn i the wood, an' not half so
useful to a farmer.'

Is everything forced to be useful? ' questioned
Iphis.

Thought i' thy tantrums, to be suer,' said
Cowlamb, impatiently; 'thou knows as well
as I do what ee mean.'

Iphis relapsed into silence again. She
brightened when the great white house came

in sight. She was born there ; her soul was
not yet dead. The thick stone walls and
sturdy comfort were much more preferable to
the lath-ands plaster grace of the Willowby
farmhouse. Its multitudinous windows
gleamed m the sun ; the ivy that here and
there ran up to the eaves, a distinct feature in
the building. How dear to her was every
antiquated piece of stone-work, the curious
old kitchen-door frame that might have come
out of an abbot's refectory ! How oddly the
modern register grates accorded with massive
stone mouldings and chamfers of the old open
canoes ! and the window-sills were as lari>;e as
cottagers' tables.

Sam was m the 3^ard, He came up like a
dutiful son and shook hands with his father
and kissed Iphis. Iphis found herself admiring
Sam's dutifulness and filial respect. He
looked to her father, she thought, apologetically,
as if he were sorry for his faults and
would do better in the future. She was
almost sore because her father would show

himself so curt and unsympathetic. Sam
followed at his father's heels like a prodigal
son returned to an obdurate father. Cowlamb
would certainly have sent his prodigal to the
swine until his heat was over.

How homelike everything seemed to her !
It was like coming back home. Her heart
seemed to warm within her and her brain to
quicken. Her eyes glistened at the pale
bright blue on the staircase wall. The flock
paper on the dining-room wall — hideous to
present esthetes — had not been changed,
although Sam, the last time she was there,
had declared he was tired of it. Iphis had
said that she should be sorry to come and find
another in its place. Had Sam retained the
room in its old guise, heeding her ? Ij^his
was inclined to believe so. The girl brought
in a kettle and placed it on the trivet. Iphis
noted that Sam had a liking for comfort, and
did not keep best rooms merely to look, at
and to entertain company in. Xo ; Sam's wife
had had high notions, as Farmer Cowlamb

said. She had acquiesced in breakfasting in
the great kitchen, on condition that the other
meals of the day be had in the dining-room.
But Cowlamb would never have found fault
with his son for living in good style, however
he might deprecate Sam's ' uprightness ' at
home. Whenever he went to Snailhorn he
settled down comfortably in the easiest of
Sam's leather covered arm-chairs, his slippered
feet stretched out at leo's len<2:th on the

rug.

Sam was open and frank with his father,
and Cowlamb forbore pressing upon past
slips. While Iphis was m the kitchen cutting
bread into writing-paper slices, the farmer was
acquainting Sam of Ij^his's alarming proclivities.
He had a fine opportunity, for Iphis
must have a scour round, opening closet and
cupboard drawers, asking numberless questions
of the stout lass who was there ready to
wait on the young mistress hand and foot,
with no laggard Avill. The fireplace was
under a beam, a chair stood under at each

side. Iphis could recall the picture of lier
father and mother sitting there.

If it was a fellow,' said Cowlamb, ' that
was owt at all, one might be glad. But a
blacksmith's lad, a ne'er-do-weel, and but a
bit bigger than his tongs ! Xow there was a
brother, a sailor, as come ; he was a finish
chap. I thowt between 'em it would all slip
to the oi'ound. I thowt so till I heard wi'
my awn ears — bud she'll be out o' the road
on him here, out o' harm's way.'

Oh, she'll be safe enough here,' said Sam,
encouragingly.

After tea, naturally, the farmer and his
son went out to look through the backyard,
the stables, and over contiguous fields.
During their absence Iphis found time to
explore the bedrooms, examine carpets, beds
paying particular attention to pillows —
looking under them to see if there was any
accumulation of flue. The window curtains
did not escape her ; her fingers ran along the
edges of furniture to test whether dust prevailed.

Ipliis came to the conclusion that
there was little to find fault with. For a day
or two the girl had been left to her ot\ti
devices, and Iphis held with her mother that
servants were a necessary abomination, instituted
to be sharply looked after.

She found something to occupy her in
the kitchen. The evening shadows crept on,
and she heard Sam and her father enter the
house.

She's hed a regular hunt,' said Cow-lamb
shrewdly to his son. ' AVhat's she ester
now ? '

Xay,' laughed Sam, ' she's found something
not point 'vice maybe.'

Iphis coming into the room a little after
this was witness to a little jar. Father and
son seemed to have forgotten past recrimination,
shyness and distance. An unlucky
move of Sam's disturbed the harmony. He
went to the sideboard to fetch decanters and
glasses, and Cowlamb fired up.

^ Thou needn't — no. that's it ; oh, deary

me,' here Cowlamb groaned, ' I can do wi'out
at home, I can do bout here.'

Iphis's heart leaped ito her mouth almost.
She felt paralysed with a cold dread.

Sam returned from the sideboard crestfallen,
and without a word of rejoinder. He
went to the chimney-piece, and his fingers
absently abstracted some letters from a rack,
which he eyed one after the other and then
placed them back again, conscious of his
father's eyes fixed upon him basilisk-like.
Eventually he took a chair, leaned back, then
restlessly inclined forward, but all the time reading
his father's uncompromising face furtively.
Iphis sat away from both, and she was also
watching Sam ; her eyes had a frightened
dread in them. Her father — had he told at
home the worst of Sam's craving?

She was glad, indeed, when her father said,
without any temper —

Well, my lass, where's a light. I'm off
up the wooden hill.'

Iphis wondered if Sam would stay behind

and help himself to the liquor. But Sam's
moral boyish awe of his father was not yet
extinct. Sam was master here at Snailhorn,
but the king still lived, and he made his voice
heard in subtle fashion. Sam cheerfully took
the hint, and both father and daughter heard
his bedroom door close with some satisfaction.
Iphis lay awake thinking for a time, then
recollecting that her father would have to bestirring
early, she composed herself for sleep.

She was down early, solicitous ; a good
breakfast will soften a misogynist. There
were few of her father's weak points she did
not know. Did this solicitude soften him
towards her? But no ; he did dearly love
her, he was parting from her, and there was
some difference between them. He was tender
with her before f]foinf^.

Now, Iphis,' said he, touchingly, ' if
thou'd only do as I wish thee, thou'd never ha'
cause to rue. The day afore I come here I
settled for that little farm beyond ours. I
boat it, an' I mean it for thou. Then, whither

t' gits husband or no, you'll lia' no fear when
I'm gone.'

Her heart beat fast. She could not help
being' touched with such love and forethought.
But then, could even such a bait reconcile her
to the life of an old maid? Woman fulfils
not her mission in the world unless she
marries. All she could say was, ' Thank you,
father,' and kiss him.

But when Sam and his father were about
parting, Cowlamb retained his son's hand a
moment.

I believe, Sam, thou likes that lass. Now,
be good to her.' It was earnest entreaty.

I will,' said Sam reassuringly, brightening
as he fully comprehended his father's
meaning.

Well, thee,' said CowJamb, desperately
faithless if hoping for the best, ' if I hear talk
o' thou frightening her wi' ony o' thy antics
I'll lev her back soon. Now, mind.'

Sam felt himself very much like a bad boy,
but, with wonderful grace, bore the lash.

You're hard on me, father, if you think that
o' me — wi' her.'

Cowlamb had no time for reply. Trains
do not wait for happy terminations to periods.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.05D0X : Punster) BY

fiPOTTISWOODK AND CO., XKW-STUKKT SQIAIIK

ASD PAllLI.VMEST KTKKKT

VOL. I.

/r/. Svo. Limp Cloth.

By the Sisters Bronze.
2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze.

SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Honte.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronze.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY. By Anne Bronte.

With Preface and Memoir of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the P>:ms of

Charlotte, Emily, and Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.

2s. td. each.

RUTH. I MARY BARTON.

SYLVIA'S Lf)VERS. NORTH AND SOUTH.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS I LIFE OF CHARLOT IE Bronze.

MV LADY LUDLOW, and other Tales included in ' ROUND THE SOFA.'

By LEIGH HUNT.
2 J. dd. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY: or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUrOBIOGRAPHVOF LEIGH HUNT.

MEN, WOMEN, AND BOOKS; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoirs.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM MOUNT HYBLA: or, Sweets from Sicily in Particular;

and Pastoral Poetry in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY Converse iiON S OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform with the above 2s. 6d. each.

THE SMAF.L HOUSE AT Arlington. Bv Anthony Trollope.

The Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.

F RAM LEY PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.

ROMOLA. By G-orge Eliot.

BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart.

TRANSFORMATION. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DEKRBROf)K. By Harriet Martineau.

HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau.

Autobiography OF LUTFULLAH.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF TH E EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. Thackeray.
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR. Hv T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. By the Author of ' Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DU.STYPORE. A Tale of Modern Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Pictorial Covers price Two Shillings each.

By WILKIE COLLINS.

KO NAME AFTER DARK. ARMADALE.

*♦* The above may also be had in Limp Cloth, price 2S. 6d. each.

By the Author of
*JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.'

ROMANTIC TALES. | DOMESTIC STORIES.

By HOLME LEE.

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE.

SYLVAN HOLT'S DAUGHTER.

Katie BRANDE.

WARP AND WOOF.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES.

THE WORTLEBANK DIARY.

BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.
MAUDE TALBOT.
COUNTRY STORIES.
KATHERINE'S TRIAL.
MR. WYNYARD's WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

By Captain GRONOW.

RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.
ANECDOTES OF CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS. To which are

added LAST RECOLLECTIONS OF THE CAMP. THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.

Uniform with the above,

GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.

AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe.

TALES OF THE COLONIES ; or, Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.

Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.'

THE MOORS AND THE FENS. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

BY THE SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN.

VERA. By the Author of ' The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.

IN THAT STATE OF LIFE. By Hamilton Aide'.

MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.

MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide'.

SIX MONTHS HENCE. By the Author of ' Behind the Veil,'&c.

THE STORY OF THE PLEBISCITE By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.

THE CONSCRIPT and WATERLOO. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian. In one

volume.
GABRIEL DENVER. By Oliver Maddox Brown.

TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.

PEARL AND EMERALD. By R. E. Francisco.

Seule. By the Author of ' the Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'

PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide.

A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Ty tier.

BRIGADIER FREDERIC. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.

MOLLY Sawn. By the Author of ' Phyllis,' &c.

MATRIMONY. By W. E. Norris.

PHYLLIS. By the Author of ' Molly Sawn,' &c.

MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. By W. E. Norris.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Tibi

■■'^'^BtW^

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

8ZS
WS7Zm

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/meadowsweetorwoo02whel

OR ^

THE WOOING OF IPHIS

A PASTORAL

BY

EDWIN Shelton

AUTHOR Oy 'A LINCOLNSHIRE HEROINE' ETC.

A. daughter of our meadows, yet not coarse ,
Straight, but as lissom as a hazel wand'

Tesnyso.v

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP. Page

14. AT SNAILHORN I

15. MR. LONG . . . . . . . . 25

16. 'come live with me' 44

17. A Peace-offering . . . . . . 75

18. Formation RESPECTUEUSE . . . .95

19. COUNSEL Ill

20. A DEFAULTER . . . . . . .137

21. A SURPRISE . . . . . . . 155

22. PASSION 174

23. CHECKMATE . 190

24. GENTLE COERCION 216

25. A RESOLVE 239

2G. PERIL 250

27. PLOUGH-JAGS 267

28. A STATUTE HIRING 285

Chapter 14.

AT SNAILHORN.

As her father and Sam drove off Iphis felt,
although m the familiar old home, the fall
measure of her loneliness. For a time she
moved about the house, her mind ill at ease,
occasionally going to the windows, looking
out disconsolately towards the prim, straight,
white road. She could hear through an open
sash the straw-cutter at work, she could seethe
pigeons, unsettled as herself, taking flights,
wheeling round the buildings to settle down
on the ridge of the barn, fluttering up and
down the tiles.

Had I the wings of a dove ! ' — she would

VOL. II. B

herself have taken flight — back to Willowby
again.

Snailhorn was large in acreage but thin
in population. A few cottages were huddled
together as if for neighbourliness, else Sam
Cowlamb's house lay at some distance from
any other. True, the almshouses were almost
at the door, but they were incoming
hovels, and had long been an abomination in
the eyes of the Cowlambs. The parsonage —
a roomy house with an old-world bachelor
rector — could be seen from the upper windows
of the farmhouse. In another direction lay
a rambling old thatched house, tenanted by
an eccentric squireen, also a bachelor, half
his time helpless with gout. These two old
bachelors were the antipodes of each other ;
there was no animosity between them, nor
was there any love lost in their acquaintanceship.


Ten adult souls was a fair congregation in
the rubble church, a small building without
tower or pretension to architectural beauty.

The pews were high, and m them the
labourers' children could carry on the manufacture
of doll clothes without embarrassment.
The children were quiet, nothing more was
expected of them. The Rev. Mr. Gerlimore
had a practical way of obtaining a congregation
at least once a year. Every labourer
who showed himself in person at church on
Christmas Day received from the parson half
a crown. It was with joyful sarcasm Mr.
Gerlimore twitted his congregation individually
as it filed out of church — ' Ah, Job,
thou's contrived to get to church again.' It
was • parson's way.' Mr. Gerlimore quite
agreed with them going to chapel if they
liked it better ; now and then he expected
them for appearance's sake.

Some said the rector, although a bachelor,
had a son who was a sad dog, swallowing
up all the income the poor old parson could
spare. The conjecture was near upon the
truth.

The eccentric owner and occupier of the

1) 2

thatched house never went to church — never
said his prayers, so persons out of his house
said — but passed his time bewailing his loneliness,
cursing his gout and his servants, and
drinking gin and water.

Iphis, in her early years, had been attracted
with the liberal freedom of this well-to-do
Diogenes. His profanity was rather a
relief after the straight-laced home. Her big
brothers were accustomed to tease her because
of her preference for Mr. Long, and her
periodical journeys to the old house with
peaked windows in the thatch. But she had
also a great regard for Mr. Gerlimore. Then
no one had whispered slander in her ear.
Her father never took exception to her goings
out and comings in. He lived amicably with
his neighbours. Mr. Gerlimore never solicited
his attendance at church, but Cowlamb went
to keep the reverend gentleman in countenance.
If Cowlamb had his convictions he
did not allow them to prejudice him. In
like manner he went to Long's occasionally",

if the old man's lano-uao-e was an infliction
for a professing member to hear. Now and
again Cowlamb essayed feeble remonstrance,
as in duty bound ; it maybe simplified
matters if it did not mend them. Mr. Long
swore at such childish interference.

As it happened, Mr. Gerlimore was in
Haveluck that day, and met with Sam
Cowlamb.

Hi ! Cowlamb ! ' shouted Mr. Gerlimore,
descrying Sam in the distance. Then, when
nearer, he dropped his voice. ' Are you going
hodie ? I was just about to order something
on wheels. I'm glad I saw you — that is, if
you have room for me.'

There's nobbut mysen,' responded Sam,
cheerfully.

That'll do ; I'll beg a lift. When shall
you be ready ? '

Directly.'

That will suit me. I want to get back
to Snailhorn. I must just look up Whittaker.'


We got Iphis back aegean,' said Sam,
when they were in the dogcart.

eh — now, that '11 do,' said the parson,
warmly. ' Come to be housekeeper, eh ?'

That's about it, Mr. Gerlimore.'

I think I shall go straight up with you ;
I must see the bairn. I haven't seen her fora
long, long time — why, not since your father
left. She has been over, though ? '

Oh, aye,' said Sam, ' a time or two.'

She didn't come to see me.'

You was out every time, Mr. Gerlimore,'
said Sam, anxious to defend Iphis from remissness.
' We knew that you was i' London
once.'

Eh — London ? Who says so ? What
have I to do with London ? ' Mr. Gerlimore' s
sharp, ferrety eye looked to Sam with a 
about his movements.
' Maybe I was at Bath ; I often goto
Bath '

^ I don't know where you was,' said Sam,
carelessly.

AVell, I did go to London. You see,
Cowlanib, there's a lad there — no relation of
mine — his father died in a bad way, left him
and his mother poorly off. His father was a
great friend of mine — I could do no less than
look after the lad, eh ? '

This was a pleasing fiction of Gerlimore's.
In his own ears it always sounded pleasing
and pathetic, and he thought it shelved impertinent
curiosity and choked those people
who looked as if they would like to question.


You never lev him here ? ' said Sam,
innocently.

No,' stammered the parson. ' Why
should he come to such a God-forsaken place
as Snailhorn ? '

Sam was giving expression to a dull
curiosity as to the personal traits and appearance
of this mysterious protege of the
parson's.

I been to London — once. It's a strange,
big place.'

Sam could not recollect meeting anyone
there, young, favouring Mr. Gerli-
more.

They are all for themselves in London,'
said the parson, gravely. ' I often think this
lad takes things as if he had a right to 'em,
d'ye see ? '

I hate such ways,' returned Sam.

Is this horse quiet ? ' asked the parson,
for Sam with feeling gave the mare a cut indiscreetly.


Wish,' said Sam, calmly.

But it's a mare. She switches that tail
of her's in a hottish way.'

It's mettle,' said Sam.

Or maybe it's the flies. They do bother
the ]door things at this time of the year.'

^ Oh ! she has kicked a leg over the traces
a time or two,' said Sam, candidly, giving the
mare a cut across the quarters as if he yet
resented her last dereliction.

'Why, hang it, Cowlamb, she kicked just
then, I do believe ? '

I'm sure she did said Sam, coolly. ' An'
she will now till she's tired.'

^ Woa, mare ' muttered the parson. ' I

thmk I shall get out.'

She'll ha' done directly,' said Sam
philosophically.

But to Mr. Gerlimore it scarcely seemed
likely. The trap Twas swerving to the side of
the road. Nearer and nearer a wide, deep
ditch they were pulled, or rather jarred.
Soon her leg was over the trace again. As
soon as they reached the edge of the ditch the
parson, who had been preparing for it, sprang
out and landed safely on the bank. Sam satin
and proceeded irregularly a few yards,
when, the wheel running over the ledge, the
mare gave a leas, landing her forefeet on a
stone heap, coming down and jerking Sam out
into the drain, from whence he emerged a
moment later, drenched with water. He had
lost his hat, and his hair was full of sand.

Are you hurt ? ' shouted the parson
briskly from his coign of vantage.

No returned Sam, inwardly despising
the parson for jumping out ; it would have
been fairer to have finished alike.

Then, here's for limbs and liberty ! '
shouted the parson, throwing his stick in the
air.

^ I'm limbs and he's liberty,' thought Sam,
but not venturing to say so. ' Come and sit
on her head,' said Sam, sitting on her head
himself, ' and I'll unloose her.'

The shaft is broken,' said the parson,
gleefully.

We'll get a raH.'

The mare, set at liberty, struggled to her
feet, and stood quiet. Sam examined her
knees.

Wonder she hasn't pared 'em, tumbling
on a stone heap.'

Sea gravel ; if it had been limestone it
would have done it ; but see, she's cut her
hind leg.'

That's th' step. That step isn't right.
I'll lev it altered. One sees a thing wrong
and never alters it till some mischief is done.'

^ Viii must doctor that place with lard
and gunpowder '

It's a good thug, I know said Sam.

Just stand by her head, Mr. Gerlimore,
while I get a rail out o' th' hedge. How
lucky one is ! ' said Sam, after abstracting the
rail ; ' I boat some ta-marl at Haveluck for
thackmg.'

^ What blessings we do enjoy!' said the
parson. ' I thought I smelt some tar. Wo,
mare.'

If she kicks I'll brain her,' said Sam.

She'll not kick.'

What a tale we shall have to tell Ipliis,'
cackled the parson.

She can't say I was worse for drink,'
argued Sam. He was congratulating himself
on his sobriety. Mr. Gerlimore's word would
be taken, his might not be.

The rest of the journey was accomplished
with safety. Sam abstained from using the
whip, and both men sat in the trap as if only
there on sufferance, their eyes directed towards
the head of the recalcitrant mare. Ipliis came

out of the house as they approached. She
had detected the decrepit condition of the dogcart.
She also observed the mare held up her
leg when she stopped.

What's been the matter ? '

We've been over the left, my dear,' volunteered
Mr. Gerlimore.

Thrown out ? '

'Well, I jumped out to save myself.
Your brother trusted in Providence, and
Providence disappointed him, as it most often
does people. Never trust to Providence in
such jobs, my dear; jump out ; do what you
think will land you high and dry. I've seen
folks who trusted in Providence come to the
workhouse.'

That's all very well, Mr. Gerlimore,' said
Sam, 'but I believe in keeping hold o' the
reins.'

Well, I hadn't hold of the reins ; and I
would rather the horse was killed than be
lamed myself. But, my dear, get your big
brother a clean shirt and some warm water to

wash the mud out of his hah' ; he has bccu
among the water-cresses.'

While Sam was renovating himself, Mr.
Gerlimore occupied himself with petting Iphis,
inquiring after her parents, and encouraging
her to talk of her preferences, whether she
liked Snailhorn better than Willowby. Iphis
had placed a bottle of brandy and a glass
on the table.

You shall be my Hebe,' said Mr. Gerli-
]more ; ' pour up — there ; now water to the
top of the cuts, not a shade further.' Iphis
got out another glass. ' Ah, Sam will have a
glass ; it was a nasty spill.'

^ How is Mrs. Spikesley ? She's laid up,
my gell's been tellin' me,' inquired Iphis.

Very bad,' said the old parson, shaking
this head ; ' I doubt she'll not weather it, poor
thing ! '

I must go see her,' said Iphis.

I wish you would. My housekeeper can
make things, but she's a poor comforter. She
tells 'em they look like dying when she ought

to tell 'em they're mending. One way of
working a miracle is making believe. I've
sent a good basin of arrowroot every morning,
but sbe's got nervous, and her mind's
low. She's afraid of dying, that's it.'

Did you pray by her, sir ? ' asked Iphis,
innocently.

Pray by her ! ' echoed Mr. Gerlimore in
astonishment. ' Pray by her ! ' repeating the
sentence ; ' no, prayers be hanged ; all I
thought was getting her out among her
bairns. The woman was starving for want of
something she could eat and drink. No, I
sent her a bottle of old port and a bottle of
brandy and a basin of arrowroot. Yes,
arrowroot, a fine thing for ailing folks, and
the butcher is to leave a piece o' loin o'
mutton when he comes this way. Pray by
her ! ' again repeated Mr. Gerlimore ruminate
'pray by her ! No ! Some good
support and some good things into her, better
than all my cold prayers. Pray by her —
humph ! To ask that of me ! '

Ipliis was a little alarmed at the parson's
vehement repudiation of such scant charity.

It's like telling a man to go to church or
chapel and behave himself and hearken to the
parson when he's an empty belly. Ay, Sam,
here is this chit asking me if I didn't pray by
Mrs. Spikesley.'

You did better than that, sir.'

Right, lad, I did. Get a drop of brandy,
Cowlamb, it'll set you right. A glass of
brandy and water is a fine thing when you are
not well, and a better thing when you are
well. They tell me some folks get drunk on
it. I don't believe they could. They couldn't
make me drunk on it. It's wholesome drink ;
ay, that it is. A stiff glass will drive out
rheumatics.'

Iphis noted that it was a ' stiff ' glass that
Sam helped himself to. The parson's words
caused her to look.

Time passed ; the rector was full of high
spirits, teased Iphis about his rival Mr. Long,
replenished his glass, Sam following suit, only

Sam contrived to have his ' stiff as the
parson termed it, every time. When the
second glass was drunk the parson prepared
to go, and during Iphis's absence with him at
the door Sam contrived to replenish his glass
again.

Iphis was astute. She thought Sam had
been modest if his glass had sunk no lower,
lavish if it had been refilled. She took the
heavy decanter by the neck and almost b}^
sleight of hand tossed it into the bureau.

Heigh ? ' remonstrated Sam.

You've had enough, ain't you ? '

Plenty for fne, I think,' said Sam.

It's lonely here,' said Iphis, with a despondent
look stealing over her face.

^ Lonely ? Why — the parson's nobbut just
gone. Am ee to shout him back ? '

^ No, thou needn't. I didn't use to think
Snailhorn lonely, and when we first got to
Willowby, offers I used to wish we were
back. But one sees a lot more folks there.
And Towse went wi' us, and I knew them.

The labourers is all fresh here — and we could
see a lot o' traps going to Moortown from
the chamber windows, and if one liked, one
could soon run down to Moortown to the
shop. Sometimes we went to Moortown
chapel when there was a great preacher.
They'd Pension once. But father said he
was i' AVillowby parish an' he'd stick to
Willowby chapel, though I do believe it was
farther off than Moortown.'

And didn't thou like Willowby chapel
best ? ' asked Sam. There was a twinkle in
his eyes, if he had a grave face. But the
tone was that of a brother petting an infantile
sister.

^ Oh, yes,' answered Iphis, turning to the
window again. But Sam could see that her
neck was aflame.

You'll soon battle here,' said Sam, consolingly.
' Thou can go to Haveluck market

wi' me.

^ I shall be forced to go nows and tiens.'
Thou can go round among thy owt

VOL IT. C

Ac

friends. There's the Plumtrees and the Bees.
The Bees lasses are about thy age.'

^ What a ways it is '

Thou can ha' th' owt galloway and the
little green cart, or go on his back.'

Maybe come down wi' me.'

I durst trust mysen on his back.'

^ Oh, I'll go some day,' said Iphis, perfunctorily.


Well, after dinner I'm going for a round.
Some o' my beans are out yit. They been
under water up to the bands.'

You ought to ha' got 'em afore the rain.'

'Twas no good till they was ready. Just
when they got i' fine fettle, it began to rain
heavens high.'

Sam departed after dinner.

^ Oh,' said he, looking back mischievously,
^ I sell look in at thy owt sweetheart's.'

Now, Sam, don't git any more drink,'
cautioned she.

Sam marched off, a little affronted. She
watched him ride out of the yard. There

was something in being a man, lie thought.
What liberty a man had ! A woman — why,
she was always held in subjection — controlled.
If a woman asserted herself, took
the lead in anything, she was considered to
have annexed herself. What had she not to
submit to ? Sent out of the way of a lover,
who would ever see her here ? She wondered
if Sam knew why her father had favoured
him. And she wondered, too, what would
become of Ephraim. She tortured herself
wondering if Ephraim would transfer his
affections to some one else. She had half a
mind to write to him and explain. She did
not want to put herself in his way, or make
herself cheap, but he might think that she
had treated him badly — firstly, in flirting
with Robert ; secondly, in leaving Willowby
without letting; him know that she was o^oino-.
But he ought to have seen that it was her
fun, coquetting with Robert ; she had not
intended to be cruel, and she had not had an
opportunity of telling him she was leaving

Willowby, only tliroiigh the Towses, and
they were not the best of go-betweens.

All Cowlamb's children had been well
educated as he pronounced it, but if there
was anything any of them fought shy of
it was pen-and-ink. A book was never a
source of entertainment. Iphis got pen, ink,
and paper, and for an hour or two fretted an
impatient, hesitating mind into greater hesitation
and doubtfulness. She spent much
time cogitating how should she address
Ephraim — ' My dear Ephraim,' or * Dear
Ephraim ? ' she wrote both more than once
on trial scraps of paper ; she was too economical
to waste sheets. Then, after playing
with her pen and smiling to herself, she
placed herself in an attitude that would have
reduced a writing master to despair. She
commenced with the approved sentence : —
Dear Ephraim — I write these few lines,
hoping they will find you well, as this leaves
me at present '

And there she stuck. How was she to

vindicate herself ? ' Lick herself clean '
would have been her phrase. Had every one
the same trouble with their epistolary communications
? But this was out of the ordinary
groove of letter writing.

I never hed it in me,' confessed she to
herself. She read what she had written, as
if it would inspire her to dash on. Then she
excused herself — ' If one had written to him
afore it would be so much easier ; and if one
was certain Ephraim was the same,' she
added, as if to remind herself that this was
but an exculpatory letter.

^ I thought it best to write these few
lines '

Xo ; she must bring no charges against
her father. She was proud and astute. She
would place nothing in her letter, so that, if
he were base enough (which she could not
think) to show it about the village, she
should not be ashamed.

as I had not the chance to speak to

you about some things before I left Willowby,

1 expected that Mrs. Towse would have let
you know, but you seemed as if you thought
I was to blame, but I was ^

But Sam had returned. ^ Dear, to thhik
of him coming back so soon.' She heard
his voice inquiring if tea was ready. She
looked round at the clock on the mantelpiece.
How time had gone surely! She hurriedly
gathered up her writing materials.

Sam must know nothing of this.' But
with her desire not to smear what she had
written, not having any blotting-paper handy,
she was scarcely quick enough to get them
out of the way.

What — writing home ? Why, law bless
me ? ' exclaimed Sam. Then he began to
suspect.

No to Mrs. Towse,' said Iphis, desperately.


Mrs. Towse,' sneered Sam, contemptuously.


That was a happy thought. She could
address her letters under cover. Mrs. Towse

would deliver tliein ; the blacksmith, so completely
under her father's thumb, might
intercept them.

^ Thou can finish thy letter,' said Sam,
carelessly

Xay, it doesn't matter now. I like to
have such jobs to my sen.'

^ I'll go out a bit aegean,' proffered her
brother.

^ Nay, thou needn't. I shouldn't git it
off to-day. It's not to a day or two. I'll
see about getting' tea ready ; I won't be many
minutes, Sam.'

Sam liked being talked to in this strain.
Iphis could be very cajoling when she chose.

^ I been across yonder, Iphis. Your owt
sweetheart asked me to ask you if you'd go
down after tea. If he hadn't the gout extra
bad he would have come back here wi' mee.
You see, last week the owt man was nimble
as a young lad.'

My owt sweetheart ! ' said Iphis in simulated
dudfifeon.

Ah, well, lie said he was this afternoon.
I'd go. The owt fellow's rucks o' money, anno
relations. There's no telling '

That certainly was catching. If remembered
in his will, Iphis felt that she would be
of much greater account in her own family.
People had come into fortunes in likelier
ways.

During tea-time Iphis talked most hopefully.
She could not have been more confident
if she had read Mr. Long's will and
found her name there — the old man powerless
to make another.

Shall you go, Iphis ? ' asked Sam.

I think I shall,' replied she.

I should, if I were you,' said he, pointedly.


CHAPTER 15.

MR. LONG.

Iphis's arrival at Mr. Long's rambling old
house created some consternation. She went
to the back door instead of to the front. Mr.
Long cursed, and declared that was just what
people did when there was anything on the
way. There had been a great ' cleaning ' day
on in the kitchen, the plaster between the
dark rafters had been yellow-washed and the
walls too, traces of the amenities of this
important annual festival still lingering on the
floor in spots and springs. Mr. Long sat in
the middle of the floor, being moved as the
exigencies of floor washing demanded, his
eye following the circum amputations of the
lass's floor cloth, detecting slipperiness of

workmanship on her part, and not failing
at the moment on his to acquaint
her with it. One would have thought
he would not have been tolerated thereon
such a day, but no business of any
kind went on without Mr. Long's supervision.
He was very crabbed with his gout
and very restless, straining to look out of the
window, one moment disconnectedly muttering
pious ejaculations, at another making
use of the most profane language. These
were' moments when his memory served
him with some recollections of ingratitude,
deceit, or chicanery ; or, at his own estimate,
of the worthies ness of those about
him.

Oh, d him, he's a bad devil, and

bad '11 come on him.'

Who, maister ? ' The lass looked up,
her floor cloth coming to a standstill, it a
pediment, her arm a flying buttress for the
-full weight of her body.

For a moment Mr. Long gazed at her

dumb, ill apathetic astonishment. At hist
the deluge.

^ A nicest thing for you to put your vary
in in such a way. Get that floor replied,
thou hussy,' cried Mr. Long, with a diabolical
grasp of his stick. ' That's the way on

'em, d 'em ; they come to you humble,

with hungry bellies, and as soon as they gets
'em full they turns saucy.'

Tell ya that lad to come here,' commanded
he, peremptorily. ' I see him go
past the window ; he's at them apples, I
know he is ; if I could nobbut get after

him ' and the old fellow screwed up his

mouth and grasped his stick still more ferociously.


The girl rose stiffly from her knees, and
ran against Iphis Cowlamb.

Oh, you been busy,' said Iphis in her
thinnest voice. ' How d'ye do, Mr. Long?
I wouldn't ha' come if I'd ha' known.'

Xow, don't say so,' replied Mr. Long,
pathetically. ' I'd forgotten you was a

coming, or I'd been in the room. Miss Grinstead
has gone out. Oh, Lord! oh. Lord!
what a memory I have ! But I'm glad the
old devil is out, I am — I am. She's always
contradicting me, and I pay her wages and
find her keep, and I ought to ha' the coping
word. Now, then, ha' ye told that lad to
come here ? Oh, come ya here, yare a pretty
devil, aren't ye ? Ugh ! ' snorted the old
man, ominously. Then he chuckled with
senile humour, recollecting some former
depravity of the lad's, which he highly
relished, though at the time of its enactment,
for authority's sake, he had counterfeited
severe disapprobation.

Delaying for a moment or two, the lad at
last made bold to approach slowly, but taking
a wide circuit, so as to be out of range of the
stick, which he observed the old man grasped
firmly, his hand tottering with suppressed
eagerness.

^ D'ye hear? Come here and unlace my
shoes ! Now then ! '

The lad came a shade nearer, and the old
man. thinking; lie was within ranee, made a
cut at him. It was a miscalculation ; Mr.
Long' had foro-often that he could not bend
forward.

leant ya do as yare bid? ' stormed Mr.
Loni2r.

Put down that ere stick i' tli' corner, or
else I went,' muttered the lad, doggedly.

Ya went, went ye ? ' chuckled the
master, feeling that an armistice must be concluded.
' Xow then, will that do, thou joker ?
Xow, bring me my shoes that's blacked for
Sunday, and you'll have to help me into the
room. Reach me my stick ; I hadn't going to
hit you, ya deserve it though.'

Iphis found great difficulty in maintaining
gravity. Once the mischief entered into her
head of handing the old man his shoes on the
fire shovel, which she observed handy.

I'll help you,' offered Splits. ' Isn't your
gout nearly better, Mr. Long ? '

« Xo, d it. If it was I shouldn't be

stuck here. You would be surprised what a
man I am when I've nowt the matter with
me.'

Oh, I can believe that,' said Iphis, flatteringly.
She was rewarded with an old fellow's
leer which was intended to be grateful but
only looked wicked.

Oh, law ! ' gasped Mr. Long, when seated.
What a job it is to be ordered up like this !
and I have nobody that cares twopence forme.
There's a parson over there,' pointing
with his stick to a compass point, ' but he
doesn't think it worth his while to call and
see me ; he's over well off. I saw him drive
past the other day, and he never so much as
looked at the house ; and he's the nearest relation
I have. I ought to have got married
when I was young, and had sons and daughters
of my own.'

A sigh of regret escaped him.

It is a wonder you didn't, Mr. Long,' said
Iphis.

Why, does tha think I'd have been

fancied then ? ' lie asked with a brio^liter
look.

^ Yes, I should think so.'

Ah, now, dost think thou could ha' fancied
me when I was a young man ? '

I don't know,' said Iphis, coyly.

Thou doesn't know,' mocked he coaxingly.
'Ah,' muttered he, despondently,
they're all now trying to get as much out
o' me as they can, or paying off grudges.
Why, there's that lad, that rascal, Ashen I'm
laid up like this, he says, " I will," and '' I
weaned," and just does as he likes. And when
I want him I ha' to send to look for him.
Afore the corn was cut he used to go and hide
hissed in it. He's knocked nearly all the
apples oiF my little tree and eaten 'em — I know
it's him — and they was hard as flints. He
might have eaten all the rest oiT the other
trees, but them seventeen. I counted 'em ;
the first year the little tree's had a bearing. I
wanted to see what they'd come to. Oh, the
d d. rascal! '

It is annoying said Iphis, soothingly.

Annoying? ' ridiculed Mr. Long, bitterly ;

< it's a d d shame. He's a bad 'un, a

bitter bad 'un, an' bad '11 come on him. He
gets at the beer barrel ; I believe he goes to
bed drunk every night, the scoundrel ; and
the lass is nearly as bad. Miss Grinstead
catched 'em drinking beer like fury one night.
Why doesn't she take care o' the key ; I give
fourteen pence a gallon. They're well met, that
lass and lad,' continued Mr. Long, resignedly ;
^ they may drink to one another's conduct ina
pint glass ; a glass o' beer would hold all
their virtues. I do believe '

But Iphis stopped what she believed was
likely to end in aspersions scandalous by declaring
—

They wouldn't carry on like that where I
was.'

I don't believe they would,' said the old
reprobate, admiringly, a brighter light in his
plaintive-looking eyes. what a difference
there is in folks ! ' commented he ; ' some seems

born to slush about, and some to be ladies in
the land. That lass is a regular pawdawdles/
and the lad's a regular limb — a imp up to all
sorts o' thieving and lying. And to look at
him one wouldn't think he had it in him. But
I can serve him out. I send him with a
wheelbarrow full o' stones to the churchyard,
then when it gits dark I send him to fetch 'em
back, an' I talk o' ghosts afore he starts, and
he's forced to pass the gibbet hill.'

Oh, don't, Mr. Long,' pleaded Iphis, her
flesh creeping ; ' I shall have to go afore it's
dark.'

So then, so then,' soothed Mr. Long ;
why, surly thou doesn't heed such rot ? '

Xo,' said Iphis, stoutly ; ' still I don't like
to think about such things.'

^ Why, it's all bosh. I should like a ghost
to come near me. I'd ghost him.' Mr. Long-shook
his stick grimly. ' Nov, I'm going to
have a party at Christmas, wilt thou come to it ? '

^ Poor dawdler, loiterer.
VOL. II. D

It wants a long time to Christmas,' said
Iphis, gloomily.

^ Aye, but I thought I'd tell thee a longtime
aforehand. Thou hadn't going to be
married, eh? '

^ Not that I know on,' said Iphis, sadly.

^ That's a stood things,' returned Mr. Lone,
as if relieved.

I thought you said a bit since it was a
good thing to git married when you was
vouno;?'

'Did I? So I did. But I don't want
thou to get married — unless,' qualified he, 'it's
to somebody I like. I should like to find thee
a husband. There's Joe Bee,' suggested Mr.
Long, hypocritically, ' Joe Bee, what does thatching
on him? '

I wouldn't have him at no price,' said
Iphis, uncompromisingly.

'^ Thought hard to suit. Well, it's not him,
no. Whist! Here's Miss Grinstead ; don't
say a word. She might be jealous ; think we
were talking about her. She's a sour old
creature.'

Mr. Long's housekeeper entered the room
a tall, gaunt old lady, tremulous with the
palsy, far from the terrible ogre the old fellow
painted her. She was spotlessly neat in her
grey alpaca, accurate in her front curls. She
was very formal and precise, addressed Iphis
as ' Miss Cowlamb/ and was very firm on proprieties.
After greeting Iphis, without further
preamble she unlocked the bureau and produced
a decanter and a wme-glass, the old
man regarding her action favourably, but at
the same time swearing inaudibly at the presumption
of a servant touching his things
without being; told to do so. When the housekeeper
left the room to fetch some sweet
biscuits, Mr. Long felt no longer tongue-tied.
Iphis protested.

Let her go,' said Mr. Long, aggrievedly ;
she's no company — always at her love tales.
We're marvelled down with 'em. Heading's
as bad as drinking — worse. I've seen tears
running down her cheeks, and then she busts
out laughing, and nobody knows what at. It

D 2

makes me jump ; it makes me d d nervous.

When I ask what she's laughing at, she reads
a bit, but it's soft .; it never makes me laugh ;
I can always guide ?7?y-sen.'

Well, now,' said Miss Grinstead, returning
vexed, ' it is annoying, I cannot find them.
They are some I made myself ; and if you
liked them I was going to give you the recipe.
What can have become of them? I can't
think '

That lass has eaten 'm, or that lad t'one'r.
They're in a band,' interrupted the old man,
relieving himself as usual.

Iphis was startled to hear a grey parrot
hitherto unobserved repeat the formula, while
the old man chuckled approvingly. Miss
Grinstead took a short stick and tapped the
parrot's toes. The parrot ruffled his feathers,
turned over his eyes, then closed the waxy
lids, inclining his head in such a melodramatic
way of being overcome with remorse that
Iphis laughed again and again.

I am surprised at you, Mr. Long,' declared

Miss Grinstead with dignity, ' and before
a young lady. If you do not regard me,
pray regard the young.'

• It was only a slip of the tongue, my
dear,' urged Mr. Long, humbles ' There's no
bones broke.'

A slip of the tongue,' repeated Miss Grinstead
with grave emphasis, her head nodding
impressively, uncontrollably. ' People who
cannot talk without slips of the tongue have
no business to talk at all.'

Oh, you want to be so d d precise,'

said the incorrigible old fellow, forgetting his
past humility. ' I shall do as I like in my
own house. Miss Grinstead. What have ya todo
with me? '

3.1r. Long was very passionate. ^

I don't mind much,' said Iphis, thinking
to propitiate both.

Hark ye,' exclaimed* Mr. Long, triumphantly.


I know better, my dear,' said Miss Grinstead
; ' you have been brought up in too careful

a way to hear profane language without
being shocked.'

Oh, oh, oh ! ' chuckled the old man, derisively.
' Hark at her. Where has she read
that? Isn't she a straight-laced old lass? I'm
not surprised she never got a husband.'

Mr. Long, you never prevailed upon a
woman '

Oh, didn't I,' interrupted he with a low
chuckle.

^ For shame, Mr. Long ; you will never
allow me to finish what I am about to say.
But.it doesn't matter. Iphis — Miss Cowlamb,
I mean — you must not take any notice of Mr.
Long's ways. He will do as he likes, and talk
as he likes. I am sure I try my best to
^ moderate his language and his '

^ His what ? Out with it all. Miss Grinstead.
I'm not a bad old fellow, Iphis ; I
give a lot away. You can't deny that, Miss
Grinstead ; you can't now, so don't. And
what's a bit o' swearing? it harms no man ;
it's all in the way one uses it. If I didn't

swear sometimes I should never keep that Lad
in order. The Lord '11 never remember that
aegean me, if I done nothing worse.'

Taking; His name in vain,' said Miss
Grinstead, cautioning.

That's the fault o' them it's had no impression
on,' declared the old man, feeling
himself nothing if he was not logical.

Oh, well, Mr. Long, I will not argue with
you.'

Because you always get the worst on it,
eh? ' twitted he, adding complaisantly for
Iphis's benefit — ' Oh, I'm a terrible old fellow
at an argument ; always eras. There wants
some wood on the fire ; I'se think that gell's
nowhere to be fomid, now I'm gone out o' the
kitchen.'

^ Oh, don't you go,' said Iphis ; • if there is
some in the kitchen I will fetch it.'

I couldn't allow you, my dear,' said Miss
Grinstead. ' I will go.'

Heigh,' observed the old man, jocosely,
wear owt uns out first'

Thou needn't make over big a fire,' said
lie to Miss Grinstead. ' It isn't as if it was
cold weather.'

No ; but a room gets cold if you neglect
the fire ; and it begins to be cooler towards
night.'

Oh, well ! oh, well ! I only just mentioned
it. When does your father come again,
Iphis?'

I don't know.'

When he comes, just tell him I avant to
see him — particular. No ; Sam wouldn't do.
I want to see Cowlamb himself.'

How did you get on with the old man ?
Did he say he had put you down in his will
for a few thousands ? ' hiccoughed Sam, first
salute.

No,' said Iphis curtly, seeing Sam's
state.

Sam leaned back in his chair and reached
out his arm towards a bottle. Iphis endeavoured
to intercept him, but unsuccessfully.

ril have just another jar.'

You've had too much already,' said Iphis,
plaintive, wrathful.

• What dost thou know about it ? ' coaxed
he.

I'm not blind.'

Well, well, if I can't git a glass in my
own house, it's a pity.'

Iphis saw remonstrance was futile. Sam
had a fierce, choleric temper ; he was on the
edge of an ugly mood now. Drunken men
are quarrelsome or foolish in their cups. Sam
was versatile. Iphis fetched a fire-guard and
placed it over the fire which was dying out.

Here, let's make a blaze,' said Sam, recklessly,
throwing the contents of his glass on
the embers.

Sam ! ' shrieked Iphis, in a terrible fright
and temper, ' do you mean to set the house
on fire ? I want to go to bed, and I durst
now with this fire in.'

Put it out, then,' said Sam, contritely.

And I shall take the lamp away ; it's not

safe.' She had already stealthily placed the
match-box in her pocket.

And I'm to sit in the dark ? '

^ You can, or you can come to bed ; I don't
know what good you'll do sitting up.'

Very well, '^hiccoughed Sam again ; ' make
all safe, Iphis ; there's a good gell. I've
maybe had a glass or two, but I'll come upstairs
t'reckly.'

Iphis 's bedroom was directly over the
dining-room. She got into beds but she could
not sleep — she lay thinking, listening. She
was almost despairing. If Sam would go on
like this what would she do ! She could not
prevent him if he was determined. If her
father would not have her back at Willowby,
she must go out to service. Although this
was repugnant to her it was better than living
with a being a slave to such a vice. She might
get a housekeeper's place she knew ; she was
clever enough. Mr. Long would have her
if Miss Grinstead left him or died. Miss
Grinstead was only a frail old woman. Miss

Grinstead Twould give her shelter until she
found something'.

She heard a heavy thud below. Sam had
fallen out of his chair. She sprang out of
bed, she could not lie there quietly. He
mio'ht have filled to hurt himself She hurried
down in her lightness, and stumbled over
her brother's prostrate inanimate form. The
chair was thrown down, and he lay with his
head over it, all the weight of his head bearing
upon the throat ; he was in danger of suffocation.
She drao-o^ed him to the hearthru^r,
unloosed his neckerchief, unbuttoned his shirt-neck,
took off his boots, and rolled him on his
side. He could come to no harm. She
removed the bottle and glass, locking the
bureau. Only the water-bottle she left ; he
might have that if he woke ^^•ith parched
throat.

CHAPTER 16.

^ COME LIVE WITH ME.'

What enters into the heart of man is often
enough folly in revelation. ' There is no fool
like an old fool the saying goes. For sometime
after Iphis Cowlamb had gone Mr. Long
sat blinking his eyes, sometimes chuckling,
sometimes swearing. He was joyously profane
when he thought of the consternation of
some one or two persons when they realised
their own discomfiture. He was bitterly profane
when some twinge reminded him that it
would give him much more heart if he were
ten or twelve years younger. Upon Miss
Grinstead this disturbance had no effect whatever.
She was accustomed to Mr. Long's
habit of self communing, during which bitter

aspersion, traducing, self-recrimination, violent
abuse, hopelessness, and despondency found
interjection, objective, and subjective words
of relief. This night his mood was generally
most jocose, his attitude uncommonly cheerful,
tossing' off an extra orlass of odin and water asa
toast to himself.

Miss Grmstead '

Mr. Long '

What should you think to me getting
married, Miss Grinstead ? ' Mr. Long's eyes
twinkled uncannily, his lipless mouth with
intense satisfaction closing like a rat-trap.

Oh, nonsense, Mr. Long ! ' returned she,
without looking up from 'Adelaide St. Julian.'

Nonsense ! A d d fine thing to tell

a man he's talking nonsense in his own house.'

I beg your pardon, Mr. Long.'

Miss Grmstead ; I am not so old as you
are by four or five years. I'm only sixty-seven,
you're over seventy. I might get
married.'

Oh, certainly, Mr. Long,' returned she,



interestedly. She could count the years she
had been with him upon her fingers at one
time. Ah, wqU ! surely an old possibility did
not yet serve to encourage complacency.

You don't think it so unreasonable after
all, Miss Grinstead ? '

Not unreasonable, Mr. Long, for you are
privileged '

To ask a young woman to marry — he !
he ! he ! Ah, and when Iphis Cowlamb was
in you was hard unto me, Miss Grinstead,
damme, you was hard unto me ; now, don't
deny it. Miss Grinstead!'

It would be a very foolish thing to marry
a young woman, a man of your age,' said Miss
Grinstead, coldly.

Not so foolish, Miss Grinstead, as to ask
an old woman, three or four years my senior,
eh? Ha! ha! ha!'

Mr. Long, you can please yourself.'

^ Miss Grinstead, I am not so sure of that,
but I will try to please myself.'

You always have tried to do that, Mr.

Long,' returned she, with a bhmd inclination
of her head.

Mr. Long swore to himself. What a
devil of an old woman this old maid was ! If
he thought he had given lier a settler she was
quickly up, and as ready for battle as a gamecock.
If he proved himself master, he had
2:ot all the wounds.

Miss Grins teat still held her novel, but
she was scarcely so much enthralled with it.
If she appeared to regard Mr. Long's conversation
as a variation on past babbling, she had
her wits about her, and quickly grasped that
Mr. Long was not toying with a new vagary.
He was in earnest. But Miss Grinstead,
turning it over in her mind, could not think
that young Iphis Cowlamb would bring herself
to accept such an old man ; and, fond of
money as Farmer Cowlamb might be, he had
too much love for his daughter to have her
young life completely thrown away.

Strange that while Mr. Long was indulging
in this newly-cherished hope of yet leaving

behind him a child of his own name, thus
avenging slights, fancied or real — for, indeed,
it had gone so far in his mind — the Reverend
Mr. Gerlimore at the rectory was enduring a
species of pleasurable torture. For the last
day or two his conduct had almost started
a panic in his household ; and excitement,
hurry, or concern were not common ailments
there. Fat people — fat servants especially —
are generally possessed with patience and
hosts of other questionable virtues. The
fauna and flora of the rectory showed what
wonderful effect ample food, little labour, and
unruffled soul has upon the frame divine or
structure equine. The servants watched their
master, unable to account for the strange
change that had come over him. They
watched him start on his daily peregrination
with forebodings. The master, however, contrasted
most unfavourably with his servants ;
he was short in stature, spare, pinched in
face, but possessing an extraordinarily vivacious
eye. He looked despondent now, and

he talked in a despondent strain, not looking
any one in the face.

He's had a warning,' said the plethoric
groom and gardener, who lived in the house,
and who looked like making a second Daniel
Lambert.

Maybe he 's in love,' suggested the sentimental
scuUerymaid, weight sixteen stone
odd. Breathing was at times a difficulty with
her, but she was always sympathetic in such
matters. She had been over the traces herself,
but had been forgiven ; now she pitied
those suffering from disappointment, misplaced
attachment, or deceit. Poor tender
soul, she would weep for a week if any one so
much as hinted at her past misfortune and
disgrace.

The housekeeper, stout and asthmatical, a
matron in consideration of her grade, looked
towards Betsy, as if such a surmise was perhaps
far from being a wild one. ' His appetite's
bad ! ' said she.

A bad sign off his pick,' said the fat

VOL. II. E

gTOonij gravely, thinking how serious such a
thing was with a horse.

He walks up and down that stone passage
after we have gone to bed said the
housemaid, a female of forty, who continued
thin, disgracing the providence of the house
according to the others, who was also objectionable
on the score of being a light sleeper,
nervous, and given to making people uncomfortable
by breathing the name of burglar at
night, showing herself earnest in her fears by
the attention she paid to bolts, locks, and
bells.

^ Maybe he hurt hissed wi' being chucked
out o' Cowlamb's trap. Why doesn't he drive
his own bosses and be independent ? ' asked
the groom.

I think the brandy he got there disagreed
Vvith him,' said the housekeeper. ' I know he
had had some. I could smell his breath.
Farmers can't get such liquors as we can.
They buy at public-houses, and gets any sort
oframmel.'

I watched him from his chamber window.
He's always at the fish pond ; standing on
the bridge, staring at the water, or else walking
u]) the pond side after them water-hens.'

Let's hope it'll be no worse than it is now
said the housekeeper, gloomily, lowering her
voice, for the baize door in the passage was
heard to swing back and close, their master's
foot echoing down the stone passage.

He's had his lunch, and off out he goes
ao'ain.'

o

To meet the postman.'

Run up and see, Cynthia.'

Cynthia returned to say that the master
had got on ' his best long hat, his best dove-coloured
trousers, his cream neckerchief with
the white spots, and his buff dust-coat. The
Rev. Mr. Gerlimore was in full fio;, his servants
knew that. If he had put on his black
they would have thought he was on burial
intent.

Cynthia ran up again — she had not stayed
honos enough to tell in which direction he was

going ; but she was down again quickly.
She had retired from the bedroom window,
evacuating her observatory — foreseeing the
contingency of a renewed occupation on his
part. The master had met the postman, and
was returning.

He's not going out anywhere, after all,'
said Betsy, disappointed.

I think he's going' off his head,' avowed
the groom, callously.

Oh, James, don't say that,' said the
housekeeper. ' He's a good master.'

Well,' said James, stoically. ' Wait an'
see. Everybody strange that comes thruif
peeps over the hedge, and if he's about they
says, " There's that rum owt parson." How
they do parson him Over, for suer,' said
groom James with growing disgust at the
effrontery of the ignorant and ill-bred. ' Well,
I'll begone. I do wish the maister would git
a lad to weed. It's a odious job, and makes
my back that bad I can harding bear mysen.'
Some commiseration was expressed for

James's greatest hardship), the housekeeper
adding, with innocent stricture —

If we did get a boy he would soon be
that fat and idle he'd want to do nothing.'

Mr. Gerlimore was heard to enter his
study, a name given to his sanctum as a compliment,
for there were not many signs prominent
of literary exercise. His box of
sermons lay in a corner, and he took them in
rotation, coming; to the rio^ht one ao;ain at
Advent, and so on from year to year. There
were divines, but no fingers profaned their
margins, unless it was when the housemaid
dusted them. On the table lay some half-dozen
children's toy-books ; one, its cover a
gorgeous representation of a dog's head,
which afforded Mr. Gerlimore intense satisfaction
— being, as he held, a correct portrait
of his old spaniel ' Nancy.' Lear's first
Nonsense-Book was there, the ' Scouring of
the White Horse,' the ' History of Signboards,'
and Swinburne — an odd assemblage,
verily.

Like other old men, Mr. Gerlimore had a
tendency to feel chilled. After he had taken
oiF his dust-coat he rang for some coal, and
then — the fire replenished — rubbed his hands
with some satisfaction. ' Am I to take these
away, sir ? ' asked the housemaid, in the
humble, supplicatory strain affected in this
house when speaking to the master. She
pointed to his hat and coat in the chair.

Take them away ? No ! What for ? I
shall maybe want them again.'

He had a jerky, abrupt manner, speaking
as if in a bitter tyrannical mood, but his
servants had not lived their numbers of years
with him without comines to a correct understanding
of his idiosyncrasies.

Again by himself he fell into a reverie,
stroking his thin white hair, which in the old
fashion was brushed straight down upon his
forehead. He was not content with looking
out of the study window, but now and again
he had to go as far as the hall door and look
through the panes there. A time or two he

went to an old convex mirror, but this from
some cause or other did not give him the
same pleasure or solacement.

^ Why didn't I go ? ' muttered he. ' I got
figged out on purpose, now didn't I ? I am
worse than a young lad. Why not go now ? '

He looked towards his coat and hat.
Cheerfully inviting they did look as he had
laid them down, something in the nape of the
coat neck seeming humanly anxious to be out
of the house. He had a habit pf looking at
everything grotesquely, endowing inanimate
objects with sensibilities, animals with a
human trick of reasoning, all nature as sensitive
to a touch — all humanity affected with
humorous weakness, to be met with as much
forbearance as its humour demanded. The
poor were greedy. Selfishness was a fungus
on poverty ; even when hands were full there
was tumbling; that there was not more, or
at inferiority. Wilfulness was but a natural
thoughtlessness of youth, of the imperfectly
trained. Much talk, interlarded with flattery,

the most abhorrent to him. Yet he was
fawned upon by every one desiring assistance,
in the coinciding with his views, in the submission
to his foibles. A profusion of ^ sir '
always exciting his ire, a neglect of respect
souring him in his most expansive moods.
An oddity was Parson Gerlimore, a curious
exponent of Christian ethics, but withal
chivalrous, gentle, and compassionate.

A wife here ! ' he chuckled, ' Lord, what
a nine days' wonder for 'em all. If she could
put up with an old bachelor's ways? — but I
should have to get out of 'em. Damme, I'm
nervous about going to see that chit and
what I shall say to her. I'm all of a tremble ;
bless my soul that I should be so upset, 'lack,
alack.'

His voice dropped into a mutter ; he was
unaware of the housemaid's entry ito the
room again.

What a fool I am ! ' he said audibly.

What did you say, sir? ' asked the housemaid.


What did I say ? ' asked the parson,
snappishly.

What a fool I am I ' answered the housemaid
faintly.

Maybe you are,' said the parson, grimly ;
^ what else did I say ? '

I didn't hear you say anything else, sir.'

A good thing for you you didn't. Well,
what is it, now you are here ? Why don't
you knock before you come in? I was talking
to my familiar spirit awhile agone, and
it's a dangerous time then for womankind,'
and Gerlimore chuckled at his own mysticism.


Yes, sir, I did knock ; but I thought
you had gone out again.'

You've no business to think, only to do
as you're bid, remember that. I don't like
thinking people — damme, that's rather hard,'
muttered the parson sotto voce. ' What do
you want, eh ? '

I come to stir the fire '

Very well ; I could have done it myself

never mind. Why didn't you say so at
first?'

The preamble over, Cynthia attended to
the fire, and left her master to himself again.
He then stationed himself with his back to it,
occasionally turning round to hold his thin
hand over a spluttering blaze.

What a fire for this time o' year ! I'm
getting old and cold — humph ! ' A moment
ago his face had a tantalising roguish expression
; now sorrowfulness and regret reigned
paramount. ' I feel as if the girl couldn't be
happy with that drunken brute of a brother.
What is Cowlamb thinking about? Thinks
she'll reform him, humph ! I've never seen a
rascal reformed, humph ! Strange thing !
strange thing! I can see trouble brewing if
she stops there. Sam Cowlamb's on his good
behaviour, but it won't last long. If I were

to bring her here If I were ? What

then? I should like to know whose business
it would be but mine. She couldn't stay
here.'

AVliat nn old fool I am ! It won't do ;
it won't do. Perhaps she wouldn't be happy
tied to an old fellow like me. Lasses and
lads — she might be tempted. But I mustn't
tempt the poor bairn ; we'll see, we'll see.
Old Xanty and me must live the old life — eh,
fat old Nasty?'

A few ancient prints on the wall in old-fashioned
black frames caught his eye as they
had done hundreds of times before. Now another
impression attended him. Such would
have to be removed if any woman came to the
house as mistress ; no wife would tolerate
them. Avoient do object to the naked limbs
of heathen gods and goddesses ; the old painters
were less prurient or colder than we are.
"Well, well, he could do that. Burn them if
need be, and even the cartoon in red which
hung over his bedroom chimney piece. He
had a trick of hanging his head, muttering ina
grumbling way at perversities. There was
no particular language, but this was his
safety-valve. In such a mood he struggled

into this dust-coat ; having no one to look
after lira, the collar remained untidy, and
with his high straight skirted hat well on his
head, he sallied out of the house again towards
the fish-pond.

After contemplating its depths for some
moments, he made for the gate without premeditation.
It was only when well out upon
the turnpike road that he collected himself
and began to frame excuses for his line of
conduct.

Ah, yes ; I do want to see Cowlamb. 1
must have some straw.'

Iphis Cowlamb saw him approach the
wicket-gate at the foot of the garden. In bygone
years how often he had come upon her
wading in the brook that trickled below,
passing under the road ! Sometimes he had
caught her emerging from the tunnel ; once he
had been mediator, when Mrs. Cowlamb was
about to rate her for the condition of her
frock, which with contact had carried toilsome
of the damp abominations of the tunnel.

Mr. Gerlimore was quite a picture under the
apple boughs. His coming quite cheered her,
for Iphis's day lead been a despondent one.
Had he any gingerbread in his pockets she
wondered, amusedly. He used to bring it.
And when he came from London, some sweet-stuff,
or bon-bon, so awe-inspiring as to be fora
long time held too sacred for destruction.

She ran to the front door to open it, and
threw it wide back. As she stood framed in
the doorway, the blue walls behind her, and
the old-fashioned stairs with broad jewels
and balusters and rail, she looked like an
early eighteenth century picture vitalised.

Humph!' muttered Mr. Gerlimore, approvingly.
' Where's Sam — — your brother,
I mean? I wanted to see your brother.'

He's gone to Haveluck, Mr. Gerlimore,'
said she, plaintively. ' He went this morning.
"Won't you walk in, sir? '

She could not altogether control her voice.
Had she not, since Sam had gone, been
troubled, wondering how he would return?

Ay, I will, Miss Iphis,' he said, with a
quick glance at lier.

Miss Iphis ! She started. She had never
known Mr. Gerlimore address her so before.

And so your brother goes to Haveluck
by himself. Why don't you go with him ?
You mustn't bury yourself here, you know.
You must get out, or you will be moped to
death. Snailhorn is but a dull place for anybody
but old people. Willowby is nearer a
town, I understand ; must be livelier than
this hole.'

We saw more folks,' said Iphis, despondently.
' Folks often used to come to our
house.'

I thought so,' muttered Mr. Gerlimore ;
I thought so. Now, here nobody comes —
nobody. I should make a point of going
to Haveluck market with that brother of
yours.'

I didn't care to go to-day,' said Iphis,
apathetically ; ' there is no butter to speak on
this week, and Sam has taken what egs^s there

are. But I think when I've been here a bit
things 11 mend ; the cows are nearly dry wi'
bad milking.'

The housekeeper ought to have looked
after the slut,' said Mr. Gerlimore, sympathetically.


I can't find much fault with her ; everything
in the house is sweet and clean.'

That's a good thing,' said Gerlimore,
cheerfully. She was getting into better
spirits, he thought, and he must follow her
lead.

I made a purpose journey to see your
brother,' explained he.

^ I am sorry he has gone out,' said Iphis.

^ Oh, I don't mind it at all,' said Gerli-
more, reassuringly.

Is it anything very particular ? I could
tell him when he gets home.'

'Well, it is and it isn't. I want some
straw. James never cells me until there is
barely enough to cover the stable floor. If I
wasn't to look round I believe we should get

to such a pitch there would be neither straw
nor anything else on the place.'

^ Do you want some straw to-day ? A
man might bring you a cartload to be going
on with.'

Oh, we can last a fortnight, I should
think — maybe three weeks.'

Oh ! ' said Iphis, surprised. ' What an
odd old man to come with such a tale ! ' she
thought ; but Mr. Gerlimore would have had
to be unusually whimsical or troublesome for
her to be uncivil, or curt, or pert with him.

What time do you think Sam will get
home ? '

^ I can't say,' said Iphis, her forehead
anxious, her eyes unconsciously resting on
the clock face.

I know he does stay late,' said Gerli-
more, desperately, compelled to be candid.
He oughtn't to do. He ought to think
about you by yourself here.'

He gits among company,' excused Iphis,
the anxiety yet in her face.

And you have come here, my dear, to see
if you can effect a cure ? '

I don't know. He has had such trouble
to keep his housekeepers.'

He thinks he will have less trouble to
keep you. Well, I shall be bold enough to
keep coming to see hoar you get on. I shall
look after you.'

Maybe I shall go back to Willowby.'

Something's flown wrong, something's
troubling you, eh ? '

Iphis inclined her head faintly.

^ Oh, dear ! ' said Gerlimore, distressed,
you're not happy.'

No,' said Iphis, miserably.

And you don't like going home '

Father said I was to stop, if I could, anyhow.'


And you would be happier away ? '

Anywhere.'

Miss Cowlamb ! ' Iphis started at Mr.
Gerlimore' s gravity of voice. She almost
thought he was about to lecture her severely.

VOL. II. F

Ah, don't get up ; sit still lie added, in a
voice quite counter ; ' yes, there. I don't
wish for a child to go against a parent, but
you oughtn't to be here, your father ought to
have kept you away. Now, to escape it all,
will you come and live in my house? I have a
horse in my eye, quite a lady's horse — marry
the "owt parson," eh! There, oh, Lord! I've
done it,' muttered he to himself, ' what an
old fool I am ! It's out, and there's no running
back;

Mentally, he was comparing her with
those animals he loved the best in the world
horses. In fact, his standard of human
excellences went by equine points, he would
criticise every person he met. He looked at
her.

Filly — pedigree unknown — not quite
thoroughbred — strain of the " drown " — large
bone, good action, quiet, honest, fine trapper,
no vice, tender mouth.'

Humph ! did you speak ? '

Xo, sir,' said Iphis, dumbly.

^ Sudden, is it ? '

^ Yes, sir,' said she.

Take your time, my dear. So-alio,' said
he, gently, ' I am not in a hurry to-day.'

Her eyes went over him. He felt that he
was passing examination.

Aged — standing over — down at heel —
groggy,' and ' How long will he be likely
to last ? What sort of a life in harness
with him ? ' This he thought hit her analysis.


But really her thoughts were more tender.
She read between the lines. She knew what
prompted him to come forward — pity for her.
Ah, well! he was a clean old man. If she
was forced to have a man she did not care
for, she would infinitely prefer Mr. Gerlimore.
He was a gentleman, and she could trust herself
with him. She observed this day that
his garb was more en fete. He had his cream
neckerchief in place of the old black stock ;
his drab dust-coat, not the shabby dark one
with buttons as large as a butter-pat ; his best

p2

hat was on the carpet, not the venerable one,
the napgreen with antiquity and exposure ;
moreover, the invariable corduroys were replaced.
His face — but it was always wholesome
and sweet — was smooth at chin, and
bore traces of extra towelling, and the hair
on his forehead was sleek in holiday harmony.
Had he come deliberately to propose marriage?
If he had, she liked him all the more. He
had been thinking of her, judging that she
was unhappy, and so came out of the kindness
of his heart to oflPer her a refuge. He
could not help being old. He could not help
being thin and small. She felt that she could
whip him up under her arm — but then, withall
his oddities, the wicked tales afloat about
him ! Well, she had never heard him utter
anything vile. She had never beheld him
other than as widely different to other men
she knew, those connected to her by blood.
Now, to her, the meaning of the word came
easily — gentleman. He had a man's disposition,
but he had a breeding, and tact, ands

that was inborn, and scarcely to be
acquired.

He sat watching her with a kindly, encouraging
twinkle. She looked so irresolute ; he
could see that she was irresolute. He believed
that she would close in with his offer ; and
as the moments sped on, he became more
and more in love with the idea. It was, he
thought, the disposition of Providence that
had carried him here. When he stepped out
of his hall door, he was then certainly
undecided about striking for Sam Cow-lamb's.
It had come to hun from the depths
of the pool ; he found many of his best
thoughts there among the weeds at the bottom.


He did not look back regretfully ; he did
not wish futilely the sun to go back upon the
dial ; he did not uselessly wish himself forty
years younger ; he was resigned to being in
the last decade of man's allotted span. His
temperament had softened with his years, the
world was a happy one if people would only

think so and believe so. No one was intended
to be miserable. His sermons bad no fire
and brimstone in them. At the rate of nine
hundred pounds a year he was paid to say
something on a Sunday, and he was not going
to be hard upon anybody.

Iphis at last looked up as if she were
about to answer him.

Now ? ' questioned he.

I don't think you should marry me, Mr.
Gerlimore.' '

How is that ? — Why ? — Who's to interfere
? I shall ask your father, he will not
refuse me.'

But that isn't all ? '

^ Isn't it ? Got a sweetheart, eh ? '
Gerlimore only just awoke to such a possibility.
After the first moment's surprise,
he began to think himself stupid. Iphis
Cowlamb was sure to have lovers.

Ye-es,' hesitated Iphis, ' but I hadn't
quite suer.'

You're not? then you ought to be. You

ought to be very positive about a matter of
that kind.'

But I hadn't allowed to be.'

You luuhit — oh,' ejaculated Mr. Gerli-
more parenthetically, ' I see. You've been sent
out of the way here, then? Is that your
trouble, then, my dear ? '

Mr. Gerlimore rose, and Iphis rose too.
He took her hand.

AYhat is there so much against the lad ?
I must see Cowlamb and talk to him.'

'Xo, sir, you mustn't,' said Iphis, quickly.

How's that r '

I can't exactly be sure now whether I
can reckon on him, ester all's been said and
done.'

Bless the bairn,' said her consoler, cheerfully,
' that's all like a puff of wind. Sweethearts
have no malice or hatred in their
hearts. I am very fond of you, my dear ;
but for the world I wouldn't have you miserable,
tied down to me, just for a selfish whim
of mine. And you wasn't tempted, eh ? '

asked he, with a roguish smile, inviting her
just to comfort him with saying that she was
just a little.

^ Yes, I was, at first,' smiled she.

'Now were you?' He was hugely gratified.
' I'm glad you were honest with, yourself.
I see a happier life before you, my dear
child. I'm an old bachelor, but I know all
these sort of things don't run smoothly, eh?
If they did, why there would not be half the
enjoyment there is when one has been put
off again and again, eh? If you had said
yes ' to me it would have been too sudden and
smooth. You might have rued after, eh ?
You would have been flying to a refuge, nota
haven. Never mind, my dear, you can still
tell the old man your troubles — no, no, not
to-day, tomorrow, if you like — oh, and don't
do anything rash, you know. To-morrow ?
I forgot, I have some gentlemen coming to
dinner ; next day, or the day after, I will
come down, but if you're hard pressed, come
and see me at the rectory.'

Yes, sir,' said Ipliis, shyly, endeavouring
to take lier hand away, but he retained it.

I wish, my dear, I had had a daughter
like you — but then, would somebody have
wished to take her from me, I wonder? Good
day, my dear,' said he, kissing her hand,
Iphis blushing, ' come to me if you are hard
pressed.'

He was nearly out of the room when Miscalled
after him faintly —

Mr. Gerlimore, if I was hard pressed, as
you say, and — and,' stammered she, ' wanted
a haven, could I find the refuge at your house
after all?'

Mr. Gerlimore, in astonishment, paused
with the door knob in his hand. He had to
other himself together before he could make
a reply. She meant more than her words ;
she meant would he marry her, give her a
home, if every one went against her — father,
brother, her lover deserting her. Yes, he
would.

Certainly, my dear, depend upon me

He would be happy to accept her on
such terms. If it is a man's greatest compliment
asking a woman to be his wife, it is
undoubtedly the woman's greatest compliment
accepting him. Poor old parson ! he felt that
he could not expect a young girl to regard
him with any degree of romance ; if she
consented to live with him and illumine the
closing years of his life, that was sufficient
happiness.

CHAPTER 17.

A Peace-offering.

Iphis sat up late into the night awaiting
Sam's return. The small hours of the morning
crept on and on, and still he returned not.
Worn out with her vigil, after declaring to
herself over and over again that not another
such a night would she pass, she dozed off.
It seemed to her that she had but just closed
her eyes when the rattle of the car wheels
aroused her. She heard them pass the house-end.
Sam had returned, but so incapable as
to be unable to get out of the trap. She
could tell that by the uneasy fidgeting of the
mare. She went to the ladder in the scullery
and shouted to the 2- room lad. Platina' satisfied
herself that she was heard, she hurriedly

donned one of Sam's hats, unbarred the door,
and went out. It was still dark. She went
up to the trap. Sam sat in it fast asleep, the
mare, with her nose to the ground, breathing
out vapour wearily. How long had Sam
been asleep? Half the journey, perhaps. Or
had he fallen asleep directly the mare pulled
up ? Iphis felt the mare's ears ; she could
tell that it had been driven hard. But Iphis
knew that the animal was keen when nearing
home, and would find her way without a
guide. It was astonishing the turning in at
the gate ; but then Iphis muttered to herself
desperately, ' Them that's nowt happens
nowt.'

Am ee to lose out ? ' asked the lad,
sleepily, perceiving the master still seated.

not before the master gets out,' said
Iphis, tartly. ' Sam ! Sam ! ' shouted she,
but the master's sleep was too profound.
Sam ! ' cried she, more shrilly, again and
again. He awoke at last and said, foggy,
what?'

Get out of the trap — let me help you.'

^ I can git out,' said he, confidently.

She steadied him a little, but as soon asa
foot touched the ground he spun round like
a teetotum, and only recovered himself by
stumbling on the house wall. The latitude
of the door he evidently was quite ignorant
of. Iphis led him into the house, at the same
time speaking warningly to the lad about the
mare.

Xow, no cold water and no corn ; she's
been driven over fast. She must have a
bran mash and some chilled water, and wisp
her down well, and don't forget th' rug.'

Is — there — any — boiling — water ? '
asked the lad, slowly.

Yes, the boiler's hot enough. Now stir
course.'

She saw that Sam again was left so that
he could not endanger or suffocate himself.
And she assured herself that the sleepy lad
had followed her instructions, and brought
his lantern safely out of the stable. Then

only, weary and dispirited, she crept upstairs,
to sleep fitfully and wakefully, to rise dull
and dreary and dispirited to meet the heavy
face out of which was passing the sharpness
and shrewdness of his boyhood, the astuteness
and firmness that had been so full of
promise. Was she compelled to stay, must
she be dragged down into a slough of misery
and anxiety ?

She knew why she had been sent here.
Reforming Sam might be the pretext ; but
she knew that if she gave a certain guarantee
she would be welcomed back at Willowby,
and Sam left to follow his own sweet will.
But no ; she had her father's obstinacy and
mettle. She would never eat humble pie if
the Fates were against her ever seeing
Ephraim Sparrow again.

Sam Cowlamb was one of those happily-constituted
mortals who never have to endure
the torture of a headache. After a night's ora
day's debauch he might experience a certain
thickness or dulness in his head, but this

wore off in an hour. If he could g-et a strong:
glass of liquor he felt in a glorious state of
health and temper. But this morning he felt
more sluggish than usual. He had been out
when Iphis came down ; he had washed himself,
deluged himself in a sense ; he had
changed his clothes ; but there were tell-tale
wrinkles about his eyes — his eyelids were
swollen and his eyeballs discoloured and
dull.

Where's the key of the sideboard? ' asked
he.

I have it upstairs.'

Then fetch it down.'

Iphis felt that she dare not be obstinate.

He poured out half a glass of brandy.

Now, lock the door if you like. If you
felt as I do you wouldn't go without if you
could get it. This will make a new man of
me.'

You needn't feel like that ! '

No ; maybe I needn't. But what have I
to live for, eh ? Making money ? D— — the

money ; it seems to me as if I had been
bred to think of nothing but making money,
and making poor devils give me the last
pennyworth o' their strength.'

You don't treat the labourers badly,
Sam. They've a pint of beer offers when
they've no excuse for it.'

What's a pint or two o' beer if it wipes
oat a sore? I drive everybody, because it
seems in my nature' that nobody must lev a
idle minute, because I want the last garden
that can be got out o' farming. I'm nearly
sick. When I kep a hunter or two it wasn't
because I took pleasure so much in going
across country ; no, the main thing was
making money out on 'em. She'd never ha'
gone away from me if I'd begun different ; I
wanted to drive her like the rest. She hadn't
been brown up in such a sharp school as we
lev, to slave and make everybody else slaves.
I wonder I didn't murder her, but I'd quarrelled
with her and gone off to Haveluck
raging. When I come back she hardly said

a word. I believe I meant it, but I was in
drink.'

Well, if you go on as you've gone on
lately I shan't stop with you, an' that's all
about it.'

YoiiUlesLYe?^ said Sam, surprised.

I will,' declared Iphis.

You'll not go home ; father wants you to
stop here wi' me.'

I know,' said Iphis, defiantly ; ^ isn't
there other places to go to? I'm mighty independent.
I can fold another place — as
comfortable as either ; no bad tempers to
meet, no men coming home to be lifted out
of the trap. And if I hadn't a chance of
anything else I'd run away —-go to service,
something — and I will go, Sam.'

He was subdued with this outburst, convinced
that she was resolute.

You'll not go, Iphis ? Stop, and I'll
try to mend. If you go, I sell nobbut go to
the devil faster. What did father bring us

VOL. II. G

up with such d d notions for ; no pity, no

thought for anybody but persons ? '

I don't know said Iphis, with impatience.


And where is that other place you could
find ? ' asked Sam, uneasily.

^ That's neither here nor there.'

Does father know ? '

^ No ; and I shan't tell him.'

^ Well, I'm going over the river to see
how the lads are getting' on wi' that ploughing'.
You'll not be gone by I come back ? '

No ; maybe not.'

Before going he came in again. He found
Iphis busy at her cream pot. He wished to
assure himself that her irritation was over.
He was very proud of her, whether it was
butter-making, calf-feeding, or washing her
eggs, everything seemed to be done so deftly.
No other woman had so light a hand. He
believed her bread the sweetest, her puddings
the most appetising, her joints the juiciest he
tasted anywhere. Even when it came to a

piece of fat bacon, it was always boiled
throiigii, the ' swatli ' taken off properly, and
powdered nicely with rasped crust of bread.
As Iphis looked up she became aware of
Sam's propinquity, and that he was endeavouring
to look most submissive. What a face
he had ! she thought, with some concern. A
good standing colour was the purply red.
Naturally florid, his excesses had heightened
his colour. There were striae of vermilion
and white in this full hue. She lowered her
eyes again, tossed her head, as if far from
appeased yet ; then she looked up again, and
met Sam's eyes uncompromisingly.

I mean it,' said she, with a nod.

^ Oh, law,' said Sam, abjectly, ' I thowt
thou'd forgot all about it. Surely thou
doesn't malice one ? '

Malice ye ! ' said Iphis, witheringly.
Why should I malice ye ? '

Is it Joe Bee ? ' queried Sam.

^ Xo such like,' returned Iphis.

It is a man that's last thee, then ? '

Q 2

^I never said so. You'll not get to
know.'

Then, thou' s made up thy mind not to
lev him ? ' said Sam, with cheerful logic.

^ I don't know 37it,' said Iphis, slowly.

Well, I shall get to know if thou doest
said Sam, with simulated triumph.

You've hed fair warning,' said Iphis,
stiffly. * It's the last straw that breaks the
camel's back.' Sam was determined to keep
his temper. But he could not hold back a
remonstrance.

Now, thee, Iphis, I don't want this
chucking at me every day in a week and every
hour in a day. If thou can't git on wi' me
thou nun go ; bud I don't want thee to go.
Stop, and I'll do better. I'll try. Thou sell
go wi' me to Haveluck, and when I go by
train to Treminster thou shalt go an' all.'

I hope I sell ha' summits else to do than
going trailing' all over the countryside wi'
thou,' returned she, ungraciously.

I doubt thought a queer lass,' he said,

turning away as if hopeless of ever being
reinstated again.

A week passed over and Sam continued
temperate. He went to Haveluck market
and returned home discreetly in the middle
of the afternoon ; but he seemed to carry
about with him the uneasy feeling of a man
who has neglected the most important object
of his journey. But Iphis cared not
how preoccupied and distrait he was so long
as he continued abstemious. Sam approached
her diffidently, his attitude suggesting evil
tidings or some painful office he had to acquit
himself of. Iphis regarded him with some
trepidation. He drew from his pocket a
small parcel which he placed in, her hand.

Then she laughed, a little questioningly,
as if wondering whether hilarity was out of
place, and said, ' What is it ? '

Mind thou doesn't have it down,' cautioned
he, gravely.

What is it ? ' repeated she. ' A
brooch ? '

Open it and see advised he.
She cut the string with her scissors — she
would have been much more careful inserting
the blade, had she had the faintest suspicion
of that which lay within. Sam was rather
impatient at her dilatory way, but as soon as
she took the lid off the box he turned away
his head like a bashful schoolboy.

Oh ! ' was all Iphis could exclaim. Her
eyes were dazzled with a lady's gold watch
and the chain coiled about it. Then she felt
as if she scarcely deserved such a gift ; it was
a peace-offering, ought she to accept a bribe ?
You've been spending a lot of money
over this, Sam, and I had a watch — a silver
one.' Her tone was one of delicate reproach.
I thowt it wasn't good enough for thee.'
Father boat it for me,' said she, as if
steadfast yet in the faith that what her father
bought was good enough for any one.

But the gift was a generous one. What
woman could have shown the faintest resentment
after such a surprise ?

For many days lier gratitude continued to
absorb her. Sam was most uncomfortable
under it. He felt much as if he had been a
criminal guilty of some underhand conduct
with his jailer. If he could but have seen
her examining' it in her sacred hours, holding;
it near and far for effect — whichever way she
viewed it, it was faultless in her eyes, fresh
from the mint. In the evenings she had a
terrible anxiety about the correct time. It
was set by Haveluck time, and by it their
clock was an hour and four minutes fast.
When she rose m a morning the day was to
be a delightful one, for it preceded the evening
when she should shine, a gold chain about
her neck.

But a gewgaw was not to spoil her appetite
for work, or take the edge off her energy.
Sire was just finishing the last thing of her
wash one Tuesday morning when, looking up,
she beheld a dear face. It was her father's.
He had driven over from "Willowby. She
and the girl had risen at three o'clock in the

morning, having gone to bed the night before
at half past eight, the usual practice when
wash-day was imminent. It was a notion
she had inherited that two hours in the early
morning were worth four after dinner, that it
was much better than retiring at ten to rise
at six. On exceedingly pressing wash-days
it was bed at eight and up at one, and the
scullery had a Rembrandt effect with the
single candle and the copper fire casting out
a red glow.

I've about done,' cried Iphis to herself,
joyfully, wiping her hands on her harden
apron, which was wet as her hands withstanding
at the tub. ' I wonder where Sam
is?'

Just then her father came into the washhouse,
crying out boisterously — ' Now then,
my lass, is breakfast ready ? How does ta
git on ? ' asked he, fondly, his arm about her
and the wash-house echoing with a resonant
kiss.

^ Breakfast ! ' cried Iphis, deridingly,

we've bed ours hours agone. I've been up
since three.'

And so have I,' said her father. ' I
thowt I'd git over here afore it was warm.
Now, that lad went gie that mare any water
yit?'

No ; go stop him, Becky.'

And where's Sam ? '

They're ploughing in the bottoms.'

^ Oh ! he puts in plenty o' lime ? Awful
strong that close, clung ; bud I'd th' best bit
o' wheat off it I ever bed onyivhere.'

They'll be losing out, I'se think,' said
Iphis ; ' Sam went lev th' bosses harried.'


It's what I used to do, I'll have a
snack, then I'll go down, eh ? '

And when he sat to the table Iphis
bounced out of the room, upstairs and down
again, to her father's hazy wonder. She returned
with the objet de luxe she thought
about so constantly. It was almost with her
in her dreams, and for the nonce had almost

ousted the other round face of her whilom
lover.

Who's gen thee that, then ? ' questioned
the farmer, stolidly. He would evince no
admiration until he was informed of the
donor.

Gratitude overruled any playfulness.
Sam ! ^ returned she.

It's a grand watch an' clean.'

A grim smile hovered at his mouth, but
his eyes were fastened on a morsel of cheese.
Sam had never done anything in his life to
win him greater forgiveness and goodwill.

And how do you agree ? ' asked the
farmer.

Oh, very well. Sam just lets me do as I
like.'

Then you'll be right, I'll uphold it.
Women want to do as they like,' said her
father, bluntly ; ' bud they can't alius, and it
isn't fitting they should.'

^ Father,' said Iphis, when Cowlamb was
about rising, ' Mr. Long wants to see you.'

Oh, I can't be bothered with that silly
owt rip

But he was very particular. The first
time you come over you was to go there.'

I sell ha' none so much time. I want to
be at Haveluck fair tomorrow morning.
Sam '11 be suer to go wi' me. Then I sell
drive home fra here i' th' afternoon. I mungo.
I want to buy some steers.' ^

You needn't stop long ; you ought to
go, father,' urged Iphis, after a little hesitation.
' Sam thinks you ought. Sam thinks
I'm a great favourite o' the owt man's.'

I see, I see. And the pair on ye think
he'll leave thou his money, bah ! ' contemptuously
muttered her father, snapping his
fingers. ' It's bad reckoning' o' dead men's
shoes, they nearly alius kicks 'em off wrong.'

Iphis felt a little embarrassed or ashamed,
it is hard to say which. She felt that she had
been misled, or interpreted wrongly ; was
money his one object in life ? Mean callus

Oxen.

nation clashed with his openness of soul, it
seemed.

.i-4'j Cowlamb pursued his way towards the
field that was being ploughed. He was ina
good mood, the exhibition of Sam's gift
disposing him to be most cordial with his
son. Inwardly too he was laughing at Iphis's
simplicity, as he imagined it — and at Sam
encouraging her in such notions ; it was best
to disabuse her of the idea of inheriting from
an old man who wasn't distantly related even.
When Cowlamb reached the narrow river,
Sam and the lads were bringing the steaming
horses over in the flat-bottomed boat. Sam
was overcome with his father's cordiality,
unable to account for it.

Was t' thinking o' going to Haveluck
fair ? ' asked Cowlamb senior.

I hed thought about it,' answered Cow-lamb
junior.

Thou may drive me over i' the morning.
We must start i' good time ; I nun be back
at Willowby at night.'

^ I'll drive you. Maybe Iphis ud like to

go?

We'll see. What's all this about Mister

Lonof ? You ain't been stuffing' her head full
o' nonsense ? '

Not I. Owt chap was rank on her going
to see him, and when she went — law ! I
don't know what wasn't said. I just tell her
to keep o' the right side o' the owt chap.'

That's been plenty. She's almost as
cocksure as if she'd seen her name in his will.'

I shouldn't wonder at him leaving her a
lump,' said Sam, seriously.

Nay, now ! Then you would go see
him ? '

It'll cost nowt, an' may mean a good
dele.'

Then I'll go. I don't want to stand in
any o' your lights, if I know it.'

You never ha' done that, father,' said
Sam, his fervour tainted with perhaps a little
hypocrisy. Sam felt under his father's thumb

much the same as when he was a boy, only
now he was in constant default.

It's summits to hear you say so,' said
Cowlamb, with a little asperity. ' I'll go
down and see this owt creature as soon as I've
had my dinner ; but there's no end to him.'

CHAPTER 18.

Formation EESPECTUEUSE.

Farmer Cowlamb reached Mr. Long's house
before dinner was over there. Mr. Long
greeted hin cordially, and blinked across at
nothing, having a secret meaning in all his
little tricks. He was evidently possessed of
thoughts, not too numerous, but too important
to reveal at that moment.

^ It seems like owt times, harbour,' whined
he ; ' what will ye drink ? I alius have a
glass o' gin ester dinner — what did you say,
Miss Grinstead — " and a good many afore ? "
"Well, I buy my gm by the gallon a' way —
don't ee, and who's a better right to drink it,
hay ? Don't you git a sly drop at times ? —

Mr. Lone, I've a pain in my inside." Oh,
you old cats.'

Really, Mr. Long ! ' cried the affronted
Miss Grinstead.

No offence, no offence,' said Mr. Long,
blandly, quick to take her up. ' You're
welcome if it does you as much good as it
does me. I never begrudge anybody anything.
Is that a clean glass ? Fist look at
it, Cowlamb. I hate a mucky glass, mysen.'

Really, Mr. Long,' interposed his housekeeper,
with increased indignation, ' do you
think I would give Mr. Cowlamb other thana
perfectly clean tumbler ? '

No such thing, Miss Grinstead — sit down,
you owt fool, ya've dragged the cloth of the
table nearly. Mucky lasses, mucky lads ; if
they smell owt in a glass, they turns it upside
down and sucks the dregs out — I seen 'em at
it, I watch 'em. Then somebody's coming,
and into the cupboard it goes without wishing
tell ye. Miss Grinstead, I know ; that's how
so many of them glasses get broken. When

they get to be a penny apiece Til have a fresh
glass for every tot.'

You've said so before,' said Miss Grinstead,
coldly.

Heigh, maybe I have,' cackled Mr. Long.

None of this acerbity was edifying or
pleasing to Cowlamb. He thought in his
matter-of-fact way that the old couple were a
pair of boobies.

'Xow,' said Mr. Long, loudly, after the
removal of the cloth, ^ I want to have a bit of
talk with you, Cowlamb.'

Oh, indeed, so Iphis tell me, but I aunt
a dele o' time.'

Oh, it went take up much time. When
Miss Grinstead's trembled all the things we'll
have a private crack together.'

This was given in the same loud tone,
and intended as a gentle hint. Of course.
Miss Grinstead took it. Mr. Long's hints
were not easily misunderstood by any one ;
his innuendoes were seldom cloaked with
artifice.

VOL. II. H

I'm glad the owt thing's gone,' said Mr.
Long, with a sigh of relief, and chuckling the
moment after. ^ She thinks she's going to
live the longest, and I shall leave her so mucha
year. I did make her believe so once, but
I shan't. I aunt a relation in the world,
Cowlamb, barring a parson fellow, and he
doesn't bother hissed about me. Well, 'tis
his loss ; he's maybe plenty o' money without
any o' mine. He was past here t'other day,
and never so much as looked the side one
was on.'

Mr. Long was very fond of citing this
instance of the callosity of his nearest relative.
As it happened, it was over two years since
the graceless act took place.

But Miss Grinstead intruded upon them,
whereupon Mr. Long darted a look at Cow-lamb,
implying to the farmer that he must
now understand what it was to be hampered
and overlooked by this inquisitive old woman.
Most likely she had been eavesdropping.
There would have been an ebullition, but

Miss Grinstead forestalled it by saying
quickly —

Here's Jasper ; lie wishes to speak to
you, Mr. Long.'

Oh, does he? He may wait.'

But he says he must speak to you.'

Like his confounded impudence ! Send
him in, then ; I'll soon battle him,' vowed Mr.
Long, vengefully. ' Now, what d'ye want ? '
he demanded, as Jasper entered.

Jasper's countenance was sullen and vicious.
He stood in the doorway, his old hat, with a
piece of crimson worsted round it, crumpled
up in his two hands.

I want three pounds ! ' a request, couched
so much in the nature of a demand it almost
took Mr. Long's breath away.

A d d nice way of asking for money,

that is,' gasped his master.

^ I want it or I shouldn't ask for it,' returned
the servant, sulky and ungracious.

And ya went ha' three pounds,' said Mr.
Long, recovering himself, and chuckling that

she

was master of the situation. ^ What d'ye
want three pounds for? I shall gie ye no
three pounds. What d'ye want three pounds
for, eh?'

Here's a fellow i' Haveluck says he'll put
me i' th' Court if I don't pay in a week
blubbered Jasper, in desperation, terribly
afraid of this mysterious Court and its
workings. ,.

Well, he may put tha in'^the Court for
what I care,' said Mr. Long, with indiscreet
joy; 'ya shall ha' none of my three pounds.'
And Mr. Long compressed his lips, composed
his face, looking straight at the man, but as
though he saw the wall through a phantom.

JasDcr waited a moment, then accepted his
cone, Mr. Long thought him cowed, Cow-lamb
thought the expression decidedly bellicose.
Mr. Long was some time silently
chuckling, grasping and relaxing his hold of
his favourite stick, which was scarcely ever
out of his hands save at meal times. Then, he
leaned it against the table. Sometimes it fell

down, and on such occasion lie swore, for he
was nervous and it startled him, and the girl
had to be rung in to pick it up.

At Last Mr. Long, looking towards Cow-lamb,
observed his caller's glass was empty.

Why, you got no liquor? '

It's little I drink,' said Cowlamb.

Humph ! maybe you like a bit of sugar.'
Mr. Long rang the bell, and the girl

appeared.

^ Brins; the suo-ar basin, lass.'

Cowlamb, taking out a couple of lumps,
observed a folded piece of paper. Mr. Long
was chatting ; at last he said, despairingly,
That fool's never brought a stirrer.'

Never mind,' said Cowlamb, * I can use the
spoon; I think there is something here for you.'

eh?' Mr. Long took the paper, eyeing
it with some concern. He put up his spectacles,
unfolded it, and read a ' warning ' — notice
to leave in a month. Mr. Long swore
bitterly, and rang for Jasper to be sent in
quickly.

Jasper was ushered in, his face carrying an
expression of dogged reserve.

^ I say, what does this mean? ' glared his
master, desirous, although now greatly concerned
and timorous himself, to cow this rebel
into submission ; ' yare going to leave? '

Yis, I am,* replied Jasper.

^ But if I gie ye the three pounds ye went
leave ? ' queried Mr. Long, supposititious.

No,' returned Jasper.

^ Yare suer on it? '

Yis, I am.'

And ya'U stop yar full time, as we agreed
on?'

Heigh ! ' responded Jasper, with melted
incivility.

^ Now yare religious ? ' said Mr. Long, impressively
; under such a profession it was incumbent
upon Jasper to adhere to his word
once given. snow, remember yare suer ya
wHl?'

^ Suer,' repeated Jasper, fervently.

D'ye owe any more i' Haveluck? '

No, maister.'

Yare suer? *

^ Suer,' repeated Jasper again.

Then I'll let ye ha' th' three pounds, as
ye said we'd stop. You know,' said Mr. Long,
pah' parentJiese to Cowlamb, Jasper still in the
room, ' I thought I might happen something
in the night. I might be dying and nobody
near me, so I have him to sleep in the same
room ; only he's such a devil ! I have to
knuckle under nowadays,' said Mr. Long,
turning querulous ; ' if I do owt that doesn't
suit, he says he'll leave. He's gen me notice
heaps and heaps o' times. I ha' to

in

pull

It was a feature of Mr. Loner's locution
that he adopted the broadest vernacular with
his servants and those whom he could hector
to ; but to people of his own station he had a
choicer and less profane idiom.

'D'ye like yar quarters ? ' resumed Mr.
Long, turning to Jasper.

Mr. Long was desirous to impress Cow-lamb

that he was not all ' fire and tow but
could be very jocose and sweet-tempered.

Heigh answered Jasper, coolly, ' I can
do wi' 'em ; I slept very well last night.'

Oh, then, ya'U winter there,' intimated
his master, chuckling again as if another
triumph was scored to him. He was putting
the fellow in for a trial of his temper.

Cowlamb began to be weary. He wanted
Mr. Long to release him. He had been a
little entertained with Mr. Long's duel with
Jasper ; but with Cowlamb business was
always paramount — business always before
pleasure. When Jasper went oiF exulting, the
three pounds in his palm, Cowlamb spoke out.

You was particular to see me, Mr. Long,
Field?'

All in a neighbourly way,' said Mr. Long,
cautiously. ^ I no relations to speak of,' continued
Mr. Long, as if seeking sympathy.

Cowlamb was far off the scent, but he knew
that his vis-davis was driving at something.

Oh, well ! ' said Cowlamb, ' it's often a
good thing for a man when he has no
relations ; when they come a borrowing, and
you've been beholden to 'em at some time, you
feel forced to part, when at the same time you
know you'll never git it back

Jasper's a right to his three pounds — I
shall stop it out of his wages.'

That wasn't what I meant,' said Cow-lamb.


No, no, I know ' Mr. Long with

difficulty got to his feet, and with the aid of
his stick and occasional assistance from the
table, contrived to hobble to the door,
shuffling his feet on the carpet noiselessly,
gesticulating to Cowlamb not to speak, his
ambition being to reach the door and open it
suddenly.

He opened it and closed it with some satisfaction.


I've some queer ones about me, Cowlamb,'
appealed Mr. I^ong ; ' if I've anybody comes ina

friendly way, they're spying round to hark
at what's said. They're jealous for fear somebody
but they'll come in for my money. But
I'll serve 'em all out,' chuckled he demoniacally.
' Miss Grinstead won't stop at the
wages she gets ; she thinks she's down i' my
will. Human nature, Cowlamb, is very weak.
Law, 'tis a bad thing to reckon o' chickens
afore they're hatched. I've thought. Cow-lamb,
o' getting married ! '

Married? ' said Cowlamb in surprise.

Eh, man, married. What d'ye think
about it?'

Why, I thmk ya ought to ha' thereabout
it afore.'

I ought,' assented the aspiring bachelor,
sadly, ' but, then, she wasn't ready then, and
I didn't think about it then.'

^ She's a young woman, then? ' said Cow-lamb,
opening his eyes a little wider. Not the
faintest suspicion arose in his mind that he
had any concern in his old neighbour's contemplated
nuptials.

'Well, she is a good dele younger than
me,' confessed Mr. Long.

Mid you don't make a mistake,' said
Cowlamb, with a grave shake of his head.

I am not sure, Cowlamb ; but I don't
think you would think I was making much of
a mistake if I was to tell you the name of the
young woman.'

Mr. Long's fervour and pedantic way of
talking led Cowlamb still further away. His
old neighbour spoke like a staid man demented
with a late passion.

Who is this young woman ? Anybody
I know? '

Yes,' chuckled Mr. Long, joyfully trapping
his man, ' it's Iphis !

Iphis ! ' gasped Cowlamb, unable to say-more
for some seconds. He could have felled
the old heathen, or given some instructions to
test Mr. Long's capacities for a madhouse.
But in those few seconds Cowlamb' s habit of
looking at matters financially modified the
shock.

^ Tm an oldish man, I know said Mr.
Long, apologetically, ' but, dam'me, I'm lively,
now, ant ee? We're old friends, Ipliis and
me. I hadn't going to live for ever, and I
shall leave her all my money ; make my will
again. She shall do just as she likes — turn
the house upside down or inside out. Lord, I
shall be better in a week or two. I can walk
uncommon well when I'm rid o' this blasted
gout. Lord, Cowlamb, if I could leave a little
Long — er ! '

But puns were lost upon the farmer.
Cowlamb was so utterly overwhelmed that
he lost all presence of mind — almost all
his wit.

^ Now, what d'ye say? ' asked Mr. Long,
impatiently.

I don't know what to say,' answered the
farmer, slowly. ' What does she say ? '

For a moment Cowlamb thought that
Iphis's anxiety to get him across to the old
house arose from some shrewd guess that she
might be mistress there. Disappointed because

her first choice was unfortunate, she was
prepared to accept any one.

'The devil!' ejaculated Mr. Long; 'I
don't know what she's got to say. I should
think she would have me if you were to put it
to her.'

I don't know so much about that,' said
Cowlamb, dubiously.

Why, les she another sprung ? ' asked
the suitor, anxiously.

No,' said Cowlamb, peremptorily. He
would not acknowledge that other suitor.

Well, then, that would be easily managed.
I'm worth a goodish bit. If that wouldn't
tempt a woman, what would ? '

Cowlamb was already tempted.

I don't think she would like Jasper ! '

Jasper! What's Jasper ? Oh, hang it !

Cowlamb ' Mr. Long actually looked

prudish. ' Why, to be suer he'd be turned
out neck and crop.'

Bud you said he'd winter there.'

Heigh, yare a simple fellow in some
things, Cowlamb/

Maybe I am said Cowlamb, agreeably

mention it to her ; tell her I've a
lot o' money, and there'll be plenty of time for
her to have somebody else after me. Bud if
we were to have barns, of course I should want
them to inherit. Still she should ha' no cause
to complain.'

Mr. Long now entered into a statement of
his real and personal estate, and Cowlamb
began to be dazzled, to think that Iphis must
marry Mr. Long, or otherwise incur further
displeasure. To refuse such a chance would
be cutting Providence in the face. Cowlamb
thereabouts settled it in his mind that Iphis
was the future Mrs. Long, and that for prudential
reasons it would be wise to hurry on
her nuptials.

CHAPTER 19.

COUNSEL.

Iphis was surprised, looking out of window,
to behold Miss Grinstead's tall, spare figure
coming up the garden-path nearly at a run.
She held her dress high, her skirt was apparently
strained to a solitary hoop, showing
a pair of white-stockinged ankles of sickening
proportions.

Bless me. Miss Grinstead,^ ejaculated
Iphis ; ' why, isn't father at your house? '

^ My dear, he is ; that is why I have come

He's not been taken bad? '

No, no. I must sit down and rest a
minute before I can speak. I am quite out
of breath.'

I have some sherry wine.'

Thank you, I will take a glass. You
are kind.'

^ Nay, you're always good to me, Miss
Grinstead. I wish you would come here
oftener.'

I cannot leave Mr. Long often, and then
only at a forceps. To-day it is a forceps.
Oh, Iphis, you will scarcely believe it when I
tell you, but do you know why Mr. Long
wished to see your father? Mr. Long wants"
to marry you?'

Marry me ! ' shrieked Iphis, amusement,
consternation, and unbelief combined.

Yes,' gasped Miss Grinstead, her palsied
hands shaking nervously. * That is why Mr.
Long sent for your father. I knew he had
some badness in his head when he sent me
out of the room, but I didn't go far,' said the
old lady in a stage whisper. ' After a time
Mr. Long hobbled to the door to see if any one
was listening. He nearly caught me, but I
just heard his fingers at the door knob — I had

'4

the closet door open and I stood in the doorway,
so I shut myself in until he went away
again.'

Miss Grinstead shook her head melodramatically.
She had some admiration for her
own craft. Iphis laughed a little hysterically.
And what did father say? '
He didn't say anything at first. He was
too much surprised, I think.'
What did he say after? '
I can scarcely tell you. He scarcely
seemed to have made up his mind, I thought.
When Mr. Long began to tell him how much
money he had out and where it all was, I set
off as fast as my poor legs would carry me to
come and put you on your guard.'

I have made up my mind,' said Iphis.
Not to marry Mr. Long? ' inquired Miss
Grinstead, anxiously.
No.'

You are right, my dear, not to have him.
Look at his age ! And he swears so, it is not
fit any young person should be in his company,
VOL. ir. I

He is a bad old man, and lie has been a bad
old man

Iphis began to have a suspicion that the
old lady was depreciating the commodity to
secure it herself. That was a veritable jobber s
trick.

^ Supposing Mr. Long was to ask you,
Miss Grinstead, to have him, would you have
him?'

Iphis assumed extreme guilelessness.
The question was put so point blank. Miss
Grrinstead felt herself somewhat cornered.
' * Do you think, my dear, it would be
wrong for me to accept him ? '

Not wrong,' said Iphis, with mock meditativeness.


I am near Mr. Long's age,' mused Miss
Grinstead, complacently.
Iphis laughed to herself.
I shall not have him, Miss Grinstead,'
said Iphis, decisively. ^ I think it would be
more like if he were to ask you. If Mr. Long
does ask me I shall tell him so.'

Perhaps lie Avould be offended '

At me refusing him or suggesting you? '

He AYOuld be angry, I know, if you refused
him ; perhaps he would be cross if you
mentioned me.'

He must be a strange, queer man,' said
Ipliis, with simple good humour. ' After
living all these years with him, he ought to
have you.'

Do you really think so ? ' asked the old
lady, beaming.

Of course I think so,' said Iphis.

Ah,' sighed Miss Grinstead, ' he forgets
what I have done for him ; but I shall have
to go, or Mr. Cowlamb will be leaving ; and
directly your father goes, Mr. Long will ask
for me. He little thought I was in the closet.'

Had you any suspicion of what he wanted
father for ? '

Yes,' returned ]bliss Grinstead, readily.
^ You remember the day you came ? Well, as
soon as you had gone he began to laugh to
himself, and mutter, and swear ; then he had

I 2

some of his wicked old stories to tell, and
wicked jokes about getting married and serving
everybody out. He has been full of it ever
since. I believe he is quite sure you will
have him if your father is only agreeable. I
should not like to tell you everything he has
said, but he has never mentioned your name
^no, not once.'

If you'd ha' tell me, I could have stopped
father from coming,' said Iphis.

snow, I didn't think of that,' said Miss
Grinstead.

Miss Grinstead' s story was so concise,
Iphis could not doubt her. Iphis smiled at
the rivalry. Mr. Long might be an ogre, but
Miss Grinstead, although deeming it almost a
pact unholy for a young girl, herself was not
at all indisposed to listen.

You'll not think, my dear, I want to
stand in your light ; no ! It is another thing,
a poor old woman like me ; it would be for
the home, you know.'

I understand all that, Miss Grinstead/

said Ipliis, cheerfully. ' I an't going to be
made to have him ; there! And thank you
for coming.'

When the old lady was gone, Iphis sat
down to cogitate. She was quite decided in
her mind about Mr. Lono^. Soon she beofan
making comparisons on the two elderly swains
who sought her hand. Mr. Gerlimore had
come to her himself ; Mr. Long craftily endeavoured
to get at her father, playing upon
his greed for money and standing. Of the
two she would prefer the hale Mr. Gerlimore
to the hearty Mr. Long. The decrepit old
rascal, to bid for a young wife, when he was
so infirm he had to be moved out of one room
into another ! No, not Mr. Long ; Mr. Gerli-
more, if she had to marry an old man. If
Mr. Gerlimore had not responded to her appeal
a Extremity she would have been miserable.
The excitement almost banished Ephraim
Sparrow from her thoughts. She began to
enjoy the burlesque. When her father returned
she had a smiling face, the tea table

was set, she had donned the dove-silk gown,
her father's gift, and the gold chain shone on
sheen. Her father eyed her with pride,
amusement, secret satisfaction ; he did not
dream that she was laughing at him, and
turning him inside out.

How fine thou art ! ' said he ; * one *ud
think thou wast a lady. Should you like to
be a lady?'

• It would depend,' answered she, demurely,

^ Long wanted me to stop there, but I
wouldn't. I mud as well spend my bit o'
spare time wi' my barns. A fine owt fellow
is Long, and well off. I'd no idee he was
so warm. A pity the gout lays hold on
him so.'

Mr. Gerlimore is as owt as he is, and
look how brisk he is. He has no gout
much '

Mr. Gerlimore eats nowt ; he isn't hearty ;
he may go off ; he's no inside ' but Cow-lamb
forgot himself; if Iphis married Mr.
Long, one inducement must be that he would

soon go the way of all flesh ; ' but Long can't
last many more years. I've known hearty
fellows go off in a twinkling. When ewer
time comes,' observed the farmer, piously, 'we
all ha' to go.'

'I like Mr. Gerlimore best,' said Iphis,
mischievously.

Why, what does t' see so much in him,'
queried Cowlamb, puzzled with her ; 'he's a
thin owt scribe got to be, and a long thin
nose and Httle rat eyes and queer in his ways,
a real eccentric man. Now Long does wear
clothes that isn't owt-fashioned.'

I like Mr. Gerlimore best,' persisted Iphis,
'he's a gentleman.'

After all the tales about him? ' suggested
her father.

Wel,' persisted she, ' he doesn't use such
dreadful words as Mr. Long. Mr. Long
swears every other word sometimes.'

I've heard Parson Gerlimore rap out a
fine oath,' contested her father ; 'it's a bad
thing, I'll awn, is swearing.'

But Mr. Gerlimore's swearing isn't so
shocking as Mr. Long's, father.'

*Why, thou must be sweet on Azm,' said
Cowlamb, staring.

Father ! ' deprecated Iphis, with histrionic
art and emphasis, 'how can you talk so?'
Iphis shaded her face with her hand ; her face
was scarcely under control.

Cowlamb laughed at what he considered
her simplicity.

Why, I'm suer thou sticks up for him so,
I began to think things. Art tha going to
lev him now ? '

!No,' said Iphis, stoutly, ' not that I know
of.^

What should ye think of such an owt
man for a husband, eh? '

I might do worse than marry Mr. Gerli-
more,' declared Iphis, still determined to
champion her favourite.

He would ha' to last thee first, and that's
not likely,' said Cowlamb, sceptically.
Iphis could scarcely contain herself.

What should ye say to Mr. Long? He's
a dele the most money. mr. Gerlimore hasa
good living, bud 111 uphold it he ends his
as lie goes on. Long's been a money-maker.
He's no end o' money.'

I don't think I could fancy him.'

You don't know what you could do if
you would.'

'Why, father, you wouldn't like me to
marry such an owt man ? '

Thou might do a deal worse.'

Or better,' said Iphis, obstinately.

Why, hast tha another string to thy
bow ? ' asked Cowlamb, losing his temper.

Iphis was silent. Could she mention the
other strings? To breathe Ephraim's name
would be treason, to bring forward Mr. Gerli-
more's would provoke ridicule, incredulity.

'Is Sam tired of me, too?' asked Iphis,
sadly.

Tired? no, not he! Who else was tired
o'thee?'

It was a hard thrust, and Cowlamb felt it.

He had brought her away from her home, was
he alienating her affection from him ? He
had done all for the best.

^ Ain't I said,' importuned he exculpate
' when thou got tired o' Sam thou'd a
good home to come to ? I wanted thee to
stand at Sam's back. He spoke fair ; he said
he should be better wi' thou here, he wanted
thee to come, he asked for thee. Hasn't he
been doing the thing that's right ? '

^ He hasn't been much amiss,' said Iphis.
It was her first admission that he had been
amiss at all. Cowlamb did not ask for anything
more. He remained silent. He felt
strangely discouraged. What would be the
end ? Sam must soon turn, or it would be a
downhill course for him. Sam's proclivities
had been swept from the farmer's mind by the
new excitement. At the first he was startled
when Mr. Long opened his budget ; he had
some repugnance to his child being bargained
for, but his old neighbour's concise statement
of his wealth, his admission that he could not

expect to trouble any one long in this world,
that his property real and personal should
revert to her, unhampered, reached Cow-lamb's
greatest weakness. The inheritance
was cheaply obtained if Iphis could only divest
herself of a woman's foolish notions, but she
was almost too young to know what was best
for herself.

^ A few more years on her back,' thought
he, ' she'll know the wally o' money.'

And so he had almost made up his mind
to force her to accept good fortune. If she
was stiff and troublesome now, when old
Long had gone over to the majority she
would think that her father had done for the
best. So Cowlamb always comforted himself
when his actions even to himself appeared
high-handed and tyrannical. But what puzzled
him most was Iphis 's bantering way of
meeting him as he felt his way. He had
expected obstinacy, awkwardness.

I wonder who's put that into thy head,
about any on us been' tired o' thee ? '

^ Why said Iphis, ^ I thought you must
be by your wanting to get me married to the
first owt fellow that offers hisses

I aunt said anything about any owt fellow
wanting to marry thee

Oh ! ' said Iphis, ' it's all a joke then ? '

^ Nay, it isn't,' said Cowlamb, exasperated
because sunshine seemed to come in her
face crossly. ' I'm not given to jokes. But
I thowt what a fine thing '

Hasn't Mr. Long been asking you ? *
demanded Iphis.

Cowlamb was astonished at the change of
front. She had seen his hand from the first ;
she had played with him. She was much
shrewder than he took her to be.

^ It is so, then ? ' said Iphis, sternly.

^ It is and it isn't,' stammered Cowlamb.

Why, thou seemed main anxious for me to
go,' resumed he, ' and I think thou might doa
dele worse. Some day thou'd look behind
nobody, 'cause he'd leave thee every penny for
thee to do what thou liked with. He says,

what's done wi' it when he's dead he neither
knows nor cares. Thou can marry aegean or
owt. He wants somebody to stand by him
for a year or two ; he's neither kith nor kin ;
nobody that cares a button for him.'

I shouldn't care a button for him,' said
Iphis, coolly.

That wouldn't matter, Iphis — Long says

BO.'

If it had been Mr. Gerlimore,' mused
Iphis.

^ Bother Mr. Gerlimore ; it isn't him. He
wouldn't be able to do half so well by thee.'

I couldn't bear Mr. Long, with his nasty
ways.'

I'm suer he's a clean owt man. He
alius looks to me as if he'd come out of a
bandbox.'

Because he's well tended. I won't have

AZTTI.'

Don't be foolish, Iphis, or you'll live to
rue else. It caps me what's come over young
folks nowadays. When they're bread's buttered

for 'em they won't eat it ; they mow
about an' let somebody else bite at it.'

^ Why can't he marry Miss Grinstead ?
She'd take care on him.'

It's just that — that,' stammered Cowlamb.
Why, poor owt chap, she'd care less about
him than thou would. She'd lev a army o'
poor relations about her heels, and that would
drive Long crazy.'

^ Well, I an't going to have him ; I'd go
out to service first.'

^ Thou shalt go out to service, then,' muttered
Cowlamb, exasperated. He was well
aware that he ought to control himself, be cool
and plausible, instead of losing his temper.
He recovered himself a little. ' Now, think on
it, Iphis. I don't want thee to make up thy
mind all at once ; think o' thy futur ; thou'd
be a rich lady, thou might ride in a four-wheeler.
He said he'd buy one and a pair o'
ponies, and thou'd ha' no need to soil thy
hands.'

Iphis saw by this that opposition or intractability

would only increase her father's
liking for the proposal.

Thou used to be pleased wi' Mr. Long.
When thou was a been, anytime thou'd give
him a kiss for sixpence.' Cowlamb had a
hard laugh, and boisterous. Iphis remembered
it now with shame and disgust. She
wondered how she could ever have brought
herself to such a lowering freedom.

I only made believe.'

Nay, now, I seen thee wi' my awn eyes.'
Cowlamb laughed ao;ain, this time more
naturally. His other laugh came in only
when he was treated grossly, contradicted
flatly, or rebelled against utterly.

I wouldn't, now,' said Iphis, ' I'd rather
ha' Joe Bee than him.' And Joe Bee was one
of her antipathies. He was clownish and
contained, and 77ial apropos.

Well, I should have had nothing to say
against Joe ; no,' said Cowlamb impressively,
they're careful folks. Bee's been a man wi'
a good look-out, and brought up his barns to

work. But, sithee/ here Cowlamb's voice
drew the comparison, * when thou comes to
think o' Long ! '

Iphis was glad that Sam came in, and the
persecution ceased. Sam and her father began
to talk of the morrow, prospects of prices.
Samos wants were his father's wants. But
Iphis did not heed their talk. She was too
full of her ogre, for ogre to her Mr. Long was
now. She was not tempted, neither with his
promises nor future presents. The proposition
was odious. The idea of marrying Joe
Bee to get out of this scrape was not contemplated
seriously by her. She had always
looked upon Joe as an oaf. But she would
go over and see the Bees on the morrow,
when her father and brother were away.
Probably her native wit was stirring — unrecognised
as yet by her — to create a diversion
whereby Mr. Long would be shelved.

Now, then,' said Farmer Cowlamb to his
daughter, as she assisted him with his coat,
don't be soft. Remember what I've tell thee.'

She felt thankful when Sam and her father
were gone.

The Bees' farmhouse was more modern
than Sam Cowlamb's and less. A large
family had been brought up in it, many
girls, several boys, and Bee pater's great
jest was naming his house the ' Hive.' Al]
the lads save Joe had been put into farms,
and Joe was waiting impatiently for his father
to retire, rather impatient because some of his
sisters did not find husbands, for this would
expedite matters. Somehow they rather
hung fire, and Joe was debarred from grasping
the reins. Joe had an idea of getting
married himself, if only for one grand show
driving a wife in the smartest of clothes to
market once a week. Joe was not troubled
with much romance ; he was very sure upon
one pont, his bride must have a tocher.

Iphis, impulsive and prompt, reached the
Bee hive and was ushered into the best room,
much against her inclination. It was a room
held sacred from everyday pollution ; only

VOL. IL K

when company came were the blinds drawn
up and the embargo raised. Everything in
the room was new, grand, bright, and substantial,
but scarcely an idea of unison, repose,
or comfort. The newness and spotlessness
was oppressive. It was a fearful business
taking a chair.

^ Where's Joah? ' shouted Mrs. Bee in the
exuberance of her ' spirits.' ' I want Joah ! '

Now sit down, been,' said Mrs. Bee,
encouraging Iphis by planting herself in one
of her chairs, elbows out, palms on her knees.
Iphis almost felt frightened at the uncouth
woman's strident voice and unwomanly
habits. She could give an inventory of every
wen and mole that showed on face and arms ;
gone further — black alpaca dress, white ribbed
apron, floury — Mrs. Bee was cake-baking
when Iphis arrived — black cap with red rose,
rather tumbled, having done duty before in a
bonnet.

^ It's a black alpaca,' said Mrs. Bee, explanatory
; ^ I boat it when Bee's mother

died ; it was a comfort when she did go ;

she was just a handful Ah, here's Joah.

Now, Joah, here's Iphis Cowlamb dropped
in aegean ; it seems like owt times.'

Joah ' grinned as amiably as a baboon.
He intended his expansive face to express
pleasure and satisfaction.

Joe sat down on a wool-worked chair
covered with holland. He knew under the
circumstances there would be no complaint
from ' mother,' and he endeavoured to appear
nonchalant, as if being seated on wool-work
chairs was an everyday occurrence with
him.

When Bee and me goes an' leaves Joah
in the farm, we sell tek them there chairs — we
shan't leave him 'em.'

I'll buy some a sight better,' grinned
Joe.

'Elizabeth worked them, an' they'll be
hers. It won't be fair no other way.'

No,' returned Iphis, uncomfortable under
Joah's ' stare and stereotyped grin. His

K 2

grimace seemed to affect his mother. She
shook her fat sides with convulsive laughter.

'Now, Joah, dont put more on this
morning' than ya can tek oiF at night. Why,
Iphis, thou used to play the planner ; go an'
play it ; our lasses never touched it since they
left off school. Ya want to play it, I know —
ah! such softness — oh, well, do as t' likes, we
hadn't going' to force folks. It's not a dele o'
use pain' for extras, so my man says, an'
he's nearly alius right.'

I never cared for a piano much,' said
Iphis, conscientiously.

No, thought one o' th' right sort ; thou'd
make a proper farmer's wife, an' Joah 'ill be
wanting' a wife some o' these days.'

Now, mother,' bashfully deprecated Joe,
approvingly.

An' Joah's been about i' the world, he
les ; he's been up to London, that he les.
Last cattle show, aunt ye, Joah?'

Heigh,' said Joe, ' an' it's a dear place
an' all. They liardlins gives ye enough to eat

there. I could eat two or three o' their
dinners an' come aegean.'

Thou seed strange sights o' nights,*
suggested ' Joah's ' mother, desirous that her
son should show to the best possible advantage.
' What was that place thou seed the last
night? '

Here Joe was disappointing. He threw
his head back, the smile vanished from his
face. The name escaped him. To him this
was a serious misfortune. Probably he
would sink in Iphis Cowlamb's estimation
because of such forgetfulness.

Oh, the name doesn't matter,' said Iphis,
considerately.

Xo more it does,' said Mrs. Bee, giving a
helping hand.

It was a grand solace,' said the overpowered
Joe, ' but I couldn't see nowt in it.
There was such a " fog" they called it, 'mist"
we call it ; and I couldn't get a seat nohow.
I says to one fellow, " If ye please, sir, would
ye sit on a bit ? " But he never spoke, but

stared straight i' front on him. So I says to
another set aegean him. " If ye please, sir, would
ye make a bit o' room ; I axed this gentleman,
but he's deaf, I think." Blowed if he didn't
stare straight front on him, as if he was deaf
an' all. So I waits a minute, an' I see how
it was, and then I says to em' both, "" Yard
be shoved on if ya was in our country." '

Thou wouldn't ha' made any bones about
shoving' 'em on, Joah,' suggested Mrs. Bee.

Ah, I didn't know how many mates they
mud lev about. 'Here's no sense i' kicking
up a row in a strange place.' Joe shook his
head sapiently.

Mr, Bee introduced himself, but he would
come no further than the door jamb, disregarding
his wife's most pressing entreaties.
He was as reserved as his wife was loquacious.


No,' answered he, with a natural and
appalling grimness. ' I never comes no
furder'n here.'

^ It's nobbut his way,' excused Mrs. Bee,

^ Wliy, Joah's ventured in,' exclaimed Mr.
Bee in surprise. ' He's a bold lad, is Joah,'
declared Mr. Bee, admiringly.

Well, I nun be going,' declared Ipbis,
now as anxious to make her escape. ' I
thought I'd run over while father and Sam
where out. I had nowt on particular this
morning.'

I'm sorry our lasses are out a visiting,'
said Mrs. Bee. ' If we'd ha' nobbut known
you'd been coming. Here's nobbut Joah at
home.'

'An' me an' thou,' corrected Mr. Bee,
determined to be exact.

'We don't count thou and me,' affirmed
Mrs. Bee.

Oh, very well,' assented he, agreeably.

I shall be glad to see Elizabeth and Polly
over at our house.'

I'll tell 'em when they come home,' promised
the gratified mother. ' They hadn't
dance ' (dainty), said she, proudly.

Iphis rose to go. Joe rose up with a

favouring grin to let her pass, but Iphis would
not vouchsafe him a look. All the way home
she was anathematising herself for renewing
acquaintanceship. ^

That lout of a '^ Joah," ' muttered she,
mimicking their outrageously broad idiom.
She was very decided. ' I shan't have Joe
Bee,' said she, uncompromisingly.

CHAPTER 20.

A DEFAULTER.

Haveluck fair was generally well over before
noon. The best business was done earliest.
The later hours of the morning were noisy
with the ' riff-raff, ' the screw horse-dealers,
the ' Pepper ' gang, the nondescript and vagabonds,
quiet hitherto, noisily conspicuous now
opportunity offered. A greenhorn caught, if
he did not become the purchaser of some
broken-winded, chest-foundered, or impotent
animal, was only too glad to escape their
toils with a toll. Sometimes a Tartar
engaged these swashbucklers, but then the
glory of worsting them in their own field was
attended with no little danger.

After the fair was over came the races, the
money for ' plates ' and ' purses ' and ' stakes '
the result of persistent efforts made by horsey
votaries. It was the saturnalia. All Have-luck
turned out to enjoy themselves. It was
a time for families to unite, for festive enjoyment,
for much eating and drinking. For a
radius of some miles it was Haveluck feast ; it
was Selby and Drinker, and the feast of
half a dozen other neighbouring villages besides.
A fair excuse for a break in a year's
routine. Inn yards that day filled with traps,
and towards noon the town was stirred from
end to end with the arrivals, the streets presenting
a gay and animated appearance.

After they had dined, Farmer Cowlamb
ruthlessly ordered out the trap to return home.
Sam was inclined to stay. He would have
stayed had not his father been with him. It
seemed a hardship to Sam leaving such a stir,
but then Sam never questioned his father's
will. The old man led the recreant by the
nose when he was with him.

The fields devoted to Haveluck races were
entered from the road they would pursue.
As they were approaching them Sam slackened
rein, and both the men's eyes looked towards
the crowds, the ' grand stand ' — an erection of
6cafi*old-poles and planks — the shooting galleries,
the negro minstrels, the itinerant nut
and gingerbread hawkers, and the canvas -
covered stalls. It was a gay scene. Betting
men were assembling in hats and coats of astonishing
hues. Every now and then a trap
would dash past them, chafing Sam's mare, but
he checked her, wishing to prolong his journey
past. A groom on foot led a racer clothed.
The foot-road was crowded with pedestrians
hurrying forward after heavy dinners, cigars
and pipes and tasselled sticks the order of
the day. Children replete with pocket
money, terribly anxious to spend. Women
and young girls laughing, chattering, some
bold, some timid. Farmer Cowlamb looked
on with a cynical curl of his lip, then looked
at the unconscious Sam, in whose face

reigned paramount interest and regret.
Secret satisfaction and triumph animated
Farmer Cowlamb's. If he had not accompanied
Sam, Sam would have been head over
heels in all this mischief and foolery. What
a thing it was that lads brought up in the way
his had been should show such a hankering
after the fleshpots of Egypt ! But the farmer
was suddenly startled and recalled to himself.
It was as if a breath of Willowby air had
fanned his cheek, and not the salt breeze that
blew from the water off Haveluck. Sitting
on the top ledge of a gate was a figure
sufficiently familiar ; yet, no, he must be
mistaken. The individual he was thinking
of must be at Willowby. He was tied and
bound, and was not likely to have liberty at
Haveluck races when he was debarred even,
as Cowlamb knew, from attending the
festivities at Moortown feast. Cowlamb
could not rest without satisfying himself;
he had half a mind to get out of the trap,
but there was no need, it was the blacksmith's

apprentice, there was no mistaking
the round face and sparkling countenance
of his bugbear. There he sat, nursing a
bundle tied in a red cotton handkerchief,
watching the passers-by and the vehicles
with a curious almost boyish interest. He
saw the farmer and his son, but golden
Phoebus shining in his eyes, he did not
recognise the source of all his miseries.
Ephraim was well aware that to Colambre
owed increased severity of treatment.
Irritation against a captious master had
culminated in a desperate resolve. Ephraim
was absconding. His first idea had been
enlistment, but on reaching Haveluck he
found soldiering a much more prosaic undertaking
than he had imagined it to be. He
met with a surfeited private, full of woes,
possessed with an abject hatred of his
sergeant.

Ephraim tried his trade in the town, but
Ms inexperience went against him and work
was slack, the pleasure time even militated

against employment. One foreman had a
shrewd surmise that he was a runaway apprentice,
covering Ephraim with confusion
and raising the bogey of alarm. He must
seek the country again, he would not ask
again in Haveluck. What more natural than
that he should drift with the pleasure-seekers?
But his funds were at a low ebb ; after
satisfying humbly the cravings of appetite, he
found himself with a solitary sixpence in his
pocket. To be superior to the world's frown
a man must own a pocket-knife, a piece of
string, and a shilling. But Ephraim remembered
the hopefulness of a Willowby wight,
who declared that work always rolled into
him when he had spent his last sixpence, and
to ensure it it was wisdom to go to the alehouse
and get out of the last piece of plate
without procrastination. Ephraim' s poverty
did not weigh heavily upon his mind ; he had
forgotten the curt foreman, he sat oblivious
of future demands upon his resources. The
stream of people, the diversity of face and

apparel interested and diverted him. Everyone
was light-hearted, and Ephraim caught
the tone. The young fellows chaffed him —
he was countrified ; but Ephraim had ready
rejoinders, they were bound to admit that he
was not slow-witted. But all his insouciance
vanished in a moment. Something like a panic
possessed him. Had he comprehended that
Farmer Cowlamb had just passed him? No,
he was not afraid of Farmer Cowlamb
returning to Willowby with news of him.
His bogey was akin to Joel Towse's. At an
angle of forty-five degrees he became aware of
a police constable making for him. The light
shone on the badge of his helmet, and
Ephraim was riveted on the gate, as if fascinated
with this symbol of law and order.
He was prepared to make a clean breast of his
offence and promise to go quietly. What
was the use of remonstrance ? Ephraim felt
his knees tremulous before the policeman
spoke ; an excited gulp in the throat hindered
Ephraim from speaking the words which were

ready for utterance. The policeman, however,,
forestalled him.

You'd better get off that gate, young
man, it's not allowed ; there's been a goodish
many complaints about chaps sitting on gates
o' Sundays. You'd better get off, young
man.'

What a relief it was, to be sure! The
policeman's tone was even persuasive. He
spoke considerately.

^ Oh, I'll do that, sir,' said Ephraim,
dropping down with alacrity. ' I didn't
know I was doing wrong.'

Where are you going, young man? '

I'm looking for work,' replied the ran-away,
freely.

What ! on that gate ? ' Ephraim was
greatly taken up with the policeman's jocularity.
' Aren't you going to the races ? '

I think I will,' answered Ephraim ;
everybody else seems to be going.'

You don't belong here? '

On the tramp — well, don't get into
mischief — drunk — and if you have any money,
keep your hand on it.'

I don't think anybody '11 rob me,' declared
Ephraim, hilariously.

Better men than you have been cleaned
out,' returned his mentor, reprovingly ;
whereat Ephraim was a little abashed.

If Ephraim had looked up the road he
would have seen some one watching the rencontre
with some apparent interest. A trap
was stationary and one of its occupants
intently waiting for the issue. Then, as
Ephraim followed in the wake of the pleasure
seekers, the trap went on too, the mare
shortly after urged into a trot.

Ephraim on the race-ground was soon
confused by the shouts of a mounted horseman.
Looking to his left he beheld a ruck of
horses coming at a fierce gallop. He was
crossing the course, and was freely sworn at
when out of danger. He made his way to
where the people were densest. There was

VOL. II. L

a perfect babel of shouting, but ^ three to one
bar one ' was a sentence full of mystery to
him ; less so the frantic shouts of the spectators
—

Sultan wins ! Sultan wins ! '

By the excitement the horse was evidently
a local one. Beyond the interest that even
the most pulseless spectator evinces at a
closely contested effort, Ephraim was little
moved. Other excitement followed. A
welsher bolted, and a crowd chased him until
he jumped into a wide brook. The drinking
booths began to be patronised ; those who had
grievances aired them, those who had lost
having logic for the circumstance, those
who had won being equally argumentative,
somewhat hard upon the victims of misplaced
confidence, and aggravating hilarious. Ephraim
unwittingly found himself inextricable
in a dense circle, sheltered from outside observation
by the canvas of a booth. Looking
over the shoulders of those before him, he
observed a table covered with oilcloth painted

like a dial, horses red and black. Silver was
deposited, the arrow was spun, its stoppage
eagerly watched. Those who had money on
the particular colour seemed to have their
stake returned to them increased a hundredfold.
Ephraim's eagerness seemed to precipitate
him forward ; he was not aware that way
was made for him. Again he saw the operation.
His hand covered the solitary sixpence.
The same man won again, the table-holder
paying politely. Ephraim deposited
his sixpence ; the arrow revolved, seemed to
pause, then slowly passed Ephraim's colour.
Ephraim, disconsolate, struggled out of the
crowd. As he was emerging he heard a
couple of men talking.

What a plant ! They can't see through
it. The man who won belongs to the party.
I saw him come on the course with them.'

I thought they would have allowed that
lad to win to draw him on.'

Maybe his last coin. They can tell their
men. Ah! here's a policeman.'

L 2

Ephraim looked round to see what would
be done, but the men and the board had
vanished as if by magic, and the crowd was
dispersing. Another race was imminent, the
bell was ringing, and the numbers were up.
Ephraim felt more humiliated at being considered
a greenhorn. Stranded, he began to
consider that if he meant to push on it would
not help him staying on the racecourse until
nightfall. If he found no shelter he must
sleep rough. He had no particular object in
view beyond finding work ; no plans. He
had followed this road because all the townspeople
were seeking their pleasure this way.

He walked on some miles without touching
a village. A miller's cart came jogging
along, a solitary driver sitting on the tail door.
The driver pulled up.

^ Where behest tha going' ? ^ '

On here,' returned Ephraim.

^ Wilt ta ride?'

Ephraim declared his willingness to do so.

^ I never pass anybody when I've a empty

cart vouchsafed the Samaritan. ^ I been on
the road my sen. Where art ee going? '

This was a question difficult to answer.
Ephraim could only ask if there were any
smithies about.

Murder on. They comes two days a-
week to a sticky gain to our mill ; farmers
round about bring their bosses. There's a
blacksmith keeps two or three hands at
Wesselby ; there's some big farmers close to.
You'll come to a guide-post soon, and whichever
way thou takes you'll come to a place
where there's a smith. Dost smoke ? '

^ I aunt a pipe,' said Ephraim, thoughtfully.


Thought a rare chap not to carry a gun.'

I can do aether with or without,'
answered Ephraim.

I likes a bit o' dacca. They're unsociable
beings that don't smoke. When you're
out by course it's company. I go miles.
Our mill's in a odd place.'

D'ye take flour to Haveluck? '

No, get away wi' thee. They can git it
grunt there. I been to take our master's
dower to the railway ; she's gone to a place.
They've nobbut her, and they went let her
lev a young man, so she's gone out to service.
I never knew such a thing i' my life. She's
been at boarding-school, and they've nobbut
her. Thee, here's a pipe.'

^ Why didn't you court her ? ' asked
Ephraim, mischievously.

Me ? ' ejaculated the cadger in surprise.
^ Humph, she'd never ha' fancied me ; besides
it ud be as much as my place is worth. I
hadn't such a fool as to chuck up a good
place.'

They smoked on for some time in silence,
the springless cart lurching monotonously
with every stroke the horse made. Ephraim-was
nearly jerked off his perch by the miller
suddenly reining up.

^I go down this lane. Good night, lad.
Go straight on till thou comes to crossroads.'


Ephraim had fallen among thieves ; he had
met with a Samaritan.

A happy section of humanity can, in the
face of trials most depressing, preserve an
enviable serenity. The future is not dense
with apprehension. Ephraim would have
been quite cheerful but for the fear of being
caught and sent back to Willowby. The
potent indenture was a bond as despotic as
Shy lock's. A year of service longer and he
would have been free. He walked on briskly ;
a weasel ran along the footpath before him,
then sprang into the hedge bottom. At any
other time Ephraim, with all the fervour of a
naturalist, would have sought its habitat. The
day was closing with gusts of wind, the dust
from the road rising in little eddies, powdering
the hedgerows and roadside herbage, suggesting
rain to the impressionable mind of the
wayfarer. He began to think that he must
have put some miles between him and Have-luck,
thanks to the timely lift in the miller's
cart. As opportunely a milestone seemed to

rise up to inform him — from Haveluck, 9
miles ; to Dogbury, 14 miles. Where was
Dogbury, and what sort of a town or village
would Dogbury be ? There were no intermediate
villages named. This would be an
old coach road. He would scarcely reach
Dogbury that night if he made for it. He
had passed hamlets away from the road. He
began to be tired, but the miller's cadger had
advised him to push on until he came to a
guide-post, and then strike out. At last he
saw it before him, some distance ahead, a fir-wood
the background. He quickened his
pace, but it seemed to take some reaching ;
before reaching it he had to descend twice and
ascend again. You may walk ten miles
towards Treminster fancying the next hill surmounted
you will not be far distant from the
cathedral, but there comes another toilsome
hill, and another, and another, and another
after that.

It had a rakish look this out of the way
nota bene. The post was surmounted with a

bottomless bucket, the top of the post gleaming
out like a graceless vagabond's white poll,
a rim of the bucket hanging on one of its
arms. Ephraim read first one then another.
To Haveluck — to Crazelound — to Dogbury —
to Snailhorn.

People may have too nmch choice at times.
Ephraim could come to no conclusion. One
road was as good as another to him. He
rested against the guide-post cogitating. The
mind blew in among the fir-boles ; it seemed
a different world in among the dark trees. It
had all the weirdness of an unexplored forest.
He stood facing the wood with its dim and
unsolicited; limit and sombre shadow. It
seemed to have a privacy resenting intrusion.
Tiny rabbits, with soft, innocent eyes,
regarded him timidly, ready to scamper at his
first movement. Ephraim suddenly jerked
his stick into the air, giving it a spinning
motion. Whichever way the ash plant
indexed, he would be guided by it. It came
down again heavily, bounced over, and glided

some distance away from him. Ephraim
walked steadily towards it, and regarding it
for a moment, turned to look at the guide-post
— To Snailhorn. Ephraim picked up his
stick, shouldered his bundle, a victim to his
fate.

loo

CHAPTER 21.

A SURPRISE.

What, Greg ! What, Fan ! ' So in the
old farce two servants, old lovers, recognise
each other with mutual surprise and satisfaction.


Ephraim Sparrow sat in Snailhorn Church,
his back to the wall. Unobserved he had
seen Iphis Cowlamb enter and proceed to her
pew under the pulpit. As the service proceeded
Ephraim began to have a feeling that
the Rev. Mr. Gerhmore treated Iphis as delegate
for the congregation ; he looked at no
one else during prayers, and when he came to
his sermon he read it to her, a benevolent
expression playing about his mouth. Mr.

Gerlimore bent forward, caught her eye,
smiled, and his eyes, keen and sharp, were
softened with a slow of light, encouraging
confidence. She must have faith, and fall
back upon him. Ephraim thought it odd of
this old parson.

The sermon over, the parish clerk marched
to the door, and holding his snuff box in his
hand two or three old fellows dipped in their
fingers. Miss Grinstead said it was a shame-fill
profanation of a sacred edifice. But Mr.
Gerhmore set a bad example, for he always
helped himself freely, telling a story of a man
who carried a pea in his pocket to indent his
thumb, his wife not allowing her husband to
carry a snuff-box. He thus had further
regalement.

Miss Grinstead was stepping forward
when Iphis caught sight of Ephraim standing
sheepishly on the grass. Rules of politeness
went to the winds. Iphis forgot that
such a person as Miss Grinstead was inexistence.
But the old lady heard Iphis's

loud ejaculations of surprise and scanned the
self-conscious Ephraim critically.

Ephraim ! ' cried Iphis. ' Well, I never.
Whoever would ha' thought o' seeing you
here ! '

But Ephraim looked so mysterious, Iphis
lowered her voice. She felt how fortunate it
was that Sam scarcely ever came to church
now.

What are you doing here to-day? It's a
long way fra Willowby. How did you come?
Did you walk? '

Iphis had a torrent of words. She was
intensely gratified at what she imagined a
mark of his devotion, coming all the way
from Willowby to see her, and pitching upon
the church for the rencontre. How could she
ever have so misjudged him as to believe that
for a harsh word, and her own coquettish
conduct, he would give her up?

His eyes travelled one way, then another,
and he looked behind him before he
spoke.

I been here three or four days. IVe run
away whispered Ephraim, hoarsely.

But you was bound? ' said Iphis with
some concern.

^ I broken loses replied he with a
comical, devil-may-care gleam in his eyes.

But if they find out where you are
they'll fetch you back, Ephraim, and maybe
put you in the lock-up.'

^ I sell run away aegean.'

Iphis laughed. Such wilfulness was delicious.


Well,' said she, reassuringly, ' I shan't
write home and let them know you're here.
Father would go right away to blacksmith.'

I've tried to stop,' said Ephraim, earnestly,
^ for father's sake. I know he'd be cut up.

And Bob ' A tear came into his eye.

You didn't know about Bob? '

^ No,' said Iphis.

^ He got drownded. They ordered a lot
on 'em out in a ship that turned bottom
upwards. There was hundreds on 'em

drownded. Not one on 'em saved. I was
that miserable that letter coming' fra father, I
thowt I'd 'list for a sower, but I was tell
plenty at Haveluck about towering.'

I'm glad you didn't,' said Iphis.

I thowt maybe you'd gen me up.'

What made you think so ? '

1 thowt you was sweeter on Bob than
me.'

I did think a dele about him confessed
Iphis, naively, ' bud not so far as that.'

Bob was a finer chap than me.'

Ephraim, they sent me here to get me
out o' your way.'

It's your brother that has the farmers

I can do as I like with him,' said Iphis,
confidently.

Some awkwardness of habit prevented
Ephraim from soliciting a revival of the old
understanding, but it was fully understood by
both that mutual regard and attachment had
been held inviolate. There were grassy lanes
where they could walk without fear of curious

eyes noting for future comment the eccentricities
and abandonment of lovers. Iphis
resigned herself to the joyous freedom of the
situation. All reserve went to the winds.
Love in any station is feverish when prohibition
is the fiat. When assignations are made
the stolen pleasure is all the sweeter. Iphis
felt herself triumphant in her exile. She was
easily persuaded to walk on with her lover,
although during that walk together little was
said by either. If marriage had been contemplated
by Iphis, it had scarcely shaped itself
definitely in Ephraim's mind. Some peril,
peril of a rival, must come to make Ephraim
decided. But now with Iphis it only needed
sterner reprobation or threat of compulsory
marriage to propel her into Ephraim's arms.

Sam was waiting for her impatiently.
The tea-table was set, bright with china and
the silver tea-pot. The solid furniture and
warm, sombre colour of carpet and hangings
gave an air of great comfort and ease. Sam
lay back in the easy chair, his huge limbs

crossed, the Mercuric crumpled on the floor,
the house cat at Its feet, blinking with domestic
content. A lithograph of the steward
of the estate, as pompous in expression as his
Yrs. faithfully,' appeared as if taking an
approving estimate of Sam's solvency. Sam
had dozed and dozed again, until, feeling
cramped, he began to wish that Iphis would
put in an appearance.

They kept you late-wish,' said Sam, when
she appeared. ' You called in somewhere ? '

^ Nay. I didn't,' answered she, ' I just went
for a wjilk ; I'd no idea it was so late.'

It's no matter,' said Sam cheerfully, ' only
one's so used to levin' tea sooner on a Sunday
than on a wottleday. It doesn't seem
nat'ral to one to be put past. 0' Sundays
one's as idle as a dog's hairy,' said he,
yawning.

I weaned be a minute.'

Sam stooped and picked up his paper,
occupying himself with smoothing out the
creases. He felt it an offence against his
VOL. n. M

housekeeper's ideas of order and neatness.
While she was away, he re-read in a desultory
way the advertisements of sales and
other notices agricola. Sunday was a great
reading day with Sam ; those portions of the
paper he skipped on first receiving it he diligently
read, for time hung heavily on his
hands on Sundays. He could not work as on
week-days, although at intervals he haunted
the farm buildings, looking over half-doors
at calves and feeding beasts, draught-horses
and store pigs. And they seemed to understand
that he cared for them.

When Iphis came down Sam had already
placed himself at the table, and was looking
as distrait as un homme ennuye would.

^ There's a great ship lost, and four hundred
on 'em in it ; it trembled over. They
call it the " Captain." Did ta see it ? ' said
Sam, gaping.

^ No,' answered Iphis.

I wonder if anybody '11 come in? ' mused
Sam.

t

I'd knaw/ answered Iphis ; * I hope
them Bees want. I hope Mr. Gerlimore
wil.'

Why not them Bees ? I heard tell o' thou
going to see 'em, when we went to Havelock

They make one feel duller. Joe's that
soft, and his mother seems so vulgar. I used
to wish she was my mother when I was a been,
she used to — to fuss one so. But she seems
hateful now, and Mr. Bee looks so solid. I
used to laugh at him when he spoke, but
now I can't see what I saw to laugh at.'

Joe's a likely chap — a good farmer
interpolated Sam. ' He held a butcher a yow
that had dropped her wool, for a fat lamb.
Her wool came curly aegean, everybody that
seed it said what a fine lamb it was, and it
was a wether. That wasn't dusty.'

But Iphis was not taken with this picture
of ^ Joah's ' shrewdness.

^ I shan't go there any more,' said she.

Thought a rum lass for picking folks up
and setting 'em down aegean. Well, I don't

m2

want Joe to come and fetch thee away,' said

Sam, laughing.

You needn't be scared o' that,' said Iphis,

with curt disdain.

Oh, did ta see the blacksmith at church? '

inquired Sam. ' I meant telling thee to tell

him we want wer harrows sharpening ; they

ought to ha' been done afore. He's got a

man. We s'U git things done now.'

Sam spoke so guilelessly, Iphis felt herself

a sinner. If she had not seen the smith she

had seen his man.

Tea over, company came, and the Bees of

all folks. Iphis had to put on a semblance of
welcome, and Sam chuckled and laughed to
himself, though there still lingered a 'nettled'
feeling ; the Bees had openly criticised his
goings on at various times. Sam had once
been favourably looked upon there, their
eldest daughter they once fancied had made
some impression upon Sam. Mr. Bee looked
a little 'square' (askance) at first, but he

.soon recovered himself, for Sam Cowlamb was

not of a maliceful sort. The two daughters
were with him, bouncing country lasses,
ruddy, with dark deep-set eyes, and the busts
of matrons. Elizabeth was impetuous, saying
everything that came into her head, while
Polly sat still, smiling, suggesting terribly
that nothing did ever come into hers. Polly
carried the palm for looks, Elizabeth for
loquacity. Iphis had not a point in common
with either.

1 saw you at church,' said Elizabeth. ' 1
wanted to last you how you was, bud you
was oiT by that. You know that young man
that's come to the blacksmith's? '

Yes, he comes from Willowby,' answered
Iphis, coldly ; ' he was a singer at our chapel.'

Iphis looked towards Sam, wondering
if he had heard Elizabeth's unconsidered
outburst, but Bee and he where engaged with
a desperate piece of strong land.

Then he's religious, maybe? ' said Elizabeth.


He was brought in,' acknowledged Iphis.

'It's a bad job when they get religion and
fall away. Some go on worse ester than they
did afore.'

I'm suer I don't know answered Iphis,
wishful to bring the topic to an end.

Did you go a- walking with him? ' persisted
the too curious Elizabeth.

As far as the lane end. Why, what o'
that? He won't ha' made bold to speak if I
hadn't.'

I see,' said Elizabeth ; ' I thowt you
knew him, maybe ; why doesn't he shave his
lip? Joe wanted to lev a moustache, but
father said if he'd any such notions he mud
pack and begone.'

I didn't notice,' said Iphis, hypocritically ;
why, has he?'

Well, its just black on his lip, I could
see, and on his chin. Why, everybody in
towns les 'em. I thowt maybe he was a
town chap. They can't be nice if they want
to kiss you.'

^ Kiss I ' exclaimed Iphis, almost starting
to her feet, and blushing.

Why, men do kiss women when they're
courting,' argued Elizabeth,, resenting Ij^hib's
show of surprise.

Polly smiled and shook her fat shoulders
in gleeful anticipation of becoming the idol of
a lover's eye and heart.

I don't know,' said Iphis, off-handed.

^ Well, I've been kissed, so I'll awn to it,'
said Elizabeth, bravely — ' at parties, you know.
But then it looks soft, after the first time or
two, to put your hands to your face and
pretend you don't want. Why! don't you
think it does? And then chaps git mad. It's
not the same as if, when they met you going
to market or anywhere, they were to clam
hold of you, and kiss you there and then.
They think nothing o' the first time or two
pulling your hands away ; they get one arm
around your neck, and after — they no need o'
that.'

^ I hate so much kissing said Iphis, contemptuously.


I don't, and Polly there, ah — she sits
alius without a word to say for lessen, bud
she's that brazened — yes, you are. Oh, she's
that brazened for all she's so quiet. I don't
ha' two chaps come hankering round the
house! Last Sunday Stephen Body came
looking for her-and 'cause she wasn't at
home, he says to mother, "Is Polly at the
Conference to-night, Mrs. Bee? I been to
the Primitives." He'd come from Kaythorpe,
and what d'ye think? Polly came u.p with
Arnold Hazelbyby. Mother left 'em to theirsens,
she did. She didn't know what to do wi'
'em ; and Polly went say which it's to be.'

I don't know,' said Polly, ingenuously.

Then you ought to know,' said her sister,
sternly. It appeared to Iphis, that the younger
sister's plethora of suitors exasperated Elizabeth.


what should you do, Iphis? ' asked Polly.

I don't know what I should do wi' two.'

She can't many both, can she? ' asked
Elizabeth, still stern. ' And she'll very like
make 'em both fall out ^vith her.'

One on 'em '11 be safe to stick to her,'
suggested Ipliis, confidently ; whereat Polly,
looking relieved, rewarded Iphis with a grateful
smile. She was accustomed to look upon
her more loquacious sister as a Sheba for
wisdom .

' How can I tell which I'm going' to lev? '
ventured Polly. ' I think I like Steve the
best. Liz may have Arnold. I don't think
ony body's ester her.'

This was crushing for Elizabeth, but she
rose again, bravely asserting herself. ' And
not for want o' chances, maybe.'

Thought more particular than nice,' suggested
Polly, sarcastically.

Iphis grew weary at last of their interminable
solicitude for a husband. It was
more pronounced than her own. Iphis
was relieved when the house was clear of
them. Sunday was Sunday. They seemed

to bring into the house a boisterousness that
clashes with the day and her own sensitive
nature.

Sam, looking at his sister, could realise
a gulf. Iphis's oval face, fine and delicate
lips, large and intelligent eyes were strikingly
brought out in juxtaposition. Her ears were
like shells, her hair silky and soft, a soft and
clear complexion with her light brown hair.

They can't come up to our Iphis,' was
Sam's mental thought; 'there's plenty o'
substance i' little room, bud they ain't fine
and clean. They ain't ears, they're lugs.'

'I'm glad they've been,' said Iphis.
They went come aegean till I've been there,
and I shan't go in a hurry.'

They're nicest lasses,' said Sam, mischievously.


They're little,' sneered Iphis.

Good stuff 's lapped up i' small parcels.'

And so 's poison,' retorted Iphis.

^ Well, anybody's better than nobody, lass.
Law, 'tis a lonely life living in these out-of

the-way places. Now in a town one can go
out and git into company.'

I wouldn't care to live in a town,' said
Iphis, curtly. Sam, she knew, loved the town
too well.

Maybe I shouldn't. I've got used to
looking after things. I feel awful when I've
nowt to do. I can't sit like some folks reading
a book from one hour's end to another.
It seems such a waste o' time to me. I alius
go to sleep over the newspaper.'

Iphis could not assert a claim for love of
books. Consequently both were eaten up at
times with ennui. Cards had been tabooed
from their infancy as some outlying picket of
the devil's, and both had grown up to have a
suspicion and misconception of them. How
these two might have spent their evenings,
whiling away their time over a game of crib,
for even those who love a book, when it palls,
may cosily sit together over a game.

Sam went out upon his evening prowl
over the contiguous home close, looking to

the sheep there ; then round by the house-end
to the farm buildings once more. And
while he was away Iphis, in her own chamber,
was dwelling upon the unexpected appearance
of Ephraim Sparrow, his constancy and his
past hardships. She sat upon the edge of her
stately four-post bed and pondered over the
possible course of events. Her father would
naturally be over at Snailhorn again before
long. If he discovered Ephraim so near,
what would he do? Force her into marriage
with Mr. Long? But then if a woman is
dragged by brutal force to the church, when
they have got her there they cannot force her
to say ' Yes.' But her father had the power
to remove her from Snailhorn back to Willow by,
and Ephraim dare not return there. Would
Mr. Gerlimore help her in any way? He
would marry her himself, but this was coming
no nearer a happy consorting with the one
of her choice. Iphis speculated no further ;
tidings must take their course. She would
walk out with Ephraim, if not openly, because

she had a spark of prudence, and knew there
would be ' talk.' Words travel with the
wind ; it might waft information to Willowby,
hastening catastrophe. When she got downstairs
again she saw that Sam had discovered
her keys, and the sideboard door was open.
He was pouring liquor into a glass.

I'm just going to lev one glass,' he said,
tentatively, ' to take taste out o' one's mouth.'

What taste ? '

The bees' honey.'

Well, give me back my keys then, or
when I want 'em I shan't find 'em.'

Under the circumstances she could not be
acting. Sam tossed her her keys across
the table, intimating that he had no desire to
exceed the one glass.

CHAPTER 22.

Passion.

Days and weeks progressed. Iphis lead her
trysts and repaired to them, until she cared
little who met her or who espied the assignations.
Sam, easy soul, never troubled himself
about her, the increasing habit of hers of
wandering away from the house, excited
neither his curiosity nor suspicion. She was
only a girl, and why should she be cooped in
and about the house night and day? She
must have relaxation. If any one had told.
Sam it was a sweetheart she met, Ephraim's
station would not have excited his ire or ill-will.
He had married where there was money,
it had palled upon him ; looking back he felt

that he had been debarred some honest throw,
lovely and chaste in itself. In his most
miserable hours he took to drink, jovial company
Tvas irresistible.

When Sam was away at Haveluck or elsewhere,
Ephraim was bold enough to venture
near the house. Further emboldened he came
to the house itself at last, and Iphis's courtship
proceeded as properly and much more
to her heart than hundreds of courting do
proceed.

But, alas! there came the catastrophe.
With repeated victories we court disaster.
Sam had gone to Haveluck market. He had
wished for Iphis's company, but of late, to
his sui-prise, she had shown some distaste for
leaving the house. She had not seen Haveluck
half a dozen times since her return to Snail-horn.
Sam did not press her, he was almost
glad to go alone ; he could order out his horse
when he chose, stay until he was the last man
in the bar parlour. He made it a point to
execute all her commissions first thing, then

get through his own business, then the remainder
of the day was his own. No one
loves gossip more than the illiterate man,
buried six days out of seven in a desert of
cultivation, his own house a landmark for
miles. He must have a day to ventilate his
ideas or open his soul for impregnation.

It would be about seven o'clock in the
evening. Ephraim Sparrow stood in Sam
Cowlamb's kitchen leaning against the kitchen
table. It was that season of the year when,
the sun having set, the earth rests in a melodious
shadow, dusk imminent, but reticent.
Iphis stood near to him. So near indeed that
Ephraim' s arm was round her waist. The
soft lines of her body were unresisting. Her
hands trifled affectionately with the hand of
the arm that spanned her. There was something
in his forge-burnt face beside the glow
of health that held her captive to his will. A
spice of the ineradicable daring glistened in
his eyes ; his evident capacity for mischief enthralled
her. The silky brown down on his

lip merging to a curl, seemed to indicate love
of pleasure, indolence, disregard of the future,
and absence of settled purpose. It was this
very expression which Iphis's father fought
against. Farmer Cowlamb feared the ne'er-do-weel,
and he at first was actuated by no
other desire than that of seeing his daughter
settled in a comfortable home, with a solid
husband to protect her and make good use of
her dowry. This rascal would be a thorn in
his flesh as long as he lived, and possibly
bring his child to penury. After he had done
with life he could no longer stand at her back.
Mr. Long had tempted Cowlamb. No young
fellow came forward of the right sort, or whom
Iphis would accept, and Cowlamb felt desperately
anxious to see her married and out of
harm's way. The money might tempt her,
and in a few years old Long would be dead,
and she would have gathered crumbs of sense,
Marry old Long ? ' cried Ephraim, incredulously.
' I've seen him. Why, he's owt
enough to be your grandfather.'

VOL. II. N

Iphis nodded. It was not the first time
she had hinted to Ephraim of this osier. Now
she gave her lover full details of her father's
wishes and Mr. Long's plans. She refrained
fi-om mentioning Mr. Gerlimore's offer. It
was so different, dictated from feelings of pity,
and tendered in a fashion that won her respect.
No, she could not hold him up to ridicule !

I'se think,' cogitated Ephraim, ' your
father ud make no bones about me if I'd
money, or was in a good farm — he'd ha' nowt
aegean me if I was Joe Bee. Maybe I've some
belongings that are well off, but that's nowt ;
the owt chap's never done a dele for me that
I know on. He's my great-uncle, and he's
well off. He boat me a suit o' clothes once,
and he's gen me a sovereign or two, but alius
saying I needn't expect owt from him. I
neither want him nor his money. There was
nobbut Bob and me akin to him — he was
mother's own uncle '

He's sure to leave you his money,
Ephraim.'

^I meant reckon on it. They say he's
well off, but maybe he's nowt.'

If you was married maybe he would do
something.'

I wouldn't last him,' said Ephraim sourly ;
if I couldn't addle ^ owt I wouldn't.'

I think when they can start young folks
they ought to,' reasoned Iphis, less independent.
' I'm suer father would never ha' thowt
o' refusing to help Sam or Tom.'

But it comes to another thing — I hadn't
his son,' said Ephraim, hopelessly.

Iphis looked pityingly in Ephraim's face.
He had no one to lean upon. Why should
her father be so bitter against him ? She
thought just then of her father, and the rage
he would be in were he to hear of their meetings,
Ephraim bold enough to enter the house.
She did not fear Sam. Sam condemned the
principles in which he had been educated, and
would be likely to encourage another in rebel -

^ Earn.

y 2

lion. Sam vowed if his life had to come over
again money should not influence him in anyway
where marriage was concerned.

Thou does think a bit about me, then ? ^
said Ephraim, gratefully.

I wouldn't ha' thee here if I didn't,' she
returned, candidly.

He pressed her all the tighter, and was
silent for a moment or two.

'And thou'd marry me ? If I'd nowt but
what I addled ? '

I could live where any other woman
could, and make things go as far. But we
can wait a bit ; things maybe '11 mend. If
owt Brandy knew you were here he'd send
after you.'

Nay,' answered Ephraim, confidently ; ' I
think he'll bother no more about me.'

Iphis's quick ears caught the sound of
wheels at the house-end.

Here's Sam,' said she, quietly. Ephraim
relinquished his hold.

Will he come in here ? ' asked Ephraim.

Oh, never mind if lie does,' answered she,
calmly.

A footfall startled her, it was close upon
them, the hand was on the door ' sneck

'Why, it's father!' gasped Iphis, horrified.


She threw up the window sash — it went
up heavily — Ephraim clambering upon the
table. At the same moment the door opened
and Farmer Cowlamb witnessed the ignominious
exit of the lover. At the first blush
Cowlamb thought it a cupboard courter of the
servant-girl's, but when he saw it was really
his own girl Iphis standing near the table,
agitated, nervous, and almost speechless,
instantly he surmised the lover. His mind
went back to Haveluck fair, that afternoon
when he had observed a youth perched on a
gate, exciting the interest of a police-constable.

Was that that blacksmith's chap ? ' demanded
her father, violently.

Iphis did-not answer. The farmer looked
through the open window, and beheld Ephraim

hurriedly proceeding along the brick edge of
the duck pond directly in front. The crows
came daily for Iphis's chickens. Sam's gun
stood, unfortunately, too handy. The impetuous
farmer seized it, shouldered it, and fired.

Iphis screamed, for Ephraim stumbled and
fell, rolling into the water.

^ Oh ! ' she screamed again, ' you've shot
him — you've murdered him — you'll be hung !
— What had he done amiss to you ? ' demanded
she, passionately.

She spurned her father away from her.
In her face was horror, despairing detestation,
unforgiving resentment. The farmer lowered
his gun, awakening as suddenly to his culpability,
for a moment helpless, then as frantic as
his daughter.

What did he come here for ? God bless
my soul, what did Sam leave the gun about
for ? What nun I do ? What nun I do ?
I never meant it, Iphis. I never meant to doit.
I didn't know it was loaded. Was there
shot in it ? '

Cowlamb felt his brain iced with horror.
Iphis never replied to him, and he dashed
out of the house, running against Sam
who was coming up, having heard the report
of a gun, without being much surprised
thereat.

But something in his father's face caused
Sam to feel alarmed, he knew not why.
Frio'lit and horror seemed contagious. Some
gleam of comprehension reached Sam's brain
when he beheld Ephraim floundering in the
muddy water. ' Help us out with him,'
groaned Farmer Cowlamb ; ' we'll get him out
and lam the worst. I'd know what came
over me ! '

You didn't aim at him ? ' queried Sam,
with some concern, and a feeling of repulsion
even against his own father.

I harding know what I did.'

Sam could see that his father was greatly
alarmed, almost abject. They were two strong
men. Ephraim struggled with them much
like an animal ignorant of its captor's intentions

; but when assured that no further retaliation
was intended submitted quietly. He
was taken into the farmhouse, and laid dripping
on the kitchen table.

Is he dead ? ' cried Iphis, clasping her
hands ; ^ is he hurt much ? '

'Get away wi' thee,' said her father, absently,
although nervously, some of the old
acrimony in his voice ; ' how can we tell
till we see ? '

Iphis lingered a moment or two, and
Ephraim recovering himself sat up. His
faculties were not over clear yet. He had
swallowed a quantity of the dirty water, and
some slime from the bottom of the pond upon
his clothes had not an agreeable odour.

Is owt the matter wi' thee ? ' queried
Cowlamb.

Not much, I think,' answered Ephraim,
slowly, feeling of his elbows.

What was t' coin' then to tumble in? '

Cowlamb recovered himself sufficiently to
assume sternness and implacable dislike. In

his heart he was thankful that it was no
worse.

Somebody let a gun off, and I jumped so
I missed my footing.'

Poor Ephraim talked as if waking from a
dream. He had scarcely realised yet his position,
or the capital he might have made out
of it.

Now, thee here, Ephraim ; I warned
thee off my place, and thou must come here.
I hadn't going' to lev it, and that's first an' last.
Fetch him a drop of brandy ; it'll keep the
cold out, Iphis. When thou's drunk it thou
may bundle off home. I sell take Iphis back
to Willowby. Thou's run away fra thy apprenticeship
; that's a bad start. Thou meant
venture ony where near Willowby.'

There's no tellin,' said Ephraim, recklessly.


I'll not ha' thee coming ester Iphis '

Oh, well,' said Ephraim, ' that '11 keep a
bit. You'll maybe tell owt Niversweat where
lam?'

Nay, I shan't

Well, I shan't give her up till she says I
am.'

Thought a stupid ass for thy pains,'
said Cowlamb, his passion rising ; ' thou'd
better get off or I shan't keep my hands off
thee. If I thowt thou'd nobbut gotten a
ducking, for me thou shouldn't ha' been picked
out.'

That night Sam and his father had some
serious conversation. Iphis was to return to
Willowby. To think of this fellow coming
right away to Snailhorn ! No ! Cowlamb
would be very mindful in not letting slip the
whereabouts of the absconding apprentice, and
the lad dare not show himself in Willowby.
Cowlamb felt himself safer as things had
turned out, and hinted as much to Sam. But
Sam was very blunt with his father ; annoyed,
too, at losing Iphis. Once in his life he combated
his father's unscrupulous aims. He was
inclined, to his father's increasing anger, to
favour the pretensions of the lad.

^ I see nowt aegean the lad. He's a jolly
little chap by his face. Couldn't we put him
in a way ? '

Cowlamb's race was so o'reat the veins,
swollen blue on his forehead, seemed to knot
and contract.

Marry owt Long ! ' exclaimed Sam in
astonishment, and astonishment qualified with
disgust and reprobation ; ' I'd sooner see her
in her coffin'.

Then thou couldn't bear to see her prosperous,'
said Cowlamb, senior, cynically.

I brought my pigs to a bad market
retorted Sam, coolly. ' D the money.'

Well, the long and the short on it is
she sell go back wi' me, of that I'm determined.'


^ And what am I going to do ? ' inquired
Sam, concernedly ; ' here I got to think I was
settled fairly. I let her lev her own way ;
why, I do just as she tells me, like a bad
lad. I try not to cross her noways. It's
rather hard o' me,' complained Sam.

What should t' do if some fine morning
she was to run off wi' that chap ? '

Tek 'em in if they'd nobbut come back
said Sam.

^ A nice brew there' d be.'

^ Well, I aunt going to quarrel with you,
father ; I've my own thoughts and you have
yours, only I think it's a mistake thinking so
much about money and money's worth.'

And Sam, his boots unlaced, pushed them
off his feet, as a signal that he did not wish to
hear any more, but would prefer going to bed
to sitting up hearing a doctrine widely differing
from his own. Sam's stand ' gravelled '
Farmer Cowlamb more than all beside, but
still tended to make him all the more adamantine.
He tapped at Iphis's door passing.

^ You'll go back wi' me tomorrow morning.'


She did not reply.

Dost hear ? ' urged he louder, sterner intone,'
repeating what he had said.

Yes,' replied she, ungraciously.

I\'e let thee ha' thy awn way too much,
my lass.' He was hurt and miserable hearing
her speak so to him, but he was still determined
to bend her to his will. ' It ud ha' been
better for thee if I'd stuck to thee a bit closer,'
he added, his upper teeth dropping into
the lower ones. When put out more than
common this peculiarity was more marked.

He entered his bedroom, and got into bed
with a resolution not angelical, but habit
closed his eyes, determination brought him
sleep.

CHAPTER 23.

CHECKMATE.

Iphis might only have been to market for all
the emotion her mother exhibited. Mrs. Cow-lamb
was supremely passive, speaking with an
almost imperceptible movement of her lips.
Most people found it difficult to catch what
she said when her back was turned to them,
and her temper equable. ' He's brown thee
home, I see — it's a cold day — we nun begin
to expect cold weather.'

Iphis scarcely deigned a reply. She was
a thwarted lioness, a dangerous gleam lurking
in her eyes. Her courage still held her up.
She would not allow herself to feel daunted.
Inflexibly she listened to her father's threats,
cajoling.

Marry old Long? Never ! ' ■

If her father had brought her out of the
reach of Ephraim, he was bringing her out
of the way of the old reprobate, who might,
when his gout was better, contrive to toddle
down to Sam's to pay his addresses. No persuasion,
no glowing picture of a luxurious
future, could move Iphis out of her stony imperturbability.


At last some qualms seemed to move the
farmer, or he saw the futility of prolonging
the struggle ; but he naturally hated giving
in, and during all this troublous time he nevermore
passionately admired and worshipped
her.

Independently of persecution, it was to
Iphis as if she had returned to an establishment
in which she had no vested interest ;
Snailhorn her location. But the weeks rolled
on ; going to market with the week's produce
seemed to go far to run her into the old
groove.

The day was raw and gusty, and the

atmosphere heavy, one of the dull days before
Christmas. At the foot of the lane her eyes
discovered her old favourite, Joel, and a sister
performing a strange vagary.

'Get up! What are you rolling about
there for? '. cried Iphis, in astonishment, and
laughing as she had not done for weeks, as
first Joel tumbled over, then the little girl.
Joel was whimpering. ' Get up, you little
sallies,' repeated Iphis,

We can't,' said the little girl, laughing
through her tears.

Can't? ' questioned Iphis.

Grandmother's pinned wer sleeves up.
Joel tumbled, and when I tried to get him up
I tumbled an' all.'

^ Well, I never did hear of such a thing,'
said Iphis, sympathetically, but laughing until
it did her heart good. ' Why, if snow had
been on the ground, what then ? We'll have
the nasty pins out, Joel. — And how is your
mother, been ? '

It struck Iphis that she ought to have

gone to see her old friend, but she had been
passive and spiritless when not defiant before
her father's crossed temper.

Tell your mother I shall come on said
Iphis at the gate ; ' to-night if I can.'

It was dusk when Iphis's opportunity
came for slipping out of the house.

The cottage seemed dull — Towse sat
silent, the children preparing for bed with unusual
soberness, Joel reciting gravely —

Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,' but
continuing — .

Peter Pullgoose and his son,' which
brought down upon him stern reprimand for
his temerity in mixing up a play-hour chant
with the lines of the last invocation of his
evening's exercise. Young heathen, airing
his depravity at such a sad hour !

Mrs. Towse had the evidence of troupe in
her eyes. Iphis felt herself intruding upon
some domestic sorrow.

'What's the matter, Mrs. Towse? Is
there anything happened? ' asked Iphis.

VOL. II. o

Why, they've got that lad ! ' said Tosses
apologetically.

What lad? ' asked Iphis, at sea.

^ Why, Ephraim. That owt final son it
out where he was.'

Iphis felt greatly concerned.

Where have they got him ? ' asked she.

^ 1' th' lock-up, my lass. The carpenter's
chap — he's just out on his time — a bit of a
mate he was of Ephraim's, Seth and Badger
got wind on it, and they went down to Moor-town,
soft lads, and Seth shouts outside the
prison — " Ephraim, how dost ta like thy site-nation
? " And Ephraim was that peart, he
sings out — ^^ I don't like my place ; I can't
battle ; I've gen 'em warning, I sell leave when
they'll let me." The wife's eyes has been
pattern', but law, them lads looks on it as a
fine spree. I knew Ephraim had done wrong
in running' away. I don't hold wi' such
ways. If one makes a lad bargain, it ought
to be stuck to.'

Towse philosophised with the calmness of
a man who has lived and observed.

But then he didn't bind hissed,' argued
Ephraim's tearful aunt, 'and one's sister's
lad — thoff we hadn't same mother — that's
dead and buried, poor thing, and nobbut
him left, and to be locked up i' th' roundhouse.'


Well, well,' said Towse, cheerfully, ' he'll
git over it. He owt to ha' got murder off.
Seth and Badger was like to get theirsens
into trouble bawling outside. A policeman
comes out, an' says he, " Young chaps, if ya
don't want to git inside persons yard better
make persons scarce. The law's like a sheep
net, nice and open to look at, bud bad to break
thrust." Law, I'd sooner be a dog an' bark at
the devil than come afore parson magistrates,
or offend one on 'em.'

Towse,' remonstrated his wife ; ' the barns
are going' to bed ; such words they oughtn't to
hear.'

One forgets one's sen. But why didn't
they give a politer name as wouldn't give
offence ? '



He's as many names as virtues,' said
Mrs. Towse ; ' if thou'd said Satan or Beelzebub
the barns wouldn't be scar'd.'

All I say is,' said Towse, ' Ephraim owt
to ba' got murder off.'

Why he was at Snailhorn,' said Iphis.
She could speak of him here in the dusky
kitchen fearless of eyes directed towards her.
Something in the tone of her voice intimated
to them that there was something behind the
scenes. ' What will they do with him ? '
asked she with feverish impatience ; ' send
him to jail?'

No,' said Towse, soothingly, ^ he'll get
off wi' paying, if he can find money. He
owt to lev a pound or two. He nun
mind for the futur', as old Jack Other
said : " Gentlemen, you shan't lev any more
o' my custom, you charge too dear." Oh,
them parsons,' exclaimed Towse, severely,
if what their servants say, they're no better
than common folks at home, and as ugly.
They say him as is chairman, when he dines

out, alius goes home drunk as David's sow.
And a poor tramp it's alius fourteen days,
and top price for drunk and disorderly. I
don't hold wi' a man preaching one thing on a
Sunday, forgiving his brother seventy times
seven, and then having' not a bit o' spark o'
forgiveness hissed on a week-day. Why
hadn't they stopped? Ephraim '11 ha' to pay,
that's certain. It ud be no saving levin' a
lawyer.'

Do you think he can pay? ' asked Iphis.

We moaned lev him go to prison,' said
Mrs. Towse, appealingly.

How's thy money bag? ' asked Towse.

It '11 not cost more than five pounds,
will it? I've a note Sam gave me when I
was coming away.'

It ud be such a shame,' said Mrs. Towse,
expostulating, but not declining.

Never mind,' stammered Iphis, she — he
mustn't have to go to Treminster.'

It ud be a hard lodge,' said Towse.

Iphis could scarcely exist in a house where

there was so much feeling. Before they
could express any gratitude she was gone.

I said I'd break the neck o' that going to
Towse's, and I will her father was saying to
her mother.

Here she is said Mrs. Cowlamb, ^ you can
talk to her course.'

But the farmer's resolve fell still-born ; he
was at a loss what to say. Going to Towse's
was scarcely a crime.

Come, my lass said he, sternly, ' thy
mother's smiled the milk ; thou needn't go to
look. We want to go to bed.'

Bed, Iphis thought — perhaps for the first
time in her life rebellion stirred her at the
thought — it was all bed and work.

I'm ready,' assented she, bitterly. ^ It's
not nine yet ! '

Nine ! ' exclaimed her father. ' It's dark.
What's th' use o' sitting up for the sake o'
burning candles ? I hate sitting wi' nowt i'
th' world to do.'

Iphis went up the stairs without candle,

and after closing; her bedroom door threw
herself, dressed as she was, upon her bed,
covering her eyes with her hand. Alas not
her life an empty life ? she thought crudely
perhaps. To what end was she drifting ?
Thwarted in what seemed to her her best impulses,
to be browbeaten into a narrow and
sordid existence. She shrank from a life
hedged in with miserable boundaries. She
must be free in her home, if she was to have
one of her own, not tied and bound to a log.
Marry that old wretch of whom scandal whispered
atrocities ? If half the stories were true,
he was vile. Grown-up illegitimate children,
women still living on his bounty, one room in
his house double-locked. A suicide's room

one wretched housekeeper If he had

not had a hand in the tragedy, why dare he
not go to rest until after midnight, and then,
nio^htlio;hts burning; until morn and a man
sleeping in his bedroom. The old man's sins
had been terribly exaggerated, no doubt, but
Iphis had heard the story with bated breath,

how that the old man had forced the wretched
woman to smother her child in the kitchen
oven. Marry him! She would die first,
drown herself. If her father had heard so
much, either he 'did not believe or had drown
callous in his pursuit of money, professing
Christian as he was. Had he no regard for
her maidenly feelings, her modesty? He
ought to be proud of her resisting. Iphis
wondered if her mother was with her or
against her. She had not the heart to ask
her, her mother was so accustomed to coincide
mutely with her husband. All his plans
were fruitful ; her mother had such faith in
her husband's superior judgment, Iphis was
fain to believe despondently that were Mr.
Long's face as black as his character, her
mother would consider the match a prudent
and desirable one.

I wonder if father knows '

Her thoughts went to Ephraim in the redbrick
prison. She was very miserable this
night ; her lover lodged like a felon.

Father!! think lie might as we!! have !eft
me at Snailhorn.'

Her mind went to the note. She rose up
and went to her chest of drawers, and opening
one, tumbled over her treasures of ribbons,
shipping of silk and velvet and artificial
flowers, until she came to a glove-box. In it
nestled the crisp paper. It felt cheerful and
powerful in her fingers. ' And I have four
sovereigns beside,' she added to herself joyfully.
She closed the drawer noiselessly,
turned the key gently, and placed the note in
lier pocket. ' Folks '1! wonder who found the
money,' she mused ; ' and if I'm forced to
have old Mr. Long — a caddy old man,' she
muttered mockingly, ' I'll run clean away
and never come near ony on 'em again — so
there ! '

Silence was in the house, save for low,
disjointed words which reached her at intervals,
carrying with them the muffled sound
of a man talking with sheets up to his
chin. Iphis concluded that lier father was

sketching out a line for his second in command.


Then all was quiet again. She became
drowsy. Rousing herself with a start from her
doze, she undressed in an absent fashion, and
crept into her bed. But in her sleep she was
troubled. The crisp note seemed endowed
with impish activity. She was carrying it
along a precipice to give succour, a high wind
blowing — hurrying, her fingers relaxed a
little, and the note, with serpentine malignancy,
fluttered away. She reached forward
and fell, and woke with a cry of fright. A
moment's wakeful relief and she slept again —
again to sup of renewed horror. She lay in
her coffin, the wind, again the wind, blew
more softly, with a summer breeze's petulance
; the window was raised an inch, and
the blind-lath beat a tattoo on the sash
bottom, the white holland blind distracting
her with its ripples. She even felt the breeze
on her cheek and feared a chill. It was not
cotton wool wherewith she was enveloped, as

she remembered to have seeii a girl once at
Snailhorn ; it was something crisper. She
essayed to move, but she was firmly placed ;
still there was a crackle ; she could discern
cabalistic markings, black and gruesome —
they were Treminster notes new and clean.
They had gone so far as to consider her horror
of dirt even in this matter. But looking
about her it was not a chamber at Willowby,
nor in Sam's house. Frightened more at this
discovery than at her position, she could not
realise in what house she was lying. Her
impression was that she was at Snailhorn.
She heard doors open and close, she heard
creaking feet, a blundering gait, the prod of a
stick, muttering. Then a hand easily seeking
the door knob, the door was opening, the
muttering became more distinct, it was swearing
— an old man stood by her, his lipless
mouth puckered and triumphant, his eyes
demoniacally gloating over her, and yet
sarcastic. He went so far as to rattle the
bend of his stick on the coffin side. ' Ha,

ha!' chuckled he. His old hand reached
over, clenched, impotent, but animated with
devilry, shaking with increased fury. Was
she not sacred in death ? Was his mind
good enough to mutilate her face because she
had escaped him ? Her eyes glanced forward
and rested upon the coffin lid. There was
the inscription — ' Iphis Long.' She sank into
despairing hopelessness. She had married
him after all, and this was her only escape.
She had not outlived him. Her father had
sacrificed her to no purpose. Her consciousness
deserted her. She sank into apathetic
darkness.

Waking shortly after, the sun was shining
coldly into the bedroom. She had not
pulled down her blind, and the sash was not
quite down. A cold air was carried into the
room. Her dream for some moments
continued vivid. She heard her father below
stairs, other matters entered into her mind ;
she was concerned in matters less ideal.
Gradually her dream faded from her mind,

but it had its effect. She would get down
and run over to Towse's before she identified
herself with the day.

Iphis got into the kitchen, where stood
her whither in great ill-temper. He did not
look at any one in particular, but stormed at
every one in general.

No breakfast ready ? Why, the kettle
doesn't boil ! What have you all been about ?
Anne, why, you was up at five o'clock! I
know you heard me 'cause you spoke.'

The servant girl stood speechless before
him ; her eyes were heavy, she looked little
more than half awake then.

Iphis took the cloth and threw it over the
table deftly, and the farmer was shortly pacified
with the clatter of cups and saucers.

• I told Anne you'd be i' fine fettle about
your breakfast,' said Mrs. Cowlamb, in her
quiet, damaging voice ; ' but she was such ana
season blackening that grate, I could ha'
done it myself i' half the time.'

Have you been down ? ' asked Iphis, now

preparing herself for milking, donning her
milking-gown.

To be suer I hev/ retorted he, curtly.
We'll ha' wer breakfasts afore you go now.
The kettle's singing.'

A watched tittle never boils,' said Mrs.
Cowlamb, dislodging it, and methodically
placing under it a couple of sticks.

It's never likely when you keep shifting'
it. Let it alone.'

Farmer Cowlamb was in his classes of
humours. Rising from the breakfast table,
he turned to Iphis.

Now, we'll be going.'

Are you going with me? ' asked Iphis,
dismayed.

Yis, I am. Why not? I'm going to
carry the pails.'

I can carry 'em mysen '

^ An' stop an hour or two at Towse's? I
mean to break the neck o' that.'

Iphis was silent. It naturally suggested
itself to her now, that her father suspected

the Towses of complicity with Ephraim in
his nefarious designs. Between Farmer Cow-lamb
and Mrs. Towse there never had been
great cordiality. Farmer Cowlamb hated
gossips ; they not only were remiss themselves,
but they were the cause of misspent
time in others. Only her husband's ability
reconciled him to tolerating her at all.

However was she to smuggle the note
into Mrs. Towse's hands? Iphis was almost
in despair.

Her father toppled the unruly cow, and
stood with a hand on each animal's chine.
When Iphis had milked the second cow, her
father took the pails and carried them off,
carefully observing that Iphis followed him
closely — slow in his walk, with a world of
meaning in his hesitation. Iphis got to the
farmhouse, the note still in her pocket.

Is father going out to-day ? ' asked Iphis.
She was ' smiling ' the milk, the creaming of
the milk of the evening before to follow.
She heard her father ascending the stairs.

^ Nobbut to Moortown — th' magistrates'
meetiii'.'

Magistrates' meeting? ' gasped Iphis.

Her father was then informed! He was
going to witness Ephraim's extinction and
discomfiture.

^ The rates,' volunteered her mother,
mournful in tone. ' Him or Greenfield had
to go. Greenfield sent word down last night
he had to go out.'

Oh ! ' said Iphis, relieved.

He'll want his shirt,' cried Mrs. Cowlamb
in sudden desperation, hurrying to a smallclothes
horse before the fire, and grasping the
article to assure herself that it was beyond
suspicion of dampness.

Do we want owt? ' questioned Mrs. Cow-lamb.
' I can't remember owt but 'east.' ^

I'm sure I don't know what we want.'

Thou knows nowt nowadays. What's
come over thee? Here, run and take him it.'

Iphis feverishly awaited her father's departure.
He came down at last looking the man

1 Yeast.

he was, liard-headed, resolute, ready to face all
the ' parson ' magistrates in the county. He
was as dissatisfied as Towse that three of the
cloth should sit and hector to practical men.
If it was any comfort to him, Moortown to a
man would have polled for their total extinction.
How his face shone! He was fresh
shaven, his waistcoat displaying whitest of
linen, round his neck folds of black silk, but
no linen above. Iphis heard what her father
said to his wife.

Now, keep that lass at home ; don't let
her get off. I mean to break the neck o' so
much o' that tattling'. I sell ha' to part wi'
Towse. That wife of his, it's my opinion, is
at the bottom of all this mischief.'

Now, I don't think that,' remonstrated
Mrs. Cowlamb, deferentially.

Bah, all ya women are alike,' sneered he.

I can't pretend to ha' my eyes alius on
her. She may slip off when I hadn't thinking.

Keep thy eye on her. I sell be back at
noon.'

VOL. II. P

A throb of delight coursed through Iphis's
veins, a breath of freedom seemed to pass her
nostrils. From the pantry window she
watched her father descend the hill. She did
not wish her mother to perceive her eagerness.
She was afraid it had been only too
palpable. Iphis soon found her opportunity.
It was only two fields across. If she could
gain the other side of the hedge she would
escape observation. The hedge was low but
thick and impenetrable. She ran along, almost
on all fours until she had passed the range
of the house windows. She was breathless
on reaching the parthian's house. Mrs.
Towse was already apparelled, if not equipped.
Iphis could scarcely refrain from smiling at
her quaint, flowered bonnet. She looked, as
Towse was wont to observe ungallantly —

^ An owt yow dressed lamb fashion.'

Mrs. Towse was looking rather nervous.
She was somewhat agitated. She brightened
at sight of Iphis.

^I was wondering,' said Mrs. Towse,
quaintly.

^ I couldn't git afore,' said Iphis ; ' an' I
can't stop a minute.'

Gude sakes ! ' ejaculated Mrs. Towse at a
loss.

You'll find it inside,' said Iphis, hurriedly
handing her the envelope and bounding off
without any explanation.

AVhen Farmer Cowlamb reached home it
was considerably later than noon, and his
humour showed no improvement. Mrs. Cow-lamb,
as a sop, was ready to declare that
Iphis had never left her sight, never left the
house.

Where is she now ? ' asked he, hoarsely.

Up the back stairs. The gell and her
are whitewashing the apple room.'

That fool of a blacksmith,' execrated her
husband. He thought good, after a moment's
reflection, to take his wife into his confidence.
He son out where that lad got to,^ an's hed
him brown back. They've been afore the
magistrates to-day, an' they laid it on. Four
pounds compensation, and summits like thirty

p 2

shillings costs. Blacksmith come whining upto
me ; I soon shut his mouth. I tell him
I'd been a dele better pleased if he'd been at
home finishing my harrows.'

Why, that money would tek some raising
suggested Mrs. Cowlamb.

Oh, he mud ha' addled it time he's been
away.'

Was it paid? '

^ Why, yis. Our Mrs. Towse went up,
and paid wi' a Treminster note. It ud ha' done
him good to gone to Treminster for a month or
two. I think that would ha' satisfied Iphis.
But I sell change my shepherd. I s'lllook out
at Candlemas. Places like mine don't go
a-begging.'

The next time Iphis met with Mrs. Towse,
Iphis was surprised to find her garrulous
friend still despondent. Gratitude was a
marked element in Mrs. Towse's character,
but she had only half-hearted acknowledgments.


Why, didn't you know ? Why, we're

going' to leave. It came on Towse that sudden,
he never expected it, and he says to the maister,
Is there owt I done amiss ? " and your father
he says, " I no fault to find wi' ye." But that
ugly he said it, an' my man says, " You'll
gie one a good word?" an' your father he says,
•' I'll gie ye a good character ; but be looking
out, I nun do the thing that's fair." Somebody,'
continued Mrs. Towse, ' nun ha' gen usa
lift. My man was that low-spirited about
it. A little place he'd a chance on ; it's suer
to be taken now. We could ha' kept a couple
o' cows, an' we shouldn't ha' been at one
man's beck an' call.'

I'm suer Sam would lend you some
money,' said Iphis, confidently.

AYe shouldn't like to ask him,' said Mrs.

Towse, diffidently ; ' I wish we'd never left

Snailhorn, bud kep on.'

Well, I'll write to Sam and ask him,'

volunteered Iphis ; ' where is this little place? '
It's at Willowby,' returned Mrs. Towse,

off-handed : ' thee, yon's the house.'

Oh, it's a nice place,' said Iphis.

Bud, dear,' said Mrs. Towse, seeing even
that drawback in a less gloomier light ; ^ but
the last man cleared his rent within a pound
or two wi' pigs. One can keep a few sheep ;
there's a nice swath close, and an acre or so
nice and free that'll grow carrots. I don't
like you bothering your brother, though.'

Oh, Sam will do anything I ask him.'

I'm suer if I tell Towse he'll be high-gold
(life) . It'll be better for poor owt Eph ; it's
nobbut plains since he got back, and he has
to make up his time ester he's out of his time.
Ye see he'd been lose come Owt Lady-day,
an' now it'll be ester May. Bud, you'll ha'
to wait on him. I'm suer he'll pay back.'

Does he know where the money come
fra?'

He never axed — I tell him I hed to
borrow. He said he'd tek his Bible oath we
shouldn't suffer a penny, an' I can put faith
r the lad.'

Well,' said Iphis. ' don't tell him I let

you have the money. Let him think he has
to pay it back, but I shan't take it, Mrs.
Towse.'

Oh — a ! Oh — a ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Towse,
in approving depreciation. ' Bud he ought to
pay tha back.'

CHAPTER 24.

GENTLE COERCION.

That lass '11 ha' to go back to Snailhorn,' said
Cowlamb to his wife ; ' it went do for her to
be here. We s'U never git on. I wish she
was married out o' hand. Long nun keep
tinging' at her. She'll gie way i' time. Let
her see we mean to be maister on her.'

Don't ye think he's rather owt for her? '
temporised his wife, quietly.

'Owt?' ejaculated Cowlamb; 'owt? all
th' better ; he'll sooner leave her in possession.'


Well, for that matter he will, an' he's a
caddy owt man. But there's a strange loto'
jiggin' about wi' the lass, just when she

might he a bit o' good to one if she'd nobbut
battle.'

Battle,' ejaculated Cowlamb, ^ she'd battle
right enow, nobbut let her lev her own
way — like the rest o' you women. Then
after, turn round and fall foul o' one for not
stopping her fra making a fool of lessen.'

The Willowby blacksmith in his officiousness
had again cornered the farmer, wishing
to set himself right in a patron's good graces.
Cowlamb in his displeasure now passed the
blacksmith when he met him with surly
notice, sometimes without even looking at
him. Some people wishful to be truculent
overshoot the mark, and make bad worse.

Cowlamb had witnessed, or fancied he had
witnessed, telegraphic messages in chapel. It
was inconvenient accompanying Iphis to
Snailhorn, but he felt that he must see her
safely there. He could have sent her by train
to Haveluck — it was Haveluck market — if
only he was certain that Sam would be there.

Iphis received her father's ultimatum unmoved.

She had almost expected it. She
felt Snailhorn would be preferable to the
surveillance of home, though far from her
persecuted lover. She was now assured of
Ephraim's constancy. In their many love-trusts,
when Ephraim was enjoying his
dubious season of prosperity, though declarations
of constancy might be the exception,
they understood each other as well as if the
most fervent professions had been uttered ;
they had eyes full of ardour and ingenuous
trust. True, old Long breathed the air of
Snailhorn, but she would never trouble herself
more about him. They could not force
her to say the one necessary word.

But Iphis was scarcely so firm as she'
believed herself to be. She felt herself weary
fighting against a strong will. She had a
very dull impression of her journey. Her
father kept on talking, but she answered him
always with such a mixture of sullenness, limpness,
and misery that Cowlamb himself lost
heart as well as patience. They would not

have broken their journey, but as they were
passing the quaint old house they caught a
glimpse of Mr. Long standing owlislily in his
front garden. That worthy was odd enough
to look at in all conscience. His long hat
was hrmly set upon his head over lappets of
sealskin. There he stood, like some unnatural
product of the garden ; he might have been a
figure-head from some old vessel. But, recognising
Cowlamb, he woke up into life and
animation, lifting the stick on which he supported
himself, his shrill voice despotic and
peremptory —

Hi ! stop ! ' shouted he.

Cowlamb drew rein.

Hadn't ye going' to call? ' asked Mr. Long,
wounded.

I really ain't time, Mr. Long.'

That's d d rubbish,' commented Mr.

Long, impatiently. ' That scoundrel of a lad
o' mine '11 take your boss out, or stand with
it. I Avant to speak to ye.'

Cowlamb hesitated, and Alas lost. He

looked at Iphis, then made up his mind. For
the moment he forgot his anxiety to be back
home again, superintending the dressing of
his winter corn and the preparation of the
land for it.

Sam drive past this morning,' said Mr.
Long, with a snap of his toothless gums.

^ Now, look at that ! ' exclaimed Cowlamb
to himself, mortified ; ' if I'd been suer thou
could ha' come by train.'

And brown him home. Ah, Sam's a rum
chap when he gits to Haveluck, fond o' — but
no tales out o' school,' added he.

Here, git out wi' thee,' muttered the
farmer to his daughter, ' what art tha bogglui'
at?' Old Long's speech had excited in her
father momentary rage.

Iphis sprang out nimbly, reaching the
ground before her father's foot touched the
step.

Miss Grinstead glanced at Iphis peculiarly,
Iphis thought the poor maiden lady looked as
if wishful to escape. Mr. Long had peremptorily

bidden the farmer to open the door,
following in himself last, behind Iphis.

We're going to have a spell of cold
weather, Cowlamb. I shall have to keep
indoors, that I shall ; but law, I can eat,
Cowlamb, I can eat ; and when a man can
eat, Cowlamb, there isn't so much the matter
with him, now is there? '

It's a good thing having a appetite,'
responded Cowlamb.

Appetite, that's it. You'll ha' one by
this. I'se think we've got bread and cheese
i' th' house. Here you, Miss Grinstead
but we got no gell, she's left us. You see
she started to have fits, we couldn't do with
folks having fits. She got that masterful, I
set the dog on her. I says to him — '' Miss !
Heats ! " He flew at her in a minute.'

Did he bite her? ' gasped Iphis.

Xo,' replied Mr. Long, quickly, afraid
he was creating a bad impression, ^ no, but
she tumbled in a fit ; she'd never had 'em
afore.'

What a shame ! ' murmured Iphis.

^ Why, I never thought he'd flown at her
said Mr. Long, agitatedly, his lip quivering ;

< the d d hussy wouldn't do as she was

bid. I paid her her wages though to a
penny. She gave us notice. I told her I
wouldn't do it aegean, but she wouldn't stop.'

I should ha' been as frightened,' said
Iphis.

^ But,' said Mr. Long, gallantly, ' I should
never have set the old dog on you. But she
was idle as a dog's hairy, as ableless as could
be.'

Miss Grinstead was looking volumes at
Iphis. But Iphis would not meet Miss
Grinstead's eyes intelligently ; she felt weary,
and Cowlamb himself was beginning to grow
impatient.

^ What are you shuffling about, Cowlamb ?
You're like an ill sitting hen.'

Mr. Long failed to understand such uneasiness.
The farmer, with a desire to begone
in his head, failed in artifice.

My horse's git cold standing,' said
Cowlamb, excusing himself ; ' we've come
sharp, and 1 want to be back home to-night.
I've a lot o' things to see to.'

Very well, very well — but,' pleaded
Mr. Long in a whisper, as Cowlamb rose,
you'll call as you're going back, just fora
minute ? '

• Can't ye tell us now what it is? '

The old man had a mysterious look
forward which Cowlamb was crafty enough
to understand, but craftier still to pretend
that he didn't. Iphis was now outside the
door waiting.

About that dower o' yours. What does
she say ? '

Say? I'd know what she says.'

'Now'ysloth?'

Ye see,' said Cowlamb, ' she's like all the
rest o' young things — skittish. She will an'
she went, she doesn't know her own mind,
or she's got fancies in her head, this an'
t'other. Bud they'll wear out.'

^ Aye, a young sprung? ' queried Mr.
Long, desperately.

Bud I hadn't for it,' raged Cowlamb
inwardly, outwardly calm. ' When she finds
she's well mastered, she'll be glad to lev ony-body.'


Well, I can't afford to wait, ye know. I
know nobody cares a button about me,
That relation of mine was past t'other day,
and never so much as called. He's a clergyman,
a nice civil he is to lev relations. My
bit o' money isn't worth looking after, I'se
think. Proud as Lucifer he is, d him.'

He's a nat'ral fool,' said Cowlamb.

^ A d d idiot,' qualified Mr. Long,

bitterly. ' But I'll marry that gell o' yours,
and we'll show him a thing or two. Eh,
Cowlamb? He! he! he!'

Don't reckon o' chickens afore they're
hatched, Mr. Long,' said Cowlamb, smiling
dexterously.

Oh, Cowlamb, you're a wonderful man —
wonderful! Devilish bad to trap you are.

You've as much sense in your little finger as
some folks lies in their whole bodies. I've a
nephew — I call him nephew '

But Cowlamb, not wishing for a repetition
of Mr. Long's grievances, followed after Iphis,
and pulling the rug off the horse gathered
up the reins. In a few minutes Iphis was
break tiling more freely.

They found Sam from home, sure enough.
Cowlamb was not long before he began to
fidget about him, wondering what time Sam
would get home.

It'll be late,' said Cowlamb, ' bud I
won't sit up on him. Git off to bed, and
don't thou sit moosin' up late. If we'd
nobbut got off at five, as I wanted, we should
ha' got here afore he started.'

He was not surprised at Iphis leaving
him, but sitting alone he began to wax
impatient. He felt hurt that she should
stay upstairs so long, as if oblivious that he
was there. Conflicting sentiments warred
within. He felt that he had gone far to

VOL. II. Q

alienate her affection. He felt that lie had a
right to be master to save her from herself,
and see that she did best for herself. He had
not forgotten the emotions of his own youth.
His own romance occurred to him, making
him a little uncomfortable, disposing him to
relent a little. But then it was just possible
in those early days Farmer Cowlamb
could not have withstood temptation, had
it come to him in the shape of a moneyed
spinster. The sweetheart he would perhaps
have thrown over had there been a golden
bait.

Iphis, aren't ye coming' down ? ^ Am I to
sit here by myeen? ' he shouted at last at the
foot of the stairs.

He seemed to be unmindful that Sam's
men were left to their own devices. He was
growing weary of putting himself forward on
Sam's farm.

Iphis descended, and was for bustling
through into the kitchen. A look from him
deterred her.

I was going to see if any dinner was on
the way,' said she.

Never mind, we'll take pot luck. Sit
down a bit. What's the use o' making' a foist
about that ? '

He was speaking in a kinder tone. A
rebellious suspicion lurked in Iphis's mind,
although she was won over a little by it. He
took a long clay pipe and filled it with tobacco
out of Sam's pewter box. This was something
most unusual for him. On very rare occasions
he smoked in the daytime. But tobacco,
soothing wearied body and mind, is happy
in the inspiration it gives. He smoked on
silently, his lips emitting short, sharp puffs,
his eyes resting upon her, to be withdrawn
when she met his gaze. She felt herself
growing uncomfortable under his consideration.


Now, then, which does t' like best,
Snailhom or Willowby ? '

One place is as good as another when
one has plenty to do,' answered she.

Q 2

^ I think thou likes Snailhorn best,' said
he, coaxingly. ' I do. I wish we'd never
left. Bud I alkis wished to push my lads
forrard. I wish thou'd been a lad, Iphis.'

I wish I had,' said she.

'Why?'

I'd know. Lads can do more as they like.'

Aye, they do as they like, worse it is for
'em. What good has it done Sam, so much
doing as he liked? When he was a young
lad, like a young loss I let him lev his
head, so long as he kept within bounds. I
thowt to mysen o' making a man on him,
letting him trust to hissed. I nowt to complain
of but one thing, and that'll be the
death on him maybe. I'd know who he tees
after. Now, I let him marry who he liked.
1 thowt he'd her to live wi', and I never
mattered her much.'

■ Sam's fit for no decent woman at times,'
said Iphis, rebelliously.

He is good to thou, isn't he? ' asked her
father, quickly.

He believes well to me said Iphis, fervently.


That'll do,' said her father, relieved ; ' if I
thowt — why I'd yoke out an' take thee back
again. I do wish his wife an' him could ha'
got on together anyhow. There was Cold-grave's
oldest dower, nobbut two on 'em.
I feel suer they'd ha' gone well together.
I was all for it, and so was Coldgrave, and
she nobbut wanted austin'. Sam's face wasn't
such a colour as it is now. Sam always was
dutiful. If I'd nobbut ha' said the word, he'd
changed and been comfortable now.'

Cowlamb forgot that he had refrained
from opposition, because the dowry of Sam's
intended was unquestionable. Moreover,
with all his penuriousness, he had some admiration
for people of a dashing sort, particularly
if they were people who counted social
uprising three or four generations back.

Fathers hasn't done with their barns
when they're grown up,' continued he.
They're as anxious then about 'em as when

they were little. I used to think you would
all get off my hands when I got owt, an' I
should battle down peaceful like. It inmost
knocked me over, all Sam's trouble. If thou
was to marry, Iphis, and be all wrong, I think
it would clean put me in my coffin.'

She could see that her father was in
earnest.

I want thou, above all others, to make
no mistake. It's time thou was in a comfortable
home, an' I don't want to see thee tied to
a good-to-no wt, wasting' all his wife's brown
to him an' digging on her friends, tiring 'em
out, and thou worrying thysen into thy grave.
When ta got a houseful o' barns, an' hed such
a creature' to do with an' prop up, thou'dwish
thou'd deed afore ta was married. Thou'd
feel thysen bound to stick to him. All
women do, if it brings 'em to the parish.
How should you like to find course coming
to charing for a shilling or eighteen pence a
day?'

She just did picture to herself such a

climacteric fate, and was considerably startled
thereat. Her father observed her change.
An' it's worse when there isn't a bit to be
had, when folks can do bent ye. An' if a
woman goes out charing six days i' th' week,
what a dog's life it is ! — greasing a woman up
not half so good as lessen for fear she should
get out o' favour, an' her git somebody else I
My poor mother went out charing, I remember
; an' father an' us what meals we hed, an'
what a time she hed ! She used to ha' to sit
up o' nights cleaning her awn house up, an'
doing her bit o' wishing an' such Hke. I used
to tell her when I got big enough she shouldn't
go out a wishing no more ; but she didn't

last ' There was a ring of deep sadness

in his voice. ' God rest her. I'm determined
no good-to-nowt shall lev a penny-piece o' my
money, not a penny. It's a hard thing when
one's boiled an' maketh' best o' things to see
it all ended.'

rut his charing picture had moved her
more than all that he had said before — than

his closing sentences. He had never spoken
to her before of his mother that she remembered.
He was sore yet thinking of her.
Now she had heard him speak of his father,
and with not much esteem. He was, no
doubt, thriftless or soulless, perhaps aji ailing
man.

You've a chance to look behind nobody,'
continued Cowlamb ; * lev a pony carriage, a
good home — such a home,' added he rapturously,
' as a real lady would be glad on, an'
all going a-begging, it caps owt ; an' not be
bothered wi' th' owt chap long ; he can't last
modern a year or two ; I can't see him lasting
three, nowt o' th' sort.'

He's such a bad owt man,' said Iphis, with
her eyes down, ' an' les been.'

What ? ' cried her father, amazed. ' How
do you know what he is, an' what he les
been ? '

^ I've heard all sorts o' things about him.'
^ Tales are lies. All tales I hear I set
down as lies, and big lies. His worst point is

swearing, an' that lie mud be got off. The
thief repented at the hast hour '

He set th' dog o' that poor lass '

'Didn't he say he was sorry he did? he'd
no idee the owt dog 'ud be so mad.'

Her father defended Mr. Long with
feverish emphasis. ' An' she was a bad
hussy,' he added.

She was not wholly gamed over, but her
hesitation grounded her father's hopes high.
He did not press her unduly. Another conversation
artfully leading up to this project
would convince Iphis that she would want
crowning for a simpleton if she should suffer
such good fortune to escape her.

Her dream had faded from her mind.

'I sell be forced to lev him,' said she,
bitterly.

He had only to kick the last prop away,
he thought, triumphantly.

Nay. If thou calls it forced, persuading
thee to be better off than ony on us. Why,
thou'd ha' more money than Sam an' me put

together, an' no maister over thee. Thou
could lev a new frock every day, an' not feel
thy pocket-bottom. Let's ha' some dinner.
I wonder what Sam had yesterday ? '

Her father effusively took his leave an
hour later. He was, indeed, anxious to confer
with his fellow conspirator.

^ She'll be all right. She's coming to. I
knew she would,' remarked Cowlamb, gleefully
to Mr. Long. He sat in his trap, Mr.
Long at the garden-gate.

No 'pulsion, no 'pulsion?' queried old
Long, agitated with his luck.

No, not there ; she begins to see it's
more comfortable marrying where her friends
ha' had the forethought o' the lookout afore
her.'

^ Heigh, heigh, to be suer.'

^ Bud,' said the farmer, ' better let her
bide a bit. I sell be over aegean next week,
so I'll be saying good day, Mr. Long. I've a
long stretch afore me. Clk, elk ! '

Iphis stood at the window and beheld her

father drive off. She stood there until he
was well out of sight. She fell into a reverie.
She must marry old Long. One, two, three
years, then she would be fi^ee again. Her last
three years had gone quickly. It seemed no
time much to look backward. Very likely
Ephraim was not in a mood to settle just
yet. He had never spoken of marriage to
her. But he had been persecuted. Then her
mind resolved to love one man only and none
other. Still, a presentiment of Ephraim s.
possible future unworthiness disturbed her
confidence. He was careless and somewhat
unstable ; though perhaps he was not mercenary,
and would not desert her if even she
acquainted him of her father's determination
to disinherit her if she ran counter to his
wishes. Iphis was very sore about that
poverty ; want was so far off her now, and
Sam was less penurious even than they were
at Willowby. She loved the consciousness of
plenty, and if her father turned his back upon
her all must depend upon the husband. If

only Sam were at home she would be less a
victim to her thoughts. Her solitude seemed
to encourage irresolution, sickening indecision.
Tea time came ; she had spent the afternoon
at the window, or wandering aimlessly over
the house. The table was set, but she had
no appetite, drinking a solitary cup of tea and
eating nothing. She began to be feverish in
her wish for Sam to be at home. If he only
knew that she was there! Would he be
late? Would he get home that night? Sam,
she knew, was put out because her father
had removed her away from Snailhorn. She
would not ask the girl for an account of
Sam's conduct in her absence. She was too
proud to do so. A look or a word wanting
in respect to the master always met with her
strong disapproval. She would not have Sam
criticised by any one on the farm. She went
to the bureau, and examined the spirit bottles.
They had been refilled, she concluded. Perhaps
he had gone that day to look out for a
housekeeper. He could not get on with a

drab of a kitchen girl and a labourer's wife
coming in to render assistance. Then her
mind dwelt ao'ain on the ideal charwoman
of her father's picturing ; if she came to that
would she be suspected and of but little
consideration? If Sam only came home that
nio'ht !

She sat up late waiting, regardless of her
father's injunction. It was a weary vigil,
listening to the clock's monotonous tick,
knowing that she alone was up in this great
old house. The sighing of the wind outside,
trees restless, the silence of the night did not
oppress her so much as it disturbed her. She
at last could not keep her eyes open ; then she
dozed, losing consciousness ; waking with a
start, the brilliant light of the lamp affrighted
her. Then when her eyes became accustomed
to it, its steady soft light seemed as if it were
the beacon of an eternity.

The fire had gone out. She shivered at
the cold, at the lugubrious and unsettled state
of her mind. She took off globe and glass,

holding the wick of a candle over the flame ;
then she extinguished the lamp with a sudden
effort. The candle sputtered as she hurried
up the staircase. She threw her clothes right
and left in a half sleep, and blowing out her
candle, sprang into bed, feeling her loneliness
almost insupportable. In sleep as in death
she would forget.

CHAPTER 25.

A RESOLVE.

But they were weary days that followed. In
Iphis's mind the state of affairs was almost
too dreadful to contemplate. How could a
master expect his affairs to flourish when he
left everything to chance? Would Sam beat
Haveluck? And the mare, how was she
faring? Iphis was nearly as anxious about
the animal as the man.

Things '11 go to rack,' she said to herself,
with not a little of her father's old-world way
of thinking. 'I'm suer the men on a farm
want looking after, let 'em be ever so good.'

She one morning woke, and the sun not
risen she looked out anxiously towards the
quarter where the wind lay. The clouds lay

in long lines, giving her some assurance of
settled weather. Silence was in the new
light ; the earth had not awakened from its
drowsiness, but then it was not the time of
the year when the melodious notes of our
feathered friends assert their early rising,
greeting the joyful light of day. She listened,
then she heard the sparrows perched along
the spout chirruping timidly, their bills tapping
right and left ; raising her window, all
took flight to the apple-trees, there to inquire
into the cause of their temporary fright.
They were innocent country birds, with
scarcely the craft and assurance of the town
sparrow, so difficult to beguile or deceive.

The foreman was in the kitchen inquiring
if the master had come home or got
down.

I know what to do,' said he to Iphis ;
^ bud I'd like th' maister to lev his say.
There hasn't been a frost yit to bear a duck
on a dyke, but who can tell when it will
come? '

^ He will be home to-day,' said Iphis, confidently.


The farm foreman was relieved with this
assurance. He received it as ceram knowledge.
He could not suspect what firm conviction
and resolve was causing Iphis to speak
with such decision.

Law, what a fellow 'tis ! ' muttered the
farming man outside the house. ' I git a
opening once a year ; it'll soon be once a
week wi' him, I think.'

When Iphis's eyes had opened to the
dusky light of morning, it almost seemed to
her that she had slumbered with an inspiration,
and slept herself into prosaic determination.
She would go herself and fetch Sam
home. She would walk to Haveluck. No
one in the house should know her plan.
After an early dinner she would go out,
ostensibly to see a neighbour ; it would be
as if Sam, returning from the town, had
picked her up. But the farm servants were
not such artless beings as Iphis supposed

VOL. II. R

them to be. In her simplicity she believed
that they were in the darkest ignorance of
Sam's proclivities. But then it was not a
tithe of Sam's debaucheries that she knew
herself or dreamed of. With what spirit she
started upon her self-imposed task ! —-the skirts
of her dress tucked up, she boldly confronted
the long walk she had before her.

Haveluck was a town of modern development,
of great antiquity, according to local
histories, but, until late decades, of sparse
population. But the last fifty years it had
increased more than any other town in the
county, had become a recognised port, had
thrown out feelers over suburban villages,
making one of them its watering-place. But
the town had no attractiveness, no picturesqueness.
Timber and raft yards faced unpretentious
shops, the streets had never been
planned with any attempt at precision, much
less effect. A noble building here and there
was lost, or its effect destroyed by incongruities.
There was a briny aroma in the town

and a foreign flavour, a sensation of vulgarity,
and an impression of suddenly-acquired opulence
and arrogance. There was a theatre,
patronised chiefly by the fisher folk, furnishing
dramatic excitement of the most pronounced
kind. A music hall, which any
refined person would have abominated. A
Mayor and Corporation, exhibiting in their
persons much of the nouveaux riches and in
their speech much coarseness of mind and
violence of temper ; their schemes for the
town's advancement partaking strongly of
jobbery. There was continual war and strife,
and always at elections, it was tacitly understood,
sufficient practices to unseat the whole
of the House of Commons. And here Samuel
Cowlamb elected to enjoy himself.

Truly, there was something to see of interest
morning by morning, if it was only the
smacks coming in, the commotion of unfading,
the wondrous amount of silvery fish, the
astonishing heaps and competition at auction.
There was something refreshing, too, in the

R 2

scent of the foreign wood, the hemp as it was
craned into warehouses, the linseed, and the
tar, and. the imports that carried one's mind
not only to Norwegian ice-floes, Northern
forests, Russian plains and barbarism, but
to gentler climes where the citron grows,
and. to lands scorched with a fierce and fiery-sun.


Iphis was weary enough when the town
lay before her, the sea glistening beyond, the
water cold as a serpent and as treacherous,
so it seemed to strike her as her eyes rested
upon it. A little out of Snailhorn^ on higher
ground, she could see the sea, the smoke from
the steamers, the sails of the shipping in the
roads, and the huge hydraulic tower ; but
nothing could be seen of the town until one
was close upon it. Here the sea was encroaching
year by year ; towns had been
swept away, according to tradition ; but the
land washed away was deposited on the lip
of the estuary.

The usual rifF-raft* of the town stood in

gossiping groups, those who Averse too idle to
make their way down to dock or shore. In
the irregular shaped market place they soothed
their stomachs over iron rails, their eyes fixed
intently on granite cubes, talking gravely as
to a gossip in a well. Some of them looked
up when Iphis approached, and she furnished
a new twist to their colloquies. How quiet
everything seemed ! she was accustomed to
the busy market day. This was the old part
of the town, with the old-world inns, still
retaining the sanded floor, always quiet off
the market day.

What will not a woman do for a man
when she loves him or is tied to him by
bonds of blood ? Leaving the lover who is
so far progressed as to feel himself comparatively
sure and certain, do any brothers take
fully into consideration the attachment of
their sisters, the interest that all their ambitions
and projects excite ? But are not
brothers gainers from contact and association,
more guarded La speech and habit, less

prone to coarseness, more refined in their
approach towards women ? A good brother,
no less than a good son, is likely to make the
better husband ; and a brother who makes a
sorry husband would have been worse had
he not had a sister. Sam Cowlamb believed
that he deserved, or nearly so, all that he got,
at the same time making doleful complaint.
He had expected every woman to be of the
pattern of Iphis ; he now wondered at his
delusion. If his wife had been, of course
things would have gone on more smoothly.
He saw now that he had been greatly
in the wrong ; but he was of a proud,
^ stunt' spirit, disdaining to cry peccavi to
her.

Iphis entered the inn-yard where Sam put
up, and where her father used to put up. The
ostler opened a stable-door, and Sam's mare
lifted her head, munching out of the crib,
scattering oats, nodding her head up and
down as if recognising Iphis, but quite content
with her quarters.

Do you know where he is ? ' asked Iphis,
timorously.

Xo, 'm ; he might loose hissed over an'
over aegean i' Haveluck, an' them that wanted
him never find him. His loss has been well
done to ; I seed to that. Oh, he'll turn up ;
I known him tek off to Treminster an' stop a
day or two.'

'If I give you a shilling can you find
him if he is in the town ? '

I'll try said the ostler.

The landlady of the inn, hearing the discussion,
showed herself, recognising Iphis.

Why, it's Miss Cowlamb. Come into
the house, Miss Cowlamb. You are lagged
uj) — you've walked ? '

Yes,' said Iphis, wearily.

Come in. You can sit in my private
room and take your boots off.'

Yes,' said Iphis, assenting gratefully ;
the roads clicked up so. Maybe you'll let
somebody clean my boots ? '

Iphis drank a glass of wine, and her

weariness seemed almost' to have gone when
her boots were off her feet. This was followed
by drowsiness and a feeling akin to
misery.

They an't worth it declared the landlady,
emphatically, regarding Iphis compassionately.
' No, I'm suer they an't.'

Iphis conjectured that she was alluding to
the men.

I've been home^to Willowby,' excused
Iphis. ' Sam didn't know I was to get back
so soon. But we do want him at home now.
You see 'm it'll maybe come bad weather.'

^ To be suer, to be suer. But it is too
bad — I shall have some tea ready soon ; lie
down on the sofa and rest — now do. Miss
Cowlamb. Don't be frightened, nobody ever
comes in here — let me catch 'em. My husband's
at Pardney Foal Fair.'

Iphis had often heard her father speak of
Pardney Fair.

I wonder if Sam's there ! '

There's no telling, been. When once

they gits off, the best thing alius is to make
your mind easy. Now, you'll be quite comfortable.
I shan't be long. If you're the
least bit alarmed you can push back this catch
Then I'm gone out, and I'll knock, eh ? '

Oh, I'm nat alarmed,' said Iphis, with a
faint smile.

CHAPTER 26.

PERIL.

The fragrance of the tea was grateful to
Iphis, weary as she was. The landlady-brought
in the tray herself, and Iphis knew
that it was out of compliment to her, and to
humour her. Iphis had not said it, but she
dreaded strange eyes now.

Law, Miss Cowlamb, I've been used to
your father coming here for a vast o' years,
an' you coming to-day, doesn't your face put
me in mind of him every minute ! '

Iphis heard a familiar step. Her ears
were acute. It was a well-known foot.
^ Why, that's Sam ! ' exclaimed she, excitedly.


Mr. Cow — lamb ! ' cried the landlady*
Sam Tvas turning in at the bar ; lie looked
round. ' Miss Cowlamb is here ! ' cried the
landlady, satisfied that she had caught his ear.
Sam put his head in at the door, endeavouring
to look at his ease and at his best.

Halo ! ' ejaculated he, pleasure in his face.
Iphis felt a chill at her heart ; his eyes were
bloodshot, his hand hot and feverish, and his
face — what a colour it had !

Miss Cowlamb will drink a cup of tea
with me, then she will be ready. Will you
drink a cup, Mr. Cowlamb ? — you're welcome.'


No ; I'll turn in and have a glass while
she's ready.'

Iphis hurriedly drank her tea, to don hat
and jacket. In the meantime, a caller or two
dropping in, Sam was loth to go. She wished
that she had got up the moment Sam showed
himself ; he did seem in a humour for going
then.

^ Oh,' said Sam, his mood easy, ' what's

fas hurry ? We s'U get home afore we go to
bed, been. The mare's fresh, and we s'll'be
home in a quick ticks.'

The good soul of a landlady was anxious
to soothe Iphis.

Come and sit a bit, he'll be ready T

}10W.'

Iphis followed her compassionate friend,
but her temper was rising. She sat down,
but bolt upright, her eye fierce. She was as
restless as a bird. Whenever the landlady
left her, Iphis was upon her feet, presenting
herself at the bar door — ' Now, Sam, an't you
ready ? '

This occurred at least a dozen times, her
voice in turn impatient, coaxing, plaintive,
despairing. At last she became desperate.

^ I've ordered the mare out,' cried she,
so if you don't come I shall set oiF without
you.'

^ I'm a coming,' returned Sam, coaxingly.
^ I'm a coming. That I ha' to be ordered

about by a lass ' — this was a little pleasantry
for his friends.

Sam had some difficulty in rising. His
friends had for him admonitory injunctions,
but it is astonishing how such men escape
casualties. The table was a firm friend to
him, the door frame, the walls of the narrow
passage. With a little assistance he managed
to scramble into the trap, and Iphis got in
after him.

^ Which way ? ' asked she a little anxiously,
for Sam was turning the mare's head"
round.

Sands.'

^ Sands ! How's the water ?

Tide's low. You'll ha' time ; your mare
spanks along,' said a bystander.

Haveluck boasted a famous shore. When
the water was lo^^, a clear mile and a half of
the journey was saved. But Iphis was
always timorous. When the tide was coming
in it had a habit of creeping round a knuckle

of the coast, leaving an island of sand high
and dry for some half hour, but any one
caught there ran risk of a dreary fate.

^ The tide is coming up,' exclaimed Iphis,
as she looked out towards-the sea, of a dull,
muddy hue, the line of water scarcely discernible
from the murky sky, rendered still
more uncertain by forecast of rain and the
gloom of impending darkness. ' Let's turn
back, Sam, and go round.'

Pooh ! ' exclaimed he, contemptuously,
we sell ha' rucks o' time, I tell ye.'

A fleet of smacks were coming in, their
red sails spread to the gusty breeze. Squally
weather was evidently anticipated. Iphis's
mind was susceptible. The atmosphere was
tinged with melancholy. The water could be
heard rolling up with angry sob, as if only
seeking some excuse and outlet for pent-up
discontent. It licked the sand, rolled over as
if disappointed, renewing its efforts — apparently
receding, but still gaining ground.
A tug, a small affair, was steaming out to

succour some belated vessel rolling dismally
in the trough.

My word,' said she, still more anxiously,

it will be dark directly and rain .' She

took it upon herself to incite the mare to
greater speed. She was nervous to a degree.
She noticed the wind blew sharply off the
water. Once past that treacherous cove where
the deceitful waves stole round to surprise and
entrap, she would feel comfortable and assured.

Her eye scanning the sand, she could see
channels filling, glistening like white veins.

Sam, do you see how it's coming up ? '
But Sam did not answer her, he made no
attempt to pacify her ; but she did not pay
much attention to this, she knew why he
did not reply. He was in such a mood at
times. She felt herself at the mercy of a
log, her voice only for her own ear, her
anxiety without a tranquillising condition.
The reins were hanging loose in Sam's
fingers — she became painfully conscious that
Sam was becoming less and less capable to

meet danger if there was any danger to meet.
At last lie lurched heavily upon her. Her
disgust and her helpless impatience were too
deep for words. Besides, her mind was too
busily engaged revolving the chance of their
safe deliverance. Above them rose to no
great height a natural bank, considerably
undermined. Sometimes great masses of soil
fell, to be carried away in the capacious maw
of the ever-encroaching sea. Evidences of its
persistent inroad lay about them at every
step, huge stones barely out of the way,
masses of earth with the vegetation still
verdant and flourishing. But the mare
seemed to know her way ; sagaciously she
avoided obstacles, briskly covering the firm
sand. She was accustomed to an inert whip.
But Iphis's anxiety increased momentarily;
before her eyes, in the dusky light, gleamed
nothing but water, greeting her ears with a
low chuckling throb. Before rounding the
corner she turned to look behind her — she
had an impulse to snatch the reins, turn the

snare, and retrace their way. Her heart
almost leaped into her mouth — the water was
like a silver line reaching to a ^^oint they had
passed. They were cut off behind ; how
would it be with them forward ? She listened,
her acuteness of hearing tense with
her sense of danger ; she could hear a stealthy
wash on the gravel ahead. In the gathering
gloom it was not easy to define the advance
it was making. She took the reins from
Sam's limp fingers and shook them desperately
on the mare's back, unable to reach the whip.
Surely the wheels of the trap passed through
water left by a bolder wavelet. She could
tell at last that one wheel ran in sea-water.
Not many yards further on the mare's feet
went splash, splash, and Iphis's ears had
nothing in them any longer but the solitary
sob of the sea.

Sam ! ' she cried, piteously, ' wake u^).
The tide's up, we shall be drownded she
moaned to herself. ^ Each me the whip
then,' she cried, despairingly.

VOL. II. s

For the mare with the water up to her
fetlocks slackened, snorted, and showed a
disposition to stop, timorously shaking her
head suddenly as her feet splashed water into
her nostrils.

If she begins to jib ! ' Iphis thought,
we are lost. Get on, mare,' she cried, hysterically.
' Lend me the whip, Sam, do you
hear? Oh, you drunken beast! '

She reached beyond him, and her body,
some slight support to him heretofore, taken
away, he lurched heavily across the trap. It
required all her strength to bring him upright
She could not remember ever to have seen him
so bad as this ; not even when he lay helpless
in the room at Snailhorn did he seem such an
inanimate log as now. She had no idea how
much further they had to go. Darkness
gathered apace, the bank still loomed above.
Once or twice she had left Haveluck, taking
this short cut ; but it had been broad daylight.
She knew the highroad was gained
over loose shingles, the sea washing into level

country. The mare was trotting knee-deep, the
water splashing into Iphis's lap at times. If
it got no worse than this — but the horse sank
deeper and deeper, and Iphis in terror wondered
if loose shifting sands reached so near
the shore. She remembered to have heard of
incautious bathers losing their lives in close
proximity to the beach. If Sam would only
wake up ! The mare stopped in her shambling
trot, sobbing as the water reached her
body. Iphis knew by this that the water
must be over the axle ; she could hear it
breaking its strength on the bank opposite,
and swirling in its repulse between the spokes
of the wheels, almost carrying the mare off
her feet. Only a moment and Iphis endured
an agony, the mare was surely swimming, the
trap floating. She called wildly upon Sam,
shook him, but the heavy figure lurched so
violently from her he would have fallen out
had she not relinquished the reins and caught
him round the body, imperilling her own
safety. A chill coursed through her veins,

8 2

his response was scarcely tie elasticity of a
vital frame, if prostrate and unconscious.

^ Sam she cried again, ' wake up, wake
up ! We shall be carried out. The mare is
swimming now ! '

But her brother did not answer her, and
it required all her strength to keep him
upright. She touched his face, it was cold
and moist with the damps of death. She
placed her hand where she imagined she
would ascertain if his heart was still beating,
but she could detect no pulsation. Then she
commenced weeping. What was she to do ?
What could she do? Must she silently wait
for the end? What effort could she make?
In time the mare's strength must be spent,
or it would, with the instinct of self-preservation,
endeavour to free itself, and so overturn
the trap or fill it with water in its frantic
struggles.

Iphis remembered once to have seen a
body found in the water. It was towed to
shore, a stake driven in the bank, and the

corpse secured to it. It was considered unlawful
to remove it until the coroner had seen
it. He and the jurymen, it was said, waded
knee deep to view the body. It was a suicide —
a servant girl deserted by her lover. She lay
in the water the whole of one Sunday, face
downwards, her boot-heels floating like corks.
Iphis could not free herself of the incubus of
the spectacle for years. It recurred to her
again. In her excitement she fancied that
she could see them now rising; and falling: on
the surface, the water bubbling and dancing
gleefully around them. Look which way she
would, they were there. She reasoned with
herself that the affair occurred in the river
near to Snailhorn, not here in the sea, but it
did not serve to dispel the illusion. She
closed her eyes ; opening them again she saw
nothing but a waste of water, then her old
terror reasserted itself.

Ah ! what a waste of water. She pictured
herself tied to a stake, Sam lost and not
recovered, the debris of the cart floating away

or sunk in deep water. But then some
Haveluck people would know something of
the incidents leading up to the catastrophe.
Would that man ever sleep again, who by-encouraging
Sam in his obstinacy had sacrificed
her life ? She thought of her father ; he
would reproach himself to his dying day,
regret his obduracy. How full her mind
was ! In its disorder and in her terror she
could readily believe that she had been float -
inof there half the night. But it was of few
moments' duration ; the mare regained her
feet, scrambling in her first instinct of firm
foothold, walking wearily, cowed and frightened
but still under control. With one hand
Iphis steadied Sam, groping for the reins
with the other, speaking encouragingly to the
mare. She found them at last, caught in the
cardboard iron, and she breathed freer again.
She had to learn afterwards how narrowly she
had escaped with her life. Five minutes later
the mare in ten or twelve feet of water could
scarcely have recovered itself The bank

looming no longer above, the mare even
seemed to be aware that but a few yards
further on the shingly road dipped to the
beach. What a pressure was removed from
Iphis's mid, hearing no longer the mare
struggling, the wheels grinding on gravel!
But this horrible dead weight upon her and
the necessity that she must sustain it! It
was almost as unnerving, more horrible. She
felt the horror of it, for her nerves were still
unstrung, but she felt too tense to faint.
Escaping from imminent death, her brain
seemed now on fire with suppressed hysteria,
her heart standing still with terror. She had
but one thought, that of getting home ; she
endeavoured to urge the animal on faster ; but
to her it seemed that her lips faintly essayed
a sound. She knew that the mare was
recovering herself, nearing home the animal's
instinct and attachment stimulating it.
But Iphis was impatient in her excitement.
She felt herself part of a machine making so
many evolutions, not to be quickened though

it were a matter of life and death. A night's
ride for her to remember, a night terrible inconstant
dread and need of self-reliance.
Sam was less dangerous now than when she
had seen him once or twice mad in delirium.
Sam had been good to her living, why should
she fear him dead? Her mind was a catechism
of terror, and reasoning against terror.
A young girl, perhaps a little superstitious, it
was for her a weird trial ; it was something
that she was able to maintain the poise
and balance of her mind. It would have
been death, perhaps, had she given way to
the faint-hearted feeling that first possessed
her when the terrible conviction reached her
of peril. She had been near upon despair,
her energy was the outcome of despair, her
firmness was unnatural. She owed her life to
her tenacity, sustaining the heavy unwieldy
body of her brother ; he had been ballast in
the light trap. For some moments after her
greater peril was past, she supported him as if
unconscious that life was extinct.

Her faculties returned to her on reaching
the Labourers' cottages. She cried wildly for
assistance, for some one to go with her through
the gate. It seemed an age to her before
any one answered, but everything this night
seemed to have an eternity of duration. A
man came out hurriedly, opening the gate.
The other confined labourer was roused, and
he was up at the house a few minutes later.

Some one must go for a doctor,' wailed
Iphis, hysterically. ' He's dead — Sam's dead.
We nearly been drownded — you can't wake
him. I've driven him all the way, and he's
been like this.'

There's no need for doctor, I'm thinking,
poor fellow ! ' said one labourer with some
feeling;.

Sam had been liked by those in his service.
He was no churl.

Never mind, send for one,' cried she in
hysterical temper. ' He may have some life
in him — they may ]prig him round. What
can I do ? '

She was conscious that she was talking
wildly, her mind unhinged. She was certain
of it herself that Sam was indeed past all
succour. She hurried into the house, leaving
the men to get Sam in. But when she saw
him brought in, so irresponsive to their efforts,
his heels trailing on the stones, the utter helplessness
of his body, the dull weight between
them, the horrible flaccidity of his features, it
seemed to her a sight so terrible she shrieked
again and again, falling heavily across their
path, insensibility relieving her much enduring
nerves of further strain upon them.

Was it a dream, hearing words uttered
compassionately in a calm, steady voice — the
voice of some one apparently accustomed to
emergencies, sick chambers ?

Send for her parents — her mother. She
must have a sedative. It will be a great
wonder if she escapes fever. Hush, she is
coming round. My dear, swallow this if you
can ; it will do you good.'

CHAPTER 27.

PLOUGH-JAGS.

We can do an amount of thinking when we
lie sleepless in bed. During the time that
Iphis lay ill, the epitaph in Snailhorn churchyard
occurred to her again and again. She
had it by heart, and thought it over incredulously.
She became almost peevish thinking
so much about it. Such virtue was a simon
people prone to rebelliousness. If Mrs.
Susanna Horsnayle had been a dutiful
daughter it was because she had never been
opposed in her sweethearts ; if she had
become an affectionate wife it was because she
had married the man of her choice ; or never
having seen a man to set her heart upon, she
took the first brought forward without prejudice.

Iphis pictured the lady in her declining
years — a stiff old dame standing much
upon her dignity, a dark-grey eye and
strongly marked features and a complexion
of parchment. A martinet among servants,
and one not given to the exhibition of tenderness
or softness towards her descendants.

Iphis was so low at times that she believed
that she would die and follow Sam.
As yet no one would speak of him ; her
mother would not open her lips, and Iphis
dare not question her father. He had aged
terribly. The old, relentless eyes were still
keen, but the crow's feet about them were
deeper and more in number. She had had a
share in augmenting them ; some people
would say so, she knew, when she was dead.
They would put no inscription on her headstone
unless it was to intimate that she had
been a rebellious daughter.

"Whatever faults in me you see do you take care to shun,
And mention none, but look at home — there's something to
be done.

She was removed to Willowby in a close

fly, and even at Christmas she could only
come down stairs and sit near the fire, propped
with pillows and wrapped about with shawls.

When the line weather comes, if thou
gits no better,' said her father, ' thou shalt goto
Queensberry Well.'

He had more faith in its healing than in
doctors. There was as much faith in the
healing waters of Queensberry Well as in that
pool of Bethesda, and the hedges atomic were
hung with rags, the votive offerings of those
who had come there to leave sores and ills
behind them. It was absolutely necessary
that they should leave some portion of their
clothing behind or they could never hope for
restoration.

Iphis had heard her father say it before,
and she hoped that there would be no one
else there on the same errand. She had
some repugnance to playing the part of a
nymph or naiad. But oh, how tired she was
of inaction, sitting there from day to day!
She had nothing to do but sit and think ;

walking about the kitchen floor upset her.
So much thinking was not good for her.
Ephraim Sparrow came too much into it,
making her despondent and miserable. She
had not a chance to hear of him, good or bad.
She was a prisoner, and her illness precluded
her from concocting any plan of sending
message or word-of-mouth encouragement.

The plough-jags are out,' said the farmer.
' I wonder if they'll retch us.'

He sat after tea opposite her, his slippered
feet on the fender. He had given up his side
of the fireplace for the invalid, and usurped
his wife's. He thought it would stir up in
Iphis some expectancy and interest. Her
face was mournful and full of weariness, and
her dejection preyed upon his mind. But she
did not show much enthusiasm.

The lamp was lit, the same old dreary repetition
of evening followed — the monotonous
tick of the clock, the as monotonous click of
her mother's knitting or her needle, and the
protracted yawns of ; her father, which were

catching. Occasionally her father bestowed a
glance upon his wife, or furtively looked across
at Iphis.

Outside more snow had fallen. It was a
moonless night, and looking out of doors one
was constrained indeed to be thankful, that
one's lot was not with the houseless. It was
a matter for congratulation having not the
slightest occasion to go over the threshold.
Out in the lane there were voices, the servant
girl intimated as much. She was a little
timid, and judged that her superiors would
see with her the impropriety and irregularity
of such a thing as callers on such a night.

The gu-l listened again, gently opening
the scullery window ; voices were clear and
tremulous owing to the atmosphere. Hearing
her master's previous remark, it was just
possible that she suspected the mission of
those whose voices preceded them. She was
burning to witness what she suspected, but
alarmed at the contingency. I think some of
us would have a similar feeling if we had to

go into action. It was indeed an amazing
spectacle. One might have imagined oneself
beholding a few stragglers from an army of a
past and more picturesque age — camp followers
dressed out in stolen nondescript
finery. The party advanced irregularly, proceeding
in file as well as they could, if it was
for nothing else but easy marching in a beaten
track. The leader sported a chocolate cocked
hat, plumed with goose feathers, and his jacket
was indeed no less gorgeous than wonderful
to behold, but it almost gave the impression
of the wearer being an animal rather than a
man. By his side stalked a smart fellow
sporting a militia uniform. Behind them followed
others attired more or less grotesquely.
There was a guy wearing a low white hat and
drab smock, a burlesque of a doctor, a lady
revealing fustian trousers, her gown gathered
up to avoid the snow. Another travestie of a
woman, carrying a doll which was supposed
to represent a baby. St. George, a young
fellow in his ordinary clothes, making believe

as well as he could, but carrying a wooden
sword. Behind them the tag-rag of Willowby,
who followed the party in their round. The
mummers were somewhat arrogant and pretentious,
receiving with some condescension
the adulation and homage of the party in their
wake.

Reaching Cowlamb's gate there was some
parley. It was to insist that the rabble should
stay out in the lane. The language was forcible,
the retort equally uncourteous, the remonstrance
ineffectual ; for on reaching Cow-lamb's
door, the leader, turning round, beheld
the whole party behind him. He had a few
smothered imprecations, for the door opened,
to be abruptly closed in his face by the
affrighted servant girl. It was, indeed, an
alarming parade. There was a multitude of
faces, some of them so daubed up with colour
as to appear fiendishly distorted. Boldness is a
virtue among mummers. The leader opened
the door quickly upon the retreating girl, and

VOL. II. T

they followed her in as she heralded their approach
in apprehensive accents —

Missis, the plough-jags! The plough-rags!'


Formerly some roughness was only too
common among the party who constituted
the cast. Their disguise gave them a carnival
license. The tradition of their lawlessness
still held.

^ Let 'em come in shouted Cowlamb,
with astonishing urbanity, as if relenting.
He rose and saw the posse behind the
mummers, and his voice changed. 'Now then;
out ya go. We can't ha' this door open to
suit ye. We've badly folks i' th' house.'

It had its effect ; but some few stealthily
screened themselves behind the company ;
waxing more confident, they advanced
boldly into the large kitchen, one or two
audaciously occupying vacant chairs which
were placed conveniently near the point of
exit.

Iphis sat upright, a little excited with the

advent of such a party. The man in the
cocked hat had his face ochre and grimed ;
his dress was a mass of short coloured ribbons,
of all the colours of the rainbow, but crimson
and blue predominating. He raised his hat
to her with the courtesy of a Lord High
Admiral, and after some badinage with Cow-lamb,
cleared his throat and began the epilogue
with an astonishing amount of assurance and
condescension : —

Good evening, kind ladies and gentlemen all,

It's a merry time this Christmas, makes me so bold to call.

I hope you will not be offended at what
I've got to say in a short time. There be
some lads and lasses this way : — '

Some can dance, and some can sing,
By your consent they shall come in.
Hooker, spoke, spruce, and sprain (Hocus, pocus, France,

and Spain),
Here comes the noble sergeant of the same.

Thought the fool then?' interrupted
Columba

glance of the eye assented. The inter

2

eruption was regarded as inopportune. Mean |

while the Sergeant marched forward, in stately
fashion, delivering himself tete-astute with the
Fool :—

In comes the noMe sergeant, arrived here just now.

My orders is to 'list all men that follow horse, cart, or

plough,
Likewise tinker, tailor, pedlar, nailer,
All other fools that likes to advance —
The more I hears the fiddle play the better I can dance.
Fool. If thou begins either to dance, sing, or say, I shall
very soon march away.

Sergeant sings, a concertina striking up
somewhere behind him : —

Kind people give attention, and listen to my song,
I'll tell you of a young man, the time before it's long ;
He's almost broken-hearted, the truth I will declare,
Since love has enticed him, and drawn him in a snare.

The youth with the wooden sword advances,
carrying it before him somewhat
shamefacedly).

In comes I, Saint George, with courage stout and bold ;
"With my broad sword I won ten thousand pounds in gold ;
I fought with the fiery dragon, and brought him to hi

slaughter ;
By these few means I gained the King's eldest daughter.

I hacked him, I smashed him as small as flies,
And sent him over to Jamaica to make mince pies.

Sergeant. Thou hacked him and smashed him as small as
flies,
And sent him over to Jamaica to make mince pies ?
Pray thee, man, hold thy lies, or thou wilt raise my blood ;
If thou be the King I dare face thee.

St. George. No king am I that's plain to see,
But with my broadsword I dare face thee.
Last (advancing sings) —

In comes the lady bright and gay,
Good fortune and good charms ;
How scornfully I was thrown away
Into that young man's arms !

Iphis, hitherto regarding all with sono
contempt and a curled lip, started. The
voice struck a chord in her heart. She looked
across at her father, who was regarding the
fool's play with a broad smile. It was ridiculous
nonsense, the farmer was thinking, grown
men making themselves a laughing-stock
for a few shillings at Christmas time ; still it
was an old custom, and it amused him
a little. Iphis saw that her father was
not startled with the voice. She watched
the lady, but the dark veil which the individual
was chary of raising quite precluded

identification. The Fool was taking her hand
gallantly.

Not at all, madam ; hj the ring on your hand and the tear

in your eye,
Pray tell to me the reason it's for why.

Lady (sings). Kind sir, if I was to tell you the reason it's

for why.
It's all for that young man that makes me sob and sigh ;
He swears if I don't marry him, as you shall understand,
He will 'list all for a soldier into some foreign land.

Sergeant (sings). Come all you lads that's a mind for

'listing, 'list, and do not be afraid.
You shall have all kinds of liquor, likewise kiss the pretty

maid ;
Ten bright guineas shall be your bounty if along with me

you go.
Your hat with ribbons shall be trimmed, likewise cut a

gallant show.
St. George. Now, kind sir, I take your offer ; time will

sweetly pass :
Dash me if I grieve any longer for a proud and saucy lass.

(Affects to take shilling.)
Lady (sings). It's true my love has 'listed and gone to

volunteer,
I never mean to sigh for him, nor for him shed one tear ;
I never mean to wed with him, I'll have him for to know—
I'll have another sweetheart and along with him I'll go.
Fool. You shall have a waiting-maid to wait at year

command.
If you'll consent to wed with me, we'll be married off at

hand.

Lady (lackadaisically). My thoughts was of having a
farmer's son.

Iphis laughed. There was some irony in
the voice, some meaning intended for her, she
knew. Her father felt himself rewarded with
that laugh. It was healthy and honest, but
he imagined she was amused with the Fool's
chagrin.

Fool. K them he your thoughts, madam, I have done ; you
may take all your farmer's sons and wed with all your heart.
Although my name is Roger, I can follow horse, cart, or plough,
I need not tarry long before I get a wife. There's old buxom
Jones ; she is very well known ; she loves me as her life.

La:!IE Jane (humpbacked and walking with crutch-stick).
Dost thou mean me, my dear ?

Fool (pushing her aside). Ask my white leg.
Lady. What makes you speak so much of buxom Jones ?
Can't I please thee as well ? While she is not worth one penny,
and I have got buxom Nell to be sung, oh. I have got forty
shillings, love, and that's a glorious thing ; if you will consent
to wed with me unto you I will them bring.

Fool. Oh, if you've got forty shillings, I have got fifty

more, so that and thou will buy an old cow. So we will shake

hands in wedlock bands, singing, — Wo, sweet Nelly and L

Lame Jane. In comes old lame Jane, dabbling over the

meadow ;

Once I was a blooming young maid, but now I'm a down

old widow.
Long have I sought thee, but now I have caught thee.

Since thou called me a bad un, Tommy,
Pray thee, take thy bastard.
Fool. Bastard, Janeyy, it's not a bit like me ; what is it, male

or female ?
Lame Jane. It's a male.

Fool. "Why, mine are all females. I am a valiant man
just returned from sea. You never saw me in your life before,
did you ?

Lame Jane. Not as I know on ; but look at its eyes,
mouth, nose, and chin. It's as much like thou as ever it can
grin.

Fool (in a rage). It's not a bit like me : pray thee be off
and spoon it.

Beelzebub. In comes old Beelzebub,
And on my back I carry a club.
And under my arm a white leather dripping pan.
My grey locks they ling so low.
I speak for myself, as far as I know.

Fool. Wipe thy eyes old man, and thou wilt see
clear.

Beelzebub. Methinks I will.

(Beelzebub is immediately cut down by
St. George.)

Fool. Five pounds for a doctor !

Voice. Won't come under ten.

Fool. Ten pounds for a doctor !

Doctor. Good evening, kind ladies and gentlemen. Here
comes I the doctor.

Fool. How came you to be a doctor ?

Doctor (donning glassless spectacles). I have travelled
for it.

Fool. Where have you travelled through ?
Doctor. Through England, Ireland, France, and Spain,
Come back to old England a-doctoring again.
Fool. What can you cure ?

Doctor. I can cure ipsy-pipsy, palsy, and the gout,
Where there is nineteen pains I can fetch one-and-twenty

out.
And I have a drop of stuff in this bottle
That-will physic rats, poison cats.
Or bring a dead man to life again.
Fool (pointing to prone Beelzebub). You seem a clever
man — try your skill.

Doctor. Yes sir, so I will ; I will feel on this man's pulse.
Fool. Is that where a man's pulse lies ?
Doctor. Yes, it's the strongest part about a man. This
foolish man has been trying a new experiment.
Fool. What's that, doctor ?

Doctor. Why, he's been trying to cut his throat with a
rolling pm. He is only in a trance. Strike up the little box
and we will all have a dance.

A polka was played on the concertina, the
gay Sergeant pairing with the lady, St.
George with lame Jane, and the party rattled
their heels on the kitchen floor until Mrs.
Cowlamb began to feel exceedingly sensitive.
The lady's veil was pushed up ; and although
the lady's face was screened by the tall soldier,
it contrived to attract Iphis's eye at every

round. Iphis saw that it was Ephraim ; he
had ventured into the lion's den.

Fool. What's all this dance jigging about ?

Sergeant. Sport, father.

Fool. Sport? You sport till you HU yourself. My
father and grandfather was a terrible jumper, and so am I.

Sergeant. How came your grandfather to he such a
terrible jumper ?

Fool. Why, he ran to the pond and pulled off his clothes,
and said he would commit suicide.

Sergeant. And then what did he do ?

Fool, He put on his clothes and came away again.

Sergeant. How came your father to be such a terrible
jumper ?

Fool. Why, he jumped so high he never came down again
of seven years, and when he came down he had a wife and
seven small children, of which I am the oldest and boldest and
most terrible jumper.

Sergeant. How came you to be such a terrible jumper ?

Fool. Why, 1 jumped and dropped against a pretty little
milkmaid.

Sergeant. Did you court her ?

Fool. Yes, I courted her for the milk she sold,
And she courted me for the lies I told.

All sing (while the Fool holds his box for
contributions).

Good masters and good mistresses, as you sit round the fire.
Remember us poor plough-boys that plough through mud
and mire.

The mire is so deep and the water is so clear,
And we thank you for a Christmas box and a drop of your
best beer.

It's taken a drop to colour that owl nose
o' yours, Jacob,' said Cowlamb, as the Fool
held the box before him.

Lame Jane. And a bit of your porkpie,
I'm as hungry as an old fool's dry.
Fool. Thou list always hungry.
Lame Jane. And thou list always dry.

Cowlamb made a motion with his head,
and on a side table appeared Christmas cheer
and the beer longed for most. And while
they were eating and drinking Cowlamb
occupied himself in recognising each man
under his disguise. Lame Jane he found to
be a neer-do-weel Willowby labourer, fonder
of the ' Brown Cow ' than daily labour. But
the lady persistently kept her veil over her
eyes, or her face in shadow, and Cowlamb
could not identify the individual. Refreshment
over, to which due justice had been
rendered, it was now for them to take their
leave.

Fool, I have just had a letter, my dear ; can you read it ?

Lady. The print is so small, you had better read it yourself.


Fool. Dear Tom — dear Tom Bowling,
You had better leave off strolling,
Come home to your wife and family.
They are all sighing ; they are all crying ; —
So here goes —

(All sing, marching round).

Good masters and good mistresses, you see our fool has gone,
We will make it our business to follow him along.
We thank you for civility, and what you've given us here,
And we wish you a merry Christmas, and a happy New
Year.

At tHs last march round, Cowlamb pulled
the fair unknown round ; the expression of
good-fellowship in his face changed instantly
to one of rage, for in the lady of the ' plough-rags
' he recognised the blacksmith's apprentice,
and Iphis sitting there must have known
it all along. For anything he knew something
might have passed between them.

What messages could not a lover flash
with his eyes !

CHAPTER 28.

A STATUTE HIRING.

It is April, the hedges emerald hued, the
blackthorn white over, the oak in leaf early
year,' and the yew budding fairly. What
greens! Nothing is sombre, the clambering
ivy rivals the birch in delicacy of colour,
hiding its winter leaf in young and tender
shoots. Apple blossom is luxuriant. We
catch glimpses of early flowering spring plants.
The glad earth, refreshed with copious dews
and Sol's bright beams, puts forth once more
her surcease of colour, her prodigality of vegetation,
her promise of abundance.

Servant men are looking forward. Shortly
comes the day when blithely plough-lads say
one to another, ' Last yoke.' Then a week's

liberty, dear faces to see again, the lass to
meet their eyes rested on last year with some
greater degree of kindness. Perhaps until
death parts Darby will take Joan this May ;
and although but a confined labourer on a
lonely farm, he will pass his evenings henceforth
by his own ingle. He will exchange a
rough yet plenteous table maybe for one more
meagre ; as time creeps on a brood of lusty,
thick-limbed children will besiege it with appetites.
Days grow harder, but he will never
bewail his fate, happy in that which he possesses,
happy in the possession of that which
many a rich man craves for. Honest son of
the soil, thy face is full of good and constant
humour, thy heart warm and hands willing,
faithful servant often to indifferent master,
not envious but generous, obedient son, true
husband and faithful father, thou art worthier
of reverence than the Croesus to whom sycophants
bow, though the advantages of wealth
are not to be disparaged, but the arrogance
and pride of purse which it too often engenders.

Brave old labourer, too often ending
thy days on the highway on poorest pittance,
tottering but steadfast, bravely accepting
life, warm thought thy solace in that
descendants to the third generation follow in
thy wake, ' out at service.' Dost thou not
recall May-days, ' statutes ' long past? — then,
the flaxen down was on thy lip, freckles
powdering thy nose. In thy sleeved waistcoat
of peony hue or long blue blouse with
countless buttons thou felt thyself equal to
any. Does it rain May week, thou commiserates
holidays so unfortunate. ^ 'Tis bad for
the poor lads and lasses.'

Iphis was pale yet. She sat in the
kitchen at Willowby. How could she help
her thoughts travelling back? This day was
the day of sale at Snailhorn. Farmer Cow-lamb
had departed thither. His only remaining
son would be there. Mrs. Cowlamb,
quite at a loss, regarded her daughter with
some mental bewilderment. She did not
know how to talk to Iphis, so continued

silent. She had to content herself with
flickering looks at her child, constrained to
regard her as a human being difficult to
comprehend or cast in with. Mrs. Cowlamb
had ventured upon a commonplace remark,
and Iphis had peevishly retorted in quick,
resentful voice —

There — mother — don't.'

Mrs. Cowlamb was too well understood
by her daughter. The expression of resigned
sadness, as the recurrence of a terrible season
naturally affected the family, was scarcely
genuine. We are expected to be hypocrites
at times, have doleful faces when our hearts
are far from being sad. Mrs. Cowlamb might
not be glad to think that her husband's
favourite though debauched son had gone the
way of all flesh prematurely, but she had
never had any real affection for him. It was
doubtful if she possessed affection as a virtue.
It seemed strange to her that Iphis should
fret for Sam ; but then, whatever Sam's faults
were, how he had been chivalrous to Iphis !

He had almost stood at Iphis's back to defy
her father.

The farm was to be given up. There
would have been no difficulty retaining it, but
Cowlamb's other son did not want it, and
Cowlamb himself was growing more and more
weary. The memories were too bitter for him
to return there, much as he loved lonely
Snailhorn.

What a dreary winter it had been for
Iphis ! The doctor's fear of brain fever was
not ill-founded ; Iphifi lay between life and
death for some time at Snailhorn. She was
some weeks before she could be removed to
Willowby. Home — it was a prison-house.
She felt herself a wreck ; for a time she
thought that she should never be strong again.
She resigned herself to death. Indeed her
flesh had gone, her cheeks were hollow,
her eyes deep-sunken, her lips colourless, she
had lost the bright, rosy tint in her cheeks.
From the healthy country lass she seemed to
have merged into the sad, careworn woman.

VOL. II. u

But with such a physique as hers, even a
fever's ravages were not likely to have
lasting effect. As Farmer Cowlamb said,
more to encourage her, she at last began * topick
up her crumbs.' The invigorating air
of spring, beautiful spring, went far to restore
her.

But the house was wearisome to her, her
mother's voice more subdued than ever, her
father reticent, although wistfully desirous to
see her recovering quickly, yet showing only
too clearly how his heart was stricken, and
his cheerfulness clouded with the recollection
of the ending of the life of his favourite and
once most promising son.

Sam's affairs had not soothed the farmer
The alien wife came in for the greater part of
Sam's money. Sam had never revoked a will
made greatly in her favour, made at a time
when Sam was in hopes that she would return
to him. Sam had resented her point blank
refusal, and had determined to alter his disposition
of his money, but he had put off and

put off until it was too late. What annoyed
Farmer Cowlamb more, whispers were afloat
of i\Irs. Sam entertaining the idea of marriage
again. It was a triumphant case with her of
despoiling the Egyptians.

To Iphis, ' being a lady,' as lier mother
termed it— namely, doing nothing and sitting
with her hands across — was simply unbearable.
She chafed and fretted at not being allowed
to do this or that for fear of taking cold.
She had been out a little to chapel, where
every one's eyes were upon her. She could
feel the argus-eyed congregation all over her,
in her back even. An odd time or so she had
walked through the village and passed the
blacksmith's shop. The knotted glass in the
windows glowed with a red light. She could
discern a figure at the bellows, his body
inclining with rhythmical precision ; then some
movement was made with the fire, but she
was quickly past — only, looking round, Iphis
saw Ephraim Sparrow, a glowing shoe on the
punch, a horse's hind leg in his lap. There
u 2

was smoke, a smell of burning, the horse
somewhat restless, then the shoe was withdrawn.
Iphis was still observing the process
— she had witnessed it before any number
Df times — when Ephraim looked up and after
her. She was sure that he had recognised her.

She was thinking of this now.

Moreover, she was wondering if her father
would call upon old Mr. Long. Before Sam's
death she had almost persuaded herself that
she must submit, accept her fate, marry the old
reprobate. Her dream having faded away out
of her mind she had been strangely irresolute.
Then after, that strange freak of Ephraim' s
getting into the house in such a disguise.
That showed that Ephraim was still true.
Her father had discovered him at the last
moment. She had expected some severe
animadversions on such a scapegrace, but the
farmer had discreetly held his tongue. Ephraim
had never spoken to her, but she felt that she
could reckon upon his devotion.

Where's the gell going ? ' asked Iphis

at last, for Damaris, the maidservant, came
down the back stairs in all her holiday bravery,
her face shining with soap and red with exultation
and excitement.

The statius.'

The statius ? ' repeated Iphis. ' I had
forgotten.' She felt herself almost out of the
world in her forge tunes of seasons and festivals.
' The statius ; I think I shall go,
mother.'

Thou ? ' remonstrated her mother ;
thought not fit. The sun's gleamy, but it's
not a real fine day. I don't think 3^0 ur father
would be in for it, Iphis, if he was at home.'

Maybe not,' said Iphis, calmly, ' but I'm
sick o' being penned up in the house.'

Mrs. Cowlamb looked on helplessly, dejectedly.
She wished her husband was at
home; there was no telling how he would
take it. She herself could see no harm in
Iphis going to the statute. She had liked
going herself when she was Iphis's age. But
her husband* was circumventing fate to the

best of his ability. She knew that. Towse
would leave them in a week or two. Ephraim
Sparrow would be ' lose ' shortly. Some
understanding existed between Cowlamb and
the blacksmith. Ephraim would have to travel
from the village. The Towses would not
harbour him for any length of time. When
thrown on their own resources they would
have too many mouths to think of entertaining
guests, much less a fellow with a trade at his
finger ends. Farmer Cowlamb's policy, then,
was to keep Iphis in retirement until this lad
got well away. Make her believe that she
was too delicate to leave the house yet awhile.
Pamper ' her, as the farmer expressed it,
into making her believe herself weaker and
more delicate than she really was-and the
farmer had nearly succeeded.

But what is a statute hiring in these degenerate
days ? It is but a skeleton of its
former self The peripatetic shows and
shooting galleries still come. There are the
stalls where the small fry shoot at a yard's

range at a split ring ; they have the delight of
seeing Jack emerge out of his box, and their
modicum of ' rock a sticky and far from
appetising conglomeration. The galleries, with
their long tubes and excited bell, are for
children of larger growth. The old tumbling
show puts in its appearance still, though
much bearable and time worn ; but it has
now to compete with the velocities and
steam roundabouts — what an innovation ! At
night that rapidly revolving circle makes one
dizzy, the glare of light on so much colour
makes one's eyes smart, the whistle startles
one, and the returns make one calculate how
long the proprietor will carry it on. He
must soon gain a competence. Time was
when urchins pushed while more fortunate
ones rode, enduring the long whip, redoubling
their exertions in the delusive hope
of a free circuit. And the swing boats then,
they did swing — not revolve as now on an
axis with frightful precision.

It is the younger servants who keep the

institution alive. The tradition remains with
them. Old people come to see their children
released for the day, or to look after their
boys and girls. Fights are infrequent. There
is tremendous competition ; the noise is so
great, talking is difficult. But all the catch-pennies
are dismal. Ask a showman — in
mournful accents he will tell you that trade
is dull, that times are not what they were,
the sword swallower will bear him out, his
own clown, his neighbour who farms the fat
lady and the dwarf. The old peep-show
owner rails at the stereoscopic slides. He
perseveres, disgusted nevertheless at failing
appreciation • cannot you recall him at his
best, standing outside his show, the strings of
his baize curtains in his fingers : —

The fall of Nineveh. You have here a
correct representation of the burning city.
The king after his decisive overthrow returns
to his capital, and, heaping his treasures on
a pile, resolves to throw himself into the
flames. On the right you see the king and

his concubines surrounded by his bodyguard.
In the centre you will perceive the queen
surrounded by her maids of honour. To the
left the soldiers carrying away the precious
stones, the gold and silver, and the valuables
of the king: '

Who remembers not the nasal tone?
Who was not awed and impressed with the
old fellow's erudite gravity?

The lads and lasses stand about with true
bucolic features. AVhat a wonderfully taking
expression they have, the wish to be amused !
It is half the battle getting people in that
humour. The showmen see it and bawl with
miofht and main. The faces relax, but the
gaper's eyes are roving. Who has come to
statius t' year ? ' A face that seems familiar
confronts another.

'Hallo, Bill! how art ee?'

The Bill addressed stares stonily into the
eyes of his accosted and speaks not for some
moments, but continues staring, the other
enduring the ordeal bravely.

Be dal'd if I know thee comes at last.

Ya don't drawled as slowlj^-.
^Be— dal'd— if— I— do!'

Don't ya remember a chap as lev wi'
owt Cowlamb ? '

Why, thou bent Jack ? *

Bud I be.'

Gom, if ya hadn't ha' told me I shouldn't
ha' know'd thee aegean. Where has ta been
sin' last May ? '

^ Grassy. But I hadn't going' another
year.'

I stop aegean. Hes ta seen owt o' Sally ?
She lev wi' thou and me, if t' remembers.'

'I seed her about an hour agone. She's
grown a fine strapping' wench. Bud she's got
a chap.'

I never set eyes on her sin' we all left.
What art ee going' to lev ? '

Art ee going' to stan' treat ? Well, I
can drink a pint o' ale '

Ony time. Heigh, Sukey ! thou seen

owt o' Sally ; here's Jack Slowfeed, he lev wi*
her.'

And Jack and Tom adjourn to the
Greyhound,' there to cement friendship with
deep draughts out of pewter, — but it is ale
brewed for the occasion.

With long confinement indoors Iphis felt
tender ; the air was chill, for a breeze from
the north-east was blowing. But for all that
it seemed to brace her and do her good. She
was well wrapped — goloshes on her feet.
She fancied that the people in traps stared at
her. Many of us have the inordinate vanity
of fancying we are noticeable. But now
Iphis fancied that they looked at her commiserating,
and she resented nothing so
much as condolence or pity. Some farming
lads passed her almost at a run ; some she
could tell had walked some distance by the
different coloured mud upon their boots. Not
one with a peony waistcoat — most of them
wearing cloth clothes, and carrying a sensible

overcoat. The few who wore fustian jackets
sported a velvet collar.

She almost expected to see Ephraim in
one of these groups. She wondered if his
curmudgeon of a master would grant him a
day's liberty. Still, she asserted to herself
convincingly, she was not going to the statute
to see Ephraim. But what was she going
for? She found some difficulty in the self-imposed
question, but it was to see the racket
and commotion — people enjoying or making
great efforts to enjoy themselves. She could
hear already the thud of the drum and the
blare of indifferent music. At the town-end
groups of farming lads and older men
stood. The edge of their mad haste to
reach the town somewhat dulled with second
thought. Near to them was an old thatched
public-house, quaint and inviting.

Iphis could not help quickening her steps
after the first glimpse of crowd and canvas
and yellow waggons. Her eyes brightened at
the stir and colour and scent ; any one could

smell Graham gingerbread. What a dense
crowd — what a Babel of sound ! Waxwork
in a habitation ablaze with colour and fold :
a huo'e Leviathan emitting tunes not the most
melodious, but sufficiently powerful to drown*
the efforts of all rivals. To the music of this
monster a little sylph was dancing as if she
enjoyed it. She had fair hair and a sweet,
pretty fiice ; her motions were graceful, and
the little creature smiled.

Dear, dear, pretty creature', I could kiss

them pink legs . An' she 's filling' to her

drawers.'

Iphis looked towards the speaker. It was
Mrs. Towse, and Mrs. Towse recognised
her.

If it isn't Iphis, poor thing. You're
getting on then. My word, it has taken the
flesh off ye. I should ha' been to ask after
you, but I durst come, an' that's the truth.

My man said eh, Joel ! ' shrieked Mrs.

Towse, ' come you here, you'll be run over.
Law, bless me, one wants to be made o' money.

The barns wants to go in all the shows, little
or big. I been telling Rachel the waxwork
is all like dead folks, it's a dele prettier outside.
I remember going to waxwork, an'
they'd got betters on their necks and such
white faces, just as they was took. My man's
got off, I hope he weaned git fresh, the policemen
are so particular now-a-days.'

^ You've locked up the house, then,
Mrs. Towse, and all of you come to the
statius ? '

^ Heigh,' cackled Mrs. Towse, her shrill
laughter echoing far and near — everybody was
sensitive to mirth — ' my man an' me thowt
we'd bring the barns. Now, where' s that
Joel? He's gen me the slip.' And Mrs.
Towse darted into the crowd.

Iphis was disappointed. She wished to
learn if Ephraim Sparrow was in the town.
She did not like asking the direct question.
She felt sure that Mrs. Towse in her garrulousness
would supply the information.

Iphis pressed through the crowd, giving

the whirling roundabouts a wide berth ; they
made her dizzy. She would, perhaps, meet
with Mrs. Towse again. She caught a
glimpse of Joel, playing a sort of ,
the anxious mother futilely endeavouring
to catch him. A great attraction to Joel
were the spangled ladies, who had peculiar
jumps before passing milder the curtain. I've
proprietor was now vaunting the unrivalled
performances of the young lady on the tight
and slack rope ; of the pony, richly caparisoned
and tightly reined to girth, who on the
stage gave proofs of his remarkable versatility
and intelligence ; of the dog, who might have
been made out of a flock mattress, and whose
dumbness was a constant source of irritation
to him. Then the showman ceased speaking,
and two lads went through a series of
tumbles, one of them afterwards hurrying to
the gong, the other to cornet and drum, while
Mr. Merryman straightened his face, and
stepping down the inclined plane, pointed
with his whip to the painted canvas, and with

Ills hand to his mouth shouted at the top of
his voice —

*A — o — o — o! walk up! walk up, ladies
and gentlemen, the performance is now about
to begin. The young lady is on the tightrope
(at this moment the curtains divide and
a glimpse is caught of her). We shall not
wait a moment. Hi ! Hi ! Hi ! come and seethe
Brothers Lizards, the champion contortionists,
tumblers, boneless prodigies — of the
world — in their matchless performance, as
given before the Queen and Royal Family at
Windsor Castle by special command. Admission,
two — pence; children, half price.'

Mr. Merryman strikes the canvas smartly
with his whip. The brothers vanish into
the interior, and Mr. Merryman backs from
the gangway, retiring to the gong, and the
inclined plane is covered with lads and lasses,
old ' chaps ' and their wives with shame-faced
grins on their weather-beaten faces. Had the
earth opened Iphis could not have regarded
the spectacle with more amazement and

deeper irritation, for there was Ephraim
Sparrow dressed in the suit of good clothes he
had earned in his stolen time, leading up their
own servant girl. And Damaris strutted
proudly, her rosy face aglow. Ephraim, too,
for anything Iphis could tell, was quite content
with Damaris. They were evidently on
the best of terms with each other. Iphis
recollected the morning, how, when Damaris
came down the stairs showing her substantial
white stockinged ankles, her ripe, rosy,
healthy face to follow after, her movements
alert and bouncing, she had felt a pulsation of
envy course through her veins. When she
herself had been full of health, rosy, and
plump, she had undervalued it all. It
seemed to her that Ephraim was influenced
easily to any one if they had red cheeks and
plump shoulders. Well, but what did it
matter to her ; she was to marry Mr. Long?
She had half persuaded herself once — that
terrible time! It had almost slipped out of
her head afjain. Mr. Loner and Mr. Gerli-

o o

VOL. II. X

more. Between them to choose. Poor old
Parson ; she was to go to him if she was
rendered desperate. She would have Mr.
Long now. Nothing would induce her ever
again to speak to Ephraim Sparrow. She
would have none of Damaris's leavings. A
sly, deep thing! Iphis's breast was stirred
with thoughts of revenge. There were many
ways of making Damaris suffer. Only
Damaris would be at liberty in a fortnight.
and a fortnight's martyrdom of fault-finding
and hole-picking is over incredibly quick.
And Iphis thought that Damaris, scenting
freedom, would accept any spitefulness with
brave stolidity ; she would eat and sleep just
the same, and on the last day snap her
fingers at them all. Poor wights submit to
hardships without complaint. Indeed it is a
question if they always do see a hard life as
such. Bred without comfort or much care,
any consideration is the least thing they expect
So they sit down to miseries without
murmurs. But, oh! the kind word, and the

golden maxim, if the word is regarded lightly
and the practice unconsidered, how are we
certain that each shall not bear in good tim;
golden fruit?

She meant to go, but she was so full of
bitterness that she forgot herself. She stood
with her eyes fixed on the glowing canvases
of the tumbling show. She could hear the
laughter and din inside, the Pandean pipes
and drum, the short barks of the trained dog,
the clapping of hands, She knew as well as
could be what was going on inside. She had
seen it over and over ag-ain — heard the
jokes, from the clown and his chalk to the
pony pointing out the proprietor as the
greatest rascal. How she would have
writhed had she known that the sagacious
pony stopped at Ephraim and Damaris as the
two who would next ' shake hands in wedlock
bands ' !

The large drum inside was beaten, the
curtains separated, and Iphis recovered herself.
It was not worth her while staying ;

she would go home. She gathered up her
skirts, turned on her heel, and pressed through
the crowd.

In her mind, the one little bit of romance
in her life was over.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : Printed BY

8POTTI8WOODE AND CO., NBW-81 RKKT Square

AND FABLIA3IENT street

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

OF ILLINOIS

8ZB

W572m

OR

THE WOOING OF IPHIS
A PASTORAL

BY

EDWIN Shelton

AUTHOR OF 'A LINCOLNSHIRE HEROINE' ETC.

A daughter of our meadows, yet not coarse ;
Straight, but as lissom as a hazel wand '

Tennyson

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved"]

CONTENTS

OF

THE Tried VOLUME.

CHAP. Page

29. A TIFF 1

30. AULD ROBIN GRAY 20

31. FORSAKEN' . 52

32. FOOTPRINTS 75

33. INTO THE DARKNESS 90

34. A QUIET WEDDING 117

35. A DEATH 132

36. YET TO SPEAK . . . . . . 154

37. FATHER AND DAUGHTER 162

38. THE DEAD MAN'S VOICE 180

39. CLOUDS 192

40. GODFATHERS 205

41. A CONTRETEMPS 217

42. AN EXPLOSION 234

43. STRUCK DOWN 249

44. IN EXTREMIS 271

45. A VERDICT 294

46. TO LEAD A NEW LIFE 311

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archiye.org/details/meadowsweetorwoo03whel

CHAPTER 29.

A TIFF.

But Iphis Cowlamb had reckoned without her
host. Before she was well out of the town
she heard feet behind her, some one evidently
in pursuit of her. She had no need to turn ;
her own thoughts told her who it must be.
She did turn, however, and saw Ephraim
Sparrow. Her indignation was great. She
quickened her pace. Her ears were acute.
She would have been deaf had it been in her
power. She heard him shout with most outrageous
audacity —

Iphis ! '

And in a tone of remonstrance-vol.

III. B

Well " she cried, throwing her

words at him ; ' you can drop following me.'

Why, what for? ' he asked, his eyes
opening wide.

Iphis could have felled him for his hypocrisy,
for such it seemed to her. Her anger
was so great she did not pause to give him the
benefit of a doubt. *

'What for?' echoed she, indignantly,
coming to a standstill. i What for? Why,
you know well enough.'

Oh, Iphis, unlearned in the axiom that the
woman who parleys yields a fortress.

I'm suer,' asseverated Ephraim, ' I don't
know what I done amiss. Tell us, Iphis,'
pleaded he.

Law,' he added, tenderly, but with a
suspicion of 'falseness' (subtleness), 'you
nun ha' been strange and bad.'

To learn that Ephraim was shocked at the
change in her was almost more than she
could bear. She was convinced that Ephraim
had gone after idols.

i Heigh, you may well say that. You like
'em wi' rosy cheeks. I know that

Law, I don't know what you mean, Iphis/
declared Ephraim, excitedly, invoking the
heaviest punishment that could be inflicted on
the untruthful, if he was not all at sea.

Tell us what you mean, Iphis.'

i What was you doing with our Damaris?
I seed you.'

Ephraim started. Iphis took it as a sure
sign of guilt.

You looked very sweet, that you did,'
continued Iphis, soothingly. ' Well, Ephraim,
we part as we found one another, an' we
needn't be no worse friends. You're quite
welcome to Damaris — I'm going to be
married. 7

Going to be married ? 7 gasped Ephraim,
forgetting now that he had his character to
clear.

'Yis — to a man wi' lots o' money; an'
I am to have a pony carriage, and do exactly
as I like.'

You'll have a fine time,' said Ephraim,
bitterly.

1 How do you know ? ' retorted she, sharply.
i You know nothing about it.'

I know plenty — enough for me,' muttered
Ephraim, hoarsely. Somehow this very thickness
of utterance seemed to move her.

i Why, it went matter much to you,
Ephraim, will it ? ' inquired she, speculatively.


Went it? I think I shall go an' drown'd
my sen.'

'Drown course? ' now gasped Iphis.

i I spoke plain, didn't ee. Your father
nearly did it once. I wish now he had.'

Well, but there's Damaris ! '

What's Damaris got to do wi' it?' he
muttered, impatiently.

Why, you took her in the show,
Ephraim? '

I know that.'

< What did ye for?'

Because she belonged to you

Iphis shook her head incredulously.

It's true,' said Ephraim. ' She last me fora
statussin'. I wanted to last her about you.
I didn't know you'd be there.'

The impudent hussy ! ' exclaimed Iphis.
I'll tell mother.'

1 You'd better not,' counselled Ephraim,
his expression grim. ' Your mother 'ud tell
your father, an' your faith er would get to
know you'd been talking' aegean to me. An'
he likes me,' said Ephraim, sarcastically.

No, he doesn't like you, Ephraim,' said
she, with a determined regard for truth, ' an'
it's a wonder anybody does (a woman's tear
lurking in her eye), as you go on coin' such
aggravating things.'

Aggravation' — oh, well, what d'ye call
your ways. Who's this chap you're going' to
marry ? '

1 He's not a chap.'

Man, then. Is he order than me ? '

A dele order than you, Mister Ephraim
Sparrow.'

i Oh — much order ? '

1 A good dele.'

Owl enough to be your father, I'se
think,' surmised Ephraim, sarcastically.

Yis, an' yours.'

Well, the difference betwixt us isn't
worth falling out about,' observed Ephraim,
sardonically. l Some owt money bags your
father' s hunted up aegean. I wish he was
dead now.'

He can't last long,' mused Iphis, unconsciously,
following her parent's argument.


He can't ? ' cried Ephraim. He could
not help feeling some disgust at such calculation
in her. ' Why, he isn't ninety ? '

No,' deprecated Iphis ; ' he's not ninety

Order than your father, though.'

4 A dele,' said Iphis, calmly. ' But he
reckons he isn't.'

Ephraim considered a long time, then
brightened. ' Why, it isn't owt Long ? He's
owt enough to lay out o' doors.'

1 Yes, it is Mr. Long returned she candidly
and with dignity.

Now, Ephraim as runaway had seen Mr.
Long in the flesh. But he had forgotten for
the moment Iphis' s confidences at Snailhorn.
With him matters were often in at one ear
and out at the other. It all recurred to him
again. From others he had had the old
gentleman's character, attainments, and past
achievements painted in colours gay and
dusky. The picture of this old reprobate
aspiring to Iphis had at the time excited his
indignation ; now it was the antithesis. He
doubled up and shouted in derision —

Oh, owt Long — ee ! ' then doubled up
again, and went off into shouts of laughter.

Oh, how troubled Iphis felt !

When he had laughed until he could
laugh no longer, Iphis spoke ; tears were in
her eyes.

If I had a-known, I wouldn't ha tell ye.'

She was affronted as well as humiliated.

1 You'll never ha' that owt creature,' expostulated

lie, moderating his mood, feeling
that he was only wounding her and not
serving himself ; ' afore ya shall I'll go an'
squeeze his gizzard.'

You'll see if I don't,' said Iphis, exultant,
feeling that she had the wdiip-hand again ;
and as for such talk as that it's more than
you dare do. You durst.'

Durst ee ? ' nodded Ephraim, with
such a resolute look in his face Iphis trembled.
But her tremor had an access of joyfulness
in it.

Maybe father '11 bring him home with
him,' mused she, simulating abstraction.

All the better. If I light on him I'll
scar him out on his seven senses, see if I
don't. He's been an owt heathen, and he
must begin to think o' judgment day. Iphis,'
said Ephraim, with grave emphasis, ' d'ye
know what an owt rip he is ? '

He does swear a bit,' admitted Iphis ;
• but he's gittin' hissed off on it. He's not
going to swear any more after '

Xay, finish it,' said Ephraim, caustically.

After we're married,' said Iphis, boldly.

4 Bah ! Well, marry him, then ; that's
all I have to say — marry him. Law, ye will
be a fine lady. I'll say good morning' to ye.'

1 Good morning, Mr. Sparrow.'

Ephraim turned on his heel, but Iphis
stood still, and yet Ephraim did not seem to
get away. He looked round and saw Iphis
still standing there. He was irresolute ; he
could not tell whether she was relenting, or
was still cruel. He did manage to drag his
feet a few paces away ; then he heard her
voice —

1 Ephraim ! '

He felt that he had responded too quickly.
He ought to have shown himself a little more
inflexible, while Iphis had begun to think
that she had shown herself a trifle too obdurate.


Are you going — home ? ' asked Iphis,
feeling it incumbent upon her to show some
grounds for arresting him.

I'd know,' answered Ephraim. It was
difficult for him to declare what his mind
was. Of course he was going in the direction
of Willowby, if he could consider his home
was in that village. There was no telling
what might cross his mind or how he might
be influenced when he got there.

Here, come here,' invited Iphis.

Ephraim obeyed, his hands in his pockets,
trying to look unconcerned and collected.

- I shouldn't like to hear tell o 7 you happening'
owt,' said Iphis, considerately.

I shouldn't like to hear talk o' ye marrying
that owt creature,' returned Ephraim,
profoundly. ' What does the owt beggar
want wi' young a lass ? '

i What does a young fellow want wi' a
young lass ? '

Iphis was tickled with the dogged gloom
on Ephraim's countenance. With difficulty
she restrained a disposition to laugh. Blind
oaf of a lover, he could not see that the
corners of her mouth were twitching, nor the

dimples deepening that still remained, nor the
eyes full of tenderness and entreaty.

1 An' if I was to say I won't ha' owt
Long — ee, at no price ? '

I'd marry you straight off if you'd hame.
Run away aegean.'

Iphis shook her head. ' I durst,' said
she, i father ud never forgive me, never.'

I never shall ha' thee, then,' said Ephraim,
settling into deep gloom again.

You couldn't wait, Ephraim ? Men are
so impatient ! '

Wait ? I should ha' to wait. It's owt
Long now. There'd be some other fellow if
you got shut on him, an' maybe a young
fellow wi' money jingling in his pocket an' a
farm at his back. How many has there been
already ? Owt Long and that young preacher
I do know about ; maybe there's been lots I
never heard on. Lasses '11 lev any sort of a
kills if he's got a farm. Your father '11
never come to — to look at the likes o' me. I
sell go to America — somewhere a long way

off, where I shan't ha' money enough to bring
me back if I turn homesick an' wants to come.
I sell go to my owt uncle's an' last him to
help me off as soon as I've served my time.'

D'ye really mean it, Ephraim ? '

He simply nodded.

Don't go, Ephraim '

Ephraim looked at her a moment. What
tempted him ? — Heaven knows; his arms went
around her, and he did not know how it came
about, but when he recovered his sanity he
found her arms were around his neck, and he
believed he had kissed every inch of her face
and some portions of her neck as well.

I won't,' declared he, passionately. ' He
may shoot at me again if he likes ; I don't
care. What do I care what they do ? You
needn't be a bit jealous o' me. There's
nobody else i' th' wide world I care about
but thou. Thou ought to know that. But
what's to be done ? '

I don't know,' said Iphis, sickening hopelessness
following passionate surrender.

1 It'll ha' to come to what I said '

< What ? '

Thou an' me '11 ha' to run away, that's
all. That's th' long an' th' short on it ;
there's no other way that I can see.'

I don't think I durst do it,' said Iphis,
fearfully, though not a little taken with the
idea now.

6 Pshoo, it's like a nowt when you git
used to it,' said Ephraim, as if it was a
common practice of his persuading damsels
to elope with him. ' They couldn't unmarry
us aegean. When your father got his madness
over he'd be glad to lev us — you, back.
But I could addle a living,' declared
Ephraim boldly and bravely, qualifying it
duly ; ' maybe things won't be so smart
as what you'd been used to, leastways not at
first.'

1 But you wouldn't do it just now ? '

No. I've nobbut a week or two, then
I'm free as air. Bud I sell see thee aegean
afore very long.'

I shall go to chapel twice every Sunday.
But father '11 alius be there.'

I could scribble i' thy hymn book, only
happen he'd git hold on it. Bud I'll contrive
an' see thee somehow, if I git my head knocked
off for my pains.'

You meant let father see you.'

No,' said Ephraim, assuming great astuteness
; ' I'll watch him?

Well ' — Iphis started — ' there's a trap
coming. The horse trots just like ours. It
is a grey horse. If it should be father ? Get
over the hedge, Ephraim, and lay down.'

The field was sown, the corn up, a Cambridge
roll had been over it, wide bands
alternating, emerald and a duller green, the
mark of the outgoing and returning roll.

She waited with no little excitement.
Her ear seldom deceived her ; she knew their
own horse's foot too well. There were two in
the trap. One was her father. Who was
the other ? It looked like a woman. Was
it Sam's wife her father was bringing home ?

What a commotion it would make ! Her
mother would be vexed at having to entertain
such a body without having received due
notice. But no young woman, not Sam's
wife, would sit such a bundle. It was a man.
Iphis, with the sense of coming disaster, was
now possessed with a terror and despair that
almost stopped her heart beating.

Ephraim,' she cried under her breath,
• I don't think I durst run away.'

She felt that she ought not to have spoken.
If Ephraim heard her he might reply ; if he
had heard her imperfectly he might rise inconsiderately
to ask her what she had said.
Happily, Ephraim remained quiescent, and
there was no catastrophe. She would not
look round — no, not with the trap close upon
her ; she would walk on slowly • it was
something to defer evil tidings, an unwelcome
surprise. If it was all a mad adventure of
her brain — well, it would be a greater relief
to her to find it so.

The grey broke out of its trot ; it was

uphill, and Farmer Cowlamb was lenient with
horse-flesh. Then she heard her father's
voice in surprised tones, but not unkind.
i What, Iphis ? — ah, you couldn't keep away
from the statius, then ? '

Iphis looked round slowly, deferring to
the last the moment when it would prove her
fears real or groundless.

Ah, whose voice was this squeaking now.
Now, lovey, thou looks thin ; how art tha ?
D it, Cowlamb would ha' me come.'

She felt herself uncanny. When she had
said to Ephraim, probably Mr. Long would
accompany her father home, it was not to say
that she had thought it likely. How terribly
her hap-hazard assertion had returned upon
her! Ephraim behind the hedge, no doubt
he would be peeping through and see Mr.
Long, and Ephraim knew the old man by
si«;ht. But her thoughts were checked
hearing her ancient lover's voice again. And
her father, considerately working to make the
course smooth, would not allow the mare to

get into her trot again. He wished to give

o o o

Mr. Long every opportunity of addressing his
daughter.

I hadn't been out o' weeks soliloquised
Mr. Long, ' but I wanted to go to Haveluck
market. I had the old nag yoked in the gig
I was tender as a chicken, so I was hardening'
niysen — Cowlainb, you don't think I
shall take any payment, eh? ' inquired Mr.
Long, querulously.

Iphis was again revolving in her mind her
mother's mood, such a visitor coming unawares.
Iphis felt that she ought to have
hastened on and given her mother notice.
The fire would have to be lighted in the best
room, there would be the best bed-room to get
ready, sheets to air, and the mattress and bed
to bring down to the kitchen fire.

What an object the old man looked as he
was helped out of the trap ! Over his ears was
the tippet of sealskin, his head surmounted
with a rakish but antique hat.

Mrs. Cowlamb welcomed Mr. Long most

YOL. III. C

dolorously. She was sure that he had caught
them at their worst. With Iphis being ill,
things had had to go. Had she known Mr.
Long; was coming; she would have had things
straighter. She knew he came from a house
where every thing was ' point 'vice.'

All of which Mr. Long tried to-meet with
credence to pacify her. But as she still rambled
on, affording him no hope of a speedy
conclusion, he burst out tartly, intending to
be jocose —

1 Why d it, mem, I should think you've

got a drop o' gin in the house.'

Maister,' cried Mrs. Cowlamb in plaintive
staccato, ' maister,' repeated she with some impatience,
c that gallon o' gin has never been
opened, and I couldn't last Mr. Long to lev a
glass.'

Kay, nay, nay ; I want no gin ' — an asseveration
Mr. Long evidently wished no one
to take as the echo of his heart.

Iphis, get a glass and some water ; do,
see cried Mrs. Cowlamb, utterly ignoring her

visitor's repudiation of motive in speaking ashe
did.

Iphis obeyed ; but she was plunged into a
reverie. How calmly she could contemplate a
possible future, wherein her sole occupation
would be ministering to the craving of an old
wretch who, dreading death, kept himself alive
with a stimulant, chuckling that even when
death stole a march upon him he should leave
a legacy of hate behind him.

c 2

CHAPTER 30.

AULD ROBIN GRAY.

Mr. Long evidently meant business. Mrs.
Cowlamb, surmising that no fool's errand had
brought him to Willowby, filled up the decanter
out of the gallon jug, and the inroad
Mr. Long made into it was something surprising.
Iphis went about the house as if ina
dream. The old man refused to go into the
best room, suspicious, no doubt, of its real
warmth and cosiness. He had a chair pulled
up on the warmest side of the fireplace ; his
stick rested against the mantelpiece, and his
plaited feet were not far from the fender. The
impression seemed to be with Iphis that Mr.
Long had only dropped into his proper place ;
he might have occupied the chair for half a
century.

Cowlamb, ' said Mr. Long, complacently,
I'm comfortable. I don't believe I shall ail
owt. That nephy, or what ye call him, o'
mine was past t'other day. He never so much

as looked at the house — I watched him, d

him. It's an owt tale o' the owt woman that
had all her nephew and nieces around her. Says
she, "I'm the root and you're the branches."
One of her nephew started a-laughing. " What
art ee laughing at, lad?" says she, and he
was forced to tell her. So says he, " Why,
if the root was underground, how the branches
would flourish." I should think, Cowlamb,
that parson thinks he'll lev a fine flourish
when I'm underground. Will he ? ' Mr. Long's
eyes gleamed like a cat's. i Eh, Cowlamb,
what do you say? I reckon he went flourish
wi' my money. I shall leave it all to I know
who. And that owt devil shan't have none
on it. I believe, Cowlamb, the owt figure
thought at one time that I should marry her.'
Who, Miss Grinstead?' inquired Mrs. Cow-lamb,
raising her eyebrows dolefully.

The very same, mem. An owt thing,
all of a shake. Cowlamb, you'll take me back
again. You'll do as you said. I want to beat
Haveluck. I've some money out there, and
they ain't paid no interest of I don't know
how long, and I can't afford it, I should soon
be ruined. I been once ; somebody went wi'

me. I can't remember his name What

do they call him? D it, I'm like the lad

with his letters ; he knew 'em by sight, but
couldn't think o' their names.' And the eyes
of his nephew the parson came in for some
language in the ' index,' Mrs. Cowlamb lifting
up her eyes so sanctimoniously, old Long,
who was quick sighted, deemed it a hint that
his suit would not be furthered unless he
curbed his tongue a little.

1 Heigh, heigh, it would make anybody

swear, the ungrateful devil. Tut, tut ,

one gits into a habit, and habits are bad to
get shut on. Don't you think so, Mrs. Cow-lamb?'


Yes, sir, they are,' agreed Mrs. Cowlamb

in perfect good faith, for her mind went to the
petty sins of Daniaris. i I have nothing to do
but look at door edges. The slut, she always
clams hold with her dirty fingers. Nobody
learnt her that, I do know ; it's a habit she's
got hold on.'

We all have faults,' said Mr. Long, philosophically,
attempting a pious, forgiving, long-suffering
expression.

We have,' replied Mrs. Cowlamb ; l but
she'll go an' clean a grate, and then ha 7 no
more sense than to stick her fingers on a door,
if I nobbut washed it five minutes afore. If
Miss Grinstead has such a creature I'd know
how she gits on.'

1 Miss Grinstead — she seems to do nowt ;
she went so much as retch me my glass unless
I ask her. But I shall be out of her. I
shall say to her — "Xow, then, pack," as soon
as ever I can do without her. The owl thing
thowt she was going to take me to church,
he! he! he!'

1 Heigh, Mr. Long, you will have your

joke,' said Farmer Cowlamb, taking his chair.
He had been over the farm since he got home.
Well, I may as well have a pipe o' dacca.'

I Yon needn't git no pipes now,' declared
Mrs. Cowlamb, tartly ; ' tea '11 be ready in a
minute or two. It is all set out, an' the kettle
sines.'

I thought you was busy,' said Mr. Long,
facetious and complimentary ; i but women
alius are.'

" Heigh, I'm busy," said the owt woman ;
the owt woman was busy, I reckon, when she
was burning fir-busks under the kettle to
make it boil.' Cowlamb laughed at his own
joke.

Mr. Long won't ct into the room. He
wool sit here, and Iphis was in such a way.
It's such a hole-and-corner place to sit in,
this.'

I I been comfortable, and that's anew,' said
Mr. Long ; ' I ain't so much heat in me as I
used to lev.'

An' I lit such a beautiful fire.'

"Well, but Mr. Long was right,' said
Cowlamb, growing weary of bis wife's perpetual
discontent. ' How long is it since that
room bed a fire in it ? ' demanded be, severely.

Why, you know, when Ipbis was brought
home we'd fires in it every day.'

1 How long is that since — months ? '

Nay-now,

I say, d it, no squabbling

appealed Mr. Long. ' When I git married I
sell make a bargain to have no falling out.
We sell give in, one one week, t'other next.'

He looked towards Iphis graciously, but
it was wasted condescension. Iphis walked
about, in and out, busying herself about
household matters, but without interest or
much energy. She never laughed at old
Long's sallies, nor yet at her father's. She
could scarcely comprehend how her father
could be cheerful. He had in a way been to
see Sam's chattels disposed of. She would
have thought that would have opened out all
the old sorrow and the grief. But it came to

her afterwards that her father's cheerfulness
was a force-put. He wished her to marry, and
to marry well. He had succeeded in reconciling
his conscience with his worldliness. All
heart slain feeling must be deferred sine die.
Mr. Long continued amusing himself with his
fund of wicked witticisms, interlarding his
loquacity with oaths now and then, which he
sought to be shrived of in the same breath.
His relative recurred to him many times, and
he appealed to Cowlamb if that was not sufficient
excuse for a man forgetting himself.
Once or twice he displayed a tendency to stray
into stories which made Cowlamb uneasy., and
caused Mrs. Cowlamb to glance furtively ax
Iphis. But Iphis seemed to hear without
comprehending. It was the phantasmagoria
of an evil dream. Only, once or twice Iphis
going behind the old man, was recalled to
herself. She set her teeth ; one tap from a
knuckle-duster on the shiny, bald pate would
settle the wicked old rascal for ever.

After tea — Mrs. Cowlamb would have tea

in the best room — Mr. Long dragged his chair
near the black marble chimney piece, and looked
uneasily around. His fidgeting was quickly
interpreted. A glass of gin on the shelf restored
his mental equilibrium. There he sat,
silent at last, basking before the fire, his
eyes riveted upon the glowing coals. To
Iphis there was something demoniacal in
Mr. Long's abstractions. Farmer Cowlamb
would not disturb him — no doubt he was
thankful for the break. "While his wife and
Damns, the maid, cleared the table the farmer
occupied himself with filling his pipe. Cow-lamb
was no great smoker, but this night the
tobacco was balm to him. The puffs of white
smoke curled and floated upwards, suggesting
to him a successful issue.

Iphis, rising to assist her mother, thus
hoping to gain a short respite, was intercepted
with a look from her father. But she sat as
far away from her l Robin ' as she could get,
and as much in the shadow. Where was
young Jamie? But Iphis had no knowledge

of ' Auld Robin Gray,' and her Jamie was
almost within call. She heard, though too
well, her father's voice.

Damaris can help. I don't pay anybody
to sit wi' their hands across — two stomachs to
eat an' one for work.' It was all in an undertone,
and Mr. Long: continued his basilisk
glance on the glowing coals.

Mrs. Cowlamb, not an adept yet in tact,
rose violently in opposition.

She shan't touch my china. There's one
cup cracked. If she didn't do it, t'other afore
her did.'

Damaris was regarded with much severity
afterwards by her mistress. It was unction
to Mrs. Cowlamb to rest assured that nothing
had gone wrong because she had done it herself.
But Mrs. Cowlamb' s voice always lost
its acerbity in the no-man's land, the passage
between the best kitchen and the best room.

At last Mr. Long roused himself and spoke.
There was scarcely any end to him when he
did begin ; but although Iphis knew well

enough that his language related to his possessions,
it was nearly all Greek to her. Here
and there she caught allusion to money out at
use, instances where he had foreclosed mortgages,
interest he had in certain farming ventures,
banks, companies ; and he expressed
himself determined that his journey to Have-luck
should furnish him with a balance-sheet.
He would, for his own satisfaction, have a
near approximation of his wealth. The old
man, prolix in his confidences, seemed especially
anxious to make a clean breast of his
affairs to Cowlamb, and the warmer he got
the lower his glass sank, to be replenished
over and over again. Iphis knew that his
talk was directed to her too. The old man
wished her to comprehend the situation, the
advantages she would have, the comfort there
would be in having a husband who had a house
well garnished to begin with, and money to give
her to throw broadcast. He implied as much.
This was better than marrying a beginner,
who, if everything did not go smooth, would

turn upon her with sour words and ' clunch •
looks. Iphis at one time would have been
glamoured, for she had no little of her
parents' worldliness, but she had heard such
frightful stories of the old man — out of his
own mouth came the incident of the servant
girl. But for all this she would have
thought less of his disclosures anent some
rather sharp practices of his upon needy folk.
Now, she regarded him in the worst light.
his mouth closing after each reminiscence of
his adroitness with the relentlessness of a
rat-trap. She knew what must come shortly.
Mr. Long would wish for her answer. He
had come for that. She would have her
father there, too, to overawe her, threaten her
with his displeasure, revive the story of his
poor mother's charing days, or strive to make
her miserable in some other way. What
could she do ? Ephraim was in bonds yet,
although of age. For a moment her heart
jumped — Mr. Gerlimore. The good old parson
had told her that she was to look to him

if she were ever in trouble. But, then, how
was she to seek his aid ? She might write
to him — but, then, the old man must think
that under a parent's roof she could need no
help or succour. She felt that she could not
arraign her own father. Then she recollected
the way of escape suggested by Mr. Gerli-
more. Well, she might do worse than that ;
he was a gentleman, his offer of marriage had
come in so different a strain to what she
might expect from this old heathen. Mr.
Gerlimore was not innocent of oaths, but
there was not in them such a horrible tincture
of profanity ; there were queer tales
about him too, but then every one laughed,
while one's flesh crept when Mr. Long's past
was raked up. She sat now completely
oblivious of what was passing or what was
being said. A new thought was reviving
hope. If Ephraim and she ran away together
would Mr. Gerlimore marry them ! "Would
he dare do it ? Mr. Gerlimore had made hera
promise, and she believed that the old

parson had the courage to adhere to his word,
in the face of all authority, if he saw that he
was defeating an injustice and a parent's
hardihood.

Iphis was in complete ignorance of the
formalities of the Marriage Act. She had a
hazy notion that people could not marry
without some preliminaries. She knew that
there were asking in church — essentially a
slow process. She had a faint idea that there
was a quicker way involving considerable
outlay ; but of the steps one or other would
have to take she had no more notion than the
man in the moon. She was in a fright at three
weeks, and her name and Ephraim's proclaimed
to the world. Wherever she got her father
would be sure to find her ; that was one way
of informing him, some unexpected eavesdropper
would carry the news to him.
Wherever you go there you find some one
sure to know something about you. He
would fetch her and drag her back home ;
and having everything ready, Mr. Long, too,

at hand, marry her to his own liking. And
so near to be trapped, was worse than consenting
now and marrying the old man with
her eyes wide open.

Iphis,' she heard her father say, ' did ye
hear what Mr. Long said ? '

Xo — o,' returned Iphis, faintly.

Speak up, lass,' said her father, encouragingly.
' I'm sure no man could speak no
fairer.'

Why, you tell her, Cowlamb,' spluttered
Mr. Long, bashfully.

Well, I hadn't ashamed to repeat what'
been said — Iphis, Mr. Long thinks he's giving
over owt to ha' this wedding' put off —
d'ye hear me — we can't help poor Sam being-took
so lately,' said the farmer, with a pang,
and looking somewhat less exhilarated ; ' and
he thinks a month or three weeks even. Bud
if ta likes it can be done quicker. He'll ha'
the house titivated up a bit, an' he'll make
his will, an' do things handsome for thee. If
ye nobbut understand all these things what

VOL. III. d

Long's been telling me why you'd think you
was well off an' no mistake. I'd no idee
Mr. Long was so warm, thoff I alius hed an
idee he was warm — wish. Now, my lass, it's
nobbut the day ; you nun name the day an*
let's lev it forrard.'

I don't know what day ' said Iphis,

miserably.

i We — a!' ejaculated her father, a mixture
of contempt, impatience, and pleasure in
the tone. ' What folks you women are ! Ah,
well, Long, I knew you were all right. Iphis
has plenty o' sense or '

6 She wouldn't be thy '

Heigh ! heigh ! heigh ! ' interrupted the
farmer, afraid of old Long's inconsiderate
tongue. ' Bud we'll battle the day i' th' morning.
Draw thy chair up, Iphis.

I'm not cold,' said she, excusing herself.


1 wish I could say the same muttered
Mr. Long, with an implied shiver.

1 Chuck some more coals on,' said Cow-lamb,

rather royally. ; Heigh, Mr. Long,
your glass is empty; you'll have a drop
more gin ? We nun ha' the lamp lit,
missis.'

Not a drop, thanked,' said Mr. Long,
with a deprecatory motion of his hand.
1 Maybe I will just afore I go to bed, but I'll
wind a bit. That there nephy of a parson,

I'll fit him out, d him. He thought

he'd do fine things when he'd got me in the
bury hole. I'll show him a thing or two —
and that owt witch, blast her, she thought
she was going to collyfogle me into taking
her to church, weakened owt '

Chut, chut, Mr. Long ! '

Oh, but I'm telling you, Cowlamb. But
I sell be out on her, damme. When I get
back I sell gie her marching orders. I know
the owt devil '11 whimper ' — some satisfaction
in Mr. Long's voice — ' but she'll ha' to get
over it ; she'll not get over me as long as
she doesn't prison me or do owt wi' me.
Lord, I'm gittin' an owt man, Cowlamb, and

D 2

there's no telling what the owl termagant
would do. I think, Cowlamb, I shall say
nowt to her till the day I'm wed, eh ? ' Mr.
Long rubbed his hands gleefully, his second
thought was best ; he sat staring with owlish
wisdom across at Cowlamb, seeking approval.
A moment before he was whimpering with
senile fear.

Better say nowt,' advised Cowlamb with
a sagacious curl of his lower lip ; ' women
are Seattle creatures. It ud be blazed about
all over the country side.'

'Blast 'em ! ' ejaculated Mr. Long, fervently.
His eyes now glared upon Iphis, she
thought lividly. Then they sparkled with
an impurity that brought the colour to Iphis 's
face and neck. It was as if she had been
scorched. Ingenuous as she was, she
felt the colour of the old man's thoughts.
Even some of this feeling crept over Cow-lamb,
for he moved uneasily in his chair, and
after a moment's space turned to Iphis.

Iphis, thou can go and ask thy mother

to bring a bit o' supper in, I begin to feel
edgish. Mr. Long maybe can do wi' a bit.
Damaris '11 be gone to bed by this ; just see
about it. I begin to feel as if it was time to
go up the wooden hill, height ! ' yawned he
' what do you say, Mr. Long ? What time
do you go to bed at your house ? '

Eight i' winter, nine i' summer, that's
my time. I used to be up first man,
but, damme, these last few years I've seemed
to be fonder o' bed in a morning; ; but what's
the good o' me getting up ? I can't git after
folks as I used to could. And that lad o'
mine and that lass legs i' bed till six or seven
o'clock, and I used to rave 'em up at four.
Iphis nun towel 'em, though, when she gits
there. Lord, Cowlamb, 't is high time somebody
was at my place. AVhat d'ye think that
lad o' mine did t' other week ? '

Xay, now, one can't guess,' returned
Cowlamb.

Why, we was out o' coal, so I sent him
to Graythornes for a barrow-load. About a

hundredweight I said would do. It was
nobbut a couple o' miles to Graythornes, and
I started him as soon as he'd hed his breakfast,
and the devil didn't git back till we'd all
got wer dinners. I would ha' leathered him
if I could ha' gotten at him, but chuckled
Mr. Long, ' I thowt I'd pay him off another
way. I says to him, " Now, young helter-face,
ya sell take that barrow and fetch me
another hundredweight fra Haveluck."

1 Haveluck ? ' ejaculated Cowlamb ; ' why,
it's twelve miles.'

1 'Tis, every yard on't,' assented Mr. Long,
gleefully. ' Lord, didn't he look sour ; and
begun chapping — " Ya young devil," says I,
I'll larn ye to be hase a day going two miles
for a hundred o' coals." But, Cowlamb, be
dal'd if he wasn't modern a match for me.'
Nay,' temporised Cowlamb.
Gad, he was though. I never seed no
more on him that night ; and that owt bitch
of a Miss Grinstead tried to make me uneasy.
Hang it, I couldn't sleep. I didn't know

what had cone to him. Lord, Cowlamb, I
felt pleased when I see him and his barrow,
his big feet, gammy legs, helter face, tow
head, and all looking as solid. Hang it, Cow-lamb,
I tried to be mad, and hit at him wi'
my stick when he come near. I got my hat
and stood at the door to receive the young
lord. I shouted to him, " Why didn't ya come
home last meet, you young devil ? " and says
he, whimpering, " It was dark." "Dark!"
says I. " I'd dark ye if I could nobbut retch
ye. Ha' ye had owt to eat ? " " Yes, sir,"
says he. " Why," says I, " where did ye git
it ? " "I put up at the Saracen," says he ;
ya alius put up there." Well, Cowlamb,
what could I say to such a limb ? I didn't
know what to say ; it clean took my wind
away. Here I'd seven-and-sixpence to pay
for him ; he'd had his tea and supper, his bed
and breakfast, and pints o' beer. Oh, lor' !
oh, lor!'

Cowlamb was laughing silently with tears

in his eyes, Mr. Long musing, closing* his
eyes with fierce deliberation.

A deep young civil that Mr. Bowser,
humph. I'll fix. him though. Last summer
he used to hide hissed i' th' standing
corn, and there I used to be hollo-king nrysen
hoarse. He's a scoundrel, and he's tell the
lass I'm the contraries t old beast he's ever
lived wi'. What's to be done wi' such like
jokers, Cowlamb, eh ? '

You'll part wi' him at May ? '

1 1 shall, Cowlamb, you may depend on
that. I could put up wi' him if he wasn't
bone idle, but all on 'em git idle, every
man jack, if they comes willing. My owt
pony's got sunburnt and greasy heels,
and my harness and gig isn't fit to be
seen. But things '11 be different, eh, Cow-lamb
? '

• Heigh, heigh, Iphis '11 waken 'em up,'
returned Cowlamb, encouragingly.

The lamp on the chimney-piece, placed
there until the table was set, cast a strong

light l on ceiling and hearth-rug, creating
dense shadow elsewhere ; but Mr. Long had
the full benefit of the illumination.

1 Now, sit to Mr. Long,' invited Cowlamb,
removing the lamp, and placing it in the
centre of the table.

The aspect of the room looked less weird
again. Cowlamb had the impression that
Iphis was affected by such trifles as this.

Well, I think I will,' returned Mr. Long,
though 1 think, Cowlamb, you're alius in
for feeding one.'

Will you have ale ? ' asked Cowlamb,
sentimentally.

1 No ; I never drink no beer. I aunt
drunk any o' twenty year. Went Iphis sit
down ? ' inquired Mr. Long, petulantly.

She's helping her mother. You see,
Mr. Long, the gell's gone to bed.'

Time we were all there,' retorted Mr.
Long, snappishly. ' I'll wait while they
come, then,' said he, stubbornly ; ' I hate
eating by mysen '

Here, Iphis and missis — come ! ' shouted
Cowlamb, touchingly.

Iphis was congratulating herself on escaping
part of her ordeal. What a night it had
been for her ! In the kitchen she could not
talk to relieve herself. She felt that she had
no one to confide in — what was her mother,
so terribly soulless — a creature of wax before
her husband, as keen, too, of her halfpenny, as
the saying is. Indeed her husband had sometimes
occasion for complaint, his wife grew
almost too parsimonious for him. Iphis scrutinised
her mother's face ; if she had seen the
faintest spark of sympathy there Iphis would
have fallen upon her bosom. But in it there
was no sign that Mrs. Cowlamb was shocked
at the compact, or deemed Mr. Long's intentions
outrageous. If Iphis had spoken to her
mother then, what reply would she have got?
That worthy woman would have looked
craftily into her daughter's eyes, and advised
her to yield on the strength of the
old man not lasting many years. But

that was not the advice or sympathy Iphis
wanted.

Iphis was most assiduous at table, compelled
by the unwavering eyes of her father.
Yet, when released, the strange hunted lookin
her face did not escape her elderly wooer.
The old man was not without sense, and
there was much of the old Satan left in him
yet. He knew that he was being ' totted upas
he put it. Future benefit placed against
present disadvantages. He could scarcely prevent
himself resenting the youthful look of her
clear, grey young eyes.

The old man was cleanly and well ordered.
As a transparent he might have been
idolised. He had been the pink of cleanliness
and buckram in his day, and his love of
water and clean linen was yet with him a
first consideration. He was not an old man
sinking" into a dotage that was an infliction
upon every one. His faculties were likely
to be clear to the last, and his personal
care of himself as pronounced. Mr. Long's

great mistake was his bachelorhood. Left
master of himself when a mere boy, it was his
boast that no one had ever controlled him.
In his early youth his life had been far from
stainless. His reputation increased with manhood,
an epoch almost Mephistopheles succeeding,
according to gossip. Now in his old
age he loved to chuckle over his rascalities.
Many an hour he sat, pleased with himself,
eyeing the female portion of his household
with a stare so diabolically owlish and malignant
that it never failed to disconcert them.
It was the set stare of a cat anticipating, sure
of its prey. Then he would chuckle to himself,
swear and curse his gout and his infirmities.
Simple-hearted villagers believed that
his life was prolonged to give him opportunity
for repentance. Though they might
deplore his outrageous behaviour to them, his
blasphemous language, his tyrannical usage
of them, they still regarded him as a man
who would be missed when he was gone.
Mr. Long was no churl ; he was free with his

ale barrel, his bread and cheese, his dinners
and suppers, and never forgetful at Christmas.
Every woman had her half-crown,
every man his lump of beef, according to the
size of his family. His father had clone it
before him, and Mr. Long held to old custom
tenaciously. One Christmas, the weather
being open, and the old man taking, as it
were, a new lease of life, managed to hobble
out of his house into the high road. He
noticed the road needed some repair before
his gate. Hobbling further down the road,
he came to a round-backed, decrepit labourer
scraping mud.

c Now, Billy,' said Mr. Long, ' ye nun
leave that squad and go and mend that bit o'
road afore my gate.'

I doesn't do it, squire. The overseer
tell me to go no murder than the beck. It's
out o' the parish.'

Mr. Long was well aware that the old
man was speaking truly, but it was like a
spark to a powder magazine.

6 You dare to tell me .you won't, you old
pauper ! ' shouted Mr. Long, vehemently, raising
his stick, which he suddenly recollected
he needed for support.

I doesn't ; I'm sorry, I am, but I doesn't
do it.'

Doesn't ! ' sneered the village tyrant ;

we'll see, we'll see, you old rascal.'

A twinge of gout further embittered Mr.
Long. Excited, he began to be in some
trepidation about reaching his house again.
His pride and rage were too great to allow
him to request his almost equally decrepit
adversary to assist him. Huge beads of
sweat stood on his face, more with fear
than continuance or increase of pain.
He succeeded in reaching his house, and
dropped into his chair with a groan. He
was still enraged, and his limbs trembling
with excitement.

1 Is Nanny Reason among 'em, Miss
Grinstead?'

Yes, sir replied Miss Grinstead, busily

engaged folding half-crowns in half sheets of
note-paper.

1 1 shan't give her one.'

Miss Grinstead still continued folding.

You may tell her I shan't give her one
repeated Mr. Long as Miss Grinstead started
off on her commission.

Old Long waited impatiently his housekeeper's
return.

Now, what did she say? ' asked he, expectantly
; ' was she cut up ? '

1 No, Mr. Long.'

She wasn't ? ' exclaimed he, astonished at
such fortitude. ' What did she say? '

Why, Mr. Long, she said, " God bless
his honour, I must and will pray for him? " '

1 Oh, d her, here take her her half-crown.
I won't be prayed for, tell her.' In
his passion and discomfiture he hobbled round
the kitchen, swearing at old Nanny, at her
husband, the cause of offence, and Miss Grinstead
for all being in such a diabolical plot.

Miss Grinstead set off hastily before Mr.

Long could again change his mind. She left
him fretting and fuming. When she returned
she dare not tell him that old Nanny Reason,
overjoyed, had further declared her readiness
now to pray for him three times a day.

Internally Iphis felt too hot and excited
to. eat. What she swallowed was tasteless to
her. She felt herself fast as if in a cage.
How could she free herself? She might runaway,
certainly. Be determined to stay away.
Take service. And what then? — Her father
might relent, seek her out, and let her have
her own sweet will.

1 Never ' — a voice whispered within her.
He would be more likely to declare that as
she made her bed so must she lie on it. He
would never consent to Ephraim Sparrow.
Oh, she knew her father's inflexibility. He
would resent her defection until his dying
day. He might be taken off before the moment
of relenting came to him, and she would
live to the end of her days in poverty, and go
out charing, as her grandmother had done.

These were Iphis's thoughts, recurring
again and again. It was indeed nonsense.
Her father would fume, declare himself obdurate
; but whatever attitude he might show
to the man, his own child would never be
cast off. But Iphis was the same as other
young people, possessed with a marvellous
disposition to attribute the worst to ner
elders.

How thankful she was to see her father
piloting the old man up the staircase ! She
gave such a gasping sigh of relief, Mrs. Cow-lamb
looked up and asked her what was
wrong with her.

Nothing replied Iphis, in ill temper ;
I'm sleepy.'

Well, we nun ha' these things cleared
away, then we'll all go.'

Can't they stop till morning ? '

Morning? ' echoed Mrs. Cowlamb, in
horror ; ' bless us, what's come over ye ? I'm
just as sleepy as you are.'

The task was over at last, and wearily

VOL. III. E

Iphis ascended to her bedroom. But after
undressing and creeping into her bed she
found sleep coy in coming, notwithstanding
all her soft wooing. She counted sheep passing
through a gate, but her mind refused
such a trap. Through all her calculation she
heard her father's voice across the landing,
and she lost count and care when her father
got to snoring. She heard the old moon-faced
clock on the landing hour by hour, its
feeble bell and prolonged groaning. Once or
twice she dozed, but some horrible turn of
her brain restored her to consciousness. Her
day's thoughts recurred to her — her meeting
with Ephraim, his explanation, his proposition.
Yes, she would run away with Ephraim.
Then she became despondent again. Ephraim
might incur some frightful punishment if he
again absconded, and she believed that he
was very dense about taking precautions. If
they ran away together they must not take
a long time considering. Mr. Long and her
father were determined to hurry matters on.

If she could but see Ephraim again. She
must see him ! If Mr. Long was determined
to be married in a fortnight, in a week, careless
of expense? People with money can do anything.
She would write to Ephraim, and let
him know the strait she was in. Oh ! if her
father only had to drive Mr. Long back again
to Snailhorn.

E 2

CHAPTER 31.

FORSAKEN.

Though the night had been a long and weary-one
to her, morning dawned at last. Iphis
heard her father's voice calling Damaris up,
and she rose and dressed. She found herself
down first, Damaris coming into the kitchen
after her, slow motioned and her eyes heavy.
A few minutes later her father came down,
and went off to the farmstead.

When Damaris has got her milking done,
we'll have her wash them bottles out,' said
Mrs. Cowlamb ; ' it's time that rhubarb wine
was out of the cask. We'll bottle it after
breakfast, eh?'

Iphis had not taken to the milking again
yet. She had been considered too much of
an invalid.

The hour glided on, and Damaris returned
with her pails. Iphis took them from her,
and in the dairy ' smiled ' the new milk. Afterwards
running her finger round yesterday's
puncheons, she skimmed off the rich yellow
cream with the deftness long practice had
given her. The old milk was then poured
into pails, and a boy from the farmyard was
in readiness to take it to the pigs.

Damaris, her sleeves rolled up, was now
rinsing her bottles in a wash-tub.

You needn't pull the damper out — we'll
keep the oven cool, then we can dry the
bottles, and start wi' the wine after breakfast,'
cried Mrs. Cowlamb to Iphis. ' Damaris may
bring them bottles off the gentry ; they have
been washed, but it' 11 sweeten 'em.'

Another hour passed, the breakfast table
was set, and breakfast was only deferred for
Mr. Long. Presently a commotion was heard
on the staircase. Cowlamb, who had been sitting
hungry and impatient, jumped up with
some alacrity to help the infirm old man in.

You should ha' collared out, Mr. Long. 7
Oh, bless ye, Cowlamb, I can git down
said Mr. Long, cheerily. ' If I'd nobbut a
wee nip o' gin I should be as fresh as a daisy.
To be suer, to be suer,' said Cowlamb,
grimly. He muttered sotto voce to his wife.
He did not wish Iphis to see too much of her
intended's peculiarities. ' Git him a drop ina
glass ; don't put over much water in ;
thrown man's deep. I think he's like a snipe
he lives on suction.'

Mr. Long had to warm his toes ; then he
could not tie his shoes. As soon as he had
shuffled his feet into them, he looked up inquiringly,
exclaiming —

Oh, the devil ! ' which meant some one
must attend to him, and Cowlamb laboriously
went down upon his knees.

Ya've a lass or a lad might ha ' done it.
I hadn't so hammock as I was a year or two
agone.'

Now, Mr. Long, sit to,' urged Cowlamb.
i I've a sharpish edge on me. I been up to

the farmstead ; I should ha' liked you to ha'
seen yon steers I'm turning out.'

Shall ye summer 'em ? '

4 No Haveluck.'

Not right sort o' swath land? '

Not like Snailhorn.'

Ya was wrong to leave Snailhorn, Cow-lamb.
I missed ye. Ya was a good labour.'

Suddenly there was a violent explosion.
The oven door burst open with a loud report.
There was a shower of steam, a discharge of
water, or some fluid. Excepting Mr. Long,
every one started from their seats.

Good God ! ' exclaimed Mr. Long, trembling
like an aspen leaf, compelled to sit
stationary, with the terrified feeling of a man
who cannot move out of danger though sure
of his own destruction.

4 What ha' ye got i' that oven? ' demanded
Cowlamb, wrathfully.

'Why, nowt but empty bottles,' gasped
Mrs. Cowlamb.

'Rubbish!' returned her unconvinced, unappeased

husband ; ' empty bottles wouldn't
blow the oven out.'

Why, now said Mrs. Cowlamb, with
the resignation of a long-suffering martyr, ' if
that silly gell — oh, deary me,' murmured she,
sinking into her chair despairingly, and wiping
her face with her apron, ' it '11 be a blessing
when Pag-rag l day comes. We've done well
to keep out o' worse.'

Well,' cried Cowlamb, pointedly sarcastic,
1 no rambling off into owt else.'

Iphis heard me tell her as plain as I
could speak to put them empty bottles off the
gentry into the oven. She's been an' got
some dead beer I put in a bottle, an' put it in
among 'em, stupid creature'. She might ha'
seen the cork.'

1 You're a strange, careless woman,'
shouted her husband, more wroth now after
the explanation, ' wi' all your cleverness.'

The farmer's temper frightened Mr. Long,
because of its vehemence.

1 Pack-rag — leaving day, May 14th.

D it, Cowlamb, there's a good breakfast
afore ye '

Daroaris ! Damaris ! ' squeaked Mrs.
Cowlamb. But Damaris did not answer.

1 Here sit ye down,' said her husband,
ungraciously, ' we'll ha' wer breakfast over
afore we've any more swilling and s walling.'

'Bud just look at the fender!' remonstrated
his wife, miserably.

1 I'll get up and make that right,' said
Iphis.

Heioli, heio'h.' said Mr. Long encouragingly,
' mop it up, it's nobbut three ha'porth
o' beer after all. Law, there was a fine
crack.'

And still Mr. Long eyed them suspiciously.
He was not quite sure it was not a
trick to upset his serenity. Iphis? Well,
she was a young lass, she had a mischievous
eye. He liked her all the better for a spice
of mischief. As for the old woman, she had
never been a favourite of his. Old Mr. Long's
recollection went years back. He remembered

her Farmer Cowlamb's servant. He had
cracked several shady jokes at the time at
Farmer Cowlamb's expense. The truth to be
told, Mr. Long still remembered her as the
servant.

Now he muttered to himself —

4 Cowlamb never dreamed she'd turn out
such a nagging old shrew.'

Mrs. Cowlamb had tried her best to ingratiate
herself with the old man, but he set
his back up against her. He would never
make any talk to her. If she spoke to him,
he answered her certainly, but his manner
was so icy, she felt herself frozen.

He now began to fidget. He had Have-luck
on his mind, and to Haveluck he must
go.

1 can git by train from here, can't ee ? '

Oh, heigh,' returned Cowlamb, at the
first moment somewhat at sea.

1 nun go to-day. It's a long drive fra
here. I've been thinking I'll go by train,
Cowlamb. I can have a fly home.'

Well, just as you like. I'll drive you



j\

I've a fancy to go my way,' said Mr.
Long, stubbornly.

I'll go wi' ye. I want to see what prices
young fat beasts are making. I want to do a
bit o' business.'

'I shall be glad o' your company, Cow-lamb.'


Iphis can go down to the station with
us, an' bring the mare back.'

As the train was due at nine o'clock, there
was some bustle. Iphis harnessed the mare,
her father came out and helped her with the
trap ; then Mr. Long appeared, enveloped
in wraps, having some resemblance to a
mummy.

Iphis,' said her father, seriously, ' Mr.
Long says it's to come off three weeks next
Thursday. That day's as good as another

for owt I see Why don't ye speak?'

demanded he sharply, ' instead o' gizzenin'
like that.'

One day's as good as another to me,' said
she, without any show of interest.

Mr. Long, by his face, was certainly in a
state of tumultuous excitement.

'That'll do, lovey. Don't bother her,
Cowlamb.'

Iphis's cheek was blanched ; her heart
went thump, thump ; her bosom heaved with
the misery of despair.

Now then, get a bonnet or a hat on ; we
nun be off.' Her father was curt.

Iphis got in behind, and while they were
progressing towards Moortown she had time
to collect her thoughts. She could get down
to Willowby and see Ephraim, but then she
reasoned the blacksmith would be sure to
make it his business to come down to the
farm and acquaint her father. If she sent a
messenger, Ephraim would not be allowed to
absent himself in working hours. She could
write to Ephraim and explain matters, then
her lover would not think the worst of her.

Good-bye,' said Mr. Long ; and fervently?

1 God bless ye, lovey ; I shall mak' ye right
to-day. Eh, Cowlanib? I mean it to-day.'

c Good-bye, Mr. Long,' replied she in her
thinnest voice, her father's eye compelling
her to speak. i Shall you be home to-night,
father?'

To be suer I shall. Send the lad down
to meet the four train.'

Iphis was exultant now. She could write
her letter, and post it with a delicious sense
of freedom and certainty that there would be
no miscarriage. She pushed the mare along,
and stopped in front of a small shop where she
had bought her crochet-cotton and coloured
wool. Janeyy Waterman had had her share of
trouble in this world. In her youth she had
been exquisitely pretty, and as exquisitely
nice in choosing a lover ; so nice that she
lived on to middle age before she was won.
Then followed her misfortunes. She married
a youth ; he squandered her little patrimony,
and then ran away with his cousin, whom
he had persuaded his indulgent better-half to

take in to learn the business. Janeyy might
have liquidated in these times, but she was
sold up.' Year by year her little shop became
less and less frequented, she supplemented
her stock with sweet stuffs and homemade
ginger beer. But she had fallen on
hard times. However, she still continued to
take great interest in young folks, had always
for them an endearing word in every sense,
her face still retaining its youthful freshness,
lending effect to such petting. Her face was
like a ripe apple, and her hair was brown and
silky. Janeyy had returned to her maiden
name, her only bitterness against the rascally
young husband who had used her so ill. If
any one called her ' Mrs,' she would request
them to address her ' Miss,' 'just to oblige
me, dearie.'

Iphis gave a willing urchin a penny to
hold her horse. She entered the little shop
and asked Janeyy if she could furnish her
with a sheet of note-paper, an envelope, and
a postage-stamp. She wrote her letter, and

immersed Janeyy so handsomely, the old lady
would not be satisfied unless Iphis took a few
sweet stuffs or gingerbread.

If thou can't eat 'em, joy, thou knows
some little folks that can.'

There was such a persuasive ring in
Janeyy Waterman's voice that Iphis was fain
to accept, though much against her will.

And the letter she had written. It was
nothing very ornate. It was not even grotesque.
Not very choice in composition either.
It is certain farmer Cowlamb's boarding-school
money had a most insufficient return.

Dear Ephraim,' she wrote, ' I write these
few lines, Hoping you are well as this leaves
me at Present. Mr. Long has gone away to
Haveluck. Father went with him. I am to
be married to Mr. Long three weeks next
Thursday. Dear Ephraim, I can't help it,
or else I would. Father will have it so. I
write these few lines so that you mayest think
I am playing you a dirty trick. And you
mustn't see me any more, for I couldn't bear

it, and I do hate Mr. Long, so no more at
present from, yours affectionately, Iphis Cow-lamb.'


After it was posted she felt more satisfied
with herself, but a hundred times sadder.
Something in the self-imposed task had kept
her up ; now it was accomplished, she had
only her dreary thoughts of herself left.

How would Ephraim receive it ? She had
told him that he must not see her again, but
that was but a feeler. Would he endeavour
to help her ? But how could he help her ?
It was a long day for her, her mother unusually
taciturn, having had her grievance
out with Damaris during Iphis 's absence.
The mother had not an ounce of sympathy
in her narrow, sordid soul to draw the poor
girl out into some confession of her needs.
The daily routine of housework was all that
occupied Mrs. Cowlamb's mind, and the
showing up of the delinquencies, awkwardness,
and thoughtlessness of her servant girl.

Four o'clock came at last. The mare had

been despatched. The noise of the railway
train could be heard at the house. From her
bed room Iphis could see the white smoke
for some miles, thrown out against dark fir
plantations. She could see the slate roof of
the railway-station, shining in the declining
afternoon sun. A beautiful prospect it was.
Moortown, a red town, picturesque, trees
among the houses, trees encircling it; behind
it wooded hills and variegated fields, white
roads, and grey stone churches.

1 It's in good time said Mrs. Cowlamb,
looking at the clock, ' Job wouldn't give
hissed over much time. Better an hour too
soon than a minute too late when you've
owt to do wi' trains. Your father '11 be
fine an' mad if Job hasn't got up the station
hill.'

In about a quarter of an hour the farmer
strode into his house, divesting himself of his
light drab overcoat. Although Cowlamb
was bitter in his cynicism, sneering at
gentleman farmers, he affected this mark of

VOL. III. F

the correct thing in a well-to-do farmer's
apparel. 'I want my tea said he, brusquely.
< Where's Iphis ? '

I don't know,' returned Mrs. Cowlamb,
ungraciously ; 'I've harding had a word fra
her all day. She's moping about the house
somewhere. Iphis ! '

Cowlamb muttered something. He could
scarcely have considered that he fashioned a
word. It was a sound a little hi advance of a
sigh, but it expressed his feeling of disappointment
— unrequited zeal.

After he had eaten and drank, he recovered
something of his equanimity. Iphis
had placed herself at the table.

1 Did you leave Haveluck afore the owt
gentleman ? ' inquired Mrs. Cowlamb, feeling
it necessary to say something.

No, I just send seed him off, an' then
I'd nobbut just time to git to the station an'
my train was in. I meant getting a bit o'
fish. It was cheap. There was a lot o'
smacks in. ' Why th' owt man stands father

to two or three, I'd no idee. I think he's
into every thing that pays money. It's a way
o' making money quick an' all. Times isn't
what they was wi' farmers. I've half a mind
to go in a bit mysen. Not over vanish at
first.'

I wish you had got a bit o' fish,' said
Mrs. Cowlamb, with miserable regret. Ten
to one if her husband had, her grief
would have been more poignant. ' Stein'
and frizzled' ' in the afternoon was in her
black calendar ; she had a pious horror of
her fire-bars being contaminated with
grease.

Iphis,' said her father, attempting jocularity,
' now thou nun pick up thy crumbs.
Law, if thou nobbut knew all — why Mr.
Long's been as good as his word. This very
day he went to his lawyer an's hed his will
drawn up. He's tell me every thing he's hed
put in it, and thy name's in it ; it's nobbut
his name wants putting to it, signed, sealed
and delivered in the presence of me and of

F 2

each other, an' all that rigmarole, thee.
Harkee, Iphis, you'll lev everything, barring
a few pounds that's a fleabite to what the owt
man's worth. The owt fellow's right, that
relation of his has been a deed fool, as the
owt man puts it.'

Farmer Cowlamb, even in his exhilaration,
could not bring himself to tongue one of his
late guest's emphatic words.

A year or two's time,' continued he, —
1 why our been '11 be independent on us all,
be a real lady an' look clown o' thou an' me,
owt woman.'

Maybe she does now,' whined Mrs.
Cowlamb, bitterly.

I don't know about thou,' retorted her
husband, tartly, 'bud I think she thinks a
bit of her owt father.'

1 She owt to do,' said Mrs. Cowlamb,
determined to be contrary.

Ya know nowt about it,' said Cowlamb,
impatience and pettishness expressed by his
nose. He pushed his chair away from the

table. ' Ha' they been at th' fellows ? I

nun go an' see what they've done.'

A day passed, and Cowlamb was so far
merciful as not to bring Mr. Long forward.
But the following morning the blacksmith
appeared at the farm with a most
mysterious look on his truculent face.
Damaris came into the kitchen.

1 Maister, you're wanted.'

Who is it ? ' asked Cowlamb, averse to
getting up. He was at his breakfast.

Blacksmith,' responded Damaris, laconically.
,

Iphis opened wide her eyes, then a horrible
fear took possession of her. Had the
abominable sycophant intercepted her letter,
and thought by bringing it to her father he
was currying favour.

1 Tell him to come in,' said the farmer,
his attention returning to the pig ' chap ' he
was carving".

The blacksmith stood in the doorway,
the scent of the smithy preceding him. He

appeared constrained and puzzled, and yet
most oily and obsequious.

Now then, blacksmith ? ' said Cowlamb.

I just come down .' Then the blacksmith
caught sight of the women, and receded
a step. ' Another time ud do, Mester
Cowlamb. 'I'll be about when you done
your break 'last.'

Nay, I don't want to hinder thee from
thy work. What is it ? Owt that contains
me V

I harding knows. It contains me. I'd
rather lev a word wi' you by course, ain'
your pardon, sir.'

Farmer Cowlamb was perhaps a little
vexed. Still, he would forego the pleasures
of the table for business.

Iphis's terror was culminating. When
her father rose, her face blanched, and
although she struggled hard to retain her
composure her heart went thump, throb — she
could hear it.

1 Now then, blacksmith ! ' said Cowlanib,
closing the door after him.

i Why, I wanted your advice, Mester
Cowlamb,' said the blacksmith, just audibly.
1 Ephraim's ruined away.'

Aegean! ' ejaculated the farmer, surprised.
But he could scarcely contain his satisfaction.

Aegean ! ' echoed the blacksmith. 1 1
wanted to know if — if you think it's worth
while me fetching him back ? '

What has that to do wi' me ? ' blustered
Cowlamb. His satisfaction was great, but he
did not wish this fellow to see it.

Why, why, Mester Cowlamb,' stammered
the blacksmith, ' you seemed put out afore,
when I courted him, an' got him back.'

4 Why, now,' returned the farmer, somewhat
confusedly, ' I nobbut thowt you a fool
for your pains, throwing good money ester
sac l — warm' money among lawyers, an' losing
your own time — that was all.'

< Heicrh— bud I had him i' black an'
white.'

How long lied the creature to stop wi'
ye?' '

1 He'd all his time to make up — I got the
money they laid on to him — nobbut a week
or two.'

Well, if I was thou, blacksmith,' said
Cowlamb, carelessly, i I'd ware no more
money on him. You'll not miss him
much ; happen he'd do thee no good if t'
go" him back.'

The blacksmith was so far taken in with
the farmer's bluster, and then with his more
equable humour, that he thought Cowlamb's
counsel good. He was more in love with it
when the farmer said —

You can drink a pint o' ale, blacksmith?'


Xay — ay — thanked,' replied the blacksmith,
as slowly as he could. But his
refusal was taken in the right vein.

1 Damaris, draw blacksmith a pint o'
beer.'

The blacksmith wiped his mouth in anticipation.

Iphis could hear him in the scullery
drinking ; then he seemed at a loss what to do
with the can. He stole into the kitchen on
tip toe, looking about him confusedly.

Set it on the mangle, blacksmith,' said
Cowlamb, graciously.

'Ah — ah! Thanked sir ; good morning.'

What did he want? ' asked Mrs. Cow-lamb,
inquisitively.

'Nowt — he's on some fool's errand.'

That was sufficient for Mrs. Colambre
rarely persisted in questioning her liege
lord.

Iphis could see that her father was upheld
with some secret satisfaction. He would
scarcely be so calm and collected if her fears
had not proved groundless.

As Iphis rose to go to her chamber work
Cowlamb whispered the intelligence to his
wife, chuckling .over it. Iphis did not hear
what was said, but she knew something was
said. Before the morning was over Iphis
asked her mother point-blank. Mrs. Cow-lamb

was somewhat cowed at Iphis's manner.
She told her.

It was the last straw. Iphis felt indescribably
forsaken. But she felt that she
could get through her marriage better with
Ephraim away. If she could only convey to
him the intelligence that he need not now fear
pursuit.

CHAPTER 32.

FOOTPRINTS.

We upon whom the years do not press so
very heavily feel ourselves advancing when
we see the baby girls in long frocks, and the
baby boys sucking their meerschaums.

Why, she's nobbut a been,' whimpered
Mrs. Towse ; l seems nobbut like yesterday
when she was born. Xo been o' mine should
lev such an owt heathen, not if he was as
rich as Crusoe.'

1 'Tis all in our natural,' said Towse,
philosophically.

He's a heart o' stone, that's what he les,'
declared Mrs. Towse.

'Nay, missis. Cowlamb ploughed my
fellows, an' led me all my muck,' defended

her more loyal husband. ' When one les to
pay for every thing, it rhymes up. I hadn't a
going to say nowt aegean him.'

Mrs. Towse shook her head, unconvinced.
What was the use of entering into any prolix
plaint ? Towse did not care for Ephraim's
love affair, nor think of Iphis's youth ; there
were no romantic susceptibilities about Towse ;
if there ever had been any, they had all
exuded the day he took his bride to a lonely
cottage in a lonely valley on a Wold farm.
The prosaic fact then lay before him that he
had to find her victuals and clothes, and a
shepherd had little time for day dreams.

Others besides Mrs. Towse deplored the
coming event, and expressed themselves much
more virulently. But what good could all
that do ? It had all oozed out — how, Farmer
Cowlamb could not tell ; but it was common
talk, and he was not over well pleased
thereat, for he had intended to keep things
as quiet as possible. Some of his acquaintances
met him at market. Their expressions

of surprise annoyed him. They did not
cavil, but they evidently commiserated Iphis.

I say, Cowlamb, do you think Long's
exactly the fellow for your girl ? '

If she's satisfied ' began Cowlamb,

with a sardonic, repelling curl of his under

up.

Oh, aye , only one likes to see the

lads pairing off wi' the lasses. She'll do well
enow. There's money. The owt gentleman
has a tidy nest egg, I'll be bound.'

It wanted but a few days now. Iphis's
dress was ordered of the most fashionable
milliner in Moortown, her wedding cakes of
the confectioner ; there were preparations now
commencing for some unexampled cookery, a
couple of dressmakers had been busy in the
house the whole of the week. Iphis, her
heart ever in any stir or commotion, had become
strangely interested in all that was
going on, but at times she was seized with a
dull frenzy, or with some pang of despair,
and she was ready to curse God and die.

The women working in the house were far
from mirthful, as was their wont. Iphis
sometimes caught a glance from one or other,
revealing the constructions they were placing
upon her character. No doubt they thought
her mercenary, maidenly, and Iphis was
curt with them, and kept them at a distance.
Her father saw only one side of her, and he
believed her perfectly reconciled. Had anyone
breathed a doubt of her he would have
laughed them to scorn. Did she look, act,
eat, like one lovelorn? Clearly she had common
sense — she was of the right metal.
Iphis thus found herself regarded with less
jealousy ; she had perfect freedom ; with regard
to her goings out and comings in she
excited now no suspicion.

But what was her freedom to her now ?
Valueless. Of Ephraim she had heard
nothing ; he had given her up ; there was no
sign from him. It was hard fighting against
the iron hand. She could not well blame her
lover ; she was too generous. Would she

ever see Epliraim again —-hear from him ?
Oh! it was bitterness to contemplate him
marrying some one else. But she could not
expect him to remain single for her sake.
She drew a long breath. He would not wait
for her being free again surely. Mr. Long
might live to be a hundred. Her father had
once said so, long before all this was contemplated,
that he believed the old man had got
the ' dry wizen.' Those were his very words.
If he did live to be that age, neither Ephraim
nor she would be so very old, but to look
forward the time was terrible. She had not
lived so many years in the world yet.

He would maybe be afraid to speak out
then, after all them years,' mused Iphis,
sadly ; ' but I would speak out if he only
looked at me.'

Of a night she opened her window and
looked at the crescent moon. How calmly it
looked down upon the earth! There was a
mistiness around it. There in the heavy blue
its brilliancy seemed not to suffer, however.

It shone upon the earth unrepressed, not disheartened.
She was filled with awe, and a
sense of her own littleness seemed to break
in upon her. That queen of the night looked
down upon a world — there were those whose
troubles were greater, whose miseries were
never to be abated, souls wrung with anguish,
and bodies writhing in acutest pain. Could
they look up at the calm glory ? Were their
hearts less hopeful than hers ? Where was
he — Ephraim ? In some crowded town,
where people scarcely thought of the sky and
its beautiful transfiguration, where the pale
orb was seen only from windows in the roofs
or between the tiers of houses, if people were
only not too absorbed to look up. Or had he
got assistance from that relative of his he had
spoken of to her, and now was thinking of
her, yes of her, as he paced the deck of a
ship on a weary waste of water ? Was he
looking up at the pale moon with bitterness
in his heart, or sorrow, or despair ? Ah, she
could not bring herself to think that he was

thinking harshly of her. She would close
her window and slip silently into her bed.
She was much like a child who, after ha vino:
the delusions of its happy childhood swept
away, calmly seeks its rest tearless, but with
an indefinable mistrust of the future.

Day followed day ; no day marked by
any event of interest, unless the appearance
of the cake evoked what might have been the
keen edge of curiosity. And what woman, if
ever so badly treated, young and fair, and
with some vanity, could behold without a
thrill a silk dress, and that her wedding one?
Damaris had gone, happy to shake the dust
off her feet, gone with a cynical remark on
the parsimony, the greed, the love of money
inherent in the Cowlamb family. Damaris,
like all the rest of servant girls, had the
worst character for her last place, but probably
would look backward in a few mouths with
less spiteful feeling. Damaris could not see
this dress, but her successor — if anything

VOL. III. G

drawer, and with a name certainly more to
Mrs. Cowlamb's liking — was taken into the
best bed-room to behold it. The poor girl
was too impressed to speak ; retiring on tiptoe,
her face was as awestruck as if she had
witnessed the preparations for a coronation
spectacle.

Iphis only felt herself her own self in her
bedroom. Night after night she contemplated
the heavens out of her window. Some
nights were starlight, and so still the air, she
had queer fancies that she had only to speak
for Ephraim to hear her. Her heart was like
a cold stone, so near the dreaded day was
coming. She held her window by the rod a
moment or two. It opened in the French
fashion. Then while she lingered she fancied
she heard a window open ; still lingering she
heard it close, then there was a rustle among
the shrubs, then all was quiet again. She
opened her window wide, there was no wind ;
probably an ewe had found its way into the
garden, her father had heard it, perhaps he

had gone down again. He must have been
in bed some time, he was not a man to sit in
his bed-room musings, looking out of window.
He would be annoyed at having to
go down, but then he was one of the sort
who would never rest with the idea on his
mind. She had to pull her window sash
to smartly, for like much of the joinery work
of the present day, done to contract, it
had not the most perfect fit. Had she but
known !

1 That owt nest under the spout come
tumbling down. I meant that lad to knock
it down when he was cleaning windows. It
wok me. I thowt there was summits wrong
over yonder, an' they'd come to rouse me. I
spoke, but nobody spoke back, an' then I seed
there was a lot o' muck o' th' window sill,"
said Cowlamb.

It wakened me first,' said Mrs. Cow-lamb.
' I thowt it was somebody trying to
get in.'

Q 2

'Bali!' ejaculated Cowlamb, contemptuously.


It was a happy thing that the farmer was
unsuspicious of night marauders, that Iphis
was reticent, that she forbore mentioning her
impressions of stray sheep wandering among
the shrubs. For one thing, she did not wish
her father to learn that she spent an hour or
more after they were all abed, gazing at the
stars, or at a moon fitfully gleaming out of
opaque clouds.

In the after part of the day, for she was
somewhat dubious yet, she passed through
the door in the wall. She went to the end of
the house. She was standing under her
father's window. Looking up, she saw that
under the spout the martin's nest was intact.
Her eyes fell to the ground ; she started
violently ; there was a footmark, certainly no
quadruped's, but a biped's, too large for a
woman, yet small for a man. The soil was
hard, and the impression was faint. She
stooped down a little — there was a faint record

of nails. She went to the shrubs ; there
the soil caught less sun, and was loose and
moist. There was sufficient disturbance thereto
show that some one had hurried through,
and climbed the hurdles, for soil was on
them. All trace was lost from this point, for
the field was laid down with seeds.

She wondered — but she dare not build up
a hope. But she kept her own counsel, remaining
silent, more from acquired habit.
She could chatter away from home, but taciturnity
was the family trait. She had become
supine, submissive, and nothing stirred her
out of her dreary apathy.

To-morrow! The words had for her an
overpowering significance. And after tomorrow
? ' To-morrow never comes,' had
been an aphorism puzzling her much when a
child, but on the morrow she would wake to
her destiny. At night Mr. Long came, gay
and sparkling. He certainly looked ten years
younger than when she saw him last, He
was quite fashionable, scrupulously got up,

not a speck of dust upon him ; and his face, so
smooth for an old man, Iphis could have
fancied that it had been ironed. The crow's
feet about his eyes were always observed first,
but Iphis noted that they were much less
distinct.

Her window had been left open ; she went
to it to close it. How different the night to
the preceding one ! There was a breeze, cold,
as if the March winds lingered. The moon
was overcast ; none of its liquid light chastening
the hours of darkness, but the coldness
of the night air seemed to refresh her. Her
father had told her to get to bed and sleep
well, so that she might rise fresh in the morning;.
Then had looked towards Mr. Long;
and laughed. The morrow would be a day
requiring a cool head. He had said all this
in good faith, with a joking, fond smile, satisfied
at last with her. But she felt in no
humour for sleep ; she was, indeed, too wakeful,
only it was a relief getting out of the
range of those basilisk eyes. She opened her

window wider and leaned out, but her eyes
could not penetrate the murky gloom.

1 1 believe it will be rainy,' she muttered.

How could she expect a smiling sun ?
She believed in the superstition ; the sun
must shine on a wedding-day. Without
closing her window, she retired a few paces,
and stood with her arm across the bed-foot,
absent-minded, pre-occupied. She blew out
her candle — her father might see it — and then
subsided into her reverie again. She was
roused by hearing, or fancying that she heard,
the shrubs below disturbed again. She went
to the window ; it was the wind getting up
perhaps. But no ; the night was still, heavy-laden,
the moon hidden in the impenetrable
vault overhead. Had it already begun to
patter with rain ? Some drops might have
fallen. She put out her hand. No, not raining
yet. The wind was in the north, and her
bed-room had a north aspect. She could
look out of it in a line with the hills, and
imagine where the sea lay, and where Snail-horn

and where Haveluck. The shrubs
stirred below again. She held her breath ;
she was a little afraid. Some one was below.
Was it a robber ? She remembered her fears
when a child at Snailhorn, the servant girl
recounting wearisome tales of robbers and
murderers coming in the night-time to lonely
houses, and the terror clung to her yet. But
so near Moortown ! She listened with bated
breath. She fancied that she could hear someone
below, stealthily creeping along the house
wall. Then all was still again. Should she
speak from the window ? It would perhaps
give the prowler below to understand that he
was detected ; if it did not evoke an answer,
she could quickly rouse the house. She hesitated
partly from fear. Something rattled
against the window, came into the room.
She was afraid to move. She would have
screamed, but a voice below, although in buta
whisper, went far to quell her fears. She
started, and the voice again whispered —

'Iphis?'

It was Ephraim ! Why had he coin ? —
he could have no pity. Her heart leapt into
her mouth with sudden exultation. He had
come to save her !

CHAPTER 33.

INTO THE DARKNESS.

That peer of the realm, carrying the time-honoured
title of Habro, could not feel
nattered with the honour done to him in
Moortown. The Habro Arms supplied the
thirstiest souls in Moortown, the company
frequenting it not the most select. The police
made frequent raids, Sam the landlord escaping
punishment by the skin of his teeth.
He had an obsequious tongue, and somehow
had a trick of appeasing the powers that be.
But then Sam had consorted with gentlemen.
He had ridden after the Habro pack as second
horseman to a gentleman, and now carrying
on the business of a housebreaker followed the

hounds proudly enough on some tit entrusted
to his coaching. Two thirsty sawyers coming
in from a long walk, their long cross-cuts over
their shoulders, called for their quart of ale
each. They only breathed once drinking it,
and one turning to the other said : —
Shall we lev another, Billy ? '
The other seemed to hesitate a moment.
'No — o — o, we'll sleek murder on, lad.'
Sam, lost hi admiration at the feat, did
not notice the approach of a cart and horse.
It was not yet dark, but growing dusk. The
horse and cart turned into the yard, and Sam,
recalled to himself, for he was his own ostler,
hastened after the traveller.

• Hello, young man ! ' cried Sam in recognition,
then excusing himself, ' I beg pardon,
I thowt you was a young man I snowed, as
lev at Willowby. I've heel a loss or two
shod there. First glance like I thowt you
was him, but you must be his twin brother,
you've more hair about the face.'

Sam had caught sight, too, of the name

on the cart : — Ebenezer Roads, fish-dealer,
Haveluck.

You're i' th' fish line, I see.'

The traveller did not contradict him, so
Sam continued his querying style of talking.

A useful owt thing that o' yours ? One
o' th' hesbeens, an' a good lot o' wear an'
tear in her yit ? I shouldn't wonder if this
owt thing hasn't galloped ? Bounced across
country, maybe ? Law, what a lot o' owt
Lord Henry's broomstick there is about.
There never was such a man. Are ye going'
on?'

I don't know,' returned the traveller with
some hesitation. ' You need nobbut take her
bridle off. I'll have a quartern of oats. Have
you any beans ? '

1 Beans ? to be sure I lev.'

I'll go inside a minute an have a pint o'
ale and a mouthful o' summits to eat.'

The traveller waited until he was assured
that the old mare had made havoc of
her feed, as if fully sensible of ostler's tricks.

Nay,' said Sam, sensitively, ' I've none o'
them pranks about me ; I've a bit o' feeling
for a dumb creature. I'm satisfied wi' one
payment for a bit o' horse meal. Bud you're
right, sir, to stand by — 'tis done often, more
shame be it.'

The traveller had to run the gauntlet of
eyes in the taproom. At a corner of a table
the landlord's wife laid a cloth and placed
upon it the cold mutton of their day's dinner,
flanked by an uncut loaf of bread and a huge
segment of American cheese. By-and-by a
white pot of ale supplemented the spread.

One or two in the taproom were evidently
labouring under the same impression as had
been landlord Sam. But Sam muttered a
sharp correction.

He's a cockle man, I tell ye. I seed it
on his cart. An' he's a close un.'

One of them ventured to address the
gastronomist.

How's things at Haveluck ? '

1 Fairish,' said the eater.

Are ye back aegean to night ? '

The eater nodded.

Will ye stand owt ? ' more boldly.

The traveller paused, lay down his knife.

< What for ? '

Oh, I'd know, good o' th' house, eh,
landlord ? '

i Them that asks shan't have and them
that doesn't ask nun go bout. I pay for
what I git. That's straight, isn't it ? '

All right ; no offence, mister.'

The traveller finished his repast, beckoning
the landlord out.

You'll see to my loss. I've a bit o'
business to do. Maybe I shall have to go onto
Treminster, I'm not from Haveluck — I'm
from Stamford. I picked the cart up at
Haveluck '

At a sale, to be suer. You see,' breathed
Sam, apologetically, ' what a little thing sets
one all wrong.'

Sam deemed it his duty to set things right
inside the house.

Why declared one, • he said fish trade
was fairish.'

Didn't I tell you he was a close un.'

'He wouldn't part,' said the sponger.

'He's not such a fool as he looks,' commented
another.

In my opinion,' said Sam, in a spirit of
confidence tempered with deference, ' he's a
long way even from looking like a fool.'

4 He was straight with " Narration " there,'
remarked one observant soaker.

1 I'd warm his nut,' said ' Narration,'
sulkily.

Nay,' said Sam ; ' he's not big, bud he's
all there. I took the measure on him, as
pretty a built little chap as ever I clapped eyes
on. I should wonder if there's a fellow here
could punish him. I'd advise thee, "expiration,"
to measure a man afore thou talks o'
leathern' him. No, what I alius say,' added
Sam, magnanimously, ' is live an' let live. I
don't like your style, putting on a chap
because he's a stranger.'

Correct,' agreed ' Narration critic.

The argument continued. It is unnecessary
to follow it here, but to return to our
traveller, none other than Master Ephraim —
his only disguise ' the hair about his face,' and
a kerchief much affected by fisher folks.

Ephraim loitered in the town until the
lamps were lit. Afterwards he took the
Willowby Road. When he reached the lane
which led up to Farmer Cowlamb's house he
hesitated a moment or two, the audacity
of his enterprise breaking upon him. He had
come determined to see Iphis, to persuade her
to elope with him. Should he return now,
and have it to dwell upon afterwards, this
purposeless journey ? This decided him.
If Iphis cared a rush for him, if she ' hated '
old Long, she would yield. He was tolerably
sanguine, Iphis would be impulsive enough
for anything ; taken suddenly, she would be
more likely to take the leap. The stars came
out, the moon shone down upon him encouragingly,
a few clouds drifted across her

face, then all was clear again. It was a night
for a lover's bold stroke.

And in such a night
Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well ;
Stealing her soul with many vows of faith.

He braced himself to his undertaking
He knew the early hours of the farm, and
that if he wished to speak to Iphis it must be
by attracting her in some way after all the
household had retired. If he only was
certain of her window — then there was the
risk of frightening her. Ephraim's manoeuvres
approaching the house savoured of melodrama.
He listened, stepped on cautiously. He was
in some fear of the dog. What dog is more
suspicious than the old shepherd dog. He
had gone to the house in broad daylight, and
the old top; had shown no inimical feeling
but prowling round when all honest folk
should be in bed was sufficient in itself to
raise canine suspicions. He climbed over the
hedge into the seed field, and at once felt his
heart jump into his mouth. But he had only

VOL. III. H

dropped upon the back of a recumbent sheep,
which, bolting suddenly from under him, left
him prone, her neighbours at the same time
starting off with startled jumps.

A light was burning in a window — that
must be her room. Some one was moving
about. The light had a strange 
appearance. He advanced stealthily to
the iron hurdles, and just as he reached them
the light went out. He stood some time undecided.
It was possible that this might
notbelphis's window. What a catastrophe if
he made the mistake ! His mind was considerably
exercised at the dilemma he was in,
but eventually he scaled the hurdles and
tiptoed over the plot of garden ground to
reach the path by the house wall. He must
make the plunge, right or wrong. Stooping,
he felt about for loose gravel ; but there
seemed a dearth of it, so he had to content
himself with a handful of soil. There was no"
answer, although it caught the glass. He
tried again. The window sash went up
smartly.

Heigh ! ' remonstrated a voice angrily,
electrifying Ephraim. It was Farmer Cow-lamb's
window he had got to after all. He
crept close to the house wall, and almost held
his breath. He could hear conversation.

All fancy ; it's that owt nest's a
tumbling down.'

The sash was smartly sliced down.
Ephraim ran quickly along the house side,
scrambled through the shrubs, and, hearing
a low growl, quickened his flight over the
hurdles and through the scurrying sheep in
the field. It was useless, it was hazardous,
experimenting on any other window that
night. He cursed himself for his stupidity.
Had he not seen Iphis framed in the window
at the end of the house only last summer ?
He had made signals to her there. He must
not stay the night in Moortown, some one
would be sure to recognise him. He tried to
think of some other plan of seeing Iphis, but
his brain failed him. He saw no other course
open to him but a second experiment.

H 2

I'll have my boss in,' said Ephraim,
looking in at the doorway of the hostelry.

To be sure, sir,' returned the landlord.
Then you an't got your bit o' business
done? '

No,' returned Ephraim, curtly.

Shall you be coming' by aegean? It is not

my business bud I shall be glad if you

put up here again ; good entertainment for
man an' beast, making' so bold. If I hadn't at
home, there's my lads '

Oh, for that matter, I'm used to losses
said Ephraim.

Dal — I thowt you was.'

Ephraim looked at the landlord narrowly;
he held the lantern high for Ephraim to see
his way out. Ephraim urged the mare on, as
if anxious to be in Treminster before the inns
closed ; but once out of the town, he reined
up, and let the mare go at a walking pace.
What use was it going to Treminster if he
could get in anywhere else on the road ? He
had to consider his finances. To make

doubly sure of himself he dived deep down
into his capacious pocket for his purse — a
statius ' purchased article, now much debilitated,
the marks of bronze coin unmistakably
impressed on the flaccid leather. After
touching it he had a more comfortable feeling.
He might have lost it. Usually so careless,
he was cautious to a surprising degree. He
began to think that his money had surmounted
many risks — doubtful company, his
scramble over the hedo*e and fall, his flight
through the shrubs. He counted his money,
and gained confidence in himself.

He had to turn out occasionally for homecoming
vehicles. He met a heavy waggon.
Ephraim wished to know how far to Register.


If tart dry, you'll ha' to go quick, or
they'll be closed at Cowslip.'

'How far?'

Two mile away.'

Ephraim pushed along. He might stop
there, even if he ha 1 to share the stable with

his horse. He was excessively cautious. He
wished to frame some legitimate excuse for
stopping at Cowslip, perversely determined
to be a Simon Pure of travellers. After a
time he got out of the cart, and with his
pocket knife and a stone, knocked off the nail
points round a hoof. It was an easy matter
then to loosen a shoe.

The sleepy landlord, candle in hand, was
barring the door.

I want to put up — there's no blacksmith
about, and my loss has cast a shoe.'

All decent folks are i' bed by this.'

I want to put up.'

1 My missis has gone to bed,' still demurred
the innkeeper. ' Ya don't want no
vittles ? My missis is particular about me
rummaging' about in her dairy. If you can
turn in to my lad ? '

The landlord got a lantern, the horse
was stalled, and Ephraim obtained some
ale.

Am I to pay now ? ' asked. Ephraim.

'No, we'll not bother to-night. I'll be
up in the morning — never fear.'

When Ephraim got to bed he debated
how he should get over the following day.
He lay late, and dawdled over his breakfast.
He was in no hurry having the horse's shoe
replaced. Some draught horses were being
shod all round, and Ephraim waited his turn
complacently.

Not a soul goes down Dungeon Lane,
and it's rank wi' dress,' said a burly waggoner.


There were grievances in this village.
The high-handed farmers would not suffer
the villagers to graze their cows in the lanes,
their plea, their ditches and their hedges
suffering. ' An' that's where the tenter alius
took poor folks' s cows, an' they was never
seen till milking time. 'Tis as smooth as a
table, an' like a long dress paddock.'

Ephraim had no difficulty in discovering
Dungeon Lane. The lane was exquisite.
Tails thorns in flower hid him from view. A

boy in a grass field came and peeped curiously
at him, and seemed in no hurry to resume his
occupation. By-and-by Ephraim elicited the
information that the lad was pulling ' yac-
years,' and stubbing thistles. Horses ran in
the field. ' Yacyars,' could be kept down by
sheep, the lace remarked.

The day was a tedious one to Ephraim y
but he enjoyed it. The boy left his work and
went home. Ephraim began to think of
returning to Moortown, for he began to feel
hungry. A roll and a morsel of cheese had
satisfied his cravings for a time. He began
to lead the mare on slowly, allowing her to
graze at intervals. He wished for twilight
over and over again ; his eye had wandered
over the old mare's body, detecting every
blemish, every sign of decay. He had thus
occupied himself as one way of killing time.
Looking for birds' nests was a variation. He
found 'yellow hammers,' or ' coolies ' as he
knew them, robins and linnets, ,
and he scrambled up to the beautiful

nest of a i pink,' and lie startled himself once
with placing his hand on the back of a sitting
blackbird.

Though the time passed slowly, Ephraim
noted cloudlets rising in the east from off the
sea, and floating wildly across the expanse.
The sun sank gloomily, and a cool wind got
up. Ephraim' s mind was divided between
satisfaction and the fear of a too tempestuous
night.

At last he started for Moortown. He was
better satisfied with the landlord's manner.
Sam asked no questions, accepting his customer
as a bona-fide traveller, conducting him
through the taproom into his snug, a small
room about ten feet square. There Ephraim
refreshed the inner man, his eyes resting on a
tremendous display of horses, cheap prints
and vilest daubs. He did not hurry away
from there ; he reasoned that he must not be
too early. At last stepping out into the
night, he with difficulty saw his way. The
sky was heavily overcast — there were no

twinkling stars. The wind was gusty, and
when it sank one was conscious of desultory
raindrops. He was up at the farm-house a
little earlier, determined to watch for Iphis's
light. He had no morbid fears this time of
casualty or failure. The darkness of the
night was his surest ally. At the foot of the
lane he noted that several of the lower
windows were illuminated. Had old Long
arrived ? He concluded that the illumination
was in honour of the old reprobate, and this
added zest to Ephraim's adventure. A light
appeared in a bed-room window — though the
lights below were not extinguished. He saw
Iphis come to the window, then after a time
her light disappeared. He dare not discover
himself until the lights below were extinguished
and the house was wrapped in darkness.
He waited patiently. At last he
thought that he might venture. He threw
some soil at the window and whispered
her name. He had to repeat the experiment.


Ephraim ? ' be heard her inquire above
him. * Oh. go away. You'll have father
hear you." she whispered, warning.

• Has the owt man come ? '

• Yis.' said Iphis. faintly.

• Are you dressed?'

I haven't got all my things off.' answered
Iphis. naively.

It was all earned on in whispers. Ephraim
lowered his voice still more.

* an tha come down outside ? '

• 1 aren't,' said Iphis.

• You must.' declared Ephraim convincingly.
• Put something on your head, and a
good thick shawl, it blows cold."

• I'll come.' said Iphis. relenting.

She stole down in her stockings, boots
and hat and shawl rolled up under her arm.
She was but a few moments whispering
to the old dog. She slipped out of the
scullery door. Ephraim awaited her in the
lane, out of earshot oIl the hone .

• v rhou'rt going' to wed owt Long* wi'out

o

in akin' any bones about it,' began he, without
any tremor in his voice.

Iphis took it as a reproach. Her voice
shook as she replied, ' I'm forced.'

Nay, thou hadn't,' disputed he.

'I am,' declared she with temper, ' an'
you — I wonder at ye coming. You knew all
about it ; and how you durst come after
running away aegean. I paid for you not to
go to prison first time.'

Thou paid ' gasped Ephraim. Here

was a revelation. He had all along imagined
that Mrs. Towse had found the money. It
was an obligation that he honestly intended
to remember. ' I thowt it was Towse's.'

An' you oughtn't to come when you can
do no good,' sobbed she. l "What did ye come
for? ' demanded she, bitterly.

■ For thou,' replied Ephraim tenderly conciliate,
'an' thought a dele over good for 1116.'
He could not bring his mind to surmount her
great unselfishness.

< Iphis ,' said he, placing his arm about

her neck and drawing her to him, kissing her
with more true gentleness than ever he had
shown before, \ I come o' purpose for thee ;
I've got horse and cart at Moortown, loss
all harnessed ready — now, is it to be me or
owt Long? '

I durst go, Ephraim ! '

1 Durst ! ' echoed he, releasing her a
little, then relinquishing her. 'I see, you're
fonder o' owt Long's'

He was about to say money, but remembered
her confession, and restrained himself.
He moved away a step or two.

Well, it was good o' you getting' one out
o' trouble. Then I nun go back wi'out
you.'

He was moving away; all hesitation left
her, she followed him, clinging to him.

Oh, Ephraim, don't — don't leave me.'

I must. I can't stop here.'

I'll go, Ephraim,' declared she, excitedly,
6 but I must ha' some things to put on.'

Is that a warm shawl ? '

< Yes.'

You've got a pair o' boots on ? Then
come as you are. If thou goes back into the
house you'll be wakening' some on 'em. If
tart cold I'll wrap the loss rug about thee.'

How much money have you, Ephraim? '
asked she, with a touch of her old dad's prudence.


'Lots,' said Ephraim, with laconic cheerfulness.


I've got two sovereigns if my purse is in
this pocket oh, it is,' added she with relief.

Who ! ' cried Ephraim exultantly, in the
excess of his joy embracing her fervidly.
Come on, lass ; owt Long '11 swear i' the
morning.'

Iphis so far recovered her spirits as to
emit a little low laugh of malicious delight.

They scarcely exchanged a word passing
down the dark lane, only once Iphis complaining
somewhat ruefully of the darkness of the
night. Ephraim gently grasped her arm to
give her confidence, perhaps he was a little

fearful lest she should lose heart and turn
back. He did not know the sense of relief
that had come to her. Now she had taken
the plunge she had no thought of retracing
her steps.

Art tha cold ? ' asked Ephraim at last,
the sight of a gas lamp at the outskirts of the
town breaking in upon the dreary walk.

No, not a bit. How far have we
to go ? '

I left the loss at the Habro' Arms.'

Why, that's . I durst go in. It

is a queer street, that.'

c I couldn't put up anywhere else. You
can wait outside while I brings the cart out.'

I durst stand out there by mysen, at
them cross roads awiver.'

You can stand at the house end. It's
gittin' so late — it's striking eleven now,
hark ! — by we get there, they'll all be turned
out.'

'I'm glad o' that,' responded Iphis, thankfully.


I come last night, and got to the wrong
window said Ephraim with a laugh.

I know,' laughed Iphis, ' father's.'

Did you know it was me ? '

Not then. After, I wondered — there
was foot-prints — I heard you.'

I'm glad he spoke first,' confessed
Ephraim, with a sigh of relief.

Iphis muffled her face, the gas lamps
would reveal her to any chance passer-by.
As she glanced up at her companion, she
gave a little cry, but it was one of pleased or
amused surprise.

Why, Ephraim, you've got whiskers.'

For a moment he was taken aback, as if
he had been taxed with some depravity.
Forgetful, his hand started to his face, then
he began to laugh a little shamefacedly.

They're false — I put 'em on as we were
coming down the lane. I should ha' been son
out last night but for them.'

Oh, oh, oh,' Iphis's shrill laugh echoing
under the lamps.

Hush ! ' whispered Ephraim, with the
caution of a melodramatic succourer of distressed
damsels.

You needn't ha' been frightened ; blacksmith
came up to father, and father said if he
was him he wouldn't bother after you, and the
blacksmith said he wouldn't.'

Bud you said you wondered how I dare
come back ' said Ephraim, tenaciously.

c You took me so unawares,' said she, confusedly.
' I I thought you'd gone away

an' never meant to see me any more.'

Bah, I went off o' purpose,' said Ephraim,
complacently ; ' we'll be married tomorrow.
I put th' banns up i' Havel luck Owt Church.'

But they've never been put up in ours,'
debated Iphis, aghast at such effrontery.

Well,' returned Ephraim, coolly, ' who
wanted to be asked there ? Who knows owt
about you i' Haveluck ? Nobody as goes to
th' Owt Church. There mud be a dozen Iphis
Cowlambs i' Haveluck. I went to hear 'em
mysen. They're all swells as goes there, an'

vol. ii r. i

they just looked at me as if the other churches
were for such as me. An' th' owt fellow's lost
his teeth — I'm bio wed if I could tell a word
he said.'

1 1 don't think it '11 do,' said Iphis, timidly.
She remembered reading a notice in Willowby
Church porch of the penalties for false declaration.


Oh, leave it all to me,' said Ephraim, confidently.


A policeman stood at the dreaded cross ; he
seemed to give colour to her timidity. Insensibly
she crept closer to Ephraim. That
danger — to her — over, she had to wait outside.
She shivered with excitement and the suspense
of the few moments.

Oh, how relieved she was when Ephraim
came out of the inn yard leading his horse !
He helped her in, Sam, the landlord, shouting
after him : —

Safe journey to ye, mister. Straight on,
an' first turn to your left It's as gain as
t'other way, an' less turns. Yes, sir.'

The policeman turned his bull's eye upon
them, but both Iphifl and Ephraim were too
busy settling themselves to take much heed of
hi in. Only Iphis looking behind her, and seeing
the silent figure still standing there, crept
closer to her lover.

What a journey it was ! For all Iphis was
perturbed by the gloomy character of their
journey and the way in which she had left her
home, she was soon completely carried away
with Ephraim's exhilaration. They laughed
loudly and boisterously at the discomfiture of
Mr. Long — Ephraim not sparing that worthy,
holding him up to such ridicule that Iphis felt
she would have died of shame had she married
him. Her conscience only smote her that she
had left no line behind to set her father's mind
at rest ; he might get it into his head that she
had destroyed herself. She mentioned this to
Ephraim in some concern. He passed it off
lightly.

Thou can write to 'em after we get
married.'

i L>

Their conversation waxed very grave and
serious. She was to stay with some people
whose cleanliness Ephraim extolled. Iphis
felt a little grateful for his forethought. She
was a little afraid of her name being bandied
about.

1 You see,' said she, ' folks will talk. You
have no relations to feel put out about you.'

No,' answered Ephraim 3 thankfully ; then
he recollected himself. ' Poor Bob. He went
down with that great ship. There wasn't a
man saved, not one. The captain and officers
all drownded. It turned over, bottom upward.
It was top-heavy, they say.' And Ephraim,
feeling some moisture at his eyes, passed the
back of his hand across them.

CHAPTER 34.

A QUIET WEDDING.

4 Go back with me to Snailhorn, Whitaker ? '
Can't ; I've a wedding at ten.'
1 A wedding ? Phew ! Get one of those
curates to come. I thought you would go
home with me — there's a bottle of the '34 left.
'It's a temptation — that.'
Two old men sat at a breakfast table —
two old men of the old, old school, and both
parsons — you could hardly call them clergymen.
One so fat and fleshy and hillocky
about the face — that vulgarly he was termed
swine-chapped ' by the irreverent. He was
vicar of Haveluck. The other, his antithesis,
thin and white, his scant hair brushed down
upon his forehead, but his eyes bright and

active as a water rat's, his gestures and his
features full of vivacity. We see in him Iphis's
friend, the rector of Snailhorn. Two extremes
had met. Parson Whitaker was over six feet
high, our old Snailhorn friend but few inches
over five ; while the Snailhorn rector enjoyed
the reputation of a liberal mind, heart, and
purse, the Haveluck vicar was reputed close
and mean to a disagreeable degree. Between
nis servants and him there waged an incessant
warfare ; they were always leaving him ; he
had to endure abominable discomfort. Only
his old parish clerk could get along with him,
and they quarrelled frequently. With his
parish and the local powers Whitaker was
continually at loggerheads. About gravel
pits, about his church, wherever there was a
possibility of asserting himself he availed himself
of the opportunity, and fought it out to
the bitter end. Seldom he won his causes.
His bills of costs had been frightful. Once,
twice, thrice, had he to leave his parish to recruit
his temper and his purse. He would not

live in Haveluck hard set. Each time he
departed the inhabitants foolishly congratulated
themselves that the old man had taken
his final leave of them. Each time they were
deceived. He returned fresh as a daisy and
as combative as a crow. He had actually
shown the cantankerous spirit that ruled
him in his dealings with his bishop. Mr.
Whitaker's age and infirmities excited the
bishop's concern. Tenderly solicitous, his
Lordship advised his dear friend to retire.
Mr. Whitaker's reply was terse and of the
nature of an equivoque.

My lord, there is the same sauce for the
goose as the gander.'

Whitaker's tenacity always excited the
disabilities of his friend from Snailhorn.
Probably their dissimilarity of character made
them faster friends. Whitaker was one of
the oldest men hi Haveluck, and had held the
living ever since he took priest's orders, and
Gerlimore had gone to Snailhorn a young
man. Whitaker in dress and character looked

the pragmatical old parson, while Gerlimore
had the appearance of a refined old gentleman
farmer of sporting tastes.

You can go after it's over,' suggested
Gerlimore.

'I don't know, Gerlimore — my curate's
taking his holiday. I don't want to be
beholden to those other fellows. I won't
have any singing through the nose, no walking
backward, no antics. Such things were
not in vogue in our young days, eh, Gerli-
more ? Every man hunted if he could keep a
nag. There's hue and cry now if a parson's
seen on horseback. My parish clerk — they

do without one in these new churches .

Ah, Acaster ! any objection ? '

No, sir,' said the clerk, ' I wanted your
surplice.'

Surplice ? No, I'm not going to put on
another — the last will do very well. They
are only common people.'

1 Objection,' said Gerlimore, ' do you have
people come and forbid the banns ? '

Xo, only Acaster thought there was something
scarcely right, the fellow seemed so
undecided when he gave the names in.'

Mr. Whitaker's voice was terrible to the
small boys of his parish, it was so loud.
Those with whom reverence was not a virtue
styled him ' Owt Whit.'

Curious name, the woman's, but we have
some curious names in the town. Close upon
the sea a quantity of foreign people settle.
Ah ! Gerlimore, how the place has grown
since you and I went fleeting. There were
plenty of ducks then, now I scarcely ever see
one.'

Why, from these windows things look
pretty much the same ; trees have grown
maybe.'

Ah, Acaster,' shouted Whitaker, throwing
up the window sash, seeing his clerk
plodding out of the gateway, what is that
curious name ? '

Iphis Cowlamb,' shouted the clerk, without
turning his head.

Iphis ! ' exclaimed Parson Gerlimore,
dropping his knife and fork.

Iphis,' repeated Mr. Whitaker; 'have
you heard it before ? '

i Yes returned Gerlimore, confusedly.

Mr. Whitaker gave a groan.

I haven't done with it yet ; it's in my
foot.'

■ I'll marry them if you like '

No, no.'

< But I will, Whitaker.'

< No, no.'

Whitaker, I should take it as a favour.'
6 Oh, marry them, then ; you perhaps
haven't many in your parish ? '
1 We don't average one a year.'
Happy man ! There were three yesterday
morning ; it is a morning's work here
sometimes in some of the churches. As soon
as the spring comes in they begin, and many
of them would come to be unmarried if they
could before the summer is over. But the
churches on Thorrock's ground are the most

favoured, and the Methodius. We shall have
them here shortly, keen as mustard.'

Oh, I won't have it said I kept them
waiting,' said Gerlimore, cheerfully.

Mr. Gerlimore was in the church a few
minutes before the appointed hour.

Either the wedding had not got wind, he
thought, or marriages did not excite much
curiosity or interest in Haveluck. At last he
saw Iphis come into the church, and something
like nervousness affected him. He knew how
ridiculous it was, but a feeling of regret
coursed through his old veins. Some self-questioning
mentally obtruded, which he put
away with an authoritative ' Pish ! ' Then
he was anxiously wondering. Was the girl
doing well ! But he knew something of the
gossip of his own neighbourhood. It had
leaked out that Long was secretly planning a
change in his establishment. Ah, what was
the meaning of Cowlamb's visits, Long's
journeys away from home. The old man in
his dotage was to marry this girl ! It was

evident that she was escaping the old reprobate.
He had not been wrong in surmising
that the girl had her troubles. He recollected
that he had given her a promise to help her
if she needed help. Ah, well, she was most
likely to be taken with a young fellow.
What sort of a fellow was he ? Mr. Gerli-
more, moved by such reveries, studiously
carried himself that Iphis should not recognise
him, but he glanced furtively at the
bridegroom-elect. Rather a reckless look in
the lad's face, but some bonhomie and great
good nature and unselfishness. They were
two natures likely to go well together.
Gerlimore hoped for the best.

Dearly beloved, we are gathered together
here in the sight of God '

Iphis visibly started, staring with a frightened
look into the clergyman's face. She
would have staggered back but for Ephraim.

Don't be alarmed, my dear interpolated
Mr. Gerlimore, reassuringly, and went on with
his reading. She went through her part like

an automaton, feeling as if in a dream.
When in the vestry, Mr. Gerlimore spoke
most kindly and comfortingly, yet with a
spice of glee.

Did I not say I would help you if you
came to me ? I have helped you, haven't
I ? ' murmured he, chuckling and touching
Iphis under the chin.

Iphis recovered herself, signing her name
in bold, if somewhat sprawling characters ;
but she was nervous to an hysterical point.
Ephraim's signature might have been a hieroglyphic
of Sennacherib's time, his manual
was as perplexing as arrowheads. Iphis
faintly mentioned something about ' lines.'

Yes, yes, my dear, you shall have them.
Wait a moment.'

He took Ephraim aside and looked at him
sternly. ' Young man ! do you know what
you have done ? '

It was now Ephraim's turn to feel aghast.

Can you keep a wife ? ' demanded Mr.
Gerlimore, still stern.

I can addle thirty shillings a week,'
stammered Ephraim, relieved that it was no
worse, but at a loss to account for such
pertinent queries.

4 Have you anything beforehand, eh ?
You can't live on air. You know what your
wife has been used to, sirrah ? ' Gerlimore's
face was hard, but some mirth was only
stayed at his throat.

■ I won't give you anything,' declared he,
a slip of oblong paper in his hand, soiled with
much contact. ' Here, take this.'

Ephraim looked so vacant and ignorant,
Gerlimore began to feel a little contempt for
him.

It's a bank-note, man, for five pounds,'
snapped the Snailhorn rector. ' Haven't you
seen one before.'

No, sir,' stammered Ephraim.

Gerlimore turned away from him, his
sharp, pinched face having now a look of care
and anxiety. He busied himself filling in for
Iphis a copy of her ' lines.'

God bless you, my dear,' said Gerlimore,
tremulously speaking to Iphis in a low voice.
Your father doesn't know of this ? '

1 No, sir.' Iphis's voice was faint and
supplicatory

Humph ! it is very bad.'

I'm going 1 to write to him, sir.'

Mr. Gerlimore shook his head despondently.
' Better not. Leave it to me ; I
will do so.'

Iphis would have thanked him, but he
turned his back upon her ; the wedding party
leaving the vestry with serious faces, the
other pair, a fisherman and his sweetheart,
much mystified. Iphis and Ephraim walked
down the aisle too much occupied with their
own thoughts to exchange a word with each
other. They proceeded some distance down
the road before either spoke. At last Iphis
turned to Ephraim.

Mr. Gerlimore, what did he say to you ?
What did he give you? — Money?' questioned
she with sudden insight.

Yes,' returned Ephraim, reluctantly. He
did not know whether he ought to feel
ashamed or gratified. Iphis's manner was
vague and stern. ' Five pounds ! '

You oughtn't to have taken it,
Ephraim.'

I didn't ask him for it,'

We'll pay him back, Ephraim ? '

1 Yes, | we'll pay him back,' assented
Ephraim, easily swayed.

1 I shan't write to father, Ephraim.'

Why ? ' asked he in surprise. ■ I think
I would. You know they'll wonder if owt's
happened to ye.'

Mr. Gerlimore said I'd better not. I
shouldn't know what to say,' confessed she
without shame, l and he said he would.'

I wondered what he was mumbling'
about,' said Ephraim. ' He's a good owt sort,'
acknowledged he with hopeful confidence.

i Don't you reckon too much,' advised she,
sharply.

I hadn't reckoned o' owt,' said Ephraim,

resignedly. ' I know your father never
mattered me, an' I'se think lie never will. I
don't know whether he can't ha' me locked
up over this job.'

He wouldn't do that, Ephraim.'

I'm not so sure,' said Ephraim, gravely.
Ephraim was a victim to the impotence of
his mind. He was humble, careless, thoughtful,
hopeful, resigned, reckless, and at last
almost bitter. Never through all did he
forget her father's character and nature.

I shan't go back unless father sends forme,'
said Iphis, soothingly ; ' if we do go you'll
ha' to humour father.'

1 I'll not say my soul's my own,' declared
Ephraim, emphatically.

She scarcely anticipated such a revulsion
in her father's mood as sending for them.
She had little faith in any good effect from
Mr. Gerlimore's representations. Her father
would be sulky and resentful. He would
consider himself disgraced before Mr. Long
and the neighbourhood, independently of the

VOL. III. K

mortification of having been outwitted. The
jade to be plotting while pretending to be
pliant ! She could picture her father, his huge
frame disturbed, striding about the farm in
the worst of tempers, in the house maintaining
an obstinate silence, his lower lip projecting
and an angry light in his eye. She could
imagine the condemnation he would mete
out to offenders, scathiug bitterness in sparse
words. And as she conjured up this picture
her heart sank. Mr. Gerlimore might write
again and ao-ain. She believed that her
father had almost hated Ephraim. He would
detest him now. And somehow, looking at
her husband, she felt herself regarding him
with a much less romantic vision. She did not
regret the step she had taken. But was not
Ephraim somewhat commonplace ? He was
not shrewd, like her father or her brothers.
She thought of Sam, poor Sam. Ephraim
was shallow, easily amused, easily led away.
He had no grave and settled purpose about
him. What he did do was always actuated by

sudden impulse. She could almost foresee the
war there would be should her father consider
to recall her and provide for them.
Ephraim's ways would not be Farmer Cow-lamb's
ways. He would be like a thoughtless
lad, always getting into scrapes and
committing himself in some inconsiderate,
foolish way. She could not see before her a
very cheerful prospect, if her father did go sofar
as to recollect that she was still his
daughter.

CHAPTER 35.

A DEATH.

Picture to yourself the consternation at
AVillowby. Farmer Cowlamb, rising early as
was his wont, Mrs. Cowlamb following the
precept of her lord — two hours in the morn
were worth the worst half of the day — the
servant of all work roused earlier than usual ;
Mr. Long receiving a premonitory tap at his
door, some grace allowed him ; Iphis, too,
having a little license accorded her this
morning. A remonstrative summons at
Iphis' s door later on — no answer — entrance
through the unlocked door to discover a bed
not slept in, the window even open, and then
the servant girl to testify to having found the

house door free to any comer. Some fear
took possession of Cowlamb. What had the
foolish lass done — drowned herself ? Xo ;
there was no open well about, no stream
within a mile. He could not conceive any
other dreadful resource. God forgive him if
he had left her no other way of escape. Was
she hiding ? She must be searched for high
and low. Had she taken flight ? She must
be followed and brought back. But where
had she gone, which way had she taken ?

With sickening dread he looked into the
outhouses, calling Iphis, confidently, with less
hope, despairingly. But he would confess
his fears to none. He walked in and about,
round the house ; there were footprints ;
his lips closed tightly, the nether one shot
forward ; a gleam of rage started into his eye :
the whole thing flashed upon him. She had
gone, she had disgraced herself, made him
ridiculous. He might have cursed her,
vowed her to perpetual poverty and forgiveness,
but his lips did not move. He

walked into the house, if crestfallen, no longer
possessed with terror and alarm.

You needn't look for her raged he ;
she is gone ! Bad '11 come on her.'

Where has she gone ? ' whined Mrs.
Cowlamb, lachrymose, but with a tearfulness
not arising from the tenderest emotions of a
mother's breast. In her way she was as much
put out as her lord.

As she makes her bed she'll lig on it,'
said Farmer Cowlamb, relentlessly.

No entreaty for forgiveness came from
Mrs. Cowlamb's lips. Iphis might have been
a shepherd dog convicted of worrying.

Poor Cowlamb ! the consolations of his
hard profession did not occur to him. Religion
had nothing at all to do with it. He
had hoped to raise sons and daughter out of
the mire, and this was the sequel. Brought
up rudely, narrowly, he only recognised the
virtue of straightforward purpose. He believed
implicitly in the world hereafter ; he
believed no rogue would be suffered in that

Eternal City whose gates even were a temptation,
where gems were as common as flints on
the road. It was a hard matter for him to
reconcile himself to fools and the improvident
receiving any consideration in that quarter.
A very material faith was Farmer Cowlamb's.
Those who got on in the world legitimately,
without breath of slander — who worshipped
on the Sabbath, laboring newspapers and
worldly concerns — they were the people elect.
Such a religion was not calculated to cope
with any great disappointment or reverse.
Not for one moment had he considered that
there was any sin or shame in an unequal
marriage. Did not his Bible abound with
examples of patriarchs consorting with young
maidens — marrying and giving in marriage ?
The parent was not said nay. The maiden of
the Bible was one submissive, unquestioning,
and acquiescent.

Mr. Long, apprised of the startling information,
whimpered like an aggrieved child,
as he hurriedly shuffled into his clothes,

bustling out of his room to stand on the
landing, leaning on his stick, looking over the
handrail disconsolate and helpless. Who was
to come and help him ? Cowlamb had come
and told him and left him again. Mr. Long
almost feared Cowlamb now. Cowlamb' s
face was so full of rage and dogged temper,
well might the nervous, tottering old man
tremble.

1 Heigh, Cowlamb ! ' whimpered Mr. Long,
entreatingly. ' I say, Cowlamb ! '

Mr. Long judged that in the turmoil he
was forgotten. He did not wonder so much
at that.

Cowlamb would not have minded much
Mr. Long breaking his neck on the staircase :
but the looks of the thing acted as a corrective.
He was fain to go and help his disconsolate
guest down.

4 It's a pretty piece of business this ! ?
complained Mr. Long. ' I'm suer, Cowlamb,
I made her r eight. The lawyer's to be hereat
ten. What's to be done wi' him? '

It's a fool's errand him coming now,' retorted
Cowlanib, viciously.

1 That nephy '

Blast that nephy ! ' interrupted Cowlamb
hotly. He felt that that sing-song now could
be dispensed with. Forgetting years of grace,
he was a Pharisee no longer. A bit of the
real old Adam showed itself.

Heigh, Cowlamb, heigh ! blast him,'
echoed Mr. Long fervidly, roused into more
cheerfulness, ' he's a parson fellow an' all.
He thinks he'll roy away when I'm gone '

Cowlamb was easier when Mr. Long, a
little later, expressed a desire to ' get ' home.
Cowlamb was thankful that there had been
some reticence throughout a propos of this marriage
; it had been felt rather than acknowledged
that a quiet wedding was preferable.
Not even the farmer's surviving son had
been informed. This was because Cowlamb
had been fearful lest some inconsiderate
word from him should countenance Indispositions


But the rumour was stirring, partly
through the Towses. The morning even
was conjectured. At Willowby gossips
waited, not leaving door or window for
many minutes together. But a messenger
apprised the Willowby curate that the wedding
was deferred, and the gossips were left
in a state of uncertainty and ill-humour. It
may seem an anachronism Chapel folks patronising
the Church ; but Farmer Cowlamb himself
looked on a chapel marriage dubiously,
Iphis as less dignified, and Mr* Long prided
himself on being born and bred Church of
England.

Farmer Cowlamb had not the patience to
give Mr. Long a version of the catastrophe
that he could understand, nor grace sufficient
to soften the blow. It fell to Mrs. Cowlamb,
still most dismal, to make some sort of an
explanation to the old man, which her husband
listened to and yet flouted with impatience
and increasing temper.

D such like jokers,' cried old Long,

with quivering lip. ' I say, Cowlamb, I nun
git home and make no bones about it. I'm
suer, Cowlamb, I made her right.'

To be suer, Mr. Long,' condoled Mrs.
Cowlamb. ' If she thinks she's going' to
wheedle round me, she'll find out she's saddled
the wrong horse. You'll ha' to take Miss
Grinstead on aegean, Mr. Long ? '

Heigh, heigh, mem, she'll be glad enow,
I'll uphold her. Who else would have the
poor owt creature,' said Mr. Long, with some
complaisance. ' She's harding worth her
keep, and nobody would have her to look at
over far gone in the tooth.'

People talked as they will talk. A servant
girl and half-a-dozen busybodies will circulate
scandal sufficient for a country-side's delectation.
The farmer moved about his farm and
to market, busying himself more than ever.
He hated the house now more than before.
He was not a man to sit down and give up.
The process of converting dull earth into
choicer metal — a transmutation taxing the

old alchemists — gave a zest to his life. He
went to market, and was impervious to
wagging tongues. Ill counselled or unguarded
ones met with sharp retort. Who
had more biting sarcasm and cynical ready
wit than Farmer Cowlamb. Besides, he was
broad of back, hard-limbed, and lithe. He
might be a little stiffer in his joints than he
was ten years ago; still, if he could not throw
the hammer so far as a younger man would,
he could throw the man who threw the
hammer.

Weeks passed, but they passed slowly
with Cowlamb. He felt his heart hungering.
The means of satisfaction were at hand, but
the first step was bitter indeed. She did not
write asking for mercy or forgiveness. He
read a letter again and again, but it was from
Snailhorn, from Mr. Grerlimore. He would
have wondered what Mr. Grerlimore had to do
with it ; only, the letter distinctly stated that
he had married the runaways. Pretty trick
on a parent that — and a clergyman, who

ought to preach obedience to children, not
further them in their wilfulness. Moreover,
an old neighbour, who had professed friendship
over and over again. He saw that the
girl was in some trouble months ago. Iphis
had confided in him. He had told Iphis that
he would write. What occasion had he to
forestall Iphis writing, taking the initial step
out of her hands. He had a proud stomach,
had Cowlamb. If he wrote to her or went to
her, it would look as if he felt that he was
vanquished. If she wrote humbly, and he
replied or went to her, it would seem as if he
could take her communication as a sign of
penitence. But if he went without a supplication,
what airs and graces the jade would
take upon herself.

Cowlamb did not read Mr. Berlin ore's
letter to his wife. He was not afraid of leaving
it about, for Mrs. Cowlamb was wont to
confess humbly that she could ' nobbut read
a bit i' th' New Testament.' She could not
wield a pen or decipher manuscript. But

Cowlainb, of determined will, had acquired
this accomplishment. Mrs. Cowlamb made
her mark at her wedding, and ambition never
stirred her after.

Cowlamb was not a man to visit public
houses, only ' times by occasions,' as he put
it — that was, when other people considered
settlement of business necessitated an adjournment
there. A market day at Moortown he
went into the ' pig market house,' so named
among the jobbers, otherwise in gilded letters
high above, the ' Charley Arms.' Some one
mentioned him by name.

Cowlamb ! ' echoed an elderly man.

Cowlamb' s ears were on the alert.

Be that Farmer Cowlamb? '

But Cowlamb pretended not to hear, either
out of sheer perverseness, which was one of
his traits, or suspicious that he was only to
hearken to something ill-advised. For the
staple of conversation was a jumble of bargaining,
one among another — attempts of the

vendor to set the mind of the vendee at rest
with extravagant encomium.

I say, art thou Cowlamb ? A lass o'
thine took shift wi' a lad. Thou didn't like
it, eh ? I'll have a word wi' thee by an't



1 1 want no words,' said Cowlamb, - good
or bad.'

< What's all th' bother about, Cowlamb ? '
continued the unabashed. ' What, art thou
setting' thysen abu thy labour ? Thought
one, I'se think, that would ha' th' world ina
band. Such blush ! '

1 1 wonder what ya've got to do wi' it,'
said Cowlamb, curtly, deeply incensed but
controlling himself, rising too to drink off his
glass and get away. It was a disagreeable
thing having a family broil touched on in
public company.

Xay, man, sit down, I've summits to
say,' continued his cauteriser with emphasis :
we mayn't part bad friends. Sit down an'
have a glass wi' me — here, landlady ! '

I cm. pay for what I drink — mysen,' returned
Cowlamb, thanklessly.

Isn't there other folks that can ? '

i If you've owt to say to me, I'll hear it
outside, if ye like — not here.'

Nay, nay; there's room by me. I hadn't
going' to stir out. I been up o' legs all day,
Coom here an' bring your glass.'

Cowlamb hesitated. He did not want to
sit by the man if he had nothing but twaddle
to deliver himself of. Cowlamb had some
knowledge of his persecutor ; he was a jobber,
owned some rich marsh land, was known as a
safe man, bought and sold largely, and was
considered fully warm enough to overset a
bad season. A man entitled to some respect,
therefore Cowlamb gave way. Cowlamb had
not an inviting countenance. However, it did
not disturb his neighbour's good humour.

I've heard about it, Cowlamb. Thou
didn't matter that blacksmith's lad been' sweet
on thy dower.'

If that's all you've got to say I'm off

an' away. Over an' over aegean, I'm sick
on it.'

The jobber's eyes twinkled.

1 1 can match my pound aegean thine
anyhow.'

Cowlamb looked somewhat incredulous,
somewhat inquiringly. He would not jump too
suddenly at any bait. He muttered gruffly —

1 Why, what's he to do wi' you? '

Not much, bud he's the nearest relation
I've got, Cowlamb. It's a bit way round.
My sister's dower had a couple o'baens. One
on 'em got drownded at sea, th' lad I'd ha'
made a man on ; but no, nowt but salt water
stuck in his throat.'

Why didn't you look better ester them? '

Hay? I hadn't going' to strip my nest to
line theirs.'

I mean th' lads.'

I don't believe in making fowls x o' barns.
Look here, Cowlamb, that sister o' mine's
been dead this thotty year. She went and

1 Helpless, useless beings.
VOL. III. L

married a smooth-tongued fellow I reckoned
a pawdawdles, an' I never did forgive her ;
leastways she died wi'out forgiving me. Bud
I was as hard as flint then. I begin to see a
bit better now, when that's all past mending.
It was little I knew o' what she left behind
her. She married a labouring man. Lord
forge' me that I was so hard. Cowlamb there
was nobbut two on us. If I could eat them
words I said to her when she tell me she was
going to be married , I'd give half I've got. I'm
not martin suer whither I shall see her i' the
next world to ask her pardon, for maybe they
don't let us rave up such contains. She'll bea
pew above me, an' hed a lot o' start. An't
ye going to do owt for 'em, Cowlamb ; she's
your awn been?'

What will you do? '

1 Me? — pooh. She's yar dower — nay, he's
not my lad. Pretty well I leave him summits
when I'm lapped up.'

She'd no business to go off as she did.'

She was a good-woollen un, Cowlamb.'

There was such a roguish ' come now, bear no
malice ' look in the old fellow's eyes as he
brought his hand down upon Cowlamb's
thigh, that Cowlamb so far forgot himself as
to smile.

Well, what will you do ? ' asked Cowlamb
again.

1 Give 'em all the money I got in my
pocket now, if you give 'em a start.'

Cowlamb suffered some sound to escape
him, and with it a shake of the head implying
dissatisfaction.

Why, ya can afford it. Ya've a son I
know, bud he wants no crutch.'

Cowlamb shook his head in silence.

1 How much dost ee think I've got in my
pocket — coom now, I've paid a lot to-day, an'
still I'll up'owd it I hug more about wi' me
than thou does.'

Oh ,' muttered Cowlamb, hating

purse-proud folks — fellows who showed their
money.

Look thee here, Cowlamb,' said thei

2

jobber, sternly ; ' don't let me ha' to go to
'em. Thou won't like thy awn been to set
her face aegean thee.'

1 Why, what would ye do? '

4 1 am not going to open my mouth to
fill other follies. Thou's a nice little place
thou boat, put 'em in it. She's been used to
a farm, an' he's been used to work. She'll
pine yonder at Haveluck, maybe dee ; it's nota
healthy place ; a lot dees in a year. If that
lass o' thine deed, Cowlamb, thou'd never
forge' thy sen ; now, would tha? '

Cowlamb did feel a twinge of concern.
Sam had been a ' mort o' trouble ; ' he had
died. His life and ways of late years had
been unlovely ; Cowlamb' s heart had been
half broken long before Sam died ; the father
had suffered — no one could guess his misery.
For all that he never said to himself he was
thankful that Sam was gone, and Iphis — she
had for a long time been a comfort to his
eyes and heart. Her flight had not touched
his heart so much as his temper. He could

not reproach her other than that she had
shown a woman's constant heart and opposite
will. He began to think that he might as
well put a good face on it and have her back.
What was done could not be undone. He
had some vague fear of his right-hand
neighbour's threat. Still, what could this old
man do? He surely could not alienate a
daughter's natural affection? — and Cowlamb
had faith in Iphis's likes and dislikes. How
could he have other with her last escapade
before him?

He journeyed home from the ' pig-market
house ' brooding. He stumbled in his walking,
his eyes bent down upon the road. He
met people whom he knew ; he was aware
of their nods and salutations, but he forgot to
return their greetings, he was so pre-occupied.
He knew that his manner excited some
curiosity, conjecture. They were deciding
that this last trouble was telling upon him,
aging him. Some would have harsh criticism
on his character. What a thing it was

a man should set his heart so upon money,
that he would go so far as to sacrifice his own
daughter to his avarice! Conjecture can
never be wholly truth. Perhaps he divined
truly, it was just possible other causes were
assigned for his absent gait.

i I shall want my breakfast in good time,*
said he, his first greeting to his wife. ' I
want to go to Haveluck i' the morning.'

Shall ye see owt o' Iphis,' inquired Mrs.
Cowlamb, half closing her eyes as if to meet a
storm of words. Her voice evinced no eagerness
— dimply curiosity. Cowlamb looked
round sharply.

I'm going o' purpose,' said he, with biting
emphasis.

Mrs. Cowlamb was a mother, if harboured.
During the day she had been
thinking of Iphis, conflicting sentiments
ruling her. Iphis's treachery was not to be
looked lightly over. She had been thinking',
though, that her husband might make his
will disinheriting her, leaving everything

to the half brother. Cowlamb nrio-ht 20 off
suddenly. Her eyes glistened a little, but she
did not speak again. Cowlamb resented this,
regarding her with a curious, repelling look,
compounded of pride, crossness, and offence
that she was not more eager. If she had asked
questions, she knew that in his present mood
he would not ten to one have troubled himself
to answer them. Xot feeling himself wholly
victor, he would not communicate to her his
plans and his thoughts. After a time she
could not help asking the question, ' Shall ye
lev 'em back ? '

If she had said, ' Shall you have her
back ? ' her husband perhaps would have
been less tart. As it was he echoed her
mockingly — ' Hev 'em back ? I don't know
what I shall do till I get there. I shan't lev
'em here.' Mrs. Cowlamb surmised by this
what his intentions were, the small house on
the little farm he had bought. ■ Where's that
letter fra ? ' His eyes detected an unbroken

envelope resting on its edge on the window
shelf.

'I don't know. You'd nobbut just gone
when it come

Just hand it here,' commanded he, drying
his hands on the towel his obsequious
wife had brought him. He broke the seal and
read on.

Why,' exclaimed he, greatly perturbed,
owt Long's dead ! '

Dead ? Mr. Long ? ' repeated she,
equally surprised.

Heigh — what a humbug it is, nobbut
three quarters of mile from Moortown, and
one's letters having to come fra Willowby,
unless somebody meets th' postman at th'
lane-end. I'll lev a box there, that I will.'

Who's writ th' letter ? ' inquired Mrs.
Cowlamb.

Miss Grinstead to be suer. That parson
fellow's been, th' owt man used to ramp
about. I am to go over. Owt Long gave
'em to understand afore he died I was a trustee.

Well, I sell ha' to go there i' th' morning. I
sell want my breakfast i' good time all th'
same. I sell drive Et.'

Cowlamb was not surprised at being
named in the will. He wondered if it was a
late instrument, or one made some years back.
However, he felt some bitterness, and he
would not talk any more. If that stupid lass
had not been so obstinate she would now
have dropped in for a good thing, and after a
decent season she might have married a
chimney-sweep, if her fancy had gone for a
soot ban.

CHAPTER 36.

YET TO SPEAK.

Miss Instead was decorously sad, though
not overpowered with grief. The poor old
lady's life had not been one of roses. She
had lived many years with a most captious
tyrant, inconsiderate with his tongue and
dreadfully short in his temper. Her voice
now carried that hush we always note in the
house where some one lies dead. Almost the
first question that Cowlamb asked bore upon
the old man's last hours — whether he died
seeking for full redemption.' She was intensely
communicative.

He didn't alter a bit,' she said, mournfully.
' His language was just as bad as ever
it was such a habit with him. Mr. Penny

came, and Mr. Long stared at him so queerly,
we had to tell Mr. Penny he had better go out
of Mr. Long's room. Mr. Long could speak,
but he wouldn't speak to him. And after
Mr. Penny had gone out, Mr. Long was in
such a passion he frothed at the mouth, and
when we got him pacified a little, he wanted
to know who had sent for that " narrow-backed
civil ; " them were his very words, and then he
said, " the hungering x beggar would get nowt."
Oh, it was dreadful at times the way he went
on ; he said " he wasn't going to die yet, and
he wouldn't die." '

Was he off his head ? ' asked Cowlamb.

No — ' returned she, hesitatingly. Miss
Grinstead gave a moment's thought to consider
whether Mr. Long had shown any sign of mental
aberration. 'No; he was sharp in asking after
the lad, what he was doing, and everything
about the place. He was once talking about
something I didn't understand, not that I
wanted ; and his eyes were closed. Then he

1 Hungering.

opened 'em suddenly, and I asked him if lie
had been dreaming, and he said " Yes," sharp
like, and asked me if he had said anything.
It was always best to speak the truth to him,
so I said " Yes, but I couldn't tell what he
said," and he turned on me and said, "It's lies ;
you did, you owt witch, but it was all blush."
Them were his very words. He wouldn't see
Mr. Gerlimore. He seemed to have something
against him. He said he wanted no canting
parsons about him, full o' their tricks. I never
heard anybody speak of Mr. Gerlimore like that.'

Cowlamb secretly thought that Mr. Long
had a good case against parsons. He was
sore against them himself.

You know who's his lawyer,' said Cow-lamb.
' When's th' burying' ? '

To-day is Wednesday — Saturday. We've
got a room ready for you. We have had the
man sleeping in the house, and then, the boy
and girl were afraid. Mr. Long's lawyer will
be here on Saturday.'

Did Mr. Long say owt about me? '

He said " Cowlamb's a trustee — it's all
right ! " Them were his very words. He
never spoke no more, and then when his
hands began to work about, I knew it wasn't
much longer he'd be alive. As soon as ever
he died I wrote, the postman waited on me,
and he was in a fine taking to be away.'

Was he in bed long then ? '

Well, he went to see you,' said Miss
Grin stead, with a side look ; ' when he came
back he seemed to get all wintery and was
always fidgeting about and nervous, swearing
if a door was opened or closed ; and then he
didn't eat well, and what he did eat did him
no good, and then he got fast in the bed
bottom. We kept him alive with sups of
brandy ; the doctor said there was nothing-else.
He would have gone long since but
for it.'

I was at market when your letter came.
We get letters late in the day at our house.'

And how's Iphis getting on?' asked
Miss Grinstead.

That I can't tell you,' said Cowlamb,
turning his back upon her. ' That's a flam,'
muttered Cowlamb, fancying he could detect
the insincerity of her tongue.

< Shall you stay, Mr. Cowlamb? '

No — I can't. I want to be at Haveluck,
and I'm wanted at home.'

Oh, here's the carpenter,' said Miss Grinstead.
' We sent for him night before last,
but he was away from home. We got Mr.
Long laid out that night. — Wipe your feet,'
said Miss Grinstead, sharply, to the carpenter
and his apprentice.

Heigh, wipe thy feet, Enoch,' sternly
echoed the carpenter, who had forgotten to
wipe his own.

You come to measure him, then,' said
Cowlamb, business-like, ' he's Long, but he'll
be no length, poor owt chap.' Cowlamb' s
humour was sombre as befitting the occasion.

Cowlamb re-entered the little room and sat
down to a glass of gin, and Miss Grinstead resumed
her conversation after she had piloted

the carpenter upstairs and clown. But there
was no man more restless than Cowlauib.
Now nothing else was on his mind, he was ina
feverish anxiety to be away again. He
would have gone on, but Miss Grinstead insisted
upon his staying dinner. When he came
to think of it he comforted himself that his
horse would be all the better for an hour or
two's bait. If he went on he would be nowhere
at dinner-time. He might have to pay
for his dinner at Haveluck. Miss Grinstead
talked on and on to him, often repeating herself.
Much of it went in at one ear and out
of the other. Cowlamb was beginning to
wonder how Iphis would receive him. He
was in a despondent mood. He had her to
hind, and that troubled him. Haveluck was
a straggling place — streets and streets of
houses, and every one a ' matter ' * to the other,
the point of distinction only in the number.

Miss Grinstead could see that her old neigh -
your was chafing, by his preoccupation that

1 Match.

he was unsettled in his mind or anxious. She
had already discovered that Iphis was in some
disgrace. There had been a great mystery,
and she had not been able to fathom it. Mr.
Long had let slip ugly words and imprecations
— had glowered at her when she looked
at him. She could not help her curiosity.
Mr. Long had returned from Willowby overset.
There had been some secret business
between the two men that had not come to a
head. Mr. Long had given her notice to leave
the day he went to Willowby, but that she
did not regard seriously. He had often given
her notice, to apologise afterwards, and excuse
himself on the score of hot temper.

Miss Grinstead wondered if Iphis was the
mischief between the two men — if Cowlamb
had induced her to listen to Mr. Long to throw
him over finally. She watched Cowlamb' s face ;
she was very shrewd in some things, although
some people fancied that she was a little
cracked. Cowlamb became aware that he was
an object of interest, and the close scrutiny did

not tend to his ease. He was very thankful
when the girl brought in the cloth and Miss
Grinstead went out to take up the dinner.

You'll excuse me, Mr. Cowlanib, but I
dare not trust that girl with any cooking or
dishing up. 7

VOL. III. M

CHAPTER 37.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

I've had father ! ' cried Iphis, impulsively,
as Ephraim opened the door. She barely-allowed
him to get into the house. He was
black and grimy, and his face until she spoke
was full of content, then it clouded a little.
The tenor of their life had been so even, he
wished for no unsettling element — no change.
They had got into a house to themselves, and
although only the kitchen and the bed room
were sparsely furnished, Ephraim began to
feel himself a man and a citizen. Ephraim
worked at a coach builder's as second hand,
and was discovered to be deft and intelligent.
He was earning ' good money,' and working
overtime, the money for which came to him

like a gift, remembering the long hours at the
village smithy. Her words took much of his
self-satisfaction out of him ; he felt gloomy,
and wondered what she would say next.

Father wants us to go back.' She could
not withhold the rush of exultant feeling.
• We can q;o and live at the house on the little
farm.'

Where is he now ? ' asked Ephraim, a
little timidly, perhaps, or it might be constraint.


• Oh, he's gone home ; he hasn't been gone
long though. Ephraim, owt Mr. Long's dead,
an's to be buried o' Saturday. Father's gone
home by train and left " Et " at the " Bull."
We used to put up there when we lived at
Snailhorn. Father asked me if you'd mind
going down o' nights to see if the owt mare
was going on all right.'

I'll go when I done work,' said Ephraim,
with little show of interest and not much
grace.

Fancy, Ephraim, Mr. Long dead so soon.

3i 2

If I'd had him, why it would ha' been no time,
then I should ha' had all his money, then I
could have had you after.'

D'ye rue, Iphis ? ' asked he, quietly.

No — o,' stammered she ; 'why, Ephraim,
you don't look over well pleased.'

I'm tired,' said he.

Come an' have your tea, then. It's ready
and waiting. What's the good o' standing
there. What a chap you are, Eph, one would
think you was waiting for me to put it into
your mouth ! Law, father sometimes used to
be that nasty when he was hungry. Mother
used to say, " Let him fill hissed out, then
he'll be all right, he's contrary as Dick's hatband
now." '

Am I bad tempered, Iphis ? ' asked
Ephraim, without a smile. Somehow she
did not like this questioning mood. She faced
him with a world of tender solicitude in her
eyes ; still she was startled and alarmed.

No,' she answered after a pause ; 'but you
seem queer.'

Do you a'niost rue, Iphis, you didn't
marry owt Long — ee ? '

Xo — o, why ? ' asked she, perplexed.

Why ? — why, I think if you had married
owt Long he'd ha' been living' yit. Th' owt
fellow's gone mad wi' worry, an's never settled
ester. He's died o' love,' said Ephraim, his
sarcasm clinched with a hard, bitter laugh.

AVell — father says we may go back now,'
said Iphis, propitiating.

Xow old Long's detach ? ' said Ephraim,
still captious.

Father was suer to be put out, Ephraim

Don't you want to go back, Ephraim ? '

her mind considerably exercised. ' You needn't
be frightened, Ephraim, of the owt blacksmith
if father said a word he durst '

1 Frightened of him,' laughed Ephraim,
derisively, ' if he said a wrong word to me I'd
smash him. I've nobbut got to know since I
been here that he got a dele over much out
o' me. He fed me bally an' worked me
hard, an' made me keep his books o' Sundays

because I could write better than he could.
He'll have to mind what he says to me when
we meet.'

Iphis was astounded, a little afraid.
There was evidently a tempest rising in the
equable Ephraim's breast. She endeavoured
to coax him,' to deprecate such anger.

Come an' get your tea, Ephraim ; it is
poured out, an' I've got a half cured haddock.'
She could not help adding, with a little
sorrowfulness, c I thought you'd jump at
o-oino; back.'

Ephraim's temper abated. The tone of
sadness in her voice moved him. He sat
down with some compunction visible in his
face.

6 I was soft, Iphis. No ; somehow I
don't seem to think much o' this going back
to Willowby. We been so comfortable here ;
I have, awiver, an' I thowt you had.'

I have been happy enough,' said Proportioning
the smoking appetising haddock,
I never rued, Ephraim, I'm sure I never rued.'

I've got so suer o' addlin' a good living
here. I can do my work. When I see a
thing done once, I can do it, an' I can do as
much as anybody an' a bit more than a good
many. T'other chap says I've a good notion
for being brown up in a country shop, an'
he's never been ony where but in a coach
shop.'

Ephraim was still depressed. He could
not forget his happy nights in his home, and
he had made the home. Saturday nights
when he and Iphis went out shopping
together, the night she suffered him to take
his jug and sit for an hour in an inn where
he met fellow-workmen. They were in bed
by eleven o'clock, an awful dissipated hour
remembering country hours, but they sat up,
Iphis's eyes heavy with sleep, so as to be like
the rest of town folks. There was another
dissipation too, the theatre. It was a terrible
place. Three dramas a night, gloomy and
horrible tragedies, fearful in incident, and the
actors making the most of their parts. But

dramatic representation was such a new
thing to Iphis. She wept, she was thrilled,
she was full of a glorious joy, and her
laughter came free and fearless. The honest
sailor, the humble fisherman, the ingenuous
gutter maiden outwitted the rich villain, the
smug gentleman, the soulless lady of high
degree, they sank into insignificance, their
discomfiture was complete, before the virtues
and noble qualities of the types of life
indigenous to Haveluck.

And were not Sundays happy days?
They did not always go to chapel in the
morning, but cooked a dinner, and in the
proceeding tore about like boy and girl, for
Ephraim would help. After the dinner it
was considered by them the correct thing to
walk soberly down the sands as far as the
village, which had outgrown itself, so highly
favoured had it been with the patronage of
inland folks who go down to the sea — in
excursion trains. During the season Thorpes-lee
was exceedingly thick with the wives

and children of well-to-do tradesmen. The
paterfamilias at home swelling with the idea
of his household so disporting themselves, and
not slow in acquainting his friends that on
Saturday nights he joined his family at the
seaside.

Sometimes Iphis met some one known to
her. This was not always pleasurable ; as a
rule the young couple avoided old acquaintance.
They did not care to be mentally
canvassed, or hypocritically sympathised
with, or patted on the back. It was
pleasant sitting on the sands watching the
children, and the vagaries of the grown-up
children, or looking seawards speculating on
the far-away steamers passing. When the
tide was low they could walk nearly a mile
straight before them. Ephraim was fond of
lying full length on a seat and gazing up
skyward. He called it resting, what Sunday
was made for. He could smoke, and the
swell of the sea in his ears had a lulling effect.
Iphis would hear something roll to the

ground ; it was his pipe ; then she discovered
that her bread-winner had fallen asleep.
Then she would think, and be herself entirely «
The swell of the sea recalled an episode in her
life. Could she forget it ? One evening she
related it to Ephraim. Until that evening
he had never really known the cause of
her long illness. Her unassuming narration
almost froze the blood in Ephraim's
veins.

k ' I say, lass,' he had said, uncomfortably
impressed, ' don't tell me that tale again.
It makes me feel badly.'

But as Iphis thought about it, although it
was all still fresh and vivid in her mind, the
purling, rippling wavelets before her, she
could scarcely realise that they could ever
have ■ had so cruel a purpose. Once she
witnessed some harebrained visitors having to
race to escape isolation. There were shouts of
laughter on the shore, or the pier. She could
not laugh. And although the danger was
not great, and boats were at hand, when she

found escape had been effected, it was a great
relief to her overstrained mind.

Then she would wake Ephraim.

1 I say. we sell be late for chapel ; let's
go.'

Ephraim thought about his Saturday
nights, his Sundays, his fellow-workmen,
but more about his home and his independence.


You'll be late,' said Iphis, glancing at
her watch.

I shan't go back to-night now,' said
Ephraim. ' Are you going to write home? '

No ; father will be here on Saturday
again. Mr. Long '11 be buried on Saturday,
and father's a trustee. He left the mare
here ; he thought he'd overdo her. She'd
been neither sick nor sorry once in her day,'
said Iphis, proudly, ' but she's getting tender
on her feet.'

1 Didn't your father think it was a pity
you didn't lev owt Long as things les turned
out?'

Don't, Ephraim I'm tired o' hearing
the owt man's name. He did say as
much.'

I don't half like this going back,' reiterated
Ephraim. ' We have nobody here to
interfere with us, and there'll be no more
going on the sands '

Why, Ephraim,' laughed Iphis, ' we shall
be a dele better off. We can have a fortnight
here like the rest of fine folks, and have
nothing to do all day but bathe and walk
about, an' pick up shells an' make game o'
folks that come in by trips. I've seen 'em,
Ephraim, wi' their boots unlaced and their
waistcoats unbuttoned here in Haveluck as if
they meant to be in head over heels as soon as
ever they got to the water — them Sheffi elders,
you know ; you've seen 'em now, ain't you,
Ephraim ? '

And Ephraim, so easily moved to mirth,
laughed uproariously with her. But he could
see that Iphis was full of the idea of going
back.

D'ye think we sell go back ? ' ventured she,
with slow, low utterance. Eagerly her heart
sought welcome reply.

If thou's bent on it, we're bound to go.'

1 Father said nowt aegean you at all,
Ephraim. He said we should live to courses
at the little house. And if we get on well with
father, we should farm the land courses. I
can rear no end o' poultry there, and I'll have
cows. If I can't make five pounds a week
when things are in full profit out o' one thing
and another, I know nowt about such things.'

Here Iphis drew up such a convincing
calculation that Ephraim was easily gained
over by her logic. He began to think that he
might do worse than consent to learn farming
under his wife's wing.

It had such an effect upon him that the
next morning he debated whether it was
worth while resuming work. Good sense
prevailed. Iphis' s father and he might not
come to terms ; if he threw up his shop he
might not be taken on again. Moreover, he

had a desire to impress the other fellows with
his connexions, and what was likely to be
done for him, quailing sometimes, disturbed
with thought as to how he would get on with
his straight-backed father-in-law. But was
not Ephraim a happy impulsed fellow, not
likely to be troubled long with lugubrious
thoughts ? He soon began to be so confident
as to be assured that his father-in-law and he
could not possibly differ.

Iphis had met her father's proposal so
readily Cowlamb had gone away home with
his mind set at rest. It never once occurred
to him that his new son-in-law would raise an
objection. Iphis had opened the door to him,
giving a little cry of surprise. He had had
some difficulty in tracing her, and his heart
was nearly in his mouth, when he saw how he
was welcomed. She was distrait for a moment
or two, afterwards a little self-conscious. Then
he could not answer half the questions she
had to ask him in a breath. She seemed to
try to ignore the fact that she had done wrong,

that she should be in disgrace ; he likewise
that he was to soften gradually, the programme
he had decided upon. She sat him
down in an arm-chair. He could not help but
take in her surroundings — the few sticks of
furniture she had got together. But he
laughed, attempting to be good-humoured.

1 Now, father, you mustn't laugh ; it's all
paid for. We're getting things by degrees.'

I hadn't laughing at your furniture,' said
he good temperedly ; ' I didn't start hase as
well.'

• We're getting 'em by degrees.'

An' paying for 'em as you go on ; that's
right. Is it his megrim or yours? '

This was the first reference to Ephraim.

Ephraim likes paying as we go on,' said
she, anxious to put forward her husband in
the best light.

That'll do,' said her father with the approval
of a Spartan.

Iphis scarcely knew yet how her father's
pulse beat towards Ephraim. She supposed

he could not be over cordially disposed.
Perhaps it was as well that Ephraim was away
the first time her father came.

When will he be at home ? ' asked her
father.

He'll not leave before five ; it will be
after when he gets here. That's the worst of
these towns ; he's such a long way from his
work. He gets so tired ; they're working
overtime, they're so busy. He goes after tea,
and they don't leave 'till eight. But o' Saturday,
they're like we used to be at school, half
a day's holiday. We get cleaned, and go off
to Thorpesclee sometimes. There's a band
and dancing, and sometimes I see folks I
know.'

Humph,' responded the farmer, ' an' dost
'ee like it? '

We're comfortable,' said Iphis, a little at
sea.

That's a good thing. But wouldn't ye
like being on a farm better, where you ain't to
run out for every ha'porth.'

'Well,' agreed Iphis, 'the milk never has
any cream on it if ye let it stand a week, it's
that blue ; and that's not all. You nobbut
get a teacupful for a penny ; and eggs ! — I
harding dare think about eggs — if you want
English, they seem so dear ; and I can't fancy
them foreign eggs.'

Humph ! ' grunted Farmer Cowlamb, glad
to find that all was not smooth sailing. He
sat silent for a few minutes. Iphis ran out to
fill her kettle.

Thou needn't bother ; I shan't stop long
I want to be off home.'

You went go without a cup o' tea, I
know, an' I've got what you like in the house.
You used to bring haddocks home to Snail-horn.
We can get 'em nicer ; they're half
cured and and not so dry. We offers have
'em an' you'll not see Ephraim? '

1 Xo : I shall have to be going; afore that
time o' day,' and Farmer Cowlamb veered
round for a clock, but could not find one. He
then saw that Iphis\s watch was hung over the

vol. hit. x

chimney-piece, but he could not see the time
by it.

4 It's only half-past three said she.

She was almost as well pleased her father
did not intend stopping. They had only one
bed. A neighbour might take her in ; but
then if Ephraim and her father slept together
they would be uncongenial bed-mates ; they
might quarrel — ' fall out,' as she put it. She
scarcely knew whether the two were to be
trusted together. She was determined, somewhat
illogically, that the next purchase should
be a spare bed. She wondered if her father
would dip into his pockets. She should not
ask him. She should take money if it was
offered. He could give it if he liked and not
feel it.

Her father felt his appetite come with the
broiling haddock and the cheerful sound of the
singing kettle ; and, as Mrs. Cowlamb said,
food went far to remove his acerbity or ill-humour.


But for a little soreness at Cowlamb' s heart

Iphis might have been the one who had never
yet lost his favour. He left her with a kiss,
and promised to call again on the Saturday
and hear what decision they had come to. If
Ephraim fell in with his proposal, she might
return with him, Ephraim to follow as soon ashe
had got the furniture packed.

After her father had gone, Iphis felt that
she had Ephraim to persuade. He had said
over and over again that he would not care to
change places with any man.

N "2

CHAPTER 38.

THE DEAD MANS VOICE.

Ephraim would have made a sad hole in his
manners had he listened to the voice of the
tempter, staying away from work to pass his
time idly, thinking that now the farmer was
disposed to take them under hand, it was useless
griping his fingers any longer at the
anvil. Cowlamb on the Saturday morning
heard of Ephraim' s devotion with some complacency.
He thought more of that than of
Ephraim' s compliance. The farmer was ina
very good mood ; but at night when
he returned his mood had changed. At Snail-horn
he had appeared in a most unpleasant
light. The unsigned will was produced and
commented upon. Everything real and personal

was bequeathed to Iphis Long, excepting
some trifling bequests — a legacy of one
hundred pounds among the rest to Miss
Grinstead. Every eye rested critically on
Farmer Cowlamb, who was sole executor,
notably the ' parson,' the inference drawn
that his daughter was the legatee mentioned.
The solicitor stated that Mr. Long had given
him instructions to draw up this will, and he
was to have met Mr. Long, but a telegram
reached him stating that he was to wait until
he heard from Mr. Long again. The properly
attested will Mr. Long had taken away
with him, expressing an intention of destroying
it himself. Even if he had destroyed it,
and this instrument had been properly attested,
where was Iphis Long? The solicitor thought
that hi the absence of any will the heir-at-law
must inherit. Had Mr. Long confided anything
to Miss Grinstead. She could only
repeat what Mr. Long had said disconnectedly
of Mr. Cowlamb. She had written to Mr.

Cowlamb to that effect as soon as Mr. Long
was dead.

There is nothing for it but a search,' said
the Haveluck lawyer ; ' he may not have destroyed
that will after all.'

Mr. Long's desk, Mr. Long's corner closet
were examined, drawers tapped, all Miss Grinstead's
keys requisitioned. The dining-room
table was strewed with papers and documents,
some of value. Every hole and corner was
ransacked, but no will was forthcoming. The
lawyer sat down profoundly cogitating. At
last he turned to Miss Grinstead.

Did Mr. Long burn any papers ? '

Miss Grinstead shook her head.

I must have seen him, or heard him,
if he did. Although,' added she, ' he was
curious since he returned home.'

She looked across at Cowlamb, who sat
fidgeting, inwardly apostrophising the great
misfortune it was to him, this incomplete
testament and condition.

i He had been out,' interposed the lawyer,
1 where ? '

He went home with Mr. Cowlamb from
Haveluck, eight weeks ago.'

Eight weeks ? Why that would be the
day he came to my office, and gave me the
draft. I recollect he said I should be met at
Moortown in the morning. A telegram was
put into my hand as I was going down to
the railway station. Of course Mr. Long

explained to me " The lawyer caught

sight of Cowlamb and refrained; i he certainly
took the old will away with him ; very odd,
very odd man. Mr. Cowlamb, you do not
know whether he destroyed any papers at
your house ? '

No,' said Cowlamb, curtly. ' He kept it
close if he did. He was nobbut a night at
my house.'

The will he took away was executed
seven years ago. I thought it a very just
and equitable will.'

Every one was silent. At last, with the

abruptness of a happy thought, the lawyer
exclaimed — ' What clothes had he on that
day? Now I come to think of it, I remember
him placing it in his breast pocket, declaring
he would burn that himself, then he would
know that it was done.'

It was a black overcoat,' said Miss Grinstead,
in some excitement ; ' yes, there were
some papers in the breast pocket when I
brushed it. I took them out and put them
back again — he was in such a temper if he
did not find things where he left them. If
you will hand me the keys, sir, I will fetch
all his coats.'

While Miss Grinstead was away every one
sat in some perturbation, each one nevertheless
striving to appear staid and composed.
The lawyer was more excited than they all,
and showed it more, walking backwards and
forwards on the hearth rug, biting his iron-grey
moustache and pushing his fingers
through his hair.

After a time Miss Grinstead returned, her

arms burthened with coats. ' She was quite
out of breath. ' There are some more
panted she, ' but lie has not worn them
these twenty years.'

You are quite out of breath.' The
lawyer could not forbear smiling. ' If in
any coat, I should say it will be in the one
he wore the day he was at Haveluck.'

Miss Grinstead placed her hand in the
breast pocket and drew out an old pocketbook,
some loose papers, and letters in envelopes.


There it is! ' cried the lawyer, excitedly;
1 could swear to it anywhere.'

Every one now craned forward anxiously
every one except Cowlamb, who felt as if
he was out of place. Some rose, and the
lawyer commenced reading in the hurried
way peculiar to the profession.

A fortunate thing for you, Miss Grinstead
; you have an annuity of one hundred
pounds instead of the legacy for that sum.
I must say it was due to you. And you, sir,'

said the lawyer, turning and bowing to the
clergyman, ' have no reason to complain.'
One thousand pounds each was bequeathed to
three individuals not represented.

6 One of the men was over here last
summer,' said Miss Grinstead. ' I thought
he had come to borrow money, by what Mr.
Long said after he had gone. I know Mr.
Long gave him some. While he was here
Mr. Long would scarcely speak to him. I
thought Mr. Long was frightened of him. He
wouldn't have him stay in the house ; late as
it was he sent David off with him in the gig
to Haveluck.'

The owt man's bastards ! ' muttered
Cowlamb with quick intelligence ; no one
heard what Cowlamb did say, but every one
followed his facial gesture, and comprehended.


Cowlamb felt more and more uncomfortable.
His name was not even recorded.
Every one seemed to him to be looking at
him as if he was a defeated swindler. Cow-lamb

felt as if he was the victim of a heartless
hoax.

He carried his misery with him to Have-luck.
He felt completely out of joint. No
wonder that Ephraim was not impressed or
hopeful with his father-in-law's manner towards
him. The farmer was sour and would
not look at him — a sardonic, hard smile about
his mouth. He had some disparaging
allusion to Iphis 's baggage. Ephraim had
intended to journey with them, but he was
overruled by Iphis. The furniture was not
out of the house.

• If the railway-man does come for it, you
can come by the last train, Ephraim, or else in
the morning.'

Cowlamb never so much as uttered a word
in acquiescence. Iphis, with her shawls and
sundry parcels in her arms, was standing at
her father's side. Ephraim felt it almost like
a separation. At last they were gone, and
he felt very miserable. The house, in the
throes of dismemberment, seemed to impress

him with the bitterness of desolation. Everything
was in the front room, the bed tied up,
all in waiting for the lax railway lorry man.
He wished he had got some one to help him
down with them to the railway station. He
counted his money, he wished he had a glass
of ale. At last he rushed out of the door.

Iphis was just climbing into the trap when
Ephraim came up almost breathless. He had
a limp parcel in his hand, and went round to
the back of the trap ; Farmer Cowlamb
observing him, produced his key.

What have you got there ? ' asked Iphis,
and her father looked inquiringly.

Haddocks ! ' replied Ephraim, ' I
thought you'd like to take some home with
you.'

Farmer Cowlamb' s face relaxed a little.
He took the key, but without looking at
Ephraim, raid got up by the side of Iphis.

i Clk ! ' to the horse ; a shrewd puckering
of his lip, and a gleam in his eyes, showed
that Cowlamb was amused with the turn

his son-in-law's thoughtfulness took. Iphis
watched her father a little shamefacedly.
Did Ephraim bring this present as a sop to ingratiate
himself ? Ephraim was an odd fellow ;
she was willing to admit that there was something
about him very boyish. Scarcely a
word passed between father and daughter.
Iphis knew her father ; it was no light thing
that had changed him ; in the morning he had
been equable and smooth. Would he tell
her ? She did not dare to ask him any
questions. It was something connected with
Mr. Long's affairs. He had had to endure a
greater mortification than the loss even of Mr.
Long's money. She was almost afraid he
would tell her. Something of it did come
before they reached home ; what he did tell
her was given with stoical bitterness. His
voice was hard and clear, but his pride had
suffered — he had felt himself humiliated.
He did not say so to her, but he felt that the
finger of every one there pointed to him with
scorn as a base and greedy schemer. Iphis

almost trembled for Ephraim, and began to
think with Ephraim that it was a risk giving
up their independence, that there might be
war, and happiness between man and wife
destroyed. Ephraim had spirit when
driven into a corner, and Iphis knew how
exasperating and persistent her father could
be, how sternly he would strive to bend
every one to his will, and if he set himself *
against any one how difficult a matter rein-station
in his goodwill became.

Cowlamb did not touch upon the episode
of the will, of the persons who inherited, of
Mr. Long's blood but not of his name. He
mentioned Miss Grins teat's good fortune
sulkily. He had set her down as the fuller,
who by her looks towards him gave the rest
of the company the cue. No doubt Miss
Grinstead and the lawyer had had it all over
before he arrived at the old house.

Iphis did not reach home with an assured
heart. Her mother was standing at the
door, her lips in utter subjection. Before she

spoke she must be sure of her lord ; her
husband looked more miserable than herself,
so she contented herself with a calm greeting.

Where stammered she, * where' s — thy
husband ? '

1 Oh, Ephraim. he'll be here tomorrow
morning,' replied Iphis, brightening.

I got the house aired yonder,' volunteered
Mrs. Cowlamb for the information of Iphis,
and to obtain approval from her husband.
1 There's some good fires yonder '

The farmer silenced his wife with a look.

1 Hadn't thou in for taking her in ? ' he
inquired, contemptuously. ' Iphis went go
yonder by lessen. She'll stop here. Let's
ha' some tea, missis, quick ! I solidly want
my tea. The lass Tl be faint, I know.'

- There's some haddocks in the trap, I'd
forgotten. I'll go fetch 'em — we'll have some
cooked. Xo, mother, they went spring your
bars, they can be done in the oven.

CHAPTER 39.

CLOUDS.

And so, according to all precedent, the story
should end here. Love's course, hitherto not
smooth, has consummated in wedlock, the
rebellious daughter pardoned, the audacious
lover receiving some toleration because it is
always wise as necessary to make the best of
things when they come to the worst. The
cruel father having relented, becomes the good
parent, and every one lives happily ever after.
Alas ! it is not always so ; it is not so here.
Life has in it many of the elements of the
fairy tale, if we could see it so. In fairy lore
we come across the disturbers of the balance
of peace, and some of us are rather sceptical
of these personages remaining quiescent forever

and a day. In real life peace is often
armed, and an armed peace, we are given to
understand, is dangerous to the commonweal.
If we ourselves accept circumstances under
protest, do we not feel at perfect liberty to
rise in revolt when we feel ourselves strong
enough ? Our words are smooth and the
wind of our temper is becalmed, but a becalmed
sea is only too often a sure indication
of a storm held in reserve.

Seed-time and harvest came and passed.
Reprimand Iphis, ensconced hi their trim little
house, seemed to have settled down into staid,
married folk. The harmony seemed complete.
Ephraim carried her weekly baskets of butter
and eggs down to Farmer Cowlamb's house,
and then Iphis followed after to ride down to
market in her father's trap. The market day
is the farmer's jour de la semaine. Only
Ephraim had a tendency to be too fond of
company, the market-merry farmers, and
occasionally he received a lecture from Iphis
for such delinquencies, and sometimes a severe

VOL. III. o

glance from Farmer Cowlamb. But the
summer was tided over without any rupture.

It was true that Ephraim was not regarded
by the labourers with any degree of caution
or respectful deference. He made himself
too much one with them. His father-in-law
was somewhat disgusted that it did not come
naturally to Ephraim to hold his own. But
the farmer was more exasperated with
Ephraim than he had ever been since the
couple returned, when he caught the married
man playing at pitch and toss with a young
labourer and the wagoner in the middle of
the day. The daily man was paid off, the
waggoner had a short shrift, and Ephraim
did not escape the gibes and jeers of his irate
father-in-law. This was really the first tiffin
the armed peace, the casus belli. Hostilities
commenced in a desultory way, but all the
raids and smothered abuse coming from
Farmer Cowlamb. And how did Ephraim
marshal his forces ? Foolishly. He dodged
the farmer. He would go anywhere to get

out of the farmer's sight ; was known even to
sneak into the hothouse, until Iphis felt that
she must soon despise her husband. Ephraim
had long been gradually losing his spirit ;
moreover, he was too anxious to avoid a
serious disturbance. Farmer Cowlamb did
not round on Ephraim fiercely ; he sneered
at him, reproached him with curled lip and
impatient eye, talked at him. If Ephraim
strove to look after things zealously, Farmer
Cowlamb showed an incredulous eye. The
greatest grievance, though, with the farmer,
was Ephraim's well-to-do uncle, who had not
1 pottered out,' as Cowlamb remarked sourly
to his wife.

Ephraim rose morning after morning in
the cold spring to look after the sheep, and
Iphis, hoping to mitigate her father's harshness,
alluded to her husband's anxiety and
attention. But the farmer retorted ungenerously.


He'd better lig i' bed. What good ud he
do? Shepherd knows his work. Larn ?'

Cowlamb's lip curled with contempt.

Ephraim heard it, and afterwards termed
his father-in-law in no graceful lan^uao'e, ' an
owt fool,' which Iphis resented hotly.

You've no reason to call him a fool after
all he's done for you.' She was a spitfire
against any one who maligned her father.

I'll warrant it,' cried Ephraim with
sulky hopelessness, ' I can't be right between

memphis

half regretted her heat, for in
common justice she must admit that Ephraim
had to endure much unmerited obloquy
and persecution. Still, she could not stand by
and hear her father railed at so gracelessly.

I wish we'd never left Haveluck,' sighed
Ephraim. ' I guessed how it would all end.
I'm a dummy, my hands and my feet are
tied, an' my mouth shut. If I do do anything
on my own hook, I'd no business to do it, an'
if I don't do things I'm good for nothing.
I've a good mind to bolt. What's the use o'
me stopping here while I ain't got the spirit

of a mouse. I sell be flaring up some day an'
making things worse. I've a good mind to
be off back to Haveluck, an' if you can get on
better wi'out me than wi 1 me, well an' good.
It's like being buried alive, an' if I drop into
a public-house when I go to Moortown, it's
eyes and limbs from you, an' him, if you don't
say much. I want a bit o' something else
but work an' sleep. We was comfortable at
Haveluck, lass ; I wish we never had left,
Iphis — that I do.'

I don't,' said Iphis, bluntly. ' We couldn't
ha' lived there as we have done here. You
don't go on right somehow, Ephraim, with
father, and I don't know how it is.'

But I do,' proceeded Ephraim. ' He's
never fancied me, Iphis, and he never will,
that's just it. Look here, Iphis, if I was to
go yonder to work aegean, I could come
backwards and forwards.'

Ephraim spoke plausibly, but Iphis scouted
the idea. ' Such rubbish ! ' retorted she, scorn-folly.


Shortly afterwards Ephraim went upstairs
and changed his clothes. Iphis followed him
out.

Where are you going, Ephraim? ' asked
she.

1 To Moortown,' returned he, a little
maliciously.

1 Not to Haveluck ? ' inquired she, anxiously.


No.' A smile transformed him into the
old Ephraim, so that her mind was set at rest,
and her heart warmed towards him.

What are you going' to Moortown for? '

y To see about some management.' (Management
is a term for manure.)

Iphis, although no longer suspicious of
him, could not forbear thinking the journey
was unnecessary.

Farmer Cowlamb espied Ephraim coming
down the lane.

1 Now, what's yon creature in his head ? '
muttered Cowlamb to his wife. He waited.

He's gone past the gate,' said Mrs. Cow-lamb,

with her facility of helping a lame dog
over a stile.

Heigh,' assented her husband, rushing
bareheaded out of the house and through the
gate, to shout after his bete noire , a hundred
yards ahead, and only visible from the waist
upwards owing to the descent of the road.
1 Heigh ! ' shouted Cowlamb, with the fluttering
newspaper in his hand. ■ Where art

ee

gom t

1 To Moortown,' shouted Ephraim.

What for? '

To tell 'ein we'll fetch that muck i' the
morning.'

Humph,' muttered the half appeased
farmer. i One o' the lads mud ha' gone
down; leaving yon lass by lessen.'

Ephraim not hearing any more proceeded
on his journey, and Farmer Cowlamb, his thin
hair stirring in the breeze, went into the
house again. But he could not settle himself
down again to reading the newspaper. After
fidgeting about he got up.

Yon creature's left yon lass by her sen, an'
you know how she's fixed, one on us ought
to go down. I'm suer I can't sit here wi' her
yonder by lessen. She sed have a little lass.
There's Groundsel, he's a been, they'd be
glad to get her her vittles out. Now, see
Groundsel's wife i th' morning, d' ye
hear? '

Im suer she owt to ha' somebody,'
whined Mrs. Cowlamb.

Then why didn't ye say so afore?' demanded
Cowlamb, up in arms in a moment.
You women ought to manage all such affairs
among ye. Bless my soul, to think I ha' to
think about such things. If you'd hed a houseful
o' barns i'steacl o' that one lass maybe
you'd been different. Bud you'd everything
ready to your hands months afore.'

Mrs. Cowlamb received her husband's
contumelious snarl with great docility. Her
rejoinder came from her point of vantage, the
pantry.

c I don't see you've any call to go on like

that,' deprecated she, 'when th' nurse 'ill
come at five minutes' notice.'

"Well, are you going down, or am I ? '

I can't,' answered Mrs. Cowlamb, despairingly.
' How can I ? I've got the butter
to make up, I durst let that gell do it wi'out
me being there. She'd put over much salting
or not hase mix it, or leave a lot of the
buttermilk in. She'd never hase work it.'

'Bah ! ' said the farmer, contemptuously,
then I nun go down.'

And it came to pass that Cowlamb,
whenever Ephraim left the house, said nothing
to him, never attempted to intercept him, or
ask him the why and the wherefore. The
simple fact that Ephraim was in the lane
making his way down was the signal for
Cowlamb to reach down his hat. He waited
until he judged that Ephraim had passed
the house end, then he would sally out in
the direction Ephraim had traversed. It
happened that Ephraim became alive to this ;
turning round he would catch a glimpse of

his father-in-law doggedly taking the way he
had come. Iphis always told her husband
when her father had been at the house, and
at last Ephraim rejoined bitterly.

1 He takes good care he doesn't come to
the house when I am at home. He'll be
round the closes i' th' day, but he'll harding
lev a word wi' me.'

Ephraim felt his position acutely. Cow-lamb
could laugh at him. Ephraim, no
matter how grave his quarrel, could not
forbid his father-in-law the house when it
and everything on the land belonged to him,
and everything was in his name. Ephraim,
as he felt hand and tongue tied, drifted more
and more to Moortown, and some who loved
dissensions in families as capital food for
gossip retailed their opinion as to the precious
son-in-law the astute Cowlamb had got. But
is it not the nature of some people to regard
the fortunate with malignancy, as if to gain
their eminence, the well-placed had walked
over the necks of the scoffers ? No people

were fonder of discussing the matter than
members of Cowlamb's own body, the
brethren of his class less mealy-mouthed than
any. Ephraim at length got to turn and
sarcastically watch his father-in-law stumping
away up the lane. Looking behind him
was not a habit with Cowlamb. He had a
sidelong* twitch in his loins which became
more characteristic of him year by year.
This peculiarity was only made more manifest
by the stiffening of his joints. Neither
Ephraim nor Iphis seemed to observe that the
farmer was aging, that his ill temper was
in a measure due to an unrecognised feeling
of failing strength. Mrs. Cowlamb observed
that her husband passed more time in the
house, that he had longer rests after meals,
although his vigour to her was apparently the
same, his energy as pronounced. Cowlamb
himself never stave it a thought that he had
aged quicker the last two years than the ten
before them. He knew well enough that he
was not so nimble and good a man as he was

ten years ago ; lie did not expect that lie was
going to live for ever, or even retain all his
faculties and his strength to the last day of
his life. Something must go. He felt himself
a little stiffer, a little older, that was all,
and he counted on some years yet. Perhaps
he believed himself a better man than he really
was. Had Ephraim comprehended that much
of his father-in-law's credulous humour was
due to a breaking up, perhaps his conduct
would have been different. For Ephraim was
certainly in fault in many instances — careless,
imprudent, and shallow. His visits to Moor-town
became more and more frequent, and his
stay when he got there more and more prolonged.


CHAPTER 40.

GODFATHERS.

Matters seemed to have got to their worst
when there occurred an interesting event.
A birth. And twins, and both boys. The
farmer was extravagantly exhilarated. It
seemed to put new life in him. He even
became jocular. He could regard Ephraim
with a more lenient eye. He rallied Ephraim.
To ears refined his figure of speech would
have sounded somewhat coarse. But certain
occurrences in farming life are freely discussed
before the sex without exciting shame or
repulsion. Ephraim carried himself a little
self-consciously, too, it must be confessed.
The poor lad really thought that there was
now a truce to all his troubles. They were

a pair of ' wick ' babes, with their black
downy skulls and dark eyes, favouring
Ephraim both of them. One's impression,
beholding a head at either end of the cradle,
was as if some more startling freak of nature
had occurred. They might have reached the
age of a month, when one morning Ephraim
and Iphis beheld the grandfather making
for the house with something under his arm.
Their greatest expectations were raised. It
was something worth having, they felt confident.
Their expectations were scarcely realised
when the farmer, unfolding the last week's
Mercury,' produced two money boxes of
substantial build and weight, made by the
village carpenter out of elm, ends of coffin
planking. They were varnished over, and it
was still very sticky, and the initials of each
babe were placed on the box designed for it,
large enough to read without spectacles.

There ! ' said Farmer Cowlamb, as he
placed the boxes on the table, retreating a
little distance away from them, his eye ranging

over them admiringly ; ' now that's not half a
bad job. Carpenter's made 'em. I've put
summits in mysen,' taking up a box, and
giving it a convincing shake ; ' bud I shan't
tell what it is. An' them boxes isn't to be
broken open a neither. Thee, Iphis — the
lasses used to stick a knife in the hole when
thou wast a been, and draw th' pennies out ;
th' hussies. No lass '11 draw out o' this.
Just try.'

A piece of elastic web nailed inside round
the slit prevented abstraction. He ' took up a
table knife, showing her the impracticability.

1 Ephraim, hast thou heard from that owt
uncle o' thine ? He owt to come out now.
One on 'em christened ester me, t'other ester
him. He mud ha' hed his pick if he thowt
good to come, bud I'll be clawed if I can tell
t'other from which. There's a little bit o'
difference if you come to look close, bud
they're like pays in a pod for sure. I say,
Ephraim, Bean ought to come out.'

He's over close,' said Ephraim, hopelessly,

■ though he has gen me a sovereign or two
added he in extenuation.

1 He's over scar'd o' thou spending,' said
Cowlarab, sarcastically. ' He holds hard.
Well, maybe I oughtn't to blame him. You
did write an' tell him you'd christened one on
'em ester him.'

Yis,' said Ephraim, i bud he never writ
back.' Ephraim would never have written
had he not been urged to do so by Farmer
Cowlamb.

I mud as well write an' tell the Duke o'
Wellington I've called a been after him,'
Ephraim had remarked grumblingly to his
wife.

I sell be on to him,' said Cowlamb, determinedly.
1 1 know what he said to me.'

Ephraim' s eyes opened. What had old
Bean said ? Ephraim never had learned that
anything had passed between the two men.
Ephraim looked inquiringly at Colambre

farmer noticed Ephraim's surprised
face. He had a dry, chuckling, masterful

laugh. • Oh, it's nowt that contains you so
much as it does me,' said Cowlamb, encouragingly.


The highly gratified transparent spent
some half hour longer whistling to the infants,
advising Iphis as to the rearing of them, and
recounting peculiarities and traits of her
infancy, and that of her brothers, when they
were just such mites. It was very interesting,
no doubt, to all concerned, less so to outsiders.


The fortnight market was held on the
morrow. Every alternate market day there
was a great influx of stock into Moortown,
and much business was done. Towards the
evening of that day an old man, stout and
burly, was observed by Cowlamb, making his
way towards Ephraim's.

Where's the clean towel ? ' shouted Cow-lamb,
in the anger of hurry. His hands were
wet, and he had a sudden desire to get down
to Ephraim's. ' Yon's Bean, off down to
Iphis's. I nun go an' all.' He looked in at

VOL III. p

the kitchen. Mrs. Cowlamb was not there.
He was in a fume. Then Sarah, the servant,
appeared.

Where's the towel ? Where's your
missis?' Cowlamb's tempest abating.

She has just gone to fetch one, sir,' said
Sarah.

The present maid servant was one who
stood upon her dignity, spoke much better
language than either master or mistress, was
keen and intelligent ; moreover good-looking.
And she had a temper ; more than once she
had startled her mistress, even to making
Cowlamb's hair almost rise. It was astonishing
the respect and forbearance she commanded.
Mrs. Cowlamb sometimes wondered if she was
herself, she had got into such a dainty way of
requesting her girl to do anything.

Sarah had, however, obtained the good
opinion of the master. She had assented so
willingly to go down to Iphis's and make
herself useful. Iphis indeed felt herself
owing a great debt to the good-looking,

neat-handed Phillips, who did not weigh her
services or give them grudgingly or with eye
service.

Yon's Bean,' said Cowlamb to his wife.
I saw him at market, but he was throng, 1 so
I didn't cm bother him. I thowt he'd ozone
home by that two train. Fetch me my
hankicher — that black silk 'un. I wonder if
Iphis has any gin i' the house ! '

Cowlamb nearly choked himself tying his
neckerchief, he was in so violent a hurry. Ashe
whisked off after jobber Bean, his wife
muttered dismally, S More hurry, less speed.'

Cowlamb found Mr. Bean ensconced in
Iphis's kitchen, regarding Iphis' s babies with
some jovial amusement in his face. He was
asking Iphis which was his and which was
Cowlamb' s, joking with her on their points of
resemblance. A good understanding seemed
to have become quickly established between
the old man and the young wife and mother.
Cowlamb came in boisterously. Iphis fancied

Busy.

that a shade of annoyance swept over Mr.
Bean's face.

Now, Bean, pretty doings, eh ? Twins
first off. Them chaps run double.'

Single, Cowlamb ; one's thine, one's
mine.'

Art satisfied ? Thou could ha' had
thy pick, but we was bound to have 'em
named.'

Oh, it's all right. They're brant l an' no
mistake.'

Mr. Bean stayed tea, and so did Cowlamb,
and any shadow there might be quickly passed.
They had become so communicative over their
past experiences, their uphill fight, they might
have been brothers long separated rejoicing,
now they had come together, on the success
which had crowned their efforts. Ephraim
was astonished at his father-in-law's condescension.
Cowlamb apparently was warming
to him, and Ephraim, easily stirred, talked like
an oracle, and laughed and chattered now and

1 Erect,

again, without feeling he was so much on
sufferance or under criticism.

Cowlamb did not forget to call Bean's
attention to the primitive money boxes. Bean
responded, but Cowlamb was greatly disappointed
to find that he only favoured one, but
Cowlamb thought it prudent not to notice such
invidiousness. He was mortified when, a
week or two later, an engraved silver mug came
for Mr. Bean's namesake. Farmer Cowlamb
had to do the same for his protege. He was
not slow to disburse his money, but he could
not help looking upon the purchase of a silver
mug as a stupid way of benefiting a baby,
when the baby would be just as well satisfied
with one of sound block tin ; later on in
life, with one of china, on which might be a
picture of Haveluck Tower or Treminster
Cathedral, with the inscription to certify that
it was a present from a relative.

Mr. Bean and Mr. Cowlamb, after tea,
walked round the house and then through the
fields, their thumbs in the armholes of their

waistcoats. Their faces were grave as judges,
and their conversation as profound. Ephraim
followed in their wake, pensive and serious,
Cowlamb inwardly anathematising him for
hanging unto them. Cowlamb was waiting
for Bean ' to put his foot into it' — namely,
commit himself where he could not well
withdraw ; but Bean as cleverly evaded
Cowlamb's feints. Cowlamb believed that
Bean was chary of speaking, lest foolish
Ephraim, sneaking behind, should have his
hopes raised extravagantly high. Cowlamb at
last succeded in detaching Ephraim, sending
him off to his own house with some message.
Ephraim, elate with the fancy that he had
crept into his old uncle's favour, went off
with alacrity.

Iphis inside the house was quite shrewd
enough to determine her father's idea, getting
Bean out of the house. She was exasperated
at Ephraim rising and following them. He
would spoil everything ; she would have
stopped him had she foreseen his intention.

She was not too proud to receive material
assistance or advancement from a well-to-do
relative. It is the custom. If a man is poor
he soon succeeds in getting the wife if someone
else has the promise of a farm in reserve
for him. Both sides do all they can to start
the beginners. Here, so far, Cowlamb had
done everything, but for all that Ephraim did
not hold the reins yet, and that comforted
Cowlamb. Iphis knew that her father could
do very well without the other side meeting
him, but there was a sort of etiquette about it.

To have looked at the round-faced stumpy
Bean, and to have heard him talk, any one
would have imagined him a simple, guileless
old fellow, so easily led that he would sow his
money broadcast if so advised. Farmer Cow-lamb
would not have given him that character.
Cowlamb knew him as straight and holding
to his word, paying to the uttermost farthing,
but still holding to his luck tenaciously as he
now held to his bank-book.

Mr. Bean succeeded in getting away

without being compelled to touch definitely
upon money matters ; succeeded in shelving
Cowlamb's hints and innuendoes ; got away in
fact without committing himself to promising
anything, and Cowlamb was more vexed than
he cared to say. He felt himself too proud
to ask this old fellow, or remind him of his
promise. Bean was not Ephraim's father ;
he was but a distant relative. But if he
meant to fall to, why did he not say
something.

Iphis looked up with an inquiring
movement of her eyebrows. Her father was
amused to discover her supreme cleverness.
But he turned his head away from her in the
humour he was in, a tantalising humour.
Then he relented ; the lass, deep as a well,
knew what he had ' 'tired ' Bean out of the
house for. He looked at her with a dolorous
shake of the head.

Bean's a close man ! '

CHAPTER 41.

A Contre TEMPS.

A nod from some wiseacre may decide the
destiny of a world. Mr. Bean seemed to have
decided the destiny of the unfortunate Ephraim.
Beyond the silver mug there came no other
testimony of regard or proffer of support.
Nor did Mr. Bean repeat his visit, although
it was well known to every one interested that
he showed his face periodically in Moortown.

It became a harder battle for Ephraim.
His father-in-law's urbanity soon wore off ; if
anything, his latter humour was worse than
his former. If Ephraim now spoke he had to
endure a fiery sarcasm or a torrent of invective.
When a man talks another down with a
torrent of words he is using the last argument

of an unreasonable man. Either his position
is untenable or he relies on brutal violence.
Ephraim had his revenge, however, in making
Cowlamb thoroughly miserable ; escaping at
every opportunity, and, to Moortown company
in Moortown publics, half-befuddled
Ephraim held up his august father-in-law to
ridicule, and even went so far as to give versions
of their squabbles. It came to Cowlamb' s
ears. It incensed him more. The trick of
slipping oiF to Moortown grew upon Ephraim.
He was restless at home. He seemed to
have acquired a fondness too for drink. Iphis
could have communicated many a sorry tale
to her father, but, woman-like, she concealed
what she could of her husband's lapses. Cow-land
learned much, but not half. What he
did get to know incensed him to fever heat.

The climax came at last. One morning
when Cowlamb reached the little house Iphis
was busy churning, but Ephraim was nowhere
to be seen. Cowlamb was suspicious, for
Ephraim generally undertook that task. To

all her father's inquiries Iphis returned anything
but explicit answers ; until, forced into
a corner, Iphis was fain to admit that Ephraim
had not risen.

Cowlamb for a moment could not speak
for indignation. Early rising with him was
a cardinal point, the reverse a deadly sin.
Ephraim, who was rising, was a most uncomfortable
auditor. He had reached home
late the previous night. The fun had been
fast and furious, and Ephraim awoke at working
time with the penalty of a terrible head.
Ephraim stood out of the range of the window
as if riveted to the floor, expecting every
moment Cowlamb's voice at the stair's foot.
But after a volley of vituperative condemnation,
and with a threat of showing his
authority in some most humiliating manner,
the farmer turned on his heel and strode
towards home to his breakfast.

Ephraim then ventured to descend, and
Iphis, who was at least happy in that her
butter had come with little trouble, came into

the kitchen too, and both sat down to
breakfast. No words were spoken. Iphis
was afraid to tell her husband what had
passed ; in some way she had a suspicion
that lie had heard all or most of it. Some
feeling of pity stirred her woman's breast.
In her heart she knew how much her father
had contributed to Ephr aim's downward
course. At last, when Ephraim rose from
the table, he hesitated a moment or two, as if
to say something. She had surmised all the
breakfast hour that he was turning something
over in his mind. He reached the house door
as if he could not frame what he wished
to say. Then he turned back. She spoke
faintly: —

Where are you going ? '

1 To Moortown ' he paused again.

1 Iphis, you needn't take on if I don't get home
to-night.'

To-night ! what call ha' you to be
stopping out all night ? '

Well, I want to go to Haveluck.'

Did you hear father this morning ? ' asked
she faintly again.

1 Yis, I did. I can't stand it no longer.
I've a sorry time on it. I can't do owt right
to suit him, and if I say a word aegean him I
git wrong wi' you. We'd no trouble o' this
sort at Haveluck — I didn't spree about there.
Whose fault is it, I should like to know?
I'm not running away from thou,' said he,
more tenderly — ' I can't and weaned stand it
any longer. I'd sooner go backwards an'
forwards to Haveluck to work week by week ;
but that wouldn't suit your father, I know.
So I'm going to git work aegean, if I can, an'
if you weaned leave this foul place, you nun
stay for what I know, bud Fll not stand it
no longer. I'll have a house o' my awn, an'
ha' no man's interference ; I'm tired o' being;
led by a string.'

Iphis could not bluster as her father
would have done. She could not take exception
to what Ephraim said, for much of it
was truth. He spoke with miserable bitterness,

his last evening's frolic no doubt giving
him occasion to feel as miserable as he spoke.

Good-bye, lass, for a bit,' said Ephraim,
kissing her before she was aware of his intention.


The sun was rising above a bank of turbulent
cloud, gilding the crest, long, low,
delicate shades of blue grey, melting into
warmer tints of orange upwards ; adown the
sloping hill sides the trees standing out sharp
as silhouettes, and the air keen with a biting
frost. The morning and the contretemps
seemed exactly fitted to each other.

He took a short cut across the fields. He
would have gone out of his way to avoid
Cowlamb's house. This short cut led him
to the side of the railway, and Iphis knew
that he would have but little time to spare if
he caught the train.

Tears came into Iphis 's eyes, seeing her
departing errant husband. She had not had
time to reason with him, she was so taken
aback ; she had not wit enough to temporise.

She herself wished now that they had never
left Haveluck. But she was not one to sit
down and weep over her troubles. She tossed
her print bonnet upon her head. There is
more than one way of wearing a print bonnet.
She wore hers in a coquettish style, the curtain
a halo to her back hair, and the front
doubled back. She must go to her father and
see what was to be done.

Having had his breakfast, Cowlamb was
in a much more approachable mood.

1 Now, then, has that creature got up ? I
asked he with quite a different inflection.

He's got up an' gone.'

Gone ? Where ? Oh, the alehouse again,
I'se think.'

Nay, he hasn't,' said Iphis with some
indignation, ' he's gone to the railway station.
He's gone to seek for work, an' we're going
back to Haveluck if he get's into work there.'

And then Iphis took refuge in copious
tears.

If her father was not softened he was

somewhat disconcerted. He had not expected
such a denouement. He had not expected
such determination in the too easily yielding
Ephraim. He looked at Iphis with a puzzled
air. Something about her touched him. She
had lost something of her roundness ; the cares
of maternity, her ' stomach for work as he
termed it, had contributed to the sharpening
of features and physique. And yet she was
a delightful picture of a young mother, sorrowful
and in distress. He was fain to acknowledge
to himself that if Ephraim had
shown more temper at first, he himself would
have been less overbearing and captious. But
he allowed the thought to pass, and mixed
what he really did not mean with what he
did.

Nay, thou hadn't a going, an' he's best
away. He'll never do thee no good. You'll
get on a dele better be'out him, so mop up
thy tears quick '

Iphis ceased weeping, and stared at her
father incredulously. She turned as if to go

back — her trouble without alleviation in this
quarter.

Sit down wi' thee said Cowlamb, hurriedly,
at his wit's end, half afraid she would
set off too with her babes on her back. c I
nun see what's to be done.' Then as if to
shelve the question, he said encouragingly and
hypocritically, ' He'll be back soon, I'll uphold
it ; he's nobbut dene it but to scar' thee,
been, an' he thinks he's going' to owt sower
me.'

The farmer's words were lamentably deficient
in confidence; Iphis could detect the
falsity of the ring.

Just at this moment the subject of all this
heartburning had taken his seat in a railway
carriage, not at all comfortable with himself,
an uneasy impression on his mind that he
had been too precipitate. The train was
moving ; Iphis up at her father's house heard
the whistle and the short puffs of the engine.

He's gone now,' wailed she.

Would it have been a comfort to her to

vol. in. Q

have realised his misery ; that he was lamenting
his hot temper ? But the die was cast.
Had he once looked back and seen the tearful
figure watching his departure incredulously,
he must have paused to consider whether
after all such a step was other than cruel.
But he had scrambled over the hedge too full of
his own wrongs, all eager to be at the railway
station before the train, his thoughts on before
him, his legs carrying him on apace as if fear
of pursuit added to their impetus.

All the way to Havel luck his only consolation
was the thought that his quarrel was
not with his wife. He had left her with a
kiss and a full explanation ; then he felt very
heartsick, for the foolish, headstrong fellow
did love her most tenderly, and he began to
think that he was a good-for-nothing scoundrel
after all.

The high tower, the tall masts, the acres
of new brick and mortar presented themselves
in due succession, not though to him with any
honest claim to welcome. There was a slight

straggling advance beyond the old limit, unfinished
streets now occupied, and precisely
garnished with blinds and door-knockers. He
almost felt as if he had been away ten years.
He sprang out when the train came to a
stand; he had scarcely reached the platform
when he felt his arm grasped, and a familiar
voice saluted him, ' Xow — my — lad, what
art ee coin' here ? ' Ephraim looked round
to stare into the face of his tenacious relative,
Mr. Bean. What surprised Mr. Bean most
was Ephraim clad in his work-day garb — a
farmer generally goes smart to market or fair.
Mr. Bean waited for Ephraim to explain.
But as Ephraim failed to do so, and likewise
carried a most dejected, sullen look in his face,
the old man began to form some conjecture
that something had gone wrong.

Is anything the matter ? If there is, let's
be knowing. Time's money wi' me, an' I
nun be down in Freeman Street.'

Th' owt man ,' replied Ephraim,

doggedly. ' We can't hit it nohow.'

q 2

1 know he ran be maister beast acknowledged
Mr. Bean somewhat partisans. ' Bud
suer-ly thou hasn't left that fine lass ? ' added
the old man with some concern. ' That'll never
do. Thou hasn't fallen out wi' her suer-ly? '

i No,' declared Ephraim, eagerly ; ' I told
her we would lev a house in Haveluck aegean,
an' I'd go back to my trade.'

1 Cit ! cit ! Thou ought to ha' tried to
get on wi' Cowlamb. He's getting owt ; he's
gone off finely these few years, an' who is
there for his money? Sam killed hissed wi'
drink ; t'other son, they tell me, is as bad
or worse. Ha' you done a fair thing by Cow-lamb
? '

Ephraim hung his head, but contrived to
stammer forth some of his wrongs.

i Ah, bud you inn go back,' declared Mr.
Bean, defying argument. ' This'll never do.
You nun put up wi' th' owt man somehow.'

As Mr. Bean did not suggest the how,
Ephraim rebelliously affirmed he did not
mean to go back. Perversely he said it ; only

a few moments before he had been wishing
he was back. Mr. Bean had told him his
duty without suggesting how he could return
with honour. Ephraim had in his mind's eye
the sorry figure he should cut returning
craven.

Thou does' like facing 'em? ' said Bean,
shrewdly.

Ephraim scratched his head with a puzzled
air.

1 Well, thee, I'll go back wi' thee, an' see
what's to be done. I can make it right, my
lad, I know what ails him. An' what art
thou going to do? You'll maybe get into
mischief if thought left to thy sen. I'll not
lose sight o' thee. Remember thou keeps at
my coat tails. Thou can gie me a bed at
Willowby?'

The chance rencontre and day's fellowship
happened fortunately for Ephraim. It consolidated
Ephraim' s claim upon the well-to-do
jobber. Before the day was over Mr. Bean
formed the estimate that Ephraim only required

good handling, not ' cross-hopplm.'
He was a little taken with the lad's impromptu
tongue, his frankness, and open
nature. Ephraim might have been the old
man's Benjamin, the son of his old age. Mr.
Bean's cordiality and confidence went far to
dispel the cloud which had overshadowed
Ephraim. But Ephraim was a veritable
weathercock, full and sanguine, easily exalted
and excited, as easily depressed and cast
down. This last year of his life seemed to
him to have had more ups and downs in it
than the whole of his previous existence. He
had been poor, ill fed, and ill clad, but he had
never felt so utterly despondent and dispirited
as during the last twelve months.

1 Here, get thee gone,' said Bean, with
friendly deprecation ; • get off home to that
lass. It's no good thou showing thy face
here, thou'd be summits like a red rag to
Cowlamb.'

You'll come down, uncle — if I ha' to
pack ' added Ephraim, with a light laugh,

that rather tickled the old man, because
of the rascality lurking in laughter and
voice.

You'll none ha' to pack ; 1*11 uphold it
Cowlamb an' me settles the concern.'

Bean went in at Cowlamb's gate, and
Ephraim proceeded up the lane still further,
towards the home he had deserted. But now
that he was alone, much of his lighthearted -
ness left him. He felt that he was returning
like a prodigal. He was shamefaced at meeting
Iphis. He had half a mind to wait in the
lane until his relative's interview with Cow-lamb
was over. But he was uncertain how
long Bean would be there, and perhaps Iphis
would forgive him less readily if he took his
uncle there under present circumstances, without
giving her some word of warning.

He would go on ; if she had reproaches it
was better to get them over. The more he
thought about his abrupt departure, the more
contrite he felt. He had not until this day
realised how dear to him was the grasp of

those diminutive fists when he held out a
finger. When he reached the fields through
which he had to pass to reach the house, he
unconsciously quickened his pace; his eyes intently
fixed before him beheld a tall figure in
advance of him; she was in the last field.
How excited he became ; he began to run,
shouting ' Iphis ! '

He shouted again and believed himself
heard, for she stopped and turned round. As
soon as she discerned her recreant husband,
she began to retrace her steps to meet him.
How thankfully she noticed such a sign of
attachment ! Breathless, she had no words to
inquire the cause of his return, but she saw
by certain tokens in his face something had
occurred which would disperse all past worries
and herald a future which would have in
it something of the golden age. He looked
into her truthful eyes, round which there
were circles red and swollen, as if she had
been weeping. He saw no element of reproach
in them. Poor lass, the daughter had

merged into the wife Ah, to be under the
thumb of an obdurate father ! Poor women,
poor women, what have not some of them to
contend with ; their troubles may seem paltry
ones, but to them they are of great import !

She held out her arms in passionate entreaty,
and Ephraim clasped her to his breast.
He could hear her sobbing for joy or in relief;
he felt in his own eyes the hot tears of self-reproach,
and he vowed and declared that let
come what would, he would never desert her
again.

CHAPTER 42.

AN EXPLOSION.

The argument of jobber Bean was, no doubt,
weighty. Ephraim was to receive more consideration.
Moreover, he was to have the
land on his own hands — 'have his fling,' as
Cowlamb remarked to his wife afterwards,
make ' ducks and drakes ' of his and Bean's
money until Bean was tired.

And now the young people thought that
they would have no more trials. A few months
brought them into the winter. Ephraim
almost promised too much, reforming almost
too quickly. And Iphis was almost too ready
in accepting everything he said, in believing
his promises were stable and trustworthy. In
the exuberance of her faith she intimated to

her father the good intentions and resolutions
of her husband. It would have been harsh to
have dashed her faith. Ephraim had been a
model husband so far. Some market days he
had stayed late, but he had not returned
market merry ' or ' fresh.' But it was not in
Cowlamb's nature to be sanguine over backsliders
; in chapel when he came to hymns
under that head he thought Charles Wesley
had less knowledge and perception than he in
such matters. A person was incorrigible who
once had had his fling. If you gathered him
and held him tight, if you coaxed him, it
might endure for a season, but he was tolerably
certain to break loose again some day.
Cowlamb would have suffered Iphis to remain
fascinated in her silken web, only she reiterated
Ephraim and his sayings and promises
so much it irritated him. She was innocent
of any such design, but it almost seemed to
him as if she was triumphing over him ; at last
he exclaimed, rather more sadly than impatiently,
without meeting her eye, but with

the old, sullen curl of his lip, ' Aye, lass, promises
are like pie-crust.'

Iphis, quick to understand her father, refrained
from talking further. She was a little
grieved, but she thought to herself —

He's vexed. He thinks I believe everything
Ephraim says, before him.'

Still Ephraim continued sans reproche. He
had always gone Sunday by Sunday to
Willowby Chapel, sitting at the end of Cow-lamb's
pew, Iphis next to him, then Mrs.
Cowlamb, her lord at the pew door ready to
sally out with his plate when there was a
collection. Ephraim had become an exalted
person in the eyes of Willowby people of the
humbler class who frequented chapel. His
old master was exceedingly suave to him.
The blacksmith's wife, formerly so careless of
his creature comforts, remembered her sins
and hated him. Ephraim could tell that by
the glint of her eye, and her quailing. Towse
and his wife were afraid of looking at him, so
high up in the world he had climbed. It was

with a very deferential word they returned
Cowlamb's salutation, and the greeting they
had for Ephraim was hushed in the presence
of his father-in-law. Ephraim's lad acquaintances
looked on him with some admiration,
his boldness, his audacity, and the ease with
which he carried his prosperity, filled them
with wonder. There were a few who envied
him, and would not be upon speaking terms.
They might be diffident, but Ephraim could
afford to be careless and set them down as
no £great shakes.' It was a sight for them
to see him and Fanner Cowlamb walking
home together, Mrs. Cowlamb and Mrs.
Sparrow stopping for a little gossip at the
chapel gate. Ephraim did not lose an inch of
his height, he now wore superfine black cloth
and starched linen, and was crowned with a
glossy silk hat.

That Ephraim had squabbles with his
father-in-law was only too well known, but
Ephraim had his own injudicious self to thank
for much of that leaking out. But people

seeing the two walking home from chapel so
amicably could never believe that their quarrels
had ever been serious ones. Farmer
Cowlamb carried a stern look, but who ever
saw him other than grave and severe? When
he did laugh it was to make people uncomfortable.
His laughter seemed to have an inflection
of something sardonic ; its ring was
shrewd and unchallengeable. He was a
veritable Barrier with the lax and contemptible.
Even when honestly smiling he was
never credited with pure fun and humour.
How many of us are falsely estimated ! I get
the demerit of being close, proud, unyielding,
never stumbling, simply because I am chary
of words. You will speak out, a laugh ever
on your lips, and you gain the credit of being
open, frank — shall one say it? — a little ' sappy,'
easily twisted round a finger. You and I
have some mutual confidence. You have
told me that I have been ■ had ' in the matters
of crowns and half-sovereigns, that I am too
gullible. You know me as well as I know

you. I can come to you and tell you where
I have blundered, and where I ought to have
spoken. I know your advice is worth taking,
and your sympathy still more grateful. If
you say a cutting word, your tongue is so
glib, it is passed over ; if I venture so far I
make an enemy. You laugh at the world
under cover ; the world has no love for me,
that is all the difference. Few of us would
care to carry in our faces what we really are.
One's neighbour has a detestable habit of
ridiculing that which is pure, and most of us
lack the moral courage to stand up for purity.
One might moralise for a day on misunderstanding.
Farmer Cowlamb was a misunderstood
man in more senses than one, and he
knew it, not that that added to his comfort.
He felt himself a religious man as far as religion
went, but he did not consider that any
rascal was privileged to sponge upon him
because of his like profession. The farmer
was bitter against those members who used
their religion to cheapen a bargain, or as a

cloak to £0 a-borrowinor or a-beo^ino;, which
was much the same thing.

Ephraim, his eyes perhaps opened by his
sagacious uncle, discovered this winter that
Cowlamb did not go to and from chapel as he
used to do. He was slower, and his walking
was more laboured. But Cowlamb would not
acknowledge his failing powers. Never once
did he confide to his son-in-law that he felt
the weariness of his years.

Under the new arrangement the farmer
did not go down so frequently to Iphis's
house. Still he did not cease going entirely ;
sometimes Ephraim wanted his opinion, Cow-lamb
would not give it unsolicited. Cow-lamb
was greatly annoyed because Ephraim
employ 7 ed Towse occasionally, and although
he could offer no valid objection to that,
Cowlamb almost looked upon Towse being
there as a personal affront. He was very
sarcastic in his pleasantry with Towse, so
much so that Towse, looking after him, would
repeat to himself over and over again a segment

of his own philosophy. ' We sell livery
straight comedy, an' maybe wi'in retch

If Cowlamb saw anything wrong, it was
Iphis he told. If he disapproved of anything
he twitted her, but more in sorrow than in
anger. Ephraim bought a young blood
horse out of an Irish drove. Cowlamb reserved
his criticism, but he could not refrain
from some cynical pleasantry.

1 He'll hunt i' scarlet I'se think? '

1 It'll grow into money,' said Iphis, imbued
with her husband's sanguine faith.

The horse did improve, and every one considered
it not at all a bad investment ; but
that was not where the mischief lay. So
many horsey men from Moortown, fast acquaintances
of Ephraim' s, came up to look at
the young horse that half Ephraim's time
seemed to be taken up showing it. They
came on a Sunday, some of them, and Cow-lamb
criticised them as a godless crew, and
marked each man. Drawn in, Ephraim again
erred, stopping late on market nights, going

VOL. III. R

down to Moortown other nights, spending inconsequent
hours in the day gossiping in
butchers' shops or in the streets.

It'll come to horse-racing next,' remarked
Cowlamb, grimly. ' Well, Bean's bound with'
creature, so I shan't lose nowt first year.'

Cowlamb was more and more exasperated

when Ephraim refused to sell, and at a good


profit.

1 First money's best wi' them blood things, 7
said Cowlamb, with tart acrimony. 'What
d'ye know that'll happen? It'll eat its head
off. I never knew a loss farmer die rich.'

Why,' said Ephraim, naming a great
horse dealer, ' they say Cranfield died worth
a lot o' money, an' he had nowt but losses.'

He was worth more dead than alive then.
I once held him some seed corn. I was two
year gittin th' money. But do as you like.
I ain't interfered wi' ye much, I think. If
you'd dared your money i' causes '

And yet Ephraim was obstinate, Iphis
trembling. She feared this spider-legged

animal would be the constant source of bickering.
When it danced and jumped about she
was in nervous fear of her husband's limbs.
When Ephraim commenced to break it, her
days were days of apprehension, her nights
seasons of terror of what might happen on the
morrow.

It's a Seattle creator,' said Cowlamb, uncompromisingly;
l he'll break his neck, that '11
be the end on it.'

But Ephraim did not break his neck, lie
had too good a seat, and he really seemed
clever. But — it was the proximity of the
town. Ephraim often came home wild and
excited, sometimes late, and this became more
and more frequent. Cowlamb began again
to renew his practice of walking up to the
house to see if Iphis was alone. It was too
often the case ; but his weary limbs were of
less import than Iphis's loneliness.

One night Ephraim had some difficulty
opening the gate ; the young horse was excited
with his rider's handling. He rode up

B 2

to the kitchen door, dismounted, and threw
in his whip. He knew or suspected that Cow-lamb
was inside, and Ephraim was in one of
his most reckless, daring moods. One would
scarcely have believed him the faineant who
had formerly got out of Cowlamb' s way. The
clatter Ephraim made brought out Cowlamb.

Now, then, thou's got home at last,'
said Cowlamb, hotly. ' I think thou might
manage thy business better than to land home
at this time o' night. Take that thing, an
put it up ; I owt to ha' been i' bed hours
agone.'

There was nowt to hinder ye,' retorted
his son-in-law, saucily.

Hinder me, thou 'malkin? I can't battle
i* my house wi' this poor lass lone by her-sen.'



Well, I'm at home now, an't ee? ' shouted
the foolish Ephraim.

I'm not going to bandy words wi' thee.
Take that thing away.' Cowlamb was now
by the side of the horse unbuckling the girth,

removing the saddle. ' Now don't forget the
bridle.'

Ephraim led the horse away, muttering
between his teeth, his words not at all complimentary
to his father-in-law. When he
returned Cowlamb was just passing through
the waggon-gate, Ephraim could just discern
his figure in the darkness. Giving way to a
feeling of insensate rage, Ephraim picking up
the whip, swung it round by the thong. To
his own surprise it went into the window.
There was a crash, a startled cry from Iphis,
and Cowlamb came running back. Taking it
for granted that Ephraim was ill-using Iphis,
the farmer seized Ephraim by the collar and
dragged him out of the door. Allowing for
his growing infirmities Cowlamb was yet a
powerful man. But it was the spark to
Ephraim' s excitement — it reached a white
heat — he did not succeed for some moments
in getting at liberty. Striking out wildly, hein
turn grasped Cowlamb by the neckcloth.
Ephraim' s father and grandfather had been

noted wrestlers in their day. Once upon a
time ' russian' for a kettle ' was the last
piece che resistance of Easter Monday. It had
been a labour of love with Ephraim's father
teaching his lads the falls. It came to
Ephraim like an instinct. There was a
struggle, and Cowlamb fell heavily, Ephraim
over him. This sobered Ephraim. Iphis,
behind, stood wringing her hands imploring
peace.

Lift him up ! ' cried she, plaintively.
1 What has it all been about? Oh, father, he
didn't do it on purpose. Ephraim, do help
me!'

Ephraim was only too eager now to repair
his error. Cowlamb seemed unconscious, but
the moment he felt the touch of his antagonist
he spurned Ephraim as though he were foul or
unclean.

Thou scoundrel to down an' owt man,'
gasped Cowlamb with difficulty. ' Lord if I
was nobbut a year or two younger I'd wilt
thee yit.'

1 Father, he didn't do it o' purpose. Did
you, Ephraim? ' appealed Iphis.

c Ho'd thy noise. He choked me clown,
the scoundrel,' declared Cowlamb. ' He
kicked me, he tripped me up.'

Ephraim did not speak, not even to contest
the priority of seizure. Although he felt
that he was not the aggressor, he did not feel
himself blameless.

Cowlamb gathered himself up, vowing
future vengeance Iphis declared again and
again that there was no cause for his return ;
the breaking of the window was unpremeditated,
an accident ; that Ephraim had not
ill-treated her ; but this the choleric man did
not seem as if he could grasp.

Iphis' s mind was in too dazed or too
tumultuous a state for her to commence heaping
reproaches on her husband. Moreover,
she saw that her father, too prone to place
Ephraim at the lowest, had really commenced
the fray. She was some moments an eyewitness
before she comprehended the struggle,

then, hearing them go down, she was fearful
that her father was injured. Seeing him rise
to his feet she did not apprehend anything
more serious than more embittered feeling in
her father s breast. This to her was no slight
matter, and she could not sleep for her
thoughts concerning; the unfortunate occurrence.


CHAPTER 43.

STRUCK DOWN.

The farmer did not come down the following
morning ; but this Iphis did not wonder at so
much. But Iphis was somewhat troubled
when she saw Sarah, her mother's servant,
enter the house.

Missis wants you 'm/ said Sarah, ' and
I'm to stay while you're away, if you're
busy.'

'How's father this morning?' asked
Iphis.

He's poorly 'in. He hasn't got up

Iphis was chilled. She had never known
her father have an illness to confine him to his
room. She hoped that he, like some people
who have never experienced much illness, was
not so unwell as he believed himself to be.

Oh, you've come said Mrs. Cowlamb,
calmly. Iphis was relieved. Her mother could
not be so collected if anything was seriously
wrong. i Your father's poorly. I don't know
what's amiss with him. He's been off his
head. Sam used to be that with his drinking
fancying he seed all sorts o' folks making faces
at him. I nobbut hed to do wi' him once, an'
there he was getting under the bed, and saying,
" Lord if I git over this, never no more."
But it's been up an' down, up an' down. I
ain't hed a dele o' sleep.'

But father never drinks anything,' said
Iphis.

No, it can't be with drink. He's been
raving about Ephraim, an' fighting at him.
That was his fancy. I thowt I should have
to have somebody in. But he's better than he
was. I sent down for a doctor, but he hasn't
come up. Has Ephraim been aggravating
him aegean? What's it all about. D'yeknaw?'

Iphis related to her mother what had
happened,

Father was wrong, mother. He come
back in a rage. He thought Ephraim was ill-using
me. Ephraim broke the window with
his whip, made father come back. I shouldn't
have cared, but the gell seed it all. I'd
kept her up to help me, an' they will
talk so. There's no telling what sorts o'
tales '11 start. She'll tell Sarah everything, I
expert.'

'Your father was very well yesterday
morning when he got up. But i' th' middle
o' th' morning he come an' reckoned he was
nearly starved down. I set him afore a rousing
fire, and he went off then as if he'd no use in
his limbs, an' as if he was fast asleep. I
thowt he'd got a bad cold, and that's what's
my opinion is the matter wi' him, an' makes
him so foul-tempered.'

The conversation of mother and daughter
was cut short by the arrival of the Moortown
doctor. Iphis was left alone in the kitchen,
the doctor and Mrs. Cowlamb going upstairs.
We all know what that period is when we

wait for the opinion of one who knows or
ought to know. Is there danger — is there
cause for anxiety?

But Iphis was not in any deep anxiety.
She knew what a fine constitution her father
had. What a strong enduring man he had
been. How free he had been from any ailment.
His temper and his fall had unhinged
him for a time, she thought. *

But she became more concerned when she
saw the doctor's face looking grave, and her
mother appearing almost helpless. It was not
so much the expression of apprehensive fear in
Mrs. Cowlamb's face, as wonder and concern
as to how she would get on with a sick man
in the house. She could quite comprehend
Iphis being ill and nursing her out of her
weakness — but her husband, the thought of
him ever being dangerously ill had never
entered her head.

The doctor uttered some words in a low
tone, which Mrs. Cowlamb seemed as if she
failed to understand. A shade of annoyance

or contempt ruffled the serenity of the doctor's
face.

If you do not think yourself equal to it,'
said he, ' I can get you a nurse from Register
; but you will have to pay her.'

What do you say, Iphis? ' appealed Mrs.
Cowlamb. ' It'll be expensive ; there'll be
her board.'

Iphis did not look or listen to her mother.
She turned to the doctor with a searching
look, her features tense with supplication.

1 How is father ? Is he so bad ? '

He must not get up. I am afraid I
cannot give you much hope ; he may rally
for a time. I will look in again. Mrs.
Cowlamb says he was taken ill yesterday
morning.'

He was starved down,' interrupted Mrs.
Cowlamb ; ' I set him before a rousing fire.'

He ought to have had a warm bath. I
won't say he has not a chance, but he has
not come to the worst. His head is bad ;
he has had some excitement ; he must be

kept quiet ; he must be nursed, tie may turn
delirious again. You must have some one
able to cope with him if he should be violent ;
but I apprehend another phase, unconsciousness.
Has he had any trouble or anxiety of
late? 7

I will nurse him ! ' said Iphis, not heeding
the doctor's question. ' Mother, you
must let Sarah go yonder ! '

It '11 be a strange bother to me having
to do wi'out a gell. There's the milking an'
there's the butter to make up. I harding
know what I shall do.'

You can get one of the labourers' wives
to milk. I can make up the butter. I'll go
up and see how father is.'

He is awake. I'll send down some
medicine,' said the doctor, preparing to
depart.

Iphis entered her father's chamber noiselessly.
At first she thought he was asleep,
but he opened his eyes and spoke, almost
startling her with his abruptness.

Now then ! '

i How are you, father ? '

1 I'd know. Bad enow, yon doctor seems
to think by his face,' said Cowlamb, bitterly.
If I hadn't bad, I shall be. It's all i' my
head,' complained he. His hand lay across
one eye and one side of his temples, as if he
was compressing there some acute pain which
almost rendered him senseless.

You'll soon be better, father ; I'm coming
to nurse you.'

My lass,' said the farmer, without bitterness
now, ' I think it's come for my end.
I've been bad afore i' my head, but I said
nowt. The doctor '11 tell you what they call
it ; it seems they lev got a name for it.'

Iphis recollected that she had seen her
father with his handkerchief to the side of his
head. She had thought it was toothache
he was suffering from.

Ephraim hasn't to do wi' your head
being bad, father. I'm suer he didn't mean
to down you. He says so. He fell hissed.'

Atop o' me,' said Cowlamb sourly, unconvinced.


May lie come up and see you ? '

No ; I went ha' the creature. He may
stop at home an' gie th' bars pap.'

'Well, father, I sell go home, but I'll
come back.'

Thou needn't,' deprecated he. ' Thy
mother can manage, I'se think.'

'They've been talking of a nurse coming
from Treminster.'

But I went lev a nurse,' said Cowlamb,
with some asperity. ' Well, thou come back
then, I'll ha' no strange women about me. I
hate strange faces. The lass nun go yonder.'

When Iphis reached her own house
Ephraim had deserted it.

Did he go on the young horse ? ' asked
Iphis of her mother's servant.

No 'm,' said Sarah.

Which way did he go? '

Sarah pointed across the backyard. Iphis
felt faint at heart. Ephraim had gone to join

his Moortown friends. End his compunction
in a carouse perhaps.

Iphis returned to her father's house trying
to keep up a brave heart. She found her
father sleeping. For the first time she
observed the insidious approach of age. The
eyeballs showed through the transparent eyelids,
the mouth was fallen, the muscles of the
face drawn and flaccid. His hair had gone
thinner, and the crown of his bald head did
not glow with healthy colour. It seemed to
Iphis that she had seen all this a long time,
but had not rightly comprehended.

When he awoke again he was not in
his right mind. He was not violent, simply
wandering. His anxiety was all about Sam.
And Sam was dead and gone.

Her mother left everything to her. Mrs.
Cowlamb could not be brought to see that
her husband was in a critical state, and yet
she seemed dazed and helpless. The doctor,
who came in the afternoon, regarded her with

vol. in. s

some disgust. His opinion of the mistress of
the house did not improve. The woman, he
thought, did not care much for her husband
was, perhaps, counting on freedom when
he was gone — freedom and so much a year.
The doctor was not a dull student ; he understood
character. He perfectly grasped the
ambition of such a woman — a house in Moor-town
or Treminster with one servant — a
lack-lustre life, and lonely — her mind solely
occupied with keeping her house spotless,
going to chapel, and having a tray at tea
meetings.

The good doctor looked upon Iphis with
kindly eyes — he commiserated her. He could
be grave, he could be full of fun, jolly or
kindly, as occasion served or demanded. He
spoke to her in a confiding way.

'I am afraid — he is quite rational now.
Mr. Cowlamb has a son. Had he not better
be sent for?'

Tom. Oh, he will come, I should think,
if he is only at home. But you don't think

he will die, sir ? Oh, do not say, doctor, he
will die ! '

My dear girl, we are all of us in God's
hand. Send for your brother, but keep up a
brave heart. I shall come on again to-night.'

What a girl ! ' murmured the doctor to
himself, as he got up into his low car beside
his servant ; ' she is one in ten thousand ! '

What was it her father said when she
entered his room ? She could have ridiculed
the sincere doctor. She was half inclined to
send after him, to have him brought back to
note the improvement that had taken place
in the short time that had elapsed from the
doctor coming down into the kitchen. Her
father's eye was bright, his manner lucid, he
looked more like the Farmer Cowlamb of a
year ago.

Why, father,' cried she, jubilant, ' you
look ever so much better ! '

I am a good dele better,' returned he,
complacently. ' I feel a lot better. I think I
sell git up. I'm sick o' higgins' here.'

1 Oh, father, hadn't you better keep in
bed?'

The doctor said if I was well enough I
mud git up. I heard him.'

You shall have your chair up here.
You shan't go downstairs. I'm here, you
know, to see after you.'

1 Heigh. Thou alius masters me,' returned
he.

She did not dare to look at him ; it would
be like questioning whether he spoke in jest
or earnest.

She felt a thrill, nevertheless.

When he was up, he began to chafe, to
wonder if things were going on all right,
if his foreman was keen enough. He then
relapsed, with the conviction that it was
well to have this ' badly bout ' in wintertime
; it was a less important time to the
farmer.

i Here's them fellows — send foreman
word '

Oh, never mind, father ; I'll see about

i very thing. I know as much about farming
as plenty o' men

A sight more,' said Cowlamb, with a
proud eye, tremulous after he had spoken.

She had lit a fire in the bed-room grate.
He sat by it with his greatcoat on. Not a
man who cared to read, he could not while
his time away. He soon became as weary of
sitting there, even with Iphis for company, ashe
had been weary of bed.

What time is it, Iphis ? ' The gloom
was gathering round. ' I sell be glad when
days begin to be longer.'

Iphis looked at her watch. ' Five o'clock,'
she said.

The doctor '11 be coming by-and-by.
Humph! I think we could ha' done be'-
out him. He'll change my med'cine, I'se
think.'

The farmer, in common with many more
mortals, had a great faith in his own shrewdness.
Changing the medicine — it was a trick
of the doctors fighting a complaint. They

got at it on both sides, and it was kill or cure
in a 'quick sticks.' He became more cheerful,
ate with a little appetite. Nothing substantial
until now had passed his lips.

Iphis recovered hope, and went so far as
to believe the doctor much too apprehensive.
She thought her father was so much better
she could run on home. In the dusky light
she fancied that she saw some one before
her walking with uncertain gait ; but the
more she hurried the more the figure before
her increased speed. She knew that it was
Ephraim, and he showed only too plainly
how his day had been spent.

Sarah beheld him with affright. Ephraim
was most jocose and foolish in his talk, full of
boastfulness.

Do you mind staying?' asked Iphis of
the girl, hesitatingly. She felt that she could
hardly expect the girl to be willing. Sarah
hesitated, she did not like to be thought
sore-boned.'

Father is better,' added Iphis.

If you please 'm I would rather go down
yonder,' said the girl, relieved.

Well, Sarah,' said Iphis, considerately.
Maybe you'd better go back. But if anything
happens you'll come up and tell me.
I'll • bring the babies an' leave him in the
house by hissed.'

The girl was not good at subterfuges.
Mrs. Cowlamb gathered it as if Ephraim's
dereliction was likely to be of advantage
to herself. It really was not so, but Mrs.
Cowlamb, naturally of a carping spirit,
could not help the tendency to regard
her fellow creatures in the worst possible
light.

AVhat couch she say when the farmer
asked after his daughter, what was keeping
her ? The doctor had been up, and had not
regarded the farmer with so much approval.
He had not expressed ill foreboding, but is it
not half the battle getting people to believe
themselves mending? Anyhow, Cowlamb
was ordered to get into bed.

'Where's Iphis? ' asked Cowlamb again.

She's stopping at home to-night.'

I thowt Sarah was to go there.'

She's come back.'

The farmer paused a moment, thinking it
over. He looked up with a glint of temper
in his eyes.

That creature's not fit to be seen.'

1 think he was a bit fresh. He's been at
Moortown aegean.'

She mud ha' brown th' bars up here.
He mud ha' been left by hissed. Them that's
nowt happen nowt. If he set hissed on fire,
so long as it didn't harm other folks it
wouldn't matter much. He's going to be a
matter to Sam. He'll lev a regular randy-loose
now I'm laid by.' When he thought
of Sam his bitterness changed to misery.

I'll lev her made suer,' he muttered to
himself. ' I wish I'd known afore he'd gone.'
He meant the doctor. ' Is there a man
about ? ' inquired he. ' One of th' lads can
take a message down to the town.'

'Why,' ventured Mrs. Cowlamb, 'I
thowt you had made i very thing right ! '

Heigh ? ' queried Cowlamb, sharply. ' I
know what I'm about, as the lad said, " ]
never was weller i' my life." '

The thin old joke brought up a grim
smile on his face, and Mrs. Cowlamb's eagerness
was crushed. In her heart she was
desperately anxious that she should be made
right. She did not wish Iphis to be entirely
independent of her. Her inward ejaculation
had often been — ' I don't want that lass to
rob over me ! '

She listened. She was rewarded for her
diligence. Cowlamb would have the waggoner
go up to his room, but Mrs. Cowlamb
had insisted that the lad should unlace and
disencumber himself of his boots before ascending.
She followed the lad up noiselessly,
but she had not counted upon her husband's
sensitive ear. He heard the bed-room door
opposite his pushed one way or the other.
He had a sardonic gleam of spitefulness

in his face when he cried to her with
point —

You'll ha' to be taken in a carriage to
the Union. '

A reckless farmer's widow resorted to this
expedient to compel her close-fisted father-in-law
to do something for herself and children.
It happened when they were at Snailhorn ; atone
time the affair had often been recounted
by Cowlamb. His wife's wretched espionage
revived the memory of it. He was not
wounded with this revelation of her character.
He, a shrewd man, had not lived
all these past years with her for nothing.
He knew every turn of her narrow mind.
Common report was answerable for the story
that she had cast off the plough lad, tempted
by the brilliant future of a well-to-do farmer's
wife. Perhaps there had lingered in the
farmer's mind the reflection that he had not
been the first in her heart.

Iphis appeared in the morning almost
before it was daylight. A raw, searching

morning, with dull thick sky, not threatening
rain, but one of those mornings in the early
year which gives one gloomy and lugubrious
thoughts.

How is father ? ' her first question
naturally.

He's been bad aegean — off 'n his head.
He seems to be right now, but his head' s
full o' pain.'

I wish I had come up again. Is he
awake? '

Yes. He last after thee last night.'

Iphis hurried up. When she opened the
door she was aghast at the change. His eyes
were closed, but he had the certain seal of
death upon his features. At least it struck
her so. She had never before seen any one
die. Sam had died by her side, but she had
not been watching for his death, nor expecting
it. She noticed how her father's finders
were restless, tremulously fingering, clutching
here and there. She had never seen this, but
she had heard it related over and over again

that when it came to this the last frail hope
was knocked away.

She spoke in a whisper.

< Father ? '

He heard her but did not open his eyes ;
lie smiled and answered her, but so low
that she had to bend over him to hear. He
spoke a little louder when he inquired impatiently
— ' Isn't that lawyer come yit ? I
wish he'd come.'

Oh, never mind him, father ; keep quiet.'

Bud I do mind him — an' I mind thou.'

Father, may Ephraim come up to see
you ? He told me this morning he would like.
He'll beg pardon or owt.'

1 No,' said Cowlamb, stolidly. There was
no smile, but no frown. Inwardly Ephraim's
desire to humble himself was not unwelcome
news.

1 You don't malice him, father ? '

No, not I,' said Cowlamb, dubiously.
It was a mistake thou says — o' mine.'

Iphis scarcely knew whether her father

was twitting her. She thought it best to
]et the matter drop.

After a time Cowlamb spoke again.

1 I wonder if Tom knows I'm so badly.
I wish he was here.'

We wrote to him day afore yesterday.'

He'd be at Treminster market, maybe.
He'd some glimmers 1 to sell. What time is it ? '

Half-past seven.'

Them lawyers lig i' bed till nine or
ten.'

Iphis could see that her father would not
rest until that was off his mind, so she said —

Is the waggoner to go down aegean? '

Heigh ! Tell 'em if they an't here in an
hour I'll get somebody else — that'll fetch 'em,
Iphis. Them sort o' folks are alius in for
putting off, an' dragging things on week after
week. Why can't they battle one thing afore
they begin on another ? '

Iphis believed that he was talking too
much. She made no remark. After a few

1 Year old female sheep.

moments she spoke tenderly — ' I would try
and get a bit o' sleep, father. Does your
head pain you ? '

It's done that ever since I got i' th' bed
bottom, lass. I fancy I can feel it when I'm
asleep, but I nobbut doze.'

I'll go down an' send '

Heigh, my lass, that's right. Tell 'em
we'll lev somebody else. But come back
aegean. Thou nun git a bit o' breakfast hast,
happen thou's heel nowt yit.'

CHAPTER 44.

IX EXTREMIS.

When Iphis entered the bed room again she
found her father dozing, now and again incoherent
words issuing feebly from his lips.
He seemed so irrational and odd, Iphis was
afraid. At first she stood by, regarding him
silently with apprehensive concern. She
thought his mind must be seriously affected.
She could scarcely believe that he could ever
become clear again. Sam had talked wildly in
his bad fits, was violent, imagining an old
hag was before him, making horrible grimaces
at him. When Sam got better he talked
about his tormentor as if she really had a
personality, for he used to declare that ' he
should know her anywhere.' But Sam's disordered
brain was due to his own misconduct.

her father had never been given to excess.
She had been impatient and disgusted with
Sam; but he lying there was suffering through
trouble and vexation of spirit, caused partly
by her own headstrong wilfulness. It had
aged him and perhaps was shortening his
days. A flood of self-reproach almost overwhelmed
her. So far she could not tell what
was troubling him — then at last she did
catch something more complete. He was in
distress.

1 When I get bigger I'll work for you,
mother

He thought he was the child, seeing his
poverty-stricken mother succumbing to her
trials. Iphis remembered the pitiful story
he had once told her of his mother's hard
struggle with the world. She could not
forget the realism of the picture her father
had brought before her mind. He had wished
to dissuade her from a false step. She could
comprehend that now. She remembered only
too well the shock she experienced when he

asked her how she would face such a life of
misery.

1 Father,' she whispered, bending over
him, ' I am here.'

Her voice recalled him to himself.

Art ee ? — oh — ' murmured he, wearily.
1 1 must ha' been dreaming. I thowt I was
a been aegean. It's a soft way to be in. I
seem to know sometimes I'm off 'n my head
an' I can't pull mysen thither nohow. Has
that chap got back?'

1 No, he hasn't been gone long.'

The owt doctor '11 be here t'reckly. 1
think I'm worse.'

The talking had evidently exhausted him.
The lucid interval was over. He was again
dimly conscious. Xor had he recovered when
the doctor came. The doctor was not one
whit surprised. He shook his head sadly.

1 Poor fellow ! ' sympathised he. ' He is
a wreck of what he once was. How a few
weeks pull down a man — a few days even!

VOL. III. T

He lias had a wonderful mind. But it has
been overstrained lately.'

Will he get better ? ' asked Iphis, plaintively.


1 My dear, I cannot give you any hope.
Has he any affairs to settle? If he has, you
must take advantage of the next time his
mind is clear.'

Iphis heard some stir below. She opened
the chamber door, and listened. The waggoner
had returned, some one with him.

Iphis went downstairs.

'Who is it? Is it the lawyer?' asked
she of her mother.

'Yes— Mr. Burnett,' replied Mrs. Cow-lamb
with an eagerness that almost shocked
Iphis.

He mustn't go away. He must stop
while father comes round again. The doctor
says so.'

Thou'd better tell him that thy sen.'

Iphis found her mother had lit a fire in
the best room and ushered the lawyer in

there. Already he had drawn a chair near
the fire, and, with his feet on the sacred
fender, was staring into the fire somewhat
vacantly.

He was a brusque fat man, but not unkindly.
Xot much intelligence gleamed out
of his surcharged face. His small eyes had
an element of dull stupidity in them, but
somehow the very stupidity of them claimed
forbearance.

How d' do, Mrs. Sparrow ? ' said Mr.
Burnett, endeavouring to meet his client's
daughter easily and considerately. Although
accustomed to such calls, he, being a fat,
healthy man, always felt himself out of place
in a house of sickness.

Iphis repeated almost word for word what
she had said to her mother.

Is Doctor Swan here ? ' the lawyer
inquired.

1 He is upstairs with father

Perhaps I had better be there too — I

should be ready. At such times one must be
prompt.'

He came nearer to her, and I his led
the way. She thought his suggestion sensible.


Lawyer Burnett and Doctor Swan met as
if they had met before under similar circumstances.
The two men each took a chair on
either side of the fire-grate. Iphis went and
sat by the bed. All were silent for some
moments, Iphis with anxious, devoted eyes
watching every flickering movement on her
father's face, listening to his breathing,
the men regarding her occasionally with
sidelong glances. At last, the two men commenced
talking in an undertone, first in a
whisper, about Cowlamb and his malady,
merging into encomiums on his past career
and character. Iphis could hear them, could
distinguish what was said. Then they got
to talking of other things quite foreign — their
last social meeting, the Moortown vicar and
his tithe troubles — and Iphis felt that she had

no business now to follow their conversation.
At last she heard the lawyer whisper —

Swan, I had some grapes sent me from
Saxony. Canty sent me them. They came
last night in a paper box, and they have
never been taken out. Mrs. Sparrow,' said
the lawyer, turning to Iphis, ' could you send
any one down to my house for a box of
grapes ? '

Oh, it's too good of you, sir ! ' deprecated
Iphis.

Xo — don't think such a thing.'

Iphis left her father's bedside to send offa
messenger. When she returned the doctor
was by the bed and the lawyer attentive,
some conversation again passing between
them, which was broken off at sight of Iphis.
She carried a small tray, on which was a
spirit bottle, a jug of water, a sugar basin,
and a couple of tumblers. Noiselessly she
placed them on a small old-fashioned oak
stand.

The lips of both men curled, a smile ;

the self same thought occurring to each.
Iphis meant to return the compliment.

Really I'm — oh dear, you should not have
given yourself so much trouble,' said the
doctor.

It's almost too soon to begin with
brandy,' said the other, his point amusing
himself. Nevertheless he took the bottle and
poured some of the spirit into a glass for
himself. Then he prepared to help the
doctor, without looking up, muttering —

Now, Swan '

There,' whispered the doctor, as a signal
for him to stop.

Say when ! ' whispered the lawyer,
water-jug in hand.

When,' echoed the doctor, in a whisper,
and the water-jug was gently deposited on
the tray.

They sat again what seemed to be a longtime,
the doctor from time to time looking at
his watch. The brandy and water seemed
somewhat a bar to conversation. Both sat

silent, both thinking — the lawyer wishing he
was below, or ont of doors with one of the
thick cigars he had in his pocket between his
lips.

The grapes came and were brought upstairs
by Mrs. Cowlamb, who stayed in the
room a few minutes. When the lawyer cut
the string Iphis and her mother left the
room.

The lawyer took up some white paper
and called his friend's attention to the
box.

They're fine,' said the doctor, as the
grapes were revealed with the papilionaceous
down on their fat spheres.

They'd tempt an angel,' said the lawyer.
4 Here, Swan,' said he, 'he'll not want them
all.'

When Iphis returned, they were each still
occupied in breaking off grapes and blowing
the stones into the fire.

Take some, Mrs. Sparrow. There is a
quantity of them. I can get more readily.

I have only to drop a note to a friend of
mine.'

Iphis declined, but the lawyer persisted.

Yes, do,' said the doctor, ' they are
very fine. Your father is sleeping very
nicely now. He will wake presently, I
hope.'

Cowlamb awoke at last, but his mind was
not yet clear. He scarcely seemed to comprehend
what was said to him. He seemed
to comprehend who where in the room, but
the pain in his head, although now gone, had
stupefied him.

I shall be right t'reckly, doctor,' said
Cowlamb, conscious of his weakness.

The doctor waited, scarcely able to repress
his impatience. He was almost afraid
the farmer would sink with his last wishes
unaccomplished. The fingers again became
busy with the coverlet ; he lay uneasily, his
head moving to and fro with weak will.

Can't you give him something ? ' asked
the lawyer, anxiously.

No , not to do him any real good.

I could to send him off again. His head
won't bear it. We want him clear. Here,
Mrs. Sparrow,' said he, taking the grapes,
1 squeeze them into his lips.'

Iphis eagerly obeyed, and the dying man
as eagerly sucked in the grateful juice, his
lips parting for refreshment, and by and by
he seemed to come to himself, and recognise
the doctor and Burnett and Iphis ministering
to him. The doctor was quick to observe
Cowlamb lucid and eager.

Now then, Burnett, are you ready?'

Cowlamb nodded gratefully.

He is perfectly clear in his mind now, I
can vouch for that. You understand me, Mr.
Cowlamb ? Mr. Burnett is here, you recognise
him ? '

Heigh,' whispered Cowlamb, ' I'm all
right aegean. You can all stop if you like,'
said he, seeing Iphis preparing to go, and the
doctor with her.

I think they had better go said the

lawyer ; ' they can return as soon as I have
had your instructions.'

Very well muttered Cowlamb, with
some reluctance. He was not satisfied if
Iphis was out of the room.

Iphis and the doctor stood upon the landing.
They could hear the lawyer, but they
could not hear Cowlamb. Then there were
pauses, and they could hear the scratch of
the pen. No word passed between them.
Then they heard the lawyer reading, pause,
then for the first time they heard the farmer's
weak voice.

Here, doctor, Mrs. Sparrow, you can
come in.'

We had better have it attested,' said the
lawyer, turning to his friend ; i the sooner the
better. Mr. Cowlamb has desired you and me
to be in the trust. I didn't come out to ask
you ; under the circumstances I knew you
would. There are four. Mr. Cowlamb' s son
is one ; the other, he may refuse to act, he
lives at some distance. We must have some

witnesses. I might have brought one of my
clerks, but I did not think of making it out
here.'

1 We shall want some one who can write
his name.'

There's the waggoner, he can write, and
there's Foster,' suggested Iphis. ' Father has
had Foster since his farm was sold away from
him. He's a sort of foreman, and he looked
after the implements and fencing ; he was
brown up to a trade, and he's a good scholar.
Father gives him thirty shillings a week.'

Cowlamb lay with his eyes closed ; both
men noticed that when they looked to see if
he was listening or taking any interest, Cow-lamb
opened them.

1 Couldn't have a better man. They had

better be sent for Give your father

some of those grapes.'

A little brandy and water,' said the
doctor, ' it will stimulate him. He will bear
it now.'

Iphis hurried downstairs, and found

Foster below, thanks to Mrs. CowlaniVs
foresight.

Send Sarah for waggoner said Iphis,
hurriedly. ' Foster, you come upstairs.'

Foster was looking somewhat dismal.
The demise of Farmer Cowlamb was sure to
affect him. He had found servitude under
the farmer much easier than his former position
of a crosier, paying heavy rental for poor
land. He waited on the landing until the
waggoner arrived. Joe the waggoner came
at last, somewhat nervous and impressed.

The will was signed and witnessed,
Foster's telegraphy scarcely showing the
culture he had credit for. But he was collected,
and comprehended what was required
of him. As for Joe, he was greatly flurried,
and had to follow the lawyer's finger. But
there it stood at last, it might have been out
of his last copy-book, for Joe took praiseworthy
pains.

You've got some glasses there,' said
Cowlamb, faintly. He looked towards each

man. ' You'll ha' some brandy an' water.
Tell your mother to set 'em out some lunch.
Mr. Burnett, you'll have a glass, — now
doctor ? Come, don't be backward ; fall to.
Iphis, some glasses, my lass.'

This is my glass,' said the lawyer.

Then, this is mine,' said the doctor.

1 Oh, Lord ! ' said Cowlamb, faint with
speaking, in despair at the paucity of materials
handy, ' Thou mud ha' brown four ; I
like a clean glass ; we hadn't short o' glasses,
surly.'

Xo, no. AVe have had these glasses
before ; they will do. It is all right, Mr.
Cowlamb ; don't distress yourself.'

The doctor looked meaningly at the man
Foster, who drank off his glass quickly,
receiving a look of thanks for his intelligence.
Here, Joe,' whispered Foster, ' we're better
out now.'

Poor Joe, with all his desire to be as
noiseless as a cat, made a horrible clatter
passing out, kicking the skirting board

as he blundered out of the room. Mrs. Cow-lamb,
below, hearing him, bewailed the condition
in which she would find her staircase
after all this tramping up and down was
over. Why had she not insisted upon
them taking off their boots ? She lamented
her oversight, but she had so much to
think of.

1 Everything's made right, Mr. Burnett ?
You're suer there's no gap anybody could
creep thrust ? ' Cowlamb was experiencing
greater weakness, but he had a great anxiety
that there should be no quibble arise after he
was gone.

It is exactly as you have wished.'

That'll do. I shan't want to alter it.
Who brown them grapes, Iphis ? '

Mr. Burnett sent to his house for them.'

1 I'm suer it was a great kindness,' said
Cowlamb, tears in his eyes.

I can get you more,' said Burnett.

Thank ye, sir. It's good o' you. I
think they'll last me out.'

i Wait a bit, Burnett, you may as well
ride down with me,' murmured the doctor.

I'll wait below then. Good niornino\
Mr. Cowlamb. Good morning, Mrs. Sparrow.'


The lawyer heard Cowlamb' s faint reply.
Good-bye, Mr. Burnett.' Cowlamb retained
his hand a moment, and the lawyer felt that
his client was bidding him farewell.

Cowlamb could hear the rattle of the
wheels.

They're groan. We sell ha' the doctor
aegean. I like th' owt doctor ; Burnett's such
a fat, sleepy-headed beggar. I'm suer them
grapes did me a power o' good.'

Can you take any of your med'cine ?
The doctor said you were to have a dose as
soon as you could take it.'

I mud as well. I've got one thing off
my mind, but I feel so tired ; I feel just as if
I wanted to go to sleep an' couldn't, an' th'
pain i' my head aegean, enough to craze
one.'

Iphis held him the wine glass and he
drank off the contents with an effort, sinking
back heavily. Iphis sat by him and watched
him off into an apparent slumber. She left
him now and again, once to go downstairs,
and still he slept on. Iphis at length became
suspicious that the doctor was answerable for
this heavy sleep.

Towards noon he awoke, only to relapse
again into that painful unconsciousness. If
ever a gleam of light reached him it was to
complain of pain. Then at last the pain left
him, but after, there was a strange rattling
noise in his throat, and Iphis called out
loudly for her mother. Foster was sent off
on the old horse to the town. It might be
three o'clock in the afternoon. All the doctors
in the town were out. Foster's instructions
were to bring some one. Iphis was ina
frenzy.

But the farmer was past all aid. Every
breath was drawn with effort. He would be
clear for a moment or two, then unconscious.

Conscious or unconscious, Iphis still pressed
the grapes to his lips, and the dying man,
even when most vacant, sucked in the juice
with the eagerness of a famishing soul.
Iphis lay on the bed in a delirium of grief,
calling upon him, beseeching his forgiveness.
In his lucid moments he was all tenderness ;
his weak arm somehow finding its way to her
side.

My poor little lass ! ' murmured he, pityingly.
' Where's Ephraim ? Send for him,
do see. I should like to see the lad — where
is he ? He — owt ta be here. I — I want — to
—tell him '

But the sentence was not finished. What
did Cowlamb wish to tell Ephraim ? That
he had made Iphis ' right,' because he only
feared that her husband would make ducks
and drakes of her money ? Or was it that he
now repented of having put this between
husband and wife ; or was it to tell Ephraim
that he had been ailing long, and the lad was
not to lay his father-in-law's death at his

vol. in. u

door ; or that he had been in the wrong
himself ; that perhaps he had been too harsh
and exacting ? God only knew. Perhaps
he had something of all this to say, seeing at
his last hour clearly where a man stumbles
and is the cause of stumbling to others. Ah,
is not life a tale of human weakness and
penitence ! He was too full of the muddle of
life to make even an edifying deathbed for the
minister's capital the Sabbath after.

Mrs. Cowlamb was most troubled at that.
Iphis chose to think that the Almighty hears
the voice of penitence without any go-between.
Her father had breathed his last in charity
with all men. She treasured this thought.

Mrs. Cowlamb now put on the grief of a
widow in Israel. Her order to the girl to
draw down the blinds was given in the most
agonised tone. She already felt the weeds
about her face. She was truly concerned, her
husband had succumbed, but it was not in her
nature as in Iphis's to feel her loss acutely.
She was troubled at the world's verdict, her

husband dying without a minister being called
in. But he had sunk so rapidly, and to her
so unexpectedly, there had been time little
enough to think of one. Moreover, he was
too often unconscious or racked with pain to
be able to listen to any one's ministrations.

c It's Tom ! ' said Iphis, tearfully ; ' he's
just got here too late.'

Wilt thou go down an' tell him ? Nay,
I'll go.'

Cowlamb's son's face was grave.

I'm too late, I saw the blinds were down.
The lass was pulling the last down as I got
up to the gate. It's sudden — over sudden
said he, his face darkening.

He hasn't been laid by long,' acknowledged
Mrs. Cowlamb, ' but we sent for you
day afore yesterday.'

Ay,' replied he, ' but I went from Register
Market to a fair in Stoneshire. I
nobbut got home this morning, and I changed
my horse there and then and drove to the
station. But what's it all about ? I heard

u 2

a strange tale in the train. Has there been
any foul play ? '

Foul play ? ' gasped Mrs. Cowlamb.

i What's all this quarrel about ? They
didn't know me or they'd ha' been more
mealy-mouthed. I' the town there it's
common talk. Few know me hereabouts. I
heard 'em talking o' the Magistrates taking it
up.'

Iphis stood on the staircase. She could
hear every word.

1 thought — I didn't know what to think
I didn't know what you meant,' stammered
Mrs. Cowlamb. ' I don't know. Maybe
Ephraim and him did fall out. They was
alius dead set aegean one another. I'd know
which was worst.'

He regarded her sternly. He did not like
her manner. What occasion had she to gloss
things over ? Ah ! he thought, Iphis !

Let me have the truth. What I heard
was that he had been downed and kicked.'

Iphis now appeared, her face bloodless,

her eyes fearless and defiant. Her brother
looked at her seriously, not vindictively.
His expression was yet affectionate and
kindly. Her resentment against him sank,
but rose against others.

1 It's that nasty nurse lass been spreading
all sort o' tales. I know, Tom, I'll tell you
how it all was. The doctor knows it isn't
so.'

And Iphis related to her brother the unfortunate
collision between her father and
her husband.

I can believe thou. But if I was
Ephraim, I wouldn't care to stand in his shoes
if nowt comes on it.'

Her brother went up with her into the
chamber where his dead father lay.

1 If the quarrel had been a month since I
could ha' forgiven him better,' said he, sadly,
It's a bad business altogether.'

CHAPTER 45.

A VERDICT.

As soon as she could get away Iphis hurried
down to her own home. She wished to see
her babies — to see how they were being
treated by the labourer's wife who had gone
into her house for a day or two — to see how
Ephraim bore himself, and to give him some
warning of the talk which had got about.

The truth to tell, Ephraim had experienced
some shy looks in Moortown, had
heard some ominous whispers ; and, with that
night so fresh in his memory, he almost
believed it himself that he had hastened his
father-in-law's death. Cowlamb fell heavily,
he remembered. He would have felt easier in
his mind could he but have unbuttoned

himself. But to convict himself, to confess
his miserable torturing to his wife, Cowlamb's
own and only daughter, she would be sure to
regard him with horror, and he dare not
make a confidant of any one else.

It's that mucky lass you kep up that
night,' said Ephraim with hopeless, despairing
calmness.

I've tell you,' said Iphis, as if, fairly
warned, he must get up the best defence he
could. c Now I must go. There'll be a lotto
see after. Tom's just come. We should
never ha' known o' th' talk going on at Moor-town,
an' maybe at Willowby, but for him.
He heard it i' th' train.'

An' what does he say ? ' inquired Ephraim
with great anxiety.

I was forced to tell him all about it.'

You're not going to stop there all night
aegean ? ' Ephraim contemplated his solitariness
with some alarm.

Maybe I shall. There'll be a* lot to see
after Xow then, don't go and act soft

now,' she added, sharply ; l the doctor says
there's nowt in it, and that's plenty for you.'

She would not be over cordial with him.
Still, with all his faults, she was a little
anxious, he was so impetuous when in disgrace.


Iphis hurried back ; indeed there was much
to do. There is much etiquette in these outlying
places when such an event as a death
occurs. The widow must sit bereft, in all
the semblance of woe. Upon Iphis devolved,
greater as was her genuine grief, the necessary
superintendence. Her mind was full of
the proprieties. It is among old-fashioned
people that traditions are most closely
followed. Iphis was imbued with such
traditions.

The one who was present when the last
breath was taken was considered the most
proper person to fetch the certificate. Mrs.
Cowlamb said little, but in that little Iphis
quite understood that she must go. At the
funeral the windows of the room where the

body had lain must be opened wide. It
would have been a gross breach for any one to
have closed them before the mourners returned.

When Iphis got back to the farm she
could hear that the two women who were
called in had arrived. They were taking off
their bonnets, and talking all the while to
Sarah. They were unconscious of Iphis' s
proximity.

They'd buried her i' their way. I seen it
times an' times, a bit o' muck in a bag under
her arm, an' then they've a penny an' a bit o'
candle.'

Tcha ! ' exclaimed Sarah, contemptuously,
1 such chat ! '

It's not chat to them, Mrs. Free-borough
? '

< No.'

1 She'd Mrs. Drypool's best nightgown on.
It hadn't been washed o' seven year, an' was
yellow wi' keeping, an' beautiful worked ; an'
we tied her legs wi' th' prettiest salmon-coloured
silk ribbon '

Tied her legs ? ' cried Sarah, aghast.

To be suer we did. Law, they come to
see her i' crowds.'

If I'd anybody died as belonged to me
I wouldn't have a lot o' folks traversing up to
see 'em,' declared Sarah, careless of old custom.

No ? Ah, but the poor dead soul couldn't
a rest else.'

Iphis passed through and slipped upstairs
hurriedly,

Why, she'd hear us,' said one woman, a
little dismayed.

Well, you said nowt amiss,' said Sarah,
reassuringly.

Well, we'd better be going up now, Mrs.
Flamborough.'

Iphis went to look at her father once more ;
then she came down and went into the room
to her mother and Tom. Her mother looked
up with heavy-lidded eyes and drawn mouth.
Her brother, with a reddening face, never
looked up from the fire. Iphis found it a
greater relief stirring about looking after

things, than sitting there with them. When
either spoke it was only in monosyllables.
Tom had apparently asked all his questions,
and now was solacing himself with the brandy
brought out of his father's room. His face
showed Iphis what he was. Like Sam's, it
was of a blue red.

Iphis went down to the town the following
morning to see the doctor. He took her
out of the surgery into his house, for he
wished to speak to her privately. In the
surgery were a few patients belonging to a
sick club, men suffering from severe spring
colds, pleurisy, and such affections, their
mouths tied up, and their expressions
generally dolorous.

There's some one stirring in this affair.
You see it has caused some talk. I expect it
is that officious fellow in Kilnwell Street.
But I do not blame him so much ; he is
obliged to take things up to keep right with
his superiors. Was there a struggle between
your husband and Mr. Cowlamb ? '

Iphis shook with fear, and her face turned
of a deathly pallor.

1 Tell me, tell me the truth. There was
nothing in your father's illness to lead me to
think otherwise than that he was suffering
from prostration — a general breaking-up —
hastened by unwise exposure. I said it
would have been better for him had he allowed
his business this last year or so to have
troubled him less. My firm opinion is, that
placing your father before the fire when he
was perished was the great error. But of
course that was done for the best. He ought
to have had a warm bath.'

Iphis falteringly again submitted truthfully
the occurrence.

I knew it was a mischievous, foolish
business. But it had best go on. There, do
not be alarmed ; my evidence will be quite
sufficient. Now drink this glass of wine.'

Iphis was fain to return to her own home.
In spite of the doctor's assurance, she regarded
her husband as a doomed man. But

Ephraim had learned from Towse of the pass
things had come to. Towse and Ephraim
were in the kitchen, Towse acting the part of
a consoler.

i We'll have a sup o' beer said Ephraim,
if I can nobbut git the barrel to run. It's
nearly out ; we'll have another, though — if
they don't hang me first.'

They'll non hang thee,' asserted Towse,
confidently ; ' th' owt man malice Die, an',
lard ! I never son out what it was for. The
wife reckons she knows. Em suer I served
him fair. He was fair enow to me while he
took aegean me, an' I hadn't going to forget
him offering me bosses when I took to yon
place. He was slippery as owt when he seed
me here t'other day.'

I remember,' said Ephraim off-handed,
as though Towse' s sores were as nothing
compared to his own insecurity. ' That lass,'
commenced Ephraim, abruptly, ' says I kicked
th' owt man — it 's lies ; how could she see

when it was dark, an' another thing I was
down an' all.'

Maybe thou just did give him a dig
suggested Towse carefully ; ' thy father was a
good russel alius, an' thy grandfather would
stand aegean all comers. It comes like
nature to anybody, when their fathers les
been good at russian', or fighting', or swearing',
or lying.'

Sh ! ' said Ephraim, ' here's Iphis ! '

Ephraim tried to smile. It was somewhat
forced, that Iphis could readily see.
After her first glance she dare not look at
him. She only stayed to fondle her babes
and give a few directions. She seemed afraid
of speaking to Ephraim. Probably she would
have told him everything the doctor had said
to her had not Towse been there.

After she had gone Ephraim moodily conveyed
to Towse his impression that she too
1 had taken aegean him.'

The owt fellow's been bad ever so long
remarked Ephraim, to exculpate himself.

It was a bad job,' returned Towse, feeling
he must not buoy up Ephraim too much,
or absolve him entirely. Towse drank off
his jumbled beer, conscientiously feeling that
when he was paid to work he ought to be at
work.

Left to himself, Ephraim could not rest.
He paced up and down before the house, and
at last sought out Towse again for sympathy.
But Towse, occupied with a cut-box, could
only speak in a desultory way, never looking
at him. Ephraim wandered aimlessly through
the fields, next entered the backyard, threading
his way round this and that stack of
corn. Sometimes he took up a fork and
endeavoured to busy himself, then threw it
aside, feeling a vague want of interest in anything.
He entered the reward, foddered
his few young beasts, and passing the box
where his young horse ran loose, could not
resist looking through the open bars of the
slide window. The horse turned round, lie
felt its nose smelling his inserted fingers. He

could see its eye full of quick intelligence.
It was fresh, and showed a desire to be out.
Ephraim debated in his mind whether it
would be seemly to take the animal out.
It certainly needed exercise. He could follow
the lane, he was not obliged to go to Moor-town
or Willowby. He could ride through a
succession of turfy lanes for some miles.
Willowby, — a bitter name to him. The scene
of his hard apprenticeship. He believed he
had more enemies in Willowby than in the
whole wide world. How many there would
be rejoicing at his ignominy! perhaps there
the spark of rumour had been fanned into a
blaze. At that hour, as it happened, goodmen
and true were debating there whether
Cowlamb's death was attributable to him or
not. Iphis sent Sarah up to inform him.
Ephraim received the intelligence with a sensation
of fear and dismay. It was disgrace,
deep disgrace; a verdict that would absolve
him carried with it a stigma. He fancied
every one would regard him guilty even if he

was cleared. Then he turned reckless ; he
would ride the horse and brave public opinion.
He thought to himself lying in hiding would
not help him. A bold face carried weight
with it often enough. A breezy gallop would
drive away his vapours perhaps. He took the
long green lane, met not a soul in it, but at
the end of it, after debating a moment, concluded
to face Willowby, There he fancied
stray villagers looked upon him critically,
some coming to their doors to look after him.
His mood was defiant, and his face clearly
indexed the state of his temper. He passed
the public-house where at that very moment
the foreman was asserting himself. The
coroner, after hearing Dr. Swan, alluded to
the evil reports flying about — murmured
something disconnectedly about it being a
painful affair in a family of respectability.
The foreman, a sensible man, took the coroner
up.

We'll have the witnesses. It's just what
we have been brought here for. It's to the

VOL. III. x

family interest that everything should be
cleared up.'

Ephraim was possessed with a determination
not to leave the village until he had
learned the result. He rode his horse at a
walking pace, went as far as the carpenter's
shop, where he entered into some desultory
talk on the work he should want doing. It
was all to kill time, and during his stay he
could read what was passing in the carpenter's
mind, and the contained voice and
distant manner helped him in his conjecture.

Even the lads in the shop regarded him
curiously, and his quondam friend, now a
journeyman, gave him a distant, deferential
nod. Ephraim was extremely bitter against
them all in his mind, although his voice was
smooth and his manner friendly.

Ephraim turned his horse, and walked up
the village street again. The coroner's gig
was being drawn out. The inquest was over.
Just then Greenfield, the foreman, came out

of the public-house, and Ephraim stopped
his horse.

1 Now, then ? ' said Ephraim, inviting
Greenfield's voice.

Lateral causes.'

1 Humph ! ' snorted Ephraim, ' a strange

foist; *

Heigh, there was some nasty talk about.'
Greenfield himself was a terrible gossip.

1 A pack o' lies. It's made a difference
to me, I lay, him going off. We never did
hit it over well, but he wanted to see me
afore he died. I'm suer, Greenfield, I was
regular took aback at him going off so
sudden, an' he wanted to tell me something,
but his time was over short. Wo, agra'
face.'

Well, if I was thou I'd git off home
now. Things has all come right. I spoke'
up ; an' the doctor said it was a case as never
ought to ha' been brown. Now get off home,

1 Stir.

i 2

my lad.' The look in Ephraim's face filled
the worthy farmer with some apprehension.

See here, Greenfield, if they'd had me
there I'd ha' told everything as did happen.'

We all was of a mind,' said Greenfield,
soothingly. ' The coroner, he's past his work,
that's certain ; he wanted to have it all hushed
up, as if there was summits underneath.
Nay," says I, " we want no hushing up."

Somebody 'd been telling my missis's
brother a paddy-noddy ' l

i Well, well, get thee home.'

My missis is yonder,' said Ephraim,
indicating Cowlamb's, thumb over shoulder;
1 they don't want me there.'

Well, I'd go home for all that,' persisted
Greenfield.

I think I will,' said Ephraim, in good
faith.

But somehow, again to himself, Ephraim
was despondent and miserable. Although
the verdict was virtually an acquittal, he yet

1 Pater-noster.

felt himself a leper. Folk would still think
and talk. Iphis had looked at him as if she
believed him morally guilty. She had come
to give him fair warning of what was coming
on, but it was as if she was only induced todo
that by the tie which bound them. Go
home ! What was home ? — four dreary walls
and no welcoming face. Iphis ? — in her mind
would be the lasting impression that he had
embittered the last years of her father's life ;
she would never forget that quarrel and its
consequences. The old man might have
rallied but for that shock.

When he reached the lane end he dallied,
looked up. There was Cowlamb's great new
house, all the blinds down. He remembered
the old days when he was apprentice lad.
Sometimes he had given Iphis a hint that at
such an hour he would be passing the lane
end. At that hour her figure stood on the
heights, her petticoats fluttering in the breeze,
her hand held high. How it had brought
satisfaction to him, a smile into his face !

He would have to pass the house. He
did not seem as if he could face the great,
silent, veiled house. He braced himself,
guided his horse, paused a moment again — •
his indecision scarcely lasted a moment.
Giving his horse a sharp cut unjustly, he
rode towards Moortown at a mad gallop.

CHAPTER 46.

TO LEAD A NEW LIFE.

It was afternoon. Iphis had obtained the
certificate. The funeral arrangements were
complete. Her brother was inquiring with
tipsy bonhomie for her husband. He at last
expressed a determination to go up to Iphis' s
house and seek Ephraim there. Tom had
but scant knowledge of his sister's husband ;
he expressed himself anxious to cultivate
Ephraim, now that all was declared slander.

It was plain to Iphis that her brother
Tom made a practice of keeping a clear head
in the morning. He £ot through his
business then without a hitch ; in the afternoon
he relaxed. She could not help her
heart sinking. What a thousand pities it

was that he should have no more command
over himself! What her father must have
been in his early manhood, so were his sons.
A giant of a man was Tom, thick-limbed and
powerful, perhaps a somewhat bovine face,
but in it a frank and manly if somewhat
resolute expression. But he was not away
half-an-hour, returning somewhat peevish and
ill-natured. Her husband had taken his
young horse out in the morning, and he had
not been seen up there since.

The fool's bolted ! ' muttered Iphis's
brother, with some contempt and more
stupidity.

Iphis was inclined to believe it so herself
at the first glance, and she leaned against the
wall for support. Her brother's sudden conclusion
was startling and foolish. Then she
saw the whole kernel of it. If she had but
sent Tom up in the morning — and then she
thought again Ephraim would perhaps have
got it into his rash head that her brother had

gone up there to see that he did not ge!
away.

The afternoon waned. The sun was a
great disc sinking, a ruddy blaze over him
and about him, sinking under a fiery-tipped
canopy of flaky cloud. She began to feel
herself growing anxious. Again and again
she ran upstairs to a window commanding
the lane, the turn of the road to Moortown.
She could see the odd pedestrians toiling
along, the ponderous waggons jolting with
their heavy loads, traps passing or meeting
them. Sometimes there was a horseman, and
she was fain to hope that it was Ephraim.
Too often hope ended in disappointment.

Her flights up and down the stairs disturbed
even her lymphatic mother.

Thou's strange an' unsettled,' complained
Mrs. Cowlamb, impatiently ; ' he'll non
happen nowt.'

1 1 wish he would come home. I don't
like him being out wi' that young horse. I
shall send somebody to open all the gates.'

Iphis went up again. She scanned the
road. Some one was riding at a breakneck
pace out of Moortown. Now on the footpath,
now on the opposite side of the road.
The westering sun cast a watery light on the
road. A glance behind her, and she caught
sight of her father's glass on a chest of
drawers. As she saw it her heart filled with
the bitterest grief. As she took it up, it
came to her indeed, ' the touch of a vanished
hand ? ' Its mounting was tarnished ; it was
an antique thing of little value ; it showed
on its cylinders the mark of its late owner's
fingers. As she held it, her mind carried her
forward. Upon whom would she be able to
lean now? Ah, she had lost her best friend
in her father. Beforetime she had always felt
that her anxiety was a thing which with a
word would meet with dispersion. Her
father was a kind of Caesar unto whom she
could appeal. In her mind was always the
faith that he was always watching over her,
and would never suffer things to go far

astray. Xow a dread of the future encompassed
her, there was nothing in it cheerful to
contemplate. What could she expect from
her brother, following in the wake of Sam?
What from Ephraim ? He would squander
the money that fell to her share. In what
way could a poor weak woman successfully
contend with a foolish, wilful husband ? She
knew of no law to protect her and her children's
inheritance. All this passed through
her mind in a moment's space.

The glass was to her eye. The horse was
wildly plunging as if endeavouring to unseat
its rider, but still the horseman kept his
seat using whip and spur freely. She had
something of her father's temper, she approved
of a man being master of his beast,
but she detested unnecessary cruelty. It was
clear to her now that it was her husband,
and not in a condition to control a spirited
animal. She felt the deep disgrace, her father
unburied and Ephraim careering wildly home,
mad with passion or besotted with drink.

She thought it just possible that some one in
the detestable town had incensed him with an
insinuation. How ready she was to find an
excuse or an apology for him! She was
thankful that he was coming home. It was
not absolutely necessary that she should stay
in the house another night; she would go
home and prevent a repetition of such a day.

She held the glass half a moment longer ;
she could see her husband's head. Then
there was a slight twist in the road and she
lost him. A tree, an old-fashioned hedge hid
him from view. "Well, he was safe so far.
She ran down stairs.

1 Mother, I'm just going home. You can
do wi'out me ? '

If thou wants to go, thou needn't stay,'
returned her mother, aggrievedly.

I just want to see if they're all right.'
It was almost a supplication.

Somebody's gone past at full gallop now.
I wonder what sense there is galloping like
that ? '

1 1 shall soon be back if everything's all
right.'

It was just growing dusk ; she could see
her way straight up to her little house. The
road through the fields was in a true line with
the lane. Her father's last field described a
true right angle. She could see the road
clearly, because the gates had all been thrown
back. She could tell that there had been no
cessation of speed right away ; the fore hoofs of
the horse cutting sharply into the close earth.
She had not the faintest suspicion that anything
was wrong until, passing through the
last gate, something darted from behind a
stack with the fear and nervousness of an
antelope. The light was uncertain, she waited
a moment in surprise, then she saw Ephraim's
horse, head, ears, tail erect, scamper in and
out, bursting into sudden mad gallops, checked
at some obstacle to stare straight forward
snorting, to set off into a wild gallop again.
Then she thought that Ephraim had blundered
off, and the horse had got away from him.

But there was no sign of Ephraim in or out
of the house. She could see Towse in a
23 a st ure field — or some one whom she took to
be Towse — but he was at some distance. He
was carrying a lamb all legs, and a ewe was
following him pathetically bleating.

Towse ! ' shrieked Iphis, distractedly.
But the ewe following the shepherd hindered
her voice from reaching him. She ran towards
him, and as soon as she had passed through
the gate, he saw her coming, flying towards
him.

Towse ! ' she shouted again.

Heigh,' cried he, not relinquishing the
blear-eyed, long-suffering lamb.

There's the young horse lose in the

backyard. Ephraim's thrown 1 know he

is '

1 Nay,' ejaculated Towse, concernedly.

The horse has got his saddle and bridle
on.'

I'll catch him if I can,' said Towse. ' I'll
drive the beggar into the crew.'

I must go down the lane, and see if he's
hurt.'

• Nay, nay interposed the labourer's wife,
appearing on the scene, ; come i' the house,
come in. The loss '11 take no hurt. I'll get
one o' my lads to catch it. Go thou down,
Towse, she hadn't fit '

Mr. Towse, a man slow at times to grasp
a hint, seemed to comprehend the woman,
and, relinquishing his jwotegee, he set off at his
best speed to discover what ill had happened
to his most troublesome nephew.

'It's a good thing she didn't go,' said
Towse an hour later. ' When I got down as
far as the owt man's they were just a taking
on him in on a sheep tray, an' he was all blood
an' muck an' wi'out his hat, not fit to be seen.
I thowt he was dead for certain, he never
spoke nor moved. They got him wished, an'
the doctor ud git there afore her, poor lass.
They do seem a misfortune lot.' Towse
was greatly perturbed. Another catastrophe

closely following would only have seemed to
him in the natural order of events.

1 He'll not git to th' burying ? ' said the
labourer's wife.

I I'd know ; maybe one grave '11 hold 'em
both.'

Nay, surly ; an' they'd never do to be
buried together, they never did agree.'

I I never thowt he'd turn out such an a
creature,' said Towse, with no great faith in
his nephew' ultimate amendment.

1 Ah, but Towse, maybe this'll be a warning"
to him — remember th' thief on th' cross.'

1 Heigh, heigh, he considered better over
late — somehow or other he took no notice o'
warnings till he couldn't help hissed.'

The house is quiet and peaceful. Poor
Cowlamb has been laid in the churchyard at
Snailhorn. Gerlimore, who served him so ill,
has read the service over him with moist eyes.
The odd parson had always a great regard for
the blunt farmer ; he now grieves that ever a

cloud passed between them. It was always an
understood thing that Cowlamb should go
back to Snailhorn. His first wife lay there.
The ground lay waiting for him thirty years
or more.

In a bed room of the house lies Ephraim
convalescent. His cheeks are pallid and thin,
on his head a thin growth of hair in short
curls. He has been as near at death's door
as it was possible for a man to be. Iphis
sits by his bedside contemplating him, thinking
how pretty and delicate and submissive
he looks. She, poor girl, is thin and worn
also. She carries the mark of Ions; suffering
in her eyes and about her mouth. How long
did he lie unconscious, her devotion almost
compelling the favourable crisis ? But she
thinks so little of it all, for Ephraim's hand
is clasping hers, and he is full of self-reproach
and tenderness. A detachment of
sparrows are busy chattering outside, perched
along the spout. Sitting in conclave they
may be, debating the stupidity of some one

vol. in. y

among them. Spring is coming, all bickering
must cease, it is impossible to live without
harmony. Ephraim is silent, for he sees himself
a great culprit. How much easier things
would have gone had he learned to bear and
forbear, had he shown less of the recklessness
which galled the old man ! Ephraim is in
such a mood and condition as to see himself
in the worst light. Doubtless, when health
is firmly established, it may recur to him that
nothing short of being immaculate could
possibly have pleased the farmer, considering
his introduction to him. He feels himself
punished without a sentiment of rancour
against any one. Iphis's share of her father's
wealth cannot come to him. She has not
even the power to yield it to him if so disposed.
It is vested in trust for the children
she may have. He can hold the little farm,
but he has to pay the rent — find the money.
There is to be no mercy for the defaulter.
His old uncle's letter lies on the bed. He is
to apply for Cowlamb's farm and he will

stand at his back — too late, a tenant has
already been accepted. The admirable condition
of the soil has tempted many applicants.
It will be no satisfaction to him when
he learns that Tom could not attend his
father's funeral, but had to be left behind.

You don't mind, then, Ephraim, that
father left his money as he did ? ' asks I his,
a little timorously.

No,' he answered, * it's best as it is.'

i 1 believe he would ha' altered things at
the last. He wanted to see you, Ephraim, so
bad — and then we were to tell you something,
but he couldn't finish ' — and tears came into
Iphis's eyes.

Iphis, I know what he wanted to tell
me. He wanted to tell me — he'd think better
o' me, if I'd promise to be good to thou. I
hadn't been good, I been a sight o' trouble to
you and to him ; but I'll do better, Iphis.
My poor lass, thou's hed a peck o' troubles
over one or t'other on us.'

Ephraim tarns his head to the wall. He

is ashamed to make a promise. He has made
promises before often enough. He is weak,
and tears are not far away. But he is more
and more strengthened and determined when
he feels his wife's lips on his cheeks and her
arm around him.

Is not life a tale of human weakness and
penitence ?

What is this that a woman sings to her
babe as she rocks monotonously to and fro,
the monotony by no means unendurable?
She, as she sits, is a replica of Raphael's
Madonna : —

A village lad to service went,

And he was fair and comely ;
His eyes were full o' sweet content,

And he was brant and homely.

Fra year to year he service took,

And pleased the farmer rarely ;
No lad had he whose winsome look

Had won his will so fairly.

The farmer had a likely lass,

And she was ripe and ruddy ;
Right to his heart she did trespass,

Nor help but love her could he.

Till e'en his breast it had no rest,

He took no lessen-penny ;
Far from her eyes twill be th' best,

Than give her trouble any.

The farmer fain saw him depart,
To tempt him would no money ;

The farmer cried : Then go, wo'start,
Thou wast so good a johnny.

How could he know — in duty bound
The lad nun spurn his bounty,

That in his heart a deep, deep wound
No sorer in the county.

The maiden's tears, they all did say,
He loves the farmer's dower,

One word fra you and he wot stay,
For far 'bun him he's thowt her.

Then let him stay, the farmer cried,
The lad shall wed thee surly ;

And to his man he quickly hied,
And lessened him securely.

Look back o' years o' joy I can
Sin' lie a courting sought her ;

Thy father, lass, the farming man,
And me the farmer's dower.

1 Worse start.
THE END.

Spottiswooda & Co. Printers, yew-street Square, London.

OF

POPULAR WORKS

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3?. 6d.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.

TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.
By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

NO NAME.

By Wilkie Collins.

ARMADALE.

By Wilkie Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By Wilkie Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee.

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Uniform Edition ; each Volume Illustrated with a Vignette Title-page

drawn by Arthur Hughes, and Engraved by J. Cooper.

Large crown 8vo. 6s.

i. OLD KENSINGTON.

2. THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF

3. FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A

YOUNG PRINCE.

4. TO ESTHER : and other Sketches.

5 V BLUEBEARD'S KEYS ; and other
Stories.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH:
TWO HOURS; FROM AN
ISLAND.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS ; and
other Essays.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN.

MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations.


ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF THE

LIFE AND WORKS OF CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL), and her sisters

EMILY and ANNE Bronze

(ELLIS and ACTON BELL).
In Seven Volumes, large crown 8vo. handsomely bound in cloth, price 5*. per volume.
The descriptions in 'Jane Eyre' and the other fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr.
G. M. Imperii, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest of
the r« acting of the stories. .

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze. With Five Illustrations.
THE PROFESSOR AND POEMS. By Charlotte Bronte. With Poems by her

Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. And AGNES GREY. By Anne

Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors by Charlotte

Bronte". With Five Illustrations.
The TENANT of Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations
*#* The volumes are also to be had inc p. 8w. limp cloth, price is. 6d. each.

UNIFORM EDITION OF

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.
Price 3s. 6d. each, bound in cloth ; or in Sets of Seven Volumes, handsomely bound
in half-morocco, price £2. 10s.
CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES:
Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.
Vol. II. NORTH AND SOUTH.
Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS.
Vol. IV. CRANFORD.
Company Manners— The Well of Pen-morphia— The Heart of John Middleton— Traits
and Stories of the Huguenots— Six Weeks at Heppenheim— The Squire's Story -
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras— Curious if True— The Moorland Cottage— The Sexton's
Hero— Disappearances— Right at last— The Manchester Marriage— Lois the Witch— The
Crooked Branch. ^ y MARy Barton .

Cousin Phillips— My French Master— The Old Nurse's Story— Bess's Troubles at Home
Christmas Storms and Sunshine.

Vol. VI. RUTH.
The Grew Woman— Morton Hall —Mr. Harrison's Confessions— Hand and Hearty

Vol. VII. LIZZIELEIGH.

A Dark Night's Work— Round the Sofa— My Lady Ludlow— An Accursed Race— The
Doom of the Griffiths— Half a Lifetime Ago— The Poor Clare— The Half Brothers.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Places


