he Pit ToWn

Charles

f » — llilnW I M

>W«i>mhwww»u^wm<m . ■ . ■■■■■-

l gift lull I I ) «»■'» »»«<■)■ ^tK O^ MMi- I ^ M ^ w w

>Hl»M* in. ■ Li n

rjrzrz-YziT„xz.YZJ5.'2 f£ Sc

N.

Digitized by the Internet Archive

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/pittowncoronetfa01will

PIT TOWN CORONET:

|l 3?ami(g "Stfgotery

Charles J. WILLS,

AUTHOR OF

IN THE LAND OF T II E LION AND SUN," ETC

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN, LONDON, W.C.


[The right of translation it reserved, and the Dramatic Copyright protected. .

AN II MIDDLE-mill, KiNGSToN-uN-TII A M KS.

?23

THE PIT TOWN CORONET.

EDMUND YATES, Esq.

CHAP. PAG E

I. — L\ the Rose Garden . 1

II. — Tick Croquet Part 2G

III. — The Village Dorcas 45

IV.— Walls End Castle 07

V. - At the Pandemonium Clue . . . ( ,»C

VX — Georgia's Wedding . lib

VH.— Lord Mayor's Day 138

VIII. — At the Castle . 161

IX. — Anastatia's Courtship . . . 182

X.— Romeo Tick Ball Papayani . . , 200

XI. — A Meeting in tiu: good Old Style . . 229

XII. — The Villa Lambert 256

CHAPTER 1.

IX THE ROSE GARDEN.

Big Reginald Haggard had been exceedingly

attentive to the elder of two very pretty

girls of the name of Warrender. Both

families came from the eastern counties.

The Warrenders had inhabited The Warren,

or at all events the older portion of the

house, for nearly four centuries. They were

harmless people. They manfully stuck to

their ancestral acres of fat Essex land. The

present head of the family farmed the greater

part of the estate himself, as his fathers had

done before him. Many a Warrender had

held the rich living of King's Warren, and

the parson, whoever lie might be, and the
vol. i. 1

reigning Squire Warrender were always the
two greatest men in King's Warren village
and parish.

In the rather old-fashioned garden at The
Warren sat a young lady, an open bock upon
her lap ; the book was not a novel, it was
an argumentative work, a book which dealt
with the social problems of the day. But,
alas ! the book which Georgia Warrender
had brought out with the serious intention
of reading, for the Warrenders of either sex,
though always soft-hearted, were a hardheaded
race, lay upside down upon her lap.
The fact is that she was weighing a man
in the balance, an interesting occupation fora
lady, and, alas ! finding him a little wanting.
George Warrender had received a
great deal of attention during the London
season. Her people were well-to-do, the
ancestral freeholds were unencumbered, her
family was eminently respectable and well
known, her connections unimpeachable ; but
Miss Warrender's principal attraction to those

who Lad the privilege of her acquaintance
outside the world of balls, dinner parties
and musical evenings, was the sturdy openheartedness
of her character, which often
distinguishes well brought-up young ladies
who have been reared in an atmosphere
at once intelligent and healthy, but not
ultra-intellectual. Miss Warrender had no
craze. She played and sang sufficiently well,
but not well enough to be a terror to the
home circle. She drew and sketched, as a
pastime, but she had no desire to compete
with professional artists, nor was her conversation
interlarded with the jargon of the
craft. Her reading had been carefully
directed by her governess, Miss Hood, who
had remained to discharge the onerous
duties of chaperon, guide, philosopher, and,
above all, friend to Geonne Warrender and
her cousin Lucy.

Lucy Warrender was George's cousin on
the father's side. Colonel Warrender, as

the younger brother, was naturally intended

1—2

for the family living of King's Warren. But
fiery young George Warrender declined the
Church altogether, so he was sent to Hails
and then he became a soldier of John
Company, and was soon known as Fighting
George Warrender, and by dint of following
his own bent attained the colonelcy of
a native regiment. Then he had a good
determined shake at the pagoda tree. And
then he made a fool of himself, for just ashe
had come down to Bombay, having made
up his mind to take two years' leave, he
was smitten by the blonde beauty of a
newly-imported " spin," fresh from the
boarding-school ; and being an impulsive
man, Colonel George Warrender married the
little boarding-school miss, and changed his
mind about his furlough. Within a year
his daughter Lucy was born. And then
the cholera came to Bebreabad, swept off
Colonel Warrender and his pale-faced child-wife
; and the little Lucy, his orphan
daughter, came home at once in charge

of an ayah in the Company's ship "Lord
Give." On her arrival Squire Warrender
pitied the little misery, as she was called
by everybody, and treated her as his own
daughter. There was but two years' difference
between the girls, and they looked
upon each other as sisters. The squire's
wife had died within a year of his daughter's
birth, so that practically neither of the
cousins had ever known a mother's care.
Squire Warrender's wife had been a local
beauty, and her portrait, which hung in Mr.
Warrender's stay, represented a loveliness
of no common type.

Both the girls rode well, but neither was
horsey nor doggy. One of the greatest attractions
in everybody's eyes about George
Warrender was her openness ; she never
had a secret from Miss Hood, her father,
or her cousin. In fact, secrecy was foreign
to her nature. As to her appearance, she
was a fine, well-developed, thoroughly English
gir 1 , fully justifying the raptures an 1 rhapsodies

of her numerous admirers. But it is
not with her appearance that we are at
present concerned, but with the subject of
her meditations.

That subject was a serious one, for in
her pocket was a formal proposal from
Reginald Haggard, whom she had known
as " Big Reginald Haggard " from her childhood.
It is probably an axiom that every
English girl, under ordinary circumstances,
accepts her first offer ; the reason of this
is not very manifest, but it is nevertheless
a fact, and its being a fact is doubtless
one of the causes of the numerous ill-assorted
matches that constantly take
place. But Miss Warrender, now twenty
years of age, had been an exception to
the rule. During her first and successful
London season, now just over, she had
refused three serious offers. The first was
from an impecunious young barrister, who
had attained some repute in the literary
world, and had very nearly killed himself

in the process. Mr. Baliol had admired
Miss Warrender, had made careful inquiries
as to her father's position, had discovered
that the two girls would probably be the
old man's heiresses, and had promptly proposed
to George. He had been as promptly
refused. Mr. Baliol was in no wise disconcerted.
He immediately proceeded to dedicate
his new novel, " A Woman's Fickle

Heart," "to Miss G W , in token

of respectful admiration." Baliol scored
another success at the circulating libraries,
and at once ceased to trouble himself anymore

about Miss G W .

Georgina's second proposal was of a more
serious nature. Young Lord Spunyarn had
made her an offer. Lord Spunyarn desired
an ornamental wife. To him the ideal Lady
Spunyarn was a young person respectably
connected, good-tempered, and of prepossessing
appearance. Not one iota did Spunyarn
care for money, birth or brains ; of money
he had plenty and to spare : as to birth,

Alas lie not Lord Spunyarn ? as to brains,
clever women were considered bores by his
lordship. The young nobleman liked George
Warrender, and he liked her people. Though
rejected, rather to his astonishment, it made
no difference in his friendship with the family.
It's an awful bore, you know. Unluckily
they all know it at the club — I mean that
I w T as going to make you an offer — and I
heard that one of the society journals had
the announcement of our engagement already
in type. You see, I was to have dined here
tomorrow. If you don't mind, I'll come all
the same." He did come, did full justice
to the dinner, sat next to George, whom he
took down, and the pair, thoroughly heart-whole,
had a great deal to say to each
other.

Georgina's next experience was of a more
comic character ; her conquest was no longer
a nobleman, but a " noble." Jones di Mentes
was a Maltese noble. He possessed
certain rights of nobility in the island, his

income was derived from the sale of Maltese
oranges ; in fact he was the titular head of
Jones and Co., the well-known fruit house
of Thames Street. In Thames Street, Jones
di Monte-ferret said nothing about his
nobility, he was " our Mr. Jones." But
on his visiting cards was a portentous crown,
and Jones di Monte-ferret habitually wore a
coloured boutonniere in his frock coat ; being
red, this decoration was popularly supposed
to be the Legion of Honour : it had been
purchased however, and purchased cheaply,
from the Pope. Jones' nobility carried him
far in Maid Yale and Bays water. Needless
to tell, Miss Warrender would have nothing
to say to him.

To say that George Warrender was perfectly
heart whole as she unfolded Haggard's
letter, is nothing but the truth. Of course
she liked young Haggard, but so did everyone.
Haggard had enjoy r ed an extraordinary
popularity. Related as he was to the Earl
of Pit Town, he was a welcome guest in

the best houses. lie had been a dancing
man, and could dance well, was exceedingly

good-looking, and consequently a catch at
the small and earliest and also at more elaborate
entertainments. When a very young
man he had been a detrimental, having
rapidly dissipated his little fortune. Penniless,
he went to America; in eight years he
returned, well off, as good-looking as ever,
and with the possibility, the extremely unlikely
possibility, of one day succeeding to
the earldom of Pit Town. There are some
men who always fall on their feet, some
men for whom fortune is never tired of
turning up trumps ; Haggard was one of these
men. When it is said that Haggard was
a man of the world in its broadest sense,
nothing remains to tell. If he had a
religion at all it was the w r worship of his
own dear self. Big Reginald remembered
George Warrender as a chit of twelve ; he-met
her again one of the brightest ornaments
of London society ; he heard her

spoken of there as handsome Miss Warrender ;
and just as he would have longed for a
very valuable hunter to carry his sixteen
stone to hounds, so he desired to obtain
George's hand ; because without doubt
she was the handsomest, healthiest, pleas-attest
and most unexceptionable girl it had
ever been his good fortune to come across.

The letter seemed honest enough, it was
short and to the point.

"Dear Miss Warrender,

You will probably not be surprised
at my addressing you on a subject important
to us both. We have known each
other since the time when you were a little
girl and I was a big bad boy. I don't
trouble you with business matters, but I
have spoken to Mr. Warrender and fully
satisfied him on that head. It is with his
approbation that I ask you to become my
wife. I know that the very remote possibility
of a coronet will not weigh with you,

but I do think you ought to let it count
against my disadvantages. You will get
this at breakfast time. I shall ride over
about eleven to urge my suit in person ;
may I hope that your good nature will
spare me the negative I doubtless deserve,
and that you will give me a chance ?
Yours very affectionately,

Begin alt Haggard."

As George replaced the letter in . its
envelope she blushed ; had Haggard been
indifferent to her she would not have hung
out this signal of distress. It is impossible
to follow the course of reasoning of a
woman's mind. George Warrender was no
raw girl to be caught by the mere good
looks of big Reginald. But first impressions
go a great way ; she remembered the
young fellow in the reckless daring of his
first youth ; she remembered, too, her feeling
of pity when she heard of the prodigal's
banishment to a far country to feed the

proverbial swine. George remembered, too,
the triumphant return of that prodigal
some six months ago. She had been pleased
at the prodigal's attentions, and she knew
that many girls, of far greater social pretensions
than her own, would willingly have
accepted the addresses of the bronzed,
curly-headed giant with the big moustache.
Perhaps she would have been wiser had
she taken counsel with Miss Hood, or had
she deliberated more calmly. But George
was a self-reliant girl. Even now she
heard the measured tread of her lover's
hack as he trotted up to the hall door of
The Warren. She looked at her watch, it
wanted five minutes of the hour. Miss
Warrender smiled at her lover's excessive
punctuality ; his impatience boded well she
thought.

Another instant and he is striding down
the path of the rose garden; a happy look
is on his face, though it is slightly pale
with suppressed excitement. George War-render's

pink roses attain a damask hue
as she rises to greet him.

Fortune, fickle goddess, still befriends
her favourite. There was no outward
sign of hesitation or diffidence about Haggard,
as he held out his hand to Miss
Warrender.

It's very good of you to see me ; I'm
afraid I don't deserve it," he said, seating
himself beside her on the rustic bench,
and, man-like, commencing to bore holes
in the gravel with the stout ash-plant
which he carried. Youth and maid decorously
continued to gaze upon the ground
and to critically study their own foot coverings.
Haggard was a man who looked
well in any dress, but the grey tweed suit
which he wore, the artistic bit of red of
his loosely-tied sailor's knot, his big grey
felt hat, his leggings also of tweed, even
his stout but well-made lace-up boots seem
to give the young giant the needful halo
of romance. This, the usual morning dress

of a young English gentleman in the
country, is what is generally selected as
the costume of the hero of an Delphi
drama, when that wonderful young man
is discovered in his virtuous home prior
to the commencement of his numerous
sufferings and hair-breadth escapes. As
for George, the conventional French muslin
set off her faultless figure, a large Leghorn

O ' CD C

hat protected her delicate complexion from
the sun's rays, her magnificent hair was
worn in the rather severe Grecian style,
but then the big plait at the back was all
her own, and the bronze chestnut locks,
tightly strained as they were around her
head, disclosed the small shell-like ear, that
sign of breeding which it is impossible to
counterfeit. Probably George Warrender
had been right when, as a girl, she had
declined to have those pretty ears pierced.
If we accept the hypothesis that beauty
unadorned is adorned the most, then George
in her native loveliness was, indeed, highly

decorated. But she was nervous in this
formal tete-astute; this showed itself in her
heightened colour, which was still maintained,
and in the occasional movement of
her delicately fashioned little bronze shoes.
As Sir John Suckling said long ago :

Her feet "beneath her petticoat,
Like little mice peeped in and out,
As though they feared the light."

The quotation is somewhat hackneyed, perhaps
; but it ran through Reginald Haggard's
mind, as he prodded his stick into the gravel.

"I'm afraid, Miss Warre rider, that I have
betrayed you into a tete-astute. Your father
washed me luck, and told me I should find
you here, while your cousin informed me
that w T e should be quite undisturbed. May
I hope that you will give me a chance ;
that possibly, after a time, I may not altogether
be indifferent to you, George ? "
Again the rosy flush mantled on the girl's
tell-tale cheek. Haggard continued, " Of
course you have seen, dear George, that

I have been very hard hit this season, fora
lazy ne'er-do-weel like myself to dance
attendance at every entertainment that
Miss Warrender graced with her presence,
must have made the state of my affections
pretty manifest I suppose. We have known
each other a long time. I have never done
anything mean or dirty that I know of,
George. Of course I was a young fool
and kicked up my heels as young fools.
But I think I have had all the nonsense
knocked out of me. My roving life
in Mexico and my chase after the almighty
dollar have sobered me. Can you trust
me, George ? I'll be good to you, upon
my word I will. Good to you and proud
of you, if you'll only give me the chance.
You are too clever for me to attempt to
argue you into it. But, dear George, I
love you as I never loved any woman
breathing, and not with the nitre passing
fancy of a boy. I have seen the world

and a good deal of life, the gilded and
Vil. i. 2

the seamy sides. Tell me, George. May
I hope ? Will you give me a chance?"

George looked into his eyes and smiled.
He had spoken it trippingly on the tongue,
though seemingly spontaneous, it had been
well thought out ; for Haggard was an actor,
a leading gentleman, well experienced in
lovers' roles. It is not meant by this that
Haggard was what the old song calls a " star-breasted
villain." But George Warrender
was not by any means his first love. Haggard
looked upon George as a valuable
acquisition ; from the physical point of view
she was the finest, freshest, fairest girl he
had come across. And he coveted her as
an amateur covets a picture ; that it may
belong to him, and that others may fruitlessly
desire his pearl of great price. True,
no sordid consideration influenced Haggard.
Can we call this love ? Let us be charitable
and do so. But we will also be just
and qualify. It was love of the nineteenth
century, of the society type.

"You pay me a great compliment, Mr.
Haggard, a very undeserved compliment.
I cannot pretend to be taken by surprise,
for, as you say, your attentions have been
very marked. What am I to say to you ?
With a girl it is a very serious matter ;
for once we give our hearts, at least some
of us, Mr. Haggard, we give them for good
and all. A mistake once made, in our case,
cannot be set right. Our affections once
given away to a man, and perhaps afterwards
flung aside, then leave us with nothing
to bestow but our miserable selves. Are
you quite sure you have made up your
mind, and that you won't want to change
it?" she said, looking up archly in his face.

But his teeth were set, and the muscles
of his massive jaw were working hard, ashe
gazed intently on the gravel at his feet.
It was evidently no laughing matter with
Hazard. The muscles of his jaw had

DO °

worked in a similar way only a week ago,
when he stood on the grand stand at Epsom,

and saw the favourite, whom he had
backed heavily, almost " collared " on the
post ; but the favourite had won, and Dark
Despair had failed to land the odds of
sixty to one laid against him. So had the
muscles of Eeginald Haggard's jaw worked
when he had " bluffed " Don Emmanuel Garcia
at the almost historical game of poker, which
they had played at Chihuahua. Haggard
had only held knave high, about as small
a hand as a poker player can hold ; he
had successfully " bluffed " the Mexican,
and won. He is blushing now, for hearts
are trumps at the game that is being played ;
and we, who look over the cards of both
hands, can see that bi Hesrinald's at least
is a poor one. Will he win? Of course
he will. What chance has George War-render
against so experienced a player?
The stakes were Haggard's before he had
cut or shuffled the cards.

Sure, George ? of course I'm sure. I
may hope, then ? T may dare to hope ? "

Wise man as lie was, he carried, the
place by a determined rush. He took
her hand in his, the taper little fingers
were not withdrawn.

George, darling, how can I thank
you ? I am not good at this sort of
thing.' ,

If he had. not attained perfection in the
art of love, it was certainly not for want
of practice ; for if the truth be told, the
big Lothario habitually made love to every
pretty woman he met ; and if there was
no pretty woman, then to the least unprepossessing
one of those present, The
rest of the conversation went on much as
such conversations usually do. Haggard
swore eternal constancy. George confessed
that she " supposed she did care for him."
But this modified sympathy did not satisfy
Haggard ; he pleaded for something more
explicit.

"I have always liked you, Mr. Haggard,"
she said, for George could not yet bring herself

to address lier lover by his Christian name ;
"but I fear I must seem a very poor
creature after all the dashing South-american
beauties, to say nothing of the many recognized
successes of the past season."

But you were the success of the past
season, George. Everybody knows it Why,
they raved about you. You must know
very well that Madame Hortense made a
little fortune with the ' Warrender ' hat."

Ah, that was Lucy's idea, not mine, Mr.
Haggard."

"A very charming idea, George, but
never so charming as when you wore it."

George Warrender rose and made him a
low courtesy. "I see you deal in sugared
compliments," she said.

He got up and offered his arm.

The hideous and snobbish custom of
taking a lady's arm had not then been invented.
And to do him justice, even if
it had, Haggard was too much of a gentleman
to have attempted it. For customs borrowed

from the habits of the demi raonde
would have been sadly out of place with
a girl like George Warrender. With her
cousin it might have been different; but
with George the thins: would have been
impossible.

As the extent of his own good luck began
to dawn upon Haggard, he felt that the
world had indeed gone very well with him ;
for as he had marched down the walk of the
old-fashioned rose garden that morning, for the
first time in his life he had felt diffident of
success ; for the first time in his life he now
vowed in his fickle mind to be true to the
smiling girl who, in the bright glamour of
a first love, hung so confidingly on Ins arm.
Of course he vowed eternal constancy. At
lovers' perjuries they say Jove laughs, and
well might the whole Olympian chorus have
joined in the loud guffaw with which the
king of all the gods doubtlessly greeted
the protestations of Fortune's favourite. As
each drank deep draughts of the subtle

poison from the other's eyes, their glances
grew brighter, and they were only awakened
from the dream that comes to ns all, at
least once in our lifetimes, by the imperious
clash of the luncheon-bell. Old Mr.
Warrender and Lucy appeared upon the
lawn, and the broad smile on her fathers
face and Lucy's merry laugh told the happy
pair that they might spare any explanation.
George, in the pride of her honest love,
disdained to take her hand from the young
man's arm. With womanly dignity she
advanced to meet her delighted father. He
kissed her on the forehead, and then the
blushing girl took refuge in her cousin's
affectionate embrace.

Be good to her, my boy," said Squire
Warrender, his honest voice a little broken
as he thought of the old days of his own
too short-lived happiness, and of the proud
dead beauty, George 1 s mother. It was a
short speech, but it rang in Eeginald Haggard's
ears for many a year.

Will lie be good to her? He should be.
If not good to her, surely Eeginald Haggard
will be less than a door.

THE CROQUET PARTY.

Everybody agreed that the day had been a
success. The lawn at The Warren was
an ideal croquet - lawn, large, level, and
causeless. It was an old lawn, and was carefully
watered. What better place, then, for
the local tournament to be fought out
upon, than the old lawn at The Warren.

At last the final game has been
played. The day had been excessively
warm. Everybody was sitting in the
shade discussing the claret-cup, the syllabus,
the strawberries and cream, and
the home-made confectionery, that were so
freely pressed upon the large and rather
miscellaneous assemblage which filled the
old - fashioned grounds of Diggory War-render.
The owner of this archaic name

we have met for an instant in the preceding
chapter. He was a hale old country
gentleman, a J. P. for his county, and universally
liked. Perhaps there was more of
the yeoman than the squire about old Mr.
Warrender. Though he farmed many acres,
yet he did so at a profit, strange to say.
But perhaps this is hardly to be wondered
at when it is remembered that the acres
were his own, and that consequently there
was no rent to pay.

Mr. Warrender, who rather scorned
claret-cup, was about to discuss the merits
of a foaming tankard of home-brewed ale.
The ale was good ; perhaps it tasted the
better to old Warrender as he drank it
from the silver tankard of the time of
Charles I., which bore the name and arms
of his ancestor, Diggory Warrender, armiger,
of that epoch.

Won't you try some, Lord Spunyarn ? "
old Warrender said ; " It has made me the
man I am," and certainly this statement was

a flaming testimonial to the merits of the
Warren ale ; for old Warrender, who stood
six feet in his socks, seemed to be all muscle,
while his white and perfect teeth, he being a
man of sixty-five, proved that, at all events as
yet, physical decay had not set in in the
master of The Warren.

But Lord Spunyarn shook his head as he
signed to the butler to give him what he
termed a B. and S.

Beer is too bulky for me, Warrender,"
said the spindle-shanked nobleman, as he
stretched out his shapely but rather shaky
hand for the panacea. " I object to bulk,
Warrender, on principle ; it is my terror of
becoming a welterweight that made me go
in for athletics, Why, look at my father,
and they had to make a hole in the Avail
to get my grandfather's coffin out of the
house. No, Warrender, mind and muscle are
my strong points."

And so they were in Lord Spunyarn' s own
idea. Spunyarn was perpetually in training.

He was ever matched against somebody, or
against that very successful competitor, Father
Time. But Spunyarn was never " fit," to
use a sporting term. Naturally of a weakly
constitution, his originally puny form had
been carefully educated and developed at
the great public school where athletics,
tone," and Latin verse, are the only
subjects seriously taught. Spunyarn had
failed to catch the " tone," Latin verse was
a closed book to him, but he stuck to
athletics. The name of Lord Spunyarn was
constantly to be seen in the sporting prints,
and though Spunyarn pluckily struggled
along, coming in last in the foot races, being
knocked about in the middle-weight boxing
matches (knockings about which, to his
credit it must be said, he bore with the
patience of a martyr), yet, with all his sufferings,
no single trophy as yet adorned Lord
Spunyarn's rooms in Jenny n Street.

To-day Spunyarn had been beaten in the
croquet tournament, and his partner had put

down their united failure to the presence of
Lord Spunyarn, while Spunyarn himself when
they were beaten simply remarked, " Great
mistake not taking the matutinal B. and S.,
you know." This hardly consoled the smart
young lawyer, his lordship's partner, for his
day's loss of time, his hotel bill, and his new
and elaborate morning kit ; still, he had had
the honour of playing with a lord.

But metal more attractive soon compelled
Spunyarn's attention, for his eyes fell upon
the two pretty Warrender girls as they
tripped towards the aged host, both hanging
on the willing arms of the new Essex
lion, Eeggie Haggard.

Big Reginald Haggard was the ideal of
the country maiden. He was not hideously
beautiful, as it has become the fashion to
depict the heroes of modern romance. It
may at once be said that Haggard was undeniably
good-looking. His long black
moustache gave him, in the eyes of the
ladies assembled at The Warren, the necessary

romantic air. What is very much to the
point in such matters was the fact that he
was also extremely well dressed. He had the
military neatness without the military
swagger, and for the first time in his life
Haggard's well-cut clothes were paid for, to
the unspeakable pleasure and astonishment
of his tailor. For Reginald Haggard, who
eight years ago had left the paternal mansion
an expatriated black sheep, had returned a
man of comparative wealth. Turned loose
a mere boy in London, his money had been
spent, as young men about town usually
spend their money. That young but very
fashionable club, the Pandemonium, that club
which has an oyster cellar in its basement,
which keeps open all night, and at which
shilling cigars are tie rigueur, had been the
cause of most of young Haggard's embarrassments.
At the Pandemonium Haggard had
made the acquaintance of Captains Spotstroke
and Pool, half-pay ; that acquaintance had
naturally proved expensive. Bets ware made

and paid. Haggard was introduced to the
bill-discounting fraternity, and had even
lunched with the great Hyam Hyams ; which
fact shows how deep he was in the books of
that great connoisseur and money-lender.
As a rule Hyams's business lay only with
members of the aristocracy, but Eeginald
Haggard was accepted as a client because he
was distantly related to the Earl of Pit Town.
Three lives, three good lives, stood between
Haggard and the childless earl. There are
such things as contingent post-obits. In
these precarious commodities the fortune of
Mr. Hyam Hyams had been made, under the
astute advice of his solicitor, Mr. Morris
Israelss, of Bloomsbury Square, and it was to
these precious securities that his dealings
with young Haggard were confined. But at
length Hyams would advance no more.
Haggard, at an alarming sacrifice, parted
with his jewellery, bid his family farewell, and
quitted Essex for South America. At the
expiration of eight years Haggard returned

as a landed proprietor, the owner of numerous
ranches, and of countless flocks and herds.
His liabilities in England consisted solely of
his debt to Hyani Hyams. This debt, however,
was only payable in the rather unlikely
contingency of his succeeding to the earldom
of Pit Town. Also, much in opposition to
the wishes of that respected solicitor, Mr.
Morris Israelss, a power had been reserved to
Eeginald Haggard to pay off both the principal
and its interest at any time, in the
extremely unlikely event of his ever having
the money to do so. Such was Haggard's
position when he became engaged, as has been
narrated, to Georgina, Squire Warrender's
handsome daughter, at the end of her first
and triumphant London season. It has been
noted that among George's numerous and
most assiduous admirers had been our friend
Spunyarn. He had proposed to and been
rejected by George, but they still remained
sworn friends.

The two girls, the elder of whom was but
vol. i. 3

twenty, her cousin being two years younger,
presented a striking contrast. George was
a remarkably line girl of the true English
type. Three centuries of Warrenders, a
family which began as yeomen, but soon took
its place in the squirearchy of its county, had
transmitted to George that healthy type, that
sound physique and that clear complexion,
which is seen only in England ; and even in
England, only among healthy rustics, or the
women of those families of the upper class
who habitually pass the greater portion of
the year out of London. Not that George
Warrender was a mere rustic beauty, as her
taper hands and tiny feet showed. It takes a
good foot to look well in a w T asking shoe, and
even in the trying walking shoe George's
foot was unmistakably a good one. Her
clear blue eyes were honest and sympathetic ;
George Warrender looked every one straight
in the face, she had evidently nothing to
conceal, nothing to be ashamed or afraid of.
The two girls had been carefully educated,

the " colonies " having been wisely omitted.
George's magnificent chestnut bronze hair
was her great attraction. It is needless to
say that a lock of it was in Haggard's pocketbook,
and that one of Haggard's raven curls
was worn in George's locket. The engagement
was an open one. There was no
self-consciousness about either of the
parties. They were both evidently proud
of it.

Lucy was in many respects the exact opposite
of her cousin. Lucy was a blonde ; pretty,
rather in the American style. But unlike most
American beauties, far from being a mere
skeleton in a skin, Lucy was a plump, well-developed
specimen of the dreamy blonde. In
type she much resembled the descriptions of
Madame de Pompadour in her youth, before
she had seen and captivated the great-grandson
of the Grand Monarque. She was
mignonne, no other word will express it. Her
strong points were her pink and white complexion,
her masses of wavy golden hair, hera

9.

dark eyebrows and her magnificent hazel
eyes ; those dark dreamy eyes in which lurked
latent fires. Young as she was, Lucy well
knew how to use those eyes, and the way in
which she gazed into the face of her cousin's
betrothed seemed to detract nothing from his
happiness. But in the same way she gazed
into Spunyarn's face, it was not mere looking,
it was " gazing." So she had gazed into the
local general-practitioner's eyes when that
poor young man looked at her tongue for the
first time. It was Lucy Warrender's burning
glance that had temporarily made the village
doctor a discontented man, and had caused
him to style his mid-day hashed mutton

jn

muck."

In direct contrast, too, to her cousin's, was
Lucy's mind. She was not a girl who could
be loved by other girls. Save when employed
in " gazing " she never looked any one straight
in the face. The servants, our stern and
acute judges, said that "Miss Lucy wasn't to
be trusted, but that Miss George was as

good as gold." As usual, the servants were
right.

Unsuccessful again, Lord Spunyarn," said
Lucy, dropping him an ironical courtesy, and
making a provoking little none.

"As usual, and I suppose my own fault,
though my last serious failure was certainly
not my fault, but entirely due to you, Miss
Warrender."

It was certainly not your lordship's misfortune,"
smiled the young lady.

Haggard and his fiancee seemed to have a
good deal to say to each other, but probably
like that of most engaged persons, their conversation
was merely childish.

And now the little crowd of players and
spectators came to make their adieux. For
in the country people still retain the fashion
of bidding their hosts good-bye. Nay,
more, they are in the habit of even thanking
them for their entertainment, and for the
pleasure they have received : whereas your
fashionable, having had all there is to have,

and eaten and drank of what seemeth unto him
good, carefully rejecting the less recherche
viands, simply disappears. He was, and is
not.

The Warrender girls were surrounded by a
cluster of artless maidens ; these shook hands
and kissed, after the manner of their kind, and
as they w T ere more or less intimate with their
hostesses. " He is perfect, quite perfect,"
whispered the rector's romantic sister, as she
squeezed George's hand, " but, oh, I do hope
that you are sure of his principles, George,
dear, for in marriage so much depends, dear,
upon principles." As Haggard's only principles
were his personal comfort, filliped b} r the gentle
stimulus of frequent flirtations, was George
quite right in replying, " Oh, dear Miss Dodd, I
am quite sure of his principles ? " Gradually
the miscellaneous gathering took its departure.
No man or male person left the premises
without one of Lucy's fatal oeillades ; each one
of the stronger sex, too, received a rather more
than necessary pressure of her soft and dimpled

hand. Many among the elders, nay, the
patriarchs even, felt their pulses quicken at
the unexpected pressure and the sly bright
glances ; it made them feel, not as if they
were smitten with the good looks of Lucy
Warrender, but as if she herself had been captivated
by the prepossessing appearance and
manners of each special victim. That was the
art of it.

The dinner that evening at The Warren
was a cheerful one ; the humours of the day
were described with biting satire by the gentle
Lucy. She it was who had cruelly incited the
stout vicar to elephantine gambols, to the
intense disgust and annoyance of his angular
wife. Who but Lucy could have caused the
coldness between young farmer Wurzel and
his affianced bride, Miss Grains, the brewer's
daughter ? Who but Lucy, as she sat on the
shafts of the horse roller, listening with apparently
rapt attention to the lucubrations of
young Wurzel on the subject of shorthorns.
Perhaps the clasped hands and the ecstatic

look were hardly necessary, for even so interesting
a subject as stock breeding. But Lucy
had noted, out of the corner of her watchful
eye, the arrival of Miss Grains, indignant and
perspiring.

You'll excuse him, Miss Warrender, it's
more thoughtlessness than want of manners ;
but he oughtn't to be taking up your time like
this," cried the brewer's daughter, as she bore
off her reluctant prize. To this day nothing
will ever persuade the buxom mother of
farmer Wurzel's fine young family that her
William was not actually audacious enough to
propose to Miss Lucy Warrender, and that his
attentions were favourably received. So often
has poor William Wurzel been twitted on
this matter that he has come to look upon
himself as a very Lothario, rescued at the right
moment.

In the drawing-room things went on much
as they always do in country drawing-rooms
in the hot weather. The girls sang ; Miss Hood,
their chaperon, played the inevitable Chopin ;

but (as, unlike zoophytes, chaperons cannot be
cut in two pieces, and yet live) Miss Hood felt
it her duty to leave Lucy, and to follow into
the verandah Haggard and his fiancee. Perhaps,
after all, this may have been rather a relief to
the lovers, for they had had a long innings
that day, no one having presumed to disturb
the numerous tetes-a-tete of the engaged couple.
Squire Warrender sat asleep in his chair,
his face covered by a big brown bandanna, so
that actually Spunyarn and Lucy were practically
alone. But the young lord didn't
attempt to renew his attentions to Lucy. In
his own mind Spunyarn perhaps felt that he
was well out of it. Lucy, a past-mistress in
the art of flirtation, was delicious as a friend ;
as a sweetheart there would have been two
sides to the question ; but Lucy Warrender asa
wife would have been simply appalling and
impossible. Lucy's bygone escapade with her
uncle's second footman — for failing high game,
Lucy Warrender was not above captivating
even a second footman — had been carefully

hushed up. ]t was the cause of the poor
young man's receiving a month's wages on the
spot and his dismissal. For Miss Hood had
detected him in passing a very pink-looking
letter to Lucy Warrender. Pinker far than
the letter were the face and ears of the guilty
domestic, as he placed the intercepted missive
in Miss Hood's hands, on her sternly ordering
him to do so. Of course the letter was shown
to Mr. Warrender ; he was very angry under
the circumstances. But the letter of the unfortunate
Joseph, though it had caused him
many agonies in its composition, was comic in
the extreme. It was full of what the writer
called " pottery ;" it was the poor young
fellow's first love letter. Alas, it was a mere
answer to a letter of Lucy's; she had commenced
the correspondence ; it was she who had thrown
the handkerchief.

Needless to say Lucy was deported at once,
and Madame Planchette's, nee Jones, finishing
establishment in the Champs Elysees received
a fresh pupil. Lucy's minauderies could now

only be practised on her own sex. But even
there the girl succeeded in setting the whole
house by the ears ; and causing the sudden
dismissal of the Italian professor, a gifted Pied-montes,
with a gigantic head of black curly
hair and long but dirty nails. At the end of
a year she returned to her uncle's roof, having
achieved an intimate acquaintance with French
argot; her accent, however, was undeniable.
Miss Warrender, too, now added to her already
dangerous fascinations the charms of a French
manner and a Parisian accent. But her persistent
secret studies of the works of Flaubert,
Zola and Co. probably had not improved her
mind. As soon as Miss Boot left the room,
Lucy seized the opportunity, on finding herself
thus practically alone with Lord Spun-yarn,
to give him a rather florid rendering
of " Best dans le nez que qa me chatouille"
in which she out-herded Herod, and was even
more piquante and suggestive than Madame
Beaumont herself. However, it did Spunyarn
at all events no harm, French being; a sealed

book to him. The strains of the syren at last
woke her uncle, and brought back Miss
Hood, who suggested that it was late. And
the party broke up at last at her instigation.

THE VILLAGE DORCAS.

The big room at King's Warren Parsonage was
already fairly well filled. Old Mrs. Wurzel
and the buxom but not too well-favoured
heiress of the house of Grains were at the
head of the table. Old Mrs. Wurzel was a
personage in her way ; she it was who made
the annual contract with the local linen-draper
; she it was who, as an adept learned
in the art, officiated at the awful ceremony of
cutting-out " ; she it was who, with infinite
trouble, obtained for the school children
those antiquated straw bonnets of a forgotten
type, which were the despair of the juvenile
village beauties. She herself had worn them
in her youth, and they were the proper bonnets
for " growing girls." But, alas ! Nemesis
had arrived ; the head coverings worn in

country places thirty years ago had become
once more the fashion, and the little maids
from school had been voted by Spunyarn
quite smart people." It was Mrs. Wurzel
who with her own fair but energetic hands
had, with her famous cutting-out scissors,
shorn away the luxuriant but obnoxious
fringe which Jemima Ann Blogg, the poacher's
daughter, had appeared in at the Confirmation.
Jemima Ann had violently resisted, but her
struggles were in vain ; in this case the sheep
had not been dumb when in the hands of
the shearer : the daughter of the village
Radical had returned to her father's roof
weeping, but shorn. It is true that old Mrs.
Wurzel had reluctantly paid to Blogg the
sum of five pounds, under the threat of a
summons for assault, but the honest fellow r
had honourably kept her secret as he had
promised, and Mrs. Wurzel's reputation, as
the champion of virtue and respectability,
had in no way suffered, though she had paid
her five pounds for it.

The vicar's wife, whose principal characteristics
were her interest in missionary work
and the sapience of her angles, was a mere
priestess in the little circle of which old Mrs.
Wurzel was the permanent archduchess.
Vicars' wives had come and gone, but all had
submitted, some after a brief struggle, to old
Airs. WurzeTs sway. But Mrs. Dodd, the
present vicar's wife, retained the precious
prerogative of choosing the book to be read
at the monthly Dorcas. Mrs. Dodd's choice
was invariably the biography of some missionary
; and she did her best to carry out the
idea that a Dorcas meeting should provide
self-mortification for the ladies present, in
the shape of coarse work for the fingers and
repellent reading for the mind.

The village Dorcas was that happy neutral
ground where the various ranks of society
met on an equality. Here might be seen
the three good-looking and well-educated
daughters of the local draper. Nice girls
these, but under the baleful shadow, the

bitter blight of trade. For country places
are very conservative : the squire looks down
on the yeoman, the doctor and the lawyer, all
three of whom consider themselves considerably
taller in social stature than the tenant
farmer, who in his turn will eat no bread and
drink no water in the houses of those Kecha-
bites, the tradesmen. All these people, however,
join in despising the rich stockbroker
who has recently purchased the pretentious
place which he calls " The Park ; " the gates
of which are almost celestial, being of bright
gilded iron work. The unfortunate inhabitant
of "The Park," notwithstanding his
well-appointed barouche and his men in
livery, is but a pariah. For not a year ago,
till the big corner occurred in Mex. Earls
in which he made his pile, little Sleek, of
Sleek and Dabbler, of Throgmorton Street,
had " been to business " every morning.
Sleek now passes his time in good works,
he takes a great interest in local affairs, and,
unless he flings the whole matter up in a

rage, he may yet become a justice of the
peace. Sleek finds it far harder work than
fortune-making ; but he pursues his 
with untiring energy. So do we
all. It is for this, that Sleek contributes
so liberally to the local charities. It is for
this, that the two Misses Sleek, clad in shining
raiment of needlework, are seated at the big
table, pursuing the unromantic occupation
of hemming huckaback towels of a more
than Spartan coarseness. But something has
been already gained by the monthly martyrdom
; Mrs. Dodd and her sister-in-law the
ethereal Anastatia address them as " dear,"
and they have a bowing acquaintance, which
they energetically attempt to increase, with
the Misses Warrender.

Within this charmed circle the veterinary
surgeon's womankind and the grocer's daughters
also dare to tread, but they are there
merely on sufferance. The line must be
drawn somewhere, and the vicar's wife, as

did her predecessor, drew it at that man of
vol. i. 4

blood, the harmless Rubble, the local butcher.
He and the rest of those shut out from Paradise
sought their enjoyment, and a perhaps
more congenial society, at those buttery
banquets, the tea meetings of the local Little
Bethel. Thus, as in most country places,
Dissent was at a premium among the humbler
classes, and possibly the continued assertion
of their position by the clergy of the State
has had a good deal to do with the spread
of Dissent in other villages than King's
Warren.

There were at least a dozen ladies seated
round the big table at the Parsonage. Our
friends Lucy and Georgina were among the
number, their simple muslins strikingly contrasting
with the more elaborate garments
of the Misses Sleek. Anastatia Dodd fluttered
(it is the only word) round the workers,
as they plied their busy needles; she "gave
out" the various garments, or portions thereof,
of mysterious shape ; and as she did so
whispered her little word of welcome, her

little chirrup of harmless gossip to each.
Mrs. Dodd who sat at the bottom of the
table as vice-chairmaness, now opened a
thick black book in which various markers
of coloured paper had been inserted. ' : I
think we are all here," she said, as she put
on her spectacles in a determine 1 manner,
and ominously cleared her throat. Nobody
disputed this proposition ; the hum of conversation
ceased.

I think we left off at the second appendix,
which contained letters from the wife of the
lamented subject of the biography. I will
now continue.

; Quashi-Bungo,
"july 21st, 18—.

'• ' Dearest Mary,

' I received your welcome
letter and the boxes of stores. Yoii
were quite right when you said that I seemed
to be launching out in the matter of outfit.
But I suddenly find myself (under Providence)
a means of civilization to the poor 



JJBRAf

nighted natives. These unfortunate heathen,
until our arrival, had no sense of propriety.
M'Bongo, the great chief of this neighbourhood,
paid a ceremonial visit to my husband.
Of course we understood that he would
wear the court costume of the Kukulokos.
I seized the opportunity to watch what I
supposed would be a most interesting interview,
from behind a curtain. Oh Mary,
what was my indignation when I saw the
nasty savage enter our dear little morning
room ! His great shock head of woolly hair
w T as dyed a bright yellow with quicklime,
in his ears were a pair of huge ear-rings
of massive gold that made my mouth w r ater.
(William told me afterwards that they were
worth at least fifty pounds). On his head
was the second-hand hat of some parvenu's
coachman, gold lace, cockade and all.
Fancy my horror, dear Mary, my terror,
indignation and astonishment, when I perceived
that the rest of his costume merely
consisted of a thick layer of palm oil, with

which the wretch had covered his disgusting
body. I saw no more ; I need not say I
fainted from the mingled effects of terror,
indignation, and astonishment. On coming
to, William told me that the courtiers, some
twenty in number, wore precisely the same
costume, minus the hat and ear-rings.

' Such, dear Mary, was the degraded
condition of M' Bongo and his court on our
arrival ; but it has been my happy lot
(under Providence) to change all this, and
my endeavours have not been without
even an earthly reward. Only think, Mary,
M'Bongo's ear-rings are now my own, my
very own. They will reach you by the
hands of Mr. Mckenzie, a worldly-minded
Scotch merchant, but honest as to earthly
things. On no account, dear Mary, in
disposing of these priceless treasures, have
anything to do with the jewellers, who I
am told are extremely dishonest persons.
You had better try to sell them to the
South Kensington Museum as curios, or at

some fashionable bazaar ; or failing these,
to some wealthy but unworldly person,
who takes an interest in our working in
Africa. Do not forget to mention that
they are royal ear-rings.' "

Here one of the Miss Seeks coughed,
but the broad grin on her face subsided
instantly under the severe look which Mrs.
Dodd gave her over her spectacles. After
a short pause and a snort of indignation,
the vicar's wife continued :

' I have been the blessed instrument,
dear Mary, of a great work in this
county. M'Bongo and his whole court are
now clothed, I am happy to say, at least
to a certain extent. The greater portion
of the royal garments have been obtained
from me ; unfortunately I have been compelled
to take payment in cattle and grain.
You remember my scarlet rep underskirt,
the one I wore so much during our last
winter in dear old England ; with a little
alteration at the waist, to which I have

added a green velvet collar, and an additional
placket hole (through which the
royal arms are thrust), and wearing my
galoshes, M'Bon^o attended service here
yesterday for the first time. Both garment
and galoshes were quite useless to me in
this hot country. William was unable to
persuade him to remove the cockaded hat.
which he, in his benighted way, looks upon
as a royal crown ; but as my husband's is
the only other hat in the country, this
does not perhaps much matter. William
has thus been happily able to report to
the society the approaching conversion of
M'Bongo and his imminent civilization.
The poor king, however, complains much
of the heat, and I am sorry to say only
wears these robes on ceremonial occasions.
Still it has been a great, great comfort tous
both.

' Yours lovingly,

' Amelia Eyes.'

Many such interesting letters were received
from our self-sacrificing countrywoman
up to the death of her husband
and fellow-worker. The sad end of the
mission to King M'Bongo has been narrated
in the body of this work. But Mrs. Eyes
was loth to leave her sphere in Africa,
and is now happily married to Alonzo P.
Jones, an energetic coloured Baptist minister,
of Cape Coast Castle."

There was a universal sigh of relief.

'•'I wonder whether she wears the earrings
? " remarked the elder Miss Sleek
pertly.

i5 Perhaps they were the attraction to
Alonzo P. Jones," suggested her sister, as
she triumphantly folded and smoothed her
second completed towel.

It's always the way with them,"
sighed Miss Grains, who suffered from a
complication of romantic tendency and very
tight stays. " It's the money that attracts
them, and possibly Mrs. Eyes might have

been Mrs. Eyes to the end of the chapter,
if it hadn't been for the ear-rings and the
sale of her old clothes for countless flocks
and herds."

Doubtless Miss Grains speaks from
painful experience, my dears'' retorted
Mrs. Dodd, with a severe look at her
victim ; " but you may be quite certain
that the acquisition of the ear-rings and
the sale of the clothes were but the
blessed means to an end, a mere spoiling
of the Egyptians, that the work might
progress."

In fact, a robbing of Peter to pay
Paul," suggested Lucy "Warrender, but without
raising her eves from her work.

The needle of the archduchess broke,
as she shook her head viciously at the
scoffer. " Ah, my dear, you shouldn't
laugh at sacred things," said the elder lady.

"But I don't look upon Mrs. Rees as a
sacred thing," cried Lucy, not to be intimidated.


c; A person no one would wish to know,"
chimed in Miss Sleek.

Ah, but think how she loved the
blacks, and gave herself up to them,"
cooed the vicars, in a tone intended at
the same time to convey instruction and
reproof.

Nasty thing," retorted Lucy, with biting
sarcasm. " I suppose it was because she
loved the blacks and gave herself up to
them, that she married the energetic negro
ranter with, the dreadful name."

This proved too much for Mrs. Dodd.
I am surprised and ashamed, Lucy War-render,
at your attempt to depreciate the
noble self-immolation of dear Mrs. Jones.
Of course it is a great privilege to be
married to a clergyman, a very precious
privilege, but when he is a negro and a
Baptist — hum — I suppose I must say clergyman,
then a woman's life must be indeed
a martyrdom."

I suppose he beats her ? " asked one

of the draper's daughters of the experienced
]airs. Wurzel.

I sincerely trust he does," broke in
the irreverent Lucy.

Just at this moment the door was hurriedly
opened, and the Reverend John
Dodd entered the room. He was a stout
man, his principal characteristics being an
intense pleasure in ladies' society, and an
obliviousness of the fact that he was no
longer the pale slim young curate of earlier
days. A life of almost absolute inactivity,
which was forced upon him by his wife's
jealousy of the rest of the sex, had rendered
the muscular young Dodd of Oriel
a perfect Daniel Lambert. Little irreverent
boys from the village corners were in the
habit of shouting " Jumbo " at the poor
vicar. He was accustomed to pursue them,
but in vain ; a stern chase is proverbially
a long chase, and poor Mr. Dodd's futile
efforts to capture his persecutors had become
a bye word. But the Eeverend John

Dodd's weak point, the red rag to the bull,
the bee in his bonnet, was his devotion to
the fair sex. Handsome Jack Dodd, as he
had been once called, in his undergraduate
and curate days, had been accustomed
to find his attentions very highly
appreciated. The habit grew on him, lovesick
maidens sighed, and love-sick maidens
wept, but all in vain. Handsome Jack
Dodd, a very clerical butterfly, flitted from
flower to flower. His admiration was
freely, openly, ardently expressed for every
variety of female beauty. Was Jack Dodd
a flirt ? Not a bit of it ; he was merely
a fancier, just as there are pigeon fanciers
and poultry fanciers ; so Handsome Jack
Dodd was a fancier, an admirer, a worshipper
of the entire female sex : that is
to say, the select specimens of it. What
be could have seen in Canon Drivel's
daughter who can say? though, when he
married Cecilia Drivel, she was a well-known
light of London. She it was who,

in the severity of her classic and rather

imperial beauty, had posed to Malilstick,

Ea , for his well-known picture of Judith

with the head of Holofernes. Alas ! for

poor Jack Dodd, he had assisted at the

numerous sittings. He it was who had

had the honour of sitting (that is to say

lying prone on a bedstead of the period)

for the headless trunk of Holofernes. To

lie prone on a bedstead of any period,

and have nothing to do for two mortal

hours but gaze on the classic proportions

of any lady — for Mahlstick was a strict

disciplinarian and discouraged conversation —

is enough to seal the fate of any man,

even if he were of a less inflammable type

than Handsome Jack. Miss Drivel washer

father's only daughter, and ambitious ;

but four seasons, during which she was

much admired, but never once received a

serious offer, had warned the waning

beauty not to neglect her opportunities.

Miss Drivel was a lady of no imagination

and strong will ; the interest of her father,
a notorious pluralist, was very great :
Cecilia Drivel was determined to marry
Dodd. She did so, and her victim became
her obedient slave, and was duly inducted
to the fat living of King's Warren. In all
things Jack Dodd. as the weaker vessel,
yielded to his wife. He had but one
drawback in her eyes, he retained his passion,
his innocent passion, for the fair sex.
At the shrine of beauty he remained a
constant and ecstatic worshipper. This was
Mrs. Dodd's cross, and she had to bear it.
An idle life at King's Warren Parsonage,
and frequent dinner parties, for the Reverend
John Dodd was a popular man, had
caused Handsome Jack to expand into a
very Falstaff. Alas, anxiety had had precisely
the reverse effect upon the vicar's
wife. The once statuesque "Judith" had
disappeared, and Mrs. Dodd's characteristics
were now high principle and bone.

"Busy as usual, my dear," said the vicar

to his wife, as he proceeded to welcome
each member of the female bevy in turn,
devoting perhaps a little more time than
was necessary to handsome Miss Warrender
and her cousin.

Mrs. Dodd closed the thick black book
with a slap. k ' I suppose work is over
now for the day ; you really should not
intrude on our Dorcas, John' she said
in a severe tone.

My dear, it is my duty to encourage
my parishioners in good works, nay. it is
my pleasure," replied the parson.

"No one doubts it, Mr. Dodd'" said the
vicars in an icy manner.

But Mrs. Dodd was evidently in a
minority. The ladies crowded round their
popular vicar. It is easy to spoil a man,
and the Eeverend John Dodd had been
much spoilt by his parishioners, and
seemed to like the process-and

now a whispered conference took
place between the Misses Sleek. With

smiles and conscious blushes, the elder
sister addressed the vicar. "Oh, dear Mr.
Dodd, we do so want you to do us a
favour," she faltered.

"Granted, my dear young lady, granted
before it is asked."

Mrs. Dodd vainly sought to fix her
husband with a freezing look, and gazed
appealingly at old Mrs. Wurzel, but that
experienced matron had been present at
many similar scenes, and was rather
amused than otherwise, to watch the discomfiture
of the vicar's imperious wife.
Mrs. Wurzel's eagle eye detected the little
parcel which the younger Miss Sleek
hesitatingly attempted to hold towards the
vicar. "It is our own work, dear Mr.
Dodd," she said, " and we hope, we do
hope, we do so hope that you will
accept them."

"And wear them too," chimed in her
sister.

In an elaborate box, from which Miss

Sleek rapidly tore the paper in which it
was wrapped, and hurriedly opened, lay
a dozen bands of the latest ecclesiastical
fashion.

Oh ladies, dear ladies, so you equip
your faithful knight for the fray ; accept
my grateful thanks, my very grateful
thanks," sighed the vicar.

So pleased you like them, dear Air.
Dodd," chorused the stockbroker's daughters.

The triumphs of decorative millinery
were passed from hand to hand.

They never made these," muttered
old Mrs. Wurzel to herself, as she critically
held one up to the light. " The
minxes," she inwardly added. Mrs. Wurzel
was quite right ; they had been supplied,
regardless of cost, from Messrs. Eochet and
Stole's well-known establishment.

Ah," purred Lucy Warrender, " the

ladies used to arm their knights with their

own fair hands in the days of chivalry."

The parson laughed. " And have the
vol. i. 5

days of chivalry departed, ladies?" he said,
protruding his head, much as the unconscious
aldermanic turtle is said to protrude
his, when awaiting the fatal stroke.

Bonny Sleek, the younger and bolder of
the two, looked at her sister ; the elder
girl nodded maliciously.

Bonny stepped smilingly forward, and
proceeded to affix the band around the
vicar's massive throat.

Fat Jack Dodd was in his glory ;
Jumbo " was in the seventh heaven of
bliss. A smile of beatitude spread over
his enormous countenance during the process.
But it suddenly disappeared, as a
sharp slam of the door announced the
sudden departure of his indignant wife,
the outraged Cecilia, Will it ever dawn
on Mrs. Dodd's mind, that parsons, even
married parsons, are but men?

WALLS END CASTLE.

Walls End Castle was the seat of John,

Earl of Pit Town. It had come into the

family through the marriage of a former

earl with the heiress of the great Chud-

leigh family. It was one of England's show

places. The great park which surrounded

it was one of the most celebrated in

all England, celebrated alike for its size and

its beauty. The entry to the park was

never denied to artists ; and they, their

easels, and their umbrellas, might be seen

at the various well-known " bits " all

through the summer and autumn. The

boys of the Elizabethan Grammar School

had also the privilege of roaming in the

park ; and time had been when the people

of the neighbouring town and the public

5—2

generally were admitted ; but excursionists
had arrived in crowds, they had destroyed
the poetry of the place with pieces of
greasy newspaper, broken bottles, ham bones,
and the remains of their Homeric banquets.
They had shouted and whistled in the
great picture galleries, they had written
their names upon the window panes, they
had committed all the innumerable offences
that such people do commit ; but the final
straw which determined the present earl
to exclude them, was their having played
at the game of Kiss-in-the-ring, one Whit-monday,
directly under the windows of the
noble owner. After that memorable day,
Lord Pit Town kept his castle and his
park to himself.

His lordship during the earlier part of
his reign never came near Walls End
Castle. The widowed earl travelled continuously
in Southern Europe. He travelled,
and he collected pictures, statuary, gems,
plate, china — nothing came amiss to him

But John, Earl of Pit Town, was wise in
his generation ; he remembered that " if
you sup with the devil, it is best to use
a long spoon." He never purchased without
an expsrli's aid ; consequently the
immense collection he had gradually accumulated
was free from rubbish. Nothing
doubtful or " reputed " ever arrived in the
huge packing-cases consigned to Walls End
Castle. For years his lordship was seldom
seen in London, the great house in Grosvenor
Square was never opened. When
Lord Pit Town was in England, he stayed
at Long's Hotel. Friends he had none ; his
doctor and his courier were the people
who saw most of him. But as years
rolled on his lordship grew tired of travel,
his well-known figure, in the short blue
cloak anl velvet collar, was seen no more
in the great picture galleries of Europe.
Lord Pit Town now commenced the work of
his life, the building of the new galleries
at Walls End Castle. Winter and summer

the little old man, for hee was over sixty
now, might be seen in the blue cloak,
inspecting the growth of the vast galleries
with a critical eye. Melius Wolff, his
German architect, was his constant companion.
The great Mr. Buskin paid him a
yearly visit ; on these occasions Dr. Wolff
(for Wolff was a doctor of philosophy)
joined his lordship and the great art-critic
at dinner. At length the great Pit
Town collection was housed as it deserved
to be. Its principal feature was the picture
gallery. This was a vast building of classical
design, resembling a Grecian temple.
Dr. Wolff was a Berliner, and the tradition
of Berlin is that a picture gallery should
resemble a Greek temple. The vast
galleries were probably among the best in
Europe. They were lighted and heated to
perfection. But the great galleries had
one peculiarity ; at irregular intervals along
the wall were blank spaces of varying size ;
in the centre of each space was a label

in his lordship's own writing : on these
labels were inscribed the names of various
great painters. It was now the only business
of the Earl of Pit Town to gradually
fill these spaces, each with a representative
masterpiece of the artist indicated. Possibly
John, Earl of Pit Town, notwithstanding
his boundless wealth, could hardly hope
to complete such a work in his own lifetime.
The great Mr. Abrahamss had an
unlimited commission to secure at any
price, a long list of great works. There
was but one condition attached, any purchase
must be above suspicion. But even
the great Mr. Abrahamss, on one notable
occasion at least, had been deceived. A
new acquisition, purchased from the collection
of a wealthy amateur in the
Eue Drouot, had arrived at Walls End
Castle. A furious controversy concerning
this picture had arisen among art critics.
Herr Yandenbossche had defended the
authenticity of the work, but old Mr.

Creeps had demolished him in an exhaustive
article in the Friday Review. Old
Mr. Creeps was considerably astonished at
receiving an almost affectionate letter from
Lord Pit Town. His lordship thanked him
for the article, and requested what lie
termed " the exceeding great pleasure of
receiving you here ;" the letter was dated
from Walls End Castle. Old Mr. Creeps
accepted the invitation for a couple of
days. On his arrival at the local railway
station he was met by his lordship in
person. Lord Pit Town, one of the
proudest and most exclusive of men, treated
old Mr. Creeps with marked deference. At
dinner, at which John Buskin and Dr. Wolff
were present, conversation ran purely upon
art matters. Old Mr. Creeps, the critic, had
never enjoyed himself so much ; the sitting
was prolonged till the small hours. Next
day, at noon, the council of four sat in solemn
conclave upon Lord Pit Town's latest
purchase. Old Mr. Creeps triumphantly

proved his case. Lord Pit Town looked
at Mr. Buskin. Mr. Buskin nodded.
Well, Wolff? " remarked his lordship.

It is unhappy, most unhappy," replied
the doctor of philosophy, " but I fear it is
drue, too drue."

What wall your lordship do with it ? "
said old Mr. Creeps.

"You shall see," replied that eminent
collector with a smile, as he advanced to
the easel on which the doubtful picture
stood. His lordship opened his penknife,
carefully and quietly he cut the canvas out
of the frame, he folded it in half : again lie
cut it, as though he w r ere cutting up a sheet
of brown paper ; he repeated the process
several times, then, handing the pieces to
the German, he merely remarked, " Oblige
me by burning these, Wolff."

They shall make a famous blaze," said
the philosopher, as he left the room to carry
out the sentence.

Would that all collectors could afford todo

the same, Lord Pit Town," remarked John
Buskin with a sigh.

Your lordship has done a noble act,"
cheerfully cried old Mr. Creeps, as he rubbed
his hands. " Of course you will trounce
Abrahamss. When the artistic world hears
of this morning's work, Lord Pit Town, it
will know what it owes to England's most
distinguished amateur."

No, no, Mr. Creeps. I must ask you to
keep this business a secret ; no cheap popularity
for me," replied the old lord.

Cheap ! " echoed the critic, as he raised
his eyes to the skylight. "Good heavens!
he calls it cheap," whispered the old man to
John Buskin.

His lordship is right," was the oracle's
oracular reply.

Men said that Lord Pit Town was eccentric.
Gossips said that he was mad. Perhaps
after all he was only honest according
to his lights. Next day the handsome
frame, carefully packed, was returned to Mr.

Abrahamss ; it was duly deducted from his
account. But he got his cheque for the
price of the picture, and his very liberal
commission.

In vain did the artists who frequented
Walls End Park attempt to stalk the old
nobleman in his lonely walks. They never
succeeded in selling him a picture from the
easel. " Capital, capital," his lordship would
remark with great alacrity, when there was
no other way of escape. The eldest Miss
Solomonson, the most talented member of
that clever Hebrew family — she is great at
animals — tried to shoot the wary old lord
with her well-known picture of " The Timid
Fawn," but she ignominiously failed.

The old wretch called me ' my dear,' and
said he liked my sky, when I hadn't even
indicated the sky," she indignantly remarked
to her amused father.

Miss Solomonson's masses of jetty hair, and
the fire from the glances of her oriental eyes,
were said to have melted the stony hearts

even of dealers who were her co-religionists.
But with all her advantages Miss Solomon son
failed with the old lord, and she abuses him
to this da 7 . She had her revenge, however,
for in her well-known Academy picture of
the following year, " Balaam and his Ass,"
the angel was represented by a glorified portrait
of Miss Solomonson herself, who glared
down in an indignant manner upon the terrified
and kneeling Balaam. Old Mr. Creeps
and the other art-critics chuckled as they
recognized the angelic portrait ; but the r
chuckled still more, when they saw that the
terrified Balaam was but an ill-natured caricature
of John, Earl of Pit Town.

I'd have done him as the ass, you know,
only he was too ugly. I hope he'll like the
figures better than the sky this time,"
snorted the indignant Hebrew maiden.

The curse of the Earl of Pit Town's life
was the so-called gallery of old masters in
Walls End Castle. He couldn't sell them ;
he couldn't burn them ; he was even compelled

to insure them, to his intense disgust.
For when a former lord had inherited Walls
End Castle from the Chudleighs, old masters
had been the fashion ; and the purchaser,
delighted with his toy, had made the pictures
heirlooms. But the present lord had shut
up what to him was a mere chamber of
horrors. He and Dr. Wolff had actually
composed a catalogue raisonne of the entire
collection, in which the fictitious nature of
the claims to respect of each monstrous daub
was triumphantly demonstrated. The sprawling
Expenses were shown to be but inferior
copies, the Paul Veronese was proved a
transparent sham, while the great Yandyck,
representing the Martyr-King seated on a
gigantic grey horse, was demonstrated to be
but a wretched replica of a miserable original.
There they hung, the old Pit Town heirlooms,
grimy with dirt ; for as the old lord used to
say, " To have cleaned them would have
been only to make their natural hideousness
still more apparent." Each picture bore a

label, giving a true description of the once-honoured
gem. Alas ! these veracious tablets
cruelly contrasted with the flourishes of the
old housekeeper's descriptions.

Two only of his heirlooms had stood the
crucial inspections of Lord Pit Town and
his experts. These were the great Raphael,
and the celebrated portrait of Barbara Chud-
leigh, the well-known beauty of Charles the
Second's time, by Sir Peter Lely. Wicked
Bab Chudleigh, as a wood nymph, simpered
upon the walls of the new gallery in which
the Chudleigh Raphael occupied the post of
honour.

We have seen what manner of man John,
Earl of Pit Town, was. We have seen how
his heirlooms troubled him not a little. We
have seen how he passed his life with the
faithful Wolff at Walls End Castle, patiently
waiting to fill the numerous blanks on the
walls of the new galleries } in fact to accomplish
his destiny. For if ever there was a
born collector, a real collector, to whom the

actual intrinsic value of a painting was absolutely
of no importance, it was John, Earl
of Pit Town. And this indifference to the
value at the hammer of their acquisitions,
marks the distinction between the genuine
collector or connoisseur and the ruck of the
people who buy pictures ; the bulk of whom
are after all but amateur dealers. When the
successful stock-jobber leaves off dealing in
shares and takes to art, he merely deals in
another more or less intangible security of
very fluctuating value. With childlike confidence
he follows the advice of some more or
less honest dealer. He buys from the easel
with a hope of a " rapid rise." Works are
knocked down to him at Christie's simply
because they are apparently cheap, and he is
carrying out the old axiom of his trade,
always buy rubbish." In the same way he
is perpetually buying and selling pictures
upon the time honoured maxim of Capet
Court, "nail your profit, and cut your loss."
He will even go so for as to develop a taste

for a particular master in the hope that
he may succeed ultimately in making a
corner " in that special security. And
the sole dream of such a man is the result
in pounds, shillings and pence of the auction
that will inevitably take place at his death.
The possession of a certain number of
valuable works of art confers an amount
of distinction upon their proprietor, and
Brown, who as Brown is a nobody, becomes
a somebody as the owner of the Brown collection.
Of this fact Manchester " men " and
Liverpool " gentlemen " are well aware. But,
as has been seen, a deep gulf divided these
amateur dealers from John, Earl of Pit
Town.

The old earl's property, the source of his
wealth, as from his title the reader will have
shrewdly guessed, w T as in collieries. With
the management of these, however, the Earl
of Pit Town did not trouble himself. His
various agents paid yearly increasing sums
into that aristocratic bank in the Strand,

which never allows interest on deposits,
which never advises any investment except
Consols, and whose clerks from time immemorial
have worn white chokers.

For many years it had been the old lord's
habit to entertain those members of his
family, never exceeding four in number,
who were nearest to the title. Twice a
year the formal invitation was sent out by
the old nobleman to his only son, and to
his two nephews. Once in the height of the
summer and once at Christmas these invitations
were issued. They were never refused,
for their recipients looked upon them much
in the light of a royal command.

Lord Hetton, the earl's only son, and his*

heir, was always one of the guests on these

occasions ; to him it was an exceedingly

unpleasant time ; for father and son had

quarrelled years ago, the old lord having

sternly declined to increase his son's very

liberal allowance of five thousand a year,

A man can do a great deal on five thousand
vol. i. 6

a year, but not much is left for the annuitant
when he is possessed by the idea that,
some day or other, it will be his good
fortune to win the Derby. In all other
things but race-horses, Hetton was a man
of frugal mind. For the sake of his
stud he had remained a bachelor ; for he
felt that were he to marry, yet another
obstacle would be raised to the attainment
of his ambition. Ever since his majority
Lord Hetton had annually entered a coltin
the great race. His nominations had on
two occasions even run into places. Four
years ago Helton's horse had been first
favourite, but it was ignominiously beaten.
Tins very year, that rank outsider, Dark
Despair, who, starting at sixty to one, had
just been beaten on the post, was the property
of his persevering, but unlucky, lordship.
Twice a year did Lord Hetton present
himself at Walls End Castle. He used to
walk through the park, and note with
pleasure the care that his father bestowed

on the gigantic property. It pleased him
to see how well kept was everything about
the place. It gratified him to find his
opinions deferentially listened to by the
steward, and to perceive that year by year
the family solicitors treated him with a still
greater obsequiousness. But in his heart, he
cursed what he called his father's folly, ashe
looked at the new galleries ; and he
would have liked to stamp and swear, as
at every visit he dutifully admired each
new and costly acquisition of the old earl's,
lie would walk discontentedly up and down
the old picture gallery where hung the
worthless heirlooms that, in the ordinary
course of nature, must one day be his own :
and he wondered whether he should ever
possess the Golconda contained in the new
galleries. Perhaps it was only human nature
that caused him to watch, and watch in vain,
for any apparent sign of increasing infirmity
in the old earl. But he never quarrelled
with his father, for on the morning of his

G— 2

departure from the paternal roof, he was
accustomed to receive a very considerable
solatium to his wounded feelings, in the
shape of a heavy cheque on the bank in
the Strand. The amount of this cheque was
invariable ; it kept Hetton on his good behaviour,
and he had learned to look upon
it as part of his allowance. On one memorable
occasion he had presumed to remonstrate
with his father on the enormous cost of his
last artistic acquisitions ; the earl had merely
shrugged his shoulders. That visit had been
indignantly remembered by Lord Hetton, for
when the venerable connoisseur bade his
lordship good-bye, there had been no cheque,
though there was no change in his lordship's
manner towards his son.

Mr. Haggard, of the Home Office, a 
gentleman, whose principal
characteristic was his brilliant whist, which
it was said brought him in a certain but
variable income, was the next heir in direct
succession ; he was the nephew of his lordship,

and a childless bachelor. His presence,
also, always graced Walls End Castle at the
regulation periods.

Mr. John Haggard, of Ash Priory, the
father of big Reginald, was always the third
guest. John Haggard, the second nephew
of Lord Pit Town, was a J. P. for his county,
of the Shakespearian type. He was fond of
good living, his eye was severe, and his
beard of sober cut. He embodied the law,
in his own immediate neighbourhood, to the
intense terror of local delinquents. He had
meted out stern justice to his own son, when
he had banished bii^ Reginald to South
America ; but he had his virtues. He lived
within his means, he entertained his neighbours
at rather heavy dinners, he gave ibis
wife and daughters a fortnight in town
during the season, and he habitually took
the first prize at the county show for black
pigs. He never forgot that he was third in
succession to the title. He never doubted
his capacity, should he ever be called to

occupy the position of a hereditary legislator
; and now that his son had returned
a considerably wealthier man than he himself
was, he chuckled, when in his mind's
eye he thought of him as some day bearing
the courtesy title of Lord He t ton.

The earl and the doctor of philosophy
sat at breakfast in a little oak wainscoted
room whose windows commanded a full view
of the new galleries. In this little room
the galleries had been designed ; the windows
had looked upon the commencement of the
great work. An army of navvies had dug
out the earth for the gigantic foundations.
Then arose a very forest of scaffold-poles.
Two huge steam engines had snorted and
puffed for three whole years. A colossal
steam " traveller " had ceaselessly carried
great blocks of stone and long steel girders
from point to point. The clink of the stone-masons'
chisels had resounded year after
year from morning till night. Then came
the carpenters, and the noise of their busy

hammers had been deafening. When not
actually on the works, Lord Pit Town had
viewed them from the window of his
favourite room. But scaffold poles, steam
engines and labourers had disappeared ;
the rubbish had been cleared away, and the
huge white block stood out in the clear
air : dominating the rev weather-stained
gables of Walls End Castle much as Aladdin's
palace is said to have dominated the
more ancient but less magnificent residence
of his father-in-law the Emperor of China.
There was an air of spick and-meanness about
the whole thins that annoyed the earl. The

o ^

new galleries had been finished four whole
years, but they still looked painfully fresh.

I hear that I am to have the pleasure of
welcoming another of your lordship's relatives
this year," said the doctor of philosophy
to the earl.

Yes ; Wolff ' where the carcase is there
shall the eagles be gathered together.' I
have kept them waiting for some years, and

I don't feel a bit like dying, Wolff. Though
I confess I dread Hetton's critical examination.
He always looks me over in his stud-groom
sort of way. But I suppose, as he
is my nearest relative, it is but natural he
should be anxious about my health. As for
the young fellow, I have never even seen
him. My nephew wished to bring him, and
he is about to marry. In fact he and his
father will be the only married men among
my direct heirs."

"And does the young man love art?"
No. I think his talents are confined to
spending money and getting into trouble.
But my nephew tells me that he is now
going to forswear sack and live cleanly."

That is what I cannot understand, my
lord. I had a cold the other day, a most
severe cold. I tell the young man to bring
me a cup of sack ; he sends to me the butler.
I say to him, ' Give me the sack.' lie
replied to me, ' I cannot do that, sir, it's
only his lordship can do that.' What is,

then, this precious drink I read of in my
Shakespeare — so precious, that your lordship
will not trust him to his butler ? And
now you tell me that your nephew will
drink him no more. I never see your lordship
drink him. Has, then, your lordship
forsworn him too ? "

His lordship laughed as he finished his
coffee. fct Xo one drinks sack now-a-days,
Wolff, and the quotation was merely figurative
; while the other sack the butler talked
about was but a vulgarism used by his class.
You will never get that either, in my lifetime
at least."

1 understand it not. But your grands
the young man, it pleases you that
he shall marry ?"

"It is indifferent to me, Wolff; if I can
only live to fill the vacant wall spaces in
the new galleries, I can seriously say, acres
moi le tune . But here comes the first
arrival."

One of his lordship's close carriages was

coming up the great chestnut avenue ; Lord
Trenton was its sole occupant. As the old
butler received him in the hall, with the
deference due to his master's son, the
sporting nobleman laughingly commiserated
him.

We have neither of us any luck, Russell,
as usual," he said. " I thought I had a real
good thing this time. As usual, I put you on
for a fiver, Russell; as usual, it didn't come off."
Lord Hetton was of a frugal mind. He was
continually presenting innumerable imaginary
rivers to little people. He was always putting
them on for them at tremendous odds, but
the good things never came off, and the
recipients of his favours were never informed
of his munificence till after the event.

"I most humbly thank your lordship,"
replied the butler with an air of profound
gratitude, as he chuckled in his sleeve.

CD 1

For the old man too was of a sporting turn.
He knew all about Dark Despair, and
annually he had carefully laid the odds

against Lord Helton's nomination for the
great race.

The same rooms, I suppose, Russell ? *'
Always the same rooms, your lordship"'
Lord Hetton mechanically proceeded to
his quarters.

On joining the earl, father and son met
as if they had parted only the previous
day. The pursuits of neither interested the
other. Art and horse-flesh were subjects
tabooed by mutual consent. A desultory
conversation on politics, in which neither
took the slightest interest, was a safe neutral
ground. It was with a feeling of relief on
both sides that the arrival of Mr. Haggard,
of the Home Office, was announced. His
lordship retired shortly to his study, Hetton
and Mr. Haggard betook themselves to the

CO

billiard-room.

At dinner the family party was increased
by the presence of John Haggard and his
son, both of whom were well received by
the earl, who now saw his grand-nephew

for the first time. Bii? Besnnald's magnificent
physique made its due impression ;
his father was evidently proud of him, and
the old lord congratulated the young man
on his approaching marriage.

Eeginald Haggard was not diffident, he
truckled to no one. He frankly avowed to
his grand uncle that he knew nothing of
art. When his lordship retired early, as
was his custom, the other men adjourned
once more to the billiard-room. Br£ Kesrinald
took their lives at pool, and pocketed their
half-crowns in an easy genial way, which
almost made losing a pleasure.

During the fortnight in which Lord Pit
Town entertained his relatives, nothing
occurred to mar the harmony of the meeting.
During that fortnight Big Eeginald
got on friendly terms with everybody.

Nothing seemed to overawe or intimidate
the ingenuous youth. He saw with evident
pleasure the outward and visible signs of
the old earl's immense wealth. As he looked

round upon the priceless collection in the
new galleries, as he thought of the old
nobleman's huge estates, he remembered that
the investment that Mr. Hyam Hyams had
made in his own contingent post obits was
probably a good one ; he prudently determined
to pay off the Jew as soon as he
should realize his American properties. In
his own mind he determined already that,
should he ever be his great-uncle's successor,
he would distribute the great Pit Town
collection to the four winds of heaven. But
he made one mental reservation, as he stood
before Sir Peter Lely's masterpiece, and
gazed on the lovely features and roving
eye of "Wicked Bab Chudleigh : " "A
monstrous fine girl. Yes, I should stick
to her." If Reginald Haggard did come

O DO

into the estates after all, and did "stick to
her," she would be the first one of her sex
he had ever stuck to.

Walls End Castle, when the party broke
up, returned to its normal state. The earl

and the philosopher continued the even
tenour of their ways. Lord Hetton took
away his big cheque, which was duly
honoured at the old-fashioned bank in the
Strand. A cheque for a like amount had
been given to Reginald Haggard by the
earl. "Buy something for your wife that's
to-be," he said to his grand-nephew, ashe
handed him the folded paper. " War-render
was one of my friends years ago,
when I had friends," said the old nobleman
with a sigh " They are good old-fashioned
people the Warrenders, and honest. Don't
thank me," he said, as he shook hands with
the young fellow. "Of course you will
come here with your father in the winter.
I shall hope to see the new Mrs. Haggard
too," he added. " Good-bye. I shall send
you a formal invitation."

When big Reginald told his father of this
interview, as they were driving to the
station, Justice Hazard did not conceal his
satisfaction. "He will outlive all of us, my

boy, Hetton into the bargain. "Who knows
but you may be one day Earl of Pit Town ?
Keep in with the old man if you can. His
place, as you have seen, is perfect, all but
the piggeries. lie doesn't go in for pigs
though, he goes in for pictures — every man
to his taste. I prefer pigs."

AT THE PANDEMONIUM CLUB.

It was Wednesday night ; over forty men
sat down to the house-dinner at the Pandemonium
Club. As usual the dinner was
reciter cite, for the Pandemonium chef enjoyed
a world-wide reputation. It is to be feared
that the attractions of the house-dinner were
not the sole inducement to many of those
sitting there. A house-dinner always secured
a large party in the card-room afterwards,
and though, the Pandemonium was a celebrated
dining club, it was notoriously also
a gambling one. Though the Pandemonium
was a gambler's paradise, and many scandals
had occurred there, yet the dirty linen had
been always washed at home, and the exact
details of these affairs had never leaked out.
Young Spooner, of the Foreign Office, Sir

John Spooner's, the Warwickshire baronet,
eldest son, had certainly left London as
fourth secretary to the Teheran Embassy,
where he still remained ; while Rolls, a
briefless barrister, who was fond of backing
himself at the whist table, had taken his
name off the books, though he had honourably
paid his losses, and suddenly accepted
the not over-brilliant position of an 
on the Gold Coast : pay there
was high and promotion rapid, but no one
had ever been known to live lone enough
to take a pension.

Magnums of the driest and most expensive
champagne seemed to be the favourite beverage.
But the whispers as a rule drank claret,
in anticipation of the more serious business
that was sure to follow the weekly house-dinner.
Captains Spotstroke and Pool were
equally careful ; the rest of those present
drank freely. The elaborate dessert was
followed by a general move. Old Sir Peter

Growler and Canon Drivel, Dad., retired to
vol. i. 7

the smoke-room, where they retailed their
old, but exceedingly improper anecdotes, to
a select circle of the very youngest men.
In the billiard-room, pool at half sovereign
lives, was commenced, and promised to run
into the small hours — a sure harvest for
Captains Spotstroke and Pool. In confidence
it may be said that Spotstroke's little place
in the south of Ireland only existed in his
own imagination, his rents being entirely
derived from his skill with his cue, and the
certain income that he extracted from the
very safe little book that he made on most
of the great events of the year. A small contingent
of the members hurried off to applaud
the successful comic opera of the hour.

The card-room attracted its usual habitues,
these sat down to whist ; and if an unskilled
unfortunate joined the fatal tables, he soon
had reason to regret his temerity, round
points were habitually played at the Pandemonium,
and as the evening went on, though
the points never varied, betting among the

players and the " gallery " usually became
extremely heavy. Discussions never arose
at the whist tables of this rather fast club,
for the players had Cavendish and Pole at
their fingers' ends. General Pepper, Cab.,
had raised his eyes in unfeigned astonishment
and horror, when an old Worcestershire
baronet, his partner, once made a reference
to Hoyle, and professed himself unacquainted
with " the Peter." Needless to say, the
Worcestershire baronet had returned to his
ancestral acres a sadder but a wiser man.
He showed his wisdom in giving the Pandemonium
card-room a very wide berth for
the rest of his days. He subsequently had
the good sense to join the comic opera
division, and to finish his evenings with the
undeniable oysters, for which the Pandemonium
is so celebrated. Xo one was ever
seen at this well-known club after lunchtime
or before dinner, save a few miserable
veterans, to whom perpetual whist was a
necessity. The bulk of the servants even,

only commenced their daily duties at dusk,
while the steward never appeared till the
dinner hour ; but then he, poor man, had
to be to the fore all night, for it was a
stern rule in the card-room that I U's were
never seen, the play being always for ready
money, in notes and gold. Mr. Lesson,
the amiable steward (originally from Hamburg),
had a very Pactolus ready for the
accommodation, for a consideration, of his
numerous masters, in his iron safe. Lesson's
relations think he will cut up well at his
death ; Levison's relations are right.

It is one in the morning. Though it is
in the height of summer the Pandemonium
card-room is cool ; they burn wax candles
here, and gas is absolutely banished from
this particular chamber of the club, where
fortunes are sometimes lost and won. Inmost
club card-rooms smoking is not permitted,
but at the Pandemonium it is the
fashion to smoke everywhere. One whist
table only is at work ; General Pepper and

three old hands of the same kidney are
hard at it. The four old men rub their
blear old eyes at the conclusion of each
deal, and then pull down their faultless
cuffs over their eager and bony old hands.
The card table profitably occupies some six
to eight hours daily of these old fellows'
attention. There is not much harm in it
after all. Probably none of them are very
much the better or very much the worse at
the end of the year ; their sole ambition is
the saving of a game, particularly when
there is a good "gallery" to admire their
efforts. One dreaded Nemesis awaits these
men — the inevitable day when memory will
begin to fail, and they shall trump their
partner's best card. Or the still more
horrible apprehension of dimness of sight ;
for a pair of wicked old eyes will not last
for ever ; then the unhappy old player will
begin to revoke, and find himself perforce
relegated to " bumble-puppy," or to whiskey-ands
water and solemn slumbers in the smoke-room,

or, more horrible still, the prolonged
society of Sir Peter Growler and Canon
Drivel, Dad.

Eule XXXV. of the club states that
Cards, chess and billiards may be played.
The sum played for shall not exceed one
pound points ; no play is permitted after two
a.m." Eule XXXVI. says, "No game of
hazard shall on any account be played in
the club-house." Eule XXXVII. sternly
goes on to assert that " any deviation from
the last two rules shall be attended with
expulsion." Truly good and moral regulations.
But these Draconic laws are, unfortunately,
a dead letter. Nothing is said in
them about bets. As in all clubs, only
members enter the card-room ; and most of
the members come to "flutter," as they
term it, and to " flutter " heavily.

In the centre of the room is an oval
table ; some dozen men are sitting at it ; as
many more stand behind their chairs. Two
many-branched candelabra, holding wax

lights, brilliantly illuminate the game.
Young Lamb, who six months ago ran a
"tick" for "tuck" at Eton, and trembled
coram pcedagogo, sits, his eyes bloodshot, as,
with nails driven into his palms, he watches,
in an anguish of excitement, the movements
of the dealer. Young Lamb's big cigar has
been out long ago ; but he pulls hard at it,
wholly unaware of the fact. It is easy
enough to distinguish, among those who
smoke at least, the more innocent from the
habitual gamblers ; the cigars of these latter,
even at the most exciting crises, are steadily
smoked at a uniform rate, while the new
hand is continually taking a light, as often
blowing sudden vast clouds, or his cigar all
unknown to him goes out, as has been
described. Your young player, too, sits
with his feet tucked tightly under his
chair ; he never moves them, and consequently
suffers much from that hitherto
described disease — that awful pain across
the knees, which, for want of a better name,

may be called " gamblers' rheumatism."
Are you quite sure you have never suffered
from this rather common disorder, gentle
reader, at least, if you be of the male sex ?
Perhaps you may remember having occasionally
walked home through the rain,
utterly cleared out, without even the needful
silver for a cab, with a dry throat, and
finding out for the first time w 7 hat "gamblers'
rheumatism " really means. If so, it is to
be hoped that, wise man as you are, the
first attack of this disorder was also your
last. But at the Pandemonium matters never
went to the extremity of a member suffering
the degradation of having to walk home in
the rain. Was not kind Mr. Levison ever
to the fore, with his neat little rouleaux of
sovereigns, and his fat pocket-book full of
new and crisp bank-notes ? Levison, as he
sat at the little table in the corner, on
which were writing materials and many
packs of new cards, never refused a loan in
so many words. " I wouldn't go on if 1

were you, sir ; the luck's dead against you
to-night ; I wouldn't go on, indeed I
wouldn't." This was his invariable formula.
It meant that the astute Hebrew declined
to do business on any terms. Xo one ever
argued with Levison ; all understood that
this particular phrase was final. The unhappy
applicant was naturally obliged to
temporarily retire from the game, at all
events for that night. No man would have
been idiot enough to have asked a loan
from a fellow player ; that would have been
quite contrary to the unwritten code of
ethics of the Pandemonium Club : fathers
have flinty hearts, but no fathers are so
proverbially flinty hearted as the fathers of
the card-room.

Among the players were the usual club
habitues. They are much the same everywhere,
the only difference being their
clothes. The rivers at the Pandemonium,
in their faultless evening dress ; the <jom-
mieux at Monte Carlo, in their tall collars

and their shiny boots ; the Bohemians, in
their tobacco-scented and eccentric garments ;
or the thieves playing at sixpenny loo in
St. Like's — all these people are at heart the
same. But we must not class in this unclean
category Lord Spunyarn and his friend
Haggard, who were both playing at the big
table. Haggard merely played for the excitement,
and Spunyarn because it was a
lesser bore to play than to look on.

The game was baccarat.

The table is covered with a tightly-stretched
green cloth, which is divided by
yellow lines into fourteen spaces ; two larger
ones in the centre of the table are the
places of the banker and the croupier ;
twelve other spaces of a smaller size indicate
the seats of the rest of the players, or
"punters," as they are technically termed.
The table is full, as has been stated : a
bank has just been terminated, and the
banker retires, having lost the whole
amount of his bank. The croupier, who is,

of course, a professional — a bald Frenchman,
nominally one of the card-room waiters
looks round the table with the air of an
auctioneer. "Fifty pounds — seventy-five —
a hundred — two hundred — two hundred and
fifty three hundred ; thank you, sir. Mr.
Haggard takes the bank, gentlemen, at three
hundred pounds."

Haggard rises with a smile, seats himself
in the dealer's vacant place, opposite the
croupier ; he places in front of him a pile
of gold and notes. With the rapidity of one
of Messrs. Courts' young men, the French
croupier counts the money ; he arranges the
gold in little piles, and the notes in three
little heaps, placing a small paper-weight on
each heap. Then the croupier tears open
two packets of new cards, flinging the old
ones into a waste-paper basket at his side.
He invites various players to make the
cards ; this is done in rather a perfunctory
manner. With a sort of huge paper-knife
the Frenchman passes the cards to Haggard,

and as lie does so, remarks in a clear, but
mechanical voice : " Gentlemen, the bank is
opened for three hundred pounds." Haggard
takes the cards, and, dividing them into two
equal parts, rapidly shuffles them, by raising
a corner of each parcel simultaneously, and
letting the corners slip with a rapid " burr."
Evidently, from the dexterity and precision
with which this feat is accomplished, George
Warrender's affianced lover is no novice.
He hands the cards to his right-hand neighbour,
who carefully cuts them ; each player
puts forth his stake towards the middle of
the table, in front of the space allotted him.
These stakes are gold only as yet, and no
man's venture seems over five pounds.
Haggard takes up about a sixth part of
the cards. " Gentlemen," cries the croupier,
"the game is made." Haggard places a
card to the left, for that half of the table ;
another at his right, for the other half; a
third one he takes himself: he repeats the
process. The croupier slips the blade of

his huge paper-knife underneath the two
cards which are on either side of the dealer,
and deposits them, unexposed, with marvellous
adroitness, before the punter on either
side whose turn it is to play. Court cards
and tens count as nothing, the ace as one ;
should the player make either eight or
nine he invariably rests contented, and exhibits
it ; if below eight, he exercises his
fancy or discretion, and takes or refuses a
third card. Then Haggard turns up his
own hand, doing precisely the same. He
has drawn a knave and a six ; he takes
another card ; this turns out to be an ace.
I have seven," he says. The player to
his right holds eight, the player to his left
has only six — the right side wins, the left
side loses. In an instant the croupier, with
his huge paper-knife, sweeps up the cards,
and, with the rapidity of a conjuring trick,
he casts them into a wooden bowl in the
middle of the table ; then he rapidly sweeps
off all the stakes on one side of the table ;

with equal celerity lie places each man's
winnings before the players on the other
side. There are no quarrels, and no mistakes.
Everybody is terribly polite. And
so the game goes on.

Though the amount played for is serious,
a good deal of rather bald conversation and
chaff goes on. There is a considerable
amount of give and take. If any one has
lost his temper, as well as his money, he
takes good care not to show it ; to do so here
would be indeed bad form. Young Lamb
has already paid several visits to Mr. Levison's
little table. Haggard's deal goes on, no very
startling coup coming off, but it has been
a good bank as yet, for the pile in front of
Haggard has increased to nearly six hundred
pounds. Young Lamb having gnawed his
extinguished cigar till it somewhat resembles
a quid, and having consequently swallowed
a considerable amount of nicotine, flings it
away with a curse. As the last note of his
last loan from Levison is swept up by the

remorseless pelle (for so the gigantic paperknife
is technically termed), Lamb gives an
order to the waiter, and pays another visit
to the smiling little Jew. Their business is
rapidly transacted ; Lamb redeems some half-dozen
I U's which he had previously given
to the steward, hurriedly signs a formal-looking
instrument, which is duly witnessed, and
stuffs into his breast-pocket a big roll of
notes, which he does not even stop to count.
t; I do hope you'll be careful, sir," remarks
the steward to Lamb in an affectionate
whisper, and in the tone of an anxious
mother to her favourite child. Lamb returns
to his seat at the table ; he has lost eight
hundred pounds already, but the bulge
lump in his breast-pocket is another five
thousand pounds. The waiter places by his
side a small guerdon on which is a little
carafe of green Chartreuse and a liqueur-glass
; he also hands to the young fellow a
box of big full-flavoured cigars, of the brand
of Anselmo del Vale. Lamb fills his case.

and lights this the ne plus ultra of a soothing
weed.

Dutch courage, Sammy, my boy," remarked
Spunyarn, as he calmly helps himself
to one of the youth's cigars.

You'd be doing the same, Shirtings, if
you'd been hit at this beast of a game as I
have."

Shirtings " was the playful name bestowed
on the noble lord, in reference to
the well-known fact that the Spunyarn money
had been made in a Manchester cotton mill,
and with that money it was said that the
Spunyarn title had been paid for ; the first
gentleman in Europe not disdaining such
bargains. Lamb swallows a second glass of
his panacea. The real fact is that the boy
likes it because it is sweet, the after-taste
indistinctly resembling the distant memories
of the peppermint bell's-eyes of his early
youth. But green Chartreuse unhappily is
not innocent ; it is more than a spirit, it is a
powerful drug. Fired by this second draught,

his tired eyes already a ferrety red, his mouth
dry with the tobacco, the drink and the excitement,
Lamb in a rasping voice shouts,
Banco."

There is a sudden hush. The whist players,
who had finished for the evening, hurry to
the baccarat table ; the other players, some
of whom had already staked their money,
reluctantly withdraw their various amounts.
The croupier announces, intoning as does a
high-church curate, "There is seven hundred
and forty pounds in the bank, gentlemen."

Lamb with shaking fingers places the required
amount in front of him. Haggard,
the dealer, apparently unconcerned, continues
the game. There is a dead silence. Neither
dealer or punter take a third card. The
cards are turned. The dealer has an eight
and king, the punter a Hve and three. J. tie.
The perspiration stands on young Lamb's
face ; again his cigar goes out. The croupier
pushes the seven hundred and forty pounds
of the unlucky player a foot nearer to the

VOL. I. 8

bank. The next coup will decide the matter.
If Lamb wins, he will get his own money
back, if he loses, then his money is gone for
good. Again a dead silence, again the cards
are dealt; this time the bank wins ; there is
a loud noise of excited "talking, above which
rises the monotonous chant of the croupier,
-" There is fourteen hundred and eighty
pounds in the bank, gentlemen."

The wretched young man persistently exercises
his right of crying "Banco," and so
practically going double or quits each time.
But "the cards never forgive," and as a rule
Dame Fortune is relentless to the reckless
player. Three more coups are played, each
of which the banker, that is to say Haggard,
wins. At the end of the third coup, Lamb
loses, at a single blow, nearly three thousand
pounds ; he calls the steward to his side, a
short whispered conversation takes place.
"Five thousand nine hundred and twenty
pounds in the bank." Again the young fellow
repeats his fatal "Banco," as he stakes a

fresh pile of notes handed to him by the obsequious
Jew. Again he loses. Haggard has
won, of him alone, eleven thousand pounds.
Nobody feels inclined to go on ; every one is
rather scandalized, for it is apparent to all
that the boy has become suddenly, thoroughly
intoxicated.

Damned shame, I call it," growled old
General Pepper, who in his heart envied
Haggard his luck. " Why, the man's drunk,
beastly drunk, sir."

Haggard rises, glaring at old Pepper in a
menacing manner. "Am I to regard your
remark as any insinuation upon me, General
Pepper ? " he said fiercely.

I say it's a damned shame," repeated the
veteran.

The hubbub became general. What was
to be done ? Of course, there would be a
scandal, but in the eyes of most men at the
Pandemonium Club, Haggard was not to be
blamed, he was merely to be envied. Probably
the real fact was that the weak young

8—2

fellow was suddenly carried off his legs by
the repeated draughts of the fiery cordial,
the effect of which only became apparent to
the on-lookers after the final bet had been
made and the game had recommenced. Who
shall cast a stone, then, at Haggard ? He
merely backed his luck, as the saying is.
There was nothing unfair about the matter.
But the nasty part of the whole thing was,
that Haggard had won eleven thousand
pounds from a weak-headed boy. The
society newspapers for the week alluded to
the matter in veiled, but unmistakable terms.
And when Haggard announced to his friend
Spunyarn his intention of returning to
America, to realize his property, on the termination
of bis wedding tour, the young
lord acquiesced in that decision, casually
remarking, " It would be as well if you
fought shy a bit, you know, old man, for I
am heartily sick of being bothered about
the baccarat matter, and of looking in the
paper to see if that young prig Lamb has

hung himself. Ta ta, you lucky beggar. I
shall be to the fore at your diggings tomorrow,
in the regulation shiny boots."
They parted.

Next day Eeginald Haggard was to lead
Georgina Warrender to the altar, and Spun-yarn's
allusion to shiny boots merely referred
to the fact that he was to be his
friend Haggard's best man.

george's wedding.

In newspaper descriptions of the last moments
of celebrated criminals, we constantly
read that " the unfortunate man did full
justice to a substantial meal;" but nobody
ever yet heard of a bridegroom who had
any appetite for his breakfast ; his own real
breakfast is meant, and not the elaborate
entertainment which follows close upon the
ceremony. Eeginald Haggard and his friend,
Lord Spunyarn, were the vicar's guests at
King's Warren Parsonage, but in vain did
Mrs. Dodd press upon Haggard the numerous
dainties with which her hospitable board was
provided. Haggard was in a state of suppressed
excitement, and he couldn't eat a
mouthful. They were a cheerful enough
party though, and Lord Spunyarn made up

for his friend's deficiencies, for the young-nobleman
had an almost Homeric appetite.
Justice Haggard, Reginald's father, and
Lord Hetton, who had passed the night at the
Dun Cow," were present, for the sporting
nobleman was supposed to represent the
head of the family, his father, Lord Pit
Town ; and though he looked upon the
whole matter as a very great nuisance
indeed, still it was a family function at
which his presence was a matter of course.

That breakfast at the Parsonage seemed
interminable to Haggard, but even clerical
breakfasts must have an end, and at length
Mrs. Dodd rose, to the general relief of all
present. There were yet two mortal hours
to get through, and the men of the party
sought the cool shades of the vicarage
garden.

Pull yourself together, old man," said
Spunyarn to his friend, for Haggard was
looking pale and miserable ; " you're as
sulky as a bear with a sore head. It's

quite unnecessary to pose as a hero of
romance. What's up with you, man ; boots
too tight ? "

"I'll be hanged if I can tell you what's
up," said his friend, " but this I know, I'm
confoundedly depressed."

Perhaps it's your natural timidity," said
the other.

Don't chaff, Shirtings ; you're a very good
fellow, you know, but I'm not in a laughing
humour."

Well, you needn't sulk all the same,"
said Spunyarn ; " take my advice and have a
glass of brandy."

Justice Haggard looked far more like a
bridegroom than his son ; the old gentleman,
in his blue frock coat, his blue bird's-pye
neckerchief, and with a flower in his buttonhole,
was the picture of health and happiness
; while his white hat, which was cocked
a little on one side, completed his festal appearance.
He gave his son a hearty smack
on the back.

When I married your mother, Eeginald,
my boy, I was as jolly as a man could be ;
why, there's nothing to be alarmed about,
unless you've lost the ring, you know ; and
the ladies wouldn't let you off with that
excuse, for there's always the key of the
church door in case of an emergency."

Haggard forced a smile.

The ring's safe enough, father," lie
said.

Don't worry him, gentlemen," cried the
vicar ; " it's only natural. I've had a good
deal of experience with bridegrooms ; believe
me, it's the general symptom. T felt just
the same when I was married myself; but
it's nothing to preaching one's first sermon.
It's all very well for you to talk, Haggard ;
but I'll be bound we were both just as
miserable as our young friend, though we've
forgotten all about it now. But here comes
my wife with the sacrificial emblems."

There was no compromise about Mrs.
Dodd, as she advanced straight to the bridegroom

and proceeded to firmly secure a
large white favour to his breast. The rest
of the party were soon similarly decorated.

There's one comfort, we haven't far to
go," said Lord Hetton. " I feel we look
rather like a parcel of fools."

"At all events, we haven't any time to
lose," suggested the vicar, as he looked at
his watch ; " and, unless we mean to keep
the bride waiting, we had better be off."

The whole party passed through the little
wicket, crossed the churchyard, which was
thronged with the whole population of
King's Warren in its Sunday best, and
entered the church, and the bridegroom
and his friends at once took their place
at the altar rails.

If George Warrender had acted with
proper decorum, she would have wept
upon her father's bosom ; but this ill-regulated
young person did nothing of the kind.
They must have been all very glad to get
rid of her at The Warren, for nobody shed

a single tear ; there was a great deal of
running about ; the young person from the
West End milliner's, her mouth full of pins,
issued innumerable orders in a muffled
whisper ; and Miss Lucy Warrender and
her three fellow bridesmaids appeared completely
attired, at least half-a-dozen times,
to submit themselves to old Warrender's
inspection in the drawing-room quite half-an-hour
before the carriages drew up at
the door to take them to the church.

George was not sufficiently old-fashioned
to be married in a bonnet. Even a plain
girl looks well in white, and George was
not a plain girl by any means. Of course,
according to all proper precedent she ought
to have rushed into her father's arms, and
with floods of tears have bid him a touching
farewell. What she did do, however,
as she entered the room, was to rapidly
advance and affectionately embrace him,
then she stepped back and dropped him
a low courtesy.

Shall I do, papa ? " she said with a loving
smile.

My dear, you're a credit to all of us,"
said the old gentleman, and her appearance
certainly justified the ecstatic looks of Miss
Hood, the four bridesmaids, and the young
person from the West End.

George was fully conscious of her privileges.
No woman can twice in her life
dress in white satin and orange blossoms,
and if she mars the effect by the regulation
tears, it is quite certain that there
must be a screw loose somewhere. There
was a great deal of tittering, smiling, and
blushing ; but the squire glanced at the
clock, Lucy handed the bridal bouquet to
her cousin, then the squire gave his daughter
his arm, and, preceded by the bridesmaids,
the little procession entered the
carriages, and five minutes' drive brought
them to the church.

Haggard, when he cast his eyes upon
George War render, seemed to regain his

composure at once; there must have been
a terrible amount of forwardness about this
young lady, for according to rule and the
pictures in the illustrated papers, her eyes
should have been fixed upon the ground;
and as the latest etiquette book says, "the
bride should only acknowledge the bridegroom's
presence by an assumption of
shrinking timidity suitable to the occasion'
But the bride smiled at Haggard, and so did
the vicar, and so did the four bridesmaids.
The Reverend John Dodd didn't take long
in tying the knot. The village organist had
distinguished himself by his florid rendering
of the Wedding March. As Lord Spunyarn
gave his arm to Lucy Warrender, he almost
felt as if he had been married himself, and
that it was a rather pleasant process than
otherwise.

It's rather rough on us, Miss Warrender,
having to play second fiddle," he said, while
they were standing in the vestry during the
signing of the register.

Well, we can look upon it as a dress
rehearsal, Lord Spunyarn ; but we mustn't
forget that it is a solemn moment, for I
see that Mrs. Dodd is looking this way."

The bells were clashing merrily from the
village spire as the party passed out of the
church porch. As Haggard handed his wife
into the carriage, she appeared still lost to
all sense of the proprieties, for she nodded
and smiled in every direction at the King's
Warren villagers, among idiom she had
grown up ; even poor Blogg, the poacher,
and his hoyden daughter, Jemima Ann,
were not unnoticed. And the patriarchal
blessing of the village veteran, " Master "
Jasper, as he was called (who had represented
King's Warren on the field of
glory some five-and-forty years before, and
stood bobbing his palsied head, arrayed
in his holiday garment, a linen ephod or
smock frock, to which his Waterloo medal
was proudly affixed), was given heartily
enough. " God bless 'ee, Missy," cried the

old man in the shrill cracked voice of age,
as he pressed up to the carriage window.

Thank you, Jasper," said the girl with
a sunny smile. Strange to say, those two
words gave the old fellow more pleasure
than the thought of the unlimited potations
he knew he would enjoy that afternoon at
the squire's expense.

The wedding breakfast very much resembled
the similar festivities at which most
of us have assisted. The usual speeches
were made, nobody seemed very much inclined
to eat, but everybody's health was
drunk ; and I think it was rather a relief
to all present when young Mrs. Haggard
appeared in travelling dress, ready to quit,
for the first time in her life, the happy
home of her childhood. Then, and then
only, did the young person from the West
End millinery establishment remove the pins
from her mouth, which enabled her to
swallow a much needed glass of sherry ;
and then the squire's voice failed him, and

he saw his daughter rather dimly as he
pressed her to his heart for the last time
upon the steps. The bridesmaids relieved
their feelings by many salutes and much
tittering. As the carriage moved off there
w r as a perfect shower of satin slippers, and
it wasn't till it got quite out of King's
Warren village that the bride was able to
leave off bowing and kissing her hand to
her numerous w T ell-wishers.

Then the wedding party broke up into
little groups in the garden ; at first they
didn't amalgamate ; the men smoked, and
came to the universal conclusion that
Haggard was a lucky beggar ; while the
ladies talked over the interesting details of
the ceremony. Old Warrender retired to
his study in a rather excited frame of
mind, excusing himself on the ground of
his age.

And now everybody turned out with a
feeling of intense relief to witness the rejoicing
on the village green. The school

children were there enjoying rustic games
in a somewhat half-hearted manner, for they
had partaken with the appetites of young
boa constrictors of the squire's hospitality,
and each of them had a brand new shilling
or half-crown in his or her pocket, according
to age. A cricket-match was in progress,
but the bowling and batting were extremely
wild, thanks to The Warren strong beer.
But soon the Eev. John Dodd imparted
fresh vigour into the proceedings. The
youths and maids pulled themselves together
on his approach ; the more bibulous among
the men left the proximity of the big barrels
of strong ale, over which the squire's
head gardener was presiding. Lovers, who
had been promenading arm-in-arm, separated
for the moment by mutual consent, the
swains touched their forelocks to the vicar,
while Phyllis and Chloe smoothed their
skirts and courtesies low to Mrs. Dodd as
Lady Paramount. But the vicar meant that

they should enjoy themselves, and he whist
i. 9

peered to the squire, the squire nodded, and
the vicar called loudly for Blogg.

Where's your father, Jemima Ann ? "
he said to the poacher's daughter, who, in
all the glories of a pink print dress and a
much beribboned straw hat, had gone off
into a succession of courtesies.

"Please, sir, he's gone to fetch it" she
said.

At that moment the sound of a fiddle
was heard, and the smiling rascal who
played it, stopping his melody for an instant,
made a low and sweeping bow, which
took in the vicar, the squire and the
gentry generally. Then he clapped his
fiddle under his chin and without more
ado struck up " Bobbing Joan."

That's right, my man," said the vicar,
"you couldn't do better. Now men, now
girls."

But not one of them stirred.

Goodness me ! " cried the vicar, and then
he forgot himself. Could Mrs. Dodd believe

lier eyes ? her husband seized Jemima
Ann Blogg by the hand.

Come, gentlemen, set them a good example,"
he said, and he commenced to turn
Miss Blogg violently round. Before her
father had got through another two bars
of " Bobbing Joan," every soul on the
green had commenced to gyrate, the frown
died off Mrs. Dodd's face, as she too began
to turn with slow but majestic movements,
her hand clasped by old Warrender's, her
virtuous waist encircled by his aged though
still vigorous arm. Lord Spunyarn pounced
upon Lucy War render, Lord Hetton seized
another bridesmaid, Justice Haggard somehow
got possession of a third ; every village
Jack gripped his Jill, and all the parish of
King's Warren, gentle and simple, twirled
with one accord to the fine old tune of
Bobbing Joan." Once started there was
no stopping them, the fun became fast and
furious, and I fancy that it was with some

regret that the wedding party itself, having

9-2

set the ball a-rolling, retired to the more
dignified festivities which awaited them in
the great drawing room at The Warren.

It wasn't a large party ; they were most
of them Warrenders and Haggardss, and
offshoots and branches of those prolific
trees, or people connected with the families
from old association or friendship, but
there were quite enough of them to fill
the big drawing-room. Old Biggs, the
family solicitor, who had come down to The
Warren the day previously about the settlements,
and Blatherwick, of Lincoln's Inn,
who had fought him tooth and nail over
every item, in the interest of the Haggard
family, got their rubber; but both the legal
lights had soon declared that it was impossible
to play whist with dance music
ringing in their ear". The lawyers looked
rather sheepishly at each other when they
found themselves vis-a-vis in a quadrille,
Miss Hood having honoured the one, while
Stacey Dodd clung lovingly to the arm of

old Mr. Blatherwick. Of course it was
most unprofessional, but they probably
kept their indiscretions to themselves, and
no doubt charged them to their clients
under the head of " sundry attendances."
As for the Reverend John Dodd he seemed
to be everywhere at once, no one refused
the Reverend John. When the youngest
and best-looking of the bridesmaids told him
that she was danced off her feet the clerical
Lothario overpersuaded her in a few seconds,
and round they went like a couple of dancing
dervishes, being the last to hold the
floor.

But even wedding parties must come to
an end, though it was midnight before they
finally broke up, and at last Justice Haggard
and Lord Iletton walked over to
their rooms at the " Dun Cow."

It went off wonderfully well," said
Iletton to the Justice.

Capital, capital," assented the bridegroom's
father. " It's a great weight off

my mind, you know, Hetton. Reginald's
been an awful anxiety, but lie's a lucky
beggar, lie manages somehow to always
turn up trumps."

Yes," remarked his lordship, ;i that's
been his principal occupation since I've
known him."

Boys will be boys, my dear fellow ;
he'll sober down now, of course he will.
I know I did when I married," said the
Justice.

"I'll tell you what it is, Justice. War-render's
daughter is a very plucky girl ;
if she had known half you and I know,
Justice, she would have thought twice
about it."

The reformed rake, cousin, makes proverbially
the best husband. Why, 'pon
my word," continued the Justice, " when I
was a young fellow I was a regular devil."

Lord Hetton blew out a big volume of
smoke, and looked at his companion with
some curiosity.

When an old gentleman, in the fulness
of his heart, tells you that lie's been a
regular devil, you are bound to believe
him, particularly if lie's a Justice of the
Peace.

We were all devils in those days, my
dear fellow, but a man outgrows it ; he
marries, and he lives it down ; he takes to
a hobby. I did. I can't tell how I drifted
into pigs ; much in the same way as you
drifted into horses, I suppose. You may
take my word for it that pigs are far more
interesting and far more respectable, though
they're expensive, mind you. Yes, they're
uncommonly expensive ; so are horses for
the matter of that," continued the Justice.
Every man has his ideal, you see, Het-ton.
The perfect pig must ultimately be
produced. You mustn't look upon me, you
know, as a mere breeder of pigs. I am a
benefactor of my species." Here the pair
reached the "Dun Cow" and retired to their
respective quarters.

So ended George Warrender's wedding-day.
As Lord Hetton had remarked, in
engaging herself to Haggard she had done
a very plucky thing. Marriage is like
Mayonnaise sauce, either a great successor
an absolute and entire failure. The
materials which are blended together to
form a perfect whole are dissimilar and
have nothing whatever in common, but
once really thoroughly amalgamated the
result is very happy. Perhaps the marriage
celebrated in King's Warren church
may turn out well after all. It is to be
feared that like the sauce of sauces in the
hands of the inexperienced cook, the result
is more than doubtful. Fortunatus,
though a good fellow enough, is, like his
patroness, notoriously fickle. All we have
got to do, however, is to make ourselves
as comfortable as possible in our stalls.
The overture is over, the curtain is about
to rise on the drama of George's married
life. We haven't a play bill, and

don't know whether we are to listen to
some pretty pastoral, to a long three-act
farce, dignified by the title of a comedy,
or whether we are to be thrilled with
horror by a gruesome drama of intrigue,
limelight effect, and blood. We haven't
even seen a review of the piece ; the footlights
go up with a jump, and now the
curtain rises. Let us watch the players.

Lord Mayors DAY.

It was Lord Mayor's Day. Haggard and
his wife sat in the little drawing-room of
their bijou house in May Fair. The room
was prettily furnished, and George had
often accused herself of extravagance. The
regulation chairs and tables of the furnished
house had been banished from Mrs. Haggard's
drawing-room. It had been a pleasure to
choose the various tasteful specimens of the
upholsterer's art. The nesting faculty is
perhaps even more strongly developed in
young married ladies than in birds ; young
Mrs. Haggard was no exception to this ride.
Many had been the happy pilgrimages
made by George and her lover, for Haggard
was her lover still, to the great firm in Pall

Mall and to the world-famed house in Bond
Street.

i; Pick up what you like, my dear, and
make our drawing-room, your drawing room,
as pretty as you please ; nothing can be
good enough in the Ik tie kingdom in which
my George deigns to reign"'

But sugared compliments and furniture-buying
cannot go on for ever. A pile of
invitations attested the Haggardss' popularity.
Dance-giving mammas were anxious to secure
the success of their entertainments by
obtaining the presence of ;t lovely Mrs.
Haggard."

A well-known professional beauty in the
heyday of her charms was " sitting-out " at
a great ball, the observed of all observers,
in a dosrh-dos cause use with a Royal Iligh-
;. ss.

And is your Royal Highness also a
worshipper at the shrine of budding bucolic
beauty? I mean pretty Mrs. Haggard,"
said the spoilt darling of society, as with a

little moue she had indicated George, who
entered the room on her husband's arm.
The good-natured prince glanced carelessly
in the direction indicated ; his lazy eyes
sparkled as he quickly replied in a tone of
reproof :

Pretty is not the word, Mrs. Charmington
; if that is the lady you allude to,
she is lovely, absolutely lovely, and must
count amongst her admirers every member
of the human race who has had the happy
privilege of beholding her." His Royal
Highness rose.

Mrs. Charmington hastened to spread the
report that his Eoyal Highness was seriously
smitten.

Royal ripen early, I suppose ; naturally
they age as quickly ; perhaps his Eoyal
Highness is arriving at a second childhood,
and his heart turns to people of the Dolly
the Dairymaid type."

But in her first rage Mrs. Charmington
had been weak enough to let out that the

prince had called you? Mrs. Hazard
lovely." Mrs. Charmington had received
her own unsigned patent as a recognized
beauty from the discriminating admiration
of his Eoyal Highness. The fiat had gone
forth, and Julia Charmington had commenced
her reign. The Charmington boot
and the Charmington Bouquet were very
freely advertised. A reproduction of Mrs.
Charmington herself decorated the interior
of the omnibuses.

Why use dangerous cosmetics when
Jones' soap retains youth and health for
the complexion, and fosters the development
of beauty ? " Underneath the portrait was
a facsimile of Mrs. Charmington's* fashionable
scrawl, " I owe you so much, so very much.
I have never used any other soap than
yours. Very faithfully yours, Julia Charmington."


Ill-natured people said that Mrs. Charmington
owed a great deal to Messrs. Jones.
That the cheque that paid for her well-known

turn-out had been signed by the
firm ; that the) r had twice paid her dressmaker's
bill, when that terrible person had
become importunate ; that they had settled
the account of Monsieur Alphonse, the
great coiffeur ; that they had paid her
husband's debts. Some of them, more
imaginative, declared that Mrs. Charmington
was even a sleeping partner in the
saponaceous firm. But the ill-natured people
were quite wrong ; it was not Messrs. Jones
who paid Mrs. Charmington's bills. Little
Jack Charmington, her husband, had a snug
four hundred a year of his own, which
quite sufficed for his modest needs. Mrs.
Charmington's graceful letter had been
written by her in a moment of good
nature, and, it may be said in confidence,
at the instigation, some eight years ago, of
Big Eeginald Haggard, who had looked on
the whole matter as a joke, and who had,
at that stormy period of his career, been
very much in Mrs. Charmington's confidence.

The real fact was that Mrs. Charmington
kept Messrs. Jones before the public, and
those astute advertisers did the same kind
office for the lady.

Thus it was that George became " lovely
Mrs. Haggard." This is what the writers
of serious books pompously call " the
secret history of the whole matter'

George now, to her astonishment, found
her movements invariably chronicled in the
society journals. It rather annoyed her
than otherwise, but her husband was pleased,
and that was enough for George.

The lazy giant was sprawling on the most
comfortable of the sofas ; the pair were
alone in the dainty little drawing-room.
Young Mrs. Haggard's eves were full of
tears. " Won't you take me with you,"
she sobbed appealingly, "it's only for six
months, Eeginald ? "

"I can't, my darling; it's a beast of a
climate, and the mosquitos would eat you
up. I shall only be away for six months;

you know I have made up my mind to get
rid of the whole bag of tricks. It's quite
true the land can't run away, but there are
always rows and revolutions and smashes
going on ; you can't trust anybody. Of
course, George, I should like you to go ;
but think of the risk. It won't wash at
all. We'll stay over Christmas here in
England. I suppose I must take you down
to see the old man, and then we'll go
straight off to Eome, and finish the winter
there. I'm getting rather bored, you know,
George, with the fuss people make in town.
It's deuced fine fun for you of course."

The fact was that this excellent husband
hated playing second fiddle, and he found,
to his astonishment, that young Mrs. Haggard's
social success had far eclipsed that
of George Warrender. As a good-looking
young bachelor, though a detrimental, he
had been very popular. As a wealthy
parti and a sort of lion he had been the
fashion himself the previous season, and to

his own knowledge his curly hair and big

moustache had caused a quicker beating of

the heart in many a female breast. But as

Beauty's husband he felt out of his element.

You lucky beggar ! " had been repeated

to him so often that he hated the phrase.

Of course, he still admired his wife as the

handsomest woman he had ever clapped

eyes upon ; he wasn't even jealous of the

great attention that George habitually

received. First, because he knew he could

trust her implicitly ; but secondly, and this

was far the more powerful reason, because

he was too much a man of the world ever

to render himself ridiculous.

You know we can have rather a jolly

time of it in Rome, George," he said.

You must by this time be as heartily

sick of the eternal tete-astute as I am. I

don't mean that," he said, springing to his

feet as he noticed that his young wife

shuddered and turned pale ; " but the fact

is, George, I don't want to be pointed at
vol. i. 10

like poor old Jack Charmington, and I
confess, dear," lie added with a smile,
that I should like a little more of ' lovely
Mrs. Haggard's ' society."

A very little crust thrown to the very
hungry is always accepted with gratitude.
George Haggard brightened up at once.
I suppose I must make the best of it,
dear," she said with a pleased smile ; " at
all events, I shall have you all to myself
in Borne."

Yes ; it will be quite a second honeymoon
; but I half promised your cousin
Lucy that she should join us. It'll be
beastly dull for her at The Warren, you
see, poor girl ; and she doesn't seem to
jump at Spunyarn, though he does hang
on. Is there any one else in the wind, do
you think, George ? " he said with some
interest.

No ; Lucy seems perfectly heartwhole,"
replied his wife.

I often wonder you two hit it off so

well," mused Haggard as he gazed into the
blue flames that flickered over the little
wood fire, for his wife affected a wood fire
as more cheerful. " Why, Lucy lias been
your only serious competitor this season ; I
wonder you aren't jealous of each other."

How can you talk such nonsense,
Reginald?" the wife replied with a sunny
laugh.

Then you don't mind her coming with
us on the Woman trip ? "

It showed that Mrs. Haggard had considerable
confidence in her own attractions,
as she innocently replied, " If you don't
mind, why should I, dear ? "

"Well, then it's all settled, old girl; we'll
put in the dull time in Italy. Old Pit
Town knows lots of good people, and
would give us letters, I suppose. In the
spring I'll just rush across and polish off
the Mexican affair."

His gaze again returned to the fire which

smouldered on the hearth

10—2

There was a silence.

Gradually Haggard raised his eyes ; they
rested on his wife, they took her in from
head to foot, and seemed to appraise each
of her numerous points. The husband's
countenance w T as lighted up by a pleased
expression.

By Jove ! George," he said, " people are
quite right ; you are an uncommonly fine
woman."

He kissed her.

It was the kiss of proprietorship, similar
to the appreciative pat he would have given
to a prize dog or a valuable horse that was
his own property.

Yes, George loved the man, and looked
up at him with wistful, trusting eyes. She
was his, body and soul.

But the door opens, and a peal of merry
laughter caused Haggard and his wife to subside
into seats on either side of the fireplace.

Oh, George ! I'm so sorry you missed it,
it's been such fun, and Mr. Sleek has been so

attentive. I really think the two girls thought
I was setting my cap at their father. What
with the procession outside, and the farce indoors,
we've had a delightful morning," cried
Lucy Warrender, as she entered the room.

I fear it was rather a tragedy to poor
little Sleek," said Lord Spunyarn, who followed
her ; " a tiger when a-lashing of his tail was
nothing to Sleek. I shall never forget the
look he gave me after lunch."

When inflamed with love and wine, you
know," said Lucy pertly. "Behold his
scalp."

Lucy triumphantly extended an enormous
formal bouquet. Alas, for poor little Sleek !
his flowers were carelessly tossed upon the
table.

Oh, they were very confidential, you
know," lisped Spunyarn ; " I was quite out
in the cold."

Ungrateful man, when you had a window
all to yourself, and a smiling Miss Sleek on
either side of you, gazing into your eyes. You

neglected your opportunities, Lord Spunyarn.
Let me tell you that the daughters of my last
conquest are two very pretty girls."

Not when Miss Warrender is present."

I rather think you forgot Miss Warrender's
presence," retorted the coquette.

Anyhow, two's company and three isn't,
you'll all allow that. How happy could I have
been with either were t'other dear charmer
away."

Did they both propose to you, Lord
Spunyarn ? " said Mrs. Haggard with a
smile.

If I were a vain man I should confess that
they rather gave themselves away."

"Much as Hannibal Peter Gray did for love
of the beautiful cannibal," said Lucy.

"Oh, they were quite safe in my case, not
being a mangeur devours" replied the discreet
young nobleman. " But my attention was not
sufficiently absorbed by those guileless girls
that I failed to perceive the doings of the
other couple."

You are quite wrong, as usual. Mr. Sleek
was merely explaining who the various people
were."

In that case, Miss Warrender, lie might
at least have given us all the benefit of his
information, instead of conveying it in an inaudible
whisper to Miss Warrender's private
ear. And he needn't have blushed till he
looked like a pickled cabbage."

It's not fair, Lucy," said Mrs. Haggard
reprovingly, with an attempt at matronly
dignity.

Well, you know," laughed the girl, " it
wasn't my fault. Spunyarn declined to come
to the rescue. There I was, practically tete-tete
with the man ; the noise of the crowd
drowned my cries and remonstrances. Besides,
after the scalp, and the elaborate lunch which
was awaiting us in the middle of the room, I
felt myself bound to listen to the voice of the
charmer. I was cheered, too, by Lord Spun-yarn's
masterly defeat of Dabbler. Poor
Dabbler ! "

Ton my word, I didn't know it. When
we came in there was a fat man messing with
the things on the table. He was dressed like
a waiter, and he looked like one — a regular
City waiter, you know. He held out his hand.
Of course, I gave him my hat and coat. He
has no business to dress like a waiter and to
hold out his hand."

Lord Spunyarn, he is a common councilman,
and he is going to dine with the Lord
Mayor," cried Lucy.

"All the same, he has no business to be
dressed like a waiter in the morning, if even
lie be a common councilman and going to
dine with the Lord Mayor. Anyhow, he took
the hat and coat, and then, thank heaven, he
bolted."

"What's Dabbler to him, or he to Dabbler,
that he should weep?" misquoted George's
husband, who had enjoyed Dabbler's discomfiture.


"It's all very well for you all to laugh,
but Mr. Sleek didn't seem to like it at all.

What did he mean by saying that Mr.
Dabbler was a warm man ? " asked Lucy.

Oh, piles of money of course ; all the
common councilmen have piles of money,"
said Spunyarn.

And do they all dress like waiters in
the morning, and then dine with the Lord
Mayor ? "

Yes. I suppose it's an old City custom,
you know. Anyhow they always dine with
the Lord Mayor. That's what they die
of."

And now I have something to tell you,
Lucy," said Mrs. Haggard. "It's all been
decided. After the Christmas festivities at
the Castle we are to go to Rome, and we
hope you will come too."

Lucy clapped her hands with girlish glee.
Go with you, George dear ? Of course I
will. How good of you to ask me." The
girl was evidently delighted.

And have you the heart, Miss Warrender,
to leave me, Mr. Sleek, and your

other countless admirers, here in England
to 'dree our weary weird alone?'

And so the idle talk ran on. The
Italian trip was discussed, and considerable
ignorance of geography was, as is usual,
manifested by all present. Lucy expressed
her disappointment, on being informed that
there were now no brigands in Italy, save
those behind the shop counters, or in the
choruses of the opera.

A trim maid then brought in the tea equipage,
and George did the honours with
her usual unaffected grace.

And now Parson Dodd and his sister
were announced. The Dodd presented a
rather dishevelled appearance. They, too,
had seen the Lord Mayor's Show. But the
vicar, in a moment of weakness, had yielded
to Anastatia's wish to see something of the
real Londoner, whom "dear Dickens has
described so well," as she had put it.

Great had been her indignation at the
want of respect shown to the Reverend

John Dodd's cloth. With horror she had
heard her brother addressed by a disreputable
costermonger in a mangy fur cap,
as " Old pal." And though the Reverend
John stood all unmoved in the surging
crowd, muscular pillar of the Church that
he was, it was only by clutching him very
tightly that poor Anastatia preserved herself
from annihilation. She had seen the
Lord Mayor's Show indeed, but at what a
price ! The long grey cloak which she
wore, a sort of semi-religious garb which
Miss Dodd, as a clergyman's sister, affected,
had been splashed with mud and creased
into a thousand wrinkles. Her maiden
feet, which had never felt the sacrilegious
touch of the toe of obtrusive appreciation,
had been trampled on by an exhilarated
London mob. And after several hours of
agony, just as the Lord Mayor was
actually passing, she had heard and felt
a horrid rending, crackling sound, and had
almost shrieked into her awe-stricken

brother's ear, " Oh, Jack, I'm gone at the
gathers ! " What she meant neither the
Eeverend John Dodd, or any other male
person, could ever truly know. But
evidently something dreadful had occurred.
Take me back, Jack ; take me back to
Mrs. Haggard's at once," the poor little
woman had pleaded to the parson. He
got her into a cab at last, and they had
reached the Haggardss' house in May Fair,
at which they were stopping for the night.
But George Haggard came to the poor
lady's rescue ; she and her cousin bore her
off to her hostess's own quarters, where
she detailed her sufferings to their sympathizing
ears. Eau de Cologne was duly
dabbed upon her temples, strong tea was
administered, but at length the wounded
feelings of the vicar's sister found vent ina
little gentle fit of sobbing, and she was
accordingly put to bed.

What possessed me I can't imagine,"
said the Eeverend Jack to his two male

friends ; " we were quite comfortable at
first, you know," said poor Jumbo, warm
with the remembrance of his numerous
humiliations. " I had put Anastatia on a
bench ; the man made an exceedingly
moderate charge of threepence. I gave
him sixpence, and strange to say he had
no change. I didn't like to be done ; the
man urged me to occupy one place that
was yet vacant ; my evil genius prompted
me to do so. Alas ! I had no sooner
stepped upon the frail structure when it
suddenly and unaccountably gave way in
the middle. I was precipitated to the
ground in a sitting posture. Anastatia was
fortunately unhurt, but she was much
frightened. Those who had paid for the
use of the bench demanded their money
from me ; while the miserable proprietor,
who had previously been most respectful,
in a truculent manner, and with horrible
menaces, claimed a sovereign, and on my
declining to comply with his extortionate

demand, he actually offered to fight meme
a clergyman of the Church of England.
From a sense of justice, I hastened to
remunerate those who had been deprived
of their coism of vantage, but, alas ! the
claimants were innumerable ; every man
and boy in my vicinity declared that he
had paid for a place. The mob cheered
me w T with derisive epithets. The climax was
reached when a most offensive policeman
in a dictatorial manner ordered me to
'Move on.' The Church of England, in
my person, was ordered to ' move on.'
I attempted to remonstrate, but I and the
proprietor of the broken bench were both
suddenly propelled by the Jack in-office
into a bye street, and I discovered, to my
horror, that I had lost Anastatia. Of
course I had to satisfy the ruffian's insolent
demands, but I did so under protest. The
officer, however, now became more civil, and
T, fortunately, with his assistance, was able
to rescue my sister from the mob. I will

take another cup of tea, if you please.
Thank you, three lumps. I have seen the
Lord Mayor's Show, never again will I
assist at that degrading spectacle."

In vain did Haggard and Lord Spun-yarn
attempt to reassure the indignant
vicar. Only on the return of Mrs. Haggard
and Lucy did the Eeverend John
Dodd become comparatively tranquil. Under
the soothing influence of beauty, however,
the vicar forgot his woes.

■*-£

AT THE CASTLE.

The Haggardss were heartily glad to leave
town. The nasty scandal at the Pandemonium
had been particularly irritating to
Haggard personally. " Thank God," he
said to himself, " the head of the family will
probably never hear of it, unless Hetton
should go out of his way to tell him ; but
I don't think he'd do that, he's not too
particular himself, so it would be only a
case of the pot calling the kettle, after all.
It wasn't my fault. How could I know
the young idiot was drugging himself with
Chartreuse ? I was too much interested in
the game. Besides, some one was bound to
have his money sooner or later ; in fact,"
pondered the big man, " I've been rather ill-used,

when I come to think of it. It's just

my luck."

Just his luck ! Yes, it was just his luck ;

just his luck to squander every farthing he

possessed, and to be pitied by everybody

when deported to do the best he could for

himself. Just his luck to have what the

Americans call a " high old time " in

Mexico, to hunt, to shoot, to enjoy the

free wild life and absence of restraint in

America. Just his luck to thoroughly

clear out that wealthy gambler Don

Emanuel Garcia, at poker ; but then

Haggard had all the qualifications for a

poker player : he had the very luck which

he grumbled at ; good temper, for your

thoroughly selfish man is far too fond of

himself ever to be other than o'ood-tem-

peered ; his " cheek " was unlimited, and in

the bi " flutter " with the Mexican, he

had also had u'ood cards. Given good luck,

good temper, good " cheek," and good

cards, a poker player is always invincible ;
vol. i. 1 1

so the Americans say, and they ought to
know. Just his luck to become the
possessor of a large sum of ready cash,
when valuable land was going a-begging ;
just his luck at that precise moment to
invest his easily-got winnings in the
Mexican ranches and pastures, now worth
ten times what they cost him. Just his
luck to come home at the right moment to
be accepted by the loveliest girl in Essex, a
girl whose beauty had now even received
the imprimatur of so fastidious a judge as
his Eoyal Highness. Just his luck to be
adored by his young wife, and looked
upon by her as a king of men ; to be
clothed in purple and fine raiment, with the
possibility of a peerage and the possession
of immense wealth in the future. But he
was quite right in carping at her, for
fortune, like other fickle jades, is more
likely to be true if steadily abused.

The two girls, his wife and her cousin,
interrupted his soliloquy. The gaieties of

the season had, if possible, rendered
George's beauty still more perfect. A succession
of recherche entertainments, of concerts,
balls and routs, and their attendant
late hours and excitement, had given the
young wife that almost indefinable stamp
of delicate refinement for which we have
no word, which is so seldom seen in
England, and which the Italians call .


But there was no morbidezza about Lucy ;
she, too, had shone, perhaps with a certain
amount of reflected lustre ; but she had
shone, she had dazzled. When a very
young woman is exceedingly good-looking,
no prude, and prepared to go any lengths,
being at the same time perfectly heartless,
she is bound to be a success, and Lucy
had been a great success. The Due de la
Houspignolle, the French Ambassador in
London, that duke who was so much missed
from the cotillions at the Tuileries of his

imperial mistress, had pronounced Lucy

11—2

petulance. M. Barbiche, his second secretary,
the best valour of the season, had declared
that Miss Warrender was the lightest stepper
in town. " She make my heart to beat as
it never beat before," said the young
diplomatist to his chief; "but she is not
distinguished like her cousin, she is a
woman. I think her cousin is only a goddess
after all. They are cold, these married
English. I suppose it is the ' spleen.' ' :

"You'll get back your roses, old woman,
at the Castle," said Haggard to his wife.
"I think we've both had about enough of
it," said he, as he poured out a brandy
and soda. " I'm getting rather sick of seeing
my wife twirled round like a teetotum by
a succession of well-dressed idiots, while
twenty more noodles round me are all
saying how very charming she is, and consequently
1 acting and envying me. It's all
devilish fine for you girls, but I really
think I shall enjoy a fortnight's dulness
and the counting of possible chickens which

may never be hatched at Walls End.
Anyhow, one will get one's rubber'

And I shall have two new strings to
my bow in the shape of Hetton and his
cousin. By-the by, what is Hetton like ?
One can't judge of a man at a wedding-breakfast,"
said Lucy.

Oh, horsey ; when you say that you say
everything."

I've a good mind to upset all your
plans, Eeginald, after all," said the girl.
Lady Hetton would look well on my cards.
And then I should come in for the Walls
End diamonds. By the way, are the Walls
End diamonds black diamonds ? "

Bother Hetton ; you've got about as
much chance with him as with the old
man, my dear," for it annoyed Haggard
to see the slightest cloud to his prospects,
even were it no bicker than a man's hand.

"Anyhow, there are two bachelors, Reginald,
besides his lordship, who is hardly a
bachelor, being, I suppose, wedded to art."

Oh ! three, my dear ; you have forgotten
my father ; he, too, is aged, but
impressionable. If you'll only talk about
pigs, Lucy, and manifest an intelligent
interest, especially in black ones, you can
put my nose out of joint most effectually ! "

I should make a stern stepmother,
Reginald."

Of course, unjust novella, and all the
rest of it, I suppose. I don't know about
the sternness, my dear, but I can answer
for the crispness."

Thank you for nothing, Eeginald ;
however, I shall certainly take a dip in
the lucky-bag at the Castle."

ci By Jove, Lucy! there's Wolff for you."

"And who is Wolff?" asked his wife.

Wolff, my dear, is the toad-eater. In
the old days every great man kept a toad-eater
; sometimes his functions were highly
paid — Wolff's are, I fancy. A dish of toads
of the largest and most repulsive variety
used to be offered one by one to the big

man's relatives and guests. A good many
would partake of them. It was the toad-eater's
office to devour the remainder with
apparent gusto."

"Reginald, you're a wretch! and I don't
believe a word of it," said Lucy.

Haggard yawned, drained his glass, and
they retired to prepare themselves for the
journey to Walls End Castle, which was to
take place on the morrow.

Lord Pit Town was determined, on this
occasion at least, to break through the rule
which he had stringently observed since
his return to Walls End Castle. For many
years no lady had graced the great old
house with her presence. It was considerably
to Justice Haggard's astonishment that
he heard of the invitation to his son and
his son's wife. " Hetton won't like it," he
muttered to himself, as with the point of
his stick he gently titillated the back oi
one of his favourite black pigs. The
animal stood perfectly still, grunting with

suppressed delight. " Hetton will be decidedly
savage," mused the old gentleman.
"- 1 wonder whether Eeginald will get something
in the will ? " pondered his father,
his eyes fixed on the black pig's ears.
He's a lucky beggar, Eeginald, a very
lucky beggar, and Warrender's daughter is
more than he deserves." Few fathers think
that any woman is more than their son
deserves, particularly when that son is an
only son, wealthy, and a possible heir to a
peerage ; but we may take it that Justice
Haggard knew pretty well what his son deserved,
and that when he considered George
more than his son deserved," Justice Haggard
was probably right. If the prodigal
really had his deserts he would still be
chewing husks with the Mexican swine —
husks which the magnificent specimen of
the porcine race who was so delightedly
submitting to the caresses of the Justice's
stick would doubtlessly have indignantly rejected.
" I wonder why," continued the

meditating Justice, " Hetton don't marry ? "
Perhaps Mademoiselle Zizine, of the French
theatre, was the reason — who knows ?
Hetton didn't go into society, not that
society wouldn't have been very glad to
receive Lord Hetton, being Lord Hetton,
even if he had been a Siamese twin or a
Spotted Boy, which he wasn't. But Lord
Hetton found that society cost money, and
only placed an additional barrier between
him and the object of his ambition — the
blue ribbon of the turf. Hence when Lord
Hetton sought distraction from race meetings
and TattersalFs, he found it in the
society of Mademoiselle Zizine and her like.
Evidently the question of why Hetton
didn't marry perplexed, the Justice ; he
paused in his attentions to the pig ; the
animal, who was black but cornel', missing
the accustomed caress, gave a little snort
of impatience. "Bother Hetton!" said the
Justice, administering a sudden and unexpected
prod to that tender but irritable

skin. The injured and indignant animal
gave vent to a succession of eldritch
screams. The callous Justice passed on to
the next stye, immersed in thought.

Great were the preparations at Walls End
Castle, and greater still the astonishment
of the old housekeeper when she heard that
the winter house party was to be graced
with the presence of ladies. Not that what
were termed the state apartments were in
any way disturbed. The old show rooms
were left to the mice and ghosts, but the
more modern suites were all to be occupied.
My lady's own rooms had been allotted to
Haggard and his wife. The rather Spartan
simplicity of the late Lady Pit Town had
made her own rooms sombre, if not grim.
It had been a labour of love with the old
lord to change all this. The aesthetic gentleman
Messrs. Spick and Span, the great
upholsterers, had sent down, had been
severely snubbed by Dr. Wolff; the upholsterer
had submitted elaborate coloured

pictures of his idea, his firm's idea, of
what a suite of rooms should be. Part of
that idea was sham bric-a-brac, the rest
was carte blanche to Messrs. Spick and
Span. " We should like," said that well-dressed
and self-satisfied individual, " to
turn out a job worthy of our house's
reputation and that of his lordship. We
should suggest that the boudoir be hung
with Japanese embroideries ; of course, there
would be an Aubusson carpet, and we
should cover the whole flooring " — which
Mr. Veneer contemptuously indicated with
his umbrella — " with our patent parquet ;
probably a mediaeval pattern would be the
most suitable. We should restore the ceiling
and liven up the mouldings with a
free use of gold ; in fact, my advice in
the matter is, that his lordship should place
himself entirely in our hands. Of course,
money's no object. His lordship cannot do
butter than to rely upon the taste of our
Mr. Spick."

1 do not think it shall be so, my
friend," Wolff had replied. "You will
put fresh and pretty papers on the walls.
Your hangings must be of chintz, of pretty
chintz, and you will put a cheerful carpet
on the floor. As for furniture, there is
plenty of that here, but the chairs and
the sofas you shall provide ; one thing only
you shall remember — they shall be comfortable.
His lordship will sit in every chair ;
if it is not comfortable it will L r o back.
As for the ceiling you shall not touch
him'

Messrs. Spick and Span's representative
was wounded in his tenderest point, but
lis firm carried out the order to the letter.
The old lord had sat in each chair and
was satisfied. The ceiling, which represented
the triumph of Venus, by Yarrow
T as left untouched. If we were permitted
to penetrate the secret mysteries of the
bedchamber, we should make the reader's
mouth water bv telling of the toilet table,

which was stamped " Biesencr," and bore
the mark, " Meubles de la reine. ,J We
should tell of the ormolu mounts of the
little table, and how it really once belonged
to Marie Antoinette. All the decorative
furniture of this suite of rooms had been
carefully selected by the old lord from
the vast accumulation of such things that
Walls End Castle contained. For several
weeks he and Dr. Wolff had pottered about
the set of rooms that were to be graced
by George's presence. When, to Wolff's
astonishment, the priceless Messenger, " The
Gray Musketeer," was selected as the one
picture to adorn the boudoir, he attempted
a remonstrance.

Nothing can be too good for her,
Wolff," said the earl, as he smiled upon
the picture.

Other rooms had been set apart for
Lucy, but their arrangement had been left
to Wolff

It was evident to the German doctor

that this patron looked forward to his
great-niece's visit with pleasure. On the
day of her arrival, for the first time in his
life, Lord Pit Town failed to visit the new
galleries.

At dinner, Hetton himself was surprised at
the amount of attention paid to George by
the head of the house. Haggard did not
attempt to conceal his satisfaction. Lucy
Warrender, ever ready for mischief, feigned
an intense interest in racing matters, but
failed to draw Lord Hetton. That guileless
bachelor, Mr. Haggard, of the Home Office,
proved more amenable to her fascinations ; he
knew that he should get his rubber after
dinner, and Miss Warrender's conversation
helped to while away the time until what was
to him the real business of life should commence.
As for the Justice he was in the best
of humours, he enjoyed his dinner, he enjoyed
his wine. But the '34 port was so good that
he revoked twice, to the indignation and
despair of his unhappy brother and partner.

The girls sang to the old man at his
express desire, and Hetton noticed with a
feeling of secret indignation that the antiquated
Broadsword grand had been replaced
by a magnificent Gerard.

The place seemed changed. Lord Pit
Town appreciated with mingled pleasure and
astonishment the brightening influence of the
ladies' presence ; the party, if not gay, was
at least cheerful ; the little leaven had
leavened the whole lump. They broke up
early, satisfied with themselves and with each
other. But Hetton's equanimity was again
disturbed in the morning when his lordship
actually proposed to drive Mrs. Haggard and
her cousin in the park. He retired in disgust
to his own quarters, where he consoled himself
by the inspection of his betting book
and the reading of his trainers last report.
Haggard, of the Home Office, in his own
room, with two packs of cards, worked out
historical games of whist and studied the
coups of Chapelle and the other great

masters. Dr. Wolff walked aimlessly up and
down the new galleries, and stopping before
Bab Chudleigh's portrait, soliloquized, as is
the manner of his race, " Ah, lovely Englishwoman,
you are but a painted portrait, but
all men admired you because they could not
help it ; if all they say be true, Madame
Jezebel, you were as bad a woman as lived in
your bad old days. Got in Simnel ! but you
are very like the leetel Warrender lady.
God forbid the leetel lady shall have a heart
like yours. No, I wrong that innocent
English mddchen. But you are both wun-
derschon. Hein ! " Arid then the doctor
continued his perambulations, and in his
dreamy way, he pondered on Lucy's seraphic
smile, and on her wealth of golden hair.
Such things are not for me," he thought.
I must go on loving the paintings and the
portraits to the end of the chapter," and then
he sat down to write a business letter about
Era Filippo Lippi to old Mr. Creeps. Justice
Haggard an 'l his son wandered about the

home farm ; the father criticized the piggeries,
while the son smoked a bier cigar and thought
of nothing at all.

Gad! Reginald," said the old man, " there's
one thing I can't understand. Pit Town, who
looks after most things, neglects these poor
beasts in a most shameful way ; if ever I
came into the title I should make it my first
business to pull down the whole range of
buildings"' here he indicated the piggeries
in an indignant manner ; " they are a disgrace
to the place, sir ; the sight of them offends
me."

Well, father, I hope you may, I sincerely
hope you may carry out your own ideas here
some day," said the dutiful son ; " but 1 don't
think the old man cares very much for your
hobby, you know."

fct Then he neglects his duties, that's all,"

replied the old gentleman with an indignant

snort. " Of course, Pit Town's in the fashion"'

he continued, " for we hear about nothing 1

but art now-a-days ; but I should like to
VOL. i. 12

know where he benefits his race. His
ambition is a purely selfish one, while mine
is distinctly benevolent. The dream of my
life, Eeginald, is unrealizable. I know that
I can never succeed in producing the being
I see in my dreams, a perfectly boneless pig ;
a sort of animated sausage, where fat and
lean Shall be deliciously blended in the
requisite proportions. I know I strive after
the unattainable, but still every year I get
nearer and nearer to the goal. When I
remember, sir, what black pigs w r ere when I
was a boy, and what they are now, thanks
to my efforts and those of the noble little
band of enthusiasts like myself, I feel that
I am leaving a lasting monument behind me.
Why, only yesterday, sir, when Dr. Wolff
pointed out to me what he called a specimen
of George Morland's best manner, I felt what
giant strides of progress we have made.
There were the pigs of his day, represented
as great gaunt bony bristly creatures,
wallowing at large, sir, in muck and mire.

We never see such horrors now ; and I
actually envied Pit Town the possession of
that picture. I should like to hang it up,
sir, in my piggeries at The Priory, that the
world might look upon what the animal was,
and in contrasting him with the superb
creatures I possess, appreciate what can be
done by care, breeding, feeding, and proper
selection. The time will come, Eeginald,
when every English speaking man or woman
who puts a piece of pork or bacon into his
mouth will bless the name of Haggard. But
these are but ambitious dreams, Eeginald,
never perhaps to be realized."

The party at Walls End Castle, though
its elements were decidedly heterogeneous,
was a success. Everybody was sorry to go
when they left, and their host regretted the
departure of his visitors.

The place seems quite dull without them,

WohT," he remarked. " I think I shall try

to see more of my relatives, but we must

make up for lost time, Wolff. Why, since

12—2

the ladies have been here we have neglected
work shamefully."

It has been a pleasant time, Lord Pit
Town, for me, for I love enthusiasm in the
young. It has never yet been my fortune
to meet with so delightful and innocent a
thirst for information as that displayed by
the charming Miss Warrender. The soul's
confessions of that dear young lady were
delightful in their naive innocence. She has
learnt much during her stay here of the
canons of true art ; it will be to me an 
epoch."

The old lord looked up from the great
manuscript catalogue raisonne at the German
doctor.

So she made a fool of you too, Wolff,
did she ? "

My lord, she respected me too much to
attempt to make a fool of me. She, the
young neophyte, recognized in me a humble
priest of art."

Ah, Wolff," said the old lord with a look

at the great portrait of Barbara Chudleigh,
there are some women who don't even
respect doctors of philosophy."

anastatia's courtship.

The Eeverend John Dodd drew back one
morning from the breakfast-table with the
air of a giant refreshed ; his wife stared at
him over the silver breakfast-kettle as she
had stared at him for the last twenty years.
For the last twenty years Mrs. Dodd had
wondered at the plenteonsness of her husband's
breakfasts ; she was astonished twenty
years ago, and she still stared, an awed
woman to the present day. " John," she
said, in a severe tone, " it is my duty."
Whenever Mrs. Dodd differed from her husband
she nailed her colours to the mast ;
she said it was her duty, and she invariably
carried her point. "It's dogged as does
it," is not only the maxim of agricultural
labourers in remote country districts. It

is the secret of success in every married
lady's life ; it is the talisman confided to
the young wife by her more experienced
mother, if she have one, if not her aunt
tells her the secret, and it comes to the
same thing.

"Well, my dear, if you look upon it in
that light there is no more to be said,"
acquiesced the husband.

It is my duty, and yours too, John ;
above all it is Anastatia's. What can
cement the natural alliance between the
squire and the vicar of the parish, more
strongly than the former's union with that
vicar's sister? Besides, I have another
reason. It is our bounden duty, Jack,"
here the vicar's wife relapsed into familiarity,
as she always did when she meant
to carry her point, " our bounden duty
to rescue the squire from that designing
woman."

Good gracious, Cecilia, who is Anas-tatian's
rival ? "

You may not have seen it, John, but I
have observed it ever since the girls have
Seen away. Miss Hood means to marry
the old man ! " This latter sentence was
tittered in a sepulchral whisper.

Nonsense, Cecilia, you're joking."

"Do I ever talk nonsense or joke, Mr.
Dodd ? " answered the wife in a judicial
tone.

Well, my dear," apologetically rejoined
the vicar, " I don't think I ever remember
your doing the latter," and he felt much
as an unfortunate man would feel who
had dared to accuse the Lord Chancellor
himself of joking and talking nonsense.

There can't be a doubt of it. Ever
since those girls have gone Miss Hood has
called here in The Warren brougham, never
on foot or in the pony chair."

"But, my dear, the weather has been
wet and cold."

'Tis not the weather, John, it is that
woman's arrogance, her way of preparing

the minds of the neighbourhood for the
catastrophe."

Diggory Warrender, my dear, is no
more thinking of marrying again than I
am," said the vicar.

The thought of marrying again, Mr.
Dodd," retorted his wife severely, " is constantly
occurring to the mind of every
married man."

64 1 assure you it never occurred to mine,
my dear."

John, you're ungrateful," replied his
wife, and burst into tears.

If my thinking of marrying again, my
dear, will prove my gratitude to you, I
will consider the matter at once," said
the vicar of King's Warren, with a dreary
smile.

But Canon Drivel's daughter did not
deign to answer, she merely rang for
prayers. In hied the servants, the two
grim housemaids and the parlour maid of
portentous plainness, for Mrs. Dodd made

it a rule in her austere household that
the abigail should be unattractive. Mrs
Dodd opened the book — her father, the
Canon's, well-known book of Family Prayers.
Although it was the second Thursday in
the month she turned to the portion appointed
for the first Wednesday. Alas!
her copy of the Canon's work opened
almost mechanically at the first Wednesday
in the month, for in that Wednesday's
selection there was a phrase which was
very dear to Mrs. Dodd ; it was the following
: " And if there be one among us
whose heart is yet hard," &c, &c. This
was Mrs. Dodd's ultima ratio, the last drop
that invariably wore away any resistance
on the part of the man who, to her mind,
was stony-hearted. When the Eeverend
John Dodd heard the commencement of
that prayer he trembled in his inmost soul ;
when his wife reached the favourite passage
she dwelt on the words with unction; and
as the servants filed out of the room he,

who had once been " Handsome Jack
Dodd," felt himself a slave.

I had better speak to Anastatia," said
Mrs. Dodd.

Do as you please, my dear," replied
the vicar, "but I don't see how she's
to propose to old Warrender, all the same."

Men don't understand these things,"
sententiously remarked his wife, as she
gave a vicious shake to the missionary box,
which was always on the sideboard. Missionary
boxes are not seen so often now
as they used to be, but this old-fashioned
engine of torture was clung to by the
vicars. Rosy-cheeked children had received
many a bright sixpence from the
vicar, their faces wreathed in smiles ; the
smiles had faded when Cecilia Dodd had
proved to them, by chapter and verse,
that the proper place for the bright silver
was the drab sarcophagus on the sideboard.
Even the vicar's friends, at the
termination of their rubber for threepenny

points, dreaded the appearance of the box ;
they invariably contributed, the more daring
among them sighing as they did so.

Anastatia Dodd, on the particular morning
in question, had not appeared at
breakfast. The fragile little lady was suffering
from a cold in her head. She was
in bed, perusing in undisturbed comfort
a harmless novel. But the novel disappeared
under the clothes with amazing
celerity as the voice of her sister-in-law
demanded admission. The mistress of the
house affectionately inquired if she felt
equal to a short conversation. In some
trepidation Anastatia signified her acquiescence.
Her sister-in-law pointed out to
her that old Mr. Warrender had been very
attentive lately. Anastatia innocently answered
that " He was a dear old man."

Oh, my dear, I am so glad, so very
glad, to hear you say so," said Mrs. Dodd.

"But why glad, Cecilia?"

"My love, your brother and I thought

it was so, and that you encouraged him.
Has he spoken to you yet ? He has said
nothing to John."

Spoken, Cecilia, to me ; about what ? "

This is affectation, dear ; you can't pretend
to be blind to what is apparent to
all of us."

Oh, Cecilia, how can you ? " sobbed
the vicar's sister, blushing to her ears and
burying her face in her pillows.

For forty years Anastatia Dodd had
lived in maiden meditation fancy free.
True, she had taken a lively interest in
all her brother's curates, but it was always
a professional interest and purely Platonic.
But now she blushed, blushed as she
had never blushed before.

What woman is displeased at hearing that
she has an admirer? Who among us would
fail to believe what we have, perhaps,
secretly wished for in our heart of
hearts ?

That arch Machiavel, the vicar's wife,

did not leave her sister-in-law till she was
thoroughly convinced that Diggory War-render
was only waiting a favourable
opportunity to make her a formal offer
of his hand and heart.

All this was sufficiently exciting to poor
Miss Dodd, but what was her horror, her
horror mingled with astonishment, when
she heard that, like the heroines in the story
books, she too had a detested rival. Till,
now Anastatia Dodd had not known what
it was to detest anybody, but her sister-in-law
pointed out to her that detestation washer
duty ; that Miss Hood was but a ravening
and roaring lion seeking to devour the
old squire, and then to pick his bones. Unconsciously,
as she stood by her sister-in-law's
bed, Cecilia Dodd assumed the awful
pose, the statuesque attitude, of the Judith
at the bedside of Holofernes of her former
days ; her hand, as it grasped the brass ball
at the foot of the bed, seemed to be clutching
the head of her victim. Poor Anastatia,

as a hare nestles in its form, had almost
shrunk beneath the bed-clothes.

It is your duty, my dear," said Judith,
to rescue this man from the hands of the
harpy at The Warren. He has evidently
loved you for years, Anastatia ; it is your
duty; and your brother feels deeply in the
matter, more deeply than I do, my dear ;
we are but weak women, he is a clergyman,
and, I regret to add, a man of the world.
You must, of course, give Mr. Warrender
every encouragement. And do not forget
that your brother is the head of the family,
the master of this house, a clergyman, and a
man of the world. lie will not see you
wronged."

The vicar's wife left the room and her
trembling victim. The voice of duty called
her to the kitchen, where her cook patiently
awaited her inevitable, and always painful,
audience.

In the meanwhile, Squire Warrender and
Miss Hood pursued the even tenour of their

ways at The Warren ; frequent letters from
his daughter, describing the delights of their
foreign tour, cheered the old man. All unconsciously,
the squire sent his hares and
his pheasants to the vicar's wife, his peaches
and his flowers to her sister-in-law. In his
cracked old voice, he still paid his Grandi-ionian
compliments to the two lads. He
was somewhat surprised perhaps to notice
that Miss Dodd was by degrees abandoning
her semi-religious garb ; and that his visits
to the two ladies invariably procured him
the pleasure of tete-astute interviews with the
spinster. He noticed too that the vicar's
sister now shook hands with him with an
unwonted pressure. One afternoon he actually
came home with a buttonhole, a
white passion flower, which the trembling
fingers of Miss Dodd had placed in his
coat.

Ton my word," he said to Miss Hood,
wearing this decoration as they took their
habitual cup of tea together, " I really think

that Stacey Dodd gets younger everyday."


Miss Hood pricked up her ears. Was
the hale old gentleman going to make a
fool of himself after all?

Old Mrs. Wurzel and the buxom Miss

Grains sat in the little room at the vicarage,

which was known to everybody as Mrs.

Dodd's own room. The vicar's wife sat

before a huge book, in front of her were

little piles of copper money. She and her

two visitors, and, of course, the vicar ex-officio,

formed the committee of the village coal

club. After much counting and recounting

of the coppers, the total was pronounced

correct, and the real work for which the

ladies had met was over. The window of

the room commanded a view of the lovely

old-fashioned garden, which had been the

care and pride of many successive vicars

of King's Warren. The close-shaven lawn

had the inevitable sun dial in its centre. The

garden was not at its best, for the trees had
vol. i. 13

not yet commenced to bud, but it was a fine
clear day, and the trim little figure of the
vicar's sister was seen briskly pacing up
and down the well-kept walks.

I don't think your sister-in-law seems to
care so much for parish work as once she
did, Mrs. Dodd," remarked the old lady to
the vicar's wife.

No, poor thing, I fear she has anxieties
of her own just now, she seeks solitude a
good deal."

Is there any attachment, dear Mrs. Dodd? "
said Mrs. Wurzel with interest.

Oh, Mrs. Dodd, not an unrequited attachment?"
burst forth the brewer's daughter.
For that strapping young woman was
romantic, and though the course of her
own love ran smoothly enough, still she felt
a sentimental interest in the woes of others,
real or supposed. Her fat red cheeks would
quiver with emotion, and be wet with briny
tears, over the sorrows of Mr. Trollope's
heroines. Fat people are always sentimental,

though they may not seem so, and beneath
Miss Grains' tightly laced corset beat a
sympathetic heart. " An unrequited attachment,"
she repeated, " is so very, very
sad."

The vicar's wife answered her reprovingly,
44 You must not think, Miss Grains, that Mr.
Dodd would allow his sister to form such a
disgraceful thing as an unrequited attachment."


44 Oh, but dear Mrs. Dodd, suppose she
couldn't help it," said the artless maiden
with a blush and a little sigh.

44 No well-brought-up girl would allow
herself to do so, my dear, she would have
far too much self-respect."

The brewer's daughter blushed deeply, as
she thought of the many heroes, real and
imaginary, from Marmion down to the last
curate but two, for each cf whom she herself
had felt an unrequited passion, or a
more than secret liking. But these hidden

passions were before young farmer Wurzel.

13—2

in his blue tie and white hat, had proposed
to her.

Well, at all events, Miss Dodd is hardly
a girl," she said defiantly.

Miss Grains'' retorted the vicar's wife,
"every unmarried woman, even though not
in the first bloom of youth, is a ' girl ' till
she marries. Certainly Stacey Dodd is a
'girl ' ; and I have known eases, Miss Grains,
in my experience, where flighty young ladies,
though they may have been temporarily
engaged, have remained ' girls ' to the end of
the chapter."

To this gruesome suggestion Miss Grains
made no reply.

Old Mrs. Wurzel turned confidentially to
the vicar's wife and said, " Is her engagement
generally known ? "

"Perhaps," replied the president of the
coal club, " it would be premature to speak
of it as an engagement, but it is talked of
all over the village. I believe there lias
been an attachment for some years, the

gentleman's attentions are very marked. In
fact, I don't think I am betraying her confidence,
when I say that the whole village
seems to be aware of it. Of course, I mention
no names. I should scorn to attempt to
precipitate m liters. It is a suitable match,
I am happy to say, for both parties, but
there is an obstacle, my dear ; adverse interests
are in the field. My sister-in-law is
somewhat of a prude. I too was a prude,
and I can understand her feelings."

Here Mrs. Wurzel peered at the vicars
with unfeigned surprise.

It's not quite fair, you know, to Staysail
Mrs. Dodd.

How was she to tell them, without mentioning
his name, that the man who did not
come to the point was the old squire himself,
and yet she was anxious to do so ?

At this moment the austere parlour maid
entered the room. " Squire Warrender is in
the drawing-room, madam," she announced.
Never in her life had the vicar's wife been

guilty of profanity till now, but the opportunity
was too golden to be missed.

"Talk of the devil,' 1 she said. The four
words spoke volumes. Her visitors took
their leave, to spread the report over the
village and parish of King's Warren.

Mrs. Dodd was a woman who, as we
know, did her duty according to her lights.
She was determined at all hazards to do
her duty now, without flinching, to her
sister-in-law, for she had already burnt her
ships, and she entered the drawing-room with
the deliberate intention of bringing the old
squire to the point.

The unsuspecting squire asked for the
vicar, after shaking hands with the vicar's
wife, and on being informed that his old
friend was from home he innocently hoped
that the vicar's sister was quite well.

Ah," said Mrs. Dodd with a sigh, " we're
a little concerned about Stacey."

You should let Pestle see her," replied
the sympathizing squire.

Now Dr. Pestle was the parish doctor,
and he deservedly enjoyed the confidence
of every soul in King's Warren.

I fear, squire, hers is not a bodily affection,"
said Mrs. Dodd with a deep sigh.

Good Gad ! you don't mean to say her
mind's giving way ? " anxiously demanded
the prosaic squire.

Oh no, we fancy it's an affection of the
heart."

Impossible! at her age. Why she's fifty,"
emphatically asserted the old gentleman.

"Not fifty, Mr. Warrender; Stacey Dodd
is but forty-one."

You don't say so. I should never have
thought it."

The opening of the engagement had
egregiously failed. At present the campaign
seemed most unpromising. When
a gentleman of mature years looks upon a
lady as fifty, he can hardly be suspected of
designs upon her virgin heart, or of a wish
to destroy her peace of mind. Beaten in

her attack on the outposts, Mrs. Dodd
changed her strategy with that multiplicity
of resource that always distinguishes the
greatest generals — she determined at once
to carry the war into the enemy's country.

You must miss the girls very much,
squire," she said as she took up a little
painted hand-screen, to protect her complexion,
on which she lavished much anxious
care, from the fierce blaze of the fire.
Yes," she continued, " you must feel it
very dull at The Warren now. Quite lonely,
I fear."

No," answered the squire cheerfully, w I
have Miss Hood, you know, and we play
bezique or backgammon of an evening."

Ah," replied Mrs. Dodd severely, and
horrible visions of those dangerous evenings
flashed through the mind of the indignant
woman. In her mind's eye she fancied the
squire sitting at the backgammon board
gazing at Miss Hood's shapely arm and
hand, for though Miss Hood was the same

age as her sister-in-law, she still had a very
shapely arm and hand.

Yes," said the squire, " and she reads
me the girls' letters ; they are a great consolation,
for George seems so thoroughly
happy."

What more dangerous occupation for a
hale old gentleman than to sit and listen
by the hour to the written raptures of his
daughter on the subject of married bliss,
read to him by a lady of prepossessing appearance,
by his own fireside, and after
having partaken of at least three glasses
of old port ?

I suppose," said the vicar's wife with
assumed carelessness, " that Miss Hood will
be leaving you soon ? "

The squire's eye twinkled with suppressed
merriment

Oh no," he said in a determined tone,
1 couldn't afford to lose Miss Hood. For
Lucy's sake," he added maliciously.

The lady fanned herself. There are limits

to the endurance of long-suffering woman.
Mrs. Dodd felt that she w T as being trampled
on. The sensation was new to her, and
unpleasant.

You appear to cling to her, squire," she
said.

Naturally, naturally," answered the squire,
"so do the girls. She has been more than a
mother to them."

Why not make her so in reality ? " retorted
the exasperated woman, losing her head.
Here the fanning became more furious.

The fact is, Mrs. Dodd," said the squire,
M I have been screwing myself up to that
point for the last dozen years, but I am
close on the age of the patriarchs, and I
don't think she'd have me. If you are of
a different opinion, Mrs. Dodd, I will reconsider
the matter ; of course it would be
most appropriate. There's no fool like an
old fool, I suppose."

Was the seemingly innocent squire referring
to himself, or had this abominable old

gentleman the temerity to allude to the wife
of the vicar of King's Warren as " an old
fool?" Who shall say?

44 Do you seriously advise it ? " went on her
tormentor ; " do you think I may dare to
hope ? "

But the vicar's wife answered him never
a word.

He rose to go and shook hands with her
in his usual hearty manner. By no outward
sign did Mrs. Dodd manifest her indignation,
but when the squire had left the
room she sank into her chair and burst
into tears.

44 The serpent ! " she ejaculated as she
pressed her handkerchief to her streaming
eyes.

Not one word did Mrs. Dodd utter for
many days to her husband of her momentous
conversation with the squire. In a
statuesque attitude, she sat, like Marius on
the ruins of Carthage, or Patience on a
monument smiling at grief.

And then she thought with horror of the
confidence she had made to old Mrs. Wurzel
and the brewer's daughter, not an hour
before. On a tire le vin, il faut payer la
bouleille.

ROME. — THE 1JALLO PAPAYANI.

The party had been in Rome three weeks,
they had all thoroughly enjoyed themselves,
and George Haggard had made no objection
whatever to her husband's putting in
an appearance at the Ball Papayani. The
great Carnival ball had been for years one
of the sights of Rome. Although the red
English guide-book merely discreetly remarked
that " the scene at Papayani's at
Carnival time should on no account be
missed," Baedeker and the other foreign
mentors devoted whole pages to glowing
descriptions of these more than Olympian
revels.

An Italian, as a rule, in Carnival time
is like an English boy on the fifth of
November — he is not happy unless he dresses

up. In this country, we are apt to think
when any one dresses himself up, that he
is disguising a fool. In Italy, on the contrary,
all the world is continually occupied
in masquerading in some way or other.
Costume balls, in all classes of society, are
favourite entertainments. Historical masques,
though not got up with the elaborate attention
to minute detail which is bestowed upon
them by the thoughtful beer-drinking and
sausage-devouring German, are yet of very
frequent occurrence. Every city, every town,
nay every hamlet, in Italy, has its long and
glorious history, often written in letters of
blood, always deeply engraved on the hearts
of the people. The mementoes of a bygone
time are cherished by the Italians. Consequently,
dressing up in Italy is universal,
and even the man who dines upon a penny
roll and a quarter of a melon, can afford
five centessimi, or one halfpenny, for a paper
nose, and it costs him nothing to flour his
face and hair.

Let us take an instance. Ivrea is a little
place, a small garrison town, celebrated for its
coolness and its cheapness ; thither the 
flock in crowds when the heat of the
city is no longer bearable. There is nothing
remarkable about the place ; it has its opera
house, at which ambitious young ladies, principally
English and Americans, pupils of the
Conservatory at Milan, make their debuts.
Happy garrison, happy sojourners in the
little Italian town ; they are provided with a
succession of interesting, though perhaps undeveloped,
prima donnas, who make their
little successes or their tiny frescoes at this
nursery of Art. But Ivrea, like all the other
Italian towns, has its history, its glorious
legend, which is never allowed to die, and the
Carnival of Ivrea is the time chosen for representing
the story and commemorating the
tragic history of the local heroine. In the
Middle Ages, Ivrea had its feudal lord. The
Count Arguing, as may be fancied from his
name, was a bold, bad man ; lie possessed the

terrible Droit de Seigneur, which he rigorously
exacted. The belle of the village was a miller's
daughter :

We never see such maidens now,
Such mill-wheels turn not round."

She was married. No sooner was the ceremony
over than the wicked count ordered her to
present herself at the castle. The command
of the feudal lord could not be disobeyed.
Bride and bridegroom, accompanied by the
weeping crowd, proceeded to the castle gate.
Count Arguing advanced to meet her with a
smile, unarmed and unattended. He was but
claiming his rights. As he stepped forward to
salute her, she presented her cheek to him,
and suddenly stabbed him dead at her feet.
The mob of relatives and friends wrecked and
burned the castle, massacring the retainers to
a man. The brave young bride was safely escorted
home, where the wedding feast was
triumphantly celebrated, and the miller's
daughter lived to be the happy mother of
many children, and died at a good old age.

From that day the Droit che Seigneur ceased to

exist in Ivrea.

This is the origin of the yearly ceremony at

the little Italian town. A pretty boy of seven

or eight years of age is chosen by each parish.

The boys are dressed in fancy costumes and

mounted on horses, escorted by the general of

the Carnival, who wears a black uniform, and

accompanied by his officers, who are clothed

in scarlet. During the Carnival the town is

under the rule of the general and his officers.

The party are received in state by the mayor,

the bishop, and the personages of Ivrea. A

poetical address is given at each notable's

house. On the second day, the children, some

eight or ten in number (they are called Abbas

on horseback, and escorted by the general and

his officers, head a procession, which passes

through the town, and which is joined by all

the carriages of the place, filled with ladies

in gala costume and men in fancy dresses.

Everybody dresses up. Then are thrown from

windows and balconies, oranges, flowers, and
vol. i. 14

real confetti, not the chalk coriandoli of Milan,
but good eatable sugar-plums. In the evening
the little theatre is illuminated regardless of
expense, a fabulous sum being expended on
extra lamps. Between the acts the Carnival
hymn is sung by the whole strength of the
company, the Abba children, the general and
his officers, who appear upon the stage ; and it
is a sine qua non that every one should wear
the republican red cap, even the Abba children
and the lady artists. The more enthusiastic
among the audience, male and female, also
sport the red cap of liberty. Secreted in the
omnibus box has been seated the prettiest girl
in the tow r n. The Mugnaia, as she is called, is
carefully arrayed in the costume of the bygone
time when the tragedy took place, and now
she is escorted by the general of the Carnival
to the footlights, a drum and fife band preceding
her, the Carnival hymn is sung, vociferously
encored and joined in by the audience.
The Mugnaia now returns to the box in which
she sits in royal state, the observed of all

observers. Of course, she is got up regardless
of expense. She, too, wears the little red cap,
and, as has been said, has been chosen for her
good looks. The opera is concluded, a masked
ball follows.

Xext day. at seven a.m., in every parish
the bride who was last married proceeds in
procession to the Piazza of that parish, and
with a mallet she indicates the place for the
annual carlo, or bonfire. She is accompanied
by her husband. The object of these scarli is
to manifest the popular exultation at the annihilation
of feudal tyranny. The pair now
return home, preceded by a drum and fife
band, and escorted by an enthusiastic crowd
singing songs of liberty at the full pitch of
their voices.

At two o'clock, the general of the Carnival

opens the public ball with the Miujnaia. This

is held in the Piazza Carlo Alberto, which is

the largest square in the town. The orchestra

is placed in the centre of the square. Then

there is a procession headed by the Mugnaia,

14— 2

seated on a scarlet velvet throne, and borne
in a gilded car ; then comes a military band,
then the carriages filled with shouting masqueraders
and ladies in elaborate toilettes ; flowers,
sweets, and oranges, are thrown with amazing
prodigality as before. In the evening, again
the opera, again the masquerade. Next day
the procession takes place again, and there is
a public ball in the square till ten, then the
Abba of each parish solemnly applies the light
to his appointed carlo. When the last carlo
is burned out a funeral march is played and
all disperse to their homes. It may be mentioned
that the carlo is not literally a bonfire
in our sense of the word, but what we should
call a Venetian mast, bound with furze and
inflammable material, decorated with gaudy
ribbons and surmounted by a flag.

It is not likely that the inhabitants of
Ivrea, who thus commemorate her heroic
deed, will ever forget their Mugnaia.

But we have wandered away from
Papayani's, where the door was surrounded

by an enthusiastic crowd of the poorer
among the gay pleasure - seekers of the
Carnival. It was a rather trying thing for
the arrivals as they stepped from their
carriages and passed into the building
through a double line of sarcastic or
appreciative critics six deep. A quiet
brougham draws up at the entrance, the
door is flung open by a ragged masker, with
an enormous paper nose, in a tattered pierrot
costume. As he opens the door he bows
to the ground with an exaggerated humility ;
and Haggard, in his faultless evening dress,
steps out, with a frown upon his face, his
big form towering above the puny Italian
crowd as though he were a king of men ina
horde of pygmies. He hands a lady out ;
her pale blue silk domino hides her effectually
from the inquisitive gaze of the crowd.
Her tiny gloved hand clutches Haggard's
arm as he hurries her into the building,
which is one blaze of light, and from which
issue sounds of gay music and of the

rhythmic tramp of thousands of dancing feet.
The lady is discreetly masked, but though
her personal identity is thoroughly disguised,
she does not escape a fire of compliment
from the appreciative ragamuffins on the
pavement. "Ah! che ragazza bellidma."
"Chefiglia incomparable" And as an antithesis
to this flowery Italian praise, said one British
'Any to another British 'Arry in the crowd,
Did you see her ankles, George ? Do you
know who that lady is ? " Certainly the
white satin dress of the Watteau costume
that the lady whom Haggard was escorting
wore, disclosed an undeniable instep, and
'Arry's favourable criticism was not undeserved.
" I know one thing," said his
friend, " there was no humbug in the single
stone brilliant she wore as ear-rings." The
pair disappeared among the glittering and
gaily - dressed crowd that thronged the
portico.

M. Barbiche, formerly of the French
Embassy to the Court of St. James's, his eyeglass

tightly screwed into one of his wicked
little eyes, was lolling against one of the
pillars of the foyer. He was criticizing the
arrivals to Lord Spunyarn, who yawned by
his side, evidently thinking the whole affair
a bore.

Our Haggard, my friend, is what you
call an old fox, I fear. Who was the
charming girl in the blue domino he was
dancing with ? I failed to recognize her.
She is no habitue here. He intrigues me.
this Hazard of ours."

Pooh ! " replied the philosophic lord,
as he drove an unusually large volume of
cigarette smoke through both nostrils ; " some
milliner's apprentice probably, got up
regardless of expense."

No, my friend, the shepherdess was too
well clause for that ; besides, her mask
hides her face too well. Your milliner
would not be so farouche as to hide her
face, unless, ma foi, she had perchance a
bad complexion ; but our Haggard is too

great a connoisseur for that. However, he
shall introduce me to this mystery, and we
shall see."

I wouldn't try if I were you, Barbiche."
And why not, my friend ? Why not,
if you please ? Is this Haggard, this English
Adonis of yours, with the manners of a
prize-fighter, is he to croquer all to himself
all the pretty girls of Borne ? Is it not
enough that he shall have the prettiest wife
in Eome ? No, I wrong that angel, the
most beautiful and the most virtuous of her
sex. Is it not enough that this man shall
every morning sit down to breakfast with
the lovely Mees Lucy ? Ah ! when I think
of Mees Lucy, I remember myself once
more, and I think of those happy days in
the Quartier Latin, before my uncle does
me the honour to die, and I embark myself
in the diplomatic career. I study your
language in your Dickens, in your
Thackeray ; at last I attain proficiency.
You see it for yourself, no Englishman

ever shall suspect me, when we shall converse,
of being other than a Briton. It is
the same thing with the charming Mees
Lucy. I, a Frenchman, feel my heart beat
in sympathy with hers ; she is to me a
compatriote. We speak to each other as I
used to speak to Cascades in those old
happy times. Plan qa y est. This Haggard
of yours he shall have his most beautiful
wife, her most lovely cousin, but what shall
he want with this little shepherdess in the
blue domino. Bah," said the indignant man
as he stamps his foot and settles himself
down into his enormous color, " I say he
shall introduce me. Think you, my friend,
that I fear this 'la-out?' No, I am of the
first force, my Shirtings, at the savage."

"What's that?" said Lord Spunyarn
stolidly.

My friend, nous autres, we do not box
like you, but we use the savage. Behold,
then, what is the savage." And here M.
Barbiche suddenly threw himself into the

attitude of an enraged and aggressive
monkey. "A ruffian, he strike me, P- r-r-r-r-r,"
and here M. Barbiche sprang suddenly high
in air, and with one adroit and well-directed
kick knocked off the hat of the astonished
Spunyarn.

In the toliu boliu at Papayani's this
singular action of M. Barbiche excited not
the slightest surprise ; he simply received a
vociferous round of applause from the bystanders
in his immediate neighbourhood.
Excited by the success of his achievement,
Barbiche for the moment forgot the
Embassy, the Due de la Ilouspignolle, and
the proprieties ; he had been wound up by
Papayani's music, and by more than one
glass of Papayani's champagne. The Frenchman
became for the moment once more Le
petit Furibon, the darling of the Closer de
Lilas, the champion of the Qu artier Latin,
the Elisha upon whose worthy shoulders
had descended the mantle of the prophet,
the vanished Caoutchouc.

At this moment the strains of Arditi's
immortal waltz, " II Bacio," resounded
through the place. The head of M.
Barbiche kept time to the music, and he
regarded the dancers with a scrutinizing
gaze ; his eye evidently sought Haggard and
the mysterious shepherdess. As the ring
of maskers which surrounded the space set
apart for the dancers thinned, as numerous
couples joined in the waltz, the watchful
Frenchman was rewarded. " La voila, man
ami" he said, for Barbiche, when excited,
forgot the English of which he was so
proud.

Directly opposite Lord Spunyarn and his
French friend stood Haggard and his shepherdess.
She nestled at his side, clinging
to his arm and gazing up into his eyes.
The hood of the pale blue silk domino was
now thrown back, disclosing a magnificent
head of powdered hair ; the complexion of
the lady's neck and shoulders was dazzling,
and evidently natural ; her rounded arms

had more of the Venus than the Juno
about them ; her figure, as she gazed up
into Haggard's face, was seen to be perfection.
The little foot beat time to the
music of the waltz. But a black silk mask
with a heavy fall of lace hid every feature,
save a rounded chin and a pair of magnificent
eyes, which seemed to be pleading
to Haggard, and the shell-like ears in which
blazed the diamond solitaires which had
attracted the attention of the British " 'Arry "
in the street.

Haggard's face was suddenly lit up with
pleasure, his arm slipped round the little
waist, the left hand of the shepherdess was
confidingly placed on the shoulder of her champion
; they started and joined the numerous
pairs whirling round to the music of "II Bacio."
Soon the couple excited attention, of which
both seemed to be wholly unaware. Haggard,
though he was a married man, was still a good
dancer, and even here in a foreign ball-room,
where, as a rule, the dancing Englishman is

an object of ridicule, lie distinguished himself.
For Haggard, unlike most of the dancers present
(at all events those of the male sex), was
perfectly sober ; not that the proverbially
moderate Italians had exceeded in the use of
their light but notoriously nasty wines, but an
Italian easily becomes intoxicated, exalted,
exhilarated, beside himself under the combined
influences of a Carnival ball, the lights, the perfumes,
the music, the dancing, and above all
the eyes of his inamorata. Can we blame
Petrarch for being cheerful when Laura smiles?
But no Italian present was in so exalted a
state as M. Barbiche of the French Embassy,
once so well known as Le petit Furibon, of
the Latin Quarter.

As the pairs gradually dropped out,Haggard
and his partner became the cynosure of every
eye. In vain did Pasquin whirl his Contains
with the ruddled cheeks, varying his saltatory
gymnastics with an occasional scream ; in vain
did young Mr. Simon R Brown, that very
rough diamond from New York city, who had

come to Europe for polish, and was undergoing
the process (in the costume of one of the
Wise Men of Gotham who went to sea in a
bowl) at the hands of the Signorina Esperanza,
of the Scala, or any of the motley crew,
attempt to attract the public gaze : every eye
was riveted with admiration on the shepherdess,
that is to say, every male eye ; the
female organs of vision turned from her in
disgust, to admire or criticize her partner, and
in the end to feel dissatisfied with their own
peculiar victims. For if the masked shepherdess
turned the heads of most of those
present, Haggard was undeniably the best-looking
man in the vast arena. But even the
strength of a muscular English dancing man
must give way at length to the power of an
Italian waltz played fast at past midnight.
As for his partner, I believe she could have
gone on for ever, but she had perceived that
they were attracting attention ; she discreetly
drew the hood of her pale blue silk domino
over her head and hid herself in the recesses

of that mysterious garment. As ill luck would
have it, the pair pulled up close to the excited
Furibon.

Ah, mon vieiur" cried the Frenchman,
advancing with extended hands, " you
have rejoiced our eyes. Ah, gredin" whispered
Furibon, as he indiscreetly poked his
friend in the ribs.

"Ta ta, old man, I must be off," replied
Haggard with a frown, as the shepherdess
clung in evident trepidation to his arm.
For God's sake, Shirtings, take him away,
or there'll be a row," muttered Haggard to his
friend below his breath, his white teeth
showing beneath his black moustache in a
menacing manner.

The crowd of revellers was thick around
them. Barbiche was, as we know, a gentleman,
but our ideas of courtesy are not a
Frenchman's, and, as has been said before, he
had ceased to be Mr. Barbiche the viveur, for
the moment he was Furibon, the daring
Furibon of former days.

Saperlotte" he hissed, and his outstretched
hand touched the pale blue domino
on the shoulder.

The domino shrank as to avoid him.

Crash !

With one cruel but well aimed blow Haggard
smote the Frenchman in the moiith, and down
he went among the feet of the crow T d of indignant
maskers.

Look to him, Spunyarn," cried Haggard,
as he hustled his way through the crowd, and
in an instant disappeared, bearing in his arms
the fainting form of the shepherdess.

Vcevictis, alas for poor Furibon, where was
his boasted skill as a kicker? Why had he
not sprung high in air and delivered his unexpected
assault ? We must say of the savage
respectfully, as our Gallic neighbours said of
the Balaclava charge, best magnijigue, mais ce
nest pas la guerre. Seated on the floor, the
unfortunate Frenchman presented a piteous
appearance, as he shed mingled tears of pain
and rage, tore his hair, and wiped his cut lip.

Insolente birbone /" "Bestial /" "Cane! " Such

were the cries of the dancers on seeing the

blow struck, but they were levelled not so

much at the assailant as at his victim. In the

eyes of the bystanders, Haggard was evidently

looked upon as the protector of beauty in

distress. But as Valour bore off fainting

Beauty, and made his suddenly triumphant

exit, everybody's attention was directed to

the unhappy Furibon. A gentleman tearing

his hair, in the eyes of Italians, is a common,

interesting, and dignified object. The cause

of this performance is usually romantic, time

and place generally appropriate, but Italians

do not tear their hair at masked balls. As

everywhere else, a foreigner in distress in

Home is looked upon as a grotesque object,

and poor Barbiche was no exception to the

rule. At first he sat and wept, now he sat

and swore, but all the time he tore hard

at his hair. Haggard had disappeared with

the celerity of a harlequin who jumps

through a trap.

VOL. I. 15

Lord Spunyarn was somewhat bewildered ;
he, as a boxer, as an amateur though unsuccessful
athlete, knew what a good knock-down
blow was ; he had seen them delivered, w T with
varying degrees of energy, force, and vicious -
ness, but never in all his lordship's experience
till now had he seen a master-stroke which
combined all the above qualities in the superlative
degree. At last he got poor Furibon
upon his legs. The Frenchman carefully felt
his front teeth, doubtful if they were still
there, then he ceased to swear and to mutter
in his own tongue ; he ceased to be Furibon,
he became once more the correct M. Barbiche
of the French Embassy.

Minor, you have seen the insult. Monsieur
Haggard takes advantage of his physique,
of his brutal boxing skill, to maim me, perhaps,
Mon Dieu, for life, and to render mean
object of contempt and ridicule to these
grimacing apes," here he glowered at the
laughing crowd.

"But, my dear boy, it was your own fault,

you know ; what did you want to lay hands
on the domino for ? "

"In that there is nothing, Lord Spun-yarn.
Black dominoes, pink dominoes, blue
dominoes. Bah ! they are but public property,
minor, but I shall teach this Don Quixote a
lesson, this chivalrous protector of dominoes.
Yes," he added solemnly, as he crossed himself,
" please God."

Lord Spunyarn shook his head. There
seemed no other way out of it ; the
Frenchman had been struck, the insult was
in a public place ; an apology or arrangement
was impossible. Spunyarn was well aware
that Barbiche was by no means an antagonist
to be despised. He had been a journalist, a
career which in France may enable a man to
attain the highest positions ; from journalism
he had drifted into diplomacy, as French
journalists sometimes do. This was after his
accession to the fortune of a deceased uncle.
Of course, he was skilled with the small-sword,
as all French journalists arc bound to

15— 2

be ; his reputation with the pistol was equally
deadly.

I shall send my friend to him in the
morning," said M. Barbiche calmly, as
leaning on Lord Spunyarn's arm he left
the ball-room. " I suppose you will act for
him ? "

"Don't know, I'm sure. I'm not up to
these things, but I don't see why you
should shoot each other over it."

The Frenchman shrusffed his shoulders
as he stepped into his perfectly-appointed
but funereal-looking little brougham. As he
drove home he meditated on his wrongs,
and in his heart of hearts lie swore that
four-ands twenty hours should not elapse ere
the insult should be avenged b}^ his own
skilful hand.

A MEETING IN THE GOOD OLD STYLE.

Lord Spunyarn woke with a very bad
headache indeed, the morning after the ball
at Papayani's. He hurried to commence his
dressing, for his valet on awakening him
had presented a thin and varnished card,
bearing a portentous coronet and the name
of the Comte de Kerguel. The man told
him that the visitor had come on business
of the most urgent nature. What his
business was, Spunyarn was well aware.
Knowing that, next to getting married, a
Frenchman looks upon the delivery of a
hostile message, as the most important, pleasant,
and serious event of life; Spunyarn wisely
dressed himself with care and deliberation.
When he entered his sitting-room M. de
Kerguel rose and profoundly' saluted him.

Minor Spunyarn. I have the honour of
addressing him ? "

"Yes, it's quite right, that's me. Please
be seated."

The Frenchman sat himself down bolt
upright.

I suppose, Lord Spunyarn, that my visit
is not unexpected. I had the honour to
call upon your friend Monsieur Haggard,
to demand satisfaction from him on the
part of my friend, Monsieur Barbiche. You,
I believe, were present at the whole affair.
Monsieur Haggard has referred me to you
as his friend."

Spunyarn bowed, stretched out his long
legs towards the fire, and opening his cigarette
case offered it to Monsieur de Kerguel.

Won't you smoke ? " he said.

A French gentleman in a new frock coat,
on the most serious of all missions, the
bearer of a hostile message to a man he
has never met in his life before, is asked
to smoke !

A crowd of strange thoughts parsed
through his mind. Are these Englishmen
cowards ? He drew himself up more stiffly
than before, as he declined the offer.

Have you breakfasted ? " said his hospitable
lordship, ignoring the gesture.

Lorxl Spunyarn," replied the Frenchman,
I come to you this morning purely as
the emissary of my insulted friend ; not to
accept of your kindness, or to trespass on
your hospitality."

Oh, of course I understand that ; but
you see we English don't fight duels as a
rule. Of course I should be sorry to balk
you, but can't it be arranged ? "

Lord Spunyarn, you are aware that my
friend was struck. In my country, no gentleman
receives a blow without avenging it.
Least of all a journalist or a diplomate. My
friend Monsieur Barbiche was one, and is the
other. In speaking of arrangement, minor,
I would surest that we are wasting time."

But I don't quite see that," persisted

Spunyarn, strong in his idea that the man
who fights a duel is a fool. " You see
there was a lady in the matter, and your
friend insulted her. Why man, he actually
touched her, I saw him do it."

Minor, ladies who go to masked balls
are accustomed to such marks of attention.
What my friend did was but a condescension
on his part. But there was a
blow struck, minor. Besides this, Monsieur
Haggard has referred me to his friend Lord
Spunyarn, I suppose with a definite purpose,
and not with the intention of causing me
to listen to, shall we say homilies, from
his lordship."

"The whole affair's a beastly nuisance.
I don't understand these things, but I will
try to settle the matter."

Minor, the matter admits of no settlement,"
said the Breton menacingly, rising
from his chair.

"I tell you plainly, Monsieur de Kerguel,
it is very much against the grain that I

have anything to do with the matter. Unfortunately,
as you say, I was present, and
I tell you that our friend Barbiche behaved
like a lunatic. Why he kicked my hat off,
and I don't want to call him out."

Monsieur de Kerguel smiled. " If your
lordship is in any way aggrieved by my
Mend's conduct, you have your remedy."

Oh, I could have had my remedy last
night ; if I had felt aggrieved, as you call
it, I should have done exactly what
Haggard did — I should have punched his
head, you knowe'"

Minor, no man of whatever nationality,
as you happily express it, l punches the
head ' of a French gentleman with impunity,
unless peradventure," said de Kerguel
with an insolent smile, " he is a coward
as well as a boxer."

"Do sit down," said Lord Spunyarn
imperturbably. " He's no coward," and
taking from his pocket a note, he handed
it to the Frenchman.

The letter was short but emphatic.

Dear Shirtings,

That ass Barbiche will send a
friend to you asking for a meeting. Agree
to anything he wishes and oblige

Yours,

"E. Haggard."

The Frenchman read the letter, reseated
himself, and with a bow handed back the
note.

I was precipitate, Minor. All this is
very irregular ; but we advance, though
slowly."

Yes, I suppose we do, worse luck. I'll
tell you what I'll do. Old Pepper is
stopping in this hotel ; there seems to be
nothing else for it, I'll send for him,"
said his lordship with a sigh, and he rang
the bell.

The waiter who answered it was directed
to present his lordship's compliments to

General Pepper, and to request his immediate
presence.

The Indian warrior had just breakfasted,
and entered the room in a few minutes.
He was introduced to the Frenchman ; a
few words from Lord Spunyarn sufficiently
explained the matter.

"I understand then, Monsieur de Kerguel,''
said the general, " that we are the challenged
party. As such we are entitled to
a choice of weapons ? "

Monsieur de Kerguel bowed. " Assuredly,
Monsieur le General," he replied.

You will excuse us then for an instant
? " said he, as he motioned Spunyarn
to the window. "This is a beastly affair,
your lordship. It won't admit of arrangement.
Do you know if the Frenchman is
best at swords or pistols ? "

Can't say, I'm sure," replied his lordship
; " probably he's a dab at both. I
know he was a newspaper man. They all
are fighting men."

It's most unfortunate for our man ;
they'll have to fight. Is Haggard any good
at either ? "

"I don't think he can shoot, at least
not in a regulation affair. I know he can
use a revolver, and he is very good at single-sticks*'


It's a heavy responsibility," replied the
general seriously. " If it had been arranged
for this morning at dawn we might have
had a chance with the pistols, for perhaps
the Frenchman's hand would have been
unsteady. I suppose it w T as a good knockdown
blow ? "

A regular snorter ! " said his lordship
with enthusiasm.

Most unfortunate. Well, we must try
our luck with a regulation sabre ; they can't
well refuse it ; ours is the stronger and bigger
man. I don't think there's any room for
doubt, eh? But it's a precious nuisance.
Man's got his wife here too. It's sure to
be in the papers. Beastly nuisance ; we shall

all have to clear out, for I suppose it won't
be a mere matter of scratches. It must
come off at once too, or we shall be suspected
of shirking. I think that's the only course'
said the general as he pulled down his wristbands.


I'm afraid so," said his lordship.

They rejoined the Frenchman.

"Monsieur de Kerguel," said the general,
seating himself, " we have elected to choose
sabres, regulation sabres ; you have no objection,
I suppose ? "

Sir, the weapon is unusual. As you are
doubtless aware, between civilians the small-sword,
the rapier and the pistol are what
are usually employed. The sabre is unusual,
and as a rule only employed in settling
the little differences of officers of cavalry."

Monsieur de Kerguel, his lordship and
I are here in the interests of our friend
Haggard. You are possibly unaware that
among English gentlemen the duel has ceased
to be a means in these degenerate days of

settling disputes. Unfortunately our principal
lias directed us in writing to agree to
your wishes ; and his lordship here has,
somewhat indiscreetly, I must remark, taken
you into his confidence. As he has done
so, sir," said the general, " and bearing in
mind that we are in a foreign country,
and that unfortunately a blow has been
struck, we feel ourselves reluctantly compelled
to accept the proposed meeting. Tt
is therefore our duty, sir, to protect our
principal, and we cannot consent to abate
one jot or tittle of our rights. Should you
decline the weapon proposed no meeting
can evidently take place," here the general
gave a little sigh ; " Lord Spunyarn is of
the same opinion. It is then for you to
accept or refuse ; in the latter case the matter
must definitely end here."

The Frenchman paused and thought.

Unfortunately, gentlemen," he replied,
my principal has left me no choice ; he
naturally declines any apology "

You will please to observe, Monsieur de
Kerguel, that we have offered none," interrupted
the general ; " in our humble opinion
the original insult, as well as the challenge,
conies from you, and we cannot deviate from
our position. We decline to modify our
terms in any way. And I would respectfully
suggest that this interview must definitely
terminate the matter one way or the other.
I would remark," fiercely added the general,
that neither we nor our principal are to
be cajoled or intimidated."

It shall be as you say, general. Nothing
remains then, I think, for us but to name
a time and place. The weapons, the most
unusual weapons, we are reluctantly compelled
to accept under protest. Have you
any suggestion to offer, general ? "

"None whatever, sir. One party shall
provide a surgeon, the other a pair of ordinary
cavalry sabres. You as a resident in
this infernal hole can doubtless surest a
suitable spot for the meeting. Of course

you will be provided with a second friend.
As to time, the sooner the better. We then,
if it suits you, will bring a pair of regulation
sabres. You, perhaps, will bring a doctor
who will act for both men. Perhaps you
will also oblige us by naming the time and
place of meeting."

"Gentlemen, the mill at St. Sterno is
only four miles off; it is secluded ; we shall
not be disturbed. You know the place ?
Five o'clock will, I think, suit us all? Is
it agreed ? "

The general bowed.

Gentlemen, I have the honour to salute
you," said Monsieur de Kerguel with a profound
obeisance.

The general rang the bell, and Monsieur
Barbiche's friend took his leave.

Thank God ! " piously exclaimed the
general. " I had him there ; Haggard is the
bigger and more powerful man, of that there
is no doubt. It shall not be my fault if
they don't settle their differences with the

longest and heaviest pair of regulation sabres
to be had in Rome for love or money. It's
quite against the rule, you know, but you
sav our man is good at single-stick, so he

•> DO"

may have the luck to smash him or cut him

down before the Frenchman spits him, ashe

is bound to do if he gets the chance.

And I'll tell you what it is, my lord, I'll

take a glass of caracas, for I'm dry with

talking."

The caracas was duly brought, and

certainly the general deserved it. The

experienced warrior had perceived that De

Kerguul was bent on mischief, and by his

own coyness he had succeeded in beguiling

the Frenchman into accepting a weapon of

the use of which his principal was probably

totally ignorant. The men would then

theoretically meet on an equality. Buta

cavalry sabre is a big and comparatively

awkward weapon, and supposing that both

were equally unskilled in its use, Haggard,

as the taller and stronger man, would cere
i. 1G

vainly have the advantage. Besides this
the old general meant it, when he had stated
his design to provide a specially heavy pair
of weapons.

In his great anxiety to secure a meeting
at any price, De Kerguel had been compelled
to accept the general's ultimatum with regard
to weapons, " these or none ; " but he knew
that his principal thirsted for blood, so he
gave way, and it seemed to him at the time-that
the trifling matter of providing the
weapons was of little moment. But ere he
reached his friend's hotel he felt that he had
been caught napping.

Barbiche was extended upon a couch.
A huge piece of black court plaister hid
the wound on his swollen lip, a cup of tisane
stood upon the table. He was dabbing his
forehead with toilet vinegar. His head was
bound with a scarlet and yellow silk handkerchief
which he wore after the manner
of a nightcap, as is the custom of his country.
As his friend entered he sprang to his feet.

Have you arranged it, De Kerguel ? Will
he meet me, or are these Englishmen brave
only with their fists ? "

Do not excite yourself, Emile ; you will
have need of all your skill, of all your
courage."

He will come, then, this protector of the
demi-monde, this model moral English husband.
Say, is it sword or pistols, De
Kerguel ? "

Ah ! my poor Barbiche, I fear that I
have, as our American friends say, ' given
you away.' "

You don't mean to say that the coward
has apologized? This was no case for an
apology, De Kerguel, as you know."

I wish it had been," said his friend ;
unfortunately you are to fight."

Barbiche instantly threw himself into a
Napoleonic attitude. Under such circumstances
a Frenchman always feels himself a
hero, and invariably unconsciously assumes

the favourite pose of the Little Corporal.

16—2

"Yes, you are to fight, my poor friend,
but with cavalry sabres."

Barbiche suddenly buried his face in his
hands, and exclaimed in a broken voice, "Oh,
my mother ! "

When a Frenchman is in a very deep hole
indeed, he always apostrophizes his mother ;
on ordinary occasions he thinks little enough
about her.

Kerguel," he cried at length, looking up
reproachfully at his friend, " you must have
been mad. The sabre, as you know, is only
used among cavalry officers ; the pistol or
the small-sword are the arms of gentlemen."

And also of journalists, my friend. Of
that the ruse old general, our man's friend,
was unfortunately too well aware. You had
tied me down too tightly, my Barbiche ; my
instructions were to obtain a meeting at
any price. It w r as the choice of Hobson,
that or none."

Barbiche placed his hand to his swollen

hip.

And you were right, my friend. Let
us embrace."

They did so with effusion.

De Kerguel explained all the arrangements
to his principal. Then they drove to the
nearest cavalry barrack, where they had
acquaintances ; and that excellent fencer,
Monsieur Barbiche, received an hour's lesson
in the use of the sabre from the maitre d' amies.
But he found the weapon unwieldy, and he returned
to his hotel a sadder man than he left it.

Old General Pepper ate his lunch with
considerable relish. He was sick and tired
of home, its churches, its ruins, and its
priests. He longed, with an ardent longing,
for that paradise of retired military
men, " the sweet shady side of Tall Mall ; "
he longed, too, for the whist tables at the
Pandemonium, and his so-called friends at
that establishment, lie felt that if he only
got safely across the frontier lie would be
one of the lions of the season ; for he was
certain that the business he was bent upon

that afternoon would be no child's play.
He himself was no particular friend of Haggard's
; but he was proud of having done
his best for his man. " After all," said
he to himself, "it's six of one, and half-a-dozen
of the other. It's lucky for Haggard
that Spunyarn sent for me, or that cursed
Frenchman would have had his life to a
certainty, for the friend meant fighting ; I
could see it in his eye."

Such thoughts as these passed through
the worthy officer's mind as he carefully
packed his portmanteau. Then he paid his
bill. " Now," he soliloquized, " this is what
I call being sacrificed. Of one of these
fellows I know absolutely nothing, and
precious little of the other. But in the
cause of honour I shall probably have to
run half across Europe, and the worst of
it is, at my own expense."

Then the general started out to secure
the longest and heaviest pair of cavalry
sabres he could find in Ronie.

Haggard was equally active. He informed
his wife and her cousin that they must
leave Borne at once ; the convenient excuse
of an outbreak of cholera in the
city was a sufficiently valid one for the
ladies. By two o'clock Mrs. Haggard and
Lucy, their maid Hephzibah, and Haggard's
useful and polyglot valet, a Swiss, named
Capt, were en route for Geneva.

Business, my dear, will detain me here
till over tomorrow," said Haggard, as he
embraced his pretty wife upon the platform ;
but, please God, I shall see you then."
Perhaps his voice faltered a little, as the
possibility flashed through his mind that
perchance, in this world, he might never
gaze again into those loving, trustful eyes.
One more kiss at the carriage window
and the train started, for even Italian
trains must start at last. Haggard stood
gazing after the disappearing carriages.
Then he lit a big cigar and went back to
his hotel. Then, as a good man of business,

he made his will. It was short and to the
point. He left everything he had in the
world to his dear wife, Georgina Haggard.
He rang for a couple of waiters, who duly
witnessed it. And then from his pocketbook
he took a little packet of tissue-paper.
In it was a magnificent lock of
hair. Alas, its colour was other than the
deep chestnut bronze of George Haggard's.
He twined it round his linger, smoothing
its glossy threads, and then he carefully
dropped it into the hottest part of the
wood fire which smouldered on the hearth.
It curled and twisted in the embers as if
it had been a living thing ; a puff of smoke,
a pungent odour, and it was gone. Haggard
flung himself upon the sofa, and then
he slept the dreamless sleep of a little child.
Punctually as the clock struck five,
Monsieur Barbiche's faultless brougham and
high-stepping horse drew up at the old
mill, the only building which remained of
the ancient village of St. Sterno. The place

was well chosen. There was not a soul
about. Barbiche, his face still very pale,
dressed in spotless black, in his buttonhole
the red ribbon, so dear to every
Frenchman's heart, and accompanied by
his friend De Kerguel, stepped out. They
were followed by a little dried-up Italian
army surgeon, who carried under his arm
an ominous-looking black case. The made
for the miller's orchard at once.

They were not destined to be kept in
suspense, for Haggard and his party had
preceded them. All three Englishmen, Haggard,
the general and Lord Spun yarn,
were attired in ordinary walking dress ; the
general and Spunyarn advanced to meet
De Kerguel. Barbiche and the surgeon
remained a little apart.

Gentlemen," said De Kerguel, as he
courteously raised his hat, " we owe you
an apology."

General Pepper's ruddy face assumed a
purple hue. " Did these fellows mean to

cry off after all?" But lie was soon reassured.


We have thought it better," said the
Frenchman with a smile, " to avoid mixing
up any one else in this unfortunate affair.
Hence, gentlemen, we have dispensed with
the usual second temoin. Dr. Baptista,
of the Papal Zouaves, is present. We had
better perhaps lose no time."

Be good enough," said the general, " to
look at these." And from under his blue
military cloak, which lay upon the ground,
he drew a pair of regulation sabres, perhaps
a little exceeding the ordinary length. They
were heavy, murderous-looking weapons.

I cannot object, gentlemen," said the
Frenchman, as he carefully measured them

and weighed them in either hand. " But "

here he eloquently shrugged his shoulders.

The expectant adversaries lost no time.
They divested themselves of their coats and
vests, and, bare-headed, each advanced to
receive his weapon.

The general traced two lines on the
dusty earth, about eight feet apart. Barbiche
and Haggard took their places. The
old general stood between them, but a
little to one side ; he held his stick, with
the point raised a little from the ground,
ready to dash aside the blades the instant
that blood should be drawn.

En garde, messieurs" exclaimed De
Kerguel.

Both men put themselves at once on
the defensive : their blades crossed, but
the attitudes were different and characteristic.
Barbiche, drawing himself up to
his full height, raised his left arm while
standing face to face with his adversary,
brought the point of his weapon close to
his finger tips in salute, and then fell at
once into the regulation position of the
French fencing schools — the right foot well
forward, both knees considerably bent, the
left arm high in air, the elbow at a right
angle. He kept his sword pointed at the

eyes of his adversary ; but he never rested
for an instant. He evidently meant business.
Haggard, on the contrary, assumed
a totally different posture. His left arm
was behind his back, the hand clenched, the
right leg perfectly straight. He held the
sabre lower, but the point was kept unwaveringly
at the chest of his enemy ; his
teeth were set. On his face was that quasi-good
- humoured smile, which is alike assumed
by the British boxer and the British
ballet-girl when exhibiting their arts.

The Frenchman's blade scintillated in the
setting sun around Haggard's more stiffly
held weapon. As it grated against it, first
on one side then on the other, Barbiche
made pass after pass, feint after feint at
his impassive adversary. Suddenly he sprang
forward with cat-like agility, his left hand
touching the ground, and he made a rapid
pass from below upwards at the Englishman
; his point passed dangerously near
his ribs. It was the well-known extension

enseeonde; a favourite trick among Parisian
swordsmen of the Romantic school. The
attempt failed, and was followed by a rapid
succession of miscellaneous thrusts and
passes in bewildering variety. The Frenchman
never withdrew his blade ; but his
very anxiety to make a hit was defeating
itself. Such tactics with the light rapier or
small-sword are doubtless correct; but Barbiche
forgot the weight of his weapon, and
the muscles of his arm were already
beginning to tire.

As that experienced swordsman, General
Pepper, standing with stick extended,
viewed the fight, it seemed to him that
Haggard, by remaining purely on the defensive,
ran a considerable risk, but that
was Haggard's business. Perhaps after all
his principal meant to take a flesh wound,
and so end the matter. " But," thought
the general to himself, " he'll find out his
mistake, if that dancing devil gets in one
of his vicious thrusts." Spunyarn looked

on, and the perspiration streamed from his
face. De Kerguel was no less excited, but
he preserved a calm exterior.

More than two minutes had now elapsed
since the combat had first commenced.
These things take longer to tell than todo.
Suddenly, in an instant, Barbiche
made a furious lunge at his opponent ; the
Englishman parried it with ease, dropping
his point lower than usual. As if blind
to the consequences, the Frenchman
rushed forward with a short sharp cry,
his sword passed across Haggard's chest
without touching him, but poor Barbiche
had literally impaled himself on his adversary's
extended weapon. His sabre
dropped from his hand. He flung both
his arms high in air, giving one bitter
shriek. His face assumed the expression
of one enduring intense torture, and then
was calm again. The body, for he was
dead, slipped off Haggard's sword in a heap
at his feet. Haggard flung his weapon to

the ground, and all four men crowded
round the corpse.

He is stone dead," said the surgeon.

There was a solemn silence.

Save yourselves, gentlemen," at length
cried De Kerguel. " I will see to my unfortunate
friend. It was his own fault and
mine" he said with a sigh.

The Englishmen saluted. Haggard resumed
his garments, and they hurried from
the field, unobserved and unmolested.

Next morning Eome rang with the affair ;
by noon all three Englishmen were safely
over the frontier.

THE VILLA LAMBERT.

Twenty-four hours at a Genoese hotel
were got through by George and her
cousin without difficulty.

44 1 do think," said Lucy, " that Eeginald
might have brought us here himself. I
confess that a tete-astute of two women is
dull ; when they are almost sisters, as a rule
it's duller still ; though the dulness is frequently
enlivened by a pitched battle.
George, why are you not of a pugnacious
disposition ? My fingers literally itch to
box some one's ears ; as for Hephzibah, I've
no patience with her."

"I noticed that you had set her crying
again, Lucy, for about the tenth time
to-day."

And serve her right, she's over head

and ears in love with that priceless jewel,
your husband's man ; it's as plain as the
nose on her face, and there's no doubt of
the plainness of that. I know the symptoms,
they are unmistakable : they always
are, among the ministering classes. He was
Capt before, now it's ' Mr. Capt' here and
4 Mr. Capt' there. Mistering is always the
first sign, George. No, I've no patience
with her at all. It appears he gave hera
thermometer about a week ago ; she has
carried this thing about in her pocket ever
since ; the mercury has got separated, and
she passes her whole time in weeping and
shaking the horrid thing, and trying to get
it back again. Xow I ask you, George,
just look at her."

A mirror, turned towards an open door,
disclosed the lovelorn Ilephzibah in the next
room. Her proceedings were sufficiently
grotesque. In her hand she held a small
ornamental thermometer ; she would shake

it violently in the air, she would then
vol. i. 17

regard it intently with a puzzled expression,
then she would shake her head and
proceed to furiously agitate it once more.
Failing in her purpose, she wept bitterly.
Good-natured as Georgina was, she could
not resist a smile.

Hephzibah, you fool, come here," cried
Lucy.

The maid at once secreted the thermometer
in her bosom.

"Why do you hide the nasty thing?"
said Lucy.

Oh, miss, I'm ashamed."
"And what are you crying for?"
Please, miss, because of the omen."
What do you mean ? " said Georgina ;
do calm yourself, Hephzibah."

Oh, miss, only look," cried the girl, as
she took the scientific love-token from its
hiding place; "the quicksilver have separated,
never to be re united, and isn't that
an omen, miss?" Here the maid shook
the thermometer with redoubled fury.

'• You stupid creature, so you believe in
all that nonsense, do you ? "

I may be stupid, Miss Lucy, but I've
never known a sign or .omen fail. Didn't
the cook at The Warren, miss, predict,
with coffee grounds, that I should be
engaged to a foreign gentleman, but that
some one younger and more beautiful
would prove a jealous rival ? Here I am
engaged, miss, or as good, to Mr. Capt ;
and I know what this omen means. You
may laugh, miss, but it's a very serious
thing."

I shouldn't wonder at all, Hephzibah ;
the hotel prospectus says there are no less
than fifty chambermaids here. Perhaps
even fifty jealous rivals."

Mr Capt don't demean himself to chambermaids,
Miss Lucy," retorted the abigail
with angry scorn.

Oh, I've no doubt Capt is ambitious ;
perhaps he looks higher. Perhaps I shall

be your rival, Hephzibah."

17—2

You wouldn't have the heart to do it,
miss," said the girl in all seriousness.

Mrs. Haggard gave her cousin a reproving
glance, but Lucy imperturbably continued
:

"Well, Hephzibah," she said, "I think
you may consider yourself safe from meat
least ; but I'll help you if you'll let me."

Ladies don't wink, they only imperceptibly
droop their eyelids, but the glance
that Lucy gave her cousin was terribly like
a wink, and brimming over with malice.

Yes," she went on. " Light that candle,
you stupid creature ; now hold your thermometer
close to the flame ; we shall soon
see what the omen is worth."

The maid did as she was bid, and carefully
watched the tube.

Well, are the separated fates getting
any nearer ? " inquired the young mistress
with affected solicitude.

Oh, miss, they are coming together
gradually, but very slowly, miss."

Get the thing nearer to the candle,
then."

Poor Hephzibah obeyed ; she little suspected
the heartless trick played at her
expense.

Oh, miss," she delightedly exclaimed,
they'll join in another instant."

Bang went the fragile bulb, as it splintered
into a thousand atoms, and the mercury
shot in sparkling globules over the
table.

Lucy's ringing laugh resounded through
the room.

But the matter was no joke to Hephzibah,
her pale lips became colourless ; she pressed
her hand to her heart with a gesture full
of anguish, recovered herself with difficulty,
gave forth a few short sharp sobs, cast an
almost menacing look upon her younger
mistress, then turned and rushed from the
room.

"How could you have the heart to
tease her so?" said George with honest indignation.

" I'm ashamed of you, Lucy ;

y

you've no right to trifle with her feelings.

o

Trifle with her fiddlestick," laughed
the girl.

But a knock at the door interrupted
them ; the discreet Capt entered, bearing a
telegram upon a salver.

Mrs. Haggard, to whom the envelope was

addressed, tore it open with some anxiety ;

her face assumed a pleased expression.

Order a carriage at once, Capt' she said.

The valet withdrew to execute the

command.

The telegram was from Haggard ; it was
as follows :

Spun-yam and I are on the road,
and shall reach Geneva by last train.
You had better go to the Villa Lambert
and arrange for taking up our quarters
there, if you like the place. All
well— Br
George handed the paper to her cousin,
the latter clapped her hands with glee. Ina

woman's life there is nothing more
delightful than arranging a home, though
it be but a temporary one.

The girls hurried to prepare for their
drive. And Mrs. Haggard, after attempting
to soothe the wounded feelings of her
maid, directed her to accompany them.

"With Capt on the box, the young
wife and her cousin, and their still ruffled
attendant, started on the lovely drive alone
margin of the lake for the villa which
Haggard had secured, should it meet with
their mutual approval, as a home for his
wife and cousin during his short projected
necessary absence in America.

As seen from the lake the Villa Lambert,
which stood quite alone, gave one the idea
of the place a poet would choose for his
meditations. The villa and its terrace were
built of white stone, but a large portion
of the walls was covered with ivy. The
house itself was embedded in a thickly-wooded
garden where the trees were just

budding into leaf. Privacy was evidently
what had been aimed at in the arrangement
of the place. On looking at it one
would instinctively say, here is rest. A
large porte cohere, which had evidently
been long unused, was the chief entrance
to the place, and a small wicket, pierced
by a grille, and surmounted by a big bell
in an iron cage, was the only other means
of getting into the garden. The active
Capt descended, and seizing the substantial
handle rang loudly. The bark of a dog
was the only answer, but after repeating
the summons several times, the trap in the
wicket opened and disclosed the surly face
of an old Savoyard. The gifted Capt addressed
the old man in numerous dialects,
but no answering smile of intelligence
illuminated the sulky wooden face ; the
barred aperture was closed with an angry
slam, and Capt instantly recommenced his
solo upon the bell. Again the trap opened
and a weather-beaten crone answered his

summons ; at length the door itself was
unbarred, and Mr. Capt hastened to assist
his mistresses to alight. He explained to
them that the guardians of the villa were
a Savoyard and his wife, and that the
man was probably deaf, but that the
woman had expressed her readiness to
show them over the house and grounds.

The garden was full of trees and thick
with evergreen shrubs ; the walls covered,
as they are in most gardens on the
Continent, with carefully trained espaliers,
many of which were already white with
blossom, which promised an abundant
crop. Huge clumps of narcissus gave out
their heavy odour ; it was too early for
other flowers, save the China roses and
fuchsias, whose bright colours enlivened the
place. The beds were bordered, as in many
foreign gardens, by pieces of plank painted
a bright blue ; the paths, so different from
our hard trim English gravel walks, were
loose shingle, which had been carefully

raked. A goat, chained to a peg, grazed
on the unmown lawn ; the house itself was
jealously shut up, storm blinds and jalousies
covering every window.

The uncommunicative old gardener continued
his interrupted vocation ; his wife,
quitting the party and entering the house
by a back door, suddenly flung open the
windows of the drawing-room, and so
admitted the visitors.

There is always an air of discomfort
about a furnished house, a kind of grim
bareness that suggests an asylum or a
prison, rather than a home ; and in foreign
furnished houses this is specially apparent :
there are the regulation amount of chairs
and tables it is true ; if there are any
ornaments they are always either damaged
or in bad taste : they generally combine
both qualities. It was so at the Villa
Lambert ; but everything was spotlessly
clean, everything was scrupulously cared
for ; the chairs stood ranged against the

wall in a melancholy manner, cruel Philips
chairs and guiltless of cushions.
There were two hard formal-looking couches,
with straight backs and spider legs. There
was a sort of creepy look about the whole
place.

I wonder where the last proprietor
hung himself, dear ? " whispered Lucy in
her cousin's ear.

But from the rather dismal salon they
passed into a more cheerful room. As the
old housekeeper opened the shutters oneby
one streams of strong sunlight entered
the place ; the floor was inlaid wood, the
walls were panelled to the ceiling, and
elaborately carved ; the ceiling itself was
of polished wood, beautifully veined ; the
furniture was of oak, heavy and substantial;
attempt at ornament there was none,
nor was ornament needed, for from the
windows of this room one looked out
straight over the blue waters of the lake.
The cheerful sound of music came from

the deck of a big saloon steamer, bearing
its crowd of noisy tourists. On the opposite
shore, at Villeneuve, were the
wooded grounds of the hotel Byron ; Chillon,
a white spot in the turquoise sea, was
plainly visible to the right. The cousins
stepped to the open windows and descended
the flight of stairs that led from the centre
one ; it brought them to a little terrace
which overhung the lake.

Lucy clapped her hands with delight,
her more staid cousin w T as rapt in pleased
astonishment. In an instant the thousand
and one well-known descriptions ran
through her mind, and she thought of the
impassioned picture of the palace on the
Como lake, which Claude Melmotte had
poured into Pauline's delighted ear. Ought
she not to be happy ? Was not her handsome
husband the very ideal Claude?

Both girls were enthusiastic ; they spent
a long afternoon determining this, arranging
that. But spring evenings in Switzerland

are chilly ; Capt suggested their return
to the hotel. They reluctantly bade farewell
to the little villa ; but during all the
long drive back they talked of nothing but
the furnishing of the various rooms, the
things that must be had. the things they
could not do without. All this was argued
pro and con. ; colours were vital matters,
fashion equally important ; but not one
thought did the ladies give themselves as
to the cost. Happy girls, they were quite
right ; money in such a case as this was
no object. Lucky are they who have not
to count the cost, these are the people
who are the real privileged classes ; it's
easy enough not to count the cost at all,
in fact it's like a pleasant dream, a dream
which has an unpleasant awakening at
the shrill sounds of the piper who has to
be paid.

The girls sat up till midnight, at which
time Haggard and his friend were due
from Borne. The were both travel-worn

and had not much to tell. Their business
in Rome had been transacted. No, they
were not hungry ; they had dined in the
sleeping-car.

The next day, as gently as possible,
Hazard broke to his wife the fact that

Doit

was incumbent upon him to start at
once for his American property. The blow
came not unexpectedly, and George made
the best of it. But the husband stayed a
couple of days in Geneva ; there were
papers to sign in reference to the little
villa, a pair of ponies had to be bought ;
and the numerous little matters of business
to settle, which somehow or other it falls
invariably to the lot of man to transact.

The parting came at last ; it took place
on the platform of the station. There is
among women always a melancholy satisfaction
in seeing the very last of the
beloved object. George was no exception
to the rule. Spunyarn, who was to accompany
his friend, at a discreet distance was

laughing and chatting merrily with the
younger girl. True that at one time there
had been rumours of an attachment between
the pair ; we, who are behind the scenes,
know that both were perfectly heart-whole.


"Will the train never start, Lord Spun-yarn?
I'm afraid all this will upset my
cousin ; these partings are dreadful things
after all."

Think what my feelings must be, Miss
Warrender. I, who have been congratulated
by my friends over and over again in
reference to my supposed good luck, and
who will have now to face the fire of their
chaff at my cruel rejection."

Your lordship seems to bear it bravely
enough."

With profoundest equanimity, Miss War-render.
I leave the lady who has rejected
me, in maiden meditation fancy free, at least,
I suppose so ; that thought is balm to my
wounded soul. Hope, they say, springs

eternal in the human breast. Miss Warrender
may yet change her mind."

"She will not fail to let you know by
telegram should that unlikely event occur,
Lord Spunyarn."

"I'm afraid you've destroyed my future
peace of mind. I now shall never hear a
double knock with equanimity ; depend upon
it our time has not yet come."

Yours has at all events, Lord Spunyarn,
for if you don't get in you will certainly be
left behind."

Good-bye, then, Miss Warrender ; parting
is such sweet sorrow, I e'en could say goodbye
until tomorrow."

"Now that is very sweet of you. I little
thought you were Romeo still."

Now and ever, Miss Warrender," said the
young man with mock passion, as they laughingly
shook hands, and he hastened to enter
the carriage. "One thing I have forgotten,
though," he said, " don't let your cousin seethe
Society papers."

The parting between Haggard and his wife
was necessarily what such partings usually
are: it was painful to both; it would not be
amusing to the reader.

George's eyes were full of tears as her
husband embraced her for the last time. He
only tore himself from her reluctant arms as
the final whistle sounded from the engine.
As the train slowly moved from the platform.
the girls walked hurriedly along for a few
yards. Haggard leant from the window,
waving his hand ; his wife o-azed after the
vanishing train, standing like Niobe, dissolved
in tears.

Even Haggard, case-hardened as lie was.
didn't light his cigar for full twenty
minutes.

That evening Lucy Warrender obtained
with some difficulty a copy of 4 Tin 1 Sphen :'
tin is what she read there:

"Seldom indeed now-a-days do Englishmen
fight duels. In this they are wise, for with
us the man who fights a duel receives no

V«)L. ]. 18

sympathy, and what is more unpleasant,
generally becomes an object of ridicule.
Sometimes, however, a duel is unavoidable.
We understand that this was the case in the
late unfortunate affair at Borne. The provocation
was given by the man who fell. M.
Barbiche was well known in London society.
As usual, the cause of the quarrel was a lady.
A correspondent in Rome, upon whose
information we can rely, informs us that a

blow was struck by Mr. R H , but

only after the grossest provocation. The
meeting took place within twenty four hours ;
unfortunately the result was fatal. The
survivor and the seconds of both parties
crossed the frontier at once, but one of
the friends of the deceased took the precaution
to draw up a process verbal of the
affair before he left, and transmitted it to
the authorities. Society in Rome has been
stirred to its foundations, for both the parties
were well known. The weapons were sabres.
We understand that the seconds of Mr. R

H , a well-known sporting nobleman and

General C , are, as well as their principal,

members of the P m Club. General

C is now in England."

To Lucy Warrender, who now heard of
the matter for the first time, these initials
were no enigma. The cause of Haggard's
mysterious detention in Rome, and of their
own sudden flitting, became at once clear
to her. " It was very thoughtful of Spun-yarn,"
she said to herself; "he was quite
right, George certainly shouldn't see
this'

The careful Lucy took every precaution.
The consequences of the incident at
Papayani's ball remained a secret to the
young wife.

The ladies were glad of the temporary
excitement of their move to the Villa Lambert,
which they made the day after the
departure of the two men. And now commenced
a life of seclusion and retirement,
which both of them enjoyed from its very

novelty. The old quiet life that they had led
at The Warren seemed to recommence once
more. They gardened, they drove out, they
rowed and sailed upon the lake, but they
declined all acquaintances. The life was
monotonous enough and devoid of incident.


Hephzibah Wallis had recovered her spirits,
her Swiss lover was more attentive than
ever ; he escorted her on a Sunday evening to
the Protestant place of worship, and though
she didn't understand a word, Hephzibah
enjoyed the service. In the mysterious rite
of " walking out " going to church together
forms an important factor ; it is the outward
and visible sign of " keeping company ; ,; it is
the inevitable step to being " asked in
church," a kind of probationary period, a
sort of trial trip. Mr. Capt was more
loquacious than the British man-servant,
under similar circumstances, would be. He
was never tired of drawing out Miss Wallis
on the subject of her young mistresses. The

juvenile escapades of the younger of them
were to him a source of endless amusement ;
he heard all that his inamorata had to tell,
nay his interest was so great in her artless
narratives that he would make her repeat
them over and over again. The Swiss soon
found out that in Hephzibah he was dealing
with a truthful girl ; for the tale, though oft
repeated, never varied. What girl has any
secret from the man she loves ? Hephzibah
Wallis formed no exception to the rule. But
it never dawned on her, at least not then,
that she was being " pumped' She put
down Mr. Capt's complaisance to his interest
in her ; and though, as servants will, she at
times asked him questions about his master,
she merely admired him the more when they
were dexterously parried, for the confidential
valet, in regard to Haggard, ever remained
discretion itself.

Great was George's delight when she goethe
first letter from her husband. Till now
they had never been separated; i< it to be

wondered at, then, that she locked herself up
with the treasure ? After the usual protestations
and the regulation amount of sentiment,
sentiment which, hackneyed though it was,
brought ready tears of pleasure into the young
wife's eyes, Haggard announced his immediate
departure by the mail steamer. " I'm off tomorrow,
George," he said, "for I find life in
London without you perfectly unbearable.
I am hastening my departure that we may
the sooner meet again," here followed several
sentences of the usual thing. The fact was
that Haggard found himself once more a
sort of lion in spite of himself, but he also
detected a rather chilling reception in many
quarters ; he was most gushingly received by
the least reputable of his lady acquaintances.
Mrs Charmington, in a long tete-tete with
which she had favoured him, had called him
her hero." But Mrs. Charmington was
already on the wane, and as he had no wish
to be her hero now he rather fought shy of
her. At the Pandemonium he was as popular

as ever, rather more so in fact ; fur since the
baccarat affair, particularly as he was away,
he had acted as a sort of scapegoat for the
sins of the many. It was rather a nuisance,
too, to find that wherever he went he excited
a considerable amount of attention. Even
when seated in the stalls of his favourite
theatres, those temples where the sacred lamp
of burlesque is so carefully tended, it was
annoying to find the glances of all those
airily-costume and magnificently-developed
females, who are known as the Loathes and
the Toties, concentrated on himself.

He had received no invitation to go down
to The Warren, but his father the Justice had
written him in no measured terms.

41 1 had thought," he said, " that by this
time you would have got tired of making
an ass of yourself; you'd better give old
Warrender a wide berth ; he is furious

All these things then tended to make a
long stay in town distasteful to Haggard,
so he went down to Southampton, took his

passage for Mexico in that magnificent steamship,
the "Capua," and he started, feeling
himself an ill-used man.

END OF VOL J.

•#

hem



HE Pit Town

Charles <J. Wills

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/pittowncoronetfa02will

PIT TOWN CORONET

Jl ^amU|} ^iljjsicrp.

BY

Charles J. Will,

AUTHOR OF
N THE LAND OF THE LI OX AND Sun," E T

L\ 'IHREK VOLUMES.
VOL. IJ.

WARD AND DOWxXEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, London, Avec.



[7/t€ light o/ liuitslalion ii restive and the Dmmolk Cvjijiujht iiruievtcd. j

6y ^^^>

U> V

CONTENTS,

CHAP. PAGE

L — A Horrible. .ScANliAL . . . . 1

II. — At the Parsonage -7
III. — How Trie feare ^o^rE ."il

1\'. - The Return or the Wandeiiei; . 1'.^

v.— The Mis.SE.'i Sleek drop ix . . . .94

VI. —The Clerks ix Arcadia . . . 117

VII. — IIaggari> ( ones into his owx . . 138

^'III. — The \kar times Pupffx , 1(;7

IX. .Mr. Pun-iN hunts a I'itterilv , . . 190

X. — A Ratified; Shady (character . . . lil.'J

XI. — Esau was the J-'irstborn ii.">(i

Nit. - In St. .John's \Vof>i> :'7<>

Chapter I.

A HORRIBLE SCANDAL.

Dull as the life of the Httle chateau on the
lake necessarily was, yet George Haggard
did not suffer from ennui. She seemed in fact
to rather revel in the quietude, and to
luxuriate in the seclusion of the Swiss villa,
after the fatigues and excitements of a busy
London season and the turmoil and the incidental
worries which must always attend an
extended foreign tour, even when it is taken
for pleasure, and when expense is no object.
The position of the villa was sufficiently
romantic ; behind it were the snow-covered
Alps, Mont Blanc always clearly visible ; and
all in front stretched the lake with its

VOL. II. 19

glorious blue water of that intense azure
which is only seen on this Geneva lake.
Why it should be so very blue is, and always
will be, a mystery ; of course it has been
explained by scientific people in various
manners satisfactory to themselves, but the
fact remains that the lake is of a deeper blue
than any other European water, and strange
to say the intense colour is just as apparent
in the shallowest parts. One may row over
a place not more than a yard deep, where
the bottom is clearly perceptible, but the
waters are as blue as ever, a deep unnatural
ultramarine blue, a blue which is seen only
here and in the choicest specimens of the
Oriental turquoise.

The establishment at the Villa Lambert
consisted of the permanent staff of the place,
the aged Savoyard and his wife, who spoke
an abominable and unintelligible patois ; these
two people were the Gibeonites of the villa.
At earliest dawn the pair rose and toiled till
an hour after sunset. The man worked in

the garden, broke the firewood, drew water
from the well, attended to the ponies, and
wore the face of a martyr. The woman got
through the labours of four ordinary English
servants, she was cook, housekeeper, housemaid,
and an entire staff in herself; she
spoke to no one save her morose husband
and Haggard's polyglot Swiss servant ; she
scrubbed, she polished her numerous brazen
pots and pans till they shone like mirrors ;
every particle of woodwork in the house was
washed and polished by her, till it resembled
that seen in the Dutch village of Brook.
But the great delight of the pair was the
waxing and polishing of the curious inlaid
parquet flooring of the salon which looked
upon the lake. Lucy Warrender had been
considerably surprised when she saw this
process for the first time. A strange hissing
noise, which continued for some minutes,
gradually diminished in intensity, and then
ceased altogether, only to recommence with

renewed vigour, surprised the two girls as

19 -2

they sat at breakfast. " What can it be,
George ? " lie remarked in astonishment to
her cousin.

It's in the next room, I think, dear," said
the young matron ; " but it's very easy to see."
She opened the door of the salon. Husband
and wife, with portentous gravity, the woman
having her skirts well tucked up, their arms
akimbo, were apparently skating up and
down the room. To them it was evidently
a very serious business; they never smiled,
but the perspiration streamed from their
foreheads as they flew up and down. A
large flat brush was attached to each foot of
either. They were polishing the floor, and
their appearance was sufficiently ludicrous.
Lucy looked at her cousin ; the absurdity of
the scene was too much for her ; she closed
the door and laughed till she cried.

Mrs. Haggard's maid was an invaluable
servant, who understood her duties and never
seemed to forget anything. Hephzibah seldom
spoke ; peril aps, like the parrot in the story,

lie thought the more. The girl was in her
way religious. That valuable work, once so
popular but now so seldom seen, " The Dairyman's
Daughter," was her only literature, but
she seemed to be never tired of reading it.

Capt, the valet, was equally quiet in his
way, equally dull. He did not disdain to
manufacture dainty little dishes for his young
mistresses. He would row them about upon
the lake. He was steward, footman, and
general factotum. He never opened his
mouth unless he was spoken to, and between
him and Hephzibah there appeared to be a
good understanding ; as the reader is aware
they were " keeping company."

George and her cousin led quiet uneventful
lives. They drove, they boated, they
wandered in their large garden ; but they
made no new acquaintances, and they lived
the lives of hermits. Once a week there was
some slight excitement as to the arrival of
news from the absent husband ; his letters
came with praiseworthy regularity. He had

arrived safely in Mexico ; the value of his
property had increased enormously. He was
in treaty with half-a-dozen persons for the
sale of his estates. He cursed the delays of
the Mexican lawyers, who seemed to do
nothing but smoke big cigars and swing
themselves to sleep all day in hammocks. He
pathetically bemoaned the unavoidable separation
from his dear George. He wasn't having
a bad time of it, the sport was undeniable.
He had had a week with a friend at a place
with an unpronounceable name. Then he
described the delights of the opera house, and
the great success of the new French dancer.
Mademoiselle De Bondi. It seemed a pity to
close finally, when land was going up in value
every day, and so on, and so on, and he was
his dear George's affectionate husband. This
was the burden of all his communications,
one letter was very much like another.
Haggard was evidently enjoying himself, and
his affectionate George, though longing for
his return, did not grudge him his pleasures.

Strange to say, though by force of circumstances
thrown into an eternal tete-astute, the
cousins never quarrelled. George read and
re-read her husband's letters. Lucy devoured
one yellow-covered novel after another, and
time crept slowly on. They had been four
months at the Swiss villa.

It was the end of August. The two
girls, they were but girls, sat on the terrace
which overhung the lake. The sun was
setting, as they sat dreamily gazing upon
the lovely scene, which had even distracted
Lucy's attention from the last naturalistic
novel, which lay open on her lap. As she
looked intently at the blue waters of the lake
she sighed deeply. George turned towards
her and was startled to see that her lovely
dark brown eyes were filled with tears !
George placed her arm softly round the girl's
neck, for she dearly loved her cousin, and
gently said, "What ails you, darling?"

But Lucy answered never a word, a violent
burst of weeping was her only reply.

Lucy, never over strong at any time, had
lately caused her cousin considerable anxiety ;
womanlike, Lucy fought against the growing
weakness ; till now she had hidden her increasing
melancholy under an appearance of
forced gaiety, which had not deceived her
cousin, but only increased her alarm.

The elder girl knelt at Lucy's feet — her
own Lucy whom she still looked upon in
her heart as a little child.

Does anything worry you, darling ? " she
said.

No answer.

Trust me, Lucy ; we are always friends,
let me share this trouble."

I can't," faltered the girl, as she gnawed
her lips, which trembled and turned pale ;
I think I shall drown myself."

Then George took the blanched hand of
the motherless girl, and entreated her.

Do tell me, darling ; you must tell me,
Lucy. Something is preying on your mind ;
trust me, do trust me, pet."

Not then did Lucy Warrender tell lier
trouble to her cousin. But that night,
unwillingly and ungraciously enough, she
told her grief. Pale as a ghost, her fingers
intertwined in a convulsive grip, she knelt
by her cousin's bed and told her shameful
story. She made her pitiful appeal. With
dilated eyes, Georgina listened in terror to
Lucy's confidence. It was the old tale.
Lucy vas about to become a mother ; this
was all she told. Was it not enough ?
She looked imploringly up at her cousin
as she whispered :

You can save me, George, if you
will — if you love me, as I know you do ;
and if you won't, there is nothing left forme
but the lake, the cold, cruel lake."
Here she laughed hysterically, and nestled
to her cousin's breast.

The elder girl was struck dumb. The
shame of it, the bitter shame of this accursed
thing.

There was a silence, only broken by the

monotonous ticking of the carved Swiss
clock and the deep sobs of the kneeling
girl. There was a sudden whiz of spinning
wheels — " Cuckoo I cuckoo ! " screamed the
little painted bird derisively, as he appeared
for an instant from his tiny box to mark
the hour. Both girls started at the inauspicious
interruption.

I save you, my darling ! How can I
save you ? And father, poor father. Oh,
Lucy! how could you — how could you so
deceive us all? But he must be sent for
who is the man ? He must marry
you — he will marry you, of course, at once,
this gentleman !''

But Lucy only sobbed the more.

"He will never marry me, George. You
can save me, you alone ! "

She never named the man.

They talked on far into the night ; and as
they wept and whispered, the painted wooden
demon ever and again sprang from his box
and startled them with his discordant cry,

Cuckoo ! cuckoo ! "

How could she refuse ? Much against
her will at last she yielded ; she agreed to
deceive the absent husband who trusted
her — that heartless husband whom she
idolized. From that day forward the sound
of a cuckoo clock — the voice of the bird
himself, as she heard him in the woods —
sounded in her ear as the cry of a mocking
devil. Little did she dream that, in
weakly yielding to her cousin's piteous entreaty,
she was sowing the seed of which
she and hers should reap the bitter harvest.

What could she do, poor girl? She felt
it was her duty. Who can tell if she
erred? If so, it was on mercy's side.
Xext morning Lucy was herself again ; she
was once more the buoyant, merry girl,
who smiled and chattered, and sang her
little scraps of French songs, making the
sunshine of the house. The rules were
changed. Never again shall the light of
perfect happiness beam in George Haggard's

once honest eyes — those eyes now
red with weeping, full of the secret sorrow
of her cousin's bitter confidence. It is
always painful to an honourable mind to
play the part of a conspirator, and that
thankless role was now forced upon poor
George — willy-nilly she had to do it.
Lucy's fertile brain teemed with plan, with
plot, with stratagem ; certain of ultimately
conquering the scruples of her gentle and
loving cousin, she had evidently thought
the matter out.

We ought to trust nobody, you know''
said the younger girl, who had suddenly
assumed the management of everything.
Startled and horrified, George had become
in regard to her cousin, that born intriguer,
but as clay in the hands of the potter.
No, we ought not to, but we must. If
ever a girl in this world could keep her
tongue between her teeth, it's that pale
Hephzibah of ours, and trust her we must,
there's nothings else for it."

Lucy's tongue, once loosed, never seemed
to tire. Her despondency and melancholy,
her load of carling care, were all transferred
as by the wave of a magician's
wand to her cousin's shoulders. Alas! that
cousin, that patient, loving cousin is perhaps
destined to carry to her grave the fardel
of another's weakness, the punishment of a
worthless woman's fault.

George, from that hour, was a changed
girl. No more the once happy, loving eyes
gazed on the younger girl with more thana
mother's pride. From that day George
feared her cousin, and Lucy soon detected
the new sentiment which she had unexpectedly
inspired. The younger dictated,
the elder acquiesced.

George," she once suddenly said, when
they were alone together on the little
platform which hung over the blue waters
of the lake, " swear to me that you will
never betray my secret." She clutched her
cousin's hand with fierce insistance and

stamped her little foot ; " swear to me," she
said in a hoarse whisper, " that never byword
or letter you will reveal my secret —
our secret," she added with a smile. If ever
a pretty woman's smile was devilish, Lucy
Warrender's was, as she insisted on this
partnership in her guilt.

Have I ever deceived you, Lucy, that
you should want me to swear ? "

But you shall swear, George," she
reiterated almost savagely. " I have gone
too far to hesitate at trifles now, and if
you don't, you will never see me more,"
she added menacingly, as she pointed to
the lake. Her little figure seemed to increase
in height, so sternly determined
was her aspect.

George cowered in mingled anxiety and
horror.

Swear to me," she said, and she emphasized
the command, for it was no longer
an entreaty, by a fierce clutch at her
cousin's wrist, " never to a soul till the

day of your death will you breathe a word
of it. Swear."

I do swear it, Lucy," replied the dominated
victim, and she buried her face in her
hands.

The next day the two English ladies left
the Villa Lambert in an open carriage.

The faithful Capt was told to be ready
for their return in a few days' time. Considerably
to his astonishment, he did not
accompany them. As the carriage drove
away the valet lighted one of those long
and peculiarly nasty cigars which his countrymen
seem so much to enjoy. He stood
watching the carriage rapt in meditation,
and his face wore a puzzled air. Then he
did what no economic Switzer has probably
done before or since — he actually flung
away the still burning abomination. Then
he spat upon the ground, and with aii
exaggerated shrug of his shoulders reentered
the house.

The carriage took the ladies and their

maid to a small town, some twelve miles
off. They put up at the hotel. Xext morning
they took tickets by the steamer to
Geneva, but less than half-way they got
out at a small village, Auray, a little place
totally devoid of interest, a mere hamlet
never visited by the tourist ; here they took
a lodging, humble enough, but clean, in the
house of a well-to-do widow. It was from
this lodging that George posted a letter
containing the following advertisement,
which appeared in the Times :

^' At the Villa Lambert, Canton of Geneva, Switzerland, the
wife of Reginald Haggard, Esq., of a son. August 20, 18 — ."

The cousins exchanged rules. Lucy became
Madame Haggard, while George was
addressed by the discreet Hephzibah as Mademoiselle
Warren der.

The whole thing had evidently been
carefully planned by Lucy for some time
previously. She had even with infinite art
written numerous letters to their relatives
and friends, in which she dilated upon the

Strange reticence of " dear George " as to
the whole matter. Needless to say these
letters were all dated from the Villa Lambert.
In her letter to Haggard, and in her
more formal communication to the head of
the family, the old earl at Walls End
Castle, she explained how her cousin had
kept the whole matter secret as a surprise
for her husband ; and how she, the guileless
Lucy, had been unwillingly compelled to
participate in the deception. All was thus
satisfactorily explained as the whim of the
young wife.

How she had purchased the silence of
the invaluable maid it is difficult to say,
whether by bribes, promises or cajolery ;
but Hephzibah Wallis was the servant of
the Warrenders. born and bred on their
land, discreet and silent.

In ten days they returned to the villa,
Mrs. Haggard wrapped up as a young convalescent
mother ; the little bastard clothed

ill purple and fine linen as became his
VOL. n. 20

expectations as Eeginald Haggard's heir.
George was pale, great black rings surrounded
lier eyes ; she leant heavily on the
arm of the invaluable Capt, as she stepped
out of the carriage which had conveyed
her from the nearest wharf. But Lucy's
cheery laugh, though it failed to bring a
smile to the face of her cousin, soon
dominated the inhabitants of the Villa
Lambert. Hephzibah, full of that added
dignity which every woman assumes as
the guardian of an infant, sat enthroned
before a blazing fire, for in Switzerland in
August the evenings are chilly. It washer
custom never to address Mr. Capt, save
on official matters, when a third person
was present. On the present occasion she
went further than this, for she declined
even to answer him.

Capt had bustled about, had brought in
the luggage, had handed their letters to
his mistresses, had received the thanks of
Miss Lucy Warrender for his tasteful

floral decoration of the little salon, and
had then suddenly subsided into an attitude
of respectful admiration in front of Haggard's
supposed heir. To no man or male
person, save perhaps to their own fathers
or their medical attendants, are very young
infants objects of interest ; we may therefore
safely presume that Mr. Capt was
either really wrapped up in the severe
charles of the student of the "Dairyman's
Daughter," or that he had some occult and
ulterior reason for remaining to study the
little group at the fireside.

"- Ah, madame," exclaimed the major-domo,
as he washed his lianJs in the air,
you will not think it a liberty when 1
respectfully felicitate you." But no answering
smile appeared on Mrs. Haggard's
face.

Certainly not," burst in the younger

girl; "you are the first of our friends lo

do so, Capt," she said, with an almost

perceptible emphasis on the word ; " but

:iO— 2

we are both of us knocked up with the
bustle, so get us some tea at once."

The humbly sympathizing friend became
once more the respectful servant, and
hurried away to carry out his young
mistress's behest.

"Rouse yourself, George," exclaimed the
younger girl impatiently, " you really look
very little like the mother of a possible
heir to an earldom," she maliciously added.

But George made no reply to her
cousin's taunt, she merely extended her
colourless hands towards the blazing fire
of logs.

A pile of letters lay upon the table ;
one by one Lucy's active fingers tore
them open, one by one she read them to
her silent cousin, enlivening them with a
running fire of comment. As she read
each one aloud, she planted a fresh
dagger in her cousin's heart, but she went
steadily on with an occupation which
seemed congenial.

They were the usual formal congratulations
for the most part : one, from the
old squire, gently blamed his daughter
for not having taken her father into her
confidence ; " but the ways of women, my
dear, are mysterious, and I suppose that
explains it." As Lucy read the words the
tears ran down her cousin's face.

One other letter yet remained ; it was
addressed in a crabbed hand ; its contents
were as follows :

"Walls End Castle.
"My dear Child,

Miss Warrender's letter has quite
taken me by surprise ; I had not the
slightest inkling that I should have so
soon to congratulate you both on the
happy event. It gives me great pleasure
to do so ; though I have known you,
my dear, for so short a time, you have
inspired me with feelings of the liveliest
affection. I need not say I am greatly

gratified to hear that it is a little boy.
The great terror of my old age, the not
remote possibility of the extinction of
my house, which always preyed upon my
mind, is now removed. I shall hope to
welcome the little man here ere long, and
with affectionate remembrance to your cousin,
"I am, my dear child,

"Yours affectionately,

Pit Town'*

The ladies had retired for the night.
A heavy mist hung over the lake, but a
red spark moved slowly up and down
the little terrace in front of the Villa
Lambert ; the spark indicated the presence
of Mr. Capt, who was awaiting with
lover-like impatience the arrival of the
discreet Hephzibah. At length she appeared,
muffled in a heavy shawl.

Have done, do, Capt," said the maiden
with indignation, as the valet imprinted a
salute on her pallid lips.

I haven't commenced, my beloved, yet'*
retorted he. " Will it be an indiscretion
to hope that Miss Hephzibah has enjoyed
herself, and that the separation from her
beloved Maurice has produced ever so slight
a depression?" said he as he attempted
to take her hand.

Stuff," replied the Englishwoman with
an indignant snort.

Here the conversation took a distinctly
amatory turn, and would probably hardly
interest the reader. But, under the influences
of the blind god, the stern student
of the " Dairyman's Daughter " seemed to
thaw. She took the proffered arm of
her adorer, and, like all women in love,
seemed to derive a pleasure from the
peculiarly pungent aroma of his cigar.

And how did we pass our time, my
Hephzibah ; did we amuse ourselves ? Have
you nothing to tell me, my beloved,
nothing to confide to me ? "

The lady's maid shook her head.

Except that I've been worked off ray-legs
as you may suppose, what can I
have to tell you ? "

"Ah!" remarked the valet. "I can
fancy that my Hephzibah always fulfils her
duties to her mistress, but perhaps my
too perfect angel forgets that between betrothed
persons there should be no secrets."

You don't mean to say you're jealous,
Capt ? " she exclaimed, as she raised her
face to his.

"My love, you are discretion itself; I
know you never betray a secret."

If I had one, Capt, you would worm
it out of me," she said with a smile and
a perceptible pressure on his arm.

"Yes, my love, I should worm it out,"
he replied with intention.

Hephzibah took no notice of this remark.

"The mist is very damp, and I am
very tired, Maurice ; I must be going in ;
my mistress will wonder what has become
of me, so good-night."

The valet kissed the girl. "Good-bye,
my love'* he said. " I think you had
better have trusted me. Good-bye."

Good-night, or good-bye, if you prefer
it, Mr. Capt," replied the lady's maid
with dignity.

Good-bye, ray dear, good-bye, till we
meet again. '^

Hephzibah hurried into the house.

The valet continued his walk up and
down the little terrace ; he was immersed
in thought, he still smoked his cigar,
but unconsciously ; he was suddenly
roused from his reflections by the fire
almost touching his lips. With a curse,
he flung the end into the waters, and
watched it disappear with a hiss. Then he
walked briskly into the house.

The next morning Mr. Capt had disappeared.
There was nothing wrong with
the plate. On the carefully arranged breakfast
table lay an envelope directed to
Mrs. Haggard ; it contained the man's

account book, balanced to a farthing ; a
small sum of money due from him to
his mistress, and his keys.

What does he mean by this ? " said
Luc}^ to her cousin.

Mrs. Has^o'ard made no answer, but
turning to Hephzibah, she said coldly,
"Where is Capt?"

"Please, ma'am, I don't know ; he's
taken his things with him, and I think
he is gone. I hope there is nothing
wrong," said the girl, her pale face working
with suppressed emotion.

Then Mrs. Haororard fainted.

AT THE PARSONAGE.

In King's Warren Parsonage the vicar's wife
was seated at her little table. Before her
was a handsome service of real Queen Anne
plate ; the square-looking teapot with its
solid ebony handle, and the bowl and jug
to match, for in those days they were sugar
bowls and not sugar basins. Mrs. Dodd
was not alone; she had two visitors, old
Mrs. Wurzel and her inseparable companion,
Miss Grains. The tea was good and strong,
the cream perfection ; all three ladies were
in the best of temper. As a rule even the
most cantankerous women are placable after
afternoon tea. No man had ever partaken
of Mrs. Dodd's tea in her own peculiar
sanctum ; that honour was reserved for those
of her own sex, her cronies, her fellow-workers.

In this little room the village
scandals were threshed out, in this room
the female scholars of the Sunday school
received what Mrs. Dodd was pleased to
call a few words of advice and admonition.
What the mysterious advice was that Mrs.
Dodd imparted, who can tell ? One thing
is certain, as they left the Vicarage they
always wept, all save Jemima Ann Blogg
the defiant ; she alone had shed no tears.

It's very sad," said the vicar's wife,
but I don't think any other course is
open to me. I never looked upon Hephzibah
Walls as flighty; in fact, she was undoubtedly
the steadiest of all my girls.
It's really enough to break the old mother's
heart. Why they should always want to
go out of service and into matrimony I
can't think ; but I suppose they are all
the same ; but this is the climax. The
creature actually declares that she has engaged
herself to a foreigner."

The eyes of the other two members of

the council of three were raised in mingled
astonishment and horror.

Yes, it's too true," continued the
vicars ; "• but I shall not hesitate in my
duty, which is plain : she must be saved
from the foreigner and herself. I'll read
you her letter.

' Villa Lambert.
' Dear Mother,

' You will be glad to hear that weare
all well. We are living in what they
call a villa, and though I like quiet the
life is very dull. All through our travels
Mr. Capt, who, as you know, is Mr
Haggard's own man, has been very attentive
to me ; he has asked me to marry him.
I think it only right, dear mother, to
consult you and father before saying yes.
I should tell you that we are much
attached to each other. Mr. Capt is very
respectable, and very clever, too, for a
foreigner. He is a Swiss gentleman. I'm
sure you would like to hear him talk.

though he's sometimes rather difficult to
understand, as lie uses so many dictionary
words. I suppose it will have to be a
long engagement, for, as you know, service
is no heritage, and we are both in service.
What Mr. Capt wishes me to do is to be
married to him here at once, which lie
says would be much nicer than being engaged
; but I don't think it would be right
to keep it from mistress, as she has been
so kind. Please let me have an answer by
return, as Mr. Capt is very anxious. Give
my love to father, and hoping this finds
you both well,

'' '- 1 am,

' Your loving daughter,
' Hephzibah Wallis.' "

Poor thing," exclaimed the stout Miss
Grains, for she felt a ready sympathy, as
an engaged young woman, with the whole
of the rest of her sex who were in a
similar position.

•' Poor thing, indeed," cried the vicars,
shameless thing, I call her ; a girl who
has been educated under my own eyes,
who was actually confirmed in this very
parish, calmly proposes to degrade herself,
her parents and me by secretly marrying a
disgusting foreigner, for foreigners are disgusting,
as a rule. I shall forbid it, I
shall distinctly forbid it ; it's a duty I owe
to dear George. I am disappointed in
Hephzibah Walls."

•• I'm afraid, Mrs. Dodd, it will be difficult
to save the girl ; here we are in King's
Warren, while she is in Switzerland, and
no doubt the man makes love to her''
insinuated Mrs. Wurzel.

"- Ah, yes," said the brewer's daughter
softly, as she thought of her own little
flirtation with the sallow French master,
whose classes she had attended.

They may be fascinating," said Mrs.
Wurzel spitefully, " but they always smell
of tobacco and never cut their nails."

Alas ! the accusation was too true as
regards the French master, at all events,
and the brewer's daughter was temporarily
extinguished.

To a person in the position of Heph-
zibah Wallis," said the vicar's wife magisterially,
"the length of their nails is of
little importance ; it's their want of principle
that I object to ; as for this creature
Capt, like the rest of them he is, 1 suppose,
an atheist, or perhaps worse, a Papist, for
when he was here with his master he
never once came inside the church. Goody
Wallis has asked me to write to her, and
I shall certainly do so at once, distinctly
forbidding it. I haven't mentioned the
matter to Anastatia, for she is so weak
and romantic that she's quite capable of
writing herself to the girl and inciting her
to rebellion."

Here she carefully folded the letter and
replaced it in her writing desk.

And your sister-in-law's own affair, dear

Mrs. Dodd, is it an indiscretion to ask you
if it is settled yet?" said old Mrs. Wurzel
with sympathetic interest.

Stacey Dodd, Mrs. Wurzel, is, I regret
to say, of a secretive nature ; she does not
confide in me. No, her own sister-in-law
is the last person whom she would trust.
But I believe, mind I do not state it asa
fact, but I have reason to believe that
she has refused the squire ; his age was
an obstacle, you know, and then Lucy
would have been a difficulty. I don't think
it would quite have been a bed of roses ;
that girl would have been a very serious
responsibility indeed."

A discreet tap was heard at the door.

The vicar never presumed to enter his
wife's room without knocking ; he evidently
had something to communicate. He saluted
the ladies and commenced his tale at
once.

A dreadful thing has happened. I

have just returned from The Warren, where
VOL. n. 21

I left the squire in a natural state of
violent indignation."

The ladies expressed their curiosity.

The portly vicar continued :

Oh, there's no secret about it, the
country is ringing with it."

Then he read the paragraph in The
Sphere, with which the reader is acquainted.


*' Then, Mr. Dodd, we may understand
that Georgina is the wife of a murderer,"
said Mrs. Dodd.

Well, my dear, not exactly that ; you
see they say he received great provocation,
so he was bound to go out with him, I
suppose."

Then my husband, a beneficed clergyman
of the Church of England, approves
of duelling, and is actually the champion of
the — the — the assassin."

The vicar's wife was fond of strong
words ; this was the strongest one she
knew of, so she used it.

Well, but, my dear, consider the circumstances."


No circumstances can excuse a murder,
Mr. Dodd. I hope lie won't come here ;
don't let him dare to offer me his bloodstained
hand ; his mere presence would be
enough to contaminate the whole village.
Will they hang him ? " she asked with
interest.

Oh, Mrs. Dodd," said the brewer's
daughter, clasping her hands, for the
thought that she herself had witnessed the
marriage of this interesting criminal thrilled
her very soul.

'• Of course she will leave him at once,"
continued the vicar's wife ; " were the case
my own," she said, " I should not hesitate
for an instant."

A slight smile rippled across the broad

countenance of the vicar ; perhaps it passed

through his mind that were he not a

clergyman there might yet be a means of

escape for him.

21—2

It is of men such as this," cried the
indignant vicar's wife, " that Shakespeare
speaks. Yes," she said clenching her fingers,
" every honest hand should hold a
whip to lash the rascal naked through the
world."

It would be a highly indecent spectacle,
my dear," said the vicar with a chuckle.

"I am speaking figuratively, Mr. Dodd."

'*0f course, my dear, of course. In the
meanwhile old Warrender is horribly angry,
as well he may be."

The ladies' little meeting now broke up.
Old Mrs. Wurzel hastened to the stationer's
to order a copy of The Sphere and all
the society papers, then, bursting with the
news, she proceeded to call upon the Misses
Sleek to tell her tale.

By midnight every soul in King's Warren
was in possession of the fact that George
Haggard's husband had fought a duel and
had killed his man.

The Misses Sleek did not hesitate to express

to each other when retiring for the
night their united opinion that Mrs. Haggard
was a very kicks girl.

''I always said he was a hero," said the
younger sister with a sigh, and then she
went to sleep to dream of him.

It is a moot question as to who can
claim the title of esquire. Now a-days
everybody is Mr., Mrs., or Miss. But Mrs.
Dodd was uncompromising ; in her mind
servants, labourers and criminals should
be addressed by their Christian and surname,
and no more. When she was unaware
of the name she was accustomed to
address all males by the epithet " man."
There is something very scathing, very exasperating
too, in being addressed in this
way. Had poor Hephzibah herself been
actually in the flesh at King's Warren,
Mrs. Dodd would, undoubtedly, have addressed
her as " girl ; " as it was she merely
adopted the Spartan mode which is used
by judges at a jail delivery. The tone of

the judgment, for we can hardly call it a
letter, will be best seen if given at length :

Hephzibah Wallis,

Your poor mother came to me in
great trouble yesterday bringing with her
the flippant, the almost indecent letter,
which you had thought proper to send
her. Little did I think, Hephzibah Wallis,
when I placed in your hands the beautiful
copy of the ' Dairyman's Daughter,' which
I had intended should be your guide
through life, and which you afterwards so
hypocritically informed me you frequently
perused, that I was patronizing a girl who
was about to rush headlong to her own
destruction. If I remember rightly, the
dairyman's daughter was a sickly person
like yourself, but she would never have
degraded herself by even hinting at an immoral
marriage with a foreigner ; nor would
she have ever dared to propose such an
abomination to her own mother as a marriage

which should be kept secret from
her mistress and from the wife of her
parochial clergyman. I shall not, then,
shrink, Hephzibah Wallis, from the duty of
warning you. Except among the upper
classes marriages with foreigners always
end in misery ; and it is extremely doubtful
whether such unions in the eyes of
heaven are marriages at all. I have repeatedly
pointed out to my girls at the
Sunday school, and to you among the
number, that no young woman in domestic
service should think of entering upon the
marriage state till she is past all work.
I was pained to see by your letter that
you have evidently hardened your heart,
and I am aware that the deaf adder will
not listen to the voice of the charmer,
charm he (or she) never so wisely. I know
that you are exposed to the dangerous
fascinations of a designing foreign manservant,
who, to use your own expression,
only addresses you in ' dictionary words ; '

no doubt such language is apt to turn the
head of any young woman. But let me
tell you, Hephzibah Wallis, that you will
have a far greater chance of happiness in
this world, and the next, as the wife of an
English deaf mute of high principle, than
you would have if married (even in the
unlikely contingency of such a marriage
turning out to be legal) to any foreigner,
however eloquent, who is of course, as all
such people are, wholly irreligious.

If this letter, as I trust it may, should
be the means of softening your heart and
so saving you from the ruin to which you
are evidently hastening, it will not have
been written in vain. I grudge no trouble
in the duty that Providence has forced
upon me of superintending the lives of any
of my girls. You of course are subject to
great temptations, but you must never forget
your duty to me and to your mistress,
particularly now that she (your unhappy
mistress) is, as I hear with pain and consternation,

the wife of a murderer. I trust
that you will frequently read this letter
when in doubt or temptation, and that it
may be the means of preserving you is the
earnest desire of

"Your well-wisher,

"Cecilia Dodd."

Mrs. Dodd posted her letter herself, and to
make assurance doubly sure she registered it.

When at lunch with her husband she
broke to him the fact that she had written
a letter " full of kind advice," as she
phrased it, " to that flighty creature, Goody
Wallis's daughter."

It's a troublesome and anxious duty, Mr.
Dodd," she said, " to look after them all ; but
I try to shield all my girls from possible
harm, and this one evidently meditated
making a fool of herself."

You are always judicious, my dear,"
said the vicar.

'this house and this parish would not

be what they are, Mr. Docld, were it not
for me."

"My love, I am fully sensible of my
great good fortune."

John," said the vicar's wife as soon as
they were alone, " one of us ought to write
to that poor thing."

What poor thing, my dear ? "

"I mean the squire's unhappy daughter,"
she said.

Good heavens, Cecilia, for goodness
sake, let her alone."

"Leave her alone in the hour of her
tribulation ! Mr. Dodd, is that your advice
as a clergyman, or is it your other entity,
the man of the world, who speaks ? "

"Common prudence, my dear, suggests
discretion."

"And who shall listen to the whisper
of prudence, when common duty speaks su
loudly, Mr. Dodd?"

My dear, ' too many cooks spoil the
broth,' is a homely saying."

A vulgar proverb, Mr. Dodd."

But full of wisdom, my dear, as are
most proverbs. I think there is another
culinary hint, too, that I remember, ' It is
good not to introduce one's finger into
one's neighbour's pie.' "

'rand is the murderer, then, to escape
with impunity, Mr. Dodd P Is he to have
at least no moral punishment ; is the indignant
finger of outraged society not to be
pointed at him ; is he with impunity to
go out to slay whomsoever he will ; and
is there to be no nemesis for such
as he?"

Oh, as much as you like, my dear ;
but there's no reason why you should personally
represent outraged society."

If I felt it a duty, Mr. Dodd, I should
certainly represent outraged society, and
Nemesis too, if I pleased."

Of course, my dear, of course, and doubtless
con amove!'

John ! " said the indignant wife.

But the vicar, having fired the last shot
in his locker, had fled.

Fortunately Mrs. Dodd's time for the
next fortnight was pretty well taken up.
What with visitors who came to her to
ascertain what they called the real truth;
what with answering the innumerable inquiries
of her large circle of acquaintance
on what was now getting to be knowji as
the "Haggard Scandal," Mrs. Dodd was
fully occupied. It was a happy thing for
George ; the young wife remained in
ignorance of her husband's escapade. She
was spared the threatened letter of advice
and admonition.

Not one word did old Warrender breathe
lo his daughter of the matter.

The details of the affair however, that is
to say of the actual meeting itself, were
pretty well known in town. General Pepper
had no cause for reticence. Men who had
barely nodded to him before, now amicably
grasped the warrior's hand, and asked him

to the most recherche dinners ; and his inevitable
description of the duel, at dessert,
usually formed the feature of the evening.
Cards of invitation from the most distinguished
personages rained down upon the
fortunate veteran in profusion. Report said
that he had even lunched with the .
His cronies at the Pandemonium
accused him of assuming an air
of habitual arrogance. Captain Spotstroke
swore that the general had cut him in St.
James's Street.

But in London the lives of chance lions
are short ; people began to forget the Haggard
duel and to cease to long for the presence
of General Pepper, Cab. Grosvenor Square
ceased to invite him to her banquets, though
he was still a welcome guest in the mansions
of Bays water and Maid Vale.

As for Lord Pit Town, he was of the
old school. He ascertained, from a reliable
source of information, that Haggard had
not been the aggressor. For a gentleman

to go out with another gentleman before
breakfast, to settle their mutual differences,
seemed to him the most natural thing in
life. The faithful Wolff too, as a graduate
of a German university, had been a fighter
of duels in his youth. Wrapped in the
bandages, the pads, the patrons, and the
guards customary on such occasions, he
and the other young fellows had pluckily
stood up to chop at each others' faces, on
what those enthusiasts were pleased to term
the field of honour. Their eternal occupation
in the new galleries soon caused Haggard
and his duel to be forgotten by both, and,
save in King's Warren parish itself, the
whole matter ceased to be remembered.

Perhaps the very last mention of the affair,
even there, was made by Miss Sleek, upon
a rather memorable occasion to her father.

The young ladies at " The Park," notwithstanding
their undeniable good looks
and good temper, had failed to find admirers,
at least eligible admirers, in King's Warren.

Over-dressed young men, generally beaux of
Capet Court, used to be brought down to
stay from Saturday till Monday, to beguile
the tedium of the girls' lives, by their indulgent
papa. But the golden youth of the
Stock Exchange found little favour in the
eyes of the Misses Sleek. Generally at the
second or third visit the gaily-clad young
men would propose to one sister or the
other, but both girls still remained heart-whole,
and their father was not over anxious
to lose them.

"My dears," said he one evening to his
daughters, " Dabbler's coming down tomorrow.
I do want you to be civil to Dabbler."

Now Dabbler was a widower ; he was not
of prepossessing appearance, and his h's
troubled him, but Dabbler was a warm
man. The Misses Sleek on hearing their
father's announcement looked at each other
in a meaning manner ; to do them justice,
perhaps because they had plenty of money
themselves, perhaps because they were both

rather romantically inclined, neither coveted
the honour of consoling the unhappy Dabbler
for his rather recent loss.

Of course we shall be civil, papa," said
the elder girl ; " we always are civil to
Mr. Dabbler."

The father smiled upon his dutiful children
and gave no further sign.

On the Saturday Mr. Dabbler arrived. He
was very attentive to both girls, neither
of whom showed any desire to monopolize
his society. On the Sunday afternoon the
conversation turned on the recent duel at
Eome. The ladies defended Haggard's conduct,
while Mr. Dabbler laughed at duels
and duellists, and stated his conviction that
that fellow Haggard deserved to be 'hung."
Whereupon both girls were highly indignant ;
they rapturously commended Haggard's
valiant behaviour. Unfortunate Dabbler,
now upon his mettle, declared that " should
he ever want satisfaction, his solicitor should
get it for him."

The girls retorted at once " that in their
eyes such a course was detestable, that they
could never even respect, much less like,
any one who professed such sentiments."

Dabbler, who had rather hesitated between
his partner's daughters, and who, in his own
mind, had decided that he had but to come,
to see and to conquer, was a man used to
arrive at determinations at once. From that
instant he made up his mind that neither
of the Misses Sleek would suitably fill the
vacant place at the head of his dining-table.

As the two men went to town on the
Monday by the fast morning train. Sleek,
as he unfolded his Times, turned with a
smile to his partner.

Well, Dab," he said, " which is the lucky
one ? "

"They won't 'ave me, my boy," replied
the other philosophically.

And why not, in the name of commonsense,

pray?" replied Its partner in some

astonishment.

VOL. II. 22

Because I'm not a Nero," returned
Dabbler with a sic^h.

What ? " said Sleek.

We will not continue this conversation,
Mr. Sleek," said Dabbler solemnly, and both
gentlemen buried themselves in their newspapers.


now THEY CAME HOME.

The Warren,

May 2nd, 18—.
My dear Child,

"Lucy's letter announcing the happy
event took me so much by surprise that I
could do little more than formally congratulate
you. As you say, I gave you no news
whatever ; to tell you the truth, there was
very little to give ; but, my dear child, you
will have to come home immediately and see
how the old man is o-ettino^ on for yourself.
The fact is that I have had a long letter
from my friend Pit Town, who is greatly
pleased and delighted at the birth of your
boy. He alludes, my dear, to the posse
likelier things have happened
of the little fellow some dav coming into

UBRWY — ^^

UNWERSnV OF Dunois

his title, and what will go with it — his
immense wealth. He suggests, as he delicately
puts it, that he should like to see the
little chap at once ; but, my dear, what he
really means is that the little Lucius should
be seen in the flesh. When you were
managing your little surprise for your husband
and me, my dear, you forgot that the
little stranger was the direct heir to an
earldom, and that though it is exceedingly
improbable that my grandchild will ever bea
peer, still stranger things have happened.
Baby should certainly be in evidence.

My old friend Pit Town has written me
quite an affectionate letter, and he has
succeeded in considerably altering my
ideas on the subject of what he calls your
husband's peccadillo at Eome. When I was
a young man, of course such things were
frequent occurrences ; but manners are
changed now. You will forgive me, my
dear, when I say that I think your husband
has already sown a sufficiently large crop

of wild oats. Let us hope his new responsibilities
will sober him ; I trust they may.
You will hear nothing more on this matter in
future, rest assured, nor shall 1 ever mention
it to your husband.

Pit Town thinks, and so do T, that you
had better come home at once. The old
man, my dear, has been very miserable
without you both for the last few months ;
and The Warren has not seemed the same
place since its young mistresses have been
away.

Lucy tells me to give you all the gossip.
You will be amused to hear that the vicar's
wife goes about declaring that I am on the
point of a marriage with Miss Hood. The
fact is, my dear, that I might have given
you a mother in the form of Miss Anastatia
Dodd, and I fear that, by the ladies at the
Vicarage, I am looked upon as a designing
old man. I need not tell you that I had
no idea of paying our dear old friend the
very poor compliment of making her an offer

of my heart and hand, but Mrs. Dodd will
have it that it is so, and as her husband
says, it's no use arguing with her. When we
meet, the vicar's wife greets me with a snort
of indignation. I fear that this is old wives'
talk. You will be glad to hear "

Here the letter ran off into home matters,
interesting enough perhaps to the girls, but
trifles which in no way concern this history.
The old man wound up by declaring his
intense desire to see both the cousins and
his " dear grandchild " as soon as possible.
He also gave an affectionate message from
Lord Pit Town asking them both to make
an indefinite stay at Walls End Castle.

Such was the letter from the old squire
that reached the ladies in their temporary
home upon the Swiss lake.

Somehow or other the maternal role,
which had been so suddenly thrown upon
Georgina, had become not ungrateful to her.
Perhaps she found some sort of consolation
in lavishing endearments upon the unconscious

infant, the little Lucius who lay asleep
upon her lap. As for his real mother, she
took very little notice of the child. Whether
it was pure heartlessness, or whether what
had been first policy had now become a sort
of second nature, it is difficult to say. Lucy
had begun by posing as the child's aunt, and
she played the part to the life. As for
George, probably the maternal instinct was
strongly developed in her ; it usually is in
women who are naturally affectionate ; perhaps
it began in pity, but it was very evident
now, both to her cousin and to Hephzibali
Wallis, that young Mrs. Haggard was excessively
fond of the little child of shame.
Suddenly placed in her extraordinary position,
separated from the father whom she loved
and the unworthy husband whom she idolized,
without a friend or confidant, subdued
by the master mind of her cousin, is it to
be wondered at that the ounce wife would
sit for hours nursing the unconscious cause
of all her woes ?

The cousins presented a remarkable contrast.
As for Lucy, the flush of health was
on her cheek, her eyes sparkled with the
triumph of her recent escape and her delight
at the success of her own machinations.
Her clear voice might be heard ringing
through the house as it trilled forth the little
French chansons of more than dubious propriety
that she loved so well.

Don't sulk, George," she would say, and
with a laugh she would place her hand on
her hip and imitating the gesture of Theresa,
then still in vogue, she would warble :

Je suis I'heureuse gardens de Tours."

Yes, you are a bear, George, and twice
as sulky." But George, paler than usual,
dark rings round her eyes, would lie flaccidly
in her lounge chair, the infant on her lap,
and decline to be galvanized even into
momentary life by her cousin's taunts or
innuendoes. There she would sit for hours
together, gazing into space, the silent victim
of another's fault. Why did she not rebel ?

Why did she not insist on informing her
husband at least of her cousin's lapse, of
her ignoble stratagem? Probably because
she was too conscientious. With some few
people truth-telling is a sort of religion, a
kind of Obi, a fetish ; so it was with young
Mrs. Haggard. She had promised, nay she
had sworn. A voice, more awful than that
of the Veiled Prophet, ever cried in her ear,
'thy oath, thy oath." Deception, so hateful
to her truthful soul, she was compelled
to carry on even against her trusting
husband. Many a time and oft had she
pleaded, with tears, to the remorseless girl
who looked so soft and yielding. But the
tender lines of Lucy's voluptuous figure
covered a marble heart.

Eeginald would never betray you, darling,"
she had said. " He would do anything
for my sake, for us and for this
poor little thing." Here her eyes filled
with tears as she kissed the unconscious
infant in her arms.

It's no use, George, you've promised,
and I shan't release you. You are a most
interesting younjy mother. You look the
part ; there is a sort of matronly dignity
about yon, George, that I could never hope
to attain. Don't plague me," she continued.
As for telling Eeginald or any soul alive,
I'd die first; and mind you I mean it, it's
no idle talk. If you ever should be so cruel
as to tell my secret, our secret — if you
should dare to tell it, even to hint it,
George" — and here the lovely eyes seemed
to scintillate with suppressed fury — " you
would bid good-bye to me, at all events in
this world," and then she would go olF into
a half hysterical laugh.

At first scenes such as these were frequent,
but George gradually ceased to plead. She
had reluctantly now accepted her position,
and recognized her cousin's determination
as immutable.

Lucy had read her uncle's letter aloud,
eagerly breaking the seal ; for her cousin

had drifted into a state of listless apathy,
a kind of dull indifference, from which even
a letter from her much-loved father failed
to rouse her. No look of interest, no
answering smile lit up her once bright
features as Lucy read the letter, interlarding
it, as was her way, with a running fire of
comment. When she came to the invitation
to the Castle she could not restrain the
exuberance of her delight, but clapped her
hands in girlish glee.

I see fresh triumphs, George," she said,
with my prophetic eye. You will complete
your subjugation of the old lord, and the
philosophic Dr. Wolff will certainly propose
to me. As for the heirs, they shall all sigh
in chorus, from Lord Hetton to your father
law. But it is you who ought to be
troubled b}^ the suitors, patient Penelope
that you are. I suppose uncle's letter must
be taken as a royal mandate, and that we
must leave here at once. I shan't be sorry
to leave tills place ; there have been no

sunny memories of foreign lands for us
here, have there, George ? " she said,
with some little show of affection, as she
placed her hand upon her cousin's shoulder.
But young Mrs. Haggard shrank from
her touch with an almost imperceptible
shudder.

Since Mr. Capt's mysterious departure
from the Villa Lambert things had not
gone on so pleasantly as under the reign
of that invaluable domestic. Lucy War-render
at least had missed the thousand
and one delicate attentions of the valet.
The various little appetizing kickshaws that
he was in the habit of concocting for the
delectation of his vounnf mistresses had disappeared.
The living rooms and the table
service no longer presented the attractive
appearance they had done under his superintendence.
But worst of all, Hephzibah
Wallis distinctly sulked ; no other word
will express the condition of that love-lorn
maid. Bereft of her admirer, her study

of that depressing masterpiece, " The Dairyman's
Daughter," became more intense ; her
very presence was a kind of blight as
she silently performed her duties in her
usual mechanical way. Never over strong,
the loss of her lover was painfully apparent
in Hephzibah's appearance : her muddy complexion
became almost ghastly in its sallowness,
and her pale lips grew almost colourless.
That the girl was ill was very evident,
but the fact did not seem to dawn upon Mrs.
Haggard, whilst Lucy Warrender, who was
in the habit of looking upon servants very
much as pieces of furniture which could be
replaced when worn out, troubled herself
very little about the matter.

Miss Warrender, now the master-spirit of
the establishment, did not hesitate. She
answered her uncle's letter announcing their
immediate departure for The Warren. As
she playfully put it : " We must hurry
home, uncle, or Miss Hood will devour you,
body and bones ; but we must travel by

easy stages as George seems not over strong,
and we must be careful with baby. As for
Hephzibali I have no patience with her ; but
people of her class are always helpless."

Two days afterwards they were on their
way home. Travelling is not such a very
fatiguing process after all. The ladies, the
baby and the maid had a compartment of
the sleeping car to themselves and journeyed
comfortably enough. They arrived safely at
their hotel in the Eue de la Paix, and then
Hephzibah Wallis broke down. Tired as she
was herself, George Haggard nursed her
like a sister ; all night long she sat by the
girl's bedside and watched the movements
of the pale lips, which seemed to be eternally
attempting to articulate, but though the lips
moved ceaselessly no sound came from them.
The maid's condition alarmed Mrs. Haggard ;
there was evidently something more than
mere fatigue ; great beads of perspiration
stood on the forehead, the hands were cold
as ice and seemed to pick irritably and aimlessly

at the coverlet. Gradually the fluttering
of the sick girl became louder.

George attempted to rouse her, but in
vain ; she placed her ear to her moving
lips.

'sit's no use, Maurice, you'll get nothing-out
of me." This was all she heard, and
it was evident to her mind that in her
delirium Hephzibah was holding an imaginary
conversation with her faithless lover.

All through the long weary night George
Haggard continued her watch by the bedside,
moistening the girl's lips with water and
wetting her burning forehead with Eau de
Cologne. In the next room Lucy Warrender
slept peacefully, and ever and anon her
cousin would enter to take an anxious glance
at the sleeping infant. The maternal instinct,
which had so strangely remained dormant
in the child's real mother, was abnormally
developed, as we have said, in George
Haggard. At dawn, as Mrs. Haggard turned
down the gas and admitted a little of the

cold, cruel, grey light of early morning, she
became thoroughly alarmed at the appearance
of her patient ; still the ever-restless
fingers continued to search for the invisible
crumbs, but they were colder now, and the
finger tips were almost blue. George
hurriedly rang the bell. After some time
a half-dressed chambermaid appeared. A
messenger was dispatched in haste to summon
a doctor. Lucy Warrender, very much
against the grain, had left her couch and,
head and shoulders muffled in a shawl, stood
gazing at the dying woman with contracted
brow. It was evident to both girls that a
terrible change had come over Hephzibah
Wallis ; the lips no longer moved, but where
strained tightly over the teeth, which were
painfully apparent ; while the breathing,
which though rapid had previously been
tranquil, was now harsh, extremely loud
and often interrupted.

And now a doctor hurriedly entered the
room. He was a dapper little Frenchman

and had arrived in evident haste. Bowing
to the ladies, he gave a perceptible start
when he perceived the appearance of his
patient. Taking his watch from his fob he
felt the poor girl's pulse. Then he shook
his head ominously. Placing a stethoscope
over the region of the heart, he listened fora
few seconds,

Madame," he said, " I can do nothing ;
she is beyond all human skill. Alas, I fear
that in a few moments she will pass away."

Even Lucy Warrender's hard heart was
filled with horror.

Can nothing be done, doctor ? can you
suggest no remedy ? is there really no hope
for her ? " said Mrs. Harvard.

CO

Alas ! no, madame, the mischief lias gone
too far ; it is an old case of heart disease.
Did she complain of ill health to you?"

"She has never been strong, doctor, and

she has had a great deal to trouble lier

lately," said Lucy.

Suddenly, while they were yet speaking,
VOL. u. 23

the face of the dying girl assumed a placid
expression ; the lips trembled convulsively
and then a happy smile gradually appeared.
The smile remained, the lips gently parted
and then the eyes slowly opened, but in
them there was no speculation, for Hephzibah
Wallis had ceased to breathe ; she had peacefully
passed away. The faithful girl was
gone, carrying with her the carefully guarded
secret of her young mistresses.

As the French doctor drew the sheet
over the dead girl's face, a ghastly smile,
almost of satisfaction, might have been seen
on Lucy's countenance. Both girls sobbed
bitterly ; but let us do Miss Warrender justice,
her tears were tears of genuine sorrow, but
her grief was tempered with a sort of awful
content, that now at least her secret was
buried in the solemn silence of the grave.

The next few days were passed in a sort
of melancholy bustle ; a letter had to be
written to break the painful news to the
poor old mother at King's Warren. Poor

Heplizibali was buried, her two young mistresses
folio win 2f their faithful servant to
the grave.

That night Lucy Warrender stole softly
into the empty room. With her own hands
Miss Warrender carefully went through all
the dead girl's little possessions, and she
removed every letter and paper to her own
room. Then she locked the door and carefully
scrutinized everything, but not one
scrap of writing did she find which compromised
either herself or her cousin in the
slightest degree. There were a few notes
which had been written to the girl by her
mistresses at odd times, and had been carefully
treasured by the abigail. There was
a little box of carved wood which contained
a photograph, . the likeness of the faithless
Capt. Lucy cast it into the flames, and from
the fire, as it turned and twisted like a
living thing, the face seemed to glare at
her menacingly. There was nothing more

save the letter from the vicar's wife. Lucy

23—2

perused it with a smile, and crushing it
into a ball lie tossed it into the fire.

Then she returned into the dead gill's
room and replaced all that remained. Taking
a glance at her sleeping cousin, whom her
proceedings had not disturbed, she herself
quietly retired to rest.

Next day the girls where busily employed.
From a crowd of applicants they had to
select a nurse for the little Lucius. Their
choice fell upon a handsome Norman peasant
woman dressed in the becoming, though
peculiar, costume of her race. She wore
the tall white cap of filmy cambric, ironed
in the elaborate manner with which weare
all familiar ; she wore too a massy pair
of gold ear-rings aud a heavy gold cross,
which indicated that her people were well-to-do.
Fanchette was evidently a paragon
of neatness ; no spot of dust could be seen
on her short dress of French merino, or on
the little woollen shawl pinned closely over
her shoulders. She spoke no word of English

and seemed rather taciturn ; the only
anxiety she manifested was as to the amount
of her remuneration. Her references were
undeniable. She was the picture of health,
a magnificent animal.

Probably what most recommended her to
the critical mind of Miss Warrender washer
impassive taciturnity.

Fanchette was installed at once. She expressed
her readiness to proceed to England,
informing the girls that all countries were
the same to her as she had no relatives and
her homme was serving in Algeria.

Nothing detained the party further in
Paris, and they prepared to start for King's
Warren the next day.

A letter from the Parsonage reached them
that evening; it was from Mrs. Dodd, the
vicar's wife.

King's Warren Parsonage.
"Dear Miss Warrender,

On receipt of your letter I hurried

over to Goody Wallis's cottage to break
to her the sad news of Hephzibah's death.
Strange to say it did not take her by
surprise ; she told me that the girl had
been ailing for several years. Of course
these things do not affect people of her
class to the same extent as educated persons ;
but it was plain enough that she was much
grieved. As you can suppose I did my
best to console her. I pointed out to the
poor old thing that her daughter had been
saved from the degradation of a marriage
with a foreign person ; strange to say, this
appeared to give her no comfort : she did
not seem so well disposed as usual to listen
to good advice. So I took my leave, lending
her a copy of Lawe's ' Serious Call.'

Your uncle is quite excited at your
approaching arrival, and is burning to seethe
little Lucius. I suppose, my dear, that
this very unusual name has been selected
out of compliment to you, but my husband
says that he is probably called after the

celebrated Irish baronet, the bead of the
Outrigger family.

"I cannot express to you, my dear, my
feelings of horror and indignation when I
heard of the awful occurrence at Eome.
Between ourselves I should think it would
be better for all parties, particularly for
his poor ill-used wife, if your brother-in-law
remained in America. Personally, I
regret to say that I shall never be able
to receive him again. I'm sorry to add
that my husband does not look upon the
matter in the same serious light, but he
was always frivolous, even for a clergyman.

I may tell you that you are both coming
back none too soon, for the squire, always
a weak-minded man, seems now to be quite
under the thumb of Miss Hood. That lady
does not hesitate now to give herself airs
to which I, for one, will never tamely submit
; and I hope your cousin will take
steps on her arrival to at once assert her
position.

With love to George and kind regards
from the vicar,

*'I am, dear Miss surrender,

Affectionately yours,

"Cecilia Dodd."

The next morning the sisters were driven
with Fanchette and the baby to the station
of the Northern Railway, and they left for
England by the tidal train.

THE RETURN OF THE WANDERER.

When George was ushered into the stateroom
at The Warren, though she was horribly
tired, she protested, but all to no
purpose.

It's no use, my dear ; the wheels of time
never go backwards. You will never be
George Warrender again, for she has developed
into a personage — Mrs. Haggard is
a personage of consideration." So said
Miss Hood as she welcomed George to the
quarters set apart for her, Fanchette and
the boy.

Summer is always enjoyable in a country
house, and probably it is only after an
extended absence from England that one
can thoroughly appreciate the delights of
English country life. To both girls the

change was pleasant, to Lucy especially ;
the Villa Lambert had been to her a very
punishment, for there had been no one to
talk to. But Lucy had found an ally, a mine
of information, a fund of amusement, an
appreciative audience all combined, in her
cousin's French bonne. Naturally the
foreigner looked upon England as a veritable
land of Egypt, a house of bondage ;
equally naturally, she determined to spoil
the Egyptians whenever she should have
the opportunity. Li her mind, as is the
case with all the working classes in France,
the English where objects of derision and
ridicule, as well as hereditary enemies.
Fanchette felt very much like a wolf turned
loose in a sheep-fold : the wolf cannot
foregather with the sheep ; and the animal's
delight may be fancied when it discovers
that one at least of the flock, under the
knowest and most innocent-looking of fleeces,
is, like herself, a wolf after all. Is it to be
wondered at, then, that Fanchette clung to

Miss Warrencler ? The pair thoroughly understood
each other. Every Frenchwoman at
heart is an intriguer, here again was a
similarity of tastes and pursuits.

No successor had as yet been appointed
to Hephzibah Wallis. The little Lucius, like
most infants of his tender age, passed the
greater portion of his day in sleep, and
Fanchette being an active person, willingly
devoted the large proportion of spare time
on her hands to Eeginald Haggard's wife.

It is hardly to be wondered at that old
Squire Warrender, who idolized his daughter,
should make a fool of himself over the little
Lucius. He even brushed up his archaic
French for the sake of inquiring directly
after the child's health from Fanchette.
But Fanchette was only Fanchette to the
two girls and the squire ; to the rest of the
inhabitants of The Warren she soon became
Mamzell ; " this brevet, or to be more correct,
local rank, she first earned by her
own personal heroism. Johnny Chubb, the

oldest of The Warren coachman's boys,
was detected by the bonne in a series of
hideous grimaces. She promptly seized
Johnny by the ear. Johnny's ears were
large, projecting, and of a healthy crimson.
As she twisted his great red ear, the
agonized cries of Johnny became heartrending.
"Demand of me, then, pardon, little
cancer," cried the indignant bonne in her
native idiom. " Say, I pray you to pardon
me. Mademoiselle Fanchette."

But Johnny only screamed the louder, for
Johnny did not understand French, and
Johnny was in pain. Fancliette, being a
determined Frenchwoman, went on with the
twisting ; like Sir Eeginald Hugh de Bray
she certainly would have twisted it on till
she twisted it off; in vain did Johnny, in
his ineffectual struggles, turn head over
heels more than once ; the relentless Frenchwoman
never let go his soft and ruddy ear.
She continued her injunctions to the boy,
addressing him in many of the choicest

flowers of abuse with which her language
abounds, that he should beg mademoiselle's
pardon. He did so at last, for even the
endurance of a British boy breaks down at
the idea of losing an ear.

I begs yer pardon, Mamzell," he said
sulkily, as he clapped his hand to the injured
member, to assure himself that it was
still attached to his head.

From that day Fanchette ceased to be
French " to Johnny, she became " Mam-sell."
At first, as a joke, the Warren
servants gave her the title derisively ; from
them it spread to the villagers, and gradually
all Kinfy's Warren called her " Mamzell "
in sober earnest.

The atmosphere of home, the healthy
English air, and above all the quiet and
regularity of the life at The Warren, combined
with the hope of the approaching
return of her husband, all had a beneficial
effect on George Haggard's physical health.
Her lost colour gradually began to return.

]her step regained some what of its former elasticity,
but she courted solitude, and seldom
spoke. It was with difficulty she couhl be
persuaded to go outside the grounds. Even
the gossip of the vicar's wife, or the genial
chat of the vicar himself, failed to interest
her. The change was apparent to everybody.
But King's Warren opinion was
generally formed by the active mind of
Mrs. Dodd. Mrs. Dodd had decided that
the poor thing was fretting for her husband;
she considered that Mrs. Haggard deserved
her sympathy, and so King's Warren looked
on Mrs. Haggard as a " poor thing," and
duly sympathized. Old Warrender himself
became gradually less anxious, and accepted
the general verdict.

Weeks rolled into months. The sale of estates,
even in Mexico, ends at last. Haggard,
who had returned to the capital, found the
weather getting unpleasantly hot ; there was
nothing further to detain him, and he
vouchsafed to announce his return to the

wife of this bosom. Strange to say, to the
astonishment of all but Lucy, young Mrs.
Haggard continued to " fret."

In that same rose garden, on the very
bench on which lie had sat awaiting
Eeginald's arrival on that momentous morning
when she had consented to be his wife,
Georgina now sat once more, but not
alone. By her side was the tonne, and
upon the bonne's lap, wrapped in tranquil
slumbers, lay the little Lucius. The young
wife sat gazing at the infant, and as she
sat she tried hard to come to a decision
upon the course she should pursue. On
the one side lay the path of duty. Should
she make a clean breast of the matter?
should she take her husband into
her confidence ? Should she ask him to
give his name to the child of her cousin's
shame ? Or if she did so, could she fora
moment suppose that he would for one
instant listen to so monstrous a proposition?
Of course there was her duty to

be considered, her duty towards lier husband,
her duty towards her cousin ; of
what she owed herself she thought but
little. But then she had sworn, and to some
people, and George was one of these, an
oath remains ever binding. She felt herself
securely caught, bound hand and foot
in the net of intrigue, the meshes of
which were so skilfully woven by her
cousin's treacherous hands. Her mouth
was sealed. Could she look forward with
any pleasure to her husband's return? could
it cause her aught but apprehension and
a deaths fear that she, an innocent woman,
was to pass the rest of her life in guarding
a horrible secret, not her own, and in
betraying her husband's confidence? But
she had given her word; keep it she must,
at whatever cost.

How different had been her feelings on
that well-remembered day, as she sat alone,
in maiden meditation, and awaited her
would-be lover's advent. Then there had

been no anxiety in lier anticipations of
their meeting. It was very different now.
A dreadful terror filled lier heart ; the fear
of nameless horrors caused her hands to
become cold and clammy. Should she
appeal to his generosity ? should she make
an end of the whole ghastly story ? If
she could only nerve herself to do so, that
was the one way out of the maze of
doubt, the sole possible road to George's
future happiness. What right had Lucy
to wreck her life ? Hers was the sin ; on
her head let it be visited. But George
felt that she had gone too far already ; the
first step, that dangerous first step, in the
path of deception had been unhappily
taken. In her natural anxiety to shield
her cousin she had yielded to her imperious
demands. She lead entered upon
the lane of trickery, in which there is no
turning back. She felt herself but a ship
on a sea of troubles, whose helm was guided

by that experienced sailor, lier cousin Lucy.
VOL. II. 24

The little Lucius, the helpless centre of
all the dark intrigue, clad in his garments
of needlework, slept the sleep of innocence
upon Fanchette's lap. Most women having
so much cause would have hated the child,
but to hate was not in George Haggard's
affectionate nature.

The sleepy mid-day silence of the rose
garden was broken by the sound of wheels,
but no flush of pleasure reddened George's
cheek as she heard the bustle of her
husband's arrival.

Just as once before bio' Reginald Hao^-

o o o

gard strode down the gravel walk, so once
more George now saw him advancing in
the blaze of sunlight, but not alone. With
him walked Lier father, with a cheerful
face, while on his arm hung the lighthearted
Lucy, all smiles and happy blushes,
her ringing musical laugh joyously heralding
his advent.

But Haggard seemed to have no eyes
for any one but George ; his face wreathed

ill siiiiies, lie hurriedly advanced to greet
her, and then for an instant nature triumphed.
George burst into tears, and
rushing: into his arms, husband and wife
There locked in a long embrace. But the
momentary oblivion of her trouble ceased
when George left her husband's arms and
caught her cousin's eye.

Lucy's finger was pressed to her Kps.
What the gesture meant young Mrs. Haggard
knew only too well.

If you don't moderate your transports
you will commit the unpardonable crime,
Reginald, for you will wake the baby,"
said Lucy.

It was too late. The child, with a gentle
sigh, opened his eyes and stared around
him. But Haggard, absorbed 1 in his first
meeting with his wife, did not seem to
observe him. Lucy snatched up the little
bundle of lace and embroideries, and exhibited
him triumphantly.

"Have you no eyes, Eeginald?" lie cried.

24—2

Pray reserve some, at least, of your transports
for the object of universal adoration."

As Haggard gazed on the pair he thought
they made a pretty picture, with their
background of foliage.

So that's the little chap," he said
carelessly.

"And is that all you have to say to
Mm ? " cried Lucy. '' Ko wonder you make
him cry, Reginald," for the child, at the
sight of a stranger, had burst into a succession
of sturdy yells, which, at all events,
showed the strength of his lungs.

But even when a man is confronted for
the first time with his firstborn, he probably
does not manifest the amount of
interest which is expected by the female
mind. The little Lucius was speedily consigned
to his nurse's arms ; she disappeared
with him down a shady walk, carefully
protecting, as is the way with French
nurses, the child's complexion and her own
by means of a big sunshade.

Come, uncle," said Lucy. " We have
to prepare the roast veal to celebrate
the prodigal's return. Besides, George
and Eeginald must have hundreds of things
to tell each other ; 2U(3 shall only be treated
to the second edition of a gentleman's
travels in America. I suppose the first
will be for private circulation only. I
fear George won't have much to say in
return, for our dull life at the chateau
will have little to interest a man." This
was said trippingly upon the tongue, but
it was said with intention, and the look
which accompanied it caused poor Mrs.
Haggard to drop her eyes, while a slight
flush suffused her cheeks.

Two can't play gooseberry, you know,
uncle ; it is a rule that, like the daisy-picked's,
cannot be divided."

Old Warrender rose with a smile, and
Luc}^ dropped the pair a profound courtesy.

"Farewell, Stephen. Good-bye, Chloe.
You would both make a pretty picture in

sylvan costume, but in your nineteenth
century clothes you look terribly prosaic."

Lovers still tlioiigh, I think, my dear ;
lovers still, please God," muttered the old
man, as he gave his arm to Lucy.

The pair were left alone.

Were this history mere fable Eeginald
would at once have proceeded to possess
himself of his pretty wife's unresisting hand ;
he would have pressed it to his lips with
rapture. What he really did was to take
his case from his pocket, provide himself
with a large and uncommonly fullflavoured
cigar, which he lighted with much care and
deliberation.

You must have found it beastly dull at
that hole, George," he remarked at length ;
how on earth did you get through your
time ? "

Should she tell him? Could she tell
him how she had got through that terrible
time ? Her honest nature urged her toit
; but George's love for Haggard, deep

as it was, was not untinged with fear.
Her gentler spirit was dominated by Lucy's
strong will. Her intense respect for her
promise, the promise snatched from her
in the moment of her excitement and
tribulation, quelled the impulse.

Of course it was dull without you,
Reginald. But you, at all events, have
enjoyed yourself. How brown you've got,"
she said, gazing up at him with her old
look of girlish rapture.

The look did it. Woman's admiration
was ever meat and drink to bii^ Eecrinald
Haggard, particularly the admiration of a
pretty woman. ]sow George was a very
pretty woman. Accustomed as he was to
open appreciation 1jy the sex, it never
seemed to pall on him. Though most
men expect it, or at least the semblance
of it, as a sort of right from their wives,
and consequently cease to value it, yet
Haggard, not having seen George for
many months, was evidently pleased.

Yes, we had plenty of sun out there,"
he said, as he passed his hand meditatively
over his shaven chin. " It was hot, beastly
hot. But they weren't a bad lot out there,
you know," and then he went off into a
long description.

Nothing pleases a man better than to
talk to his own wife about himself, except,
perhaps, when privileged to enlarge upon
the same delightful subject to somebody
else's wife. So Haggard ran on ; but even
personal experiences must have an ending,
and Haggard, at the height of good humour,
condescended to compliment his wife upon
the little Lucius.

Capital little chap that, Goorgie,"' he
said. " Howled awfully when he saw me.
I suppose they all do, though ? "

Geordie's heart beat like a sledge-hammer
at the heedless remark. Should she tell
him at once, or finally make up her mind
to pass the rest of her life as a cheat,
and the accomplice of that arch-cheat, her

cousin ? Alas ! for her, her impulse was
smothered by what she considered her duty
to Lucy.

She laughed a little hollow laugh — a poor
little, weak, stage giggle. " I fancy he's
much like other children," she said ; " they
always do cry when they see a stranger."

"Let's have a good look at him, old girl,"
said her husband with a smile.

Young Mrs. Haggard called the boime, who
advanced at the summons, her coarse, but
handsome, peasant features lighted by a
smile.

The proprieties must be observed even in
the presence of a bonne, and Haggard's
hand, which had somehow stolen round his
wife's waist, now discreetly sought the shelter
of his coat pocket.

Monstrous fine creature, by Jove ! " said
the husband, as he emitted a vast cloud of
smoke.

This appreciative remark did evidently not
refer to the baby. Many wives would have

resented this openly expressed tribute to
Mademoiselle Fancliette's personal attractions,
but George was neither surprised nor
disgusted. She was accustomed to her husband's
ways ; often and often, on their
marriage trip, had her Eeginald drawn her
attention to the real or supposed charms of
other women. It was a way he had. He
didn't admire scenery ; he hated pictures ;
architecture, and especially ruins, were to
him abominations. But he did admire the
sex. The pegs on which he hung his
memory were pretty faces and pretty
figures. He would refer to events and
places in an original way of his own, as,
The day we met that cardinal's niece with
the eyes," or, "Where we saw the American
girl with the hair." At first, in their married
life, these remarks had a sort of sting
in them, but at last George had come to
regard them as a sort of proof of the big-man's
affection. She felt that they were a
sign of confidence, that she was endeared to

him by the far higher the of comradeship,
that she was, in fact, what in his lan^uao'e
lie would dignify by the appellation of his
'chum."

Fanchette dropped a courtesy. Fancliette
continued to beam, for Fanchette saw that
she was appreciated by Monsieur. In fact,
the appreciation was mutual ; and Fanchette
compared her new master, and not unfavourably,
either, with the proverbial pomjner
of her native country.

There is a class of men ever ready to
chatter with servants, particularly if they
are of prepossessing appearance. To this
'.'lass Mrs. Ha2fo-ard's husband belong-ed. He
would have been delighted to compliment
the bonne, but, alas ! his linguistic powers
failed him. He rose, however, to his feet,
and, with true British pluck, employed the
few words of Anglo-French he knew ; these
he accompanied with appropriate pantomime.

^'Enfant,'' he said, pointing to the child.
Man'' he continued, indicating himself.

Man enfant'' he triumphantly added, with
an air of jubilant proprietorship.

Mais assuremejit, monsieur ! " cried the
bonne, and then she went off into a flood
of mingled praise of the infant, of her mistress,
of her new master, and of herself.
The child, whose eyes were open, was held
aloft in triumph, and he stared at Haggard
with a wondering gaze.

Haggard clapped his hands at the child
in undisguised pleasure.

As George sat upon the bench she wistfully
watched the little drama, and gradually
the old look of terror, which seemed to have
left her in the excitement of her husband's
return, came back to her face. The decision
the fatal decision — she felt was now irrevocable.
From that moment she knew that
her life was to be passed in the carrying
out of Lucy's plot. There could be no
drawing back now. As she thought of all
this, the colour left her face, and the strength
her limbs.

The sharp eye of the bonne saw that she
was almost fainting.

Monsieur, madame se trite mal ! " she
exclaimed, distracting the husband's attention
from the infant and herself.

What's amiss, George," he cried. " You
are not ill, dear ? " he said with unusual
solicitude.

But George declared that it was nothing.
I think the heat upsets me," she said with
an effort.

Just then the clash of the luncheon bell
was heard, and Haggard gave his wife his
arm. She leaning heavily on it, the pair
slowly proceeded towards the house, followed
by the bonne, solacing the infant with the
rather inappropriate strain of :

Rien n'est sacre pour un sapeur — b<5be.
Non, lien n'est sacred pour un faster."

THE MISSES SLEEK DROP IN.

It was certainly a great deal to Haggard's
credit that he remained tranquilly at The
Warren for the space of three whole weeks.
It was the London season — just that time of
year when flat-racing was at its height ; and
at all the great meetings the Pandemonium
set was conspicuous. It might have been
that he really liked his wife's society, and
that he found that the only way of getting
her all to himself was, as he was pleased to
call it, to bury himself alive at King's Warren.
It has been said before that Haggard objected
to the role of Beauty's Husband, but he had
found that in town it was willy-nilly forced
upon him. He felt it trying that the instant
George showed herself in their box at the
play, the glasses of all the somebodies and

half the nobodies would be immediately
levelled at her. Haggard was by no means
a jealous man. He was one of those who
thoroughly enjoy being a " popper-in '' at
the boxes of friends where beauty sits triumphant.
He had admired and rather laughed
at the stoical philosophy of some of his
married friends, who were accustomed to
calmly go off to enjoy their brandies and
sodas, under such circumstances, leaving
their wives the centre of a little circle of
admirers — a circle of which he himself was
often a prominent ornament. But, though
not a jealous man, he considered it wise,
when at the play, to be particularly attentive
to George. Haggard believed in sheep
dogs to a certain extent, but he believed
still more in the actual presence of the
shepherd himself. But his experiences of
the last London season as a married man
had convinced him that the life of Corydon,
particularly at the play, was not an existence
of unalloyed Ijliss. To ]\[rs. 

and her smart set, Haofg^ard's devotion
to his wife was particularly touching : in
vain would they beckon him, or point to a
vacant seat at their sides, with their fans ;
like Love's Sentinel, sweet was the watch
he kept, but, to tell the truth, it bored
him horribly.

It is undoubtedly pleasing to a man to
find that his choice is appreciated b}^ all
his friends, but it is rather trying to a
married man when he leaves his wife, even
for a few moments, at a garden party, or
the inclosure of a race-course, on his return
to always find her, by no fault of her own,
be it remembered, surrounded by a rapidly-increasing
throng of enthusiastic admirers.
So Haggard resigned himself, with considerable
philosophy, to the innocent delights
of country life and the dulness of King's
Warren.

At all events, it had the refreshing charm
of novelty : there was the fishing, and the
King's Warren trout stream was a good one.

Before he had filled his creel at the pretty
stream that artists used to come to paint, tli '
girls woidd come down to count the spoil
and walk with him through the cool lane, to
conduct this most fortunate of men back to the
squire's well-supplied breakfast table. Then
the model husband would pass the morning ina
lounij^e chair in the shadiest corner of the
rose o-arden, with a bios cisfar in his mouth,
contemplating with lazy satisfaction his prize
baby and his handsome wife, while the fair-haired
Lucy would swing in the Mexican
hammock he had brought her as a souvenir of
his American experiences, gaily singing her
little scraps of rather risky French songs,
which, though he did not understand them,
always amused him. The little songs, too,,
appeared to give intense delight to Mademoiselle
Fanchette ; that muscular specimen
of womanhood would shake with inward
laughter, and fluently compliment her younger
mistress. "Ah!" she would say, "if mademoiselle
had only been a poor girl, wluat a

VOL. II. 2o

position ! all Paris would be at the feet of the
beautiful miss. Why', the cafe-concerts would
be struggling to possess her. Ah, what an
enviable position ! "

Stimulated by this honest praise, Lucy
Warrender would delight her little audience
with " La Venus aux Gazettes," or some other
well-known ditty of a similar nature. Old
Warrender would lean on his daisy-spud a
pleased spectator of the Arcadian scene. It
delighted him to observe Haggard's suddenly
awakened delight in the simple pleasures of
country life, and the old gentleman's admiration
of Monsieur, Madame and Bee was unbounded.


The afternoons were enlivened by the unceremonious
dropping in of sympathetic visitors ;
the Reverend John Dodd and Ins wife were
welcome guests, and tea in the garden became
quite a function.

It was a standing rule at The Warren thai
Thursday afternoon was a sort of special day.
On Thursdays it was the custom to turn up at

the squire's garden for afternoon tea. The
men were always in a minority, for most of
the gilded youth of King's Warren were of
too timid a nature to put in an appearance.
Occasionally young Mr. Wurzel, dragged
thither by his bride-elect, the sentimental Miss
Grains, would come, but he felt like a fish out
of water, seldom opened his mouth, and passed
most of his time in gazing, with respectful
admiration, upon Miss Lucy Warrender ; an
annoying fact which did not escape the observation
of his mother's sharp old eyes, and
which caused considerable indignation in the
troubled breast of the brewer's daughter. The
vicar's curate was, of course, a standing dish ;
other curates from adjacent parishes, too,
would appear and disappear, but they met
with little encouragement, for Miss Warrender
didn't affect a liking for parsons. Even the
short sifyh ted Ili^h-church deacon from the
next parish, who spoke of himself as a
"Celibate," and 'avowed to heaven" and

habitually got himself up to resemble a Woman

25—2

Catholic priest, failed to move lier worldly
little heart ; the Eeverend Copley Porter
would have been more in her line, mild curates
were not at all in her way. The Misses Sleek,
too, freely availed themselves of their entree
to The Warren, and those young ladies were
ever on their bast behaviour. They were not
baddooking girls, and though both rather fast,
while at The Warren they affected a demure
primness which made them not unattractive.
They patiently submitted to the continual
snubbing of the vicar's wife, and to the little
sarcasms with which they were occasionally
favoured by Miss Warrender. They humbled
themselves in dust and ashes to Miss Hood,
and seldom made any reference to that
patient money-grubber, their papa. With
effusive affection they always addressed the
squire as " dear Mr. Warrender," and sought
favour in George Haggard's eyes by an
ecstatic worship of the little Lucius.

Don't you think you could manage it for
us, Miss Quod ? It's not a formal affair, and

we are so anxious it should be a success. We
shall have none but nice people, and it is so
terribly dull at The Park : we shall only allow
pa to ask three of his friends, and they are
quite old gentlemen. I really couldn't ask
dear Mr. Warrender myself, nor could Connie,
and we are both terribly afraid of Lucy."
So spoke the elder Miss Sleek in appealing
tones.

Do help us, Miss Hood," chimed in the
vounorer sister.

My dear, I don't see why you should
be afraid of Miss Warrender," said good-natured
Miss Hood, giving that young lady
her full title.

Oh but, dear Miss Hood, she always laughs
at us ; only just now she inquired after that
poor afflicted Mr. Dabbler. I knew she was
laughing at us, and so did Connie, and then
she said something dreadful in French about
an ass and two bundles of hay ; I'm sure we're
not like bundles of hay," said the girl with
an indignant sob. " Bat we neither mind a

joke from clear Miss War render, do we,
Connie ? "

But we should be such a party, my dears."

Oh, that would only make it more delightful,"
cried the girl with triumphant eyes, as
she noticed the slight indication of capitulation
in Miss Hood's voice. "We're neighbours
after all, you know, and hay making too ; why,
the squire goes to Mr. Wurzel's harvest home.
Nothing but the hay making, and a little
dance afterwards ; oh, we should be so grateful."


What's that about a little dance ? " cried
George's husband with unaffected interest.

Oh, Mr. Haggard, it's nothing ; it's only an
idea of pa's ; it's our hay making, you know,
and we've been asking Miss Hood if The
Warren won't honour us for once in a way''

Both girls fixed their eyes appealingly on
Hafycrard's face.

oo

The squire's son-in-law was quite aware
that the wealthy Mr. Sleek was a parvenu.
He knew that old Warrendcr would no more

dine at The Park than he would think of
attending the services of the Dissenting
minister ; but he himself was ahead beginning
to feel rather hipped with the novelty
of his quiet life at The Warren.

Come, my dear Miss Sleek ? of course we'll
come. George," he said to his wife, " Miss
Sleek is brood enough to ask us to her father's
place. We'll be only too glad, of course."

With George to yield to her husband's
slightest wish was a second nature.

"Certainly, Eeginald, if you wish it. I shall
be very pleased," she added, though with an
effort.

"It'll be great fun, I'm sure," exclaimed
Haggard ; " but you'll have mercy. Miss Sleek :
you won't work us so hard at the haymaking
as to knock us up for the promised dance,
and you'll keep one little dance for me, won't
you ? " he added with cool familiarity.

The girl's face reddened with pleasure as
she acquiesced with effusion. And as she
thought of the glowing description in the local

paper of the forthcoming festivities at The
Park, her eyes sparkled with the anticipation
of triumph. It would be an epoch in her
life to have danced with a peer's great-nephew,
wdtJi the husband of one of the reigning
queens of society. But fresh joys were yet
in store for the Misses Sleek.

You'll let me bring my friend Spunyarn,
won't sou ? " said Haggard ; " he's coming
down tomorrow."

Oh, we shall be delighted," chorused the
girls, " for we are woefully short of men down
here at King's Warren."

The babble of conversation increased.
Next morning each member of the group on
The Warren lawn had received an elaborate
copper-plate invitation to the Misses Sleek's
hay making, and the small and early dance
that was to follow it.

The Misses Sleek carried their point ;
had there been a Mrs. Warrender, their
success would have been more than doubtful.
Old Warrender himself cared for none

of these things ; Miss Hood had protested
officially, but found herself very much in
the position of the unfortunate member who
alone protests once a year, as a sort of duty
to his constituents, against the sum voted
by Parliament to royal princes or princesses
on their marriage. Haggard and Lucy evidently
looked forward to the hay making asa
relief to the monotony of their existence ;
as for George, hers was the simple religion
of Ruth, " Whither thou goes I will go,
thy people shall be my people."

One must be neighbourly, you know,"
said the squire, " in a place like this. For
my own part, I see no difference now a- days
between the man dio makes his money in
business and the landowner. I'm sure I
don t know what Dodd would do without
the Seeks ; he's always ready with a cheque,
and the girls seem almost unobjectionable."

What a curious fact it is, that in the
eyes of all old men girls are always unobjectionable.
Probably from their very age

they look upon even the hoydens, the
mannit^h," and the fast merely as big and
rather naughty children ; therefore, all the
more interesting. Let a girl be thoroughly
detested by her own sex — and to be
thoroughly detested b}^ her own sex she
must at least be tolerably' good-looking —
she is certain to be the delight of all the

o

old gentlemen of her circle.

Haggard was in a particularly good
humour, for he was hourly expecting the
arrival of his nidus Achates, Lord Spunyarn.
He was impatient to hear all the talk, the
gossip and the scandal, which he had missed
during his prolonged absence from the Pandemonium
Club. Though they don't acknowledge
it, sour average club man is as
great a scandalmonger and gossip as any
village crone ; but being by nature more
cautious than are women, they hardly ever
commit themselves upon paper. A yarn is
told by A to B, as a yarn ; B tells it to C,
as a rumour he has heard ; C gives it a tail,

and imparts it under the seal of secrecy to
D ; over the whist table, E, F, and G get hold
of it, like the rolling snow-ball, considerably
increased in magnitude ; sly H overhears it
and gives it at once into a society journal,
where it becomes public property ; perhaps
it may even result in an action for libel. Let
the galled jade wince, our withers are un-wrung.
Besides, perhaps Haggard was a
little nervous as to his reception ; since he
was last at the Pandemonium he had killed
a man, not that that fact troubled his conscience
in any way. Now-a-days a gambler
is by no means an outcast at a smart club,
particularly the lucky man ; for he is placed
on a sort of moral pedestal by his less
successful rivals. Still the Lamb episode
was not forgotten at the Pandemonium, and
this, coupled with the ailair of poor Barbiche,
caused George's husband to rather dread
the cold shoulder. The presence of Spun-yarn
too would certainly be a break in the
monotony of the life at The Warren.

Haggard drove over some five miles on that
hot summer day about noon, in the squire's
well-appointed dog-cart, to meet his friend
Lord Spunyarn, and it was with unaffected
pleasure that he shook hands with him upon
the platform of the little station. Had they
been Frenchmen, they would have rushed
into each other's arms and saluted mutually
on either cheek. As it was, they merely
smiled and nodded, with a mutual, " How
are you, old man ? " and a careless inquiry
from Lord Spunyarn as to the health of
your people " followed as a matter of
course. During the five-and-twenty minutes'
sharp drive home, they talked of the heat,
the crops and the fishing ; for the squire's
smart groom rendered anything but general
conversation impossible : the bay mare, too,
was full of oats, and a puller.

Lord Spunyarn was a welcome guest to
everybody ; the whole party came out to
meet him at the door, and with rural hospitality
a substantial meal was quickly placed

before him. The cool of the afternoon was
got through by means of the inevitable
croquet ; in those days croquet was inevitable
wherever there were ladies and a
lawn. At The Warren both ladies and lawn
were particularly attractive ; the ubiquitous
curate was conspicuous by his absence ; there
was a little play, a good deal of small talk,
and as usual, Lord Spunyarn was particularly
attentive to Lucy Warrender. Xow-a-days
it is the fashion for the youth of England
to leave the spinsters out in the cold, and
to affect the society of the more attractive
among the married ladies only. But Spun-yarn
was no lady-killer, and if he had been,
there was a certain air about Geordie Haggard,
a kind of notice to trespassers, that
would have warned off the most determined
poacher. His lordship at once resumed ibis
old position of everybody's friend ; he chatted
with the cousins, he talked politics with old
Warrender, he complimented the head gardener
; and when Lucy Warrender, assuming

a pensive air, iiir|uired if he had no secrets
to tell her, he calmly replied :

"There is nothing new, I think, Miss
Warrender ; nothing new, at least, to you ;
yours as ever, you know, till death," he
added with a little laugh.

True knight," she cried, " ever faithful
? "

To you, and to your cousin," lie added
with a little Low.

Why, you don't even offer me an undivided
affection," said the girl. " I suppose
you are reserving yourself for the high jinks
at The Park, Lord Spunyarn," she said.
Connie Sleek's a pretty girl, you know,
and there are piles of untold gold, but in
your case, though, that isn't an inducement."


Tm too great a snob myself, dear Miss
Warrender, at least, by birth, as you know,
ever to fall a victim to a financial belle."

Poor Connie Sleek, if she could only
hear you. Depend upon it the dreams of

both sisters last night were disturbed by
visions of possible promotion. They couldn't
restrain their raptures when they learnt that
they were to entertain a lord, a real live
lord, you know. But you are not to turn
their heads, Lord Spunyarn ; respect the
innocence of our simple village maidens."

'• It is that simple village innocence. Miss
AVarrendcr, which in your case lias caused
me to sigh so long in vain''

Thanks," she said with a low courtesy,
'• the most sincere compliments are always
the most grateful. A propos de rien, how
did you leave Mrs. Charmington, Lord Spun-yarn?"


On the wane, decidedly on the wane.
I think she weill soon be a monarch retiring
from business. Your cousin and you extinguished
her effectually. There's a little
Portuguese Jew, a financial light ; he has
ducats and a daughter : the ducats are undeniable
; the daughter is all eyes, hair and
diamonds ; she is the last startling novelty

of the season, and under royal patronage.
There's only one chance for the Charmington
to keep herself before the public : she should
try the stage. God knows she has brass
enough."

You are all the same, Lord Spunyarn ;
when we cease to please you laugh at us.
I suppose you'll be soon recommending me
to try the stage."

Oh, no. Miss War render. You are far
too genuine, far too sincere."

Here the conversation was broken off by
the exigencies of the game.

The two young men sat smoking late into
the night. Haggard narrated his American
experience, cursed the dilatoriness of lawyers
and land agents ; told of his feats by flood
and field ; praised the hospitality of the
natives, the horses and the half-castes ; but
he didn't say much of Mademoiselle de
Bondi, of the Mexico Opera House. And
then they talked about the Pandemonium,
and Haggard heard with pleasure that his

numerous club acquaintances would be delighted
to see him.

'• Not quite so pleased, 1 fancy, when they
know I have forsworn the pasteboard.
That Lamb affair was a scorcher. Besides,
Shirtings, you know — I may say it to you
without swagger — I find now I've made my
pile that it's too big to risk, so I mean to
set up as a fogey, and to confine myself
to whist at pound points."

Poor old paterfamilias," exclaimed the
sympathizing friend with genuine feeling.
I know, port wine, a J.P.-ship, with a
lord-lieu tenancy and the gout looming in
the distant future."

Haggard gave a groan. " I suppose it'll
come to that," said he.

How are the old man and the pigs ?
Jolly as usual, eh ? "

Well, the pigs are flourishing, but the

governor's out of sorts ; he speaks thick, and

his handwriting's getting rather groggy ; the

poor old chap may go off at any moment."
VOL. n. 26

There was a short silence.

Are you going to speculate yourself,
Shirtings? If you were one of the impecunious,
there'd be a chance for you tomorrow.
Two queens of the snobocracy
will entertain us at romping in the hay,
with Sir Eager de Coverley to follow. From
all I hear it is a land flowing with milk and
honey. The people themselves are rather
dreadful, but for my own part, after three
weeks of enforced tranquility, seeing no one
but the old boy, my wife and her cousin,
I am in a state of mind that is prepared
to be grateful for the smallest mercies. My
dear fellow, I positively look forward to it.
Another week of the existence I have been
leading here, and I verily believe that I
shall yearn to dance with my own wife."

Or even her pretty cousin," chimed in
Lord Spunyarn.

But Haggard took no notice of the observation.
He chuckled, still tickled with the
idea of the absurdity of dancing with George.

And is Lucy, as of old, to be honoured
with your attentions, Shirtings ? " said
Haggard, who was amusing himself by
blowing circles of smoke into the air.

Between ourselves, my boy, I've
thought better of it. I shall remain a
respectful admirer, of course ; but I don't
think the lady would go well in double
harness. If I were a devilish good-looking
fellow as you are, my boy, I might try it ;
but I fancy Miss Lucy would prove a
handful for any fellow, and I have no
ambition to play Jack Charmington's
part in a sort of perpetual Palais Eoyal
comedy. Life being too short, you
know, old man, it seems hardly good
enough."

"Enough on Lucy. I fancy she has
looked upon you as lawful prize."

Oh ! she can reckon upon me as a

permanent admirer ; but without compliment,

you know, her cousin rather throws her

into the shade."

2G— 2

Thanks, dear boy ; there is no
accounting for taste."

As the representative of his father-in-law,
Haggard asked his lordship with punctilious
hospitality if he would take another peg.
Then, with a yawn, he closed the Tantalus
with a snap, and the pair retired to rest.

^^g^^^^

THE Seeks IN ARCADIA.

There had been a succession of battles
royal between the Misses Sleek and their
papa over the hay making party. Mr.
Sleek had drawn up a long list of guests,
among whom prominently figured the names
of most of the gilded youth of the Stock
Exchange. Sleek was determined at all
hazards to make what he called a " splash."
He felt that in getting old Warrender and
his daughter to The Park, he was in reality
receiving his passport into county society
It had been gall and wormwood to the head
of the firm of Sleek and Dabbler to find
that in King s Warren village, except among
the tradesmen whom he patronized, for no
fault of his own, he had remained a social
pariah. In vain had he subscribed liberally

to the local charities, the coal club, and the
various other institutions of the place. He
was annoyed that, when walking with young
farmer Wurzel, village heads would be
uncovered in every direction ; and yet
when he. Sleek, the head of a well-known
firm, was alone, a surly nod or a fraternal
smile was the only recognition accorded to
him. He vas naturally anxious, then, that
his hay making and the subsequent dance
should be an important affair. But his
daughters had manifested an obstinacy
totally unexpected.

The family council of three had met in
solemn conclave. Miss Sleek had read to
her father a long list of King's Warren
people, and he had cheerfully nodded his
approval at each name submitted for his
approbation.

Can't be better, can't be better, my
dear," smiled the father. " I don't think
you've left a soul out. But we mustn't
forget my friends. I tell you what it is,

girls, when I do a thing I like to do it
well, and I mean to do this thing in style.
None of your negus and stale sponge cakes forme.
I shall give 'em real turtle from Birch?,
and as for fizz, they shall swim in it if
they like. Dry Monopoly for the men, and
Due de Monticello for the ladies ; women
hate dry champagne, they like it sweet,
for it fishes longer, and they don't care a
hang for the head in the morning.
Monticello will suit the vicar's wife and
the married ladies down to the ]boots.
There's nothing like fizz, it makes 'em all
so friendly ; and as for music, I've secured
Toot and Kinney. Kinney himself will come
and conduct, and do the solos on the cornet.
I'm going to arrange for a special, girls, to
bring the whole party down and take 'em
back to town at six a.m."

His eldest daughter suddenly put a stop
to his enthusiasm by asking him rather
coldly, " who the train was to bringdown."


Why, my friends, of course ; who else ? *'
But, dear papa, we don't know your
friends, at least, many of them ; and I'm
afraid, and so is Connie," she added with a
sickly smile, " that perhaps they wouldn't
amalgamate."

Much as Kino' Lear looked when he

o

first detected the real natures of Began
and General, so did Mr. Sleek gaze in horror
on his two rebellious daughters.

Bosh ! " he exclaimed with indignation.
Do you mean to tell me that after
romping together all the afternoon in the
hay, and getting their skins full of my
champagne, they won't amalgamate, as you
call it ? Why, they'll be calling each
other by their Christian names before supper
tune."

But the sisters showed no signs of
yielding.

I tell you what it is, girls," said their
father in anger, "you're a pair of ungrateful
minxes. Don't ' pa ' me," he added at the

duet of deprecation that followed. " My
daughters are going to dance with a lord,"
he continued with tragic fervour, " and
their poor old father isn't good enough for
them."

Mr. Sleek did not go to business that
morning. A terrible ceremony that lasted
a good hour and a half was gone through.
Mr. Sleek's list, which had originally contained
over a hundred names, was shorn
of its fair proportions, till but a little handful
of the least objectionable remained.
With the eloquence of a Cicero and the
skill of an attorney-general. Miss Sleek
showed cause " against everybody. Though
he fought hard he had to yield, for the
girls were two to one. But he did not
give in without a struggle, and he fought
loyally for the absent Dabbler, but the girls
were inexorable.

"Mr. Dabbler is too dreadful, papa. I'm
sure lied forget himself, and he would
insist on dancinij^."

Now both the Misses Sleek had a vivid
recollection of poor Dabbler's terpsichorean
efforts at a certain Guildhall ball. Not
contented with walking through his square
dances, as is the lazy custom now-a-days, Mr.
Dabbler had danced them with a vigour
and ingenuity which would have assuredly
brought down the house at a transpontine
theatre. Even at the Guildhall, Dabbler's
style was peculiar to himself, and productive
of amazement and delight to all but his
partners and those who figured in the same
set. Dabbler was a vigorous dancer. When
he set to his partner, he performed a sort
of cellar-flap breakdown ; when he stood in
the middle of the quadrille while his vis-avis
advanced and retired with the two ladies,
lie still continued dancing. "To dance
implies that a man is glad," and Dabbler
was a cheerful - minded fellow enough,
but no lady danced with him a second
time. The eyes of the Misses Sleek flashed
with unaffected rage and horror at the

terrible remembrance of that dreadful night
in the City.

There was nothing for it but to yield,
and Mr. Sleek, when lie had lead time to
cool, came to the conclusion that perhaps
after all his daughters were ricfht.

Romping among the haycock may be
very good fun, but the elaborate toilettes
in which he found this daughters arrayed
on the eventful afternoon effectually convinced
him that the romping, if romping
there was to be, would be entirely confined
to the few juveniles who graced the entertainment
with their presence.

The house was turned inside out. The
drawing-room floor had been duly chalked
in elaborate devices ; the staff at The Parkin
new gowns, caps and aprons, was reinforced
by an army of myrmidons from
the City. Huge blocks of ice decorated
the dining-room, and Messrs. Toot and
Kinney's band already discoursed sweet
music from the Italian summer-house.

The plump charms of his two daughters
were freely displayed in elaborate Parisian
costumes, merveilleuse dresses of striped
satin ; one girl affected pink, the other sky
blue. So resplendent was their appearance
that the proud father hardly recognized
his two buxom daughters in their
gay attire.

But carriages, dog-carts and antediluvian
flys began to pour into The Park. Every
lady on her arrival received a bouquet of
hot-house flowers, every gentleman was presented
with an elaborate button-hole of
orchids. Not a single invitation had been
refused. King's Warren and the region
round about had come to the philosophical
conclusion that if Mr. Sleek, of The Park,
was good enough for Squire Warrender, he
was good enough for them. More than
this, even those who had once passed the
Sleek girls with a condescending nod,
or with their noses high in air, had
deigned to intro-ue for invitations ; and

in the hour of their triumph the girls had
not been ill-natured, nobody had been
refused.

There was quite a crowd in the shady
corner of the hay-field to watch the so-called
hay making, a familiar sight enough
to the King's Warreners, and there was
romping among the haycocks. But the pastoral
amusement was only indulged in by the
children of the village school. Young Mr.
Wurzel, in the shiniest of boots, yellow
gloves, a pink tie and a white hat, his
bride-elect, Miss Grains, upon his arm,
looked on approvingly, and it is not to be
wondered at if the young fellow's eye
dwelt, somewhat too long for Miss Grains'
satisfaction, upon their young hostesses.
The Eeverend John Dodd, as usual, was
surrounded by a throng of female worshippers,
the party from The Warren was
in full force, and it somewhat astonished
the Misses Sleek to note that George and
her cousin were in ordinary afternoon

muslin dresses. No doubt the Sleek family
would have been more gratified if, instead
of his brown billycock, I^ord Spunyarn
had worn his coronet ; he probably didn't
travel with it, however.

All went merry as a marriage bell.

My dear young ladies, surely we ought
to join in this," said the Eeverend Jack
with a smile, addressing his hostesses, ashe
pointed to the children who were pelting
each other with the perfumed hay.

But the merveideuse costumes of the Sleek
girls were better suited for looking on
than for taking part in the actual performance.


''Oh, we should like it of all things, Mr.
Dodd, but ice must reserve ourselves. You
see we are almost bound to dance every
dance, and there is so much to do, and so
much to see to. But if any one would like
to make hay we should be so pleased, and
so would the children*'

You are not haymakers to-day, then,

only shepherdesses looking after an unruly'
and, I see, rapidly increasing flock. It's a
very sweet pastoral, you only want your
crooks to complete the picture. I, too, ama
shepherd, you know ; but a shepherd in
black and without his crook is somewhat
in the way. With your permission, then,
I shall join the children," said the vicar
with a smile.

The crook will come in time, Dodd ;
you may depend upon it we shall see you
a bishop one of these days, after all,"
laughed Haggard good-naturedly.

Thank you so much, Mr. Haggard,"
said a deep voice at his elbow, which
made him start ; " thank you so much for
attempting to recall my poor husband from
this frivolous scene to higher things. My
unhappy husband, Mr. Haggard," she
added in a confidential whisper, " has
no ambition. John Dodd, Mr. Haggard,
is, I regret to say, a trifler. It has
been the labour of my life to try and

withdraw his mind from frivolities, and
to keep him in the path which wouhl ultimately
lead him to wdiat should be the goal
of every clergyman's ambition. Oh, if he
would only try to be a little more like
my dear father. If he would only think
less of carnal things," and here the vicars
gave a snort and looked spitefully at the
Misses Sleek, between whom the Reverend
Jack still lingered.

The Misses Sleek were plump, the Misses
Sleek were pretty, even if they where a
little over-dressed ; but to call them " carnal
things " was at least unkind.

Console yourself, dear Mrs. Dodd," said
Haggard with a smile ; " the vicar will be
just as attentive to the school children in
the hay as he is to our young hostesses
now," he added with intention.

Too well I know it, Mr. Haggard. And
can there be a sadder sight than to see the
vicar of this parish romping in the hay
with village hardens ? "

Haggard's prophecy turned out to be
correct, for the vicar threw off his coat
and joined the children ; and he, the
greatest child of them all, was soon
thoroughly enjoying himself.

Nearly all the ladies were accommodated
with seats, all save the Misses Sleek ; they,
poor girls, alas, could not sit. One can
walk, flirt and dance in a Merveilleuse
costume, but it is next to impossible to sit
down in it. They bore their sufferings
with fortitude, however, and, like the
Spartan boy with his fox, concealed their
agony.

And now the loud summons of a cfoner
called everybody to the more serious business
of the evening. A big marquee of
striped canvas had been erected ; the guests
trooped into it. Soon all the little tables
were filled, and everybody did full justice
to the delicacies set before them. After
standing in the sun a considerable time,

the crowd was not sorry to eat and drink
vor. II. 27

Its fill. The eyes of bashful bucolic youth
began to sparkle with the effects of Mr.
Sleek's champagne ; rosy cheeks grew
rosier; even the vicar's wife unbent; that
blighted maiden, Stacey Dodd, almost felt
her hopes revive under the influence of
pate de foie gras, and the immediate proximity
of the squire. But, even in the
country, people can't eat and drink forever
; and the marquee was at last deserted
for the superior attractions of the dance.

For that evening, at least, class distinctions
were for once forgotten in King's
Warren. Young Mr. Wurzel screwed his
courage up so far as to ask Miss Warrender
to dance with him, while the vicar
took out the village schoolmistress, and
Mrs. Dodd herself condescended to waltz
with her host. But after her toes had
been trodden on three times in a couple
of rounds, she felt that she had already
done more than enough ; she danced no
more, and relapsed into her old position

of tutelary goddess, or guardian aiigel, to
society in general. Connie and lier sister
were in great demand, and the cup of their
happiness was filled to overflowing, each
having danced with the real live lord.
Young Wurzel having done enough for
honour, did as engaged young men should,
and stood up for dance after dance, as a
matter of course, with the object of his
affections.

I can't dance as she does," whispered
the Village Rose in his ear ; " but hold me
tight and turn me round quickly, William,"
she added with a sigh of satisfaction.

The young farmer did as he was bid,
and owing to their united exertions, they
were soon both the colour of a couple of
peonies.

The big conservatory had been judiciously
only dimly lighted by a few Chinese
lanterns, and by common consent had been
given up to the lazy slanderers, who
sought its leafy shades between the dances.

Connie Sleek had volunteered to show the
plants to Lord Spunyarn ; they were both
tired, and Connie in considerable trepidation
managed to sit down in one of the
dimly-lighted nooks, at his good-natured
lordship's suggestion. Spunyarn, however,
didn't make love to Connie, but the young
lady felt that she had her chance, and she
availed herself of it.

I've been on my feet since four o'clock.
Lord Spunyaru," she said, with a not
unmusical sigh, " and I feel as if I could sit
here for ever. Don't you ? " she added.

What is an easy-natured young man to say
under such circumstances ? Given an exceptionally
substantial collation, warm weather,
some dozen round dances, and nothing particular
to do, most men would have probably
replied just as Lord Spunyarn did.

"With you. Miss Sleek? Well, do you
know, I believe I could."

Connie Sleek's eyes sparkled like coals of
fire. Visions of herself as Lady Spunyarn

presented at Court on her marriage, and
patronizing her elder sister, flitted through
her young and innocent but giddy brain.
But his lordship's next remark rather damped
her hopes ; the descent from the sublime
to the ridiculous is at times a little too
sudden.

By Jove ! " said Spunyarn, " I should like
to be one of these plants, and never move
out of my pot, with nothing to think of
but to look forward to the time when
the gardener would come and syringe me.
I wish he'd come and syringe me now,
don't you ? They seem to be enjoying
themselves, don't they ? Uncommonly, by
Jove ! " he added, looking towards the farther
end of the conservatory.

The guileless Connie saw a pink mass in
the dim shadows opposite her. The pink
mass was evidently her sister. A small incandescent
speck, which sparkled about a
foot from where that sister's head would
be, indicated her partner in enjoyment,

also that the gentleman was smoking a
cigarette.

Why, it's Lottie. I wouldn't have her
see me here for the world, Lord Spunyarn.
She's a dreadful tease, and I should never
hear the last of it," and here the young lady,
exactly upon the principle of the ostrich,
who is said to bury its head in the sand
when it wishes to escape observation, unfolded
an enormous blue fan which effectually
screened both herself and her fellow criminal.
If Spunyarn had sought a tete-a-tete^ he had
now got it with a vengeance.

Precisely the same feelings evidently animated
the young lady in pink. She, too,
unfurled a big fan. The conversation of
both couples for the next five minutes must
have been interesting, for both fans, which
were originally used merely as screens, were
frequently violently agitated.

Xo doubt, the conversation of both pairs
was instructive as well as amusing. Both
ladies evidently enjoyed the unhoped-for but

well-deserved rest. Had it not been for an
unfortunate disturbing influence, who can
tell but that Connie Sleek might have risen
from the settee Lord Spunyarn's affianced
bride. When even a worldly-wise young peer
occupies the half of a seat only intended for
one person for fully five minutes, behind a
big fan, beside a becomingly-dressed young
woman of undoubted crispness, and who is
not troubled with bashfulness, who can say
of what folly he may not be guilty ?

But Providence willed it otherwise ; for
Mr. Sleek suddenly entered his conservatory
in a state of considerable excitement.

Gals," he said — when excited. Sleek pere
always addressed his daughters as "gals " —
where on earth is Mr. Haggard? I've been
looking for him everywhere."

The two men rose to their feet ; the one
behind the pink fan, not much to Lord
Spunyarn's surprise, turned out to be
Haggard. But neither young lady moved ;
their dresses wouldn't let tlicin, poor things.

"It's pa!" they both exclaimed in a sort
of astonished chorus. " Oh, pa, it's so hot,"
said the elder girl, regaining her aplomb
at once. But Connie, more indignant, only
sighed ; she felt, poor girl, that she had had
her chance and lost it. There are moments
in girls' lives when even a father is de
trap,

"What is it, old fellow ? " cried Ha^^f^ard

DC

with unusual condescension as he advanced.

I've been looking for you everywhere,
Mr. Haggard. Here's a telegram for you.
I hope it's no bad news," he added.

The two girls, with considerable effort and
many an ominous crack, covered, too, with
rosy blushes, perhaps from their exertions,
had now manacled to retain their feet.

Oh, I do hope it's nothing dreadful,"
said the elder girl with pretty sympathy.

Haggard, as he tore the envelope open
and read the telegram with difficulty by
the light of one of the Chinese lanterns,
blurted out :

By Jove ! Shirtings, the poor old
governor's dead'*

There was considerable consternation. The
Warren party hurried away, and though
dancing went on, the two young hostesses,
perhaps in their natural grief for their friend's
loss, joined in it no more.

As poor Connie wept herself to sleep that
night in her sister's arms, she whispered her
tale of sorrow into her ear. Her last words
were, " Lottie, darling, I shall never, never
forgive pa."

HAGGARD COMES INTO HIS OWN.

Old Justice Haggard had died rather suddenly.
He had been ailing for several weeks ;
as his son had remarked, his handwriting had
been the first symptom of the breakdown.
His articulation, too, had become thickened,
and one evening he was found seated in his
chair by his study fire speechless, his face
painfully drawn on one side ; within an hour
he had peacefully passed away.

The king was dead, long live the king.
Eeginald Haggard came into his own.
But though Haggard had talked of settling
down into a county magnate in the case of
his father's death, when that event happened
he failed to do so.

I couldn't stand it, you know. The
dreadful dinners and the dreadful people

would have finished me, I think," lie had
said.

So after the funeral, Haggard returned to
The Warren, but not before he had given
the old steward final and definite instructions,
which caused that worthy man's hair
to almost stand on end.

"Cunningham," he said, "if you want to
remain on the estate as my steward, you'll
have to alter the state of things here. My
father, you know, muddled along in a 
sort of way. As long as his pigs
took the first prize at the county shows
he was happy. That was his ambition. Now,
Cunningham, you'll have to make the place
pay. There are a lot of old servants, old
pensioners and old horses, all eating their
heads off here, and doing no work. You'll
have to make a clean sweep of the lot. Were
I to attempt to do it myself they'd worry ni'
life out. Now I want you to act as a buster.
From your decisions there is to be no appeal.
They are to look to you, and not to me. As I

said, the place must be made to pay, that's
the first point ; the second is, that I am not
to be bothered. It used to amuse my father
to sit in his justice-room every morning and
to be perpetually receiving and answering
letters from all sorts of people about the
place. That sort of thing won't suit me. You
know as well as I do that my father got
nothing out of the place."

Sir " began the Scotchman.

Wait till I have done, Cunningham, and
you will see that you have nothing to say.
I know what you are going to tell me. That
it is my duty to come and live in this place,
with these yokels, to have the ague at least
twice a year, as my father did before me, and
to ask my friends down in September to shoot
my partridges. Those were my father's views,
they're not mine. As to the house, I shall let
it, and I shall do the same with the shooting.
With regard to the property, if you can get
an income out of it for me, well and good ; if
you can't, I don't suppose anybody can ; and

in that case I intend to be shot of the whole
bag of tricks."

"Ye wud'na think of parting with the
property, sir," said the astonished steward ;
it's been your fathers' before you fur
centuries."

"It must pay me three per cent., Cunningham,
or I shall assuredly sell it. Of course
any legal liability I have I must fulfil ; but
there's been a good deal too much sentiment
lately in the management of the place.
My father was fond of pigs and paupers ; I
can't say I care for either. You will grant
no new leases except at their full value.
If Dick can't get a living out of a farm,
that's no reason for letting him have it rent
free. The estate must be improved, Cunningham
— as a property. You understand me,
I take it?"

I could'na fail to do that, Mr. Reginald."


The steward carried out his instructions.
It is needless to sav that Ee^jinald IlaiXirard

became unpopular. Ash Priory was let ;
the old servants, those few who had any
work left in them, got new and larder places
at less wages; those who were past work
went into the poor-louse. The Haggard
estate actually returned three per cent, on
its market value, and everybody in the
neighbourhood of the Priory agreed that
Mr. Cunningham the steward was an exceedingly
hard man.

Haggard was very particular about one
thing. A large diamond-shaped hatchment
on which the arms of the Haggardss were
emblazoned came down from town and was
duly affixed over the principal entrance to
the Priory.

It's to stay up for a year mind, Cunningham,
tenant or no tenant, and then you can
take it down and burn it if you like''
- The death of Justice Haggard caused the
postponement of the proposed visit to Walls
send Castle, and it was not till more than a
year afterwards that the old earl's eyes were

gladdened by the sight of his favourite, his
great-nephew's wife.

During the year of mourning, George
Haggard presented her husband with a son.
The child had been born at The Warren.
Their recent mourning had effectually prevented
the Haoorards from <j^oino- much into
society, so rather against the cfrain, Hacfi^ard

J ' o o " CO

had consented to remain the guest of his
father-in-law, varying the monotony of his
long stay at The Warren by an occasional
run up to town. At hast he had proposed
a furnished house, but lie had been warned
by the local practitioner that it would be
unwise and imprudent to subject his wife
to unnecessary fatigue, or to let her lose
the benefit of the air of her native ]place.
There was not much fuss made on the arrival
of the little George ; he, poor little chap, was
provided with a humble attendant from the
village, Fanchette being still retained to
minister to the wants, whims and foibles
of the elder child.

Miss Lucy Warrender had enjoyed the
successive delights of two London seasons ;
she went everywhere, she was as much
admired as ever. Lucy Warrender was nota
mere beauty to be stared at ; she was a
brilliant conversationalist and possessed considerable
powers of repartee. She had an
artless way of administering cruel stabs to
her female acquaintances which frequently
turned them into enemies. When Mrs.
Charmington had innocently asked her
whether she considered her proposed appearance
upon the stage infra dig., she had
replied that she thought her friend couldn't
do better, " for," added she gently, " they
tell me, dear Mrs. Charmington, that actresses
never o-row old." Lucy Warrender had not
been without her triumphs ; she had had
several offers, and good offers too, but she
refused them all, and Lucy Warrender was
Lucy Warrender still. Excitement was an
absolute necessity to Lucy ; there was a
persistent craving in her mind for something

new, and a ceaseless round of amusement
was what she could not do without. Many
girls would have knocked up from the
effects of continuous late hours, heated
rooms and high living, but Lucy seemed to
thrive upon it. She was now nearly two-and-twenty,
and from the time she had been
able to think she had never troubled herself
about anybody's comfort but her own.
The maternal instinct had never been
awakened in her ; she petted the little Lucius
simply because he was good-looking, and
because she knew that a well-dressed, good-looking
young person engaged in petting a
child who is also well-dressed and good-looking
is a pleasant and picturesque object.
Just in the same way she was accustomed
to hang on her uncle's arm and gaze up
into his face, not because she cared one iota
for her uncle, but because she considered
it an effective tableau. The sole reason that
Lucy Warrender never accepted any of the

good offers which she received was, that
VOL. n. 28

she thought herself better off as her own
mistress. If Lucy Warrender had been a
man, she would have been one of those
wholly unobjectionable persons, one of those
single-minded individuals, whose life is passed
in trying to get the greatest possible amount
of personal enjoyment out of this world.
As we know, Lucy was not troubled with
what is called a heart ; true she had made
what she now considered a mistake at the
outset, but she had burnt her fingers so
severely that from that time she was never
likely again to lapse from her religion of
self worship. When they had first returned
from Switzerland, she had had considerable
cause for anxiety, for the fear of being
found out had troubled her a good deal,
but that shadow had gradually passed
away and the whole affair now seemed
to her merely like a troubled dream, which
she still remembered in a vague sort of
way.

Happy, tranquil and contented. Miss Lucy

Warrender, looking fresh as a rose, sat down
to the well-furnished breakfast-table at The
Warren and turned over in a meditative
manner the three or four letters which had
arrived for her by the morning's post. Miss
Warrender was a wise young woman ; she
always ate her breakfast first and postponed
the perusal of her correspondence till the
meal was over. She put her letters in her
pocket, as was her custom, and did full justice
to the substantial meal which graced the
squire's board ; at its conclusion, provided
with one of her favourite yellow-coloured
novels, she lounged into the garden prepared
to get through the morning with the least
possible amount of trouble to herself. She
sat down in a shady nook of the rose garden
and read two of her letters, gossipy effusions
from female acquaintances ; then she took up
the last letter, which was on thin paper and
addressed in a legible but foreign-looking
hand. She opened it carelessly, but as her

eyes fell upon the contents she drew herself

28—2

up, suddenly the colour left her lips. This
Alas what she read :

"131, Gerard Street, Solid.
Madame,

"I trust YOU will excuse the liberty
I take in addressing you on a little matter
which concerns myself. Circumstances compelled
me to leave the service of Mr. Haggard
while you and madame were at the Villa
Lambert. I have now, madame, to trespass
on sour kindness, in asking you to assist mein
my present intention of re entering that
gentleman's service. I have no reason to
believe, madame, that during the lime I acted
as Mr. Haggard's valet I failed to give
satisfaction. It is to ask you to use your
kind influence with my former master that
I now address you. His valet, I understand,
is about to leave him. It probably is in
your power, madame, to enable me to obtain
my old position once more. Should you feel
inclined to use your influence in my ]behalf

I shall be for ever grateful. I may tell
you, madame, that business took me to the
village of Auray ; what I learned at Auray
I shall look upon as a secret confided to my
honour. I shall write to Mr. Haggard today
to apply for the situation. Trusting,
madame, that you will give me your powerful
aid iu this matter, I remain,
"Very respectfully,

Your humble servant,

"Maurice Capt.

Pes. — It will be unnecessary to answer
this letter, as I feel I can count upon your
generosity."

There was no mistake. Lucy had taken
every precaution ; she had looked upon the
old scandal as dead and comfortably buried,
buried in the grave of the Parisian cemetery
in which lay the unfortunate Ilephzibah.

She ground her little white teeth, as she
saw the spectre rise once more in a new
and uncompromising shape ; an unpleasant

feeling of utter helplessness filled her soul.
Had her successful intrigues been all to no
purpose after all ? She had no doubt m her
o^vn mind as to what it was that Maurice
Capt had learnt at the village of Auray.
Capt had not written to ask her for money ;
she felt that he would probably name the
price for his silence later on. In the
meantime, she knew that the humble request
of the Swiss valet was a politely-worded
command which she dared not disobey ; and
she dreaded his presence, filled with the
horrid fear of its consequences. It was even
possible, she thought, that her cousin in
her sudden terror might incontinently make
a clean breast of the whole matter to her
husband, or even to the squire. When one
has felt perfectly secure, it is extremely
painful to see all one's carefully-elaborated
combinations instantaneously collapse. As
has been said, Lucy War render was in the
habit of looking upon servants as mere
furniture, but here was a piece of furniture

suddenly developed into a most substantial
bogey.

At first Lucy was disposed to take her
cousin into lier confidence, but then she
thought, and thought rightly, that Georgina
would make a very bad conspirator. Perhaps
after all the valet might consent to
be bribed ; she remembered with pleasure
that he was discretion itself, so she calmly
resolved to adopt what doctors call an
expectant policy; that is to say, to do nothing
at all, and to patiently await the turn of
events.

She was not kept long in suspense. While
they were at dinner that evening, Haggard
mentioned to the squire that he had just
received a letter from his old servant.

I think the confounded impudence of
that rascal Capt has something almost
sublime in it. He bolts in a mysterious
manner when he was left in charge of the
girls, and now he calmly proposes to come
back to me a<?ain."

Of course you won't tliiiik of taking
him," replied the squire.

"Take him, I'd see him hanged first, as lie
will be one of these days, if lie gets this
deserts. Why, George, what's the matter ? "

And well mio-lit Haofs^ard exclaim, for

O (DO '

Young' Mrs. Ilao-o-ard was staring at her
husband, her eyes wild with terror.

How terribly stupid you men are ; don't
you see that she's fainting, Eeginald," cried
Lucy as she hurried to her cousin's side.
"The heat's something dreadful, and it has
quite overcome her," said the sympathizing
cousin, as she cleverly covered George's
retreat from the room.

In a few minutes she reappeared.

It was nothing after all, as I supposed.
She is lying down, and will be herself again
very shortly. What was it you were saying,
Reginald, about Capt ? "

"Oh, I had forgotten the rascal; merely
that he coolly suggests that I should take
him on ai^rain. He wasn't a bad servant, you

Ivnow, quite what a servant should be — a
mere machine. I wonder what made him
bolt in that unaccountable way, Lucy?"

Didn't we tell you ? " said the girl. " It
was some lovers' quarrel between him and
Hephzibah ; she was never the same girl
after he disappeared ; quite a little backstairs
comedy."

*' Which turned into a tragedy though
when the poor girl died," said the squire ;
I suppose when he bolted she broke her
heart."

You are getting quite romantic, uncle,"
said Lucy ; "people in her class of life don't
break their hearts, they only do their work
worse than usual."

I know one thing," said Haggard, " he
was the best man I ever had, and if it wasn't
for his confounded cheek, I should be glad to
get him back. I suppose if I did though
he'd commence upon Fanchette, and turn
her head."

I fancy Fanchette can take very good

care of herself. I don't think 3'ou need
hesitate on lier account if you really want
him," carelessly threw in Miss Warrender.

It wouldn't be a bad idea," said Haggard
meditatively. " My present fellow insists on
smoking my cigars, and absolutely declines
to wear my new boots. I hate wearing boots
for the first time. I think I'll give the fellow
a chance after all."

A week afterwards Maurice Capt was installed.
To Lucy's intense astonishment, not
one word did he breathe to her of his researches
at the secluded village of Auray.
Hit she felt that they understood one
another. Gradually she came to the conclusion
that she had bought the valet's silence
at a very cheap price. He was glad to get
back his good place, and that was probably
all he wanted ; he dropped no hint or innuendo
of his discoveries, if he had made any, and
he made no attempt at blackmailing.

Mademoiselle Fanchette was at first very
attentive to the valet, and seemed to think

less than ever of the '' Homme " in Algeria.
But Mr. Capt, tliougli very courteous to
Fanchette, did not respond to her advances ;
perhaps he was yet sorrowing for the dead
Hephzibah. Still Fanchette secured a gossip
to whom she could confide her numerous
troubles, and Hai^orard felt that he had done
wisely in having once more obtained the invaluable
services of the faithful Swiss.

It has been stated that the King's Warreners
were divided into two religious camps — the
upper classes and the labourers going to
church, while the smaller tradespeople sat
under the Eeverend Boanerges S miter, an
eloquent young Baptist minister, who lead
wrestled in vain for thirty years of his life
with cruel letter II. It was the dream of
Mr. Smiter's life to empty the old-fashioned
pews of the parish church. With this intention
he worked hard ; he preached, he
lectured, he even at considerable trouble
obtained a sort of reputation as a pulpit
comedian, but he forgot that the seats of

Gilgal Chapel were hard, while the old baize-lined
pews at King's Warren Church were
high and comfortable, and seemed to say to
their occupants, " Here your slumbers will
be undisturbed," also that the vicar never
preached for more than twenty minutes.
Eev. B. Smiter (for somehow or other the
definite article is always left out before
the title of a dissenting minister) was an
ingenious man. It was through this exertions
that Gilgal stood proudly upon its own
freehold, and that it possessed actual cash at
the bank. When Mr. Smiter first came to
King's Warren the funds of Gilgal Chapel
were in a very bad state indeed. The community
was in debt for rent, the pastor lived
in a little lodging in the village, his stipend
was of the smallest, and the chapel was badly
out of repair. But Eev. Boanerges Smiter
was equal to the occasion. He was the
original inventor of the Great Avalanche
System. He got into his little pulpit one
day, and he preached his great sermon on the

text '' Ask and ye shall have"' and then he
explained to his hearers the details of the
Great Avalanche System. He toil them,
what they well knew, that they were in
King's Warren a comparatively small body
of relatively poor people. "Many a time
and oft," said he, " have my predecessors
stood here, and urged you, my dear brothers
and sisters, to give to the needs of this chapel.
My predecessors have ever resembled the
young ravens in their persistent cry, ' Give,
Give ; ' and you, my dear brothers and sisters,
have given, you've responded manfully, but
what has been the result ? Gilgal is as badly
off as ever. We are but a small handful of
Israelites in a great land of Egypt, and weare
oppressed by Pharaoh ; for Pharaoh, clad
in purple and fine linen, takes tithes of all we
possess." (Did he refer to poor Jack Dodd as
Pharaoh ?) " But you will all remember that
Moses ordered the children of Israel to spoil
the Egyptians, and it will be our duty, nay our
privilege, to do to these modern Egyptians as

did our prototypes, the children of Israel, to
Pharaoh and his subjects. What does Gilgal
want ? Gilgal wants to be out of debt.
Gilgal wants a suitable residence for its
pastor. Gilgal wants a new roof, and Gilgal
would be all the better for a new organ.
Now, my friends, did the Egyptians assist the
unfortunate Israelites ? Not a bit of it.
Why they wouldn't even give them straw to
make their bricks with. But though they
wouldn't give them any straw, yet they
yielded up to them after a time their jewels
of silver and their jewels of gold, for we read
that the Israelites spoiled the Egyptians. I am
going to ask you for your charity, and I am
going to head the subscription myself. Don't
be cast down, my friends, at the single shilling
which your pastor is about to subscribe. I
trust that we shall obtain the roof, the freehold,
the suitable residence for the pastor,
nay, even the organ ; for fifteen hundred
pounds will do all this. Fifteen hundred
pounds seems a large sum to you, my brethren,

but it is easily to be obtained. And remark
the pleasant fact that it will be obtained from
the Egyptians. It is your charity I ask, but
not your money, for the charity I require is
simply vicarious. Let me go more into detail
and make myself thoroughly understood.
How is an avalanche first formed ? A tiny
mass of snow slips down from the top of some
lofty mountain ; that tiny mass is my original
shilling. As the mass falls, it sets in motion
other portions larger than itself. Gradually
at first, and slowly, the little heap slides
down the steep declivity. Its velocity
increases, as does its volume — it at length
becomes irresistible ; enormously and indefinitely
multiplied, it at last reaches the
valley, no longer a tiny mass of snow, but a
vast avalanche, which carries all before it,
trees, rocks, and even villages being torn
away by the irresistible force of the tremendous
aggregation. Such is the Great
Avalanche System. I am ' A,' and I subscribe
a shining. I now call upon four of

you to stand up, each in his place, and you
four will each contribute but a humble
shilling."

All the adults in the congregation of Gilgal
stood up as one man.

No, my friends," said the pastor, " I need
but four, but four female friends. Four of my
sisters will be my ' B's,' my busy bees ; each ' B '
will select four ' C's,' from each of whom she
will obtain a shilling. She will register their
names and addresses, and request them to do
as she herself has done, and each four * D's ' to
contribute a similar amount ; and so on, my
friends, through all the letters of the alphabet.

The human heart is hard. There are many
of us who would look twice at that shilling if
we were asked for it as a simple contribution.
But it is not a simple contribution, for it
carries with it a privilege — it enables the
person who has paid his or her shilling to
exact a similar amount from four personal
friends ; and though the original giver has
contributed but a single shilling, that giver

lias the pleasure of liaudiiig in an amount
which is practically incalculable. I knowtlie
world, my brethren, and I know that as a rule
the world is very glad indeed to get off for a
shilling. Alas, many of the most active contributors
to the numerous Missionary Societies
of this country never put a single penny into
the missionary boxes with which they are
always glad to be provided ; for the missionary
box is an outward and visible sign of
respectability, and a perpetual rod in pickle
for friends, relatives, and rebellious children.
Already, my friends, in my mind's eye I
see Gilgal standing proudly upon its own
freehold, I see it provided with the roof it
so much needs, and mentally I already dwell
in the comfortable residence allotted to its
pastor. I even hear the sweet strains of the
much-desired American organ. And all this
is no dream ; in a few short weeks, my friends,
it will be a delightful reality. And what will
be our chief incentive to the work? Why the

fact that all this money has been obtained,
VOL. n. 29

not from the little congregation of Gilgal, but
from the Egyptian, from haughty Pharaoh
and his countless host."

Then he gave out the hymn.

Eev. Boanerges Smiter was right. The
thing came off. The money poured in, and
the Eeverend Smiter's original shilling was
turned, as by the touch of the enchanter's
wand, into fifteen hundred pounds. Thirty
thousand victims had been indirectly teased
and pestered by Smiter, at the least possible
amount of trouble to himself ; but all had
had their revenge, save the last batch, in
finding four other shilling victims, and each
of them had obtained for a ridiculously small
sum a character for active benevolence.
Who is there in this wicked world who
would not consider a character for active
benevolence cheap at a shilling?

It was indirectly due to Eev. B. Smiter
that the vicar received the cruel snubbing
which was a joke against him in King's
Warren for the rest of this natural life. The

congregation of Gilgal held open-air meetings
upon the viUao'e careen at the end of
summer as a sort of counter demonstration
to the harvest festivals of the church. There
was no Salvation Army in those days, and
in a little place like King's Warren even
such a mild excitement as an open-air meeting
is very welcome. Besides the real congregation
on the village green there was
always a considerable gallery of curious onlookers,
" scoffers," as they were termed by
the "elect." Eev. B. Smiter had been very
successful at these meetings. They really
did a certain amount of good, for some who
had come to laugh remained to pray. In
the particular summer to which I am referring
Mr. Smiter had gone to the expense
of engaging what in theatrical circles would
be termed a popular favourite. This was
the well-known 'Happy 'Arry.

'Happy 'Arry was a character in his way.
He had been a noted pugilist ; he had even

fought for the championship, and he took the

29—2

punishment he received on that memorable
occasion in a very plucky manner. If 'Any
had won the light he would doubtless have
subsided into the pugilist's well - merited
haven of rest— a sporting public house. But
the fates willed it otherwise, and 'Arry was
converted and took to religion. The man
was perfectly sincere, and many a rough
fellow owed his conversion from drink and
debauchery to 'Happy *Arry. His was a
rude kind of eloquence that went straight
to the hearts of the majority of his male
hearers. He would retail his exciting experiences
as a pugilist and a drunkard with
much gusto. He would tell in minute detail
the history of his great but unsuccessful
struggle for the champion's belt ; and ashe
dilated on the wicked glories of his
former life he would say with a pleasant
smile, " And was I 'happy, my brothers ?
Xo, I was not 'happy, for I hadn't got
religion."

Haggard and the vicar were looking on

at one of the revival meetings, and 'Happy
'Arry was holding forti with his accustomed
fervour.

I've given it all up now. I don't associate
with the swells now. Many's the time,
my brethren, as I've had on the gloves with
cooks and baronies, and other sporting
swells," and here his eye fell upon the
amused countenance of the Eeverend John
Dodd. "Ay, and with fighting parsons,
too," he said.

The Eeverend Jack blushed.

But I looks on 'em now as men of sin ;
they used to be proud to shake 'ands with
'Arry in his bad days, but I've shook 'em
off, my brothers, and I don't foregather now
with the likes of them. Don't you think
it's no yarns I'm telling you, my friends ;
why, there's one of 'em now, a-looking on.
Oh, how I ^visli that fighting parson was
as 'happy as I am now ; and if he'd only
listen to me in a proper spirit lie might be ;
but he won't, my brethren, and whey won't

lie ? Because 'is 'art is 'ard. Many's the
merry round I've 'ad with the gloves with
'Handsome Jack Dodd, as is a-standing there.
"Why, he was one of my backers when I
sought the butcher on Mouse Hurst, and
licked him, too, for the matter of that !
'Handsome Jack Dodd was proud to shake
'ands with 'Arry in these days. But will
'Happy 'Arry shake hands with him now?
No, my brethren. And for why? Becos
]ie ain't got religion."

And then the preacher sat down, and
Haggard and the Eev. John Dodd beat a
hasty retreat. Haggard told the story to
Mrs. Dodd that very evening. It was a
rather mean thing to do, but Haggard
was a man of impulse.

THE VICAR TRIES PUFFIN.

It must not be supposed that all the religious
activity in King's Warren was confined to the
Dissenters. The Eeverend John Dodd was a
fine old-crusted Tory ; the world had gone
very well with him. Be had his cross, of
course, in the shape of his wife Cecilia,
and the Eeverend B. Smiter was a very
thorn in his flesh ; but his living was a
good living, and his peaches and his port
wine were unsurpassed in the county. His
archdeacon was an old personal friend of
his own, and I am afraid that the post-cranial
conversations of the two when the
archdeacon made his yearly visitations and
Mrs. Dodd had left them to themselves,
turned more upon vintages and things of
this world than on church matters. But a

youiig and active bishop, of High Church
tendencies, now reigned in the neighbouring
cathedral, and the archdeacon in a friendly
manner sufyo'ested to Dodd that it behoved
him to set his house in order.

"We must move With the times, Dodd," he
said. " The bishop is a man of six-and-thirty
and an enthusiast. I am sorry to say he is
no respecter of persons. There is no doubt,
my friend, that dissent has spread in this
parish of late years with frightful rapidity."
He spoke of it as if it were a disease.
"what you want is an energetic coadjutor,
and you can't do better than try Puffin.
Puffin has been a Missioner, and he is a
wonderful organizer. If you want to be
in the bishop's good books you should try
Puffin. He'll take every sort of trouble off
your hands ; all you have to do is to give
him plenty of rope. He has his peculiarities,
but he is honest in this way, and he did
wonders at the East End, where he nearly
killed himself by overwork. You won't

keep him long, you know, for Puffin's a
man certain of good preferment. He'll fill
your cliurcli, and if any tiling will stop the
insidious progress of dissent in the place,
it's Puffin."

But, my dear fellow, we are very comfortable
as we are. I hate a clerical firebrand.
Why can't we rub along comfortably
for the rest of my time ? "

"The days of rubbing along, Dodd, are
gone by. As the bishop puts it, the
Church in these latter days must be a
Church militant, or it will cease to
exist."

But it needn't become a Church pugnacious
for all that," said Dodd.

My dear fellow, if we were certain that
I should be archdeacon for ever you might,
as you put it, go on rubbing along. But
the king who knew not Joseph has arrived.
Our spiritual head is a man who will stand
no nonsense. If you don't follow his lead,
he will look upon you as refractory. Don't

be refractory, Dodd ; try Puffin. You will
find him a perfect panacea."

But I don't believe in panaceas," said
Dodd ; " the fellow will set the whole place
by the ears before he has been here a month.
Why, in this village the aggrieved parishioner
does not even exist. If a man doesn't like
the church he takes sittings in the chapel,
and there is an end of the thing."

My dear fellow, you mistake the matter
altogether. Now-a-days, a real, good, wrongheaded
aggrieved parishioner is exactly what
sou do want. He keeps you before the
public, and brings you to the favourable
notice of your spiritual head."

"But look at the fuss, the letters, and the
lawsuits."

With a new bishop, Dodd, and a manlike
Puffin at your back, though there would
be lots of fuss, it need not trouble you.
Puffin would write all the letters ; and as
for the lawsuits, sou would win them, and
the costs would not come out of your pocket.

Puffin, of course, sails rather close to the
wind, if I may be allowed the expression,
but he knows exactly how far he can go.
In fact, Dodd, though he puts his candles
upon the altar he never lights them, except
at evensong, and then he knows he can do
so with impunity."

And then they gradually began to talk
about the wine.

The result of this conversation was that
the Eeverend John Dodd hastened to secure
the services of that energetic priest the
Eeverend Barnes Puffin.

Mr. Puffin arrived at the vicarage looking
very much like an ordinary clergyman,
save that the round black felt that he wore
had a brim of portentous width ; and Mrs.
Dodd noticed with some astonishment that
the white tie, which all clergymen of her
acquaintance habitually wore, was conspicuous
by its absence, and that the new
curate appeared to have put on his collar
wrong side before. At first it was a mystery

to her how he could have got into that
collar. There was certainly no visible
means of entrance in front. Puffin wore his
hair very long indeed, while the whole of his
face was clean shaven. Mrs. Dodd, too, gave
a start when he proceeded to address her
as " his dear sister ; " but she was still more
astonished when he removed his long clerical
great-coat and she saw that the Eeverend
Barnes Puffin was clad in a long black garment
with innumerable little buttons running
from his neck to within two inches of the
round. Around his waist was a long" black
sash with a silken fringe. As he gave the
vicar's wife his arm, when they went in to
dinner, he suddenly produced from his
pocket a little square cap, which he placed
upon his head. He did full justice to
the stewed eels, with which the meal commenced
; but he never removed the little
cap during the whole of the entertainment,
]ior could the vicar and his wife persuade him
to partake of any of the numerous dainties

which composed the rest of the feast. At
first he said he wasn't hungry. A curate
who refused entrees was a novelty to Mrs.
Dodd.

I fear you are not well, Mr. Puffin,"
she said as he declined woodcock on toast.

Dear Mrs. Dodd, I remember that it
is the Eve of St. Eadegonde, Virgin and
Martyr."

The vicar and his wife looked at one
another ; but they respected Mr. Puffin's
prejudices, and ceased to press him.

The next day the reign of the Eeverend
Barnes Puffin commenced. The old church,
where service had been held as seldom as
possible from time immemorial, was now
thrown open daily for matins and evensong.
At first there was no congregation ; but
the Eeverend Barnes Puffin looked up all
the old pensioners, particularly the old
women who were in receipt of parish relief
at home, and in his persuasive but
forcible way he made all these poor old

people understand that their comforts, for
which they had hitherto given nothing in
return, would depend upon good behaviour,
that is to say, going to church,
Nor did Mr. Puffin confine his ministrations
to the lower orders. How he managed
it I don't know ; but before he had been
three months in the place most of the
younger ladies in the parish flocked to
the services. 1 suppose he made love to
them hi a quiet, clerical sort of way. The
Misses Sleek, looking as plump and pretty
as ever, but dressed with a prim demureness
which considerably astonished their
father, were among his first converts ; and
they used to hurry to church on foot
twice a day with praiseworthy regularity
They considered themselves well rewarded
if the curate walked home with them
occasionally to dinner, and so beatified
The Park by his presence. But Mr. Puffin
egregiously failed with Miss Grains. She, too,
had felt inclined at first to place her conscience

in Mr. Puffin's hands ; but young Mr.
Wurzel, an easy-going fellow enough at most
times, objected to Puffin's addressing his
affianced bride, save from the pulpit, as
his dear sister." He had even told Miss
Grains that he looked upon Mr. Puffin asa
" philander," and that " he didn't hold
with slanderers." So Miss Grains made no
alteration in her costume, and she turned
a deaf ear to Mr. Puffin's ecclesiastical
authority.

It was not long before King's Warren
Church rejoiced in a surpliced choir. There
was rather a martial clang of hob-nailed
boots during the numerous processions of
the choir on Sundays ; but the service
was undoubtedly much more imposing than
in the old days. Mr. Puffin did wonders
with the small material at his command.
He would have made an admirable sta^-e-
manager. He never missed a possible
effect, and he considerably astonished the
King's Warreners when he preached his

first funeral sermon. He was a good
preacher, and always held the attention of
the congregation. But perhaps some few of
them smiled when he led up to the fact
that the silver cord was loosed and the
golden bowl broken, in an ornate and
sensational harangue reaching an unexpected
climax by tilting over the
tumbler at his side, which fell with a
crash and was shivered in a thousand
pieces on the floor. There were no
sleepers in King's Warren Church when
the Eeverend Barnes Puffin graced the
pulpit after that. And yet Puffin was
a sincere man, and worked energetically
according to his lights.

But it was an evil day for the Eeverend
Barnes Puffin when he felt it to be his
duty to attempt the conversion of Lucy
Warrender. She was the one black sheep
of the fold, for she had committed the
unpardonable sin — she had laughed at Mr.
Puffin. A girl may differ with a modern

parson, she may argue with him ; nay,
she may refuse to argue with him at all, but
she must not laugh at him, and Lucy had
done this. Had she not irreverently compared
him to Samson, and wickedly declared
that she would like to be a Delilah
to shear with her own hands his too
redundant locks ? Had she not told him
that it was rude to wear the little square
hat, which he persisted in calling a barrett,
in the presence of ladies ? Had she not
openly asserted her belief that he wore a
hair shirt and scourged himself in private?
These are only a few of the many crimes
of which Miss Warrender had been guilty.
It was evidently the duty of the Eeverend
Barnes Puffin to convert Miss Warrender
without loss of time.

Puffin was always well received at The
Warren ; he amused the squire by the
seriousness of his arguments about trifling
things. For every thing that he did, for

every little bob, bow or gesture, the Eeverend
VOL. II. 30

Barnes Puffin had a very good reason.
Nothing that he did was trifling ; it was
always symbolical of something. According
to him, for every movement of his body
there was a ritual reason why. It became
a sort of custom at The Warren that as
soon as dessert was upon the table, the
Reverend Barnes Puffin was allowed to mount
his hobby-horse and wildly career. He liked
to give what he called a little information
on sacred things, and he made the most of
his opportunities, for he never had a long
innings, as he always retired with the ladies.
One evening the Eeverend Barnes Puffin
was seated in the drawing-room at The
Warren conversing with the cousins. Fan-cette,
in all the pride of her Norman costume,
was bringing the little Lucius to bid his
mother good-night. Now Fanchette, from
his cassock, his sash, his barrett, and the
collar which had so puzzled poor Mrs. Dodd,
had always looked upon the Reverend Barnes
Puffin as a veritable Catholic priest, and

respected him accordingly. She made him
a succession of low courtesies, and placing
the little Lucius in his mother's arms, she
advanced towards the curate in a respectful
manner. To his intense astonishment she
suddenly dropped on her knees at his side,
seized his hand, and covered it with kisses.
Then, in fluent patois, she demanded his
blessing. But the curate, unfortunately, did
not understand a word she said. Like most
curates, he was accustomed to the blandishments
which are invariably lavished by the
female sex on these most fortunate of men.
Interesting penitents had made eyes at him,
had squeezed his hand at parting with unnecessary
pressure, had loaded him with
slippers, vestments, and socks and comforters
knitted by their own fair fingers. They had
even obtained interviews, and had wickedly
taken the opportunity of the tete-astute to
make violent love to him ; but never,
in the whole course of his clerical experience,
had any of his " dear sisters " 



deny dropped on their knees at his side
and violently kissed his hand. Puffin was
by no means a vain man. But what could
he think ? Here was a foreign woman,
of prepossessing appearance, administering
soundings osculations to his unwilling fingers.
• " Ladies, dear ladies," he said, as he rose
to his feet, the boiuie still clinging to his
hand and kissing it furiously, " this is
most irregular." here he strove with
gentle dignity to try to withdraw his hand,
but all to no purpose. "Ladies," he said,
blushing violently, and speaking of Fanchette
as if she had been an infuriated bullterrier,
" call her off. Please call her off."

But the cousins were far too amused at
the incident to come to his assistance.
George could not forbear a smile, while
Lucy burst into inextinguishable peals of
silvery laughter.

She wants your blessing, Mr, Puffin,
that's all," said Lucy at length.
"Then she should come to church. Miss

Warrender," exclaimed Mr. Puffin, to whose
hand the bonne clung, alternately kissing it
and gazing up at him with imploring eyes.

She thinks you are a Catholic priest,"
exclaimed Lucy.

This is too horrible," cried the Eeverend
Barnes Puffin, as he vainly struggled to
release the imprisoned hand.

Ah, mon pere'' vociferated the bonne.

Goodness me, she says I'm her father ;
pray explain, dear ladies. Is her mind
affected ? "

And then Miss Warrender did explain tc
her.

On hearing that the unhappy curate was
not a priest of her own Church, but only,
as Lucy had expressed it, a heretical Protestant
pastor, Fanchette's demeanour changed
altogether.

Ah grediji, farceur, monsieur e t en bravest.
Saperlottey' she added, and here she
snapped her fingers in the astonished curate's
face, and abruptly left the room.

The curate sank into a clair and
wiped this brow with his pocket-handkerchief.


"Goodness me, ladies," he said, "what a
terrible person ! I assure you I didn't mean
to exasperate her."

From that day Fanchette ceased her respectful
obeisance to the curate, but his
visits to The Warren, where he was always
a welcome guest, became gradually more
frequent.

It is human nature after all ever to strive
after the impossible, and Mr. Puffin recognizing
in Miss Warrender a young lady
who was essentially of the world worldly,
naturally determined to attempt her conversion.
But the spirit of contrariety is
ever strongly developed in the female
breast. As the parson became more pertinacious.
Miss Warrender, who was at first
rather bored than otherwise by his eloquence,
resolved upon reprisals.

"Til bet you a new bonnet," she had

said to Haggard, " that I make the Celibate
propose to me."

Not he, my dear," said George's husband
with a laugh. " Puffin's not altogether
a fool after all ; he's got the run of his
teeth in this house, and he won't care to
lose it by making an ass of himself."

"My dear Miss Warrender, my husband's
curate considers himself as vowed to heaven,"
said Mrs. Dodd, who was present.

"They all do, Mrs. Dodd, till they find
metal more attractive. I daresay even Mr.
Dodd considered himself at one time as
vowed to heaven."

There is no analogy, Miss Warrender,
between my husband's case and that of
Mr. Puffin. When Mr. Dodd proposed tome,
Miss Warrender, he did so as a beneficed
clergyman ; and he proposed to the
daughter of a dignitary of the Church.
Had Mr. Dodd been a curate, he would not
have so far forgotten his position as to
have been guilty of so presumptuous an act."

But I'm only Squire Warrender's niece,
Mrs. Dodd ; there would be no presumption
in my case."

Don't buoy yourself up with false hopes,
Lucy. Were Mr. Puffin to be guilty of
such unseemly folly, it would be my duty,
as his vicar's wife, to seriously remonstrate
with him ; and should he prove obdurate,
even to dispense with his services. The
position of a clergyman's wife, Lucy War-render,
is full of difficulty and responsibility,'
she added sententiously.

That's what makes me long for it so,
Mrs. Dodd. I yearn to feel myself lifted
out of the common ruck of women."

"You are maidenly, Lucy Warrender,"
said the vicar's wife, instantly assuming
her favourite tone of a Lord Chief Justice.

Miss Hood smiled, for she felt that the
badinage was sober earnest to Mrs. Dodd ;
but she made no remark, for Lucy was
Ions aero out of leading strings.

When the vicar's wife reached her home,

she sent for Mr. Puffin. After she had
shaken hands with him, she came to the
point at once.

I trust you are comfortable here, Mr.
Puffin'' she said, " and that you find King's
Warren a congenial sphere."

"I do indeed, dear madam," replied the
curate. " We have already accomplished
much, but there is yet an abundant field
of work in the place. I am very happy
here."

I have a dreadful communication to
make to you, Mr. Puffin. A member of
the congregation has confided to me the
disgraceful fact of her personal infatuation
for m}^ husband's curate."

This is sad, Mrs. Dodd, this is very
sad ; but it is not wholly unexpected.
Clergymen, as you are aware, dear madam,
are constantly exposed to these annoyances
in the course of their ministrations. You
allude, I conclude, to the younger Miss
Sleek. I have noticed latterly her marked

assiduity in attendance at church — the most
unseasonable weather has failed to keep
lier away. I half feared that it would be so.
Alas, girls are apt to forget the priest in
the man. But this is a new kind of experience
to me, Mrs. Dodd, for I have found
that they usually first confide their folly
to the object of their aspirations."

"No, Mr. Puffin, it is not Miss Sleek to
whom I allude ; nothing would surprise
me with regard to her. There is no folly
that young persons in her class of life
might not be guilty of. It is not the
younger Miss Sleek, though she is an ambitious
girl, but the squire's near relative
who has confessed a wicked passion for
my husband's curate."

Gracious me," cried Mr. Puffin. " Can
you possibly allude to young Mrs. Haggard?"


"Mr. Puffin, you forget yourself. No, it
is Miss Warrender who has confided to me
her infamous secret."

Mr. Puffin turned pale, then he blushed
to the roots of his hair ; he sighed deeply,
and then he simpered. The vicar's wife
drummed impatiently upon the table.

"Oh, Mr. Puffin," she said, "you don't
mean to say that you reciprocate this?
How often have you protested to me that
you were a Debate, a priest ; and now
you do nothing but sit and snigger. I'm
grieved ; I'm disappointed in you, Mr.
Puffin."

"Dear Mrs. Dodd," said the poor parson,
your communication has taken me by
surprise. At first it horrified me. I am a
priest, Mrs. Dodd," he said, " it is true ;
but, alas, I also remember that I am a
man." He buried his face in his hands.

Mrs. Dodd sat immovable, looking at the
curate with an astonished gaze ; and then
she suddenly left the room and slammed
the door violently.

The transformation was as thorough as
it was sudden ; the Eeverend Barnes Puffin

had entered that room the humble coadjutor
of the vicar's wife ; as he left it, he felt
his soul soar into higher regions : as Orientals
put it, " his head was touching the
skies." Mrs. Dodd looked out of her breakfast
room window to watch the departure
of him who she mentally termed " the fallen
man."

But the fallen man considerably astonished
her by the change in his appearance.
Mr. Puffin, who was accustomed to walk
slowly and with downcast eyes, as became
a celibate priest, now strode down the
drive ; he didn't walk, he strode. He swung
his walking-stick defiantly in the air, and
to her astonishment Mrs. Dodd perceived
that, ere he left the place, he committed
the brutal act of beheading one of her
favourite poppies with a sort of 
that would have done credit
to a Life Guardsman.

Mutter on, happy clerical butterfly, your
bliss will be of short duration ; for that

careful entomologist, Miss Lucy Warrender,
is already preparing the sharp needle that
shall transfix your little triumphant heart.

Puffin, as he passed through the village,
returned the many salutations he received
with joyous bows, and the wiseacres noticed
that his broad brimmed clerical hat was now
worn with a triumphant cock.

ME. PUFFIN HUNTS A BUTTERFLY.

The Eeverend John Dodd had been more
than satisfied with his new curate. At first
the long cassock, the flowing robes, and the
rather eccentric " make up " of the man
had been a daily outrage to the vicar's idea of
decency. Mr. Puffin was not the first curate
in the vicar's experience who had sought
notoriety by a fantastic dress ; but Mr. Puffin
worked hard in the parish, Mr. Puffin was
eloquent, and the vicar felt certain that the
Established Church in King's Warren was
gaining ground. He was rather gratified
than otherwise to hear that Mr. Puffin had
begun to waver in his ideas about celibacy.
Puffin as an engaged man might be somewhat
less divine, but he would be assuredly
more human. Dodd himself didn't see why

Mr. Puffin should not become the husband of
Miss Warrender. Puffin was a clergyman, and
a gentleman ; and the Eeverend John Dodd
rubbed his hands as he thought of the
inevitable struggle for mastery which would
take place between the pair should the
marriage ever come off. And after all,
more unlikely things than this marriage had
happened. Miss Warrender certainly had
had her fling, but a girl can't go on having
her fling for ever, and the vicar chuckled
as he thought of Lucy as the Celibate's
wife. Unconsciously perhaps the curate had
assumed an air of superiority to his vicar,
for as a Celibate he would naturally look
down upon him as a being of a coarser clay,
a mere earthen pot ; but this had only
amused his good-natured chief, and the
Eeverend John Dodd smiled as he thought
of the gentle vengeance he might have,
when the enamoured Puffin should take
him into his confidence.

He sat down to dinner in the best of

tempers. When he perceived that he was
to be regaled with a veal sweetbread with
brown sauce, his eyes were lighted up with
a merry twinkle. But he felt that there
was something in the wind; he knew that
that delectable propitiatory sacrifice was only
offered to his critical palate on his birthday,
when his wife was in a particularly good
temper, or when she had a favour to ask.
As he looked at the partner of his earthly
joys, it was plainly apparent to him that
Mrs. Dodd was ruffled ; it was not his birthday,
so he had a second helping of the
delicacy and made up his mind to yield to
the inevitable demand with the best possible
grace. But not till they were alone did
his wife unbosom herself.

John," she said, " I've come to the conclusion
that Mr. Puffin must leave us ; a
curate ceases to be of use in a parish the
moment he makes himself ridiculous, and
Mr. Puffin tells me that he is determined
to make a fool of himself. I could have

passed over his peculiarities, John," she said,
*' and his eccentricities in dress ; I could even
have forgiven his long hair, in consideration
of the immense amount of work he manages
to get through ; but lie is about to render
himself unsuitable. I approve of ambition
in a clergyman ; my dear father is an ambitious
man, and he has prospered, though
not perhaps according to his great deserts ;
but worldly ambition, the thirst for gold, is
unbecoming in a clergyman. To m}^ mind,
it is painfully apparent that Mr. Puffin, who
ought to be actuated by far higher motives,
is prepared to sacrifice himself to Lucy
Warrender, who is a most objectionable
young person, in order to secure at some
future time the presentation to the living
of King's Warren."

The vicar laughed.

"I mean to live for the next twenty years
my dear, and if Puffin intends to put up
with twenty years of Lucy Warrender for
the sake of this living, though it is a fat

VOL. II. 31

one, I shall consider that the labourer will
have been worthy of his hire."

"Don't be profane, John," said the lady
reprovingly.

"To do Puffin justice, I don't think he
is mercenary. Lucy has probably turned
his head."

"John, Mr. Puffin is not of an inflammable
nature."

All curates are of an inflammable nature,
my dear ; why you turned my head in your
time."

I trust, Mr. Dodd, that my mental
qualities attracted you, and not mere physical
beauty."

Of course, my dear, of course ; but you
were a monstrous fine woman then, and for
the matter of that, you are still, Cecilia,"
said the vicar, as he helped himself to a
third glass of his '47 port.

His wife smiled and smoothed her cap
ribbons.

Don't exceed, John," she said, with a

warning gesture, " or Mr. Puffin may not
have to wait twenty years for his preferment
after all. You must admonish him,
John ; a man of his principles, his pretended
principles, is not suited for married life.
He told me himself, that ever since his
ordination he has assumed what he calls a
priestly garb. I ask you, John, how could
he be married in a cassock? How could
he go on his honeymoon in it ? "

"Well, he could leave it off, my
dear."

But he has declared to me that he
never would leave it off. How often has he
sneered at ordinary clerical attire, though
he has never dared to suggest that you
should masquerade in, what he calls, proper
ecclesiastical costume''

There may be reasons, my dear ; he may
have bandy legs."

His legs are perfectly indifferent to me,

Mr. Dodd. If he wishes to marry, he should

dress like other people."

31—2

You should suggest that to Lucy War-render,
my dear."

If I thought for a moment, Mr. Dodd,
that there was a possibility of his being the
means of rescuing the girl by his own self-sacrifice,
I should not say one word ; if he
has a taste for martyrdom, it would not befor
me to interfere ; but I know that Lucy
is only wickedly encouraging him for the
sake of winning the bet of a new bonnet
from her cousin's husband. You must warn
and admonish him, John, or he must go.
Stacey would have been a far more suitable
partner for him."

*' Why didn't you suggest it, my dear ? "

It is not my duty to secure a husband
for my sister-in-law, Mr. Dodd."

You thought it was, in the squire's case,
Cecilia."

But the vicar's wife let the taunt pass
by unnoticed

'• If you don't admonish him, John, I
must. It will be a thankless office, for the

wretched man seems bent on his own destruction."


Well, he has chosen a particularly pleasant
form of suicide, Cecilia."

"Flippancy, Mr. Dodd, is not becoming
in a clergyman," said his wife with a ruffled
air, " and it is not good taste for a clergyman
to openly express his admiration for
his female parishioners to his wife, and
so violate the sanctity of his own fireside."


I'm not going to make or meddle in
the matter, Mrs. Dodd," said her husband.
" 'Tis a vicar's duty to protect his curate,
Mr. Dodd."

"Not when the curate is perfectly well
able to take care of himself, my dear.
Besides, there is another point of view ;
Lucy might do worse."

Well, John," she replied, " I shall say
no more. I can only hope that it is not
in a spirit of professional jealousy that you
allow this poor thoughtless young fellow

to rush to his doom." And then she rang
for coffee.

Next day the Eeverend Barnes Puffin
lunched at The Warren. Being a feast day
he did full justice to the meal. He was
overflowing with good spirits, and as soon
as lunch was over he seized the first opportunity
of securing a tete-astute with the
squire's niece. As Miss Warrender took
the arm of the clergyman, she cast an
amused and meaning glance at Haggard.
Little by little the pair wandered away into
the secluded rose garden, and the Eeverend
Barnes Puffin felt that he had got his chance.

Do you care for parish work, Miss
Warrender ? " said the Celibate, after a few
commonplace phrases.

'sto tell you the truth, Mr. Puffin, I
don't know ; I have never tried."

It is a great privilege, you know," he
said. " Has it never occurred to you, my
dear Miss Warrender, that it might be your
vocation, your natural aim in life."

''No, I don't think it ever has, Mr. Puffin,"
she said. " I did know a girl once, one of
my school friends, she joined a sisterhood ;
you know I fancy it was the dress attracted
her. She joined a sisterhood, but they
made the poor thing wear dreadful thick
shoes like a man's, and she had to scrub
floors, which spoilt her pretty hands ; poor
child, they have remained red ever since,
and she was glad to marry an army doctor
and go to China with him. I suppose red
hands don't matter in China," the girl said
meditatively. " No, I don't think I should
care to scrub floors, Mr. Puffin," and she
spread out her taper fingers as though for
her own inspection.

The curate admired the fingers, and
observed with satisfaction that they were
undecorated by a prohibitive ring.

There are other spheres, dear Miss War-render,
than sisterhoods. Our friend Mrs.
Dodd has found a happy and congenial one
here in King's Warren."

But then she is a clergyman's wife,
Mr. Puffin, and a privileged person."

"It is a privilege, Miss War render, a
great privilege. I'm glad it commends itself
to you as such."

Oh, yes ; Mrs. Dodd is much to be
envied, but then Mrs. Dodd is a very
clever woman ; she, Mr. Puffin, has caught
her hare."

And having caught him, Miss Warrender,
she has accommodated him to her own
taste."

Hers is a master mind, Mr. Puffin."

"It is perhaps as easy, my dear young
lady, to rule by love as to rule by
fear."

And much nicer, I should think, Mr.
Puffin."

The curate blushed, and then he made
an audacious statement.

Mine is a very accommodating nature.
Miss Warrender."

"That's very fortunate for you, Mr.

Puffin, for you must have so much to put
up with from the poor people."

I have lately been engaged, Miss War-render,
in a very serious mental struggle.
I am afraid 1 have been arrogant. I am
afraid that I have boasted and bragged to my
friends and to my parishioners that I was
not as other men are, that my whole soul
was given up to duty, that I was a
Celibate, not merely from vocation but
from inclination. But my feelings have
undergone a change. At first, dear Miss
Warrender, I was overpowered by a sense
of what I considered my own degradation,
but that feeling has entirely passed away.
I confess to you that when I first came
here I considered myself on a higher platform
to that of most men, and I supposed
that in obstinately refraining from the
ordinary lot of clergymen, I mean marriage,
that I was exercising a considerable degree
of self-abnegation, in fact that I was leading
a liicjher life. I now see that all this

was a wicked error. The Church enjoins
penance, and I have come to the conclusion
from my intimate acquaintance with
the sufferings of my unfortunate vicar, that
instead of making a sacrifice in abstaining
from matrimony I was actually guilty of
profound and calculating selfishness. I see,
too, that a married clergyman in giving
up the idea of celibacy secures at least
one efficient coadjutor in his parish work.
As you knows Miss Warrender, I am in the
habit of acting upon my convictions."

"Then of course, Mr. Puffin, you will at
once seek to secure the hand of some
particularly objectionable person, in order
to render the touching martyrdom you
speak of the more meritorious ? "

No, Miss Warrender, I shall not look
upon that as a bounden duty. My position
as a Celibate has many advantages from a
professional point of view, for the female
portion of my parishioners are enabled to
look upon me as one of themselves."

Oh, I don't quite think that, Mr. Puffin ;
of course there is something — well, epicene
about your dress, but then to some minds,
you know, the clerical dress has a great
attractiveness. Why the Louis Quatorze
abbes, that we see so much of in comic
opera, were terribly wicked people, you
know, Mr. Puffin, and they clung very
tightly to the clerical dress, and so did
Tartuffe for the matter of that."

Dear Miss Warrender, the cleric garb
is but a delightful reminiscence of a past
time ; there is nothing ridiculous in it.
You have the same thinking the Blue
Coat boy, and there is assuredly nothing
ridiculous in a Blue Coat boy."

Quite the contrary, Mr. Puffin ; it is
rather romantic than otherwise, but I can't
fancy a full-grown man in yellow stockings,
and a — hem — undivided skirt. By the
way, Mr. Puffin, I can give you a suggestion
: if you did really carry out your ideas
and marry after all, you might adopt the

Blue Coat costume as a sort of sign of
your apostacy, a kind of san lenity ; you
would still be retaining the medieval idea,
you see, and be thoroughly distinguishable
from Tartuffe and the wicked abbes we
were talking about."

In matters of dress. Miss Warrender,
did I become a married man I should
naturally defer to the wishes of my wife."

You don't mean to say that you would
dress like other people ? "

"Yes, Miss Warrender, I should do so,
though it would not be without a pang
that I should relinquish what I look upon
as the true clerical garb."

"Don't think of it, Mr. Puffin, don't
think of it, for an instant. The noble
savage in his war-paint, his wampum, his
feathers and his scalps, is a dignified object ;
but dress him in a suit of common clothes
and cut his hair and he ceases to be interesting."


Do you really think. Miss Warrender,

that I should lose influence if I adopted
the costume of ordinary life, should I enter
upon the perilous sea of matrimony ? "

"Well, Mr. Puffin, if you dressed like
other people and married, I don't see how,
to use sour own expression, ' the female
members of your congregation could continue
to look upon you as one of themselves,'
because if they did, you see you
would be only Mrs. Puffin's sister after
all."

Yes, 1 am afraid that is the reductio
ad absurdum. But we are wandering away.
Miss Warrender ; it was about my heart,
and not about my garments, that I sought
to converse with you."

Oh, Mr. Puffin, I should make the worst
of confidants; I never by any chance keep
a secret."

And yet I am ready to trust to your
discretion. Miss Warrender."

I confess you rouse my curiosity. Do
I know the lady ? "

Yes, Miss Warrender, lie is your best
friend and your worst enemy."

Now you intrigue me, Mr. Puffin, for
all my acquaintances address me as their
dearest Lucy, and as for my enemies —
I've guessed it, Mr. Puffin. I never had
an enemy till Mr. Sleek's hay making. I
suppose Miss Connie Sleek is the bride-elect.
Let me congratulate you, Mr. Puffin,
but do tell me one thing, it is so 
are Miss Sleek's ideas about the
clerical garb ? "

I fear you wilfully misunderstand me,
Miss surrender. My aspirations are higher.
I do not think Miss Sleek would ever bethe
ideal wife for a clergyman."

"You mystify me, Mr. Puffin."

Mr. Puffin possessed a copy of the " Bab
Ballads." He remembered two lines in them
that gave him that hope which they say
springs eternal in the human breast.

It isn't so much the lover who woos,
As the lover's way of wooing."

He remembered that Mr. Gilbert's successful
lover came to the point at once, so,
to use a hunting simile, he sat well down
in his saddle, and he hardened his heart.

"Dear Miss Warrender," he said, and
there was a certain amount of dignity about
the man, despite his long hair and his
eccentric appearance, " I am only a working
clergyman, but I am a gentleman ; and
I wish you, for both our sakes, to share my
lot."

Here Lucy Warrender cast down her
pretty eyes and smiled, for she felt that
she had won Haggard's new bonnet fairly
and honestly.

The parson continued, taking heart of
grace from the false little smile upon her
lips :

"I'm going to ask you to give up a
great deal for the sake of religion, and for
my sake, Miss Warrender. I'm going to
ask you to give up the world, its frivolous
enjoyments and its pleasures, and to tread

with me a thorny and toilsome path which
leads to higher things. I know my presumption,
Miss Warrender. I know that
in trying to do good according to my
lights I often merely succeed in making
myself ridiculous. If I am ridiculous in
your eyes, Miss Warrender, you can have
but one answer to give me. But my proposition
to you is at least disinterested.
I know you will believe that. I don't
ask you for an answer now. Miss Warrender.
I should scorn to snatch a favourable
answer from an inexperienced girl"

Lucy gave another little smile.

Think over what I have said, dear
Miss Warrender ; if you feel equal to
making? the sacrifice, so do I. Take time
to think it over."

No, Mr. Puffin. I have been foolish
and wicked, perhaps, if I have unknowingly
encouraged you ; but you have spoken
honestly enough to me, and the least you
deserve is an honest answer. I am not fit,

Mr. Puffin, to be any man's wife — any
honest man's wife — least of all a clergyman's."


Lucy felt that she had said a little too
much, so she hastened to qualify it.

I am but a worldly girl. 1 love
pleasure and dissipation ; it is my nature
a nature I can never change. Look on
me, Mr. Puffin, as wholly unworthy of
you. Were you to marry me, Mr. Puffin,
you would commit an act that we should
both repent. You would degrade yourself
to my level ; and, God knows, mine is
a very low level. Take my answer as it
is meant Mr. Puffin, in seriousness, and
as irrevocable. Forgive me, Mr. Puffin, and
do me one favour. I am utterly bad, Mr.
Puffin, but try not to think unkindly of
me, for 1 have no friends ; and, as you
told me just now, I am my own worst
enemy."

Tears were standing in the pretty eyes.

Lucy Warrender was not acting now.
\uL. n, 32

The Eeverend Barnes Puffin did not press
this suit further.

'• Good-bye, Miss Warrender," he said, ina
choking voice. " But never say you
have no friends. We may never meet
again. I have merited my rebuff, but I
thank you for your forbearance. And if you
ever need a friend, you have a faithful
one in me."

He pressed her hand and took his leave.
As he walked out of the rose garden with a
dejected air, it was very evident that his
-wooing had not prospered. But Lucy surrender
never asked Haggard to pay his
lost wager.

The Eeverend Barnes Puffin bore his misfortune
like a man. He felt that Lucy's
determination was heal, and that it would'
be hopeless to try his luck again with her ;
but she hadn't laughed at him, and that
was something. Still, Mr. Puffin felt that
it behoved him to leave King's Warren.
Just as it is a matter of tradition, an 

law, that a ministry when beaten
on a great political question goes out of
office, so it is the custom among curates
who have been unsuccessful in their love
affairs in the parish, if the parish is aware
of the fact, to tender their resignation.
The curate sought an interview with the
Reverend John Dodd and. announced his
decision. The vicar did not attempt to
combat it. A celibate clergyman has many
advantages : but a celibate clergyman who
is prepared to renounce his principles ceases
to inspire respect among the female portion
of his congregation. As a Celibate, rapturous
maidens will go on sighing and
weeping for him, for while he represents
the Unattainable there is something almost
saint-like about him ; but as a curate who
has been refused by a member of his own
congregation, the nimbus suddenly disappears
from his brow ; he ceases to be a
modern apostle, and turns out to be an
ordinary and unsuccessful fisherman after

all. And this is one reason why the
modern fisherman always carries a creel.
Isaac Walton was contented to bring home
the spoils of his art strung upon an osier ;
but the modern creel conveys an impression
of dignity ; the natural supposition is
that there is something in it, hence its
popularity.

So the Eeverend Barnes Puffin went
back to hard work at the east end of
London, and after a time attained the preferment
which the archdeacon had prophesied
; but he still retains the celibate garb,
and in his dreams he sees a glorified Lucy
Warrender — fair hair, brown eyes and all —
and the lovely vision is quite sufficient for
him. He thinks of her as he fondly
fancied her, and looks on her as a sort of
guardian angel still. Who shall grudge
him the fond delusion ?

A Rather SHADY CHARACTER.

The lower middle classes are a never-failiiiij^
stalking-horse ; we can all afford to laiigli
at them as ridiculous, vulgar, improvident
and wicked. Even the mock hero, the
good young man who tries to raise himself,
has something comic in him. But we
haven't seen anything of the lower orders
in this history as yet, and it is only incidentally
that we quit King's Warren for
the grimy neighbourhood of St. Luke's.
Just behind the great hospital for lunatics
is Matilda Street. They are all private
houses in Matilda Street, and from the
number of brass plates it seems at hast a
professional sort of neighbourhood. Most
of the houses are evidently occupied by at
least three familles, for the right-hand

doorpost nearly always contains three bells,
one for each floor. But the brass plates
are not those of lawyers and doctors ;
many of them indicate the places of business
of working jewellers and watchmakers, and
the latter predominate ; dial painters, engine
turners, escapement makers, swivel manufacturers
and so on, ad infinitum. Then
there are pianoforte tuners, and dealers of
many sorts. Those of the plates which
have only a surname upon them, indicate
that the place is a lodging house. Though
we are in the black heart of London, in
one of the darkest, poorest and most
melancholy quarters, there is a great deal
of window gardening going on ; plants of
every kind and sort may be seen on the
window ledges, from ground floor to attic ;
the humble Creeping Jenny is a great
favourite, and it seems to thrive wonderfully
in the damp thick atmosphere. Some
of the oTound floor windows are discreet'
screened by wonderful specimens of lank

spindly geraniums — hapless plants which
have never been known to bloom, but
whose sickly-looking leaves of abnormal
pallor struggle towards the light, what
little there is of it. Matilda Street, being
in the heart of St. Luke's, naturally contains
many fanciers. Numerous bow-windowed,
brass-bound cages, each with its little bit of
turf, are hung outside the windows in all
directions, and the imprisoned skylarks
they contain warble away merrily, giving
quite a rural air to Matilda Street, Eg.
Seedy-looking men and boys, carrying tiny
square cages carefully tied up in handkerchiefs,
are continually popping in and out ;
these are the chaffinch fanciers, and each
cage contains a sightless songster, who at
his master's command is prepared to pour
forth his simple rural melody at au}^ hour
of the day or night in a long unbroken series
of cheeps and chirrups. In Matilda Street
lives a trainer of piping bullfinches, a man
who has passed his whole life turning a

inelodeon and teaching Ins pupils the tune
of " Eule, Britannia." Dog-breeding and dog-dealing
are favourite occupations in Matilda
Street ; mysterious men emerge at dusk,
leading dogs and carrying them in their
arms, their pockets, or their bosoms, to
exhibit them at numerous local shows held
in neighbouring pot-houses. The little
back yards — they call them gardens in
Matilda Street — are filled with sheds and
wondrous home-made constructions, in which
fancy poultry and rabbits are kept. Even
the roofs of the houses bristle with pigeon-lofty
and artful-looking structures for the
capture of wandering birds. Should a stray
pigeon alight on one of these contrivances,
attracted by the hemp seed which is profusely
scattered thereon, or by the presence
of a decoy securely fastened by the leg, a
sudden click may be heard, and the bird
finds himself in an instant imprisoned in an
artful arrangement of wire walls, which
has closed on him with the rapidity of a

conjuring trick. Matilda Street is a decidedly
poor neighbourhood ; but, strange
to say, it is a favourite " pitch " for the bogus
starving? British workman and his interesting
family, when he is upon what he terms
the " kitchen lay " The man generally
goes barefoot, his face is half covered by
a stubbly crop of bristles, which pathetically
indicate that he cannot even afford
the cheap luxury of the British workman —
a halfpenny shave He doesn't let his beard
grow — that would look far too comfortable
; artful gashes in his trousers exhibit
his knees, which appeal in a startling
manner to the feelings of the benevolent ;
either elbow is clasped to show how he
suffers from the inclemency of the weather ;
by his side walks his pattern wife, who
always wears a large white apron ; she invariably
carries an infant of tender years ;
at either side of the pair march the
rest of the family. They keep to the
centre of the road ; the woman watches

the windows of one side of the street, the
man those of the other ; and from morning
till night they howl a single verse of
some hymn with monotonous obstinacy',
varying it with a plaintive lament that
They've got no work to do." They are
quite right in choosing places like Matilda
Street, for there is little or no traffic to
interrupt the effect of the procession ; besides,
in such a place as this no policeman
would interrupt them ; and, strange to say,
it is in shy and poor neighbourhoods that
the " kitchen lay " reaps its richest harvest.


Matilda Street is essentially a shy neighbourhood
— perhaps that is why the tenant
of number 13 has chosen it as this residence.
On the door plate of number 13
is the simple inscription, " Parsons, agent."
It's rather a puzzle to make out what Mi*.
Parsons is agent for ; no clients ever come
to see him, and he seems to pass the
greater part of his day in smoking a pipe

and reading a newspaper. But Mr. Parsons
has his profession — he was born in it, so
to speak, and his father was a professor
before liii ; but his father failed, and his
father's unfortunate failure has been a
lesson to him. The real fact is that Mr.
Parsons' father was a burglar of the hue
old school. His was a life of vicissitude ;
and though an ambitious and fairly successful
man, the law, against which he had
waged war for many years, got the better
of him at last; and after having passed
nearly forty years of his life in Her
Majesty's jails, death at length prevented
his obtaining the ticket-of-leave he had
almost earned, and this consequent return
to business.

Tt is all very well for the majority of ns
to wonder wh}^ Mr. Parsons didn't attempt
to earn an honest livelihood, but we must
remember that he had been brought up to
a profession of which most people disapprove
from his earliest infancy. As quite a little

fellow he had accompanied his father on
many a successful nocturnal expedition ; it
had been his duty to keep watch for the
guardians of public order, and to signal
their approach. He had been taught to
rapidly dispose of precious plunder in a
neat little crucible, plunged in a fierce fire
of coke ; as he got bigger, he it was who
sat ready at the corner of the street in a
tax-cart, prepared to rapidly drive off with
the "' swag " when of a bulky nature.

But though Mr. Parsons, Senior, had
been a clever professor of the predatory
art, though his triumphs had been numerous
anl his operations exceedingly brilliant
and extensive, he could not be called a
success. To pass forty years of one's life
in jail, to be perpetually blackmailed by
one's accomplices, to obtain only a small
proportion of one's legitimate earnings from
those rascals the " fences " or dealers in
stolen property, and at last after all to die
in prison, is not a brilliant prospect. Xow

Mr. Parsons the son was a philosopher.
On this father's death he found himself the
possessor of a complete and almost perfect
set of what may be termed his father's
trade utensils. There was also a little secret
hoard of valuable gems. Mr. Parsons put
his burglarious implements in a place of
safety ; he lived abroad upon the proceeds
of his little fortune for some years ; and
when he came back to England this own
mother, if she had been alive, would not
have known him. Then he settled down
at number 13, Matilda Street, and commenced
the practice of his profession upon
principles of his own : not as a mere mercenary
occupation, but as a fine art. Mr.
Parsons kept well away from his father's old
haunts and from the perfidious acquaintances
who had degraded him and been the
cause of his ultimate ruin. mr. Parsons
had no low tastes ; lie disliked drink and
bad company ; he had but one ambition,
and that was to obtain a comfortable competence

from the skilful exercise of this
profession. lie wisely concluded that it
is not sufficient to commit a successful
burglary, if you are afterwards found out.
He was a careful student of the police
reports and the trials at the Central
Criminal Court, and the more he studied
those interesting records, the more he became
convinced of the wickedness of human
nature, the inefficiency of the police, and
the tendency of accomplices to " split."
Mr. Parsons, then, being a thoroughly practical
man was also a theorist ; he made
several determinations, which he strictly
kept to. In the first place, he came to
the conclusion that a suspect is always
watched, and that accomplices, however
useful, are extremely dangerous. So he
determined to carry on his profession upon
strictly business principles. Wise man that
he was, he appreciated the fable of the
hare and the tortoise. It was better, he
thou^dit, to earn a safe and comfortable

living ; and he determined, should he ever
b3 so fortunate as to make a great coup
to immediately retire from business. He
trusted to his own clear head, his own
clever fingers, and himself. So lie habitually
worked alone. He passed his afternoons
in " looking round." His operations
were very carefully planned, and generally
successfully carried out.

It will be seen from all this that Mr.
Parsons was no common criminal, but he
was a dangerous man for all that ; for on
his nocturnal expeditions he was in the habit
of carrying an ugly sheath knife, not as a
weapon of offence, be it remembered, but
purely as a last resource for the protection
of his own personal liberty.

It was a fine summer afternoon, and
Mr. Parsons was lounging through one of
the better streets of St. Join's Wood ; that
neighbourhood, sarcastically designated '• the
shady grove of the Evangelist," had peculiar
attractions for ]\lr. Parsons; it is

wealthy, the large houses stand mostly in
their own grounds, and the big well-kept
gardens offer favourable hiding-places to the
midnight thief. Mr. Parsons lounged along,
peacefully smoking a briar root pipe ; the
houses where the paint was shabby or the
gardens were ill-kept did not attract his attention
; these signs were quite sufficient for him,
and in his mind he put their owners down
as " electro." Other houses which were
guarded by dogs also failed to interest
him, but Mr. Parsons took more than a
passing glance at Azalea Lodge.

Azalea Lodge stood back some twenty
feet from the road way ; the entire outside
of the house was painted or grained ; there
was a great deal of gilding on the railings,
a large gas lamp of the latest construction
was fixed over each of the polished oak
gates that formed the entrances to the little
carriage-drive ; the carriage-drive itself was
asphalted, and clean as a new pin ; the
shrubs in the small front garden were expensive

ones, and well pruned and trimmed ;
beyond the porch projected a rather
elaborate glass structure set in ornamental
iron work, and the centre of the well-whitened
stone steps was covered with
striped horsehair matting. Flowering shrubs
in pots were ranged up these steps, while
the sides of the porch proper were crammed
with them. Elaborate floral decorations
were on every window-ledge ; not mere
plants in pots, but great blocks of colour
artfully arranged : scarlet geraniums and
cancellaria with glossy-leaved fuchsias of
many hues blazed in frames of blue lobelia,,
while dwarf ivies, nasturtiums and the pretty
variegated periwinkle hung down in thick
festoons, hiding the window sills. The beds
in the front garden were made to show up
in startling contrast to the closely-shaven
turf by means of cocoanut fibre, into which
potted flowering plants were plunged in
reckless profusion. In one window of the

drawing-room was a quasi-oriental Jardtjiiere
VOL. n. 3o

ia wliicli stood a large orchid covered
with delicate blooms of mauve and yellow ;
in the next appeared the top of a parrot's
cage of plated metal, on which sat a tame
white cockatoo, who seemed to enjoy the
splendour by which he was surrounded.
The very linings of the curtains were of
rich corded silk, and a half open window
showed in the dim vista a distant vision of
the heavy frames of numerous oil paintings.
From top to bottom the bed-room window
were discreetly screened by lace curtains
tied up with coloured ribbon.

All these pretty things have taken somewhat
long to describe, but the eagle eye of
Mr. Parsons took them all in at a glance.
A fishmonger's cart stopped at the side
door, and Mr. Parsons noticed with satisfaction
that a hue piece of salmon and a
lobster were taken into the house by the
purveyor's assistant. Mr. Parsons continued
his walk as far as the next house, which
proved to be an empty one and in the

hands of the painters ; their ladders and
pahit pots stood about in every direction,
but the workmen themselves had evidently
gone to dinner. ]mr. Parsons shook out
the contents of his pipe, pocketed it, and
walking up to the hall door, which stood
invitingly open, confidently entered the
empty house ; he walked into the drawing-room
and on to the open Italian balcony
beyond it, which commanded a view of the
grounds of Azalea Lodge, and then Mr.
Parsons stood wrapped in meditation.
Something that he saw at a heavily-barred
window on the ground floor of Azalea
Lodge evidently gave him food for reflection.
On a table covered with green baize
lay a quantity of elaborate specimens of
the silversmith's art, racing cups and
trophies, vases and statuettes of burnished
silver were there in profusion, and a heap
of leathers and brushes showed that they
were undergoing the process of cleaning.

The eyes of Mr. Parsons sparkled with 



faction ; he looked round to see if he was
observed. There wasn't a soul in sight,
And then Mr. Parsons did a very curious
thing ; he gave a low growl, then a little
yelp, and then an aggressive bark like an
irritated dog. Then he began to bark
asrain in a louder and still more defiant
manner. But there was no answer to the
strange challenge. Mr. Parsons crave a
satisfied smile, walked quietly out of the
empty house, re-lighted his pipe and resumed
his walk.

It's hardly likely that Mr. Parsons
thought of renting the empty house next
door to Azalea Lodge, but he walked past
at least four times that afternoon. He
went home to Matilda Street on the top
of an omnibus, and then, like a respectable
man as he was, he sat down to a good
substantial tea.

Before commencing a campaign a great
general sits down to think it out. This is
exactly what Mr. Parsons did. The tenant

of number 13, Matilda Street had declared
war against Azalea Lodge. From
what he had seen, Mr. Parsons had no doubt
whatever in his own mind that, should his
campaign prove successful, he would secure
the competence he had yearned for for so
many years and be able to retire from business
altogether.

That night Mr. Parsons visited a public
house, paid for a glass of ale, and consulted
the directory. He found that Azalea Lodge
was occupied by Lord Hetton ; the name
seemed familiar to him ; he turned to the
landlord, who was a well-known sporting
character, and sought for information.

Lord Hetton's a political chap, ain't he,
Mr. Mason ? " said he, addressing the great
man with much humility.

Not as ever I heard of ; why his
lordship's a racing man. Every one knows
Lord Hetton — him as owned Dark Despair,
and lost the Derby once by a short
head."

'• Oh, that's him, is it ? " replied Mr. Parsons,
*' and what's his address when he's at
home ? "

How should I know his address ? " said
the landlord. "If you wants to call on him,
you might try the Jockey Club, or I shouldn't
be surprised if you was to find him at Tattersall's
of a Sunday afternoon ; that sort
mostly shows up there. What might you
want with him ? "

Oh, it's no great matter," replied Mr.
Parsons; "it's only a little bit of business
about a dog," and then he changed the
conversation.

Eating plate," he thought, " there is never
any mistake about that ; that's the real
genuine article, thank goodness." And then
Ml". Parsons, who was of a sentimental turn
of mind and a humble patron of the drama,
sauntered off to the Britannia Theatre, at
Horton, and derived no small degree of
mental comfort in four hours of the sorrows
of "Ada, the Betrayed."

It has been said that Lord llettoii was
an economical man ; every farthing that he
could scrape together invariably went to
settle his accounts with his trainer. He
had begun life as a pigeon, to all appearances
he would end it as a hawk. Dark
rumours of shady things which had been
done in his name rendered men shy of backing
his horses. Scandal had said that the
boy who rode Dark Despair, when that
animal was beaten on the post, had pulled
the great raking chestnut by his lordship's
orders. But though Lord Hetton had done
many shabby things in his time, it was by
no fault of his that Dark Despair failed
to win the blue ribbon of the turf. It is
quite possible that the boy who rode the
animal lead made a mess of the race at the
critical moment, or he may even have been
"got at," but that was not Lord Hetton's
opinion or that of his astute trainer ; and
the same stunted youth still always rode in
his lordship's colours in any big event in

wliicli Lord Helton's animals might be en-failed.
Owner and trainer had neither of
them been to blame in the matter ; his lordship
had honestly backed Dark Despair,
and had had considerable difficulty in meeting
his engagements at the time. There had
even been an execution in Azalea Lodge.
Azalea Lodge was the one luxury that his
lordship permitted himself; he looked upon
it as his home, and the titular mistress of
Azalea Lodge had been the original cause
of all his differences with his father. Hetton
was quite a boy when he first fell into the
toils of the syren ; he was not quite fool
enough to marry her, his fear of the old
lord prevented that ; for her sake Lord
Hetton declined to marry ; for her sake he
was shut out from society ; and he was a man
to be pitied after all, for he hadn't a friend
in the world, and it was with the greatest
difficulty that he succeeded in satisfying her
numerous extravagant demands for money.
The lady was passee vulgar, and her temper

was almost diabolical; but she still retained
her hold upon Lord Iletton's affections. She
had succeeded in riveting the fetters which
bound Lord Hetton to her in a rather
original manner — by an act of generosity for
which none of her acquaintances would have
given her credit, least of all his lordship.
When he made his great fiasco with Dark
Despair, and the execution was already in
Azalea Lodge, by an impulse of generosity
the lady had driven over to Messrs. Israelss,
and had pledged with them her entire
collection of valuable jewelry. She had
handed the cheque to Lord Hetton, and he
did settle at Tattersall's on the fatal Monday
following the race. Lord Hetton was agreeably
astonished ; he found, much to his
surprise, that he had one real friend in the
world. Is it then to be wondered at that
from that day Lord Hetton clung to his
only friend, and that he looked upon Azalea
Lodge as his home ? Things went better
with Lord Hetton, and he settled Azalea

Lodge and its valuable contents upon the
object of his gratitude.

When anything remained to him after
paying his trainer whenever he made a coup,
or landed a good stake, he invariably made
a thank-offering' at the shrine in St. John's

o

Wood. It was all very wrong, and very
wicked, no doubt, but after all it was perhaps
very natural

It was nine o'clock one Sunday night,
and Mr. Parsons was very busy indeed
he was preparing for the war-path.
On his table were arranged a number of
polished steel implements, which looked
like surgical instruments : they were
burglar's tools. Half-a-dozen handy bits of
candle and a box of silent matches were
quickly placed in his pocket ; a piece of strong
Manilla cord some four yards long, with
a sharp three-pronged hook at the end of
it, was wrapped around his waist, beneath his
virtuous waistcoat ; his plain tweed coat
carried numerous canvas bags lined with

wasiileatliur in its back. It was a wonderful
coat with innumerable pockets in the inside ;
in each of these mysterious receptacles he
placed one or other of the implements of his
trade ; a short crow-bar in three pieces,
which could be screwed together, formed
the last of these, while a big bunch of skeleton
keys, a phial full of oil and another of acid
were slipped into his waistcoat pockets. He
popped a pair of loose felt slippers into his
hat, calmly lighted his pipe and proceeded
to Old Street. He then called a hansom
cab and told the driver to take him to the
Swiss Cottage.

2^ f^f^^^, ^'I

ESAU WAS THE FIRSTBORN.

Are you trying to tell this fortune, George ? "
said Haggard as, cigar in mouth, he entered
his wife's little boudoir.

The young mother was sitting in an
American rocking-chair, her baby in her lap.
The little creature stared at her in that
peculiar way which infants do when they
are being " amused." It wasn't altogether
a meaningless stare, for what it meant was
very obvious indeed ; this peculiar look is
a threat, and may be translated thus :

If you do not give me your entire attention,
and become thoroughly absorbed in me,
I will rend the air with eldritch screams,
and my piercing cries shall give you the
headache you deserve."

I think I was making a fool of myself.

Eeginald," said young Mrs. Haggard ; " I
certainly was predicting all sorts of good
fortune for him, in baby language."

Yes, baby language as you call it, is
one of women's ridiculous fads ; the child
learns it, and he'll have to unlearn it again
to pick up the Queen's English. You don't
mean to say that you believe in palmistry,
George ? " continued Haggard.

Well, everybody says there's something
in it, Reginald. ; besides, it's only an old belief
revived, and it's better fun than spirit-rapping,
thought-reading, or Madam Blavatsky."


The husband sat down, and critically inspected
the child.

"Poor little devil!" he said; "he's Hke
a young bear with all his troubles to come.
I'll tell you his fortune, George. If he's
got brains he'll have to go and live in the
Law Courts, pinching and screwing to make
both ends meet, starving his belly to feed
his back, working early and late, and hoping

for the briefs that never come. Perhaps he'll
drift into something, or finding that he can't
earn a farthing he may turn paper stainer iii
despair, and gradually get a ernst by writing
dull farces or novels that nobody reads ;
in fact he may become a modern Grub Street
free lance. If he is a humbug he'll go into
the Church ; or he may want to wear a
red coat, or a blue one, and vegetate on
his pay and the trifle he would get from
me."

"Poor little fellow," said his wife; "but
what has he done to be disinherited r '"

He's committed the crime of existing, my
dear"' replied the husband. " C an't you see,
dear, that every farthing we have m the world
will have to 2^0 to Lucius, for he will bethe
head of the family. Gad," he said, " he
may be a peer of the realm, though that's
a rather unlikely contingency. This child,
George, is not born in the purple, as is
lii.s elder brother ; the one is clay, the other
china."

The young mother nervously clutched the
child to lier breast and smothered him with
kisses.

Make the most of him. my dear, lavish
your affection upon him. Unless the squire
means doing something for him, his fortune
is what I have predicted. Younger sons in
England, George, have to live on monkey's
allowance— more kicks than halfpence, and
if til ere are half-a-dozen more of them, poor
little chaps, the fewer halfpence they will
get and the more kicks."

Careless idle words, spoken jesting', but
every one of which went home like a barbed
arrow to the mother's heai-t. As she buried
her face in the child's neck, she thought of
lier vow of eternal secrecy to her cousin.
It had been extracted from her when under
the influence of intense fear and horror. Her
cousin had only forced a solemn promise
from lier with the intention of covering
lier own i<>'noniinA'. It would have needed
more thaVl even the diabolical ingenuity of

a Machiavel to have extorted from any
mother her adhesion to a (Conspiracy for
the ruin of her own child. But now she
saw to her horror that each and every
child she miirht bear to her own husband
would, as a matter of course, be practically
disinherited in favour of the little bastard.
At that instant, there dawned on her for
the first time the remote possible contingency
of the child dio was supposed to be
Haggard's first-born son ultimately inheriting
the Pit Town title ; that troubled her
far less than do the probabilities of his
ultimate succession to the Woolsack affect
young Mr. Briefless dien he is first called
to the bar. But that each and every one
of her children should by her own deliberate
act, and for the benefit of an interloper,
himself but a child of shame, be deprived
of wdiat was legitimately their own, their
share of their father's heritage, did seem a
very bitter cup.

I can tell you one thing, George," said

her husband ; " your father's quite of my
mind in the matter, and it is our universal
respect for the law of primogeniture that
has made England what she is. It's a sort
of natural law of selection, and the survival
of the fittest. The eldest son must be taken
care of at the expense of the rest ; he is
the tribal chief, his brothers and sisters are
but his henchmen and his slaves. Why,
look at the French ; since the Code Napoleon,
which chopped up the land into little blocks
and gave each child his share, there have
been no great families in France. Money
a young fellow can squander, but he cannot
get rid of his ancestral acres, when
they are tightly tied up to come to his
eldest son. There's no way out of it,
George ; the Warrenders and the Haggardss
wouldn't content themselves with turning
in their graves, they'd haunt the pair of
us, if wee hesitated to do the regulation
thing."

On hearing these Words, wdiicli for the
VOL. n. 34

first time in lier life brought the real state
of things home to her, it is hardly an exaggeration
to say that young ]airs. Haggard's
heart died within her. Was it not her duty
to her child, to her husband, and to herself,
to instantly make a clean breast of the whole
mystery ? Perhaps it was, but she struggled
fiercely against the natural impulse to adopt
this simple course. The fact has been insisted
upon that secrecy was foreign to
George Haggard's nature ; she hated deception
and the very idea of anything which
was underhand. Had she given way to her
natural impulse, and then and there told
her husband the truth, the dark web of
intrigue which surrounded her innocent life
would have been torn aside and dispersed
at once and for ever. But with George,
unhappily for herself, her promise bound
her as tightly as the most terrible oath.
She had promised never to reveal Lucy's
secret, and come what might, should this
moral Juggernaut crush her, her child, and

her offspring yet unborn, yet she would be
true to it ; her word, once plighted, should
be kept to the bitter end.

1 think it's cruel, Eeginald," she said,
and the tears were in her eyes, " cruel and
wicked too. What has he done, poor little
fellow, that he should be made to inherit
a sort of curse ? "

But before her husband could answer this
very natural objection, the door was flung
violently open and the child Lucius, his
face suffused with angry colour, bounced
into the room. To his breast he clutched
a tiny white kitten, it Alas quite young,
its eyes not being yet open.

Dad," he cried in a tone of rage, " Auntie
says I shan't see the mittens drowned. I
do want so much to see them drowned.
I hate Auntie Lucy, and I hate Fanchette."

Fanchette now appeared upon the scene,

indignant and out of breath. The child,

tossing the kitten from him, sprung upon

Haggard's lap, and again expressed his 



tense desire to be present at the execution
of the kittens.

"Dad," he said in a tone of affectionate
entreaty, " I never seed a titter drowned."

Perhaps it was natural after all. Just in
the same way as an adult goes to an execution,
because he "never has seen one, you
know'' — he forgets that it is "a thing to
shudder at not to see " — so the little Lucius
was anxious to assist at the immolation of
the kittens.

No, my man, you mustn't be cruel," and
then Haggard attempted to argue with the
child. But the little fellow pleaded, looking
up into Haggard's face with his big brown
eyes.

Me miss 00, dad," he said, and he did
so vehemently. Haggard stroked the child's
long golden curls, and placed him gently on
the floor.

Can't be done, my man," he said. At
once the child's face changed and became
frightful to behold ; the corners of his mouth

went down, the whites of his eyes became
injected, the tears coursed freely down his
cheeks, he clenched his little fists and
screamed aloud in his rage and fury.

"Debit!" he shouted in his passion, and
he shook his fists at Haggard in impotent
rage.

Take him away, Fanchette," said Haggard
with a laugh.

The bonne smiled and caught the infuriated
child up in her arms.

Ah ma foi monsieur'' she exclaimed,
acres tout, best naturel, il annie le spectacle,
le beau bee."

Well, he's not to have the spectacle, mind
that, Fanchette."

The child and the one kitten doomed to
a watery grave were carried off by the borne.

That chap's a devil of a temper, George,"
said the husband with a laugh. " Case in
point, my dear," he continued ; " we keep
one kitten and drown the rest, and there
doesn't seem anything very horrible about

it after all ; and that's what we of the upper
classes, George, have morally to do with
our own offspring. It's on exactly that
same principle that little Lucius will have
to get our money and our land, while that
poor little chap and his brothers and sisters,
if he should have the misfortune to have
any, will have to rub along as best they
can. You and I, George, will have morally
to perform the functions of the stony-hearted
gardener."

Haggard kissed his wife, then he ran his
hand meditatively over the infant's soft
scalp ; he began to whistle a tune, and left
the room.

It may be very unnatural, it may be very
inartistic, but this being merely a veracious
chronicle, it has to be told that George
loved the little Lucius quite as much and
with exactly the same affection that she
felt for the infant she fondled on her lap.
Totally inexplicable, you will say ; but soit
was.

George had never grudged to the little
Lucius his share of her own and her husband's
affection. She and her husband were
young people ; they might have a large family
growing up round them, but they were
wealthy, and they had large expectations,
so that a child more or less to people in
their position in life did not very much
matter. But to give a little stranger a full
share in the domestic pie is one thing, and
to rob one's own children for the sake of
the same little stranger is another. The
more George thought the matter over the
more monstrous and impossible seemed her
position. She would make an appeal to her
cousin's mercy, to her cousin's sense of
justice. But she felt morally certain that
Lucy would never consent to an edaircisse-
merit, or to the making a clean breast of
the whole long-buried scandal to her cousin's
husband.

Gradually the infant on her lap, her husband's
legitimate heir, dozed gently oil;

Mrs. Haggard placed him in this cot and
proceeded to darken the room ; as she did
so the door opened and her cousin's smiling
face appeared.

"I want to talk to you, Lucy; 1 want to
talk to you about baby," said George with
gravity.

"Nothing; the matter with him, dear, I
hope, is there ? "

Oil, he's well enough as to his bodily
health. It's his future I'm alarmed about.
What do you suppose my husband told me today,
Lucy ? He told me, as a matter of course,
that my baby was to be sacrificed to Lucius,
because, forsooth, Lucius is the elder. I
nearly told him then, Lucy. I must tell him,
I shall have to tell him sooner or later."

And when you do so, George, you will
have the satisfaction of seeing the last of your
cousin. When I told you that I would fling
myself into the lake if you betrayed me, it was
not the mere idle vapouring of a foolish girl. I
said it, and I meant it. Do you think for one

single instant that sour husband would keep
my secret ? The scandal has blown over,
George ; 3'ou and I are its sole depositories.
My secret and my sin are both dead, buried
for ever in the silent past. You swore you
would never betray me, George, and having
sworn it you must keep sour oath. Don't
think for an instant that any ambition on my
part, George, makes me wish to see Lucius
supplant your children. Oh that he were
only dead, then at all events I should be safe."
Gradually, however, the girl became calmer,
her manner to Geordie o^ot softer and more
caressing. " Keep my secret, George dear,"
she said ; " it'll be another twenty years before
your children are men and women. I may be
dead before that, please God I shall. Anyhow
there'll be quite time enough to take your
husband into our confidence, if it must be so.
But I couldn't face 1dm yet, and I couldn't
face uncle. I must hold you to your promise,
George. You swore never to betray me,
and you never shall."

Eeginald Haggard's wife pleaded with the
girl ; she argued, she entreated, but she never
threatened.

It may come out after all, Lucy," she
said, " and then think of the shame, the disgrace
and the scandal."

The only way in which it could come out,
dear, would be if Capt knew something about
it. He evidently has no suspicion, or he would
have come to us for hush-money long ago.
Besides, George, there's hope left to me
yet," and here the girl's face grew almost
diabolical as she hissed across the table in a
low whisper, '^ Lucius is hut a little child,
dear ; he may die I "

I can't believe, Lucy, that the worst of
mothers could deliberately wish for her own
child's death. You took a base advantage of
my affection in entrapping me into a promise
of secrecy."

An oath, my dear''

An oath or a promise, whichever you like,
Lucy. I'll keep your secret, you may rely on

that, whatever it may cost me. But I love the
child (and you know you can trust me, Lucy
Warrender), so be you sure of this. You dared
to wish for the child's death. Should any
danger menace him from you — you his own
mother, worthless woman that you are — that
instant your secret shall be a secret no longer.
I will sacrifice my own happiness, the future
of my own children, to you ; for your sake I
have deceived my husband, and I will go on
deceiving him, but I will protect the child's
life from you, Lucy Warrender, at whatever
cost. Your very presence is a danger to him.
After what you've told me, it is impossible that
you and he can live under the same roof.
You hate him, your own unhappy friendless
child. I banish you from his presence, Lucy,
from this day forth."

Lucy Warrender gazed at her cousin in
astonishment ; their rules were changed ; no
longer young Mrs. Haggard looked at her
cousin with patient pleading eyes ; her foot
beat the floor with suppressed excitement,

and though she never raised her voice, she
continued in an angry but determined tone :

Yes, Lucy, you must go, and quickly ;
3'ou shall no longer poison my home with
your presence. You have brought sufficient
misery to me and mine."

There was a something in the way young
Mrs. Haggard had spoken that convinced
Lucy Warrender of her sincerity.

Her cousin turned and left the room
without a word.

That same evening: Miss Warrender announced
her intention of making a long-postponed
visit to some friends in town. In vain
her uncle remonstrated, and pointed out that
her presence was expected with the rest of
the family at Walls End Castle.

I couldn't stand it, uncle," she said ; " weare
quiet enough and dull enough here,
heaven knows ; but a month at the Castle
would be too dreadful. Besides it is George
who is the old lord's favourite. I don't
think I'm in his good books at all. I've put

off and put off this visit so long, that if I don't
make it now, I never shall. And even London
out of the season is to my mind preferable to
the oppressive magnificence of the Castle.
Lord Pit Town is Eeginald's relative, not
mine ; I should only be in the way. Uncle."

And so it was arranged.

Lucy went to her friends in town, and from
their house she commenced a round of visits.
She corresponded regularly enough with her
cousin, and there was nothing very remarkable
about the letters that were interchanged.
Not one word was dropped by either cousin
on the subject of the family secret. Perhaps
a letter written about this time from Lord
Spunyarn to his friend Haggard may throw
a little light upon the way in which Miss
Warrender amused herself.

The Club House,
Eoyal Yacht Squadron, Eye.
13lh August, 18—.
'dear Haggard,

Here I am swaggering about this

place in a blue coat and brass buttons, like
the other sham sailors. I'm quite out of the
hunt here, however, for I can't pretend to
understand the jargon of the thing. Old and
new measurements, tonnage, time allowances
and movable ballast, are all a sealed book tome.
Of course I go on to the balcony with
the other idiots to stare at the matches, and,
like them, I have to pretend to manifest an
intelligent interest.

To use a nautical simile your wife's cousin
is ' carrying on ' here. If I didn't know her
so well I should think she meant marrying.
Half the men here, including old Marlingspike,
the venerable commodore, dance attendance
upon her from morning till night, and she
certainly looks a" very bright little, tight little
craft in her nautical get-up, which is the
regulation thing with the women here. They
say that little Jack Hornpiperr proposed to
her the other day ; it looks rather like it, for
he has suddenly started for a lengthened
cruise in the Mediterranean.

I suppose by this you have begun wiring
into Pit Town's grouse, though I hear he
does not keep a very big head of game on the
place. When Hetton comes into it, it won't
be much better, for of course all his spare
cash will go in horses. I too have an invite
for Walls End, but it is only just for the festivities,
which everybody declares are given
in honour of your wife and her boy, and
to spite Hetton. He, of course, is furious.
He swore at first he wouldn't put in an
appearance at all, but a good many of the
people here are going, and Hetton '11 have to
show, if only to keep his Jews quiet. The
Barrington, who as you know were never
great favourites, have been quite the rage
here since Miss Warrender's arrival. They are
asked everywhere and go everywhere for the
lady's sake, which is very good of them.
The Charmington is going to astonish us all
in a three-nii2[lits enofao^ement at the local
theatre ; her benefit is announced under the
special patronage of H.K.H. She has gone off

terribly, but lier hair is more luxuriant and
golden than ever.

Miss Warrender bids me tell you that she
shall make a final attempt to rescue He t ton on
her arrival at Pit Town's place. For your
sake, old fellow, I hope she won't succeed, but
I have known more unlikely things happen
even than this.

Sincerely yours,

Spunyarn."

Lucy Warrender enjoyed herself thoroughly
during her stay at Eye. Mr. Hornpiperr's
misfortune had been a true bill. Lucy
Warrender encouraged everybody, and it
was not her fault if enthusiasts like little
Hornpiperr cut short the delightful period
of their acquaintance with the lady by proposing
to her.

It has been said that a ship is a prison,
to which is added the possibility of being
drowned ; this is particularly the case in
regard to a yacht. Theoretically, yachting

is a delightful pastime ; practically, it is
an exceedingly expensive foible, combining
the maximum of probable discomfort and
boredom with the not remote contingency
of possible danger. Given the
most delightful weather, a big and well-found
yacht and a really good cook,
given that the cruise has been a short
one, that everybody' has done his or her
best to make things comfortable ; yet how
uncommonly glad we all are to bid our
host and his dear delightful daughters
good-bye — and how uncommonly glad they
must be to see the list of us. If any
of our friends were to invite us to come
and stay With them and eat tinned provisions
for a fortnight, we should indignantly
decline, but if we are asked to do it onboard
a friend's yacht, we accept with
effusion, and for at least a week or two
before we bra of the hio*h old time weare
going to have. I am afraid Lucy

Warrender and her friends the Barrington
VOL. n. 35

were only fine-weather sailors after all,
but they were very popular.

There was no false pride about Lucy
Warrender. When she met her old friend
and rival, Mrs. Charmington, upon the
pier, she shook hands with her at once.
In the days when Mrs. Charmington was
a leader in society, little Jack Charmington,
her husband, had been tacitly ignored ; but
now his wife was very glad indeed to
have him constantly at her elbow, and
she introduced him to everybody.

You must know Jack, Miss Warrender,"
she said, as they shook hands. " I don't
know what I should do without him, my
dear," she continued. " He always leads
the applause in front, you know, and he
talks to the professional people for me,
when I have the misfortune to meet them
in the daytime."

Doosid responsible position. Miss War-render,
I can tell you ; one needs a
constitution of iron, Miss Warrender ;

they're so awfully hospitable, that talking
with them first always means drinking
with them afterwards. It's bad enough
for my wife to have quitted the scenes of
her former triumphs for the coarser jo3^s
of the play-house. But dramatic talent,
my dear young lady, will assert itself. If
my wife had been Empress of all the
Russia, sooner or later her destiny would
have declared itself, and she would have
sought the only sphere which could content
a woman of her talent and ambition."
Now Mrs. Charmington's talents as an
actress were microscopical. She was good
looking, she had a decently good memory
she was a dogged, plodding woman,
with a good eye to the main chance.
Her principle was to buy a fairly good
article, to pay a good price for it, and
then to make her little experiment upon
the body of the vile, by hacking her
piece through the provinces, say fur six

months ; and then producing it for a short

35—2

London season. There is no don't that Ly
time and patience it is possible to get even
a little child to recite a piece of poetry
with a certain amount of effect, and so it
was with Mrs. Charmington. It must be
remembered first, that Mrs. Charmino^ton
did not buy rubbish. She went to the
great Mr. Breitmann, and she made a
bargain with him. Breitmann was a man of
five-and-forty ; he stood six feet in his
stockings, he was fair, w^itli a quantity of
hgiit curly hair, and he had big fat
fingers, which were perpetually playing
upon an imaginary pianoforte ; when they
weren't running over an invisible keyboard,
Mr. William Breitmann was engaged
in extending them separately one after
the other, in a succession of violent cracks.
Now" the reason Mrs. Charmington went
to Mr. Breitmann was, that Breitmann
was a particularly independent person,
who declined dancing gratuitous attendance
upon Mrs. Charmington or anybody

else. In vain Lad she favoured him with
a royal command, written upon crocodile
paper, headed by a magnificent monogram,
illuminated in may colours, in which mr.
Hreitmann was informed that " Mrs. Charmington
would be pleased if Mr. Breitmann
would kind' call upon her on Tuesday,
at three, as she wished to talk over a matter
of business with him." A rude and cruel
answer, short and to the point, came by
return of post :

Madam,

I have no business with you.
Yours obediently,

W. BKErrMANN."

Then she sent an ambassador. Jack
Charmington called four times upon the
dramatist at his club, but even alien, after
bribing the page boy to indiscreetly admit
that the great Breitmann was on the premises,
he still found him sufficiently difficult to
approach. As Jack stood in the little bare

den marked " Strangers' Room," lie heard
voices in loud talking, with occasional
shouts of laughter ; then he heard a gruff
and angry voice grunt in an irritated
manner, " Charmington, what is Charmington ?
I don't know Charmington. Tell him to

go to ." And here a door slammed

violently.

The page boy entered the strangers'
room and communicated to Mr. Charming-ton
the fact that the great man was busy.

Did you tell him I wanted to see him
on business ? "

They all say that, sir," replied the boy ;
he's a very busy gentleman Mr. Breitmann,
sir, if you please."

Charmington then sat down and wrote
a polite note, in which he informed Mr.
Breitmann that he desired a short interview
with him on a matter of vital
importance to them both. A second half-crown
was administered to the page boy,
and in a few moments the door of the

strangers' room was violently flung open,
and Mr. Breitmann himself suddenly burst
in. Breitmann never entered a room, he
always burst in. The suddenness of his
entry startled Charmington considerably ; he
was still more astonished at the tone in
which Breitmann addressed him. That
gentleman carried poor Jack's note in his
hand.

What is your vital business, sir ? I have
no vital business with you."

My wife wrote to you, Mr. Breitmann,
yesterday, asking you to call on her."

This only seemed to exasperate Mr.
]3reitmann still more.

I have no business with your wife.
I am not a ladies' man. Why should I
call on your wife when I have no business
? What do you mean by coming
here and bullying me because I won't
call on your wife ? "

"My wife is a very prominent person,
Mr. Breitmann."

I have seen your wife, sir, and if you
wish, I will tell you what I think of her."

lie hardly gave poor little Charmington
time to assent to this proposition, when he
continued, his voice changing from a
sicut to a scream :

"Sir, your wife is a fool!" Then he
proceeded to crack his fingers violently,
one after another. " Now, sir," he continued,
I wish you good-morning ; my time is
fully occupied in my businesses and in
protecting my copyrights."

He was about to rush from the room.

It's about that I wanted to see you,"
said Jack.

Have you been infringing my copyrights
then ? " replied the other in a
terrible voice.

Xo, I want to buy one," said Charm-ireton.


Ah," replied Breitmann, in a calmer
tone, "then you have business. Sit down.
What do you want to buv ? "

Well, I don't exactly know," replied
Charmington.

'-Well, tell me how much you want to
spend, five thousand — ten thousand ? "

And then they went to business. It was
explained to Mr. Breitmann that Mrs.
Charmington was anxious to purchase one
of his new and original dramas, one of
those extraordinary combinations of melodramatic
impossibility, which however appeal,
and not in vain, to the eye and to the
heart, which never fail to fill the pockets of
their fortunate purchasers, aud which have
rendered the name of Breitmann a household
word.

For thirty years it had been Mr. Broils
misfortune to fight incompetency in
some shape or other. It had fallen to his
lot to manipulate vast armies of theatrical
supernumeraries and to teach them to
perform the apparently impossible feat of
being in two places at once. i\[r. Brcit-
mann's struggles with the British super had

taught him one great secret: the British
super, like the British donkey, never does
what lie is told until the person in
authority over him loses his temper. So
Breitmann, to avoid loss of time, used to
begin by losing this temper at once ; so
terrible were his ebullitions of wrath, that
nobody ever attempted to argue with him,
and he always carried his point. Finding
his tactics invariably successful within the
walls of the theatre, he adopted them with
similar success in ordinary life, and the
time he saved was enormous.

His negotiations with Mrs. Charmington,
her husband and her solicitor, were over
in forty eight hours ; a satisfactory bargain
was concluded between them for the j)^^"-
chase of " Ethel's Sacrifice," a melodrama of
thrilling interest, originally written as a
novel by Eobinson. Eobinson had submitted
the manuscript to Breitmann, and
then for a fortnight the pair had " col-elaborated."
What took place during that

dreadful fortnight is only known to the
two collaborators. Eobinson at its commencement
was a bright-eyed young fellow,
full of enthusiasm, poetry and romance ; at
the end of the fortnight all the enthusiasm,
poetry and romance had been knocked out
of him. " Ethel's Sacrifice " had been altered,
tinkered, transposed, cut and filled with
comic incidents of the most every-day description,
incidents from which the poetic
soul of the unhappy Eobinson revolted.
Then " Ethel's Sacrifice " was gabbled through
one summer's evening at a remote provincial
theatre, and " Ethel's Sacrifice," by
Messrs. Eobinson and Breitmann, became a
marketable security, duly protected by act
of parliament. A nervous invalid left
London for prolonged mental rest and
change of scene — that was Eobinson ; his
collaborator calmly returned to his multifarious
business engagements and the onerous
duties of the protection of his innumerable
copyrights.

Xow Mr. Breitmann not only sold " Ethel's
Sacrifice " to the Harrington, but he sold
them the benefits of his own personal skill
in its production. When the bills said
that " Ethel's Sacrifice " was produced under
the personal supervision of Mr. William
Breitmann, the knowing ones jumped at
once to the correct conclusion that " Ethel's
Sacrifice" would be a success. Mr. Breitmann
had stipulated with Mrs. Charmington that
he should not deliver to her the complete
drama until she herself was letter-perfect
in the title rule.

You're never perfect, you know," he had
said to her, " and you won't be till you've
played the thing in the provinces for six
months ; that's the curse of amateurs, they
never are perfect."

'' But I'm not an amateur, Mr. Breit-
mann," the lady had retorted indignantly.

Pardon me, dear lady," he said, " but
you are nothing else. You have played
four original parts, specially written for

you mind, in the whole of your stage experience
; of course you're an amateur,
but you are a big success. And," and
here he cracked his fingers very slowly,
you are a fine woman, yes, a fine stage
presence of a woman," said he appreciatively,
as he looked her all over, much asa
dealer might look over a horse — a dealer
dio was selling a horse, not a dealer who
was buying one.

Mrs. Charmington fought hard to get
hold of the beautiful type-printed copy of
Ethel's Sacrifice," which young Eobinson, in
elaborate morning costume and a flower in
his button-hole, had read to her so delightfully
; but all in vain. Mr. Breitmann
kept it carefully locked up in one of the
numerous tin boxes which made his rather
grim-looking study so much resemble a
lawyer's office.

You'll find this quite enough to occupy
you for the next three months, my dear,"
said Breitmann decisively, using the affectionate

method of address invariable in the
profession.

The part, which was a formidable little
volume, was just about twice as long as
the Church catechism. To do Mrs. Leamington
justice she set to work with a will ;
she was actually letter-perfect when the
play was read to her company for the first
time by Mr. Eobinson at the Stoke Pogis
theatre, where the talented little band of
actors that supported Mrs. Charmington
were playing at the time.

At ten on Monday, if you please,
ladies and gentlemen," said Eobinson, " we
will rehearse Acts I., II. and III. Mr.
Breitmann will be present."

Everybody was punctual, and Mr. Breit-
mann teas present. For five mortal hours
he abused the company individually and
collectively ; he pervaded the theatre, he
shrieked from the lighted rake of gas jets
which illuminated the centre of the stage,
he objurgated from the author's table, he

used the most horrible language when he
suddenly appeared in the stalls, he had
the presumption to order Mrs. Charmington
not to' ' mince," and he told her that " it
wasn't a time for mincing ; " he insisted on
the minuet in the second act being repeated
sis times, and then he informed the
infuriated stage manager that " it wasn't
good enough even for WhitechapeL" But
the climax was reached at Mrs. Charmington's
great scene with her leading man,
at the conclusion of the third act. Ethel
(Mrs. Charmington) has to fling herself
into the arms of her confiding husband ;
she proceeded to do so in her usual perfunctory
and society manner.

Good heavens ! madam'' shrieked the
indignant Breitmann, " that won't do.
Stand here," said he in his ferocious voice,
and look at me." lie rushed at the
leading man, he plunged his face into that
gentleman's shirt front, he gripped the
gentleman's muscular shoulders with tremendous

energy, and his back went up
and down with convulsive sobs.

There, ma'am," he said triumphantly ;
try again," She tried again, but Breit-
mann vociferated all the more

It's no good, my dear ; you must
clutch and nestle. I wouldn't give that,"
and here he snapped his fingers, " for a
woman who can't clutch and nestle ; try
it with me."

Breitmann took up the position of the
leading man. Mrs. Charmington gave one
tearful glance at her husband, then she
rushed into Breitmann's arms and did her
best to clutch and to nestle. But he was
not even then satisfied.

Go home, my dear," he said, " and
practise it with your husband."

What a situation for one who has been
a queen of society. Ashen Mrs. Charm
norton, almost heart-broken, reached her
lodgings she informed her husband that it
was more than she could bear.

The idea of the wretch actually teaching
me my business before my whole company,
and then ordering me to go home and
learn to ' clutch and nestle.' "

Dev'lish sensible idea I think, Julia,"
said Charmington, who was in love with
his wife before all things ; " you can't do
better than begin at once," and the little
man drew himself up to his full height of
five foot six and extended his arms like
a mechanical doll.

Don't remind me of my humiliation,
Jack ; it's too much, too much to bear''
and the beauty flung herself into an easy
chair and burst into floods of tears.

But Julia Charmington, wise woman that

she was, did as she was bid ; she clutched

and she nestled all that afternoon, and she

had her reward. For six whole months she

delighted all the great provincial towns and

watering-places of the United Kingdom with

Ethel's Sacrifice," and she reaped a golden

harvest. When she came to town for the
VOL. n. 36

season she scored a decided success, and all
the leadmg^ Dales joined in the chorus
of adulation. The fair Julia got a good
round sum from the photographers for the
right to represent her in her four elaborate
costumes ; the particular triumph of the
sun-artist being the representation of her
nestling and clutching scene. Even the
dramatic critic of the great morning
journal went into ecstasies over this.

Mrs. Charmington," he said, " has made

real progress. It has been the fashion to

go to see this lady from curiosity, but

last night she scored a genuine success in

'Ethel's Sacrifice,' a thrilling melodrama by

Messrs. Breitmann and Eobinson, which

was seen in London for the first time. The

house was crowded with the well-known

faces so familiar to us at all important

premieres. In her great scene in the third

act, Mrs. Charmington took every one by

surprise. Thoroughly spontaneous and unaffected,

quite free from staginess and

straining after effect, the audience thoroughly
appreciated the genuine burst of feeling of
the young wife," and so on, and so on, fora
column and a half.

Messrs. Breitmann and Eobinson bowed
their thanks to an enthusiastic call ; and
Breitmann, his face wreathed in smiles and
cracking his fingers violently, as was his
custom, whispered to his collaborator,
She's only a ' mug,' after all, my boy, but
I'm proud of her ; it's the nestling and
clutching that fetched them." And then
he went off to the Convivial Cannibals,
where he ate an enormous tripe supper,
and was more jovial and violent than
ever.

^■-^.^^^%^

3G-2

IN ST. John's wood.

Lord Hetton was certainly a long suffering
man. It has been stated that the
temper of the mistress of Azalea Lodge
was almost diabolical ; there was nothing
the pair didn't quarrel over. I believe,
originally, their quarrels were about nothing
at all, the mere disagreements of lovers
that are but a renewal of love ; the best-tempered
and most virtuous have been
known to fight even during their honey-moons
: but it is a dangerous practice, for
use is second nature, and quarrelling, like
dram-drinking, grows upon one, and after
a while becomes a necessity. I verily believe
had the inhabitants of Azalea Lodge not
both been members of the cultured classes
that murder would have been done. But

just as they quarrelled, abused each other,
and hurt each other's feeUnojs as much as
possible, so they were each iu the habit
after a pitched battle of leaving the field
in possession of the victor.

On the very day that Mr. Parsons had
left Matilda Street to proceed on business
to the Swiss Cottage, one of these numerous
pitched battles had taken place ; the lady
had been vanquished, and she, her maid,
and her jewel-case had left for Brighton
by the evening train. Lord Hetton sat
alone and tried to do justice to a recherche
little dinner, but he failed, for Hetton was
jealous and unhappy ; and as lie looked at
the vacant chair opposite him, the triumphs
of his undeniable cook turned to Dead Sea
apples in his mouth, for, in his mind's eye,
he saw the mistress of Azalea Loire
dining in solitary grandeur in the coffee-room
of a fashionable Brighton hotel, the
cynosure of many an admiring eye. Lord
Hetton did not enjoy his dinner.

These two unfortunate people, if the
truth be told, really did love each other
very sincerely. As has been said the lady
was Lord Hetton's only friend ; of this she
had given him very tangible proof in the
hour of his need, and on her part she
owed everything she had in the world to
his lordship ; but each of the pair was
haunted by a special terror — the lady by
the fear that Lord Hetton might marry,
his lordship by the dread that the lady
might actually carry out her frequent threat
that the next time she left him it would
be never to return. Poor wretch, he would
only have been too glad to have married
her, but that outraged society would have
been instantly vindicated by the stoppage
of his allowance from the old earl.

Lord Hetton sat and meditated by his study
fire. " By Jove ! " thought he, " it would
serve her right if I really did pay her off
and married. I ought to, if it were only to
keep out that fellow Haggard and his brats."

It was ten o'clock. Azalea Lodge was
a well-regulated household. The parlour-maid
placed the spirit stand upon the table,
and asked his lordship if he had any-further
orders. Within half-an-hour the
four women servants of Azalea Lodge were
fast asleep, and the thick baize-covered
door, which separated the servants' quarters
from the rest of the house, was securely-fastened.
And now Lord Hetton sat down
to his writing-table, and he wrote a letter
to the solicitor of the mistress of Azalea
Lodge. This was the letter, which was
short and to the point :

Azalea Lodge.
Sir,

I shall be glad if you will call
upon me here, as I am desirous of washing
my hands of your client and of all the
associations of this place.

"Yours faithfully,

Hetton."

Xow Lord Hetton when he wrote this
letter had not the slightest idea of carrying
out the threat contained in it ; it was
merely his way of expressing his displeasure
— the quickest means he knew of
causing the return of the fugitive from the
seaside. It was upon the lines of this
letter that he composed a second epistle
full of indignant recrimination, in which
he announced that this, the last rupture,
must be final. " I have undetermined
he said, and he chuckled as he wrote the
words, " to shake myself free from what
was after all but a boyish infatuation at
the commencement, an entanglement which
I feel we both have been anxious to terminate
for some time. Your solicitor will inform
you that I have requested him to take
the necessary steps." And as he folded
the letter and placed it in its envelope he
smiled. " She'll get it by the mid-day
delivery tomorrow, if they post it the first
thing in the morning, and she'll probably

come back in a towering passion by the
four express. I wish she was here now,"
lie continued with a sigh. Lord Hetton
yawned, lie looked at his watch, and then
he stamped the letters and laid them out
for posting, but circumstances intervened
which caused those two letters not to leave
Azalea Lodge.

Lord Hetton lighted his candle and went
to bed. In half-an-hour he was sound
asleep, and a dead silence reigned in Azalea
Lodge. The crickets chirped merrily upon
the hearth of the housemaid's pantry, where
the remains of a lire still smouldered. But
Avhat is that monotonous grating sound
which continues with mechanical regularity ?
It isn't a kettle boiling, though it sounds
rather like it, for there is an occasional
squeak and then the noise suddenly ceases
altogether, only to recommence again.

Mr. Parsons on reaching the Swiss Cottage
had walked straight to Azalea Lodge.
He entered the front garden of the empty

house next door to it, wliicli was still in
the hands of the workmen. He flung his
three-pronged hook over the high wall
which separated Azalea Lodge from the
empty house. Quickly, noiselessly, and without
effort Mr. Parsons reached the top of
the wall ; then he removed the three-pronged
hook, fixed it on the near side
of the wall, and descended by means of the
friendly rope attached to it into the grounds
of Azalea Lodge. He left the rope hanging,
for the return journey might possibly have
to be accomplished in a very hurried
manner. When Mr. Parsons stood safely
within the outer defences of the fortress
which he lead assailed he proceeded to
deliberately remove his boots. The big list
slippers which he put on were perfectly
noiseless ; they are the professional foot
coverings common to the British thief and
to the ghost of Hamlet's father. Then he
walked straight to the pantry window, and
shading his eyes with his hands, carefully

took Stock of the interior. Mr. Parsons
lost no time ; and, skilled mechanic that
he ^yas, commenced his work at once.
Gripping his file firmly in both hands, and
carefully lubricating its keen edge with oil,
he commenced operations vigorously upon
the massive bar of soft iron, which with
five others protected the pantry window;
the bar was at least an inch in diameter
and was quite seven feet long. It took
Mr. Parsons a good twenty minutes' hardwork
to cut through, and beads of perspiration
stood upon the brow of that
clever operator long before the job was
finished. Mr. Parsons replaced his files
in their special receptacles in his many-pocketed
coat, then he seized the massive-looking
bar just above Adhere he had
divided it, he placed a foot against the
window-ledf^e and tuiji'-ed with all his mii)-ht.
It's easy enough to bend a poker between
the bars of a kitchen range; it is true
that the kitchen poker is not an inch in

diameter, but then neither is it seven feet
long. Mr. Parsons wrenched away with a
will, and soon the great bar was bent
almost to a right angle. Mr. Parsons
slipped a small palette knife between the
sashes, but Azalea Lodge had been fitted
up regardless of expense, and the window-catch
was a patent one which resisted the
efforts of Mr. Parsons ; but that gentleman
was equal to the occasion ; he took out a
piece of diachylon plaister, apparently from
the small of his back, really from one of
the numerous receptacles of his professional
coat ; he carefully affixed and smoothed the
plaister over the top centre pane of the
lower sash, and then he rapidly drew a
glazier's diamond round the pane. Spreading
his left hand out upon the middle of
the plaister he struck a smart bLw upon
his fingers with his right fist ; he had
smashed the window, but without noise —
there was no crash or rattle of falling glass.
With deliberate care Mr. Parsons effected an

opening in the broken window, in a workmanlike
manner, lar<>e enou<]^li to admit his
right hand, and then with a smile he
gently opened Sharps's Patent Safety .
Mr. Parsons now raised the
window-sash with ease, and, taking his
boots in his hand, effected his felonious
entry, leaping lightly and noiselessly into
the room. Mr. Parsons placed his boots in
the fender to warm, for nothing is more
unpleasant to a careful man than the
putting on of cold boots. And now Mr.
Parsons proceeded to carefully and deliberately
wash his hands and to remove from
them the grimy traces of his honest labour ;
then he lighted a short piece of candle —
the match he used gave forth no warning
sound. He examined the lock, the key
was in the door, the projecting end of it
lie seized with a pair of peculiarly-made
forceps, the key turned noiselessly and with
ease. Mr. Parsons ascended the kitchen
stairs and proceeded straight to the diningroom,

for he was no vulgar thief to whom
the contents of the larder of Azalea Lodge
would present attractions, but an industrious
tradesman and a keen man of business.

Mr. Parsons Alas occupied for at least
half-anxious in the dining-room, for in the
massive oak sideboard he found a good
deal of portable property ; the patent locks
soon yielded to his skilful attack, and the
spoons and forks were rapidly packed by
him into the smallest possible compass and
placed in a bag of suitable size. But Mr.
Parsons looked in vain for any sign of the
racing plate which had attracted his attention
upon his first visit to Azalea Lodge.
He placed the bag containing the plunder
upon the hall table, and then, his lighted
end of candle in his hand, he ascended the
stairs. When he reached the first floor he
heard the regular breathing of the sleeping
Lord Hetton ; he carefully removed his lordship's
boots from the mat and gently tried
the door, blowing out his candle as he

did so, for the landing was illuminated by
a flicker of gas, and had his lordship
awakened, the light would have betrayed
the intruder. The burglar entered the
room without noise, and the heavy breathing
of the sleeper continued without intermission.
Mr. Parsons looked around him ; his
eyes at once alighted on the object of his
search ; in a corner of the room stood a
large safe of painted iron of the most
recent construction — Chubbs' Patent Safety.
Mr. Parsons was quite aware of what
Chubbs' Patent Safety meant ; he knew
full well that a Chubbs' safe would successfully
withstand his attempts for a period
of twenty-four hours at least, and that
picking the lock would be quite a hopeless
matter. Jut Mr. Parsons did not
despond ; he knew that owners of safes
generally keep the key upon their persons.
He looked towards the sleeper; upon a
small table at the bedside lay his heavy gold
Frodsliam chronograph, to the massive chain

of which was attached a long slender steel
key. The burglar possessed himself of the
watch and appendages, knelt down in
front of the safe, which yielded to the
key, and in a few moments the Toiler of
the Night was busy with Lord Hetton's
racing trophies. There they lay, the glittering,
precious baubles, the prizes for which
their owner had schemed ever since his
early manhood, the useless cups, vases, &c.,
which had cost their fortunate proprietor
far more than their weight in purest gold.
The feelings of Mr. Parsons may be better
imagined than described ; they must have
somewhat resembled those of AU Baba
when the treasures of the Forty Thieves
first met his astonished eye. Is it to be
wondered at then that Mr. Parsons lost his
head for the moment, and that though his
eyes were busily employed he forgot to use
his ears ; he forgot to note that Lord Hetton's
breathing, which was a heavy snore dien he
entered the room, was now inaudible.

His lordship, who had been sleeping heavily,

had not exactly awakened, though had he

been addressed at the moment he would

probably have answered coherently enough ;

the fact was that he had been sound asleep

and dreaming a pleasant dream, and in a

state of semi-consciousness he was trying to

recall the delighted vision, but it was gone

for ever, and he appealed to his memory in

vain. Lying perfectly still on his back, his

lordship half-opened his eyes, and they rested

upon the top of Mr. Parsons' head, which

exactly intervened between them and an

object they were accustomed habitually to

rest upon, namely, the bright gilded handle

of the Chubbs' safe. But the sleepy eyes

closed again, and reopening half mechanically

sought the missing handle. Lord Hetton now

opened his eyes widely enough, and almost

thoroughly awake stared, without moving

his head, in search of the accustomed object.

He saw the top of the safe, but lie failed to

discern the gay lines of green paint and
VOL. II. 37

gilding which decorated the door ; then it
slowly dawdled upon Lord Hetton's mind that
he was no longer dreaming, or even dozing,
but that he was almost wide awake, and that
the door of his iron safe was open. And
then his lordship became seriously alarmed.
Not that he was by any means a coward,
but it is alarming to a^^'aken from one's tranquil
slumbers and to feel that one may have
to fight for one's life and property against
possible unknown odds, and without one's
clothes. A man may feel very brave indeed
with his boots on, but take away his clothes
and it considerably reduces his courage.
As Lord Hetton became gradually thoroughly
wide awake, he grew alive to the fact, not
only that the safe door was open, but that
(what the Divorce Court calls) " a person
unknown" was tampering with its contents.
Now perhaps the most prudent thing that
Lord Hetton could have done would have
been to have gone to sleep again, but it
never for one moment occurred to his mind

to allow himself to be robbed with impunity.
Thoroughly awake at last, Lord Hetton
could with difficulty contain his rage, and
it was only by a powerful exertion of his
own will that he did restrain himself from
rushing' from his bed and attacking the
intruder with his naked fists. But, he
reflected, the thief or thieves were probably
armed ; he remembered too that there was
no assistance to be obtained in the house
itself, and that there was no means of
arousing the neighbourhood. And then
Lord Hetton's mind, which was a cool one,
came to a determination. Very slowly
indeed, and perfectly silently, Lord Hetton
gradually stretched out his arm from the
bed towards the little table upon which
his watch had lain ; but it was not upon
the top of the table that his extended
fingers attempted to grasp the object which
they sought, but on a ledge several inches
beneath. On that ledge lay a loaded six-chamber
revolver. this lordship's fingers

37—2

gradually closed upon the butt of the
weapon, gradually and noiselessly he raised
it, and with his thumb he proceeded to
cock it.

There was an ominous click.

His lordship sprang from the bed, pistol
in hand.

The man Parsons started to his feet with
equal celerity, and the two men stood
glaring at each other.

There was an appreciable instance of
silence, and each of the adversaries could
hear the loud beating of his own heart.

You infernal villain, if you don't surrender,
I'll blow your brains out," hissed
his lordship.

The burglar made no reply, but placed
his right hand in his bosom, and in an
instant his keen cruel sheath knife was
raised high above his head, and without a
word, like an infuriated tiger, he rushed
upon the sporting nobleman.

Lord Hetton pulled the trigger, there

was a sharp click, that was all. His lordship
swore a bitter oath, as it flashed through his
mind that in his excitement' of rage and
indignation he had forgotten to withdraw
the safety catch.

There was no time to do it now, for the
burglar was upon him. Hetton struck the
man furiously in the face with the butt of
the pistol, but the thief succeeded in
avoiding the full force of the blow, and
used his knife with murderous dexterity.
The pistol dropped from this lordship's failing
hand, each man had the other by the throat,
and the thief continued to mercilessly hack
and stab, for he knew that he was fi^litinii-
for liberty and even life. Gradually he
forced his victim down upon the floor, he
placed his knee upon his chest, and tightened
his cruel grip upon the throat of the fallen
man. They still glared at each other and
struggled on in horrid silence, but gradually
the convulsive clutch of Tjord Iletton's fingers
relaxed, the glare of rage and hate disappeared

from his e3^es, and its place was
taken by a dull leaden stare. For Lord
Hettoa was dead.

But not for several minutes did the burglar
relax his grip of the dead man's throat ;
and then it dawned upon him that he was
a murderer, that in a few short hours justice
would be upon his track ; and he shuddered
with mingled horror and remorse as he
mechanically wiped the blade of his knife
between his fingers, ere he returned it to
its sheath.

The man Parsons had been cool and
collected enough before, but now he trembled,
and he hurried out upon the landing
with anxiety, to listen if there was any
movement in the house. The struggle had
been fierce, but there had been no noise.
The murderer was considerably reassured,
as he marked the dead silence that reigned
in the place, and then he turned again
towards the door of the fatal bedroom.
He hesitated to enter it, for the wretch,

though full of brute courage, feared to look
again upon the face of the victim he had
done to death. But there wa? nothing else
for it ; he entered the room in fear and
trepidation, he gathered up his plunder
with a shaking hand, and carefully secured
it in a Gladstone bag which lay in the
dressing-room ; on it were the initials of
the master of Azalea Lodge. Last of all
he thrust the watch and chain of the
murdered man into his pocket ; then he
looked upon the ground and saw with
horror the marks of his own guilty footprints
in hideous red blurs upon the gay
carpet. He removed his tell-tale felt slippers,
and the bag in one hand, the slippers in
the other, and holding the end of the bit
of candle which he had re-lighted high above
his head, he regained the hall. He carefully
placed the little parcel which he had left
upon the hall table in the bag, and stuffing
a sheep's skin mat and the blood-stained
slippers in as well, he succeeded in deadening

the jangling noise made by the plate. He
snatched down an Inverness cape which
hung in the hall and flung it over this arm,
and on tiptoe he gained the housemaid's
pantry in safety ; he put on his boots
and washed his blood-stained hands. Then
he strode down the garden of Azalea Lodge,
carrying in his hand the rope and three-pronged
hook by which he had entered
the premises. He scaled several walls with
cat-like celerity, and then secreted himself
among the shrubs of the front garden of
a house in a main road of St. John's Wood.
From this hiding-place he saw with satisfaction
the infrequent policeman pass on
his nocturnal round; then he put on the
Inverness cape, which gave him a rather
distinguished appearance, and walked boldly
forth, carrying his Gladstone bag. He hailed
the first hansom he met and drove to
Charing Cross ; there he took another cab
to Matilda Street. He dismissed the man
at the corner, and reached his lair.

Here the man Parsons disappears from
our story. Early dawn saw him on board
the Antwerp boat, and he reached the
Continent in safety. No doubt lie had his
reward, in this world or the next.

And so Lord Hetton died, unlamented
save by his lonely old father at Walls
End Castle and by the woman who hrmly
believed that the very last determination
of his life had been to cast her off asa
worn-out garment and to "wash his
hands '' of her for ever. Save to these
two persons, and to those who had
had the misfortune to back Lord Ireton's
nomination for the coming Derby,
his death made no difference to anybody.
We have forgotten Eeginald Haggard ; he,
lucky fellow, of course benefited, for it
brought him one step nearer to the Pit
Town title.

It was after all but a vulgar tragedy,
though it made considerable noise at the
time.

When, ill the early morning, the housemaid
at Azalea Lodge found her pantry-door
unlocked, she was alarmed ; and when
she saw that the window was open and that
one of the protecting iron bars had been
wrenched aside, she very nearly fainted.
In her tribulation she hurried to her fellow
servants and informed them of her startling
discovery. The four women were terribly
frightened, and it was only after a considerable
amount of persuasion that the
cook consented to put on her bonnet and
go in search of the police. While she was
absent the three other women fortified themselves
in the kitchen and awaited her
return in fear and trembling. Constable
Bulgerr, 130 D, was soon upon the scene ;
he examined the pantry window from the
outside, he looked very wisely indeed at
the footprints in the soft gravel path, and
directed that they should remain undisturbed
; and then he entered the house
and proceeded to interrogate the servants.

"Anything missing, ladies'' lie said.

No, nothing was missing in the basement,
and the policeman and the frightened
maids ascended to the hall, where the
parlour maid instantly detected the absence
of the Inverness cape.

There's more prone than that, miss,"
said Constable Bulgerr. " They don't effect
a forcible entry now-a-days for the sake
of a coat or two ; we'd better look in the
dining-room."

The parlour maid flung open the shutters
and drew up the blinds, letting in the
bright sunshine. As the girl turned from
the window she gave a succession of
eldritch screams and went off into violent
hysterics ; for she saw that the doors of
the massive sideboard were standing wide
open and that the empty plate-basket
lay upon the floor. Constable Bulgerr was
perfectly satisfied in his own mind that
the parlour maid, at all events, had had
nothing to do with the burglary which

had evidently been committed. Fur portly
130 D prided himself, and perhaps with
some justice, on his intimate knowledge
of the ways of women. lie knew perfectly
well that the dreadful laugh was
not simulated, and he was quite aware
of the appropriate remedies.

Let her lie flat on the floor, ma'am,"
he said to the cook, "and just you run
for a little water, miss, and be spry," was
his command to the frightened housemaid,
who, pale as ashes, was standing in the
doorway. " Is his lordship at home ? "
said Buller. " I'd better see him at once.
Just run up and say I am here," added
he.

But not one of the women stirred ; all
three redoubled their assiduities to the
recovering parlour maid, but each firmly
declined to quit the dining-room, on the
ground that " it wasn't a woman's place."

Just keep your eye on the roadway,
one of you," said the constable, " the sergeant

'11 be passing directly, and if you
see him you'd better call to him."

And then Constable Bulgerr undid the
button of his truncheon case, not that he
expected to find any one on the premises,
but it was as well to be prepared fur the
worst, and lie then ascended the stairs.
One of the bedroom doors was wide open,
and a horrid sight met his astonished eyes.

On the floor lay the murdered master
of Azalea Lodge. The face looked like a
waxen mask ; the lips were bloodless and
of an ashen grey, slightly parted, leaving
the regular teeth of the dead man painfully
apparent. The eyes were wide open
and had a terror-stricken look ; but the
hands were clenched. The dead man lay
in a pool of blood, with which his white
lightness was stained in many places.

The constable drew his truncheon, looked
under the bed and into the dressing-room ;
a glance at the open safe told him that
it had been rifled. Then, without in the

slightest degree disturbing the dead manor
this surroundings, the constable left the
room, locking the door and placing the
key in his pocket. He made a perfunctory
search through the rest of the house,
though he knew full well that the murderer
had fled ; and as he descended the stairs
and rejoined the frightened women, his
sergeant, whom the cook had hailed from
the dining-room window, appeared upon the
scene.

In a whisper Bulgerr communicated to
him what had taken place ; but while he
Vv^as yet speaking shrieks and cries were
heard from the dining-room. Both men
hurriedly entered it. The parlourmaid,
mad with terror, was struggling with the
other women.

They have murdered him," she shrieked.
'' Oh God ! they have murdered him," she
reiterated, as she pointed to a great pink
stain upon the ceiling.

There was no need to break to them

the dreadful news now. The girl continued
to shriek and point at the awful
stain for some minutes, and then went off
in a dead faint.

All that morning a little crowd stopped
to whisper and point at Azalea Lodge.
In vain a special policeman entreated
them to move on ; they merely passed
over to the other side to point and whisper
in mingled excitement and curiosity. The
red-coated news vendors did a thriving trade
in the neighbourhood on that day.

Special edition. Frightful murder of
a nobleman by burglars. Flight of the murderers.
Further horrible details." The red-coated
men's harvest was a precarious one,
and they made the most of it ; they even
succeeded in selling some of their papers at
a shilling a-piece. But the purchasers were
disappointed, for though the newspaper
reporters had swelled their description of
what they called " The Tragedy in Bligh
Life in St. John's Wood," into two columns

of leaded type, yet nothing more was to
be gained from it all than that the heir to
the Pit Town tito had been brutally murdered
by a midnight thief, that the assassin
Lad escaped with his plunder, and as yet had
succeeded in baffling the efforts of the police.
Ere nightfall every police station in the
metropolis displayed a hand-bill headed by
the startling word ^' Murder," in big
black letters, and offering a reward for
the apprehension of a man wearing an
Inverness cape and carrying a Gladstone
bag. For days the police stations were
besieged by anxious informers, desirous to
olive information about men with Gladstone
bags and Inverness capes. Both cabman
came forward, and the murderer was
traced as far as Matilda Street, but here
the scent failed utterly; and though the
old lord offered a further and larger
reward, and smug-looking men, in slop
clothes and billycock hats, hung about
Matilda Street at all hours of the day and

night, yet they failed to come upon any
trace of Lord Hetton's murderer.

Twelve o'ood men and true, his lordship's
butcher, baker and candlestick maker
and nine others of the same kidney, found
a verdict of " Wilful Murder ; " and two
days after the inquest the body of the
unhappy nobleman was conveyed to Walls
End Castle and interred \vith due pomjj
in the family vault. The old lord, Mr.
Haggard of the Home Office and Reginald
Haggard, followed it to the grave.

Mr. Haggard had had a rather painful

interview with a lady dressed in deep

mourniui^ in the dining-room of Azalea

Lodge, on the morning of the removal of

his lordship's body. The lady grief was

evidently unfeigned. When Mr. Haggard

had informed her that the dead man had

left her all he had to give, she was in

no way consoled, and merely continued

to sob and finisher hands in the bitterness

of her grief.

VOL. n. 38

A fortnight afterwards Azalea Lodge
was in the hands of an auctioneer. The
first-rate modern furniture, by Pillow, was
eagerly inspected by the curious, and
fetched fancy prices. Six months afterwards
Lord Hetton's very existence was
forgotten, save by his father and a lady
dressed in deep mourning, who gambled
with feverish energy at Monte Carlo,
vainly striving, poor thing, in that way
to drown the remembrance of the past.

The wicked man's epitaph, as a rule,,
may be generally appropriately written
in the pithy words *' He was, and is not."
Like a stone dropped into the water ho
disappears and leaves no trace.

END OF VC>L. II.

AND Minnie Mir.r,, kingston

INN FIEIJ>-, \V
:-TIIAMKS.

^ m l 11 I i ' ■« I i MM i n n i nn iiiiiii ^ w *. . >w.~«.i. . i«»r 'i.^t^,^^- -> -^

ePitTov\0i

CJiarlei

•2SXS

L I B R.AR.Y

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8Z*>

'^Mm^S

PIT TOWN CORONET

H Tamils ISssierti.

Charles J. WILLS,

AUTHOR OF
IN THE LAND OF THE LION AND SUN," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

WARD AND Downe,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, l.ONDOX, W.C.



[The light of (nutshUiou is restive, ami the Dramatic t'vj i/iiyht prolific,]

ICELLY And CU., Gate Street, Lincoln's INN FIELDS, W.C. :

AND MIDDLE MILL, Ei.NGSTOX-UX-TUAMES.

CONTENTS.

CHAP. PAGE

I. — After Seventeen Years 1

II. — At Monte Carlo 25

III. — Ax Anonymous Letter . . . .52

IV. — Pallida Mors . 70

v.— A Little Need Box . . . . . lOU

VI. — Lucia's Haggard is Bewildered . . 1.31

VII.— Enter Mr. Brookes . 15S

VIII. —The Hollow Beech Tree . 17'>

IX. — Mr. Capt leaves Service LfJ.'i

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/pittowncoronetfa03will

CHAPTER I.

AFTER SEVENTEEN YEARS.

Seventeen uneventful years had passed and

had streaked George Haggard's abundant

chestnut locks with grey. A lovely woman

still. The innocent, healthful, girlish beauty

had developed into the sweet matronly

dignity which is so frequently seen among

the happy wives and mothers of the English

aristocracy. Haggard was still proud of

his wife, because even he couldn't fail to

see her beauty ; and as for the old lord,

he idolized her much as old Squire Warrender

had idolized her twenty sears ago at

The Warren. Georo-ie Ha<j^^\ard Alas not

demonstrative. Always quiet, she was
VOL. ni. 39

rather timid and subdued in her husband's
presence ; but with the old lord,
though perhaps a little more staid and
dignified than of yore, she was still the
lovely and affectionate woman of the old
happy times. Hers was the beauty of the
happy mother, the sweet matronly loveliness
which is perhaps the more touching when
tinged by the slight dash of sadness which
idealises it and saves it from the commonplace.
The smile was not ever present, but
it was none the less beautiful and touching
from its rarity.

Eeginald Haggard and his family had
been installed at Walls End Castle ever
since Lord Hetton's death. They had come
originally upon a visit ; Mrs. Haggard's
health had suddenly broken down, and at
the old lord's urgent entreaty the visit had
been indefinitely prolonged. Although Haggard
was, as we know, a wealthy man, lie
could not afford to disregard any suggestion
of his great-uncle. At first he had looked

OH the whole thing as a confounded
nuisance ; he had objected to his wife
that they might make themselves ridiculous
by a too abject obedience to the
whims of the old nobleman.

But after all it was not so very bad
for the Haggardss. Lord Pit Town took
care to make it very apparent to everybody
that it was at his special desire
that Haggard and his family remained at
the Castle. He let it be very plainly perceived
that he considered Reginald Ha^'j^^ard
almost as his son, as well as his heir ; for
the permanent Under-Secretary at the Home
Office, at the conclusion of his official
duties, had quite enough to occupy his
mind with his eternal whist at the club
till the small hours of the morning. The
odd trick was far more to him than the
possession of Walls End Castle and the Pit
Town title. But Mr. Lancelot Ha^^orard
remained a plain esrj^uire till his death,

which occurred seven years after that of

39—2

the unfortunate Lord Hetton. When his
man-servant opened the study door one
mornmcr for he had found the bedroom
empty, he saw Lancelot Haggard seated
at the whist table, upon which the four
hands of an unfinished game were spread.
Pole's "Treatise on Whist" lay open at "The
Echo of the Call," the candles had burnt
out in their sockets, there were tricks
turned, and three cards were already
played of another one ; and Lancelot
Haggard sat bolt upright, the fourth card
between his fingers, stone dead, but with
a peaceful smile upon his lips-reginald

Haggard, then, was practically
in the position of Lord Pit Town's son.
Of course he was but plain Mr. Haggard
still. He had got rid of his father's
place, thus " washing his hands," as he
had threatened, " of the whole bag of
tricks ; " for though Cunning-ham, the
Scotch steward, had succeeded in screwing
three per cent, out of the place, yet he

lead made himself so terribly unpopular
in the process that he resigned in despair
in order to emigrate to New Zealand, and
so become, as he phrased it, his " ain mon
a<2^ain." When the steward resin-ned Haggard
had been very glad indeed of the
excuse to send the place to the hammer.
A set of rooms in the huge mansion of
the old lord in Grosvenor Square had
been placed at Haggard's disposal, and
though he frequently ran up to town, his
pied-parterre was at the house which would
one day be his own, and the Haggardss
had no regular establishment in London.
As for George Haggard herself, she invariably
passed a portion of the summer with
her father at The Warren. She usually
made her annual visit accompanied only
by the two boys, for Haggard invariably
absented himself in the summer either for
Norway fishing, lengthy yacht voyages, or
as one of a little party of men of his
own kidney, who sought their sport further

afield and went lion-hunting in South
Africa, shooting the hippopotamus on the
White Nile, or chasing the fast-disappearing
buffalo upon the American prairies. But
as a rule he would set home for the shooting.
Year by year the head of game in
the Walls End preserves, under Haggard's
fostering care, had increased. In the old
lord's name Haggard had invited every
year a select little party of crack shots ;
he gave them a couple of days' hattue
shooting, the other four in the stubble
and among the turnips, and at the end of
the week they went away to " wipe each
others' eyes " over some other man's birds.
For some years the bags made at these
little annual gatherings had been noted in
the daily papers. Haggard himself not
infrequently headed the list, for he was an
enthusiastic sportsman and a brilliant shot.

Eeginald Haggard at five-and-forty had
quieted down. Years and years ago he
had taken his name off the books at the

Pandemonium ; he no longer gambled, and
he took a great interest in politics, as
became a man who was destined, in the
ordinary course of events, and at no very
distant date, to become one of our hereditary
legislators. Of course Haggard had
many friends, or rather acquaintances, all
of whom were ready to kootoo and truckle
to the man who would be the next Earl
of Pit Town ; men whom he would invite
to dinner, and who would entertain him ;
generally men of his own age, or club-room
bucks with wrinkled cheeks ; men whose
clothes were always in the fashion, and
who as a rule ate and drank rather more
than was good for them ; men who rode in
the park on three hundred guinea hacks,
and who might be seen in the Drive in
big mail-phaetons with brobdignagian lamps,
or driving noisy and rather miscellaneous
parties on their four-in-hands towards
Richmond.

I don't know what Haggard would have

done without that invaluable esquire of
his body, Mr. Maurice Capt. Capt accompanied
him everywhere ; he had camped
out with him in the Cockles, and his culinary
skill there had more than made up
for the deficiencies of Bull-headed Bill, the
half-bred titular cook of the expedition.
Capt was a silent man, and his fellow
servants were never able to extract any
gossip from him respecting his master's
wanderings. But Haggard was lucky in
retaining one real friend ; his old nidus
Achates, Lord Spunyarn, was his friend
still ; still a bachelor, no longer the unsuccessful
amateur athlete of former days, but
developed into a full-blown philanthropist,
the friend of mankind in general, but of
the destitute East-ender in particular.

Ever since George Haggard, in her just
indignation, had banished her cousin from
her presence, Miss Luc}^ Warrender, still
a handsome woman, had led a wandering
life ; the dove had found no rest for the

sole of her foot. Homeless and friendless,
though her intimates and acquaintances
were innumerable, she was as restless and
erratic in her movements as the Wandering
Jew. Miss Warrender was always in
evidence upon the Ascot Lawn ; she was
to be seen at Brighton during the season,
at German watering-places, at Danville,
Biarritz, and Eastbourne or Scarborough
in the summer, and occasionally even fora
few days at The Warren, where she invariably
appeared at Christmas. For Lucy
Warrender had eight hundred a year of
her own, which she had inherited from the
colonel, her father. I am afraid she had
become a confirmed old maid ; she had
flirted and philander till she was thirty,
and there were plenty of the very smartest
people who were quite ready to flirt with
her now, for Lucy Warrender still retained
]her good looks, her dreamy blonde beauty,
and her eyes still sparkled as of old. We
have said Lucy Warrender was homeless

and friendless, and she had developed two
master vices : to drown her troubles she
gambled as only a woman can gamble,
and she drugged herself with chloral and
other abominations to procure a temporary
forgetfulness of a black shadow that incessantly
pursued her. The man Capt
knew of the long-buried secret, and he
persistently blackmailed the unhappy Lucy
Warrender ; but Capt was far too wise a
man to kill the souse with the golden e^fTs.
He considered that if he drove her to extremity,
and the trick which had been
played upon Eeginald Haggard should ever
become a public scandal, that he had nothing
to gain but everything to lose. He
knew that the English laws against what
the French call change were severe ; he
also knew enough of his master to be quite
certain that if Haggard's just indignation
were once aroused, he would be pursued
with relentless ferocity. So he contented
himself with plundering Lucy Warrender,

and kept her secret ; not because he was
not perfectly ready to betray it, but because
lie saw no way of bringing his knowledge
to a better market.

As for the two young men, for they had
already ceased to be adolescence, they were
certainly physically decidedly above the
average. Lucius, the elder, was, as we
know, Lucy Warrender's child. His whole
soul was wrapped up in the fact that a few
short years would see him the possessor of
the courtesy title and heir to his supposed
father's ample means and old Lord Pit
Town's incalculable wealth. The longfellow
had even developed a taste for art.
simply because he felt it was his bounden
duty to be able to appreciate the innumerable
treasures which must inevitably soon
be his very own. Young Lucius Haggard
had been petted and spoiled from his
earliest infancy, he had had his way in
everything ; his nurses, his schoolmasters
and his tutors had bowed down to him ;

good-looking young fellow that he became
in after years, a fact of which he was perfectly
aware ; he was flattered and toadied
to by the golden youth of both sexes, and
by most of his elders, who ought to have
known better, to an extent sufficient to
have turned the head of any ordinary
young man of wel-regulated mind. But
Lucius Haggard's was not a well-regulated
mind. He was of his father's religion, but
he carried the religion further. Eeginald
Haggard was a self-worshipper, a man determined
to get the greatest amount of
pleasure and amusement out of this world,
regardless of consequences to others, a man
fer whom trumps were continually turning
up, a man who felt he was a brazen pot
amono^ the earthen ones floating' down the
stream, and to whom the annihilation of the
weaker vessels was a matter of utter indifference.
Like Napoleon, he believed in
his star, and he had been right in doing
so, for when at two-ands twenty he ■ had

been turned out to take this chance, he
had rapidly become the possessor of wealth
far beyond his needs ; a little later, after
a short period of enjoyment of the free
wild life in America, he had returned to
draw the prize in the matrimonial lottery,
which somehow inevitably falls to the lot
of such as he. The good lives which stood
between him and the Pit Town peerage
had all dropped, and nothing now remained
between him and what he considered his
rights but one frail old man. But the
young Lucius had never for an instant
been submitted to the healthy influence of
even temporary poverty, his existence had
never even been troubled by so much as a
crumpled rose leaf; the consequence was
that his selfishness was utter and unaffected,
that he did not even wear it as a fragment,
but that it was absolutely a part of himself.
A tall handsome young fellow enough,
fairly clever, who did not conceal that he
thought himself rather superior to the rest

of the world, and the rest of the world
took pretty good care to coincide in the
young fellow's opinion.

As for George Hasforard. he was the anti

CO

type of Lucius. Equally good-looking, he
was the picture of old Squire Warrender
in his youth ; his fair chestnut hair curled
m profusion over his broad square forehead.
He was a muscular youth who
shone at school and at the university, in
the cricket field and upon the river alike.
But he was no mere athlete, for he had a
taste for reading, and he never forgot the
fact, which his father was continually pressing
upon his mind, that he, as a younger
son, would have to get his own living.
And George Hafro^ard was ambitious ; he
meant if possible to force his way into
the arena of political life, and had already
determined to make a struggle for name
and fame at the Bar. But though George
Haggard was ambitious, his was an affectionate
disposition ; he idolized his mother,

and he truckled to no one, not even to his
father or the old earl. George Haggard
knew well enough that he would be a
comparatively poor man — a pauper, as his
brother pleasantly put it, but only a pauper
from the point of view of Lucius Haggard,
the probable future possessor of immense
wealth, for The Warren acres would assuredly
be his, and had George Haggard
so willed it, nothing would have been
easier for him than to sit and twiddle his
thumbs and wait for old Squire Warrender's
death; but as we have said, George
Haggard was ambitious.

The great new gallery at Walls hand
Castle, the Grecian temple which Dr. Wolff
had designed over twenty years before, was
now less offensive to the eye externally. It
was a Grecian temple still, but its 
had passed away. Two old
gentlemen arm-in-arm slowly walked down
the principal saloon, the one a big gre}'-
haired man whose face was disfigured with

many scars ; as lie walked he gesticulated,
and he spoke with a strong German accent
in a loud voice. By his side ambled his
friend and companion of many years, a
very old man this, who stooped considerably
and leant frequently upon a crutch-handle
stick ; the two men were John, Earl
of Pit Town, and Dr. Wolff.

I never thought, Wolff, that I should
be spared to fill the last space on these
walls. I certainly never expected to sec
the termination of my labours. In art one
cannot be too exacting. We made up our
minds years ago that there should be nothing
doubtful here, and here is the only
remaining space filled at last, and filled,
as it should be, by a masterpiece. Yes,"
said the old nobleman, as he rubbed his
hands, " thank heaven there is nothing
doubtful here. Nothing remains for me
now, Wolff, but to leave the treasures that
it has been the labour of my life to accumulate
; mv sic^ht isn't what it was."

Xo man is what lie was, my good friend
and master, but it is not well to be sad.
You set yourself a f^reat task years ai^o,
an almost superhuman task. He is accomplished."


No, not accomplished yet, Wolff. I
have only got through a part of it. I have
caught my white elephant, but what am I
to do with him? I know too well that
my natural heir looks upon the contents of
these galleries but as so many hundred
thousand pounds' worth of hard cash. He
is an honest man, and makes no secret
of it."

But his son, my lord, the young Mr.
Lucius ? "

Ah ! he is a mystery, Wolff, that I have

failed to fathom. We have known him, my

friend, since he was a little child. I can't

tell why, Wolff, I have never trusted him.

Perhaps the aged are over - suspicious. I

confess to you that if I thought he loved

art for art's sake, he should have my
VOL. ni. 40

pictures, as lie will ultimately have my title
aud what goes with it."

You cau tie them up, my lord."

Yes, I know I can tie them up, but
then the pictures I've loved would suffer.
Who will care for them, Wolff, when you
and I are gone ? "

You have sometimes talked, my
lord, of giving them en Hoc to the
nation."

Yes, Wolff, I did once think of that ;
but since that time I have seen that real
Chamber of Horrors, the National Portrait
Gallery. I should not like to send
her there," he said, as he pointed to the
portrait of wicked Bab Chudleigh, who
simpered and smiled at him from the wall.
No, Wolff, I shouldn't like my pictures
to be hawked about as loans to one East
End or provincial exhibition after another,
to be sneered at by crowds of appreciating
yokels. It's a very heavy responsibility,
Wolff."

At this moment Eeginald Haggard entered
the gallery.

I hear, my lord," he said, as he shook
hands with the old nobleman, " that you
have hung the last long-sought ti-easure
this morning. Is it really so ? "

The old lord nodded.

"I suppose you will begin the weeding
process now ? " continued Haggard.

The old man drew himself up a little
stiffly. " If you can indicate to me anything
that is unworthy, you will confer an obligation
; but I think you'll find it difficult. In
my opinion, Haggard," he continued, " and
in the opinion of others far letter able to
judge than I am, tiers is nothing here
requiring weeding out."

Haggard slightly flushed.

I can only plead my ignorance," he
said ; " it is what most connoisseurs do."

Yes, there you're quite right ; but most

men begin collecting as the amusement of

their old age. I began it sixty years ago,

40—2

and I'm afraid my long life's labour is over,
and that, useless old man that I am, I've
lived too long already."

You look upon things in a melancholy
light, my lord."

"No man is pleased when he finds his
occupation gone ; and perhaps it's a little
sad to me to find that you care for none
of these things."

I know you wouldn't wish me to affect
an interest I do not feel," said Haggard
with an ingenuous smile.

No, there you're right. For we should
find him out, shouldn't wee, Wolff?"

The doctor of philosophy laughed. " It
is our business to detect shams'' he said.
Yes, I think we should have found you out."

Then, Dr. Wolff, you'd better try your
skill on Lucius ; he poses as a man of taste,
I don't.'

At that moment the two young men
entered the gallery.

Here he is to answer for himself," said

Haggard ; " and I'll leave him to your tender
mercies. If he be a sham Priest of Art,
unfrock him by all means, Dr. Wolff," said
Haggard with a laugh, as he sauntered
away.

The two young men greeted their aged
relative with respect, and nodded familiarly
to Dr. Wolff.

I verily believe, my lord, that this
younger brother of mine has no soul'' said
young Lucius Haggard ; " he actually tells
me that the contemplation of pictures produces
in him naught but headache."

And a pain in the neck, Lucius ; don't
forget the pain in the neck," said his
brother.

"Yes, his pain in his neck was his other
symptom. He declares he sees more beauty
in a sunlit rustic hedge than in a landscape
by Claude Lorraine."

And I added to my criminality, I fear,
Dr. Wolff, by declaring that I only liked a
picture when it gave pleasure to my eyes,

as does the wicked wanton on the wall
yonder," he added, kissing the tips of his
fingers to Mistress Barbara Chudleigh.

"Each, my young friend, do not glory in
being a Pilasters'' sighed Dr. Wolff.

I fear, George, yours is but a low and
sensuous ideal, if Sir Peter's commonplace
masterpiece is all that rouses your enthusiasm.
Why, amidst so much that is beautiful,
so much that is spiritual, so much
that appeals to the higher nature, you
should pick out the one commonplace bit
in the whole collection, I can't imagine,"
said Lucius with a sneer.

You may call it commonplace if you
like, Lucius. All I know is, that whatever
else she may have been, if Bab Chudleigh
was like that picture, she must have very
closely resembled an angel."

And have you seen them then, these
angels, young sir, that you speak so confidently
? " said the German doctor, as a great
smile ran over his scarred face.

Seen them? of course I have — hundreds
of them. So did you, Dr. Wolff, when you
were ray age, and I have no doubt so did
his lordship there," said the boy with a
glance at the old lord, who was peering
into a picture at some distance. " I'll be
bound that Lucius here sees the angels of
this dream-fancies by the dozen. He goes
in for poetry, you know, and all that sort of
thing, though I for my own part would
rather not see his angels, for I haven't been
educated up to the pitch where one admires
the beauty of decay, as Lucius has, the
creatures with the pointed chins, the sandy
townley hair, the great hungry eyes, the
uncomfortable poses, the deficiency of
adipose tissue and the prehensile toes. I
can't say that I appreciate green shadows
under the eyes, nor do I see anything poetic
in a bilious air. But all these things are
very dear to Lucius, at least lie says so.
No, give me nature and Tab Chudleigh,
and I'll make Lucius a present of art and

his bony angels, and all Mr. Swinburne's
clutching horrors into the bargain."

'' Thank you, George ; it's very noble and
generous on your part to hand over to me
what you can't appreciate."

My dear Lucius, we all have our failings.
You go in for art and the artificial, while
nature is enough for me."

When you are my age," said Lucius
with the superior wisdom of an elder
brother, " you will cease to judge by
externals, I trust. You will have learned
to peep behind the veil, and you will seethe
real soul seated on its throne."

Bosh ! " said George shortly.

And so the idle talk went on, and Lucius
continued to pose, while the worshipper of
nature took pains to fit on the Philistine's
skin tighter than ever.

AT MONTE CARLO.

Mk. Maurice Capt, thou oh an ambitious
man and a clever one withal, had risen no
higher in the world since we saw him last ;
he was still Eeginald Haggard's valet, but
his cases were e^ood and he had a little den
of his own where his meals were served
to him from the housekeeper's table in
solitary state. The valet was by this time
a man of property ; his wants were few and
his little economies, as he called them, were
large. Nobody but his banker was aware of
the extent of his accumulations ; he couldn't
have saved it all out of his pay, but he had
managed to amass a comparatively large
sum which stood to his credit in four figures.
Was Mr. Capt a gambler, a backer of horses,
or a dabbler in stocks and shares ? Nota

bit of it. Mr. Maurice Capt was the proprietor
of a secret. For seventeen years
Mr. Capt had drawn from this queer property
of his a varying but comfortable income.
When Lucy Warrender first came into her
eight hundred a year, Mr. Capt's income
had very sensibly increased. It wasn't paid
quarterly or half-yearly ; the manner in which
it was drawn was sufficiently original. The
bills which Mr. Capt drew whenever he
thought fit upon Miss Lucy Warrender where
always honoured. Mr. Capt was in the
habit of writing to the lady in the humble
tone of a suppliant. The letters always
stated with praiseworthy clearness what was
the sum required, and the demand was always
met with business-like promptitude. How
Miss Warrender managed to satisfy this insatiable
bloodsucker I cannot tell, for though
she had eight hundred a year of her own,
she certainly lived up to it, perhaps beyond
it. But Miss Warrender gambled in many
ways ; she speculated and had (suite a large

iiccoLint which she had opened with a very
old friend of former years, Mr. Dabbler,
once of the firm of Sleek and Dabbler, but
now trading by himself, and though dropping
his h's as freely as ever, one of the biggest
brokers on the Stock Exchange and an alderman
of the City of London. I suppose
Alderman Dabbler must have been very
much in love with Miss Warrender, though
he never actually had the impertinence to
propose to her. Iter transactions with him
Averse numerous, and did not pass through
his books. Most of her speculations were
made upon his advice, and many a handsome
cheque testified either to the astuteness of
Miss Lucy Warrender, or to the generosity
of Mr. Alderman Dabbler. Poor Dabbler,
he was but one of the many irons in Miss
Warrender's fire. Miss Warrender betted ;
it was even said that she ran horses as " Mr.
Simpson." She would stand upon the plateau
at Monaco at the shooting matches, and in
an entrancing costume and a pair of ten-button

gloves, lier face carefully shaded from
the blazing sun by an enormous parasol,
she would watch the birds fall right and
left and die in agony, or drop wounded into
the sea, and still continue to back the bird
or the gun, as seemed to her good, with
the cosmopolitan habitues of the rather
Bohemian but money spending set in which
she moved. It was a very miscellaneous
set : peers, members of parliament, journalists,
jockeys, people who lived by their
wits but who somehow always managed to
wear new garments of fashionable cut,
actresses, singers, dancers, of European reputation,
and some of them with no reputations
at all, fashionables of enviable notoriety or
the reverse ; all these various sorts of people
were hail-fellow-well-met with Miss Warrender
upon the Plateau at Monte Carlo, or
within the walls of the great gambling house.
Lucy Warrender had kept her good looks ;
I expect if she hadn't she would have gone
under long before. She enjoyed herself ina

sort of feverish way ; she was a notoriously

lucky woman when she gambled, and she

gambled habitually and heavily. But just

on the particular day we meet Miss Warrender

again, Fortune had been unkind. The

lady was sitting gazing out from her window

on the second floor of the Hotel de Eussie

upon the sunlit tranquil turquoise sea. I don't

think that she saw much beauty in the scene,

for though she stared at the blue sea and the

bluer sky, she appeared to be rapt in thought.

There are some women who are always

well dressed, whose flounces and whose

furbelows are ever fresh and crisp ; Lucy

Warrender was one of these. It would be

very easy to extract from The Queen a poetic

description of the pretty pale blue tea-gown

that Lucy Warrender wore, but I must

leave it to your imagination, reader. The

pale blue and the profusion of delicate filmy

lace suited Lucy Warrender's dreamy blonde

beauty. Seventeen years had passed lightly

over her head ; perhaps the golden locks were

a trifle more golden than of old, and if
their luxuriance was due a little to art, the
secret was only known to Lucy and her maid.
Her foot, thrust into a heel-less Tunisian
slipper of blue velvet embroidered with seed
pearls, beat the floor impatiently. The
strong sunlight showed that there really
were a few tiny wrinkles, faintest lines on
the ivory forehead and at the corners of the
pretty mouth, whose ruddy lips were arched
like Cupid's bow. But though the lips were
arched, the mouth was determined, almost
cruel; but the cruelty of the mouth suddenly
disappeared as the door opened, and the
whole face was instantly illuminated by the
smile that men termed infantine and angelic,
but which rivals of her own sex styled
affectedly sentimental.

It was Lucy's maid who entered the room,
a big burly woman, still the fine animal of
yore, Fanchette — the Fanchette who had
succeeded the unhappy Hepzibah, and who
had nursed the boys Lucius and George.

I have got them, mademoiselle," she said
in French, as she smoothed out a little heap
of blue bank notes ; " seven thousand francs
as usual ; and a brave pair of earrings too,
to produce lliat from the harpies of the Mont
de Piece at Nice. The employe made me the
usual compliment, mademoiselle, and as he
paid me the money he declared that the pair
of single stones were the most beautified he
had ever seen. The rascal took care not to
say it till we had made our bargain. Ciel,
I trust mademoiselle will be en veine tonight,
for I shan't feel easy till I see the
stones sparkling again in mademoiselle's
ears."

Lucy counted the notes, she dismissed the
bonne, and then she soliloquized ; not in so
many words, as do heroines of melodrama,
but this is what she said to herself, at all
events the substance of it :

I am sick of life, I am sick of planning
and plotting and being looked upon as an
adventuress. I am sick of being bowed to

and spoken to by people who in the oil
time would not have presumed to beg for
an introduction. I am i^ettinof declassee.
Perhaps one doesn't feel it so much here,
for wee are pretty well all adventurers more
or less, here in the gambler's paradise, though
some of us have plenty of money." Miss
Warrender stood before the smouldering
hearth and gazed with stern scrutiny at her
own features in the mirror. " Yes," she
soliloquized, " George, though she is two
years older than I am, has certainly worn
the better of the two ; she is lovely Mrs.
Haggard still. And what am I? A hag, a
dreadful grinning hag, a woman to be flirted
with, danced with and supped with, a woman
who has ceased to be respected. Why, that
dreadful old Baron Teufelsdroch called me
his belle petite the other day, and I have no
champion now to take the old sinner by the
throat and shake the life out of him."

Lucy sank into the only comfortable chair
in the room, and then she did a dreadful

thing. Dreadful to our minds, dear reader,
for we are respectable and insular and we
have our prejudices, our glorious insular
prejudices. We can sympathize with "The
Sorrows of Werther," we can even shed tears
perhaps over the bread-and-butter cutting
Charlotte, but were Charlotte to light a
cigarette ! Oh horror — fie — for shame —
pschutt : the lady would at once be outside
the pale of respectability, totally unworthy
of our love and sympathy ; worse still, to
our minds she would cease to be even good-looking
or to deserve the lovely and romantic
name of Charlotte at all. One can't tell why
it is so : the preternaturally hideous heroes of
our fashionable lady novelists seek consolation
in the strongest and most expensive cigars
or in rough cut cavendish. Dirk Hatteraick
even places a quid of pigtail in his mouth,
and that bold buccaneer and the heroes of
the lady novelists still remain dear delightful
darlings, and bright eyes grow dim over
their hairbreadth escapes, their struggles

VOL. HI. 41

and their woes. Spare then a little of your
sympathy for poor Lucy Warrender, that
bankrupt rake, as she coiled herself up in
the big easy chair and took from her pocket
a tiny silver case and extracted a Lafernie
cigarette. Remember, reader, that Fanchette,
you, and I, are the only accomplices of her
guilty weakness. She took an ember from
the fire with the tongs and lighted the little
cylinder, and as she did so her features
once more, as of old, became lighted up
with the soft placid smile of girlish enjoyment,
as the angel face became surrounded
by a halo of tobacco smoke. Why shouldn't
poor Lucy seek consolation as did the other
villains and heroes of romance ? It evidently
wasn't the first cigarette by many that Lucy
had smoked, for she inhaled the smoke
scientifically and ejected it from her nostrils
like an hahiiuee.

Nemesis sooner or later finds the sinner
out, and when we called Lucy Warrender
a bankrupt rake it was done advisedly, for

Miss Warrender had come to the end of her
tether. The earrings which she had pawned —
a sordid act, for they had been a love-token,
the souvenir of a reckless, wicked and unhappy
attachment — were literally the lady's
last stake. She took the little roll of notes
from her pocket and methodically counted
them once more.

So this is the end of it all," said Lucy
to herself ; " a few dirty pieces of paper
and that is all. And if I lose them all tonight,
as something tells me is but too likely,
then I must be a beggar, and must stretch
out my hands for alms — or bid good-bye to
all the bright sunshine and the happy, pleasant
memories," and she laughed a hard bitter
little laugh. " But why should I be sorry
to go? Happiness is not for such guns as
I have been. My secret has been well kept,
so far, but will it be a secret long ? For I
can't afford to pay for silence now. If I
land a heavy stake, or break the bank, all

will be well : if not, I must go where I

41—2

hope to find forgetfulness. But what if
there should be no forgetfulness beyond the
grave ? " As her thoughts dwelt on the
words she shuddered. " The cold, cruel,
silent grave. Silent ! Yes, that was something
— and after — if there be an after." And
then the thought of the happy girlish days
at The Warren came back to her. The remembrance
of the stupid faithful people she
had known, and liked, and laughed at, and
then the dreadful time at the Villa Lambert
and Avhat followed ; and then her own
triumphantly - successful trick — successful,
perhaps, from the very simplicity of its
audacity ; and then her weary worthless
after-life, with its sickening treadmill round
of so-called gaiety and amusement. And
then the child ; why lead he not died ? It
was for no love of her child that, by her
agency, young Lucius had been foisted into
the position of Haggard's heir. She had
thought no further than to hide her shame,
and in doing it she had unwittingly disinherited

her owu cousin's child. Why had
Lucius not died?

Lucy's melancholy meditations were disturbed
by the entrance of Fanchette, who
handed her mistress a letter and left the
room as silently as she had entered it. Lucy
recognized the hand, and knew full well what
the letter would certainly contain. She had
guessed aright. Another demand for money
from the man Capt. The words were respectful
enough, there was no threat, but
Lucy Warrender understood what it meant
the money or exposure.

A thousand pounds ! As well might the
daughters of Danaus try to fill their sieves
with water, as Lucy Warrender attempt to
satisfy the insatiable greed of the remorseless
Capt. Miss Warrender placed the letter
in the hire, and saw it consumed to ashes.

'• Unless I win heavily," she thought, " you
will not be gratified, Maurice Capt. Then,
I suppose, you will try your master, but I
fancy you will have a bad quarter of an hour

with liim."' The thought gave her evident
pleasure ; it even made her smile.

And then she darkened the room, and
flinging herself upon the sofa lay down to
sleep away the hot afternoon till it should
be time for dinner and the subsequent
roulette.

Eight o'clock saw" Miss Warrender in a
charming toilette of electric blue. The little
bonnet with its short curing feathers did not
hide the great wavy masses of golden hair ;
the little cape with its fur trimming, and the
tiny rauiF, even the gloves and the boots,
were of the same colour. As Lucy Warrender
entered the Eooms she smiled, and lie
talked with several of her acquaintances.
That hoary old sinner. General Pepper, Cab.,
bowed profoundly to her, and paid her his
old-fashioned c omplimen t.

Devilish pretty little woman," he remarked
to his friend Colonel Spurbox, late
of the Carabineers ; " knew her years ago in
Eome. Wears well and don't look her age.

Those little plump fair women never do.
Gad, she's not got her earrings on ; sent
them to her uncle's, I suppose. She'll
go for the bank, Spurbox, to-night. Plucky
little devil. I hope she'll win."

The eyes of the two warriors gazed after
the retreating maid with sympathetic admiration


'' Crisp little thing, eh ? " continued the
general.

Monstrous," echoed his comrade, with
ready acquiescence. "Let's go and drink
her health, and then we'll go into the thick
of it and see how she 2:ets on."

The two old bucks ambled off to drink
Lucy Warrender's health ; they wished her
well. Much good may it do her.

As Miss Warrender walked towards the
great room where the worshippers of the
Goddess Fortune most do congregate, the
big suisses, in their handsome liveries and
chains of office, Sowed obsequiously ; they
all knew her as an habitude and a constant

customer of the tables. When she reached
the roulette table itself, that veteran diplomatist,
one of the oldest and most faithful
of her admirers, the Due de la Ilouspignolle,
offered to vacate his chair, with many a
protestation and a succession of courteous
bows.

"I have been unlucky, dear Mademoiselle
Warrender ; Fortune has frowned on me,
but now I am far happier, for I exchange
her frowns for the smiles of Yenus."'

"I won't take your chair, duke," said
Iaicv. "I may lean upon it, and try to
be your Mascotte and to bring you luck."

But somehow or other, whether the
pretty Englishwoman's presence upset the
old gambler's calculations or not I cannot
tell, but he lost, and in a quarter of an
hour rose from his seat.

Revenge me on the Philistine, dear
lady, if you can," said the old man, " for
I am decade — but don't take my unlucky
chair, I pray you. You will ? " he continued

in astonishment. " Well, if you will
you must ; at all events take my card, it
may help you'' and he handed her the
little card with the big black-headed pin,
by means of which the experienced players
mark and register the exact result of each
successive coup.

Lucy Warrender took the chair with a
smile, and laughed gaily, as with the card
she received a little tender squeeze from
the wicked old hand, and then she sat
down with a full determination, as the
Americans put it, " to plank down her bottom
dollar." Lucy Warrender was sitting
next to the croupier. She handed him one
of her thousand-franc notes and he gave
her in exchange a little rouleau neatly
sealed at both ends, containing the equivalent
in gold. For nearly three-quarters
of an hour Miss Warrender confined herself
to stakes of one or two Napoleons at
a time, which she pushed out before the
little glittering pile in front of her, and

which were placed upon the decked square
with wonderful rapidity by the obsequious
croupier. It is a curious fact that your
croupier, that well-paid but honest official,
for some mysterious reason or other always
mentally identifies himself with the bank ;
it gives him absolute pleasure to rake in
the winnings, and he feels some strange
vicarious twinge of agony when he commences
the process of paying out. But
whenever Miss Warrender won, this particular
croupier pushed her gains towards
her with a little smile, and strange to say
didn't seem to feel it in the least. And
now Lucy looked at her card. For twenty-seven
coups she had placed a single Napoleon
upon the number twenty-seven.
Of course, at roulette, some number or
zero itself is bound to come up every
time, but number twenty-seven was invariably
unlucky. Lucy Warrender's left
hand was thrust into the pocket of her
dress ; it clutched, as an Ashantee warrior

clutches his fetish, the key of her room at
the Hotel de Passive, and from the key
hung its little brass label — it was number
twenty-seven. For three-quarters of an
hour then, and for twenty-seven coups. Miss
Warrender had pursued her Will-o'-the-wisp ;
the one or two Napoleons that she staked
each time was mere child's play to lier, for
as we know she was in the habit of gambling
heavily. At the twenty-eighth coup
Miss Warrender changed the amount of
her stake upon the unfortunate number ;
for the twenty-franc piece she substituted
a hundred-franc note and handed it to the
croupier ; he thrust it into the great glass
and metal cash-box at his side and pushed
five Napoleons on to the square marked
twenty-seven. "Messieurs, le jeu est fait.
Rien ne va j>lus,'^ said the bald-headed high
priest of the table, who sat exactly opposite
the gentleman with the rake, who had so
deftly carried out Miss Warrender's directions.
He seized the big plated handle, gave

it the necessary twirl as he said the words,
and tossed the little ball of fate, with the
usual professional spin, upon the rapidly-revolving
disc. Found flew the wheel of
fortune, and round flew the ball, making
little irregular jumps. As the whirling disc
revolves less rapidly, every eye is fixed
upon the ball. The wheel is about to stop.
The ball jumps into 15, thence into 17.
The wheel has almost stopped ; the ball
will surely rest in No. 23. No, it has not
quite stopped, it goes a little further yet.
Heads are craned forward. Lucy Warrender
clutches the key of her bedroom tighter
than ever. And then the bald-headed high
priest uf Baal calls out in the regulation
monotone, " Vingt - sept. Rouge Impair et
Passe r' Rhadamanthus, Minos and lacus
stretch out their rakes, and gold, notes,
and fat five-franc pieces, which have been
staked by the unhappy backers of black,
even, the zero and the various numbers
(all but twenty-seven, lucky twenty-seven) are

swept away in an instant Then the croupiers
cover the stakes of the lucky backers
of odd and red with their equivalents ; nothing
remains on the table now but fortunate
Lucy's five Napoleons. The croupier at
her side gives it the little professional knock
with his rake, sweeps the five Napoleons
back towards Miss Warrender, and counts
out to her from his cash-box, with unerring
rapidity, the sum of three thousand
five hundred francs in notes. There is a
little hum of applause. "Faite-s vos jeii.v,
messieurs'' Down rained the notes, the
Napoleons, the British sovereigns and the
five-franc pieces, and the game continues
with monotonous regularity.

For three mortal hours Lucy Warrender
clutched her hotel key, and played with
varying success. At one time there was
quite a little heap of notes and gold in
front of her, upon which lie discreetly
laid her fan. She had steadily backed the
number twenty-seven for varying but ever

increasing amounts. The number twenty-seven
had come up no less than eight
times and had been the cause of Miss War-render's
winning heavily. The keenest eye
at that time coukl have detected no wrinkle
on Lucy's lovely girlish face. But fortune
after a while caasei to favour her ; the
crowd of admiring onlookers, " the gallery,"
that had stood behind her cluiir attracted
by her successes gradually dwindled, and
the heap of gold and notes in front of her
slowly but surely took unto themselves
wings and flew away. But the gouty old
Frenchman, the Due de la Houspignolle,
faithful knight that he was, still stood
behind her chair. Old Pepper and the
veteran Colonel Spurbox, of the Carabineers,
still leered at her, in mingled pity and admiration,
from the other side of the great
roulette table. Lucy Warrender still clutched
her key, and still backed fatal number
twenty-seven ; her mouth was dry and
parched as she took out her last thousand-franc

note, and, it not being permitted to
stake that sum at roulette, she took it to
the Trente et Quaraiite table, and lost it at
a single coup.

The lady had played her last stake and
lost it. She rose to leave.

Let me be your banker, dear Miss
Warrender," whispered the aged Mephistopheles
who stood behind her chair.

Xo, duke, not that. I haven't quite
sunk to that yet, you know."

'• Always farouche, dear Miss Warrender,
but I apologize," he continued as he gave
her his arm.

Perhaps the little hand that rested on
it trembled slightly, but Lucy was a War-render,
and plucky ; she nodded and bowed
in every direction ; she smiled and simpered
as sweetly as of yore ; she sat in the great
restaurant at one of the little marble tables
and sucked an orangeade glace through two
straws, and then the Due de hi Ilouspignolle
escorted her back to the Hotel de Eussie

with all respect, where Fanchette anxiously
awaited her arrival.

Fanchette didn't ask her mistress how she
had prospered, for her gesture as she flaccidly
dropped into her lounge-chair told the
woman all she wished to know.

You can go, Manchester'" said Lucy ;
if I want anything I'll touch the hand-bell."


The woman yawned, courtesies and departed.


Lucy Warrender opened her writing-case
and commenced an affectionate letter to her
uncle. In it she said incidentally :

There are quite a number of people
here that we know. The old Due de la
Houspignolle, still quite the old beau ; and
that dreadful old General Pepper, the man
we met at Eome, and who was mixed up in
Eeginald's affair with poor Barbiche, and
Colonel Spurbox. They talk of making up
a party to run across to Nice. I think
of joining them. If we go we shall leave

the day after tomorrow ; everything of
course depends upon the weather. I "

Here Lucy Warrender deliberately let
her pen fall upon the paper. Then she
got up, looked at herself in the glass and
frowned ; and then she did a thing she
hadn't done for years. She knelt down at
her bed-side and said her prayer to heaven,
the very prayer she had been accustomed
to say as a little child upon her nurse's
lap. Then she took a printed receipt of
the Mont de Piece for a pair of brilliant
solitaire earrings, and burnt it in the flame
of the candle.

No one will miss me," she muttered
to herself, " no one, save Maurice Capt,
for I have been an income to him, and
George, perhaps. Poor George ! " she added
with a soli. She ne'er even thought of

o o

Lucius ; she knew full well that even had

the youth known she was his mother, he

would assuredly not have missed her.

I wonder whether the old duke will
VOL. in. 42

be there," she continued to herself ; " all
the English are sure to come. We never
miss a funeral ; it's one of our sad pleasures,"
she added with a hollow laugh. Then she
took from her dressing-case a dark blue
fluted medicine bottle ; it was labelled,
'the sedative mixture, a teaspoonful fora
dose at bedtime. POISON." The last
word had a little special red label all to
itself. The bottle was nearly full. Miss
Warrender deliberately poured out seven-eighths
of its contents into a tumbler, then
she recorded the bottle, replaced it in her
dressing-case and swallowed the contents
of the tumbler at a draught, and then
carefully and deliberately washed the glass
and dried it with the towel. Then she
sat herself down in the lounge-chair. In
ten minutes she dozed ; she soon slept
peacefully and calmly. In half-an-hour she
had ceased to exist.

On the 23rd inst., at the Hotel do
Eussie, Monte Carlo, Lucy, the only

daughter of the late Colonel George Warrender,
of the H. E. I. C. Service, aged 35,
suddenly of heart-disease."

This was the first intimation to Lucy
Warrender's friends in London of her
sudden death.

Poor thing ! " said Mrs. Charmington,
now quite the old woman, " I wonder how
she managed that lovely-coloured hair."

42—2

;,v.iviRSi"nr OF iLUNUii.

AN ANONYMOUS LETTER.

Mrs. Haggard and her husband, both in
deep mourning, sat in the special boudoir
at Walls End Castle which had been furnished
and set apart for his grand-nephew's
wife on her first arrival years ago by old
Lord Pit Town. Haggard looked pale and
weary, and well he might, for he had gone
straight to Monte Carlo and had come straight
back, stopping only forty-eight hours there,
just time enough to lay Lucy Warrender
in her grave. He had not gone alone ; at
his wife's insistance he had taken the
young Lucius with him. He had been
astonished at the determined manner in
which George pressed this arrangement
upon him ; he yielded, though with a bad
<]jrace. When he reached the Hotel de

Eussie, both he and Lucius liacl declined
to look on the fiice of the dead woman.
Haororard had a \oii<y interview with
Fanchette, and then he called upoji the
Commissary of Police. The night before
his mother was laid in her crave, Lucius
Haggard, unknown to his companion, who
was shut up in this room writing, visited
the Eooms, won a couple of thousand francs,
and thoroughly' enjoyed himself.

The next day the two men stood by the
side of the shallow grave ; graves are
shallow in Monaco, for the ground is very
rocky. A wandering English clergyman, of
more than doubtful reputation, gabbled
through the service for the burial of the
dead. The stones and bits of rock rattled
upon the coffin with a hollow sound, for
the orave-dio^sfer didn't trouble himself much

D DC

about the feelings of the relatives of the
foreign heretic.

I think my aunt Lucy went oil' tremendously
in the last year," said young

Lucius to his companion as they left the
cemetery.

"Let her rest, boy, let her rest," was
all the answer he got.

There was a sort of grey look of horror
about Haggard's face, that the boy put
down to grief for the departed. He was
a hard-hearted youth, and was frankly
surprised that Haggard showed any feeling
at all.

The husband and wife, as we have said,
sat in George's boudoir. This was what
passed between them.

Your cousin seems to have made a nice
mess of it," said Haggard. " Why she was
penniless."

Well, that wouldn't much matter,
Eeginald ; she could have written to Courts'
for more."

Gad, they write me that she drew out
the last farthing she had in the world two
months aso. And that woman Fanchette,
who is a very bad lot indeed, or I'm very

much mistaken, told me lie pawned her
earrings the day before she — died."

George nodded. " I remember them, a
pair of large single-stone earrings. I fancy
she must have bought them when she first
came into her property. I saw them quite
by chance last summer, for the first time ;
and when I admired them, she said that
she had had them for years, that they had
been her first folly and had cost her dear."

Well, here they are at any rate," said
Haggard ; " she pawned them for seven
thousand francs, and I redeemed them after
a lot of bother. And that's all that remains.
She had spent or gambled away every farthing
of the rest. I don't know whether I
ought to tell you, George," he continued
in a softer tone,

Tell me, Eeginald, tell me what ? Did you
know ? " and the light of love came back
into George Haggard's eyes, as she thought
that perhaps her careless heartless husband
had, from a wish to shield her cousin's

honour, silently and deliberately allowed
poor Lucy's bastard child to be fathered
upon him. But the light quickly faded,
and the eyes were suffused with tears, asher
husband answered coarsely :

Did I know what r I knows this — she
poisoned herself, there's not a doubt of
that."

And then, without the slightest attempt
to soften the ghastly details, he brutally
told his wife the particulars of her cousin's
end.

"They manage these things much better
there than here," he said. "Twelve Tom
Fools are not called upon to sit in one's
dining room and give their opinion. The
Commissary of Police had the whole matter
cut and dried. I saw the official doctor
too — a hungry fellow that. Of course I
had to bribe the pair of them. Lucy
Warrender poisoned herself, George. She
did it artfully enough, with chloral. ^Yhy,
they showed me the bottle ; she had swallowed

enough to kill half-a-dozen women.
What a fool she was, when one comes to
think of it ! Why, she could have married
well any number of times, if she'd liked ;
she could have had Spunyarn years and
years ago, if she had chosen to Hft her
finger. What a fool she was ! "

Yes, that was her epitaph : " What a
fool she was ! " You couldn't have put it
more tersely and more truly, Eeginald Haggard.
What a thoughtless wicked fool she
had been ; she had wrecked her own life
and her cousin's by her wicked folly.
What a fool she was ! "

I verily believe that if Haggard had
shown one spark of feeling in the matter
of poor Lucy's death, his wife would have
spoken, after a silence of twenty years ; but
his last words had checked the impulse, and
George merely nodded, while the tears rolled
down her cheeks, as she silently accepted
the justice of her husband's verdict.

As she sat and pondered over her cousin's

soiT}^ ending, she felt that the least she could
do for the dead girl was still to jealously
guard her miserable secret.

While the elders were talking, the two
young men were walking in the great avenue
that for nearly half a mile runs from the
principal entrance of the park to the big
hall door of walls End Castle. Lucius had
much to tell ; he was full of the journey,
and he went over all the details of the
funeral to the younger man.

Rattling good place, that Hotel de
Eussie ; they gave us an uncommonly good
dinner, and ortolans. I didn't think much
of them, but the governor was very enthusiastic,
and ordered them again for breakfast.
By Jove ! George," continued the young
fellow, "he's so fond of them that I believe
if mother, or even I, were to die tomorrow,
the governor would order ortolans for breakfast
if he could get them. I say, George,"
he added, " I'm in funds, and I don't mind
doing the generous thing, if you like. I

know you're hard up — beastly hard up —
you always are. I'll make you a present
of a pony, George "

Young George Haggard smiled, and took
the five-and-twenty pounds, in crisp banknotes,
which his father's heir produced from
his waistcoat pocket. " 111 take it as a
loan, Lucius," he said with a little laugh,
to be repaid when I become Lord Chancellor."


All right, my boy," said the other.
Now if you can keep a secret, I'll tell
you how I got it." And then he went off
into a long description of the great Temple
of Fortune on the shores of the Mediterranean.
How he had retired early, on the
plea of fatigue ; how he had escaped undiscovered
to the Eooms ; how lie had
backed his luck and won his money.
"Eighty pounds wasn't bad for a first
attempt, you know," lie said. '' 1 saw old
Pepper," he continued, '' in the thick of it ;
but I had to keep dark, you know, for I

shouldn't have cared for the old boy to seeme
there."

George still held his brother's welcome
present in his hand, and the boy twisted
the notes nervously in his fingers. lie
hesitated, but not for long.

Don't be offended, Lucius," he said ; " I
think I'd rather not take it, if you don't
mind."

"As you please, my boy," said the other,
holding out his hand willingly enough. '• As
they say in the schools, Non olet.""

"It does to me, Lucius — it does to me."

The young men continued their walk up
and down the great aisle of old beech trees,
and Lucius returned to his ecstatic description
of the scene in the Halls of Dazzling
Delight ; but I don't think the other young
fellow heard him, for he was thinking of
the dead woman who was sleeping in her
lonely grave.

Lucky Lucy ! dead a week, and you have
two human beings who still mourn your loss.

I always thought you were a fool,
George ; but you really are a bigger fool
than even I ever took you to be. I actually
hand you five-and-twenty pounds, which you
decline with thanks. I don't understand
you, George. You neglect your opportunities.
Why don't you make up to the old
man, or cultivate a taste for art, as I do ;
I mean to make art pay, my boy."

"Well, you see, Lucius, it might be awkward
if his lordship found me out. I'm
afraid I find more pleasure in walking up
and down this big avenue and staring up
at the rooks, than in spending my time
in the Pit Town galleries."

Oh ! I see ; Child of Nature, and all that
sort of thing. Why don't you go in for
being a poet, George ? It's the only real
business that I know of suited for a
thorough-paced fool, though as a rule it
don't pay."

Simply because I'm not a humbug, my
boy."

You might do a good deal with a rhyming
dictionary, you know ; particularly if
you let your hair grow."

"I don't think there's much poetry about
me, Lucius. I like the air, and the light,
and the green leaves, and those black chaps
who hop about from branch to branch,
and who look like a lot of disreputable
parsons, all preaching at once about nothing
at all."

Oh, I see, you admire the beauties of
nature. Now I look upon this old avenue
from quite another standpoint. Sooner or
later it'll be mine, and all the rest of the
pomps and vanities too, I suppose — the plate
and the pictures, and the title, George. Yes,
there's something in a title. But they're a
precious long while coming."

Don't be a brute, Lucius," was all his
brother replied.

While the two young fellows carelessly
talked and smoked in the great avenue,
old Lord Pit Town sat in his study and

]held a momentous conversation with
Georgia's husband. Eeginald Haggard stood
before the fire looking exceedingly uncomfortable.


^' I wish you'd be candid with me,
Haggard. Was there any informality about
your marriage with Georgina?"

'' Good gracious, no. What makes your
lordship hint at such a thing ? "

That I will explain to you directly.
In the meantime answer me honestly ; don't
forget that as the head of the family I stand
in the position of a father to you. Anything
you may say to me will of course
be between ourselves. Can you assure mc,
as between gentlemen, that you made no
previous marriage? Was there any such
entanglement in America ? "

It seems to me that your lordship is
asking me to say that I am an unmitigated
villain. Still, to satisfy you as the head of
the family, I give you my word that nothing
of the sort ever occurred. Of course like

most young fellows 1 Lave made a fool of
myself with dozens of women, or rather
perhaps they made a fool of me. I sighed
and dangled, perhaps I even hinted at
marriage. Doubtless I was a young idiot,
like most young fellows of my age, but my
peculiar form of idiocy never developed
itself in a matrimonial direction."

I'm uncommonly glad to hear it,
Eeginald, for I have been uncomfortable fora
day or two, and now that my mind is at
rest, you shall see what caused my apparently
indiscreet questions."

The old lord opened a despatch-box which
lay upon his writing-table, and taking from
it a letter, handed the document to his
heir. Haggard seated himself, opened the
letter, and read it carefully through. It
was a strangely written manuscript on
ordinary thick note-paper. If the writer
had intended to prevent any attempt at
identification, he had thoroughly succeeded.
The precaution he had taken was simple,

but sufficiently ingenious. Your ordinary
anonymous letter writer is content to slope
his writing the wrong way, or if very acute
he uses his left hand ; but the expert, if
placed upon his trail, generally succeeds in
detecting some peculiarity sufficient to
identify heir The writer of the letter which
Lord Pit Town handed to Haggard was
evidently a man of originality, for the
letter and its address were not written ina
running hand, but in carelessly printed
Eoman capitals.

As Haggard perused the letter his brow
grew black as night, but when he had
ended it, he tossed it with a contemptuous
laugh upon the table.

Here is the letter verbatim :

MY LORD,

I address you to let you know that

I AM POSSESSED OF INFORMATION WHICH WILL ENABLE
ME, SHOULD I FEEL SO DISPOSED, TO ENTIRELY ALTER
THE SUCCESSION TO YOUR TITLE AND TO UPSET ANY
DISTRIBUTION OF YOUR PROPERTY THAT YOU MAY
MAKE. I AM PREPARED TO SELL TO YOU THE Information
FOR THE SUM OF £0000. I MAKE YOUR LORDSHIP
VOL. III. 43

THE FIRST OFFER, SIMPLY BECAUSE I THINK THAT YOU
WILL AT ONCE SEE THE WISDOM OF ACCEPTING IT.
SHOULD YOU DECIDE NOT TO DO SO, I SHALL STILL
GET MY PRICE, THOUGH I MAY HAVE TO WAIT TILL
YOUR LORDSHIP'S DEATH. LITIGATION WILL, OF COURSE,
ENSUE, AND A DISGRACEFUL SCANDAL WILL BECOME
COMMON PROPERTY. SHOULD Your LORDSHIP FEEL
DISPOSED TO LISTEN TO WHAT I HAVE TO TELL, A
LINE ADDRESSED TO 103b, BROWN'S NEWS ROOMS,
CHEAPSIDE, WILL BE SUFFICIENT. THE FACT OF MY
NOT ASivING FOR PAYMENT FOR MY INFORMATION
UNTIL I HAVE GIVEN IT SHOULD BE TO YOUR Lordship
A SUFFICIENT GUARANTEE OF ITS GENUINENESS."

What can the fellow mean ? " said the old
lord. " Can Hetton have contracted a secret
marriage ? "

Haggard shook his head. " It's probably
a mere vulgar trick to obtain money," said
he. " Shall yon see the fellow ? "

It would, perhaps, be better that you saw
him, Reginald ; you are as much concerned
as I am, nay more so. Make an appointment
to see the man in town. I will write to him,
and if the secret he alludes to be genuine it is
cheap at the money, if it were only to prevent
expensive litigation and the worse horror

that he hints at — the dragging of our name
through the mire."

So it was arranged. A letter was dispatched
to 193 B, making an appointment for the
astute writer of the letter to see Mr. Eeginald
Haggard upon a certain day at the old lord's
house in Grosvenor Square. Eeginald Haggard
sat for a whole hour waiting in vain.
Nobody came to him with a mysterious
communication, and at the end of a week
both he and the old lord had dismissed the
matter from their minds as an impudent and
stupid hoax.

To the mind of the shrewd reader the name
of the writer of the anonymous letter is no
mystery. Mr. Maurice Capt had been seriously
disappointed when, for the first time in
his life, one of his applications to Lucy War-render
had been unsuccessful. But Lucy
Warrender was now beyond his reach. Capt
felt aggrieved ; he considered that his demands
upon Miss Warrender had been excessively
moderate, and he felt a sort of pride in

43—2

the fact that he had kept her secret so long
and so cheaply. But now Lucy Warrender
was dead, and the contract between Capt and
the lady at an end. Mr. Capt, when he wrote
his rather ambiguous anonymous communication
to the old lord, had thought the matter
well out ; he had made up his mind not to
reveal the nature of what he had to tell until
he had the old lord's promise to let him have
the sum he demanded. For Mr. Capt well
knew that it is possible to provide even
against extraordinary contingencies ; he knew
that there were such things as family treaties,
and he knew that his threat, if he could only
get Lord I'it Town to believe in its genuineness,
would be only terrible to the old man
by its rendering him practically incapable of
disposing of his property, and leaving the
very succession to his title in doubt. Mr.
Capt was sharp enough to know that if once
he had the old lord's promise, the five thousand
pounds was as good as paid. But Mr.
Capt had a holy horror of two things. The

one, which he dreaded with a natural terror
of the unknown, was the criminal law of
England ; the other was a desperate fear of
the wrath of bis^ Eecrinald Hacrorard. For
once his master had lost his temper with the
valet. It was nearly twenty years ago now
since Reginald Ha^^o^ard, in a moment of
indignation, had literally thrashed Mr. Capt
within an inch of his life, and though it was
twenty years ago Mr. Capt's bones still ached
with the remembrance of that tremendous
beating. So that the suggested interview with
Haggard entirely upset all the valet's well-arranged
plans. Could he but have had a
private conversation with the old lord, and the
required promise, he felt that he would have
proved his case up to the hilt, and thus have
obtained what he looked upon as the honest
reward of his long silence. But though a
clever man, Mr. Capt was a coward, and he
feared to face th fury of Lord Pit Town's
heir.

The valet repeatedly turned the matter

over in this mind, and found it a very complicated
question. Of course, the one person
in the world to whom the secret was most
valuable was young George Haggard. The
facts had but to be published to the world
and George would jump at once from the
precarious position of a younger son into
that of the direct heir to an earldom and the
property of a man of enormous wealth, while
as for Lucius, he would become but the
nameless blow of old Warrender's niece.
But there were several disturbing influences
to Mr. Capt's calculations. To neither of
the young men could he sell his secret for
money down. This was a very serious consideration
indeed. As for George, he might
decline to do business at all, from loyalty to
his mother ; while as for Lucius, Mr. Capt
well knew that it was impossible to trust him.
The valet at length determined that he would
sound young George Haggard upon the matter,
and having made up his mind, proceeded
to. do so at the first opportunity.

Mr. Capt had not long to wait, for he
encountered the young fellow in one of his
solitary rambles in the park, and seeing that
they were secure from interruption, plunged
at once in medias res.

Young George Haggard was seated upon a
stile meditatively gazing upon the landscape,
when he was roused by a slight cough behind
him, which proceeded from his father's discreet
body servant.

Halloa ! Capt," said the youth good-naturedly
; '' enjoying the beauties of nature?"

Yes, Mr. George ; one can't well help it
in such a lovely place as this."

I suppose ordinary people like you and I,
Capt, don't appreciate it as we ought. That,
as my brother tells me, requires culture. He
would doubtless see more in it than we do,
being a man of culture, as he is, you know."

Perhaps the old place, sir, may look all
the pleasant to him, for in the ordinary
course of things, you see, sir, he must come
into it some day or other. That must be a

very pleasant thought, sir," added the valet
after a pause.

"Well, I'm not so sure about that, you
know ; there are lots of responsibilities, you
see," and the young man proceeded to fill his
pipe philosophically.

You may come into it yourself, sir, one
of these days, who knows ? " said the valet
in a carrying tone.

Young George Haggard started, and stared
at Mr. Capt, who seemed to him to have
slightly forgotten himself.

Stranger things than that have happened,
sir," continued the Swiss.

Well, you see, my man, as my father and
Mr. Lucius — to say nothing of his lordship) —
would both have to go to the wall first, it
doesn't seem a likely contingency. And do
you know I don't think it's quite the thing
to talk about, Capt."

But the valet was not to be put down.

Anyhow, it's a great position for so
young a gentleman as Mr. Lucius," insisted

the man. " Many a man has sold his
soul for less than that," he continued, as he
gazed admiringly at the Castle, which occupied
the centre of the peacefully romantic
landscape.

Young George Haggard stared at the valet
in undisguised astonishment. " Fellow's been
drinking," he thought ; " he seems strangely
impertinent, that accounts for it."

Ah, they manage things differently, sir,
in my country. It's share and share alike
there. My father, sir, had seven sons, and we
each of us took an equal share of his little
bit of land as a matter of right."

Well, perhaps, Capt, that's what they'll
do here when England becomes a republic.
But I don't think that it'll happen in my
time, and I don't think I could persuade
Lucius to go halves with me."

Seeing that the young man was disinclined
to continue the conversation, the valet
touched his hat respectfully and took himself
off.

It is a highly respectable thing to be a
landowner ; the freeholder has many advantages,
but getting rid of the property, particles
in the present day, is as a rule both
difficult and expensive. Mr. Capt was like
the proprietor of an Irish estate ; far from
being able to dispose of it at a reasonable
figure, he was unable to obtain even an offer
for his secret, and it was a valuable secret ;
but then, though a white elephant is a
valuable animal, it is not an investment
that most people would care to hold, and
Mr. Capt's property now seemed indeed buta
white elephant. Had it not been for his
holy fear of his master he might have
attempted to make terms with Mrs. Haggard,
but his terror of Lord Pit Town's heir was
extreme and had become a second nature
to him.

The love of home is specially developed
among the honest and economical inhabitants
of Switzerland; like the Scotchmen they quit
their dear native land young, in the hope

of making their fortunes ; but unlike the
Scots they inevitably return to the Fatherland
With the results of a life of industry, and this
Alas the dream of Mr. Capt's life. Like a
wise man, finding he could not get a cash
purchaser, he determined, though very much
against his own inclination, to make a bargain
with young Lucius Haggard at the earliest
opportunity ; but he knew that if he trusted
to the honour of Lucy Warrender's son he
would be leaning upon a broken reed, and he
walked back to the discharge of his duties at
the Castle in a state of considerable depression.


-*>^-^'i,^^ n-

PALLIDA MORS.

It was the second of September. Eeginald
Haggard's usual invitations had been accepted
by a select party of his intimates. They had
had a great slaughter in the well-stocked
Walls End preserves on the day before.
General Pepper, Lord Spunyarn, Colonel
Spurbox, the host and the two 3'oung men
sat down to breakfast, and George Haggard
presided at the meal, looking to Spunyarn's
mind handsomer than ever in the deep
mourning which she still wore for her cousin
Lucy. But Mrs. Haggard was not the only
lady who graced the breakfast-table at the
Castle, for Mrs. Dodd had arrived to pay
a long-promised visit the day before, of course
accompanied by her husband. As some men
never travel without a hat box, so Mrs. Dodd

never left King's Warren without the Rev.
John.

I am so glad to have met you once more,
Lord Spunyarn," said the vicar's wife ;
isolated as I am at King's Warren, it is so
seldom my privilege to meet any man having
a purpose in life, and the men with a purpose,
you know, are after all the only men worth
knowing." Here she gave a benignant and
comprehensive glance round the table, and
every one felt that he at least was not worth
Mrs. Dodd's notice, which was exactly the
sensation the vicar's wife intended to
produce.

Awfully good of you, dear Mrs. Dodd, I'm
sure, ]put I'm afraid I can hardly claim the
credit of being a man with a purpose. I
went to the East End first, you know, merely
from curiosity and because the people were
excessively amusing, but nowadays ' slumming'
is the fashion and a great many smart
people I know do as I do, merely for a new
sensation."

All, you do good by stealth and blush
to find it fame," said the lady.

I don't know if you can call it coin£(
good. I give very little of my money away,
though I certainly do spend a good deal of
my time among the abjectly poor. I became
a sort of confidential adviser to a good many
of them, a kind of honorary amateur solicitor.
I drifted into it somehow or other. I acted
as a sort of buffer between the East End
Lazarus and his landlord I was instrumental
in obtaining for Lazarus certain rights
which had been long in abeyance in the East
End ; either my client didn't know his rights,
or he found them difficult to enforce ; the
landlords would screw the uttermost farthing
out of the poor wretches in the shape of rent,
and if they didn't pay they were sold up.
The quid pro quo they gut for their rent
was simply a place to rot and die in — no
water, no drains, no ventilation, no anything.
Then there was the sweating system ; women
working fifteen or sixteen hours a day fora

pittance of nine pence : Tvomen doijig
men's work and getting next to nothing for
it ; and the attempted redress of a thousand
and one nameless grievances and horrors."

"Oh, Lord Spunyarn," cried Mrs. Dodd,
'' would that I could walk hand in hand
with you through those dreadful places,
sharing in such work."

"I have no doubt Dodd could exchaiiije
and become one of the wise men of the
East, if he tried," said Haggard maliciously.

Ah, dear Mr. Haggard, my husband was
never formed for missionary work. Ever
since my girlhood I have tried to rouse his
enthusiasm, but in vain. I don't believe he
has any enthusiasm," and here the voice
of the Eeverend John Dodd was heard in
an unctuous whisper addressing Colonel Spur-box
in commendation of the dish in front
of him, to which lie helped himself copiously
for the second time.

I'm quite certain, my dear sir, that there
is no more successful way of accommodating

the freshly killed partridge than in a salmi.
I say this advisedly, and after many years'
experience. I speak feelingly, colonel. Till
the fourth you can't do better than stick
to salmi; I always do."

There's no want of enthusiasm in that,
anyhow, Dodd," said Spunyarn with a
smile, while the two young men laughed
aloud.

Ah," sacred the vicars in a stare
whisper, " forgive his little weakness ; he will
hanker after the flesh-pots — the flesh-pots
of Egypt."

Be exact, my dear, be exact," cried the
vicar ; " it was quail, probably roast quail,
though that is a succulent dish, that is
referred to ; certainly not salmi of partridges."


"Don't trifle, John," cried Mrs. Dodd.

I don't, my dear ; I assure you that I
am seriously, profitably and pleasantly employed.
Good gracious me, is there anything
one need be ashamed of in the admiration

of art? And what art can be higher than
the culinary art, which must have been necessarily
one of the earliest, if not the very
earliest of all ? Some people are born without
an ear for music ; I am one of those
unfortunates myself, but to make up for it
I have been blessed by heaven with an
appreciative palate. Would you have me
neglect my advantage, would you wish me
to bury my one talent in a napkin? Certainly
not, Mrs. Dodd. Art I appreciate, especially
high art, and Til trouble you for a little more
of the salmi. Dr. Wolff."

And iiow are things going on in the
parish, Mr. Dodd ? " said George. " Are the
Dissenters as active as ever?'

No, my dear madam ; just now the Church
is far more popular."

Thanks to organization, thanks to organization,"
burst in the vicar's wife impetuously.
"' Our curates' wives arc admirable organizers.
You remember the Misses Sleek, Mr.

Haggard?"

VOL. III. 44

'' That I do ; uncommonly good-looking
girls they were too."

Well, Mr. Haggard, it was the last thing
that I should have expected, but they both
went into the Church."

"You mean that they married my curates,
my dear," interrupted the vicar.

No, Mr. Dodd, I said it advisedly, they
went into the Church. I suppose that in the
old days when high-born ladies became nuns
that they went into the Church, and in doing
so vowed themselves to a life of self-denial.
And in this present time any lady dio
marries a clergyman, Mr. Dodd, vows herself
to a life of self-denial and penance, and
certainly enters the Church. I did," she
added with a sigh, " and I glory in it. The
humble curate may rise to rank and title, butin
the highly unlikely event of your becoming
a bishop, John, I should remain plain Mrs.
Dodd still."

"Not plain, my dear— not plain."

But Mrs. Dodd did not condescend to

reprove him ; she forgave the flippancy of the
remark for the sake of the compliment.

"The fact is," said the vicar, "that
since that fellow Smiter left King's Warren
a great many of the better disposed of his
people have come over to us. The services
are more ornate than they were, and consequently
more attractive. So are the sermons,
I suppose. At all events, they are
shorter. Then we've got a Sisterhood and
a Young Men's Christian Association, who
play cricket in summer and football in
winter. Then again we use collecting bags,
while at Gilgal they still stick to the
plates. Of course the collections have
dropped off to a mere nothing, but the
congregations have increased wonderfully.
Certainly the plates produced a healthy
rivalry, but the bags, I take it, are less
of a tax, and the congregation assuredly
prefers them. It's a mystery to me where
they get all the threepenny-pieces, and I

am sorry to say that farthings, and even

44—2

buttons, are not uncommon. Still, your
father and Justice Sleek — everybody calls
him Justice Sleek now — let us have all we
want in the shape of money, so I suppose
there's nothing to complain of."

Whatever my husband may say, dear
Mrs. Haggard, there has been a great
awakening, and though he may not see it,
for none are so proverbially blind as those
who won't see, I look upon it as principally
due, at all events in my own parish,
to the exertions of my own sex. My curates
are both highly popular."

My dear, curates always are highly
popular when they are married to wealthy
good-looking young women, and their pockets
consequently bursting, literally bursting, with
half-crowns ; I may add that, in my experience,
these are the only circumstances under
which married curates are popular."

'• You have much to be grateful for,
John."

"I know it, my dear — I know it," said

the vicar as he finished his coffee. And
then the party broke up to commence the
real business of the day.

No one would have recognized in the
well-appointed and terribly respectable head
keeper who touched his hat to the party of
gentlemen as they emerged upon the lawn,
the former village reprobate — Blogg, the
whilom King's Warren poacher. But soit
was. By some strange fatality or other
your poacher either becomes a confirmed
reprobate or blossoms into the very best
kind of gamekeeper. Perhaps it's on the
principle of set a thief to catch a thief
that those estates are best preserved where
the head keeper has been poacher in his
youth. Just as the man who has risen
from the ranks makes the sternest martinet
and the strictest disciplinarian, so the reformed
poacher is invariably the prince of
gamekeepers, when honest.

The vicar of King's Warren was a High
Churchman. I believe he would have ridden

to hounds with pleasure but for the fact
til at he found it impossible to find anything
up to his weight. But he sternly drew
the line at carrying 2[un. Though the
vicar denied himself this pleasure, he joined
the shooting party, for his intense appreciation
of the culinary art made violent
exercise a necessity of his existence.

As Mrs. Haggard and the vicar's wife
sat and chatted over the little details of
life at the village of King's Warren, the
happy home of the former's girlhood, Mrs.
Haggard remarked to her companion that
it was strange that they had not heard a
shot for at least half an hour. As she
uttered the words Lord Spunyarn entered
the room, pale and out of breath, and
evidently hardly able to control his emotion.

What ! back so soon. Lord Spunyarn ?
Is anything the matter ? " said Mrs. Dodd.

Something dreadful has happened."

'' Has there been an accident ? Has
anything happened to George ? " cried the

mother, and the colour left her lips as she
rose excitedly.

At that moment the ol 1 lord entered the
room.

George is safe, dear madam," said her
husband's old friend, '' but I have hurried
here as the bearer of bad news, and I must
bid you prepare for the worst."

Gad, sir, don't keep us in suspense,"
cried old Lord Pit Town, with the irritability
of age. " Is Lucius the victim ? "

No, the boys are safe, dear Mrs. Haggard,"
he continued. "My old friend is
badly' hurt. In passing through a hedge

But Mrs. Haggard had fainted in the arms
of the vicar's wife.

And then Lord Spunyarn told his tale
to the old man, while Mrs. Dodd and the
women - servants who, summoned, had
appeared upon the scene, busied themselves
around the fainting woman.

It appeared that in getting through a

hedge to pick up a bird that, wounded,
had managed to struggle through it, Eeginald
Haggard's gun had suddenly exploded and
lodged a chai-ge of shot in his chest. It
was not from carelessness ; but Hansard's
foot had caught in a rabbit burrow, and
as he fell the accident happened. Before
their eyes the thing had taken place.
There was nothing mysterious about it. It
was terribly sudden, that was all.

Hardly had Spunyarn told his tale when
Mrs. Haggard came to herself. Tearless
and wan she rose to her feet, and taking
the old earl's arm, she said simply but ina
broken voice, "Let us go to him — let
us go to him at once. Lord Pit Town ;
there may be hope — there may be hope yet."

The old man looked towards Spunyarn
interrogatively, but a shake of the head ^^■as
the only response.

Mrs. Haggard hadn't to go far to meet her
wounded husband, for as they passed into
the great entrance hall of the Castle a melancholy

little procession came in by the main
doorway. Four keepers bore a hurdle, upon
which lay Lord Pit Town's wounded heir.
His face was pale, the lips bloodless, while
cold drops stood upon his brow. The four
men halted, uncertain where to deposit their
burden. George Haggard, quitting the old
lord's arm, sprang at once to her husband's
side, seized his hand, and attempted to wipe
the death drops from his brow.

Don't touch me, George," he muttered,
and the voice sounded unequal and cavernous.
" I've suffered untold tortures in
being brought here," and his pale fingers,
whose nails had become livid, vainly fumbled
at his collar. The faithful wife tenderly
loosened the band, which appeared to almost
strangle him. " George," he continued to
his wife, " where is Spunyarn ? I must
speak with him at once."

He who had been his faithful friend from
youth to middle age stepped forward and
bent his head over the mouth of the dying

man, for he was dying. For several seconds
Haggard whispered a hurried communication
to his friend, while the bystanders,
inciting the old lord and Haggard's wife,
stood aside, so as not to interrupt the privacy
of the communication. Ever and anon
Haggard paused for breath.

Shirtings," he said at last, " you will
remember ? ''

"I will see to it, be assured of that,"
replied his friend. Lord Spunyarn. And then
Haggard motioned the old earl to his side,
and addressed him with considerable effort.

They had dragged forward a couple of
oaken benches, and had placed them one
under either end of the hurdle upon which
Haggard lay. There was a dead silence in
the great entrance hall, only broken by a
loud succession of regular ticks, caused by
Haggard's life blood, which in great drops
fell upon the tesselated pavement below with
a monotonously dreadful sound.

Good-bye, my lord," he said simply, as

with an effort he stretched out his hand,
which was affectionately grasped by the
trembling fingers of the old nobleman.
I am going," he continued, " but you have
the boys, my boys."

Perhaps it's not so bad as you think,
Eeginald. Assistance will be here shortly.
We will move you out of this at once."

"There won't be time, Lord Pit Town.
Take care of Lucius."

The dying man's eyes fell upon his wife,
and a smile passed over his pale face.
'' George," he gasped out with an efTorl,
say you forgive me and I shall die easier."

"Eeginald," she whispered, '-I have
nothing to forgive, but," she added through
her sobs, " there is something I must tell

you."

"I know it, George. I have known it
all along. Kiss me, dear," he added with
an effort, and with the kiss his spirit passed
away.

Eeginald Haggard was dead, stricken down

ere lie could succeed to the title and
estates which would have been his in the
ordinary course of nature ; but as the aged
carl turned away from the body of the man
who had been his heir, his eye fell upon
the two young men, and motioning to Lucius
lie said in a broken voice, " Give me your
arm, boy ; you're all I have left in the world
now."

All sign of grief left Lucius Haggard's
face at this public notification of his
change of position. He drew himself up
proudly, and deferentially led the old man
away. But young George Haggard didn't
hear the words ; he stood staring at his
dead father, like a man in a dream.

Is there no hope ? " he said to those
who crowded round the hurdle upon
which the body lay. The ominous tick of
the falling blood had ceased now, and as
if in answer to the young fellow's question,
the dead man's jaw fell, disclosing the
white teeth. Then George Hafj^rard turned

to his mother, and at a sign from Spun-yarn
he led her from the spot.

As soon as Mrs. Haggard found herself
alone, she gave way to her natural grief.
The hero of her girlish dreams had been
snatched from her suddenly, so suddenly
that she could hardly realize that he was
actually gone from her for ever. She had
continued to idolize the man and to remain
unaware of his many deficiencies and failings,
from the very moment he had first
courted her in the rose garden at King's
Warren until his death. He had been a
fairly good husband to her, as husbands
go, and she had never ceased to love him
with a trusting affection. But bewildered
as she was by the suddenness of her
affliction, she could not help pondering
over the strange communication he had
made to her upon his death-bed.

/ have known it all along I " What had
he known all along? Had he known
that Lucius, instead of being his own son

was but the bastard child of Lucy War-render
? Surely not. AVliat could lie mean,
ir he had known it all along, by his
solemn adjuration to old Lord Pit Town
to take care of Lucius. There could be
but one interpretation to that, surely that
he looked upon the boys as his eldest son,
his heir, his first-born child. Why had her
husband asked her to forgive him on his
death-bed? Forgive bini what? He had
not bade good-bye to either of the young
fellows, but then death had probably come
upon him unawares. Could it possibly be
that her dead husband, man of the world ashe
was, could have deliberately, for the mere
sake of her cousin's honour, sacrificed the
future of his only son designedly, and without
that son's consent ? That supposition was
beyond even Georgina Haggard's credulity.
There was a mystery in the matter, a
mystery she could not fathom. The more
she thought over it, the more difficult she
found it to attempt to arrive at any

possible solution. Was it merely that lie
feared that George, being really his only'
child, that at the boy's death without heirs
the Pit To^Yn title and the Pit Town wealth
should descend to some remote branch of
the family, and so perhaps he may of a
purpose have placed the second good
young life between the old lord and his
distant relatives? But that was liardl}^
likely, for such a contingency could never
happen till George was in his grave ; and
Haggard himself, be it remembered, was a
wealthy man.

What then was Lucy Warrender's son to
him?

Could it be that he had a stronger, a
dearer interest in the child? But she
thrust it from her as an unworthy thought;
and she strove to banish the pliant om
she had unwittingly conjured up, by letting
her mind return once more to its natural
grief, in the thought of her awful bereavement,
her sudden widowhood.

Eeginald Haggard's death and Eeginald
Haggard's funeral were a nine days' wonder
in the neighbourhood of Walls End
Castle. Hundreds of people clad in black
attended the ceremony. The old lord,
the two young men and Lord Spunyarn
were the mourners. The shooting party
had been broken, up on the day of the
accident. A short obituary notice had appeared
in the Times, and the penny
papers had made capital of what they
termed " The Shocking Accident in the
Shooting Field," while the leader writers
had earned their daily three guineas by
more or less ingenious strings of the usual
platitudes.

Lord Spunyarn was Haggard's sole executor.
The will was opened, and commenced
with a confirmation of the terms of
his marriage settlement ; it then proceeded to
give a further legacy to his wife of half his
property for her lifetime, and he made his
dear son, George Haggard," his residuary

legatee ; " my son, Lucius Haggard," the
document continued, " being otherwise provided
for as the heir to the entailed
estates of Lord Pit Town."

It was all plain sailing, and the will was
a very natural one for a man in Haggard's
position to make.

Lord Spunyarn, who was still staying on
at the Castle, waited for twenty-four hours
after the funeral, and then he demanded
a private interview with his friend's widow.

"I am sorry to trouble you, dear Mrs.
Haggard, about business matters," he said
as he entered the little boudoir which years
ago had been devoted by the old lord to
young Mrs. Haggard's use, 'but I am compelled
to worry you with a long and
painful conversation on family matters.
My dear lady," he continued, " I should
have been the very last person to trouble
you with the communication which I am
about to make, had it not been my

friend's dying wish and command."

VOL. in. 45

"Sit down, Lord Spunyarn, sit down,"
lie said, " nothing you can have to tell
me can be more painful than the suspense,
suspicion, and anxiety of mind which I
have endured for the last few days. Tell
me the worst at once. I have nothing to
forgive my husband. When on his deathbed
he asked for my forgiveness, I feared
that there was something dreadful to come ;
but I fully and freely forgave him. Lord
Spunyarn, and whatever you may have to
tell, it will not alter my affection for his
memory."

'• Dear Mrs. Haggard," said the philanthropist,
with a little sigh, " the matter
concerns the future, as well as the past ;
the secret has been w-ell kept, and my
poor friend has done his duty in providing
for his son George, and for you.
I must tell you that at one time I had
my suspicions, but the thing seemed in
itself so monstrous, so improbable, that I
put it from me as an unworthy thought.

When your late husband whispered those
last words to me as he was dying,
he informed me that I was his executor,
and told me to examine a little red
box that I should find at his banker's,
and then to tell you everything. I obtained
the box ; I have examined it, and
it is here." As he said the words, he
placed a little red morocco box upon the
table.

^^

-^^T^^^T^

45—2

A LITTLE RED BOX.

I don't think Lord Spunyarn could have
really found it cold in Mrs. Haggard's
boudoir in the second week of September ;
perhaps it was for the sake of collecting
his ideas that he busied himself with the
fire and added another toy log to the
flickering embers upon the dainty hearth ;
then he sat down, and staring straight at
the little red morocco box upon the
table, he began.

I think it may perhaps spare your
feelings a little, dear Mrs. Haggard, if I
tell you that from what my poor friend
said, and from the contents of this box,
I have become aware of the secret of
Lucius's birth." He never took his eyes
off the box for one instant, or lie

would have seen as he said the words
that the widow's face grew white as the
lawn cuffs upon her wrists.

She interrupted him suddenly.

"It is not I who have betrayed the
secret. I have guarded it faithfully for
twenty years, God forgive me," she added
with a sigh. " But what could I do ? I
was bound to shield my cousin, even if I
had not sworn to her to do so ; for she
would not take my word for it. Lord
Spunyarn. No hint of it has ever passed
my lips. Conceive my astonishment when
my dying husband told me that he was
aware of the fact, for I suppose it wa
that he meant, when he said to me, with
almost his last breath, that he had ' known
it all along.' "

"Yes," said her husband's old friend,
still staring at the little red box, " and
then'"

And then he died. Lord Spunyarn,"
she said with a sigh ; " but he had asked

me to forgive him, and to take care of
Lucius."

And did you forgive him, dear madam ? "

Of course I forgave him."

And you forgive him still ? "

Certainly, though what it was he wished
me to forgive I cannot tell."

But Lord Spunyarn never looked at her ;
he only stared at the box upon the table.
"I'm glad you forgave him," he said,
« fully and freely."

Fully and freely," she echoed.

"Mrs. Haggard, you had much to forgive.
When you promised to take care of
Lucius, had you any idea whose son he
was ? "

1^0, Lord Spunyarn, nor have I now ;
poor Lucy would never tell me that, and
I never pressed her, for it did not concern
me."

It concerned you very nearly, dear
madam."

Their eyes met, and those of the widow

Averse filled with mingled astonishment and
horror.

*' Ko, Lord Spunyarn ; do not tell me

that Lucius's father was " and her eyes

flashed with indignant rage.

It is best to gat it over — he teas your
husband ! "

There was a dead silence of some
seconds.

Go on, Lord Spunyarn," said the widow
in a hollow voice ; " then I am guiltless at
least of deceiving him for years. It is
horrible ! " But she shed no tear.

Your husband, dear lady, when he was
dying, gave it in charge to me to let you
see the contents of this box, which, he too
truly said, would explain all. I, too, at
times, had my suspicions ; for remember
this, I too loved your cousin long ago,
and your husband was my dearest friend''
The man buried his face in his hands and
was silent for a moment ; he pulled himself
together with an effort. " When I saw

what the box contained, the whole ghastly
secret was laid bare to me in an instant.
You remember when we were in Eome,
by chance, by merest chance, I saw your
husband at a masked ball with a lady ; at
that ball arose the quarrel between your
husband and the unfortunate Frenchman
who fell by his hand. The box will tell
you the rest. The masked lady wore a
magnificent pair of single-stone diamond
earrings." Spunyarn unlocked the box,
placed it in front of his friend's widow
and walked to the window.

With trembling fingers Mrs. Haggard
opened it. There was a little packet of
letters in Lucy Warrender's undeveloped
girlish hand, the ink of which had faded ;
then a pair of single-stone brilliant earrings,
which sparkled and shimmered in the
firelight, as the widow took them in her
trembling fingers ; to one of them was still
attached the duplicate of the Mont de Pike,
dated the very day of her cousin's death.

Last of all was a little purple velvet case
on which was her husband's monogram
with the single word " Eome," and a date
just over twenty years ago. She opened
it with difficulty ; in it was a lovely miniature,
not a mere photographer's likeness,
of her cousin Lucy in all the pride of her
girlish beauty, as a shepherdess, in powdered
hair and in a Watteau costume.
The face seemed to smile at her with
an air of insolent triumph, that old
smile of Lucy's which her cousin remembered
so well in the days gone by,
but which she had missed for many a long
year. The painter had not forgotten to
place in the ears of the shepherdess a
pair of single-stone earrings ; in the hand
was the ordinary black silk vizard worn at
masquerades, and the shepherdess was depicted
in the act of unmasking. Nothing
more pretty, nothing more piquant, nothing
more cliic could be imagined. The widow
placed the miniature upon the table, and

as she did so a single object still remaining
in the box caught her eye. It was only a
little black silk mask, and from the two
holes in the toy, in her disordered imagination,
the eyes of her dead cousin still
seemed to sparkle with a mocking light.
She dropped the miniature into the box
and closed the lid which shut out the
horrid phantom.

As the box closed with an angry click,
Lord Spunyarn turned towards the victim
of her husband's perfidy.

There is no need of explanation ; my
husband was right. I understand it all,
but I forgave him, Lord Spunyarn, and I
forgive him still. Poor Lucius ! "

This was all she said.

Spunyarn resumed his seat at the fireside.
Then there was a long silence, which neither
seemed disposed to break.

At last with an effort he spoke. " What
is to be done, dear madam ? I wish the
secret had remained in the dead man's

keeping ; it is a dreadful responsibility. Can
it be still kept?"

"It is my duty towards my dead husband,
Lord Spunyarn," she said decisively.

"But you have another duty, dear lady;
a duty to your son and a duty to the
old man here, who looks on Lucius as his
heir."

My son must suffer with me, Lord
Spunyarn, for his father's fault."

Spunyarn shook his head. "Not so, dear
lady ; there is but one way, one possible
way, to preserve the reputation of those
who are gone and to do justice, for justice
must be done. Pit Town must know ;
for others, taking the lowest standpoint,
may possess the secret, and the honour of
the family must not be compromised,
lucius must efface himself, that is the
only course."

Efface himself. Lord Spunyarn ? I know
the boy, the orphan boy ; he was my husband's
child; and with all his faults I love

him ; he will never consent to that ; he
would die first," said Eeginald Haggard's
widow.

"And die he must, I mean socially. There
is no other way."

He will never consent, Lord Spunyarn,"
repeated the widow. "He is. wrapped up in
the fact that he is Lord Pit Town's heir.
With George it is different ; he is my own
son, my very son," she added bitterly, " and,
if I wish it, he will give up everything
for my sake and his father's ; his father's
honour is as dear to him as it is to me.
Besides, my husband evidently foresaw the
dilemma in which he has placed us, and
made the boy his heir."

"But justice, dear lady, justice "

"Justice, Lord Spunyarn," cried the indignant
woman as she rose to her feet.
"God's justice, do you mean, or man's? Is
it not enough that my husband should have
betrayed and fooled me for twenty years,
and should have robbed my boy of his very

heritage, and more than that, of half the
treasure of a mother's love ? For I tell you,
strange and unnatural as it may seem, that
I love Lucius ; ay, I love him, though he
is poor Lucy's child and my husband's
bastard. And who could help loving the
poor helpless, friendless, neglected child ?
Yes, I acted the love at first. Lord Spun-yarn,
and it grew upon me till it became
a part of myself. Is it for nothing, that
when my husband was bleeding to death
before my very eyes, that he bade me take
care of Lucius? I have been a faithful and
obedient wife, Lord Spunyarn, and I will
obey my husband's last behest to the letter.
I will protect his son's interests and his
son's rights."

Alas, he has no rights, dear madam,"
said Spunyarn gently.

The secret, Lord Spunyarn, is not yours
or mine ; it is my husband's and hers," she
added, pointing to the box. "When she
made me swear to keep her secret, she

threatened to haunt me should I betray
her. How could I answer her ? It was a
girl's idle jest, I know ; but I did swear it,
God knows how unwillingly, and Heaven
help me I will keep my oath. Yes, I will
keep my oath," here she sank into a chair,
and covering her face with her hands, wept
bitterly.

Lord Spunyarn paced the room in doubt.
He was a man of principle, a religious mana
man of honour — strange combination forsooth
in this nineteenth century, and he remembered
that his mouth was closed. But
was he, a good man, to stand idly by and
see a great wrong done ? Was he to see the
honours and title of a noble family descend
to a bastard through the secret machinations
of an artful woman ? Heaven forbid !

Think it over, dear madam, think it
over," he said ; " let me beg you, at least,
to sleep on it, and God give you counsel,"
he added in a broken voice, and then
leaving the little red box and its contents

upon the table where it lay, he hurriedly
left the room.

While the interview which has been described
was taking place, the two young
men were walking briskly up and down
the great avenue, which was already yellow
2; with commencing' autumn.

It was Lucius who spoke.

"We have changed places, George, with
a vengeance ; it is I who am the pauper
now. If my father meant to surprise me,
he certainly succeeded. You are the man
of property, George, while I am rich only
in expectations. Thank goodness, neither
my father, the old man, nor an' one
else can keep fine out of the title and the
entailed property ; but there may be a
deuce of a long time to wait. By Jove!
you know these very okl men don't die,
they dry up. Why, look at grandfather
Warrender. It's a horrid nuisance this
mourning, though I shall be heartily
glad when I have to go into black

next time. His lordship is a decided
obstructions ; " so spoke the elder brother,
as he blew a big cloud of smoke into the
air.

Don't pretend to be a brute, Lucius ;
you don't mean it, you know, old fellow,"
said George.

"But I do mean it, though. There's no
more ridiculous custom than mourning.
It's a monstrous thing and ought to be
done away with by act of parliament, like
suttee in India was — we could see the
absurdity of that. We have a kind of
modified suttee here. Why, look at mother !
Why should she have to dress herself like a
guy? It's a ridiculous custom, I say. Why
should I have to wear black gloves in order
that I may exhibit my woe by the stains
on my fingers ? And why should I be
compelled to look like a British workingman
out for a holiday, and pass the greater
part of my time in flicking the dust off my
clothes? I've been badly treated, George,

and now I find myself pitchforks into a
ridiculous position. Here I am, heir to a
title and any amount of coin, and without
a farthing I can call my own. I wonder
whether the old man will think fit to make
me an allowance ; he gave Hetton a big
one, I have always heard. Do you suppose
I offended the governor, George ? "

'' Xo ; the will was made several years
ago, you know, when we were boys''

'well, it's uncommonly rough. Anyhow,

you'll allow that, I suppose ; and I confess

I don't care for the viae of a waiter upon

Providence. The only thing 1 seem to have

inherited at all is Capt, and I shall rid

myself of him at the earliest opportunity ;:

he must Have saved a pile of money ; he

ought to go back to Switzerland and start

an hotel. They all do, I believe, when

they don't cut their master's throats as

Courvoisier did. By Jove ! I wonder whether

Capt would lend me any money ? If he

won't, I must try the Jews. Why, since the
VOL. ni. 46

governor died, I've been inundated with
circulars from the house of IsraeL"

You needn't trouble about money,
Lucius ; you can have anything you want
from me, you know."

It's very good of you to say so, George ;
but as I shall have to go to the Jews sooner
or later, it's hardly worth while spunging
upon you. I may as well take the bull by
the horns at once. Though, between ourselves,
I don't see why my mother shouldn't
do something for me, and so circumvent
the governor's injustice. You and she got
all the plunder between you."

"Don't talk like that, Lucius. It's not
right. It's hard on you, very hard ; but I
wouldn't have anything to do with moneylender
if I were you."

Oh, of course not ; that's the good

advice all you wealthy fellows always give

us poor devils ; it's the way of the world."

You're not fair, Lucius ; we are both

under age, but this you can rely on, till

you come into your own, at all events,
you're welcome to share my purse."
Do you really mean that, George ? "
Of course I mean it, or I shouldn't say it."
I didn't believe you were half the good
fellow that you are, my boy. Let's shake
hands on it," and the two young fellows
shook hands, but George's generosity was a
bitter pill indeed to Lucius Haggard.

]mr. ^Liurice Capt did not find himself
comfortable under the new regime. lie was
still Mr. Haggard's man, but things were
changed ; he disliked his new master, and
his sliar|) eyes soon detected that the dislike
was more than reciprocated. When
Lucy Warrender died, what he looked upon
as a legitimate source of income he suddenly
found closed to him for ever. The
proprietor of a valuable secret is naturally
anxious to secure the best return possible
from his property, but unfortunately in Mr.
Capt's case dividends may be said to have

ceased. As he turned the matter over in

46—2

this mind lie disliked iiis investment more
and more. It seemed to have assumed the
aspect of a very unpromising property indeed.
What was he to do? The terms of
Eeginald Haggard's will were no secret to
him, for, in his first rage and mortification,
the young Lucius had confided his woes
to his late father's confidential servant.
Should he, the valet, hang on at Walls
End Castle for an indefinite period, until
Lucy Warrender's son should come into the
old lord's property, when he would be able to
recommence the blackmailing process which
he had so successfully carried out upon the
young man's mother ? He knew enough of the
character of Lucius Haggard to feel certain
that the power he would possess in such a case
would be boundless. But Mr. Capt was no
longer a young man ; he, like his master,
might die suddenly, and then the secret would
die with him. That miserable anticipation
filled him with horror and indignation.
Should he ^o to the widow, inform her that

he shared her secret, and, for a good round
sum in ready money, sell his silence, and of
course betray her as soon as he found it convenient
to do so ? Should he go to the old
earl, and make the best bargain he could
under the circumstances ? He was torn by
conflicting doubts. Mr. Capt had an observant
eye ; he had noticed that there had been
an exciting? interview between the widow and
her late husband's executor, and he became
aware of the fact that a little red morocco box,
which in the old days had usually accompanied
his master upon his travels, had
passed into Mrs. Haggard's personal custody.
Intuitively, he correctly jumped to the conclusion,
that in some way or other, the red
morocco box was connected with the secret
of Lucius Haggard's birth. Mr. Capt felt
then that it was his duty, as a prudent man,
to ascertain the nature of the contents
of the box, or even to obtain possession
of it. Promptitude as well as firmness
had characterised every action of Mr. Capt's

life ; with him to determine was to execute,
and he made up his mind not to rest until he
had mastered the secret of the box, and that
his subsequent action should be guided by
the information so obtained.

Eeginald Haggard was a wise man, a man
who burnt his letters, a man who was asa
rule untroubled by sentiment. The one
episode in his early life over which, to him,
there had still hung a sort of unhealthy halo
of romance, was the affair with Lucy Warrender.
Many a time and oft had common sense
urged him to commit the contents of the
little red box to the flames ; but he knew too
well that somehow or another his wife had
become the involuntary accomplice of her
cousin's fault. He had not burned the contents
of the box ; if he had done so the secret, as
far as he was concerned, would probably have
died with him ; but he had not burned it.
Hence his whispered death-bed confession to
his friend Spunyarn, and his appeal to his
wife for forgiveness.

Mrs. Haororard had turned the matter over

Coin

her mind again and again. To her it
seemed unnecessary to rake up an old scandal,
at least during Lord Pit Town's life ; the propriety
of letting sleeping dogs lie commended
itself very strongly to her mind. She herself
was quite convinced that when it became
necessary to communicate the secret to young
Lucius Hacrcrard things would ris^ht themselves
without a scandal. Of course Lucius
would do what was right, and so would
George for the matter of that. Spunyarn's
suggestion that Lucius Haggard should
efface himself," and so voluntarily suffer a
social death, seemed to her but a brutal and
inhuman method of cutting the Gordian knot.
She had never again opened the little red
box, since she had closed it on the occasion
of her interview with her husband's executor.
To her mind the simplest thing of all would
have been to do away with the box and its
contents, but she gave way to the better judgment
of Spunyarn in this matter. On one

tiling, however, she was determined : by no
act of hers should her dead cousin's shameful
secret be dragged into the light of day ; and
so she made up her mind to communicate her
decision to Spum^arn, and to deliver the box
to him for safety.

Lord Spunyarn's reflections upon the whole
matter convinced him of one things his own
unenviable position. To his mind the
matter was thoroughly clear, and his own
duty peremptorily defined. He had received
the secret as a death bed confidence ; there
could be no doubt as to the mystery of
Lucius Haggard's birth. It was certainly
not for him to stand calmly by and seethe
Pit Town title and the Pit Town estates
pass to Eeginald Haggard's bastard son. It
was his duty to take the old lord into
.his confidence and to break the matter
to the brothers. His own evidence and
that of George's mother, coupled with the
contents of the box, would set the facts
at rest beyond a doubt. If young Lucius

were an honourable man he would not
attempt to make matters worse by a useless
contest in the Law Courts, but would
doubtless of his own accord see the wisdom
of disappearing into an honourable obscurity,
while Lord Pit Town and George Haggard
would, of course, provide for him. He felt
assured that having bad time for reflection
Mrs. Haggard herself would inevitably consent
to this, the only possible course of
action. As to her scruples respecting her
cousin's secret, they would be overcome.
It was then with a mind fully made up
that Lord Spunyarn demanded a second
interview with his dead friend's widow, and
lie requested young Lucius Haggard to
await his summons to speak with them " on
a matter which," as he phrased it, " concerns
you nearly."

He found Mrs. Haggard comparatively
cheerful.

I have thought it all over. Lord Spun-yarn,"
she said. " You were my husband's

friend. I place myself in your hands unreservedly."


Spunyarn gave a sigh of relief, and then
he proceeded to sketch the course of action
which we have given alive.

"We weill tell no one, dear Mrs. Haggard.
George himself need never know. The
whole thing can be a simple matter of
arrangement. Of course Lucius must know
all, and Pit Town. I purpose to break
it to Lucius at once, and to him at least
your cousin's name need never be mentioned.
He is his father's son after all."

His father's son," she said with a sigh.
Yes, his father's son," she repeated with
meaning. '' Must it be done to-day ? "

"Don't let us procrastinate, dear lady.
Shall I send for him? He is awaiting our
summons."

The widow nodded, and Spunyarn went
to seek the youth, who in a few minutes
was to be stripped of name and fame and
wealth.

So far from suspecting a communication
of an unpleasant nature, young Lucius
Haggard, his face wreathed in anticipatory
smiles, was impatiently drumming upon the
window-pane in the library with his fingertips.
It seemed to him that this formal
interview with his mother and his father's
executor could have but one object, namely,
to announce to him that a suitable provision
was to be made for the heir to the
Pit Town title during the short time that

o

must necessarily elapse ere lie should come
into his heritage. But his anticipations
were considerably damped by Lord Spun-yarn's
first words. The elder man placed
his hand affectionately upon the young
fellow's shoulder.

"Lucius, my poor bo}'," he said, "prepare
yourself for a surprise, and a great
disappointment," he added ominously.

The happy smile of anticipation left
the young fellow's face as he heard the
words.

Well, Lord Spunyarn," lie said, " Alien
my father cut me off without even the
proverbial shilling, I thought he had done
the worst he could for me."

Lord Spunyarn took no notice of the
remark.

'' My poor fellow," he said, " steel yourself
to hear what I have to tell you. I
will tell you now," he added, " to spare
your poor mother the pain and horror of
having the sad story repeated in her
presence. Lucius," he said solemnly, " you
are no long-er the heir to the Pit Town
title, and all that goes with it."

Good heavens ! " cried the ounce man
as he sank into a chair, " it can't be true.
Did Hetton contract a secret marriage, and
is there a son? Does the old man know
of it ? "

It isn't that, Lucius. Compose yourself,"
Spunyarn added after a short pause,
*rand listen to what I have to tell you.
This tliino- concerns you and your brother

only. Lucius, bear it like a man, but, my
poor boy, you are illegitimate."

"Did my mother dare " he began, but

Spunyarn stopped him with a gesture.

Lucius," he said severely, " the lady
who has allowed you to call her mother
from the time you were a little child, did
so out of kindness ; speak no ill word of
her, my boy, for to her you owe everything,
to her love, and to her forbearance."


Great God ! Lord Spunyarn, it can't be
true, there is some base plot in the matter.
Who is the heir, the man who calls himself
the heir, I mean ? " he asked fiercely,
and he clenched his hands ; and his eyes,
Lucy Warrender's eyes, sparkled with mingled
raofe and hate. " We shall contest the thintr,
of course ? "

"The heir, Lucius, the rightful heir, is
your brother George ; he was born in wedlock,
while you, alas, though your other's
son, are "

''' Not base born ; don't say that, Lord
Spunyarn.''

But Spunyarn nodded sadly.

I won't believe it, Lord Spunyarn," almost
shouted the young man with uncontrollable
fury. " Have you, my father and
my mother, been hatching this infernal plot
between you all these years? Can the deadman's
hand strike me, even from beyond the
grave ? I won't believe it, it isn't true.
I'll fio-ht it in the Courts. What does Lord
Pit Town say? Does he give a tacit consent
to my undoing ? "

Pit Town as yet knows nothing. Lucius,
try to be calm. Listen to me," and as
gently as he could he broke to the indignant
boy the dismal fact of his heritage
of shame, that he was but Eeginald Haggard's
love-child after all."

"And my mother?" said the boy in a
broken voice.

No need to speak of her, Lucius ; she is
dead."

Have you the proofs, Lord Spunyarn,
of all this ? " said the boy more calmly, after
he had listened to Spunyarii's narrative in
silence. " It'll have to be proved, you know,
proved to the hilt ; that at least is my right,
and I'll not forego ito



"Lucius, you have no rights."
I must see the proofs, at least."
Yes, you must see them, I suppose, but
spare your mother, Lucius ; she is broken
down with grief and suffering."

"Lord Spunyarn," said the boy coldly,
you say she is not my mother ; why should
I spare the feelings of my father's accomplice
? Feelings forsooth ;" and he laughed
bitterly.

Lucius, you are mad. Let me beseech
you, as a gentleman, in the painful interview
that must take place, to spare your
father's widow as much as possible. Deal
gently with her, boy ; it is she who has been
the victim in the whole matter."

Don't bandy words with me. Lord ,"

cried the young man, and for the
moment the impetuous Eeginald Haggard
of bygone years seemed to stand before the
astonished nobleman in the very flesh. " You
tell me," he continued in a calmer tone,
that George Haf^crard is the heir, that I
am but my father's base-born child. Show
me the proofs of this and I'll believe it ;
till then, Lord Spunyarn, I simply say jon
lie," and the young man bowed defiantly.
Let us go," he continued, " to the clever
woman who has hoodwinked me for a lifetime.
I follow you, sir."

Lord Spunyarn made no reply, but led
the way to the widow's boudoir.

As they entered, Mrs. Haggard rose and
opened her arms to Lucius, but she sunk
again into her chair, staring with sad
astonishment at the extraordinary transformation
that had been suddenly effected
in the young man. His dead father, in
an access of furious passion, seemed to
stand before her. No answering look of

affection was upon his face ; the young
mouth was firmly set, and the eyes glittered
with savage defiance.

'• Lucius," she said with an effort, '* dear
Lucius."

Madam," he replied, as, uninvited, he
seated himself with an attempt at dignity,
his lordship has inflicted upon me a
strange and improbable store I have
told him, and I do honestly believe it, that
that wild story is a lie, a wicked lie. He
tells me that you hold the proofs. Let me
then see these proofs, that I may make him
my humble apologies, and go out from
your presence into the world a nameless
beggar. But you will please remember
that you will find it difficult to deceive
me, and to deceive Lord Pit Town, fur
you must cheat us both."

Lucius," said Mrs. Haggard in a broken
voice.

But Lord Spunyarn interrupted her. " I

had hoped, dear lady," he said, " to have
VOL. in. 47

spared you such a scene as this ; let me
deal with him, Mrs. Haggard. The proofs,
Lucius," he added, " are here. I myself
can supply the few missing links in the
chain of evidence. It is but natural, perhaps,"
he said, " and you have, as you say,
a right to see these sad proofs, unhappy
boy, of the miserable folly and wickedness
of your real parents. Look at them,
then ; examine them for yourself, and then
you cannot fail to be convinced that I
have not lied to you after all."

He turned the key in the lock and softly
opened the box ; then the astonished man
gave a sudden start and placed his hand
to his forehead.

Young Lucius Haggard rose to his feet,
and laughed a loud, indignant, mocking
laugh.

The box teas empty !

LUCIUS Haggard IS BEWILDERED.

John, Earl of Pit Town, was above all
things an art-worshipper. He was never
tired of peramlmlating the great galleries
of Pit Town Castle and admiring the collection,
which it had been his life-long
labour of love to bring together. When
his son, the late Lord Hetton, had come to
his sudden and dreadful end, the old man
had felt the blow severely ; when his heir,
Eeginald Haggard, had been snatched away
in the pride of his manhood, it had affected
him in a less degree ; but he had felt the
blow from its very suddenness. Ever since
Reginald Haggard's wife had come to live
at the Castle, he had ceased to feel that
he was alone in the world, and a deep

affection had sprung up between the two.

47—2

As for Haggard's boys, now bursting into
early manhood, he loved them somewhat
for themselves, but still more for the sake
of the woman who had been a daughter
to him, and the stay and comfort of his
waning years. Always orderly and methodical,
he had settled the ultimate disposition
of his property with justice and discretion.
He was immensely wealthy. As we have
said, the entailed property was extremely
large, but was exceeded in actual money
value by the great mineral wealth which
was disposable by will. The value of
several ordinary estates, too, was locked
up in the vast collection contained in the
new galleries.

The future possessor of the Pit Town
title would be a lucky man indeed if he
got the treasures so laboriously accumulated,
during his long lifetime, by old Lord
Pit Town. The old man lived by strict
rule. He had a curious theory that, barring
accidents, the span of human life

might be ordinarily calculated at sixty-five
years ; that is, supposing that one third
of the time, or eight hours a day, was
given to sleep. He believed, too, that
just as the span of life is undoubtedly
shortened by indiscretions and excesses,
particularly in the matters of diet and
drink ; so he considered that span to be
indubitably lengthened, if the ordinary rules
of common prudence were carefully observed.
But Lord Pit Town went further
than this. Continual association with Dr.
Wolff had converted the old nobleman to
an extraordinary and original theory which
was held by the doctor of philosophy.
This theory was a delightfully simple one.
Dr. Wolff was accustomed to sum it upas
follows : "The human body is a machine,
and wotdd go on working for ever did not
certain parts of it gradually wear out. It is
our duty to make the machine last as long
as possible. When not in use it should be
run at the lowest rate of speed, in order

to reduce the rapidity of the deterioration.
If I don't want to wear out my boots," Dr.
Wolff would triumphantly remark, " I put
on my slippers ; therefore, as my body is
more precious to me than even my new
boots, I never unnecessarily wear it out.
A certain minimum amount of exercise is
undoubtedly necessary to health ; let us
take that by all means, but no more. Let
us avoid unnecessary exertion of all kinds,
physical or mental ; let us not ride if we
can drive, let us not walk if we can ride,
let us not stand when we can sit, and
certainly we should not sit if we can lie
down ; above all things we should not
remain awake if we can possibly sleep,
and even in sleeping we should, if possible,
refrain from dreams. The valuable machine
which we are possessed of should be run at
tale lowest possible speed, that it may last
the longer. Strong emotions of all kinds
should be just as obnoxious to us as strong
drinks. Holding it as an absolute fact

that, barring unavoidable accidents, a certain
definite amount of wakefulness is
allotted to every man, every opportunity
should be seized for running the machine
at the lowest possible rate by the simplest
paeans ; that is to say, to put it shortly,
never remain awake without an object, as
you are uselessly expending the allotted
time of Life, that is to say, of Wakefulness''
But Dr. Wolff and his disciple went further
than this : they looked upon sleep as the
secret recuperative power of nature. They
considered that in sleep they had discovered
the real vis cicatrix nature. Their
curiosity was aroused as to the success of
their theory ; they were neither of them
particularly anxious to become very old
men, except that their doing so would
tend to prove the correctness of their views.
Lord Pit Town himself had already
reached an almost patriarchal age ; he slept
and dozed frequently in the daytime, thus
carrying out the principles of what the

doctor proudly termed the "Wolffian
Theory." Under no pretext whatever would
any servant at Walls End Castle have
dared to awaken either the doctor or the old
lord ; they were never called m the morning,
and in the midst of the most interesting
conversations they were both of them in
the habit, without the slightest apology,
of suddenly closing their eyes and taking
a deep draught of what they called
nature's recuperative elixir. Everybody
in Walls End Castle knew perfectly well
Avliat the servants meant, when they said
that either the old lord or his faithful
henchman was engaged ; it simply signified
that the two human dormice were carrying
out the Wolffian Theory.

In sleep they were both accustomed to
seek refuge from disturbing influences of
all kinds. On the second day of Mrs. Dodd's
visit to the Castle she had seized the opportunity
of improving the occasion, when
she suddenly came upon the old lord and

the philosopher, each of whom was seated
in an easy chair, silently drinking in the
beauties of the celebrated Pit Town Turner,
which formed one of the gems of the new
galleries.

I hope I'm not intruding," the energetic
lady remarked, as she burst in upon
the scene of tranquil enjoyment; "I don't
disturb you, Lord Pit Town ? " she said.

Certainly not, dear madam ; nothing disturbs
me. I allow nothing to disturb me
now."

No, nothing disturbs us ; nothing short
of an earthquake, Frau Predhjer ; it is
against our principle, you know, and that
is why we don't rise at your approach,"
chimed in the doctor of philosophy ; and
the eyes of the two gentlemen by common
accord left Mrs. Dodd and returned
to their meditative contemplation of the
great landscape.

Mrs. Dodd was astonished but not
abashed ; she had never known what it was

to be abashed in the whole course of her
life. " Their conduct is very peculiar," she
thought. "That German man, if he had
the instincts of a gentleman, should at
least rise and explain the pictures to me ;
as for the old lord, I suppose he's in his
second childhood. I wonder what ' Frau
Premier' means?" "Ah, Lord Pit Town,"
she said, apostrophising the old nobleman
and utterly ignoring the obnoxious Wolff,
I must confess to a feeling of sadness
when I look at all these beautiful things,
and when I think how much might have
been done with the vast sums that they
must have cost," and she put up her eyeglass
and read the descriptive label affixed to
the frame of the great Turner. " So that is
the celebrated picture," she continued, " and
did it really cost four thousand pounds ? Oh,
Lord Pit Town," she went on, in the tone
she might have used to a little child detected
red-handed in some act of juvenile depravity,
" when we think how much might

have been done with four thousand pounds,
when we read m the statistics of the Society
for the Conversion of the Jews that it costs
little more than four thousand pounds to
convert one of that proverbially stiff-necked
race, one cannot look at that picture without
emotion."

She waited for a moment for the old
lord to excuse himself; she looked from the
picture to the venerable nobleman ; his eyes
were tightly shut ; he was evidently taking
a deep draught of the recuperative elixir.
Then she turned in search of sympathy to
the man who had called her '' Frau Pre-tiger''
he too was employed in exactly
the same manner. For the first time in her
life Mrs. Dodd found herself absolutely and
distinctly ignored; she was to these two
dreadful men as if she did not exist ; it
was too much, she turned and fled. As
the vicar's wife flung out of the gallery,
the two enthusiasts reopened their eyes
and resumed their contemplation of Turner's

masterpiece. From this little incident
it may be seen that the old lord and his
companion were not easily disturbed in the
even tenor of their tranquil lives.

Lord Spunyarn's feelings after the stormy
interview with young Lucius Haggard where
not to be envied. He hated to meddle and
to make. It's quite true that he had been
forced into his present position by Haggard's
dying communication, and it was by
no fault of his owen that he suddenly found
himself mixed up in the exceedingly intricate
family affairs of other people. It was
an unpleasant position ; he had seen with
his own eyes the links of evidence which
completed the chain of proof that plainly
demonstrated the truth of what his old
friend had told him on his death-bed. How
and by whom the contents of the little red
box had been mysteriously spirited away he
was unable to imagine ; certainly not by
his friend's widow for Mrs. Haggard, he
knew, was the soul of honour ; certainly

Lucius could have lead no hand in the
abstraction. It seemed to Spunyarn's mind
imperative upon him to communicate the
whole matter to the old earl, and so shift
the entire responsibility upon the shoulders
of the head of the family. Possibly the
old lord, as the possessor of unbounded
wealth, might be able to make arrangements
satisfactory to himself and to the
naturally conflicting interests of the two
3^oung men. In any case an open scandal
must be avoided, and the Pit Town title
and estates, whatever might become of the
old lord's money, must not be diverted from
the legitimate heir. How he wished that
he had never accepted that autumn invitation
to Pit Town Castle ! He knew full
well that young Lucius Haggard would not
relinquish one tittle of what he considered
his rights. It was difficult to escape from
the horns of the dilemma. It was quite
certain that Mrs. Haggard would not move
in the matter, and to let Lucy Warrender's

child rob George Haggard of this birthright
seemed to him a crime. The only other
alternative being a scandalous trial in open
court and the dragging of the whole matter
before the public. As a man of the world,
Lord Spunyarn was quite aware that a secret
ceases to be a secret when there are too
many depositories of it ; for this reason he
could not even consult the legal advisers
of the family. He felt that George Haggard
must be told sooner or later : that was a
plain dut3\ He felt, too, that it were better
that the boy should learn the secret from
him, but the communication of the matter
to the old lord was still more imperative,
and that communication must be made at
once, for Spunyarn well knew that the life
of the fragile old nobleman hung by a
thread, and that there was no exaggeration
in Lucius Has^orard's statement that Lord
Pit Town might go off at any moment.
From what Spunyarn knew of George Haggard
and his mother, he felt, in the event

of the old earl's death, that it was more
than probable that Lucius Haggard would be
allowed to succeed to everything, contrary
to all the dictates of human justice. At
this thought all Spunyarn's class instincts
violently revolted.

Since the very starting communication
which had been made to him, Lucius Haggard
had thought of nothing else. To be
suddenly told that one is a bastard is bad
enough even for an ordinary mortal, but
to a youth who has considered himself
porphyro-genitus to be informed that he is
but of common clay after all, and, worse
than that, base-born, is terrible indeed.
Since he had heard the story, young Lucius
had been unable to obtain even a sip of
the doctor's recuperative elixir. He believed
the tale — he couldn't doubt it — for he knew
that the woman who had been a mother
to him could not lie. So Lucius Haggard
believed the story, and his only consolation
was that the proofs were missing. Possession

is nine points of the law he very well knew,
and he thanked his stars that the onus
2^robandi, fortunately for him, lay with those
whom he already looked upon as " the other
side." But he could not rest, for the mysterious
contents of the box, whatever they
had been, might be discovered at any moment,
and, like Damocles, he trembled at
the suspended sword.

You're not looking well, sir," said Mr.
Capt, as he appeared with the dressing
materials in the morning. " Won't you lie
a little while longer?" said the valet. "I
can bring up your breakfast, sir."

"Ini all right, Capt. I've only had a
bad night," and then the vale drew the
curtains, and the young fellow looked once
more upon the well-timbered landscape
which till yesterday he had regarded as all
his own. And then he gave a long sigh,
which came from the very bottom of his
heart.

The light seems to hurt your eyes, sir,"

said the valet, as lie slight out what had

now become a hateful picture.

I think you're right, Capt, I'll have an

extra hour's sleep ; you can leave me, and

when I want my breakfast I'll ring for it,"

and Lucius Haggard turned his face to the

wall as the valet left the room. But he

didn't attempt to sleep ; he began once more

to turn over the matter in his mind and

to meditate upon the best course of action

to pursue. Should he have an interview

with the possessor of his father's heritage,.

the heir to what he had once looked upon

as his own birthright ? He well knew young'

George Haggard's generosity. Should he

make a clean breast of the whole matter

to George, and propose that come what

might, they two should share and share

alike by mutual consent? Of course such

a contract would not be legally binding, ashe

well knew, but he felt that should George

consent to such an arrangement, he, the

more astute, could break the contract Aliens
in. 48

ever he saw fit. If lie could only get hold
of those papers, or whatever they were, and
destroy them, his position would become
almost impregnable ; he would still remain
practically Lord Pit Town's heir. Should
the old man be talked over, even he, could
not keep him out of the title and the entailed
property. Could it be that in her love and
affection for him, or in a horror of a scandal
being attached to her name or to her dead
husband's, that Mrs. Haggard had destroyed
what the little red box had once contained ?
No, he couldn't hope that. To whose interest
was it that the proofs, whatever they were,
should disappear ? To his, and to his alone.
But surely no one would commit so stupendous
an act of villainy merely to benefit
him, or to wrong the man whom he still
called his brother ? should Spunyarn lay
the whole matter before the old lord ? And
if he did so would Lord Pit Town take the
tale for gospel without proof — proof, the very
existence of which was now problematical ?

Should he at once go to the earl and pose
as the outraged victim of a base conspiracy,
with the hope of enlisting the powerful support
of the head of the family? The more
he thought over all these things, the more
was he overwhelmed with a sense of his own
impotence. If he could only get hold of
what the box had contained and destroy it,
he would be comparatively safe ; for he felt
that even were he to peaceably come into
the possession of what he had once considered
his own, what a life of doubt and terror
would be unquestionably his, so long as
those proofs, those dreadful proofs, existed.
If the whole strange story were but a fabrication
after all — even that was possible.
Eeginald Haggard was his father; both Lord
Spunyarn and Mrs. Haggard had agreed in
this. He had always stood much in awe
of his father, and had never-given him cause
of offence. It was strange that, knowing
him to be a bastard, his father should have

treated him in all thinfj^s as his legitimate

48—2

heir. Why had his father failed to provide for
him in any way by will? For the apparently
simple reason that he looked upon him as
the old lord's natural successor. If it were
true that he was but a base-born child,
then his father must have been aware of
the fact, and he and Mrs. Haggard must have
been co-conspirators in an ignoble plot.
What possible object could Eeginald Haggard
have had, and by what possible means could
he have induced his wife to be his accomplice
in so abominable a crime ? As he looked
back upon the long years of affection that
the woman, who until to-day he had called
his mother, had lavished upon him, he became
the more bewildered. Could it be possible
that the whole matter was but a hallucination
of his mother's, caused by her recent
bereavement ? That supposition wouldn't
hold water for a moment, for the philanthropic
but notoriously hard-headed Spun-yarn
had actually seen the proofs, and
Spunyarn was an honourable man ; and he

well remembered that Spunyarn himself had
asserted his power of supplying the missing
links in the chain, Was it possible after all
that the mysterious contents of the little
red box would never be discovered and that
he might be still the old man's heir for want
of legal proof to the contrary ? Such a
solution was the best that could be hoped
for. He felt more than ever powerless, ashe
reflected that his future lot remained in
the hands of Mrs. Haggard, the woman who
in his rage and despair he had insulted by
base suspicion and met by an open defiance.
That was a mistake, lie saw it now but too
clearly. But the mistake was not irreparable.
Gradually the policy he should pursue
became more and more clearly marked out
in his troubled mind. " I will not quarrel
with them," he thought ; " I will express my
readiness to do what is right, and should
the contents of the box be ever forthcoming,
then I must trust to their generosity. That
is the simplest and safest way, the only

wise course and the only prudent one ; lie
may after all be bound to secrecy," he
thought.

And then he rang for his breakfast, and
afterwards proceeded to interview his father's
friend. He found Lord Spunyarn in what
had been called Eeginald Haggard's own
room. When Lucius entered it, Lord Spun-yarn
was engaged with a mass of papers.

Spunyarn," he said abruptly, " I owe
you an apology ; I behaved badly yesterday.
Forgive me," he continued, as he held out his
hand, " I behaved badly enough to you,"
he went on, " but I behaved worse to my
mother, for I must call her my mother still,"
he added in a broken voice.

Spunyarn rose and took the offered hand.
Say no more, Lucius, I'm glad you thought
better of it. After all it was a terrible
position for you, my poor boy, a terrible
position for us all," he continued, " and for
her especially."

There's one thing I have to say to you,

Lord Spunyarn," said Lucius, and the crafty
young fellow spoke the words gracefully
and tripphiijly ; " in this matter I can only
place my interests and my honour unreservedly
in your hands. You were my
father's friend, Lord Spunyarn, and you are
his widow's and mine. It is for you, then,
to say what is to be done."

"sone thing must be done, Lucius ; the
honour of the family and of the dead," he
added solemnly, " must be respected."

"That of course," said the young fellow,
as he seated himself and fixed his eyes upon
the carpet.

You will ask for nothing but what is
just, Lucius ; you would not wish to see your
brother wronged ? "

Surely not. Lord Spunyarn, surely not."

It'll have to be done, I suppose, sooner
or later, and perhaps it's better done now.
I don't think I could rake up all the miserable
story in your mother's presence, Lucius,
but you have a right to hear it. A good

deal of the sad little drama was enacted
before my very eyes. I once loved your
mother, Lucius, your real mother, and I
wanted to make her my wife. Lucius, don't
ask me to name her — she is dead, poor girl.
Try to think of your mother, Lucius, as the
life-long victim of a girlish folly, as one who
paid very dearly for her fault. Let us speak
of her no more. I Avill tell you all you need
know. I must tell you, or you would not
be able to take in the situation. Just before
you were born, Lucius, your mother, who
was a dear friend of the much-wronged
woman who sacrificed herself for you, feeling
that her condition could be no longer concealed,
appealed to your father's wife to
save her from the consequences of her fault.
Remember, Lucius, that Mrs. Haggard had
no inkling of the truth that her friend's
lover was her own husband. She never
knew it, poor thing, till he was in his grave.
If she chose to make the great sacrifice
demanded of her, it was in her power to save

her friend's reputation, and your mother,
Lucius, was lier dearest friend. She made
the sacrifice, but when she made it she little
knew the price she would have to pay, for
in sacrificing? herself, she sacrificed the rio-its
of her own then unborn son ; and for twenty
years that poor woman supposed that she
was deceiving, tricking and wronging your
father. But it was not so, Lucius, for your
father was aware of the whole conspiracy
from the very first. Your mother's letters
proved that, and the box contained further
evidence, which rendered doubt upon the
subject impossible. But when my poor
friend was on his death-bed, Mrs. Haggard
could be silent no longer. She, the woman
who had sacrificed her whole life for the sake
of a girlish friendship, on his death-bed, asked
the forgiveness of the man who had wronged
her. Then, and then only, with his dying
breath, your father revealed to her that lie
had been a consenting party to the fraud
and aware of it from the first. And then

lie forgave him, Lucius. What was she
to do, poor thing? At your father's dying
request, I, as his executor, having come into
possession of the secret, handed the proofs
to my friend's widow."

And you saw those proofs. Lord Spun-yarn?"


Yes, I saw them, Lucius."

The young man rose. " Then, Lord Spun-yarn,"
he said, " there is but one course
open to me. As a man of honour I place
myself freely and fully in your hands.
Whatever you think is the right course to
pursue, that course I will follow ; for I
feel, as you told me yesterday, that I have
no rights. My very presence here as my
father's bastard, is an insult to her whom,
I would to heaven, I could still call my
mother, and to the head of the family. I
can say no more than this, Lord Spunyarn
I place myself in your hands."

Spunyarn took the young fellow by the
hand affectionately. " Lucius," said he, " you

are behaving nobly. But the dilemma is
none the less ; the proofs, unfortunately,
have disappeared. I know full well that
you will never have cause to regret your
generosity. Pray God that we may yet be
able to avoid a public scandal. I have sent
for Brookes ; he is, as you know, the old
lord's lawyer, and to him we must come
sooner or later. If we could only get the
contents of the box once more into our
possession, all would be simple enough ; but
the proofs have disappeared, perhaps forever
; and my poor friend's wife, Lucius,
is smitten by a terrible affliction ; they found
her speechless this morning, and the family
practitioner tells me she may never recover.
God knows," he added with a groan, " perhaps
the hand of heaven has closed her
mouth for ever."

"You don't say that she is ill. Lord
Spunyarn, perhaps dying ? '" cried the young
man in an awe-stricken whisper, as he repressed
his exultation with an efFort. " Let

me see lier at once. Poor mother!" lie
added with a sigh.

I verily believe that should fortune desert
young Lucius Haggard he need never really
starve, for his talents as a light comedian
should certainly be worth several guineas
a week to him.

Spunyarn," said Lucius after a pause,
who can have taken these papers ? Have
you any suspicion ? "

It's a mystery I cannot penetrate," he
replied. " Brookes may be able to get at
the bottom of it, however ; I hope and
trust so."

Can it be possible," said Lucius, " that
my mother destroyed the papers herself,
or has secreted them ? "

I hardly think so ; she seemed as much
astonished as I was, when we found them
gone. Besides, why should she destroy
them ? Lucius, she trusted you ; and she
judged you rightly, my boy; you have
chosen the only honourable and manly

course. No man has cause to regret running
straight in this world. You will never
have reason to repent of it, Lucius."

Do you think no one outside the family,
Lord Spunyarn, by any possibility can be
in possession of the key to the secret ? "

No one. Besides it interests no one,
save my dear old friend, your brother, and
yourself."

Yes, I suppose after all George is my
brother, in a sort of way, still."

George will never forget that he is
your brother, Lucius."
There was a pause.

Let us go to her," said Lucius Haggard
with a sigh.

The elder man consented, and they left
the room.

c«9— ^l^^)^-t£>-^-^

ENTER MR. BROOKES.

When Lord Spunyarn and Lucius entered
Mrs. Haggard's room they found her stretched
upon a sofa, and to the inexperienced eye
she presented very much her ordinary appearance
; but as the young fellow, who
had been nursed and tended by the invalid
when he was a helpless friendless child,
gazed upon the woman who had been a
mother to him, he saw that one corner of
the mouth was slightly drawn. The old
lord was seated by her side ; her left hand
was clasped in his ; the marks of recent
tears were on the face of the old nobleman,
and he roused himself with an effort to
welcome his heir.

Mother," said the young fellow, as he
took her other hand, " poor mother ! " And

even the long-headed youth felt a pang, ashe
gazed upon the wreck before him.

An answering smile illumined the suffering
face as she heard the greeting.

Then there was a pause of some length ;
and then the old man made his moan, for
the selfishness of age is as natural as the
selfishness of childhood. This is what the
possessor of countless wealth, and of all
the heart could desire to obtain, said in his
cracked querulous old voice :

"All gone from me, wife and son, and
nephews, all taken ; and now she is stricken
down, the joy of my dotage, the comfort
of my old age. It's very hard to bear,"
groaned the old man, and the hollow old
eyes became moist again. But there was
an answering pressure from the slender
hand which he held between his wrinkled
fingers, and the old man's face was lighted up
once more by a happy smile. " You won't
leave me, George," he continued, "for I
can't spare you, my dear, I can't spare you."

Again there came trio same answering pressure.
But lie spoke no word ; heaven had
set the seal of silence on her lips ; tlie}^
moved, those pale lips, but no sound came
from them ; and then the sufferer made an
impatient gesture. As she did so young
George Haggard entered the room ; his
eyes were red with weeping and he trod
daintily upon the carpet, as a man would
do dio feared to disturb a sleeping child
The sick woman smiled as he came to his
brother's side and affectionately placed his
hand upon Lucius Haggard's shoulder ; her
eyes sought those of Lord Spunyarn, dwelt
upon his an instant, aud then the lids closed
upon the yet lovely orbs, and still smiling,
like a tired child, Mrs. Haggard sank into
a peaceful sleep.

No word was spoken by those around the
couch ; they sat silent, fearing to disturb her
slumber. As Lucius Haggard gazed upon the
sweet sleeping face, he was racked by torturing
doubt. How would it all end? Would

she recover her bodily health again ? The
mind was evidently still uninjured. Would
she ever speak a(/ain? That was the important
question to Lucius Laggard. The
papers gone and the mouth of this one witness
closed, he felt himself comparatively safe ;
still in the eyes of the law and of the world
his father's lawful heir. But should she
speak again, she might communicate the
secret of his shame. Without her evidence
all that Lord Spunyarn might say could
but be mere surmise, a simple ex parte-statement.


One by one they left her sleeping, the
old earl leaning heavily on the arm of Haggard's
eldest son. And then they separated ;
the old lord to his slumbers and his dreams
and the society of the faithful Wolf, the
two young fellows to the park, to wander
up and down the great avenue side hv
side, and talk with bated breath over their
fresh misfortune, the affliction that lead

befallen their mother ; while Lord Spun-vol.
ni. 49

yarn returned to the examination of the
mass of papers lying on the dead Eeginald
Has^ofard's table, and to wait with impatience
the arrival of the family solicitor.
If there is a thing in this world that
I hate," said old Mr. Brookes to his partner,
as he sat in his cosy private room in
Lincoln's Inn Fields that morning, " it's
this modern system of telegrams ; they're
almost as bad as a doctor's night-bell. You
have to go, whether you like it or not.
Here's probably some simple matter of common
law. Why on earth can't he write?
Not a bit of it, he simply wires me, and
I have to go," and he handed a telegram
across the table :

Walls End Castle.
"Please come down at once. Your presence
urgently needed.

Spunyarn."

'why can't they write?"

That afterriooii saw old Mr. Brookes at
the Castle. He dined tke-a-tele with Lord
Spunyarn, and did full justice to the cook's
efforts. Lawyers are always epicures, and
Mr. Brookes condescended to praise the
supreme de volaille of the Walls End chef.
After dinner they drew their chairs to the
fire, and then Lord Spunyarn opened his
business.

I'm glad you have come, Brookes ; I'm
very glad you've come."

Something very serious, I suppose ; something
so urgent, Lord Spunyarn, that you
couldn't have written me a letter and got
my advice by the next post," and Mr.
Brookes chuckled.

'' Yes, Mr. Brookes, it was something so
serious that I had to see you in person.
I fear there is a screw loose in the succession."


Gad, sir, you don't mean that Hetton

teas married after all ? "

No, it's not that. Since my pour friend

49—2

Haggard's death, Mr. Brookes, I have been
placed in a very difficult position. On his
deathbed Haggard desired me to place a
box containing letters and certain reminiscences
of a bygone intrigue in his wife's
hands. There is nothing very extraordinary
in that you will say ; the man was sorry
for his youthful error, and sought forgiveness.
Quite so, but that was not the end
of the matter." Spunyarn described to the
old lawyer the contents of the box, the
miniature, the mask, the earrings, and the
packet of letters. " Mr. Brookes," lie continued,
" as my friend's executor it was
perhaps my duty to have gone through
those letters, but they were the love-letters
of a dead woman to my own dead friend,
and I myself lead at one time, long long
ago, been seriously attached to the lady.
I hadn't the heart to go through those
letters. I see now, that I neglected or
avoided what was a very painful duty. I
as mv friend's executor should have cared

for those letters, verified tlieni, and put
them in a ]place of safety'. ]\Iy only excuse
is that my dying friend's words to me were,
'Hand the red morocco box in my safe to
my wife, the contents are important ; remember
my affair at Ivome and you will
understand them ; George must do as she
pleases in the matter.' And then he died.
I take it, Mr. Br()okes, that it was my duty
to carry out my dying friend's injunctions.
I did carry out those injunctions t(^ the
letter, and then I became aware of an
astounding thing. Young Lucius Haggard
is not the heir to the Pit Town title, for he
is illegitimate ; nav, more than that, he is
not Mrs. Haggard's son at all."

The lawyer sprang from his (chair. " Do
you mean to assert, Lord Spunyarn, that he
was substituted by the supposed parents?
On the face of it, Lord Spunyarn, it's an
improbable story, almost an impossible
story."

Let me explain, Mr. Brookes. Lucius

Haggard is really the son of Mrs. Haggard's
dearest friend. When, in a moment of desperate
fear and agitation, in her love for
her friend she consented to cover that
friend's terrible position — she was an inexperienced
girl, Mr. Brookes — by personating
the child's mother, she had not the
slightest idea of the terrible complications
that vrould ensue, and that the child's father
was her own husband ; that latter fact she
never knew until my poor friend, suddenly
stricken down, with his dying breath hinted
at the terrible secret, and asked for her
forgiveness."

The lawyer moved uneasily in his chair,
but did not attempt to interrupt Lord Spun-yarn's
explanation.

"I acknowledge to you, Mr. Brookes," he
continued, " that I committed an error ; I
should have done at once what I am doing
now, and taken you into our confidence.
But the good name of a woman was at
stake, the proofs were in our possession,

there was no doubt as to the illegitimacy
of Lucius Haggard, and I trusted in his honour
and to the affection he bore to the woman
who had been a mother to him, to enable
us to tide over the matter without disclosing
it to a living soul, at least during Lord
Pit Town's lifetime."

And you were disappointed, Lord Spun-yarn
; you forgot the magnitude of the stake,
when you deliberately placed the honour
of a noble family, the succession to a title
and immense estates, in the hands of an
interloper."

"No, Mr. Brookes. At first Lucius
Haggard refused to believe for an instant
what would naturally seem a most improbable
story. A terrible scene of violence
ensued, but let me do young Lucius justice :
lie speedily came to his senses ; his conduct,
Mr. Brookes, was all that one could expect
from a man of the very highest honour.
He placed himself unreservedly in my
hands."

Thank God for that'* said the lawyer,
as he wiped his forehead with this big silk
handkerchief, " thank God for that, for it
simplified matters very considerably. And
now I suppose you want me to break the
matter to the old lord. We've had a very
narrow escape, Lord Spunyarn."

I fear we're not out of the wood yet,"
said Spunyarn meditatively.

What ! further complications ? "

Unfortunately, yes. Mrs. Haggard is
suffering from a stroke of paralysis and is
speechless."

Well, there is still your evidence and
the contents of the box ; besides, you say
that Lucius Haggard will not fail you."

"Mr. Brookes, the worst yet remains to
tell ; the contents of the box have disappeared'"

Again the lawyer rose to his feet deeply
agitated. " Lord Spunyarn," said he
solemnly, " you have much to answer for.
No doubt Lucius Haggard has possessed
himself of the evidence the box contained

and has destroyed it. Just think for an
instant of the immense temptation to him
to do so. There may be, there will be, a
gigantic law-suit that may never end, while
the whole of the vast property may be
frittered away, for in a matter such as this,
remember, all costs come out of the estate.
Lord Spunyarn, what yon tell me is not a
misfortune, it is an appalling calamity, and
Lucius Haggard alone has the key of the
situation. It's not a time for half measures,
Lord Spunyarn ; we must attempt to obtain
from him the contents of the box, even if
we have to employ violence."

Calm yourself, Mr. Brookes," said Lord
Spunyarn, " Lucius Haggard at least is wholly
guiltless in the matter. He was unaware
even of the existence of the box and its
contents until he saw it in Mrs. Haggard's
presence. We revealed to him the story,
and when we opened the box, that he might
see the proofs as he surely had a right todo,
it was empty."

The lawyer stared at Lord Spunyarn.
And what is your lordship's opinion," he
said, " in the matter ? Let me understand
you exactly. Lord Spunyarn. You handed
the box and its contents to Mrs. Haggard.
She can testify to that ? "

Mr. Brookes, she is speechless."
If we had only got the letters you speak
of, with affidavits in proper form from yourself
and the wife of the deceased man, and,
Lucius Haggard being a consenting party, by
the expenditure of a good deal of money,
we might perhaps tide the matter over ; as
it is. Lord Spunyarn, there is no evidence,
absolutely no evidence. All you have to
tell, is mere hearsay and conjecture; and it
would doubtless be successfully set up that,
accepting your version of the communication
made to you by Eeginald Haggard on
his deathbed, unsupported as it is by a
tittle of evidence, it was but the incoherent
raving of a dying man. A Committee
of Privilege of the House of Lords

would not accept mere ex parte statements
in so serious a matter ; there would have
to be absolute proof, legal proof, mind you,
proof that would satisfy the law officers
of the Crown. Young Lucius Haggard, even
if he were so Quixotic as to wish to do so,
could not sign away an earldom by a mere
stroke of the pen, neither could he strip
himself of the entailed estates. The extraordinary
events, that you say took place
many years ago, would have to be proved ;
and who is to prove them ? As to the
parties themselves, two of them are dead,
while the third unfortunately is unable to
give evidence one way or the other. If I
communicate this dreadful thing to my aged
client, it may actually kill him. What is
your own opinion. Lord Spunyarn ? Do
you suppose that in a temporary aberration
of mind, to take a most favourable view of
it, Mrs. Haggard, with a woman's natural
fear of exposure, destroyed or secreted the
contents of the box? Ee^rinald Harvard we

know devised all this property to this son
George, which was the least he could do
after stripping him of everything he had
the right to inherit (I am taking your strange
story for gospel for a moment). Can we
think that Mrs. Haggard (still supposing
the story to be true) felt herself bound to
be her husband's accomplice in robbing her
own son of his just rights, and so become
the principal actor in an abominable conspiracy?
You have pieced the thing together
in your own mind, and the whole
story fits charmingly, but it doesn't admit
of proof in any way ; it's little better than
an improbable and romantic tale as it stands
now, without a shadow of documentary or
oral evidence to give it even the semblance
of truth."

Lord Spunyarn interrupted the lawyer
impatiently.

"You don't mean to say that you doubt
the various details that I have given you,
Mr. Brookes?"

I doubt nothing, Lord Spunyarn," replied
the lawyer, "I am merely giving you the
legal view. It Avill be my duty, I fear
there is no escape from it, to communicate
the whole matter to Lord Pit Town, and
to take his instructions ; of course by those
instructions I shall be guided. He may
direct me to attempt to collect evidence in
the matter, for I don't suppose that he
would wish an illegitimate child of his heir
to inherit his title and estates. There is
another view. Lord Spunyarn, a view that
would commend itself to the minds of some
men : ' Let sleeping dogs lie ' is a good
proverb. If Lucius Haggard is, as you
assert, base-born, then it is for George
Haggard to prove his title ; and the real
struggle between the two young men need
only commence when my old friend is laid
in his grave. 01 one tiling I am quite certain,
Lord Spunyarn ; public scandal and litigation,
must, if possible, be avoided, and I am sure
that my client wdl be at one with me in this."

Spunyarn nodded.

It is, of course, possible," continued
the lawyer, " that some third person may
have possessed himself of the contents of
the box from mercenary motives."

And what is your own impression, Mr.
Brookes ? "

Speaking to you, Lord Spunyarn, as
Eeginald Haggard's executor and the guardian
of his infant sons, one of whom
is undoubtedly the hen to the Pit Town
title, speaking as a man unversed in the
ways of women, and supposing that Lucius
Hacrcrard was unaware of the alleged contents
of the box, I am inclined to suspect
that Mrs. Haggard holds the key to the
mystery"

You mean that she has secreted or destroyed
what the box contained ? "

The lawyer nodded.

Mr. Brookes, my poor friend's wife
would never commit a dishonourable act."

A woman's ideas of honour. Lord Spun-yarn,

are peculiar. With them, as a rule,
particularly with the best of them, sentiment
often takes the place of what men
call honour. You yourself have told me
that this unhappy lady considered herself
bound by an oath to Lucius's mother, accepting
for the moment the theory that
she herself is not his mother. If she would
keep the secret for twenty jesivs, Lord
Spunyarn, if there was a secret, she may
carry it with her to her grave, repenting
the sudden confidence that you state she
made to you. Even supposing that the
power of speech should return to her, she
may decline to confirm upon oath the statement
made to you. The very fact of her
suffering from paralysis may be used by
Lucius Haggard and his advisers to set up
a theory that she is of unsound mind ; and
a very natural theory, too, I take it," said
the lawyer with a sigh. " Lucius Haggard,"
he continued, " a minor, under the influence
which you and Mrs. Haggard would naturally

exert upon him, may be a very
different person to deal with from Lucius
Haggard acting under professional advice,
and only biassed by his own interests. I
fear, should the matter ever come before
the public, that very strong reflections indeed
will be made upon you and Mrs. Haggard.
Beati presidents. Supposing that Lord
Pit Town should elect to either honore the
matter altogether, or simply instruct me to
seek for further evidence ; in a very short
time indeed, for his lordship is a very old
man, Lucius Haggard will come into the
title and estates as a matter of course ; it
will then be for George to attempt to
prove his right. We must be careful,
Lord Spunyarn, in attempting to set ourselves
up as an amateur court of law, that
we do not ruin the fortunes of a great
house by leaving it absolutely without an
heir ; for suppose young George Haggard
to die, and supposing for an instant that
the story you have told me could ever be

proved, that is what would happen. Why,
the very title would cease to exist, and the
estates would possibly revert to the Crown.
Are you and I, Lord Spunyarn, justified insetting
the match to a train which might
extinguish an ancient peerage? If I speak
to you as a man of the world, and give
you my honest opinion, I do not hesitate
to say that the best thing that can happen
is, that these papers, whatever they contain,
may never come to light."

"You would not go as far as to suggest,
Mr. Brookes, that should we discover the
papers we are to destroys them? "

Xo, Lord Spunyarn. God forbid ! I
don't go as far as that. You, as your
friend's executor, through a strange carelessness,
for I can call it no less, have let
the contents of the box out of your possession;
of course it is for you to do your
utmost to refrain them. If you ever succeed
in doing so, it seems to me that young
George Haggard will be called upon to elect

VOL. HI. 60

his own course. I don't think there is any
use in prolonging this interview," he continued
; " I must see his lordship, of course,
in the morning ; and should he consent, and
I trust to his strong common sense that he
will do so, we shall be able to advise with
you in the matter. He may, however, object
to that, in which case you will of course
obtain professional assistance and take your
own course."

Spunyarn felt that the man who addressed
him had ceased to be Mr. Brookes, the old
friend of the family, and that he had relapsed
into his real position of Lord Pit
Town's legal adviser.

The two men shook hands ; and it is not
to be wondered at if neither slept very well
that night, both having abundant food for
reflection.

THE HOLLOW BEECH TREE.

Curiosity is not, as is popularly supposed,
the private and peculiar failing of the female
sex. Most men tear up their letters ere
they consign them to the waste-paper basket ;
the wiser and more suspicious portion of the
human race burn them. If Bluebeard had
confided the key of the Blue closet to anyone
of his servants, we may rely upon it that
they would have been just as certain to have
investigated the contents, as the nameless, but
indiscreet, lady, whose sister's name was Ann.
Mr. Capt was a very superior servant, but
like most servants he was innately curious.
The little red morocco box, which he had
never seen opened, which had always accompanied
his deceased master on his numerous
journeys, and which was habitually kept

50-2

in his master's iron safe, had always puzzled
him. It's not very much to be wondered at,
then, that when Mr. Capt saw the box upon
the table in Mrs. Haggard's boudoir, with
its key standing invitingly in the lock, he
should seize the opportunity to take a peep
at its contents. When Capt saw what those
contents were, being an unscrupulous man,
he hesitated not an instant in becoming their
possessor. With men such as Capt, change,
as the French call it, is a favourite mode of
obtaining wealth. We know how Capt had
blackmailed Lucy Warrender for years, and
how he was a past-master in the art. We
know, too, that Capt meditated a still grander
coup. The secret he possessed had been a
little fortune to him during poor Lucy's lifetime,
and, Uke the shares of a successful mine,
Mr, Capt's secret had developed in value with
astonishing rapidity. But Capt was a timid
as well as a cautious man ; he lead a holy
horror of the terrors of the law. The secret
he had to sell was a valuable one, it is true.

but the chain of proof was incomplete. Capt
could show that the ladies had gone to Auray
in a mysterious manner. Capt could swear
that Miss Warrender, under the threat of
exposure, had made no secret to him that
she was the mother of the boy Lucius ; but
who Lucius's father was, had been to Mr.
Capt an impenetrable mystery. And as Mr.
Capt rubbed his hands at the thought of
the disclosures he could make and their
great pecuniary value, his smile of delight
would fade at the reflection, that though all
he swore might be perfectly true, yet, like
the inspired Cassandra, he might fail to And
anybody to believe him. Great then was
Capt's delight at getting possession of the
miniature which represented Lucy Warrender
in her Watteau costume, for it opened upto
him the means of placing his own evidence
beyond a doubt, by adding to it the probably
unwilling testimony of Lord Spunyarn, a
witness who would be above suspicion. His
master's monogram upon the portrait case,

followed by the single word " Eine " and
the date, brought back all the facts distinctly
to his mind. He remembered actually looking
on with his own eyes, disguised as he
was as a Eoman warrior, upon the fracas
between Haggard and the unfortunate Mons.
Barbiche at Papayani's ball ; he had seen
the blue domino upon Haggard's arm, and
he had gazed with curiosity, striving to
penetrate the secrecy of the very mask
which was now in his possession. Probably,*
he thought, Lord Spunyarn was Haggard's
confidant in the whole matter, but when
he read the packet of letters all doubt was
set at rest, and Mr. Capt felt that the
honour of a noble family was his to traffic
with, and that all that remained was to
look out for the best bargain. Mr. Capt
then secreted his prey at once. Secure
now in the possession of the power of
proving what he had to tell, he had but
to take his merchandise to the best market
and dispose of it to the highest bidder.

Unfortunately for the valet, there were
only a few possible purchasers for the
valuable commodity he had to sell. There
was the old lord, but Capt doubted
whether Lord Pit Town mio^ht feel disposed
to invest his money in proving the
eldest son of his own deceased heir to bea
bastard. As for Mrs. Haggard, dealings
with her were out of the question, for she
was prostrated by the stroke of paralysis.
Then Capt's mind reverted to old Warrender,
but he thought with horror of the collection
of antiquated horsewhips which hung
in the entrance-hall of The Warren, and he
remembered that Squire Warrender, though
a very old man now, had a vigorous arm,
and that he was a justice of the peace.
The other possible purchasers that remained
were the two young men, but unfortunately
both were under age, and, therefore, comparatively
penniless ; so Mr. Capt, reluctantly
enough, was compelled to defer negotiations
to Lord Pit Town's death, or, at all events,

until Lucius Haggard's majority, and lie
determined whichever of those events might
happen first, that Fie would then realize his
property at once.

Capt had reluctantly made up his mind
to wait ; he carefully packed up the contents
of the little box which he had purloined,
including the brilliant earrings, for
he feared to dispose of them, though they
were very valuable, lest he might be accused
of, and punished for, a robbery.
Besides the earrings were a part of the
proofs. It was quite a neat little parcel he
made, and he carefully covered the whole
with waterproof canvas, lest the valuable
contents of the packet might be damaged
by weather. Mr. Capt had determined to
place his property in a temporary hiding
place, for he argued rightly that Lord
Spunyarn, as soon as he was aware of the
robbery that had been committed, would
leave no stone unturned to regain possession
of the deposit he had so carelessly guarded.

Nature had provided Mr. Capt with a
hiding-place suitable in every way to his
designs. In the most secluded portion of the
park, whither he was accustomed to resort
to meditate and smoke his master's cigars in
secret, was a very picturesque beech. At
about the height of a man in the trunk of this
vigorous young tree was a hole some eighteen
inches deep, just large enough to admit a
man's hand. Into this natural hiding-place
Mr. Capt remembered to have once himself
thrust his fingers from curiosity. It was
not without some hesitation that he placed
his property in the cavity, and to make
assurance doubly sure he covered the
packet with a few dead leaves and closed
the mouth of the hole with a big stone,
upon which he artistically placed a little
layer of living moss, carefully smoothing
down the edges of the tuft with his fingers.
And then Mr. Capt became once more a
waiter upon Providence.

The explosion which Mr. Capt had

expected took place. The sudden summoning
of the family lawyer, and the
striking down of Mrs. Haggard by paralysis,
had sufficiently informed him of the fact.
He felt certain that a vigorous perquisition
would ensue, and it was with considerable
satisfaction, that he reflected that he had
been beforehand in the matter, and that
he had placed, what he looked upon as
his property, in safety.

The interview between Lord Pit Town
and his solicitor was a lomb one. The old

o

lord was naturally much agitated. As was
to be expected, he placed himself unreservedly
in the hands of his legal adviser,
and he determined not to move in the
matter.

You seem to think, Brookes," he said,
that there is nothing to be done in this
thing."

Certainly not, my lord," Mr. Brookes
replied. " The late Mr. Reginald Haggard's
widow, should she recover possession of her

faculties, which her medical adviser has
informed me is extremely doubtful, would
be able assuredly to give us the solution
of the mystery ; till then, or till her death,
it is my opinion that we can take no
action whatever. It is certainly not for us
to throw any doubt upon the legitimacy of
the young man, whom you must perforce
continue to look upon as your lawful heir.
Of Lucius Ha;?o^ard's silence for his own
sake, we may be certain. Lord Spunyarn
we may trust, while Mrs. Haggard herself
will assuredly reveal nothing until her health
is in some measure restored, and then only
probably under considerable pressure from
you, if you should, under the circumstances,
consider such a course advisable. If there
really was a secret, Lord Pit Town, we
can rely upon the discretion of a woman
who has kept it for twenty years. But
after all it seems to me that it is only the
distant branches of the family who suffer
in losing a remote contingent succession;

even if the extremely unlikely history which
Lord Spunyarn gave me is a fact, and true
in all its details, Lucius Haggard is still
Eeginald Haggard's son. It seems to me
that it is not for us to stir up the question
of his legitimacy. Possibly your lordship
might feel inclined to put pressure upon
him, and make him covenant not to marry
in his younger brother George's lifetime,
and so the title and entailed estates would
eventually pass to George Haggard or his
heirs."

That is, of course, supposing the story
to be true," quavered the old lord.

It is impossible, my lord, in the absence
of the documents, for us to take any notice
of the story. I may attempt, if you wish
it, to obtain information. I might sound
the late Mr. Haggard's valet, though I think
it would be extremely bad policy to do so.
As for George Haggard, my lord, he is his
father's heir, and you and I, my lord,
know that the present disposition of your

lordship's property will amply compensate
him for the loss of the Pit Town title and
the Walls End estates, even if they were
really his by right."

Yes, Brookes, I suppose things must
take their course."

His lordship's remark showed that he
accepted Mr. Brookes' point of view. The
lawyer communicated the old man's decision
to Lord Spunyarn, but the matter itself was
never mentioned between Lord Pit Town
and the executor of his late heir.

Young Lucius Haggard for the last few
days had had plenty of food for reflection.
The agony of mind which he had suffered
when Lord Spunyarn had broken to him
the strange story of his birth was more
than counterbalanced by the disappearance
of the proofs and the opportune
illness of his father's widow. He found
himself once more the heir apparent, and
so temporary had been his degradation that
it seemed but a fevered dream. Whether

the story was true or false, probably no
one would ever know. The more he thought
of the matter, the more young Lucius Haggard
congratulated himself on having controlled
his feelings after his first natural
burst of passionate indignation. He had
not alienated Lord Spunyarn, he had not
quarrelled ^vith any one ; his conduct, under
the most trying circumstances, had been
such as to merit the respect of all concerned.
Though he had not yet won the
rubber, he had decidedly scored the first
game.

As time rolled on, Reginald Has^orard's
widow made no perceptible progress towards
recovery. The speechlessness continued ; she
was still unable to articulate. At first she
frequently attempted to speak, but gradually
ceased her efforts, as she found that it was
practically impossible to express herself.
When she tried to write, although the
fingers could grasp the pen, she was unable
to produce written characters, but she appeared

to hear and to understand perfectly.
Her memory, too, seemed to have failed
her, for she no longer attempted to express
her grief at her husband's death. She lead
lost to a certain extent also the power of
motion, and was confined to her couch.
With this exception, her bodily health remained
good, and there was no visible
change in her appearance.

No intimation of the supposed discovery
of a family mystery had been made to old
Squire Warrender, not that there was any
doubt as to his discretion, but simply
because there was nothing to be gained by
disturbing the old man's mind with so
terrible a communication. Squire Warrender
had hurried to the Castle to visit his
daughter when he first heard of her
seizure ; but as the fears of an immediate
fatal termination gradually wore off, the
old squire had returned to King's Warren.
But the two young men, as was natural,
still remained at the Castle in close attendance

upon their mother ; George, from
natural affection, while Lucius, though he
longed to taste the sweets of his newly-acquired
liberty, felt that it was to his
interest to remain upon the spot in the
unlikely contingency of Mrs. Haggard regaining
her faculties.

While the minds of many of the inhabitants
of Walls End Castle had been disturbed
in the manner narrated, the quiet little
parish of King's Warren had been shaken
out of its ordinary state of somniferous
torpidity. To use Mrs. Dodd's words, " the
government of the country lead at last
become awakened to the important services
rendered to the Church by my dear father."
The fact is, that a bishopric had fallen in,
and that the Prime Minister, a notorious
talker and time-server, and a very old
servant of Her Majesty, was extremely
anxious to perpetrate a great and glorious
job. But the Prime Minister was a wiseman
; he knew very well that in trying

to please every-body he would satisfy no
one, and so he meant to please himself,
and to appoint to the vacant see an old
college chum of his own, a learned but harmless
enthusiast, now a Don, dio had once
in his life perpetrated a very abstruse work
upon the Greek particle. The first thing
that the Prime Minister did was to lend an
apparently willing ear to the suggestions
of the various busybodies who under such
circumstances always favour unfortunates in
his position with their disinterested ideas
upon the subject. Deputations from the
two rival missionary societies waited upon
him, lords temporal and lords spiritual
had private interviews with him, and the
heads of his party expressed their opinions
to him freely but confidentially ; he promised
to give their suggestions what he
called his earnest consideration, and then
he bowed them out. But the Prime Minister
was a man who invariably killed two birds
with one stone. " I will obtain some cheap

VOL. UL 51

popularity," lie thought, " and several good
rounds of universal applause, by a masterstroke.
I will offer the bishopric to a
simple parish clergyman." In the clerical
world, to use a profane phrase, there were
at least half-a-dozen favourites in the betting,
and as many dark horses. When the Thunderer
appeared with an inspired article
upon the fitness of a successful parish
clergyman for the more onerous position
of a bishop, great was the humming and
disturbance in the clerical hive. Profound
was the disappointment in the minds of the
drones and dignitaries. Men who were
performing archidiaconal functions heaped
dust and ashes on their heads, crying aloud
that the interests of the Church were being
sacrificed to obtain an ephemeral popularity.
But the breasts of the working bees throbbed
wdtli excitement ; the vicars of parishes who
had been long in harness, and had never
met with the expensive misfortune of being
haled by their bishop, or the terrible aggrieved

parishioner, under the Church Discipline
Act, before that greatest of all clerical
bogies, Lord Penzance, and who would never
have thought of undergoing six months'
imprisonment for conscience' sake ; men who
knew a o"ood oiass of wine when they saw
it ; men who were apostles of the Hie
Ribbon Army, fathers of large families of
sons and daughters blessed in having: their
quivers full of them, and Celibates wedded
to the Church alone ; all these men were
racked by ambitious hopes. In the meanwhile
the Prime Minister was occupied in
putting salt on his sparrow's tail : that rare
clerical bird so fast becoming extinct in

o

the present day, rara avis in terris ni(jroqu&

si minima cygno, who should be willing to

reply to him nolo episcopal. The Prime

Minister was looking round for a man of

straw, and after some search he found him

in the person of the Eeverend John Dodd.

The Thunderer had said that "the little

leaven that was needed in the hierarchy

51—2

of the Church of England, that it mio-ht
leaven the whole lump, was a parochial
clergyman who had unostentatiously laboured
in the clerical vineyard, a man who could
rule his see as he had ruled his parish,"
and after a long diatribe, the article concluded
with these pregnant words : " Such
a man the noble lord at the head of
affairs has found in the well-known vicar
of King's Warren, the Eeverend John Dodd."
And then it compared the Severer id John
Dodd to the " Man of Loss," in its usual
graceful and pointed manner.

Verbal communications, like dead men,
tell no tales.

The Prime Minister didn't write a letter
to the Eeverend John Dodd, he didn't
even send him a halfpenny post-card,
offering him the bishopric ; ]put he did
dispatch a trusted emissary. We must
remember that the Minister had been credibly
informed that the Eeverend John Dodd was
absolutely the only respectable clergy man

ill the Church of Enghaiid, in the full
possession of his mental faculties, who
would be certain to decline the honours
of consecration. Certain Eoman emperors
have earned our respect by refusing to
accept divine honours, and the Prime
Minister heard with delight that the
Eeverend John Dodd was a man of the
same heroic kidney. We have met the
emissary before, it was the same old clerical
friend of the Eeverend John's, who had
on a previous occasion, as his archdeacon,
warned him to set his house in order on
the appointment of a new bishop, a king
who knew not Joseph. He it was, who had
recommended to his friend Dodd that
eminently reliable clerical charwoman, the
Eeverend Barnes Puffin. The Eeverend
Barnes Puffin had done his work well,
things had gone on smoothly ever since in
the parish of King's Warren; and many a
the and oft had the stout vicar, like the
mask'd Arabian maid in the " Licht of the

Harem," exclaimed, " Oh, if there be an
Elysium on earth, it is this, it is this."
I don't believe that the vicar of King's
Warren would have changed places with
the Mikado of Japan. The two clergymen
had their interview ; at which Mrs. Dodd, to
her great indignation, did not assist. Never
before in his life had the Eeverend John
kept a secret so long from the knowledge
of the wife of his bosom, the fair Cecilia ;
until the next morning at breakfast, he
may be said to have continuously wrestled
with her in the spirit. In vain did Mrs.
Dodd alternately beg, command, and even
entreat him with briny tears, to communicate
to her what had taken place in
that secret interview. All she could extract
from him was, that she should know all
about it at breakfast time. She even
tried guessing, but each guess was more
wildly improbable, and wider of the mark
than the last ; her final suggestion was a
rather barbed arrow though.

John," she said in a hissing whisper,
with a vicious nudge, to the poor vicar,
who was vainly seeking sleep for the
twentieth time. "You may keep it from
me if you will, John, but I've guessed your
dreadful secret. Yes," she added with a
succession of sobs, " I've guessed it at last ;
the boo-boo-bishop is going to sequestrate
your living on the ground of your
weakened intellect." But Dodd only
chuckled, or rather " chortled," in his
amusement, as he buried his face in his
pillow.

The next morning* Mrs. Dodd, as washer
custom, entered the breakfast-room
first. She took up the Thunderer, and she
performed her natural duty as a woman,
and went carefully through the list of
births, deaths and marriages ; and then
she came upon the inspired article to
which we have alluded. At first the paper
dropped from her fingers, and then her
face was illumined by a smile of triumph.

The neat parlour maid was just placing the
hissing urn upon the table.

Jane," said Mrs. Dodd, " in future
when addressing your master, be good
enough to say, 'my lord.' You can inform
the others of what I wish done."

The girl dropped Mrs. Dodd a low
courtesy, stared at her, and then stammered
out, " Yes, my lady."

So grateful was this speech to Mrs.
Dodd's feelings that she hadn't the heart
to correct the girl ; she merely smiled
blandly and smoothed her cap ribbons.

The Eeverend John Dodd entered the
room at the moment ; he sniffed and rubbed
his hands, for ambrosial odours from the
kitchen reached his nostrils. His wife
sprang to her feet, and rushing into his
arms after the manner of long-lost daughters
upon the stage, she buried her face in
his Mab. waistcoat. " John, dear John,"
she said through her fears of joy, as she
gazed up at his great round smiling visage,

"let me be the first to congratulate you on
your well deserved honours." She snatched
up the newspaper and waved it wildly
in the air. " I've read it all, John, and
they've put it so nicely. Little did I
dream last night when I spoke to you so
irreverently, for I shall revere you now,
John, that I was speaking to a bishop.
Oh, John," she continued, clapping her
hands in a girlish manner, " 'tis such a becoming
dress, and so, so delightfully exclusive."


Calm yourself, Cecilia," said Dodd, who
feared the shock would be too much for
lier. " Calm yourself, Cecilia, dear. I'm
plain Jack Dodd still ; they did offer it
me yesterday, but I refused it."

"And you can stand there, Mr. Dodd,
and tell me this dreadful thing. Oh, Mr.
Dodd," she said with withering sarcasm,
"I thought just now that I was the wife of
a bishop. Alas, I learn from your lips the
terrible truth, the truth which my poor

father so often impressed upon me, that
I am only married to a fool," and she,
rushed from the room.

I suppose that the parson was after alla
callous stony-hearted man, for though he
breakfasted alone, he devoured the entire
dish of stewed kidneys, which the parlour-maid
had placed upon the table with a
low obeisance.

"^M-^^

MR. CAPT LEAVES SERVICE.

'Mil. Capt bided his time. The quiet respectful
foreign servant showed by no word
or creature that he held the kev to the
mystery of Lucius Haggard's birth. His
duties were almost a sinecure, and though
now he drew his pav from Lucius Sacro-ard,
and was, of course, young Mr. Haggard's
own man, vet he ofave almost as much
attention to the comforts of the younger
brother. Every afternoon Mr. Capt was
in the habit of taking a long walk in the
great park. I don't think it was simply
for love of exercise, or to admire the
scenery, that he was so regular in this
pilgrimages to a particular sylvan glade on
the border of the river Sweir, which
formed the extreme boundary of Lord Pit

Town's home park. The real fact was, that
Capt was in the habit of making a daily
inspection of the place where he had deposited
his treasure. At first he was accustomed
to walk down to the river and
examine the little tuft of moss which he
had so carefully planted over the hiding-place
furnished him by nature in the
beech tree. But he had noticed that he
had worn quite a little path just beneath
his tiny treasure-house ; such carelessness
he remembered might betray him ; so
though he passed the tree every day, he
was careful to avoid his first mistake ; and
as day by day the little tuft of moss grew
greener, for it had now evidently taken
root, Capt gradually inspected the tree just
as carefully but from a greater distance.
From many a point of vantage he could
observe the little green patch, and at
length, by a refinement of ingenuity, he
was enabled to keep away from the
tree altogether. His eternal cigar in his

mouth, lie was accustomed to walk about well
within sight of the beech tree. The spot
was secluded enough when he had first
adopted the hiding - place, but as the
autumn wore on and the leaves fell, Mr.
Capt thanked his stars at his own ingenuity.
Having assured himself that no
one was in sight, Mr. Capt would take a
small opera glass from his pocket, then he
would commence by its aid to admire the
view, he would gaze round at all points of
the compass ; last of all, his glance would
inevitably fall upon the beech tree, the
glass would be fixed steadily upon the
little tuft of moss, and then seeing that it
was undisturbed it would be replaced in
its case, and pocketed with a sigh of satisfaction.
And then Mr. Capt would continue
]his perambulations in a comfortable
frame of mind.

It was one of those bright, brisk, clear
days of early winter, when the sun has
attained sufficient power to make us unbutton

our overcoats, and feel glad if we
had left our neck-wraps at home. Mr.
Capt had just breasted the rising ground
which formed the boundary of the dell
in the direction of the Castle. He stopped,
and placed his hand in his pocket, to draw
from it the glass, and to then commence
his usual artistic studies of the thousand
and one autumn effects of the daily changing
landscape. But before he could get
the glass to his eye, he perceived a figure
standing at the edge of the little swirling
river. There was plenty of water in the
Sweir just now, as it swept through the
rich soft mould here, where it formed the
boundary of the home park. Eobinson
Crusoe's gesture of disgust and fear, when
he saw the first savage upon his island
home, was very similar to that made by
Mr, Capt when he discerned the tall figure
of Blogg, the head keeper, leaning upon
his gun. Eobinson Crusoe was a pious
Englishman, as we know, but Capt being

an irreligious foreigner, gave vent to his
feelings in a continental oath. The keeper's
back was towards Capt, and his eyes were
fixed upon the fast-hurrying waters of the
swollen stream ; the valet, though he was
a good six hundred yards off, retraced his
steps upon tip-toe in his great anxiety not
to attract the keeper's attention. When
he was well out of sight, having put the
rising ground once more between himself
and Blogg, he lighted a cigar, and recommenced
his walk, making a long circuit,
but as if drawn by some irresistible magnetism,
his feet once more, ere the cigar
was finished, brought him to the banks of
the Sweir and the entrance to the dell.
This time Mr. Capt was not so fortunate,
for the keeper's eyes met his the instant
he made his appearance. The fact is that
Blogg had been standing chewing the cud
of his reflections, or possibly thinking
about nothing at all, during the five and
twenty minutes' circuit that Capt had

made. There is a considerable difference
in position between a head keeper and
Ills master's valet. Bloofo- recognized the
fact, for though he didn't touch his hat
to Capt, he didn't presume to shake hands
with him, and he addressed him with
marked deference.

"Morning', sir," he said.

Good morning, Mr. Blogg," replied
the valet affably ; "on duty, I suppose."

Lor' bless you, a keeper's always on
duty ; leastways a head keeper is."

The two men walked along amicably
side by side.

I daresay it seems to you," continued
Blofror " more like loading; than duty, forme
to go touching round the best part
of the day, aye, and at times the best part
of the night, too, with this here gun. Not
that we're troubled much with poachers hereabout,
they're mostly amytoors here, but
they're as full o' tricks as a bag full o'
monkeys. I'm mostly a match for 'em

you know, for I was a regular myself once,
as you can remember. Ah, many's the
dark night as I went out a-wirin' in King's
Warren parish. I don't know as there
weren't more enjoyment in those days. We
were both younger then. Muster Capt,"
said the keeper with a sigh.

Ah, but think of your position now,"
said Capt, who wished to put the man ina
good humour, that he might all the
sooner shake him off.

Position ain't everything. A head

keeper's life is as anxious a time as a

frog's in a frying-pan, a hot frying-pan, ye

mind me ; it's not all tips and perquisites ;

it's information here and information there,

it's night lines in the river and the lake,

its wirin' and steel trapping', when it ain't

ferrettin' and iish-pison, and what with the

boys as sums after the antlers and the

nests, and the children as sums after the

blackberries, and the radicals as keeps a

dog, a man's hands is very full indeed."
VOL. lu. 52

You must have an anxious time," said
the sympathizing Capt.

"Ah, you may well say that," replied
the keeper ; " why, in ray young days the
boys they cum after the nests, and the
men they cum after the game, as is
perhaps natural after all, but now they
sums after everything. They even grubs
up the ferns and the primroses with irons
made a-purpose. Why, one of they fern
chaps would think nothing of clearing half an
acre in a morning'. They comes after the
butterflies with their nets, and a botanizing
with their tin candle boxes, and trespassing'
comes natural to them. Why, only the
other day I caught a feller bottling mud
out of a pond, and a-catchin' newts and
such like. ' What's your business here ? '
I said. ' I'm collecting attic animals,'
said he. ' And I suppose you've got permission
? ' ' Don't you be insolent, my
man,' he said ; and he shakes his finger
at me, for all the world like the Sunday-school

teacher used to shake his finder at
me when I was a little bit of a chap.
Don't you try to stop the march of
science, my man,' says he. 'I don't care
nothing' about the march of science,' says
I; 'but if you don't hand over the pair
of antlers as you've got up your back, I'll
wallop you, master. And after I've walloped
you, you and science can march
where you please.' But what makes my
life a burden to me," continued the keeper,
still airing his grievances, " is vermin."

Capt started.

What with the weasels, the stoats, and
such-like, a man need have his eyes open."

Yes," said Capt ; " you need all your
powers of observation, I suppose."

You're right there," assented the keeper ;
it ain't much as escapes me."

By this time they had reached the middle
of the glen, and were within a dozen
paces of Mr. Capt's secret store - house.
Greatly to the valet's disgust the keeper

nV-now

produced a lump of tobacco from his
pocket, and commenced with his knife to
carefully shred off the quantity necessary
for filling his pipe; he stopped to satisfactorily
complete the delicate operation,
then, with great care, he lighted the little
black clay cutty. The keeper got his pipe
into full swing, the two men were about
to proceed on their walk, but Blogg suddenly
laid his hand on the valet's arm and pointed
at the beech tree.

It's many a man," he said sententiously,
as would walk by that tree and see nothing
particular about it," and he stared at the
tree in curiosity. " Aren't you well. Muster
Capt ? " he said suddenly, as the expression
on the valet's face attracted his attention.

The valet's countenance had become of
an ashen grey, and drops of perspiration
stood upon his brow as he seized the
keeper's arm.

I am feeling very queer," he said.

"You look as if you'd seen a ghost,"

said his friendly fellow-servant. " Take a
pull at that," said Blogg, producing a
small flask from one of the capacious
pockets of his moleskin coat. " I'll get
ye a drop of water," he continued, removing
the little metal cup from the bottom of
the flask.

Half-a-dozen strides brought the keeper
to the banks of the Sweir, but getting
the cup full of water was not such a
very easy matter. The keeper flung himself
upon the turf at the edge of the rapidly
running stream, but ere he did so he
took the precaution to stamp, with one
foot in advance, upon the edge. The reason
he did this was obvious, for the soft bank
was undercut by the rush of waters. He
filled the little cup, and returned with
it to his companion, incidentally remarking,
"The banks are plaguy dangerous just
here. Do ye feel better now ? " he said
with solicitude.

"Yes, I'm better now," said the valet.

You look uncommon bad," returned the
sympathetic keeper.

And I feel so, Blogg," the other replied ;
"give me your arm, I must lean on something.
I think I'll get home at once."

"Just an instant. Muster Capt," said the
keeper ; " there's some artful game or other
been a-doing' with that beech ; some chap
has gone and plugged the hole of it with
a lump of moss ; as like as not he's got
a hopeful of wires there now. I'll just
put my hand in and find out what they've
been up to with it."

Get me home first, Blogg, if you can,"
hurriedly interrupted the valet, clutching
his arm. "I feel," said he, with simulated
anxiety, "I feel as if I were going to
die."

I won't keep ye a minute, Capt, but
duty's duty," answered Blogg.

"Don't be a fool, man," cried the valet in
an authoritative tone ; "there are seven
days in the week, and you can search

the hole, if there is a hole, tomorrow
as vrell as to-day."

But BloGfi' was an obstinate man. " You're

CO

wound masterful, Capt, for a man who
thinks he's a- dying," said the keeper with
an honest laugh. '' I'll see what's in the
hole ; and then, if you ask me, why, I'll
carry you to the Castle pick-a-pack, if you
like.' And then Blogg marched up to
the beech tree and picked the moss away
from the hole. He removed the stone,
and turning to the valet, with a triumphant
guffaw he cried, " I told 'ee so. Muster
Capt. I said as how there was a game
going on," and then he plucked the little
packet from its hiding-place.

Maurice Capt was a determined man.
Should he allow the cherished plan of
twenty years to be ruined by the curiosity
of a clod ? The packet was in the keeper's
hands. Like Ahiaschar's dream of wealth,
all the valet's plans and scheming, all his
fondest hopes of affluence, would be kicked

down in an instant. He well knew the
dogged honesty of the man ; the packet,
now within the keeper's grasp, was as good
as in Lord Pit Town's hands. All this
passed through his mind in the twinkling
of an eye, and as the keeper flung himself
once more upon the ground, the Swiss
valet advanced over the soft turf towards
his prostrate form with noiseless cat-like
step. Maurice Capt had made up his mind.
He flung himself upon the keeper's throat
with the ferocity of a tiger, and proceeded
to attempt to throttle his adversary from
behind. But the keeper was a powerful
man. Although Capt's long fingers were
tightly fixed upon his windpipe, and the
astonished man was taken at a great
disadvantage, yet the keeper did his best
to rid himself of the remorseless adversary
who was savagely attempting to strangle
the life out of him. He couldn't call for
help, and he didn't attempt it; but he
struggled bravely, he drove his heavy

boots into the soft turf, and succeeded
once even in rising to this knees, only to
be forced back again upon his face by
the furious efforts of the Swiss. Blogg's
eyes were nearly starting from his head,
and his mouth literally foamed, from the
cruel tightening grip upon his throat.
But the force of his muscular fingers,
which wrenched in vain at the iron wrists
of the valet, began to relax. Even a
strong man cannot fight long when deprived
of air. As the light of triumph came
into the valet's eyes, for he felt that
slowly but surely he was choking the
very life out of his victim, the vengeance
of heaven suddenly overtook the aggressor.
The overhanging bank of soft earth all
at once gave way ; assailant and assailed,
and the very earth they struggled on,
full with a dull splash into the rushing
stream.

Yet another few seconds, and the long
lithe fingers of the Swiss would have completed

their deadly work. As he felt himself
falling, he relaxed his grasp of the keeper's
throat, ill the natural instinct of self-preservation.
Before his mouth reached the water,
the hapless Blogg got one great draught
of air into his capacious chest, but Capt had
too nearly effected his work, and the keeper
was practically almost insensible. The only
effect of this last breath of life, that chance,
and not the mercy of his adversary, had
given him, was to make his muscular fingers
clutch the struggling wrists of his murderer
with a more vice-like grasp. The assailant
and assailed had now changed places as they
sank beneath the black waters. The valet's
sole efforts now were directed to escape
from the tenacious grip of the still struggling
man. As well might a cur attempt
to shake off an infuriated bull-dog who had
once fixed his remorseless fangs in his
throat. They sank beneath the waters,
and, still violently struggling, reappeared
again and again as they were spun round

and round by the rushing stream. But not
for long.

The 'little packet escaped from Blogg's
fingers and floated rapidly away down the
stream. The would-be murderer sunk
to the muddy bottom dead, and honest
Blogg struck out and scrambled up the
bank of the rushing Sweir.

"Blame me," he cried, as he shook himself
Uke a great water dog, " blame me if
I don't think Muster Capt went clean mad ;
why, he nigh on strangled me," and then
he stared at the hurrying, rushing waters.
Poor chap, he have gone to his account.
I wonder what was in that little bundle
though ! "

*****

The dark waters of the Sweir have closed
for ever over the crafty wretch who had
so lately held the destinies of a noble family
within his grasp. Poor Lucy's secret has disappeared
for ever beneath the raging waters
of the little river. The oath that Lucy

Warrender extracted from her cousin at the
Villa Lambert more than twenty years ago
will have been kept but too well, and the
secret will probably remain for ever undiscovered.
And will young George Haggard
be any the worse, seeing that he is robbed
of his birthright? We know that Lord Pit
Town's will has practically made him a
very wealthy man. The mills of heaven's
justice grind slowly perhaps at times, but
they go on turning and grinding for ever.
Lucius Haggard, who in his black and bitter
heart knows that he is but an undetected
impostor, may never marry, may even predecease
the half-brother who was born in
lawful wedlock. She, the silent invalid,
may yet perhaps speak, or the hollow beech
tree may perchance give up its secret.

if * * *

Many things can happen in a couple
of years. To-day the old lord and the
German doctor still chat and doze in the
great picture galleries ; and George's mother,

beautiful still in life's sad evening, yet wonders
whether she shall ever meet again in another
world the dead husband who betrayed her,
but whom she has forgiven lone a^^o. As
she lies on her sofa in the pretty room
heavy with the scent of flowers, which has
been hers for many a long year, her eye
brightens, and the soft colour comes back
momentarily to the pale cheek, as she
hears the manly step of her dear son
George ; her own son, her very ow-n son,
her best beloved.

He is dressed in deepest mourning ; and
he wears it for Lucius Haggard, the man
who would have robbed him of his birthright.


"Mother! dear mother!" he says, as he
gently takes her hand.

There is no more to tell. And now the
prompter claps his hand upon his little
bell, and down comes the green curtain
upon the drama of human love, of human
passion, selfishness and greed, upon the

end of the family mystery with which it
has been the author's privilege to try and
interest the reader.

THE END.

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

Yard & DOWNEY'S

CATALOGUE OF

m Publications.

-o ^ :

12, YORK STREET. COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

Random Recollections OF Courts AND

Society. By a Cosmopolitan. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d.

THE MEMOIRS OF AN ARABIAN Princess. An
Autobiography. Crown 8vo. 6s.

ADAMS, W. H. D.
THE HEALING ART : a History of Medicine
and Medical Celebrities from the Earliest Times to the
Present Day. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 25s.

ARNOLD, REV. F.
ROBERTSON OF BRIGHTON : with some Notes of
His Times and His Contemporaries. Post 8vo. 9s.

BEAUFORT, R. LEDOS DE.
THE ABBE LISZT : the Story of His Life. Crown

8vo. With Three Portraits. 6s.

BROGLIE, DUG DE.
THE PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF THE
DUG DE Broglie. Edited by E. L. de Beaufort. 2 vols.
Demy 8vo. "With a Portrait on Steel. sos.

DAUNT, W. J. O'NEILL. ~

Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY.

Crown 8vo. ^^

FITZGERALD, PERCY.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JOHN WILKES.

vols. 21s.

ELLIOTT, FRANCES.
OLD COURT LIFE IN FRANCE. Royal 8vo.

With Twenty whole-page engravings. 7s. 6d.

FROST, THOMAS.
RECOLLECTIONS OF A COUNTRY Journalist.
New Edition. 6s.

HOG AN, J. F., d SIR CHAS. Cavan DUFFY.
THE IRISH IN AUSTRALIA. Third and Cheaper

Edition. Boards, 2s. 6d. Cloth, 3s. 6d.

KROPOTKINE, PRINCE.
IN RUSSIAN AND FRENCH PRISONS. Large
post 8vo. With a Plan of the for tress of St. Peter and St
Paul. 7s. 6d.

Molly, J. FITZGERALD.
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF EDMUND

KEAN. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 21s.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, London under

the Four Georges. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 12s.
FAMOUS PLAYS, from Congreve's " Love for Love,"

to Lytton's " Lady of Lyons." Large Post Svo. 10s. 6d.
ROYALTY RE STORED : or, London under Charles II.

A New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

Legge, ALFRED 0.
THE UNPOPULAR KINO: The Life and Times of
Richard III. 2 vols. Demy Svo. With Sixteen Illustrations.
sos.

O'CONNOR, T. P.
GLADSTONE'S HOUSE OF COMMONS. Demy

Svo. 12s 6d.
The PARNELL MOVEMENT. 26th thousand.

Paper cover, Is. Cloth, 2p.

O'SHEA, JOHN AUGUSTUS.
AN IRONBOUND CITY : Five Months of Peril and

and Privation in Besieged Paris. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21.s.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL

CORRESPONDENT. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 21s.
ROMANTIC SPAIN: a Record of Personal Experiences.

2 vols. Crown Svo. 21s.

Rabble, FELIX.
SHELLEY : THE MAN AND THE POET. 2 vols.

21s.

ROOSEVELT, BLANCHE.
VERDI, MILAN, AND '' OTHELLO." With Eighteen

Illustrations. Imp. Imo. Gilt top. 7s. Od.

SAND, GEORGE.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF GEORGE SAND :

with a Biographical Sketch by R. L. do Beaufort. 3 vols.
Demy Svo. 3()S.

SyUTH, GEORGE BARNETT.
VICTOR HUGO: His Life and Work. Crown Svo.
With an Engraved Portrait of Hugo. Gs.

«' stepniak:
russia under the tears.

Crown 8vo.

STRAUSS, G. L. M.
THE EMPEROR WILLIAM : The Story of a Great
King and a Good Man. Crown 8vo. 6s.

WALL, A, H.
FIFTY YEARS OF A GOOD QUEEN'S REIGN.

Imp, 16mo. With Six portraits. 3s. 6d. Gilt edges. 4s. 6d.
Wool, MADAM JANKA.
FRANCOIS LISZT : Recollections of a Compatriot.

Crown 8vo. 6s.

EDUCATION.

REED, S. P.
THE CANDIDATE'S LATIN GRAMMAR.

8vo. 3s. 6d.

ESSAYS.

Crown

ARNOLD, REV. F.
ARM-CHAIR ESSAYS. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.
Three-cornered ESSAYS. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

BUCHANAN, ROBERT.
A LOOK ROUND LITERATURE. Crown 8vo, 6s.

DOWLING, RICHARD. ~~

IGNORANT ESSAYS. Second Edition. Foolscap

Svo. Bevelled boards. 5s.

DUNFHJE, CHARLES J,
THE CHAMELEON. Crown 8vo. 6s.

MOULT ON, LOUISE CHANDLER,
OURSELVES AND OUR NEIGHBOURS: Short
Chats on Social Topics. Foolscap Svo. 3s. 6d.

Pass, ARTHUR T.
THE EYES OF THE THAMES. Crown 8vo.

6s.

Parnell, THOMAS.
DUST AND DIAMONDS. Crown 8vo.

6s.

WALKER, THOMAS.
THE ORIGINAL. Crown 8vo. Ss. 6d.

FICTION.

AUTHOR CF 'for LOVE AND HONOUR,

AN Adventuress. 2 vols. 21s.

AUTHOR OF '' MEHALAH:'
LITTLE Turenne. Is.

AUTHOR OF 'molly Sawn:'
Marvel. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
A MENTAL Struggle. 6s.
A MAIDEN ALL Forlorn. 2s.
LADY Walworth's DIAMONDS. Is.
HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. 2s.
A MODERN CIRCE. 3s. 6d.

AWE, HAMILTON.
PASSAGES FROM THE LIFE OF A LADY. Ss. 6d.

ALLEN, F. M.
THE VOYAGE OF THE AEK. Is.
THROUGH GREEN Glasses. 3s. 6d. and 2s.

APPLETON, G. W,
A TERRIBLE LEGACY. 2s.
JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. 3s. 6d.
FROZEN HEARTS. 3s. 6d.
CATCHING A TARTAR. 3s. 6d.

BARRETT, FRANK.
A RECOILING VENGEANCE. 2 vols. 12s.
LIEUTENANT BARNABAS. 3s. 6d.
HIS HELPMATE. 6s.
HONEST DAVIE. 2s.
JOHN FORD. Two vols. 12s.
FOUND GUILTY. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
THE GREAT Hester. Is.
FOLLY MORRISON. 28.

Belgrade, Dalrymple J.

LUCK AT THE DIAMOND FIELDS. 68.

BETllAM-EDWARDiS, M.

THE FLOWER OF DOOM. 28.

BIDDLE-COPE, THE MARQUIS.

MAD. 68.

BLACKBURN E, G, M, Hieland,
I N OPPOSITION. 3 v vols.

blinkhoolie:'

A TORY LORDLING. Three vols. 3l8. 6d.

CAMERON, MRS. H, Loveth.

A LIFE'S MISTAKE. 28.

Carson, S.
LOVE, THE CONQUEROR. Three vols. 31. 6d.

COLLINS, MABEL.
THE Prettiest WOMAN IN WARSAW. 2s.
LORD VANECOURT's Daughter. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

CHOKER, B. M.
DIANA BARRINGTON. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
A BIRD OF PASSAGE. 6s.
PROPER PRIDE. 2s.
PRETTY MISS NEVILLE. 2s.

Neville, J. D.
CANON LUCIFER. 2s

DIEHL, MRS.
FIRE. 2 vols. 21s.

BOWLING, RICHARD.
MIRACLE GOLD. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
THE SKELETON KEY. Is.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. 2s.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. 2s.
TEMPEST DRIVEN. 6s.
FATAL BONDS. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

DOWNEY, EDMUND.
A HOUSE OF TEARS. Is.
IN ONE TOWN. 3s. 6d.
ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. 3s. 6d.

FARJEON, B. L.
MISER FAREBROTHER. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
A SECRET INHERITANCE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
THE TRAGEDY OF FEATHERSTONE. 3s. 6d.
THE SACRED Suggest. 6s.
GREAT PORTER SQUARE. 2s
IN A SILVER SEA. 2s.
THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. 2s.
Grief. 2s.
Polka. Is.

Fern, G. MANVILLE.
THE MAN WITH A SHADOW. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
ONE MAID'S MISCHIEF. 2s.
THIS MAN'S WIFE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. 6s.
IN JEOPARDY. 6s.
DOUBLE CUNNING. 2s.
THE BAG OF DIAMONDS. Is.
THE DARK HOUSE. Is.
EVE AT THE WHEEL. Is.
THE CHAPLAIN'S CRAZE. Is.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. With Numerous Illustrations
by Gordon Browne. 6s.

Kendall, PERCY.
SEX TO THE LAST. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
SPIDERS AND FLIES. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

Fol, MADAME.
THE LAST STAKE. 2s.

FORRESTER, MRS.
AN IMPECUNIOUS LADY. Is.
VIVA. 2s.

FOTHERGILL, CAROLINE.
A VOICE IX THE WILDERNESS. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
AN ENTHUSIAST. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

GlBNEYy SOMERVILLE.
JOHN 0' LONDON : a Story of the Days of Roger Bacon. With

Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald. 6s.
THE NEW RIVER : a Romance of the Days of Hugh Myddel-

ton. 3s. 6d.

GIFT, The.
Il LORIMER. 68.

Glynn, J.
THE FOX AND THE GOOSE : a Story of the Currant of
Kildare. 3s. 6d.

GRANT, JAMES.
LOVE'S LABOUR WON. 3 vols.

GREENWOOD, JAMES.
HANDSOME JACK. 23.

HARRISON, MRS. BURTON.
FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. 6s.

HAUTE, Bred.
SNOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. 28.

HOPKINS, Tight.
FOR FREEDOM. 2 vols. 2l8.

HUDSON, FRANK.
THE LAST HURDLE : A STORY OF SPORTING AND
COURTING. 38. 6 d.

HUGO, VICTOR.
THE OUTLAW OF ICELAND. 28. 6d.

KEENAN, HENRY F.
THE ALIENS. 6s.

KEITH, LESLIE,

THE CHILCOTES. 6s.

UNCLE BOB'S NIECE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

KING, RICHARD ASHE {''BASIL'').
A LEAL LASS. 2 vols. 21s.
A SHADOWED LIFE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
COQUETTE'S CONQUEST. 2s.

LESTER, H. FRANCIS.
Under TWO Fig-trees. 3s. 6d.

LINSKILL, MARY.
EGBERT HOLT'S ILLUSION, and Other Stories. Crown 8vo.
6s.

MAC KAY, CHARLES,
THE TWIN SOUL; OR, THE STRANGE ADVENTURES
OF MR. RAMESES. 2 vols. 21s.

MACQUOID, KATHARINE S.
MRS. Rumble's SECRET. Crown 8vo. 6s.
AT THE RED GLOVE. 6s.
LOUISA. 2s.
SIR JAMES APPLEBY. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

MANN, MRS. Firman.

COWARD AND COQUETTE. 3s. 6d.

MARTIN, MRS. HERBERT.
FROM THE SILENT PAST. 2 vols. 21s.
AMOR Vinci. 2 vols. 21s.

Terrified, FRANK.
MOLLY'S STORY : a Family History. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

MO LLC) Y, J. FITZGERALD.
A MODERN MAGICIAN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
THAT VILLAIN ROMEO. 2s.
WHAT HAST THOU DONE ? 2g

MURRAY, D. CHRISTIE.
A NOVELIST'S NOTE BOOK. 6s.

O'BRIEN, FLTZJAMES.
THE DIAMOND LENS. With a Biographical Sketch of the
Author by William Winter. 3s. 6d.

OLIPHANT, MRS.
OLIVER'S BRIDE. Is.

P ANTON, J. E.
A TANGLED CHAIN. 2 vols. 21s.
LESS THAN KIN. 3s. 6d.

PAXTON, M. W.
WHERE TEMPESTS BLOW. 3s. 6d.
MISS Lester's GIRLS. 3s. 6d.

Pain, JAMES.

A Prince OF THE BLOOD. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

PHILIPS, F. a,

AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. 28.

THE DEAN AND HIS Daughter. 28.

JACK AND THREE Fills. 2s.

A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. 2s.

SOCIAL Vicissitudes. 2s.

Liddell, MRS. J. H.
IDLE TALES. 6s.
MISS GASCOIGNE. 2s.
THE NUN'S CURSE. 6s.

'* Rite."
THE Lady Nancy. 2s.
GRETCHEN. 6g.

ROOSEVELT, BLANCHE,

THE COPPER QUEEN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

RUNCIMAN, JAMES.
THE CHEQUERS : BEING THE NATURAL HISTORY OF
A PUBLIC HOUSE. Crown 8vo. 2s.

SMITH, MRS. J. GREGORY.

Atlas : a Story of the Lost Island. 3s. 6d.

SOLLY, HENRY.
LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

THOMAS, ANNIE.

A REIGNING FAVOURITE. 3s. 6d.

TRL^TRAM, W. Outran.
A STRANGE AFFAIR. 3 vols. 3l8 6d.
COMEDIES FROM A COUNTRY SIDE. 3s. 6d.

Tatler, SARAH.

LOGIE TOWN. 3 vols. 3l8. 6d.

WARDEN, FLORENCE.
A WOMAN'S FACE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

SCHEHERAZADE: A LONDON NIGHT'S Entertainment.
3 vols. 31 8. 6d.
A PRINCE OF DARKNESS. Is.

WEBBER, BYRON.

IN LUCK'S Wavy. 3s. 6d.

Stall, WILLIAM.
Niger FORTESCUE ; OR. THE HUNTED MAN. 5s.
TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. 3s. 6d.
HER TWO MILLIONS. 3 vols. 3l8. 6d.
THE OLD FACTORY. 2s.
RED Lymington. 2s.
RALPH NORBRECK's TRUST. 2g.

WILLS, CHARLES J.
THE PIT TOWN CORONET. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

FOLK LORE.

Harrison, MRS, BURTON.
FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. Crown Svo. With 24
whole-page engravings, by Walter Crane. 6s.

STUART-genie, J,
Greek FOLK SONGS. With an Essay on " The Science of
Folklore." New Edition. 7s. 6d.

WILDE, LADY {'' SPEBANZA").
ANCIENT LEGENDS, MYSTIC CHARMS AND

SUPERSTITIONS OF IRELAND. With a Chapter on the
Ancient Races of Ireland by Sir William Wilde. 6s.

MILITARY.

DOVaLAS, WILLIAM.
DUELLING DAYS IN THE ARMY. Imp. 16mo.

7s. 6d.

KOETTSCHAU, LIEUT. COL.
THE COMING FRANCO-GERMAN WAR. Translated
by John Hill. Large post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

POETRY.

ADAMS, W. Davenport.
SONGS FROM THE NOVELISTS. Foolscap 4to.

Printed in Brown Ink on hand-made Paper. 7s, 6d.

HAMILTON, EDWIN.
THE Moderate MAN, AND OTHER Humorous
POEMS. With numerous illustrations by Hauhy
Fdkniss. 7s. 6d.

MUBBAY, D. Christie.
A BUNCH OF WILDFLOWERS. [In the press.

THEOLOGY.

Arnold, BEY, F.
ROBERTSON OF BRIGHTON. Post 8vo. 9s.

COLLINS, MABEL.
THROUGH THE GATES OF GOLD. A Fragment

of Thought. Foolscap 8 vo. White Cloth. Gilt top. 4s. 6d.
Curtis, George TICKNOB.
CREATION OR EVOLUTION ? Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d.

WELDON, BEV. G. W.
TILLOTSON's SERMONS. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

TRAVEL.

BATES, E. Katharine.
A YEAR IN THE GREAT REPUBLIC. 2 vols.

Crown 8vo. 21s.

Conn, WILLIAM.
JAPANESE LIFE, LOVE, AND LEGEND. From

the Fr each of Maurice Dubard. Crown 8vo. Ts. 6d.

DODD, AXXA Bowman.
CATHEDRAL DAYS : A TOUR THROUGH
Southern ENGLAND. Crown 8vo. With Numerous

Illustrations. 6s.

EiELD, HEX BY D.
OLD AND NEW SPAIN. Large Post 8vo. With

Map. 7s. 6d.

Hairy, IZA Duels.
ORANGES AND ALLIGATORS : Sketches of South

Florida Life. Crown 8vo. Ss.

KEAXE, John E.
THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE.

New Edition. 3s. 6d.
SIX MONTHS ON THE HEJAZ. Crown 8vo. 6s.

MISCELLANEOUS.

FROM KITCHEN TO GARRET. A New Work on
Household Management. By Mrs. Panton. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

GRACE AND FOLLY : Dances AND DANCING.

Illustrated Wrapper. By Edward Scott. Is.

ECCLESIASTICAL ENGLISH. By George Washington
Moon. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

LIVING PARIS : A Guide to the Manners, Monuments,
and Institutions of the People. Foolscap 8vo. With
Maps and Plans. 6s.

TRAVELS In the INTERIOR ; OR, THE

WONDERFUL ADVENTURES OF LUKE AND BELINDA.
Edited by a London Physician. Illustrated by Habit
Furnish. Large Crown 8vo. Gilt top. 6s.
,(:*+ An attempt to teacheth anatomy and physiology of the human
body in a nove and entertaining manner.

COMMON SENSE IN THE NURSERY. By

Marion Garland. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d,
DISHES AND DRINKS ; OR, PHILOSOPHY IN

THE KITCHEN. By G. L. M. Strauss. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo. 28. 6d.

Each Handsomely Bound in Cloth Gilt.

Niger Fortescue; OR, THE HUNTED MAN.

By William Westall. Author of " The Phantom City," &c.

5s.

THE LAND OF THE HIBISCUS BLOSSOM. A

Yarn of the Papuan Gulf. By Hume Nisbet. 6s.

SIX MONTHS IN THE HE Jas. Being the Account

of the Pilgrimages to Mecca and Medina performed by the
Author, disguised as a Mohammedan. By John F. Keane. 6s.

THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE. By

John F. Keane. 6s.

A PRINCE OF THE BLOOD. By James Pain. 6s.

JOHN 0' LONDON : a Story of the Days of Roger

Bacon. By Somerville Gibney. 6s.

THE NEW RIVER : a Story of the Days of Hugh

Myddelton. By Somerville Gibney. 3s. 6d.

THE STORY OF ANTONY GRACE. By G. Manville

Fen. 6S.

ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. Life in the Coasting

Trade. By Edmund Downey. 3s. 6d.

LIEUTENANT BARNABAS. By Frank Barrett.
3s. 6d.

LUCK AT THE DIAMOND FIELDS. By D. J.

Belgrade. 6s.

IN JEOPARDY: STORIES OF PERIL. By G.

Manville Fenn. 6s.

RALPH NORBRECK's TRUST. By William Stall.
2s. 6d.

EVE AT THE WHEEL : A STORY OF THREE

Hundred VIRGINS. By G. Manville Fenn. 2s.

At all Libraries i)i Town and Country.

THE MAN WITH A SHADOW. By G. Manville

Fenn. 3 vols.

THE LAST HURDLE : A STORY OF SPORTING

AND COURTING. By Frank Hudson. 3s. 6d.
DIANA BARRINGTON. By Mrs. Croker. 3 vols.
A LEAL LASS. By Richard Ashe King. 2 vols.

IN OPPOSITION. By Miss Gertrude M. Ireland
Blackburn. 3 vols.

LOVE'S LABOUR WON. By James Grant. 3 vols.
MIRACLE GOLD. By Richard Dowling. 3 vols.

LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER. By Henry
Solly. 3 vols.

A WOMAN'S FACE. By Florence Warden. 3 vols.

IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Riddell. 6s.

FOR FREEDOM. By Tight Hopkins. 2 vols.

MISER FAREBROTHER. ByB. L. Farjeon. 3 vols.

A VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS. By Caroline

FOTHERGILL. 3 VOls.

MARVEL. By the Author of '' Molly Sawn."

A RECOILING VENGEANCE. By Frank Barrett.
2 vols.

SIX SHILLING NOVELS.

*THE NUN'S CURSE. By Mrs. Riddell.

*MRS. Rumble's SECRET. By Mrs. Macquoid.

logie TOWN. By Sarah Tatler.

IDLE TALES. By Mbs. Riddell.

ROBERT HOLT'S ILLUSION. By Mary Linskill.

Gretchen. By Rite.

LUCK AT THE DIAMOND FIELDS. By D. J. Belgrade.

JOHN 0' LONDON. Bv Somerville Gibney.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. By G. Manville Fenn.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.

*AT THE RED GLOVE. By K. S. Macquoid.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. By B. M. Croker.

HIS HELPMATE. Bv Frank Barrett.

*THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G. Manville Fenn.

*IN .JEOPARDY". By G. Manville Fenn.

*THE ALIENS. By Henry F. Keenan.

*AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. By F. C. Philips.

♦ A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. By F. C. Philips.

*A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of " Molly Sawn."

*Il LORIMER. By The. Gift.

*THE SACRED NUGGET. By B. L. Farjeon.

*THE CHILCOTES. By Leslie Keith.

Uniforms bound in red cloth gilt.

THREE-AND-SIXPENNY NOVELS.

THE LAST HURDLE : A STORY OF SPORTING AND

COURTING. By Frank Hudson.
THE FOX AND THE GOOSE : A Story of the Currant of Kildare.
A MODERN CIRCE. By the Author of "Molly Sawn."
"CATCHING A TARTAR. Bv G. W. Appleton.
*THE TRAGEDY OF FEATHERSTONE. Bv By Bel. Farjeon.
passages IN THE LIFE OF A LADY. By Hamilton Aide.
*IN LUCK'S WAY. Bv Baron Webber.
*MISS Lester's GIRLS. Bv M. W. Paxton.

WHERE TEMPESTS BLOW. By M. W. Paxton.
*THE DIAMOND LENS. By Fitzjames O'Brien.
'FROZEN HEARTS. By G. W. Appleton.
*JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. Bv G. W. Appleton.
lieutenant BARNABAS. By Frank Barrett.
*TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. By William Westall.
*THE CONFESSIONS OF A COWARD AND COQUETTE.

By the Author of " The Parish of Hilly."
*IN ONE TOWN. By E. Downey.
anchor WATCH YARNS. By E. Downey.
*Atlas. By Mrs. J. Gregory Smith.
less THAN KIN. By J. E. Panton.
THE NEW RIVER. By Somerville Gibney.
comedies FROM A COUNTRY SIDE. By W. Outran

Tristan.

Uniformly bound in blue cloth gilt.

A LIFE'S MISTAKE. Bv Mrs. H. Lovett Cameron.
ONE M\ID"S MISCHIEF. By G. M. Fenn.
THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. Bv F. M. Allen.
A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of "Molly Bavvn."
HANDSOME JACK. By James Greenwood.
TEMPEST DRIVEN. By Richard Bowling.
A TERRIBLE LEGACY. By G. W. Appleton.
DOUBLE CUNNING. By G. Melville Fenn.
THE DINGY HOUSE AT KENSINGTON.
THE OLD FACTORY. By William Westall.
RED Lymington. By William Westall.
RALPH NORBRECK's TRUST. By William Westall.
THE CHEQUERS. By James Runciman.
CANON LUCIFER. By J. D. Neville.
THAT VILLAIN Romeo. By Fitzgerald Molly.
LOUISA. By K. S. Macquoid.'
THE Lady N\NCYE. By "Rite."
A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. By F. C. Philips.
THE DEAN AND HIS DAUGHTER. By F. C. Philips.
JACK AND THREE Fills. By F. C. Philips.
AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. By F. C. Philips.
SOCIAL VICISSITUDES. By F. C. Philips.
PROPER PRIDE. Bv B. M. Croker.
PRETTY MISS NEVILLE. By B. M. Croker.
MISS GASCOIGNE. By Mrs. Riddell.

A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN. By the Author of " Molly Sawn."
HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. By the Author of " Molly Bau."
A COQUETTE'S CONQUEST. By " Basil."
IN A SILVER SEA. By B. L. Fafjeon.
GREAT PORTER SQUARE. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B. L. Farjeon.
Grief. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE LAST STAKE. Bv Madame Poli.
SNOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. By Bret Harte.
VIVA. By Mrs. Forrester.
FOLLY MORRISON. By Frank Barrett.
THE MYSTERY OF Willard. By R. Dowling.
THE WEIRD SISTERS. By R. Dowling.
HONEST DAVIE. By Frank Barrett.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. Bv R. Dowling.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. By R. Dowling.
MERE Shaking. By J. F. Keane.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By .Mabel
Collins.

THE VOYAGE OF THE ARK. By F. M. Allen.

Author of " Through Green Glasses."
AN IMPECUNIOUS LADY. By Mrs. Forrester.
THE GREAT Hester. By Frank Barrett.
A BAG OF DIAMONDS. By G. M. Fenn.
THE DARK HOUSE. By G. M. Fenn. 3rd Edition.
EVE AT THE WHEEL. By G. M. Fenn.
THE CHAPLAIN'S CRAZE. By G. M. Fenn.
LITTLE Twopenny. By the Author of '' Mehalah."
A HOUSE OF TEARS. By E. Downey. 12th Edition.
LADY Walworth's DIAMONDS. By the Author

of "Phyllis"' Third Edition.

A PRINCE OF DARKNESS. By the Author of

The House on the Marsh." Fifth Edition.
THE SKELETON KEY. By R. Bowling.
Polka. By B. L. Farjeon.
OLIVER'S BRIDE. By Mrs. Oliphant**

A series of " Half-crown Novels " will be issued
shortly by Messrs. Ward & Downey, comprising; works by
the following Authors:— The Author of "Molly Sawn,"
Frantv Barrett, Miss Bentham Edwards, Mrs. Lovett
Cameron, ]\L\bel Collins, Mrs. Croker, J. D. Neville.
Richard Bowling, B. L. Farjeon, G. M. Fenn, Mrs. Forrester,
Bret Harte, Richard Ashe King, Mrs. ]\L\cquoid,
Fitzgerald Molly, F. C. Philips, Mrs. Liddell, " Eta,'
Annie Tho^l\s, William Westall, &c. Each Novel will
be tastefully bound in cloth gilt, and will contain a
frontispiece by some well-known Artist.

^♦^ Messrs. Ward & Downey's Illustrated Catalogue
contains Portraits of the Author of ^^ Mehalah," the Author
of " Molly Bairn," G. W. Appleton, Frank Barrett, Mrs.
Lovett Cameron, Mabel Collins, Mrs. B. M. Croker, Richard
Bowling, B. L. Farjeon, George Manville Fenn, Percy
Fitzgerald, Somerville Gibney, James Grant, Victor Hugo,
Bret Harte, Richard Ashe King {'■'■Basil''''), Mrs. Macquoid,
Fitzgerald Molly, O'Neill Daunt, T. P. O'Connor, John
Augustus O'Shea, Mrs. Panton, James Pain, F. C. Philips,
Balance Roosevelt, George Sand, Florence Warden, William
Westall, hand Harry Furnish.

ii

't^.

,#.

i.

%'■

i-

%.

f**.!*:'

7'-

*fj.

k.i

M'W4^\

•i*"',' ■ »V ,

''I

I

^>*.
