,1



VIA

V JLJ ^Hll

/0

tin J "i

^

r3

Gx

OF Thou
N IVLRS1TY
OF ILLINOIS


W7llo
v. I

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/oldloveisnewnove01wilt

% flobcl.

BY

MAURICE WILTON.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

3C<mbon :

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,
31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

1880.

[All Rights Reserved']

vel

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. A WALK HOME FROM SCHOOL - - I

II. INCHIGEELA - - --24

III. THE O'LEARYS - - - - 44

IV. THE BLIND FIDDLER - - - 7 1
V. GOING TO FIGHT THE FRENCH - - 94

VI. THE Unmans - - - Il

II. TWO KINDS OF REVENGE - - - 135

VIII. ONLY THE DEATH OF A BABY - - 158

IX. MY LADY'S BOWER - - - - 1 75

X. THE BLIND BOY's ' QUID PRO QUO ' - 204

XI. A NEW LOVE FOR AN OLD - - - 2 22

CHAPTER I.

A WALK HOME FROM SCHOOL.

1 Of love and springtime, of happy and gladsome
days.'

1 Master Clavering', faith then will ye stop
talking' to Miss O'O'Moore; pon my word
ye're made me head ache wi' your jabbering


It's just time to talk, Mrs. Brien said
the young urchin addressed ; ' I ought to

VOL. I. I

be going home by now, instead of spending
my time here.'

Faith, then, you're making good use of
it. And who should be best judge of how
the time passes, I'd like to know — you or
I ? It wants ten minutes to twelve. Will
ye be standing up all of you now, if you
plaise, and be saying your multiplication
table ? Master Clavering', say your four-times
table !'

1 I shan't say any more to-day.'

Will ye be rebellion' against your betters,
is it, Master Clavering' ? If ye were two
years younger I'd birch you. Come, now,
begin !'

I shan't, I've done for to-day, and I'm
going home ; come along, Kathleen !'

I dare not, Frank, the mistress will
be after us,' whispered the little girl addressed.


Come along, I tell you ; if you're ever
going to be my wife you'll have to do what
you're told.'

Francis Clavering, the son of Mr. Cecil
Clavering, of Cionmore, an urchin of ten
summers, jumped up upon a bench, took
down his own hat from the pegs, and
another belonging to a girl, seized Kathleen
by the hand, and rushed out from the
schoolroom down the little paved walk to
the gate of the dame's garden and out
into the road.

And will ye come back, then ?' screamed
the angry dame.

Indeed and no was the boy's answer.
1 Come and try to make me or Miss
O'O'Moore come back, and you'll see what
you'll get. My father's always talking
about tyrants, and you're one of them.'

With this, he ran down the road,

1 — 2

dragging his little companion with him,
although her running powers were far inferior
to his own.

They suddenly stopped at the intercession
of the little girl.

I can run no more, Frank she said.
What a wild fellow you are I When you
don't get into a scrape by yourself, you get
me into one with you. I declare it's no
more of you I'll have.'

Indeed and you'll have me all your life,
Kathleen ; you'll marry no one else but
me. I shall be away, perhaps a deal, if I
become a soldier, but I'll think of you.
Come and sit down here under the hedge,
and let us talk a little.'

'And supposing Mrs. Brien comes after
us, what will you say then ?' asked Kathleen.


Say ? I scarcely know ; but she shan't

touch you. Nobody shall ever touch you,
if I am by, Kathleen,' said Francis, so
earnestly, that his little companion of eight
looked straight into his dark hazel eyes
and asked :

1 Do you really mean that, Frank ? Do
you suppose, if you went away for a longtime,
and I saw anyone else very nice, that
I shouldn't like him as well as I do you ?
Of course I should; in fact, I'm not sure
that I don't like Miles Clark as well as I
do you.'

Jf you're certain of that, Kathleen, I'll
go and fight him now. No one shall ever
take you away from me. Listen to me a
bit, will you, instead of trimming your hat
with those wild flowers ? I really love
you, I do, Kathleen, and when I'm a man
I'll marry you. Will you wait for me ?'

1 I'll see,' answered the little coquette,

taking up her hat and running at full speed
down the road, and looking back roguishly
now and then to see if her youthful lover
was following her.

But the boy sat still, a sorrowful look
came into his bright eyes, and with one
hand he pulled away at the grass which
grew on the bank where he was sitting.
Presently the little girl stole back beside
him and said :

1 Frank, why are you sad ?'

Because you make me so ; you never
listen to me when I talk sense, only when
I tell you some story or other about people
that never lived,' said Frank petulantly.

Well, tell me a story now, and I won't
run away, Frank !' said Kathleen coaxingly.


Kathleen O'O'Moore was the only daughter
of Sir Patrick O'O'Moore, whose estate ran

side by side with that of Mr. Cecil Clavering.
Her mother had died in her infancy,
and she was the only child.

Sir Patrick was a great sporting man,
and also took an interest in farming, so,
although he was a most affectionate father,
and loved his little child with all the capabilities
of his rough, warm heart, yet he
left her to the care of his housekeeper, and
to the education of the village schoolmistress.
She was growing up like a
lovely wild-flower, was very precocious,
and her constant companion was Francis
Clavering, the only son of her father's
friend and neighbour.

She had sunny-bright hair, light-blue
eyes, and a face of perfect proportions,
and would grow up, as her father used to
say sorrowfully, 'just like her own poor
mother.' Though only eight years old,

she was a coquette ; Francis was devoted
to her; she would share his adventures,
and was ready for any amount of frolic and
fun ; but when he talked of love, she always
laughed at him and made him angry by
mentioning, as a rival, Miles Clark, the son
of the bailiff of a neighbouring estate,
whom Francis characterised as a low-born
fellow, and beneath a real lady's notice.

Francis Clavering had an honest, brave
young face, his dark eyes told of truthfulness,
and a general expression of frankness
captivated all who saw him.

But to return to the young couple's conversation.


1 What sort of a story would you care
for, Kathleen ?'

Well, it's not to be like the one you told
me of yesterday, Frank. That was too
plain — it was meant for you and for me.

I want something quite different. Now goon,
it's time for me to be home now.'

Oh ! you're in no hurry to-day, Kathleen
; your father is out somewhere.'

'Just the reason indeed why I must
hurry. If he were at home, Mrs. Rouse
would just say nothing ; but when he's out
she carries on like "gemini !" '

What's that, Kathleen ?'

1 Papa says it ; I don't know what it
means, but I suppose it must be some wild
animal,' said the young lady, venturing an
opinion.

1 And why a wild animal, Kathleen ?'

Because I've heard him say it of Mrs.
Rouse, Frank. But go on with your
story !'

1 Well, once upon a time,' began Frank.

1 How long ago ?' interposed the audience.


Ten years, perhaps said Frank.
Not long enough, Frank.'

1 Twenty years ago,' — a shake of the head
' thirty — forty — fifty — a hundred !' Each
suggestion was met by a shake of the head.

In the time of Adam ?' asked the storyteller.


No, because it would have to be about
him and Eve, and I'm tired of that ; besides,
I don't believe it.'

Oh, Kathleen !' exclaimed Frank, quite
shocked at her impiety, ' it's in the Bible !'

May be it is, but still I never think it
true that people had nothing to wear,
Frank.'

1 Why not, Kathleen ?'

1 Because it would have been so cold.'

But it was hot then,' said Frank.

How do you know ?' asked the irrepressible
one.

1 I don't know, but I suppose so, Kathleen.'


1 Well, that's too far back. Say Queen
Elizabeth's time, Frank 1'

Very well, Kathleen. Once upon a
time, when Queen Elizabeth lived '

When was that, Frank ?'

I don't know ; long ago. There were
two boys and a girl '

Now you're sure it wasn't you and
Miles Clark and me ?'

How could it be, Kathleen, so long
ago?'

1 Oh, of course not ! I forgot, Frank.'

One was a gentleman's son, and the
other a low-born fellow that no real lady
would look at '

But the bailiff's son wasn't alive then,
Frank !'

I didn't say that he was, Kathleen !

There are other people like that besides
him. Well, the gentleman grew up, and
so did the low-born '

Francis stopped, as he saw that Kathleen
was going to interpose again, so he said —

No, I didn't mean that — and so did the
other who wasn't a gentleman. The one
that was a gentleman became a soldier and
went away to fight, but he loved the girl
at home all the same — ?'

■ What was her name, Frank ?'

Don't interrupt so often, Kathleen — her
name was — was — Hath — no, no — Bridget.'

1 And was she like Biddy, the dairymaid
? Why did he love her, Frank, with
such red arms and '

1 Of course she was beautiful, Kathleen ;
there can be a beautiful Bridget.'

Can there ?' asked little Kathleen
dubiously.

1 This one, at all events, was lovely —
like you, Kathleen,' said Francis, as he
could think of no one more lovely. ' Well,
the soldier fought bravely and became a
great man, but he never forgot Hath —
Bridget, I mean ; he kept her always in his
pocket '

But you said that she was at home,
Frank !'

1 Yes, yes ! but this was a picture, like
the one your papa always keeps in his
pocket, in the old red case with the little
piece of hair inside

I know, Frank ; he makes me kiss it
every night.'

Does he, Kathleen ?'

1 Yes, Frank ; but you mustn't tell anyone.
Papa said that I mustn't tell Mrs.
Rouse, because she would say he was an
old fool.'

Is your papa afraid of Mrs. Rouse,
Kathleen ?'

No, of course not ; but go on with your
story, Frank !'

1 Well, at last he was allowed to come
home, because the war was over ; and so
he came back and found that Bridget had
married the bailiff's '

'Who, Frank?'

No, I mean the other that wasn't a
gentleman, who had made himself very
rich ; and Bridget had forgotten all about
the poor soldier, although she said that
she never would forget him, and because
the other man, who wasn't a gentleman,
had given her some beautiful presents.'


What were they like ?' asked the little
minx, with avaricious eyes.

There was a diamond bracelet, and a

horse, and a new silk dress, and lots of
other things.'

Nothing to eat, Frank I* insinuated the
little Kathleen.

1 Yes, all sorts of cakes and goodies
replied Frank.

Of course she married him ; except, I
suppose, that if the soldier brought nicer
things she'd afterwards be sorry. What
did he bring, Frank ?'

His arm was in a sling, and he had a
lot of medals, like papa, and just enough
money to marry.'

1 Then of course she wasn't sorry that
she'd married Miles Clark, Frank ?'

1 Who ?' asked Francis, in alarm.

I mean the other who wasn't a gentleman,'
said Kathleen, trying to recover herself.


Yes, she was sorry, Kathleen, because

after she married she was very unhappy,
and when the soldier came home, and
showed her the old red case that all the
velvet was kissed off, she cried.'

1 Then did she marry him, too, Frank ?'
No, Kathleen ; she couldn't have two
husbands

'What a pity, Frank! What did she
do?'

She cried, and cried, and cried, until
she broke her heart.'

And what did he do, Frank ?' asked
Kathleen, with a disappointed look.

He did the same, Kathleen.'
1 And what then, Frank ?'

1 They both died, and they put them into

the churchyard.'

But why did it end so sad, Frank ?'
Because Bridget didn't wait for the

soldier, Kathleen.'

1 And if she had waited, Frank ?'
'They would have lived happily. Do
you like that story, Kathleen ?'

Not a bit, Frank ! I think it is very
stupid. If I had been Bridget, I wouldn't
have died, because I should have been
happy enough with Miles Clark.'

But I didn't say Miles Clark,' urged
Francis ; f besides, you wouldn't marry
him!'

1 You meant him, I know, Frank, and I
think I shall marry him.' And off ran
Kathleen again ; but this time Francis
followed her, calling out —

'You shan't! I'll kill him if you
do!'

Kathleen ran until she came to the gateway
that led into the grounds of her father's
house.

1 Good-bye, Frank,' she said.

VOL. I. 2

1 Good-bye, Kathleen. Will you not
kiss me ?'

1 Not to-day, Frank.'

Why not ?' asked Frank sorrowfully.


1 Because I don't want to, Frank.'
Francis walked on with a sense of injury.
Presently he heard a voice calling
out —

If you want a kiss, come back and take
one.'

So he went back and took his coveted
reward.

All this chanced in the springtime, in the
days of early love — ' days that were always
fair.' There was no shadow to cloud the
sky, grief was unknown, and the tiny
troubles that came were soon ended, like
April showers, and served to make the
sunshine that followed more sweet. The

tender leaves of hope were already put
forth in the heart of little Frank, and the
frost of Kathleen's miniature coquetry-did
not nip them, but served rather to
strengthen their growth, and to root more
deeply still in the boy's heart the determination
to make his little neighbour and
playmate the companion of his life. Childlike
as was the fancy, it was yet serious to
him ; day by day he grew more jealous
of any attention shown to Kathleen by
another; she was his by right, as he
thought, and he would brook no rival in
the field. She was an angel in his child's
eyes — her beauty was perfect, and oft-times,
when he called with his father upon Sir
Patrick O'O'Moore, he would stand as if
spell-bound when she appeared in some
pretty little toilette of quaint brocade or
satin, made up for her by the housekeeper

2 — 2

from the wardrobes of her mother and
grandmother.

The parents only watched their games
as those of children, until at length Francis
was sent to school in a neighbouring town,
and Kathleen's freedom was very considerably
curtailed by the introduction of a
governess into Sir Patrick's house, who
with a firm hand and a firmer will restrained
Miss O'O'Moore's wildness, and gradually
changed the romping little school-girl into
a well-mannered young lady. Mrs. Rouse
even acknowledged the change for the
better, in spite of the declaration she made
when the governess entered the house,
to the effect that ' interlopers never did
any good for themselves or for anyone
else.'

Every time that Frank came home for
the holidays, Kathleen seemed to be further

out of his reach. When she used to
run away from him along the roads he
felt like a boy chasing a butterfly ; but
now it was almost like looking up at a
skylark and trying to reach it with his
hand.

When the time came, Frank was sent
to Dublin, to the university, and Kathleen's
education was considered ' finished.' Sir
Patrick O' Moore, however, had further
work for the governess, for in spite of Mrs.
Rouse's prophecy, already mentioned, he
asked her to become Lady O'O'Moore, and
she consented ; so that when Francis returned
from his first vacation he found
Kathleen with a stepmother.

Lady O'O'Moore pointed out to her husband
that it was quite time to be finding a
suitor for his daughter. Sir Patrick suggested
Frank Clavering as one who

seemed devoted to her. This, however,
did not chime in with the governess's ideas ;
she had married a baronet herself, would
probably become a baronet's mother, but
was not yet content. She had a younger
brother, considered by all to be a very
handsome fellow ; true, he was only struggling
into existence as a barrister in Dublin ;
but at the same time she believed that her
influence over Sir Patrick, and the tendency
she noticed in her stepdaughter to obey
her father, even were Kathleen not to
admire the man chosen for her, would accomplish
her little scheme. It was only
natural that Lady O' Moore should wish to
serve her own flesh and blood rather than
her husband's; so that Francis Clavering
soon found to his cost, though not to his
surprise, that he had an enemy, and not a
friend, in Kathleen's stepmother. He still

cherished the idea of making Kathleen his
wife : it formed part of his existence, and
he never dreamed of anything but success.


CHAPTER II.

INCHIGEELA.

Is she kind as she is fair ?'

Sir Patrick O'O'Moore's property was
close to the village of Inchigeela, in which
Mistress Brien had kept the little school
until she slept with her forefathers, which
she had been doing for some three years
at the time of which we now write.

The road to Inchigeela, from Crooks-town,
affords much beautiful scenery — here
a valley richly covered with firs of all
shades, with laurels and lilacs; again a
gentle hill to ascend, and a rustic bridge to

cross ; then the country takes a wilder
aspect : the mountains of Kerry, Killarney,
and Denmark rise grandly in the distance,
while nearer still are those of Gouge,
Barra and Sheeted, until, descending a hill,
you find yourself in a bleak valley covered
with deeply-bedded turf for a long distance.
This left behind, you come upon the castle
of Drumcarragh, the stronghold of O'Leary;
further on, to Boyle's Bridge, o'ergrown
with ivy, and spanning with its picturesque
arches the winding and silver Lee ; then on
again, into a wilder country, until you descend
a hill and enter the little village of
Inchigeela. After quitting this, you come
upon three lakes, into which the river expands
itself — lakes which present the most
animated scenery, dotted over with islets,
each of them looking like an enchanted
spot.

Sir Patrick's house overlooked these
lakes ; his property was very extensive,
was in a high state of cultivation, and
every available plot of ground had been
reduced to tillage; his father had been a
careful farmer, had always lived upon his
estate, and never entrusted the care of it to
rascally agents and their system of pillage.

Mr. Clavering, on the other hand, was
only just redeeming his property, which
was much smaller than that of his more
wealthy neighbour. His father had lived
in England, had been what was called an
absentee,' and had given the collection of
rents from tenants and the supervision and
management of his Irish estates into the
hands of a cunning and dishonest agent.
The late Mr. Cecil Clavering had reports
from time to time of the impossibility of
making his tenants pay their rents, while

in reality they were being collected and
pocketed by his trusted bailiff.

At length he wrote to say that he would
come and look after his property for himself;
to this he received a letter, begging
him to do nothing of the kind, because if
he did he would certainly be shot by one
of his discontented tenants. Then he
wrote again to say that he must have
money, that he could not live upon air ;
whereupon his saving agent drew ten thousand
pounds from his own banker, sent it
to his master as a loan, and, as security,
mortgaged Clonmore to that amount. This
system of pillage had been carried on successfully
until the death of the late owner,
when his son, who suspected that something
must be wrong, came over to Ireland,
took the reins into his own hands, ejected
the unfaithful servant, and set about retrieving

the property which had been impaired
by him.

Frank Clavering's education was
finished ; he had taken his degree at the
university, and his father was about to buy
him a commission in the army. He was
spending some little time at home, and
frequent were the walks and excursions he
took along with Kathleen, in spite of her
step-mother's invariably preaching about
the propriety of a ' chaperone.'

Sir Patrick laughed at the idea : they
were at school together, he said, had grownup
like brother and sister, and he would as
soon trust his daughter to Frank's care
as to any one else's. To this he always
received a gentle reminder that the young
people were now of a marrying age, that
it had been resolved, in those many ' curtain
' lectures to which Sir Patrick had to

submit, that Kathleen was to do better
than marry Frank Clavering ; and, in
order to bring this about, were they not
going to spend the coming winter in
Dublin ? However, about this time Lady
O'O'Moore presented her husband with a
son, and through necessity on her part, and
through joy on the old baronet's part,
Francis and Kathleen were left to one
another's society as much as they liked,
and without comment.

They took rides, drives, and excursions
on the lakes, Frank doing all with seriousness
of purpose, and with a firm resolve at
heart ; Kathleen laughing at him when he
spoke of love, enjoying the pleasure of
being with her old schoolfellow and playmate
very much in the spirit of long
ago.

It was late in September that Francis

one evening pushed off his boat from the
shore of one of the lakes. Kathleen was
sitting in the stern of it. The sun had
gone down behind the hills, but the bright
coloured clouds were reflected in the water,
and the rushes seemed to grow from a rainbow
of colour. The birds flew low above
the water, one of them now and then
brushing it with its wings ; the water
rippled about the prow of the boat, and
Kathleen's hand, over the side of the little
vessel, made waves as she went along,
gently propelled by Frank's strong arms.
At length they reached one of the little
islets, on which was a broad sward of grass,
with two or three trees growing, now rich
in autumn tints, while beneath them the
ground was thickly strewn with golden
and rosy relics of the trees' summer
beauty.

Shall we get out, Kathleen ?' asked
Frank, as the side of the boat grazed the
islet.

No, Frank ; we will sit where we are.
Those are the very first words you have
spoken this evening. Have you been
dreaming ?'

Yes,' said Frank, smiling, ' of you.'

• Well, then, please don't do it again ; I
don't care to come all this way without
speaking a word,' said Kathleen. ' But
what have you been dreaming about,
Frank ? About me, you say ; but what
about me ?

I Why, I can't make you out exactly,
Kathleen ! I soon form my opinion of
most people, but I've known you now since
I began to exist, and I don't know yet if
you care for me.'

I I have told you again and again that I

do care for you — what more do you want,
Frank ?'

1 Yes, you have said it, I know ; but have
you meant it, or have you only said so just
to please me ?' asked Frank earnestly.

Kathleen laughed softly, and half whispered
—

I have said it to please you.'

Will you be serious for a few minutes ?'
pleaded Frank.

Certainly, sir replied Kathleen, smiling.

'Well, Kathleen, when we were children
we used to talk about getting married

1 We were foolish then, Frank.'

1 But if we talk about it now, we are not
foolish, Kathleen.'

But I do not mean to talk about it,
Frank. I have not made up my mind to
get married; I am perfectly happy as I
am, and I do not want to give up my freedom

yet. If you ask me to marry you, I
will say " no," and if anyone else asks me
to marry him, I shall give him the same
little answer.'

Then I may hope, Kathleen ?' urged
Frank.

It is better to live just as we are — I like
you and you like me, and I should be afraid
to say that you may hope, for fear that you
should be disappointed.'

How do you mean, Kathleen ?'

Why, I mean this, that I certainly do
not love you, if love is what I have read
about and heard of. When I am not with
you, you are out of my head ; I have never
had a sleepless night on your account, and
if you went away, I shouldn't be nervous
about you ; I shouldn't watch impatiently
for the postman ; I should miss our walks
and drives and rows on the lake ; I might

vol. 1. 3

feel a little dull until some one else came
to stay with us or near us, but then I daresay
I should forget all about you.'

Don't talk like that, Kathleen — you'll
drive me wild if you do.'

1 You bring it on yourself, my friend
she said saucily.

You will see, Kathleen, that I will
never marry anyone but you ; I said it
when I was a little boy, I say it now, and
I'll keep to it. If I don't marry you it
will be your fault, and you will make me
wretched for the rest of my life

We shall see,' answered Kathleen,
laughing ; * there is no fear of your being
that. When you go away you will see
some one to say all the pretty things to
that you have said to me ; I cannot fancy
your breaking your heart over me, Mr.
Frank Clavering. But don't let us sit here

any longer ; it's getting cold, and mamma
is fidgeting by this time.'

Not about you, Kathleen said Frank,
taking off his coat again and putting his
hands to the oars, ' but about the propriety
of your being out alone with me ; with
anyone but me it would not matter. I am
no favourite with Lady O' Moore, I can
see.'

I don't believe that, Frank ! Why
should she dislike you ?'

Because she is afraid that you will
marry me, and she doesn't want that,
Kathleen.'

What does she want, Frank ?' asked
his fair companion, laughing provokingly.

1 She wants you to marry some one else,
of course. I can see through her little
schemes,' said Frank sagaciously.

1 I cannot see, Frank, that you have any

3—2

reason for supposing that. It can make
no difference to Lady O'O'Moore whom I
marry

4 Not to her, perhaps, Kathleen, but certainly
it might make a great difference to
some member of her family — some wretched
half-paid barrister or clerk, or something of
that sort.'

And do you suppose that I should
listen to what she had to say on the subject,
Frank ?'

1 Well, it depends on what sort of a
fellow he is ; if he's an old grizzly man,
probably not; but if he should happen
to be a fine handsome young fellow, why

then '

I should say " no " to him, Frank. I
don't mean to be married, so now let the
subject be dropped.'

You could settle it, Kathleen, forever,

if you would say " yes " tome.'


1 Well, I won't say " yes M to anyone,
not yet at all events. But here we are
coming to the shore, so back-water a bit,
Frank, or we shall come with a dreadful
bump ; you've been rowing quite fast for
two or three minutes.'

Frank did as he was told, and presently
handed Kathleen out on the bank. They
walked towards her father's house in
silence. At length she said :

'Are you coming in to-night, Frank, to
supper V

No thank you, Kathleen, I shall go
straight home when I've seen you into your
house.'

4 Why won't you come, Frank ?'

1 Because I want to talk with my father,'
said Frank sadly.

Nonsense, Frank, you can do that tomorrow.
I ask you to come

1 No, no, not to-night ; my father will be
lonely. He doesn't see too much of me
now that I am at home, and I shall be off
again soon.'

Where are you going, Frank ?'

To join my regiment, Kathleen.'

Why, but the commission isn't bought
yet,' said Kathleen.

1 My father bought it a fortnight ago,
and I am going to join the seth, Kathleen.
But here is your gate, and I will say goodnight'


Good-night, Frank,' said Kathleen,
almost sorrowfully. ' I'm sorry you're
going away so soon. I shall miss you.'

Will you really ?' asked Frank
earnestly, taking both hands in his own
and looking full into her face ; ' then why

not make me happy before I go and say
-yes"?'

Kathleen shook her head.

■ Not yet, at any rate, Frank ; perhaps
when you come back. Good-night ; we
shall see.'

And she went through the gate, up
between the tall arbutus hedges, until she
was lost to sight. Frank stood looking
after her until she had disappeared, and
then walked away towards his father's
house.

He reached Clonmore in a few minutes,
turned in at the gate, but instead of walking
up the gravel path he crossed a broad
lawn, which ran up to the foot of a terrace,
on which opened the library windows.
He felt certain that he would find his
father there, as Mr. Clavering usually
spent an hour before supper in looking

over accounts and balancing his exchequer.
As Frank approached the terrace he saw
that the centre library-window was open,
and as he drew nearer he perceived the
figure of a man, which every now and then
came between him and the light. The
figure he could see was dressed in tattered
clothes, and he wondered at its being thereat
such an hour. Frank crept cautiously
up the terrace-steps, and as he approached
he saw that the figure held something in
his hand. That something was presently
raised, pointed in at the window ; it was a
pistol.

Francis rushed upon the man, threw up
the arm that was taking aim, and the
bullet intended for his father's head pierced
the library ceiling. Mr. Clavering started
up from his table in affright, at hearing the
report and the scuffle going on outside the

window ; he advanced quickly and found
his son engaged in a wrestle with a strong
ruffianly-looking man. He tried to interfere,
when science got the better of brute-force,
and the would-be murderer lay
stretched upon his back. Frank's hands
were firmly pressed upon the man's throat,
and his knee upon his chest.

Meantime the alarm was given, and
several servants entered upon the scene ;
the man was bound hand and foot, was
removed to an outhouse, and placed under
the guardianship of a couple of dogs until
the next morning, when he was to be taken
before a magistrate and handed over to
the constable to be lodged in the county
gaol for trial.

1 That 'was a narrow escape for me, my
boy,' said Mr. Clavering, as he sat down to
supper with his son ; ' but for you and for

your coming up as you did, I should have
been a dead man now ; you've saved your
father's life, Frank.'

Easily enough, father ; but it is a great
wonder that I arrived so opportunely ;
Kathleen was very anxious for me to stay
to supper.'

Then it is a wonder, Frank, that you
came when you did,' said his father,
smiling.

Frank joined in the smile, but he felt
heavy at heart.

I wonder what grudge that ruffian owes
you, father he said, by way of turning the
conversation.

It is hard to say, Frank. Some
grievance real or imaginary, I suppose.
You see I'm a magistrate as well as a landlord.'


Well, I hope he'll be severely punished,'

said Frank ; ( the ruffian deserves
it.'

I'm afraid that doing so won't rid us of
enemies like him ; the mischief was done
in my father's time ; and where you get
rid of one of them, another dozen rise in
his place.'

But you are fair enough with all your
tenants,' urged Frank.

May be so, my boy ; but I may have
punished some relation or friend of that
fellow's from the bench, and he tried to
pay me off for that.'

No more was said ; Frank took a lookin
at the prisoner before he went to bed,
and found him lying fast asleep upon a
litter of straw.

CHAPTER III.

THE o'lEARYS.

1 Altogether directed by an Irishman.'

Sir Patrick 0' Moore soon heard of the
attempt made upon his neighbour's life,
and paid a visit to Clonmore early the next
morning.

1 Well, Clavering, my boy he said
cheerily, ' not dead yet ! I congratulate
you on your escape

I have to thank my own son for it,
O'O'Moore.'

Nov what do you suppose induced
that ruffian to try and kill you, you're

a gentle enough landlord, eh ?' asked Sir
Patrick.

Yes, but you see that hasn't all to do
with it ; perhaps I'm being visited for the
rogueries of my father's agent, or perhaps
I've committed some friend or relation of
his for trial ; there's no saying with such a
ruffian as this, how long the idea of
revenge has been in the family, or how
little he himself has to do with the
grievance, or supposed wrong done. —
Would you like to see him ?' asked Mr.
Clavering. ' What will you do ?'

1 To be sure, my boy, I'll commit him for
trial on the spot ; let Frank make his
deposition before me, I'll make out the
warrant, and the constable shall £0 off with
him to the county gaol at once.'

Mr. Clavering ordered the prisoner to
be brought in to the library by two stout

servants, to have his legs untied, but his
arms left pinioned. Frank was also summoned,


The prisoner was brought in ; he was
a finely built man, with a sullen cast of
countenance, and a determined look.

Frank made his deposition, and Sir
Patrick then addressed the prisoner.

What is your name ?' he asked.

O'Leary,' was the sullen reply.

Can you prove an alibi 7 asked Sir
Patrick.

I don't know about that, I tried to
shoot Mr. Clavering and I didn't manage
it, and anyhow I'm sorry that I didn't,'
said the prisoner.

And what has Mr. Clavering done to
you, O'Leary ?'

Maybe he's done nothing' to me himself,
but his father turned my father out of his

cabin, and there are all my little ones
starving' at home with not even a potato
for the pig ; and I can't stand it, it's the
Clavering , coin', an' one of them shall
suffer for it, that's all.'

Mr. Clavering's agent may have behaved
badly to your father, O'Leary, but
what has that to do with Mr. Clavering or
the fact of your children being in want of
food ? Why didn't you come to your
landlord, one of the best in the county,
and ask for assistance ?'

An' d'ye suppose, Sir Patrick O' Moore,
that Mr. Clavering's agent acted without
his master's orders, an' it's like fatherlike
son ? It almost chokes me to see
them children o' mine, and the missus too,
with ne'er a bit to eat nor drink. " Go to
Mr. Claverin'," says she, "an' ask him to
help you 1" " I'd as soon go to the civil, '

says I, "as ask that proud man for a dry
crust o' bread." An' then I went out an' I
took my pistol with me, and I crawled upto
those very windows and looked in an'
saw how well off the landlords are, and
how their tenantry may starve under their
.very eyes, an' I said, " No more oppression
for me !" an' you know the rest

Well, O'Leary, I'm sorry that you took
such foolish measures ; thank God, you
were not a murderer, but you've done
yourself more harm than good ; as a
magistrate I commit you for trial, and until
you are tried, you must go to the county
gaol. You're likely to get a stiff sentence,
there's been too much of this sort of thing
lately.'

And who's to work for the missus and
the little uns, Sir Patrick ?'

You should have thought of that

before O'Leary, you have wronged them,
and done yourself no good. But here is
the constable,' said Sir Patrick, as a man
entered the room, ' I hand you over to
him to be conveyed to the gaol.'

May I not go an' say good-bye to my
missus ?' asked the prisoner.

c No, O'Leary, I can't allow it ; you have
yourself to thank for all this,' and Sir
Patrick signed to the attendants to remove
the prisoner. As the man went out, he
cast back a look of defiance and hatred
at Mr. Clavering and his son, but said
nothing.

'What a fool that fellow is!' said Sir
Patrick thoughtfully. ' What in the name
of fate did he think to get for himself by
killing you ?'

1 Those people don't reason, O'O'Moore,'
answered Mr. Clavering ; ' I suppose the

vol. i. 4

poor fellow doesn't reason at all. He had
a motive for anger, and he acted upon
impulse.'

1 And the whisky-bottles interposed Sir
Patrick, laughing ; ' you'll find that he's
brought all this misery on himself; and
though that rascal of an agent of your
father's may have done his family some
injury, I don't see what it has to do
with the fact of his own children starving.
Bless me, these people do nurse up their
revenge from one generation to another ;
there's no fine feeling in it at all, and so
sure as one fellow tries to do what this
fellow did, there are others to follow his
example.'

Yes ; I suppose if this fellow gets a
severe sentence the whole O'Leary clan
will be insulted, and you and I shall get
into their bad books, O'O'Moore.'

1 We'll hope not, but we must be careful,
Clavering. Do you know whereabouts
this fellow's cabin is — you might take a
look at his wife and children ?'

Yes, I have an idea ; but as for their
starving, I never heard anything of that
before. I suppose the fellow spends all his
earnings on whisky, and I dare say the
poor wife and children suffer accordingly
doubtless she is a kind-hearted good soul,
and will be shocked to hear of this affair.'

1 What a brute a man is to make his
wife suffer !' said the kind-hearted old
baronet. ' I never can refuse a bee^ar
when it's a woman ; a man can generally
shift for himself. Well, Frank, my boy,'
he said, turning to young Clavering,
Kathleen tells me you're going to join
your regiment ! How soon are you
going ?'

In another week, Sir Patrick,' said
Frank.

He will find it hard to leave Kathleen,
I suspect said Mr. Clavering, winking at
the baronet. ' When are you going to
propose to her, Frank ?'

1 I have proposed to her, father,' he
answered, colouring to the roots of his
hair.

1 What's that ?' asked the baronet, in
surprise. 4 She never told me a word of
this.'

1 Probably not, sir,' said Frank ; ' she
refused my offer.'

1 Is that true, Frank ?' asked his father,
I shouldn't have thought it possible. I
always looked upon it as an understood
thing that you should marry Kathleen.
What do you say, O'O'Moore ?'

1 I hardly know what to say,' said the

baronet, quite disconcerted, and remembering
his wife's expressed opinion on the
subject ; ' when a girl says " no n I am sure
her father oughtn't to tell her to say " yes,"
however much he may wish her to marry
a man. Never mind, Frank ; there are
more ladies in the world looking out for
husbands than those who have them

They are nothing to me, sir,' said
Frank, earnestly. ' I have told Kathleen
that if she does not marry me no one else
shall.'

Ah ! my boy,' said Sir Patrick, rising
to go, and clapping Frank upon the
shoulder, ' we all have said that ; if
Kathleen sticks to her " no," you will find
some one else — she's only a first love ;
you'll forget her !'

1 She is my first, and shall be my last
love, Sir Patrick,' said Frank, warmly.

We shall see, my boy, we shall see. I
must be off now. Come and say good-bye
to me before you go ! I hope you'll make
as good a soldier as your father did, Frank,
and always escape being shot, as he did
last night. Good-bye, Clavering ; go and
see Mrs. O'Leary, and try to still troubled
waters ; there's nothing like the oil and
feather, believe me.'

1 For cleaning pistols, do you mean ?'
asked Mr. Clavering, smiling.

1 No, for keeping them away ; but still,
I needn't preach to you about that ; take
care of your head, Clavering, that's all —
your son may not always be near you,'
and the baronet said farewell.

1 moore doesn't seem to mind much
whether you marry Kathleen or not,
Frank said Mr. Clavering. ' He used to
talk of it to me as a certainty.'

That is his wife's doing,' said his son ;
4 the governess has little schemes of her
own, I am certain of it.'

Perhaps so, Frank ; he and she and
Kathleen are going to spend the winter
in Dublin, a thing Sir Patrick never did
before. His second wife seems to have
him under her thumb. But come with
me, Frank, to O'Leary's cabin; if his
wife is in real distress we must relieve her.
I am not sure that I know where it is, so
I'll just ring the bell and ask Murphy ; he
knows every rabbit-hole, and every rabbit
beloncnn^ to it, for miles round.'

Murphy was a sort of general ' factotum,'
half-keeper, half-stableman. He appeared
at the door in a few minutes ; his face
was exceedingly good - humoured and
broad, and he had a head of shock red
hair, a lock of which orrew over his

forehead, which he pulled by way of salutation.


Plaise did yer 'oner want me ?' he asked.

Yes, Murphy. Tell me where does
O'Leary live ?' said Mr. Clavering.

Does yer oner plaise to main the one
as lives close by, or the one as lives not
very far off, or the one that lives maybe a
stone's throw from the stable

1 The one that tried to shoot me last
night,' said Mr. Clavering.

Ah, thin, yer 'oner, sure it's none of
them. For that blackguard lives maybe
two miles from this, and drinks enough
whisky to flood the country, and his wife,
a decent soul, into the bargain said
Murphy, indignantly.

And how much do you drink, Murphy?'
asked Frank, smiling.

1 Maybe a couple o' thimblefuls a day,

Misther Frank, just enough to keep the
life in me. And it's never me ye saw the
worse for the crater.'

1 Well, that will do, Murphy,' said Mr.
Clavering, seeing that the man was inclined
to indulge his fancy for talking ; ' where
does this O'Leary live ?'

His name, sur, is Mike, and he lives
on the road towards Ballingeary, nigh halfway
there ; not on the road, it's true —
there's a lane turns off to the right, just
as you get to the other side of the cross ;
turn down that — it's a bleak barren sort of
a place — but the first cabin as you come
to on the left is Mike's.'

Mr. Clavering and his son took the
course Murphy had given them along the
beautiful road, by the side of the lakes,
which winds round the northern margin of
the shore. Then they quitted the lakes,

entered a lonely valley encompassed by
mountains, followed the road towards
Ballingeary, until they came to the cross
that Murphy spoke of, when they turned to
the left down what he had called a lane, but
what was in reality nothing but a deep rut,
and in winter time was a slough of despond.

This property can't be of much use to
you, father,' said Frank, as he picked his
way along the rut.

6 Plenty of turf, Frank, but that is all.
This must be the fellow's cottage ; at any
rate, it's the first on the left. What a
horrible place ! These people do live in
holes, and seem to love dirt.'

O'Leary's hut was certainly a wretched
place to look at from the outside ; there
was a hole in the roof, and the cabin
looked more like a pigsty than a human
habitation. The door was shut, and Mr.

Clavering knocked with his stick. It was
opened by a woman miserably clad ; her
feet were hopeless and stockingless ; her
face was wan and pale, but in spite of that
there was beauty there,, and an echo of one
time loveliness lurked in the depths of her
soft Irish eyes, and in the abundance of
her dark hair. She dropped a curtsey, and
addressed a few words to her children to
quiet them.

Are you Mrs. O'Leary ?' asked Mr.
Clavering, kindly.

1 1 am, sur,' she said, sadly.

'Well, I am Mr. Clavering, your landlord.'

1 And is yer 'oner come to turn me out ;
sure, I trust ye will have a little mercy.
The children and me have had nothing' to
eat to-day, and Mike's been out since the
night afore last, and I don't know what's
become of him.'

1 have not come to turn you out, Mrs.
O'Leary, I want to talk with you. I
have no idea of turning you out ; I will
send some one to mend the place for
you.'

Faith, thin, yer 'oner, ye needn't take
the trouble ; it does mighty fine for us, if
you'll just allow us to stay here and could
get a bit of work for Mike,' pleaded the
poor woman.

1 If there is anyone you can send up to
the house — one of the children, perhaps —
I'll send you down something to eat said
Mr. Clavering, looking over to a corner of
the cabin, where the pig and the children
were huddled together.

Yes, sur, I can send Biddy, an' thank
you, for I'm nigh fit to drop myself!'

Here are five shillings for you, Mrs.
O'Leary, and if you will send up to the

house every morning there are always
plenty of pieces that you can have.'

Indeed, yer 'oner, an' I'm much
obliged; I've all along been wanting to send,
but Mike wouldn't have it. He's always a
latin' against landlords, an' more particles
about you, sur, or rather your father, until
he frightens the life out o' me.'

How does he spend his wages and his
time ?' asked Mr. Clavering.

The little money he has, on whisky,
and he's always down at the inn in Bal-linger
a talking' with a set o' wild fellows.
I'm always afraid of his getting' into trouble,
talking' about freedom an' oppression, an' soon.'


1 Well, I have come to talk to you about
your husband,' said Mr. Clavering, seriously.
' I have no good news for you, and
neither he nor his family deserve any kindness

from me. He tried to shoot me last
night, and very nearly succeeded.' The
poor woman turned very pale, and began
to cry. ' He is in the county gaol and
committed for trial ; I expect he will get a
long imprisonment. You can go and see
him when you wish, Mrs. O'Leary.'

< Ah ! Mike, Mike !' she sobbed ; ( I knew
it would come to this. Ye were steady

enough when I married you, and now '

the poor woman sat down on a low stool
and rocked herself to and fro, crying
bitterly and saying, ' Ah ! wish, wish !'

Her little ones gathered round, five in
number. The eldest was a troy of about
thirteen ; he was quite blind, but his face
struck Mr. Clavering as being remarkably
beautiful. He had an abundance of light
golden hair, which curled over his fair
forehead. The next to him was a girl

with very dark hair, the other three looked
like little bundles of dirt, the smallest of
them scarcely able to toddle.

Ah, my chiltern !' sobbed the poor
mother, ' worse luck that ye have such a
father.'

What has daddy done ?' asked the
blind boy.

1 Tried to murder that gentleman there
said his mother.

Mr. Clavering, having said all that he
had to say, took his leave ; he asked the
poor woman to send up the little girl to
Clonmore for food as soon as she liked,
and bade her send the blind boy too.

1 I like his face,' said Mr. Clavering ;
1 and I fancy I can give him some better
clothes than he has on, poor boy !'

Thank you, yer 'oner,' said the poor
woman, shaking her head ; ' he's mighty

weak, and I fancy a little touched here
she added, pointing significantly to her
forehead.

'Why, Mrs. O'Leary?' asked Mr.
Clavering, looking fixedly at the beautiful
boy, who seemed far too angelic for such a
hovel.

There was a melancholy look in the
boy's face, a shade of sorrow over what
should have been a happy countenance.
The blind must always have a longing, an
unsatisfied yearning to take but even one
look at the world, just to see what it is
like ; one peep at the faces of those who
surround them, to change into a reality the
ideas they have of persons and things.
Mrs. O'Leary looked at her boy too, and
a look of affection came into her soft
eyes.

He is beautiful,' she said, tenderly ;

too beautiful for me ! the Almighty must
have meant him for Paradise, and sent him
here — I don't know why. But he always
seems to be dreaming, and is always
scratching' away on an old fiddle he
has.'

1 What is his name ?' asked Mr. Clavering.



1 Patrick, yer 'oner, and may the saint
defend him !'

Well, Pat, my boy,' said Mr. Clavering,
kindly, ' you come along to Clonmore with
your sister to-day, and bring your fiddle
with you.'

Thank you, sur !' replied the boy ; ' I
like you, sur !'

1 Why, my boy ?' asked Mr. Clavering.

Because of your voice, sur,' was the
reply.

Good-day, Mrs. O'Leary !' said the

VOL. i. 5

landlord ; ' remember what I have told you
about going to see your husband ; and
mind, whenever you want anything, send
to Clonmore.'

Thank you, sur P said the poor woman,
dropping a curtsey.

Mr. Clavering and his son talked about
the poor woman for some little time, and
about the boy-fiddler. At length Mr.
Clavering said :

'We were talking about Sir Patrick this
morning, Frank ; he is quite altered since
he married a second time — he seems to be
scarcely his own master. But why do you
think that Lady O'O'Moore objects to your
marrying Kathleen ? It can make no
difference to her.'

She wants Kathleen to marry some
relation of her own, I suspect, father ; I
dare say she has some one of her poor relations

in mind for whom Kathleen would
be a good match.'

That is possible, Frank. I confess to
no great liking for the second Lady
O'O'Moore. There was no house in the
county — I may say in the kingdom — where
I used to spend a happier evening than at
Sir Patrick's, both while his dear good
first wife was alive — God rest her soul ! —
and during the time that succeeded the sad
event of her death. It was three or four
years after that before he could speak cheerfully,
but afterwards, until he married again,
he was a genial companion. I was always
perfectly at home there, always welcome ;
but now there is restraint, forced cordiality,
and it seems as if the old friendship were
decaying, and ceremonious politeness
coming in the place of it. Remember, I
believe that O' Moore's heart is as large as

5—2

ever, and the grip of his strong hand as
honest as ever ; but he's afraid of his wife :
she has the management of the house now.
I dare say she is a plotting woman : she
succeeded, at any rate, in getting a baronet
for a husband, and I'm sure she puts on
enough airs for the daughter of a duke.'

1 At any rate, father, she doesn't want
me to marry Kathleen. I don't know if
she has influenced her in any way, but
Kathleen has refused to marry me.'

1 Never mind, Frank, there will be many
a girl fall in love with you, and perhaps
you'll find a better wife for yourself than
Kathleen O'O'Moore. I always looked
upon it, as I said this morning, as a settled
thing that you should marry her ; but a
change has come over the spirit of my
dream.'

1 Father,' said Frank gravely, c if I do

not marry Kathleen, I shall never marry-any
one else.'

Well, then, my boy, you must try again
with her. She may accept you yet, in
spite of whatever she may have against
you, or whatever her upstart step-mother
may have to say on the subject. I sincerely
trust that she may. My highest
wish, Frank, is to see you happy. I have
the greatest confidence in you, into whatever
set you may get in your regiment. I
believe you to be, my boy, a man of the
highest honour and principle : and when a
father can say that truthfully of his son, he
ought to be the happiest and proudest man
in the kingdom. Would that your poor
mother had lived to see you grow up !'

When they reached Clonmore they
found a letter waiting for them in Lady
O' Moore's handwriting. It was an in citation

to dinner for a day early in the next
week, in order that Mr. Frank Clavering
might be able to accept it before he went
away.

CHAPTER IV.

THE BLIND FIDDLER.

Widow Machree, 'tis no wonder ye frown !'

Biddy O'Leary and her blind brother set
off for Clonmore about an hour after Mr.
Clavering had paid a visit to their father's
cabin.

Mr. Clavering's housekeeper was deputed
to receive them, and to look out
some of Mr. Frank's clothes, which he
wore when he went to Dame Brien's school,
for the blind boy.

1 If ye plaise, Mrs. Machree, there's two
chiltern belonging to the O'Leary who

tried to shoot his 'oner last night, that ye'll
just have to receive said Murphy, appearing
at the door of the housekeeper's room.

Faith, thin, who says so, ye spalpeen ?'
asked Mrs. Machree, indignantly.

'His 'oner; they're the dirtiest pair I
ever set eyes on, an' it will be that their
feet will make your tidy carpet in a great
mess, I'm thinking,' said Murphy, with a
grin.

6 Don't stand there grinning like a Kilkenny
cat, Murphy,' said the housekeeper,
spitefully. ' If it's Mr. Clavering's orders,
of course they must come, though to my
thinking', it's you as should receive them in
the stable. Och hone, thin ! it's an argument
I don't understand, for a man to try
and shoot you one night, and for your
housekeeper to feed his children the next
day, and clothe them too.'

An' it's I would be glad enough of the
clothes myself,' said Murphy, contemplating
his own garments. ' Ye don't happen to
have anything for me, Mrs. Machree ?'

1 Not even a potato peeling'. Be off! I
tell you, and bring them children along, if
they're to come ; and maybe ye'll see that
their feet are a bit clean !'

Murphy disappeared, and presently returned,
leading the two little O'Learys by
the hand.

The boy can't see because he's blind,
Mrs. Machree ; but he's a fine child, and
a deal better lookin' than the girl,' said
Murphy.

Be off, Murphy ! Come in, child !' she
said to the girl, who stood timidly at the
door, holding her brother by one hand,
and holding up the corner of a ragged
apron to her mouth with the other.

She advanced timidly at the invitation,
and Mrs. Machree bade her brother and
her sit down. The housekeeper was really
a very kind-hearted woman, but she did
not like the fact of Murphy's crowing over
the quantity of mud that would be brought
in upon her tidy carpet. She soon placed
food before the two little hungry souls, and
told them to eat as much as ever they
wanted.

'Can the boy eat by himself?' Mrs.
Machree asked.

1 Yes, my lady answered Biddy O'Leary,
in whose eyes the housekeeper was quite a
grandee.

Come, my poor boy, eat away ! here's
your fork. Give me that fiddle you're
cuddling there ! ye don't want it now and
she took the old worn instrument from
him.

Biddy looked across at her brother, and
laid down her own spoon and fork, which
she had been plying vigorously.

1 Why don't the boy eat ?' asked the
housekeeper of Biddy.

Please, my lady, he can't !' was the
timid answer.

1 And why not ? Does he want to be
fed?'

1 No, my lady, but his fiddle !'

1 What about it — does he suppose I
want to steal it ?' asked Mrs. Machree,
impatiently.

I can't eat without it,' said the boy,
sorrowfully.

1 Bless me ! what do you mean, child ?'
asked the housekeeper, doubting her sense
of hearing. ' What can your fiddle have
to do with your eating ?'

Please, my lady,' urged Biddy, ' mither

says he's a bit gone, and it's just a fancy
of his.'

Well, of all the oddities I ever heard of
that's the oddest. But here's your fiddle,
and now eat away !'

As soon as little Pat had his property
returned to him, he began to appease his
hunger, and Biddy went on with her repast.
In an incredibly short space of time, plates
which had been piled high with food were
left empty.

Now here's a basket for you, full of
such pieces as neither of you ever tasted
before. Mind and take them home carefully
; here's a coat for you my boy, and a
fine shawl for your mother, which belonged
to Mrs. Clavering' herself, and a deal too
good for the like of me or you, but still
it's the master's orders, so take it,' said
the housekeeper, eyeing the article wistfully.

And is it all finished now ?' asked the
boy, discontentedly.

Indeed, and is that all the thanks, it is,
that Mr. Clavering' and myself gets for all
our trouble ?' said Mrs. Machree sharply.
Ye're a strange pair, or rather the boy —
the girl is nice spoken enough put in
the housekeeper, remembering with some
pleasure that she had been addressed as
'my lady.' 'He won't eat without his
fiddle, and, when he does eat, he eats as
much in one meal as I should eat in a
month, and then wants to know if that's
all ! Bless me, is it dessert ye want, like
the gentry themselves, or a glass of
punch ?'

1 Ye don't understand me,' said the boy
sadly ; ' I want to see Mr. Claverin'.'

1 And what do ye want of Mr. Clavering'
? Sure it's the people, the likes of

you, as is fed on potato-peelings, that are
never satisfied, although your own father
tried to kill Mr. Clavering with his own
hands last night

He asked me to brine fiddle an to
play a bit to him, and sure ye seem
mighty angered wi' me said the boy
deprecatingly.

Not a bit, my child, but I don't understand
the ways of such as you ; maybe
your mother's right, and that ye're a bit
soft in your head, poor boy !' said Mrs.
Machree sympathisingly.

Sure thin, that's not true,' said the
blind boy with emphasis, ' becos I fiddle
a bit, and none of them is blind, they don't
feel as I feel.'

'Well well, child, I don't want to hurt
you ; sure it's the Almighty knows as you
suffer enough of His own pleasure with yer

poor eyes fast closed said the housekeeper.
( Now what good does scratching
away on an old fiddle do you, I'd like to
know ? Better to set you at some
work.'

I don't want to work,' said Pat crossly ;
when I play on my fiddle, I can almost
see, and I spake far better what I mean
by it than by talking there now, and it's
not ye nor any one else as seems to know
what I mean.'

1 Ah ! ye're a queer child, and there's
something a bit unnatural about you ;
let's hope the civil has nothing to do
with it,' said Mrs. Machree, crossing herself.


Please, my lady,' put in Biddy, ' he's
sometimes out-o'-doors all night a scratching'
away, an' mother's afraid of a clurechaun
carrying' him off some night, though he

always carries an image of the Blessed
Virgin round his neck.'

1 You seem to be a child of sense, at any
rate said the housekeeper to the little
girl. ' And now be off home with you,
and remember that your mother and the
others aren't as well filled as ye are.'

'And may I not see Misther Clavering' ?'
asked the boy.

1 Bless me, child, he's too much occupied
with one thing or the other. What
have you to say to him ?'

As the housekeeper finished her last
sentence, Murphy appeared at the door
and said, with a broad grin :

If you plaise, thin, Mrs. Machree, it's
fine company you're entertaining' to-day.'

1 What do you mean ?' asked the housekeeper
viciously.

■ Mr. Clavering's compliments to Master

and Miss O'Leary, and will ye plaise just
step in to the dining-room,' said Murphy
comically.

Then I am to see him !' exclaimed the
blind boy joyfully, his whole face lighted
up by a bright smile.

1 Yes, and it's the queerest business I've
ever set eyes on,' said the housekeeper, indignantly
; ' there's me own sister that has
never been asked even to take a glass of
wine with Mr. Clavering', and these here
brats are too good for the housekeeper's
room. Such a want of propriety in Mr.
Clavering' ! I repose he's too good-natured,
and after been' shot at, too !'

1 Sure an' if ye want civilities,' said
Murphy, grinning, ' for yer sister, ye
might try an' shoot his 'oner herself, Mrs.
Machree !'

Will ye keep a civil tongue in your

vol. i. 6

head, Murphy ?' said the housekeeper, in
an annoyed tone. l What with these two
chiltern and herself, it is, I'm nigh
doffed !'

e Come along,' said Murphy to the two
children, spitefully, ' an' I'll show you some
company worth having ; there's a mighty
difference, I can tell you, 'twixt the
coining-room an' the housekeeper's-room
in this house.'

Biddy took her blind brother by the
hand and led him after Murphy, who
threw open the dining-room door and
announced in a comical manner : c Misther
and Miss O'Leary, plaise sur.'

Well, Pat, my boy,' said Mr. Clavering,
kindly, taking no notice of Murphy's
announcement, l so you have brought your
fiddle.'

Yes, sur, thank you,' said the blind

boy, smiling; 'an' it's myself an' Biddy
as has to thank you for plenty to eat an'
drink.'

Quite welcome, my boy,' said Mr.
Clavering. * Now, Pat, I want to know
what your father used to say about
mec

A deal against yer 'oner,' said Pat ;
me an' my fiddle used to talk it
over.'

How do you mean, my boy ?'
1 Father used to go on so wild, sur, an'
I could just make me fiddle strike it off to
a word better than I could say it,' said the
boy, nodding his head.

1 But what did he say, Pat ?' asked Mr.
Clavering, not understanding the boy's
sentiments, which seemed to him strange
and calculated to form part of the weakness
of intellect which Mrs. O'Leary

6—2

had mentioned. ' Did he say that I was
cruel ?'

He said that your father turned us out,
an' that since thin everything has gone
wrong. " I have a grudge again them
Clavering's," he used to say ; " my own
father said to me when he was a-dyin'
on a heap o' straw, ' Mike, my boy, don't
forget what I've would yer of the Clavering's,
an' mind you carry it out.' ' I swear it,
father,' " an' since thin, yer 'oner, he's been
putting' it off an' putting' it off until he sees
us all a starving' an' himself out of work,
an' thin he tried to kill you. I used to
talk with him about it, an' he used to talk
to me as though I was a man ; father loves
me, he does, an' sometimes listens to me
when he'd almost strike mother over the
head if she said anything'. About a week
ago he comes home, an' he says, " Pat, my

boy, come out wi' me an' bring your fiddle
along wi' you." So I went out an' he took
me a long way off. At length he stopped,
an' he says, " Now you may play away,"
an' I began, an' I hears him fire one shot
an' thin another an' another, and I said to
'im, " Father, what are you doing ?" An'
he says, " Practising' to shoot well." " For
what ?" says I. " I'm a going' to shoot
birds," says he. " That's a lie," says I ;
father, you're going' to shoot Mr. Clavering."
" I'm not, ye young civil," says
he, an' he struck me over the head, the
first time he ever did such a thing, an' a
day or two after that he went away, an'
the next time I hears anything' of 'im was
when you come to see my mother, an' I
heard my father was in prison. I asked
her why, but all along I guest what it
was.'

And is that all, Pat, that you know ?*
asked Mr. Clavering.

That is all, sur was the answer.

'Well, now you may give me a tune,
Pat ! Fiddle away !'

The blind boy turned his poor old fiddle
and began a wild weird strain ; at first, soft
and low, like the weeping of a little child
or mourning mother, ending in a sigh, then
going off into a wild confusion like the
roaring of wind through a forest and the
dance of the dead leaves, then ending up
with a quiet, sweet melody that sounded
like the peace of a delivered soul, like
gratitude for some sanctuary or haven of
rest after a storm of troubles.

Mr. Clavering listened; he understood
the beauty of the last passage, the rest was
lost upon him.

You play very beautifully, Pat,' he said,

'and I'll buy you a new fiddle, if you like,
and you may come and play to me two or
three times a week. You can get rid of
that old thing !'

1 Get rid of this !' exclaimed the boy,
passionately, as the tears came from
beneath his closed eyelids ; ( of this, yer
'oner, my old friend that I love better than
the whole world put together, never '
Plaise God when I die they'll bury it with
me.'

Very well, my boy, then you shall keep
to the old fiddle ; it makes beautiful music,
although it is old.'

Plaise yer 'oner,' put in Biddy, ' it's a
wonder he could play at all in the house,
he never does.'

1 Why not, my little woman ?' asked Mr.
Clavering.

1 Because, yer 'oner said the boy, with

feeling, ( I can't play in the house ! I can't
think in the house ! But when I go out,
and it's mostly o' night-times, nights when
there's wind or a storm, I sit down in the
middle o' a field or under a hedge, I take
off my cap, an' as the wind comes a blown'
about my hair, I feel as though it were the
fingers o' God, an' then I speak to him
with my fiddle. I tells Him by it that I'm
sad ; I ask Him by it to let me see, even for
half an hour ; I thank Him for what I have,
an' then I plays to remind myself o' what
heaven is, an' I forgets where I am.
That's why my mother says I'm soft, becos
she never knows indeed what it is I'm after
it's only myself that knows what I mean.'
Mr. Clavering sat musing upon what
the boy had said ; it seemed very strange
to him, to find a boy with so much delicacy
of feeling, such a love for music ; and he

could not but think how often it is the
case that where God has seen fit to deprive
man of one of his senses, there is
atonement made either in a double power
of one of the other senses, or a compensation
in the shape of some prominent faculty,
or in some highly endowed mental or moral
possession.

Well, Pat, you must come another day
and play for me. Is there anything I can
do for you ?'

Yes, yer 'oner ; I won't take a new
fiddle, but I'd like some new strings for
this one ; they're well-nigh done for now,
an' I'm always a fearing' lest one of them
should give.'

1 You shall have seme new ones, my
boy, and come as often as you like.'

How long d'ye think it will be, sur
afore I see my father again ?'

I don't know, Pat, but you can go to
the gaol when you wish to

Thank ye, sur, good-days and Biddy,
with a low curtsey, led her brother away.

Strange boy that,' said Mr. Clavering
to his son. ' I dare say he finds more real
pleasure in that scratching than many a
professional violin-player.'

He certainly has some odd notions
said Frank, 'but he plays uncommonly
well for a boy who has never been taught

Teaching might have spoilt his music,
Frank ; art is a poor imitation of nature,
after all.'

To change the subject, father, I suppose
you mean to dine with the O'Moores on
Thursday ?'

Yes, to be sure, I fancy it's a sort of a
farewell dinner to you before you go away.
You must have another try with Kathleen,

Frank ; if she will say " yes' you will go
away the happier.'

Indeed I should, father, but I fear
there is no chance of that

Mr. Clavering thought of the little blind
boy a good deal for the rest of the day ;
he seemed to be strangely drawn towards
him. Pat was such a contrast to his surroundings,
seemed to have so much natural
refinement and talent, that Mr. Clavering*
who, as a rule, reflected much upon
character, felt a strong inclination to know
more of the child.

Mr. Clavering was English, and not
impulsive ; he was drawn towards the boy
by some connecting link of sympathy
between them — the boy had quite wound
himself round the man's heart, although
they had met but twice.

Pat fully enjoyed the gift the Almighty

had given him ; the polish of art in music,
the finish of education, serve, perhaps, to
take off the keen edge of it as a natural
endowment.

The boy thought in music, he spoke to
his God by means of it, he expressed his
sentiments in it, those of joy as well as of
sorrow ; he displayed his affection in it ; a
cross word from his father that dwelt upon
his sensitive mind was trot rid of in the
sighing of his strings ; he bemoaned his
blindness in it, and when all around failed
him, because they did not understand him,
because his mind was too delicate for their
rough handling, then it was that he went
out alone, even on the stormiest nights,
and found comfort in the companionship of
melody.

You may express your ideas of nature
upon canvas, you may tint the sunset

thereon, and the spring-time and the
winter, but you cannot paint your own
sorrow, your own joy, you cannot put your
individual mind upon it. But in music
you can do this ; you can recall the past,
you can breathe out your grief jn a plaintive
strain, or express your pleasure in a
gay and lively measure, and not only do
you feel this yourself, but musical souls
harmonise with your own, and eyes dim
with tears and lips curl with laughter, as
your hand wanders over the notes of a
piano, or an organ, or a harp, or the bow
glides backwards and forwards over the
strings of a violin. But Mr. Clavering did
not enter into a twentieth part of the feelings
of the musical Irish lad.

CHAPTER V.

GOING TO FIGHT THE FRENCH.

For King George upon the throne.'

Mr. Clavering accepted Lady O' Moore's
invitation to dine at Arbela, Sir Patrick's
seat. He and his son were the only
guests ; it was a farewell dinner to Frank,
who was to join his regiment in a couple
of days, which would soon be ordered to
Spain to win spurs for itself and to aid in
gaining honour for old England in the
Peninsular War, which so far looked dark
for the prospects of the allies.

Lady O' Moore was glad to get rid of

Frank ; he was a formidable suitor for the
hand of Kathleen, and stood seriously in
the way of her little designs. When he
was out of the country, and consequently,
as she thought, out of Kathleen's mind,
she would be able to bring forward her
brother Hugh, whom she intended as a
husband for her step-daughter. She fancied
that, aided by his good looks and his
fascinating manner, he would walk over
the course and win a bride whose dowry
would amply fill his pockets, which was
always only too light.

Sir Patrick knew that his lady wished to
make what she considered a good match
for his daughter, but he fancied that she
sought to better Kathleen's choice by
bringing forward some peer or titled
person ; he never dreamed that one of her
own family, of whose pedigree her ladyship

seemed doubtful, would be the one brought
forward, not on account of Kathleen's
happiness, but in order to serve his wife's
selfish ends. It was perhaps natural that
Lady O'O'Moore should seek to elevate her
own family ; but had she been a woman of
strict integrity and heart, and loved her
husband as a wife should love him that is
a part of herself, she would never have
stooped to study the fortune of a younger
brother in preference to the happiness of
her husband's daughter.

Kathleen did not even as yet know that
her step-mother had made any suggestions
concerning her marriage; she saw that
Lady O'O'Moore did not care for Frank, or
behaved as though she did not, but this
she attributed to personal pique.

She was glad that her step-mother had
induced Sir Patrick to go to Dublin for the

winter ; the visit promised a gaiety forming
a marked contrast to her monotonous round
of country life, which would be rendered far
less bearable by the departure of Frank
Clavering.

The dinner was not of the liveliest ; as
Mr. Clavering had remarked to his son,
Lady O'O'Moore had introduced a restraint
which was, to say the least of it, unpleasant.
She had adopted a hauteur with her rise in
life, which, always a disagreeable adjunct,
is still more so when exercised by one who
has risen, and who tries to adopt a dignity
which is foreign to innate nature and to
bringing up. She had ' corrected ' her
husband's ' freedom of manner,' had subdued
his hilarity and thinned off his harmless
little jokes, until she brought about a
change in Sir Patrick which was painfully
noticeable to those who knew him as the

vol. i. 7

light-hearted companion of old. The
consequence was, that in the presence of
his wife he seemed to be studying what
he was saying instead of coming out with
what was natural.

Have you been to see the O'Learys
yet ?' he asked Mr. Clavering, during the
course of dinner.

'Yes, O'O'Moore, I went to see them the
very day you were last at Clonmore/
replied his friend.

What O'Learys are those ?' asked
Lady O'O'Moore, affectedly.

'Tenants of mine, Lady O'O'Moore; the
father of them is the man who tried to
shoot me,' answered Mr. Clavering.

Fancy troubling one's self with people
like those, Mr. Clavering. I believe that
Sir Patrick would shake hands with some
of his tenant's pigs, if I would let him.'

One may be polite, even to a pig,
Lady O' Moore, without much injury to
one's self,' said Mr. Clavering, quietly.

1 I think it is a great mistake to try and
take people out of their positions, and to
lower yourself by trying to do so,' said her
ladyship, haughtily.

Mr. Clavering suppressed a smile. ' It
is hard for us to say what we were a
generation or two back, Lady O'O'Moore, is
it not ?' he asked.

Her ladyship did not answer this home-thrust,
but asked, ' What is there remarkable
about these dreadful O'Learys, Mr.
Clavering ?'

1 Mrs. O'Leary is a nice-looking woman,
and has been pretty, Lady O'O'Moore.'

1 Do you admire common people's
beauty ?' asked her ladyship, with a wearisome
drawl.

7—2

1 Certainly I do ; there are far prettier
faces to be seen in cottages than in palaces.
In one, you get nature — the white face is
natural, and the blush the bloom of health ;
in the other you very often find nature is
aided, or rather, in my idea, impaired, by
artificial means.'

Well, then, I presume you found
natural beauty in the Clears, Mr.
Clavering ; you are certainly very severe
on the upper classes. What else did
you find ?' asked her ladyship, tauntingly.


'Genius, Lady O' Moore. There is a
wonderful boy in the family, with a face
that would have made an admirable model
for an infant Baptist, had he the use of his
eyes, poor child ; and more than this, he is
a marvellous violinist.'

How absurd to encourage a person of

that class in such an accomplishment ! He
should learn to work, and leave the violin
to his betters. I would put him at the
plough-tail ; I should take away his violin,
and let him do as every one else in his
class does

Putting aside the impossibility of a
blind boy's being able to plough,' rejoined
Mr. Clavering, rather warmly, ' and supposing
him to have his sight, he would
never make a good plough-boy. Burns's
poems were better than his furrows, I'll be
bound ; how could you have taken his
poetry out of him ?'

I That is different, Mr. Clavering ! but
the idea of encouraging music in an Irish
cabin.'

I I do not see that it is at all different ;
the boy has no encouragement, Lady
O' Moore : his mother calls him mad, and

no one around him enters into the fine feelings
of the lad. He expresses his whole
soul in music, and if you were to take
away the child's violin, you would, I daresay,
kill him ; at any rate, you would take
away the sunlight of his life.'

I can scarcely follow you, Mr. Clavering
said her ladyship ; ' the boy must
have lessons before he can make a profession
of his music.'

The boy never will make a profession of
it ; and if he did, he could charm more
really musical souls by the pure outcome
of his genius than he ever would after any
number of wearying music lessons from
master or mistress.'

1 Such an occupation as violin-playing
seems to me to be utterly at variance with
the boy's position ; if he has a real talent,
which I doubt in a person of his class, you

ought to suppress rather than encourage
it said Lady O'O'Moore.

Take care, Clavering my boy P put in
Sir Patrick, by way of pleasing his wife.
You'll get the worst of it

How are you to do that, Lady O'O'Moore,
may I ask ?' asked Mr. Clavering, warmly.
Are you going to say that all real genius is
confined to upper classes ? If you reflect
a little upon what you know of great men,
artists, musicians, sculptors, what you will,
you must acknowledge that some of the
greatest of them have come from the
lowest classes of life. God doesn't give all
His gifts to people who are great in the eyes
of the world, anymore than he puts His
most beautiful flowers and fruits upon the
finest of trees ; and I can only say that it
would not only be a senseless task to take
away poor Pat O'Leary's old fiddle, but it

would be a cruel shame, apart from the fact
of there being no object gained by doing
so

I'm afraid you are a republican, Mr.
Clavering said her ladyship, smiling, and
not knowing what else to say.

1 am nothing of the sort, Lady O'O'Moore.
I should be as sorry to see you scrubbing
boards as I should be to see Pat O'Leary's
fiddle-bow broken across any one's knee,
and the poor blind boy deprived of his
highest pleasure, in a twentieth part of
which it is impossible for us to enter.'

Sir Patrick here interposed, and turned
the conversation by addressing Frank
Clavering, who had been conversing in
an undertone with Kathleen throughout
dinner.

'When are you going away, Frank, my
boy ?' he asked.

'On Thursday morning, early, Sir
Patrick replied Frank.

1 And when have you to leave for Spain,
Mr. Frank ?' asked Lady O'O'Moore.

I do not know, Lady O'O'Moore — very
soon, I expect ; there is a demand for
more troops.'

■ What a terrible thing war is !' sighed
her ladyship, philanthropically.

Yes ; but it will go on as long as we
have such an unscrupulous villain as
Buonaparte alive !' said Sir Patrick.
1 Happy the Briton who can get a slap
at a rascal like that! Give him one
for me, Frank, my boy, if you get the
chance.'

1 I will, Sir Patrick !' said Frank, smiling;
then, turning to Kathleen, he said, 'You
will come for a ride with me tomorrow,
won't you ? It is my last day here for a

long time ; perhaps I never might come
back!'

Nonsense, Frank ¥ said Sir Patrick ;
kill as many French as you like, but take
care of yourself. Of course Kathleen will
spend tomorrow with you ; it would be
hard lines on you if she couldn't, after a
friendship that began with babyhood.'

Lady O'O'Moore looked severely at her
husband, and said, ' I have made other arrangements
for Kathleen tomorrow, my
deare

Then I cannot carry them out, mamma
said Kathleen, boldly. * I shall of course
spend the day with Frank

As you like, Kathleen, as you like, but
you will entirely upset my plans,' said her
ladyship reproachfully.

I am very sorry, mamma ; if you had
mentioned the subject to me before, I

might have got through them for you to-days


Here the subject dropped. Lady
O'O'Moore left the dining-room with Kathleen,
and did not prove herself to be too
agreeable a companion in the time that
elapsed before the gentlemen joined them ;
she was ' piqued ' at the recollection of her
conversation with Mr. Clavering, and she
was anxious about the morrow. Frank
Clavering's last day at home might spoil
all her little scheme, and Kathleen might
return from her ride the plighted wife of
one whom her ladyship was anxious to see
out of the way.

In spite of all, however, Frank called for
Kathleen on the following morning, and
she went for a ride with him without
paying the least heed to what her stepmother
had to say.

They had a spirited gallop across
country, and walked their horses leisurely
along the road on their homeward
way.

Kathleen,' said Frank, ' are you going
to give me any satisfaction before I leave
you ?'

I am not going to say " Yes," Frank ;
I must have time to consider !'

6 And what have you been doing, Kathleen,
but considering ever since you were
a little girl of eight years old ?'

1 I have never considered the subject of
marrying you seriously, Frank said Kathleen,
smiling. ' We grew up as schoolfellows
and playmates together, and I like
you now very much in the same way that
I liked you when I was eight years old. I
shall miss you when you go away, but as
to promising to marry you, I cannot do

that, Frank, for I do not know my own
mind.'

Let me try to know it for you, Kathleen
said Frank, earnestly. ' You are
afraid that after you had said " Yes " tome,
that you would see some one else
whom you infinitely preferred, and that
then you would be miserable. Is that
it?'

No, Frank, not exactly ; when you come
back, I shall surely know my own mind.
I doubt if you know yours yet. You
never met any girl but me to know intimately
; there is no saying whom you may
meet to drive me from your thoughts ; it
must remain as it is, Frank — I cannot say
Yes " yet.'

Kathleen, it is easy for you to talk like
that ; you do not know your own mind,
you say ; you cannot say " No," and yet

you will not say " Yes." I should go
away far happier if you would consent to
become my wife : I should have an object
in view, a happiness to which I might look
forward. It is very easy indeed for you
to treat the matter so lightly. I shall
never alter what I have already said ; if it
is nothing to you to make me miserable,
that is another thing ; but as to my loving
any one else as I love you, or dreaming of
marrying any one else, it is impossible. I
shall say no more : I do not wish to think
you heartless, but sometimes I fear that
you are so.'

No more was said upon the subject
until the end of the ride, when Frank was
bidding her good-bye.

Good-bye, Kathleen,' he said sorrowfully,
' I may never see you again, who
knows ?'

1 I hope there is no chance of that,
Frank ; as it is, I shall miss you dreadfully,
but you must wait for the little word
you want. Good-bye !'

Good-bye, darling Kathleen, God bless
you !' he said fervently, as he kissed her ;
then he mounted his horse and rode away
his eyes blinded with tears.

There was much gloomy despair in his
heart ; he must really go away without
what he longed for, without the promise of
one day possessing her whom he held
dearer than life. The thought was distressing
to him. Why was Kathleen so
perverse ? Why, if she cared for him, was
it that she was so unwilling to do what he
begged of her ? His love for her had
strengthened with years ; what had been
perhaps an almost boyish fancy, had
grown into a passion, and he felt that

without Kathleen life would be deprived
of all that could render it worth living for.
Yet there was no help for it ; he must wait
patiently ; he would fight for his king and
his country and would throw his whole
being into that ; had he to die, he would
die without a murmur in so good a cause,
and were he to live, he could only hope
that his next meeting with Kathleen might
bring about what he so earnestly longed
for.

And how was it with Kathleen ? She
could not drive Frank's image from her
mind for that night ; she recalled the past,
she remembered him as her youthful lover,
ever constant, ever determined to make
her his own, and now she was putting an
end to his hopes with what purpose she
could scarcely tell ; yet she could not bring
herself to confess that she loved him — she

could not say it truthfully, she thought ; he
must wait, and she would do the same,
and then, when he came back, if her heart
were really her own, she would give it to
him. But she had so much of the woman
in her composition that when she went to
bed that night she bedewed her pillow with
tears and lay awake a long time restless
and unhappy.

When Frank reached home, he told his
father of what ill-luck he had again encountered,
for that Kathleen seemed determined
to say him ' Nay.'

Mr. Clavering sympathised deeply with
his only son, but at the same time pointed
out to him how useless it was to fret ; if
Kathleen would not take him as her husband,
no one could make her ; and he
recommended his son to try and forget
this, his first love, assuring him that he

vol. 1. 8

would yet meet some one who would take
his fancy more than even Kathleen had
done, and who would perhaps after all
prove herself a better wife.

Mr. Clavering had said as much as this
before. Frank only shook his head ; he
was beyond the power of consolation or
suggestion ; and his father, as a final resource,
begged of him to throw off his
depression and to try and render his last
evening at home as agreeable as he
could.

1 It may be a long time before we meet
again, my boy, if ever said Mr. Clavering
; ' let us try and forget our individual
troubles and smoke our last pipe together
in cheerfulness as well as in peace.'

The consequence of this remark was,
that a little toddy and one or two pipes of
fragrant tobacco turned Frank's thoughts

into another vein, and the last evening
together at Clonmore passed all too quickly
for father and son.

It was going on for midnight when a
knock was heard at the library-door, and
Murphy walked in.

1 Well, Murphy, what do you want?'
asked Mr. Clavering.

Plaise, then, an' begin' yer 'oner's
pardon, I'm thinking' of making' a change in
my profession,' said Murphy, with a grin.

'Are you going to leave us, Murphy ?'
asked Mr. Clavering, in surprise.

1 Plaise, then, yer 'oner, it's soldiering I
want to go, an' with Misther Frank, too, if
he'll take me.'

1 Do you want to enlist, Murphy ?' asked
Frank, smiling.

Yes, Misther Frank, an' in your regiment,
if it's possible. Faith, thin, I'd like to be

S— 2

your orderly, as I think they call it ; at all
events, maybe your 'oner would put me in
the way of making' a soldier o' myself, as
I'm mighty tired of been' a servant, an'
would leave all that to Mistress Machree
an' such people as those.'

1 I doubt if you would stand fire,' said Mr.
Clavering, looking at Murphy's red head.

Indeed, yer 'oner, an' it's not I as would
be running' away from a lot o' rascally
Frenchmen.'

Frank looked at his father and smiled,
then asked, ' What have you to say,
father ?'

Let the man go, by all means, if he
likes, my boy ; take him with you if you
can !'

All right, Murphy, you be ready to
start with me tomorrow morning, and I'll
make a soldier of you. Good-night !'

Murphy took his departure, and Mr.
Clavering burst into a fit of laughter.
However, he went on to say that perhaps
the poor fellow would turn out a faithful
servant, and might prove himself useful.

Shortly after this, father and son parted
for the night, and Frank made all necessary
preparations for an early start on the next
morning.

CHAPTER VI.

THE Unmans.
1 Call we this plodding fricaseer, a cook ?'

Ay ! Epicurus, too, was sure a cook.'

Lady O'O'Moore had a good deal that was
epicurean in her blood ; that is to say, her
father's blood ran in her veins, purple or
otherwise, and that he had been a chef
at an hotel in London. Indeed, were we
to trace his history still further back, we
should find him advancing step by step in
kitchen dignity, step by step in kitchen
lore, and advancing, sometimes slowly,
sometimes rapidly, towards the 'coif of

kitchen supremacy. And as he advanced,
so he became more eager, more impatient
of the dignity ; and when he attained toit,
and the golden dust for which he had
slaved, and not in vain, blew thicker and
thicker about him, it blinded him, and he
neither looked back nor was contented
with the present, but longed for the future,
when he could doff the ' coif he had barely
'donned and could leave kitchen ranges
and kitchen discipline to his successor — for
the second in kitchen authority was only
waiting for an opportunity to step into
kingly boots.

And the time for putting off his ' mortal
coil' in the shape of white apron, paper
cap, and gravy spoon, was not long incoming
to Jacob Unyan. Success had
almost come to him for the whistling to it :
of course he was shrewd, of course he had

tact, but yet he knew, and others knew,
men of greater shrewdness and greater
tact, whose luck never ran for the time so
smoothly and so continually in the right
direction as did his. He had rather a
special knack of crowding opportunities
and channels of making money into his
profession. His salary as 'chef was not
very big, and an entire conformity to his
capacity as such would have brought him
in comparatively little.

But Jacob Unyan made use of side
channels. He sent out neat little dinners,
1 harmonious ranged and consonantly just
to the houses round. The rough materials
for these cost him nothing ; their original
destination, in their completeness, was the
hotel lunch-table or the table d 7wte. He
had a great talent for making a little go a
long way, and so, with a little filching and

paring and scraping, he was enabled to
retire in middle life, and to give his
children a decent education.

Yet, alas ! the tact, economy, and thrift
of years were puffed away with one breath
of an ill-wind, and this ill-wind — speculation.
He was persuaded that it would
blow favourably, whereas it veered round
and blew a perfect hurricane right in his
teeth, sent him upon his very beam ends,
and took his masts away by the board.
So complete was the surprise, that he
never righted himself, but gradually
settled down and sank in a sea of disappointment
and thwarted hopes. The
kitchen had been an atmosphere in which
his genius had thrived, the Stock Exchange
was beyond his mental constitution.

When he died, he left his four children
almost destitute, and so it fell to their lotto

make the most of their abilities, backed
up by the advantage of a good education.

Mrs. Unyan departed this life before her
husband ; the blast of triumph had sounded
in her ears, but the hurricane of failure
came after she had gone.

Two of the children went to America,
while Lucy and Hugh settled down together.
The former, now Lady O'O'Moore,
launched out as a governess, while the latter
was in due time called to the bar in Dublin.
Lucy Unyan had taught in two or three
families before she went as governess to
Kathleen O' Moore ; she had a fair smattering
of French, German, music, and
other accomplishments, dressed with
tolerable taste, and was decidedly good-looking.
She passed as an orphan, as the
daughter of a gentleman who had been
unfortunate in business, and that was all

any one knew about her. No one took
the trouble to find out what the parent
Unyan had been. It would have been a
difficult task to do so ; his name was not
in the Blue Book, and what was an Unyan
in the great metropolis ? Were there not
plenty of them in every profession, from
picture frame-makers up to Royal Academicians,
and from bailiffs' officers up to
Queen's Counsel ?

Miss Lucy Unyan was 'genteelly connected,'
was naturally reticent about her
ancestry, which had suffered the reverses
of fortune, and was therefore admitted asa
lady in reduced circumstances' to train
up the children of several well-to-do people.
She had given up this position of ' daily
governess ' to fill the post of f resident
governess ' to Kathleen, and to teach her
to become a lady ; that is to say to file off

the rough edges, to check the overflow of
spirits, to soften the merry laugh, and to
slacken the romping step ; to restrain the
natural expression of feeling and idea, and
to tinge with some of her own unreality
the hitherto unchecked wild-flower life of
the baronet's daughter. And so well did
she play her hand, so innocently did she
use little winning ways, and such pretty
attentions did she show to Sir Patrick,
making herself at the same time so essential
to household order and government,
that he asked her to marry him. He reflected
upon how soon Kathleen might get
married, and upon his consequent loneliness,
and this reflection led him to the
step which made Lucy Unyan Lucy
O'O'Moore, in his eyes, but in her satisfied
ambition, Lady O'O'Moore.

With what pride she wrote to tell her

brother Hugh of the conquest she had
made! How she dilated upon the fact of
her possessing a title, upon Kathleen's
beauty, and his chance of marrying the
baroness daughter ! And when the 
was at hand, and Sir Patrick
asked his bride-elect if she had no relations
whom she wished to invite to the
wedding, she replied, with touching simplicity,
and absence of any traces of a blush,
that she was an orphan, had but one
brother, who was a barrister, and that he
was too hard pressed with business to leave
Dublin. Sir Patrick married Lucy Unyan
for love. He admired her, believed she
would make his home comfortable and
would be a careful housewife. But marriage
wrought wonders, or rather woes, in
the wife, and promoted regrets in the
bosom of the husband.

Lucy Unyan had been thrifty and
penny-wise, Lady O'O'Moore was extravagant
and pound-foolish ; Lucy Unyan had
been pliant and gentle, Lady O'O'Moore was
obstinate and harsh ; the governess had
been unselfish, the wife was grasping and
unthinking of others ; the governess had
shown a simple dependent spirit, the wife
showed the marked contrast of imperious -
ness. The sweet little subdued ways
vanished, the little attentions ceased,
everything had to bow its neck to her
wish and command, for was she not now
a baronet's lady, though the daughter of a
chef?

The new regime made but little difference
to Kathleen ; she went her own ways
pretty well. She could not fail to see a
change in her father ; he had lost much of
his heartiness, much of his kind bluff

manner, and there was an air of restraint
about him which was as evident to Mr.
Clavering as to Kathleen herself. Then
came the event of a son born to Sir
Patrick ; this was indeed a balm and a
compensation for bad temper, self-will, and
extravagance. His fondest desire was to
have a son and heir, and when he was
born, the kindhearted baronet could in noway
restrain his delight. He behaved
like a happy school-boy, was full of chaff
and good humour, his old self seemed to
return to him for the time, and he lavished
douceurs ' with a prodigality which he
would have upbraided in any one else at
another time, and of which he would have
been incapable himself. The servants were
feasted, the tenantry regaled, and it would
be impossible to say how much whisky and
water, or perhaps whisky alone, was drunk.

The merry-making continued for some
days, and then came the christening of the
child. The name chosen for him was
Hugh ' — it was her ladyship's desire.
The name had family associations for
her, she said ; her grandfather had been
called Hugh. It would, perhaps, be too
much to say that this was false, but it was
decidedly doubtful.

The late Mr. Unyan, after he had blossomed
from the savoury chrysalis into the
retired butterfly with a heavy watch chain,
had cast a graceful shadow — not his own —
over his ancestry and over the means of
his rise in life, He had had a select little
circle of tea-drinking acquaintances, and to
them he always spoke of his ' profession,'
and, when closely pressed as to what that
had been, he stated that he was once ' at
the head of a department in a large house,

and this was a perfectly truthful aspect of
affairs, only prettily stated. Oh, Unyan !
who in the flesh didst strut about in
domestic white, but afterwards in sleek
broadcloth, whose family held their heads
as high as their neighbours, whose little
suburban villa was ' spick and span,'
wherein, on certain occasions, little revellings
were held, when thou didst deign to
direct the culinary efforts of a weak plain
cook ! — what, then, was the pinnacle of
thy pride ? to what, then, did thy fancy
soar ? Sometimes, perhaps, thou didst
dream of ' donning ' some day the red
cloak of an alderman, while the official
chain sparkled like some all-alluring will-o'-the-wisp,
or of even living to become
the chief magistrate of the great metropolis,
and of receiving the touch which
dubbed thee knight of some great ban-vol.
1. 9

quiet given to foreign prince or heathen
potentate !

But then there came 4 a killing frost the
investments failed, and thou didst escape
an almost penury by death. Well, sooner
or later, that comes to all. But if thy shade
can behold, how are thy culinary efforts
now crowned with success ! Erst little
Lucy is a lady of rank, mother to a future
baronet, and is doing her best to marry
thy son to a wealthy wife. Dry thine eyes,
departed Unyan, and rejoice that thou, a
follower of Epicurus, hast remunerated a
line of baronets whose ancient title would
otherwise have disappeared from off the
face of the earth !

Yes, Lady O'O'Moore has a right by
birth, has she not, to condemn the blind
boy's musical skill and to speak with disdain
of the lower classes ? The proud

purple blood that chases through her veins
rebels rightly at gifts God-given to one her
inferior by birth and in station. She is
one of those unreal people who find their
way into society, one of those who try to
lord it over others, who, though of gentler
blood and of far greater refinement, are retiring,
unobtrusive, and easily suppressed.
My lady this or that, or even plain mistress
so-and-so, who has raised herself by marriage,
holds her ' receptions ' and her
1 kettle-drums.' She knows ' good people,
and by an amount of ' hauteur ' and ' airs '
forms a circle for herself. Within this,
those of her own rank, less lucky than she
has been, look up to her as to a queen,
flatter and fawn upon her, and obey her
1 beck and nod,' while others of far better
blood, but of timid dispositions, accept her
invitations as commands, are invited 



cause they give her parties a little hant
ton, and even if she drop her sis, and of
course no baronet's lady would do that,
there are people only too willing to excuse
her, and to propound the theory that such
a delinquency is quite pardonable, because
she is, you see, of foreign extraction.'

Lady O' Moore intended to pass a very
gay winter in Dublin ; she had already
framed plans for enjoyment. She had
induced Sir Patrick to take a handsome
town-house, and had made up her mind to
entertain largely. Her pet scheme was
the introduction of Hugh into her husband's
house as a suitable match for
Kathleen ; that was her piece de resistance,
and she thought of it with as much
anticipation as did her father, when, in
days long gone by, he prepared some
savoury dish of curious conceit either to

please his own palate or the taste of others,
and thus to put money into his pockets.

Fortunately for Hugh, he had inherited
none of his father's mental defects or
external qualities. He really was a very-handsome
young fellow ; he was gentlemanly
and easy in manner, and had none
of the pretensions which must have defined,
or nearly so, the circle of society
from which Lady O'O'Moore had sprung.
It was fortunate, too, for both of them, that
the other brother and sister were far away.
Sir Patrick had heard that his lady had
connections abroad, but he did not know
how near or distant by blood or water, nor
had he the faintest conception of their
genealogy, their manners, habits, or social
status. And just at present, too, his
thoughts were not even so often with his
wife as they had been, for his whole admiration

was given up to the son and heir.
Lady O'O'Moore did not mind this ; she was
constantly, almost always, thinking of the
gay winter she was going to pass in
Dublin, and her thoughts in connection
with this ran rather on silks and satins
and dinners and balls than on Sir Patrick's
diminished attentions.

CHAPTER VII.

TWO KINDS OF REVENGE.
'Revenge is sweet.'
Mike O'Leary was tried at the assizes
and received a sentence which was far too
lenient for his crime ; however, the learned
judge, considering that there were extenuating
circumstances which led the man to
attempt Mr. Clavering's life, and having
also received a letter from Mr. Clavering
on the subject, only sentenced Mike to
three years' imprisonment with hard labour,
to be followed by another three years' police
supervision.

As soon as Mr. Clavering heard of the

sentence, he went and called upon Mrs.
O'Leary and promised to provide her with
the means lor going to see her husband in
gaol, for staying a night in the county town
if necessary, and for returning to Inchi^eela.
The poor woman gladly accepted the offer,
and a day or two afterwards set off for
Cork, accompanied by her blind boy and
her youngest child.

When Mrs. O'Leary and her two children
had left Inchigeela, Mr. Clavering sent a
workman down to repair her cabin, and to
make it, at any rate, water-tight He felt
no grudge towards Mike O'Leary for the
crime he had attempted to commit ; het
garden it in the light of a mistaken idea,
an act on behalf of his starving children
as an attempted though useless remedy for
some real or fancied injustice committed
in former days.

Moreover, Mr. Clavering considered the
blind boy, who had made such an impression
upon him ; he did not exactly see how
he could be of service to the lad, and yet
all the kindness and consideration he had
already shown, and yet intended to show,
to the O'Learys found its real spring in
the affection, for it was nothing short of
that, which he felt for that little sensitive
and delicate frame, and for that mind which
thought in music and seemed so much
above its surroundings.

Pat O'Leary had been a constant visitor
at Clonmore since Frank's departure to
join his regiment. Mr. Clavering felt
lonely without his son, and his loneliness
was further increased by the departure of
the O'Moores for Dublin.

In the frequent visits of the blind boy
Mr. Clavering had taken an insight into

the child's character. He was a man who
sought for beauties in nature, a man who
hated sham, and who saw at once beneath
the mask which any one might attempt to
wear in his presence. He admired the
candid honour in his son's character, the
honest bluff friendship and heart of Sir
Patrick O'O'Moore, the child-like simplicity
and faith, the pure appreciation of God, in
little Pat O'Leary, while he disliked intensely
the unreal type of mind and the
shallow affectation of Lady O'O'Moore.

He had been a great thinker and a
great reader, for he had been much alone.
From the time that he had sold out of the
army, when he married, and his married
life had been speedily cut short by the
death of his wife, he had preferred quiet
study to anything else ; while his neighbour
farmed or hunted, went here and there and

led a life of activity, Mr. Clavering enjoyed
the solace of his library, wrote essays for
his amusement, which he never published,
and made studies of character from those
who surrounded him.

One of his conversations with Pat
O'Leary had been as follows : the little
fellow had been playing a melancholy air
upon his fiddle, and had ended his performance
with a bright sparkling melody.

4 How do you like the new strings, Pat ?'
asked Mr. Clavering.

Very much, yer 'oner ; sure, there's
more soul in my old fiddle than I ever
thought was there.'

Why are you so fond of music, Pat ?'

4 Sure, sur, I hardly know how to
answer you ; it's a hard thing to put in
words, but it's just to me I fancy what sun
and flowers and green fields are to ye. I

say to me little sister at times, " Biddy, tell
me what a flower is like," an' she tells meas
well as she can, the colour and the
shape, and of course I can smell it for
myself, an' I hear the running' o' water, an'
the blown' o' wind, an the patter o' rain,
an' I says to myself, " That's God"; an' I can
see none of Him ; an' yet I can feel Him,
for He's all there,' said the boy, putting
his hand upon his heart; 'an' thin I just
begin to play, an' I seem to know it all.'

4 You always play so sadly to begin with,
Pat, and then you end up with a lively
tune. How is it ?'

1 Indeed, thin, an' I can hardly explain
that, yer 'oner ; the first part is, so to say,
that I can do no better, an' the second partis
to make up for it.'

1 You don't think you could do without
your fiddle, Pat, do you ?'

Indeed no, sur, it would be like killing'
me. There's Biddy an' the whole lot of
them seem to be perfectly happy wi' their
potatoes, an' nigh go wild when there's a
bit o' bacon thrown in ; for me it's the
same what I eat, but it's not the same what
I play — sometimes I play sad when I feel
sad, an' happy when I feel happy, an' what
I could play to-day I shouldn't play tomorrow,
nor play tomorrow like the day
after.'

The boy really found it difficult to say
what he meant ; language quite failed him.
His music was his spiritual existence, and
had you taken it away from him, his life
could not have continued ; you would have
rooted out his raison d'etre ; it would have
been like putting seed into the ground and
then taking it away to await, though all in
vain, the issue of a flower or any sign of

growth ; it would have been like depriving
a plant of light, which, without the fostering
sunshine, would droop and grow brown
and hang its head ; its beauty would fade,
its freshness and vigour would disappear,
it would be the bare semblance of a plant,
but no more. You cannot dry up the
source of a stream and then expect to see
it rippling over its course, as it used to do ;
you cannot put an opaque roof over your
head and see the stars through it; you
cannot let wine become vinegar and drink
it as nectar ; you cannot blacken snow with
ink and then admire its purity ; you cannot
crush or quell or eradicate by force an
innate virtue or a genius which God has
given, without leaving a miserable wreck,
and an echo which contain no sweetness
of the past reality ; and had the old fiddle
been taken away from the blind boy, it

would have been like taking the colour
from rose-leaves and the perfume from
violets, like changing a sweet instrument
of harmony into a jangling discord, and
then saying, ' See what a change I have
wrought ; this is a rose, that a violet, this a
harp, they are unchanged in appearance !'
1 Yes,' they would ask, ' but where are the
colour and the perfume and the harmony ?'
They are gone ; that is the change.

When Mrs. O'Leary and her children
visited Mike in prison, they found him
gloomy and depressed. His wife cried,
and the blind boy crept up to his father
and passed his delicate hands through the
man's hair.

Are you unhappy, father ?' asked
Pat.

Yes, my boy, an' three long years of it
to come,' growled Mike.

1 It's your own fault, father ; I begged
of you not to go on with that shooting.'


■ Me own fault, did ye say? Out on ye !
it's the fault of them blackguard landlords.
D'ye repose Mr. Clavering will gain anything'
by putting' me in here ; d'ye repose he can
kill what I main to do ? I defy him, an'
if I were kept in prison for twenty years,
I'd take his life when I came out !'

Oh, Mike !' sobbed his poor brokenhearted
wife, ' don't talk like that. Is it
not enough to know that your wife and
chiltern must suffer all the time ye're inhere,
an' if you get train' on such a thing
again, they'll imprison ye for life, or maybe
hang ye. Plaise God, ye'll forget it all
afore ye come out, for my sake as well as
yer own !'

Devil a bit,' said Mike. ' That fellow

shall repent it ; if I don't kill him, some one
else shall.'

But, father, isn't it Mr. Clavering' as is
feeding' us now ?' put in the blind boy ; ' isn't
it he as has sent us here to-day ? an' what
should we do without him ?'

1 An' what for d'ye repose he's coin' all
that — for charity's sake ? Faith, thin, that's
bin dead long enough ago, and he's still
wearing' mourning for it. It's not that, but
he hopes to hide the sins of his father in
that way ; he hopes to turn aside the sword
that is hanging over him, but I swear he
never shall. No, no ; the first week as I'm
out let him take care of himself, for its
little mercy he'll have from me.'

1 I shall tell him all this,' said the blind
boy, resolutely. ' I shall tell him to take
care. Isn't it he that has fed us an' taken
care of us since you went away ? And

vol. 1. 10

why ? Ye it was who tried to kill him ;
an' if he'd been like you, he'd have left us
to die.'

Is it ye, Pat, as would turn again your
own father for the like of him ? Is it yeas
could ever forgive an injury done to yer
family, blind as ye are ; because sure an'
if it's so, ye're no son of mine, an' could ye
see, I'd turn ye out into the world.'

I cannot, father, bear to hear ye talk
again Mr. Clavering' ; it's he as makes me
happy. He doesn't say that I'm soft, he
doesn't say that I should stop me fiddle
plain' ; he it is that understands me, an'
I'll stan' to him, whatever you or any one
else may say.'

An' is it you,' he asked fiercely of his
wife, ' that have put these ideas into the
child's head with yer soft ways, an' turn'd
him again me ?'

Sure, Mike, I've never spoke to the
child about it ; the A'mighty only knows
where he got such talk in from. He's up
wi' Mr. Clavering' every day, an' maybe he
gets it there.'

Well, now look here he said to his
wife, ' it's my strict orders that ye take no
charity from that man ; it's no longer that
I'll have that boy going' up to Clonmore.
Am I to have me own family put again me
by him, an' for them to be thinking' that
he's right an' I'm wrong ? All that ye or
any one else may say or do won't alter
me ; an' if ye go an 7 tell people what I've
been saying', ye'll just add another three
years an' maybe more before I'll be out.
Don't come an see me again, I don't want
it ; but in three years' time ye'll see me out,
an' thin God help him that tries to keep

10 — 2

me from Mr. Clavering', or, if he's dead, his
son

He had raised his voice high during
this last tirade, and, as he finished, the
turnkey appeared at the door of the cell
and told the visitors that their time was
up.

When Mrs. O'Leary and her children
returned to Inchigeela they found their
cabin in a better state of repair than it had
ever been in since they inhabited it.
There was no hole in the roof, the
windows had been mended, and there
were one or two unbroken stools added
to the room, which served for living,
sleeping room, and pig-sty. The children
who had been left at home were full of
accounts as to the doings of the carpenter,
and had been amply supplied with provisions
from Clonmore. How was Mrs.

O'Leary to carry out her husband's injunctions
? Was she to refuse all the kindness
that was offered to her because of his
spirit of spite and revenge ?

She weighed the subject for a few
seconds. Obedience to a bad husband,
whom she yet loved — duty to her children,
whom she cherished and thought of more
than herself; and then the mother's gentle
solicitude overcame the wife's fears, and
she felt that she must accept Mr. Covering's
bounty, for how else were the little
hungry ones to be filled or to be kept alive
in the cold winter months which had
already commenced with unusual severity
?

Does a woman love her husband more
than her children or vice versa ? The
question has been asked often enough, but
seldom answered in a manner that would

convince one way or the other. It is
certain that a wife loves her husband, and
a husband his wife, far better than she or
he ever loved their parents. But when
the little ones come, then arises the question
whether the two staples of the chain
are in themselves as sympathetic as ever,
or whether it is not rather that their love
runs through the links which bind them
together in the persons of their little ones ?
Is it a needful question to ask ? Scarcely ;
the great question should be, Am I doing
my duty to both ? Am I fulfilling my
duty of comfort and love to the one ? am I
cherishing and setting a bright example to
the others ? If so, then there is a sympathy
which runs through the whole chain.
I love the one, I love the others. Spare me
the one, O Heaven ! spare me the others.
Teach me to live so that without idle questionings

or surprising I may engender
happiness, so that my love may exist without
useless doubts and may be continually
satisfied with itself.

Almost immediately after his return to
Inchigeela, Pat O'Leary went up to Claymore
to see Mr. Clavering ; he did not tell
his mother that he was going there, for
fear she should object, though at the same
time he would have taken no heed of her
objection.

He resolved to tell his friend all that
O'Leary had said in prison concerning
him ; the blind boy felt great anxiety on
Mr. Clavering's account, and his little
heart was full of dismay at the thought of
death coming to the only one who had
really seemed to understand him and to
take interest in the subject that engrossed
himself — his music. It is true that Pat

loved his own people, but even his affection
for them had never approached that which
he felt for his fiddle; but now he had found
some one worthy of sharing his heart, one
who seemed more to breathe the air that
he breathed and to enjoy and realise the
things that he enjoyed and realised, and
the thought of harm to be done to Mr.
Clavering distressed him in the same way
that he would have grieved had any one
said to him, f Pat, when I get the chance
I will break your fiddle into pieces ;' he
would have tried to save that, and he
wanted now to try and save his friend.

Pat found his way to the study-door at
Clonmore, and tapped with his fiddle-bow.
Come in !' responded Mr. Clavering to
the sound, and the boy entered the
room.

'Why, Pat, back at Inchigeela already!

Well, did your mother find any improvements
in the old cabin ?'

1 Indeed, sure, sur, an' I didn't wait to
hear nothing'. Oh ! Mr. Clavering', git out
of Inchigeela as soon as you can, before
me father comes out o' prison, or he'll kill
you !' and the blind boy burst into tears.

Nonsense, my poor boy ! he'll forget all
about it by that time. He is taking his
revenge on me now by thinking as he
thinks now, and I am taking mine too, in
trying to make you all more comfortable


Sure, an' it's not he as will ever forget
yer 'oner ; he'll try to murther ye when he
comes out o' prison, an' no one will be
able to prevent him,' said Pat, shaking his
head.

'Don't you be afraid, Pat,' said Mr.
Clavering, laughing to allay th boy's

fears ; ' when your father comes home I'll
look after myself and him too ; he shall
have work, and you will see that we shall
be good friends.'

Sure, an' it's not I as thinks so !' said
the boy, dubiously. * He was well-nigh
daft to-day wi' rage when mother an' me
spoke of all ye have done for us, an' said
as how mother must take nothing' more
from ye, and that it's you are train' to turn
us again our own father.'

Tut, tut, my boy ! your father's angry
now because he's got himself into prison ;
he'll forget it, and I shall not have to leave
Clonmore. Come, my boy, have something
to eat, and then you may play me a
little soft music on your fiddle, while I'm
writing.'

Indeed, yer 'oner, an' I'll neither eat
nor play until ye promise to take a bit o'

care o' yourself. Mr. Clavering' F said the
boy, going up close to his friend and listening
cautiously round for fear of any one
hearing him ; ' me father will murder ye if
he can. He's a terrible man, an there's
110 one knows it as well as I do, not even
mother : take a bit o' care o' yourself, sur,
plaise do, for I'll tell you one bit o' news,'
continued the child, dropping his voice, and
saying with emotion, 'a thing I've never
yet said to a soul, nor could say to anyone
but you ; I'd as soon have me fiddle
broke as you, I would indeed, sur — I would
indeed !'

The poor child sobbed as though his
heart would break. Mr. Clavering tried
to comfort him, assured him that he would
take care of himself, and would come to no
harm at Mike O'Leary's hands, until at
length the child grew quieter. And when

the December day was dying out, and the
fire burnt brightly in the grate, and out
through the window could be seen the cold
grey sky with its streak of wintry sunset
far beyond the leafless trees, then Mr,
Clavering laid aside his pen and went and
sat by the fire. He listened to the sad
strains of the blind boy's music, he looked
at the child's pale fair face as the firelight
flashed upon it, and gave himself up to a
reverie which the music conjured up for
him ; now it carried him back to the pastor
led his thoughts into a tangle which
became less capable of being unravelled as
his eyes sought the fire and he studied the
curious forms within it.

Twilight is a time of dreams ; too early
for lights, too dark to write or read, we
fold our hands and, talking but little, lose
ourselves in a maze of thought.

Are you happier now, Pat ?' asked Mr.
Clavering, softly.

Sure, sur, I've played away my
sorrow

CHAPTER VIII.

ONLY THE DEATH OF A BABY.

1 By my troth, Melissa, my little body is aweary of
this great world.'

Lady O'O'Moore, as soon as she was settled
in Dublin for the winter, began entertaining
largely, and was entertained in turn. Sir
Patrick had taken a spacious house in
Gardiner's Row, fronting north Great
George's Street ; it was close to the house
occupied by the Earl of Belvedere, and
was then one of the finest private residences
in the city.

Sir Patrick had a liberal heart and a

well-filled pocket, but never before had so
many appeals been made to either of them
as during this visit to the capital. There
was a constant demand for money, and
many were the cheques he wrote for and
the cash he handed over to his extravagant
wife. She must have a new morning-dress,
or walking costume, or toilette for a ball ;
So-and-so's must be asked to lunch or to
dinner ; every one has such-and-such a
shaped carriage, she must have one too ;
she must give a ball or a reception. And
for the first few weeks there had been
constant demands for funds wherewith to
dress Kathleen. However, these last had
come so often and so monstrously,, and at
the same time there was so little result in
the person of Kathleen herself, that Sir
Patrick, who could not but fancy that the
money was really obtained for other

purposes, decided upon giving his daughter
an allowance, and thereby enabling her to
dress at a far cheaper rate with a far handsomer
result.

Lady O'O'Moore did not approve of this
arrangement ; she assured Sir Patrick that
Kathleen had no taste, no ideas as to how
money should be spent on dress ; but in
spite of such a declaration he still kept to
the alteration he had made, and mildly
hinted that his daughter had never looked
so well under her step-mother's expenditure
as she did under her own. This was galling
to her ladyship, and she asked, with a guilty
conscience, but with the appearance of consummate
injured innocence, if her husband
deemed, for one moment, that she could
be guilty of misappropriation of funds ;
because if so, the sooner he could rid
himself of so base an idea, the better. Sir

Patrick assured his wife that it was nothing
of the kind, only that he thought it much
better for Kathleen to learn the use of
money, and that she was quite old enough
to beofin to do so. Then bean one of
those little scenes, so often attempted, and
as often successfully carried out by those
femmes qui laurent. Lady 0' Moore
insisted that this was not the real reason
why he had seen fit to withdraw funds for
Kathleen's wardrobe from her hands, that
he was guilty of doubting his wife's honour
and integrity ; that he had never been cruel
to her before, and why should he begin
now ?

Then came a flood of tears to those
bright eyes, the little heart was too full to
say any more, and Sir Patrick was distracted
to know what he oucrht to do. He
was unaccustomed to such scenes, and he

VOL. i. i r

left the room and sent her ladyship's maid
to do her best to restore weeping innocence.
Then the poor man went to his study, and
walked up and down recalling his first
married life ; he took the old velvet frame
from his pocket and kissed reverently the
picture of his first wife. She had never
indulged in such extravagances, had never
reproached him with hard-heartiness, had
never entered upon such an hysterical
scene as was now being transacted upstairs.
It had always been of him and of her child
she had thought, and had only remembered
herself last, and sometimes had had to be
reminded of self-neglect. Yes, he had
done wrong to marry again ; he had been
deceived by appearances and outward
form, and he began to perceive that the
governess had married him for selfish ends
and not for love.

Then he thought of his boy ; yes, that
was a blessing which had come with the
second marriage. But the child was
delicate ; it lacked a mother's love, a
mother's constant unselfish attention ; it
was left too much to the hands of hirelings,
and instead of growing up, as it should
have done, a strong boy with its father's
tough constitution, it was merely a delicate
puny baby, too weak, the doctor said, to
live long. Her ladyship thought more cf
a new bracelet than of her child, more of
putting on a dress than of taking him in
her arms ; true, she remembered that she
was the mother of a future baronet, but
alas ! that thought was not enough to give
strength to her boy.

Up in a nursery at the top of a house
little Hugh O'O'Moore lived with his nurse ;
thither did his father repair many times a

11 — 2

day, and the little one used to smile and
crow when the baronet appeared. But her
ladyship had no time to visit that lofty
region ; never did her august shadow
darken the nursery-door; when she condescended
to be worried with her child,
it,' as she called him, was brought down
to her bedroom, or boudoir, or drawing-room,
and received a cold embrace and a
matter-of-form kiss from his mother. Sir
Patrick on such occasions would wish to
detain his little heir, but her ladyship, with
a wearied expression, would assure her
husband that the child was much better
with his nurse, and back ' it ' went to the
top of the house.

Poor little innocent ! God cannot misplace
His gifts, and yet it seemed a
mistake to make Lady O'O'Moore a mother ;
she did not take care of the talent entrusted

to her, and she would suffer for
apathy and heartlessness in the discharge of
her duty. God gives, but He can also take
away ; and those who prate against Christianity
cannot but acknowledge, however
it may come about, ' as for the way of the
ungodly, He turneth it upside down.'

It is not only the aged that are cut down
and removed from the garden f God's
earth, not only the weeds that are uprooted
and burnt, but the bright little flowers only
just blossoming into life are taken away ;
those that are carefully tended, and seem
too beautiful for earth, are transplanted to
heaven, and those which seem to grow ina
corner of the garden out of the sunlight
and the refreshing rain of love, their little
heads drooping from neglect, are revived
by the angels' kiss, and borne upward to a
land whose climate dispels ell weariness

and sadness of heart — the unknown land
above the stars.

After Sir Patrick had been alone in his
study for about a quarter of an hour, Lady
O'O'Moore's maid entered, and informed him
that her lady was very ill indeed in a fit of
hysterics, and wished to see her husband.
He told the servant that he would come ina
few minutes, and forthwith went over to
his secretaire and wrote a cheque for
fifty pounds, and prepared with this remedy
not contained in clinical medicine, as a
cure for hysteria — he sought his lady's
room. She was sobbing violently, and he
tried in vain to calm her.

1 What is the matter, Lucy ?' he asked.

1 You — a — know — a — well enough,' replied
the lady.

■ Is there anything I can do for you, my
love ?' asked the baronet, who had formed

his own ideas as to the success of the cure
he was about to try.

1 Nothing,' sobbed Lady O'O'Moore. ' You
are cruel and heartless to bring me to such
a state.'

My love, I am sorry ; but come, dry
your eyes — don't let us have any more of
this. I am very, very sorry to have offended
you, Lucy — here is a little present by way
of atonement ; kiss me, and make it up.'

1 How much ?' asked her ladyship, more
composedly.

Just once, my love, as a sign of peace
said the baronet, kissing her forehead.

No, I mean the cheque, Patrick,' said
his lady, raising herself on her couch and
inspecting the slip of paper. ' Only fifty
pounds ! I suppose I must be content.'


At that moment the maid entered and

informed her mistress that the nurse begged
her ladyship to go up to the nursery at
once, as Master Hugh was in a fit.

Sir Patrick rushed upstairs ; but his lady
said that her nerves were already too
much taxed to allow of her paying a visit
to her son, and requested that the doctor
should be sent for immediately.

If anything dreadful happens to that
child I shall have to postpone my dance ;
I cannot give it next week, and in any case
I shall have to appear in black. How unfortunately
things happen !' Such were
Lady O' Moore's thoughts.

The doctor arrived, but too late to render
any real assistance ; the little child was
breathing his last.

Sir Patrick stood by ; his heart was full
of grief. There in that small cradle lay
the little one never destined to fulfil his

hopes, its little hands clenched in agony,
its little life ebbing fast away.

Is her ladyship not coming ?' he said,
through his tears.

1 She is too unwell, Sir Patrick,' was the
answer.

The baronet bit his lip. ' Has Miss
Kathleen not returned home yet ?' he
asked.

1 Not yet, Sir Patrick.'

Kathleen was out at a dance, to which
her ladyship had refused to accompany
her as chaperon, so she had engaged the
services of a friend.

Is no one else coming ?' asked Sir Patrick,
as he knelt down by the cradle, with
a longing at heart to recall life to the little
one whose spirit was passing away. The
father's tears fell fast and free : ' My poor
child f he sobbed ; ' my poor child, would

that the other one had been your
mother !'

Kathleen came into the room at the
moment, and went up to the cradle.

Is he dead, papa ?' she asked. ' Where
is mamma ?'

Sir Patrick took his daughter's arm and
left the room.

Where is mamma ?' asked Kathleen
again.

■ She is unwell, dear answered Sir
Patrick.

Was poor little baby ill long ?' she
asked.

1 Only a few minutes, Kathleen ; poor
boy !'

Shall I go and see mamma ? She must
be upset about baby's death.'

She doesn't know of it yet, Kathleen ;
she was told that the child was ill, but she

could not come up. She has been upset
all the evening

1 About what, papa ? Let me go to
her!'

1 No, no, Kathleen ; much better not tonight.
Good-night, my love,' he said,
kissing her.

When Sir Patrick entered his own room
his wife asked him :

How is baby ?'

Baby is dead P he said quietly. He
thought such a sudden announcement
would have no great effect upon her r
after she had allowed her little indisposition
to prevent her going to her dying
child.

1 Baby dead ? she asked, sitting upright
on the sofa where she had been lying down.
Impossible !'

1 The poor child is gone !' said Sir

Patrick, brushing away a tear with his
hand.

What could have killed it ? Those
nurses can never be trusted. Perhaps the
child was poisoned ; who knows ?

All this was said very quietly. Sir
Patrick certainly did not expect so emotionless
a reception of the bad news as this ;
he was afraid to say anything, he dreaded
another fit of hysterics ; and more than
this, he did not feel disposed to try a repetition
of the remedy already used that
evening.

He merely looked at his wife, and said —
Poor little child ! I am sadly grieved. I
did expect to see the child grow up to bethe
child of my old age, and I am bitterly
disappointed.'

So am 1/ said her ladyship, yawning.

Sir Patrick waited for something more.

It is so very awkward,' continued Lady
O'O'Moore. ' I shall have to put off my
dance for at least a week, and must, of
course, appear in mourning. I beg of
you, Patrick, to have no parade of a
funeral.'

Sir Patrick was leaving the room, when
his wife asked him where he was going.

I am going to F my study,' he answered
quietly.

Sir Patrick sat a long time thinking over
what had transpired. He was sad at
heart for the loss of his child ; and his
wife's heartlessness filled him with dismay.
It offered such a contrast to the opinion he
had originally formed of Lucy before he
married her. However, it was too late to
go back now ; the step was taken long
since, and he must abide by the results oi
his over-hasty choice.

Lady O'O'Moore, after revolving the question
of propriety in her mind, determined
to have her dance as soon as she could,
and then she fell asleep.

CHAPTER IX.

MY LADY'S BOWER.
She is a woman, and therefore may be woo'd.'

The baby had been buried scarcely three
weeks, when Lady O' Moore gave the ball
which she had felt compelled to postpone.


Hugh Unyan had been a good deal at
his brother-in-law's house, and Sir Patrick
was fain to acknowledge to his wife that
her brother was a fine handsome fellow.
Lady O' Moore was pleased with this
opinion, and added the remark, that Hugh
paid great attention to Kathleen, which

seemed in no way to be unpleasant to
her.

Sir Patrick had not noticed this, he said.
Of course he should neither guide nor
object to his daughter's choice of a husband,
but at the same time he would never
give his consent to her marrying any one
who was not in a position to maintain her.
It was true that Kathleen would have a
large fortune of her own, but that was not
enough ; he had very few strong objections,
but among the few was the one that
he disliked to see a husband entirely
dependent upon his wife's pocket for
existence.

Lady O'O'Moore went further, and asked
what course Sir Patrick would take did
Kathleen choose Hugh as her suitor.
He answered that he should not object
to an engagement; but that until Hugh

was really earning a livelihood sufficient
for the support of himself and a wife, he,
Sir Patrick, would not give his consent
to a marriage.

Lady O'O'Moore was thus in possession
of her husband's mind upon the subject,
and she had several conversations with her
brother upon the matter of his marrying
Kathleen. He had received many gifts
from his sister, who had also refurnished
his bachelor's room for him. Funds for
these purposes were easily procured so
long as her ladyship received money as
necessary for Kathleen's wardrobe ; but
now that her step-daughter expended for
herself, Master Hugh Unyan had fewer
presents and less cash in his pocket.

His sister of course received large sums
from her husband for her own use ; but she
was not unselfish enough to curtail her own

vol. 1. 12

expenditure, to lessen the depth of her
lace, the length of her train, or the quantity
of her jewellery, in order to provide a
brother with cash. No, Lady O'O'Moore
would do all in her power to better his
position, but she did not intend to make
self-sacrifices in order to bring - that to
pass.

At five o'clock in the evening of the
day of Lady O' Moore's ball, Hugh Unyan
appeared in his sister's boudoir, to take
tea with her and to talk over an important
matter concerning which her ladyship had
sent him a little three-cornered note during
the afternoon.

Her ladyship was sitting in a low armchair
before the fire ; beside her was a
small table on which was placed a tea-service,
the cost of which would have kept
two poor families from starvation for

twelve months. She was elegantly
dressed in a loose degage style, for she
was now ' resting ' in order to better
undergo the fatigues of the coming dance.
-What had tired her, it is hard to say. She
had taken a drive in the morning, had
spent a good deal of money, had lunched
well, and had then walked upstairs to her
sanctum, where she had sat listlessly
skimming some book, and here and there
improving her time with a little nap.
Sir Patrick rarely entered this boudoir,
Kathleen, never ; she used to do so, but
Lady O'O'Moore usually entered upon some
conversation which disgusted her stepdaughter
by its heartlessness and foolish
emptiness. Thus it chanced that her
ladyship was free from interruption in
her elegant little room, and that Hugh
Unyan was often there, closeted with her,

12 — 2

when no one dreamed that he was even in
the house.

Hugh Unyan is occupying another low
chair, has one of the exquisite tea-cups
balanced upon his knee, and is puffing
away at a little cigarette, for he is even
allowed to smoke in my lady's bower.

1 Take care of that cup, Hugh,' said her
ladyship, glancing uneasily at its precarious
situation.

All right, Lucy. I was just thinking
what a difference this room is to the one
we had in olden days ; and, what is more,
it is your own said Hugh, smiling contentedly.


Hush !' said Lucy, sipping her tea.

'Why "hush," Lucy? No one can hear
it, and besides, I don't see any harm in us
two talking of old days. You certainly
have played your cards well ; this is a

great improvement upon the vulgar old
villa outside London, isn't it ?' asked
Hugh, looking round upon blue silk, gilt
furniture, mirrors and old china.

'Hugh!' said Lady O'O'Moore, severely,
I don't wish you to talk of what is past
We have plenty to talk of that concerns
us at the present, or rather that concerns
you

Well, then, I'll change the subject,'
said Hugh. i That is a handsome dress
you have on, Lucy.'

Yes, Hugh. Well, what of that ?'
1 1 was thinking that you might let a
fellow have a little more cash nowadays ; it
comes very seldom now.'

4 I have told you, Hugh, that Sir Patrick
has reduced my expenditure, and that I
cannot let you have more than I do.'

But you are so well off, Lucy pleaded

her brother. ' A dress or two less would
make no difference to you, and the cost
of them would be very acceptable tome.'



I cannot do with less dresses than I
have, Hugh ; in fact, I want more, but Sir
Patrick has become quite stingy lately. I
do not dress even now in a manner suitable
to my position.*

Come, Lucy, that's nonsense ! I don't
like to hear you give expression to those
11 airs." Fancy a few years ago what you
would have given for a plain silk gown !
and now you have dresses by scores of all
colours and fashions ; and as to your position,
you certainly dress well enough for
that, and most people remember that you

were a governess.'

Lady O'O'Moore coloured, and said
angrily :

1 do wish, Hugh, that you would not
talk like that ; this is the second time I
have begged you not to this afternoon. I
am, is not what I was : 1 move in the best
society, and I am Lady O'O'Moore ; this
is a fact, and whatever jealous people may
say, they cannot alter it.'

1 As long as you are not pretentious,
Lucy, you're all right. I hate that. I don't
tell every one or any one what my father
was, I behave as a gentleman — I am a gentleman,
but I never set up for " snubbing"
others or for saying that I have blue blood
in my veins. There, that's all ; and now
what is it that you wrote to me about ?'

Hereupon, having unburdened his conscience
of the foregoing, he lighted a
cigarette.

Lady O'O'Moore did not reply for a
minute or two ; she leant forward in her

chair, resting her elbow on her knee, while
she twisted round in her hand an elegant
fire-screen.

1 I do not think it kind of you to talk
like that to me, Hugh said his sister, reproachfully.
' I have given you all the
money I have been able to get, and risked
Sir Patrick's anger for your sake. Besides
that, are you not acting a part ? Does not
your love of gambling lead you into a
society which is not your own ? is not that
pretension ?'

1 No, Lucy replied Hugh, ' decidedly
not. I am a gentleman and fit for gentlemen's
society ; my manners are easy, and
I do not profess to be what I am not. I
pay my honour debts regularly, and no one
can say a word against me on this account.'


e And how would you have paid them if

your sister were not Lady O'O'Moore, Hugh?
who would have come to your rescue ?'
asked his sister.

Hugh did not reply to this, but a minute
or two afterwards asked :

What have you to say to me of importance
?'

Merely that Sir Patrick would not consent
to your marriage with Kathleen,' said
her ladyship, quietly.

Then what is the use of my continuing
to make up to her ? I like it, it is true ;
she's a very charming girl and all that, but
there are other things to be considered.
But why does he object, Lucy ? Come,
you're only piqued, and want to annoy
me.'

Sir Patrick would consent to an engagement,
Hugh, but not to marriage.'

4 And why not, Lucy ?'

1 Because he will not allow his daughter
to marry a man who has no means of
livelihood.'

1 But, hang it ! she will have enough for
both of us.'

That matters not. Sir Patrick is resolved
not to give his consent to any
marriage for Kathleen, where the husband
has no profession.'

But I have a profession, Lucy !'

■ And what use do you make of it,
Hugh ?'

4 Plenty of use ; I have had several cases
lately.'

And the money you got for them ?'

Is spent, of course. I had debts to
pay.'

You must give up the society you mix
in, Hugh, if you ever mean to make Kathleen
your wife. You must save ; you must

give some proof that you are getting on.
I have managed well for myself; I have
done my best for you, and the rest you
must do yourself.'

But come, Lucy, with your influence
over Sir Patrick, you can induce him to
consent to a marriage.'

1 It is impossible ! he is very firm in
just a few things, and this is one of
them.'

Then, I suppose, there is nothing forme
to do but to slave.'

1 You must work hard, Hugh ; you must
show some signs of progress, and then,
doubtless, Sir Patrick will help you in
your profession. But do not give up your
idea of winning Kathleen as soon as possible.
At first I fancied matters would be
entirely smooth for you, and now there is
only this little difficulty in the way.'

1 True said Hugh, stroking his moustache
; ' and that difficulty might be removed
sooner than we expect.'

1 How ?' asked Lady O'O'Moore.

c I hardly like to say, Lucy, for your
sake ; but I mean, by Sir Patrick's
death.'

Her ladyship started. Thoughts of Sir
Patrick's death were not new to her ; she
had often wondered what she ought to do
if he were to die and leave her a wealthy
woman. A governess might become even
more than a Lady O'O'Moore.

c How would that affect the question ?'
she asked innocently.

1 Why, simply by removing the only obstacle
in my way. Of course I should be
very sorry for such a thing to happen, for
your sake, Lucy.'

Of course you would said her ladyship,

dryly. ' How do you suppose it
would affect me V

Well, you would be sorry to lose your
husband, I presume,' said Hugh, looking
at his sister with some astonishment.

How do you know that ?' she asked.

1 It is natural that you should be, Lucy

That is enough, Hugh ; of course it is
natural. But what progress are you making
with Kathleen ?'

1 So far satisfactory, that I mean to
propose to her to-night.'

1 To-night ! And do you really care for
her, or for her fortune, Hugh ?'

I am fond of her, Lucy ; I am sure, at
any rate, that I have her love, and the other
comes with it'

4 What is love, Hugh ?'

1 You should know, Lucy. Kathleen told
me the other day that she didn't really

know what it was ; but she will know, and
you know already.'

I do not, Hugh ; I cannot tell you what
it is. I am happy — very happy ; but do you
suppose I should be, if Sir Patrick were a
poor man, or even a man of moderate
means ? Love without money looks well
on paper, but in reality it must be a miserable
article. Pshaw ! your love-matches !'

Hugh Unyan was surprised to hear his
sister speak thus ; he had great pride in
the winning hand she had played, and
hopes in the hand that she might play, but
he did not admire her heartless ideas.
The words in themselves were perhaps
not of much account, but the manner in
which they were said was convincing, and
told the hearer that they came from the
heart, or rather from the stone that filled
the place of it. Her callous indifference

for the loss of her child had palled upon
him, and in all his conversations with her
he had noticed how flinty were her sentiments,
how worldly her desires, and how
shallow was her affection.

1 You are a queer girl, Lucy,' he said at
length. ' I remember that you always
were so.'

I am truthful, at any rate, and say what
I mean. You may believe that you are
really in love with Kathleen, but against
this is the fact that the engagement was
arranged to take place even before you
ever saw her ; at the same time, real love
is content with the person and wants neither
goods nor chattels, so they say. If you
reason with yourself for a moment, you
will see how different would be the fact of
marrying Kathleen O'O'Moore as a penniless
girl, and Kathleen O'O'Moore as an heiress.'

And what have you to say to her love
for me ?' asked Hugh, a little annoyed. ' I
have no fortune, and yet I believe that
Kathleen will accept me to-night.'

Do not be too sure of that, Hugh ;
there was another in the field before you,
who simply worshipped the very ground
she trod upon, and yet she refused him.
If she should accept you, you have your
good looks to thank ; but remember, that
is not all : before you can marry her you
have something else to do

We shall see, Lucy. How long do you
expect to be in Dublin ?'

1 I cannot say ; but we shall probably
leave for Inchigeela in March or April.'

What sort of place is that, Lucy ?'

Sir Patrick has a very fine house there;
but I cannot bear the place. There is a
Mr. Clavering lives next door to us, whom

I do not like. I always feel uncomfortable
in his presence ; he's one of those who
seem to see through you

f What is he, Lucy ?'

1 He was a soldier ; has an only son, who
joined the seth about a month before we
left for Dublin, and who was the very man
I have told you of, whom Kathleen refused.
By the way, Hugh, do you know if his
regiment has yet left for Spain ?'

1 do not know ; but it's very probable
that it has. And now I'm off, Lucy. I
shall be here early. Your invitations are
for nine o'clock, are they not ?'

i Yes, but of course no one will be here
before ten, or after. But if you come
early you can make good use of your
time, Hugh. Good-bye !' And her ladyship
languidly saluted her brother with a
kiss.

vol. 1. 13

Hugh Unyan has nut yet been described.
He was tall, about six feet in height, had
dark curly hair, fine bright eyes and well-cut
features, and wore a heavy moustache.
His figure was well-built; in fact both in
appearance and manner he was calculated
to work upon the hearts of the fair
sex.

Kathleen had certainly taken a great
fancy to him ; she drew comparisons
between him and Frank Clavering, and
the latter had not benefited by them.
Hugh was more lively than Frank, less
sentimental, and did not worry her with
love-speeches as her old boy lover had
done. Hugh's nature, she thought, was
more suited to her own ; he was lighthearted
and darted off from one subject to
another like a butterfly. He had plenty
of amusing little anecdotes, was a capital

mimic, a good dancer, but did not, she had
to confess, seem nearly as much at home
on horseback as her old friend did. In
spite of that he waged war against fair
enemies who at last received him as their
friend.

As Kathleen dressed for the dance that
night she found herself taking more pains
than usual with her toilette. She consulted
her glass more than was her wont, and
was particularly careful as to the braiding
of her hair and the ' fixing ' of her dress.
Her face was flushed and her fingers, too
ready for their task, were not dexterous.
At length she descended to the ball-room ;
there was a twilight look about her, she
had arranged the colours of her dress so
as to give an idea of mourning for her little
half-brother, so recently dead, and so easily
forgotten by all, save his father.

Lady O'O'Moore was already in the room ;
she was at the far end of it ; her dress was
black, and there was some one talking to
her. Kathleen's heart beat a little quicker;
she reproached herself with being so foolish,
and yet, as she walked towards her mother,
the colour came and went upon her fair
face.

And Hugh was the cause of all this,
though had such a thing been suggested
to Kathleen by any one else she would
have denied it indignantly.

Hugh came towards her, and offering
her his arm, led her to where her stepmother
was sitting.

1 1 congratulate you, Kathleen, upon
your appearance,' said Lady O'O'Moore,
smiling innocently.

'So do I, Miss O'O'Moore,' said
Hugh.

Kathleen said nothing, but her little
hand trembled upon his arm.

4 I may have the pleasure of the first
dance with you, may I not ?' asked Hugh.

'Certainly, Mr. Unyan, with all my
heart.'

The guests began to come in at last,
until there were enough to begin dancing.
Lady O' Moore was soon in the midst of
receiving her friends, and Hugh led off
Kathleen in the dance.

It was a study to watch Lady O'O'Moore
receiving her guests at the door which
opened upon the staircase ; to see the
condescension with which she received
some, the repellant manner she exercised
towards others, and the gracious way in
which she shook hands with the really
good people. Sir Patrick stood near her,
and was equally affable to high and low.

In this the true breeding came out; there
was the pretension of the parvenu in
contrast with the polished and unstudied
ease of the country gentleman, who had
been what his father had been, and who
had inherited from him and from a line of
unsullied name all that constitutes what is
born, not made. There was a painful
expression upon the baroness face now
and then, as he thought of his little dead
son. He had almost begged his wife to
put off the dance for some time, but she
had refused his request, and preferred to
cause her husband pain, rather than deny
herself the pleasures of society. Lady
O'O'Moore's conduct, however, in this
matter, had not escaped censure ; there is
no use in crying Favete Unguis to the
world, it always has a thorn to put in
somewhere ; and several had refused her

ladyship's invitations because of her
strange ideas of decorum in the matter,
although their refusals had merely stated
that they regretted extremely that they
could not accept Lady O'O'Moore's kind
invitation.

Hugh, after having danced two or three
times with Kathleen, led her off into an
anteroom where were refreshments of a
lighter kind to recuperate the exhausted
powers of the dancers.

Kathleen partook of something, but as
the room was crowded, it did not suit
Hugh's purpose to stay there, so he led
her off into another room where were card-tables,
which, for the time, were deserted.

Shall we rest here for a little ?' he
asked.

Yes, I shall be very glad. Dancing
makes one very warm, and I am rather

tired said Kathleen, seating herself upon
a couch. Hugh sat down beside her.

I am afraid you have danced too much,'
he said. ' I want to ask you a question,
Miss O'O'Moore, or rather Kathleen, if I
may call you so.'

'What is it, Mr. Unyan ?' asked Kathleen.


You told me some time ago that you
really did not know what love was. Is
that still the case ?'

I hardly know; yes — I think so

1 Will you ever learn, Kathleen ? he
asked.

1 Perhaps I might, but why do you want
to know ?' she asked timidly.

1 Because I want to know if I may try to
teach you the lesson,' said Hugh.

Yes, you may try, but perhaps you
won't succeed.'

1 Do not fear for that ! I will teach you
better than young Clavering,' insinuated
Hugh.

Who told you anything about Frank ?'
asked Kathleen, as the colour came to her
cheeks.

1 I have heard,' answered Hugh, smiling.
1 I will teach you to love, Kathleen, and to
love me.'

4 How can you promise me that ?' she
asked.

Easily, if you will promise me another
thing,' he said.

What is that ?' asked Kathleen.

If you will promise me to become my
wife, I will teach you, Kathleen, and you
shall learn your lesson easily and well,' he
whispered, taking her hand in his.

4 Do you mean for me to promise you
that now ?'

1 Yes, Kathleen, now.'

Not now, Hugh, I must have a little
time to think.'

How long, Kathleen ?'

'If I like you at the end of six months
as much as 1 do now, I will promise to be
your wife.'

Love me, you mean, Kathleen.'

4 I mean what I say, Hugh ; are you
content ?

Yes, Kathleen, your promise is as good
as if given now

4 We shall see,' she said, laughing.
1 But come, let us go back into the
ball-room ; mamma will wonder where I
am

'She will guess,' was all Hugh said.

Before he left the ball, he had informed
his sister of his success. Lady O' Moore
was not quite so sanguine ; six months was

a long time off, and her step-daughter
might see a legion to choose from before
then, one of whom might be more to her
fancy than Hu^rh.

CHAPTER X.

THE BLIND BOy's 'QUID PRO QUO.'
Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.'

Throughout the winter and spring nothing
of note passed in Inchigeela.

Mr. Clavering found it lonely deprived
of his son and of his neighbour. Had it
not been for the blind boy he would have
been left entirely alone; as it was, the child
visited him every day.

Frank Clavering wrote now and again
to his father, and in his last letter had
advised the departure of the seth for the
Peninsula.

Sir Patrick had also written a letter to
his friend telling him of the death of his
little son, but saying nothing of his wife's
indifference, though he did mention the
fact of her gaiety and of his own longing
to be back once more in quiet In-chigwell
; he was perfectly wearied of
Dublin.

It wanted now but a week to the return
of the Moors to Arbela. Mr. Clavering
carefully guarded a letter which was
entrusted to him for delivery to Kathleen.
It had been enclosed in Frank's last letter
to his father, the one he wrote just before
he left for the war.

It was a fine April day, nature was very
forward, and the trees were covered with
fresh young leaves. There was a ripple
on the lake, which now shone bright as a
mirror in the sunshine, and again looked

dark, as some passing cloud crossed the
face of the sun.

Pat O'Leary was wending his way to
Clonmore : he found his way there readily
enough now with the aid of a stick, and
never required the assistance of Biddy as
guide.

He could not look upon the face of the
earth, but he could mentally see the change
which was wrought there, now that winter
had passed away with its winding-sheet of
snow and its icy-cold winds. He had a
consciousness of sunshine, a feeling of refreshed
nature, and a greater longing than
ever to take one peep at his surroundings,
even might he do no more.

He had already reached the road which
skirts the lake, when he heard a quick step
behind him, and heard moreover some one
calling him by name.

c Who are ye thin, and what d'ye want ?'
he asked.

Me name is O'Crotty, an' I'm a friend
of your father's, an' I have something' to
say to you.'

1 What is it ?' asked Pat.

1 Sure, thin, the very next time as ye
goes to Cork to see your father in gaol, I
want to go with you replied the man.

We're not going' again ; we've been once,
an' me father doesn't want to see us again.'

1 Sure, but I want to see him, an' ye
can arrange a trip ; ye go wi' a magistri's
order, an' I shall get an appearance of respectability
by going' wi' you,' said the man,
determinedly.

4 An' what should ye be wanting' wi' me
father ? I'm thinking' that you are one of
the bad lot that led him to try an' shoot
Mr. Clavering

4 Bad lot do ye call us, ye spalpeen ?
It's liberty we want, an' that's not a bad
thing.'

1 Ye nearly made me father a murderer
of a good man, an' that's a bad thing said
the child, undauntedly.

1 Faith, thin, are ye a friend to the landlords
and a son to Mike O'Leary ? Ye
get your bad blood from your mother, I
repose.'

I won't have any more to say to you —
let me pass.'

The man seized him roughly by the
arm.

Not yet, me boy, not yet. An' now I
want to know something' about Mr. Clavering'
! Is he afraid of been' shot at again, or
does he think he is safe so long as your
father's in prison ?

1 Let me pass ; I won't say a word about

Mr. Clavering' ; ye'll be wanting' to kill him
or do him some harm : let me pass

1 Ye little devil ye,' said the man, twisting
the boy's arm until he cried with pain,
1 so that's the cur ye are, is it ? A friend
to the gentry ! Faith ! an' I'd give ye a
good hiding' if ye were not blind.'

Let me go,' said Pat pleadingly ; ' you
are breaking' my arm ; plaise let go, an'
mind me fiddle.'

1 Give us hold of that fiddle o' yours, of
which they say you're mighty fond, d'ye
hear ?' said the man, trying to seize it.

Pat did his best to protect that which
he held dearer than life, but all in vain ; it
was wrested from his grasp, and with a
cry of anguish he sank down upon the
road and buried his face in his arm. The
poor boy cried bitterly, but the man said
brutally :

vol. 1. 14

Faith, thin, I'll just put ye to the
torture, ye young civil. Tell me what I
want to know, or I'll smash this gimcrack
into fifty bits !'

No answer from Pat.

D'ye hear ?' asked the man savagely.

Oh, God ! don't let him,' sobbed the
boy ; ' let him hurt me but not me fiddle.'

Now, thin, say yes or no before I count
five. Git up, ye spalpeen, an' don't sulk
there,' said O'Crotty, giving him a kick.

Poor Pat struggled to his feet, and
said :

Plaise don't hurt that — don't hurt that ;
strike me if ye like — oh God ! don't let
him.'

Will ye tell me what I want to know
about Mr. Clavering', thin ?'

No, not a word,' sobbed Pat.

Well, thin, by the time I've counted five,

if ye don't, this fiddle goes to pieces.
One,' he began, ■ two — three — four — ' ere
he could say * five ' he received a blow
from behind and felt himself in a powerful
grasp, while the poor old violin dropped at
the feet of its little blind master, who could
not make out what had happened.

He heard the sounds of a wrestle, then
the words : ' Let me go, ye ville,' and.
then a heavy thud, which indicated the
fall to the ground of one of the wrestlers.

Your fiddle is all right, Pat,' said a
voice, which the blind boy knew well.

Oh ! Mr. Clavering, thank God for that
and for you ; plaise, sur, and are ye hurt ?'
asked the boy, drying his eyes and groping
for his fiddle, and also for his hat and stick,
which had fallen upon the road.

1 No, Pat, not at all ; but make your way
to Clonmore, like a good boy, and send two

14—2

or three people here to take care of this
ruffian ; I cannot hold him long said Mr.
Clavering.

Pat walked off as fast as he could, hugging
his fiddle close to him. He had just
escaped from what would have been his
greatest grief, and the sorrow and anguish
of those few moments of suspense, while
the man held his violin between life and
death, had caused him intense pain. The
change from that was like health after
sickness : it was mourning turned into joy ;
and as the boy went along towards Claymore,
anxious though he was to perform
his mission, he felt light in spirits, rejoiced
at his escape from danger, while his heart
was overrunning with gratitude to his
friend, who had understood him so well all
along, and who, realising the pain which
the loss of his fiddle would cause him,

had interposed and saved his second
being.

Meantime Mr. Clavering found it very-difficult
to hold O'Crotty ; the man was
powerful, and each moment made more
desperate efforts to get himself free. At
length he succeeded in doing so, and made
a stab at Mr. Clavering with a knife. This
was avoided, and the two men closed in a
wrestle until they fell to the ground locked
in each other's arms, Mr. Clavering underneath.


'Now I have ye, ye ville,' said O'Crotty
savagely, and drawing his knife, he stabbed
Mr. Clavering, who was struggling violently
to get free. Without waiting to see how
he had dealt the blow, or if Mr. Clavering
were dead or not, he struck off from the
road and got into some hiding-place in
order to escape from the notice of the

pursuit which he knew would certainly be
made, and that almost immediately.

Mr. Clavering fainted from loss of blood
and was already discovered by some
passers by, when two or three servants,
who had followed the blind boy's directions,
arrived upon the scene of the scuffle.
Loud were the outcries made against the
unknown villain who had killed, to all appearances,
the master of Clonmore.

Mr. Clavering was carried home upon a
hurdle, while a pursuit was made far and
wide for O'Crotty, but all in vain ; no
traces of the perpetrator of the outrage
could be discovered, although they
searched until nightfall.

Meanwhile Mr. Clavering was carried
up into his bedroom, and was discovered
to be still alive, although severely wounded

in the left side. A messenger was despatched
post-haste for the doctor.

News spreads quickly, and the passengers
by the coach to and from Crooks-town
heard many alarming and exaggerated
reports of the affair. Mr. Clavering was
known and respected for miles round, and
twice in the day were the smoking teams
pulled up before the gate of Clonmore and
the ' guard ' sent up to the house to make
inquiries.

Pat O'Leary was in the library when
Mr. Clavering was carried into the house,
and the confused sound of voices and the
steps of many men, as of those carrying a
heavy weight, filled his little heart with
alarm and dismay.

What is it ?' he asked eagerly, going
out into the hall.

Sure, thin, an' some blackguard has

murthered Mr. Clavering', an' may the civil
take him,' said a servant to Pat.

1 He isn't dead ?' said the boy, in woeful
accents.

Faith, thin, he is— he'll never breathe no
more,' said the same domestic cautiously.

1 Oh !' sobbed the boy, ' have I killed
him ? Is it my fault V and going into the
library, he burst into a paroxysm of grief.
1 What have I done for him — oh, wish —
wish a, that he is murthered for me ? Oh !
Mr. Clavering', honey, come back to me —
come back to poor Pat ; I'd rather not live
without ye now, for I love ye more than
me fiddle. What can I do for him ? — I cannot
bring him back to life, an' the A 'mighty
won't. Oh ! let me suffer with him — let
me suffer something' for him, as he was
murthered for me,' wept the boy bitterly.
He ceased crying suddenly, took his fiddle

into his hands and addressed it. ' It's
you,' he said, ' faith, thin, that I love most
in the world, now that me friend is murthered.
Ye were the thing he fought for,
because ye are mine, an' because I love
you ; but I must suffer too ; no, no, he
must not be the only one — I must share his
troubles. Good-bye,' he continued sadly,
as he kissed the old violin reverently,
good-bye, I love you, and he loved his
life, an' that's gone for me, an' ye must go
for him.' With this he put his fiddle on
the ground, raised his foot and stamped
with all his might upon the old instrument.


The strings sighed out their dying breath,
and the blind boy sobbed loudly : ■ There,
there, I've done it, no more music for me!
But then he don't want it — he's got the
angels to play for him. Mr. Clavering'

dead, my fiddle dead, an' now I wish I was
dead too. Ah ! wish, wish P

At length the child fell asleep, and slept
on until evening came, when Mrs. Machree,
who came into the library to close the
shutters, discovered him in the arm-chair.

Faith, thin, an' the child's been here all
day, an' his fiddle broken to bits too ! — what
does it all mean ?' she said, looking from
the boy to the broken violin. ' Pat, my
child, wake up an come an' have a bit of
supper

The boy sat upright in his chair and
said :

1 What is it? Is it all true, Mrs.
Machree ?'

Is what all true ?' asked the housekeeper.


1 Sure that Mr. Clavering's dead an' me
fiddle in pieces ?' asked the boy.

i Ye're fiddle's broken, but Mr. Clavering's
not dead, thank the A'mighty ; it's touch
and go, but the doctor says there's hope.'

1 Oh ! Mrs. Machree/ said Pat earnestly,
if Mr. Clavering' lives, nivir mind me
fiddle.'

Indeed and I should think not ; sure
it's on account of you that he got into the
trouble.'

I know,' said the child, * I know.
Where is he ? can't I see him ?'

1 He's in bed and you can't see him ; but
come along and have something to eat, and
ye'll have to stay here to-night, I'm thinking,
and I must make you up a bed in me
own room,' said the housekeeper, leading
Pat out of the library.

The boy would eat scarcely anything.
He asked for his fiddle, and the housekeeper
gave him the poor broken instrument.

Pat passed his hands over it, and
he discovered with a sigh how effectual
his self-sacrifice had been.

At length Mrs. Machree put him to bed
and left him, promising him that he should
see Mr. Clavering as soon as the doctor
would allow it. But Pat could not sleep ;
he tried in vain to compose himself; all
the trials and sorrows of the day crowded
upon his weary heart, it was the saddest
day of his little life. At last he left his
bed, found his clothes, and dressing himself,
went upstairs and by instinct discovered
the door of Mr. Clavering's
bedroom. He listened and heard the
unconscious muttering of the fevered
sufferer. Then he sank upon the doormat,
pressing his fiddle close to himself,
and moaning : ' Ah ! wish, wish, all forme,
all for me !' he fell asleep.

Next morning early, when Mrs. Machree
came into her room, she found the bed
empty; she searched for Pat in the
library and elsewhere, and supposing, as
she did not find him, that he had gone
home, she went upstairs to inquire about
her master, and there she saw, to her intense
surprise, the blind boy fast asleep on
the door-mat.

Well she said to herself, ' if there was
ever a daft soul in this world, it's that
child !' but Widow Machree was quite
wrong.

CHAPTER XL

A NEW LOVE FOR AN OLD.

Do you not know I am a woman ? When I think,
I must speak.'

Three or four days after Mr. Clavering
received the wound from O'Crotty, he was
pronounced out of danger by the doctor.

Little Pat could not be induced to leave
the sick-room, but had carefully hidden
his fiddle out of sight. Every day he
dreaded lest Mr. Clavering should ask him
for music ; if he should do so, what excuse
was Pat to offer ?

At length one afternoon the invalid

desired the blind boy to play for him.
Pat gave no answer, and showed no signs
of beginning, so Mr. Clavering repeated
his request.

Sure, thin, I cannot play for you, yer
'oner,' said Pat, as he hung his head, and
the red flushed in his cheek.

■ Why not, my boy ?' asked Mr. Clavering
in a faint voice ; ' I should so much
like to have some music.'

I cannot play, sur, my old fiddle is
dead,' said the boy, in a trembling voice.

1 Dead, Pat ! what has happened to it ?'

'I killed it, yer 'oner.'

What did you do that for, Pat ?'

Because they told me ye were dead,
sur.'

1 But why should you destroy your fiddle
if I were dead, my boy ? — I cannot understand
you.'

Sure, yer 'oner, ye understand most
things about me, but faith I don't think ye'll
understand this. I'll tell ye all about it.'

Show me the fiddle first, Pat,' said Mr.
Clavering. The blind boy found his way
over to the window, and from behind one
of the curtains drew forth his battered
violin. He took it over to Mr. Claverinor's
bedside.

Is it altogether smashed, yer 'oner ?'
asked Pat.

■ It's very badly used, Pat, but I think
it will recover. I'll send it off to be
doctored for you.'

Faith, thin, sur, I wish you'd lave off
talking' ; it was Mrs. Machree herself who
told me not to let ye say a word. Me
poor fiddle can't spake any more, an' I'm
thinking that a little less of it would be
better for yourself.'

I will not talk then, Pat ; now tell me
about your poor old fiddle.'

Well thin, sur, when you were brought
in I asked some one if ye were dead, an'
he said yes, that we'd never breathe no
more. Thin I went an' sat down in yer
library an' cried. An' thinks I, faith,
there's Mr. Clavering' has suffered for man'
here am I alive an' well, an' mourning'
for him it's three, but that isn't enough. I
want to suffer with him too, an' how to doit
puzzled me, that it did. Thin I up wi'
my foot an' I put it through me old fiddle,
an' I said, there, I've killed the dearest
thing I have ; for the dearest thing I had
was killed for me. An it's mourning' still
I am for it ; there's one friend dead anyhow,
but the other one's living', after all,
has made up for it, an' more.'

Mr. Clavering was much touched at the

vol. 1. 15

boy's idea of suffering with a friend ; what
Pat had said was but poorly expressed, yet
the fact remained ; a noble sentiment of
sympathy, a heart full of gratitude and

affection had prompted the action, which,
however senseless in itself, was a proof of
deep feeling, of a mind that could be
touched by the troubles of others.

I will have your fiddle mended for you,
Pat; I shall be all right again myself in a
little time,' said Mr. Clavering, cheerily,
and then you and I and the fiddle will
be as happy as we were before all this
happened.'

Plaise God an' the saints we may, sur,'
replied Pat simply.

As soon as Sir Patrick O'O'Moore returned
to Inchigeela, he called upon Mr.
Clavering. The news of the attempted
murder had reached him before he left

Dublin, and then he felt half inclined to
set off for Clonmore at once, but was
dissuaded from it by his wife, as being
unnecessary, and more than that, as being
impracticable, because there were two or
three invitations which Sir Patrick must
accept before he left the capital.

When Sir Patrick called upon his friend
at Clonmore, he was glad to find him on
the road to recovery.

1 In the wars again, Clavering, my boy ;
the Paddies seem determined to knock
your life out,' said Sir Patrick. ' What
was this row about ?'

Saving that boy's life, or next door toit,'
replied Mr. Clavering, nodding his
head towards Pat, who sat motionless over
in a corner of the room.

Sir Patrick's eyes wandered over to the
direction given. * That's Mike O'Leary's

15—2

boy, isn't it ?' he asked softly. ' A beautiful
child, isn't he ? You heard about my poor
boy, didn't you, Clavering ?'

Yes, yes ; very sorry for you, O'O'Moore ;
quite sudden, wasn't it ?' asked Mr. Clavering.


Quite, poor child ! sad disappointment
to me, I can assure you,' said Sir Patrick,
sadly.

'You must feel it deeply, and Lady
O'O'Moore too,' remarked his friend.

She does feel it,' the baronet said, with
some hesitation ; 'but she is a woman, you
know, of strong character ; it takes a good
deal to upset her.'

I should think it does,' replied Mr.
Clavering, quietly. ' By the way, O'O'Moore,
ask Kathleen to come in to see me in the
morning ; I shall get up for a little tomorrow,

and I have something to say to
her

Certainly she shall come ; but what
have you to say, Clavering ?'

I have a letter to give her from Frank.
How is she ?'

1 Quite well. And Frank, where is he
now ?' asked Sir Patrick, a little confusedly.


1 Gone abroad with his regiment ; haven't
had a line from him since he left his
country

Not had time yet, Clavering, perhaps,
There will be some stiff fighting in this
war, you'll see

I haven't the least doubt of it. Poor
Frank ! I daresay he thinks a great deal of
Kathleen ; pity she refused him, he was so
fond of her, eh, O' Moore ?'

6 Yes, but I don't think that matters are

much better for the poor fellow now said
Sir Patrick, significantly.

How do you mean ?' asked Mr. Clavering,
eagerly. 'Surely Kathleen is not
engaged to be married !'

No, not quite, Clavering; but she'll tell
you all about it tomorrow. You ask her.
And now I'm off. Is there anything we
can do for you at Arbela ?'

No, thanks, O'O'Moore ; come in and seeme
now and then.'

I will, to be sure. Good-bye ! But, I
say, Clavering, was that fellow O'Crotty
ever collared ?'

4 Never heard of or seen since ; got clean
away, I daresay, and is on his way to
America now, if he took the trouble to
leave the country. Well, I see you're off ;
don't forget about Kathleen,' said Mr.
Clavering.

Xo ; she shall come tomorrow,' was the
reply, and Sir Patrick went away.

Mr. Clavering thought over what Sir
Patrick had said, and felt almost certain
that Kathleen had met some one in Dublin
who had taken the place which Frank
desired to fill in her heart.

He hoped, for his boy's sake, that he
might be wrong in his surmise, and he
anxiously awaited her arrival the next
morning. Kathleen came to Clonmore
about ten o'clock ; she had not paid a
visit there since Frank left, and this reminded
her of him, and of the days which
were no more. She rather dreaded an
encounter with Mr. Clavering, she felt
nervous at the thought of having to tell
him all, and she wondered what the contents
of Frank's letter might be. That he
was constant to her, she felt certain ; and

as for herself ? — well, she had never promised
constancy to him ; or at ;my rate, if
she had, it was only conditional.

She found Mr. Clavering sitting in an
arm-chair at his window ; near to him sat
the most beautiful boy, so she thought,
that she had ever seen ; when she saw
that the child was blind, she knew that it
must be Pat O'Leary, whom she remembered
to have been defended by Mr.
Clavering against the attacks of her stepmother.


'How do you do, Mr. Clavering?*
Kathleen asked. ' I am so glad that you
are able to sit up. How unfortunate, and
yet fortunate, you are !'

1 It is just that, Kathleen,' said Mr.
Clavering. ' I have had two very narrow
escapes ; had the bullet come a little nearer,
or the knife gone a little deeper, I might

have been killed twice over. I have a
letter to give you, Kathleen, from Frank.'

Papa told me so said she, lowering
her eyes. ' Is he well ?'

He was, when I last heard from him;
he is very fond of you, Kathleen said Mr.
Clavering, with emphasis, for he was fighting
a battle for his son.

1 He always told me so said Kathleen,
nervously.

1 And what did you say to that ?' asked
Frank's father, smiling.

1 I told him that I could not promise to
be his wife then ; that he must wait, and
when he came back I would say yes,
if '

If what, Kathleen ?'

1 If I had not seen any one meantime
that I liked better than him said she.

1 Then I may write and tell him, may I

not,' asked Mr. Clavering, anxiously, ( that
so far he holds the first place in your heart,
and that he may hope ? Do not trifle,
Kathleen ; Frank's love for you is very
great, and you have the power of making
him happy

1 You must not write as you say, Mr.
Clavering,' said Kathleen uneasily, ' because
it would not be true.'

1 How do you mean, Kathleen ?'
fc I mean that I have seen some one
whom I prefer to Frank, Mr. Clavering.'


Are you sure of that ? Have you
promised to become his wife ?'

Not yet.'

But you intend to promise, Kathleen ?'

1 I think so — in fact I am sure of it,' she
said, blushing at the confession.
'-And when?'

'At the beginning of August, Mr.
Clavering.'

And if you change your mind before
then, if you find that you really do not
love the man, what will you do, Kathleen
?'

I will let you know, Mr. Clavering,
and then you may write to Frank that I
still like him more than any one else.
But it is not probable that I shall change
my mind. Hugh has made a great impression
upon me ; I like him, almost love
him, and I mean to become his wife

4 Ah! Kathleen, Kathleen!' sighed Mr.
Clavering, ' I'm afraid that you among
many others are like Spring, the young
maid who does not know her mind.'

1 I do know my mind, Mr. Clavering,'
said Kathleen apologetically ; ' but I cannot
say that I love a man until I really do.'

What is your idea of love, Kathleen ?'

'I scarcely know — something that
absorbs your whole being, I suppose

1 And does your liking, as you call
it, for your present lover do that, Kathleen
?'

I think a great deal of him ; he is
rarely out of my thoughts, and I am sure
that I should be perfectly happy with
him.'

1 Well, my dear girl, I'm sure I hope
that you may,' said Mr. Clavering kindly.
I am sorry, for my poor boy's sake, that
you have chosen as you have chosen ; but
at the same time I wish you, as he would
do, every happiness. But who is the
happy man ?'

'He is my stepmother's youngest
brother, and his name is Hugh,' said
Kathleen.

'What was your stepmother's maiden
name ?' asked Mr. Clavering, who had no
doubt now of what his son had told him ;
namely, that Lady O'O'Moore had objections
to encouraging any intimacy between himself
and Kathleen, for reasons of her own.

1 Unyan/ replied Kathleen innocently.

How do you spell it ?' asked Mr.
Clavering, to whose ears the name was
neither familiar nor well-sounding.

Kathleen spelt it for him.

I only hope that you may be happy as
Mrs. Unyan/ said Mr. Clavering, with a
touch of sarcasm in his voice. ' You
know nothing of Mr. Hugh's family, I
suppose, Kathleen ?'

1 Nothing, except that his father and
mother have been dead a long time, and
that I believe mamma and he were the
only children, Mr. Clavering. There are,

I have heard, connections of the family in
Canada.'

Indeed,' said Mr. Clavering, with
feigned or real interest. ' Is your mother's
brother at all like his sister?'

Not at all,' said Kathleen, detaching a
locket from the chain round her neck ;
here is his picture.'

A very fine-looking fellow indeed F
said Mr. Clavering, who was really struck
by the miniature. ' You certainly know
what good looks are, Kathleen,' he added,
returning the locket to her. ' What is his
profession ?'

1 A barrister, Mr. Clavering.'

1 Excuse my asking so many questions,
won't you, Kathleen ? I have known you
ever since you were born, and it is natural,
isn't it, that I should take an interest in
you, more especially as I have hoped all

It is of my own free will, Mr. Clavering

; no one could compel me to marry a

man. I took a fancy to Hugh the first

time I saw him.'

I believe you, Kathleen ; but I will tell

you one thing : you are fulfilling the very

part which your stepmother intended you

to play.'

Kathleen did not reply to this.

As she was going away she said : c If I

decide not to marry Hugh, Mr. Clavering,
I will let you know, and then you may
write and tell Frank that I am constant

to him.'

Do so,' replied Mr. Clavering. He
did not like this light trifling spirit which
Kathleen displayed ; he would not choose
her now as a wife for his son, that is to say,
so far as her disposition went ; but she was
his boy's choice. Frank was entirely devoted
to her ; he had said that he would

never marry anyone but Kathleen O'O'Moore;
and though, as a father, Mr. Claveringhad
assured his son that he would find someone
more to his taste, yet in his heart of
hearts he knew that Frank never would.

END of vol. 1.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD, SURREY.

3 0112 056547158

/„/

^ ^y-

I ■

}

i -?

:j

V;.

./(^e) \

gy >^ww« » " ' i,mvvi i >. ' ,i

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

Walloon

2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/oldloveisnewnove02wilt

31 jpioDel

BY

MAURICE WILTON.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

1880.

[All Rights Reserved :\

CONTENTS OF VOL. II

CHAPTER PAGE

I. MORE RELATIVE THAN FRIEND - - I

II. THE SUCCESSFUL SUITOR - - " 3°

III. TALAVERA - - - - "45

IV. A CAPITAL ' RUN ' FOR SOME - 69
V. COULD SHE DOUBT HIM? - - - 96

VI. AN APPARITION - - - - Ii

VII. BUSACO - - - - - 142

VIII. CHARITY AND CO-OPERATION - - - 1 67

IX. THE EVE OF THE WEDDING. — SCENE I. - 1 87

CHAPTER I.

MORE RELATIVE THAN Friend".
Blood is thicker than water.'

Hugh Unyan's profession In Dublin, as a
barrister, did not bring him many fees ;
at any rate they were not sufficient to
support Hfe. And yet Hugh lived in
good style : was always well dressed, and
seemed to have, as a rule, plenty of spare
VOL. II, . 17

cash. The secret of this was, that he
gambled ; and in this propensity alone he
resembled his late father : the son gambled
with cards, the father with his earnings,
that was one difference; and another
was, that the former won money, and that
the latter had lost all which he had made
for himself.

Lady O'O'Moore knew that her brother
played, but she had no idea of the regularity
with which he did it ; she did not
know that night after night, first in one
haunt, then in another, all the year round,
he carried on a system of making money,
which, to say the best for it, was little short
of robbery. * Honour debts' were what he
had to pay ; ' honour debts ' were what he
received.

What are 'honour debts?' 'Honour
debts' are the income of foolishness, and the

expenditure of idiots — (this refers to money
lost and won at play). A man goes to the
gaming-table with nothing in his pockets
except perhaps five shillings, or half a sovereign
; he stakes that upon a 'colour'—
rouge,' or * noir ;' he may win once, and
again, and again, and goes away pounds
richer than when he entered the room.
Good — but he is not content with that ; one
evening is not enough for him. It becomes
a system with him, and he comes evening
after evening, winning or losing, until he
is either rich or poor ; if the former, by a
fluke — by the losses of others ; if the latter,
his poverty is the poverty of sin.

Another man comes to a gambling-table
with his pockets full of money. He stakes
and k)ses ; he stakes and retrieves. He
doubles, and stakes again ; he loses ; and
so on, until he leaves the room not only

17 — 2

the poorer by the money he brought with
him, but perhaps by hundreds of pounds
for which he must send a cheque at once,
because it is an * honour debt' He goes
another evening — she must retrieve ; he
loses. Another, he loses again; until
money that, in the first instance, was
honourably gained, though only slowly,
is converted into a pastime for fools,
is scattered to the winds in a few moments,
and the labour of years becomes ' a tale
that is told But this is not all : the gambling
fit that seizes such a mean — the fiend
who tempts him to try and double or treble
the money that has been gathered carefully
by the labour of years — by the chance of a
moment ruins not only the man but his
family. The wife's savings have gone to be
'invested ;' her jewellery has disappeared;
one by one the valuables are disposed of,

until by-andy hard poverty stares them In
the face, both wife and children. And for
them ? there is perhaps no place but
the union And for the reckless fool —
the unthinking husband, the gamester-father
? there is perhaps the prison, bq.
cause he has paid his ' honour debts ' by
means of embezzlement, by means of dishonour.
The fate of the wife, of the
children, Is hard and cruel ; but the
punishment of such a man is surely just.

Hugh Unyan was lucky ; he had been
particularly so since the O'Moores left
Dublin. He wrote to his sister, generally
once a week, upon the increase of his
practice, and of the sums of money paid
or still due to him. In doing thus he was
acting upon the advice Lady O'O'Moore had
given him before she left Dublin.

Remember, Hugh,' she said, * that your

endeavour must be to Improve your position
in Sir Patrick's eyes. Do not forget to
write to me and to let me know how you
are getting on

Hugh had followed this advice to more
than the letter. He plied so good a pen,
that by It, and his sister's Improvements
on what he wrote, Sir Patrick began to look
favourably upon the Idea of his marrying
Kathleen to so rising a barrister, and spoke
of there being every possibility of a marriage
in a couple of years, if Hugh only
kept to his profession like a man.

Lady O'O'Moore advised her brother from
time to time of what her husband said, and
implored him to make every use of his
time before August, when he was coming
to Arbela, to ask Kathleen once more to
become his wife.

In one of Hugh's letters to his sister he

Stated that he had just received two hundred
pounds from a cent, which had been
due to him for several months. Lady
O'iVIoore enlarged upon this to Sir Patrick,
and got for an answer that 'it seemed a
very large sum indeed for a rising barrister
to be paid for any case on which he might
be employed.' This struck her ladyship
as being somewhere so near the truth, that
she accordingly wrote to her brother, and
begged him not to make rash statements,
as Sir Patrick did not believe them. ' If,'
she added, ' you have made so large a sum
for yourself as two hundred pounds, you
must have won it at play. I asked you
before to give up gambling ; it is very rash
of you to continue it, for if Sir P. only heard
a breath of it, your chance of marrying
Kathleen would be very, very small. Of
course I have not mentioned my suspicions

to him, but passed off the matter as well
as I could. Pray be careful, if you have
any regard for yourself. I can help you,
but you must not depend upon me too
much ; I cannot do everything.'

About a week after she sent off this
letter, she received another letter from her
brother which filled her ladyship's heart
with dismay.

But it is necessary for us to take note of
events passing in Dublin.

In the month of November of the previous
year, that is to say, during the first
month of the O'Moores' stay in Dublin,
Hugh Unyan had won two hundred
pounds from an American — a clerk in a
mercantile office in Dublin.

This American's name was Green ; he
was a gentlemanly young fellow, perhaps a
couple of years Hugh's junior, and w-as a

constant visitor at the gaming haunts where
Hugh was so well known. He paid his
debts pretty regularly ; sometimes, however,
he w^oiild have to disappear for a
week, and at such times the gaming circle
would remark that ' Yankee Alas looking
out for cash.'

But when, one evening, Green became
indebted to Hugh for the large sum of
two hundred pounds, he turned very pale,
and begged Hugh to wait for a lltde —
that he could not pay the money down —
and moreover, that he had a young wife
and child at home to support.

Hugh said that he would wait, although
he was in want of money ; but it never
entered his head to forgive the debt. A
month passed away — no signs of money.
Hugh feared lest his American friend had
bolted. He went to Green's office ; Green

was there, and asked piteously for a lite
more time.

Another month passed, and when there
was no sign of money, Hugh .wrote a letter
demanding immediate payment. An answer
came, and enclosed a bill for two hundred
pounds at three months. However, Hugh
did not receive the money until the beginning
of April. The O'Moores were still
in Dublin when it was paid, but he did not
mention the subject of either the debt or
the payment of it. The first that Lady
O'O'Moore heard of the two hundred pounds
was from Hugh's letter.

The very morning after Hugh received
the answer from his sister, which has
already been referred to, he was sitting in
his office.

The door was opened, and a clerk announced
' Mr. O'Neil,' who was a great

friend of Hugh's, and a gambler into the
bargain.

Ah ! O'Neil/ said Hugh, advancing to
meet his friend ; ' how are you ? glad to
see you !'

I've come to ask you a question,
Unyan/ said Mr. Neil.

'What is it?' asked Hugh, who had
already made up his mind that his friend
wanted money. ' Anything I can do for
you }'

All I want to know is, did Green ever
pay you the two hundred pounds he owed
you }'

'Yes, he did answered Hugh; * but
why ?'

Because he died last night,' said Neil,
quietly.

Died last night ! you don't say so !'
exclaimed Hugh.

He did, and It's as sad a tale as ever T
heard. Poor fellow ! he tried to be honourable,
no doubt, and we must help his
widow said O'Neil, earnestly, for there Is
honour amongst thieves.

'Let me hear all about it; sit down,
O'Neil,' said Hugh, offering his friend a
chair.

'Well, It happened thus, as far as I can
make out. For some reason or other, 1
don't know what, Hope and Pearson, the
firm poor Green was with, you know,
suspected something wrong with their
books, and that wrong they attributed to
Green. Well, on examination, they discovered
that about three hundred and
twenty-five pounds had been embezzled.
I must tell you that, as soon as the inquiry
was started, Green fell sick, and had been
at home about a week, when the detective,

who had got nicely through the whole
affair, was despatched to arrest him. It
was the detective usually employed by the
house.

To digress a little, do you see the poor
fellow's honour, if it may be called so ? I
think I do. There was your two hundred
pounds, seventy-five due to Spottiswoode,
and fifty to O'Loghlen, all of which were
paid, and which make up just the three
hundred and twenty-five pounds embezzled.
I daresay he meant to make up this amount
by '' play," and to refund it when he could
to the firm ; but you see they found out
the defaulter too soon, though I doubt if
he would ever have made up the sum,
because he has been so deuced unlucky of
late. You see he never embezzled a halfpenny
for himself, or for his poor wife,
who has been starving, or nearly so for a

long time. He never thought of them,
only of his " honour-debts."

♦ To resume the story. As the detective,
who is called Smith, was coming up to
Green's house, who should be coming out
but Green himself. He set his eyes on
Smith, and guessing what the fellow
wanted, bolted as hard as ever he could
run down the street, with Smith after him.
At length he could run no more, so
stopped, and turning round very breathless
and very pale, said to the detective, " All
right, Smith, I know what you've come
for; I'll go with you quietly enough now."
Smith called a coach, pushed Green in,
and got in after him, telling the coachman
to drive to the station-house. Hang me if
Green wasn't dead before they got halfway
there ! heart-disease killed him, poor

fellow ! They say his wife is nigh brokenhearted.*


*What a horrible affair!' said Hugh.
All we can do now is to help the wife.'

Yes ; I went to see the poor creature
this morning and gave her five pounds, all
I could afford. She was very grateful ;
the poor soul needed it. Such a wretched
room, and such a poor half-starved child !
A very pretty young creature, too ; but I'll
tell you what, Green married beneath
him !'

How do you know ?' asked Hugh, with
surprise.

Why, because he was a gentleman, and
this person's tone of voice and way of
speaking are anything but a lady's.'

Is that all ?' asked Hugh, smiling.

No; she told me that her father keeps
a tavern in New York, and that's quite

enough. I don't suppose she ever had a
grandfather, but she tells me that her
husband was of very good family, naturally
married against his father's will, and so
that Green — who hated ^^r low connections
came to Ireland, and found employment
in Dublin. I wondered how it was that
Green never told any of us where he lived,
poor fellow ! now, of course, I see why it
was. Did you know that he was married,
Unyan ?' asked O'Neil, looking in his
friend's face.

Huo:h coloured : he had better not tell
the truth, he thought, so answered, ' No.'
What followed showed how right he was in
his decision.

I thought you did not,' said Neil,
assuredly ; ' any one, of course, who knew
his real circumstances would not have
pressed him as you did for your money

Hugh bit his lip, and felt very uneasy
under what his friend had said. He had
known all — that Green was married, that
he was poor, and yet he had forced him,
by his own importunity, to embezzle two
hundred pounds, in addition to the two
smaller sums he had already taken, with
which to pay other 'honour' debts.
Hugh's conscience pricked him ; he had
been hard-hearted, but the mischief was
done, and the thought of it troubled him
for a very few minutes only.

What about the widow ?' asked
Hugh.

'Well, I told her to call upon you,'
replied O'Neil, ^as I had no doubt you
would give her whatever pecuniary assistance
lay in your power. She did not
seem to think that you would give her a
hearty welcome; why she thought so, I

VOL. II. 18

/

don't know, except perhaps that she fancied
your being kept so long without your
money, and waiting as you did for it, was
all that could be expected from you.
However, I prevailed upon her to make
the attempt at any rate, and she is going
to do so tomorrow morning.*

I'll give her a five-pound note, I can't
do more,' said Hugh ; 'I'm rather hard up
just now, Neil.'

Like the rest of us, my boy,' said
O'Neil. * I must be off now ; good-bye.'

The next mornings Mrs. Green was
announced, and entered Hugh's private
office. She was a small woman, about
eighteen years of age, decidedly pretty,
belonging evidently to a lower class in life,
and she was attired in shabby widow's
weeds.

Mr. O'Neil has prepared me for this

visit, Mrs. Green ; take a seat,' said
Hugh.

''E thought you would be kind enough
to give me a Httle 'help, sir. I 'ave more
claims upon you, 'however, than 'e knows
of, or than you thinks for,' said Mrs.
Green.

Indeed,' said Hugh in surprise, ' what
can they be ?'

'My name was Unyan, before I married
poor Green, same as yours, Mr. 'Ugh; and
what is more, I'm related to you,' said the
widow.

'Related to me!' exclaimed Hugh in
surprise, rising from his chair. * What the
deuce do you mean ?'

I'm Robert Unyan's eldest child ; 'e's
your eldest brother, and keeps a tavern in
New York. So I'm your niece, an' 'ave a
right to call you Uncle 'Ugh.'

18—2

^ Then for pity's sake, don't said Hugh
in alarm. ' Do you mean to say that you're
Bob's child ?'

To be sure I am, uncle ; I can tell you
the whole 'history of the family. Grandfather
was a cook ; Aunt Lucy married Sir
Patrick O' Moore, which we 'heard of out
there,' said the poor widow, pointing in
the direction of France but intending
America. ' I was a-goln' to call on 'er
ladyship when she was 'ere, an' ask 'er to
lend my poor husband enough to pay you
with, but I didn't like to.'

I should think not indeed,' said Hugh
angrily ; ' do you suppose that she would
take any notice of a poor relation .^ She
has made a position for herself, and so have
I, and it's your father's own fault that he
didn't do so too. Now look here, if you
want any assistance, you must clear out of

this ; if you are the person you make yourself
out to be, we can't have you telling
stories about the family just now especially.'


Of course I am the person I say ; I can
show you proofs if you want them, things
that will convince you,' said Mrs.
Green.

I don't want them,' said Hugh testily ;
you're too much like what I remember
your father was to leave any doubt on my
mind. Now, how much do you want to
go to London with ?'

Please I want to stay in Dublin, Uncle
'Ugh ; I 'ave a promise of a place in one of
the shops 'ere,' pleaded the niece.

Well then, you can't. I will give you
fifty pounds, and you must leave Dublin
for London this very night. Do you hear ?
You will do much injury to me and to

Lady O'O'Moore If you let out, or any one
gets to know, about our unfortunate relationship.'


I s pose you don't want Sir Patrick to
know, more particular when you 'opes to
marry Miss O'Moore/ insinuated the
widow.

Who told you that I wanted to marry
Miss O'O'Moore ?' asked Hugh.

Poor Green told me ; bless you, 'e 'heard
it talked of. An' lor' ! what a gentleman
you are, Uncle 'Ugh, so different to father !
an' yet you're like 'im, only 'answer an'
taller.'

Don't call me uncle,' said Hugh crossly.
■ How confoundedly unlucky for you to
turn up just now of all the times in the
course of one's life !'

I shan't trouble you,' said the poor
woman humbly. * I'll go to London. I

don't want to 'arm you — bless me no ! nor
Aunt Lucy neither.'

I suppose not rejoined Hugh, * but
you must be off at once. Sure you never
told Mr. O'Neil nor any one else of this
relationship ?'

Certain of It ; Green would never let
me say a word about It. An' 'e never
would let me go near Lady O'O'Moore's,
altho' many's the day that me an' baby
never had a bit to eat. Comfortably off
we were too, when we left America ; father
giv' me money — 'e was glad enough for me
to marry a gentleman — an' Green had money
as well. But when 'e come 'ere 'e took to
play : first the money went, then 'e 'ad a
bit of luck ; then my little things one by
one went, until there was scarce anything
left, an' poor baby an' me 'ad a wretched
time of It. God forgive a 'husband as

gambles !' said the poor woman, with
touching earnestness.

'Well now, you come here to-night
about seven o'clock, and I'll see you onboard
the ship and give you your fifty
pounds — do you understand ?' asked Hugh
sharply.

Yes, I understand ; I'll come. You
seem very angry, uncle ; but it ain't my
fault that I'm a relation of yours, an' it's
only natural for the poor to look for a little
'help from those who can give it.'

That's enough for the present, Mrs.
Green. Now you must leave me, for I'm
busy. Good-bye.'

Good-bye,' said the poor little woman
meekly, as she extended her badly-gloved
little hand.

Hugh took it ; a crimson blush of shame
rose to his face. Was he ashamed of his

belongings — he, gentleman Hugh ? Yes,
there was no doubt about It.

Uncle,' she said simply, ' or Mr. Unyan,
as you don't care for the relationship, let
me beg of you one thing ?'

*What Is it ?' asked Hugh Impatiently.

Give up gaming. You're engaged to
be married, with fairer prospects perhaps
than I ever 'ad ; and If you don't give It up,
you and your wife and your children will
be cursed. God 'ave mercy upon the
gambler's poor wife !' said the widow,
bursting into tears. * It's nothing but
misery and starvation an' want ; waiting
for your husband night after night, but 'e
never comes ; seen' your child a-dyin' of
'under before your very eyes, no 'help for
it ! The 'husband's respectable In the eyes
of the world, at least mine was a gentleman;
an' all the time they don't see 'Is

'one. For Miss O'O'Moore's sake, for your
children's sake, if not for your own, give
up the 'habit while you can, before it grows
into a reo^'Iar disease !'

I gamble very little,' said Hugh carelessly.


You play 'easily,' replied the woman
earnestly. ' For Miss O'O'Moore's sake you
must give it up.'

And what is Miss O' Moore to you ?'
asked Hugh.

I know what you and every one else
consider Miss O'O'Moore to be,' said the
widow ; ' you think 'er thoughtless, fond of
dancing' and flirting' an such like. D'ye
know she used to come into our poor
street an' give things 'ere an' there like an
angel of mercy ? "No one knows of this,"
says she; 'don't tell any one. What's
your 'husband i^" she asks me. " A

gambler," says I. '' Pray God," says she,
mine may never be another." She came
three or four times, so nat'ral like ; talked
to me, didn't preach, an' always left me
happier than she found me. If you reform,
you'll 'ave a friend in me ; but If you don't,
you'll see ! I don't threaten, but you'll see !'

Then she left the office. Hugh breathed
freer now that she had gone, but he sat
for a long time thinking of what she had
said, and though he inwardly laughed at
the idea of her coming between him and
Kathleen, yet he could not divest himself
of it.

At seven o'clock Mrs. Green appeared
with her baby on her arm and a small
bundle in one hand.

Where is your luggage ?' asked Hugh.

A gambler's wife 'as no luggage,' she
replied, with a mocking laugh.

Hugh saw her safe on board the ship,
said farewell to her, gave her the fifty
pounds, and learnt from the captain that
his vessel was certain to sail that night.
He returned to his lodgings with a feeling
of relief that so unpleasant a relative was
out of the wav, and then sat down and
wrote a letter to his sister, telllncr her the
whole story, and of the way In which he
had got rid of ' Bob's child.'

Lady O'^NIoore, as has been already
stated, received the communication with
dismay, but at the same time saw how expeditious)'
her brother had acted, and how
comparatively safe both he and she were,
for the present at any rate, from further
molestation. She comforted herself by
declalmlnof to her brother in a honos letter
against ' the Impertinence of some people ;'
but she did not reflect how natural it was

for a poor relative to apply to another who
was more lucky than herself, and who in
his abundance might have ' bread enough
and to spare.'

CHAPTER II.

THE SUCCESSFUL SUITOR.
She is a woman, therefore may be won.'

The months passed quickly by. Mr. Clavering
had recovered from his wound,
Lady O' Moore from the dismay she experienced
on hearing of her American
relative ; and Kathleen's heart beat
quicker as August came, and left her but
few days wherein to decide 'yes,' or 'no,'
to the request which Hugh Unyan was
coming to make in person.

At length the day of his expected arrival
at Arbela came. Lady O' Moore felt pretty

certain of the answer which Kathleen was
going to give Hugh, while Kathleen herself
had no doubts upon the subject, though she
tried to make herself believe that she had.
No ; Hugh was the accepted suitor, and
the love of olden days, Frank Clavering,
who never wavered for one moment in his
devotion to Kathleen, was forgotten, was
wiped from her mind, to make room for one
who was preferred — why, it is hard to say,
except that he was perhaps more to Kathleen's
fancy, as he was decidedly better-looking
than Frank ever had been, or ever
would be.

And Frank, poor fellow ! He was still
constant ; his love had never altered for
Kathleen from the time when, as a boy,
he twisted wreaths of wild flowers for her
straw hat, even till now when he was separated
from her, and was enduring all

the hardships of war with her image ever
before him as his loadstar, as his incentive
to action and to valour, day and night. But
of him more anon.

To tell the truth, Kathleen rarely thought
of Frank. The letter which his father had
handed her had for a time revived memory
of him, and had blown up the dying embers
of her love into a flame ; but when she put
the letter away there was no further fuel for
the fire, and so it burnt out in an incredibly
short space of time.

On the other hand, she thought much of
Hugh ; she was under a spell. She had
once said that she did not know what love
was, because she had never spent a sleepless
night thinking of any one. But now
her mind was fully occupied. Hugh's
handsome face was always before her eyes
in thought, when she was not gazing at his

miniature, and she longed for the day on
which she was to tell him that she would
become his wife. It was really only
caprice on her part that had bade Hugh
wait so long for a decided answer. She
might well have given an affirmative reply
to his request on the night of the ball in
Dublin ; but it was in her nature to be uncertain,
to be thoughtless, and to put off
until tomorrow what might well be said or
done to-day.

Hugh arrived at Arbela in the evening.
Kathleen did not rush to the door to meet
him ; did not fling herself into his arms ;
but he was received with a quiet welcome
from Sir Patrick, who informed him that
Lady O'O'Moore had not yet returned from
her drive, and that Kathleen would be
visible at dinner-time.

He was conducted to the room which he
VOL. II. 19

was to occupy while a visitor at Arbela, or
rather to a suite of rooms In the left minor of
the house which had been prepared for him
under his sister's personal supervision.

He had just time to take a look round his
apartments, to draw aside the window-curtains,
and to gaze across the noble
lawn and the well wooded demesne, when
he heard a tap at his bedroom door, and
at his invitation to the visitor to come in,
Lady O'O'Moore entered the room.

welcome to Arbela, Hugh!' she said,
with a little warmth discernible in her voice.
*We have been expecting you all day.
Are you quite well ?'

Quite, thank you, Lucy,' replied Hugh,
kissing her. ' Is Kathleen well ?'

Perfectly ; and I may truly say, has
been anxiously looking forward to your
visit.'

So much the better for me, Lucy. I
suppose I am safe for an answer In the
right direction from her.'

Quite so — at least so far as I can judge.
And now I want to ask you about that
dreadful person who appeared to you In
Dublin. What was she Hke ?'

Exactly like Bob, Lucy : at least, what
he was '

Don't call him Bob, Hugh ; say Mr.
Robert Unyan. Don't make him more
vulgar than he already must be.'

Well, that's his name, Lucy ; and It
appears, as I told you, that he keeps a
tavern In New York.'

And she — the person, I mean — Is she
dreadfully common, and all that ?' asked
Lady O'O'Moore disdainfully.

She Is very pretty ; that is to say, If
you are asking after your niece, Lucy.'

19 — 2

Not my niece, please, Hugh ; talk of
her as Mrs. Brown, or whatever her name
was.'

Well, Mrs. Green is very pretty, as I
have said — drops her h's, and is not such
a woman as either you or I would care to
introduce, or have introduced, to Sir Patrick
as a relative of ours.'

'And did she try to extort money from
you, and all that, Hugh, before she would
promise to hold her tongue ?'

No, nothing of the kind. She said that
she wished to do us no harm ; but that she
wanted to call on you in Dublin, when you
were there, Lucy,' said Hugh, by way of
seeing what his sister would say to that.

Wanted to call on me, Hugh !' said her
ladyship, completely horrified. * Good
gracious me! supposing she had, on one
of my reception-days, and declared before

the whole company that she was my niece.
What should I have done ?'

'She only meant to call upon you as a
beggar, Lucy, and to ask you for a little
monetary help.'

And you are sure that she is gone,
Hugh ?' asked Lady O' Moore.

Certain of it ; saw her on board the
ship myself. Gave her fifty pounds — which
by the way, Lucy, I expect you to return
to me — and found out the next morning,
to my satisfaction, that the ship had really
sailed. She — Mrs. Green, I mean — has
never troubled me since.'

Thank goodness for that, at any rate,'
said her ladyship, with a sigh of relief;
but now I must be off to dress for dinner,
and I suppose when that is over, you will
renew your attack on Kathleen.'

'That I certainly shall, Lucy. To-night

I shall be the accepted suitor, and poor
Master Frank Clavering will be out in the
cold !'

If you are accepted, Hugh, I hope it
Avill be a lasting acceptance, for your sake,
and that there will be no falling off on the
part of Kathleen, and no begging you, asa
man of honour, to release her from an
engagement which had begun to be irksome
to her. She's a queer girl !'

No fear of that, Lucy,' said Hugh,
lauQrhine.

Do you remember the French proverb,
Hugh?'

Don't know any French, Lucy ; never
did ! But what is it ?'

" On revient toujours a ses premieres
amours," ' said her ladyship, with a pronunciation
scarcely Parisian.

And what does that mean, Lucy ?'

asked Hugh, taking a look in the glass at
his handsome face.

That means, Hugh, that a girl always
goes back to her first love ; though I never
did, it's true, and thank goodness for
it!'

Then Kathleen shan't, Lucy, unless
some one puts me out of the way on Mr.
Clavering s account, or he does it for himself,'
said Hugh carelessly,

Good-bye until dinner, Hugh,' said her
ladyship, leaving the room ; * if you want
anything, ring for it. '

When the dinner bell sounded, Hugh
found his way to the drawing room, where
the ladies were awaiting him. He met
with a warm reception from Kathleen,
who appeared a little flurried and carried
a higher colour on her cheek than usual.

You are welcome to Arbela, Mr.

Unyan,' she said, 'and tomorrow I will
undertake the task of showing you round
the country. Tm a very good guide, I can
assure you ; am I not, papa ?'

First-rate, Kathleen ; you and Frank
Clavering have been all over the country
together,' said Sir Patrick, without thinking
what he was really saying.

I hope I may prove as agreeable a
companion as he was. Miss O'Moore/ said
Hugh coldly.

I daresay you will, Mr. Unyan ; but I
went all over the country with Frank from
the time we were children together.*

Dinner was announced, and throughout
the repast Hugh was the life of the table.
He told many anecdotes of his personal
experience, many of which were, perhaps,
already in print as the experiences of
others ; but that did not matter. The telling

was everything ; he did it with such
vivacity and with such an appreciation of
the ridiculous, that Sir Patrick laughed
more heartily than he had done for many
a day, until the tears ran down his cheeks.
And after the ladles had left the diningroom,
he told witty stories, which were too
witty perhaps for a Lady's ears, until the
baronet was convulsed, and confessed to
himself that Hugh was the most amusing
companion he had ever met.

Sir Patrick, too, told some stories of the
hunting-field, which Hugh pretended to
appreciate, although he sometimes found
it difficult to suppress a yawn ; he confessed
that he was not ' a hunting-man,' in fact he
had never 'ridden to hounds.' However,
he settled himself down to endure long
yarns of this and that ' run ' with the
Shallow hounds : how this had been ' a

capital run,' how ' the hounds worked welland
the horses had enough to do 'to live'
with them. How in another ' run ' a brace
of foxes ' broke cover ;' one * slipped back,'
but the other made a gallant struggle and
stout face * across the open ; how he
'pointed his mask' for such and such a
place, hounds pressing him hard, fox
evidently sinking, dogs got a * check ' ina
turnip field, horses distressed, hounds
hit the line ' again, and hunted him into
a covert, but ' scent ' had got cold.

The finest run I ever had in my life,
my boy,' said Sir Patrick triumphantly, byway
of finishing his story; 'the fox ran
before and baffled the pack for two hours
and fifty-five minutes, and the hounds in
the end never got him at all. You must
come down this next season, and I'll teach
you to ride to hounds as well as any one

in the county Cork. But come, let us join
the ladies !'

Hugh gave a yawn, and was glad enough
to follow his host into the drawing-room.


After tea, he sauntered out into the
garden with Kathleen, and during the
walk he repeated the question that he had
asked her in Dublin six months ago. To
this question, after a little feigned uncertainty
on the lady's part, Hugh received
the answer he wished for, and, on returning
to the drawing-room, informed Sir
Patrick and Lady O'O'Moore that Kathleen
had consented to become his wife.

The latter was profuse in her congratulations
; she was gratified that her plot had
so easily succeeded ; a woman loves to
have her way.

Sir Patrick, on the other hand, took the

news very quietly ; he shook hands with
Hugh, and said :

I congratulate you, Hugh, my boy ; I
consent to the engagement. But remember,
no marriage until you are in a position
to support a wife ; that decision I have
come to, and it is unalterable.'

He kissed Kathleen, and said :

I hope you have made a happy choice,
my child. But what about poor Frank ?'
he asked smiling, but with a feeling of real
pity for his neighbour's son.

He must find some one else, papa, if he
has not done so already,' was all Kathleen
said.

CHAPTER III.

TALAVERA.

The stoutest hearts of Spain.'

The severities of the winter of 1808
were finished, which had told so terribly
upon our army, at any rate so far as
dispiriting the men went. There is little
wonder at their losing heart in a desolate
country, drenched by deluges of rain,
fatigued by long and quick marches, and
almost entirely destitute of fuel and of food.
The provisions were of the scantiest, were
only irregularly supplied, and again and
again were the waggons, which were

bringing ammunition and stores, deserted
and lost by the Spanish drivers, in the
terror they felt at the approach of the
French.

Corunna had been fought, and the
gallant Sir John Moore long gone to his
rest, and then the cause of Spain seemed
lost. Her allies had left her, her government
was in a state of bewilderment, her
armies disbanded, and her people alarmed,
when, fortunately for her, the hostility
of Austria turned Buonaparte's attention
aside. The conqueror's career in Spain
was thus arrested ; the Spaniards breathed
freer when the Archduke Charles threatened
France and Italy with an army of
200,000 men.

King Joseph occupied Madrid ; the
Spanish armies of Estremadura and La
Marcia showed a little fight, when the

government was urged by our agents to
take some part of the pressure off the
British arms.

Oporto had fallen ; Soult was engaged in
his civil ass well as his military duties ; a
plot was formed in the French army to
change the government, for the soldiers
were utterly discontented with the present
war.

Such was the state of things when the
victorious commander, Sir Arthur Wellesley,
arrived in Portugal on the 22 nd of
April, 1809, to take the command of the
British forces.

Soon after this all the French troops to
the south of the Douro were driven to the
other side of the river, the English effected
their passage, and on the 12th of May
Soult left Oporto and fell back on Amarante.


After driving the French back on
several occasions with great loss, Sir
Arthur took up his quarters at Abates,
where he remained until the end of June.

Our own government was squandering
millions upon Spanish juntas while our
gallant troops were suffering from want,
and were almost unable to take the field ;
however, that did not prevent their winning
a victory for us, which is prominent upon
the list of British glory, and in which
Frank Clavering and Murphy were engaged.


Sir Arthur Wellesley resolved to halt at
Talavera, but his resolution made no
impression upon the Spanish general
Cuesta. He had followed a retreating
French corps across the Albreche ; and
on the 26th of July the French beat his
cavalry and put to flight his infantry to

the tune of four thousand men — thanks to
the British that his whole army was not
destroyed, for it was only saved by the
interposition of a division under General
Sherbrooke.

Even then was Cuesta loath to withdraw
to Talavera ; he grumbled all night
long, and it was only the next morning
that he yielded and left the two armies at
the disposition of Sir Arthur.

Frank Clavering now had command of
a company in his regiment, and Murphy
had not only proved himself a valuable
and attached servant, but had also shown
an amount of pluck and bravery of which,
while at Inchigeela, he seemed to be
destitute. He was in Frank's company,
and was his orderly. He had saved his
master's life at Salamanca when the British
army came up with the French rear-guard,

VOL. II. 20

which was covering the passage of the
army over Ponte Nova, on the Cavado,
and that had tightened the link which
bound Frank to his father's servant.

It was on the eve of the first day of the
great battle of Talavera, that Murphy,
with a spirit of unnecessary labour perfectly
thrown away, was doing something
to Frank's accoutrements, which seemed
to require an amount of elbow grease
that was willingly given, but given in
vain.

Faith, thin, Misther Frank, if I only
had a bit o' Inchigeela blacking here, Fd
make these belts and boots shine until you
could see your face in them,' said Murphy,
resting for a moment, his face being as red
as his hair from his exertions.

'What's the use of all that, Murphy? you
are only tiring yourself for no earthly use.

You'd better turn in ; you'll have quite
enough to do tomorrow, I can tell you,'
said Frank.

Maybe I'll have nothing' at all, yer 'oner,'
said Murphy.

How do you mean } of course you will !
Come, Murphy, stop all that! I want to
get to sleep, and you're keeping me awake,'
said Frank, with a yawn.

Plaise, thin, an' if a bullet or cannonball
begins the day wi' me, I shall have
mighty little to do. Remember, Misther
Frank, if I'm kill, as is quite possible, by
them rascally fogies, to take that letter
of mine home to my mother.'

All right, Murphy ; you have my
letters, too, to give to Miss O' Moore and
my father, if anything happens to me,' said
Frank.

Right you are, sur, here they are,' said

20 — 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

Murphy, taking out two letters from the
front of his jacket ; ' be the way, it strikes
me as I'd better alter their place, or I'll be
basin' a bullet going' through 'em. Faith,
I'll just sew them into the back of me coat,
an' thin a bullet can do 'em no harm, if it
hits me in front; an' I'm not likely to turn
tail upon that lot said Murphy, jerking
his thumb significantly towards the French
fires.

But, in any case, I don't see how you
are to get the letters home, if you are shot,
Murphy,' said Frank, laughing.

To be sure ; I forgot that, yer 'oner.'
The allied army was drawn up in a line
of nearly two miles in length. The city
of Talavera was the fixed point ; the
Spaniards were placed extending to the
left; beyond this was a high mound, on
which was a redoubt, where a brigade of

British light cavalry was posted. The
whole of this front was covered by ditches,
mud-walls, felled trees, breast-works, and a
convent ; in the rear was the Spanish
cavalry. To the left of the mound was a
division, under General Campbell ; next to
that another, under Sherbrooke; still farther
to the left was the German legion, which
rested on the foot of a very steep rise, the
key to the position, which was occupied by
more troops, under Hill.

The British and German arms amounted
to nineteen thousand men with thirty
guns, the Spaniards numbered thirty-four
thousand with seventy guns, while the
French had not less than fifty thousand
men and eighty guns.

The battle began at a spot called
Casa de las Salinas ; here the French
drove in the British outposts, nearly

captured Sir Arthur Wellesley, and pushed
forward their columns so briskly, and made
so tremendous a charge, that the British
brigades were thrown into complete confusion.


Be jabers T said Murphy, who was in

the thick of the fight, ' I never saw the

French devils charge so well before. An'

I've lost sight of Misther Frank, too; ah !

no, there he is, an, be George ! he seems to

be getting' the worst of it.' Of course it

need scarcely be added that this was said

mentally ; but he fought his way to Frank,

who was beset by a big Frenchman. This

Frenchman was getting the worst of it,

when another of his countrymen came to

his assistance, and Frank would soon have

quitted the battle-field for ever, had it not

been that Murphy appeared, and in loud

Irish exclaimed, * Take that, ye spalpeen !

two to one, is \t !' and brought down one
of Frank's enemies with the butt-end of
his musket, while his master finished off
the other one with his sword. However,
there was no time for parleying ; our
brigades were retreating, four hundred
men were slain ; it looked very bad foi
the British, when suddenly the 45th
and some companies of the both came
to the rescue, let our soldiers, who were
retreating, through their ranks, and engaged
with the enemy in a bold hand-to-hand
fight.

Victor, the French general, brought up
more troops, crossed the plain, seized on a
hill in front of part of our position, and
opened a tremendous fire. At the same
time a body of cavalry rode to the right,
and fired upon the Spaniards with pistols,
in order to make them show their line.

The Spaniards were not proof against this ;
they fired one discharge, and then, with
the greatest cowardice, ten thousand of
them threw away their arms and fled in
confusion. Alas for Spanish treachery,
cowardice, and imbecility of movement !

Murphy, subsequently commenting upon
this retreat, assured ' Misther Frank' that
he would rather have two Frenchmen as
enemies than one Spaniard as a friend.

Cuesta now thought of retreating, but
Sir Arthur Wellesley flanked the main road
with some of our troops, and saved the
position.

The fugitives, however, who had run off
in terror, carried with them alarming
reports of a defeat as far as Ropes, but
Cuesta brought back some troops during
the night.

About sunset there was a tremendous

attack made upon the hill on the left of
our army, by Victor. Colonel Domains
brigade made a brave stand, but many of
the French reached the summit. General
Hill came to his assistance, and to escape
being taken prisoner, galloped down the
steep, and meeting in his descent the
29th and other troops, among them
Frank's regiment, he led them to the
charge.

The darkness had come on, the musketry
flashed brightly and often, and there were
the combatants firing at one another from
no greater distance than twenty yards.
Oh ! it was a hard-fought battle, it was
British pluck and vigour and toughness,
against French gallantry and esprit de
corps.

The issue seemed doubtful, when suddenly
there arose the well-known shout of

British victory, loud above the din of warfare
; the enemy was giving way, until he
was driven back at all parts, leaving a
thousand dead and wounded on the field,
after laying eight hundred British low.

Weep, ye mothers and daughters of
France, for the husbands and fathers and
sons and brothers ye have lost ! Low lies
the grey-haired veteran, the fair-haired
boy ! To you, alas ! the repulse is more
than a country's loss, it is a spear-wound
for your own hearts ; it has brought sorrow
home to you, and you will go mourning
for those that might have tilled the vineyard
in peace, had it not been for the
remorseless ambition of a tyrant.

And you matrons and maidens of
England ! your husbands or your lovers
have fallen in the fray. It is a victory for
your country, and broken hearts for you.

They died with a shout of triumph upon
their Hps, they fought with unflinching
bravery — it was for their country, for their
fatherland.

You, too, though of another race, may
with the mothers or sisters of the very
husbands or brothers who killed your dear
ones, themselves killed in turn, call for
vengeance upon the head of the tyrant !
Turn to God your eyes that are red with
weeping, your cheeks that are pale with
sorrow ; point Him to the loss in the flock,
or the vacant chair by the fireside ; beg of
Him to remember the death of that manor
that boy who lies stretched upon the
battle-field with his pale face upturned to
heaven; ask Him to requite the bloodthirsty
tyrant who has plunged Europe
into warfare, who has torn the son from his
widowed mother, who has lacerated the

wife's or sister's heart. Will he hear you ?
Yes, it is not like crying to Baal of old, for
He Himself has said, * Vengeance is Mine,
I will repay.'

The two armies were at length illuminated
by their bivouac fires ; the Spaniards kept
up a desultory fire through the night, which
unfortunately killed several of our officers
and men.

Frank had been slightly wounded in the
left arm during the day, and Murphy
endeavoured to dress the wound as well ashe
could.

Don't bother about it,' said Frank.
You're an odd creature, Murphy ; one
night you are brushing up my belts as
though I were going on parade, and now
you are making a fuss over a scratch.'

Faith, thin, yer 'oner, it isn't Miss
Kathleen as would be calling' that a scratch ;

if she were here, she'd be for takin' of ye
home on the spot said Murphy.

I wish we could go home,' sighed
Frank ; 'I'm fearfully tired of this set-out
scarcely anything to eat.'

And nothing to drink,' put in Murphy,
with a grin ; * sure, since we left Ireland,
we've never smelt whisky, much less tasted
it.'

Go and sleep, Murphy, and leave my
arm alone, for goodness' sake ; every night
you keep me from rest, and it's little enough
1 get of it'

I'm off, yer 'oner; it's a fine night
fortunately, and mighty warm, so that
sleeping in the open air does no harm to
any one. I suppose we shall have another
rare fight tomorrow ; the A'mighty help
us ! Good-night, Misther Frank.'

The sun had scarcely risen on the

morning of the 28th of July when the
attack was begun on the side of the
French by a regular burst of artillery
which completely swept away whole
sections of the English ranks. This was
speedily followed by a discharge of
musketry, and then by a charge of battalion
after battalion. The British lost
fifteen hundred men in forty minutes.

King Joseph was recommended not to
hazard another attack, but Victor opposed
this, and engaged to carry the hill on the
left. At length, fearful of any report
reaching the ears of Buonaparte of opportunities
lost, Joseph, in spite of his own
misgivings on the subject, decided to bring
on a general action.

While the French generals thus held a
council of war, the armies rested from their
labours.

The British were suffering from hunger ;
for a long time each man had only received
a few ounces of wheat, in the grain, daily.
Poor Murphy sighed for a potato, though
he did his best with his miserable allowance,
and never even took that before he
had seen to the comforts of ' Misther
Frank.' His devotion and attention to
his master were unending, and Frank
often recalled the last evening at Clonmore
when the red-headed servant had declared
his wish of 'going a-soldiering.'

The weather was intensely hot, and the
troops, both English and French, towards
mid-day descended to drink at a little
brook which ran between the two positions.
Murphy drank his fill of ' the could
father ' which hadn't ' even the lingering' of
whisky in it and then carried up a pannikin
of the beverage for his master, who

was too busy to think of refreshing himself
even with the fare which nature provided.

But at one o'clock there was the roll of
the drum in the French lines, the men
gathered round their eagles, the signal for
battle was given, and eight pieces of artillery
began the tempest, which was followed
by the advance of troops.

The fourth corps vigorously attacked
General Campbell's division, which, supported
by that of Mckenzie and two
Spanish battalions, resisted the charge
most valiantly and drove back the enemy
with great loss and a capture of twenty of
their guns.

Meanwhile Villette's division, with the
Grenadiers and two regiments of light
cavalry, marched up the valley on the left,
while Ruffian marched to the mountain
beyond it.

Sir Arthur Wellesley immediately ordered
Anson's brigade, consisting of the
23rd light dragoons and the list German
hussars, to charge these advancing columns.
The regiments advanced as fast as they
could until they arrived at a deep cleft.
The French opened fire, the Germans
halted upon the brink, while the English
dashed down the chasm at the least precipitous
part, and horses and horsemen
rolled over one another. The survivors
climbed the bank, their commander being
severely wounded ; Major Ponsonby led
them on until they attacked with violence
a brigade of chasseurs. But the contest
became too much for them ; they were
overwhelmed by Polish lancers and westphalia
horse, until they had to beat a
retreat, leaving behind them upwards of
two hundred officers and men.

VOL. II. 21

During all this, the hill, the key of the
line, was again vigorously attacked. Under
cover of artillery, the French advanced to
seek a contest at the bayonet's point, but
soon retired under a heavy fire. Unfortunately
the brigade of guards rashly left
the line to follow up the success ; the heavy
batteries played upon them, and the guards
began to retreat, at the same time the
German legion was also routed.

Thus the British centre was broken, the
French were gaining the day, when the
45th were ordered to charge down from
the hill while they were supported by light
cavalry. This movement was decisive, the
battle of Talavera was fought and won ;
the British were exhausted from want of
food more than from anything else, and
being too much fatigued to pursue the
attack, each party held the same ground

which it had held in the morning. But
scarcely had the battle ceased, when
another enemy took the place of the
French.

By some accident the dry grass and low-shrubs
took fire. The flame rolled its terrible
course over a large portion of the
battle-field. Many poor wounded soldiers,
wounded unto death or parched with thirst
and badly hurt, lay extended upon the
blood-stained ground. And yet there was
no peace for the one in their death-agony,
or for the others in their sufferings. The
fire as it came along terribly scorched
them and increased their anguish a.
hundred-fold.

But the two brave fellows in whom we
have an interest were safe from the dan-ser
of the battle-field and the fury of the
flames.

21 — 2

Frank had received a slight wound,
while Murphy was a Httle scratched, and
declared that the blackberry bushes in
Inchigeela had done more harm to him
in a day, than all the Frenchmen had done
so far.

We must leave them now to sleep the
sleep of the weary, with no roof over their
heads but the star-spangled sky of a summer
night.

CHAPTER IV.

A CAPITAL ' RUN ' FOR SOME.
Life to the last enjoyed.'

Hugh Uxyan stayed little more than a
month at Arbela ; he attempted one or two
days' shooting with Sir Patrick, who was
forced to confess, mentally, that Hugh was
a better companion at the dinner-table than
he was out with a gun.

Hugh had not been born to manly
sports. His life had opened in a sphere
which neither shot nor rode ; the sphere
went to the city, was accustomed to dine

off eighteen, and to return to suburban
villas where tea and shrimps or tea and
Finnan-laddie ' graced the board. His
sphere had toiled morning, noon, and
night ; and when the parent Unyan had
departed to the shades of his ancestors, and
when Hugh had been removed from the
circle in which his father paraded his form
with goodly capon lined,' and had left that
villa which was built upon savoury messes,
though he had risen to a higher grade in the
world, had gone up several places in the
social form, had hung his hat upon a higher
peg, yet he never cultivated the * deficit ' of
his youth so far as sports went, but, as has
been said before, in the place of * sport ' he
put * play.'

Hugh did not find Arbela particularly
lively ; he took walks with Kathleen and
occasional drives and rides, though, in the

last exercise, his lady-love could never
persuade him to go across country. Oh !
what a falling off was there, at any rate, In
comparison with Frank Clavering, than
whom no man, not even Sir Patrick
O'O'Moore, rode forwarder to hounds.

There was no * play ' to be got at Inches
; sometimes of an evening Mr.
Clavering came In, and then there was a
quiet * rubber ' of whist, but that was all,
and it afforded but little pleasure to a
gaming ' man like Hugh.

Once during his stay with Sir Patrick,
Hugh had dined at Clonmore ; he had
gone in company with the whole party from
Arbela. The blind boy had played for
them after dinner ; Mr. Clavering had discovered
that little Pat's old fiddle was
beyond repair, and had accordingly substituted
in its place a beautiful violin, concerning

the price of which he was peculiarly
reticent.

It was a long time before Pat became
reconciled to his new instrument ; he
mourned the loss of his old friend, and
he constantly remarked that the new
fiddle * wouldn't spake like the old
one.'

In the ears of the world, however, the
violin sounded wondrous pathetically and
breathed out the soul of its beautiful master;
that is to say, in the ears of all who heard
it, save in those of Lady O' Moore, who,
actuated by an innate taste and the sensitiveness
of a delicate bringing up, declared
that the music not only lacked finish
and education, sweetness and touching
simplicity, but that the master himself
was devoid of that which belongs of necessity
to a violin-player — a true ear.

She made remarks which wounded Httle
Pat and brought the colour to his pale face.
She said that his nails were not clean, that
he should learn cleanliness before music,
and should endeavour to make himself neat
in person before he obtruded his talent
upon the notice of his betters.

Mr. Clavering felt annoyed at this
snarling pretension ; however he said
nothing, but merely sent the boy from
the room with a pat upon his curly head
and a promise that he should play the next
day as much as ever he liked.

Pat did not forget Lady O'O'Moore's
brusque remarks; they threw a twilight
shadow over the sunshine of Mr. Clavering's
appreciation. His own people, it was
true, slighted his gift, but then they did
not enter into the spirit of music, except
the evil spirit of it, when they howled at

wakes ' or kept carnival at the village
tavern.

But here was a person of Mr. Clavering's
own rank, a person whom Pat had
heard play and sing, who declared that
his music was not worth listening to, and
that his violin was sadly out of tune. Poor
Pat ! he did not know the world, he did
not know the character of Lady O'lNIoore.
Had the child been born to an estate, or
been a poor peer, or a penniless ' honourable,'
and in that case had his music been
a hundred times worse, had it been the
discordant scraping of a soul undergoing
purgatorial pains, in her ears it would then
have sounded like the harping of angels or
the infusion of heavenly music into an
earthly violin. The next morning Pat
asked Mr. Clavering why her ladyship
disliked his violin-playing.

It is only because you are a poor boy,
Pat,' said Mr. Clavering.

An' sure, sur, what has that to do with
me music ? Music is music, I repose,
whether it's played in a cabin or a fine
house like yours,' said the boy, who did
not at all realise how far ' the guinea
stamp ' goes with some people.

Yes, my boy, that's true, but you
mustn't think about what Lady O'O'Moore
said. As you say, Pat, music is music,
and all that the lady may say will not alter
that ; use the gift you have, enjoy it for
your own sake, for the sake of the music,
as you always have done, for directly you
begin to seek people's praise and to think
of that, you lose more than half the
pleasure of the gift God has given you.
Do you understand T

I think 1 do, sur ; plaise, yer 'oner, isn't

Miss Kathleen going' to marry Mister
Frank after all, if I may ask ?' asked Pat
wistfully.

No, my boy ; Miss O'O'Moore is going to
marry Lady O' Moore's brother,' said Mr.
Clavering sadly.

I'm very sorry, sur,' replied Pat with
sympathy, ' because it seems to make you
mighty unhappy.'

I feel it for my son's sake, Pat ; but
never mind, you need not trouble yourself
about it. You have been here a week
now without going home ; you had better
go and see your mother to-day.'

I will, yer 'oner; but faith, I'm happier
here, so long as her ladyship don't
come.'

The autumn passed away, and Hugh
had long since returned to Dublin. Sir
Patrick had entered heart and soul into

the hunting season, while his more quiet
neighbour contented himself with an occasional
* ride to hounds,' though oftener still
with simply a drive to ' the meet.'

Kathleen sometimes accompanied her
father. Lady O'O'Moore did not ride ; she
shared the inheritance of her brother's
ignorance In this accomplishment.

It was at the end of February that a
meet ' took place on the lawn of Arbela.
It was a fine brisk morning ; the ground
was just wet enough for the scent to lie.
Lady O'jNIoore was in full force, for she
was receiving a large company to breakfast
before they moved off 'to draw cover.'

Sir Patrick was in excellent spirits, with
a kind word and a firm grip of the hand
for everybody. He was anticipating a
good run, and nothing gave him greater
pleasure than to have gathered round him

in his own dining-room the many Nimrod
of his county.

Kathleen was ready for a start, too ; she
looked very bonny in her riding-habit, and
all the ' pink ' thought it their duty, as
well as pleasure, to hold a little conversation
with the fair daughter of their host.

At length breakfast was finished ; there
was the marshalling of horses and hounds
and men, and the whole troop moved off
to riverside.

Sir Patrick was mounted on a young
horse which was tolerably clever in the
field for a beginner, but was rather too apt
to ' rush ' at his jumps. The baronet, however,
felt quite safe in the consciousness
of possessing plenty of nerve among the
other qualities of a good rider. It has
often been the case that death has come to
men in the enjoyment of their greatest

pleasure : a king has died from overeating
lampreys his favourite dish ; death has
come to another while hunting ; and many
are the men who have died in the midst of
their drinking, and many while exercising
their patience at the crucible.

But in such instances the cause of death
has been contained in the pleasure itself;
overeatino^ and overdrinkins: have acted
injuriously upon man's body, or the fumes
of chemical preparations have destroyed
him, or an accident while hunting or shooting
has brought him to the end of his life.
But there are cases in which men have
been snapped off in india res, where
there was no baneful element in their
pleasure ; the author has died in his study-chair,
the preacher has fallen dead in his
pulpit, and the orator has been carried from
before an admiring audience to die.

In such cases life is to the last enjoyed ;
the same idea may be gathered from the
lips of the Christ of Bethlehem, where He
says that people shall be carried off in the
midst of their employment or their pleasure :
the woman at the mill, the man at the
plough, the revellers at a banquet, the
guests at the marriage feast, must yield up
their lives at a moment's notice into the
hands of Him who made them.

This is the uncertainty of life, or rather
the certainty of death. ^ Let us be left
alone a little longer we may say, ' we are
in the bloom of life ; let us finish this occupation
; let us enjoy this brief season of
pleasure or of popularity ; let us see this
child grow up, or this daughter married ;
let us wait till we attain that dignity so
long worked for, so long desired. Spare usa
little longer ; stay that icy wind which

seems to be coming upon us, that weakness
which is running in our limbs, that
film that is darkening our eyes ; let us go
down the hill together, even unto the
valley ; let not our sun set too soon, for
night seems to be coming on already.
Canst not thou call back our day, O
Death ? Thou wilt not, thou art without
mercy !' ' I cannot,' is the answer ; * I am
sent, and whether the harvest is ready or
not, I have my work to do and quickly.
Ye have had time to ripen, time to prepare ;
but His time must be your time. I am sent,
and I cannot spare.'

Is it possible to be always ready ? We
should surely bring ourselves into a state
of constant and satisfactory preparation.
Let us remember that the grave is not the
end of all things, but that what lies beyond
swallows up in its eternity the comparative

VOL. II. 2 2

insignificance of our long joys or of our
longer sorrows while on earth ; and that
that land which is beyond all knowing
beautiful should be, must be, the aim of
every serious thinking man rather than the
attainment of earthly happiness or the
lessening of earthly grief. There is something
in us which cannot die ; be it soul,
be it essence, or vapoury spirit, still it
should be our constant aim to cherish it as
the dearest possession we have.

All the rest must fade, be it human or
the work of human hands ; but the soul is
tantamount in existence to the word of
God, because it endure for ever. The
word gave the life, which is to be unending
; the word is God, our souls are an
emanation from God. And when we die,
then it is that those emanations go back to
Him who made them : if they are defiled,

they are become an unworthy portion of
His temple ; should they be carefully preserved,
they go to make the fulness of His
kingdom.

Life is real, life is earnest,

And the grave is not its goal ;
Dust thou art, to dust returned,"
Was not spoken of the soul.'

But to come down again from such high
considerations, and to return to ' riverside.'

A little incident took place while the
hounds were on their way to draw the
cover, which was a testimony to Sir
Patrick's good-nature and to the kind-heartedness
he displayed towards dumb
animals as well as towards his fellow-men.
One of the hounds left the pack, and going
up to the side of Sir Patrick, as he sat in
his saddle, pawed him, as high as ever the
dog could reach.

22 — 2

Faith, thin, Sir Patrick, he seems to
know you,' said the huntsman.

He does, Mike ; in our very last run I
freed him from a rabbit wire; by jingo,
here it is In my pocket !' said Sir Patrick,
drawing a piece of wire from his pocket.

This was the last testimony to Sir
Patrick's good-nature, and it was shown
by a dumb animal.

The Coppice,' as the first cover was
called, was drawn blank ; but the next
'break' held an old 'poultry-stealer,' and
away he went over as big a bit of jumping
country as could be found, as many soon
discovered to their cost. The ditches were
extremely * airy,* and the stone walls like
the side of a house.

The fox pointed for Ballingeary, then
took a short turn tg the left, then parallel
to the road by the lake, then through a

wood, and, though the ' earths ' were open,
then a scramble uphill ; then there was a
long check and slow hunting until he
dragged on into another wood and was
there lost. The sharp part of the * run '
lasted sixty-seven minutes.

But we must retrace the ground until
we come to a certain jump close to which
are three or four riders dismounted, one of
whom holds two riderless horses by the
bridle, another supports the figure of a
man upon the ground, while another is
administering brandy between the tightly
set lips of the victim of an accident.
There is also a lady standing by, almost
as pale as the injured man ; the one is
Kathleen O'O'Moore, and the other is her
father.

Sir Patrick, who had been riding hard
all through the run, so far as he rode, put

his young horse at a * nasty ' wall. The
horse somehow made a mistake, and fell,
throwing his rider heavily to the ground,
and in his struggles to get up he kicked
Sir Patrick.

Those who were riding with him immediately
came to his assistance, seeing
that he made no move to get up, and
they found him insensible but still
alive.

Among them was a doctor, who ordered
a hurdle to be brought, and the wounded
man was carried on it to Arbela. Upon
examination of Sir Patrick, the medical
man discovered that there were no bones
broken, but declared that there were internal
injuries which were likely to prove
fatal. He broke this news as gently as
possible to Lady O' Moore and to Kathleen.
The former was pale and calm, while

her step-daughter could not restrain her
grief.

Great was the consternation when the
whole * field ' heard of the accident, and of
the likelihood of its ending fatally. Many
called at Arbela to make inquiries, for they
were really anxious about their friend, than
whom no one had ever been more kindhearted
or more widely respected. The
doctor, who remained with Sir Patrick
until evening, informed inquirers that
there was little or no hope, and towards
six o'clock it became evident that the
baronet was fast sinking ; he was, however,
conscious, and asked for his wife and
daughter.

Lady O' Moore went to see him first;
she was alone with her husband for about
half an hour, and we had better draw a
veil over the interview. Suffice it to say

that she came from his room calm and
stately, but upon her cheeks were the
traces of tears, shed, we hope, in real
sorrow for the coming loss of so affectionate
a husband, and in atonement for
the little love she had given in return for
that which had gratified her every whim.

Then Kathleen went in to see her
father ; he drew her head down to his
pillow, and stroking her golden hair soothingly,
he said :

Don't cry, Katie; thank God, dear, that
you're in at the death, for I have several
things to say to you. Give me that
picture, darling.'

Which, papa ?' asked Kathleen, sobbing.

The little red frame with mamma's
picture in it,' replied Sir Patrick.

Kathleen went over to a chair on which
lay the ' pink ' coat he had taken off, and

in the breast-pocket of it she found the
little relic.

Here it is, papa,' she said, as she
handed it to him open.

Dear, dear wife !' he said affectionately,
kissing the picture ; *soon see you again,
darling ! the old love is still the new. Do
you think your step-mother ever loved
me like that one did ?' he asked his
daughter.

Kathleen was silent.

You do not answer, Kathleen, but I
will answer for you — never, never ; it was
the money and the title she loved. Poor
Lucy ! quite excusable, but I have loved
her, and bless God I have done my duty
to both wives. And the poor little boy,
too ! Sad it is that there is no one to
carry on the name ; I shall soon see the
poor little fellow again.'

Do not talk so much, dear papa ; it distresses
you,' said Kathleen.

'Not at all, my child ; what I have to
say I must say quickly. To you, Kathleen,
I have left nearly all my property ;
and it is my wish that you should marry
Hugh, as you have chosen kzm, before the
end of this year. But I have left a thousand
a year to my wife and the use of Arbela
for her lifetime, provided that she does
not. marry again ; should she do so, Arbela
and five hundred a year out of her thousand
are yours at once, but the other five hundred
are in any case hers for life, and at
her death come back to you. Should she
not marry again, be kind to her, my child ;
treat her with respect, not as your husband's
sister, but as your own father's wife.
Do you understand ?' asked the baronet, ina
weak voice.

Yes, yes, dear papa ; but I cannot bear
to think of losing you. I shall be left to
others who do not really care for me
sobbed Kathleen.

Nonsense, darling child ! you will have
a husband, and more than that, God lives
and helps for ever. Would that I had
oftener gone to Him ! Your own mother
was always on her knees. That was the
secret of her patient loving life, Kathleen.
And now give me a little water, and leave
me ! Send the doctor here; poor Clavering
will be in presently, and I must be prepared
for him. Just one kiss, Katie ; it
may be our last.'

Kathleen left the room overwhelmed
with this her really first sorrow ; the
reality of it was a keystone to the change
in her character which henceforward took
place. The flighty and thoughtless girl

became the staid and thinking woman,
who weighed her actions and her words,
lest by any inadvertence she might wound
the feelings of others. Her own grief enlarged
her sympathy ; she now became
acquainted with the feeling of infirmities,
and tried to lighten them when she saw a
burden of sorrow too heavy to be borne by
an oppressed fellow-creature.

It was about eight o'clock in the evening
that Mr. Clavering came in to see his dying
friend.

Sir Patrick said, with a faint smile :

It is I that am in the wars now, Clavering,
my boy.'

Yes, indeed, my poor friend,' replied
Mr. Clavering.

I have left you the sole executor of my
will, Clavering, my boy ; I have told my
wife and daughter all about it, except that

five thousand pounds is to be handed by
you to Hugh Unyan on the eve of his
marriage, by a codicil entrusted to you, asa
present from me. You don't mind doing
this for me, Clavering ?' said Sir Patrick.
The sum is in notes And then the baronet
gave such directions to his friend as would
enable him to find all the necessary papers
and the money intended for Hugh.

*No; why should I, my dear fellows'
asked his friend.

Well, you know, because you think
your boy Frank should be in Hugh's
place. So he ought, so he ought ; but the
girl has chosen for herself, and I cannot
refuse to sanction her choice,' said the
baronet.

No, of course not ; no one could wish
that you should,' replied Mr. Clavering.

Sir Patrick's neighbour sat on by the

bedside for about twenty minutes or half
an hour ; all this time the baronet spoke
rationally, only in a very faint voice and
with more and more difficulty. Then he
again lost his consciousness ; and now and
then snatches of his conversation referred
to the hunting-field, but all through it there
ran the strain of * the old love is the new ;'
he repeatedly used the expression until he
ceased to speak.

Mr. Clavering thought that Sir Patrick
had fallen asleep, he lay so still ; he waited
a little while, and then he saw that his
friend was dead.

He wept silently, and then went off to
break the news to Lady O'O'Moore and
Kathleen.

Sir Patrick had joined his old love and
his little son ; this life was over for him ;
his honest hand could no more give its

grasp of friendship ; the warm kindly heart
had ceased to beat. But in another country
the old love had become the new for Sir
Patrick ; for in that land, from the beginning
until now and all through all the ages
of eternity, the love of the Father is ever
new, and will so engross our whole adoration
; and being that, the question we so
often ask here, ' Shall we know them
again ?* need not be answered as we now
wish, for we shall be satisfied with perfect
love.

CHAPTER V.

COULD SHE DOUBT HIM ?

God has given you one face, and you make yourselves
another.'

Mrs. Green had taken up her abode in
London, as Hugh had desired her to do.
Her fifty pounds did not go very far ; there
was her journey to pay for, and also a
little newspaper shop, the stock in trade
of which she had purchased for thirty
pounds.

She did not drive a brisk business : in
fact, so useless was it trying to sell anything,
that at the end of six months she

gave it up in despair ; and what was worse,
she found herself considerably in debt to
those from whom she had purchased the
bare necessities of life.

She then took one small room in the
same neighbourhood, and endeavoured to
gain enough, by her needle, to support
herself and her child, which was sickly,
but, as is often the case with sickly children,
held on to life by a very slender thread.

At length she found herself upon the
verge of starvation ; she was too weak and
ill to work, for another little one was born
to her, and not only to her, but to the hard
miseries of a pauper's world.

And then she scribbled a dirty little
letter to her uncle Hugh; it was badly
written, badly worded, but it bore in its
pathetic appeal the truth of want, and the
strain was that of a poor mother who cared

VOL. II. 23

not for herself, but for her little ones. It
was badly spelt, but we will give a part of
the letter, as follows.

For myself i cares nothings but to see
them children almost starving', and to set
my keys upon my nuborn child, which is as
week as a kitten, goes to my 'art. Oh,
Uncle 'Ugh ! if you were only a mother for
five linnets, and saw your children as I
see mine, you wood no wy I ask, not for
my sak, but for there's.'

To this she received an answer, saying
that, 'Mr. Hugh Unyan had done all he
could for Mrs. Green ;' that he had no
money to spare, and even if he had, he
should not feel justified in giving more ina
direction where he had already bestowed
fifty pounds;

And then what did she do ? She wrote

to Kathleen O'O'Moore, reminding her of
the gambler's wife ' she had once visited
in Dublin ; she laid her case before Kathleen,
and for an answer received ten
pounds. The poor widow was truly-grateful
for this assistance, and acknowledged
the money in a tiny letter of
touching gratitude. She wished to prove
herself useful to Kathleen in some way,
and accordingly wrote to a friend of hers
in Dublin to find out if Hugh still gambled.
To this she received a letter, guilty of
worse orthography than her own, but
which brought the news that Mr. Hugh
Unyan played as hard as ever.

Mrs. Green Intended to convey this
news to Sir Patrick O'O'Moore immediately
by an anonymous letter, but scarcely had
she so resolved when the illness of her
elder child took her ihoucrhts into another

direction, and she postponed the communication.


At length she wrote it, and it arrived at
Arbela the very day after Sir Patrick was
buried. The letter was too late for him ;
poor man ! but it fell into the hands of
Kathleen, because it was enclosed in a
letter to her.

Kathleen's letter ran thus :

'DEER Miss O'O'Moore,

You 'ave bin gut to me ; pleas
give the inclosed letter to Sir Patrick. // is
for your gut, do not sa were it sums from,
as there is no aim given.

Your obedient servant,

'Sarah Green.'

The 'enclosed' for Sir Patrick, which
Kathleen opened, was as follows :

'Sir Patrick O'O'Moore,

Do not let Miss O'O'Moore mary
Mr. 'Ugh Unyan, he is a gambler. Goto
DubbHn and you will find out. This is
the rare of a gambler's wife, and of a
niece of Mr. Unyan's.'

Hugh was staying at Arbela ; he had
been summoned thither by his sister on
her husband's death. He had not been
sorry to hear of the decease, but he was
decidedly glad of it when he heard that he
was free to marry Kathleen before the end
of the year, and that no further exertions
were necessary on his part. He was not
aware of the five thousand pounds left to
him by Sir Patrick, but he knew that
Kathleen was heiress to her father's entire
property, out of which an allowance had to
be made to Lady O'O'Moore, and that was

all. However, he kept his pleasure within
bounds, and to all appearance felt sincerely
the loss which fell very heavily upon
Kathleen

Hugh knew nothing of how Kathleen
had relieved Mrs. Green since she left for
England ; as yet he had only heard how
she had visited the poor widow while in
Dublin.

Kathleen read the woman's scrawl to
Sir Patrick again and again ; she could not
believe it to be the truth. Hugh a gambler!
If it were indeed so, she would never marry
him !

She kept the letter in her pocket for
over a week, and then resolved to tax
her lover with the accusation ; she would
have his word of honour that he was not a
'gambler.' Accordingly, one morning,
she sent him a message from her little

room requesting him to come to her there,
as she had something very particular to
say to him, Hugh obeyed the summons
readily enough ; little did he know what
awaited him.

Hugh,' said Kathleen as he entered
her room, ' I have something serious to
say to you.'

'Something serious, Kathleen ; what can
it be ?' asked Hugh, without an idea of

what was common next.

'You have deceived me,' answered
Kathleen, as the colour rose to her cheeks;
I have allowed myself to be carried away
by my love for you, and have discovered
to my cost that you are not what I took
you to be.'

What on earth is the meaning of this ?'
asked her lover in alarm. ' Who has been
slandering me to you, Kathleen'* If you

do not consider me worthy of you, I release
you from your engagement.'

Kathleen hesitated for a minute or two ;
perhaps, after all, the accusation had been
made through spite, and there was nothing
in it.

Hugh,' she said, with a forced calmness,
^ I hear that you are a gambler, and I will
never become a gambler's wife.'

Hugh bit his lip; so Mrs. Green had
been at work, her threat had not been
altogether idle !

Kathleen,' he said, with an expression
of convincing earnestness in his face, ' can
you, do you believe this ?'

I do not doubt it replied Kathleen,
quietly.

You wrong me — on my word as a
gentleman, you wrong me, and it is painful,
very painful to me to hear that one

whom I love truly, one from whom I have
hidden nothing, should thus think me
guilty of a part which I do not know how
to play. Kathleen, you have wounded me
deeply.' This was not only said with an
appearance of truth, but was consummately
v/ell acted.

'Hugh, darling Hugh!' said Kathleen,
bursting into tears, for her feelings were
grievously weakened by the late sorrow-she
had undergone ; ' how could I doubt
you ? Forgive me !'

Ah ! how could you doubt me, Kathleen
?' said Hugh, pressing her close to his
honest (?) heart. ' I forgive you willingly,
but I am hurt at the bare recollection of
your doubting me. No, no, Kathleen ;
before you become may wife, let me implore
of you to put all trust in me until you
yourself find me guilty of deception or of

any action of which a gentleman should be
ashamed.'

I will trust you, Hugh. But see,' said
Kathleen taking a letter from her pocket,
here is a letter from a gambler's wife, a
relative of yours, which contains the accusation.'


Hugh snatched it eagerly from Kathleen's
hand, read it hastily, and then tore
the bit of paper into pieces.

Mrs. Green is a wicked woman, an
ungrateful woman said Hugh in an injured
tone.

I visited the poor woman In Dublin,
Hugh ; a half-starved body. Why should
she wish to do me an injury ? Is she a
relation of yours ? if so, she is a very poor
and low-bred one.'

She does not wish to do you an injury,
Kathleen, but she wishes to harm me,

under the appearance of benefiting you.
She is no relation of mine, thank goodness !
You shall hear about her from one who
knows the story ; I will fetch my sister,
she can tell you all !'

Hugh left the room, and returned in
about ten minutes with Lady O'O'Moore,
who had been well ' coached ' in what she
was to say, and, as an apt pupil at dissimulation,
had learnt her lesson to perfection.
She sailed into the room with an expression
upon her face which seemed to say, ' I
feel deeply the suspicion you have cast
upon my brother, and with him I am
surprised and wounded at the doubt you
have displayed concerning his conduct'
She took a chair ; she looked dignified in
mourning ; common people always look
best in black.

• Kathleen she said, * you have done

Hugh an injury, but I see that you are
sorry for it !' this was said by way of
smoothing matters over.

'I am very, very sorry, mamma; I would
wish to wound nobody's feelings replied
Kathleen in a tone of sincerity ; her own
heart was still smarting under sorrow.

I am ready to believe that, Kathleen,
and to admit that there certainly are
grounds on which you might doubt some
men ; but as to your doubting Hugh,
whom you know so well, and in whom
your dear father had every confidence' —
here her ladyship introduced a little display
of widowlike grief — ' well, I am surprised
at that. There is no need for you
to speak, child ; you have acknowledged
the wrong of your suspicions, and Hugh
has forgiven you — have you not, Hugh ?'

I have, Lucy ; I could not cherish

anger towards her for five minutes together,'
replied Hugh, as he kissed Kathleen.


^ But it is ris^ht that she should know
the story,' continued Lady O'O'Moore, with
a sincere desire to clear her brother in
Kathleen's eyes, ' and therefore I will tell
it as best I can.'

This Mrs. Green is what she represents
herself to be, a gambler's wife ; as to her
being a niece of mine or of Hugh's, the
idea is absurd, because we never had
another brother or sister.'

'Some time ago her husband came to
Hugh, being known to him in business in
Dublin, and declared himself to be in such
abject circumstances that Hugh lent him
two hundred pounds, very generously ; he
promised to repay this in three months,
but did not succeed in doing so, for he lost

all his money at play. Correct me if I go
wrong, Hugh,' said her ladyship, by way
of collecting her ideas.

You are quite right, Lucy, so far ; goon,
please,' said her brother.

*Well, the house in which Mr. Green
worked as cashier, discovered that he had
embezzled the firm to the amount of
several thousand pounds, and consequently
sent a detective in search of him. The
affair had such an effect upon the poor
fellow that he fell very ill and sent for
Hugh to come to his bedside. Am I
correct, Hugh 1:^ asked her ladyship, being
very anxious not to utter even the shadow
of an untruth.

Quite, Lucy ; go on,' was the reply.

Well, when Hugh went, the poor
fellow burst into tears, and implored him
to forgive the debt of two hundred pounds,

because he left his wife and little one
almost destitute, and that she — drank.'

How shocking !' interposed Kathleen.

• And Hugh nobly did so, badly as he
could afford it, and anxious as he was to
save all in order to win a position for
himself and thus gain you as his wife.
Green, in the excitement of talking to
Hugh, burst a blood-vessel and died. The
woman appeared broken-hearted, and about
a week after came to Hugh, looking pale
and ill ; he gave her ten pounds, and she
came again and again until he had given
her fifty pounds, and then he refused to
give her any more, because he heard of
her squandering all this relief upon drink.
Then she left Dublin, found her way to
London, and has worried him ever since,
threatening to do him some harm if he did
not yield to her begging ; and the harm she

attempted to do is contained in the anonymous
letter she wrote to poor Sir Patrick.'
What a wicked woman !' exclaimed
Kathleen ; ' how she imposed upon me !'

How has she imposed upon you,
Kathleen ?' asked her ladyship.

Kathleen told her step-mother how she
had visited the woman in Dublin, and how
she had since sent her ten pounds.

Then she has been in communication
with you, Kathleen?' asked Lady O' Moore.
Kathleen described the correspondence,
and Lady O'O'Moore commented upon how
deeply and securely the plot had been
laid. She finished by trusting that Kathleen
had dismissed all doubts concerning
Hush from her mind ; to this she received
an assuring ' Yes and then left the room
and the two young people to conclude the
matter between themselves.

Kathleen reproached herself again and
again openly to Hugh for having doubted
his love and honour for a moment. Hugh
frankly forgave her, and begged that she
would let all communication between herself
and Mrs. Green finish at this point,
for fear of further misunderstanding. To
this he received a solemn promise from
Kathleen to the effect that any letter that
might hereafter come from Mrs. Green
should be left unanswered.

Hugh and his sister congratulated themselves
upon the clever way in which they
had bridged over this, the last difficulty
that came in the way of Kathleen's
marriage. The wedding was tacitly fixed
for the next October, in order to carry
out Sir Patrick's expressed wish that it
should take place before the end of the
year.

VOL. II. 24

CHAPTER VI.

AN APPARITION.

I forgive and quite forget old faults.'

Hugh remained three weeks at Arbela
after Sir Patrick's funeral had taken place ;
he then took his leave, saying that he
would not return to Inchioreela before

o

October, during which month the wedding
Alas to take place. This was not only
because of Sir Patrick's expressed wish
upon the subject, but because Kathleen
had also given her full consent to the
(arrangement. Thus Lady O' Moore was
left alone to the company of her stepdaughter.

She did not find this exactly
suited to her own feelings ; because,
whereas Kathleen was bowed beneath a
weight of grief, her ladyship, who maintained
a sorrowful decorum, was yet longing
for a change from the monotony of Inches
and was weighing the subject of
what she was to do with herself. If she
married again, she lost half her property
and the use of Arbela ; and if she did not,
she would have to lead a life which would
be dull enough to induce her to commit
suicide in the lake. However, she never
spoke to Kathleen about her thoughts ;
she acted the recently bereaved with a fair
amount of skill, with so much, indeed, that
her step-daughter began to fancy that after
all her mother was not so devoid of feeling
and of heart as her poor father had supposed
his second wife to be.

24 — 2

Lady O' Moore was certainly a wonderful
woman to look at, considering all the
anxiety and plodding she had put up with
as a governess, and considering, too, the
troubles that had attended her during her
life as * my lady.'

The death of her only child had neither
streaked her hair with silver nor wrinkled
her forehead with care ; the sudden death
of an affectionate husband had not made
her look pale or wan ; no, she carried her
age wonderfully, and the suspicion of
carmine upon her cheeks gave an interesting
addition to the charms of so well-looking
a widow.

Lady O' Moore was willing to be caught
again, but like her aged sex in the poultry-yard
— not with chaff.

At Clonmore things were going on as
usual. The blind boy had taken up his

abode wish Mr. Clavering, and had even
found his way to the heart of Mrs.
Machree. All the time Mr. Claverinor had
been suffering from the effects of his
wound, Pat O'Leary had been in constant
attendance, and had rendered his presence
so indispensable to him, that on his friend's
recovery, the blind boy took up his abode
at Clonmore, going to see his mother every
now and then.

Frank had written several times to his
father, and in his last letter acknowledged
to having received the, to him, sad intelligence
of Kathleen's engagement. ' I ama
different man,' he wrote ; ' now that
Kathleen has promised to become
another's, 1 scarcely care for life. Until
I received your last letter, which was a
very long time on its way, I was longing
for the war to be over, or to be sent home

with despatches, or to be wounded and
invalided home. All this sounds, perhaps,
contrary to the spirit of a soldier's profession,
but I wished it for Kathleen's sake.
Now I care not how long the war lasts; I
would as soon be killed as not, for I assure
you that I do not care to live. I hope she
may be happy — tell her so from me. I am
well, have been slightly wounded in the
arm, but that is all. Murphy has proved
himself, as I said in my last letter, more
than a valuable servant ; he is invaluable.
Perhaps I am wrong in saying that I do
not care to live : I should be very glad to
have a peep at you, dear father ; for your
sake I will take care of myself. But you
cannot conceive how deeply I feel the
intelligence you wrote me ; I am sorry that
Kathleen is going to be married to a man
beneath her, as a brother of Lady

O'O'Moore's must be. And such a name,
too ! But that is nothing. Remember me
kindly to Six Patrick. How is the blind
boy ? He seems to be your constant
companion. Take care of yourself, father ;
I hope that no one else has been trying to
follow INIike O'Leary's example,' etc.

Mr. Clavering had not told his son of
the wound O'Crotty had given him, nor of
how near he had been to death's door.

One morning INIr. Clavering received
a letter from the governor of the gaol in
which Mike OLeary was confined, to say
that the man had died from 'pneumonia.'
Pat O'Leary was down to see his mother
when the news came, so Mr. Clavering
had time to consider how he had best
break the news to his blind lite friend.

Meanwhile, as the blind boy was making
his way to his mother's cabin, he heard a

Step behind him that he thought he recognised,
and which sent a thrill of terror
through him ; he instantly recalled the
morning of O'Crotty's assault upon him,
and of the attempt made upon Mr.
Clavering's life. He stood as if rooted to
the spot.

Pat,' said a voice, which the child
instantly knew as O'Crotty's ; * whisht !
don't kick up a row, ye young spalpeen ! I
have the civil of bad news for ye, an' I'm
just on me way to till your mother all
about it.'

Are you here again, faith ?' asked the
boy in alarm ; ' I shall lit the constable
know that you've been seen ; mighty near
you were to been' caught before !'

Don't ye believe it ; O'Crotty knows
tricks worth two of theirs. But I ain't
come to do yer Mr. Clavering' or herself

any harm. It's just to deliver a message
from yer poor father,' said O'Crotty.

Well, here's my mother's cabin said
Pat ; ' open the door. Ye can tell her the
message, an' thin be off.'

Faith, that I will ! this is no place forme
; but the civil himself couldn't find me
hiding-places said O'Crotty, confidently.

Don't be too sure o' that,' replied Pat ;
he'll find ye some day

Mrs. O'Leary started on seeing O'Crotty
v/ith her son ; she feared that some mischief
was on foot, but she might have received
him with more welcome had he not assaulted
her own boy.

Be off wi' you, O'Crotty ; is it that ye
want to be taken by the police .^ This
cabin is no place for the like o' ye, who
led me poor Mike into all his trouble an'
nigh murthered me child, too ; be off, I

say!' said Mrs. O'Leary, pointing to the
door.

Faith, thin, and I'm the bring-er of a
bit o' news from poor Mike, an' as bad a
bit as ye could well have, wife an' chiltern
too,' said O'Crotty, mysteriously.

'What is it?' asked Mrs. O'Leary in
alarm.

Mike is dead, for I was wl' him when
he died!' replied O'Crotty. 'He forgives
Misther Cavern', an' he hopes ye will all
pray for his sow.' With this the ruffian
disappeared.

To attempt to describe the scene that
followed would be useless. Mrs. O'Leary
threw herself upon the ground and howled
in her grief; the children cried bitterly,
although Pat and Biddy where the only two
who realised what had happened.

Mrs. O'Leary's frantic demonstration

continued for about an hour; she tore her
hair, she sobbed violently, and one or two
passers-by, who knew her, stepped in, and
helped her so far as their sympathy and
voices would allow ; it was indeed enough
to ' wake ' the dead.

Meanwhile Pat wept silence ; he felt
the loss of his father, but was more grieved
to see the sorrow of his mother ; when her
mere violent demonstrations had quieted
down, he did his best to comfort her, and
remained with her several hours. At
length, as the afternoon crept away, Mr.
Clavering grew uneasy, and came down
towards Mrs. O'Leary's cabin for the
double purpose of seeing that Pat was all
right and of breaking the news of Mike's
death to the family.

He did not know that a pair of malicious
eyes watched him from behind a wall, or

that a hand sought instinctively a pistol, or
that O'Crotty almost made np his mind to
despatch upon the spot the trust bequeathed
to him by Mike O'Leary, and to satisfy
the revenge that lurked in his own bosom.
As Mr. Clavering approached Mrs.
O'Leary's cabin he was not aware of this ;
and yet it was the case. But O'Crotty
deferred his purpose, and made off to his
hiding-place, feeling certain that Mr.
Clavering would soon hear of him, and
would again endeavour to rid the country
of so dangerous a visitor.

When Mr. Clavering entered the cabin
he saw at a glance how matters stood ;
there was no doubt that Mrs. O'Leary
knew of her husband's death, but how she
had come to know of it was a puzzle to
him.

His curiosity was soon relieved by his

little blind friend, who Informed him of
O'Crotty's reappearance, and of the news
of Mike s death. Mr. Clavering mentally
resolved to have another search made for
O'Crotty on the following day, which
resolution was put into execution, but
without success.

Mrs. O'Leary, I had come to break the
sad news to you, but I see that I am too
late,' said Mr. Clavering.

This reopened the poor woman's grief,
which was indeed sincere, and offered a
strange contrast, in Mr. Clavering's mind,
to that of the lady widow of Arbela. It
is said that ' still waters run deep but In
these two sorrows the reverse was the
case : poor Mrs. O'Leary's sorrow was
loud and deep, Lady O'O'Moore's was
decorous, silent and exceedingly shallow ;
true, it ran rippling at times, but it scarcely

covered the pebbles beneath it — heartlessness
and a resolve to marry again.

When the poor widow had composed
herself, Mr. Claverinor offered the best
sympathy he could, told her that he would
stand by her, that she should want for
nothing, and that he would provide for 'a
mass' for the repose of Mike's soul. He
also subsisted to her that she should send
her children to school at Ballingeary everyday.


They will grow up perfect heathens if
you don't, Mrs. O'Leary,' he said. * As
to Pat, he is my boy ; I'll take care of him,
he shall never want for anything. Come
along, my boy ! it is time for us to be going
home now.'

Mr. Clavering then left the cabin, taking
Pat with him.

Faith, thin, Mr. Claverin',' said the

child, ' ye'll be for catching' O'Crotty, or
he'll be killln' ye again.'

He hasn't killed me once yet replied
his friend, lauorhinof.

He nearly did once, an' he'll quite do it
next time perhaps, yer 'oner,' said Pat.

I mean to have the ruffian searched for
tomorrow, or it will be better, perhaps, to
begin to-night ; as soon as we get to
Clonmore I'll get the fellows out after
him,' said Mr. Clavering.

He says that father forgive you afore
he died, Mr. Clavering' ; an' plaise God he
did, for his own sake.'

I hope he did, my boy ; but I don't see
what he had to forgive.'

Maybe not, yer oner, but faith he
thought there was something', an' his heart
was angry enough ; an' if he was rid o' that
when he died, so much the better for him.'

You are quite right, Pat ; it is the very
worst thing that one can do to nurse up an
injury. We had a king who used to say,
*' Never bring up old grievances' and that
was one of the most truthful things he
ever did say

Plaise, thin, yer oner, did he always
tell lies ?'

I didn't say so, Pat; I meant that that
was about the most truthful thing he ever
said

Faith, yer 'oner, I'm thinking' that if
we don't forgive we shan't be forgiven.
What's the meaning' of a man praying',
*' Forgive me as I forgive others' if he
forgives no one ?'

There is a meaning in it, my boy,' said
Mr. Clavering earnestly, *of which such
people don't think ; they pray to be
forgiven as they forgive, which is the

same as asking God not to forgive them at
all.'

Faith, sur, it's better for them not to
say their prayers,' said Pat.

It is so, my boy ; I don't think much
of a man who can't forgive his enemies, or
who can't forget an injury done him ; such
a man has no heart, and doesn't deserve
God's forgiveness.'

When Mr. Clavering reached Clonmore
he ordered a search to be made for
O'Crotty ; his commands were obeyed, but
the search was in vain.

It was impossible to discover his hiding-place
; he seemed to spirit himself away.
Perhaps he stowed himself away in the
ruins of the rude and ancient church near
Ballingeary; they searched that — he was
not there, nor in any of the antiquated
buildings in its neighbourhood; in fact,

VOL. II. 25

from Inchlgeela Castle to Gouge Barra
they could discover no traces of O'Crotty,
although they hunted for him the whole of
that evening and continued their search
throughout the following day. They even
went as far as the Holy Lake, that spot of
lovely loneliness closed in by its amphitheatre
of rough rugged hills. They
pulled to the little island, which is nearly
in the middle of the lake; for once before
a fugitive had taken refuge there, and they
thought it possible that O'Crotty had
chosen the same hiding-place. But no;
they searched the ruins of the little chapel
of Saint Cinnabar of the Silver Locks in
vain ; they looked into the consecrated
well — that of old had received its bi-annual
visits of pilgrims who brought their sick to
be cured— but it afforded no shelter to the
fugitive. They even searched the little

verdant Islet where the silver Lee has its
source, but without success ; O'Crotty
was securely hidden, and probably befriended,
so that Mr. Clavering's servants
and the constable searched to no purpose.


Little Pat was unhappy that the ruffian
could not be found ; so long as O'Crotty
was at liberty he feared for his friend, and
felt no little alarm for himself ; he could
not forget the morning of that first encounter
nor all the circumstances connected
with it.

On the evening after Mr. Clavering had
visited Mrs. O'Leary, and when his men
had returned from their useless search, he
betook himself to Arbela, in order to see
how his neighbours were getting on, and
also to give Frank's message to Kathleen ;
he felt it a duty to visit Lady O' Moore as

25—2

the widow of his late friend, although for
his own feelings he could not meet her too
seldom.

He found them at home, and spent
some time in conversation, which went
easily enough with Kathleen, but with
Lady O' Moore was a matter of difficulty.
Mr. Clavering and she had no topics of
conversation in common, and the latter
was careful now not to raise any subject
on which her neighbour thought differently
to herself, because she invariably came off
vanquished.

But at the same time, her ladyship could
now afford to be a little gracious and to
extend the hand of friendship— had it been
received — to Mr. Clavering. She had
triumphed in the question of Kathleen's
choice of a husband, and poor Frank was
out of the race. But this was her only

success, for otherwise she did not succeed
with Mr. Clavering. He could read her
as a book, and some of the passages in
her ladyship's life were not light reading ;
there was a good deal of truth, but the
greater part of it was heavy fiction, which
Mr. Clavering did not like. The truth
related to her early days, while the fiction
was the unreality of her latter life. He did
not care for reading of heartlessness, of
calculated strokes and schemes, of marriage
for money, and of a kind husband's affection
being selfishly unrequited. It was
all there ; she knew it ; she was aware
that Mr. Claverinor did not relish the
reading, but at the same time she essayed
in vain to shut the book, and even when
she thought that she had done so, she
found that his eyes read her even through
the cover.

Mr. Clavering did not dwell much, with
Kathleen, upon the subject of his son ; he
gave her the message which he had received
from Frank. However, he did not
fail to notice the change which Sir
Patrick's death had wrought in her; her
light and flippant manner was gone, and in
its place had come an earnestness which
pleased him, and which contrasted favourably
with the impression she had made
when she visited him nearly. twelve months
ago in his own sick-room. Mr. Clavering
would have liked her to become his
daughter-in-law now, he would have chosen
her as a wife for Frank ; but it was of no
use wishing, she was already the affianced
bride of another, and would be married
before the year was out.

Mr. Clavering took his departure about
ten o'clock ; he had not given O'Crotty a

thought during the evening, but Pat had
been miserable all the time his friend was
away. At length the boy could no longer
remain indoors, so taking his cap and his
violin he made off for a plantation of trees
which grew between the grounds of Claymore
and those of Arbela. There he
stayed for upwards of an hour ; his mind
was more at rest in the open air, although
the March wind blew loud and shrill and
swayed majestically the mighty branches
of the trees. He played a succession of
fancies upon his violin ; now a pathetic air
which, almost drowned by the wind, yet
sounded like the voice of a little child
speaking in church, while the organ pealed
forth its loud anthem of praise ; again
some quaintly quick melody, which might
have suited a dance for fairies and elves ;
or again tones so weird and strange, that

they might have been the cries of a spirit
in distress.

And this is what they were intended to
be ; for he had fashioned a theme, with all
all the earnestness of his soul, upon the
cry of one begging his Lord for forgiveness
when he himself had not forgiven those
that trespassed against him.

The vanity of such a prayer was depicted
with masterly skill ; there was the
importunate yet unsuccessful pleading,
there was the mockery of such a prayer,
and then there was the reply, which
seemed to carry in it the doom of the
presumptuous beggar. What a world
there was in this blind boy's music !
There was a perception of soul which no
eyes could have given him ; he seemed to
believe more implicitly in the might of
his Creator than people with the full use

of their senses ; he seemed to get nearer
to the Celestial Gate and to see less
through a glass darkly ' than anyone Mr.
Clavering had ever met ; for he, on his
way up to the house, heard the sound of
the violin, and making for the trees discovered
Pat leaning against one of them,
his cap thrown upon the ground, while the
March wind played with his fair hair
and the moon shone fitfully upon his
features.

Pat,' said Mr. Clavering when the
music ceased, ' come home ; you will catch
cold ; you ought not to be out so
late!'

Mr. Clavering picked up the boy's cap
for him and led him home.

I could not stay in the house, yer
'oner,' said Pat ; ' I was fidgeting' me life
out about you meeting' O'Crotty.'

And what good did playing the fiddle
do, Pat ?' asked Mr. Clavering, smiHng.

Faith, sur, it did you no good, I'm
thinking', but myself a mighty deal,' replied
the blind boy ; ' mind ye take care of
O'Crotty, Mr. Clavering' !'

Don't you be afraid, Pat, for me replied
Mr. Clavering.

Two months after this, Kathleen received
another letter from Mrs. Green,
saying how sorry she was to hear of Sir
Patrick's death from the papers and to
know that her letter arrived too late.
Taking it for granted that Kathleen had
not perused the inclosure intended for her
father, she again laid before her the matter
of Hugh's gambling.

This time Kathleen took the letter to
her step-mother, who concocted an answer.

It was to the effect that Mrs. Green had
proved herself to be a very wicked and
ungrateful woman ; that Kathleen had read
the few lines intended for Sir Patrick, and
that she had since heard and had had
proved to her complete satisfaction how
utterly false the accusation against Mr.
Unyan was, who, on his 'word of honour,'
declared that he never gambled, and how
ungrateful she, Mrs. Green, was to make
it, after all that Hugh had done for her.
She had also discovered that Mrs. Green
was in no way related to him or to Lady
O'O'Moore ; that Mrs. Green had imposed
upon her, Kathleen's, charity, and she
could only say that any further communications
which Mrs. Green might see fit to
make, would be utterly disregarded.

There was also a threat of the police
being brought to bear upon the unfortunate

woman if she ever attempted again ' to
obtain money under false pretences ;' this
last was an original thought by Lady
O' Moore, who had an idea that all ^ common
people ' were afraid of the police, and
who thought that this would put a stop to
all further letters from Mrs. Green. She
was right in this. The poor widow received
the letter in amazement ; she saw
that her character had been defamed in
Kathleen's eyes, and she fancied, nay, was
almost certain, that this had been done by
Hugh. She made up her mind not to
write again, but would wait for some opportunity
of clearing herself and of doing a
good turn for the lady who had helped her
in her distress.

Mrs. Green was in the extremity of
want, worn with hard work and anxiety on
her little children's account. She had no

friend now who could help her, so she
thought ; but some one came to her assistance
and proved himself a friend in the
hour of need.

CHAPTER VII.

BUSACO.
Cry havoc ! and let slip the dogs of war !'

We must now return for a little to the
Peninsula, and see how Frank Clavering
and Murphy and our brave troops are
faring.

Since we read of the struggle at Talavera,
portentous events have taken place and
bloody battles have been fought. In the
Peninsula the celebrated battle of Oceana
is over ; where the French, v/ith a loss of
seventeen hundred men, put fifty thousand
Spaniards to flight like chaff before the

wind. Before nightfall the conquerors had
taken all the baggage, three thousand
horses and mules, forty-five pieces of
artillery, thirty thousand muskets and
twenty-six thousand prisoners ! So much
for Spanish bravery under the command of
idiotic leaders !

Besides this, the battle of Wagram had
been fought and the peace of Vienna
signed, whereby Austria lost three millions
and a half of her subjects, was compelled
to break off all relations with England, was
distracted south and west, and had a last
indignity put upon her when the daughter
of the ancient dynasty of Hapsburg was
demanded by Buonaparte to share his
throne.

Pius VII. had been dragged from Rome
to Fontainebleau ; Sweden, on the brink of
utter ruin, had yielded Finland and the

Isle of Land to Russia, and at the close
of the year 1809 ^ Europe was in a state
of fallacious calm except the Peninsula.

There was an endeavour to establish an
universal sovereignty, but Great Britain
was destined to nip in the bud the attempt
to carry into effect so monstrous an idea
directed chiefly against her.

The French, meantime, were but weak
as a maritime power, and were likewise unfortunate
in their colonies ; and in spite of
their vast armies, Napoleon had found a
match in Wellington, so soon as the latter
had, by a change in the British Cabinet,
received support and encouragement more
appropriate to his needs.

Moreover, the courage of Buonaparte's
troops underwent a serious change, and
instead of the national warrior sprung up
the mercenary soldier. This was one

cause of the decline of his power ; another
was his disregard of national law and of
social right.

In 1 8 10 Wellington turned his attention
to Portugal, and the French brought
thither eighty-seven thousand men. His
resources were cut down by the abominable
conduct of the Portuguese regency,
and thus his operations were
limited.

There were three parties in the country :
the people, who were willing to suffer anything
for independence ; the disaffected,
who expected better things under an improved
government should the French be
successful ; and the Hidalgos, who wished
to profit by national energy without lessening
their own privileges or the abuses of
government.

Wellington, who realised the uncertainty

VOL. II. 26

of war and the hazard of encountering
eighty-seven thousand men, prepared a
second and third Hne of entrenchments
and kept a large fleet of transports ready
the Tagus. His army was divided into
five divisions respectively ; one at Kizen,
Abates, Celerity, Pinhel, and Guard ;
besides these, three thousand cavalry were
ranged along the Monde, the whole
number under arms being between twenty-three
and twenty-four thousand men.
There were, however, twenty thousand
Portuguese regulars at Thomas and five
thousand at Abates.

The early movements of the French
were vague; Badajoz was menaced, Ciudad"
Rodrigo was summoned, and the troops
which advanced against Astoria were repulsed.
Napoleon himself was bound in
Paris with the cords of love, and Masses

Was elected to be his representative In the
Peninsula.

Marshal Ney began the siege of Ciudad
Rodrigo on the 26th of April ; the
garrison was about six thousand strong,
and its governor was one of the few
Spanish officers whose valour was not to
be doubted. The British head-quarters
were at Celerity, but Wellington showed
no signs of helping the besieged. ' If,' said
General Picton, ' we attempt to relieve this
place, the French will drive us out of Portugal
; while, if they get possession of
it, they will lose time, which is of more
importance to them than Ciudad Rodrigo.'


Wellington took in with the grasp of his
mighty mind the whole of the war to come,
and nothing could induce him to risk an
engagement. However, he allowed the

26 — 2

gallant General Crawfurd to execute a
succession of manoeuvres, which proved
brilliant, although he had but a comparatively
small number of men and guns under
his command. With four thousand infantry,
eleven hundred cavalry, and six
guns, this brave commander repeatedly
defeated detachments of the French army,
and cut up the resources of the country In
order to turn them to the support of hi
own troops.

Meanwhile, Ciudad Rodrigo held out
gallantly until the list of July, when it
capitulated ; its venerable governor, Don
Andrews Herrasti, appearing upon the
ramparts and waving the white flag of
truce. The old man had sustained the
siege manfully, and had raised it to save
the city from massacre. ' If,' says an
historian, ^ the wretched Ferdinand had

possessed a soul removed one degree
above the brute creation, he would have
employed artists to delineate this and other
instances of heroic valour in his subjects,
instead of using his own royal fingers to
embroider petticoats for the Virgin.'

On the 26th of August, Almeida fell.
Some French troops had been pushed
across the Coa in order to cut off communication
between the allied army and
Almeida ; they reached the river Pinhel
on the 27th of July, and the British army
was drawn back to a better position.
Wellington left the town of Almeida, with
Colonel Cox as governor, in command of
a garrison of some four thousand men ; he
capitulated because he was betrayed by
his Portuguese officers, one of whom,
Costa, was afterwards shot as a traitor to
his country and his cause. As soon as

Wellington heard of the fall of Almeida
he drew back behind the Monde, and
after much consideration and by means of
a rapid manoeuvre he crossed the river on
the 20th and 21st of September, and took
up a position on the Sierra de Busaco, a
mountain of about eight miles in length.

Having thus worked our way with the war
to the month of September, we must take
a look at those in whom we are more
closely interested, Frank Clavering, and
Murphy his almost slave.

Since the news of Kathleen's engagement,
Frank had really been, as he wrote
and told his father, a different man. He
had become gloomy, and suffered from a
depression of spirits which did not fail to
elicit the remarks and ' twisting ' of his
brother officers. But what he lost socially
in their eyes, he gained in valour as a brave

officer and as one whose whole Interest
and being where centred In the glory of his
country's arms. With Frank it had been
Kathleen and my country ;' now it was
only *my country.'

At first he kept the reason of his bad
spirits a secret from every one ; but at last,
wanting sympathy, and finding It necessary
to let out his pent-up feelings, he made a
'confidant' of Murphy, who, with the
freedom of a faithful servant and the Impulse
of an Irishman, stormed against the
inconstancy of women, and declared that if
M esther U nan were only French and put
himself In his way, he would make short
work of him. It is as well that Hugh
belonged to another nationality, as there
is no doubt that Murphy would have
carried his threat into execution ; for just
now he was exceedingly bloodthirsty, ashe

had had a spell from fighting and he
longed to have another * go ' at the
French.

It was on the evening of the 24th of
September, when the French had during
the day skirmished with the British troops,
that the following conversation took place
between Frank and Murphy.

The latter was irrepressible, and more
particularly of an evening whenever he
had a little spare time on his hands.

I've been thinking o' something', Misther
Frank,' said Murphy.

What is it ?' asked Frank, without
interest.

That it's no use my keeping' this letter
for Miss O' Moore which I've had sown onto
me back ever since Taleveery. Faith,
I repose she wouldn't want to read it now,
an' more's the pity ; so beautiful wrote,

too, as It is, I'll warrant answered
Murphy.

I quite forgot that you had it,' said
Frank listlessly ; ' give it to me, and the
one you have for Mr. Clavering too !'

Murphy extracted the letters with some
difficulty from the back of his jacket, and
handed them to Frank.

An' plaise, sur, if you're kilt tomorrow
is there no letter to go home ?' asked
Murphy in astonishment.

I shan't be killed tomorrow, Murphy ;
there will be no lighting of any account
for two or three days replied Frank
quietly. * I may be then, because there
will be quite enough for us and the 45th
to do if we keep the position we now
have.'

Murphy coughed apologetically, and
smiling broadly, said :

Faith, yer 'oner, it's a pity ye're not
Wellington himself, ye seem to know the
whole war off be heart before it takes
place.'

I shall have two letters to give you
tomorrow, Murphy,' said Frank, without
heeding the compliment passed upon him ;
one for Miss O'O'Moore, another for Mr.
Clavering. If anything happens to me, and
you get safe home, do not forget to deliver
them.'

As soon as I can, yer 'oner, more particular
if I git sent home wi' dispatches,'
said Murphy with a grin. * But plaise, yer
'oner, ye're mighty forgiven' to be writing'
to Miss O'O'Moore as though nothing' had
happened.'

Silence, Murphy !' said Frank sternly,
whose own good-natured fault it was that
Murphy said what he chose, and who was

particularly sore upon the subject of Kathleen
; ' that is my business.*

I big yer 'oner's pardon for forgetting'
me place, but it's just me sympathy for yeas
makes me spake me mind so freely ; I
does me very best to be respectful to you
as me officer, but as " Misther Frank,"
whom I remember from the time he was
in his nurse's arms, I feel for you ; for don't
I know what love is me own self ?' said
Murphy comically.

How is that T asked Frank, relaxing
into a smile.

Sure, yer 'oner, didn't I want to marry
Widow Machree me own self and she
wouldn't have me ? an' do ye think I have
ever forgot it ?' asked Murphy quizzically.
It's left a hole as big as a potato in me
heart, which ye could put your fist into.

'Why, Murphy, Mrs. Machree is old

enough to be your mother or nearly so,
and I thought you were always in hot
water with her !' said Frank, who remembered
various sparring matches between
his attendant and the housekeeper in days
of old.

Maybe both, yer 'oner ; but the one
wouldn't have prevented her taking cares
me, an' the other might have kep' our
love from grown' cold,' replied Murphy.

After Murphy was sleeping the sleep of
the just, Frank occupied a couple of hours
in writing letters to his father and to Kathleen.
To the former he gave a summary
of the campaign since his last letter home,
told him that they were on the eve of a
battle which was likely to be hard fought,
and in which he fancied that his own regiment,
if it kept to its present position,
would be vigorously engaged; he added

that, as a precaution, should anything
happen to him, he had another letter to
confide to the care of Murphy before the
engagement took place.

To Kathleen he wrote as follows :

My dear Kathleen,

To me alone the news of your engagement
has caused sorrow ; it is, perhaps,
a selfish sorrow, but at the same time I
take this opportunity — on the eve of a
great battle out of which I may not come
alive — of assuring you of my best wishes
for your future happiness and welfare.
You will remember that long ago I used
to speak to you on the subject of our marriage,
and always declared that if I did not
marry you, I would marry no one else.
This determination is now confirmed.
The thought of your having forgotten me

is a distressing one, and I can only add
that since I left Inchigeela, my constancy
to you has never wavered ; but if you
really love Unyan you are right to choose
him for your husband.

I have to offer you my sympathies on
the loss you have sustained in the death of
your father.

But I will write no more, lest what I
might say of the state of my own
feelings should cause you a moment's
pain.

In case of anything happening to mein
the coming battle, I have committed
another letter to the care of Murphy, my
father's old servant, to be given to you
should he arrive home in safety.

Perhaps, before this reaches you, you
will be married but in any case accept my

congratulations on the event. God bless
you !

Still affectionately yours,

Frank.'

This finished, and another short letter
for Kathleen and one for his father being
prepared for giving into Murphy's custody,
Frank wrapped himself in his cloak and
tried to sleep. But his attempt was in
vain. Hour after hour passed by ; his
brain was too active for repose, and his
thoughts first flew back to olden days, and
then on to the next month while he
pictured to himself the wedding of Kathleen.
At length a dreamy confusion took
the place of reality, and he found himself
standing side by side with her at the altar,
himself the bridegroom. But they say
that ' dreams never come true.' Would,

for Frank's sake, that this one might prove
an exception to the rule ! But there
seemed no chance of that, for the
hymeneal torch was almost kindled, and
only a few days intervened between Kathleen
and her marriage. '

The next morning Frank sent his two
letters to the adjutant-general for transmission
to Ireland, and handed Murphy
the other two intended for his custody.

Early on this same day, Crawfurd moved
down from his post and engaged the enemy
with his usual impetuosity ; but they came
on so quickly that Wellington himself had
to interfere and cover the retreat of the
light division. Ney was now anxious to
attack ; but Massena being ten miles in the
rear at Mortals, this, the only favourable
opportunity, passed by unused.

On the 26th, both Ney and Render

intimated their desire to attack, but the
Prince of Ensuing said that everything
must wait for his arrival. He did not
appear upon the field until noon, bringing
with him the eighth corps. But the position
of the English was wonderfully-altered
; the whole Sierra glittered with
bayonets ; the troops were most advantageously
posted ; the artillery were placed
among the rocks, while the sides of the
mountain were studded with skirmishers.

Ney no longer wished to attack, but
Massena was resolved, and thought more
of the valour and discipline of his own
troops than of the impregnable position of
the enemy.

Before sunrise on the morning of the
27th, the French columns advanced, three
under Ney, opposite to a convent, and two
under Render against St. Antonio de

VOL. II. 27

Cantata, the defence of which was given
to the third division under General Picton.
At this latter post sharp firing was heard ;
shortly afterwards fourteen pieces of
cannon opened from the opposite height
to cover the advance of the heavy column
as it was trying to force a defile. The
74th opened a crushing fire on them, as
also did a Portuguese battalion, so that
the attempts of the enemy were useless,
and they retired in confusion.

However, at a very critical time, a
strong body of the enemy made their Vv^ay
through the division close to the. hill of
Busaco, which was occupied by the seth
and four companies of the 45th.

The battle here was most unequal ; the
enemy gained the rocky heights and were
about to take the position, when Picton
came to the rescue.

He found the seth and the light companies
of the 74th retiring in disorder
before a great mass of the enemy.
Frank's company was almost cut to
pieces; Murphy was badly wounded and
had fallen in the fray. Picton rallied the
troops with difficulty, but the gallant Major
Smith placed himself at their head and
made a desperate charge on the foe.
Right well do these two gallant regiments
bear ' Busaco ' on their standard !

Picton now led on a battalion of the
8th Portuguese, and the joint attack was
eminently well timed.

The French, wearied with their efforts,
were driven headlong down over the rough
rocks, and left the side of the mountain
covered with slain.

When Picton went back to the pass he
found it stoutly maintained, and he sent

27 — 2

off Leith's brigade to the left, where it
joined five companies of the 45th and the
8th Portuguese regiment, and frustrated
the last attempt of the enemy at that
point.

Ney's attack on Crawfurd's division was
also without success. The French
marshal then pushed forward Poison and
Marchand, each in command of a division,
and kept a third for himself in
reserve.

The first of these, headed by Simon's
brigade, rushed up the mountain with
marvellous speed, although pierced by
shot and scattered by musketry. Their
advance was irresistible, and the British
skirmishers ran back over the edge of the
summit

The artillery was withdrawn, the cries
of French victory already rent the air,

when Crawfurd ordered the 43rd and
52nd, which were concealed from the
enemy's view, to advance. These two
regiments poured in a close volley upon
the advancing columns with dire effect ;
there was the rapid charge of a thousand
bayonets over the brow of the mountain,
and the enemy rolled down the steep and
were completely routed, with a loss of
nearly five thousand men killed and
wounded, while the allied armies lost
about thirteen hundred men.

Another victory was thus added to the
British roll of fame. It was won with
great bloodshed ; flowers from the French
and English family gardens were cut down,
there was much suffering, but withal it was
a glorious victory.

Bad pennies always turn up ; but
Murphy, who could not be categories

under such a batch, showed himself again
in the flesh, and his wounds were carefully
attended to, while he was raised to the
rank of corporal

CHAPTER VIII.

CHARITY AND CO-OPERATION.

There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
Would men observingly distil it.'

While Mrs. Green was deliberating as to
the direction in which she should look for
assistance, it suddenly occurred to her that
Mr. O'Neil, who had so warmly espoused
the cause of her poverty on her husband's
death, might help her now that she was
deserted by Hugh and Kathleen O'O'Moore.
She accordingly wrote him one of her
ill-spelt, shabby little notes, and awaited
anxiously an answer. She told him the

State of her poverty, and dwelt upon the
fact that for herself she would never stoop
to beg, but that she could not bear to see
her lltle ones starving under her very eyes,
although she had almost worn her poor
fingers to the bone in order to save them
from the want which cometh as an armed
man. At length, after waiting patiently
for some ten days, she received a letter
from Mr. O'Neil which informed her that
he had with some difficulty procured her a
situation in Dublin as needle-woman in a
dressmaker's shop. Mrs. Green did not
hesitate long as to whether she would
accept this offer or not ; there was no
reason why she should stay out of Ireland
because Mr. Hugh Unyan wished it ;
Dublin was no more his than London washers.
True, that he had given her fifty
pounds to go away, but Mr. O'Neil had

presented her with twenty pounds to
return, and why should she not make use
of the last money when she had made use
of the first ?

NowWidow Green had received relief from
three persons — from Hugh Unyan, from
Kathleen O'O'Moore, and from Mr. Neil.

In the first instance, the relief was not
prompted by charitable feelings ; it was
merely the emanation of selfishness. Hugh
wished to be rid of some one who would
come between himself and his object ; to
be freed from a poor relation, as most
people in his position desire to be, that
was the reason of his fifty pounds. His
charity was not ' long-suffering,' he used it
to attain a purpose, and when that was
attained, neither the cry of the widow nor
the sob of the hungry children found its
way to his heart.

Kathleen had relieved Mrs. Green In
the good-nature and impulse of her disposition
; had she believed in the woman now
her motives for charity would have been
deeper.

O'Neil had been actuated by a * touch
of nature ' which ' makes the whole world
kin.' He himself was a gambler, Green
had been one too.

O'Neil had regarded the poor woman's
husband as a man of the strictest honour
in his gaming transactions ; he had always
borne a good front, had been generous to
his friends, and had kept entirely behind
the scenes the secret of his real poverty,
and the fact that he had a wife and child
at home who had scarcely enough to keep
life in their bodies from one weary day to
another. But on Green's death Neil
had found all this out, and the truth went

to his heart. He could scarcely credit the
misery and care which formed the real
background to his gambling friend's life.
It struck him forcibly. Would he ever
come to so sudden an end as Green had
come to ? would he have as little notice to
quit this world as Green had had ? and
would his own pale-faced loving little wife
ever have the careworn look and the restless
anxiety for her one child which he
saw in Mrs. Green ? He trusted not, he
prayed not. And yet the thought was not
enough to make him give up his gambling ;
it was not enough to induce him to listen
to his wife's beseeching, to her ardent
wish, *Just stay at home for one night,
please !' No, he must have one more throw
with the dice, one more season of chance ;
and then he would give up his play
at once and for all, and would lead a

Steady life, would take to something
serious and certain, would quiet the uneasy
fluttering of his wife's heart, would
become a domestic man, and would bring
up his child, or perhaps children, In such
a way, that he or they should avoid the
gambling-table and its companionship as
the very gate of perdition, hearing from his
own lips the unhappy fate of poor Green
as a warning against play.

But although such thoughts as these
crossed his mind, and rendered him at
times unhappy, and although they did not
succeed in arresting at once his course asa
gambler, yet they led to his being ready
to assist Mrs. Green when her letter
reached him from London. He set to
work at once to find a situation for her,
and about the end of June had the satisfaction
of seeing her installed in the place

which he had so good-naturedly procured
for her. Between the time of her writing
to O'Neil and her arrival in DubHn, she
had lost her younger child, and this added
to her grief.

What a blessing,' we might say, ' for so
sickly a little one to be taken away ! Its
poor mother can scarcely support one
child ; there is a providence in this bereavement.'
So there may be, must be ; but at
the same time the mother weeps. It is her
own child ; it is a link between her and her
dead husband ; it was an anxiety to rear,
it was weakly, and cried continually from
pain and hunger, but still it was her child ;
and Mrs. Green, like Rachel of old, wept
for her child, and would not be comforted,
because it was not.

It was perhaps two months after Mrs.
Green returned to Dublin that Neil,

who paid her regular visits, entered her
little room one evening.

Her habitation had been rendered
comfortable by his considerate care, and
even his wife, by another ' touch of nature,*
had lent her assistance to better the
position of the widow of a man whose lot
had been cast in with that of her own
husband.

By Mrs. Green's special desire, Hugh
had not been apprised of the return of his
troublesome relative to Dublin. He had
written to his sister once or twice to
inquire if she had heard any more of * Mr.
Robert Unyan's child,' as she seemed to
have left the land of the living.

Lady O' Moore answered in the negative;
since the poor widow's last letter to Kathleen
nothing had been heard of Mrs.
Green at Arbela, and her ladyship hoped

that peradventure she and her children
had been carried off by some of those
dreadful diseases to which the poor of
London were exposed during the summer
months. That is to say, the sentiment
was not perhaps so clearly stated as here,
but the hint given was so broad that
Hugh took in the meaning of it at a
glance.

As O'Neil entered the room, Mrs.
Green saw that there was something the
matter with him; he was restless and
pale.

I am unhappy, Mrs. Green,' he said.

Why ?' she asked, who thought that he
had had a run of ill-luck, but nothing
more.

My little boy is very ill,' answered
O Neil.

Here was a stream of sympathy opened

between the two ; the widow who had
lately lost her little one, and the father
who now feared for the life of his child.
They talked for a lite time upon the
subject so near to the heart of both of
them, and then O'Neil, out of curiosity,
asked Mrs. Green the reason why Kathleen
O'O'Moore had suspended the charity which
she had before so readily granted ; for he
knew how Kathleen had visited the poor
woman in Dublin, and how she had since
sent her ten pounds, but how that Miss
O'O'Moore had also brought a termination
to her charity in a manner which wounded
the widow's feelings.

Mrs. Green, until now, had never
breathed a word to O'Neil of her relationship
to Hugh, but for Kathleen s sake she
now resolved to tell him all ; so in answer
to O'Neil's question as to why relief from

Arbela had so suddenly changed to an
angry letter, she began her story and told
him the truth from beginning to end.

O'Neil was disgusted at Hugh's heartlessness
towards a relation, and wished to
tax Unyan with It at once, only Mrs.
Green begged him to say nothing about
It, as there was a way In which he might
truly serve her. When she had finished
the narrative down to showing the very
letter she received from Kathleen, she
said :

This Is 'o\v I wants you to serve me.
Do you fully realise the 'errors of a
gambler's life T

I do answered Cornell.

Are you resolved to give It up If your
little one gets better ?' asked the widow,
earnestly.

I swear that I will was the answer.

VOL. II. 28

You 'ave 'heard what a kind parted girl
Miss O'O'Moore is, of 'ow kind she was tome,
and as 'ow she said that she would
never marry a gambler ?'

I have said Neil.

Is Uncle 'Ugh a gambler or not? 'E
is, you knows it. Well, Miss O'O'Moore
don't ; she fancies 'e is perfection, an' 'e
'as taken 'is word of honour as a gentleman
that 'e is not. What can 'e know of
honour ? Oh ! 'e is 'artless to take 'erin
so, an' you must prevent it. But 'ow
can yoti prove that 'e is a gambler ? I
said that 'e is, an' / am called a liar ; you
may say that 'e is, an' you will be called
the same. Oh ! them two are very deep,
my uncle an' my aunt ! they are getting'
over a young lady to suit their own ends,
an' it's neither of them as is lady or
gentleman,' said Mrs. Green.

But I have a proof,' said Neil,
quietly.

^ A proof !' exclaimed the widow,
eagerly ; * a proof that 'e is a gambler !'

'Yes, Mrs. Green,' said her friend,
taking a pocket-book from his coat and
opening it. 'Here is an Iso. U. of his,
for a thousand pounds, for money lost at
play, to be paid a few days after his
marriage.'

Then 'e can't pay it now,' said the
woman, excitedly ; ' 'e is marrying' for
money. I must prevent 'is marrying' Miss
O'O'Moore, for 'er sake ; I never forgets a
real kindness, for God only knows the
sorrows of a gambler's wife.'

If my child recovers, I swear before
God that I will not only give up play, but
will prevent Hugh Unyan's marriage if I
can,' said O'Neil, with solemn earnestness.

28—2

He has asked me down to Arbela to be
his best man, and though it looks Hke
treachery on my part, yet I will, because
of my promise to you and my vow before
God, speak to Miss O'O'Moore on the eve
of her wedding-day. She shall not marry
your uncle without knowing that she is
becoming the wife of a gambler,' he continued,
with determination.

There is no treachery in your coin' so,
Mr. O'Neil. Why, bless me, 'e 'as taken 'is
word of honour to a lie ; 'e ought no more
to be treated as a gentleman ! There's
poor Green,' said the widow sadly, 'as
was to be 'ad up for 'berlin', well 'e,
although a criminal in the eyes of the law,
would never 'ave done that. Lor', 'e was
truthful, 'e was ! that man never told me a
lie, although 'e did gamble.'

Well, I shall go down to the wedding,

which is to take place about the middle of
October ; but I shall be a queer best man,
going to caution the bride against the
bridegroom ; but still I shall do it if '

At this moment O'Neil's wife, a perfect
little lady to all appearance, entered the
room. Her husband had told her whereto
find him if the child were worse, and
she had come to tell him that the little one
was fast passing away. He obeyed her
summons immediately, and followed the
pale weeping mother to the bedside of the
child.

Poor Mrs. Green ! this was a sad disappointment
to her. She had tried long
to get O'Neil to give up his ' play,' but all
in vain until this evening, when he had
promised to do so if his child recovered.
She had laboured for this promise because,
as she said, she never forgot ' a real kindness

and O'Neil as well as his wife had
proved himself more than a friend. And
more than this, the promise of an interference
in the matter of Kathleen's marriage
depended upon the recovery of
O'Neil's child. She firmly believed In his
word ; she knew that he would fulfil the
promise on the grounds he had stated, but
otherwise she doubted if he would. She
longed thus to make a return for Kathleen's
kindness. The poor lite woman
had the warmest of hearts ; she shuddered
at the thoughts of her own experience, and
remembered with terror some of the dreadful
days she had passed. Yes, that little
one might have grown up from a fair
young child into a fine old age, instead of
dying of hunger and want ere its eyes had
scarce looked upon the world, had it not
been for the fate of the father whose end

was the unhappy climax of a gambler's
career. * Gaming ' is like an infectious
disease in its results ; it not only lays the
recipient of it low, but it spreads its noisome
pestilence abroad, until it makes many sick
and dying beds in the place of the one
patient first attacked.

The poor widow fell on her knees by
the side of the rickety bed wherein lay
her only child. Her heart was so full of
what she wanted that she could not express
her wishes to Him who leadeth all hearts.
She burled her pretty face in her hands,
and at length the prayer came from between
her lips which was already uttered
in her heart and heard by the Mighty
Helper of the widows and fatherless.
Then she rose from her knees, kissed her
child's forehead tenderly and gendy for
fear of disturbing its slumbers, took up

her shabby old bonnet and went out Into
the street. She walked hurriedly, until
she reached a house in a very respectable
street. She had her hand upon the bell-handle,
but then, as if changing her purpose,
crossed to the other side of the street
and looked up at the windows of the house.
Far up, in what she rightly guessed was
the nursery window, burnt a light like a
tremulous star ; she clasped her hands, and
a tear came to her eyes as she fancied the
anguish of that little chamber ; it contained
either the intolerable burden of suspense
or else it was ended, and in its place was
gloomy despair.

Then Mrs. Green re-crossed the street
and rang timidly the bell of the house ; the
door was presently opened, and she asked :

How is baby ?'

Dying', mum was the answer.

Thank you, that is all,' said the widow ;
and the door was gently shut to, and the
poor woman returned home, sad at the
troubles of another and disappointed that
the terms of her agreement with Neil
were ended. But ' sorrow endure for a
night ;' and the next morning O'Neil called,
and in a cheerful voice told the anxious
woman that the crisis was over and the
little one alive. That news was indeed a
ray of sunshine ; it was more than that, it
was the dawn of a summer day.

Then you will keep your promise ?' said
Mrs. Green.

I never break my word. I am no
longer a gambler. I shall go down to act
as best man at your uncle's wedding, and
I shall warn Miss O'O'Moore on the eve of
her marriage ; so that if she still persists in
marrying Unyan, it will be with the knowledge

that he is a gambler. I myself shall
never touch another card, and may God
bless you, dear Mrs. Green, for turning me
into the better path !' said O'Neil fervently,
and the tear that dimmed his eye was the
only one that came between her and sunlight
on that August day.

CHAPTER IX.

THE EVE OF THE WEDDING. SCENE I.

O Love ! what is it in this world of ours
Which makes it fatal to be loved ?'

October came round, and with It the
thoughts and sensations with reference to
Kathleen's marriage experienced by all
who had an interest in it.

Of course the bride and bridegroom were
those who thought most about it.

The bride felt a lite nervous, but she
was bestowing her hand upon the man
whom she loved best ; she had complete
confidence in him, and in considering the

Step she was about to take, she fancied
that she was entering upon a happy Hfe for
herself and was fulling the duty of her
station according to her own convictions.


Hugh, on the other hand, regarded his
comines marriage in an altogether different
light. He liked Kathleen ; she was pretty,
she was encraofine in manner ; but alas I O
mammon, thv Influence was greatest, fora
pocket well-lined with gold was what
the bridegroom sought and what he had
found.

And as to Lady O'O'Moore ? Well, she
did not think very seriously about the
matter. Preparations for the event relieved
the tedious monotony of Inchlgeela; she
had gained her point, that was one grand
thing. Hugh and Kathleen were going
to live at Arbela with their sister and

sister-in-law, that was another great thing.
Her ladyship would still be queen ; she and
her brother would be able to look after
their own interests, or rather //^r own
interests, for she had made up her mind to
marry again, and trusted to the generosity
of her brother and of his wife to make hera
handsomer allowance than her husband
had left her, in the case of her becoming
the wife of another. Such were Lady
O'O'Moore's ideas upon the subject. Had
she yet fixed her mind with regard to a
second husband ? Not yet ; but while
Hugh and his wife were away on their
honeymoon, she intended paying a visit
to Dublin, and setting her cap in such a
way that it could not fail to attract the
attention of the passers-by. All this was
mentally arranged, and her ladyship intended
to carry it out to the full, and as

soon as possible. ' Dear Lady O'Moore/
as she had been called in Dublin during
the winter she spent there. ' Dear ' is a
vague term ; but in this case it was applied
as a little return for her many entertainments
; but when unmasked and seen in
her true light, such an epithet applies only
to her in this way : that she was dear at
the price poor Sir Patrick had paid for
her.

Self was her constant theme, and there
would still have been a baronet O' Moore
had the mother taken as good care of her
child as she took of herself

The month of October had long been
hanging in anticipation, like the sword of
Damocles over the head of Frank. To
him it meant a termination of hopes long
cherished, and when the fifteenth day
came round, the eve of the wedding, his

thoughts, whatever he was doing at the
time, were concentrated upon Inchigeela,
and what it contained.

Mrs. Green had many thoughts upon
the subject when O'Neil left DubHn for
Arbela. How would it end ? was the
question which she asked herself. Would
Kathleen, blinded by love for Hugh, carry
out her intention of marrying him, or
would she draw back from linking her
destiny to that of a gambler ? She anxiously
waited for news with an interest that
surprised herself

To O'Neil, the question was one of
perplexity. He was going to attend
Hugh's wedding as a friend, and yet he
was really going to play the part of an
enemy. Was he right in so doing ? He
had never hinted to Hugh what his
intention was ; he travelled with him to

Inchigeela on the best of terms. Was he
playing a double part? His thoughts
turned to his experience of the past two
months, during which period he had never
been near a oramln^-house nor even held a
card in his hand. Hugh had commented
upon this, and received as an answer that
O'Neil had given up play. When Neil
looked back upon his new, though short
experience, he felt that he was doing his
duty in apprising Kathleen that her
husband-elect was a gambler. Had he
not himself deceived his own little wife
when he married her ? Did he not
remember all her anxiety since then, and
recollect vividly the illness of his child and
its recovery ? Yes, it was his clear duty
to tell Kathleen, whatever might be the
consequences ; and more than this, he had
faithfully promised to do so.

Hugh was in capital spirits during his
journey from Dublin to Inchigeda, and
laughed at O'Neil for being so grave.

I'm the happiest and luckiest man in
the world, O'Neil,' he said, as they were
changing the horses of their post-chaise at
the last station before they reached their
destination.

I hope you are, Unyan,' said Neil
quietly, and with an uneasy feeling of the
double part he was playing ; ' but remember,
there's many a slip 'twixt the cup and
the lip !'

What the deuce do you mean ?' asked
Hugh, raising a glass of whisky-and-water
to his lips. * There Is no doubt of my
being married, I suppose ; no more doubt
than that I am going to drink this. What
a Job's comforter you are, O'Neil ! Hullo !
there's another post-chaise!' said Hugh,

VOL. II. 29

looking out at the window and setting his
glass but half on the table, in the parlour
where they sat while their horses were
changed, whereby the tumbler and its
contents fell to the ground. ' By Jove !
that's a bad sign !' he exclaimed with a
laugh. 'Are you superstitious, Neil,
eh?'

Not a bit, Unyan,' said O'Neil gravely;
that only proves the truth of what I
said.'

*Well, you're anything but a cheerful
companion,' said Hugh, piqued. * Are
you jealous, O'Neil, or what is it ?'

Not jealous, my dear fellow,' was the
answer; * I've been married a long time.'

Married ! Bless me, I fancied that you
were a single man !' exclaimed Hugh.

And therefore a proper "- best man,"
which I am not now certainly,' replied

O'Neil significantly, for himself at any
rate.

Shortly after this they left in their
chaise, and were rattled off with greater
speed than comfort towards Inchigeela.
They arrived at Arbela in the evening,
were of course expected, and received,
from Kathleen at any rate, a warm
welcome.

While they were seated at supper, a
note was handed to Hugh by one of the
servants.

Who is this from ?' he asked.

'From Misther Clavering', sur,' replied
the domestic addressed.

Is there any answer ?' asked Hugh.
*Wait a minute,' he added, * I'll see for
myself He tore open the letter, read it
and said : * Give Mr. Clavering my come

— 2

aliments, and I will come round to see him
in the course of an hour.'
The letter ran as follows :

Hugh Unyan, Esq.
Dear Sir,

Sir Patrick O'O'Moore, by a codicil
to his will, of which I am sole executor,
left you five thousand pounds to be paid
to you on the eve of your marriage to his
daughter, provided that such a marriage
took place before the end of this year.
Might I trouble you to come in some time
this evening, as I wish to settle this matter
with you ?

^ I am, dear sir,

Faithfully yours,

Cecil Clavering.'

Hugh said nothing about the letter at

the time ; he handed it to Kathleen to
read. It occasioned her some surprise,
but it gave her the satisfaction of knowing
that her father had not only been reconciled
to the marriage she was about to make,
but had been so far pleased with her choice
as to lay aside a handsome present for
Hugh.

Supper ended, Hugh took his departure
for Clonmore ; he did not even suggest
taking any one with him ; had he done so,
O'Neil would have accompanied him.

Before he left, however, he called O'Xeil
aside and showed him IMr. Clavering's
letter.

That is a very handsome present,
Unyan,' said O'Neil, 'and shows at any
rate that you have poor Sir Patrick's consent
to the wedding.'

'Yes, my boy,' said Hugh excitedly, butin

a low voice, ' and that's only a taste of
what is to come. I'll tell you what, Neil,
I'll pay you your thousand pounds to
morrow

'You need not do so answered Neil
quietly.

What do you say ?' asked the other In
surprise. * Do you mean to make me a
present of the sum ?'

I do not mean to make you a present
of it, Unyan, but I do not intend taking it.
My " play " came to an end two months
ago, and since that I have not received a
penny of my winnings made before that
time. I have paid all my losings, because
in honour I felt bound to do so. '' Play "
appears to me in a very different light now,
Unyan ; it was once pleasure, it looks now
like robbery.'

You surprise me, O'Neil,' said Hugh,

as though he scarcely credited his hearing.
Fancy your being reformed ! and you're a
reformer, too, I'll be bound.'

Yes, I am,' replied his friend earnestly.
Promise me, Unyan, to give up all play
from this moment, for the sake of Miss
O'O'Moore ! A gambler's wife has a terrible
time of It ! She has, Indeed she has.'

Capital, O'Nell, you make a good
preacher ; but I cannot promise ; if I did,
I should break my word. Play has a fascination
for me.'

Then you will not promise, Unyan ?'
No !' was the decided answer.

Then I pity you,' said Neil.
O'Neil followed Hugh to the door, and

as the latter was going out, he turned
round and said to his friend :

You will take that thousand pounds,
O'Neil ?'

I swear that I will not take a penny of
it was the reply.

Well, as that sounds pretty certain,
perhaps you will let me have back my
note of hand ?' said Hugh coolly.

To-morrow, Unyan, tomorrow morning,'
and O'Neil felt uneasy about the part
he was to play that evening.

O'Neil further accompanied Hugh down
to the gate which led into the road.

Good-bye !' said the latter ; ' fancy my
going to my rival's house to get five
thousand pounds paid me !'

^ Good-bye !' said O'Neil, ' not for long
though, but take care of yourself

Sure to do that,' was the light answer ;
Vit's my wedding-day tomorrow.'

Hugh ran down the road towards
Clonmore, while O'Neil returned slowly
into the house. He was debating with

himself as to how he should find an opportunity
of speaking to Kathleen alone. He
would not draw back from his duty ; he
had declared that he never broke his word.
And thinking thus, he entered the drawing-room
where he found the person he wanted,
and she was alone.

Mamma has gone to bed,' said Kathleen
; ' she has a very bad headache, and
begs that you will excuse her.'

^ I am very glad,' said O'Neil nervously.

Kathleen looked up. What could the
man mean ? Was he glad that Lady
O'O'Moore had gone to bed, or that she
had a bad headache ? What did he want ?
How rude he was, and a friend of Hugh's
too !

I am afraid that you have mistaken
me. Miss O'O'Moore,' said O'Neil apologetically.
' I wished to express to you that I

am anxious to talk to you alone for a little,
and as this Is a favourable opportunity,
may I beg your attention ? I must tell you
that what I have to communicate Is likely
to cause you very great pain

Kathleen looked up again, but this time
with an anxious expression upon her face.
What was coming ? she wondered.

I am all attention, Mr. O'Nell ; though
I cannot Imagine what you have to tell
me.'

You know Mrs. Green, do you not ?'
he asked.

Kathleen's heart beat heavily; she
started, for she almost guessed at what
was coming. Could it this time be real
evidence against Hugh 1

I do know Mrs. Green,' she said, 'or
rather I did know her, and my reminiscences
are anything but agreeable ; she

endeavoured to injure Mr. Unyan In my
eyes.'

And not unjustly said O'Neil quietly.

What do you mean, sir ?' asked Kathleen
indignantly, rising from her seat.
Are you come here as Mr. Unyan's friend,
or to take Mrs. Green's part ?'

I am come here as Mr. Unyan's friend,'
he answered ; ' but I am also come to save
him from committing an injustice, which he
will do if he marries you under existing
circumstances.*

And pray what is this injustice ?' asked
Kathleen, endeavouring to preserve her
calmness, but turning very pale. Several
thoughts suggested themselves to her, one
of which was that perhaps Hugh was
already married. * Please explain yourself!'


I wish to tell you what Mrs. Green has

already told you ; but I have a proof of
what I say, unfortunately she had none,'
said Neil.

I do not believe you, sir,' said Kathleen,
not considering what she was saying.

I expected that, Miss O' Moore,' replied
O'Neil, bowing, 'more especially when Mr.
Unyan has given you his word of honour
that he is not a gambler. He is such, and
it is for your sake that I, who was once ashe
is, who have seen all the misery that a
gambler brings upon his wife and children,
beseech you to consider the step you are
going to take. I do not wish you to rush
into a marriage without knowing your husband.
He is a gambler, he has deceived
you, and may he be forgiven for It!'

'Show me the proof!' said Kathleen
distractedly, while the room seemed to
swim before her eyes. ' I cannot believe

It. Oh ! Hugh, Hugh ! why have you
deceived me ? You have won my heart,
you have led me right on to my marriage
day ; but if this be true, I dare not marry
you — I dare not !' and she sank Into a chair
and burled her face in her hands. * I
cannot, I will not believe It,' she said
wildly, starting up from her seat ; ' you
are deceiving me, not Hugh. Shew me
your proof, sir !'

O'Neil was frightened ; he had not
expected such an outburst as this ; but he
opened his pocket-book and took out
Hugh's I O U, and handed It to Kathleen.
It ran thus :

Grease O'Neil, Esq.

I O U the sum of one thousand
pounds, ;^iooo OS. od., for money lost at
^^play."

Hugh Unyan.'

That Is his ; it is too true she said,
sobbing loudly. ' God forgive him, for he
has broken my heart !'

She went across the room towards the
door, but before she reached it she fell
down in a faint. O'Neil rang the bell for
assistance, and two or three women-servants
were soon on the spot. When Kathleen
came to her senses she gazed wildly round,
but said nothing. She was led to her
room, and poor O'Neil, who was greatly
alarmed at what had happened, and perplexed
as to what might be the result,
paced the drawing-room, longing for
Hugh's return, in order that he might
tell what had taken place and explain to
his friend. If he might be called so now,
what he ought to have explained long
ago.

While in this perturbed state of mind, a

servant entered the room, and informed
O'Neil that there was a messenger sent
down from Clonmore requesting his presence
at once. Something had happened
there, that was all the servant was permitted
to say ; and it was with a mind
prepared for further trouble and completely-upset
by what had already taken place,
that O'Neil set out for Clonmore.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, rRINTEKS, Guildford, Surrey.

vj

v://,X//i/>^i4^fU:

/ -O'

r J

i !

r I

r

-r

A^.'^ -J

V^Xa!

/r

iP

>-i

P^'MA^^■J>■>.'

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS



W7Uo

V.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/oldloveisnewnove03wilt

Jl flood

BY

MAURICE WILTON

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

3', Southampton STREET, STRAND.

1880.

[A// Rights Reserved ^

v,3

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill

CHAPTER

I. THE EVE OF THE WEDDING. — SCENE II.

PA

I

II. COMING BACK TO LIFE AND TO SORROW - 24

III. A COUNTESS IN WHOM WAS NO GUILE - 42

IV. TORRES VEDPAS AND FUENTES DE ONORO 63

V. MR CLAVERING GOES TO LONDON - "74

VI. RETURNED HOME WITH DESPATCHES - 9 1

VII. MUSIC AND HER SISTER SONG - - Ion

Vii A FLIGHT IN WINTER - - " Is

IX. Gainsborough - - - " 163

X. CONCLUSION - - - - 191

/

THE OLD LOVE IS THE NEW.

^>»ic

CHAPTER I.

THE EVE OF THE WEDDING. — SCENE II.

'Ah, why
With cypress branches hast thou wreathed thy bowers

And made thy best interpreter a sigh ?
As those who dote on odours pluck the flowers

And place them on their breast — but place to die.'

When Hugh arrived at Clonmore, he
found Mr. Clavering waiting to receive
him in the Library.

There was no hearty welcome for him ;

VOL. III. .^O

it was a formal business meeting, and Mr.
Clavering was, as he sometimes could well
be, repellent in manner and distant in his
reserve. All the same, he intended to be
present at Kathleen's wedding; but then he
was going for her sake, or rather for the
sake of his late friend, her father. Hugh
Unyan was out of the question ; he was a
brother of Lady O' Moore's and the rival
of Frank, and that was enough for Mr.
Clavering.

The blind boy was sitting with the owner
of Clonmore as Hugh entered the library.

It was a chilly evening, and a bright peat
fire burnt in the grate. Pat sat beside it,
and as the intruder entered, the boy ceased
playing. Hugh had heard the last strains
of the music as he was coming towards the
door of the room.

The servant announced Mr. Unyan, and
Mr. Claverinor then rose to meet his visitor.

o

How do you do, Mr. Unyan ?' he
asked. ' You have arrived at Arbela this
evening, I suppose ?'

Yes, sir,' replied Hugh, * somewhere
about three hours ago, and was happy to
find all well there and Kathleen quite
ready for tomorrow.'

I am glad of that. At what time does
the wedding take place V asked Mr.
Clavering.

^ At ten o'clock, I believe,' was the
answer. * It is to be a very quiet affair,
you know ; I suppose Kathleen has some
feeling of respect for the memory of her
father.'

I suppose she has,' said Mr. Clavering
dryly. ' Is her ladyship well ?'

Quite, thank you ; of course she is a
little upset, and naturally enough too, at the
thoughts of losing Kathleen,' said Hugh,

who did not exactly appreciate Mr.
Clavering's manner.

It was gentlemanly and exceedingly
polite, but there was a tone of distance
in it, a reminder that they were not talking
as equals. It was nature with the
master of Clonmore, who, as has been
said, had a horror of all affectation. At
the same time Hugh's manners contrasted
favourably with his sister's ; though he was
not so real as he used to be, yet he was
far from being pretentious even now.

She is likely to be upset, she was so
very fond of Kathleen,' said Mr. Clavering,
mentally reflecting that her ladyship never
had been, nor ever would be, ^ very fond '
of anyone except herself.

■ You wished to see me on business, did
you not ?' asked Hugh, anxious to bring
such a forced conversation to an end, and

Yes, I did,' answered the master of
CIcnmore, his manner changing now that
he was coming to a matter with Hugh
which was business, and also a fulfilling cf
one of Sir Patrick's last requests. * As I
mentioned in my letter to you, Sir Patrick,
by a codicil to his will, of which I am the
sole executor, left five thousand pounds to
you, to be given on the eve of your marriage
with Miss O' Moore. Strange to
say, this money is not invested, it is all in
notes, and I have to hand them to you.
They are the very same notes which Sir
Patrick gave me, and I must beg of you a
receipt for the money.'

'Certainly, Mr. Clavering,' said Hugh
with a smile ; ' that is very little to do for
so handsome a sum.'

The notes are in this room, in one of
these drawers,' said Mr. Clavering, as he
took his keys from his pocket and proceeded
to unlock a drawer in his writing-table.


I hope that I shan't get robbed on my
way home; I might, you know,' remarked
Hugh carelessly, as he looked towards the
unsheltered windows of the library, * if anyone
saw me through one of those windows.'
No fear of that, Mr. Unyan,' replied
Mr. Clavering, who, nevertheless, gave a
glance towards the lawn as he recalled
Mike O'Leary's attempt upon his life.

Hullo!' said Hugh, 'I'm sure that I
Sew a face pressed against that pane of
glass, and he walked over to the library
window.

Only imagination, Mr. Unyan, I should
think,' replied Mr. Clavering.

But the blind boy started, and suggested
audibly, ' O'Crotty/

No, no, Pat ; don't you be alarmed,'
said Mr. Clavering assuringly, as he
counted the notes for Hugh. *Why your
father forgave me before he died, my boy !
You told me so.'

Yes, maybe ; but faith, I wouldn't give
much for O'Crotty's word said the blind
boy.

Meanwhile Hugh, in order to satisfy
himself, had thrown open one of the
windows and peered out into the darkness ;
but as he saw no one there, he supposed it
was imagination, though certainly a very
strong one ; so he shut the window and
returned to the writing-table.

No one there, I suppose,' said Mr.
Clavering, as he prepared a paper for
Hugh to sign.

'No, no one, sir; it must have been
fancy ; but I could almost swear that I
did see someone,' replied Hugh.

It was very likely the shadow of a tree
or something of that sort remarked Mr.
Clavering carelessly. 'Just sign this
paper, Mr. Unyan, please; and here are
the notes — they are quite correct.'

Hugh signed as he was told to do, and
received the notes, which he placed in his
breast-pocket.

Mr. Clavering did not forget the duties
of hospitality, so he rang the bell and
ordered wine.

I wish to have the pleasure, Mr.
Unyan,' he said, as he poured out some
wine, 'of drinking your health, and Miss
O'O'Moore's, in my own house, and with
you. Here is to your very good health,
and to Miss O'O'Moore's happiness. I

drink for my son as well as for myself.'


I thank you for your kindness, sir,'
replied Hugh ; ^ I trust that I may in
every way prove myself worthy of Kathleen.'


Pat O'Leary had been very uncomfortable
since the sight of the supposed face
at the window ; he fidgeted in his chair,
and seemed altogether so ill at ease that
Mr. Clavering asked him how it was that
he appeared so alarmed.

Sure, yer 'oner, I'm fearing' for you.
Has the gentleman seen anyone again ?'
asked Pat.

'No, my boy,' replied Hugh cheerily;
I only thought I saw somebody. Don't
you mind ; it vias very foolish of me to
make any remark.'

Scarcely had Hugh finished his sentence

when Mr. Clavering, who was turned
towards the window, exclaimed : ^ By
Jove ! there is some one there, and it's
that ruffian O'Crotty, too!' He ran to
the window, threw it open, and, without
hesitation, jumped out on the terrace.
Hugh followed quickly, and found Mr.
Clavering engaged in a struggle with a
man. The blind boy screamed, at the
same time running out into the hall and
calling, ' Murther, murther !' at the top of
his voice.

Meantime Hugh, who in vain tried to
join in the struggle, or at any rate held
back from doing so, saw that Mr. Covering's
strength was going. At the same
moment, O'Crotty, for it was he, freed
himself from his antagonist's grasp, discharged
a pistol, happily without success,
then darted across the lawn, hotly pursued.

He ran like a deer ; the servants were now
in full pursuit, but he distanced them all
except one, whom he felt convinced in his
own mind was Mr. Clavering.

This one gained rapidly upon him, for
O'Crotty was beginning to lose his wind ;
the hand was already on his collar, when
the ruffian turned round and, with the
rapidity of lightning, dealt a deadly blow
right at the heart of his pursuer. * Take
that, an' that, an' that, Misther Cavern' !'
said O'Crotty ferociously, as he dealt him
three more blows with his knife, each in
itself severe enough to take away life, and
then, with a yell of satisfied revenge and
of defiance, he bounded off again into the
darkness without casting a look at his
victim, for he already heard the voices and
hurried breathing of his other pursuers.

One of them came up to the dead body.

By gorra, he's killed him !' said the
man, one of Mr. Clavering's own servants,
stooping down and surveying the ghastly
spectacle as it lay.

'Who's he killed ?' asked another servant,
coming up.

The gentleman — the master himself,'
answered the other.

'Faith, Misther Clavering's behind; it
isn't he.'

To be sure not, but it's the master to
be, of Arbela, who was to be married
tomorrow. Oh ! wish, wish, for poor
Miss Kathleen!' said the servant, sympathetically.


'What is this?' asked Mr. Clavering,
running up breathlessly, for since his last
fray with O'Crotty he had been far less
active than before. ' Have you caught
the ruffian V

The servants said nothing, but drew
aside while their master approached with
a lantern.

Great God !' he said, as he saw what
had happened, with a terrible earnestness
upon his face ; ' what a dreadful thing for
that poor girl 1'

He stooped down and felt in vain for
any signs of life; it was quite extinct. It
was a harrowing sight even for the most
hard-hearted. There lay Hugh Unyan, as
handsome a young fellow as you would
wish to see ; his heart had not been one
of honour, his life had not been one of
principle, nor had he sprung from a good
stock. But that was all over now. His
body lay there in the vigour and beauty of
young manhood, the bridegroom of the
tomorrow which never came to him.

Slowly they bore the body back into the

house. Mr. Clavering followed it with
such feelings as he had never experienced
before. He felt deeply for Kathleen, and
not only this, but he lamented with sincere
sorrow the untimely and terrible end of his
son's supplanter. Willingly, gladly would
he have called the young man back to life,
could he have done so, and never for a
single moment did the ungenerous thought
cross his mind that Kathleen would suffer
for her heartless treatment of his son.

The body was carried into the diningroom,
and then Mr. Clavering sent down
the messenger to Arbela, of whose arrival
there we have already read.

It was not long before O'Neil returned
to Clonmore with the servant sent for him
by Mr. Clavering.

He was soon informed of what had
happened, and it is needless to say how

horrified he was. He related to the
master of Clonmore what had already
taken place at Arbela, and of how he had
unmasked Hugh to Miss O' Moore.

The relation of all this had a visible
effect upon Mr. Clavering, who shook
O'Neil warmly by the hand, and said :

You have played the part of a thorough
gentleman ; you did not consider yourself
in the matter, and I am proud, sir, to be
able to shake hands with a man who has
acted as fearlessly as you have done. I
cannot speak evil of the dead in his very
presence, but I must say that it was an
act of which any man ought to have been
ashamed, to deceive Miss O'O'Moore in
the manner in which he did

O'Neil told Mr. Claverinor his whole
history, of how he had reformed, of how
he had faithfully promised to prevent

Kathleen's marrying Hugh, or at any rate,
without knowing the real character of the
man she had chosen to be her husband.
He dwelt upon Mrs. Green's story, and of
her relationship to Hugh, and therefore to
his sister Lady O'O'Moore, and he told all
with such honesty, and proved himself to
be a man of such high principle now even
if he had not always been so, that Mr
Clavering almost forgot the events of the
evening in considering the complete reformation
of a gambler, and In admiration
of the motives of O'Neil in letting Kathleen
know the gaming propensities of Hugh,
which he himself had denied on his word
of honour as a gentleman.

While Mr. Clavering was listening to
O'Neil, a servant, who had been laying-out
poor Hugh's body, handed his master the
watch and the ring of the unfortunate

young man, and also the f\vQ thousand
pounds in notes which had so recently
come into the poor fellow's possession.

There is a question now, Mr. Neil,'
said Mr. Clavering, 'which requires consideration.
It is with reference to these
five thousand pounds.'

Whom do they belong to ?' asked
O'Neil, though his thoughts were dwelling
upon his dead friend, and the terrible task
of breaking the news to Kathleen.

'It is a question of law,' replied Mr.
Clavering, ' and it resolves itself into this.
Had Mr. Unyan riot received the notes,
they would have gone to the estate and
become part of the property of Miss
O' Moore; but as it is, they have passed
into Mr. Unyan's possession, and by his
decease are now the property of his next
of kin. Therefore, these five thousand

VOL. III-11

pounds have to be divided among Lady
O'O'Moore, Mrs. Green's father, and their
other sister of whom you have spoken.'

Then can poor Mrs. Green get none
of it?' asked O'Neil anxiously, on behalf
of his real reformer.

No, I fear not,' replied Mr. Clavering,
'unless Lady O'O'Moore resigns her claim
in favour of a poorer relative.'

Do you think she will do so ?'

I am sure that she will not,' was the
only answer Mr. Clavering vouchsafed.

The two gentlemen did not go to bed
that night ; their brains were too active for
sleep, and their minds too distraught.
O' Neil's was in a worse state than Mr.
Clavering's ; he had undergone a great
deal at Arbela, and more since he came to
Clonmore.

They talked upon various subjects

connected with Kathleen and poor Hugh
throughout the night. Arrangements were
made with reference to the coroners
inquest, and suggestions as to the best
way of breaking the terrible news to
Kathleen and to Lady O' Moore.

As to her ladyship,' said Mr. Clavering,
you need not study nicety of expression,
nor the manner in which you will break
the news to her. She is, between ourselves,
the most heartless woman that I
ever met. I can assure you that the way
in which she took Sir Patrick's death was
extraordinary. She is, indeed, a wonderful
woman, but wonderful only in want of
heart and in scheming cleverness. She
probably inherited the latter quality from
the Unyan side of her house. You may
call my opinion severe, but it is only too
true.'

31—2

Early the next morning Mr. Clavering
accompanied O'Neil to Arbela. On their
arrival there they found that Kathleen had
been so very ill in the night that the doctor
had been sent for. She was now in a high
state of fever and perfectly unconscious, so
that for the time being they were relieved
from breaking the evil tidings to her.

Mr. Clavering deputed himself to the
task of telling Lady O'O'Moore what had
happened to her unfortunate brother. She
really was surprised, nay, shocked at the
terrible news, and evinced more womanly
feeling than he had thought her capable of.
During the next week all the melancholy
details attending upon Hugh's death were
carried out. Kathleen continued dangerously
ill and utterly unconscious of what
was going on.

At last her life was despaired of, and

Mr. Clavering, upon his own responsibility,
sent to Dublin and engaged the continuous
services of a clever physician.

Lady O' Moore was unequal to the
occasion, and so was her housekeeper.
Mr. O'Neil suggested Mrs. Green as a
nurse for Kathleen, without even mentioning
the suggestion to her ladyship ;
Mr. Clavering was willing to accept it, and
so the widow was sent for post-haste. At
the same time, when poor Hugh's funeral
was over. Lady O'O'Moore declared her
intention of going to Dublin immediately.
She could not, she said, stay any longer in
Inchigeela; it had been to her a place of
continual sorrow, the end of it being
Hugh's death. She did not state that she
meant to get married again. Mr. Clavering
was delighted to see her leave Arbela ; he
took a real interest in Kathleen's welfare,

but as to her ladyship, he did not care
how soon she took her departure nor how
long she stayed away.

The morning after Lady O'O'Moore left
Arbela, Mrs. Green arrived ; the doctor
was already there. The poor widow had,
according to O'NeiFs directions, left her
little one in charge of his wife in Dublin,
so she arrived alone, glad at heart thus to
have an opportunity of befriending Kathleen.


The days passed away, and there were
but few signs of improvement in the
patient ; Mrs. Green was unremitting in
her attentions, until at length Kathleen
was pronounced free from fever ; but it
was added that her weakness was extreme,
and that though she was in a measure
convalescent, yet all danger of a relapse
was not over.

Mr. O'Nell returned to Dublin, and Mr.
Clavering from time to time sent him word
as to the state of Kathleen's health.

It is needless to say that the terrible
circumstances of Hugh's death caused a
feeling of intense sympathy, not only
among the cottagers of Jnchic^eela, but
also among the gentry who lived round ;
but it was mostly for Kathleen's sake, for
her stepmother was not a favourite, while
poor Hugh was almost unknown.

It is curious that though search was
made in every direction for O'Crotty, and
the best organisation of pursuit established,
up to three weeks after Hugh's death no
traces of the savage murderer could be
discovered.

CHAPTER II.

COMING BACK TO LIFE AND TO SORROW.

He tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.'
The travelled sleeve of care.'

Five weeks after the sad events recorded
in the last two chapters, poor Kathleen
showed signs of returning to life. In her
body there was the dreary ending of well-nigh
spent pain, but her mind was only
beginning to realise the fact that something
dreadful had happened to her. She
could not definitely recall what O'Neil had
told her about 1 1 ugh ; it was something bad

of him, that she remembered, but she was
curiously anxious to recollect what it was.
Her mind was restless upon the subject,
and she did not know how to satisfy it, orin
her waking from sickness, to whom she
should apply for information. She had an
idea that throughout her illness there had
been some one watching by her bedside
whom she had once known, but she was
unable to put in their proper place the
features of her nurse, or to recall under
what circumstances in her life she had
before seen them.

Snatched from the jaws of death ' is a
common expression, and )et it applied
exactly to Kathleen's state during her illness.
Not only was she near to death,
but she actually was dead to life. It was
a great mercy that she had been so, without
any cravings to knew her real position

with reference to Hugh, or to take interest
in what was going on. It was indeed a
tempering of wind to sorrow, and she could
now better bear her trouble than she could
have done had the blast blown suddenly
upon her. She felt that something
grievous had fallen upon her ; she was
prepared to hear what it was, or rather,
more than that, she longed to do so.

It has been said that the time of convalescence
after a severe illness is a time
of quiet pleasure. This is probable in
some cases where the invalid is welcomed
back to life with the joy and gratitude of
ivarm hearts that have been almost broken
with anxieties on his account. And
besides this, the invalid's own feelings
have much to do with such a state of
pleasure ; there may be freedom from
intense pain and a delight at being able

to return to an existence which for him is
happy and free from care. But how is it
with the sick man or woman who, Hke
Kathleen, has come back to new sorrow
and new mental pain ? Illness has been
to them a sleep of the mind ; it has 'knit
up the travelled sleeve of care,' and the
awakening from that bed of sickness and
from that mental somnolence is the beginning
of a life to them the sorrows of which
swallow up in oblivion the pains of the
sick-bed so recently quitted.

There are recoveries from illness
which are full of grief instead of quiet
pleasure.

Take for example the case of a mother
ill at the same time with her child. The
child dies ; the mother, in the extremity of
her illness, knows nothing of this ; but when
she recovers, the first conscious question

framed by her lips Is, ^ Where Is my child ?'
And the answer begins for her a new life
of sorrow.

Or the case of another, such as Kathleen's,
where a sudden shock Is the cause
of an illness accompanied by unconsciousness.
Scarcely is the shock sooner felt
than it is forgotten. But If the patient
recovers, then the cause of the sickness Is
remembered, indistinctly perhaps at first,
and tempered by time and circumstances,
but yet sufficient to make life, for the time
at any rate, a burden and a care. With
such as these, who have not tasted of
death during their sickness, to them new
life is sometimes living death.

What must have been the feelings of
those who did taste of death, who really
did cross the dark flood, and yet were
recalled by the voice of One who is Lord

of the dead and of the living ? How much
of the bitterness of death did they taste,
and how much of the sweetness that lay
beyond it ? We cannot fathom the
mystery of that intermediate state, we
cannot say whether it is or is not a living
though unconscious sleep.

One mornings Kathleen drew aside the
curtain of her bed and saw Mrs. Green
seated at a table. Then she remembered
under what circumstances she had seen the
gambler's wife, how she had heard from
her, how she herself had answered that
letter ; and finally, at first like an indistinct
dream, but afterwards as a clear fact, she
recalled her interview with O'Neil in the
drawing-room and the subject of their conversation,
and how, to prove his accusation,
he had shown her the promissory note in,
Hugh's own handwriting.

Mrs. Green she said faintly, ' what
time is it ?'

Well, bless me, if that ain't the first
word you've spoke, Miss Kathleen ! It's
five o'clock, and I'm just going to light a
lamp.'

And when was the wedding to have
taken place ?' asked Kathleen, who had no
idea of the length of time she had been
ill. * I mean, you know, if I hadn't been
ill.'

Five weeks ago yesterday,' answered
Mrs. Green, stirring the fire.

She was a wary nurse, and she had
made up her mind to leave the news of
Hugh's death, or of anything that might
arouse Kathleen's suspicions, to Mr. Clavering's
telling ; she was afraid lest she might
sadly bungle matters.

Five weeks ago !' exclaimed Kathleen.*

^ Is it possible ? And where are Mr.
Unyan and mamma ? Let me see one of
them.'

You can't see either of them, Miss
Kathleen : ' your ma's in Dublin, and Mr.
Unyan ain't 'ere nohow !'

Mamma in Dublin !' exclaimed Kathleen,
again in surprise. ' Why is she there ?
why has she left me ?'

She was so terribly upset, miss, by the
awful news '

Mrs. Green had nearly put her foot into
it this time, but she pulled up just intime.


By the awful news of what ?' asked
Kathleen, during which question the
widow framed an answer.

News of your illness, Miss Kathleen.
She seems much attached to you!' hazarded
Mrs. Green, by way of comfort.

Then It Is something quite new ; If she
had really cared for me, she would not
have left me alone,' answered Kathleen,
with the pettishness of an invalid. ' And
Mr. Unyan, where is he ?' she asked,
hoping for a more satisfactory answer
from Mrs. Green.

I don't know, miss replied the widow
gravely, turning her back upon the sickbed
lest Its occupant might see something
in her face which would betray the terrible
truth. ' He left 'ere some time back, an'
I've never set eyes on him since.'

Did he never come to ask for me, nor
send a message for me ?' asked Kathleen,
whose mind was revolving the apparently
strange conduct of her lover.

No, miss ; Mr. O'Nell sent for me to
come an' nurse you, an' when I came, Mr.
Unyan was gone.'

I expect, then said Kathleen, putting
two and two together according to her best
light, ' that Mr. O'Neil told him all about
it and that then Hugh ran away. Poor
fellow, I never could have married
him !'

Mrs. Green took no notice of what her
patient was saying. She fancied that
Kathleen was once more wandering unconsciously,
until a faint voice called herby
name and a slender hand beckoned her
to the bedside.

Kneel on the floor, Mrs. Green, by my
bed ; I have something to ask and something
to say. Where is Mr. Clavering ?'

Lor , miss, you can see 'im tomorrow
morning', 'e's never left this 'ouse since yer
ma went away ; 'e's watched you tenderly,
an' it's my opinion wi' them quiet ways 'e
'as, that Mr. Clavering' ought to be a woman,'

VOL. III. ^2

this being intended for a compliment by
the poor widow.

Then I may see him tomorrow morning
?' said Kathleen questioningly.

Yes, to be sure, miss ; but no more
questions to-night. Mr. Clavering' will tell
you everything tomorrow far better nor I
can.'

I do not want to ask any more questions,'
said Kathleen quietly, ' but I want
to ask your forgiveness, poor Mrs. Green.
You were right and I was wrong; Hugh is
a gambler, and when 1 was satisfied of it,
then it almost broke my heart. Oh ! it
did indeed, not only because I could not
marry him, but because he whom I loved
far, far better than anyone or anything in
this world had lied to me whom he professed
to love well enough to ask to
become his wife. That is what made me

ill ; it made me worse than if I had seen
him lying dead at my feet.'

Mrs. Green felt almost tempted to break
the news of Hugh's death to Kathleen at
this favourable opportunity ; but she did
not yield to the temptation, fearing, as she
did, the effects such a disclosure might
have on her patient, who was sobbing now
at the recollection of Hugh's dishonour
in her eyes.

Lor', miss, don't take on so ; It was all
for the best,' said Mrs. Green, with the
sympathy of her class, although the sentiment
came from her warm heart.

You will forgive me for the wrong I
have done you, will you not ?' asked Kathleen.
' I could not believe your word
against his, because I loved him so ; and
in my love for him there was no wish to
deceive him or to conceal anything from

32—2

him. I only dreaded lest I was not open
enough ; and I thought that his love was
the same, but It was not. No, I was unwilling
to admit that he was in the wrong
even when the truth came to light. You
will forgive me, Mrs. Green ?'

In course, miss ; not as 'ow there Is anything
to forgive. Love Is blind, so they says ;
an* yours wouldn't see, I repose it was that,'
said the poor woman, who went a good
deal by * sayings.'

Shortly after this, Kathleen dropped
asleep. She passed a very quiet night
and felt better on the following morning,
although the grief still gnawed at her
heart and made her convalescence painful.
She asked to see Mr. Clavering, and he
came in a few minutes ; he kissed her
gently upon the forehead and asked how
she was, as the sympathetic tears rose to

his eyes. Was she not an orphan ; was
she not deprived of the man she loved
best ; was she not the dearest being on
earth to his only son ?

Mrs. Green left the room, and then Mr
Clavering, by skilful preparation, led the
way towards telling Kathleen the dreadful
circumstances of Hugh's death. And
when he had told her all and was expressing
his kindly sympathy, there was
no answer, only a frequent sobbing, caused
by the anguish of an almost broken heart.
He pressed her little worn hand in his
own, and then he left her. Never again
did Kathleen refer to Hugh's death, never
did a single word of it cross her lips ; it
was a subject buried from the world deep
in the recesses of her own heart, and she
pondered over it and nursed it as her own
peculiar grief.

Nor did Mr. Clavering touch upon the
sad event again, and he resolved not to do
so until Kathleen herself began the subject.
He cautioned Mrs. Green upon the
point, and she, too, was mute.

Little by little did Kathleen's strength
come back, and she was enabled to spend
her Christmas-day before her bedroom fire,
propped up with pillows which were
arranged by Mr. Clavering's own hands.

But it was in vain that he tried to bring
a smile to Kathleen's lips ; her thoughts
seemed ever centred upon one subject, and
vacant upon everything else but that.

Little Pat O'Leary, who was growing
out of knowledge, had also taken up his
abode at Arbela. He would not have
done so, nor for that matter would Mr.
Clavering, if her ladyship had been there.
Lady O'O'Moore was virtually mistress of

Arbela, but Mr. Clavering had his own
ideas upon that subject ; he Imagined that
she would marry again, although by so
doing she would lose half her Income and
her house. But then he knew her
thoroughly ; a woman who from nothing
had raised herself to the dignity of a
baronet's wife, would probably, on becoming
a baronet's widow, endeavour to
advance a step or two higher on the social
ladder, or might even go up three or four
steps at a time.

Thus he had no misgivings as to his
residing at Arbela ; he was there for Sir
Patrick's sake, to look after the Interests of
his friend's only child, who, if she was not
already mistress of the house, would soon
be so. ]mr. Clavering expected daily to
have news from Dublin to say that her
ladyship was about to enter upon another

State of wedlock. True, that her husband
was not yet dead a year, nor her brother
three months ; but then she was Lady
O'O'Moore, and when Mr. Clavering recollected
this, he knew that all sense of
decency would be laid aside if it stood in
the way of her own pleasure or of her
advantage. He had already sent her the
third part of Hugh's five thousand pounds,
with a polite note intimating that the rest
had been duly divided and forwarded to
her brother and sister in New York, of
whose status there she was doubtless
aware.

Mr. Clavering found his task of trying
to raise Kathleen's spirits not only difficult
but useless. Pat's music was sometimes
called into requisition ; but as Kathleen
would never let him play any but the
saddest strains, the result was generally a*

fit of weeping, or if not that, it was easy to
see by her quivering Hp and the expression
of pain which crossed her countenance, that
her thoughts were dwelling even more
forcibly upon the past. Then the master
of Clonmore made the music cease, and
would read to her ; but his audience
showed so little interest that in his despair
he appealed to the doctors for advice, which
resulted in the move spoken of in a later
chapter.

CHAPTER III.

A COUNTESS IN WHOM WAS NO GUILE.

O most delicate fiend !'
Who isn't can read a woman ?'

Lady O' Moore, preparatory to leaving for
Dublin, had engaged a furnished house
there, in Mention Street. It was an old
house, not far from the very fine mansion
then occupied by Colonel Conyngham's
family, but was spacious ; and its furniture,
though tarnished, lent an antiquity to the
place which satisfied her ladyship, who
had a now established horror of ^ anything
new ' in the way of house decoration ; this

horror was comme il faut, and that is the
reason why she fel it.

She attired herself in very good taste,
and the heavy mourning suited her. No
widow's sombre cap concealed her once
luxuriant hair because her locks were still
abundant, and were without a single thread
of that silver which tells of the advance
of years, or the premature old age which
is the accompaniment of deep sorrow.

Lady O'O'Moore, who had before held her
sway as Sir Patrick's wife, now held it as
his widow, not with the brilliant receptions
of old, but in a quiet manner and suitable
to so short a period after so heavy a
bereavement. Many of her old friends
called upon her ; Lady O'O'Moore was still
a person worth knowing. Rumours were
abroad concerning her fabulous jointure ;
many believed that she had her thousands

a year, and when this was doubted by the
less credulous, then the more credulous
said, * Look how wealthy Sir Patrick was !
Look at her ladyship's carriage, and house,
and diamonds, and silks !'

True,' replied the former, ' but you
must remember that Sir Patrick may have
left the bulk of his fortune to his daughter.
You will see that if Lady O' Moore
marries again she loses half her property.'
But the people who talked thus were in
the minority, and old young men who
sighed about the widow's drawing-room,
or brought her bouquets of flowers, pooh-poohed
the idea, and said that a generous
man like Sir Patrick, who had likewise
been the most affectionate of husbands,
could not fail to have left his widow amply
provided for, whatever she might choose
to do.

What wonder was it, they asked, if Lady
O'O'Moore did marry again ? She was still
young, still fair, and had many suitors.
The only question worth considering was
this : Whom should she marry ?

This was indeed a question. Her ladyship
coquetted with many, she let them
dance attendance on her, asked them to
dinner — when there were other ladies
present ; in fact she began seriously to
think of engaging a chaperon for herself.
She was so young, so admired, so innocent
and guileless, that we could scarcely
wonder had she done so, could we ?

But November and December and
January and part of February passed away,
and her ladyship was still a widow, and
her heart continued cold as the weather.
Still a widow ! Why her husband had
only been dead just a year ! No matter,

he was almost forgotten, and her mourning
for him did not go as deep as her crape.
And there was her brother's death ?
Surely she had been a little fond of him !
Yes, perhaps so. And was she not
anxious about her step-daughter's health ?
Oh yes ; she had written three or four
times to Mr. Clavering to make inquiries
after her, and in one of his letters she had
been reminded of her brother's and sister's
status in New York, and had received her
exact third share of Hugh's five thousand
pounds — sixteen hundred and sixty pounds
thirteen shillings and fourpence. Yes, the
pounds were very well, very well indeed ;
but the thirteen shillings and fourpence,
as sent to her by Mr. Clavering,
were so very trying to her nerves, because
they brought her down to the level of her
brother and sister in New York. To *

them, the thirteen and fourpence might
alone have proved acceptable ; but to her,
Lady O'O'Moore! well, they had their value:
they were two lawyer's fees.

There was someone of whom her ladyship
thought more than she had ever
thought of Sir Patrick, someone whom
she loved far better than she had ever
loved Hugh, someone for whom she felt
more anxious than she had ever felt for
Kathleen : and who was this — a new lover?
No, herself. This was the secret of her
heartlessness, the reason of her scheming :
I love myself because I know myself loves
me.

It was once asked, what reward was
there in a man's loving another who loved
him in turn ? There was no merit certainly
in Lady O'O'Moore loving herself,
and the reward she should have for her

selfishness was yet to come. It was not
what she expected ; she hoped always to
be gratified : but it was a vain hope for her
or for anyone to entertain in this chequered
life of light and shadow.

At length there came to her ladyship's
bower an exceeding young old man, and
he was destined to be the successful suitor.
Was he amiable, or good-looking? Neither ;
but he had a title, and was reported to be
rich.

Monsieur le Comte Naufrancs de
Fleurigny was a French refugee. Of
noble birth, as his title indicates, he had
lived upon his estate, so he stated, until
the beginning of the troubles raised in
France, when he fled to England.

He had not returned to his country, as
some nobler refugees than he had done,
when summoned by their emperor ; but;

had further retreated from London to
Dublin.

Monsieur le Comte was an exquisite
dandy and bore his age well. He possessed
a title, but he was not wealthy,
although he had an Inordinate love for
play. He made stealthy and polite
advances towards Lady O' Moore, dwelt
with becoming modesty upon his own
fortune, did not seek to pry Into her
ladyship's, since he saw so many substantial
proofs of wealth around her and
heard so much of it, until he at length
resolved to put his ' ange,' as he called
her, to the test, and begged of her to
become his loving countess.

Lady O'O'Moore took a day or two for
consideration, was just a little coy, a little
hesitating, but she consented with gladness
to his request. A countess! Lucy Unyan,

VOL. III. Zo

Lady O'O'Moore, Comtesse Naufrancs de
Fleurigny ; she had almost reached the
pinnacle of fame ! She soon lessened her
mourning, had her paper and envelopes
stamped with an earl's coronet, and before
the end of March was married to the
count.

Then she wrote to Mr. Clavering on
some of her new paper, thinking that it, at
any rate, would impress him with a sense
of her greatness.

But it did nothing of the kind. She
informed him of her marriage, that she
was aware how she had lessened her
income, and deprived herself of Arbela :
but she had done so rather than act against
her own conscience, and against the ' pure
love of a man who had married her for her
0W71 sake, and not for the sake of money or
estate.' But this was not all. The tone

of the letter was lofty until Its final paragraph
: in that she assumed the tone of
one who deserved but little, but who dared
to trust to the generosity of her stepdaughter
for a marriage portion.

Mr. Clavering received the letter with a
smile of contempt ; he gave it to Kathleen
to read, and concluded for himself that she
would not consider herself bound to make
a pecuniary present to one who had shown
heartlessness and most indecent haste in
marrying again.

He was, however, wrong in his conclusion,
for the last paragraph of the letter
received the attention of Kathleen, and
drew from her the following remarks.

You think, Mr. Clavering, I know, that
my stepmother's request is monstrous,' she
said.

I do,' was Mr. Clavering's answer.



JO

University

ILLINOIS Ll

She has already received her share of
five thousand pounds and has five hundred
a year to Hve on, which to my mind is far
more than such a person deserves. They
say that her husband has money, let him
support her I My advice to you, Kathleen,
is this : do not give her another penny
beyond what she is entitled to by your
father's will, and refuse to have any further
communications with hen'

I shall follow your advice, Mr. Clavering,
to a certain extent ; I will have no
further communications with her after
to-day, but I desire you to forward her
five thousand pounds, intimating to her
my determination to have no more to do
with her,' said Kathleen, who was resolved
to carry this through.

I cannot see the reason for this weak
generosity of yours, Kathleen,' said Mr:

Clavering, discontentedly; 'Lady O'O'Moore,
or rather the Countess Naufrancs, does not
deserve It, and such a sum seems to me
like a tacit approval on your part of her
conduct.'

Not at all,' replied Kathleen ; ' I leave
it to you to word the letter which contains
a draft for five thousand pounds, and you
must be careful to fix no impression of
that sort upon her mind. My reasons for
my conduct are these, and I think you will
approve of them.

My poor father on his death-bed said
to me, I remember as well as though I
heard it all yesterday, in spite of what has
happened ; " Should she nol marry again,"
he said, 'behind to her, child; treat her
with respect — " ' here Kathleen hesitated a
moment, and a curious look of woe came
into her face. She remembered that Sir

Patrick's next words had been, 'treat her
with respect, not as your husband's sister,
but as your own father's wife.' Then she
continued, ' " treat her with respect, as your
own father's wife." '

You would have done so, Kathleen,'
said Mr. Clavering, 'had she continued
faithful to your father's memory, or had
she In any way proved herself worthy of
respect, but as It Is I cannot see that you
are called upon to make the sacrifice you
contemplate. You have a generous heart,
but this is a matter which places Itself
beyond my pity but deep in my contempt.'

My father told me to be kind to her,'
continued Kathleen, In a tone which
showed her resolve to carry her point,
and I should be the most ungrateful of
daughters did I not carry out his request.
In donor that alone, I should be erecting

a monument to his memory as a proof of
my love, and surely In golncr a little beyond
It I am carrying out In a more worthy
manner his sincere wish, that his widow
should receive from his only child kindness
and consideration. When you write to the
countess, tell her, that in accordance with
my father's last wish, I have pleasure In
sendlno- her the sum of five thousand
pounds, but that my heart bleeds to think
of how soon she has forgotten him, who, in
his love for her, gratified her every whim
without even a murmur

I will do so, Kathleen,' replied Mr.
Clavering ; ' your motives are noble, and
1 will say no more against your sending
the money ; but as the executor of your
father's will, as his best friend, and in the
interest I take in you, not only for your
own sake, but because you were left to my

care by him, should you require it, I shall
state very clearly to the countess that any
further demands for money, in fact any
further letters on whatsoever subject, will
never be answered.'

Mr. Clavering wrote the following letter
to the Countess Naufrancs. After giving
her her full title at the top of the page, he
began :

^ Madame,

sat Miss O'O'Moore's request, I
forward you a draft for five thousand
pounds; permit me to add that I have
very great repugnance in doing so.

But Miss O'O'Moore, desiring to carry
out the expressed wish of her late father,
that she should be kind to you, and show
you all due respect (in the event of your
not marrying again), has gone even further, *

and In her generosity has made you the
enclosed handsome present.

However, she wishes me to add that
your heartless and Indecent conduct has
caused her much surprise and much pain ;
or rather, to sum up the expression, she Is,
naturally, very much disgusted.

It is indeed a wonder that so devoted
a husband as Sir Patrick was to you should
be so soon forgotten, and that his place in
your heart should be so soon filled by
another, who may be rich, who has a title,
but who Is, from trustworthy accounts, a
man of very doubtful character.

I am requested to state that any further
demand you may make for money will
receive no attention, nor will any letter of
yours, on any subject, be answered. Miss
O'O'Moore, having more than fulfilled her
duty, is rightly anxious to break off all

connection with one who has proved
herself to be such as yourself.
I am, madame,

Your obedient servant,

Cecil Clavering.'

This was received by the countess, and
though she was surprised at Kathleen's
present and delighted with it, yet Mr.
Clavering's letter was a bitter pill for her
to swallow ; but she pocketed her choler
and the draft.

The life of a countess is not without
care, however easily the title may have
come to her, or however ancient may be
its origin.

It has its disappointments, too, and the
Countess Naufrancs soon learnt this.
About a month after her marriage, the
count, with many endearing terms, got his

wife to speak of her property. She told
him that she now had but five hundred a
year, that her estate by her second marriage
had passed into the hands of her
daughter, and then, when she saw his
Avrath rising, she tried to appease it by a
mention of the five thousand pounds.

But it was in vain ; the Frenchman was
furious, he swore that he would take her
life, that he would starve her ; he turned
off the servants, locked her in her own
room, in spite of tears and entreaties to the
contrary.

JV^e Lucy Unyan had met more than
her match ; her husband had a worse
temper than she, he had a stronger will, he
was more cunning, and, if possible, more
heartless. The time of retribution had come,
and during the day he kept her locked in
her room, she recalled Sir Patrick and her

dead child, and repented the step she had
taken, all for the sake of a trumpery title.

And when the count calmed down a
little, he came and freed her from her
imprisonment, but demanded with threats
her five thousand pounds. Then she refused
; he threw her upon a sofa and nearly-strangled
her, until she cried for mercy and
gave him up the money.

She would free herself from this wretch,
she said ; she could not endure such a life.
But then pride thrust itself in the way and
drew her an unpleasant picture of herself
separated from her husband in some lonely
place, no one to speak to and no one to
admire her ; but, more than this, there
would be her step daughter to scoff at her,
and Mr. Clavering as well, while the world
would point its finger of derision at the
would-be countess.

In spite of the count's cruelty, in spite
of his frequent demands for money and
the fact that debts were fast accumulating,
she yet was queen of a little circle in
Dublin, had her receptions and dinners,
and endeavoured to smile before the world,
while she wept bitterly when its back was
turned upon her. She thought it would
be preferable to endure domestic unhappiness
to giving up the position she held.
She would some day soon find that it was
not so.

Ah ! Madame la Comtesse Naufrancs de
Fleurigny, your face tells a different tale
to what it once told ; love has never found
its way to your heart, grief has never yet
learnt how to silver your hair, but something
is making an impression upon you.
Are you growing older ? is that the reason ?
No, but you are beginning to learn what

trouble is under the tyranny of a cruel and
unprincipled master ; a smiling face to the
world, and eyes red with weeping when
you are alone with him, are more than you
can well carry off. At last you find it
difficult to act two parts ; the tears come
readily enough, but the smile is forced, and
in a spirit of sorrow that the past is past,
rather than in a spirit of repentance, you
are losing your good looks and your happiness,
because a man has found your
dearest idol to be self and is by degrees
knocking it to pieces.

CHAPTER IV.

TORRES VEDRAS AND FUENTES DE ONORO.

'Tis an ill wind that blows nobody good.'

Wellington had his whole army safely
disposed behind the impregnable lines of
Torres Vedras, in the month of October,
1 8 10. He took up his station in the front,
and his head-quarters were at Pero Negro,
near the Serra, a rock from which a
system of telegraphs was established with
the whole line.

Massena in vain tried to find a spot
where he might break through. There
was a skirmish at Sobral on the 14th of

October, in which the 71st regiment distinguished
itself.

The French army had great difficulty
in procuring provisions, and effected a
miserable maintenance for itself. Portugal
and Spain sought revenge for desolate
homes and slaughtered kinsfolk, while the
British had a free communication with
their fleet and the sea, and had an
abundance of provisions. The forts were
garrisoned by native troops ; the duty
was light, and officers and men enjoyed
rural life in a beautiful and romantic
country.

Throughout the month of October
Frank's spirits were at their ebb. His
brother officers were beginning to enjoy
fox-hunting, while he, though he occasionally
joined the field, yet joined it
as something to be done, and did not

take part in It with that zest which belonged
to his old days of going across
country.

Murphy, on the other hand, was delighted
at this introduction of home Feint
the campaign. He did his best to
encourage his master on to sport ; he used
to say, ' Plaise, go to hounds to-day, yer
'oner, an' forget Miss Kathleen for once
in a way, if it's only for the pleasure
of me getting' ye ready an' cleaning' yer
boots.'

At length the news of Hugh's death
reached Frank. To say that he regretted
the occurrence would be untrue and contrary
to nature. He was sorry for Kathleen's
sake, as he wrote to his father, but
to himself it opened up a new world, or
rather revived the old days, and bade him
hope again. Yes, it was wonderful to see

VOL. III. 34

how his Spirits came back to him. His
hope had been deferred, it had been
crushed, but now once more it was bidden
to arise and to live, until it might be
realised.

It was with a different heart and In a
different frame of mind that Frank got
ready for the first run when he had
answered his father's letter which brought
to him the tidings of Hugh's death. His
friends noticed the change in him for the
better, but to none of them was it so
apparent as It was to his faithful servant,
Murphy.

Faith, yer 'oner. It's a mighty change
has came over ye, all of a sudden, and the
blight seems to have entirely left the
potatoes,' he said while he was assisting
his master to make a shift for a hunting
turn-out.

I feel much better, Murphy,' said
Frank, cheerily ; ' there's a chance, I hear,
of my being sent home with despatches
some of these days.'

Faith, sur, I'm thinking' that that is not
entirely the reason of your good spirits,'
said Murphy laconically.

How do you mean, Murphy ?' asked
his superior officer. ' But come, put down
those boots ; remember you are a corporal
now, and that isn't your work.'

Faith, yer oner, it's my work if I
choose to undertake it, an' I'd rather go
back to a private than be obliged to lave
off cleaning' your boots. But excusing' the
liberty I take, I believe it's all own' to
news of Miss Kathleen which has made
you like quicksilver all of a sudden,'
remarked Murphy, pausing in the midst
of his labours.

34—^

*Well, it may be, Murphy replied Frank;
but there is one piece of news which may
not please you.'

An' what's that, yer 'oner ?'

Why this, that my father is now living
in London, and has no intention of residing
any more at Clonmore ; his life has been
attempted three times. So that if I should
be sent home with despatches, and you
should come with me, you will have to
choose between living at Inchigeela near
to Widow Machree, or else living with
me in London. What choice will you
make, Murphy ?'

'Faith ^ ' "'^^ living' near the giddy
is uncertain work, and I'd rather live in
Lunnon wi' yer oner.'

A short time afterwards Frank mounted
his horse, saying as he did so: ' Well, Fm
in the field once more, and hope to have

a good run, as I'm in the humour for it,'
and then he rode off.

Faith, thin, an may the A'mighty give
yer 'oner a good run,' said Murphy, looking
after his master ; * may ye be in at the
death, an' kill her herself. There never
stepped a braver gentleman than herself,
an' I'll thank heaven to send me home wi'
you when ye go ; an' maybe there's a
better lass waiting' for me in Lunnon or
elsewhere than Giddy Machree, who will
take a greater fancy to a soldier than she
ever did to a general servant, for I was
nothing better.'

The weather wa<=-"^" ^: ^ ""y fine at
this period, and the lace of war put on a
cheerful expression. Too much time was
not wasted in sport, but new works were
constructed, until the British position became
absolutely impregnable, and Massena

in despair, withdrew towards the end of
October to Santarem.

In January, 1811, Graham achieved a
victory over the French. He was assisted
by Major Duncan, while the Spaniards
were guilty of dastardly treachery. A
sanguinary conflict took place which lasted
about an hour and a half; the British
numbered only eleven hundred men, while
the French lost two thousand soldiers, six
guns, an eagle, two generals and four
hundred men taken prisoners.

On the 2nd of March the French were
driven from their position at Pombal by
the 95th, and on the 3rd of May the
battle of Fuentes de Onoro took place.

This village was occupied by five chosen
battalions of the first and third divisions.

General Poison attacked them ; he was
bravely met and held in check, until their

commander, Colonel Williams of the both
regiment, fell severely wounded. The
enemy's efforts were nearly crowned with
success, when the 24th, 71st, and 79th
came down from the main position to
their assistance, made a spirited charge,
and drove the enemy from the village.

On the fourth of the month Massena
arrived, and on the fifth a furious attack
was made on the British right by some
French cavalry under Montbrun. The
village of Fuentes de Onoro again became
the main object of contention. Drouet
was ordered to take it at the moment
when the British right wing was turned
by Montbrun's cavalry. There was, however,
a delay of two hours in the execution
of this order. The village was defended
by the gallant third division — ' the fighting
third' — but there was so tremendous a

cannonade against them that they began
to give way. Then it was that the seth
under Colonel Wallace, led on by Major-general
Mackinnon moved up to support
them, with the cry of * Faugh-a-ballagh/
The regiment made a desperate charge
through the streets, and drove out the
enemy with immense loss.

Frank was well to the front, but came
out of the conflict unscathed. He was
highly complimented upon his bravery, for
his company were foremost in the fight.
Murphy was not so fortunate ; he lost his
left arm in the fray, but fought on until he
dropped from loss of blood.

Frank's bravery had its reward, for two
months afterwards he was ordered home
with despatches, being on the sick list at
the time; and Murphy accompanied him, as
his fighting days were ended.

For US, then, the campaign in the
Peninsula is over, but not for all. There
were yet years of weary warfare to come.
But at the end of these, British arms were
to come out victorious, and the scourge of
Europe was to be banished to a lonely
Isle, How much misery was past, how
much misery was to come, and how much
of It all was to be attributed to the bloodthirsty
ambition of an insatiable tyrant !
But thus it must be to the end : ' wars and
rumours of wars,' until the beginning of
that reign of peace, in which swords shall
be turned into ploughshares, and spears
into pruning-hooks.

CHAPTER V.

MR. CLAVERING GOES TO LONDON.
I see men as trees walking.'

"&•

The advice which the doctors gave to Mr.
Clavering was this : that change of air and
scene was the only thing they could
recommend as an aid towards Kathleen's
complete recovery. Physically, she was
nearly well ; but mentally, far from it. So
long, they said, as her grief was nourished
by surrounding circumstances, so long it
was impossible for her to recover her
spirits. Her continued abode at Inches
was only bringing the past nearer to

her ; the house she lived in, the drives she
took, all reminded her of Hugh ; and not
only of his death, which to her was not the
greatest sorrow connected with her late
lover, but of the deception he had practised
towards her.

This it was which galled her ; her idea
of love, which she had learnt for herself
from her own experience, was not only
affection, but confidence, and this last
complement Hugh had sadly lacked.

Mr. Clavering duly reported the medical
advice to Kathleen, and she readily and
gladly accepted the idea of change. He
fancied that she would raise some objection,
but she raised none, simply expressing the
opinion that the sooner the change in
residence was effected, the better for
her.

The month of May came round, and

Mr. Clavering found a trusty steward to
take charge of his own estate and another
to look after Arbela. Meanwhile he procured
a house in London for himself, and
Kathleen very willingly consented to share
it with him. Then came the question of
what should be done with Pat O'Leary;
he was given his choice of remaining
behind with his mother, and his kith and
kin, or of accompanying the master of
Clonmore to London. After some deliberation
the blind boy decided to accompany
his benefactor. Gratitude and affection
prompted his decision, but it was hastened
by a promise from Mr, Clavering to see if
something could not be done in the great
city towards restoring the poor child's
sight.

The thought of sight was indeed a
temptation to Pat ; he pictured the world

and its inhabitants as being far more
beautiful than they really are. He did
not realise to what an amount of visible
want and suffering he would be awakened
were his eyes opened for him. But there
was something he looked forward to, even
more than seeing people and things. Mr.
Clavering had talked to him of the glories
of music, of the old masters, and of the
wonderful thoughts they had left upon
paper. He had described to the child
how he might transfer all these beauties
from paper to his own violin, and how he
might render, in the appreciation of his
own soul, echoes of the glorious past into
living notes as worthy recorders of the
transcendent genius which had outlived
its possessors. Sometimes Mr. Clavering
had touched his old ' spinner ' for Pat's
entertainment, and had fingered, perhaps

imperfectly, but certainly with true feeling,
passages of beauty which the blind boy
transferred to his violin in perfect harmony
and correctness of detail. But to read
these wonderful compositions for himself
was what the boy longed for, and in
anticipation of fulfilled desire he almost
possessed his sight, when the possible
recovery of it was only just talked of.

Mrs. Green, too, must not be forgotten,
in the change of residence which was
to take place. She had proved herself
indispensable to Kathleen, who
resolved to take her to London as housekeeper.


Mrs. Machree rather expected this
honour, but was pacified by Mr. Clavering,
who assured her that he must not leave
Clonmore entirely to the possession of
strangers. More than this, she was given

surveillance,' also, over the establishment
at Arbela for Mrs. Rouse — alas for
human inconstancy ! — who, It will be remembered,
had so much objected to the
introduction of Lucy Unyan into Sir
Patrick's household, had afterwards become
Lady O' Moore's friend, and was now
housekeeper with the Countess Naufrancs
de Fleurigny In Dublin.

At length the preparations for migration
were complete ; Mr. Clavering, Kathleen,
Pat O'Leary, Mrs. Green and child, left
Ireland, and were soon installed in a
handsome house In the west of
London.

It must be recorded here, that detailed
directions were given as to Mrs. O'Leary's
being taken care of, and that these were
fully carried out by the new bailiff at
Clonmore and Mrs. Machree, who, sometime

after Mr. Clavering had left Clonmore,
joined their fortunes, and Widow Machree
became Mrs. James O'Loghlen. Thus it
happened that Murphy's first love mended
her hearty if it had ever been injured by
his overtures, and found solace in the
portly though good-natured person of Mr.
Clavering's steward.

As to O'Crotty, he was never found.
Perhaps he contented himself with the
security of his old hiding-place, or perhaps,
after the murder of Hugh;, his crowning
deed, he feared that ' Ould Ireland ' would
be too hot for him, and took his departure
for America.

O'Neil kept to his promise of never
touching another card. He found employment
as partner in a thriving business,
became a respectable member of society,
and had the satisfaction of seeing the

colour return to his little wife's cheeks, the
smile to her lips, while the tale of care and
anxiety left her face.

Thus it behoves us to take leave of
some of our friends in Ireland who have
had a share, small or important, in our
narrative ; we shall return thither once
more, but meanwhile we must give our
attention to England, which now holds
those in whom we take, or should take,
the greatest interest.

Kathleen's spirits did not return as
quickly as Mr. Clavering would have
wished to see. He did all in his power
to restore them, provided all the diversion
he could think of, took care to banish all
gloomy topics of conversation, made the
house bright and cheerful with guests, butin
spite of all, the improvement in Kathleen
was not marked.

VOL. III. 35

There was an improvement, but it was
only small and gradual.

Mr. Clavering received a letter from his
son, during his first few weeks' residence
in London, forwarded to him from Claymore.


Frank expressed great sorrow on
Kathleen's account for the calamity which
had befallen her in the death of Hugh,
and desired his father to express sincere
sympathy on his behalf. He went on to
say, though of course this was intended for
his father's eyes alone, that if Hugh were
a gambler, his death was a providential
escape from an unhappy marriage for
Kathleen. But there was no hint in the
letter which could lead anyone to suppose
that Frank still looked forward to winning
her for himself.

When Mr. Clavering conveyed his son's

sympathy to Kathleen, she only said, ' He
is a good fellow, and I trust he may yet
find a wife worthy of him.'

I trust he may,' remarked Mr. Clavering,
and then It was for the first time he
thought how Frank and Kathleen might
yet make one another happy. But as he
looked at the pale face, the languid eye,
and the lack of interest displayed in all
Kathleen's movements, the hope died out
of his heart, and he said to himself, ' It is
too late now ; she has drunk too deeply of
the waters of bitterness ; she is poisoned
with them, and there is surely no restorative
which can brinor her back to her
former liveliness, or can even cloud the
past and hide it from her memory.'

There was, however, one subject started
by Mr. Clavering which seemed to enliven,
more than anything else, Kathleen's frame

35—2

of mind. This was his determination to
see some doctor about Pat's blindness.
The lids of the child's eyes were not closed
by disease ; he usually had them shut, but
this was from habit, as Mr. Clavering
proved, who had his own idea that the boy
was suffering from cataract.

It appeared upon inquiry that Pat had
not been born blind, but that he was
perfectly so before he reached the age of
two years.

To support Mr. Clavering's opinion
there was this fact : the boy could distinguish
bright light from darkness, but
only indistinctly, and this led on the
master of Clonmore further still to the fact
that the disease was a milky cataract of
which he had read.

But without waiting or wasting time,
Pat was taken to Dr. Young, a then

celebrated oculist, who took quite a hopeful
view of the case.

The oculist explained to Mr. Clavering
the nature of the disease. It was, he said,
a milky cataract. He tried several experiments
with a bright light, but the difference
between this and darkness was scarcely
observable to the blind boy. Dr. Young
accounted for this by saying that the
cataract was bulky, and lay so close to the
iris that few or no rays of light could
enter between them Into the eye ; and also
that a fluid cataract always assumed a
globular form, and consequently had no
thin edge through which the rays of light
could penetrate. He ended by saying
that the removal of the obstacle was
mechanical, and appointed a day on which
he would perform the operation and
remove the sac.

On Mr. Clavering's return home, Kathleen
was all anxiety to know what the
surgical opinion was, but she gathered,
without a word, from the radiant expression
on the boy's face, that there was
hope.

At length the day for the operation
came round, and Dr. Young, with the
delicate touch of a skilful surgeon, removed
the impediment, and gave his directions as
to further treatment.

Pat was to be kept in a perfectly dark
room for a week ; after that, light was to
be gradually let in upon him until he could
bear the full light of day. The oculist
promised to pay the boy one or two visits,
and then received his fee — like many of
the medical and legal professions — as
though money were the last thing to bethought
of, and as though a man could

live without it, and could support life by
reading science or by studying law.

Dr. Young's instructions with reference
to Pat were carefully carried out. Kathleen
took upon herself the duties of attendant,
and seemed, for the time being, to be
absorbed in another direction than that of
her troubles. Little by little Pat's sight
came back to him ; at first he saw very
indistinctly, and could bear but very little
light, but after a month's time he went
where he listed, wearing a green shade
over his eyes. But Mr. Clavering resisted
all entreaties made by the boy to be allowed
to learn to read and write, and above all to
set eyes upon that magic paper on which
were set down in mystic characters the
glories of music.

Two months passed away, Pat's sight
was perfect, and he revelled in his new

possession, and gazed upon people and
things-with awe and wonder. But he was
not yet satisfied ; he longed to pry into the
Sibylline books, and to copy them upon
his violin, converting hard black and white
into a beautifully illuminated missal, which
should have for Its colourings the harmony
of his strings, and for Its gilding the genius
of his musical soul.

Then It was that Mr. Clavering could
no longer resist the boy's earnest pleadings.
Dr. Young gave his consent to his patient's
learning to read and write and to his taking
music lessons, and masters were engaged
for him.

But alas for the alphabet and telegraphy!
the boy's appreciation for them was small,
while he grasped in a marvellous manner
the art of reading music with facility, and
more than this, Its theory. He delighted

in 'counterpoint' and 'fugue,' entered into
the study of the imperfect harmony of the
'diminished fifth,' of the harmony of the
seventh, of the sensible, of the major mode,
and of the dominant major ninth, and soon,
until his master gave up his pupil in
despair, not because he lacked appreciation
or ability, but because the pupil was fit to
be the Gamaliel, and because it was the
Gamaliel who had to take his place at the
feet of his precocious pupil.

Mr. Clavering had long ago expressed
an opinion that education would take the
soul away from Pat's innate musical genius,
but he was wrong. True, the character
of his music changed, yet the wild weird
melodies of old still lingered in his compositions,
but the wild-flower of genius
became the garden-flower of cultivation,
each of its petals perfect, its perfume and

beauty enhanced, and Pat gave promise
of being one of the first violinists of the
day, while his kind benefactor did all in
his power to bring the boy under the
notice of leading men in the musical world.
But with his newly-acquired blessing
and his undoubted talent Pat continued
to be the simple-hearted and affectionate
boy of Inchigeela days. His love and
gratitude to Mr. Clavering knew no
bounds ; he had been the boy's best friend
from the time he visited the O'Leary
cabin until now. He had saved the old
violin's existence ; he had been wounded
for Pat's sake ; and finally, he had restored
sight to the blind, and had opened a world
to the boy. which Pat, in his wildest
imaginations, while blind, would have
fancied as being, could he have realised it,
beyond even the joys of heaven.

CHAPTER VI.

RETURNED HOME WITH DESPATCHES.

The man that hath no music in himself,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons.'

Frank arrived in London about the end
of June, and it is needless to say what
a welcome he met with from his father.
Kathleen, too, expressed her pleasure at
seeing him, although the returned warrior
was shocked at the difference which had
taken place in the appearance and the
manner of his former light-hearted schoolfellow
and companion.

He commented upon this to his father
the first evening they sat alone together.
They had much to relate to one another —
the son, his experiences in Spain ; the
father, all that had taken place at Claymore
since Frank's departure. Mr.
Clavering entered into the fullest particulars
of Hugh's death, explained the
way in which the young man's propensities
for gambling had come to light, detailed
Kathleen's illness and the ineffectual attempts
to raise her spirits.

There is one thing I think you have
forgotten to tell me of, father, or rather
one person,' said Frank, ' little Pat
O'Leary. I haven't seen him this evening.'


Probably not, Frank,' said Mr. Clavering
with a smile ; ' you would never guess
what I have done for that dear boy.'

*Well, you have done so much, father,
that perhaps you have given him his sight
replied Frank, little imagining that he had
come so near the truth.

That is the very thing, Frank, or
rather I got a surgeon to do it for me ;
the boy sees perfectly well, and is to-night
playing at a concert for the first time. It
is only a private one, but still it is a beginning.
I cannot tell you what marvellous
genius that boy displays for music. It is
two months ago now since he first began
to study it ; he reads it perfectly and has
grasped a good deal of the theory of it.
As for his other studies, it is of no use
trying to induce him to look at them ; I
am afraid that he will grow up a complete
ignoramus in everything but music

There is another person you have not
spoken of, father — Lady O'O'Moore; you

told me of her leaving for Dublin at the
very beginning of Kathleen's Illness.
What has become of her ? Is she married
again ?'

You have again come very near the
mark, Frank ; her ladyship is now the
Countess Naufrancs de Fleurigny, and Is
leading, I am told, a very unhappy life.'

I'm delighted to hear It,' said Frank,
without hesitation ; * nothing is bad enough
for that woman, in my estimation. From
the time she entered Sir Patrick's house
until now, she has done nothing but plot
and scheme, and has in the end proved
herself to be a most heartless woman.'

She Is suffering retribution now, as is
generally the case with heartless people
who have wounded the feelings of others
with as little thought as though they were
throwing stones into a pond. It is only

when they are themselves injured that
they feel and realise the cruelty of their
conduct to others. The count is, I hear,
a great brute, and although his countess
tries to put a good face on to the world,
and places her coronet on every available
place, yet she has a terrible home life,' said
Mr. Clavering, who agreed with his son in
thinking that Lady O'O'Moore deserved her
present trouble and more besides.

And what has become of the Mrs.
Green you told me of .^' asked Frank.

She is housekeeper now with us here,
and a very trustworthy and useful one, too.
I dare say Murphy will find in her a very
agreeable companion,' continued Mr. Clavering,
smiling, * and probably consider her
more to his taste and ao^e than Mrs.
Machree ever was. He proved himself a
faithful servant, did he not V

I should think so replied Frank ; ' he
never seemed happy unless he was serving
me in some way or other. He fought like
a lion, but seemed to dislike the Spaniards
as much as he did the French. There are
few greater oddities than Murphy in the
world, but fewer still with such warm true
hearts.'

At this moment the door was opened,
and Pat O'Leary entered the room. What
a difference he presented to Frank, who
had not seen him for nearly three years !
He was now tall and graceful, and his
beauty was Increased by the expression of
his bright eyes. He looked well in his
evening dress, his light hair curled in
abundance over his forehead, and in the
place of the rough unkempt child of
Inchigeela, Frank gazed upon the young
gentleman of genius, moulded and cultured

by the hands of his kind father. And
when the boy began to speak, there
was another discernible difference in his
conversation. But ' honour to whom
honour is due,' and Kathleen it was who
had effected this change. During the
incipient stage of the recovery of his sight,
she had given him lessons, and though the
unmistakable brogue was yet there, the
you ' had taken the place of ' ye,' ' with '
of ' wi' ;' and ' faith, thin,' and expressions
of that kind were as much past and out of
use as were the old clothes of his cabin
days. The boy was a marvel ; much was
due to Mr. Clavering for the change, but
there had been good ground to work upon ;
the seed had been already there, and the
careful tending and wise nourishment of it,
aided by the grateful rain of kindness and

VOL. III. 36

refinement, had made a lovely plant out of
a hedgerow flower.

Glad to see you back, Pat,' said Mr.
Clavering ; ' do you remember who that
is ?' he asked, pointing to Frank.

I suppose it is your son, sir, if I may
judge by his being so much like you,'
answered Pat.

You are quite right,' said Frank, rising
to shake hands with his father's /r^/^/.

I am certain of it now, Mr. Clavering ;
I remember the voice perfectly well as the
voice I heard in our cabin, and again on
the day that Biddy led me up to Clonmore
to play for you said the boy with a slight
blush mantling his cheeks.

You are not ashamed of those old days,
Pat, are you ?' asked Mr. Clavering.

Not a bit, sir ; rather proud of them
replied Pat honestly.

Fm glad to hear that, my boy ; you area
gentleman so long as you are not anxious
to conceal where you came from, and one
of natures gentlemen, too, which are of the
purest water. Now tell us something
about the concert. Were there many
people there ?'

The room was full, sir ; there was some
beautiful spinner-playing, also playing on
the harp and violin, and above all the voice
of a lady, which was very sweet.'

Who was it, Pat ?'

I don't know, sir ; they told me that
she was one of the best singers of the day,
and then asked me if I would like to play
for her to sing to. So I said " Yes."
And she asked me very kindly if I liked
something lively, or quiet and soft. I said,
Quiet, something to take us away out of
the room and to carry us up to heaven."

36—2

Oh," she said, *^ you are a poet, too, are
you, Master O'Leary ?" I answered that
I was not, that I couldn't say what I
meant, but I could play the thought for
her. So I just played a little thing out of
my head, and then she said, " You have
great taste, my boy ; perhaps this will suit
you," and she put before me Handel's
'^ Angels ever bright and fair ;" and then
she sang it as if she really saw the angels
and felt her prayer. Then she said, '' You
must come to the Opera and hear me
sing." I said, " I would be very glad to."
So she called over a gentleman to her, and
said to him, " I want you to let this gentleman
accompany me in the leading airs
next Wednesday night ; will you allow him
to do so ?" '' Oh yes," he said, " he may
take a seat in the orchestra with pleasure ;
but you must let him have the score to

practise." ''He shall have that," she
answered, " and shall practise them over
with me just before." Then, turning tome,
she said, 'you will come and dine
with me, my boy, will you not ?" I said,
Yes, if you would allow me." And she
is going to send me the music tomorrow.
She said a great deal about my playing. I
do not play as well as she said I do ; and
as I was coming away, Sir Nugent Anson
said to me, '' Tell Mr. Clavering from me,
that your fortune is made, because Madame
I do not recollect her name — has taken
notice of you." '

Was it Cavatini ?' asked Mr. Clavering.
Yes, that was the name, sir ; they say

she is the first singer of the day.'

So she is, Pat ; and if, through her, you
get an introduction to the musical world,
your fortune is made. But do not accept

the place of first violin in the orchestra at
the Hay market; you can do better than
that. All I am anxious about is this, my
boy said Mr. Clavering earnestly, ' don't
let people turn your head with their
praises.'

^ I do not think they will, sir,' replied
Pat simply.

Do not be too sure of that, my boy ;
wiser men than you or I have said the
same, and have toppled down from the
very pinnacle of honour in consequence,'
said Mr. Clavering sagaciously.

^ I cannot take any praise to myself, sir.
In the first place, God gave me music
because I couldn't see ; you or He — isn't
it ? — then made me see too, and thereby I
can play better now than I used to. It is
no trouble to me to play, it is an easy
pleasure ; and so when people clap their

hands, I think they are praising the gift
that I have, which belongs to God, though
He has given it to me to take care of.'

That is wisely said, Pat,' replied Mr.
Clavering approvingly, ' and older heads
might take a lesson from it. But take
care that you always feel what you say,
for there is very little worth in idle words
which are no deeper than the throat. And
now go to bed, my dear boy ; you are tired,
and you have your work cut out for you todo
by next Wednesday. I will take a box
at the Opera, and we will see if Miss
O'O'Moore will not come too.'

When Pat had left the room, Mr.
Clavering said :

'You are pleased with him, Frank, I
hope ; I cannot tell you what a link exists
between that boy and me. I mean to
keep him with us until I can send him off

In a profession, which will be at no great
distance of time. Really I do not wish to
send him to live with his own class.'

There is no reason why you should,
father. If you are thinking of me, do not
Imagine for a moment that I have any
objection to the boy's remaining in the
house. It would be hard to turn him off now.'

^ Well, I was just a Httle bit afraid,
Frank, that you might object to him, but
now that I have your assurance to the
contrary, I am once more easy in mind,
and will keep the boy with us until there
is some opening for him.'

How is it, father,' asked Frank, 'that
there is so wide a difference between
people that have risen from nothing ?
That boy will grow up a gentleman ; and
look what Lady O'O'Moore is like, certainly
anything but a lady.'

Yours is a difficult question to answer,
Frank ; but the difference seems to me to
lie in this. Some of them have a gift from
God, which must rise into life and greatness
if they use it aright ; such are, as a
rule humble and unpretentious and free
from all affectation. But there are others,
who, by a father's accident, are put into a
position, or get it by their own scheming,
as did Lady O'O'Moore, who have nothing
to recommend them, no real worth or
genius, and yet are pretentious, affect good
family, practise all sorts of airs, and in fact
are so unreal that they are easily seen
through, and thus are easily known. Of
course poor Sir Patrick's second wife
added to these moral deficiencies and
obliquities, and was utterly heartless.'

Here the conversation dropped.

The next day the music which Pat had

to practise was sent to him by his newly-found
friend and patroness the illustrious
prima donna, together with a perfumed
little note containing a box order for Mr.
Clavering and his friends.

CHAPTER VII.

MUSIC AND HER SISTER SONG.

Oh, two such silver currents, when they join.
Do glorify the banks that bound them in.'

Pat O'Leary practised steadily at the
music sent to him by Madame Cavatini,
in which he was to take a part at the
Haymarket on the following Wednesday
night.

The opera was Mozart's 'Don Giovanni
which had been represented some twenty
years before for the first time, but which
had not yet been played in Paris.

This was, however, the first time that

Pat had seen the music of it, although he
was already acquainted with ' Le Nozzle di
Figaro.'

As he went on with his practice, the
more he entered into the spirit of the
divine Mozart, and felt that his own best
attempts at composition were but as
shadows upon the sunlit fortress of the
great composer's genius.

Some one has said that the opera of
Don Giovanni ' has but one good inor-
beau, and that is, its entire self.

But if Pat was delighted with the music
as he learnt to play it as accompanied,
and revelled in the ^ La ci dare la mano '
and the ' Fui ch' han del mio,' what would
he be when he heard the powerful and
marvellous voice of Cavatini in ' Vedrai
caring ?' and what would he do when he
listened to her rendering of * Batt, batt,

Masetto/ so beautifully given nowadays
by Trebelli ? But we must not anticipate
his pleasure, but endeavour to share it
with him when Wednesday night arrives.

Pat lived at a time which was not so
rich in operas as our own ; some of the
best of them were written, it is true, but
were not represented until long after the
year of which we write. Even 'Don
Giovanni ' had been hissed off the store at

o

Vienna, in consequence of envy, aided by
bad taste on the part of the public.
Haydn alone was its champion at a
reunion of soi-disant amateurs met for the
purpose of criticising it, when he said, ' All
that I know and am able to declare is this,
that Mozart is the greatest composer of
our day !*

The boy would by-and-by have the
beauties of * II Flauto Magic ' opened to

him ; * Tancred,' with its lovely cavatina

Di tante pulpit ;' ' II Barrier di Sicilia,'
that pearl of musical repertoire in our own
time and for all time, he would also live to
enjoy ; he would revel in * More in Egitto/
and the magnificent overture to 'Semiramis
;' it would fall to his lot to hear and
to play ^ Guillaume Tell ' and its lovely
cantabile for the violoncello, full of majesty,
and breathing in its melody the calm of
Alpine solitude ; as well as the ' Stabat
Mater' by the same mighty composer.
Later on he would hear * Robert le Diable,'
Les Huguenots,' ' Le Prophet ;' and
later still ' La Favorites ' Lucia di Lam-memoir,'
'La Filia del Regiment,' and
La Traviata,' and even the celebrated

Faust,' written by one who still delights
thousands by his harmonious productions ;
but we doubt if Pat ever lived to put his

bow to his violin in order to join in with
others in that exquisite estrade of ' La
Colombe where notes follow one another
in a succession of such exquisite delicacy
that they sound even too gentle for the
tread of fays upon blades of grass, and too
hushed for a moonlight accompaniment to
a dance of fairies' midsummer night's
revel.

But revenons a nos moutons.

Wednesday evening arrived, and Pat
set off with his violin, in Its case, to dine
with Madame Cavatlni.

Kathleen O'O'Moore had consented, after
some little pressure on Frank's part, to goto
the Opera ; she had even gone so far as
to lessen her mourning, and to promise to
wear a crimson rose In her hair, which
Frank Clavering had procured for her.
He had only returned home a week ; his

duties had occupied him the greater part
of each day, and yet his father noticed a
change in Kathleen for the better. She
was less dead to her surroundings, and
began to laugh a little when Frank told
her anecdotes of the campaigns from
which he had just returned.

Mr. Clavering was pleased beyond
measure to see this spring, which might
brighten into summer, after the long winter
of sorrow that had chilled the poor girl's
heart. He longed to see his son happy,
and Frank would only be that when he
could call Kathleen his wife. Would it
ever come to pass ? the affectionate father
anxiously asked himself. There seemed
to be some little chance of it now ; so he
did everything in his power to encourage
Kathleen's spirits, and to enable her to
shake off the past and to bring into her

mind the Idea that she must not despair
of being happy yet.

But Kathleen would only shake her
head, though she had to confess to herself
that Frank's return had gone someway,
even in a week's time, towards
making her happier.

Frank was dressing for dinner, and
Murphy, with military precision, in spite of
having lost an arm, was assisting him.

Well, Murphy,' he asked, * how are
you getting on ? Do you want to go back
to Inchloreela?'

I'm getting' on right well, yer 'oner ; an'
faith I like this much better than Claymore,
although I am constantly under fire,'
replied the corporal.

But there are no French here,
Murphy ?'

True enough, yer 'oner ; I never caved

VOL. III. 2)-]

in to a Frenchman yet, although our whole
regiment showed a little bit of back at
Talavera an Bisakus too ; but, faith, thin
they were a thousand to one

'Who are you giving in to now. Murphy ?'
asked Frank, who had an idea what the
campaign was of which his servant spoke.
You have only been home a week, and
you are giving in already.'

Sure, sur, there's bin a brisk fire going'
on the whole time from as bright a pair o'
cannons as I ever set eyes on. They've
turned me right wing, an' I've given in.'

How do you mean, Murphy ?' asked
Frank, giving a last look at himself in the
glass.

Faith, yer 'oner, the enemy's called
Green ; an Fve come to terms wi' her, an'
now we're going to be allied forces, for Fve
shown the flag of truce.'

You have not been long about it,
Murphy ; I congratulate you though, for
I hear that Mrs, Green has got a kind
heart of her own as well as a pair of bright
eyes. But what about Mrs. Machree ?'

*■ Sure, I've never considered her in the
business. When you're refused once, that's
enough for me, at any rate. An' Giddy
Machree has lost her chance said
Murphy, as he folded up a coat of his
master's ; * she's the loser, poor soul,
not I.'

Nothing like having a good opinion of
yourself, Murphy,' said Frank, who was
thinking how he himself had been once
refused, but meant to renew the attack
immediately. ' You must order the coach
for a quarter to eight punctually.'

Yes, yer 'oner ; but plaise, have I yer
consent to the marriage ?' asked Murphy.

My good man, I'm neither the bride's
parent nor your own,' replied Frank ; * but
of course you have my consent, and I hope
you may be happy !'

By a concerted arrangement between
Murphy and Mrs. Green, while the scene
just related had been passing in Frank's
room, another, similar in purport, had
been enacted in Kathleen's room by the
bride-elect ; and thus, when Frank and
Kathleen met in the drawing-room before
dinner, they each had the same news for
one another. Mr. Clavering laughed
heartily, and made a remark that Murphy
seemed to be as efficient a son of Venus
as he had been of Mars ; but he had no
doubt that, with the warm hearts possessed
by the two of them, it would be a marriage
made in heaven.' He was about to say
something concerning the close relationship

that would thus exist between Murphy
and the Countess Naufrancs ; but he
stopped short, as he had too much feeling
for Kathleen to mention such a subject
before her, which might recall Hugh, whose
name, as has been said before, was buried
in the past.

Both i\Ir. Clavering and his son noticed
how well Kathleen was looking considering
her late troubles, and the former assured
his son that it uas his return home which
had wrought the change in her. She was
dressed very becomingly that evening ina
black and grey costume, and wore the
rose in her hair which Frank had given
her.

While the two gentlemen where discussing
Kathleen over their smoking after dinner,
she was considering Frank in her own
mind in the drawings-room. The world

did not seem so dark to her now. Had
anyone told her a fortnight before this,
that Frank's return would make a pleasant
difference to her, she would have denied it
as a thing utterly impossible. But she
found that she was happier than before
his return ; she looked out anxiously for
him when he was away on business, and
she had to acknowledge to a sense of
inward relief when he had come home that
very evening from the War Office, and
informed her that he had not to go back
to the seat of war. She reflected, and the
result of her reflection was more than
Byron's,

Meditation bids us feel
We once have loved ;'

for It showed her that she could that she
did, love again. But then, alas ! her
thoughts wandered back to Hugh, and

for the first time since his death she
opened the locket which she wore round
her neck and looked upon his miniature.
That act recalled all ; and when Mr,
Clavering and Frank entered the room to
tt:ll her that the coach was at the door,
they found her pale and sad, while her
eyes were filled with tears, which she in
vain tried to conceal.

Is anything wrong, dear Kathleen ?'
asked Mr. Clavering.

No, it is nothing. Is the coach come
round to the door yet ?' she asked as composedly
as she could.

Yes, it has,' answered Mr. Clavering,
who perceived that the locket lay open on
her neck ; ' let me close this for you !' he
added.

Kathleen started and shut the little
locket quickly, but not before Mr. Clavering

had seen its contents, and rightly
aiio-ured that it contained the reason for
her tears.

Meanwhile Pat had been spending a
pleasant two or three hours with Madame
Cavatini. Before dinner they practised
the two airs together sung by 'Merlin';
these were all in which Pat would play a
solo accompaniment for her. It was a
fancy on the part of \\\^ prima donna, and
an irregularity ; but she overcame the
latter by assuring the leader of the
orchestra that she was ' out of voice,' and
of course when the one to whom the filling
of 'the house' was due expressed a wish,
it was law.

Their work ended, madame and the
Irish boy sat down to a iete-a-tete dinner
in a charming little dining-room hung
round with valuable prints ; there was one

of Garrick, another of Oliver Goldsmith,
another of Mozart, while the mantelpiece
and corner shelves were well filled with
old and valuable china.

The prima donna, who had the kindest
of hearts, made a great Impression upon
Pat, while he, in turn, had fascinated by his
frank naive manner the celebrated songstress,
who was a formidable rival to the
nightingale In the richness and sweetness of
her notes, and whose voice could be heard
distinctly above the loudest accompaniment
of the noisiest orchestra.

Pat gave an account of his life which
interested his hostess, and he defined for
her, as well as he could, the change from
blindness to sight.

How do you like "■ Don Giovanni ?" '
asked Madame Cavatlni.

Very much Indeed,' answered Pat. ' I

thought it very beautiful when I played it
over by myself, but I like it far better now
that I have heard you sing it. How
strange is the music when the statue
walks in at the door after ' Don Giovanni '
has finished his supper! It quite frightens
me, but I so much want to see it.'

'Well, you weill soon have that wish
gratified. But come, my dear boy, you
are thinking so much of what you have
been playing and what you are going to
listen to, that you are eating and drinking
nothing. Have a little more of this
chicken and a little more of that sherry
wine ?' said tho, prima donna.

No more, thank you,' answered Pat.
Who is that over the fireplace ?' he asked,
pointing in the direction of Oliver Goldsmith's
portrait ; * did he sing, or play, or
make music ?'

Dear me, no ; he wrote poetry and one
or two plays, and a story called the " Vicar
of Wakefield." Didn't you ever hear of
him before ?' asked Madame Cavatini,
resting a moment from the earnest plying
of her knife and fork.

No,' said Pat, ' I care for nothing and
nobody not connected with music ; do
you :

Of course I do, my dear boy. I like
music and musical people best, but it
would be but a poor world and a very
small one, if people had given up and still
were to give up all their time to music.
Where would America be if Columbus had
been a fiddler at home, or what would
become of Europe if Lord Wellington
were a public singer Y asked madame.

I do not know,' answered the boy, ' but
I do not care for all that ; Q^ive me music

and trees and flowers, and I should be
satisfied. I hope that heaven is all
music'

Ah !' said Madame Cavatini, with a
siorh, ' we cannot tell what that is like ;
but be sure that everything here is wisely
distributed, and that there is neither too
much nor too little of anything, except
too much misery and unhappiness, and
men have made that for themselves.'

Then Pat asked some questions about
the old china, and his good-natured hostess
told him how this was ' Sevres ' and that
was ' blue Worcester and so on, until at
length, v/hen dinner was ended, she went
off to dress, and left the boy some picture-books
with which to entertain himself.
But scarcely had she reached her room
when she heard the sounds of a violin ;
then she smiled and thought to herself,

Music is that child's only world, his value
of it is perfectly uncorrupted ; while I,
and such as I, think too much, I am afraid,
first of our debut, then of our interpretations
of different passages, and of public
applause, losing sight of the music in ourselves.
But he loses sio^ht of himself in
the music, and fancies that the world is
set going by it, and that the stars are held
in their places by means of it. He is
innocent, dear boy ; he doesn't know the
world. Wait till he is my age ; then he will
look for applause, and will feel jealous if
he thinks that his star is in any way
declining and that others can rather the
laurels which he fancies belongs to his own
wreath. Oh ! the world is fickle ; it is sham
in its plaudits, and yet — it has behaved
very well to me.'

At length the same 'world' had taken

their places in the Opera-house, and the
house was crowded to excess. What a
satire earthly enjoyment is ! Fine dames
and damsels were there for the purpose of
pleasure, while perhaps the war in Spain
had that very day laid low some of their
dearest ones, on whose faces they would
never look again.

For the one, the bitterness of death was
past ; for the other, the grief which it
brings along with its sable train had yet to
come'! * Hodie mihi eras tibi !' truthfully
stands written over the gate of a cemetery
in the far East. But it is not with the world
as a stage that we have to do at present ;
it is with the stage proper.

Mr. Clavering, Kathleen, and Frank
were in their box, with their six eyes fixed
on Pat, who in turn saw his friends, and
made a sign to them with his ' bow.'

At length the bell sounded, the orchestra
struck up the overture, and Pat was soon
heart and soul in his music. The leader
watched the boy, and turned his ear to
catch the strains that came from his violin ;
but he listened in vain for a false note, and
surveyed with pleasure the intense interest
which shone on the youthful face.

The curtain rose upon the well-known
opening scene of ' Don Giovanni.' The
air of Leporello, * Note e giorno,' was well
rendered, and so was the scene of the
death of the Commander. Donna Maria's
accents of sorrow were given with sjreat
feeling, and the trio * Ah ! chi mi dice.'

Pat was overjoyed with the performance
as it went on, and knew his music so well
that he was able to keep his eyes fixed
upon the stage, thus enhancing the meaning
of the music and the wonderful connection

between the libretto and the score
in his own mind.

The air ' Madamiria il catalogue ' and the
celebrated duet were ended, and Pat's
especial task came on. Cavatini, if she
were really ' out of voice as she said, yet
sang splendidly. ' Vedrai caring ' was exquisitely
given, and the accompaniment,
guided by the signs of the prima donna
was all that could be desired. It was
rapturously encored. But when ' Batt,
batt, Manette ' was finished, an encore
did not suffice, so Cavatini had to sing it a
third time, amid a shower of applause and
bouquets, one of which fell from Mr.
Clavering's box, and was acknowledged
by a graceful curtsey.

Pat's interest never flagged until the end
of the opera. The flush of excitement
mantled upon his cheek, and many were

the fair eyes which regarded the handsome
boy, and did not fail to remark his enthusiasm
or the fact of his accompanying, as
solis, the gvQ,dX prima donna.

And what had been taking place in the
box occupied by Mr. Clavering ?

Mr. Clavering himself felt proud of his
promises success, and his eyes dwelt affectionately
on the boy's fair head. Once or
twice he left the box for the professed
purpose of taking air in the passage, but in
reality to let Frank and Kathleen talk
alone and uninterrupted. He had noticed
that they seemed to be greatly interested
in one another, more so than they had ever
been within his recollection. Was his fond
desire to be realised at last ? If so, he
would not thwart it by being de trop.

But lite passed between the two young

VOL. III. 38

people that evening. Once Frank took a
tiny hand in his own and said :

Kathleen, do you remember what I
once used to say ?'

Yes, Frank was the answer given with
downcast eyes.

What have you to say about it now ?'
asked Frank.

Only that I love you now, and I never
did that long ago was the reply.

Frank raised the little hand to his lips,
for he was content.

CHAPTER VIII.

A FLIGHT IN WINTER.

There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will.'

Countess Naufrancs' married life was
slipping by. It had begun in March ; it
wanted now only a week to Christmas
Day. Pleasure and happiness speed time,
but sorrow and disappointment and care
clog its wings and make it a burden instead
of a swift-passing boon. And surely no
months should pass so speedily, or be so
regretted when gone, as the first few
months of married life ; surely no hours

or days should run so smoothly as those

which make them up, no matter what the

time of year — spring, summer, autumn, or

winter. Yet it is not the fact of marriage,

but the motive of marriage, which speeds

the days and tints them with rose-colour.

A situation may be delightful of itself, but

not in its circumstances ; Portland may be

charming, but not if your circumstances

confine you within its prison walls ; a sea

voyage may be most invigorating and

expanding, but not if your circumstances

"^ place you on board an emigrant ship, and

you are tightly packed in ' between decks '

among boxes and bedding and wrangling

women and screaming children. So with

marriage ; the meaning of marriage, the

situation of marriage, is delightful of itself,

but not if its circumstances are guided and

controlled and continued and carried out in

and under the wrong motives which
brought it about. It is love, true and
pure and holy, which is its only acceptable
motive, and which alone can make the
days short and happy and too few ; all
other motives, whatever they be — intrigue,
money, or ambition — make marriage a
burden grievous to be borne.

And thus it befell Countess Naufrancs.
Her first marriage, as marriage, had been
irksome to her ; that is to say, she found
no pleasure in her husband's company.
Sir Patrick had loved her, and was
therefore kind and considerate and indulging
; so nothing clashed : her worldliness
had grated upon him, but his
goodness had satisfied her. But in her
second marriage her lot was very different.
Two currents met, both strong, but one
stronger and fiercer than the other ; and so

much stronger and fiercer that it had its
own way in the end, and carried everything
along in its selfish swamping course.

The few months of her second married
life wrought wonders in the before-unscathed
person of Lady O' Moore, in the
careless, heartless woman who sought her
own ends, and laid aside love as needless
and natural affection as an obstacle which
came in the way of pleasure.

All had been sacrificed for self; all
might have come to grief unheeded and
unwept for, so far as she was concerned,
save herself. But now she was attacked
in a manner too ferocious for resistance,
and the shrine of her favourite deity,
Herself, was being ruthlessly destroyed
under the cruel mercenary reign of a
heartless tyrant.

There were traces to be seen now of

sorrow and care. The hair was silvered,
the eyes were dimmed, the head was
bowed, and the cheek was sunken and
blanched. The toilette vas neglected,
and all effort to keep up appearances had
died away.

Never had the destruction of a temple
of Baal nor the plunder of a shrine of
Ashtaroth, nor the desecration of a moonlit
grotto of Diana, nor the violation of a
perfumed garden or a fern-grown glade of
Flora, occasioned respective devotees such
keen sorrow and loud lamentation as did
the destruction of Lucy, Countess Nau-
francs occasion herself. She was a temple
reared by much labour ; she was not a
sudden creation ; her growth had been
gradual, and it had been fostered with
great care. She had schemed from the
laying of the foundation-stone until the

It is the old, old story of 'a house built
upon the sand,' and such old, old stories as
that cannot be repeated too often, for they
grasp with the consciousness of a few lines
what human intellect cannot so well or so
completely explain in the largest volume
that was ever written.

The countess bore as loner as she could
with the insatiable avarice and the ceaseless
cruelty of the man she had married.
There was no end to his demands, and
her five hundred a year seemed nothing.
She could not touch her capital, but she
was compelled to borrow upon it, and had
already done so to the extent of four years
ahead, and therefore to the amount of two
thousand pounds. Scarcely a penny had
she to spend upon herself; but this did
not trouble her, she scarcely paid attention
to the necessaries of life. The money did

not worry her ; she would have slaved for
more, she would have cringed to Kathleen
for more, in return for some little sympathy
and love. It was the brutality that told
upon her. The count had of late been
fortunate at ' play ' ; that did not lessen
his avarice. His cry alway's was ^ Give me
more ;' and the more he got, the more he
wanted.

The countess had long since given up
entertaining ; she had neither the spirit
nor the opportunity for receiving friends.
Her carriage was sold, so were her dresses
and laces and furs. The number of her
retinue was reduced from six to one, who
was just a general servant ; one who in
aspect and occupation must have vividly
recalled household arrangements of the
countess's childhood. Mrs. Rouse, her
housekeeper, had been faithful enough so

long as there was wealth ; but when this
went, Mrs. Rouse went too, carrying off
all such booty as had been given her, and
a good deal more that she had given herself.
And why should Mrs. Rouse be
blamed ? Is it not the way of the world ?
Rich to-day, plenty of friends, friends who
will come to see you twenty times a day ;
friends who will generously drink your
wine, partake of your hospitality, ride your
horses, and drive in your carriages ; you
are most popular, in fact the idol of a
large circle. And yet it is not yourself
that attracts ; it is what you have. And
this can easily be proved by looking at
another aspect of yourself You are still
yourself, you still possess the same amiable
qualities, you still have the same faults,
but you have lost your money. How
many friends have you ? How many are

there who express sympathy with you in
your misfortune ? how many are there
who will cross the road to shake hands
with you ? how many who will say a word
of extenuation because you have left debts
unpaid which they helped to pile up for
you ? How many ? Perhaps one or two,
but no more. Rich to-day, plenty of
friends ; poor and down - trodden tomorrow,
and not one to raise you from
the gutter, or to say a good word when
others abuse you. Money is the root of
much friendship, as it is the root of all
evil. Mrs. Rouse, then, was no worse
than the rest of the world.

Count Naufrancs was no teetotaler. In
France he had imbibed quantity, but not
quality so far as strength went. ' Vin de
Bordeaux,' * anisette,' and * eau sucre '
were very harmless in their way, and not

inebriating. But when he came to England
and began to take an equal quantity
of stronger beverages, the result was
evident. His head was not strong, and
his temper was easily excited, and the
consequence was that both were very
much affected ; he lost the one and the
other. He always accepted an invitation
to prendre quelque chose, and it
was not often that his French-speaking
acquaintances had to say to him, Buvez
donc mon cher ; or to remark, Tu ne bois
en.

On a certain night he returned home
after losing money, head and temper at a
debauch.

His wife had been sitting before the
fire in her room waiting up for him. Yes,
waiting up for him; she would do anything
now for a kind word or a smile,

anything to produce the one or to provoke
the other ; she would even cringe and
fawn and flatter. But It was all in vain ;
her little attentions were only cursed at,
and even did she throw herself at his feet,
she was only spurned with his foot. Poor
Lucy ! Is there then no one to pity you
as you sit before the fire ? Is there no
one who will put a tender arm about your
neck, or push back the hair from your
fevered forehead, or wipe the burning tear
from your pale wan face ? Is there no
one among the living who will do this for
you ? Is there no one of your late friends
who will even breathe a word of comfort
in your ear ? Is there no living soul to
help you ? Where are your thoughts
now ? All in the past all meshed and
netted in the sunshine of the past, recalling
this or that pleasure, this or that fascination

and joy ! And whither do they
turn again ? To the Having ? No, to the
dead ; and not to them as they are, but as
they were ; wishing, oh ! so earnestly, for
the dear good husband and his great unselfish
love, for the little innocent babe
who died upon its cradle death-bed without
a mother's presence. Oh for the one
now to support you and to comfort you !
oh for the other to clamber up upon your
knee, to entwine its babyish arms about
your neck, and to ask you in lisping
accents why you weep ! But they have
both left you, they have both gone beyond
the grave ; and they cannot return to you,
although you may go to them. And your
thoughts are now back to the time when
they brought your dying husband home
from the hunting-field, and when they
brought you the news of your little one's

death. How heartless you were then, and
how you regret it now !

She had let the fire burn low in her sad
thinking, and it was now little more than
embers. But suddenly she started from
her seat, for she heard uncertain steps
upon the stairs. She threw back the hair
from her throbbing temples, gave a look in
the mirror at her wan face, and at her eyes
red from weeping, and tried to bring the
look of a welcome into her face. What
an unreality, what a mockery it was ! she
loathed the man at her heart, and yet she
would stoop very low now for a kind word,
and even from him. She heard his muttering,
she had her misgivings, but she faced
the door of the room, her heart beating
violently. A moment afterwards the door
was thrown violently open, and her
husband entered. There was a madness

in his eye, and his whole appearance was
so threatening and ferocious that the
woman trembled.

You !' he muttered, ' you've let the

fire out, and I'm as cold as ice.'

He raised his hand, struck her savagely,
and she fell beneath the weight of the
blow. Then he raised her in his arms and
thrust her out into the passage. There
she lay for some time stunned and quite
unconscious. At length she came to her
senses. She rose wearily to her feet,
passed her hand across her forehead, and
went towards the door of her room. She
listened a moment and heard the heavy
breathing of her sleeping maudlin husband.
She stopped for a moment or two, hesitating
as to what step she should take next. If
she waited until tomorrow, he would continue
his persecution of her; tomorrow

VOL. III. 39

only meant more cruelty and extortion,
and more pain and misery for herself.
V/hy should she brook such treatment
any longer ? Who was there now to
notice whether she lived with her husband
or whether she left him ? All her friends
had gone with the days that were departed.
She was neglected, and she longed for
peace. Oh I how differently would she
act If she could live her time over again !
But there was no use In these vain regrets ;
the question to be decided was, should she
go or should she stay ? She decided to
go, to go and never to return.

She crept downstairs noiselessly to the
door, and went out Into the cold night.
She had an object in view as she went
along the streets. She drew the shawl
over her head which lay around her
shoulders, and walked quickly until she

reached the outskirts of the town and left
the city behind her. But she did not yet
stay her hurrying feet. On, on, she
hastened, ever and anon looking back to
see that no one was in pursuit, for she
feared that her husband would follow her
when he awoke and discovered that she
had left home. Home indeed ! it was a
place of suffering to her, and that was
all.

Out into the country by a muddy road
she pursued her way. Her shoes were
soaking wet, she was chilled through and
through, she paused a moment to think
upon and to try and realise what she was
doing.

Could this be herself Was this the
end of her scheming and her self-pride,
and the satisfaction she was to reap from
a life which was always striving for more }

39—2

Was this the summit of her ambition ?
All her desire for pleasure and gaiety were
past ; tomorrow was without anticipation.
She longed only for quiet, and she fancied
she might get that at the new home she
was seeking.

She hurried on, and at length stopped
before a high door in a garden wall, and
pulled a long iron bell-handle. While she
Is waiting for an answer and for admission,
we will retrace our steps a little and go
back to see the cause and object of this
midnight visit.

It was about three months before this
that Sister Theresa, of a Carmelite order
of nun?, had called upon the countess, who
had become a Catholic upon her marriage
with Sir Patrick O'O'Moore. Was it from
conscientious motives ? or was It because
poor Sir Patrick had been a sturdy

Catholic and might have had objections
to marrying a Protestant ? We forbear
to inquire.

Sister Theresa was not a wily Roman ;
she was devout, charitable, and sincere.
She had no doubts about her faith ; she
was willing blindly to accept all that her
Church might teach, however untenable it
might appear to her common sense or
however hard to her conscience. She had
called upon the countess, in company with
another of her order, for the purpose of
begging on behalf of the poor who would
sorely need assistance for the then approaching
winter. The countess had
responded liberally to her appeal, and
more than this, had been struck by the
quiet atmosphere which seemed to surround
the sister's person and by the calm
content of her demeanour. She had asked

Sister Theresa to call again, and the sister
had done so. She found comfort in her
peaceful society, and she neither restrained
her tears nor masked her sorrows before
her.

Again and again the sister came ; the
countess told her all ; her past history, her
worldly aims, and finally the unhappy state
to which her second marriage had reduced
her.

Her ladyship also mentioned that she
had five hundred a year until her death.
Is it a wonder if a sister, anxious for the
support of her own sisterhood, pressed
home to the lady the emptiness of this
world and the deceitfulness of riches, and
displayed an anxiety on behalf of her
spiritual welfare ? ' A little leaven
leavened the whole lump,' and five
hundred a year added to the resources

of a convent is an addition if it is nothing
else.

Ah ! madame,' said the sincere sister,
with one eye fixed on her creed and
another on the shadowy certainty of five
hundred a year, 'you cannot tell how weary
is this world, how vain are its cares and
empty its pleasures, until you leave it ! I
have found that. Within the cloister there
is indeed peace, there is the satisfaction of
living a pure and unspotted life ; if you
ever want peace come thither, and when
you have once entered the garden-gate
your sorrows will be left outside, and the
peace of eternity will enter your soul.'

And this little speech, made in sincerity,
mistaken though it may have been in its
idea of perfect peace being anywhere in
this world, had left its impression upon the
countess's mind.

Is there perfect peace In the cloister for
all ? Has it not, too, its petty strife and
divisions, its disappointments and its ambitions
? Surely it is those alone who go
there from feelings of earnest conviction
and a heartfelt determination to live purely
or to work for others who find the peace
they hoped to find. Those who enter
without such motives find more peace,
far more peace in the world than in the
religious life.

But we left the countess waiting for admission
at the gate of the Convent of our
Lady of Carmel. She rang twice before
anyone came to the gate ; then someone
looked through a small grating and asked,
Who is there ?'

Let me in for the sake of heaven and
our Lady's pity ; I am the Countess Nau-
francs, and I am come to cast in my

lot with yours. I must see Sister
Theresa

There was the jingle of keys, the noise
of the fitting of a key into a lock, and the
door opened to admit the countess. She
entered, and it was shut behind her.
Peace ! was it to be peace ?

She was conducted into a little waiting-room
within the convent. It was simple
and neat.

In a few moments Sister Theresa
entered ; there was an affectionate greeting
between the sister and her ladyship,
and the object of the visit was explained.
About a week after this, Countess Nau-
trances renounced the pomps and vanities
of this wicked world, and took her religious
names, Ursula-Maria. The count had endeavoured
to find out the retreat of his unhappy
wife, but his search had been in vain.

We must now take leave of Sister

Ursula, but before donor so, let us take

a final glance at her and her situation.
-55- ^k-:- ^i kit

is the last day of the old year. Many
years have passed by since the night that
Sister Ursula entered the convent. She is
sitting in the convent library. The wintry
sun is setting, and its rays are coming in
at the window across the terraced garden.
She has been repairing books ; some old
volumes of religious lore or of ignorant
bigotry. Her work is laid aside, and soon
the 'Ave Maria' will ring out, and she
with others will join her voice to praise the
Virgin Mother. The old sister, for she is
old now, goes out through the library
window upon the garden terrace. In
summer it is gay with many little flowers,
heartless and roses bloom in the beds,

and pure lilies blossom in the quaint old
flower-pots upon the stone balcony. But
now there are only a few bare stalks or a
few harry i^ants that can bear the wintry
weather.

At the end of the terrace there is a
babbling little fountain. It is cool and
pleasant in summer, but now seems chilly
and uninviting. Above it is a niche, with
an image of our Lady of Carmel ; and above
that again a wicker cage once tenanted by
a blackbird. Sister Ursula walks slowly
down the terrace towards the fountain.
One of the convent servants, an old
gardener, stands there leaning upon his
broom, with which he has been tidying
the terrace and robbing it of its dead
leaves.

The man takes off his hat reverently to
the old sister.

Another year nearly gone, Joseph,'
said Sister Ursula; 'the sun has just set
for ever upon this year.'

Yes, sister replied the man ; ' the 
year of my service here, and it
all seems short enough, too.'

The five-and-twentieth of my sisterhood,
Joseph, and it has seemed weary
and long. Would that the sun might
never rise upon me again ! I am very tired
of this life, and quite ready to leave it. I
have just about as much pleasure inexistence
as those dead leaves you have
been brushing up. They seemed crushed
and faded and wearied enough, and so
am I. I was once as fresh and as
happy as they were, flickering in the sunshine.'


Why, Sister Ursula,' said a cheery
voice behind her, ' it is not often yozi are

out In the garden. You have chosen a
wintry day, too, when all looks withered
and sad. There was no getting you out
in the summer.'

The voice was that of the Mother
Superior, of a woman older than Sister
Ursula, but it was clear and bright. She
had an intelligent and benevolent face, a
face that spoke of earnest devotion and of
a past life of purity and self-denial, and it
seemed as though some reflection of
Paradise, in which she so much coveted
a share, already shone in her face.

^ Cheer up, Sister Ursula,' she continued,
cheer up, dear one ! Be happy in God
and Mary, and do not let sad thoughts
of the past be always dwelling in your
mind.'

It is not that, mother,' replied the other ;
I am old and ill'

And nearer to heaven for that, Ursula,'
said the superior kindly, laying her hand
upon the sister's arm, ' But it is chilly ;
come into my room for a few minutes and
sit by the fire. The " Angelus " will ring
presently.*

Very different women were the superior
of the convent and Sister Ursula. The
one had been within the cloister all her
life, or nearly so, and had led a life of
quiet unobtrusive piety and self-denial,
first as a ' novice,' then as a ' professed
then as ' superior of the convent.' The
life had been very beautiful, so peaceful
and yet so helpful and directing ; it had
instilled itself with its quiet ways and gentleness
into other members of the convent
who, following the example never thrust
upon them, became gentle, self-denying,
and unworldly, living in the happiness of

doing good, shut out from the world, leading
a pious life, though perhaps in a mistaken
way.

But with Sister Ursula the past and
present were very different. As we know,
she had sought the cloister as a relief from
the strife of the world outside, and though
her prayers seemed earnest and her self-denial
great and her life saint-like from
every point of view, yet superior and
sisters saw, although the routine was gone
through, that the thoughts were often sad
and dreary and far away. They told her,
but in vain, to banish her evil thoughts,

and to remember that this world is not for

aye.

She knew that ; she neither regretted

the present nor looked on to the future,

but sadly sorrowed over what was past ;

and it was thinking of the past which made

her long to die, for In death she fancied
there might be forgetfulness. It was a sad
ending to a grasping life. She had none
of the simple faith of the sisters around
her. She had known the world and loved
It, while most of them had never tasted of
its sweet or bitter fruit.

But to return to the superior's room. It
was poorly furnished, yet scrupulously
clean. There were a few signs of taste
about It. Taste in a sister's cell ! Yes,
there Is such a thing as that, though one
might not lind it In the cell of a Trapplst.
There were touches of refinement here and
there ; here some old faded books In
morocco leather, their once gilt edges now
black with age ; there an antique vase which
had represented upon its base some scene
in the mythology of ancient Rome. Upon
the walls were a few pictures by an unknown

hand, but of undoubted merit ; and
hanging over the mantelpiece was a cambric
handkerchief edged with lace, but discoloured
with dust and age. It was evidently-some
relic.

^ I have often wondered what that little
handkerchief means,' said Sister Ursula ;
may I ask ?'

The once owner of It is not far off,'
said the mother, taking it down from the
nail on which it hung and handing
it to the sister. ' Do you recognise the
initials ?'

I do said Sister Ursula ; ' that was
mine when I was Lucy O'O'Moore. Oh,'
she sobbed, ' will He ever forgive me for
the way in which I treated that husband
and that babe He gave into my keeping ?
He never can ; I do not deserve forgiveness
!'

VOL. III. 40

Hush ! hush ! Ursula,' said the mother
compassionately, as she drew the sobbing
sister towards her; 'you know that He
forgave even the Magdalene.'

CHAPTER IX.

Gainsborough.
II secret per esse felice.'

Frank's contentment, mentioned at the
conclusion of a previous chapter, was not
permanent ; it was only for the time being,
and until he might receive something
better than the mere assurance of affection.
He did not, however, go straight to the
point, but waited his time for Kathleen's
sake as well as his own. He knew that
her nature had received a great shock, and
he did not wish to impair or impede her

40 — 2

recovery by thrusting too suddenly upon
her the request he longed to make, hard
as he found it to restrain himself.

Kathleen had at length acknowledged
that she loved him ; that was a step
towards marriage, and a nearer step than
she had ever taken before. Even in the
days of long ago, those school-days passed
at Inchigeela, under the rule of Mistress
O'Brien, Kathleen had only liked her
playmate, and had been fickle and perverse,
and such had been her character when she
bade adieu to Frank before he left for the
Peninsula.

But now that was changed, and in the
place of light uncertainty there was sober-mindedness
and fixity of purpose brought
about in the school of affliction, that great
moulder of character.

No schoolmistress or governess could

have taught her so well as sorrow had
done, that life is not a season for jest and
carelessness, but is a time of serious
preparation and of stern reality.

We live and learn, and a life of trouble
does more for our character and our
sincerity than would a life of pleasure and
of freedom from care. It is the living
through hostile circumstances that makes
men and women of us, that gives us muscle
and the power to say ^ no ' ; we become
hardy plants, and can stand all weathers ;
whereas if the tender exotic be brought
out from the conservatory into the cold
air, it withers and dies.

Trouble braces up our nerves, though it
silvers or whitens our hair ; it gives us
heart, it teaches us sympathy, and, taking
us out of the narrow world of self and out
of the prison of egotistic opinion, enables

US to look upon others and their particular
views in a more liberal and rational
light.

Christmas Day came round to our friends
in London, and it brought for Mr. Clavering
a letter from Sister Ursula of the
Carmelite ordcT of nuns.

He recognised the writing, but the
address and signature filled him with
surprise. As he read the letter his
thoughts for the writer changed to pity,
and he felt that she was now paying the
penalty of her past sins. He handed the
letter to his son to read, but he contented
himself by informing Kathleen that her
stepmother had entered a convent in order
to end her days in peace.

This intelligence surprised Kathleen,
but she asked no questions, although she
rightly argued within herself that her

Stepmother's second marriage had proved
unhappy, and that this was therefore
sufficient reason for her seclusion.

Two days before this the lower regions
of Mr. Clavering's house had been festive
over the nuptial rites of Murphy and Mrs.
Green.

The former had been magnificent In his
attire, and the bouquet worn in his buttonhole,
and the figured waistcoat of silk,
which were the most prominent features
in his toilette, were beyond description.
Frank had in vain offered him a suit of
quiet well-made clothes; Murphy's remark
was that a man's wedding was ' of rare
occurrence,' and that therefore his costume
should be * distinguished,' and out of the
common.

Mr. Clavering and his son were unable
to restrain their laughter when Murphy

made his appearance before his departure
for church to be married ; but at the same
time they admired the quiet pretty way in
which Mrs. Green was dressed, thanks to
the taste of Kathleen as modiste, and to
the fact that Mrs. Green had been amenable
to her young mistress's ideas upon the
subject of dress, and had shut her ears to
Murphy's importunities to put ' a little bit
o' colour here and there.'

After the wedding breakfast, the hilarity
of which reached the ears of those upstairs,
Mr. and Mrs. Murphy were despatched
to take their honeymoon some few miles
from town.

There was a double object in this
honeymoon ; it was partly to afford a
retreat for the newly-married couple, and
partly that Murphy and his wife might
superintend the warming of a new house

built and furnished by Mr. Clavering some
twenty miles from London.

The Glen as the new house was
called, had been built without the knowledge
of Frank or of Kathleen. Pat
O'Leary was aware of the work which had
been going on, and had paid several visits
with Mr. Clavering to the scene of the
building at Gainsborough, a place close to
the sea.

Mr. and Mrs. Murphy did not know
whither they were going ; their trip had
been arranged by Mr. Clavering himself,
and he had merely given the couple orders
to warm the house thoroughly, as he, Mr.
Frank, and Miss Kathleen, would be down
by New Year's Day.

Mr. Clavering's idea was to give the
residence to Frank and Kathleen as a
wedding-gift, should they consent to marry

one another. He had really built the cote
before he had the two doves to put into
it ; but he was pretty certain, from the
proceedings of the last three or four
months, that when Kathleen was asked
to become Frank's wife she would consent.


'The Glen' was a handsome house,
built of brick, and was beautifully situated.
Mr. Clavering had spent a large sum on
its erection and on the furnishing of it,
but he felt that he could not devote too
much money to the happiness of the son
whom he dearly loved, or of her whom
he already regarded in the light of a
daughter.

In building this house it turned out that
Mr. Clavering had not acted hastily. It
wanted but an hour to dinner on
Christmas Day. He was sitting before

the fire in his own room when Frank
entered.

Father,' he said excitedly, ' I have
good news for you ; Kathleen has consented
to become my wife.'

My dear, dear boy,' said Mr. Clavering
affectionately, taking him by both hands,
I congratulate you ; I feel the joy of this
good fortune only second to yourself.
Where is Kathleen ? I must go and see
her. I knew that all would come right
in the end. But come along to Kathleen T

The young lady was soon discovered,
and received Mr. Clavering's congratulations
with a good many blushes, but with
happiness evident upon her face.

May God bless this union !' said Mr.
Clavering fervently ; ' this is the happiest
day of my life !'

And when they gathered in the drawing-room

before dinner, every face was radiant
with pleasure.

Several intimate friends were Invited to
share Mr. Clavering's hospitality that
evening, and among them, Pat O'Leary's
friend Madame Cavatlnl.

It was a merry party which gathered
round their host's well-furnished board.
The news of Kathleen's engagement soon
circulated among the guests, and there
was a twinkle of participation In the
happy event of the day In the eyes of all.

The curtains were drawn close, the fire
burnt cheerily in its grate, and the diningroom
was a little world of comfort, peopled
by warm and loving hearts.

And the event commemorated was not
forgotten, but remembered, as the celebration
of the birth of Him 'who loveth us
and gave Himself for us.'

On such occasions as this do not let us
imagine that our warm home is a reflection
of the outside world. We may have food
enough, or too much, but let us remember
that outside the windows, perhaps on our
very door-step, there is some poor creature
starving and perishing of cold.

A shilling or a few crumbs will go a
long way, and we are indeed misinterpreting
the spirit of the birthday we celebrate,
if, in the enjoyment of our own social
circle and cosy fireside, we forget the poor
and needy who are spiritually our sharers
in the blessing which came down from
heaven on this holy day.

After dinner, when the cloth was removed,
according to the custom of those
good old days, and the dessert was placed
upon the shining mahogany table, one of
the guests stood up in his place, and Plank

and Kathleen, who looked at one another,
knew what was coming.

Mr. Ford, who had risen to propose a
toast, was a bachelor some seventy-five
winters old, and a brother-in-law to Mr.
Clavering. He was old-fashioned in dress,
and antique in manner, but his face bore
the mark of perfect good-nature. His hair
was white, and his countenance ruddy —
ruddier than the cherry ' — in consequence,
possibly, of the heat of the room ; we dare
not suspect anything else, for we all know
how abstemious our fathers were at the
beginning of this century, and how much
water they drank.

Permit me, ladies and gentlemen,' he
said, ' to call your attention to a subject, or
rather to two subjects, which I have before
me. The one is a lady, I cannot possibly
enter upon her feelings, never having been

a member of her sex ; the other is a
gentleman, and though I pride myself
upon being another, yet such feelings ashe
must now entertain have never come
within the range of my experience.

My heart has never been wounded by
such a power as has wounded the hearts
of the two subjects under contemplation
and consideration, and perhaps some one
may say, and with truth, that I have no
right to speak upon subjects upon which I
am ignorant, and more than this, upon
subjects of which I confess my ignorance.
So far, such a piece of advice would hold
good. But I am coming to a part of the
subject on which I may express my
opinion, and in which opinion you will
agree with me. I am not heartless, ladies
and gentlemen, though I have but one
heart in keeping ; nevertheless, that heart

is whole. I cannot look upon suffering
unmoved, nor can I pass it by without
endeavouring to alleviate it. Remember,
I do not consider that the two subjects
before me are suffering ; I am coming to
my point presently. No more can I see
another happy without expressing my
satisfaction at his happiness, nor without
feeling happy in his happiness. Now the
two subjects having resolved to blend
themselves into one, and two paragraphs
having decided to become one paragraph,
without stops, has occasioned much happiness
to my dear time-honoured friend Mr.
Cecil Clavering. To be open, ladies and
gentlemen. Miss O'O'Moore, daughter, by
the way, of another dear warm-hearted
friend of mine in days long ago, has
consented to become Mrs. Francis Clavering.
I rejoice at this, because it occasions

my friend, our kind host, the greatest
pleasure. No one deserves happiness
more than he does, for there never Heed
a more conscientious, a more warm-hearted
or truer man, than my friend. It Is many,
many years ago now since I was present
at his own wedding, and I can only hope
and pray that his son may find in his wife
the sterling qualities and goodness that his
father found in my dear and youngest
sister. But we must be cheerful and not
sad,' continued the kind-hearted old man,
as he brushed away a tear with the back
of his hand; sand I ask you to drink to
the health of our kind host, and of his
beloved son and future daughter-in-law.
I am a poor orator, ladies and gentlemen,
perhaps because I am no Irishman ; I
cannot speak one twentieth part as well
as Madame Cavatini will sing for us after
VOL. III. 41

dinner he added with a knowing laugh,
but I ask one and all to drink to the long
life and happiness of Mr. Cecil Clavering,
his son Frank, and Miss O'O'Moore.*

The toast was warmly responded to,
and Mr. Clavering replied in a very few
words as follows; he was much affected
by the reference which had been made to
his late wife.

Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you on
behalf of my son and Miss O' Moore, and
also on behalf of myself, for the kind
manner in which you have responded to
my dear friend and brother-in-law's toast.
I do not deserve all he has said for me,
but he was indeed right in supposing that
this is a very happy day for me. Since
my dear son was a very small boy, I
wished him nothing better than to marry
Kathleen O'O'Moore ; it has all along been

his desire to do so, but circumstances, to
which I will not refer, have deferred the
almost consummation of his happiness
until now. *' Hope deferred," they say,
'maketh the heart sick," but when such
a hope is realised, then the pleasure is
intense. I am proud of my dear boy
Frank, ladies and gentlemen ; he is a man
of honour, he never told me an untruth,
he is brave and true as steel. I love
Kathleen O' Moore for her own and her
father's sake, and my constant prayer is
and will be that the one and the other
may be happy for now and for eternity.'

After this Frank rose to his feet and
said a few words. The rest of the evening
passed very merrily ; everyone was happy
under the influence of their kind-hearted
host. Madame Cavatini favoured the
company with one or two songs, Pat

41—2

played her accompaniments, and also
played one or two solos, and one or two
duets with Kathleen, she performing on
the harp. The company did not disperse
until after midnight.

The next day Mr. Clavering wrote to
Murphy', saying that his visit to ' The Glen '
was postponed but to have all in readiness.


The marriage was arranged to take place
in February. The time went too slowly
for Frank, until at length the happy day
arrived and Kathleen became his wife.

This happiness had been long waited
for ; at one time it seemed impossible, but
now that the dearest wish of his heart was
realised, he felt as though all that had
transpired had not only been for the best,
but had rendered his present possession
more worth the having.

And on the night before the wedding,
Mr. Clavering had handed over 'The
Glen' to his son as a wedding drift. What
a surprise It was to Frank, and how the
father enjoyed that surprise, saying as he
did at the time, ' All I have is yours, my
dear boy, you know that; but I wanted to
get ready a little surprise for you, and a
place where you might live comfortably.
I hope you will like It ; I built it before I
had anyone for certain to put into it.
Murphy has been there two months
getting It aired for you ; and mind, I shall
expect an invitation down as soon as you
care to see me.'

It is needless to say how they at once
expressed the hope of seeing him down
very shortly.

The bride and bridegroom were enchanted
with ' The Glen.' It far surpassed

their expectations, both as regards size and
situation and finish.

Murphy was installed with all the conscious
pride of major-domo. They were
delighted with everything, while their
hearts were deeply touched at the thoughtful
and self-denying love of the man whose
greatest happiness consisted in making and
seeing other people happy.

One little incident touched Kathleen
very deeply. It was this. Over the sideboard
in the dining-room hung a life-like,
life-size portrait of her father attired in
hunting-dress. It recalled forcibly days
long ago, and all the pleasure and trouble
of the past rushed upon her in an instant,
and it was some little time before she could
recover her self-possession.

It was no wonder, as Murphy said, 'that
Mistress Clavering' should take on so,' for

when he came into the house and into the
dining-room for the first time, he thought
Sir Patrick was going' to spake to him.'

It was not long before Mr. Clavering
received a pressing letter from his son
begging him to come down at once and
pay a visit, not forgetting to bring Pat with
him.

The invitation was readily accepted, and
the happiest days of the father's life were
passed at ' The Glen,' in the consciousness
that his only son was truly happy.

Patrick O'Leary found a friend in
Frank's next-door neighbour, a lady of
title, Lady Isabelle Clynton, the eldest
daughter of the fifth Earl of Duchesse.

She was descended from a very old
family which came over with the Conqueror
; the only misfortune about it was
this, that the family left ail their money

behind them in Normandy and never made
any in England. But there was the title,
and that had been enough for Mr. Julius
Clynton ; he had plenty of money himself,
and was content to take the Lady Isabella
without any dowry, although she brought
him a good many manuscripts of her own
composition, which had been the round of
the London magazines, and were in most
cases rejected. With some of her compositions
she had, however, been more fortunate,
and Lady Isabelle Clynton was
known as the authoress of ' The Brush of
an Angel's Wings ' The Moonlit Firs and
so on. She was always bewailing to herself
that she was not more appreciated by
the public, but she also declared that
she would never stoop to satisfy the public
taste, had she to leave those regions of
purity of composition ' in which she

softened. She affected much literary taste,
endeavoured to gather round her a Literary
throng such as has filled the rooms of
Maria Edgeworth, or Letitia London, or
Jane Austen. But she did not succeed ;
she managed to crew too-ether a few weak
authors and authoresses who had written
reams of poetry — sold afterwards by the
pound — and novels without originality or
thought, and this is the circle in which she
moved. Her ladyship's life languished in
sio^hlnQr to become what she never could
be — an authoress, and in endeavouring to
gather round her people who always refused
her invitations. Her husband bore withall
this very well, because his wife added
dignity to his position ; but he was ever
regretting that he had no son and heir.

Lady Isabelle was pleased with the appearance
of Patrick O'Leary. She expected

to find in him a rough unsophisticated
young man from the country, but she saw
the reverse. She had heard that he was
no gentleman by birth, but she found him
a gentleman in manners. And so Patrick
O'Leary often passed the evening at
'Arden,' as her ladyship's residence was
called, and was introduced to her friends
as the celebrated violinist.

He took a fancy to Lady Isabelle,
although she sometimes took it into her
head to read aloud to Patrick passages
from her books, because she said that if
he listened carefully he would gather ideas
for musical compositions, and probably
schemes on which to base concertos, which
would surpass in grandeur and originality
anything he had yet composed.

In originality most certainly, if a concerto
were based upon the following :

Lady Morton grew faintly weary at
the trusting-place. She was clad In mouse-colour
trimmed with pale cerise ; she looked
like a dream, like a beautiful frail amethyst
thing that could be shattered at the breath
of a wood-sylph or at the glance of an
ardent faun. Her bosom rose and fell
beneath the delicate cambric kerchief, less
snowy than her fair skin. " He cometh
not," she muttered in agitation, which she
tried to restore with her delicately perfumed
vinaigrette. But It was In vain ; her
thoughts were wild, wilder than the snowy
winds of March, and the wind bore away
upon Its bosom the scent of the white rose,
for that was the perfume In her vinaigrette.
It was borne through the woods by the
evening land-breeze, out, out to sea ; and
then the mariner would say, as he lay upon
a coil of rope smoking his pipe, ' Is this

the breath from some orange-grove-skirted
shore, or a kiss from Paradise ?" '

But there was an element at Kings-borough
which called forth Pat's music to a
greater degree than Lady Isabelle's soirees
and effusions of prose, and this element
was the sea. Pat would sit by it for hours
together, and would compose wilder, weirder
strains than even he had composed in
Inchigeela days. And then again it would
soothe and hush his nature, which would
find its companion in quiet, almost devotional
strains.

There is something so sad in the fall of
the sea in the monotony of its thud and of
its sigh, whether you sit by its shore or lie
awake and listen to it in the night.

It is never weary ; it comes endlessly to
the shore, be it calm or rough. It is a fit
example of life in its restlessness, and a fit

emblem of heaven in its calm repose when
it lies without a ripple on a summer's day ;
and when it comes roaring: to the shore in
the majesty of wildness, it speaks of the
might and mystery of God. It is like
music ; the sound of sweet music and of the
waves upon the shore have the same effect
upon a mind that is capable of feeling.
The one and the other call forth the
noblest parts of mind in strains of thought ;
recollections crowd upon him who listens
to music heard once before, long ago, with
one who is no longer by ; and so does the
past rush upon him who stands upon the
pebbly beach or tawny sand and listens to
the beating of the sad waves as they give
a long-drawn sigh as of relief that their
rolling and tossing is over, and merge the
end of their existence into those that follow
after them. So may it be with us I May

those who follow catch our latest breath,
which speaks of rest found on a happier
shore ; may they follow us to the same
sunny coast and join us there, while, in
their turn, they leave encouragement and
example to those who come after, and the
breath that will speak of the ending of
trouble and worldly struggles, and of that
peace which is the reward of a well-fought
earthly life.

CHAPTER X.

CONCLUSION.

Farewell, a word that must be.'

Fifteen years have passed away ; Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Clavering are as happy
as they were on the day of their marriage.
There is no change in their hearts ; they
are both certain that they are the happiest
pair in the world — except for one great
sorrow, and that touches them both ;
Frank's father has passed away from them.
He died quite suddenly at 'The Glen.'
One morning he had been romping with

his grandchildren before breakfast, as was
his wont. He seemed well enough at
breakfast, but afterwards lay down upon
a sofa, and passed away as though in
sleep.

His death was a great blow to all.
His grandchildren missed him terribly.
He had never wearied of playing with
them, or of reading to them, or of telling
them stories of long long ago, when he
was a little boy, or of the time when he
served his king and country. He entered
into their games, into their lite joys and
sorrows, as though he were their own
age.

He taught them to fence, and to ride
like young Nimrod. When he left them
for a time, their spirits seemed to forsake
them ; and when he was called from among
them for good, a blight fell upon them.

It was their first sorrow, but It was a deep
one.

Mr. and Mrs. Francis Clavering were,
as they said, an old married couple. At
any rate their children, who were big for
their age, made them seem so.

Kathleen often recalled the time when
she was fickle and did not know her own
mind, when she thought In moments.
And she compared that time with this,
and drew comparisons between fancy and
love, which were not at all in favour of the
former.

Ah, fancy, foolish fancy ! the charm of
an hour, the infatuation of a moment,
without depth or consideration, without
knowledge or foresight on the woman's
part, without all that is worthy on the
man's side. With the woman it is his
handsome captivating manner ; with the

VOL. III. 42

man it is the passion of a fleeting season,
the admiration of a pretty face ; it is all
nothing, nothing more than the bloom on
the plum, or the gold on the butterfly's
wing, or the pollen on the yellow stamen
of the virgin-white lily.

And what a contrast to this is pure love,
the love that is as warm in the wintry
weather of sorrow and want, as in the
sunny days of joy and plenty ! The love
that increases with years, and goes down
the hill as deeply and as truly as in its
early life !

Oh love for a week, a year, a day ;
But alas for the love that will love alway !'

The love of a moment, of a year, of
the cupboard,' is as plentiful as sand upon
the seashore, as the poppies in a corn-field;

but the love of years is a far scarcer
human gift or acquirement. Yes, acquirement
; how much will a little self-denial
on the part of a young husband or wife
strengthen a love which may begin welland
warmly, and how much it will go
towards cementing two hearts together !
How much a little yielding, a little sympathy
will do! And if the opposite system
be adopted, love will grow cold, and the
selfishness of the one and the selfishness
of the other will blossom into briars
instead of into myrtle-trees.

What a holy sight it is to see an aged
couple living a completely unselfish life,
each one of them wrapped up in the wants
of the other ! Their love has been exacts
the same in all seasons and through all
changes ; worldly losses have not estranged
them, sorrows have not weakened their

42—2

affection ; but the reverses of life, whatever
and no matter how many they may have
been, have knit them closer and closer
together. They look forward to no separation
in death ; the word ' separation ' has
no meaning for them ; they rather look
beyond the grave, beyond the black and
turbid waters of death's dark narrow
stream, to where the heavenly dawn is
breaking, and to where, once more reunited,
they shall live in the confidence
that where they are there can be no
separation, and no more sorrow.

Mr. Clavering left all his property to
his son, except a provision for his pro-ugh.


No one could possibly have mourned
more deeply over a benefactor's death, than
did Pat O'Leary over the death of his friend
and patron. For a time he was perfectly

inconsolable. All that Frank and Kathleen
and their children could say and do
was useless. He would not touch his
violin ; they asked him again and again to
play favourite airs which their father and
grandfather had loved, but he sullenly
refused. In fact he shut himself up in his
own room, and would not even admit the
sunlight. The world seemed no longer
the same to him ; his whole interest in
music appeared to depart for the time
being, his existence had lost its object, and
he mourned as those who are without
hope.

For some months all endeavours to
raise Pat's spirits were useless. His music
might alone have restored him, but he
really feared lest the strains of his violin
would revive more than anything else the
memory of his departed friend, and would

recall to his mind those circumstances of
his Hfe in which Mr. Clavering had played
not only a prominent part, but the part of
a most affectionate friend. But by-and-by
time toned and mellowed his grief, and he
took to his music with greater vigour and
enthusiasm than ever. He had risen to
great eminence as a violin-player, and
made his music his profession, in spite of
what Mr. Clavering had said to the contrary
long before.

His engagements were very numerous,
and a high price was paid for his musical
services in public and in private. But
besides his manual dexterity on his violin,
he set his head to work more than ever,
and composed many concertos. Their
originality was great, although not based
upon passages from Lady Isabelle's novels.
They were noted for purity of composition

and for their exquisite finish and delicacy.


There was much that was weird in them,
but also much that was most pathetic,
almost heart-rending ; and in everything
that he composed there was an echo of
the music which he used to play in the
woods at Inchigeela long ago.

More particularly was this noticeable ina
concerto which he christened ' Les
Feuilles ;' or rather he himself called it
The Leaves,' but one who knew the
public taste suggested a French rendering
as more likely to go down.

It was a remarkable composition, certainly,
and intended to represent the four
seasons : the bursting of the buds in
spring ; the dancing and flickering of the
leaves in summer ; the wild busde of dying
and dead leaves in autumn, whirled hither

and thither by loud winds ; and the sigh of
sorrow at the barrenness of winter, and a
sob for the year that was fled. And in
the autumn music there was much that
resembled the music of the days when the
blind boy spent hours of the night in the
woods or in the fields, with his hat thrown
aside, while the wind played with his fair
hair and seemed to him like the fingers of
God. His music was born with him, and
that is why there was so much nature
in it.

The praises of people never turned his
head; he always maintained great simplicity
and humility of manner. Half or a
quarter of the praise he did receive, would
have turned the head of many a wiser and
stronger man than Pat O'Leary. He was
petted in society, had presents and smiles

and compliments without end bestowed
upon him ; but he never would allow that
he was worthy of praise. If he had genius
it was not his own giving or his own
making, but the possession of it should
make him humble, and grateful to the
Great Source from whence ' cometh down
every good and perfect gift

As to his domestic life, the musician
lived and married happily ; and with this
assurance we must be content to leave
him, though we would fain follow him
farther.

He never forgot his good benefactor,
but held him up as an example of piety
and love to his children.

Frank and Kathleen lived to a good old
age in the enjoyment ot a happy home,
tended and loved by their children and

grandchildren ; and when they died, each
of them looked forward to an eternal
union.

An attempt has been made to depict
some of the virtues and vices, as well as
some of the beauties and wretchedness,
of human nature. Sorrow has been
painted, so has joy ; valour and truth, as
well as cowardice and falsehood ; warmhearted
charity and devotion, as well as
selfishness and coldness of heart ; unreality
and pretentiousness, as opposed to reality
and sterling worth.

If the colouring has been shallow, and
the design poor, forgive, gentle reader, the
shortcomings of the author, who trusts
that, in spite of great inefficiency on his
part, you may have beguiled a weary
hour with his book, and may have carried

away some lesson which, however small,
may find a profitable result in the life
you are leading and in the goal you are

aiming at.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD, SURREY.

3 0112 056547174
