^•;ir$kih.:iK.

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

W7JL7t

V.I

31 Stui)!} of M.xnmxs iinh iWarals.

(1727 TO 1737.)

BY THE

HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD,

AUTHOR OF

LADY GRIZEL,' ' ABIGEL ROWE,' ' IN HER MAJESTY'S KEEPING,

ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND Son

IJttbUshtrs dirt ordinary to ^w iEujcstB the (Q,uun.

1885.

[All Rights Reserved.]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/barbaraphilpotst01wing

TO

SIR HENRY THOMPSON,

SURGEON, PAINTER, AUTHOR, AMPHITRYON, AND GOOD FELLOW;

^hts pooh is gcbiratcb,

IN MEMORY OF PLEASANT EVENINGS.

CHAPTER

l'envoi - - - -

I. A NEW REGIME -
II. RICHMOND WELLS

III. GOSSIP AND BOHEA

IV. ' CHARLOTTE Chare ' -
V. RICHMOND LODGE

VI. THE DEBUT
VII. 'BAB CLINCHES THE NAIL '
VIII. ' FASHION ' - - -

IX. DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND
X. ' A SOCIAL GATHERING '
XI. THE BEAUTY SPEAKS HER MIND

PAGE

ix

I
II
















T is the fashion nowadays for the chief

performer in an historical play to step

forward in his histrionic robes on the

first night, and ' speak a few words ' in

his own person. Though the custom of thus

dropping the mask is from some points of view to be

deprecated, it also has its advantages.

Professional critics are so amusingly glib in deciding
off-hand, as by imperial ukase, that most
difficult question of what is and what is not true to
nature, that I venture to peep from behind the
curtain to whisper for the enlightenment of those
who are not professional critics, that the strange
things herein recorded of Charlotte Charke absolutely
happened, and are therefore true to nature ;
and that there are more adventures, as surprising,
which are related by herself in her ' Apology,' which
I did not find suitable to the scheme of this
romance.
In a ' study of manners and morals,' which is

intended to depict as faithfully as may be the
customs and ways of thought of a society which is
dead, it seems to me that facts should be interwoven
events that really occurred — invention and imagination
being employed as a species of mortar to fasten
the bricks together ; and as a kind of stucco wherewith
to cover roughness and beautify the facade
with delicate tracery and appropriate ornament. A
skilful employment of such mortar and stucco, as it
appears to me, in nowise diminishes the strength
of the structure, or impairs the value of the bricks.

Keeping this idea in view, I have drawn, for the
story of Barbara Pilot, upon the careers of two
celebrated stage beauties of the eighteenth century,
to wit — George Anne Bellamy and Sophia Baddeley.
The adventures which are related as having happened
to Barbara, happened, for the most part, to one or
other of those Divas, with this essential difference,
that when once those ladies fell 'twas never to rise
again.

The Mrs. Gibber here spoken of was the first wife
of Theophilus, not his second wife, Miss Arne, who,
side by side with Garrick, won immortal laurels.
Gervas, Lord Forfar, is a semi-fictitious character,
founded on Wyndham. Lord Belvedere and Pamela
are entirely fictitious, suggested by a variety of
characters in Gibber's and Farquhar's comedies.
The rest, down to Glory Kilburne, Clink scavenger,
are personages who actually existed.

For much valuable information regarding Old
Southwark I am indebted to the erudite William
Gentle, F.R.C.S., who has made the history of the
Surrey side ' his especial hobby.

The lamented George Eliot told me once, in the
course of a friendly chat, that she carefully avoided
the sight of newspaper critiques on her works, not on
account of a sense of superior loftiness and incapacity
of improvement, but because :

1. A novelist who is at all successful in his extremely
difficult craft is usually the equal, at least,
in intellect of his anonymous professional critic.

2. The intelligent person who has made a careful
and conscientious study of a period, during years
perhaps, is likely to know more about it than an individual
who, having many other matters to attend
to, has not given special care and attention to one
subject.

3. It is easier to pick holes than to do a thing yourself
; very easy indeed to point to minute variations
from strict historical accuracy as due to ignorance,
which slight changes are made deliberately for a set
purpose. We all know that by exposing apparent
ignorance in others we exalt our own wisdom.

4. It is not unusual for keen but maiden swords
to be fleshed, brightened, and sharpened in the field
of professional criticism — a state of things productive
of unnecessary vexation to the victim, rather
than improvement in art.

As to George Eliot's fourth axiom, I am in my
own person blushingly aware of its truth ; for — Mea
culpa! — I gaily fleshed my own juvenile sword in
this same manner at the age of nineteen or thereabouts,
and considered it clever to be cutting.

I would not have it supposed that I make my little
speech before the curtain in any querulous spirit of
complaining. Far from it. I have been treated on
the whole extremely well, for which I am duly grateful
; and when a smart young critic drives his toy-weapon
into my flanks, I grunt but grin, reflecting
with the tranquil philosophy of a stoic that I am only
receiving that which, at his early age, I so freely
meted out to others. 'Tis fitting that Poetic Justice
should swoop down in the guise of Nemesis. And
yet statements have from time to time been made
in print concerning me, so grossly and deliberately
untrue, that I was fain to become aware (while
draping my cloak over my head to receive the coup
de grace) of one extremely unpleasing peculiarity of
an author's position. Whatever libellous nonsense
is flung at him, his book being closed and his pen
laid down, he has no means of defence or reply ; but
must thereafter in the face of any perversion of
truth, or calumny, however glaring, be dumb, and
calling philosophy to his aid — grimly practise

patience.

LEWIS WINGFIELD.

Garrick Club, London, 1885.

CHAPTER I.

A New REGIME.

HAT a racket in his Majesty's good city
of London on this 15th of June, 1727 !
'Tis soundly modish to be seen in
town after the 4th; and yet the streets
are full of scurrying passengers, the windows and
roofs are crowded with spectators. What a swaying
of vehicles ! What a stream of groaning machines
in violent motion ! what a bawling of ' Make way
for her Grace ! By your leave, by your leave !' from
hoarse throats of burly chairmen in glittering liveries
as the jostling throng squeeze and fight their ways
with staves and elbows — the strong pushing the weak
into the gutter — in the direction of Leicester Fields.
What a thunderous roar and hurly-burly, clanging of

VOL. I. I

bells, din of discordant voices ! All classes are out
to-day ; the elite in chairs and coaches ; and eke the
mob sweeping in and out and up and down with linked
arms in mischief, rejoicing in they know not what.
Dives and Lazarus are as usual cheek by jowl ;
Lazarus, hungry, unruly, and unwashed ; pampered
Dives too preoccupied to cudgel him. A ragged fellow
trundles a barrow full of nuts against an anxious
chocolate-beau in pink silk stockings, who reels
against the post 'mid shouts of merriment. Careless
of aught but his own crust to earn, yet blithe in
the general hilarity, the tinker knocks and sings,
Skillets to mend, good people !' * Buy my flounders,
two a groat ! buy my maids and soles !' yells a fat
wife with fist to mouth. * Make way, ye country
put !' growls a petticoat-bully with hat cocked over a
damaged eye, and a yard of rusty scabbard jarring
at his heels, as, taking the wall of a flustered bumpkin,
he shoulders him into the kennel. See where a
flasket of eggs lies shattered amid wailing and dire
lament, while the crowd crack their sides with laughing;
for who cares ? Something is afoot that hath set
the world agog. Breathless hawkers, primed to the
bung with news, tear past ; handbills are flung at
every corner, and flutter, swirling in the air ; the
coffee-houses teem like beehives. What is the last
report ?

The never-ending stream rolls on, eddying and
roaring along its tortuous channel, gathering fresh

volume as it goes — contingents from Golden Square,
from Marlborough Street and Soho, where dwell the
politest quality. It must be something of grave
import thus to change the habits of the great, for
time-honoured barriers are broken down, established
usage overset. On the ordinary days of the usual
season, a Tory would no more be seen at the St.
James's than a Whig at the Cocoa Tree, yet they
tear in and out, now, of the first coffee-house that
offers, mad for intelligence, chattering the while like
pyes. Moreover, though 'tis not yet one of the
clock, the tawdry crew are painted, powdered,
patched — armed cap-a-pie — instead of looming dys-
poetically, as their way is at this hour, in deshabille,
jaundiced and blear-eyed, in curl-papers and velvet
caps. Reason hath, for some reason, good-humouredly
vacated her seat in favour of Disorder. Hundreds
of broken panes smashed in mere wantonness recall
the riot of last night, for which, by-the-way, thanks
to the Jubilee, none have received punishment.
Was not the damage done in effervescing loyalty ?
and where not the Justices themselves so drunk with
toasts as to be unable to attend to business ? 'Twas
but a jolly skirmish, not a serious battle. All are in
high spirits, bent on holiday. Yonder a trumpeter
and drummer collect a crowd to tell of a wondrous
calf with six legs and a topknot. Muzzled bears
force their solemn way to remind those whom it
concerns that there'll be sport at Hockley. Who

I — 2

rocks of the passing funeral with its train of broad-shouldered
mutes, each with a sprig of rosemary
held to his ruby nose ? 'Tis but the passing shadow
that makes the day more bright. Though we must
die some day, let us be merry now ; for the new sun
hath risen, and is shining cloudless. Even yonder
gamester, who comes slowly out of White's with
knuckles thrust down into a pair of empty pockets,
is caught by the contagion. Basset hath claimed
his all, yet he whistles a tune between his teeth, for
he will sell his body gaily to Barbadoes to avoid a
ride to Tyburn. The gin-shops may be scented
thirty yards off, for they keep open house. Their
beetle-browed entrances and outside benches are
blocked by clamouring patrons.

If the elite are gay, why not the catsmeat and
vegetable men, the sweeps and costardmongers and
their ladies ? Hey ! what a nimble thief! See how
he dives under the straps of a coach, receiving a tap
on the sconce from the tall footmen's sticks, and is
caught on t'other side ! But he shall not be carried
to the Compter on such a day as this — not on the
day of Jubilee. No. A salutary sousing at the
nearest pump, then liberty. Hard by the line of
posts which protects pedestrians, a child in a covered
basket is carried on a man's head. See how the
well-trained imp clutches a costly periwig, worth
fifty guineas at the least, which, passed from hand to
hand, is lost for ever. The ravished beau makes the

best of his loss, and twists a silken kerchief round
his shaven pate. What quips and sallies and rough
jests, as knots of unsteady loyalists lurch to and fro,
hiccuping * Long live the King!' to tumble by-and-by
down open cellars, and lie there groaning !

Lazarus, ignorant and blithe withal to-day, and
harmless unless stirred by example to active villainy,
drapes his tatters in holiday guise over an empty
stomach. Dives, farseeing and politic in his own
conceit, lets down the sash, and screams out,
Quicker ! quicker !' All are in desperate haste to
bow before the freshly risen luminary; then to bustle
on to Sir Spencer Compton's and Madam Howard's
Minister and favourite. Vehicles of all sorts sway
towards Leicester Fields — all save one, which is
drawn aside into a corner that its occupants may
enjoy the scene. Gazing from the window is a fat,
moon-faced man, aged fifty, with a clear, roguish
eye, lips moist with many a potation, pink and white
cheeks puckered into a grin. He seems mightily
amused. Though his coat is old and soiled, thick
dredged with snuff, such trifling defects are more
than atoned for by a meandering Garter ribbon and
star of diamonds. His companion, who deferentially
sits opposite, is tall, florid, handsome, aged about
thirty. He also smiles, as out of courtesy to a
superior ; but though his lip is curled his brow is overcast.
'Tis evident that he finds little entertainment
in the spectacle that amuses his companion.

Sure, sir,' he grumbles, ' you of all Englishmen
have most cause to be annoyed, and yet you laugh
as gleefully as over a main of cocks ! Your cynicism
is carried far.'

I am grateful,' replies Sir Robert Walpole, ' for
having been found a niche in so whimsical a world.
What sport can equal this spectacle of human folly ?
King George I. is dead — no loss. King George IL
occupies his place — as contemptible a little tyrant as
ever breathed. The raddled bevy of time-serving
beaux and belles rush off post-haste to grovel at his
feet, and kiss the shoes from which they'll get naught
but kicks !'

Aye, and to pay court to Sir Spencer Compton,
who hath ousted you ; and to Madam Howard, your
sworn enemy ! I see no cause for merriment.'

Oh, Honest Jack — Honest Jack ! That my
secretary and friend. Honest Jack Crump, should be
as blind as the rest, I must admit, surprises me.
Mrs. Howard ? Too amiable, too deaf, too stupid
to be formidable. Forty years old, too — a middle-aged
Della ! Absurd. Sir Spencer Compton ? A
timid, vacillating idiot. Faugh ! my Lord Northampton
should rail at Heaven for bestowing such a
son.'

Sir Spencer Compton is Speaker, Treasurer to
the Prince (now King), and Paymaster to the Army.
He hath been in harness without discredit all his
life. When yesterday you hurried to announce the

demise of his late Majesty, all our new master
deigned to say was, " Take your directions from
Compton." A disgraced minister, bundled with
scant ceremony out of office. You are ignominiously
overthrown, yet are you merry.'

'Disgraced!' chuckles Sir Robert. 'True. My
rooms are empty, my stairs deserted, while Compton's
corridors are full as 'Change at noon. At sight of
my round visage, the army of courtiers shriek and
run away. Yet, as you remark, I'm merr^-. Dear
heart, what a number of drunken men about ! This
canker must be removed.'

'Twould be perilous to interfere with Madam
Gin,' suggests the secretary.

Yet she must be coped with some day. Drink
and play will bring the land to ruin. See yonder
barrow-woman there, urging the urchins to shake
the dice for apples. I'd like to have her hanged.'

The attention of Walpole is attracted by the occupants
of a passing coach, who are more splendid than
the rest in their attire, and he clutches his secretary's
arm.

'Gad's my life!' he whispers, 'if there are not
Bolingbroke and Pulteneyand my Lord Chesterfield —
all in new suits, with Sunday faces on — on their way
to cringe and lick ! Cannot even they see an inch
before their noses ? I thank thee. Heaven, for this,
although 'tis almost too much !' Sir Robert falls
back on the cushions of his well-appointed carriage

in such a choking peal of laughter as threatens to
terminate in apoplexy.

You know best,' rejoins Mr. Crump meekly.
Even bribery, your universal panacea, will not,
I opine, buy you back the position of First
Minister ?'

'Will it not?' retorts Sir Robert, as, panting for
breath, he wipes the tears from his plump cheeks.
It all depends upon how the bribe is given. Every
man hath his price.'

Even royalty ?'

Royalty, like you and I, Honest Jack, is human.
I pray you mark those popinjays. How they will
regret this haste ! Verily, he that hath a courtier by
the hand holdeth a wet eel by the tail. Can anything
be more amusing than this river of courtiers
and would-be politicians ? Watch their ridiculous
importance. Ever since the bell of Paul's tolled
for the King, they've been most laughable. How
grave their looks, how significant their whispers !
One knows something, but may not tell. Another
hath somewhat from the best authority, but mum I
Not one of them is sufficiently honest, but that he
would, if he could, smile a foe to death, frown a friend
into exile ! They embrace you in the morning, forget
you at night, renounce you utterly next day.
Absurdity, conceit, and selfishness are stirred in the
pot together, while he who really understands,
smiles at the thinness of the broth.'

You know best," repeats Honest Jack. ' Parties
run high, and once down 'tis difficult to rise

Stuff !' scoffs the jubilant disgraced one. ' Party
is the madness of the many for the gain of the few
who are astute. There never was a party yet but
what two-thirds of it was made of over-heated
ignorance. Not that the smirking pack are without
a certain use. Gnats and wasps were invented, I
dare say, for some object, if only for the exercise of
temper. States, like clocks, require some sort of a
dead weight hanging, to assist the motive-power.
The true springs of political measures are confined
within so circumscribed a circle that the pubic
when it tries to guess, is, as in the present instance,
generally wrong.'

It is an axiom,' observes modest Mr. Crump,
that things which appear on the surface extremely
probable, are frequently untrue ; while events which
seem well-nigh impossible take place in natural
sequence.'

'Aye, Honest Jack, and here's another,' returns
his patron. ' The common scum seize every occasion
to air their views and chatter of they know not what.
I'm not afraid of anything — least of all of Compton
and Howard. The only source of real peril at this
juncture was from the Jacobites. In the confusion
of the King's sudden death abroad at Osnaburg,
they might have played a trump card, had they been
ready. But thanks to my precautions they were not.

Mark my words. When they unite, and not till
then, will the Jacobites be dangerous. They never
shall unite. They feel that my spies are in their
Holiest of Holies, and know not whom to trust. Even
the very Ministers of the Chevalier are in my pay,
being utterly out at elbows. It hath been my motto
to keep them quarrelling. So long as I succeed in
sowing disruption and panic we are safe. 'Tis a
profound sense of relief that makes this crowd so
gay : for the old King is dead ; a younger one hath
succeeded without opposition. A mountain of apprehension
is removed. Drink is doing its work, and
there'll be more rioting at dark ; but that's a fleabite.
Before the week is out, friend Crump, this silly herd
will be slavering my shoe with abject cooing. But
to think that my Lord Bolingbroke — my rival and
arch-enemy — should dance in the train of folly!
The strong know when to bend. Before the week
is out, I tell thee, the disgraced one will be all-powerful.
Meanwhile even a fallen minister must
dine, and Miss Skerrit awaits at Richmond. Bid
the postillions spur. Bolingbroke ! and wise Chesterfield
! and Pulteney too ! All zanies. For this, kind
stars, much thanks.'

Instructed by Mr. Crump, who, feeling reassured,
was blithe, the postillions spurred their horses into a
gallop, while Sir Robert Walpole sank into tranquil
slumber, babbling in his dreams of Bolingbroke.

RICHMOND WELLS.

HE ' Frescaty of England ' was, at anytime
of year, an entrancing spot. From
the top of Richmond Hill might be
admired by those who love rural calm,
one of the fairest stretches of landscape in the
British Isles, whether dressed in green or russet,
or clad in winter white. From June to November
all that was most blue-blooded and high-bred
deserted the dusty town, and was daily to be seen
strutting on Richmond Green, or moving hither and
thither like birds of gorgeous plumage, along the
waterside promenade called Cholmondeley Walk.
Stars and orders glanced in the sunlight in endless
succession ; periwig-powder perfumed with bergamot
loaded the air with sweets ; while of a morning so
many grandees in curl-papers gathered round the
well that nothing more could be required by the most
fastidious, save, perhaps, a little health and virtue.

In the Old Park — a piece of wooded land which
occupied the angle formed by the Thames 'twixt
Richmond and Kew — stood the Lodge, a favourite
residence of the second George, and of his spouse
Caroline, until her death. 'Twas a comfortable
rather than a grand dwelling, consisting of a series
of cosy rooms opening on a central hall, which
was surrounded by a black oaken gallery. The
cornices were by Mr. Grinding Gibbons, the ceilings
by Signor Verrio. A fine terrace, enclosed by iron
railings, faced the river, which was approached by a
noble avenue clipped in vistas ; while a second one,
half a mile in length, led to the great green or square,
centre of life and gaiety. This green offered to the
eye an engaging omnium gathered of all sorts, for
here all classes mingled as on neutral ground ; Whigs
and Tories by common consent buried the hatchet
and conversed affably, instead of whispering of each
other as in town, whilst recruiting their strength for
fresh encounters. On one side stood the remains
of the Palace, a vast structure adorned with fourteen
turrets, erected by the seventh Henry, where Wolsey
lived, and Queen Bess died. In this j^ear of grace,
1727, 'twas but a text for a sermon upon mundane
instability, for its splendid tapestries had long been
torn by rats ; such of its crazy apartments as were
habitable were parcelled into lodgings ; while one
portion had been demolished altogether to make room
for the mansion of the Queensberry with its magnificent

gallery of pictures. FitzWilliam House, with
its rival collection of canvases and world-renowned
library, stood also on the green. Within gunshot
in various directions were the sumptuous abodes of
Pembroke, Harrington, Dysart, Northumberland,
Spencer, Strafford, Bradford, Buccleugh — aristocratic
colony ; while, peeping through the trees, a
glimpse was to be obtained of pretty Logan Lodge,
and the enchanting villa of Cassius. The aristocracy
of literature and art, as well as that of blood, could
show its representatives. Snarling Pope and Colles
Cibber (one of the managers of Drury Lane) had
each a house at Twitnam. There was a circle of
scribblers, who writ sentimental reams about
Daphnis and Chloe, and blue ribbons and crooks
and vernal innocence, hating each other all the while,
as the way is, with the foulest lees of human nature.
Messieurs Handel and Heidegger of the opera, and
Kneller the face-painter, had lodgings on the green ;
while at corner of Kew Lane dwelt Jemmy Thomson,
a fat, short, vacant Scot, who was guilty of bad
plays and weak poems, to wit, ' Tancred and Sigismund,'
and ' The Seasons.' But though you spoil
paper you may be a pleasant fellow. Like many a
better man, he loved his bottle. Many a time have
Thomson, Quin, and Patterson been seen reeling
from the Castle down Richmond Lane, exceeding
drunk and noisy. Indeed, 'twas after a drinking
bout with Quin that our Scotchman took a dose of

cream of tartar, as his way was, and, overdoing it,
gave up for ever the writing of bad poesy. Peace to
his honest soul !

Of course there was ample amusement for the idle
at Richmond Wells ; and, of course, where princes
and peers led the humbler fry followed. Inns were
used only for attendants and equipage, for the
nobility deemed it beneath their dignity to inhabit
aught but villas or lodgings ; hence, mere huts so
shaky that a puff of wind would blow them over
were let to its at exorbitant rates. The grizzle-winged
doctors, with their fluttering red mantles and
gold-headed canes, buzzed from house to house,
pocketing a dozen fees an hour, prescribing always
the same remedy, ^ Be assiduous,' they mumbled, ' at
public gatherings, for the mind when pleasantly employed
assists the ailing body.'

There were two coffee-houses on the green, two
footmen's taverns, at all of which there was raffling
of an afternoon — a market, in sooth, more for ladies
than for merchandise ; then the play at Mr.
Heidegger's Histrionic Academy on the declivity of
the hill ; then for the gentlefolk, card-assemblies,
where dukes elbowed country squires, who, striving
to ape their betters, lost all their money to town
sharpers. From the balcony of the assembly-rooms
could be descried seven counties — so, at least, the
lessee was wont to boast, though wherein lay the
advantage of that I never could discover. The ballroom

at the Castle Tavern was eighty feet long, and
dancing-parties were given there under the highest
patronage. My Lord Mayor would decorate the
scene with his golden boat and streamers, his music-men
appropriately discoursing * The Lass of Richmond
Hill.' The common councilmen and their
ladies would arrive with barges and bands, and condescend
to dance upon the deck under a milk-white
awning ; while private punts and wherries of city
magnates would bring up the rear with a line of gold
and colour. And then Mr. Handel would come
strutting down with his fiddlers, under the auspices
of royal Caroline. My Lords Graham and Capet
would send vast supplies of fruit from their Kew
conservatories, and the modish world would trip a
coranto or move a minuet, and drink and play as
hilarious as fleas till sunrise.

In so mixed a company 'twas natural that special
regulations should, more or less feebly, strive to
enforce propriety. A stranger might address a lady
on the walks, or engage her to play or dance without
reproof; but the modish belle would be grievously
insulted were he to propose a call at her lodgings.
For this rule there was excellent reason, namely,
that 'tis not hurtful to dance with a possible collector
on the highway in a public place, but once within
your doors he might think fit to appropriate your
diamond pendants. Persons of rank, or of less
doubtful honesty, might, of course, pay visits. Of a

morning, purveyors of wares and jugglers had free
access everywhere — for what more convenient thana
flower woman as conveyer of clandestine notes ?
Ladies who have been up all night at basset or
quadrille, cannot go forth to market. They prefer
to have provisions brought to their bedside ; that,
having made their bargain for the dinner — steak and
cabbages — they may sip a dish of chocolate, and turn
round for another nap.

Thus the noisy, the affected, the rude, the sharping,
the prodigal, the barefaced — in broidered silks —
rubbed shoulders with the prudent and the well-bred,
and such modesty as there was about : 'twas a species
of Eden wherein innocence and guilt, folly and
fraud, sat down together like the lion and the lamb.
But even the least squeamish must draw the hne
somewhere, and fashion elected to draw it upon
Sunday. By general consent the beau monde divided
itself into parties on the Sabbath, with blinds drawn
down and tapers lighted, and shut itself up for cards
all day ; for * Frescaty ' being but nine miles from
Hyde Park Corner, there was a weekly swarming
invasion from town like an Egyptian plague, and the
haunts of the elite were overrun by pinchbeck beaux
and belles — milliners' and mercers' men, lawyers'
clerks ; Madam Limejuice who keeps the beerhouse
in Long Acre, with her niece Jenny Trapes (disguised
as chaste Penelope) ; low drabs in vampt-up
clothes come forth to fish for City 'prentices, who

were much too cunning to be hoodwinked. From
whence arose scenes of recrimination and disorder —
of diamond cut diamond — of bawled plain-speaking
and abuse — on which 'twas well in truth to draw the
curtains. Dear heart, what a hubbub of a Sunday 1
From earliest dawn extra stages would ply to and
fro — the yards of the Castle, the Talbot, the Greyhound,
would be musical with titillation of grooms
and postboys — a flotilla of boats would block the
silent highway — all would be jollity, and jape, and
crank, and chaunted broadside — which ere night
closed in would change to shrill oaths and ingenious
curses — to drunkenness and brutal insult — to clash
of steel and rap of cudgel — shrieks from the broken-parted
; groaning and lamentation from the wounded.

It will be understood that even on week days when
unmasked license and outrage gave way to polished
and veneered sinfulness, the subject of marriage was
by common consent tabooed on the Tom Tiddler's
ground of Richmond. An offensive and inconvenient
topic was that of marriage. Now and again, of
course, incorrigible misses eloped with fascinating
swains, who invariably turned out to be blackness —
in which case they were well punished — for of what
use is a polite education if not to make young ladies
wary ? As I have said, they were permitted by
regulation to walk and flirt at will in the open, but
not to invite any to their dwellings ; which condition
of affairs necessitated, in our evil British climate,

VOL. I. 2

some place of dalliance, sufficiently public to be
proper enough, yet protected from the weather.
Now on the green, where so many incongruous
elements were mingled, hard by the well, there was
just the very establishment to suit all exigencies —
Madam Walcot's toy-shop. Sure 'twas the angel of
intrigue who laid the foundations of that genteel
abode, for nothing was ever more respectable. The
upper floors were let out in tenements. The ground-floor
consisted of two spacious rooms fitted with
counters, whereon was spread enticing merchandise
of all kinds. There were sofas ; little tables and
settees for lounging. Passers-by glancing through
the tiny panes of the huge bulging bow-window could
see who was there, and step in or go on as suited
their humour. There was nothing you could not
buy at Madam Walcot's, from a Jew's harp to a
piece of Venetian point, a beaumont to a pagoda.
Madam Walcot herself was the pink of propriety,
yet her virtue was not wont to be aggressive.
Although 'twas known that her dearest friend was
Madam Rich (a pupil of Lady Huntingdon's, though
her husband kept a playhouse in Lincoln's Inn), she
rarely obtruded her views. No doubt she would
have gladly distributed her favourite tract, * Rich
Balsam for a Sore Soul,' had she not been more polite
than to cast seed on sterile ground. Her manner
was soft and suave, her voice low and sweet. Her
hair, too white to need powder, was drawn off her

comely face and gathered under a stiff-starched cap
and hood. Her rich gown — patterned with large
bunches of flowers — was spread tight over a wide
hoop, and its richness cunningly tempered by a
housewifely bunch of keys. Merely from looking at
her, you could guess that — a beauty once — she was
great at cordial waters, that raspberry brandy would
grow into excellence under that soft white hand, to
say nought of mysterious salves and electuaries.
She had a good fancy at inventing fashions, could
patter bad French — was, in fine, a woman of the
world as well as a devote ; was much liked by many
ladies, for 'twas whispered that many affairs had
been discreetly managed by Madam Walcot under
pretence of carrying a bit of Dresden-work or a
sample of new cosmetics. But there was metal
more attractive in Madam Walcot's shop even than
that useful lady. At the back of the sale-rooms were
a pair of little dens, each containing a wee bed
daintily trimmed with dimity. x\fter hours, fatigued
with chatting all day. Madam Walcot would retire
in state to repose, in a frilled night-cap, upon one
bed, while the other was occupied by Mrs. Bab,
madam's lovely daughter. Mrs. Bab ! How delightful
to have to discourse of that charming creature, whom
all the sparks adored, whom none desired to wed —
for indeed Mrs. Bab was a delicious problem. The
men agreed she was an entrancing houri ; the women
were equally certain she was a bold baggage. Who

2 — 2

was Mrs. Bab ? Her mother's name was Walcot,
her own was Pilot — lovely Barbara Pilot !

This much was known of Walcot. He was captain
of a vessel which traded 'twixt Plymouth and
Lisbon. When at home he savagely ill-used his
wife, till delirium tremens came to her rescue ; and
then she found herself a widow, and extremely poor.
The funeral over, her ancient allies at Limehouse
Reach knew her no more. She vanished, to turn up,
after a brief time, at Richmond, with money and a
daughter. Who could this daughter be, who was
clearly too old to have been Walcot's ? No doubt
the lady had been married previously, and yet
Pilot had never been seen by living man or
woman. However that might have been, the money
was there, and so was the daughter in bewitching
flesh and blood. With the money she set up the
toy-shop, and had, assisted by the charms and madcap
ways of Barbara Pilot, done well ever since.
The first husband, Mr. Pilot, was never mentioned
in her presence, for it came to be understood somehow
that he too had cruelly ill-treated her.

Poor soul ! — a pair of brutish husbands ! No
wonder that she preached to Bab to beware of men,
urging her to take refuge in the nighest haven —
double-lock her virtue in the nearest garret — at sight
of a laced coat ; and vented her demure religion on
her child, if not on the world of fashion.

Not that Bab was a creditable pupil ; for when

madam said reproachfully, ' You naughty slut ! Instead
of appearing in the shop in a decent cap and
ribbons, you must dress your thick black locks with
studied irregularity, braided behind into a Ramble,
under a strip of gauze !' then did Bab toss her dainty
nose and laugh with scant respect for her mamma,
showing two rows of pearls 'twixt the ripest of
cherry lips.

Bab was perfectly aware of her own beauty — she
had been told of it frequently enough — and manufactured
her frocks with consummate art, so that the
simple sack of deepest red cotton should display to a
nicety a perfect bust and the turn of a shapely arm,
while its sweeping folds behind should assist, with
drapery, the dignity of lofty stature. On the subject
of stockings she was so particular — the veins, she
declared, must show through the gauzy texture —
that gallants, merely to win a sight of those rows of
pearls and a flash from those nut-brown eyes, Would
linger for an hour in the shop, purchase the most
expensive pair of cobwebs that could be found, and
present them to the beauteous shop-girl.

Both Madam Rich and Madam Walcot disapproved
of these proceedings ; but the latter dared
not be too marked in her peevishness, for the world
will wag. Moreover, she was at heart a little afraid
of her daughter, in dread of her repartees.

Few ever cared to catechize Bab anent the defunct
Pilot, her papa ; for then would sadness overspread

her face. * I never knew him,' she would
softly murmur. * How I could have loved my father
His manly strength would have tamed my fro ward
will and curbed m}^ naughtiness, which mother never
can, with all her cackling. No ; my childhood was
passed alone in a crowd at a French seminary,
where no one came to see me till five years ago,
when mother came one day and took me thence.

The Richmond toy-shop was not a good finishing
school for such a girl. She pretended to scoff at
marriage like the rest ; when spitefully inclined,
would shock poor madam by observing pertly : * I'll
never wed, lest my husband should be deceived.'
Of course, this was mere skittishness, but it grievously
afflicted madam. Shrewd and quick of wit,
Bab despised the grimacing crew who dangled at her
skirts, and therein lay her safeguard. She would
tell the beaux roundly what she thought of them.
A pack of toads !' she would say, with a becoming
scorn that set them all aflame. ' Ye are frivolous as
silly. Your assemblies are made up of empty pates,
who when alone are in the worst company ; who are
forced to sally out on spindle shanks, if only to meet
and hate each other!' Then, when one gabbled of
his love, her laugh could be heard across the green.

Cupid being voted a despicable creature, his butt-shaft
a fool's bawble, it was necessary for an ardent,
energetic nature, such as Bab's, to occupy itself
with something. Electuaries and cowslip-wine were

out of the question. With her brilliant young complexion
she found no comfort in cosmetics. Brocades
were out of reach — too costly. Wherewithal was
she to occupy herself?

It came to pass that her wandering attention
lighted upon something worse even than love-making
in the eyes, at least, of horror-stricken Madam
Walcot. She was a great devourer of novels,
romances, plays. When she saw the tragedy-queens
at Mr. Pinkethman's or Mr. Heidegger's academy,
sweeping the ceiling with their plumes and raising
clouds of dust with their prodigious hoops, she felt a
great longing to sit in the golden elbow-chair, surrounded
by guards and attendants. Mr. Gay, the
poet, trotting in one morning, beheld a sight which
glued him to the ground. Bab, in a night-rail, with
long hair floating in sable waves, was, like a Melpomene,
reciting the verses of ' Jane Shore.' If only
Mr. Rowe could have hearkened to his lines declaimed
by that queenly vision ! The staid and ladylike
Madam Walcot popped out of her den just ashe
entered, tore the dog's-eared volume from the
reciter's grasp in a towering rage, and soundly rated
her, unconscious of a witness. Mother and child
seized each other's hair and pulled it. Oh, naughty
Bab ! undutiful, self-willed daughter !

Mr. Gay, being a timid person, incontinently fled ;
but it was soon all over the town that the beautiful
Barbara was preparing for the stage, and bets were

wildly offered and taken as to the place and time of
her debt. Though Mr. Gay embellished his tale,
there was a foundation for it ; for indeed, as he bore
witness, she spouted vastly well, and the last words
that reached his ear were : ' If I choose, I'll have my
way ! None but the innocent will condemn me, and
they are too few to signify.'

On what small accidents do life-careers depend !
If Mr. Gay had not trotted in at that identical
moment in search of a box of hair-powder, this
chronicle would never have been written probably.
For Bab, who was a good girl at bottom, if unruly,
would have hearkened to her mother in the end —
would have, under persistent lack of encouragement,
put away 'Jane Shore,' and possibly have even obliged
her parent by glancing at the ' Balsam for Sore Souls.'
But that little marplot Gay must needs return when
outraged madam had bounced back into her den,
applaud the maiden's taste, bestow such hearty
praise that she blushed crimson, rush off to tell the
blear-eyed water-drinkers, and afterwards at breakfast
outpour his budget, with improvements, for the
behoof of his noble patroness.

Her Grace of Queensberry, the said patroness, was
enchanted — patted her pocket-poet (as she dubbed
him when in her best mood) on the head with her
snuff-box, was carried incontinently to the toss-shop
in her gilt chair, heard the girl recite, vowed it was
vastly pretty — who should know better than the

great patroness of art ? — and despatched a page
across the ferry to Twitnam in search of Mr. Gibber.
Was not Colley Gibber a patentee of Drury Lane, a
dramatist, an improver of Shakespeare, and to boot
an admirable actor ? ' Our toy-shop girl,' wrote her
impetuous Grace, ' is a genius and a beauty. Give
her a trial. I'll pay. See to this at once.'

When Golley Gibber received the billet he was
gazing ruefully across the table at Madam G., and
pouring forth his griefs.

Who can endure such competition ?' he groaned.
(She had heard it so oft before, and, being in bad
health, such jeremiads told upon her nerves.) 'Actually
four theatres, my dear, in London ! 'Tis ruinous !
While there was but one, the hussies were in our
hands. When Mrs. Butler was our leading lady, she
wanted her salary raised to fifty shillings per week —
the idea of such a thing ! — and had to beg pardon
for her impudence. But now ! — Drury Lane ; Lincoln's
Inn, under that villain Rich, with his absurd
pantomimes ; Heidegger's Opera House in the Hay-market
; and Goodman's Fields ! Authors are dying
off; Congreve and Steele have each a leg in the
grave. No actors coming up — Booth dying — the incomparable
Oldfield often too ill to act. Alack ! the
uninterrupted prosperity of twenty years is checked —
Drury Lane is involved in a monotony of dreariness!'

Our son Theophilus ' spoke out the maternal

heart.

No good — unstable, and a poor player at the
best. Undutiful, too — has presumed to offer to take
the little Haymarket in direct rivalry to me ! He
and his stupid wife will come to trouble.'

He's not undutiful,' persisted Mrs. Gibber. * 'Tis
all because he pleaded the cause of his sister Charlotte
once. Since then '

How dare you speak of Charlotte !' thundered
the old man, his white face growing purple. ' Oh,
that our children should be thorns instead of blessings
!' Perceiving that tears trickled between the
thin fingers of his ailing spouse, Mr. Cibber stopped ;
then added testily, ' Of our daughter Charlotte we
never hear but ill. I heard of her but yesterday —
and where, think you ? At the Red Lion in Smithfield
— low hiding-place of highwaymen and murderers
haunt of Burnworth and of Abershaw.'

There was a pause ere Mrs. Cibber could command
herself to speak.

Be patient and gentle,' she urged presently.
Remember that you married the poor thing yourself
to raffish Charke, who completed the ruin of a
mind which was never strong.'

'Enough, enough!' grunted Colley. 'I've told
you often not to mention her. Charlotte Charke is
dead to us. Who comes here ? a messenger, as I
live, in the Queensberry livery. An invitation to
dinner !'

The arrival of the billet was well-timed, for it

brought to an abrupt conclusion a fruitless discussion
on a painful and forbidden subject, which
indeed the poor mother broached whenever she
mustered courage. Her Grace's note illumined the
despondent soul of the patentee with a ray of unexpected
joy. A protegee of her Grace of Queensberry's
! — a genius and a beauty. If this was so,
then Hope beamed forth again. Long ago the
incomparable Oldfield had drifted to him almost by
accident. For years he had been blind to her great
talent, and had been diffident of his own judgment
ever since. Ah, what a sigh did the name call
forth ! for though under forty, that great artist
suffered so much from various disorders that, despite
her courage, the tears gushed forth sometimes upon
the stage with pain. She was certainly not long for
this world. Where to hit upon a substitute ? Of
course her Grace's missive should be attended to,
and without delay. And so it came about that on
the afternoon of July 18, 1727, Mr. Colley Gibber, of
Drury Lane, stepped across the threshold of Madam
Walcot's shop, and invited Mrs. Pilot to recite to
him.

GOSSIP AND BOHEA.

a plate.

,T was an understood thing that of an
afternoon tea and talk were to be had
at Madam Walcot's ; to which end each
person on entering dropped a tester in
Mrs. Barbara, therefore, was favoured with
quite an audience when she stood forth to give
a taste of her quality. Had it not been so there
might possibly have occurred a repetition of the
hair-tearing ; she might again have been invited to
reflect upon ' Sore Souls ;' but Madam Walcot was
a woman of this world as well as of the next, and
was by no means so foolish a dame as to baulk the
fancies of the great. Patronage from such an one
as her Grace the Duchess of Queensberry was not to
be idly set aside. Disaster comes to humble fry
when they flout grandees. Although the present
matter concerned her own daughter, therefore, she
was fain to be content with sniffs and rumbling

moans and subdued murmurs, like the noise of mice
in traps, wreathing her soft white fingers in picturesque
distress, breaking from time to time into
such crescendo sales of disapprobation as prudence
deemed permissible. There chanced to be other
great people present besides the Duchess. Her
imperious Grace, previously bored, and delighted
now with a new toy, having again swept across from
Queensberry House as pleased as a peacock with a
new tail, was in the sunniest of humours, because
she was obtaining her own way. Immediately
behind the chair of honour in the back shop, in
which she bloomed, stood of course the attentive
Gay, tame cat in chief, arrayed in puce and silver.
Swift had sneeringly said of that gifted creature, that
a woman with a coronet on her coach-panel would
carry him in chains to Japan. This was envious
and unkind, for Mr. Gay was as feckless and unpractical
a mortal as ever breathed, and the Duchess
was very good to him. After, like many of his
betters, he had lost his all in the South Sea Bubble,
she fed him, dressed him in new and expensive suits
of silk and velvet, supplied him with perfumes, fine
linen, and money, pampered him to the top of his
bent, and now was determined to obtain for her
pocket-poet some place about the Court. Both Pope
and Swift disapproved of his doing so well in the world
without effort of his own ; but their gibes fell off his
back like water-drops, for the tame cat liked being a

tame cat, and abhorred labour. ' Her Grace is my
kind treasurer,' he would murmur plaintively when
folks said caustic things about petticoat pensioners.
I have no cares, and am quite happy.' To which the
Twitnam snarler would retort, 'A great lady is a weathercock,
who, when you cease to amuse, will turn you out
on to the road.' Mr. Pope and Dean Swift forgot,
however, that the case had peculiar features. Mr. Gay
and the Duchess bickered from morn to night ; hence
it was presumable that, on the principle ' Qui se dispute,
adore,' their mutual love would be kept lively.
At a short distance from her Grace sat three men,
magnificent but glum. The plummet was a well-preserved
person of fifty, dressed in the extreme of
fashion. His coat was of turquoise velvet, with
immense cuffs thickly embossed with metal. His
stockings were amber-hued ; his shoes of scarlet
morocco, fastened with diamond buckles. His ruffles
and cravat were of the finest point ; his hair, hanging
in ringlets twenty inches long, was confined by a loose
red ribbon tied in a careless bow. 'Twas distressing
that so splendid an exterior should cover a doleful
heart, and yet he had cause for doldrums. As his
enemy Walpole had said to Honest Jack, he had
played his cards badly and knew it : a humiliating
confession for one to make who had earned for himself
the nickname of Iscariot. But it was so. St. John,
Lord Bolingbroke, had been all things to all men,
with the usual result.

First employed by the Duke of Marlborough in
Queen Anne's time, he had deserted him. Brought
into prominence by Lord Treasurer Oxford, he had
undermined and supplanted him. Upon the arrival
of the Hanover family he was impeached of high
treason, fled, and was attainted. Then he entered
the Pretender's service, and was speedily discarded,
for it was found out that he had attempted to gain
his pardon in England by betraying his new master.
My Lord Bolingbroke's character was so mixed that
he had some qualifications which the greatest men
might be proud of, and many of which the worst
would be ashamed. He had fine talents, natural
eloquence, quickness, memory, extensive information ;
but he was inordinately vain and ungrateful, insolent
in power, spiteful in disgrace. Few ever believed
him without being deceived, or trusted him without
regretting it. It was not till he had dwelt in exile
seven years that he obtained permission (at the cost
of a fee of /ii,ooo to her Grace of Kendal) to return
home ; but even then he was excluded from' the
House of Peers, and, tongue-tied, took up his pen to
bespattered his successful foe. The one point in
which he could be steadfast was in nourishing an
undying rancour against Sir Robert Walpole, to
whom, as he chose to conceive, his woes were due.
His chief object of existence now he declared, was
to hurl that wretch from power. To achieve this he
would do anything — make up to George, conspire

for the Pretender, truckle to Madam Howard. As
we have noticed, he rushed a month ago, banded by
malevolence, to wait on Sir Spencer Compton, and
soon had cause to see that by doing so he had been
guilty of another error, of adding yet another mistake
to a list already long. Sir Robert's prophecy was
fulfilled to the letter. No wonder that Bolingbroke
was glum.

On one side of him sat Mr. Pulteney, whose cause
for disliking Walpole was as great, well-nigh, as his.
Early in life a dear friend of Sir Robert's, Mr.
Pulteney, when that Minister was caged in the
Tower for corruption, defended him with conspicuous
ability. On the accession of George I., he was
made Secretary for War, an office which he held till
1717, when a schism broke out in the Government,
and he resigned along with Walpole. When the
latter returned to power it might have been expected
that a friend to whom he owed so much would have
obtained some high office ; but Sir Robert, gauging
his parts aright, saw in him a future rival ; and in
tortuous times 'tis prudent to strangle cockatrices.
Caesar or nothing ' always was his motto, and he
would brook no rivals. Stung by disappointment,
Pulteney turned and set himself at the head of Opposition.
Allying himself to Bolingbroke, he meditated
nothing but revenge ; whereat Sir Robert laughed,
unmindful of the fact that a quondam friend is the
most fell of foes. Pulteney's reason for glumness

was the same as that of his neighbour. He had
been guilty of a stupid mistake.

The third melancholy gentleman was quite of
another stamp from the other two ; more interesting,
if less externally magnificent. Gervas, Viscount
Forfar, had been tolerably rich, until his estates in
Scotland fell forfeit to his political creed. Even
Walpole, who vowed he respected nothing, did
respect Lord Forfar, for, poor as he now was, he
apparently had no price, and moreover was conspicuous
for the cultivation of a strange exotic yclept
gratitude. Originally led into the political arena by
Bolingbroke, at the end of Queen Anne's reign, he
began life as a Jacobite, but little disguised. Being
a man of family and figure, he was honoured with a
place in the Cabinet to which neither talent nor experience
entitled him. Yet though the eclat of this
advancement might flatter ambition at first, the
gratitude which he showed to his teacher and benefactor,
by Hnking his fortunes with his, became a clog
to that ambition ever after, and made the friendship
that first raised him above his desert keep him afterwards
as much below it. What was the use of
being grateful to Bolingbroke, who understood not
the commodity ? Not but what the latter encouraged
him to act as he did ; for, tongue-tied himself at St.
Stephen's, it was well to have a mouthpiece.

The parts of Gervas, Lord Forfar, were not first-rate,
but by constant attendance in the Commons

VOL. I. 3

he got a sort of Parliamentary routine, and without
being a bright speaker was a well-heard one, and
useful to the party. At the beginning of the last
reign nobody doubted his being one of the chief
promoters of those commotions in the West which
ended in open rebellion. The results of these performances
were flight, imprisonment, forfeiture.
After a time he was permitted to return and resume
his place in the House, though the bulk of his estates
had been consumed by others ; and with him he
brought back a settled sadness, sprung from a conviction
that in 1715 many seduced by him had fallen
fruitlessly, without the cause being in any way benefited.
It must be terrible to know that a parcel of
hapless wretches who have trusted to your judgment,
placed themselves under your protection, have been
ruined and undone in vain. Great causes doubtless
demand great sacrifices ; but, than the outbreak of
1715, nothing could have been more useless, for
things were not ready, and men marched as to the
slaughter-house. His convictions were not shaken
by the result, but his faith in himself was ; and so he
became gloomy, a knight of the rueful countenance.


Ladies have ever been partial to curiosities, so
'twas only natural that they should all adore the tall
pale Scot, despite his poverty ; for was not he a rare
bird who could persist in being a genuine patriot
contrary to his own advantage, in the most corrupt

of epochs ? Now, naughty Mrs. Bab, who always
did what she ought not, was a very woman in this.
When Gervas occasionally dropped in with a melancholy
smile on his handsome face, to make some insignificant
purchase, what must Barbara do, without
fear of mamma before her eyes, but tear the label
secretly off any object which he fancied, in order to
lower the price to the level of his pocket. Not that
her heart was touched. Oh dear no I She was fond
of saying that she had none. If it indeed lurked
somewhere within that trim bodice its beat was
not perceptible. She was impulsive, wayward and
generous by nature, so 'twas only to be expected that
she should find pleasure in the society of the only
honest man in the whole of her large acquaintance.

The lady who in a seat beside the Duchess ogled
all and sundry, viewed the interesting Jacobite more
warmly.

The Honourable Pamela Belfield (only child of my
Lord Belvedere, the well-known diplomatist who
was now abroad) was a delightful specimen of
womanhood — not pretty, but very arch. If you remained
long with her you were apt to grow dizzy
from the high pressure of her playfulness ; feel
inclined to flee from the pointed barb of her wit,
which was as sharp as her elbows and shoulders.
She had come across the green with the Duchess for
three reasons : First, because, finding her parent's
villa at Bushey monstrous dull all by herself, she was

3—2

Staying at Queensberry House, and did as did her
Grace. Secondly, because Lord Forfar was going
too, and she loved to inaugurate flirtations. Thirdly,
because she and Mrs. Bab were given, on all occasions,
to feminine passages of arms, and she enjoyed
a happy conviction that as an actress the wench
would be a failure. Three admirable reasons, surely.
If her pulses were as still as Bab's, she could pretend
that they fluttered like a bird ; and my Lord Forfar
was deliciously eccentric. Her monkey was not half
so entertaining. She quite doted on the Scot, and
yet could have trounced him well ; for was it not a
little bit too ridiculous to fling your fortune after a
phantom ? It would be necessary to marry sometime,
for the sake of an establishment and the liberty
enjoyed by wives. If Gervas had only remained
rich she might have been induced to become milady,
though only a Viscountess. But the Fates had
decided otherwise ; for the banns were forbidden by
the two first rules of Mrs. Belfield's code. When
the time came for settling, she would become rich,
and also a peeress. Wealth and title. One without
the other would not do, so my lord was out of the
question. That he should be forty-seven and she
sixteen had nought to do with the decision, for we
all know that modish matrimony is but a separate
dangling together Hke a hanging knife and fork.
There are disadvantages connected with wit, elbows,
and shoulders that are too sharp. People like to

dally, but they do not want to marry. The Honourable
Pamela had enemies — as who hath not ? —
who said rude things of her. 'Twas whispered
that she had a vile temper, and had worried into
the tomb a dozen Abigail ; also that she was so
proud of birth as to have no fear of Lucifer, considering
that this maligned personage was too well-bred
a gentleman to behave with indelicacy to a
woman of quality. All agreed that she was cold as
ice, and would never be led astray by her feelings ;
but then they also agreed that when she chose her
sallies were bright, her company not unamusing.

Sitting here in the shop, she had summoned the
Jacobite to her side, and was putting her artillery in
order.

What company !' she was complaining, with eyes
turned up. ' With her Majesty close by, too, and
the dear Duchess ! I protest I dare scarce come out
to sip my waters ! Girls who've sewed a tail to their
smocks, a lappet to their nightcap ; booby squires with
heads like balls by a gate-post ! And such dirty sluts,
too — in greasy capuchins and soiled muslin ruffles !'

'In sooth 'tis shocking!' acquiesced Bolingbroke.
And yet 'tis interesting to mark the gradual increase
of polite manners, from the extreme of a
Wapping landlady to my lady Duchess here. The
scale of nature is complete, from the oyster to the
man. Since a lady's quality is known by width of
hoop and length of train, the city madams will abuse

'em. The sluts will have a tail of trailing taffeta
even if they lack a petticoat.'

The great Mr. CoUey Gibber thought this was
frivolous, and cleared his throat with a loud ' Hem !'
Were they not assembled to hear the new actress
who was to set Thames afire and fill the coffers of
Drury ? Ah ! Darkening the bow-window as they
passed under the veranda was his son Theophilus,
with his wife. Just in good time ! Madam Theophilus
was giving herself airs, knowing that Oldfield
was fading. 'Twould do her good to hear the new
actress, who was to be a rival and snuff the hussy
out. Not that she would need much snuffing.
Madam Gibber, nee Johnson, was a bad player, like
her husband ; but, like many another, considered
herself a genius, and, since others did not agree, was
apt to be spiteful and petulant, and pose as misunderstood.
Would the Duchess permit him to
summon the younger Gibbers, that they might see
her Grace's protegee ?

• Of course, anybody might come — the more the
merrier. Yonder was that old satyr, le Comte
Hastang, Dutch Ambassador at St. James's — let
him come too and give an opinion, since he professed
admiration for the beautiful.

So delighted was Golley by the loveliness of the
neophyte, that he quite forgot his soreness about the
little Haymarket which Theophilus threatened to
open — even forgot for an instant how that ne'er-do-well

had always taken up the cudgels for his sister,
Charlotte Charke, whom CoUey would never forgive.
It was so pleasant to put down Mrs. Theoo and her
airs that the elder Gibber quite beamed, and buzzed
about like a great white moth, entreating Barbara
to commence, finding the place and donning his
silver quizzing-glasses, and clearing his throat to
prompt.

When Mrs. Pilot withdrew the pins from the
dense coils of her black hair, and shook her locks
about her like a veil, there was a murmur from the
men, and a prolonged sigh from Madam Walcot.
Old Ambassador Hastang clapped his hands, and
was like to have a fit, so intense was his admiration ;
while as for Mrs. Theoo, she tossed her chin in contempt.


What next ?' she muttered. ' They've tried rope-dancers
and exotic merry-andrews ; now 'tis to be
wigs ! The hussy is not amiss, but evidently ignorant
and awkward.'

Theoo, who stood behind his wife, nodded in
friendly recognition, with a smile in his squinting
eyes ; for he had driven from town that very day on
purpose to speak with Barbara.

Stepping forth, unabashed by the noble company,
the girl waved her fine arms and swept to and fro
as she had seen the tragedy-queens do at Mr.
Pinkethman's, and poured out as glibly as possible
the verses of Mr. Rowe. (Mrs. Theoo saw nothing

to be afraid of in this slut.) Then, in course of
mimic anguish, she flung herself full length upon the
ground, displaying a rhythmical contour of swelling
hip and bosom that awoke a second murmur. Nature
had been prodigal — there was no doubt of that.

As she gasped and gurgled with harrowing throes
of passion, her approving Grace deigned to tap a
teacup with a spoon ; while Mr. Gay, proud of
having discovered the treasure, cried, ' Cod ! the
chit's a genius !' My Lord Bohngbroke clapped his
jewelled hands, exclaiming, 'Cut out for tragedy!'
and then Lord Forfar and Ambassador Hastang
hastened to pick up the blushing maid and set heron
her dainty feet.

Certainly it seemed that she was promising ; for
Gibber smiled and nodded, Hastang mumbled that
all she did was perfect, while young Madam Gibber
and Mrs. Belfield looked as black as night.

Of course, none ventured to go beyond murmurs
and vague ejaculations of delight, for the great
Golley had not yet spoken, whose verdict must decide
her fate. He smiled, and pursed his lips, and
sucked his gold-topped cane, and tilted his periwig
over his brow, and wagged his head so long, that the
Duchess waxed impatient.

Gone, come, King Coll !' she cried. ' On my
life, a Bracegirdle ! What say you ? Give her a
debtct, and I'll pay.'

Bab had by this time regained her breath, and

was standing self-possessed in the centre of the
company, with pins in her mouth, coiling up her
hair.

Nay, madam,' she remarked quickly; 'God forbid
I ever should be like Bracegirdle !'

'The only player who ever was respectable,' reproved
Madam Walcot, who did not like the way
things were going.

Better a sinful, fallen woman with a human
heart !' Bab muttered dreamily, with eyes fixed on
Mrs. Belfield, who squared her elbows and giggled.
So frigid a coquette was she, I'm told, that she
could venture to calculated lengths with a succession
of sparks, in just confidence that no flame she kindled
could ever thaw her ice. Bracegirdle was ever conscious
that the influence of her charms was increased
by the fame of a severity that cost her nothing.
How I hate an intrigante /'

To prate thus pertly before the quality ! Was it
not too bad ? Madam Walcot fidgeted to the outer
shop and back again.

Mrs. Belfield bit her lip and retorted :

The stage, I'm told, Hke the sea service, refuses
no one for their morals. You are a brave woman,
Mrs. Barbara.'

She's a born actress, and Gay is right,' asserted
the Duchess. * Speak, oracle, and quickly !'

Gibber stretched out his legs and surveyed their
curves critically with one eye, then said :

Your Grace's wish is law. The lady hath beauty
and a voice — not so silvern as the Oldfield's ; but
who may vie with her ? Even she was a sad doll
once ; so was the great Barry. Therefore there's
hope even for you, Madam Theophilus, so don't look
cross. Is Pilot the name ? Let us hope it maybe
famous. If only to save her from Rich, the
charlatan — a rascal, with his effete pantomimes — I'll
sign with the lady now. Come, for five years, at
four whole guineas a week — that's handsome ! Wiles,
my fellow-patentee, may be testy, but I will coax his
humour.'

Do you dare ?' suggested Theoo slily. ' He hath
a terrible humour, that co-patentee of yours. How
many times have you quarrelled, and sworn never to
speak again ?'

This was rude in a son before the quality.

He is choleric and tetchy,' admitted the elder
Gibber ; ' but what an artist ! We tiff, give each
other " my hat and your servant " for a week, then
make it up again.'

Yes ; he is a great artist, and a gentleman,'
assented her Grace, * as well by manner as by birth.
Brilliant in comedy, graceful in tragedy; grave in
his attire in the streets, on the stage the glass of
fashion; painstaking and judicious always in the
veriest trifles — nothing's too mean for his attention.
If you follow him, Bab, you'll have the best of
masters. But come. Madam Walcot, another dish

of tea ! Your daughter's fate is sealed. What think
you of the Queen of Tragedy ?'

Madam Walcot handed the tea, afraid to trust her
tongue ; while Barbara flushed with pleasure. But
not so Madam Theophilus, who could not let the
outrage pass without a protest.

Do you stand by, Theophilus,' she whimpered,
to see your spouse insulted ? Is this raw chit to be
put over my head, forsooth ! — to mouth the heroines,
while I am confidante in the background ? I'll not
stand it ! I ! who have been on the stage these
eight years !'

'Tut, tut!' cried Colley pettishly. 'The stage
would do nicely but for the women's tantrums. How
much better it was before the Restoration, when
heroines were played by boys who could be thrashed !
But times are out of joint. When I was young,
London was content with two theatres — one for
plays and one for opera '

Pretty times !' sneered Madam Walcot, in whom
ire gained the mastery. ' The King was kept waiting
in his box while the Queen in " Hamlet " was being
shaved ! A low scum ! If you admit any allegiance
to your mother, Barbara, I summon you to abandon
this idea. Never with my consent shall you thus be
cast away.'

Until five years ago,' retorted the young lady,
you forgot my very existence. Her Grace shall
decide. Why should I be in greater peril on the

boards than here, where I am used as a decoy ? I'm
sick of doyle stuffs and poverty. On ne said dans
Ice monde que cc que Von vent valoir.'

This was said with a low curtsy, a superb bending
of the neck, and a sweeping of skirts that drew
applause from the men.

Who would have disobedient daughters 1' wailed
Madam Walcot. * A player ! A shameless baggage,
who robes and robes in her tiring-bower filled with
gallants ! I shall never raise my head ; but I'm a
grievous sinner, and my punishment is just !'

They're not as bad as they're painted,' laughed
the Duchess. * You are too good a Christian ever
to have been in a theatre. I'll take you myself
some day.'

Not so !' replied Mrs. Walcot. ' I've seen the
devil's temples in my youth. What chance hath a
modest girl of keeping straight, when the stage is so
packed with desires and rufflers that the actors
haven't space to move? when Licentious, drunken
lords snatch kisses from the women as they rant ;
and tipsy brawlers hustle the players, and pink each
other to death before the curtain can descend ?'

Quality hath its privileges,' remarked the Duchess
with hauteur.

I've tried to keep the audience off the stage,' put
in Colley Cibber, ' but have failed. The lords with
their wails to the carpenters have been too much
for me.'

Sure, Madam Walcot, you're too starched,' said
Bolingbroke, yawning. ' I protest that the play's as
good as sermon any day. x\re not the profligate
always sacrificed to poetic justice in our comedies ?
Is not the recognised business of dramatists — ask
King Coll — to bring punishment on crime, to extol
virtue and unmask vice ?'

*Aye, truly,' sneered the wrathful dame. 'So
much unmasked as to show naked — so naked that
the ladies in the side-boxes are compelled to wear a
vizard.'

'A hit — a palpable hit !' laughed Theophilus.

Certainly Madam Walcot, you are too hard,'
asserted the Honourable Pamela, not willing to be
out of the discussion. ' Player wenches have their
use, if unpleasant to the sight by reason of their
skirmishes. We are beholden to the tribe — let us
be just — for rules of clothes and conduct. They
teach us the amorous smirk, the sullen pout, the
winning spot to place a patch, the way to play the
chest in fifty falls and risings like a swan on waving
water. They '

Pardon me, miss !' retorted Bab. ' Our young
ladies of quality methinks need little teaching ! A
polite education hath versed them at fourteen in all
the niceties of behaviour. Scarce free of the back-board,
they learn to be timorous, to squeak at jolt
of coach or pop of pistol, to die away at sight of a
mouse, to be frighted at anything except a man.'

'Barbara!' cried Mrs. Walcot, while smirking
Mrs. Theoo said :

Let be. She's vastly droll, if saucy.'

'It's true!' persisted Bab, with eyes riveted on
Mrs. Belfield. ' Haven't I seen enough of 'em ?
Why do they faint in public places, but to be clasped
by a male arm, and give excuse for visits in the
gloaming ?'

Peace, child !' implored her mother, who observed
two spots of annoyance on her Grace's cheekbones.
Ladies, 'tis not my fault that she grows more froward
daily. 'Tis the evil company she keeps — low,
strolling folk. Hence would I beg you not to entice
her into further crookedness. Nay, Mr. Gibber, do
not look so thundery. 'Tis your own flesh that leads
my girl astray.'

Gharlotte !' ejaculated Theoo, interested. ' 'Twas
on her account that I came hither.'

Poor Gharlotte !' sighed Barbara, softening.
She's hereabout, supporting a mean existence.
Lord knows how ! Will none of you do aught for
Gharlotte ?'

The Gibbers, father and son, looked at each other
like two knights with lance in rest. After a pause
Golley growled :

Fve washed my hands of the minx, and turned
away, for 'tis not seemly to air our skeletons before
a circle of curious eyes.'

If you have, sir, then are you much to blame,'

his son replied with warmth ; ' for as an infant you
spoilt and petted her, then cast her forth to
perish.'

I !' ejaculated Colley, with an uneasy glance at
the assembled company.

Yes, you. I care not for your frowns. 'Twas
you who matched a wild tomboy scarce out of the
nursery with a scoundrelly, designing fiddler, whose
brutal conduct turned her brain ; then deserted your
child in her extremity.'

No child of mine,' snapped the dramatist. ' A
changeling — some elf-spawn. A pretty tale to divert
these ladies !'

A sad and shameful tale,' retorted Theoo, who
rarely ventured thus to beard papa ; but then sister
Charlotte was the only soul on earth, except himself,
whom Theoo loved. ' Theoo ladies shall judge of it,
with permission of her Grace.'

'Oh yes!' simpered Airs. Belfield, who dearly
liked to survey the linen of others. ' The Duchess
will be charmed, I'm sure. Will you not. Duchess ?'

A nod having been vouchsafed from the great chair,
the cups were replenished, and the younger Gibber
struck an attitude. His parent, ashamed to escape
and powerless to interfere, stood glaring out upon
the green, while Bolingbroke and Pulteney grinned.
Was not Golley a friend of the detested Walpole,
an odious Whig? And had he not obtained the
bays of poet laureate ten years ago in return for

The Nonjuror,' a version of ' Tartuffe,' wherein the
Jacobites were ridiculed ? Murderer of Moliere ;
abominable Shakespeare-tinker ! 'Twas pleasing to
have him on the rack, so the party settled themselves
comfortably to enjoy a dish of scandal.

charlotte Chare.'

ARBx\RA and Theoo exchanged a look of
intelligence, while Ambassador Hastang
hastened to place a chair for the shop-girl.
So soon as she was seated, the
young man directed his squinting glance at his ireful
parent's back, and commenced :

'Tis so strange a tale,' Theophilus began, 'that,
like many true stories, 'tis scarce conceivable ; the
tale of a volatile girl whose burthen was too heavy
for her shoulders ; of a plant that might with care
have grown up sweet and straight, but was twisted
awry by blasts, and blackened by early frost. My
sister was so clever as a child, that the most brilliant
horoscopes were cast as to her future. The Oldfield
will tell you how promising she was ; how the public
encouraged her crude efforts ; how, after a few
months, she fell a prey to the designing Charke (a
well-named scoundrel), from whom a parent should
VOL. I. 4

have saved her. I, alas ! can tell of her despair
when, married scarce a month, she knew her husband
for a villain. At nineteen, the time of one
who had been reared so tenderly was passed in the
lowest slums ; in tracking an errant lord through
the Hundreds of Drury, dragging him from boozing-kens,
in spite of blows, from the arms of the meanest
courtesans ; till, crazed at last with frenzy and distress,
her brain became unhinged. To whom should
she have flown in her great grief but to a father ?
But no ; to him the world's applause was all in all.
He was ashamed of the wild pranks that grew out
of her bitterness ; and she, indignant at his selfish
cruelty, dug the breach yet wider. 'Twas a long-drawn
misery from which there was no rallying ; for
when she had money — gathered Lord knows how —
her tyrant swooped and took it ; and so she lived inconstant
fear from hand to mouth, more reckless
and more mad from month to month, without a
single friend.'

Why did you not help her ?' inquired Mr. Gay.

I was in Crow Street, away in Dublin, and wist
not of her trouble.'

'I wonder she did not kill herself!' murmured
Barbara.

No. Her buoyancy is one of the strangest of
her attributes ; for the stricken being is like a half-drowned
sparrow that in a ray of sunlight plumes its
feathers. Although her brain succumbed, and there's

no end to the wildness of her pranks, there is no
crushing Charlotte. To me 'tis a marvel how at this
time she lived ; for, thanks to her thieving husband,
she was always in difficulty and terror of the bailiffs,
lurking in some owl's haunt by day, creeping forth
at night to earn a pittance. Not daring to approach
the playhouses where she was known, she sought
employment at the booths and barns where comedies
are mouthed. There for a crown she would go on
for anything — the whimsical creature's memory is
prodigious, and she is universally studied — preferring
male characters, dreading in woman's cotes recognition
and arrest. Having reaped a few guineas
once at the fair of Bartlemy, she deemed herself rich
indeed, and set herself to speculate.'

The elder Gibber shuffled his feet, and growled :

Enough !'

Forgetful of the pouncing tyrant,' pursued Theophilus,
with a grin, ' she determined to abandon art
and take to hum-drum trade. And such a trade for
the poet laureate's daughter ! In Long Acre there
was a grocer's stall to let, so she became a grocer —
and such a grocer ! Decked in a coarse apron and
rough hat, with a pen behind the ear, she prated
learnedly of teas, the price of oils ; writ notes to
country chapman for their custom, though all the
while a couple of gallons was her stock, and thought
her fortune made when some one bought a groats
Flambeaux and links were strewn about the

4—2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS UBRAR^fi

floor — sure they would go like wildfire ! And they
did, for bands of sooty youths would come at dusk
and filch 'em. Her husband, as usual, found her
out, emptied the till, and stole her weights and
measures ; and, sitting in dumb despondency amid
the ruins of her shop, she writ and pleaded for forgiveness.'


The eyes of the company were turned on CoUey,
who, with legs astride and hands in pockets, was
staring persistently upon the green.

How monstrous — just like a Whig !' sighed
virtuous Bolingbroke.

*And Walpole's friend!' Pulteney hastened to
add.

There was no mercy,' the young man proceeded,
in that modish heart for a child who had dealt
across a counter. Yet one there was, more kind
than her own blood, who came and dried her tears
as, crushed and overwhelmed, she rocked herself.
Barbara there (God bless her for it !) found her out,
bestowed her little savings in a silken purse — obolus
of real charity — and comforted the mournful waif.
But at sight of gold the incorrigible hopeful madcap
deemed herself rich again, and skipped about the
room. Who so happy as she ? she cried ; for was
there not hard by a licensed puppet-show to let ?— ^a
puppet-motion in a garret over a tennis-court ! The
very means wherewithal to make a fortune ; a means,
too, of annoying a harsh parent who lorded it at

Drury Lane ! With Barbara's money she engaged
the place, clad the dolls afresh in sumptuous array,
furbished their cheeks, painted their noses, and,
singularly enough, for a time did vastly well. A little
more success, and perhaps the worldling might have
pardoned her — who knows ? But she reckoned without
her miscreant, who, aware of the chink of coin,
swooped down once more. Was she never to float —
never to escape this hungry rascal's fangs ? His
wayward, struggling victim was discouraged, and
with her to be discouraged was abruptly to change
her life. Clearly there was to be no escape except
in constant movement, A nomad spirit invaded
Charlotte, and, gathering up her dolls, she wandered
forth upon the world.'

And then ?' asked Mr. Gay.

And then, I've heard from time to time vaguely
of my sister, sometimes with a strolling company,
sometimes with a show; and drove from town to-day
to question Barbara. Since my return from Ireland
I've sought in vain. If anyone knows her whereabouts,
sure 'twill be she who drew her out of her
despair. What think you, fair ladies — is it not sad
and shameful ?'

A hum of approval went round the company, in
which Colley had no part. Barbara fidgeted, for my
Lord Forfar was gazing down out of kind eyes with
an unaccustomed softness that roused the spite of
Mrs. Belfield.

I protest,' cried that damsel, with a titter, * that
'tis more engaging than any of Mr. Gibber's comedies !
The young man should write plays — should he not,
Lord Bolingbroke ?'

You were right,' Barbara said, ' for she is here.'

Here !' Colley echoed with a start.

Yes, in Richmond ; and my heart bleeds to see
how mild and gentle under such a series of disasters
as would crush strong men. After each stunning blow
of Fate, she is so grateful for a little kindness that
'tis a lesson to all of us. Indeed, Hope bringeth with
marvellous persistency to her poor draggled skirts !'

*Bless me, Mr. Gay!' screamed the Honourable
Pamela. ' You must look to your laurels, for they're
all turning poets !'

Something must be done for Gharlotte,' Theoo
declared stoutly. * Sir, will you take her home ?'

What !' cried the poet laureate, fairly beside
himself. 'After the way she hath held me up to
obloquy? Never! My son, as bad as she, hath
in sooth, as Mrs. Belfield saith, embroidered a
fine tale. Once when it pleased the abandoned
creature to go a-touting of fish — in a barrow — my
daughter, ye gods ! I stood in the road and deigned
to reason with her. And was she humble or gracious ?
Not a bit of it ! She up with a pair of mackerel and
smacked my cheeks with them in the public street
while all the chairmen laughed. So long as I live,
I'll never pardon — never !'

Mrs. Belfield tittered, and Bolingbroke and Pul-tenet
roared. Barbara had much ado to repress a
smile, for she thought that under similar circumstances
she would herself have done the same.

The girl's brain is cracked,' she pleaded, ' and
mercy is a father's prerogative. The harsh world doth
make her worse ; with kindness she would recover.'

Will you support your child ?' demanded Theoo.

No ! no ! no !' thundered Colley, enraged beyond
endurance.

Then I must,' replied his son. * My sister shall
not rot in the Marshalsea. I will find some situation
for her at my new place in the Haymarket.'

Your place!' shrieked Colley. * Your place!
An illegal place ! It hath no license.'

A pretty parent !' scowled Theoo, in some apprehension
; for though he stood up for his sister he
knew his father's power.

Your place shall be shut up !' Colley spluttered ina
white fury. ' Shall I be set at naught by my own
offspring ? There are, by the 12th of good Queen
Anne, but two theatres legally patented — Rich's and
ours. Persons acting in London without patent are
rogues and vagabonds, and liable as such to be
imprisoned. We've been too kind. Your ne'er-dwells
shall sit in the stocks, so shall the vermin of
Goodman's Fields. Sir Robert Walpole will help
me. Your place indeed !'

There is no knowing to what heat the long-smouldering

quarrel 'twixt parent and child might
have been fanned, but for a seasonable diversion.
Though mischievous Pamela and the Tories enjoyed
the scene, the Duchess did not, for in sooth her
friend the dramatist did not come well out of the
story. She was glad, therefore, to perceive two new
arrivals looming against the light, whose appearance
caused the knot of loungers to break up at short
notice. Bolingbroke sprang to his feet with grinding
teeth, and seized his hat. Pulteney and Lord Forfar,
following suit, bowed over the fingers of the Duchess
with hasty adieux.

'Talk of the devil, here's Sir Bluestring !' Boling-broke
said with a hollow laugh. * How many
bending sycophants go to the feeding of one rascal's
vanity ! The wicked prosper in this world ! Farewell,
Mrs. Pilot, and luck ! I'll be there on the
great day. Madam Walcot, your servant. Your
Grace's most obedient '

Mr. Gibber, on the other hand, regretting a public
display of petulance before the great lady, cringed
low to cover his confusion before the new-comer.
Had it not become manifest that the Whig star was
still in the ascendant, and might not Sir Robert take
umbrage at finding him even at Richmond discoursing
with the enemy? He bent his old back, therefore,
in a more pronounced curve even than usual.

The stalwart figure of Walpole occupied the entire
doorway, and taking in the situation at a glance, he

stood there for a moment to enjoy his rival's discomfiture.


'How's this?' he cried with a hoarse chuckle.
Not a word of congratulation, St. John ? You
scurried to Compton's quick enough a month ago.
Not going? Mr. Handel is about to honour me
with a crash of instrumental. Well. Sans racine,
then. Try your worst, but do be a little truthful.'

Conqueror, be clement !' laughed the Duchess
gaily. ' Forgetting politics, wee are assembled here in
unaccustomed guilelessness to judge of a new actress.
So you are master of the situation, you sly man ?
Your disgrace a cheat. Sir Spencer a man of straw ?
Sorcerer ! How was it done ?'

Easily enough,' returned Sir Robert, so soon as
his foes were out of hearing. ' Place-hunters are
bats. When the new reign began they made up to the
wrong woman. That is all. The mistress, they concluded,
would rule the roast, the consort say her
prayers ! It is quite the other way.'

A surprise to the world at large,' remarked the
Duchess, ' and a pleasant surprise to many. There
is little use in being your friend, though, since you
so persistently overlook your enemies. For my part,
I wish you well, and choose to flirt with both sides;
for Art hath no politics, and I am the patroness of
Art. Do not despise the advice of a woman who
hath brains. Your treatment of Bolingbroke and
Pulteney smacks of levity. Believe me, they are

worth noticing, if only for the abundance of their
malice.'

'Tis the old principle,' said Mr. Cibber, with a
grin — ' " Note toi de la que je m'y mette " — a principle
that governs the world.'

You think them strong?' replied Sir Robert carelessly.
' Maybe, but I am stronger — so long, at
least, as their Majesties give me their confidence.
Success ? I'm sick of it. 'Tis women who love
success ; men for the sake of women. This morning
at my levee I was near smothered with the excess of
essences — the smell of perfumed powder — and four
weeks back I might have been one spotted with the
plague. At the Queen's Drawing-room it was diverting,
for my Lady Walpole could not force herself
any nearer than the fourth row, thanks to the stiff
backs of whilom devotees. But no sooner did
her Majesty nod and say, " There I see a friend,"
than avenues opened as by miracle, and lines were
made of toadies who bent like corn under the wind.
Aha ! my saucebox ! my pretty queen of minxes ! I
swear you are lovelier than ever ! Have you alone
no word for the conquering hero ? I would pour
forth my flame but for wholesome dread of Skerrit.
She's soundly jealous, is Skerrit !'

Sir Robert's jests are never fit for female ears,'
observed grim Madam Walcot.

Madam Walcot is out of sorts,' Mr. Cibber murmured,
' since she cannot enjoy the sunlight.'

'You want something, Colley — what is it r'

And so do I,' rapped out her brisk Grace. 'Here
is Mr. Gay, a man of genius. What shall we do for
Mr. Gay?'

places! places!' laughed the Baronet. ' always
cupboard love ! Presto ! Into what shall we transform
her Grace's lapdog ? Gentleman usher to the
young princesses '

Fie !' shrilly cried the Duchess, rising in dudgeon,
while the pocket-poet bleated. ' A lackey! Mr. Gay,
I'd have you know, is a genius.'

Then why not First Minister?'

Gentleman usher, forsooth ! Even master of the
revels would be better, whilst waiting for a fitting
vacancy." '

Gone !' replied the Minister. ' My Honest Jack
here hath bolted that morsel, for though it hath a
salary there are no duties. What would you say.
King Coll, to a master of the revels who tried to
interfere at Drury ?'

Hold my tongue,' murmured the patentee, ' if
you'd close the other houses.'

Close the other houses ! Live and let live, man ;
for they cannot injure thee. A propos. A new
actress, some one said ?'

No other than myself, an 't please you,' curtseyed
demure Barbara, with a flashing twinkle at her
mother. ' Your queen of minxes is the new divinity.'

Not with my consent,' Madam Walcot repeated

with firmness, urged, as it seemed, to a tardy assertion
of authority by a start from Honest Jack.

The toy-shop woman and the Minister's secretary
glanced keenly one at the other, and the face of the
latter fell.

This pretty head will ache with labour,' mumbled
Ambassador Hastang dolefully. ' There will be
wrinkles of thought on this pure brow.'

Will your honour take me for a housekeeper,'
laughed saucy Bab, * with Charlotte for locum tenens ?
The poor thing needs rest from scheming of ways
and means.'

YotCj when you please,' smirked the elderly satyr,
in an undertone.

Take care,' cried Barbara, ' lest some day I take
you at your word ! The place would be the thing for
Charlotte though, for an ambassador's housekeeper
is secure from bailiffs.'

I spoke not of her,' responded the Dutchman.


Who knows but what I myself some day may
claim the privilege ? Stranger things have chanced.'

Pretty Bab in prison ? That must never be ; but
why gaze into the future ? 'Tis a dark passage with
the door closed.'

I saw a striking motto once upon an Eastern
ring,' the girl said, with a far-off dreamy look as if
striving to pierce the veil. ' " Despise no man's
misery, for fate is common and the future is unseen."

When we foresee misfortune we are rarely wrong.
Do you believe in presentiment ? If I'm to claim
the fulfilment of your promise, my adverse fortune
must come swiftly,' the damsel continued, brightening,
' or you'll have travelled across the Styx ! Here
is my hand. Is it to be a bargain ?'

What buffoonery was this ? A shop-girl and a
venerable ambassador making a secret compact !
Sure Madam Walcot had cause sufficient to look
so mightily annoyed.

Bab, eh ?' Sir Robert observed. 'Well, and why
not ? Beauty we know she hath ; if talent also,
'twere sinful, madam, to stand in the way of a rise.
There's little Kitty Rafter, the housemaid, who bewitched
the butcher-boys with ditties as she scrubbed
the doorstep. This morning the baggage's sedan
knocked me against the post, and she bowed an
apology out of a white satin trollope with the superior
perk of a countess.'

Oh, lud ! What a brazen gucnipe /' put in the
Honourable Pamela. ' They've no thankfulness for
fortune that drops from Providence !'

Some would be glad of any,' retorted Bab, * blown
from whatever quarter !'

I say it is to be,' declared the Duchess of Queensberry,
with a fan-rap on the table which expressed a
final decision. * Mr. Gibber is content. Sir Robert
Walpole approves. Child, 'tis an accomplished
fact. Work hard and prosper, for success is made

of perseverance, as the sea of drops. I wish you joy,
my love.'

Nought can be more manifest than that, under
such strong pressure from the great, Madam Walcot
had nothing for it but to submit and fold her soft
white hands. Leaving the party to settle details
as they would, she withdrew with sad slowness into
the outer shop, and, followed by Honest Jack, set
about sorting gloves for him, which he pretended to
examine.

How dare you permit this ?' he murmured.
Do you not perceive I am powerless ?'
And yet I've promised you a thousand pounds !
Sir Robert is a generous master.'

If so partial, why not tell the truth ?'
Zooks ! I cannot— at least, not now. 'Twould
wreck my career openly to espouse a shop-girl !'
objected Mr. Crump in undertones, biting his nails
the while with desperate irresolution.

Heyday !' returned tart madam ; ' she's worth the
winning and the wearing ; as true as gold, if lacking
bit and bridle. Doth your honour's tree date from
the Conquest ? Since the shop— and an honest shop,
patronized by the Queen herself— stinks so in your
nostrils, why not keep clear of it ? Perchance you'll
like her better when she hath succeeded on the
stage.'

It must not be 1' whispered Mr. Crump. ' Stop
it at all hazards. I cannot, will not lose her ! And

once behind the lamps, think how she'll be followed !
Poor humble I will soon be distanced.'

Here's a pother!' quoth madam, peering into his
pale-blue eyes. ' First my gentleman will, and then
he will not. He loves her wildly, but cannot wed
one in her position ; yet will not let her change it.
Such a maid as that, I tell thee, is worth more thana
scrag-end of quality.'

I know it,' murmured the undecided one.

You would not wrong the girl ? Your patron is
partial to my Barbara, and, though his own life be
graceless, would grievously punish one who did her
injury.'

I know it, I know it !' groaned the secretary.
'All I ask is time. By-and-by I shall be independent
my nest will be made — and then I can take to it
whomsoever I will. Prevent this thing. Pve promised
a thousand ; I'll double it if you forbid this folly.'

Forbid ! Was ever such a man ? Egged on by
grandees' whimsies, she snaps her fingers in my face.
God knows, if it might be, I'd snatch her from the
abyss ! To have my daughter's name bandied by
sparks over their cups ! Is that a pleasant prospect
for a serious woman ?'

A comely woman still,' whispered artful Jack, byway
of pouring oil upon the waters. * Many a hale
gentleman knows better than to prefer spring to
summer because 'tis farthest from autumn. Be true
to me in this, and your reward shall set you above

shopkeeping. A new dance hath begun, to which
Sir Robert is first fiddle. Our fortunes will all be
made, and speedily.'

What are you two hatching ?' shouted Walpole.
Arguing madam out of the sulks, eh ? You'll have
to be turned over to the Duchess here ; she's ready
to scratch out my eyes about her lapdog ! Unless
we give him a sop, he'll bark at us. Bab and King
Coll have plighted their troth. He's hers, to plague
and tease for five whole years, poor man ! To assist
the debut, he'll speak the epilogue. My stars, what
have we now — Mad Moll o' Bedlam ?'

A discord on a trumpet and a loud huzza brought
all the party to the window. Parting a troop of
dancing lads and lasses with her hands as though
they had been water, a gaunt, wan young woman,
with streaming eyes and terror-stricken mien, her
short hair flying from beneath a tiny cap, rushed
panting across the threshold.

Save me !' she wailed, and, glancing fearfully
around with distended lids, as if she beheld a spectre,
flung her long arms about the waist of Barbara, and
sank upon the floor.

'Charlotte!' Bab whispered, clasping the frail,
wrung figure tenderly, to soothe the hurricane of her
distress. * All are friends here. What is it ?'

*The Queen of Sheba's dead !' she sobbed.

Bab turned to Mr. Cibber, and, ignoring the fact that
he was now her master, remarked, with sharp irony :

This is your work — look on it !'

But the poet laureate, declining the invitation,
muttered an oath, and, banging on his hat, strode
off across the green.

The manners of parvenus are lamentably lacking,'
observed the Honourable Pamela.

'Twas some moments ere the tempest lulled,
calmed by her friend's caress.

Poor Queen of Sheba,' she moaned at last, ' and
Hero and Leander — dead !'

What can she mean ?' inquired Count Hastang,
peering through a quizzing-glass as on some strange
beetle.

Mrs. Belfield raised her eyebrows, while her lips
resembled an O.

The Queen of Sheba — yes,' Bab whispered. ' You
know I love Charlotte, and so does Theoo — and he's here,
clasping your hands. There's naught to fright you.'

Oh yes, there is !' moaned crouching Charlotte,
with a shudder. 'He — the fiend !'

Again, that wretch, her husband!' exclaimed
Theophilus.

I and mine were playing in the Talbot Yard — we
had permission from the sergeant-trumpeter — in the
droll of 'Erastus and Fauna,' when my tongue stood
still and I could not speak my words ; for in the
throng I saw him watching me. When for an instant
I was free, he stole to my side and said he wanted
gold, for he and she were to ship at Gravesend for

VOL. I. 5

Jamaica. I said I'd none ; so, giving my arm a
wrench, he left. See the purple marks upon my
flesh ! So soon as the droll was done, I crept in
mortal fear to the garret where our things were
stowed, dreading something. Alack, alack ! my
puppet-motion lay scattered in ruin on the boards,
while he tore the dear harmless things and crushed
them beneath his heel. I tried to save them — my
Hero and sweet Leander ! — but he flung me back and
finished the wicked work. But ere he went he
glared like a horned serpent in my eyes, hissing that,
lest we two should meet no more on earth, he'd
leave to me a memory. With this he spurned with
his heavy riding-boot upon my face, and went. If it be
so, how lucky I ! And yet — Nebuchadnezzar lay therein
twain — and Alexander the Great — and Susanna
and the two new Elders — and Hero and Leander —
and — and — the Queen of Sheba — oh !'

A recapitulation of the innocents who had been
massacred was too much for Charlotte. Clinging to
Bab, she relapsed into a paroxysm of shivering and
wailing, refusing to be comforted.

If my father deserts thee, be thou my care!'
whispered Theophilus ; while his better half murmured
:

The place for maniacs is Bedlam.'

Father and sister-in-law were well matched,' the
Duchess thought, as she took a pinch of snuff.
Hum !' she observed, with accustomed sagacity, * if

the man's really gone, 'tis a good riddance. Where
shall we bestow the woman ?'

She shall abide with me for the present at least,'
Bab said calmly, ' for she's seldom so racked as
this.'

Whereat Madam W^alcot marvelled, as she glanced
at Mr. Crump. Exert authority, forsooth, over this
self-willed maiden ! What next ? she wondered.
Her child a public player — her house a refuge for
destitute lunatics ! Verily, she would be driven to
shut it up, and retire to some reputable haven.

1—2

RICHMOND LODGE.

T was early springtime. The Queen was
sitting in her bedroom at Richmond
Lodge, gazing out on the loveliest of
river-scapes, as it unfolded itself at the
end of her favourite avenue, marking the lights and
shadows upon silver Thames as he glided past
Petersham and Ham, and sped round Twitnam
Corner. Her head was growing into studied negligence
under the hands of Mrs. Parcel. The princesses,
her daughters, were whispering over their tambours
in an adjoining window ; my Lady Sundown and the
Honourable Pamela Belfield, bedchamber-women in
attendance, stood ready, watching the eye of majesty;
Mrs. Howard, chief dresser, a weary-looking person
with some remains of beauty, was kneeling with a
basin into which the Queen dipped her fingers
absently, and through a half-opened door came
pattering nasal sounds suggestive of a sermon in a

bottle. Caroline was deep in thought, and her
meditations were seemingly of a pleasant caste, for
now and again a smile flitted across her handsome
features, disclosing two dimples to advantage.

'Howard!' she said suddenly, 'see if Sir Robert
is without. And shut a little that door. How
tedious those parsons are ! They pray so loud, one
cannot hear one's self speak.'

Mrs. Howard rose meekly, did as she was bidden,
and returned.

Sir Robert is not come yet,' she replied ; ' but
the ante-chamber is full. I saw the Duke of Newcastle
picking his teeth, and Grafton and Bolton,
and a crowd more.'

Each Got r returned the Queen sharply. ' Quick,
my robe. Though I could hardly stand yesterday,
the King dragged me to town to hear Farinelli, and
I have got a fresh sore-throat. But I must not seem
ill, or he will be angry. Quelle vie! Let's get it
over.'

The King is made of iron,' sighed Mrs. Howard,
and forgets that others are not strong. He hath
himself a feverish chill this morning ; but he got up
though he was choking, dressed, and held his levee
as if there was nothing the matter ; then went to bed
again, and was blooded.'

The Queen, having assumed a velvet dressing-gown
richly trimmed with ermine, passed into the
ante-room, and having said a civil word to each of

the courtiers there assembled, dismissed them and
returned.

When we read of the ways of the contemporary
Court in France, we must marvel at the difference.
There 'twas the fashion for a queen-consort, shamed
and neglected, to devote her leisure to good works,
while the mattress en titre flaunted in magnificence.
Turning from that picture to this, it would be
difficult to realize, had wee not been instructed by
Sir Robert, that the supercilious domineering woman
is George II. 's Queen, and that the weary one
kneeling at her feet is George Ii's mistress. Yet
it is so. Neither of them passed a pleasant time
with their lord and master, for he was the incarnation
of meanness, selfishness, stinginess, and bad
temper. But of the twain the Queen certainly had
the best of it, for little George respected while he
snapped at her ; while the unhappy Howard was
merely a long-suffering butt for his ill-humour,
enjoying no influence or patronage. She endured
no little, too, in the way of small feminine insults
from her Majesty, who, unable — or not desirous,
perhaps — to oust hqr rival, revenged herself upon
the fact of her existence by endless snubs and
minute tortures. To a later age it will appear
strange that a wife who never stooped herself to
intrigue, should have permitted unchallenged the
presence of a mistress in her own household ; but it
must be remembered that her Majesty was wide-awake

and masculine in her views beyond the
women of her time. She felt the position of the
Hanoverian family in England to be so rickety, that
the disclosures inseparable from divorce would possibly
send it rolling. Moreover, in those days of
gallantry, when for a man to love his own wife
openly was to be a laughing-stock, prudishness would
have commanded but little sympathy. She was
broad in her way of looking at things, coquetted
with various religions, and finally adopted Deism ;
and, taken for all in all, is entitled to rank as one of
the ablest, most lax, and most commanding of the
queen-consorts who have reigned in England.

Although suffering somewhat from indisposition,
Caroline was in the best of spirits, for all was going
splendidly. In well-informed circles it was generally
understood that the death of George I. would be the
signal for a movement of the Jacobites. The new
Queen, however, had a robust faith in Walpole. She
believed him to be a match for all the Jacobites —
Atterbury, Bishop of Rochester, included. This last,
indeed, she knew to be one of the very few of those
about the Chevalier who was not Sir Robert's pensioner.
The way in which his tact and unscrupulous
artifice had crushed Atterbury commanded admiration.
In 1723 he attempted openly to buy that scheming
Churchman with a pension of ^5,000 a year; and,
baffled in this, proceeded to drive him out of England,
and bribe or bully, one by one, his friends and supporters

to betray him. The Bishop, in presence of a
foe who stuck at nothing to gain his ends, was Kean
animal in the toils. He was unfortunate enough
to be convinced that the Lord's anointed was King
James III., and being, like Lord Forfar, a Protestant
and much respected, was likely to be of inestimable
service to the exiled Stuart, by reason of his uprightness.
He was therefore, unlike most of the
rest, worth annihilating, and Walpole proceeded todo
the job. Traitors were plentiful and cheap in
the Pretender's camp. Spies spurred the supporter
of James to jealousy of the new-comer. To do battle
in a cause whose head was such a man as the ' King
over the water,' was leading a forlorn-hope, for to
him the throne was an armchair in which to slumber
comfortably. Unstable as the wind, undermined by
ignoble vices, he was guided by a set of intriguers
who sold him or not as suited their momentary purpose.
Whimsically enough, he amused his leisure
by conferring empty dukedoms, while Walpole, from
a distance, supplied the new nobles with funds
wherewithal to adorn their coronets in exchange for
treachery. The emissaries of the British Minister
sat at the Bishop's table, opened his letters, examined
his scrutinies, and despatched their discoveries
to England. The very walls had ears. His
most hidden designs were reported to the British
Cabinet. Although the enemies of Atterbury were
ready to admit that he was one of the most able of

Englishmen, yet little by little his bright hopes and
prospects faded into political miasma as the poverty
of spirit of the worthy scion of the Stuartss became
manifest. Ashamed to draw back, he sank under a
load of disappointment, and, surrendering in this
year of grace to the inevitable, retired from the
political arena, impoverished and brokenhearted.

As we have seen at the opening of this chronicle,
his new Majesty was personally averse to Walpole at
the beginning, and Mr. Crump inquired of his patron
whether even royalty had its price. The latter replied
in the affirmative, and this is how it was : Sir
Robert was aware that the Queen was on his side.
If the King could be induced to suspend a change of
Ministry for a while, all would be well ; and it was
delicately hinted to his avarice that it would be wise
to confer favour on the highest bidder. At any cost
Sir Robert determined to be that individual, and
accordingly arranged the Civil List at so outrageously
high a figure that even hungry George was satisfied.
The Queen's faith in the Minister was clinched in the
same manner. Her jointure was fixed at ^100,000
a year, with Somerset House and Richmond Lodge
as residences. In time the King discovered that Sir
Robert, though an Englishman, was not such a bad
fellow after all — even found his jests amusingly broad
and spicy. Sir Robert's friends became the King's
friends, his enemies the King's enemies. His great
rival, Mr. Pulteney, was denied leave to stand for

Westminster; my Lord Bolingbroke was recommended
country air. The claws of both were cut.

There can be no doubt that, all things weighed,
the choice of their Majesties was a prudent one.
The arguments of the Queen in behalf of her candidate
were that long previous experience of affairs
would enable him to serve the King better than anyone
else ; that his having made a vast fortune already
would prevent his wanting money on his own account,
and would thus lead him to be more liberal to his
master. She pointed out that, retained in office. Sir
Robert Walpole could have nothing in view which
would prevent him from obliging his prince and
securing the House of Hanover, in order that his
family should in peace enjoy the fortune already
amassed.

'Twas the Minister's own penetration which led
him to perceive, long before others did, that in the
ensuing reign Caroline was to wield the sceptre. As
Princess of Wales she carefully remained in the
background ; but Walpole saw early in the day what
advantages might be gained by entering into an
alliance with one who, by long experience, could
manage a difficult temper. She knew so well how to
cope with George's peculiarities, that she twisted
him round her finger. Whilst seeming to be always
bending her will and resigning her opinions to his,
she was in reality shaping the King's views, and submitting
his will to her own.

Sir Robert Walpole was a brilliant example of a
curious phenomenon in human nature of which most
of us are aware — I mean the duality of men and
women. We all are two individuals in one, some
more distinctly so than others. We all have a capacity
for playing a part — for being one person on the
boards, another in private life — and it is very difficult
indeed to decide sometimes which is the real gentleman
and which the counterfeit. Not that by 'playing
a part' I would imply hypocrisy. The double man
is generally unconscious of his duality, and would be
sorely puzzled to decide himself which is the genuine
article. No reference is here made to those who
malice expense wear masks.

Double-chinned, jovial, loud-laughing Sir Robert
was a sybarite : an ardent worshipper of Bacchus
and of Venus, a country squire with a soul for
turnip-tops, an enthusiastic fox hunter, a buyer of
pictures, and artistic connoisseur. How was it, then,
that this pleasure-loving personage spent but thirty
days in the year at his beautiful place in Norfolk —
among his splendid pictures and stacks of port wine
ten in spring, and twenty in autumn ? Because
the other Sir Robert, and the stronger of the twain,
was led by other proclivities. The Sir Robert Walpole
of history — fat, noisy, lover of a pungent jest —
delighted in hard work ; possessed a strength of
parts equal to any advancement, a spirit to cope
with any difficulty, a temper steady against any disappointment.

His skill at figures, and quick, clear
intellect, made him a brilliant financier ; his shrewd
judgment and insight into mankind a successful
statesman. From grubbing much among the lees of
humanity he held an unduly low estimate of human
nature, and was thus led sometimes into error ; but
for the same reason he easily forgave. A gay comrade,
with a peculiarly fascinating smile, he was
popular with, men ; but the women, as a rule, were
afraid of him, by reason of the curious stories with
which he was pleased to regale them before they
could unfurl their fans. Following ambition as a
career, he never tried to curb his pleasures. In a
particularly corrupt age he had every detail of the
science of corruption at his fingers' ends.

It is not surprising that the virile common-sense
of Caroline — her feminine delicacy blunted by a
peculiar education — should have led her to delight
in Sir Robert. She knew that she could trust him ;
obtain, when wanted, clear-headed worldly advice ;
that she could pour into his ears, without a pretence
of blushing, the most ignoble trials of her private
life. No ceremony need be observed between the
pair, who behaved like two male friends, and talked
of subjects which are not usually discussed between
a man and woman. It was the same sort of
alliance as that which existed between the statesman
and Barbara Pilot, save that the positions
were reversed. In the latter case he was the

patron, she the humble friend and admirer. He
kept the Queen, who was a woman in her appetite
for gossip, an courant with all the piquant but unseemly
tittle-tattle of an unclean aristocracy — even
related the doings of the patent theatres, anecdotes
of blue-blooded vice, red-hot from the green-room.

Hence, when the familiar burly form at length
presented itself to her anxious Majesty, she sprang
up with joy to greet him, and mesdemoiselles were
exhorted to remove themselves and their tambours,
under guidance of Madam Howard.

'What a delicious day!' cried the Queen. 'I
vow that nature, when really beautiful, is loveliest
when cloudy ; for everything then glows and stands
out by intensity of local colour, rather than by the
trickery of light and shade. Look at this noble
Thames, gliding 'twixt such grassy banks as exist
only in England. Pamela has no eyes for it.'

I confess,' replied the bedchamber-woman, with
a giggle, 'that for me there's more music in an
hackney-coach than in the squeaking of a hundred
song birds !'

The ace of trumps is a more bewitching picture,
eh, than the fairest landscape ?' laughed the Minister
cheerily, as he sank into a vast elbow-chair. By
reason of swollen limbs. Sir Robert was allowed to
sit, which none else did in presence of royalty, save
at cards or dinner. George II., by the way, was the
first English King who allowed subjects to sit with

him at meals. ' You look charmingly, young lady.
Your new place at Court agrees with you ?'

A lady of quality eschews shyness,' returned Mrs.
Belfield, with becoming languor. * I can hold my
own even among the maids of honour.'

*Too much a woman of fashion,' said Caroline
archly, 'to be under so vulgar a confusion as
modesty !'

Like all the rest,' chimed in Sir Robert. * Is it
not singular ? Despite deprivation of liberty, folks
cling to Court-life on any terms, however high their
birth or fortune. If kicked from a higher place,
they'll grovel to obtain a lower. Even I, for all my
railing, am like my fellows.'

And what of my wretched Howard ?' laughed
the Queen. * Qti^el supplice ! The creature hath as
much good-nature (though she's afraid of yoic) as if
she'd never seen the contrary, and had been reared
among rabbits and turtle-doves instead of Court-ladies.
For my life I can't help teasing her, and
she bears like a saint. As for the rest of her time,
del ! quel torment ! Four hours every evening en
tete-astute with his gracious Majesty ! I ought to
know what that is, and to be grateful to Howard.
And what doth she get in return for le martyre ?
Nothing ! He scolds all the time because she's deaf,
and pinches her black and blue if she plays a wrong
suit, which she often does, being short-sighted. And
if she lacks a poor ten guineas, she must coax and

wheedle for a month. Must we not despise su
abject a soul ?'

His Majesty is not liberal,' assented Sir Robert
drily.

Liberal ! Mattresse-en-titre without a single profit !
I know not what I would do without her when I'm
unwell, for the sight of a sickly face is a red rag to
him.'

Ah ! there you must be careful. Madam
Howard must bear the brunt, for your health is of
greatest moment.'

Princesses are always told so,' scoffed the Queen.

Nay ! I'm in earnest,' replied Sir Robert
anxiously. ' You are not strong ; even now are
flushed and feverish. Remember the position of
your family ; the characters of your sons and
daughters — all that depends on you. I must be an
old preacher, and you must bear with me. Putting
yourself aside, if you were to succumb, what would
become of us — of the country, your children, and
your husband ? He would marry again — some hard,
ambitious woman possibly, who would blow up the
father against the son, and the son against the
father, neither of whom can be friendly at the best
of times.'

Frederick is a sore trial !' sighed Caroline.

There would be divisions in the palace,' pursued
the Minister, 'which would lead to divisions in the
kingdom, and the foe of all of us would step over from

across the sea. You must nurse sour health for all our
sakes, for if your hand stopped working the machine
would stand still ; and if the machine stood still, it
would be broken. Come now, since I am lecturing,
why not show kindness to the Howard ? You admit
yourself that her life must be a burthen, and yet you
make it heavier ! What if she were driven to resign
? another would fill her shoes who might not be
so long suffering. I tell you she's a phoenix — a black
swan, indeed ! As patient as the homely ass ! I
pray we may not live to regret her.'

The Queen wept quietly, for all he said was true,
while Mrs. Belfield fidgeted.

You are right, non ami, and I'm as crabbed as
the King. I will practise the patience of Griselda,
and be angelic to the Howard. In sooth, I am not
well ; and who should know if not Sir Robert what
I have to bear? But look at Pamela. She is as
cross as sticks ! Oblige her with a little gossip.'

Her Majesty had found no difficulty in reading her
new woman of the bedchamber. She had noticed
that she listened to another's praise with squared
elbows and well-bred indifference ; to calumny or
shadowy detraction with a simper ; while her eyes
would dance and her face brighten with animation at
a well-spiced nuisance. Such an one as will tear, and
cannot be denied, was a delicious ragout indeed !

What news do you bring from town ?' inquired
the Queen.

'Not much. You have heard of the Duchess of
Queensberry's audacious conduct ? Because I failed
on demand to provide a new collar for her puppy,
he stands on his hind-legs while she barks for
him.'

'the Beggar's Opera!' cried Mrs. Belfield.
Mr. Gay's supreme effort ! I'm told 'tis ravishing.'


Mawkish stuff, yet perilous,' grumbled the
Minister. * I won't believe Gay writ it ; 'tis malicious
enough to have flowed from her Grace's crow-quill.
A Newgate parody, glorifying highwaymen,
prating rubbish of bribery and corrupt ministers.
Was not Gay but too ready for a bribe ? On the
first night the house rose in a body and stared at
me ; but I blunted the point of that by applauding
with all my might. The insult is not only to me,
but to the Court, and I must beg your Majesty to
notice it. Like all ill weeds, the thing grows apace.
The public have gone distraught over the " Beggar's
Opera." An obscure actress has sprung into notoriety.
Besides being a proof of a degraded taste, 'twill have
a bad effect on morals by making highwaymen the
fashion. Gibber wisely refused the piece, and Quin
declined to act in it ; but Rich, of Lincoln's Inn,
snapped at it, and Macbeth is the idol of the
hour.'

An obscure actress ?' asked Mrs. Belfield. 'Not
your queen of minxes ?'

VOL. I. 6

Bab Pilot ? no. One Latina Fenton. Bab
hath been studying hard all winter under Oldfield,
whose health, poor lady, forbids jealousy, and will
surprise the town next month. Your Majesty will
be present, I know, for my sake ; for the maid's
genuinely good, as virtuous as pretty '

Sir Robert should be an excellent judge of the
first,' the Queen replied archly. * Of course I will
come, and would do much more to please you. I
suppose I may not inspect the " Beggar's Opera"?
A propos — see, on my list of things to say to you 'tis
noted — " Something must be done about these robberies."
The state of London demands our gravest
care. Only last week there was a plot to stop mc —
the Queen — on returning from the City to St. James's !
Best trop fort ! The late King gave all the jewels to
his mistresses, so the few I have I cannot afford to
lose. Those I was crowned in, you will remember,
were borrowed from the jewellers. Complaints pour
in. Piccadilly is dangerous after dark ; so is Lowborn
and the Strand. The green roads to Pancreas and
Islington, though full of fine country houses, are impassable.
Lord Marlborough was stopped at top of
St. James's Street in broad daylight yesterday. One
of the chairmen unshipped his pole and killed a pair
of them, while my lord stepped out and ran another
through, or 'twould have gone ill with him. Something
must be done. 'Tis Burnworth's gang.'

We will issue a proclamation,' mused Sir Robert,

inviting some one to betray the rest for a reward.
That's sure to do it.'

'Toiijotcrs le meme,' returned the Queen, laughing.
Everybody's to be bought ! But we want something
decisive now, for 'tis a growing scandal.'

Then we'll turn on the kidnappers, and snap up
the vermin. 'Tis a pity the people are so jealous of
a permanent standing army — nothing like regimental
drill for cowing rogues.'

Starvation, rather. The sentries at St. James's,
as I passed, I noticed. They were white with cold,
and looked hungry ; and the toes of one of them
were peeping through his shoe. This at the palace-gate
! If we went really to war '

We'd dress them, ma'am, and feed them. Meanwhile,
being scarecrows, they are treated as such.'

And revenge themselves by going on the footpad
!' remarked Mrs. Belfield.

Oh, well, when we've time we'll look into the
matter. As it is, we're in an amphibious state —
neither at peace nor war. Sometimes a ship is
captured, or a galleon sunk ; then apologies pour
forth in reams. 'Tis a whimsical state of things.'

'We must make London decent!' persisted her
Majesty.

Easily said,' retorted the Minister. * With so
many sanctuaries, and so slender a cohort to carry
out the law, the rascals are hard to catch. All the
purlieus about Lydgate Hill, Smithfield, half the

6—2

Surrey side, are privileged ; and even when we succeed
in catching 'em, what then ? — at Tyburn they
leap gaily off the ladder, without fear of t'other
world ! Seriously, something must be done, though
when we've time. A new class of desperadoes
hath just risen of an outrageous sort, who must be
crimped and sent to the plantations. They despatch
letters to wealthy persons, threatening that unless a
certain sum is to be found in a certain place on a
certain day, they will be murdered, and their houses
fired. Aye, and they do it — many City magnates
have suffered thus already. And this is the moment
chosen by that puppy-dog to chaunt the praise of
robbers ! I don't mind their lampooning me, except
that 'tis a malignant precedent. Ballads, satires,
libels are already flooding the town, reviling me, and
what's less pardonable — your gracious Majesties.
Look here, and here.' (And Sir Robert, as he spoke,
drew from an ample pocket a pile of coarsely printed
sheets, each headed by a rude woodcut.) * This one
says that Sir Robert hath bought the Queen, and
that she whips the King and puts him to bed. And
listen to this :

" You may strut, dapper George, but 'tis all in vain ;
We know 'tis Caroline, not you, that reign.
If you would have us fall down and adore you,
Lock up your fat wife, as your dad did before you !" '

The Queen bit her lip and frowned, while Mrs.
Pamela contemplated the Minister with a certain

reverence, although she liked him not, thinking how
sly he was.

'C'est series r the Queen said, after a long pause.
If our own nobility hold us cheap and insult us, no
wonder that the canaille follow suit ! The Duchess
of Queensberry and her puppy-dog, as you call him,
shall be banished from Court for their " Beggar's
Opera." Fat wife indeed !'

The ballad-mongers shall be watched, ma'am,
and packed off to the Compter to bring their cracked
voices into tune. You will be careful of your health?
And you will honour Mrs. Pilot's debut at Drury
Lane ? "Twould please Cibber hugely ; and we owe
him something for refusing the " Beggar's Opera'"

'Iii, iii — I will come; and Pamela and poor
Howard — I will. give her a new gown. Quand d sa
Majeste, I cannot speak. He likes not plays unless
they are so strong that I know not which way to
look ; but loves bears and cocks and giantesses at
Southwark Fair.'

My wife loves the play, ma'am, and so do I for
her sake ; for I know that when she's there I shall
be plagued for three whole hours.'

Oh, Sir Robert, Sir Robert ! Et la Skirret ? Fi
done /'

The Minister kissed hands and took his leave,
flattering himself, as he turned into the Great Park,
that he had done a good morning's work.

THE DEBUT.

[HIS matter of the 'Beggar's Opera' produced
a pretty little breeze, for her
Grace of Queensberry was not given to
meekness. Hearing what her fate was
to be, she took the opportunity, at the very next
reception in the King's drawing-room, to rustle in
and solicit his own servants in his presence to
subscribe for copies of the effort. Being consequently
ordered to absent herself from the royal
presence, she indited an epistle, which was printed
and scattered broadcast, in which she said : ' The
Duchess of Queensberry is surprised and well-pleased
that the King hath given her so agreeable a command
as to stay from Court, whither she never came but
to bestow civility upon their Majesties.'

In the face of such pertness on the part of a pretty
woman and grandee, what was to be done ? Her
Grace made a point of attending all public assemblies,

whence she could not be ousted, accompanied
by a following of malcontents ; and flaunted her
grandeur in the Queen's face on the green and
promenades of Richmond. To irritate Sir Robert,
whom she knew to be at the bottom of her disgrace,
she violently took up Mrs. Pilot, aware that the
Minister was much interested in Mrs. Pilot, and
that at casual meetings she could plant pointed
arrows that would fester. The polite world were ina
quandary, for to countenance the high-spirited
Duchess might be to incur the King's displeasure,
and yet her salon was the pleasantness in town. All
parties were in the habit of meeting at her townhouse
as on neutral territory, and none knew better
than the granddaughter of Lord Chancellor Clarendon
that between enacting formal festivities and giving
pleasure, there is a wide difference. A question was
put indirectly to the King, who decided that though
she must be kept from Court, ostracism need go no
further.

Although 'twas done from the best of motives —
namely, to keep a possible new star out of the maw
of Rich — Colley did a rash thing, as Theoo had playfully
hinted, when he engaged a raw girl without a
trial, and without consulting Wilks. His co-patentee,
on the stage the gayest and airiest of light comedians,
was a prey in private life to an irritable and morose
suspicion. For a while the demi-god would not hear
a syllable about the neophyte at all, vowing that the

encouragement of ignorant chits was an insult to
the incomparable Oldfield. Vainly Colley protested
that Oldfield was not long for this world, and that,
however glorious the autumnal foliage of a fully-grown
tree, it is prudent to cultivate saplings. Mr.
Wilks was obdurate, declining to discuss the matter,
and the elder Gibber was gnawed by wrath and
humiliation, for graceless Theophilus laughed loud
and long at the managerial anguish of his parent.
The situation was growing desperate, for Colley's
word was given in the presence of her Grace of
Queensberry, and 'twould be a gruesome thing to
have to confess that he — the superb King Gull —
had gone beyond his tether. At this juncture, who
should come forward to cut the knot but the incomparable
one herself ! Too good a woman and
too great an artist to be envious, she was well aware
that her own days were numbered, and so she
stepped into Wilks's dressing-room one evening to
negotiate the debut of her pupil.

'Your pupil!' echoed the great man. 'Didn't
know you had one. Describe the little mischief:
tall, short, dark, fair ? In what shape hath the
devil disguised himself?'

When Madam Oldfield proceeded to declare that
her candidate for honours was tall, dark, handsome,
with nut-brown eyes and cherry lips, and a scornful
tilt to the daintiest nose in the world, and that her
name was Barbara Pilot, the autocrat poked the

fire, as his way was when annoyed, and for a while
reeked nothing.

How many actresses have murdered noble
heroines,' he said at last, * in striving to get into
their clothes ! The slut, I warrant, hath had no experience,
and yet would grasp the loftiest roles.
She who would take your place, Anne, must possess
more than beauty Doth the wench know that
tragedy must be bigger than the life — colossal — or
'twill not touch our hearts ? that though in nature violent
emotions are mostly silent, on the stage they must
speak, loud and with dignity — hence in rolling verse.
What a combination of excellencies doth true tragedy
exact ! Untrue to real life, it must seem to hold the
mirror up to Nature. Were you to write down the
talk of two brilliant men, torn by passion, in the
street, on the stage both words and actions would
seem weak and vapid. If she be only beautiful,
Anne, let her try comedy, which should be life-size,
not a jot bigger ; wherein characters should speak
in prose as in private life. Though even in the lower
branch, she can never equal thee !'

Fie !' laughed Madam Oldfield. ' Put away thy
buckram. Were there none before us, and are none
to come after ? The girl aims high, and rightly too.
'Tis fit that ladies should prefer the buskin to the
sock ; for in tragedy their sex is always deified, while
in comedy it is ridiculed and lowered.'

Before she can be fit for Drury,' objected the

demi-god, * she should go to York, to Bath, or
Bristol ; take a turn in Ireland. Nothing like strolling
to rub off awkwardness.'

*And wear away the golden years of youth,'
laughed Oldfield. ' If I can help it, she shall not
suffer as I suffered. May London see naught but
frumps for their RosaHnds and Juliet ?'

To which Colley added with a groan, ' My daughter
Charlotte went a-strolling, and see what an end hath
come of it !'

Then Wilks suggested that if she must try her
luck, it should be in conjunction with another lover.
That would mean defeat, prearranged and certain,
for Wilks was the admired of all. From first to
last he was perfection in his line. Whate'er he did,
whether it consisted in donning a glove, or taking
out his watch, or lolling on a cane, or taking snuff —
every movement was marked with such an ease of
breeding — every motion spoke so strongly of the
gentleman — that all were delighted and surprised.
Nothing came amiss to him, though his greatest
successes were in Farquhar's heroes — Sir Harry
Wilder, Archer, Captain Plume. Towards the end
of his career, it was said that he left Time at the
stage-door, making up by brilliant buoyancy for the
inconceivable ravages of years. But this was in
comedy. In tragedy he was good, but not unrivalled.
Booth used to say that he lacked ear and
not voice to make a really grand tragedian.

I

To have got that great man to argue on the
subject of the young woman was much, but the
battle was not won yet. Mrs. Bab had declared her
intention, wherein she was abetted by the generous
Oldfield, of appearing as Monimia in the ' Orphan ;'
and Wilks being made aware of this, subsided again
into the sulks with many a pish and pshaw, the true
reason for which none guessed. 'Tis sad to record
the littleness of celebrated men ; yet must we
here admit the true cause of Wilks's ill-humour.
Chamont, Monimia's brother, would be the part
assigned to him as leading man in Mr. Otway's play,
and though buoyant, distingue, a fine gentleman
among fine gentlemen, Wilks was sixty-three years
old, and dreaded the prospect of being associated
for the rest of his life with a partner who might
have been his grandchild. Given, as he argued,
that sonorous tragedy seems only to hold up the
mirror, sure youth and beauty are too often snares.
Did not }yladam Porter, who was no chicken, roll
forth her lines like muffled thunder, to be rewarded
with showered plaudits? What matter that she
should be square of build and double-chinned ?
Madam Rogers, too, was fine and large, and not
absurdly juvenile. To her were assigned most of
the virtuous parts in tragedy, since prudery forbade
her to play vice. In private life, indeed, she was
not quite so successful, for, as Gibber said, she never
would be induced to marry ; but on the stage none

could look half so innocent, with eyes like saucers,
and hair about her ears, and a hoop four feet across.
And here was a mere slip of a girl who aspired to
usurp the throne of two old stagers ! Why, even
Mrs. Theophilus would be less dangerously blooming
by his side, for she was older than her spouse. Yet
even Wilks confessed that, as a player, she was passing
bad. So the leading man made himself very
unhappy and everyone else very uncomfortable, for
under the crust he loved his art too well not to
worship genius ; but then to play youths at sixty-three
with a heroine of twenty ! Of course she was
not a genius ; 'twas just like Oldfield's generosity.
The girl had beauty, nothing else ; of this he was
stubbornly determined, and put off the evil day as
long as possible, while Gibber raved and Oldfield
smiled, and Bab studied with assiduity.

Theoo was mischievously gleeful over his parent's
discomfiture, for his attempt in favour of Charlotte
had caused an increased coolness between the twain,
and threatened to lead to estrangement. Colley was
domineering and inordinately vain, and a point was
not likely to be won, as his son speedily discovered,
by showing him up before his patrons. Theoo in this
affair did not display mundane wisdom ; for what
cared the Duchess or Lord BoHngbroke about the
Gibber family, save in so much as they amused them
and helped to keep dulness at arm's length ?

The heart of the old man was closed the firmer

against his daughter by the narrative in the toy-shop,
and a soreness was engendered against his son thereby
which boded no good to the scapegrace. Theoo
never could be earnest but by fits and starts, and
though he talked much and was full of schemes, was
really dependent on his father — a condition of vassalage
of which that autocrat was jealous. Barbara,
however, was — unusual thing in this world — a gainer
by a good action ; for Charlotte, if crazy and erratic,
was, in quiet moods, intelligent, and accustomed to
the usage of the stage. Her patience in hearing the
neophyte repeat tirades seemed inexhaustible, and
some of the remarks she made thereon were full of
valuable suggestion. A period of peace and care did
much for the wits of the sufferer, who for the present
was content to dwell in strictest privacy for fear of
hovering foes. In a fitful spirit of independence she
would absent herself sometimes under cover of night,
and creep in when all were abed, much to the
scandal of Madam Walcot, who disapproved such
doings. But Barbara knew that she was gone to
offer herself at the booths, and was storing up the
proceeds ; for in the bundle that she carried was a
male Court suit, and a clean shirt and stockings —
sufficient stock-in-trade to ensure engagement at the
humbler temples of Thespis.

Thus the winter passed in skirmishes and bickering,
and the first appearance of the new goddess was
postponed. The excuses of Wilks were ingenious.

The " Orphan " is out of the repertoire,' he
urged. * Consider the wardrobe. The ladies will
be crying for new ostrich-plumes. Nothing so
costly as a new tragedy.'

Then we'll revive a comedy,' retorted brisk King
Coll.

The comedians must have broidered coats. The
habits for '*A11 for Love," remember, cost us 600
guineas.'

Cibber strove to propitiate his partner by providing
him with his favourite dish of fat capon and
orange sauce, but the latter refused to be wheedled
even by that delicate attention ; and at length,
Colley, losing patience, announced one day that,
come what would, the ' Orphan ' should be put into
rehearsal.

It won't do, sir !' snarled Wilks.

It shall do, sir!' retorted Colley, who became
ashy pale with rage when, arriving with the debutante
at the appointed hour, he found the stage deserted.
The actors had absented themselves for fear of
offending Wilks.

This was too much. Was the nickname of King
Coll a derisive sobriquet ? Was he, or was he nota
distinguished dramatist, and poet laureate to
boot, as well as a good player — every bit as good as
Wilks in his own more broadly comic vein ? Fairly
roused, he mounted his nag and galloped off to Isle-worth,
where, in a rural den called Ragman's Castle;

the enemy sat entrenched. What happened is too
awful to be chronicled by this pen ; suffice it to say
that the co-patentees ' had it out,' and that CoUey
emerged victorious. The ' Orphan ' was rehearsed,
Oldfield presiding, and Wilks mumbling Chamont
much against the grain. Indeed, Envy, Hatred, and
Malice reigned supreme behind the curtain, as they
always will and always have done. }»Iadam Gibber,
boiling with wrath at being cast for the second part,
cowered like a spitfire in the green-room ; the rest
of the company, not sure which way to trim their
sails, shambled about irresolute. Madam Walcot,
who clung to her backsliding child in spite of sin, asa
Christian mother should, kept up meanwhile a
minor accompaniment of moans, for was she not
grievously twitted by the brethren of her conventicle
for the errors of her offspring ?

Things did not look promising, for Bab, flung thus
into a vortex of unkindness, seemed cowed in spite
of her high spirit, rallying now and again in flickering
flashes when encouraged by Walpole or the
Duchess. Those of a future generation who may
read these lines when this hand is dust, must remember
that the theatre of this day was a public
place, where people met and gossiped and exchanged
scandal, as they did at the toy-shop or the auction.
In 1717 an attempt was made to clear at least the
arena of the actors from the mob of gabbling beaux
and belles who, sitting round on chairs, impeded the

action of the players. But the edict very soon
became a dead letter, and Madam Walcot was not
so far wrong when she complained that sparks of
fashion had been known to force their way into the
very dressing-bowers of the actresses. It was left to
Mr. Garrick finally to pen the audience within their
legitimate demesne. At the period whereof I am
discoursing now, the idle fair were carried to the
theatre to rehearsal, and made such a clatter there
that the actors, uncertain of their words, and yet not
daring to remonstrate, were driven often to distraction
; while coxcombs of rank interrupted the
business of the scene to hand a billet-doux, or
whisper of a meeting in the Park.

Our poor Bab stood in need of all her nerve to
affront this ordeal, with a prospect in the immediate
future of a still more trying one. When Sir Robert
looked in — he could snatch moments from affairs of
State to watch his protegee — she always could find a
smile for him ; but behind the Minister, like a shadow,
stood ever that florid, handsome man, with pockmarked
face and broad round shoulders, who
scanned her with an eagerness that caused the maid
to colour. Why should she object to the attentions
of Honest Jack Crump — Sir Robert's secretary and
friend — a man who was making his mark, and was,
moreover, a general favourite ? Why, indeed ? She
was not sure that she did object to him particularly
or would not have done so but for her mother's

teasing. True, he was not of noble birth ; but what
was that to her, since she had vowed she would never
marry ? He was an athletic, manly fellow, with a
well-knit person, but slightly disfigured by a slouch.
His auburn hair, showing through the powder, gave
a glow of warmth to his face that was becoming.
As for ravages of smallpox, they could count for
nothing, since one man and woman in every ten bore
the print of that disease. The only really repellent
characteristic of Honest Jack was a somewhat glassy
eye — the deadest eye, Bab said (who was not given
to reverence), ever seen in any creature above the
eminence of a haddock. But perchance she had
looked on him after a debauch, when, in truth, his
eyes had a way of sinking into his head, as if gone into
unriddle his brains. Yet which of us, I pray
you, would care to be seen by his adored under such
circumstances ? Verily, we do not look our best
after our fifth bottle of priest port — when our eyelids
are leaden, our temples throbbing, our tongue like
hardened leather — when our valet carries us to
bed ! 'Twas indeed unfortunate for Jack if Bab had
really seen him drunk ; for then the worst side would
show, and he be quarrelsome and disagreeable. At
any rate, he was persistent in his wooing — a trifle too
importunate, perhaps, by fits and starts — had made a
grievous error, unless I am mistaken, when he thought
of engaging mamma to make love for him bv proxy.
This must have been Bab's reason for turning
VOL. I. 7

away whenever Jack looked at her — for when men
of fashion made a point of being drunk at least four
times a week, the fish-like aspect of an eye was a
common sight enough. I know not whether you
have yet perceived that Bab did not love her serious
mother. There was little reason why she should,
since she had been a stranger to maternal caresses
until five years ago, and even then when the twain
came together the affection of the elder had been of
the aggressive order, in the form of moral teachings.
Ill-regulated Bab not unnaturally argued that if her
mamma was so very anxious for her to flee from impending
wrath, she might have shown the anxiety
earlier.

Unless I am careful, you will certainly agree with
the ladies when they declared Mrs. Pilot to be a
hussy ; and yet I would not have you so determine.
While full of pity for the unfortunate, there was a
certain hardness, an independence of the antagonistic
order about the girl which rather suited her commanding
style, and which was clearly due to the fact
of her having been motherless and fatherless until
her character was formed. A father she had never
known. And what excuses may not be made for a
sensitive organization which has not tasted of a
mother's loving care until the bud is ready to blow ?
And what care at last ! Droning moral discourse
varied with daily attendance in a fashionable toy-shop
haunt of rakes and desires !

I

Amorous Mr. Crump's apprehensions were realized
even before that fatal moment which was to make or
mar the debutante — for there were some who disagreed
with Wilks's dictum that youth and beauty area
snare ; and were irreverent enough to consider
that all the nine Muses together would fly up in the
scale if weighed against one of the Graces. And was
not the coming young woman three Graces rolled
into one, with Venus superadded ? In the Richmond
toy-shop Bab had learned to sharpen her tongue on
the grindstone of repartee, and could give or take a
quip with any ; and it was a new excitement, as
bracing as a cordial to the jaded beaux, to delve
cunning pitfalls for Bab to fall into. They would
come in curl-papers to rehearsal, and lay traps for
her, revelling exceedingly in the flash of the nutbrown
eye, and the turn of the scornful neck, and
the rise and fall of the palpitating bosom, recking
little of their own subsequent discomfiture. And
she would grow genuinely hot, and flourish the lance
of an Amazon, not perceiving that she was being
deftly drawn out in mischief, because connoisseurs
admired her wrath.

Among the pallid and dyspeptic crowd there was
one who was a very gadfly, and who, by reason of
his success in drawing Bab, turned the jealousy of
Crump yet greener. This was my Lord Byron, who,
as the most rakehelly youth of his day, had fairly
won his spurs. By his own account this rantipole

7—2

had already, at the age of twenty, dealt more destruction
among female ranks than Marlborough among
the enemy ; had kept an exact register of all his
conquests, the days, hours and circumstances of
victory, which he was ready to show for the asking.
Hot in pursuit, he was ; extravagant in purchase,
tired of the bauble he had bought before he could
have learned its value.

This beardless boy, veneered with premature old
age, was to Bab a fascinating problem. Even she,
with all her experience of the seamy side of nature
around the Richmond Wells, had never seen such a
weird elf. Barely five feet high, and as frail as a
curl-paper, there was nothing too advanced for this
devil's spawn. London, well-used to the Mohock
vagaries of the quality, was constantly marvelling at
his wild tricks. Only t'other day he had invited Mr.
Rich's chief dancer to take an airing in a phaeton,
and whipping his six bays into a gallop, had vanished
with his prize in the direction of his country-seat.
Vainly the lady pleaded her engagement and the
quandary which her absence would create. Enjoying
her distress, my lord locked the fair one within a
chamber at the inn where they stopped to bait ; but
when the horses were put to again, changed his
mind, and drove calmly back to town alone, leaving
the damsel to rail and return as best she might.

Of course his lordship had done the grand tour ;
that is, he had rushed through France and Italy,

despising both, and consorting with none but
Englishmen : and on the strength of the rapid
journey set up, of course, as a patron of the fine
arts. Strolling into the Drury Lane green-room
one morning, he beheld for the first time a tall
vision in a red cotton sacque, whose outward aspect
pleased him.

A woman of fashion,' he observed, feeling the
dress daintily 'twixt thumb and finger, ' should wear
silk.'

I am no woman of fashion, thank my stars !'
replied Bab, surveying the little man, then returning
to the study of her play-book.

Why thank your stars ?'

Because fashion and naughtiness are one,' returned
the maiden demurely.

Height mighty!' scoffed his lordship; 'folks

who do naughty things are punished. People of

quality are not punished. Ergo ! they don't do

naughty things !'

U An involuntary smile curled the lip of Mrs. Pilot,

whereupon my lord plumped forth without more ado

/ his usual offer.

Wauns !' he cried ; ' man without woman is buta,
single boot! Trust to my honour, and you shall
wear farms and houses in each ear, ten thousand
loads of timber round your neck,'

Honour !' laughed Bab, with a pirouette. ' When
I resign my liberty, it shall be to a round gold ring

and coach-and-six. Honour nowadays forbids men
to accept injuries, but not to do them. Merci, petit
monstre /'

What the devil's that, madam ?' inquired his
perplexed lordship.

You've been the tour and can't speak French ?'

Not a syllable, upon my soul and body, except an
oath or two.'

Bab laughed loudly, and would have rejoined with
a pert sally had not my Lord Forfar stepped in at
this juncture and fixed his melancholy eyes on her.
Like everybody else, Lord Forfar came to the playhouse
; but he did not behave somehow as others
did. Not that it signified to Bab who came to the
playhouse. She could hold her own against Mrs.
Belfield, a worthy adversary, and could therefore
easily shrivel a mere man. And yet it vexed the
maid to think that the Scotch lord was watching
her, studying her movements, delving into her character.
What right had he to gaze with dreamy
looks in which sat reproach ? For her acts she was
answerable to none — had long since sent her weariful
mother to the right about. Smarting under something
that seemed akin to surveillance, I regret to
say that the tongue of Barbara grew waspish, and
she would indulge in sallies that were not becoming
in a maiden. And afterwards she would blame herself,
and wonder, marvelling what demon of mischief
it could be that impelled her to play an unworthy part

before the Scotchman. And then she would argue
with herself. There was nothing, and there never
could be anything 'twixt the player of Drury Lane
and the punctilious Jacobite. Of course it could
matter nothing to him what she said or what she
did, and yet 'twas annoying to think that through her
own acts and words he was led to cultivate a wrong
opinion. She read his speeches in the Gazette, and
saw plainly that they were far from clever ; but she
would not permit her patron. Sir Robert, to say so ;
and waxed very furious indeed when he said she was
biassed and a pervert. The neophyte was quite
certain that if Lord Forfar had abstained from attending
the theatre she would have felt relieved ;
and yet when she asked herself why, no answer was
forthcoming from within.

The conduct of Lord Byron was calculated to
distract Mrs. Pilot from such idle self-examinations.
The more she twitted and curled her cherry
lips at him, the more he bit his nails, swearing to
storm the fortress. And then what peals of laughter
rippled through the green-room !

You !' she cried ; ' a grasshopper ! For two pins
I'll take you on my back! Perchance your tiny
lordship would like a jaunt round Covent Garden ?'

He presented the would-be actress with the
diamond bow out of his hat, which she straightway
flung out of the window, and leaned on her plastic
arms with shouts of merriment when he scampered

into the mud to fetch it. He sent to her lodging a
costly Steinkirk of the finest Venice point, which she
burned upon a dish, returning the ashes with a
curtsey. Theophilus deemed this vain fooling, for
every actress might accept favours without call for
favours in return.

Nothing from that tadpole !' replied Barbara.
If I succeed I'll e'en take presents like the rest ;
but it becomes not a toy-shop wench to accept jewels
or costly laces from little frights.'

There were such constant passages between the
gleesome pair that watchful Crump was fain to groan
and beat his breast in anguish. Oh, clumsy Madam
Walcot, to have served his cause so ill !

Why not have married, then ?' replied that lady,
with exasperating monotony. * She's slipping from
your fingers, and mine too, for that matter.'

Ah, woe and ill a day ! Why, indeed ? When
madam suggested that perhaps it was not yet too
late, the secretary became irresolute again, as shilly-shally
as before. Verily, as things were, neither
assailant was like to storm the fortress. There was
a scornful self-reliance about the aspirant for honours
which boded no good to either suitor. Accustomed
to the ways of a debased society, she was no more
squeamish than the fine lords and ladies who swept
around holdings Nature's mirror ; but she was no
timid bird to perch unawares on the lime, and be
amazed to find herself undone.

Everything comes, they say, to those who wait ;
and though Lord Byron's wish seemed no more
likely to be gratified as days wore on, with the
maid's desire it was otherwise. Mr. Otway's
Orphan ' having been rehearsed, it was in due
course announced that on a certain Saturday (the
ladies' day, when the elite were certain to attend), at
5.30 of the clock, a young person would appear as
Monimia for the first time on any stage. When it
became known that the nameless young person was
the Richmond toy-shop girl, that she was befriended
by the Duchess of Queensberry and the First Minister,
that for the latter's sake royal Caroline herself had
promised to be present, there was such a rush for
tickets that even vast Drury was too small to house
the throng, and it became necessary to build horseshoe
tiers of galleries upon the stage to accommodate
the brilliant company.

A full gathering was not without its perils, and Bab
was well aware of the dangers she was called upon to
face. At this time, when there were but two licensed
theatres, certain parts were considered by certain
actresses, as Mrs. Gibber had hinted, as much their
own property as their clothes, and there was always
a set of unruly gallery boys ready to hiss usurpers.
Indeed, the practice became so intolerable about the
year 1726, that stern measures had to be taken to
preserve the peace. It was the pernicious habit,
too, of frolicsome young gentlemen to make up a

party at the tavern for early dinners; whence, having
tossed down their wine too rapidly, they made for
the stage-door, and being hustled about behind the
crowded scenes, gave vent to flustered temper. Sometimes
a spirit of unruliness and mischief would
induce them even to stop the performance, by bawling
out, * Demy, Jim ! 'tis confounded stuff! Let's
move to cards in the Piazza.' Whereon the footmen
and prentices above, being haply of a different
opinion, would retort with missiles, and both parties
end in the watch-house.

The footmen at this moment were a formidable
crew, for but a short while since, deeming themselves
ill-used, they had stood up for their rights,
and gained the day. Because they chose to make
such a noise in their gallery that no one could hear
the performance, the doors of Drury Lane were
closed against them. Waiting for a Saturday when
royalty was present, they made a breach with cudgels
and staves, and carried the stage-door by dint of oak,
beating down candle-snuffers, box-keepers, sending
the players flying. Colonel de Veil, who chanced to
be present, sent for the foot-guards and expelled the
rioters, who moved to the Goat and Harp and held
a meeting. Anonymous letters were thrown down
the areas of persons of fashion, threatening vengeance,
breaking of windows and burning of mansions — if
they were deprived of what they termed their privileges.
It was thought prudent to give way ; the

gallery doors were reopened, and the victorious
knights of the shoulder-knot bawled with more
vigour than before.

Now, as to the fate of the neophyte, opinions were
much divided. She was too saucy and contumacious
to truckle or crave favours. Yet public opinion is
sure to lean in favour of a pretty woman. But there
were those who Vv^ere swayed in a contrary direction
by various motives. It was well-known that Mr.
Wilks was averse to the maiden ; that he had
publicly spoken of her as an ignorant girl at Button's
coffee-house ; and there where not a few who were
inclined to curry favour with the demigod. Moreover,
there was spitfire Madam Theophilus hovering
about, who declared that an honest crust was being
wrested from between her teeth. Spitfire Madam
Theoo, consumed by wicked thoughts, was resolved
upon the downfall of Barbara. Was it not insolent
and not to be endured, that a venerable patentee and
father-in-law, who ought to look after his own, should
deliberately foist on a deluded public a minx, to the
detriment of established actresses ? Colley's conduct
had been most abominable ; for, not content
with forcing a brainless idiot down the throat of his
co-patentee, because she was not quite ugly, he had
actually taken every available measure to ensure her
success. His myrmidons — candle-snuffers. Grub
Street authors, what not — were posted about to
applaud at certain points. He had even taken the

girl to the best mantua-maker to be measured for a
brand-new frock, whereas, as all the world knows,
tragedy queens are usually content to be attired in
cast-off gowns of the quality. Empresses appear in
black velvets (made for some royal mourning) thrown
aside by great ladies, while virgins and brides are
satisfied with old tissue petticoats slightly soiled,
bought from the abigail. Was it not then enough
to fill the breast of Madam Theophilus with righteous
ire to look down on herself in a faded birthday
gown once owned by a maid of honour, whilst this
upstart hussy flaunted in a crisp lustring fresh from
the fingers of the milliner ?

But the candles are all lighted, and make a
splendid show, for on a Saturday the ladies come to
be seen, and don their best clothes — often the only
things to be admired about them. The preliminary
scraping of catgut hath scarce been heard, for the
house is so packed that the atmosphere teems with
chatter. * Off my toes, friend !' entreats a gouty
citizen, while his wheezy wife begs for a little air.
Despite the presence of royalty, prentices doff their
coats and sit in their shirt sleeves. Footmen lounge
in the boxes at first, to show their liveries, and keep
the places till their masters come ; then retire to
their special gallery to hoot and shout at their fellows.
The ladies rustle in with stiff brocades, curtsey to
their acquaintance, and arrange their fans upon the
spikes. Desires drop their masks under pretence

of heat, and display their paint unchecked. 'Show
us the new slut,' they cry. * As for the " Orphan,"
out on 't! until the fourth act, 'tis milk-and-waterish.'
Mr. Otway lacks pepper ; for are not frivolity,
sensuality, profligacy, the recognised attributes of the
restored theatre from Dryden to Vanbrugh ? and
doth not our new King George always command the
loosest comedy when he visits the patent houses ?
'Tis pleasing to mark how regular are the gradations
of society from floor to ceiling. The critics are
ranged upon the parterre — a solemn flight — among
them Mr. Town, acknowledged mouthpiece, who,
like the foreman of a jury, gives the final fiat. In
the first circle sit ladies of the second rank, right or
left, according to their political creed of Whig or
Tory. The former are in a mighty flutter this afternoon,
for Walpole's protegee should be a Whig — and
yet she's supported by her Grace of Queensberry,
who flirts with Bolingbroke. Maybe the new
Monimia will settle the question of her political faith
by wearing the Whig colours, in which case the
popular party will stand by her to a woman, however
poor an artist.

On the second tier are its' wives and daughters,
who look wan from lack of paint ; above them a
magpie crew of abigail. The elite are, of course,
upon the stage (though they've paid for places in the
house), ranged in rows on the temporary edifices, so
that the player who has succeeded in forcing his way

through the crowd to the lights, stands 'twixt a
double audience — one in front, and one behind — to
each of which he addresses his words alternately.
Mr. Ambassador Hastang (ancient satyr) hath sent
a purse of fifty guineas for a box, though he elects to
perch on a rickety bench shoulder to shoulder with
Lord Byron. The Duchess of Queensberry has an
elbow-chair set for her (being a great personage)
close to the O. P. wing, and as she has claimed a
second for Mrs. Belfield, the actors are hard put toit
to get politely off upon that side without infringing
on her Grace's draperies. Sir Robert Walpole,
detained by business, hath sent Mr. Crump to keep
his place for him, and the latter glare so fiercely at
the tiny Byron as bodeth no good unto that thread-paper.


But soft ! the moment has arrived. Castillo and
Polydore have shuffled on past her obstructing
Grace with deprecating bows, and on the other side
enters Monimia, the Orphan. For an instant belles
and beaux cease their clatter, and give vent to an
involuntary murmur of approval, while Gibber and
Wilks exchange glances. The former feels that his
independent act with regard to his partner can only
be condoned by success, and the latter having surveyed
himself but now in a mirror attired for
Chamont, and having remarked the wrinkles on his
throat, is deep in a fit of sulks. Bab's long dark
hair hangs down her back in waves. Her youthful

form (' Upright as a stock cauliflower,' the Duchess
whispers to Gay) is well set off by a simple robe of
white, decked with no ornaments save a necklet of
brilliant lent by her noble patroness. She trips
forward, leaning on a page, and is so fresh a dream
of youthfulness that a burst of encouragement greets
her entry. But, about to speak, she starts, and
visibly turns pale. A long and steady hiss from the
upper gallery — cold, steely, harsh, uncompromising,
like the break of a wave upon a reef. Wilks smiles,
Gibber looks furious. With an execration Lord
Byron draws his sword and struggles against the
restraining hand of Ambassador Hastang. In another
minute he would have been over the orchestra,
driving a frantic blade into the internal economies of
its, but happily is restrained in time. Lord Forfar
is nonplussed, and scarce knows what to do. The
behaviour of the debutante of late has been, he is
compelled to consider, lamentably wanting in propriety
; and yet how gentle and good she was to that
poor helpless mad woman ! At any rate, fair play
hath ever been a jewel dear to British hearts, and
'tis evident that this is a cabal. So he unsheathed his
sword, and waits to see what will next befall.

Mr. Grump glances viciously at Madam Walcot,
who, the cloak of the debutante upon her arm, draws
away silently. Mr. Gay, urged by the Duchess,
makes a step forward to address the house — an
unnecessary move, for the titillation is drowned by

a loud burst from Mr. Gibber's contingent. But the
arrow ungenerously aimed seems to have hit its
mark. The necessary sympathetic bond 'twixt actress
and audience is missing. Bab speaks the words
set down as if stupefied — hesitatingly — in a dream ;
and the desires titter as the curtain falls on the
first act ; for she vows she ' will hold her honour safe
from the wiles of faithless men,' just as she might
call a chair, or command a dish of tea.

King Coll is in a frenzy. Alternately he scolds the
numbed Monimia, and apostrophizes her Grace the
Duchess, entreating her to intervene. Gentlemen
buzz from place to place, before and behind the
curtain, saluting friends ; while The ladies take
pinches of their favourite dust, or, pulling out paint-boxes
and tiny mirrors, repair the damage of the
vizard. The second act passes, and the third.
Madam Theophilus beams with triumph, which is
partly shared by Mr. Crump ; for now, sure, the
stricken and mortified beauty will retire to the
Richmond toy-shop, and, rendered humble by failure,
prove a ready prey. Yet who in stage matters
shall presume to be a prophet ? While the curtain
is down, the Duchess scolds the aspirant, shaking
her like a naughty child. She dubs her ' poltroon '
and * coward ' — words which the girl repeats again
and again to herself with white lips.

With the dreadful fourth act Bab seems to wake.
Her eyes are bright with a feverish gleam. The

opposition, who have not deemed it necessary to
bring forth the whip again, are electrified ; for rising
to the occasion in its exaggerated horror and difficulty,
the debutante flings off the trammels of fear,
and fairly brings down the house. Madam Walcot
is genuinely terrified, for, not having attended during
rehearsal, she wist not of the argument, and folds
her white hands, aghast at the unsavoury story.
That a maiden who has been so exhorted should
elect to show her face before a vast audience in such
a situation — and that not she nor any of the gaping
crowd should be ashamed — passes the understanding
of Madam Walcot, and she looks on in troubled
silence. Hastang leers, Lord Byron consorts himself
with relish, murmuring from time to time in his
delight, ' Wauns ! unscrew my vitals !' and when the
curtain drops there is a rush towards the trembling
heroine, who is half smothered with embraces.

Didn't I say so?' cries exultant King Coll. ' My
dear, forgive me !' ejaculated Mr. Wilks, lifting
Monimia off the ground in newborn enthusiasm. * I
was wrong, and crave pardon. Thou art a divine
creature, full of the true afflatus !'

The delighted Duchess claps her on the back, and
offers a pinch from her own jewelled box.

My love, I knew you could do it if you tried !'
she cries in immense good-humour. * Wasn't it
admirable, Pamela ? Mr. Gay shall write a piece for
you — your fortune's made !'

VOL. I. 8

If so, 'tis your Grace I have to thank,' murmurs
the panting girl, who, shivering still, is red and white
by turns. ' CoiL^ard and porson. That was the lash
that woke me. Please God, I never will be
either !'

I fear you'll never need my protection, for sour
fortune is certainly made,' laughs Ambassador
Hastang, showing his yellow fangs, whereupon my
Lord Byron, who knows not of the jest between the
twain, concerning the bum bailiffs and the post of
housekeeper, half draws his unruly spit.

Everyone on the stage is full of congratulation
except three persons only. Madam Walcot is too
scandalized for speech ; Mr. Crump, usually so good-natured,
hath much ado to conceal his disappointment
; Madam Gibber is fairly beside herself with
bile and rankling resentment.

But though the victory is apparently gained, the
battle is not quite over. Her Majesty, after sending
a kindly message of compliment through Sir Robert
Walpole, retires. The occupants of the upper
galleries stand in knots with their backs to the stage,
discoursing in low tones ; perceiving which, certain
respectable citizens in broadcloth lead forth their
ladies ere the play is done. Experience tells them
that there will be a tussle yet — the atmosphere is
surcharged with thunder — so it behoved them to
look after the comfort of their womankind. The footmen
from their place also perceive that there is

something in the wind, and are not sparing in their
menaces and gibes. The curtain rises for the last
time. Monimia, in white muslin, with hair dishevelled,
enters, distraught with woe. Mr. Wilks, suddenly
converted, looks on musingly. What if this really
was to be the coming woman ? She has displayed
fitful sparks of first-rate talent. Oldfield, the incomparable,
had said that she would do, and was she
not always right ? Nature, who had been lavish in
external gifts, did not seem inclined to withhold
others. Height, dignity, grace, beauty — were all
there ; and the light of a burning soul, or something
like it, seems to flicker from the nut-brown eyes.
Hark ! That sound again ! A low steady hiss, like
the breaking of the surf upon the reefs. There is a
commotion through the house — a wrathful impulse
as men turn to seek the cause of the interruption.
Indignant, Mr. Town rises in his place in the pit and
addresses the gallery. Never was anything so
unseemly or outrageous. Little Lord Byron and my
Lord Forfar, drawing their swords again, summon
the beaux to follow, and rushing out of the stage-door,
perform a strategic movement towards the
front. The ladies encourage the invaders from the
boxes, and for a few moments the walls of venerable
Drury echo with sounds of strife. 'Tis but fora
brief while, however, for the footmen, commanded
by their masters now, speedily quell the riot. The
upper gallery is cleared with a rush ; the malcontents,

8—2

hurled down the steep stone stairs, are landed in the
kennel outside the temple, with broken sconces for
their pains ; the knots of conspirators are dislodged
from the dark corners of the pit, and driven forth
into the street. Lords, its, and servants for once
are of one mind. The new beauty is a victim of
conspiracy ; that much is clear. A round of applause
from the fair — a tapping of fans upon the spikes —
greets the chivalrous beaux as, arranging torn
ruffles, they take their places again, and, the curtain
(which had descended) having been rung up, all settle
down with decorum, to follow the end of the
tragedy.

When that cruel sound was heard for the second
time the Duchess turned anxiously to mark its effect
upon the debutante, and was glad to perceive that she
did not flinch. Leaning against the wing, one hand
in old Colley's, the other in that of Mr. Wilks, she
scarce seemed to hear their words of encouragement,
murmuring to herself from time to time ' coward and
poltroon !'

No. She doth not flinch nor shrink. Sustained
by some masterful power within, she proceeds with
the scene, gifted with the courage of a veteran, amid
shouts and ' vives,' and holding the situation in a
firm grasp, carries it safely to the awful end, when,
lying down to die, Monimia murmurs, ' 'Tis very
dark — good-night !' For the rest of the play none
care a jot. Though Wilks, the favourite leading

man, is on the stage, it concludes amid a hubbub of
talk. For sure, such a thing was never seen before.
Many an aspirant had been ungenerously crushed —
'twas too much the fashion of the day — by organized
envy ; but here was an inexperienced maid — a beauty
too — who from her conduct at the commencement
of proceedings was evidently sensitive, yet who
had clenched her teeth, as it were, and knit her fists
in the face of peril like a dauntless little warrior !
A heaven-born genius she might or might not prove
to be ; but as to her pluck, and courage, and will,
there could be no doubt. So Mr. Town rises in his
place, and formally announces in the name ofthe house
that the performance must be repeated during the
week, which is equivalent to a verdict of success.
This done, the audience quietly depart, talking oftener
wonder.

The ordeal through which Bab had passed with
triumph was no doubt a severe one ; and Madam
Walcot gazed at the hard resolute look upon her
daughter's face, much as the timid and astonished
hen may gaze at the cygnet she hath hatched.
Catching the eye of Mr. Crump, she shrugged her
shoulders pettishly. Had he marked that look?
Much influence was she like to have over this stubborn
maiden, much power over her resolves ! Yet,
please God, she would stand by her in the dangerous
path which she had chosen, and be a mother if she
might.

Little Lord Byron was quite exploding with
appreciation ; and, revolving in his mind how to
possess himself of the treasure, eyed my Lord
Forfar with undisguised dislike, as that melancholy
peer added his blossom to the chaplet. Not that he
need have given himself the trouble, for there was a
something of unintentional patronage about the
words of the Scot which brought the hot independent
blood to Mrs. Pilot's cheeks, and induced her to
turn abruptly from him, and thank her friend the
Duchess.

My dear,' her Grace remarked, *you are worth
helping, and I am proud of you.'

Your Grace helped me indeed,' responded the
actress, ' and at a critical moment. " Coward and
poltroon " were two cuts across the face which roused
all the forces of my nature.'

'Tis a pleasure to find such manly force in
woman !' drawled Mrs. Belfield lazily. * As a rule
the female creature is no higher in the order of
things than a cat, or more useful than a butterfly ;
but you, madam, will be one of the immortals.'

A fig for immortality,' retorted Bab, * if you
mean by it posthumous repute. Unless our lives befit
to serve as finger-posts to those who struggle still
(and how few may endure that test !), 'tis better
when we die to be forgot — to be lost in the dim
cohort of the unsatisfactory and incomplete. No ! I
am young and strong, and full of life, and I want to

live — not sordidly to exist and drag a chain. I want
to be rich, esteemed, admired — above mean and
sordid cares. If this may be, I wish to live ; if not,
I wish to die, the sooner the better.'

A worldly, reckless creed for a girl yet in her teens
a craven creed too, much as she resented
poltroon and coward.' What ? In a world whose
portion is suffering and bitterness this mortal was to
be guaranteed from the common lot of all, or to be
removed to a better sphere 1 Mrs. Bab's remark fell
on the circle like a shower of water. Lord Forfar
raised his brows, for was she not tempting Providence
? The Duchess frowned. Mr. Wilks
looked grave, and laying his hand upon Bab's arm,
said :

^ Thou hast done well, and art a divine creature,
worthy to be Oldfield's pupil. But the boards of the
stage are slippery. Come to me in need, and I will
ever be thy friend. Remember that all men are
rascals, all women vain and over-fond of finery !' and
so withdrew.

That's true enough, I verily believe !' Bab murmured.
Then rousing herself, she said gaily, ' Will
it please your Grace to visit the green-room ? After
the play is done, 'tis the resort of wit and quality.'

And of cards and dicing,' added the Duchess,
with a head-shake. ' The actresses lose their jewels
there, I'm told, as well as their wardrobes, salaries,
and reputations. The love of gambling hath been

the curse of England ever since the South Sea

Bubble.'

' Let us go !' cried the Honourable Pamela. ' That

dismal tragedy was soundly depressing.'

Bab, cloaked and muffled, led the way towards the
green-room, expecting to find it full of sparks and
desires, drinking and playing cards ; but what washer
surprise to behold in a murky corner leading
towards a row of dressing-rooms a tall gaunt woman
who waved a long thin arm. Charlotte here on
her parent's territory ! What madcap flight was
this?

'Tis Madam Charke,' she said to the Duchess,
who beckons us to follow.'

Marry come up !' responded her jubilant Grace.
Shall we humour the Bedlamite ?'

Mrs. Pilot is vastly brave, or I should dread
some snare,' giggled Mrs. Belfield.

Charlotte, gliding before, led the way up a narrow
staircase, and stopping at a door with Madam
Cibber's name on it, flung it open suddenly.

A flood of light. Around a table were gathered a
throng of the small fry, engaged in the consumption
of mutton-pies, while on it stood no less a person
than Madam Theophilus, who waved a pewter pot.

Height mighty ! what have we here ?' ejaculated
the Duchess.

Mrs. Theophilus ceased in the midst of an harangue,
and looked confused.

Charlotte Charke, the maniac !' she stammered
at length.

No one said a word ; so, descending from her
eminence, she cried with a forced laugh :

If her sire knew of this she'd quickly be expelled.
We are unhappy in our relatives !'

We are,' mocked Charlotte, with eyes like burning
coals. ' You wist not that I watched you. 'Tis
she, the traitress, who planned the riot to-night ;
and I said she should be exposed, if I had to tear off
the mask with my own nails!'

The crew about the table guiltily ceased munching,
and slunk sheepishly out of the chamber. 'Twas
an embarrassing discovery. Presently the Duchess
broke the silence.

Bab, my dear,' she observed drily, ' you must be
tired. You've fallen among loose varmint, I'm
afraid. Come to me tomorrow, for I would speak
with you. Please Heaven, no ill will come of your
new profession.'

If there does, 'twill be your fault.' Madam
Walcot could not help exclaiming ; and the Duchess
was fain to remark to Mrs. Belfield as they drove
away :

I must watch over this girl. Loose and crooked
varmint, and she a froward slut !'

BAB CLINCHES THE NAIL.'

T must be admitted that her Grace's
misgivings were justified, anent the responsibility
wherewith she had saddled
herself. She had deliberately interfered
between a mother and child, and had started the
child against her mother's wish in a career which
was fraught with danger to the most wary. Her
sense told her that Mrs. Pilot was stubborn and
self-willed ; and she felt with a pang that if the
beautiful toy-shop girl were to come to shipwreck,
she, the Duchess, would be partly responsible for
the mishap. 'Tis a complex character, she mused,
woven in black and white, as is that of all of us : but
the pattern in this case is so inordinately complicated,
that 'tis hard to say which of the two
shades predominates. Bab's consistent and unvarying
kindness to the poor helpless waif, Madam
Charke, was in her favour, and Charlotte's devotion

in return was of that wistful all-devouring kind
which we find among dogs more frequently than
human beings. In the presence of certain persons
■ — Sir Robert Walpole especially — Barbara's harshness
softened, which showed that her clay was
malleable and sensitive ; but at other times she
would fling forth such harsh and brazen sentiments
as, in one so young and inexperienced, fairly took
her Grace's breath away, although that fine lady
had not lived in a polite world for nothing. She felt
glad as, her women having curtseyed themselves
out, she ruminated in bed that the maiden had been
summoned for the morrow, and ere she closed her
eyes in sleep registered a mental resolve to prepare
a sound lecture for the morning.

Bab, who was no fool, was perfectly aware that
she was about to be sermonized, and feeling no little
aggrieved thereat — for she objected to moral discourse
as much as the Honourable Pamela — did
what many another pretty woman would have done
in her place — namely, she popped on her most
bewitching frock and cardinal, and figged herself
out in her best pinners. So splendid a creature as
Mrs. Pilot could appear when arrayed for conquest
was not surely one to be lectured like a schoohvench ;
even the domineering Duchess would see that, and
hold her peace. Since arriving in town, she had
inaugurated a real silken sacque. On the subject of
lectures, Barbara felt uncharitable ; for is it not too

bad to be neglected until years of discretion, and
then be exhorted hourly to make up lost time ?
And what was the great crime which brought down
so many platitudes? Merely that, too honest to
conceal her thoughts, she blurted out her views, and
aired her opinions openly, instead of lowering her
eyes, and looking prunes and prism. And what was
the matter with her opinions that folks should be so
shocked ? She did not read loose books, and hide
them under sofa-cushions, as modish misses did ;
nor ogle beaux in the park, and conceal clandestine
billets. She declared plainly and simply that her
way of life must depend upon her treatment. She
had never asked to come into the world ; but being
here, she found it fair, and claimed a right of enjoyment.
If this was to be withheld, how unjust to
have been landed here at all ! Such was her theory.
If rubbed the right way, like a cat she was prepared
to purr; but if beaten she would scratch — oh yes,'
she would scratch, and fight with teeth and claws !
It was this deliberate determination as to the claws
which frightened people ; for meekness, or the assumption
thereof, is becoming in young persons — ^
not the truculent head-toss that seems to say,
Beware of striking me, lest I hit you back, for you
will find my muscles tough.' The motto ' Nemo
me impune lacessit ' sits ill on a virgin brow.
Madam Theophilus was aware of this attitude, and
felt that she had grievously erred. It was bad

enough to have failed in an enterprise, but to have
been betrayed as the arch-conspirator — to be found
out — was very foolish, and she wondered with apprehension
as to the form which vengeance would
take. She was too small and mean herself to be
able to appreciate the largeness of a character like
Bab's. Had she succumbed, Barbara would probably
have sought out her foe, and have wrestled to the
death ; but having triumphed she heeded no more
the viper which would have stung her, but brushing
the reptile from the path was prepared to go her
ways, taking no further heed of it.

Altogether, the actress was in no mood for
sermons when, armed cap-a-pie, she stepped into a
chair, and bade the bearers trot to Burlington
Gardens. Reflections upon the abortive rage of
Madam Theophilus and the prowess of faithful
Charlotte were good for the temper ; so were the
details of her own success. It was something to
have justified King Coil's predictions ; something
more to have tamed the curmudgeon Wilks, and
made a friend of an enemy. It was delicious, too, to
feel that, in spite of the strain of last night's ordeal,
she was as fresh as a daisy, pining for further
victories ; that, tried to the utmost, her nerve and
stamina had stood her in good stead — had endured
wrung the tug of battle. On waking, she had
found Charlotte's loving eyes gazing down at her as
she laid three letters on the coverlet ; and Charlotte

laughed like a child as she perused them over her
friend's shoulder, in joy because she laughed. Fulsome,
absurd, but complimentary epistles. One was
a flowery effort from King Coll, full of delight and
jocund prophecy; the second overflowed with the
brimming affection of the ancient satyr Hastang ;
the third was from the incorrigible Byron, extremely
blotted and ill-spelt, with enlarged offers of settlement.


The actress had made her mark ; the world was at
her feet, and she was ready to purr. Was it not preposterous
to be called on at such a moment to humble
herself before a domineering grandee and receive
unmerited scolding? Well, the grandee had been
kind, and Bab was not one to display ingratitude.
She was no little astonished and mortified, therefore,
when she was informed by the porter at Queensberry
House that his mistress was not at home ; the more
so when she beheld her whilom protectress glaring
over a window-blind, looking her very stoniest.
Falteringly the girl explained that she had come by
appointment ; still the myrmidon vowed that his
mistress was not at home, his eye fixed the while on
that lady ; so there was nothing for it but to depart
somewhat crestfallen — and the young person
accordingly ordered her chairmen to St. James's
Street, that, her future being settled, she might seek
a becoming lodging. The very place to suit was
vacant — a charming first-floor at the sign of the

Lock of Hair, over against White's chocolate-house
three tiny chambers panelled in black oak, wherein
she and Madam Walcot and Charlotte could
abide — a lively and central spot — for after five years
at the cheerful Richmond shop a centre of gaiety was
essential. Over the way was a constant simmering
of gentlemen moving in and out of White's, like ants
about a hill. In the centre of the street, where
rushes in fine weather where neatly scattered to conceal
ruts and holes, was a long row of hackney-chairs
; down either side of the incline was an avenue
of flaming pictures, limned in brightest hues, swinging
from iron bars, with a kind of rusty music like that
from an aeolian harp — Golden Crowns, Mermaids,
Bears White and Brown, Dragons Green and Red,
Rising and Setting Suns — and at the end, looming
warm-grey against the vivid hues of signboards, the
twin turrets of the royal palace, with its white-framed
gate and windows. A charming and snug
spot for a dwelling-place — gay within as well as
without — for the ground-floor was occupied by a
peruquier who drove a roaring trade, to judge bathe
rows of lathered faces which might be counted
through the glass all day. The very place, Barbara
declared, without further ado, and engaged the
rooms — thereby deciding finally which was to be the
ruling spirit at the outset of her new career — she or
her preaching mother. Madam Walcot acquiesced
with meekness ; the die being cast, despite remonstrance,

there was nought for it but to succumb ; and
accordingly she arranged to let the toy-shop for the
present at least, and abide with her child in town.
Who so busy as Charlotte during the moving ; who
such a soul of energy ? To Madam Walcot's ill-disguised
chagrin she took everything in hand with
gestures of comical authority, ordering workmen
about with the consequential airs of an empress. The
poor thing seemed born for happy labour, so cheerfully
did she apply her shoulder to any wheel that
.offered. For a brief while the sun shone on Madam
Charke. Theoo, determined for once, had carried
out his project, and, despite his sire's threats, had
.engaged the little Haymarket. Though unable to
pay her debts, having an ample supply of his own,
he kept his promise of providing for his sister, installing
her in the proud post of reader to the management.
No need for the present, then, to steal out at
night and strut as Captain Plume, with heart in
mouth, dreading detection. The male garments and
clean stockings — envy of many a stroller — slept for
awhile in the cupboard. Scribblers more threadbare
than herself disgorged a paper shower which she
gleaned with pleased alacrity, sifting good from bad,
for the benefit of Theoo's players. Furtive groats
were hers, wails from aspiring penmen, which windfalls
were treasured in a pocket, to be expended later
on the puppets. Who might tell, she said, when
they must go forth again — she and her dumb army ?

The sun may shine all day, but dusk will follow.
Her husband — ah me ! At thought of him, though
far across the sea, she would shrink and shudder as
of yore, and the paleness of sickening fear would
blanch her cheek till comforted by Barbara. For
the phantom was ever at the gate, to re-enter, who
might say when ? ' He will never come back,' Bab
would whisper soothingly. Then, with hope renewed,
the light would glimmer in the haggard eyes, the
blood flow back to her lips.

Since that day at Richmond, when he smashed
the puppet-motion, Charlotte had never looked upon
her wicked husband, who had, in truth, sailed for the
Indies ; and as time wore on the throes of terror
racked her form at longer intervals. She was wont to
call herself the ' Ugly Duckling,' for, gaunt and spare,
she was not comely ; but her protectress dubbed her
Kitten,' for, growing calmer day by day, she gambolled
about the stairs carolling light snatches of
melody, or sat on a window-seat gazing into space
with solemn eyes, as kittens will when wearied outwith
play. And then — fitfully — how full she would
be of business ! Did not the dinners of the penmen
hang upon her fiat ? Beaming with important condescension,
she would set up Hero and Leander
(mended and new-dressed) and read to them reams
of turgid drama, or discuss with Alexander the
Great (who stared out of his glass goggle-eyes)
anent the merits of some interminable comedy. The

VOL. I. . g

Queen of Sheba was a bad audience, for she was apt
to look vacant and despairing, and tumble on her face,
while Susanna, on ' t'other hand,' was affable. ' My
company,' she would loftily declare, when Bab pretended
to rail, * is better than yours at Drury ; for
whate'er betide, these never misbehave, and their
patience is undying. My actresses are vestal, since
their hearts are made of wood. Your ladies at the
patent houses may be mercenary or weak enough to
be undone; but which of the gallants, I pray you, can
boast of a supper at Haddock's with sweet Sheba
there ?' So Charlotte grew radiant and content, with
occasional fits of despondency, and clung closer and
more close to the skirts of her dear protectress.

Mrs. Pilot repeated Monimia several times with
undiminished eclat, and forgot the mortification in
Burlington Gardens, for many personages of eminence,
ladies of rank, took her up, promised patronage
for a benefit, presented her with dresses and feathers.
As for the beaux, their attentions were oppressive ;
the top of St. James's Street might have been Parnassus,
with Apollo atop, for one or another was
constantly giving her * the music;' never was there
such fiddling and serenading as there was in honour
of the Diva by day and far into the night.

One morning early Barbara and Charlotte sallied
forth for a stroll among the country hedgerows about
Marylebone (footpads were abed by day), for there
was to be a rehearsal of 'Antony and Cleopatra,'

wherein Bab was to play the Queen ; and she Heed
to repeat her part aloud, unbuckramed in the sweet
air. Their homeward way, as it happened, led
them past Queensberry House, and Bab, hurrying
by, was surprised to perceive the Duchess nodding
and smiling at her. ' What a strange woman !' she
thought. ' How capricious are the great !' Her
Grace condescended to call out of the window and bid
the ladies in ; and when they were ushered into the
boudoir by lackeys who were now obsequious, they
beheld that august personage, her grace, standing
on a ladder, tied up in a holland apron, armed with
a great paste-brush.

My dear, I've got the plague — are you not
alarmed ?' she inquired, without turning. ' Xo — not
ill in health — but hated by their Majesties, which
should be the same thing as regards infection.
Glad to see you, my dears. Sit down. 'Tis ages
since we met.'

Bab and her friend glanced at each other, for
Charlotte knew the story of the previous visit.

No fault of mine,' remarked Bab. ' When
t'other day I came, your Grace, while staring full at
me, refused to let me in.'

The Duchess turned on the ladder and glanced
down.

Was that you ?' she inquired, with well-acted
surprise. ' I know you as you are now, afoot in a
chintz frock — not in silk and a chair.'

9—2

Bab coloured at the reproof, but could not help
smiling. What would her Grace say if she knew of
Lord Byron's presents ?

Do you follow my employment ?' the Duchess
went on, gesticulating with the brush. ' 'Tis a new
decoration fresh from France — vastly pretty and
fresh — called overhanging — gayer and cleaner than
tapestry or damask. 'Tis printed on china-paper —
men, women, and birds as like as life — stuck on with
common paste.'

May we assist your Grace ?' Bab said. ' It must
be fatiguing.'

'Tut! tut!' returned the eccentric lady, descending
from the ladder, and doffing her coarse apron.
Dost think I've not dozens of lazy loons within hail,
if I didn't choose to do it myself? I'm glad you are
here, child, for I want to chat with you. You continue
to do us credit, I am told ; that's well. But
don't forget that you are no genius. At present the
propriety of your enunciation is commendable ; but
you produce your best effect more as a woman than
as a player, which is natural, for being so young
your heart hath probably not spoken. Till the heart
speaks, the actress is no better than a dummy. For
the time being, therefore, you should decline characters
requiring power or rage, and stick to beauty-parts
; for the elevations of your voice in pompous
cadence are too artificial even for tragedy.'

I loathe bread-and-butter misses !' cried blunt

Bab ; and then she laughed, for 'twas vastly droll
and refreshing to find herself suddenly in the Palace
of Truth after the adulations of the past few days.
The well-meaning Duchess was gratified, for the
child was sensible.

Copy Oldfield in persistent labour I' she went on.
Many seem to be, at the first setting out, desirous of
instruction and advice, who soon, flattered by
incense, think themselves above improvement. Not
so that admirable woman. She, like her partner
Wilks, never undertakes a character but she teases
all who know to give her help. By knowing so
much herself she is aware how much more in nature
there is which needed to be known. The goddess
you have chosen to worship, Bab, is one who exacts
from her votaries tears of their best blood.'

And leaves most of 'em to starve for their pains,'
commented Charlotte, in an undertone.

My dear ? — ah ! — she hath not been good
to you, that's certain,' the Duchess mused, remembering
Theoo's narrative. ' Our world is
strangely ordered.'

Bab reflected with something of dismay. What
was this about the tears of blood ? For her part
she had no intention of any such sacrifice ; and,
whilst an acknowledged success, found her profession
easy.

I've been a stroller,' Madam Charke said simply,
which is a petty war with famine, in which you're

always worsted. If your Grace knew what they
endure who tramp the country, you'd shrink at the
sight of players. Their sleep is peopled by the
spectres of want, bad shoes, and bad weather ; no
trust, bum bailiffs, and an empty coal-hole. Their
ultimate reward, a ruined constitution and an inexhaustible
fund of poverty.'

You will terrify the Duchess,' Bab interrupted,
smiling ; but Charlotte's wild eyes were fixed, and
she seemed not to hear.

I have seen emperors in country barns as drunk
as lords, and lords as elegant as ticket-porters. A
queen with one ruffle on ; Lord Townley without a
coat ; King Richard without a shirt ; a Julius Caesar
who could scarcely drag his limbs for hunger.
Broken servants out of place ; escaped journeymen
in dread of Tyburn ; distempered barbers' prentices
who can scarce write their names, but who have a
devilish smart kind of genius for high life. To
flutter awhile in tattered broidery they bear the
stroller's burthen, ere goaded by grim need they take
to the highway and get hanged. Oh ! the stroller's
trade ! My trade ! Of a morning they go round
with a bell to the mansions of the gentry, loiter in the
hall with the butcher-boy to wait their honours'
commands. If genteel of aspect, may be asked into
the pantry and bribed with stale dainties to murder
Hamlet ' in front of the kitchen-dresser ; or, maybe
and that's more likely — they'll be handed to the

village constable, and sent as vagrants to the ^vatch-
house.'

A delectable prospect,' laughed Bab, displaying
all her pearls. ' Am I to come to this ?'

Who may tell ?' Charlotte muttered, on whom a
dark fit was lowering. ' There are clever ones
enough — some of the cleverest — who sink to the
lowest depth, who'll sit by the hour in a night-cellar
to win a smile and a penny from grooms and link-boys.
I've fought my battles shoulder to shoulder
with 'em, and would fain resign my commission ; for a
day's cinder-sifting for a tester's less heart-breaking.
But fate is fate, and soon I must be gone.'

^ Return to that dreadful life ! — why?' inquired the
Duchess.

Because I'm driven,' Charlotte answered, shivering.
' I must move always, since I may not rest.
In a former life I sinned, and fate pursues, and when
I sit me down bids me begone ! To those who hold
a hand my touch is baneful. Sometimes, lulled fora
while, I may forget ; but the conviction comes
again that I must go.'

Poor jade!' gently sighed the Duchess. 'You
are a good wench, Barbara, and I'm pleased with
you. A propos. The poet Gay hath been vastly
exercised on your account, and hath been rhyming
these four weeks. I dared not approach so long as
the frenzy lasted ; but now, thank Heaven, the
symptoms are passing off. He hath indited a new

play for you — is not that an honour ? 'Tis called
"Polly"'

*For W5 — 'polly?' exclaimed Bab. 'Oh,
madam ! I have heard of it. 'Tis a sequel to the
"Beggar's Opera!'

'Well, what of that?'

The vile, venomous onslaught of a disappointed
man — a malicious libel upon the powers that be !
And your Grace thinks that I will act in it ?'

'Sir Robert hath behaved ill to Mr. Gay,' the
Duchess said stiffly.

Because he hath not stuffed his jaws with a
sinecure ? Sir Robert Walpole has been my kind
friend, and I never will do aught that could offend
him.'

Have not I been your friend too ?'

'No doubt, and believe me, I am grateful ; I should
be unworthy of your notice if I could consent to be
so mean as to hurt Sir Robert Walpole.'

Would you usurp the place of Skerrit ?' laughed
her Grace, no whit nettled. ' Truly we live in times
when wives are out of mode. Well, I must find
another Polly, I suppose. Tell me now,' she said
abruptly, ' what think you of Mr. Walpole's shadow,
Mr. Crump ?'

Crump ?' echoed Bab, in astonishment.

He's sorely smitten. Pve seen his languishing
airs, and your mother leans to him, I know. In
confidence, I don't Hke that mother of yours — she

is too soft and humble. Your future now is clear,
without a flaw. Beware of a silly match, or of being
undone by a fool with a face, or a knave with a
figure. Keep the men off, my dear ; 'tis the way
to keep 'em on, and you may end with a good
marriage. Miss Fenton is a shrewd wench. Bolton,
who hath flaunted to church with her, is not the only
empty pate with a duke's coronet.'

I am capable of taking care of myself, madam,'
Bab observed proudly.

I know it, or would not waste my breath on you,'
returned her Grace. ' Byron is always at your heels,
whose company is enough to wreck a dozen reputations.
He hath no intentions, but the worst.'

Sure, madam,' returned Barbara, bring, ^ no
woman of merit can look on the creatures who
frivol round her toilet save with contempt. We
use 'em as ornamental furniture till we can get
better.'

There spoke one,' her Grace responded, 'who
would ape the airs of the quality. Beware of it. If
you burn your fingers I shall drop you. Not but
what, of course, I like a wench of spirit. Now, child,
that is enough,' she concluded, observing how angry
was her listener. ' Open yonder escritoire drawer,
and take the purse thence. It contains fifty guineas.
Queensberry cannot give less. 'Twill help to furnish
your new rooms. You see, I know your movements.
Now good-bye. In spite of Polly I am pleased with

you, and shall be, so long as you keep straight.'
Then her eccentric Grace swept out the girls as
unceremoniously as she had called them in, and
betook herself again to overhanging.

At rehearsal Bab found her usual following, who
vowed her every movement was divine, and seeing
Sir Robert Walpole in deep converse with King
Coll, hastened to tell him about Polly. The statesman
laughed his accustomed hoarse guffaw, but she
could see that he was annoyed. He had suffered
much under the popularity of the * Beggars' Opera,'
and was determined to have no repetition of it. It
was upon this very question that he had come down
this day. The two patent theatres, Drury Lane and
Lincoln's Inn, were at this time free from official
supervision. Cibber, the Minister could trust, for
he was a staunch Whig ; whereas his rival, Mr. Rich,
cared for nothing but his pocket. The office of
Master of the Revels, as we have seen, was bestowed
by Sir Robert upon his own secretary (cause of the
ire of the pocket-poet) — an ofBce which held no
jurisdiction save over the unlicensed houses in the
Haymarket and Goodman's Fields. Sir Robert,
therefore, was anxious for the advice of the poet
laureate as to how the impudence of the scribblers
was to be checked. 'Tis mighty fine to get on
an heroic pedestal and crow that injustice heals the
venom of satire ; but there is no denying that dirt
will stick, and that if you are held up to public

opprobrium in guise of a housebreaker folks will end
by buttoning their pockets at your approach. Sir
Robert was aware of the impolicy of making martyrs,
and was tolerably accustomed to abuse. And yet to
be teased and flouted by such a gnat as Gay —
feckless, giddy, volatile rhymester who never was
meant to be older than eighteen ! Artful old Gibber
listened with sympathy, and saw his way to a
neat stroke of business. Neither he nor Wilks, he
declared, would raise objection if the Government
were to go beyond their strict rights, and forbid
Polly ' to be played at the patent houses. Rich
would probably make an outcry, but unsupported
could do little. Meanwhile the Master of the Revels
would close the unlicensed theatres, and Mr. Gay
might whistle for his production. An excellent
suggestion which Sir Robert resolved to act upon,
forgetting how anxious Colley had been on a previous
occasion about those unlicensed houses. Theophilus
had sinned in presuming to be independent of
his parent, had he ? and had dared as well to
engage the peccant Charlotte at the Haymarket
despite his father's prohibition? He must be
punished. He and his whole company must be
pursued as rogues and vagabonds, as had been
threatened ; the men locked in the compter, the
women set hemp-beating in Bridewell.

Sir Robert's secretary was delighted to have a
chance of pleasing mr. Gibber, and promised that

the sinners at the Little Haymarket should be duly
chastened. It would be well to make friends of the
managers. The farther she seemed to soar beyond
his reach, the more did the foolish fellow hanker after
their new treasure. He hung about the theatre,
restless and disconsolate ; glared at the throng of
attendant sparks, whose number increased daily ;
muttered dark threats of vengeance behind the
fragile back of my Lord Byron, who was always
ready in the passage to help the beauty from her
chair. His lordship evidently meant business, and
was preparing subtle plots.

Flourishing a fan and pocket-mirror, he fluttered
round unceasingly, parrying the gibes of his adored
as well as his wits permitted. ' Pho ! You untutored
object,' she would say, ' sure your notes are writ by
cockchafers.' 'With my own hand, unscrew me!'
he would reply. ' What if I be ignorant of books ?
'tis no proof against politeness. Not that I am
so unskilled as I appear, for I can always tell a
woman's letters without seeking the signature.'

And pray how may that be ?' Bab would be
impelled to inquire ; whereon the little man would
answer : * Because they always ask for money.'

The Duchess was right about my lord ; and yet
is it not well for a pretty girl to have butterflies
around her to occupy idle time ? If schemes buzzed
about within his empty pate 'twould be amusing to
outwit him. What cared she, conscious of strength,

for his earthworks, redoubts, and ravens ? Was it
not entertaining to perceive how he had wound
himself into the heart of Colley ? Fancy the poet
laureate in the character of stage duenna ! The
Httle lord had actually pretended to have fallen
in love with a periwig — Colley's periwig. Now Colley
Gibber, Esq., was the king of fops upon the stage ;
was accustomed to walk daily by Rosamond's Pond
in St. James's Park, to study the fashions of the
elite, and in his own person improve on them. To
be told publicly, then, by a noble lord, who, recently
returned from France, must be a judge, that his.
Gibber's, full-bottom was a miracle among periwigs,
was a compliment worth receiving. The poet
laureate began to consider my lord as a charming
young man, genteelly vicious and no more, which
good opinion was further enhanced when Byron
insisted on purchasing the said periwig at an exorbitant
price, swearing that unless he consented to part
with the prize, he should have a rapier through his
gizzard.

The pent-up wrath of Madam Theophilus swelled
daily, and increased the more from being futile. To
enter the green-room was wormwood, for 'twas her
lot to sit unnoticed in a corner, while the crowd
hummed about her rival. Count Hastang arrived on
Mrs. Pilot's play-nights with sweetmeats ; Byron
with costly knick-knacks picked up at the auction ;
poor honest Grump with nosegays — all of which

superb Barbara now received as her dues without
cavil, with scarce a word of thanks. And she ordered
them all about with outrageous insolence like a train
of serfs, despatching one for a fan, another for some
vapour-water, for the diversion of seeing them trot.
Even Mr. Town, the arbiter of public taste, appeared
as infatuated as the rest. Such is the power
of beauty ; for when after the epilogue the prompter
would step forward as usual to announce a change
for the morrow, he would rise in his place with
solemn dignity, and reply in the name of the house,
No ! The same — or a new part for Mrs. Pilot !'
Theophilus had a bad time of it at home at this
juncture ; for his wife declared, till he was weary of
her whining, that she was like an ill-made suit hung
in a wardrobe, neither useful nor ornamental — the
which determined that scapegrace to keep her out
of his own theatre and pack her off on the first
opportunity, either to York or Bristol.

Of course Madam Gibber was cast for Octavia in
the new revival, and racked her brain as to how to
be even with Cleopatra. To the second character
was allotted a straw-coloured birthday-gown, which
had been worn by her gracious Majesty herself; and
finding it in tolerably good order, and reflecting
that, with her new great hoop and a standing headgear
of white ostrich plumes, the effect would be
good, she felt somewhat mollified, until it transpired
at rehearsal that my Lord Byron had despatched

his valet to Paris to purchase a costly robe for the
hateful Cleopatra, and that the Duchess of Queensberry
was to lend her diamonds. Sure the world
was run stark mad over this toy-shop wench ! What
could they see in her, Madam Gibber wondered,
with spasms rising in her throat. It was her turn
now, no doubt — the breezes were all in her favour ;
but to few is it given to be successful always ; and
when the storm should rise, which it surely would
some day, then Madam Theophilus promised herself
a sweet and full revenge for present torments, the
fuller and the deeper for the waiting.

But when the fatal day arrived which was to
witness Barbara's next triumph. Madam Cibber
found it impossible to practise patience. In going
to her dressing-room at two o'clock to see that the
details of her own costume were complete, she was
compelled to pass the bower of Mrs. Pilot, which
the attendant of that lady had inadvertently left
open for a moment ; and, glued to the earth by
what she saw, she remained petrified with stupor.
For there, spread upon three chairs, was Lord
Byron's gift — a splendid court-dress of orange-satin,
crisp and glittering, encrusted thick with gold
embroidery, and a full train many yards in length of
purple velvet, sewn with jewels lent by the kind
Duchess. With heaving bosom and distended
nostrils. Madam Cibber stood and gazed, while
surging gall flowed over her heart.

Orange !' she muttered between her teeth.
Actually orange, and I in yellow ! 'Tis done on
purpose ; and I, like a fool, thought — but she shall
not have her finery; I'll rend it to ribbons first !'

Hearing the approaching footsteps of Mrs. Barbara's
woman. Madam Gibber controlled herself;
and, rushing down the stairs, bounced into the
green-room white as the horse of the Apocalypse.

Bab was standing there, bandying jests with my
Lord Byron, who deserved a word or two in return
for his fine present.

My ultimatum never varies !' she cried, laughing.
A gold ring, and coach-and-six — no more, no less.
What ? Your honour ? I value it too highly to
have it left in pawn. Bless mc ! Madam Gibber,
have you seen a basilisk?'

'Your servant, madam!' hissed the new-comer,
with quivering lip. 'That gown — upstairs — you
shall not wear it !'

Shall not ?' echoed Barbara ; * shall not ? Lord
Byron, do you hear ? I am to play Cleopatra in my
smock.'

I wish you would,' leered the little man. * A
pair of charming Amazons. Give the trumpery to
Madam Gibber if she pants for it ; after to-night
'twill not be wanted.'

How so ?'

Because, willy-nilly, you'll be mine, far away in
Hampshire.'

Bab shook a finger at her admirer.

No tricks !' she said, with a smile of mischief in
her dark brown eyes. * Place me in jeopardy, and
you will rue it. Shall we play David and Goliath ?
I am much bigger and stronger than your lordship.'


I would not intrude upon the billing of doves,'
Madam Gibber observed viciously. * I'll be the

finest, or ' and, slamming the door, she

vanished.

As might have been expected, all the wits and the
flower of the chocolate-houses turned out en masse
to witness the second attempt of the new actress.
In vain Rich at the other house had spread his nets
and prepared his blandishments. As a rival show,
he had advertised a grand procession, with camels
and real elephants and ostriches, and a piece of
wonderful machinery, whereby winter was to bud
into summer, and Daphne was to be transformed
into a tree before the eyes of the audience. But
Bab, in a moving barge on wheels, with pink silk
sails, was metal more attractive ; so all the world
scoffed at Rich's pantomimic displays, and flocked
to Drury Lane. ' What would she look like, and
how would she be dressed ?' the beaux asked each
other in the side-boxes. Rumours had gone abroad
of something magnificent from Paris. Whatever
she did, she would look lovely, everyone agreed ;
and that she was to be a grand success the footmen

VOL. I. 10

were determined to a man, each one having brought
his metalled cane of office in case of another
riot.

The temporary galleries along the back of the
stage towered so loftily that there was no need of
scenery, for the heads of the elite reached up to the
cloud-borders, while the side-seats were piled so high
one behind the other that those in the side-boxes
could see nothing. But what mattered that ?
Having once beheld how Bab was dressed, 'twas of the
first importance to be seen ; for, of course, tomorrow
there would be no other subject of conversation.
Ladies came without their vizards, for Shakespeare's
dialogue was known. Modish madams sent their
domestics at three of the clock to keep their places,
and gallants in full dress tripped hither and thitherto
show themselves. During the opening piece of
Fop's Fortune ' they talked so loud as to distract
the actors, and so disturbed the less aristocratic
audience as to rouse them to cry *Off! off!' But
the beaux merely took a scornful pinch and struck
another attitude, regardless of such a shower of
sucked oranges and half-eaten pippins as threatened
to stain silk and disfigure features. It mattered not
what happened till the new actress showed herself.
Heavens ! what a crowd ! The actor who played
Don Choleric talked of being alone while he was
being pushed into the pit, and dared scarce move
lest he should tread on a duke or an earl, at least ;

and when the moment came for his escape out of
the window, he bowed, and with an apology thrust
himself into the box over the door, thereby disturbing
the company, and competing them to move out
of their places.

These were small drawbacks — rather fatal, perhaps,
to the illusion of the scene — but of little consequence;
and the patentees rubbed their hands with glee, for
there was not a seat to be had for love or money,
and at least two hundred of the first quality upon
the stage. In face of the impending calamity of
Oldfield's flitting, 'twas well to be prepared, and the
new actress had taken the town. No doubt of that
now. Even the beginning of the incomparable and
matchless one had been less brilliant than this.
Who might prognosticate the future ? Bab herself
had complained, silly, inexperienced wench ! of the
great crowding, declaring that 'twas impossible to
hold the mirror up to nature and be the real Cleopatra,
whilst guarding her robes from the swords
and shoe buckles of the nobility. Mirror, indeed !
Was it not all a convention and no nature ? Habited,
as heroines alway's were, in heavily embossed velvet
or brocade over great hoops, 'twas a recognised convention
that a page should follow behind, even in
moments of solitude, to keep the train in decorum,
which, in consequence of frequent crossings, was not
natural (perhaps to a later generation it may seem
ridiculous) ; yet none found fault with a custom with

10 — 2

which they were familiar. Why, when Oldfield herself
played Juliet to Wilks's Romeo, she lay on a
coarse couch with a hundred people behind her,
whilst he, cramped by the throng, overset the tomb
of the Capulet (which was nothing but a screen) ; yet
all the audience was in tears. Did not the archest
of chambermaids. Miss Rafter (Madam Clive now),
always wear satin shoes and a French head along
with a cotton apron, and did not even nuns and lady
abbesses appear in powder and feathers, as well as a
court hoop ? Bab's complaining was so absurdly out
of season that old Gibber cried, * Marry come up !'
with unusual tartness when she vowed she could not
make an entrance ; yet it must be confessed by a
veracious chronicler that Wilks as Antony had to
take two drunken lordlings by the shoulder and
shove them out of the way ere the Queen could show
herself to the public.

My Lord Byron gave a great start when she did
so, and had scarce recovered himself when the
boisterous acclaim which greeted her appearance
subsided into silence. What did she mean ? Had
he hopelessly offended in that last offer of a settlement
? Yet 'twas most liberal. No. She recognised
his presence by a demure side-glance, and a roguish
twinkle, as she stood beside Antony, leaning on a
Nubian slave. Then, what was the meaning of the
whim ? Wayward, distracting, darling Barbara !
What was the use of sending post-haste to Paris for

expensive raiment, if she was to appear after all ina
plain white robe, such as is always kept for scenes
of simulated lunacy ? Queen Cleopatra, too ! Certainly
she looked lovely in her simple dress, which
accentuated the snake lines of her majestic figure,
and the full warm glow of her dark skin. She must
be a finished coquette — there was no doubt of it —
thus, as it were, to fling down the gauntlet to admiration,
and say, ' Though I appear as Queen I
despise pomp, for is not youth fittingly adorned with
loveliness, justified in being unmindful of gaudy
trappings ?' And she was right ; for she looked
lovelier thus than she would have done in the
Parisian splendour, gorgeous though it was. The
little lord's waxen face crimsoned with delight, and
he could scarce sit still, so pleased was he with the
oddness of this last whimsey.

Unscrew my vitals !' he panted. ' But she's a
saucy pet ! She shall have forests of gowns when
I get her down to Hampshire — she shall — step me !'

The Duchess of Queensberry was not quite so
satisfied. She thought the proceeding pert and self-sufficient,
and said as much so loudly from the box
wherein she sat, that Mr. Town turned round and
severely ejaculated ' Hush !'

At the end of the act Lord Byron flew like a moth
to his flame and begged an explanation ; to which
she only replied by a sly smile, and a toss of her
shapely head.

The scene changed to Rome. Caesar entered,
and Antony, leading by the hand Octavia, his ill-used
wife. My Lord Byron, who was chattering
with the Honourable Pamela in the side-boxes, could
not repress a cry.

'The baggage has got it on !' he exclaimed, pointing
in amazement at Madam Cibber.

Got what on ?' inquired Mrs. Belfield.

The gown I bought for Mrs. Pilot ! I see it
all ! She hath stolen it !'

At the same moment the voice of her Grace of
Queensberry was heard to say :

The insolent varmint hath got my diamonds I'

It was too true. The prospect of the new orange
contrasted with the faded yellow had proved too
much for Madam Cibber. Misled by fury, she had,
upon leaving the green-room, rushed to Mrs. Pilot's
bower, and ravishing the shocked and shrieking
attendant of the new robe, had borne it off in triumph
to her eyrie. Bab vainly, when she went to dress,
sent to demand her property. No sound was to be
heard behind the bolted door. Time sped. She
sent for King Colley and told the tale ; but that
potentate only screwed up his nose and winced. 'Tis
ill forcing your mere male body 'twixt two angry
women. He knew his daughter-in-law to be a
virago ; he suspected that Bab if flouted might
prove a tartar. She might take to hysterics, and
where then would be Cleopatra and the new triumph?
He diplomatist.

Leave the creature alone,' he urged ; ' her conduct
is atrocious, but heed it not. The best punishment
will be to play well to-night. So, prithee, be
not agitated.'

Further remonstrance was not needed. There
was no end to the surprises which Bab had for
everyone.

A fig for the rags !' she said, with a shoulder-shrug.
' 'Twere hard if I could not manage without
a yard or two of satin ;' and quietly putting on the
first dress that offered she descended, as we have
seen, without a feather ruffled.

But this was her opportunity, and was she not a
woman ? Turning to the lords and ladies who sat
around the stage, she said, in a voice that reached
the farthest corner :

Yes ; that is my robe, and she hath despoiled me
of it. Those are her Grace of Queensberry's jewels,
which, in her overweening goodness to an unprotected
girl, she lent. 'Twas this woman who sent
people to hiss me t'other night. I forgive her that,
and present her with the frippery ; but I beg that
her kind Grace may have her own again.'

The effect of this brief harangue was electrical.
The audience at the back rose to their feet ; there
was a stampede from the pit ; Madam Octavia was
swept off her feet and hustled, screaming, off the
stage. For a moment or two it seemed as if the
footmen were coming down in solid phalanx to

wreak vengeance on the too-hardy offender. But
Mr. Town (spokesman par excellence in all emergencies)
raised his controlling hands, and after a
while succeeded in gaining silence for a little
speech.

Patience, friends, patience !' he puffed, mopping
his warm face. ' Mr. Cibber, whom we all respect,
hath sheltered the offender in his room, and she
hath swooned away. Madam Rogers, who is in the
house, will dress at once ; till then the curtain will
be lowered, and the band will play.'

The occupants of the pit and boxes gave a ringing
cheer and quietly sat down ; and when Mrs. Rogers
at length appeared to continue the part of Octavia,
she received a salvo to herself, and the performance
proceeded quietly."

FASHION.

AB'S Cleopatra answered all expectations;
not but what the Duchess shook her
head in private, repeating that her
protegee, as an artist, would never set
the Thames on fire. But she kept her opinions
to herself. Besides, she was one out of five hundred
or so, for 'twas generally agreed that Mrs. Pilot
was young and beautiful, and a divine creature, at
whose dainty feet it was a joy to grovel ; and what
more could her pride require ?

When the prompter appeared at the fall of the
curtain, the censor would not let him speak, but
cried : ' The same — the same ! No Madam Cibber !'
a verdict endorsed by a salvo from all parts of the
house, which necessitated that delinquent's ostracism
until the beginning of another season.

If success makes happiness Bab should have been
happy now, for of a sudden, borne on the top of the

wave, she was become the mode. The ladies pretended
to detect in her a refined taste in the matter
of costume, and flocked to the Lock of Hair to
consult the new oracle. This arose perchance from
curiosity to look on the freak of nature with whom
their husbands, sons, brothers were in love ; the
phenomenon who parried advances with a jest ; who
was, moreover, upheld by the favour of the first
Minister as well as by the great patroness of art.
Countesses professed to be wretched unless they
could obtain her opinion as to a ridotto costume ora
birthday dress, in return for which they enclosed
handsome sums for a box, or gave their name for a
command-night.

As for the men, they made the fortune of the
wig-maker who abode on the ground-floor ; never
was such a demand for bags, roses, curls, blocks,
ribbons, what not. They thronged up the narrow
stairs each morning in their curl-papers, waited on
the beauty to ask her how she did, and were called
down one by one to be shaved and powdered, and
gather the last bits of tittle-tattle to retail later at
the coffee-houses.

The landlord scarce knew what to make of it, the
turmoil and noise was so incessant. There were
suppers far into the night, when toasts were drunk
with three-times-three, and the passing watchmen
smiled, marvelling how little the quality seemed to
care for bed ; and then Mr. Gibber or Mr. Wilks

would arrive in a chair after the morning Icve'e, and
there would be spouting and broken-hearted shrieks,
worse far than Bedlam. ' There's such a raving and
ranting and calling on the gods,' the worthy peruke
declared, ' that the cobbler in the cellar can't rest for
you, while the mantua-women in the garret neglect
their work to hearken to your bawling.' But though
he pretended to grumble 'twas but pretence, for did
not more or less costly gifts arrive daily in showers
which the spoilt beauty was too careless to gather ?
Madam Walcot had an evil time of it, and yet she
clung to her post. Her religion became the more
austere as the racket around grew livelier. She
consorted much with Methodist Madam Rich, and
at chapel of an evening the twain bemoaned in
concert the doings of the devil's players.

As she lay in bed of a morning before the hour of
the levee, and reflected upon things, Bab was not
satisfied. In the midst of triumph there was something
wanting ; and she confessed to herself that this
whirl of excitement and adulation left much to be
desired. Of all the hundreds who smite their hearts
and gabble of their love, she thought, nettled, how
many are there who would move a finger for me in
distress ? Not one. 'Tis but the worship of success.
There was not one in all the world who loved her
as she would be loved — to whom she could lookup
with affection and respect and trust, and find
them reflected on another visage. The Duchess

meant well, but was eccentric and capricious. Sir
Robert Walpole, though kind, was not a man
for a young girl to lean upon ; besides, he was
becoming daily more engrossed with intricate affairs
of State, and she saw less of him than formerly.
The object of my Lord Byron and kindred sparks
was but too evident. Old Gibber was so unkind to
his own children, that 'twas bootless to think of
applying to him in a moment of adversity — nay, even
of perplexity. His literary and histrionic talents
set aside, he was a bediamonded and perfumed
old buffoon, at whom the quality mocked whilst
patronizing him. His old back was ever on the
crescent, his old cheeks were always on the grin
when my Lord Duke deigned to dip a thumb and
forefinger into his orangerie. The ancient sycophant
! Time will wear the nap off the best cloth —
stitches will tear and elbows out — how then is
it with common stuff? 'Twas plain to everyone,
except perhaps himself, that Colley, for all his
vapouring and mightiness, was a pinchbeck beau,
to be kicked when too old to be sportive.

Even Charlotte, who made believe to be devoted —
recipient of benefits — had apparently proved ungrateful.
Thanks to the intrigues of the patentees the
unlicensed houses had been closed ; and since then
Charlotte, muttering something about a baleful star,
had departed, none knew whither. Whim-bitten
Madam Charke ! She was so flighty and given to

delusions, that Bab was sorry rather than angered
at her desertion ; for indeed she was unfit to buffet
with a harsh society that to her was persistently
remorseless. Her mother ? No. Strive as she
would against the feeling, there was something
about her mother that repelled. Yearning once for
sympathy, she opened her heart to Madam Walcot ;
whereupon the latter commenced to inveigh against
the profession she had adopted and counsel instant
retirement. How could she lean on such a mother ?
What was done was done — the die was cast.
Resentful and frowning, she allowed the old lady to
proceed unchecked; and madam, taking advantage of
unusual license, opened her mind — counselled abrupt
renunciation of a promising career in favour of
humble respectability.

How am I to live then? To scrub floors?' Bab
inquired. ' At Richmond you used me as a decoy
for drawing money — 'tis but the same now perhaps,
upon a larger scale, save that you've not the handling
of the purse.'

'Nay! Why not marry?' the dame replied
artlessly. ' A true woman's joy begins when she
assumes the gyves of slavery. There are gentlemen,
not perhaps as fine as your present butterflies,
who '

Mr. Crump, I suppose?' Bab interrupted with
impatience. ' Why are you always harping upon
him ?'

He adores the ground you walk on,' Madam
continued, marking the effect of her words. * Tell
your old mother who loves you. Do you view his
attentions with dislike ?'

Not more than those of others,' the girl said with
indifference. * He plays, I know, and drinks ; and
I'll none of a husband who doth either.'

*Then you'll die a maid,' returned Madam
waggishly ; * for he is no more than fashionably
vicious, and drinks for mere diversion, as fine ladies
divert themselves with ratafia and intrigue.'

But little genuine help, indeed, could be hoped
from Madam Walcot, who could speak thus lightly
of modish vices between two visits to chapel.
An inquisitive wave crept over the maiden's mind as
to her mother's past — idle speculation, speedily put
aside. It was unpleasant to reflect that the army of
adorers meant nothing, except the gratification cf
their own fancies, and a right to brag in public that
they looked on her, the new toast of the town, asa
pretty doll, to fondle and break and fling aside.
Yet she — as she felt — was worthy of a better doom,
possessed of an ardent generous nature, yearning to
put forth shoots of faith and trust ; loving Hfe for the
glory of it. Well, well ! The shoots must be nipped,
prevented from growing, lest the frost should come,
and through the delicate fibres injure the entire
tree.

Marry ! Whom ? A showman or apprentice, or

even a fellow-player ? Never. Which of these
lords, as the Duchess had hinted, was ready to
come forward poicr le hon motif, as Bolton had done
for Latina ? Byron ? At the thought of becoming
Lady Byron, her merry laugh rang out ; for what a
life would be hers with such a reprobate ! Come
what might, she would never run after her husband
as poor Charlotte had done, and end by going distracted.
No, no ! And on her side, was she fitted
to be a wife ? A fashionable one, perhaps — one who
looks on nuptial chains as bonds of drudgery, suitable
to the prehistoric days of old Queen Bess.
With a bad husband, she felt convinced that she
could develop into a devil ; with a good one — well,
a lottery forsooth ! Marriage is fishing for a single
eel in a barrel of wriggling snakes. Make the best
of a bad job ? There was little of meekness in Mrs.
Pilot. If the right man appeared, good ; if not,
single blessedness would be the better part. And
yet, while a bachelor may get on well enough, with
an old maid 'tis another matter. Bab, while she
resolved never to marry, was sorry at the prospect.
Pursued though she was by flattery, she could
calmly review the position, and saw that in her
circumstances she must rely upon herself. The
bark must be steered to harbour by her own unaided
skill, or she must be content to perish
alone.

The spectre of the interesting Jacobite rose

sometimes before her vision, but with anger rather
than satisfaction. How pleasant it would be to
have just such a brother — demure, reliable, a trifle
slow — as a drag to a wheel that is inclined to turn
too fast ! Really, my Lord Forfar's way of behaving
was impertinent. What did he mean by looking
disapproval from his eyes ? 'Twas nice of him to
have displayed a little interest, although he had no
right to show anything whatever as regarded one
who belonged to another sphere. And yet it was
nice ; and cruel to have changed that interest into a
contemptuous species of indifference. Why are the
virtuous so uncharitable ? Bab was extremely hurt
when some one repeated his sayings. He had
dared to say of her that ' 'tis a pity when faces
that are letters of recommendation prove false passports.'
That patronizing look of his was galling in
the extreme ; but while she resented it, a little voice
within whispered that he was pure and singleminded,
singularly free from vice. How could he
and she ever understand each other ? Clearly 'twas
better not to try. And yet, how she could have
supported and sustained him in the difficult game he
had to play ! Tush ! that might never be. They
would be open foes by-and-by ; for was he not a
Jacobite, and she a Whig? How could they do
aught but snarl — act as cat and dog ? The wisest
plan would be to avoid him ; show by chill reserve
how unwelcome was his presence.

Nobody wist aught of Barbara's unsatisfactory
moments, or was aware of her crumpled rose-leaves
; and having made up her mind that a
solitary existence would probably be hers, she, like a
sensible young woman, set about making the best of
it. The beaux were sent flying in all directions on
all sorts of errands. Cleopatra became as capricious
as the Duchess of Queensberry herself. One must
give her ' the French horns ' in the afternoon by
Rosamond's Pond ; another must entertain herself
and friends at Kendal House, in whose sumptuous
gardens, as all the world knows, 'tis modish to attend
public breakfast ; a delicious spot, intersected by
canals and ponds, with drawbridges and islets,
whereon select bands discourse sweet music, while
couples coo among the bushes. She was constantly
to be seen in St. James's Park, which was always
crowded between two and four — to study the ways of
the quality, she said, for the benefit of her profession.
Though who was quality there, and who was
not, 'twas difficult to tell, since all wore masks, and
behaved with equal indecorum.

I mind me once that on a crowded day a posse of
constables obtained a warrant, being in search of an
important malefactor, to force the people to unmask,
and such a strange gathering was surely never seen.
Countesses were there arm-in-arm with highwaymen
; duke's daughters clinging to footmen's sleeves ;
tradesmen's wives mixed with the lowest of the low.

VOL. I. II

Even Colonel de Veil was surprised at the revelation.
Some were admonished, others despatched to
Bridewell ; and the authorities, alarmed, never repeated
the experiment. An excellent place for an
intrigue was St. James's Park in those days. There
were divers meandering paths for divers purposes —
some where bedizened belles in jewelled shoes
affected to limp as though unused to walk, assisted
by gallants with bent knees ; some where folks
wandered neither to see nor to be seen. There
were windings and turnings and overgrown wildernesses
about the bird-cage, which was full of waterfowl.
Damsels and their swains reclined upon the
grass, munching cheese-cakes, marchpane (made of
almonds), and cheney oranges, while errant wenches,
in flat straw hats and ribbons, cried, ' Milk, sweet
ladies — milk! A cup of red cow's milk!' Rosamond's
Pond, stocked with rare birds by Charles II.,
stood in the Mulberry Garden, and round and round
it people of quality drove, or watched the prentices
on Spring Gardens bowing-green. After dusk 'twas
not respectable. Yet 'tis curious how venturesome
the fair could be. Trusting to their masks and
chance they would accept the escort of a stranger
cavalier, though many half-way across the open were
robbed of watch and ear-rings. True, if one was
caught red-handed, he was sure to be half-drowned in
the canal ; but many a fair preferred to keep adventures
to herself, and accept concomitant mishaps.

'Twas not surprising that — adventures being de
rigiieur as a part of fashionable Hfe — the excitement
of the Park should soon pall on Mrs. Pilot ; that
she should be inclined to seek more stirring amusement
further afield. Now, there was a wild district,
scarce a bow-shot from St. Paul's, which, for her
imaginative mind, had the fascination of some weird
uncanny fairy-land. 'Twas a separate world, governed
by local usage, wherein the extremes of lawless
splendour and misery, of grandeur and squalor,
stood cheek by jowl. To the purlieus of the Clink
to witness a bear-baiting the actress delighted to
lead her following, and many a hearty laugh washers
to mark how the less valiant coined excuses.
For the jovial lads of Southwark were notoriously
brutal, given to feats of pugilism, hacking and
hewing, degrading exhibitions of muscle, in which
blood was freely spilt ; no respecters of persons,
whether in silk or broadcloth.

Strange ! By what unseen attraction was Bab
drawn towards this untimely spot ? Could she
have known, by occult intuition, that some day
'twould be her resting - place ; that ere a decade
should pass over her bright young head — but let us
follow events in humdrum sequence.

Through the history of London, Southwark was
always a marked specimen of the characteristic of
the time. When rough, here it was roughest — a nest
of sedition, barbarism, or intolerance ; and when

II— 2

Papal sway was uppermost, trains of sumptuous
priors and prelates rode from the carved gates of
Winchester House to splendid Suffolk Place. When
persecution was rife, the fires were never out, and
the arch of London Bridge (sole entrance from Surrey
side into the Metropolis) was never free from its crown
of gory heads. Hence it was known for generations
by the name of Traitors' Gate.

From its position as key to London on the south,
'twas a scene of constant tumult and insurrection.
The chiefs of the House of Brandon — because sturdy
of arm, and unscrupulous withal — became Marshals
of Southwark, and did much as they pleased with
their miserable kingdom, provided they held the
all-important bridge for the King's puissant majesty.
They became Dukes of Suffolk, built Suffolk Place —
a noble palace surrounded by a park — waxed rich
and powerful. By ancient charter of Edward HL,
they claimed right over traitors, felons, treasure-trove,
and held sway over their domains independent
of, but in alliance with, the contiguous City.

But by riverside, hard by St. Saviour's Church,
stood the venerable pile that belonged to the See of
Winchester. And thus it came about that, nominally
a portion of the City, the district was governed by
two distinct despots, who, jealous of shadowy rights,
were always quarrelling between themselves, whereby
evildoers profited.

By a whimsical decree of Fortune, the spot where

prisons reared their walls on all sides was for
criminals the most convenient eyrie ; for the winds
and alleys that festered at their feet were endowed
with strange privileges — a network of liberties and
sanctuaries studded with pillories and whipping-posts.


If you turn to a map of the date whereof I write,
you will see, facing the arch called Traitors' Gate,
and following the line of the street on London
Bridge, a straight thoroughfare — Long Southwark
(garnished with pillory and cage) — leading as direct
as a crow's flight over St. Margaret's Hill — where
martyrs had been burnt of all faiths in turn, and
where a permanent gallows stood, well-laden always
to Blackman Street and Kent Road, highway to
Dover. With your back to Traitors' Gate, on the
right of this wide straggling thoroughfare, you will
see (next to the bridge) St. Thomas's Hospital, with
a whipping-post, of course — its yard a sanctuary.
Next, the White Hart and Tabard — flourishing inns,
noted for the best of fare. Further, hard by, the
prison and grounds of the Marshalsea ; further still,
the King's Bench ; behind these two a space of open
marshland, sacred to Southwark Fair ; further yet,
in the same line, the Whyte Lyon Prison, and the
well-used gallows of St. Thomas-watering.

What a sinister row of threatening erections ! —
the lesson they should have taught rendered of no
effect by the nest of sanctuaries.

On t'other side of the street the majestic church
of St. Saviour rose from out mean lanes, hovels,
crazy huts, which, spreading along Thames-bank as
far as another prison — the Clink — were in their turn
privileged by the shadow of a priory. To these
access was obtained by a multitude of river-stairs,
where boats were ever plying ; so that if a London
miscreant could succeed in taking to the water like
a hunted deer, there was little to be gained by following
him.

Behind St. Saviour's, following Long Southwark
Street, was a dense labyrinth of alleys — foul Lane,
Deadman's Place, Slut's Well, Crossbones, Hangman's
Acre — ominous names! — spreading landwards
to the Mint, which, standing on what once
had been Suffolk Place (because a royal residence)
again was privileged.

Behind the Clink Prison was St. George's Fields,
an 'almost impassable morass, as far as the bleak
common of Kennington and Lambeth Marsh, whose
sole inhabitants were malefactors swinging in chains
at intervals. Want, vice, disease in its worst forms,
stalked hand-in-hand in this home of debauchery
and sin. Gaol-fever was so rampant that 'twas
known as the * House sickness.' The butchers of the
City were allowed freely to shoot out their offal here,
which blistered in the sun and choked the ditches ;
and as the tide ebbed and flowed the broth was
stirred, spreading contagion in the air.

'Tis the way of the world that fruit shall blossom,
ripen, and rot. The numerous religious houses that
occupied this quarter shared one by one the common
fate, and from a blessing became a curse. Bishops'
palaces and priories ceased to take in the lame, the
halt, the sick, and became the fastnesses of idle
beggars, haunters of stews, denuded gamesters — of all
that was useless, and ruffianly, and desperate.

Now and again this breeding-place for the gallows?
becoming too offensive, was taken in hand. An Act
was passed by James I. ; but, as men fought tooth
and nail for their rights, and 'twas only ' across the
water,' 'twas not thought to be worth while to
enforce the Act at the sword-point. Like its predecessors,
it became a dead letter. Southwark was
in theory the ' Bridge Ward Without ;' but what
chance had an warlike Corporation in a contention
with a cohort of ruffians ? In the face of a
multitude of privileges, too, granted by bishops and
Brandons — the which privileges were as the apple of
the eye to the inhabitants ? Stone posts stood at
every corner, to which chains could be attached ina
trice to impede the movements of soldiery.
Sanctuaries were sanctuaries, and might not be
poked with sticks without peril from a flight of
hornets.

William III. made a second attempt with little
better success. He declared that any sheltering
themselves from justice in the seven streets of the

Mint, or in Deadman's Place or Montagu Close,
hard by the Clink, might be hounded out and taken.
Might be — by him who dared and could.

But, on the occasion, once, of a child being done to
death within the Mint, and a foolhardy coroner venturing
to bring in a verdict of * Murder,' that official
speedily discovered that 'tis not safe to trust to edicts.
The unlucky wight was promptly seized by a mob,
ducked in the dirtiest of all the ditches, pumped
clean at each of the eighteen pumps of the vicinity,
and finally released, less alive than dead, after having
solemnly sworn upon a muddy brick never to offend
again.

After this the sturdy Southwarkers were practically
unmolested until after the date of which I am
writing now. In time the vast palace of the Suffolk
disappeared piecemeal, giving place to the Mint.
So in like manner did Winchester House dwindle.
It fell into decay ; the bishops ceased to reside there,
or to exercise authority ; fresh shadowy rights were
claimed which never had been granted.

But, on the other hand, arose the power of the
prison Marshals. The Marshals of the Marshalsea
and King's Bench, and Wardens of the White
Lion and Clink, in their own domains were absolute
tyrants ; their proceedings as arbitrary and
illegal as any of the disputed privileges. If it was
inconvenient to clean out the adjacent sties, it was
more so to disturb the Marshals ; for, if they were

a trifle severe sometimes, 'twas all on the side of
order.

It was whispered that the horrors which obtained
within these prison walls were more awful than
those rumoured concerning the Fleet. Murderers,
pirates (the Marshalsea was the Admiralty prison),
were set to herd with debtors for trivial sums ; the
strong preyed on the weak. Men were tormented
till their reason fled, then whipped until they died.
Some were dragged in without a warrant at all for
the sake of their good clothes ; but these must have
been uninteresting or innocent persons, whom the
desperadoes would not trouble to assist.

The point of fascination about the Southwark side
lay not merely in its squalor or depravity — oceans of
both were to be found in the City proper, as well as
pillories and gibbets — but in the broad contrast of
sun and shadow. Bankside was famous for its
rollicking fun and rude boisterous sports and
pastimes. Southwark Fair, under the prison walls,
was visited by all that was noblest. The King
himself and his son Frederick were frequently to be
seen there, as was Sir Robert's blue ribbon and many
a diamond star. The outlawed ruffians seemed
gratified by the compliment of a visit on special
occasions from the world of fashion, and, licensed by
a wild kind of chivalry, belles could click their
wooden heels and rustle their sumptuous skirts
about St. Saviour's, with less chance of losing

pendant watches than in or about the parks. Only
on occasion, though ; and not if they wore French
garments. The belle whose silk was French stood
an excellent chance of being sent sousing into
arms of Father Thames by free-handed porters and
watermen — a possible contingency which added
excitement to the trip.

The whimsical character of this Alsatia was artistically
complete in detail. Cupar's Gardens, reached
by coach, was as common a lounging-place for idlers
as the galleries of Bedlam in Moorfields ; while the
Cockpit and Bearyards near the Clink were the
resort of every class. The Dog and Duck, too, was a
sort of fresco dining-place for tradespeople, which
many relished. In the same incongruous way one
side of St. Saviour's Church abutted on the
corner of the hideous rookery called Montagu Close,
whose feet were in Thames slime. While the
opposite one was overlooked by the windows of the
Bear and the Green Dragon, two of the most
favourite hostelries, which vied with the Tabard
itself in popular favour.

The distracting Mrs. Pilot sat before a toilet
trimmed with right Mechlin lace, whereon was a
mirror adorned with precious metal, and a host
of costly knick-knacks. Madam Walcot, like a fond
mamma, was dressing the rich sable waves of her
luxuriant hair, while as many admirers looked on as
could cram themselves within the door.

Hastang, with his big yellow fangs, like Feefofum,
was practising his most fascinating leer. Honest
Jack Crump, supported by the doorpost, exhaled
himself in sighs. Tiny Lord Byron, in a dressing-gown
with immense flowers scattered all over it,
had just come up from below, and was swinging his
drum-sticks in the window-seat, as he superintended
the solemn operation. 'Twas so serious a matter
that no one ventured to speak until 'twas finished.
Then, as the usual adulatory cackle was about to
commence, Barbara raised her hand to command
silence, and, glancing round the throng of dissipated
boys, superannuated Apollos, and budding dramatists
who formed the circle, spake.

The reigning toast,' she announced, ' is going on
a quest. Which of the attendant knights will follow
her to-day ? Nay ! Not the whole crew. Spindle-shanks,
how dare you ? Go down at once to the
friseur's below and finish dressing.'

Anywhere with you, dressed how you please,'
cried Byron.

You little monster,' retorted the merry beauty.
You are too small to kill the enemy. Yes. There's
a griffin to be slain, who's your foe as well as
mine.'

I care not who he is,' swore the small but valiant
man, ' so that I go with you — of course en tcte-d-
UHe:

Merci, milord !' laughed Bab. ' If alone with you

there's little chance of slaying the griffin, for his
name is Ennui. No, no. I want a party, for the sunshines.
'Tis now noon. I play at six the outraged
Monimia. Between this and then, those who are
good shall take me in a coach to Abbey Stairs ;
thence in a barge to Paris Garden ; thence afoot to
the Clink Bearpit. There is a treat ! What say
you, gentlemen ? Not you. Count Hastang ; for you
might fall to pieces on the way.'

Mr. Crump instantly claimed a place by the side
of the enchantress, because the little lord did so ;
whereat the latter looked such wicked things at the
broad back of the secretary, that the young lady
was enchanted.

" How happy could I be with either!" ' she chaunted.
But mum ! If we sing scraps from the " Beggar's
Opera " before Mr. Crump, he'll lock us up as
vagrants. Know all present that 'tis a gala-day at
the Bearpit ; that I've promised Mr. Figg and that
droll fellow Hogarth ; so I shall not notice any of you.
James Figg is going to fight somebody for a purse
of something, and there will be no end of ravishing
amusements. Which of you will come ? — not more
than half a dozen !'

The lady had been well informed, for when the
party reached the Bearpit, they found such a mob
assembled there, so noisy and motley a heaving mass
of humanity, as might be an admirable study for an
actress, but was queer company for gentlewomen.

And there was no lack of the latter ; for an African
tiger was to be worried by six bulldogs for a hundred
pounds ; then a bear was to be tied up in fireworks,
the which were to be let off 'by any lady in the
gathering;' and these delectable sights over, the
celebrated James Figg was, ' by desire of several
ambassadors, to try his mettle against any bottlemen,
shin-kicked, or fist-clinker as might choose to get
upon the platform.'

Although Mr. Crump had attended the beauty to
keep a wary eye on my Lord Byron, and although
the latter was full of suspicion of Sir Robert's
secretary, they were soon so engrossed in the business
of the scene that she was again unpleasantly
conscious how superficial was their vaunted devotion.


My lord laid his jewelled hat on the beer-stained
shelf in front of him, and, filling it with notes and
gold, began shouting shrill bets in a squeak which,
a butcher said, suggested a cat in labour ; while the
tall figure of Mr. Crump was stretched so far over
the wooden partition that he seemed about to pitch
into the arena.

A motley company ! There was Lord Albemarle
Bertie, who, though blind, was never known to missa
show at the Bear Garden or Hockley in the Hole ;
and the French Ambassador, who gazed upon the
spectacle with evident surprise and contempt. Near
him was his Grace of Bolton in star and ribbon.

crushed beneath the weight of a herculean carpenter,
who comfortably reposed upon his back ; too much
excited to perceive that a chimney-sweep had laid
his implements of trade on the skirts of his velvet
coat. Familiarly leaning over him was the broad
visage of Mr. Glory Kilburne, the Clink scavenger
a good-natured, hearty soul, if his trade leadeth
somewhat to be desired. If Honest Jack had
known the offices which this humble fellow would
some day — but must I always be prating of
the future, instead of truthfully chronicling the
present ?

Not far from our group two jockeys were striking
together the leaden handles of their whips, in token
of an accepted wager ; while a gentleman of the
road, with pistols peeping from an ample pocket,
was chalking a gibbet on the arm of a neighbour to
show he was aware of his profession. Nan Rawlings
was there, of course, who lived by breeding of cocks ;
and a merry posse of dames from the adjacent stews,
attended by a bawling group of petticoat pensioners,
who yelled and shouted, and freely used their elbows
to create an uproar, while the ladies tapped the
watchfobs. And, of course, the Southwark beaux
were there, mixing freely with the crowd — quite a
different set from those we wot of who move with
bent knees and affected gait upon the Mall. These
are the terror of the West-enters, who know them
well by a peculiar tip of the hat over the left eye,

and a truculent swagger. Their tawdry suits are
second-hand from Monmouth Street ; their cotton
stockings and ruffles of thread-lace are not guiltless
of holes ; but their spits are long and sharp, and
plaguey loose in the scabbard.

\Vhat a deafening hubbub, and what an evil
savour ! Tis notorious that Southwark gallants
never take off their clothes, except to replace them
with better ; for the doffing and donning of silk
breeches wears them sadly, and their purses are
always lean. Neither are the hosts who flock in
from adjoining purlieus favourable to cold water,
save once a year or so, when heat compels the
river.

But more overpowering than all is the reek of
red-hot iron. At the entrance to the pit stand
myrmidons with charcoal furnaces and heated
wands to tickle tiger or bear withal if the dogs
should be in peril.

Truly, the jovial sports of Bridge Ward without
were calculated for the appetites of savages ; and
Bab, as she watched the flow of passion, and
hearkened to the oaths and din, felt dimly annoyed
with herself and her companions in that they should
have come at all.

Byron's pale face was suffused with red, and he
looked like a frail demon ; while the veins of bawling
Crump stood out like knots, and the perspiration of
excitement poured freely from his brow. She could

have naught to do with either of these suitors ; of
that, as she surveyed 'em, she was quite resolved —
or, height ! any others for that matter, save in the
way of balance.

Odsheart ! 'Tis a woeful case for you and I to
look on — a young and pretty woman abjuring t'other
sex, and deciding on a solitary old age ! The other
sex ! Pretty specimens were these gathered around
her now — some of 'em only wicked ; others flamed
by drink — as drunk, which is saying much, as a
Jacobite on the day of ill-news.

All the worst passions which distinguish men
from beasts, to the disadvantage of the former,
seemed unchained within this dirt-stained building.
Sure all these jangling blasphemers were devils and
not men ! Yet, stay. There was a tall, slim youth
yonder, passively indifferent, taking no heed of the
sport. Leaning against a pillar, under a flaring
light, he raised his eyes to hers, then swiftly lowered
them. A familiar face. Heavens ! It was Charlotte
— in male attire ! What new prank was
this?

Barbara unfurled her fan, and beckoned her
across. 'Twas a relief to have found the lost one.
But Madam Charke pointed furtively at Crump and
Byron ; and, shaking her head, withdrew into the
shadow. She looked wan and worn, with the old
shade of despondency upon her brow, which Barbara
had smoothed away. What fresh misfortune had

befallen ? Was Charke returned from the Indies ?
The actress felt an odd kind of humanizing satisfaction
— a sense of not being quite alone — in her self-imposed
responsibility for the doings of the crazy
outcast. What could she mean by donning the
breeches ? Having come upon her thus by accident,
she must not be permitted to escape. Her movements
were mightily mysterious. Was it the ancient
bugbear of bum bailiffs ? Not here, on Southwark-side,
within a stone's-throw of the Mint.

Smartly tapping her companions with imperial
abruptness, the Diva rose to go, and swept towards
the door, in spite of protestations, resolved to speak
to Charlotte. Half an hour more, indeed ! Were
they there for their own pleasure or for hers, she'd
like to know ? They would be good enough to
gather up their notes, and come at once, on pain of
heaviest displeasure.

As with slow growls her slaves obeyed, Bab
moved swiftly round the circling gangway at the
back of the spectators to where Charlotte shrank
against the wall.

What is it, Charlotte ?' she whispered.

Away !' murmured the other. ' Away ! I have
the evil-eye, and am accursed.'

Evil fiddlestick !' retorted Bab. ' What's amiss ?
Either you promise to follow to my lodging, or I shall
bid these gentlemen take summary possession of your
carcase.'

VOL. I. 12

Leave me to my fate !' pleaded the outcast.
I've broke from the world on t'other side, and
you.'

Choose, and quickly,' returned Bab.

'All who've to do with me fall under the
ban '

Choose,' repeated the actress. ' Come and explain,
or '

I dare not,' muttered Charlotte, with a timid
glance around.

'What can she have done?' marvelled Barbara.
No crime, sure.'

By this time her following had gathered up gold
and notes with scowls and a splutter of execration,
and were reluctantly pushing a way out of the hurly-burly,
perceiving which, Charlotte said :

After dark then,' and lowering her hat over her
eyes, swiftly disappeared.

As 'twas yet early, my Lord Byron suggested an
adjournment to Cupar's Gardens. The atmosphere
in the Bearpit was no doubt unsavoury to the factories
of goddesses, and a dinner in the open air
would be enjoyable. If only Crump and the rest
would go their ways ; but some people have no tact.
Honest Jack grimly agreed that there was nothing
nicer than a repast at Cupar's Gardens. After
dinner Bab must needs examine the menagerie, lookin
idly at the Dog and Duck to say a ' How d'ye '
to such acquaintances as might be loitering there —



had she not renounced for ever trade and tradesmen
? — but was at last induced to take a row upon
the water. Wherries are small, and folks must
nestle close. There was a frantic tussle for a
perch next to the divinity. Having caught the waif
again, Mrs. Pilot was strangely comforted ; able
to hold her own against the knot of adorers who,
she felt assured, cared nothing for her.

Of a truth, the Duchess was right about Lord
Byron, Bab decided, whilst the tiny man inflicted
kisses on her hand. He must be shaken off, for
verily his language was as bad as any in the
degraded gathering at the Pit. And Crump too.
Madam Walcot might plead, but she would never be
Iphigenia to one or other of these Canons. And
yet the ardour of Crump's gaze was flattering. One
socially placed as he was could not dare to ape the
tactics of a lord. That were too insolent. To
espouse a minister's secretary, she reflected, would
be to take a middle course between a low match
with a player or showman, or die a maid. What if
he drank and gambled ? Did it matter after all ?
What right had such as she to be so fastidious as to
desire a husband she could love ?

Madam Walcot had said that the vices of Honest
Jack were but a fashionable veneer. Honest Jack.
Everybody dubbed him Honest. Was it his fault if
his eyes were glassy and placed too far apart ? That
he was ambitious and a rising man was generally

12 — 2

conceded. Sir Robert Walpole liked him. As for
port and burnt champagne, the highest in the land
neglected Shakespeare's warning, placed in the
mouth of Claudius, * Gertrude, do not drink.'
Certainly, beside this imp who squeezed her hand
so hard. Honest Jack was as Hyperion to a
Satyr.

But what a foolish wench even to dream of marrying
now ! Was she not young, with the world at her
feet— but just emerged from the shell ? Time, if
left alone, will unravel the tightest knots. Thus
waywardly did Barbara commune with herself,
swaying to one opinion, then another ; and so it
came about that when the boat was turned to Abbey
Stairs the smiles of the Diva shone on Mr. Crump,
who mounted to the seventh heaven.

When the red sun sank and a white mist veiled the
water, 'twas the roquelaure of Honest Jack that was
wrapped about her feet ; the which perceiving, the
small peer gnashed his teeth and sulked, registering
awful threats of complete and speedy vengeance.

What is your lordship muttering?' she cried, delighted
at the effect of her innocent coquetry. If lordlings
elected to beguile their leisure with her, she in
return could play on them as upon a harpsichord.
Come, come ! Be friends,' she said, ' and behave
like obedient vassals.'

She was too heedless to note the visages of the
rival suitors as they took leave at the door of her

lodging. As black as night Lord Byron called a
chair, and bade the bearers carry him in a flash to a
house in Tothill Fields. Crump, walking on air,
strutted home, with a face, perturbed and anxious,
that belied his buoyant gait.

'Oh, if I durst!' he groaned. 'Oh, if I durst!
And what should hinder me from daring ? No one
knows, nor ever can or shall ! Pho ! A man of
fashion should be able to decide when and how to
dare. The place is not taken yet ; that much is
clear. With a little courage she may yet be mine ;
I have hesitated overlong.'

Tripping lightly up the stairs, with a good-humoured
nod in passing to the ever-laborious
peruke, Bab was pleased to find that Charlotte
had kept her word. There, gazing intently into
the smouldering wood-fire, sat, to outward seeming,
a young man, warming his hands over the
flame.

This is right. Now tell me what hath happened,'
Bab said, with a loving kiss. ' Was it seemly tor
rush off as if the devil were behind ?'

Yes !' the other replied, with averted gaze.
Woe is me ! All who are good to me are bound to
suffer !^

Fudge !' Bab said, sitting beside the youth.
Where have you stowed your hopefulness ?'

My brother, the only relation who was kind,'
Charlotte explained mournfully, ' hath been expelled

from his theatre for my sake. You who are not tied to
one who is a leper, save by the goodness of your
heart, shall not be brought to destruction.'

Was ever such folly ?' remarked Bab. ' 'Twas
wrong in Mr. Gibber. Sir Robert shall speak to
him.'

My father hath hunted me down ; but I have
punished him, and now shall go m}^ ways.'

A wintry smile passed over Charlotte's face.

Your father ?' echoed Bab.

Heartless — a coxcomb — and a cur !' Charlotte
said, with a scornful curl of her thin lip. ' He gave
me life, then made it torture. He shall persecute
his child no more. I have renounced my sex ;
henceforth I am Sir Charles. Having no ties, I'll
fight my way alone.'

*A Southwark beau, I suppose ?' laughed Barbara.
Oh, Charlotte !'

How singular a distorted echo was this of Barbara's
own views !

That Charlotte's vessel should be allowed to put
forth to sea without a competent steerer was out of
the question. A whimsical idea came into the head
of the actress that it might be well for the strangely
assorted pair to unite and combat the world
together.

No ties ?' she inquired.

My husband is dead ; he hath perished of the
yellow distemper. Heaven in that is merciful. My

brother hath borne enough for me. I have punished
my father, and will go my ways.'

What of your father ? Nothing rash, I hope ?'
Gazing into the flames, whose flicker played fitfully
on the gaunt face of Charlotte, she related
with a ghostly humour that, simultaneously with the
news of Charke's demise had come the closing of the
Haymarket. Theophilus perceived at once from
whose malice came the arbitrary blow. Pained and
indignant for his sake, his sister resolved upon
revenge ; she would plunge a spear into her sire's
tenderest place ! Accustomed to wear male clothes
and play men's parts — Wilder, Archer, Captain
Plume — she begged a guinea from Theophilus, hired
a bay gelding, and borrowed a pair of pistols.
Without a word as to her intention, she waited on
the road by which the poet laureate was wont to
drive to Twdtnam. Stopping the coach, she ordered
the postilion to dismount, the servants to lie down
upon their bellies, and, levelling a pistol at her
father's breast, bade him descend and kneel. Having
reduced the patentee of Drury Lane, before his
trembling domestics, to that absurd pass, the female
highwayman flung aside hat and crape, and, flourishing
the pistol still, rated him soundly for his
conduct. With tears of terror and mortification
streaming down his cheeks, she wrung from the
hard old popinjay his purse with sixty guineas in it,
and a humble apology ; after which, proclaiming

with loud laughter who she was, that the story
might lose nothing in the telling, she put spurs to
her nag and galloped back to town.

You did that ? Oh, foolish madcap !' Barbara
exclaimed. * You touched him indeed in his most
tender place ! He will be the butt of all the
chocolate-houses, subject of fifty caricatures and
lampoons. Of a surety he'll ne'er forgive so outrageous
an escapade.'

'Twas the only vulnerable point,' Charlotte explained
composedly. ' As to his forgiveness, you
know what chance I had of it ; and what had I
done before that needed so much pardon ? If you'd
seen him trembling in the road, whining before a
woman ! He must hide his head in shame ; so am
I satisfied.'

In spite of herself, Barbara could not refrain from
merriment at the picture of the magnificent strutting
peacock reduced to grovelling in the mire. Colley
the laughing-stock of the town, butt of public
ridicule !

Bab grew grave when she reflected that after this
he would be an implacable enemy indeed. 'Twas
worse than kittenish mischief. But the woman had
been grievously provoked, and was mad, too. An
attempt must be made at once to patch up a
peace.

At this moment there was nothing the patentees
were not prepared to promise to their new treasure,

so kind-hearted Mrs. Pilot resolved on a
stupendous effort for the undoing of this mighty
coil.

'Tis time for Drury Lane,' she announced with
decision ; * and you shall go with me.'

I ! I shall be murdered !' laughed Charlotte.
Not that such as I have need to fear illness or even
doctors — or Death, the commander-in-chief of all the
doctors.'

You must go with me, and I'll see what may be
done,' brisk Barbara declared. 'Taken unawares,
much may be gained by a surprise.'

The veil of despondency was lifted, and, the evil-eye
forgotten, Charlotte was filled with glee.

I have surprised him once too often,' she said,
practising a currants step. ' Leave things as they
are, and let me go.'

But Bab, as usual, had her way. ' Sir Charles '
was commanded to follow, and obeyed.

Closely wrapped, with hat pitched forward, no
one recognised the actress's companion, and they
entered the theatre without remark.

Colley had been in his room all day, Wilks said.
There must be something the matter, for none could
obtain access, and he was groaning audibly.

That was well, Bab thought. He must be worked
upon while still in humbled vein. After performance
was over she would provide supper in the greenroom,
and, bidding her following to be in attendance.

would kill two birds at once — take Lord Byron to
task for his bad manners, and shame the old man
into forgiveness.

Since the defeat of Madam Gibber, Bab, in her
superb way, had taken unchallenged possession of
the theatre ; and the small-fry who had been so
ready to eat mutton-tarts at the expense of the
proscribed one, bent pliant knees before the new
luminary.

She was conscious, whilst dressing for Monimia,
of a remorseful pang as she beheld, reflected in the
glass, the gaunt youth who sat by the fire.

I will not bring suffering on you,' the crazy thing
had said.

No, indeed ! Did she look as if she suffered, in
her splendid dress and necklet of rubies and emeralds?
Prosperous enough was Mrs. Pilot now. The
world petted her. Every wish was gratified ; and
yet this very day she had been guilty of harsh
thought and feelings of discontent ! What if her lot
had been like Charlotte's ? Would her haughty
spirit have risen in revolt, or have been purified
?

I don't think adversity would suit me,' she reflected
slowly, placing a crafty patch. ' Misfortune
would make me wicked, I am afraid. Well, well !
Was ever a wiser saw than that which bids us
beware of stirring slumbering dogs ?'

Rather pleased with the general results of her

toilet as portrayed in the mirror, the Diva descended
without more ado, to commence her evening
labours.

Left in solitude, Charlotte pondered. When the
bright vision of her dear patroness whisked down
the stairs 'twas like the passing of daylight. Please
God, no harm should come to the beauty through
contact with a leper. Dear heart, what a hubbub
below ! What a clapping of hands and shuffling of
feet!

Accustomed to mean booths and barns, where
yokels snored and grunted, Charlotte felt that here
she was out of place. How gladly would she have
crept away! But then Barbara would be displeased,
and 'twould never do to displease Barbara.

Time was wearing on. The first act passed, and
the second. Night had closed in. Opening the
window Madam Charke peeped out. She could see
up Russell Street as far as the open paved square of
Covent Garden, with its wooden railing round ; could
mark the pump in the centre surrounded by rude
booths.

How quiet it was ! At this hour a vacant space,
save when a group of six or more lurched from the
tavern to the coffee-house, round which the chairmen
slept. By eight of the clock the piazzas were voted
dangerous. Pickpockets, content formerly with
mere filching, were growing bold. Armed with
coiitcaiix, they swaggered after dark in bands, and

assaulted venturesome single passengers on the very
steps of Drury Lane.

For a long while Charlotte sat gazing out, her
spirit quieted by the stillness. What for her was
the next scene to be in the weird phantasmagoria
called Life ? That the brief respite from calamity
was nearly spent, she knew, despite the death of her
tyrant. Was she not condemned to wander like the
branded Israelite of the legend ?

In a previous existence she must have been very
bad. There could be no doubt of that. Would she
be able in this sphere to retrieve that past ? It did
not seem like it. If only she could do somebody
some signal service. Pah ! what had she to do with
service ? Would it not tax all her energies to avoid
the working of evil ? Yes. She must gird up her
loins and stride forth again, and renew the battle for
bread. What form would it take next ? Come
what might, she would never resume her feminine
habiliments. Of that she was quite determined.

How dead the silence ! It began to fall like a
Nessus shirt upon her restless soul, chafing her fevered
blood. No good could come of an interview with a
justly angered parent. Better, risking Barbara's
wrath, to flee while there was time. Pity she
ventured out of Southwark ! Pity to have sought
refuge there instead of bravely tramping forth at the
head of her wooden army! She would depart at
once, since it was decreed that she must be sufficient

to herself ; depart at once, lest the evil star should
cast its full glamour upon Barbara. Sweet Barbara,
more than sister ! It never should be said that
she, the accursed, had involved such a friend in
ruin.

Pressing her hat over her brows, Charlotte was
about — avoiding bootless discussion — to go, when a
coach turned the corner of Russell Street, approaching
the stage-door.

The girl's curiosity was piqued, for the movements
of the machine were peculiar. Who should arrive
at this hour ? Two muffled men descended from
behind, and whispering something to an individual
within, retired to a neighbouring archway, whilst he,
jutting forth a head on which was a hat adorned
with feathers, despatched a third into the theatre.
An ambuscade prepared for some one — whom ?

The spirit of mischief, whose grip was firm
on adventurous Sir Charles, turned the thoughts
of that youth into a fresh channel. What fun to
see the scene played out ! Clapping her hands at
her reflection in the glass, Charlotte exclaimed
exultingly :

How much more convenient are male garments
than women's cotes !' and crept down the creaking
stairs.

The third act was over when she reached the
stage. Quality of both sexes were strolling hither
and thither, discoursing of his majesty's proximate

journey to Hanover, of possible war with France,
and other topics of the hour.

To evade them she slipped down the ladder to the
floor beneath the stage, and emerging on the other
side met the prompter with his bell, whose duty it
was to see, before the rising of the curtain, that the
performers were ready to go on.

Here's a pother !' grumbled the man, scratching
his pate in perplexity. ' What's to be done now ?
On Mrs. Pilot's nights there's something sure to
happen.'

Mrs. Pilot !' cried Charlotte, with a tightening
about her heart.

Her mother's took bad,' the prompter said ; * and
serve her right, I say, the Method ! If Mrs. Pilot's
wanted at home forthwith, how's the play to be
finished?'

Charlotte wrung her hands together. Oh, the
evil-eye ! the evil-eye ! The ambuscade was for
Barbara ! Why had she neglected a sure presentiment
? But the misfortune might yet be retrievable.
Forgetful of an injured sire, oblivious of everything
except the pitfall prepared for Barbara, the girl
rapidly retraced her steps, and seeking out Mr.
Wilks, related what she had seen.

He hearkened with growing irritation, and made
up his mind at once. Drawing his sword — dressed
for Chamont as he was — he dashed into the street,
closely followed by Charlotte.

The coach was just starting as they appeared
under the arcade, the muffled men were hauling
themselves up behind.

Too late !' Wilks shouted, with an oath.

Not so !' cried Charlotte. ' Follow !'

And nimble as the youth she seemed, she flew like
an arrow from the bow, and grasping the near horse
by the head, hung on with all her weight. 'Twas
vain for the coachman to lash her shoulders. The
girl clutched the animal with a bulldog's gripe, while
an arm from within the carriage shattered the
window, and a voice shrieked for assistance.

Charlotte's bold manoeuvre served its purpose, for
the horses stopped presently in front of a corner
tavern, whose light streamed full upon the scuffle.
"Twould have fared ill, however, with her, as well as
Chamont — for the two ill-looking fellows, who had
rapidly slipped from their perch, were freely wielding
cudgels — if a party of gentlemen, attracted by the
clamour, had not run out of the tavern.

By my faith, an elopement !' laughed Theophilus,
for he was one of them. ' Nay, Mr. Wilks, 'tis a
pity to spoil sport !'

'Tis Barbara !' panted Charlotte.

Barbara Pilot !' ejaculated Theoo, with a whistle.

'Barbara Pilot !' echoed another of the gentlemen,
returning with a shrug his half-drawn weapon
into its scabbard.

You are right, Mr. Theophilus,' Lord Forfar observed

coldly. * 'Tis a pity to spoil sport, for the
player queens are all of one kidney ! They burn to
ride in a coach, when they deserve to ride in a cart.'

By this time, employed from the theatre having surrounded
the machine, Wilks had opened the door,
and dragged thence a little man who quivered and
foamed with rage.

How dare you touch me !' he screamed. ' I'll
show you how a man of honour pays his debts !' and
straightway my Lord Byron fell with lightning blade
upon the player, who skilfully parried his thrusts.

Theophilus ! Lord Forfar ! Part them !' gasped
Barbara, pale as death. ' How I loathe a fop ! Oh,
what a disfigurable condition are my poor head-clothes
in ! Part them, I say ! Deceitful juggler !
While you look his folly in the face he steals your
reputation as he might pick a pocket !'

'Twas against your will, then,' inquired Lord
Forfar doubtfully, ' that he was taking you away ?'

For shame, my lord !' cried Barbara, in accents
of reproach. * But an actress is anybody's booty !'

Meanwhile the melee was becoming general ; the
ill-looking ruffians were not unwilling to earn their
wage. Wilks, who by reason of his craft was a first-rate
swordsman, was pushing Byron hard, who, protecting
his back by leaning against a wall, rapped
out a string of expletives.

Stand off, rogue-face !' he yelled. * Pll spit you
like a rat, you fire-eating beggar ! I do you too



much favour in the crossing of blades,
bond!'

To the which Wilks, in no less heat, responded :

I'm of as good blood as you, Rakehell, although
a player !'

You wear a laced coat, you scum, and call yourself
a gentleman. So doth Cutpurse Tom, who
comes secondhand by his frippery, as you by your
playhouse wit. You a gentleman I Yes ! when the
costermonger's barrow shall pass for the noble's
chariot !'

Rack you, take that !' bawled Wilks. * An honest
man's a man of honour, though every man of
honour's not an honest man.'

But a term was put to these amenities and the
bluster of Lord Byron by the well-timed adroitness
of his antagonist. 'Twould not go well with the player
who slew a peer, even in fair fight. By a deft turn
he sent his lordship's spit spinning from his hand,
and bowing, lowered his own point with the remark
that * 'Twould be a pity to deprive the world of so
much honour — in miniature. Rogue-face hath the
best of it this time,' he added, smiling. ' May I ask
if you intended honourably by this lady ?'

Damn it, nothing so vulgar!' snapped the crestfallen
Lothario. ' 'Tis mechanical to wed the woman
you adore.'

A sound of rattles now was heard, approaching
from extreme distance ; and the watch, presuming

VOL. I. 13

that the battle was decided by this time, loomed
from the darkness with dismal calls to arms. The
hired bravoes, seeing their master beaten, the lady
rescued, and a vision of the roundhouse rising, took
promptly to their heels.

Charlotte's face beamed with triumph as she supported
her friend to the stage-entrance, where a
craning crowd was gathered.

By an effort of resolution to which her unstable
mind was but too much a stranger, she had undone
the work of her own baleful star ; and, thanking
Heaven for this much, was firmly resolved that, Barbara
in safety, she would vanish, never to return. But
Barbara, bewildered by the suddenness of the attack,
when she had deemed herself so secure, and cowed
by the sense of the peril she had so narrowly escaped,
clung to the arm of her companion, and drew her
within the theatre, across the hall, and up the stairs
into a lobby, where, a door opening, they stood face
to face with Colley.

He was unnaturally pallid, even for him, with
bistre circles and new crow's-feet round his eyes, and
fresh furrows about his jowl. 'Twas plain that the
harrow of ridicule had cut into his very soul.

Hearing a rush of many feet, and beset with
a dread of fire, he, forgetting even himself, burst out
from the seclusion of his grief — for what ? To find
Charlotte standing opposite — in the very garb in
which she had disgraced him. It was too much.

His jaw dropped, and clawing the air, he staggered
again into the chamber, and tottered to a table for
support.

Here, on my owen ground !' he gurgled. ' Oh,
most abandoned trunnion !'

Terrified by the grey pallor of the old man's cheek,
and the lurid flash he turned on her, Charlotte fell
upon her knees.

Theophilus had followed with the rest ; for reflection
had told him that in a prolonged conflict with
his papa he must be worsted. His nodding prudence
being awake, he had determined on the first opportunity
to play the repentant prodigal. But then,
what about his sister ? Fitfully bright and sensible,
she was not accountable for her acts. 'Twas
grievous that Mr. Cibber should be so frantic, for the
verdict of the town upon the escapade had been
that 'twas vastly droll, and had served the old man
right. To be furious anent the tricks of a madwoman
is like knocking your pate against a
wall.

Spurred by her look of terror, Theoo was about to
speak, when his sire, raising a tremulous hand,
motioned him to silence.

My son !' he hissed from between his clenched
teeth, while the gaping company pressed round.
You have done wrong, but on one condition I
condone your many faults. Never again by word or
deed shall you hold communion with that most

1^.-2

wicked jade. She hath even put me, her father,
in fear of my Hfe from loaded firearms ! Long ago
I cast her off as unworthy to be my child. I
now pour forth on her a parent's malediction. In
all a long life may she be miserable, and in her
death be wretched ! May she '

Against this unexpected and rehearsed effect a
murmur of protest rose. The better sort cried
Shame !' while others twittered and rustled ; for, to
the general 'twas prime — much more diverting than
Chamont and Monimia, and would serve for two
days' chatter at least at a dozen morning levees.

Sir !' expostulated Barbara, alarmed for the
result of such an ebullition on her friend's unsteady
nerves. ' Be clement, as you hope yourself for
mercy. 'Tis you who are to blame, since you heed
your own mean vanity more than the welfare of your
child. Beware of vain regret ! Do not the valleys
of the doomed ring with the words, " Too late " ?'

As the actress stooped over the prostrate body of
the hapless Charlotte, she caught the eye of my
Lord Forfar, in which approval sat. There was
a mine of honesty in the girl ; unflinching courage
in her mien ; and yet of what unseemly conduct
must she have been guilty ere the rantipole could
have determined to abduct her ! Ah me ! If he had
known that the Diva dubbed the lordling ' Spindle-shanks
!'

Running his eye along the encircling crowd, the

anger of the poet laureate was yet further exasperated
; for a few looked disgusted, while the rest
wore satirical smiles. Far from showing symptoms
of relenting, therefore, he gave his chalk-stoned
fingers an additional shake, and slamming the door,
turned the key on the tittering audience.

"Twas splendid!' crowed one. 'He had mistaken
his vocation, for tragedy was Colley's forte.
He had never played Lord Dodington as well as
this. To witness so rare a display Mrs. Belfield
would have given a front tooth.'

*What a vile temper!' gibed another. ' Xo
wonder that his sickly spouse hath taken refuge in
the family vault.'

Theoo attention of Bab and Theoo was engrossed by
the state of Charlotte. She lay in a shuddering
heap, and when moved, stared with great eyes, from
which reason seemed quite to have fled. But when
Barbara would have clasped her in her arms she
tore herself free with a long wail, and struggled to
her feet.

No, no,' she whispered hoarsely. ' Not you !
O God, not you ! Hero and Leander and I and
the sweet Queen of Sheba will begin our pilgrimage
!'

Diving through the crowd Sir Charles sped away
into the night, while the audience stampeded in the
front to know what had stopped the performance.

DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND.

S years went on, the portly figure of 'Sir
Bluestring' became worthier. He had
need to draw freely on his magazine
of temper, which, happily for him, was
large. Steadfast in his creed of disbelief in man's
honour or woman's virtue, he was saved much
heart-sickness and disappointment, and wore his
cynicism gaily. Hence he was the better able to
cope with the ever-increasing cloud of wasps and
mosquitoes that were constantly buzzing in his face.
Success commands foes as well as friends ; Envy and
Greed are sisters.

Time was when he had taken to heart the satire
of Mr. Gay ; had deigned to rise in his strength to
gag the tongue of that genius. Bless me ! what were
such trivial slaps to the venom of the Craftsman, a
newspaper in which his enemies concentrated their
gall and spat the juice at him ?

Nothing he did was right according to Caleb
dangers and Humphrey Oldcastle. If they spoke
truth, the globe was about to disappear, shrivelled
by Walpole's inaptitude. Pulteney, who aired his
own pen in the columns of this paper, admitted, ina
letter which he writ in 1731, that ' more Billingsgate
stuff was being uttered from the press during
two months than ever was known before.'

Walpole, in his own organ, the Gazetteer, which lay
on the table of every post-house in England, retorted
that the authors of the Craftsman were ' grovelling,
abandoned, despicable implements of slander.'

Pamphlets and broadsides, reams of scurrility,
were hurled by both parties until the air was thick
with them, and hatred grew and flourished.

On laying down the obnoxious print one day,
Walpole said, smiling, to his secretary:

In enumerating the attributes of a minister,
St. John forgets that the most needful of all is
patience.'

An admirable remark, upon which he forgot to
act ; for, stung out of accustomed serenity, the
peccant publisher of the Craftsman was haled in
this year before a judge, charged with libel on the
Government.

The evil paper, it was urged, which this low fellow
set in type, endeavoured to foment distrust abroad ;
to break the peace, which was maintained with so
much labour ; to foment distrust at home, and discredit

Ministers with false charges of bad faith and
perfidy.

The court was crowded, and the culprit loudly
cheered, for the liberty of the press appeared to be
in danger. Yet the verdict was one of guilty, accompanied
by fine and the imprisonment of the wretched
scapegoat ; whereat men marvelled, for all the world
knew that Humphrey Oldcastle was my Lord Boling-broke,
and yet he escaped scot-free.

Since first we beheld that glum but gorgeous
creature in the Richmond toy-shop, we have lost
sight of him, because his favourite haunts knew him
no more. No longer was he to be seen in the train
of the brilliant Duchess, or playing faro in the
green-room at Drury Lane, or displaying the magnificence
of his habiliments in the window at Barras
; for — sad thing to admit of so splendid a
bird ! — he had been for a while utterly crushed and
annihilated by the astuteness of his portly rival.

Already denied entrance to the Upper House, he
was banished from Court, which meant that the
crowd of toadies who made up the little world in
which he pined to dwell displayed their backs for
his behoof; and so the man to whom the air of
town was as the breath of life discovered that he
adored the country — was made for rural joys.

At Dawley, hard by Twitnam, he procured an
estate ; and thither, like Cincinnatus, he retired.

I farm,' he writ to his friends, ' and throw out

tenacious roots ; have caught such a hold of earth
that gardeners will find me difficult to transplant.'

He even pretended to like his banishment, remarking,
with the rapt air of a martyr : ' I have
lived so long in the country that I positively begin
to wonder at the wickedness of men, and can be
unfortunate without being unhappy.'

My Lord Forfar, who, as I have already remarked,
was curiously grateful for past benefits, clung to his
friend even when utterly disgraced, and spent much
time on the pleasant Dawley lawns. And St. John
made him welcome ; for did he not bear within his
skirts a whiff of the blessed Mall, a savour of beloved
Garraway's and regretted Button's in the curls
of his perfumed periwig ?

He therefore bore Lord Forfar's sly quips with
equanimity ; responded with mock seriousness when
the latter inquired if the hedges had been trimmed,
whether the wheat was sown, what was the state of
the spring corn ?

The attitude of Lord Bolingbroke was so fantastical
that even Forfar, who was not given to
merriment, could not but laugh ; for the proceedings
of the farmer were ultra-dilettante and beau-wish. He
studied the weather with as anxious a scrutiny as
whilom he had surveyed Europe, pulled up a turnip
with delicate thumb and finger to see how the crop
was growing, walked daintily betwixt the heavy furrows
in silk chosen and high-heeled red shoes.

Despite his air, 'twas evident that he was eating
out his heart with vain regret, chafing with chagrin.
His face would flush, his dimmed eyes brighten,
when he and Pulteney and Forfar, the hated bucolic
landscape shut out by curtains, sat over their wine
discussing politics ; and when the lucky Londoners
were gone to bed, he, the recluse and country mouse,
would trim his lamp and scribble, far into the night,
a diatribe for the next number of the Craftsman.

No two men could have differed more widely
than my Lords Forfar and Bolingbroke. Their dissimilarity
was a link, perchance, in their bond of
alliance.

The latter, guided by no principle save his own
interest, had played his cards so ill that he found
himself inexorably tied to a losing cause. Walpole
and the House of Hanover were one, so tightly
welded that, as things were, they must stand or fall
together ; and he and Walpole were enemies who
never might be reconciled. His only chance of
escaping from a false position was under a new
regime. At the death of Anne he had striven to
bring in the proscribed James, and had failed. In
favour of the Pretender he was ready still to scheme,
and so was my Lord Forfar — the latter from conviction
of right and sense of loyalty, independent of his
own advantage.

The Scotch lord, who still retained his seat in
Parliament, threw in his weight with the Opposition.

So earnest a nature as his could not do anything by
halves. He raised his voice in debate, was encouraged
by the plaudits of the Dawley farmer and of
Pulteney, both of whom saw in him a convenient
mouthpiece through which to bespattered Walpole.

St. John invited him constantly to Dawley, therefore,
and was vexed to find that he disdained mean
weapons and foul words ; but, not despairing, hinted,
advised, encouraged — forgetting in his eagerness his
cows, or to flourish his crook and flute.

In '31 the cause of James III. received a staggering
blow by the death of one of the very few
adherents who were genuinely honest and faithful.
Bishop Atterbury died, and was buried. Walpole
used to boast that he held all the Jacobites ; that
the few who could not be bribed were drunken, and
given to blab in their cups. This was true in the
main vide the Duke of Wharton) ; but, like all rules,
it had its exceptions, in the persons of the Bishop of
Rochester and Gervas, Lord Forfar.

Upon Atterbury's death there was a panic among
the conspirators — an indecent struggle for papers.
Some were missing, some were burnt ; the coffin
was torn open by order of Ministers, and some
documents wrested thence ; but not such as
Walpole wanted. He suspected that an expedition
was brewing, and was anxious to get at details ; but,
failing in this, folded his hands quietly, with the
sage remark that before the plot reached a head — if

plot there were — some traitor was certain to divulge
it. Had he disguised his fat person and gone down
to Dawley, his curiosity might have been gratified ;
and yet not so, for though there was much gabbling
there, much gnashing of teeth, and shaking of fists
and periwigs, plans were of the vaguest kind — mere
bubbles blown into aether.

When that coffin was opened, Pulteney shivered in
his shoes, for the Bishop possessed damning proof
of his treachery ; but if Walpole had really made
discoveries on this head, he held his peace, and the
traitor, taking breath, ribbed his pen, and flourished
it more bitterly than ever.

To a later age the constant alarms about the
Jacobite bugbear will be amusing, for in himself he
was but a Guy Fawkes effigy. The English, as a
body, were never desirous of his coming. If, from
the two great attempts to reinstate the Stuartss, we
eliminate Scotch enthusiasts, Irish adventurers, and
French volunteers, the roll-call of adherents is insignificant.


In 1715, when the rebels appeared in the northern
counties, scarce a squire or decent yeoman swelled
their ranks. The Highland chieftains pursued a
poetic idea ; the Irish were a penniless horde of
ragamuffins, ready to wield their rusty blades in
favour of anyone who'd fill their stomachs. The
real danger from the Bugaboo was from without,
and we must applaud Walpole's far-seeing wisdom

in steadily keeping England, if it might be, out of
foreign complications. If Britain had ranged herself
on a losing side abroad, what better revenge for
the victors than to desecrate our throne with a
straw dummy, and support him with foreign props ?
'Twas fear of some such contingency that gave to
the drunkard of Rome his petty importance, and
terror to the name of Jacobite.

The Dawley trio hated Sir Robert with an ever-increasing
virulence, which, as the Duchess had
sagely observed, was deserving of notice by reason
of its acrimony.

The pure and lofty principles of Gervas, who
could pin wealth and life to a phantom, were outraged
by Sir Robert's calm contempt for heroics,
and the placidity with which he stooped to dabble
in the gutter without turning up his sleeves.

The man,' he would declare with a helpless
exasperation which was comical, ' is so innately
corrupt that none can reform him but the hangman.'


What ! A person with so little pride that he can
turn to one who is caballing against his life, and
attempt to buy him with a pension ; a man too
ignoble to cultivate the grander passions — who,
instead of nourishing a haughty spirit of vengeance
could babble cosily of guineas with one who would
cut his throat !

There was no romance about such a man ; and

the Scot, like all Jacobites, was romantic. Although
'twas in the spirit of the time for political foes to
meet civilly in a neutral drawing-room and scratch
each other's eyes in Parliament the next, my Lord
Forfar was sometimes hard put to it to control
himself in the presence of the unscrupulous First
Minister, who was prepared to achieve his ends
by any means, and with any dirty tool.

Lord Bolingbroke would fan this righteous wrath
by seeming moderation.

Philosophical spectacles,' he would observe, ' areas
much a part of my dress as my muff. Through
their medium I really see little to be angry at, and
yet there are things which would be better different
persons who should be drawn and quartered. Not
Sir Bluestring — oh dear no ! He should be honoured
for his unstinted bounty and liberality — to his
sycophants and near relations.'

What was specially distracting to his foes, and
calculated to keep the seething pot of party rancour
bubbling, was the success which, for the first few
years of the new reign, crowned all the efforts of the
Minister.

The amphibious condition of politics abroad was
kept by his skill in statu quo ; the sensitive points
of the various Powers being soothed and flattered,
one Cabinet deftly played off against another.

France had been manipulated with admirable art.
By her friendly offices the ambition of Spain and

Austria had been kept in check ; the efforts of the
Jacobites crippled in that quarter ; the Pretender
himself driven across the Alps.

Peril from that direction was shelved for awhile,
leaving Sir Robert free to attend to affairs at home.
By his good temper, tact, and ready finesse, his
enemies were foiled, from whatever side the attack
was led ; till the farmer could have flung himself
prone in his velvet coat between the furrows, and
have battered his red shoes into the soil.

The Opposition made a banging of drums and a
toot-cooing of trumpets anent the expenses of the
army. Absolutely a standing army, or something
like it — handy weapon of tyranny ! Perilous precedent
! In the name of all that was preposterous,
it was asked, why 12,000 Hessians in time of peace,
devouring British beef, embracing British maidens ?
Sir Robert blandly pointed out that the maintenance
of peace depended on a breath ; that flames of war
might be kindled at any moment by factious
meddlers ; that the foreign Powers were only too
bellicose by inclination ; and that, in the event of a
European scrimmage, England could scarcely hope
to escape being drawn into a hurly-burly.

Besides,' added the cunning fox, ' is it not
notorious that persons are only awaiting the first
hubbub slily to introduce the Pretender?'

'Twas dreadful to mark how firm the fellow stood
upon his legs, who but now was toppling. Then

(which was rash, considering his mastery of the
subject) there was an onslaught on the question of
finance. What, oh, what ! was the meaning of
certain vast and mysterious items, cloaked under the
name of ' secret service ' ? Secret service ! Horrid,
un-english words ! Yet in the sea of bribery, the
ocean of corruption, in which, thanks to one man,
the country waded, could the virtuous be surprised
at aught ? Why ! the audacious Bluestring had
actually promised one Jordan, tinder his own hand,
that his brother should have the first fat living if he
voted as desired — brazen insolence ! — while another
was openly warned that in his office of land-waiter
another was awaiting his shoes.

In two years Bluestring had expended ^^300,000
under head of secret service, more than had been
disbursed in the ten years of an earlier Ministry.
His Grace of Bolton was known to have received in
notes from Sir Robert himself .^5,000, in return for
electioneering influence. Not only did the abandoned
wretch exhaust the public treasure, but he actually
anticipated the course of exchequer payments,
ignoring as vexatious established methods of procedure.
There were thirty-two recipients of large
sums who declined to state for what the money was
received. Would Bluestring enlighten the lieges ?
No. Bluestring would have the honour to decline.
He was surprised at the question ; for disposal of
secret-service money was barred from investigation.

to be accounted for only to the King. Perhaps
inquirers would call upon his Majesty, and cross-question
their gracious Sovereign ?

Although successful in rebutting the questions and
charges of his foes, Walpole was painfully conscious
that his pet system was expensive, and that unless
some new and ingenious measure could be devised,
or some new tax imposed, public expenditure would
outstrip its income.

The financier accordingly proposed to grapple
with the difficulty by withdrawing half a million from
the Sinking Fund, the establishment of which had
been organized to cope with the national debt.

Opposition flew to arms at once. They dubbed
themselves the Patriots now — men out of office and
ravenous to rule again always find grand names to
mask their selfish warfare.

Never was such monstrous wickedness,' howled
the farmer. ' The author of such an expedient would
justly win the opprobrium of posterity,' shouted
Pulteney.

But Bluestring was sure of his faithful Commons.
The Patriots were defeated by a small majority, and
the thin end of the wedge being thus introduced, so
convenient a process could not fail of course to be
repeated.

The whole produce of the fund melted by degrees;
the fund itself was mortgaged and alienated. Much
as he was reviled, the act of the Minister showed

VOL. I. 14

worldly wisdom. Office at any price was his motto,
and to that end it was essential to be popular.

Aware of the importance of remaining in the good
books of the landed squirearchy, from whose ranks,
save a few adventurers, the entire House of Commons
was drawn, he had been gradually lowering the
land-tax, for he held that men, no matter of what
political creed, will loyally support a Government
which spares their individual pockets.

The teeth of the Dawley coterie were drawn by this
manoeuvre, for the landed gentry were charmed to
find a difficulty vanquished without a call upon their
purses. A new tax would be a gruesome present
evil, whereas the plan of Walpole could only affect
posterity.

But trusting to national satisfaction loudly expressed,
the financier went a step beyond his times,
which threatened to blast his reputation, and disturb
all his arrangements. He had long been desirous
of introducing a well-balanced scheme which, by
equalizing the mode of taxation, would at one stroke
relieve the landed interest and convert England into a
vast free port. These advantages, he believed, would
accrue by manipulating a sensitive and ticklish element
— the vexed question of excise.

So soon as his intention became manifest to the
watchful eyes at Dawley, Bolingbroke rose up in his
hermitage with exultation. He flung his Horace
against the wall, his crook and flute out of the

window, and cried out in exceeding joy, ' I have him
now!' To which my Lord Forfar, who was more
cautious, replied, ' Unless we can knock away the
royal crutches he will hobble on and prosper.'

No doubt royalty at his back was like a tower of
strength ; but even within sturdy battlements we
may be coaxed to overreach ourselves and tumble
over into the moat.

'Tis a grievous and unpardonable sin to be ahead
of your times, and strive to bring in measures, good
in themselves, for which your country is unripe. Of
this crime the usually shrewd Walpole was guilty,
and the storm which he raised about his ears
threatened to overset the throne.

It will be necessary to remember that excise duties
upon commodities of general consumption were first
imposed during the Roundhead wars, the hand of
the exciseman being light or heavy according to the
exigencies of the moment. Under William the duties
amounted to a million, which, under Anne, almost
doubled itself.

At the time when Walpole elected to burn his
fingers with it, the annual sum added by this means
to the Exchequer amounted to fully three millions.
Political economists were against any extension of
the excise, arguing that because the real income of
the country originates from the land, it follows that
the weight of taxation should fall on landed property.
But it was essential to the consolidation of

14—2

Walpole's rule that the landed gentry should be
spared. They were never weary of complaining on
the subject. Moreover, of keener ken than his compeers,
Sir Robert perceived that in a commercial
country such as ours, with commerce daily on the
increase, it was absurd to talk of the whole national
income being derived from the soil.

To tax landed proprietors alone he held to be
unjust, for the proprietor of the soil only benefited
by a certain portion of its produce, a part of it being
necessarily withdrawn for the support of others.
Certain that his principle was sound as well as
politic. Sir Robert went cautiously to work, carefully
avoiding the odious word which was so hateful to
his countrymen. He abolished the land-tax altogether,
revived the duty on salt and kindred commodities
; but vigilant Bolingbroke and Pulteney
girded up their loins and made the most of the occasion.
They shrieked ' Excise !' vowed that the archenemy
aimed at a general tax upon all articles in
daily use ; that the constitution was to be torn in
shreds — a despotism raised upon its ruins.

The public, always prone to believe evil, took
alarm. Meetings were held in every town ; the
press, the pulpit, the city were loud in denunciation.
What insidious attempt was this upon the palladium
of liberty ? Nor food, nor raiment, nor muffins, nor
night-coifs would be safe. Armies of excisemen would
rush into every house at every hour, opening sacred

cupboards, seeking under beds. Where was Magna
Charta ? Walpole, through constant basting more
callous than formerly, merely observed with scorn
that calumny is the shadow of progress. He never
intended a general excise, and his enemies knew
that he did not ; but in love and war all weapons are
deemed fair, and the patriots were not above a lie or
two. How diverting an animal is homo — how gregarious
in his foolishness ! The bellwether jumped,
and the bleating lambkins followed. The signal was
given, and the swine ran headlong into the sea.

The epidemic madness of a nation, with Which he
had proposed to ingratiate himself, caused Sir Robert
grave disquiet. His friends advised him to drop so
unpopular a scheme at once ; but, secure in the goodness
of his intentions — buttressed by royal patronage
he resolved to put on a bold front, and justify his
judgment by results. It was feared that when it
came to the point there would be serious defection
both in the Lords and Commons ; that many who in
secret had wished ill to the Minister would take the
earliest opportunity to leave a sinking ship. It was
therefore necessary to beat to arms, and gather
together all trustworthy friends in serried phalanx.

Now there was a young gentleman, arrived a short
while only from the grand tour, to whom both parties
turned their eyes, for he was rich and of gentle
birth, and allowed it to be known at once that he
intended to shine as a ' Parliament-man.' This was

Ranulph Medlicote, Esq., and to his elegant chambers
in Soho the faithful Crump was instantly despatched
to study the virgin soil. He found a good-looking
young man of two-and-twenty — sufficiently worldly
in his views — rendered interesting by extreme pallor,
half concealed with rouge, due either to delicate
health or early dissipation. His ante-chamber,
arranged in studied disorder by a French valet, was
littered with odds and ends purchased under
guidance of cicerone in order to establish at home
the necessary reputation for vertil. There were
fingers and toes of antique statues, decayed medals,
pictures bearing the signature at least of all the
greatest masters ; chastely mingled with new French
clothes, swords, embroidery, snuff-boxes.

The new-comer, too, was fluent in cant terms, could
discourse on rust and varnish, the qualities of light
and shade, and was altogether calculated to be an
ornament in any sa/o«. As to his parts, 'twas impossible
for Crump to judge, for persons who laid claim
to modishness were so swaddled and rolled in affectations
that time only could betray the nature of the
stuff within.

That he was not a fool was evident enough ; for
'twixt two dissertations upon Italian art he could
plant a cunning question, which showed that he
possessed ambition. A man of quality, he hinted
airily, is so easily provided for ; if he have interest
he is fit for any place, and if placed can always make
himself of use.

This was enough for Sir Robert. The only point
was the new-comer's price and the extent of his
possible usefulness. In talking matters over with
the King he mentioned the name of the new arrival,
upon which his Majesty exclaimed :

'I know him. Last time I was in Hanover he
was presented, and seemed a pretty fellow.'

Would your Majesty,' asked Walpole, ' permit
him to be about the Court ?'

Why not?' the King replied with indifference.
Upon which the secretary was again sent trotting,
and Ranulph Medlicote, Esq., received the golden
key of a Vice-Chamberlain, as an apprenticeship for
higher things.

No. He certainly was not a fool, despite his
effeminate veneer. When the Minister called upon
him in his new apartments at the palace, and had
duly admired the statue toes and remarked on the
convenience of having rooms gratis at the foot of the
Queen's staircase, the young man said :

Yes. My prison-house is genteel enough for one
who has donned the chains of slavery.'

'Slavery?' Walpole echoed. 'How many, think
you, would give half their fortunes for that golden
key of yours ?'

The situation is almost menial,' quietly replied
Ranulph. ' ]\Iy French valet will have more freedom.
From babyhood kings are drunk with flattery,
and, like old topers, crave for drams. I know, of

course, that personal attachment is better rewarded
than public service, for they are vain enough to look
on it as a freewill offering to merit instead of a sacrifice
to power. I know that to get on and be one's
prince's favourite one must address one's self to the
study of his weaknesses.'

Walpole made believe to admire the chiaroscuro
of a Rembrandt as he murmured to himself, with a
villainous British accent, ' Cejcime homme ira loin'' So
old a head upon young shoulders might be priceless
to him now. So he then and there sat down and
condescended to explain his plans, while the young
gentleman stood listening as he studied his features
in a hand-glass. There was no doubt that the
Minister had sallied forth upon a dangerous path ;
but no man with pluck would abandon a journey
because of the roughness of the road.

Sir Robert refused to believe that public opinion
could be led astray for long. All he asked was a fair
trial for his scheme. All the prating about thin
ends of wedges was the merest rubbish. Could
not their countrymen perceive that their Minister
was English to the backbone, with as little love for
serfdom and wooden shoes as the burst Briton of
them all ?

Whilst abroad I have read foreign prints,' slily
remarked MedHcote, ' and remember something
about tampering with correspondence, which, to my
poor mind, appeared un-english. A private office,

I think, attached to the Post Office, costing £3,000
a year. . . .'

Sir Robert coloured and scratched his nose with
vexation. When you place yourself in a false position
and condescend, there is no knowing what may
follow ; and 'twas infra dig. for him to find himself
twitted by this foppish youth. Mr. Medlicote perceived
what was passing in his mind, and quickly
added, holding forth a thickly jewelled hand :

Sir Robert Walpole, pardon my impertinence,
and hear me out. I have always despised the shifty
crookedness of my Lord Bolingbroke, his foul mouth
and fouler heart, and deeply admired you, for you
are bluff and straightforward. You have obliged
me, who am a stranger, and I never forget kindness.
Though you are too wise and skilful to need counsel,
yet the most skilful may need intelligence. Should I
be useful as a hearty recruit under your banner I
shall be glad, and proud if you call me friend.'

And so was clinched a curious alliance, and the
Minister, as he jogged home to the Lodge in Richmond
Park, was pleased with the result of the
interview.

The new Vice-Chamberlain was soon voted a godsend
by the Court. Even the irascible little King
admitted that though he looked like a woman with
his painted face and exaggerated attire, he was
entertaining; while the Queen found in him just
what she wanted — a man who was trusty under the

French polish, to whom she could open her own
virile heart, and talk of higher things than the
frivolous gossip of the backstairs.

At first. Madam Howard, his Majesty's sotiffre-
douleur, sneered, as she held the Queen's ewer and
washing-basin, remarking, with a snort, '/e vous
felicity sur le nouveau singe.' But when she discovered
that Mr. Medlicote's advent lightened her
own trouble, that he put himself out sometimes todo
the sufferer a trivial service, her much-enduring
heart was softened, and she found relief in
tears.

In time she came to have suspicions that the title
of Countess of Suffolk — a gilded sop, cheaper than
coin, which the King liked not to disburse — was due
to his suggestion ; and though 'twas but a tinsel
affair, unbacked by real gold, a coronet is a coronet
all the world over.

The Honourable Pamela Belfield, in her turn, was
considerably exercised on the subject of Mr. Medli-
cote. He was rich and good-looking under the paint ;
had certainly started well. ' Why,' thought that
artful damsel, ' should he not earn a peerage shortly,
and prove the very man for whom she waited ?'
The female bosom should pretend at least to be
susceptible, she argued. One should fall in love, or,
rather, find a husband.

She was not one really to languish after any man
save for what he could bring her. And yet she liked

to have even serious lovers dangling ; something
characterized by eclat, something which added to
notoriety. The owner of a red coat and cockade, of
the tinsel of a Court buffoon, would do — even the
hangman, at a pinch, would be better than nothing
as an admirer.

If on better acquaintance he did not answer expectations
'twould be easy to throw him over, since
constancy in love's a cheat.

We have had occasion before to observe that there
are swains who dally without any intention to marry.
Was Mr. Medlicote one of these — a mere murderer
of reputations ? Well, there would be no harm in
fishing for him, and keeping him, if possible, in tow.
It behoved a young woman who hath herself only
to depend upon to be as crafty as a serpent ; yet she
should not be over-prudent. As years went on, the
number of seriously intentioned swains did not
increase around the sportive Pamela. The daughter
of my Lord Belvedere was poor as a church mouse;
she was never pretty, and her tongue (sharp always)
acquired with time an acidity which proved repellent,
productive of apprehension instead of amusement.


If she must change her name, she must become
my lady.' That was the first point from which she
never veered. Hence the necessity of a peerage for
the Vice-Chamberlain, supposing she succeeded
in hooking him. But then, when she sounded the

young gentleman upon the subject, he replied that
he was more useful to Government in the Commons
than in the Lords, and that he had no notion of
being kicked upstairs.

This was grave. Independence is such a mistake.
There was nothing for it but to wait, so she assumed
for the nonce a bantering air, garnished with quips
and cranks and girlish sallies, dubbing him ' my Lord
Monkeyman,' to which he retorted with ' my Lady
Scornful,' and a studied pertness that amazingly
diverted the Queen.

I regret that so sharp a person of quality as the
Honourable Pamela should hitherto have been so
unsuccessful. No doubt penniless maids of honour,
and women of the bedchamber, are hard to marry,
for they learn at Court the expensive ways of
duchesses, and get into the habit of losing large
sums at ombre or piquet which they are quite unable
to pay.

Towards settling herself she had but scant assistance,
her mother being dead, the Queen careless,
and Lord Belvedere still abroad. Once or twice she
thought it might be well to join her widowed parent,
and play the ambassadress ; but in this scheme she
received little encouragement. My Lord Belvedere
did not want her, and roundly told her so.

I am not wealthy,' he wrote, ' dependent somewhat
on the labour of my brains. Should I be recalled
I should require a place, in obtaining which

you, from your position about the Queen, might be
of the greatest service.'

Although no beauty, she might have found a
spouse, perhaps, but for that terrible tongue. The
only person to whom she could be soft (unlike Bab
Pilot, who was always hard to him) was Lord
Forfar. His punctilio and habit of hair-splitting
had fixed her attention ; and though she could not
comprehend the higher flights of his Quixotic character,
he had the fascination in her eyes of a sort
of high-born vampire. The earnest, and sombre,
and uncompromising (somewhat Spanish) nature of
the Jacobite filled her with uncomfortable awe, and
in his presence she became, for the time being, that
which she was not.

Strange that one of his years should be so bad a
judge of womankind ! He hung about Drury Lane
as others did, because it was the fashion, and could
see in the public idol there only a bold flirt. He
went occasionally to Court, and the mansions of
the great, and beheld in Pamela one who was
temporarily soured by an irksome way of life.
Though shocked by the sentiments which fell from
her lips sometimes, he was full of pity for the woman
warped, the ruffled dove whose plumage needed
smoothing by a tender and dexterous hand.

There were moments when Mrs. Belfield might
have hooked Gervas and landed that guileless
enthusiast. He had the coronet, but, alack-a-day !

the pelf was wanting ! When she thought of it the
icy heart of Pamela quite boiled with indignation.
Was it not too outrageous ? The bulk of his
estates were forfeit for a fancy ! To think that one
who was so oddly upright should cling to a drunken,
ignoble sot like James III. !

But for James III., Gervas might have been the
man — coronet, sufficient wealth, and all. The
woman of the bedchamber could have flung her
nightcap in the fire for very spite. And yet, when
pondering over the future, she longed — oh, how she
longed ! — to raise a tiny corner of the veil of the unknown.


Hanover sat on the throne, and possession is nine
points, as we all know ; and yet ! — and yet ! There
were far-seeing folks — their Majesties themselves
among the rest — who were uncertain of the stability
of the reigning dynasty. What if, in the shuffle of
the cards, the sot should come over the water?
Stranger things have happened in the world's history.
Oh, that cruel envious veil ! My Lord Forfar, for
service rendered, would be a duke at least, and then
no doubt would find a grander duchess. How noble
to take him in comparative obscurity, and be rewarded
by fortune for the generous act ! But then,
how flat if the reward never came !

The Queen, who was civil to all, would of course
dismiss a lady from her household whose husband
schemed against the King, however much she might

laugh at the same woman harmlessly coquetting
with Satan out of mere idleness. And her father,
too ! Should she become the wife of a half-pardoned
Jacobite he would curse and disown her; and though
for the present the absent ambassador's existence
was of little use, there was no knowing what time
would bring forth.

The situation was most annoying. Ought she to
angle for Ranulph, or try to hook Gervas ? There
was the grievous problem that vexed her calculating
soul ; and, unable to raise the veil, she watched and
waited, squabbling with one or t'other, or pretending
to be amiable, according to the exigencies of
the moment.

She was quite sure she did not like Sir Robert
Walpole, for early in the day she had striven to
attach that dissolute gentleman to her car-wheels,
and reading her character like an open volume he
had flung his rough guffaw at her. What woman
forgives a man who refuses to pick up the handkerchief?
She was quite sure she hated Sir Robert,
though, as he was the right hand of the Queen, her
mistress, and the dispenser of all favours, it was
prudent, for the sake of herself and of Lord Belvedere,
to smirk, and grin, and gibe, and wave a
skittish finger.

Thus matters stood in the year 1733, and the
prospect was for nobody a gay one. His Majesty's
temper, bad at the best, was tried by many things.

and he made his own Hfe and that of those around
him wretched. Indeed, Caroline said gratefully to
Walpole, when desperately harassed, that but for his
presence she would have been most unhappy. Mr.
Medlicote had had the art to make himself agreeable
to master as well as mistress. He would go forth
to the coffee-houses and, gathering news as a bee doth
pollen, lay his sweets before the King, who tasted
eagerly, and thus the edge sometimes was blunted of
the irascibility which found its daily vent upon the
Queen.

If Sir Robert had grown used to calumny, not so
the King. Caricatures, lampoons, ballads, found
their way somehow into the royal apartments, and
caused explosions there. Stung to the quick, George
sent one day for the council book, and with his own
hand struck out the name of William Pulteney from
the list of Privy Councillors. Even in the family
circle there was vexation for the august couple.
Frederick, Prince of Wales had been kept at Hanover
as long as possible ; but a time arrived when an heir
apparent could no longer be banished from the land
which he was to rule some day.

In his person was repeated the conduct of his
royal father ; for around him buzzed a lesser Court,
whose aim was to annoy the elder one, and by a kind
of poetic justice punish the second George for his
attitude to George I. Fred had a pretty knack of
making himself objectionable. He quarrelled with

his sister for being married before him ; would not
speak to his mother save in public, because the two
differed as to the merits of a music-man called Mr.
Handel ; gathered around him all the malcontents
whose passport to his favour was hatred of papa
and mamma. 'Twas sad to see how changed was
the position of the Court since the accession six
short years ago. Then there was joy at a transfer
of the crown without bloodshed, at the prospect of a
stable reign. Now the royal chair moved through
silent streets ; even in the theatre, when the royal
box was occupied, there was no clapping of hands,
merely a mechanical uprising in sullen silence, which
boded well for the hopes of Bolingbroke's intriguing
circle.

On a certain morning the honourable Pamela set
about her duties with exceeding archness ; for her
two swains were to meet face to face in the Queen's
bedchamber, and it behoved her to plant in the
breast of each, if possible, a wholesome germ of
jealousy. Opposition, not content with squibs and
diatribes, songs and pamphlets, were taken with the
audacious idea of undermining the foe in the very
centre of the citadel. Pulteney suggested that their
majesties must needs be aware of their precarious
position, and that it would be well, working on the
fears of Caroline, to frighten her into dropping
Bluestring. Who so suitable for such a mission as
Gervas, the upright and incorruptible ? What to

VOL. I. 15

the Dawley farmer was jargon, to him was burning
truth ; and enthusiasm would give birth to eloquence.
So my Lord Forfar duly demanded an audience of
her Majesty, and Ranulph begged leave to stand
behind her chair that he might report results to
his patron. Sir Robert, when he heard of the last
new move, shrugged his shoulders and observed :
Poor moth, to singe his wings ! Was ever such
a cat's-paw ?' In this quarter at least he knew that
he was safe, for was not the King governed by the
Queen ? and had he not been clever enough to raise
her ire and suspicion by hinting that Suffolk spent
her dreary evenings with her august lover in trying to
oust the Minister ?

Pamela was full of sham sympathy for Gervas at
this moment, for things looked black within the
palace.

*The foolish man hath just gone forth,' she
whispered, with gentle hand-pressure — as Lord
Forfar passed — ' puffed with overweening self-conceit.
Sure so unequal a contest cannot last. He cannot be
right, the vv^hole body of the people wrong. Your
cause must win.' Then, seeing the light of conviction
in the eyes of the Jacobite, she remarked with more
assurance : * I vow the very sight of the fat monster
breeds rancour and inspires animosity.'

Ranulph smiled as he watched her, and murmured
with appreciation :

My Lady Scornful's a constant delight ! A belle

passion for an insolent fine lady is the best finish fora
man of figure.' From which may be gathered that
as regarded thence-Chamberlain Pamela was getting
on.

My Lord Forfar's visit, as might have been foreseen,
was a failure. He gained nothing by it
save an assurance (if such were wanted) that there
was no parting the Minister from his crutches.
The Queen listened to his periods pale and unmoved.
What did he hope to gain by pointing out that his
Majesty held his crown by the people's will ? that
Bluestring was universally obnoxious. What was
the use of his declaring that sir Robert was odious
to the army because he left them starved and ragged ;
to the higher clergy by reason of his dissolute morals ;
to the City because he exercised a corrupt influence
over the moneyed companies, to the injury of
trade ?

'The Scotch hate him,' explained Lord Forfar,

because he was never known to do a kindness to
any of my nation. Do you think. Madam, that the
British are so degenerate as to receive chains without
a struggle against him who would rivet them ?
The King is but an engine of his Minister's ambition,
and your influence is the spring by which that
machine is worked.'

You forget, my lord,' replied the Queen haughtily,

that you speak of the King's chosen servant to the
King's wife.'

Lord Forfar was abashed, and bit his hp ; but
would make one more effort to upset this Minister
whose fall was to drag down the dynasty.

Beware, Madam,' he cried, * of contempt of the
clamour of a kingdom ; defiance of an irritated
people, flagrant disregard of a free country's birthright
! Should corruption and bribery force the
Excise Bill through the Commons 'twill be smothered
in the Lords. They at least will hold by their
traditions, and save the labouring constitution !'

The Queen grew a trifle paler, but answered
quietly :

You are free of speech, my lord ; so will I be. I
am not to be imposed on by professions, or terrified
by threats. You have your lesson pat, and well I
know who writ it. Your politics are culled from the
Craftsman, whose chief is as great a knave and
liar as any in the land. If you are a friend to the
King, detach yourself from his enemies ; if of
honesty, abandon those who disclaim it ; if of
neither, go your ways and refrain from insulting
women !'

Gervas surveyed her Majesty with involuntary
admiration, for 'twas impossible to show more
simple dignity. What a pity, he could not help
thinking, that the good cause should be represented
by such an one as James ; the bad by one whose wife
could answer thus ! For such a Queen, were she the
spouse of a Stuart, how willingly would he lay down

his life ! The wife of James, alack ! had been
forced by his excesses to desert her husband. Well,
well ; the world is full of knots. Pamela scanned
the face of the patriot, and saw 'twas clouded by
doubt. He was not then so certain of his cause.
Oh, that envious veil ! Ranulph was grinning
from ear to ear at the Jacobite's discomfiture. If
only she knew which way 'twould end ; which ticket
would win the prize !

Lord Forfar went away, lamely murmuring that
the people were betrayed, the country undone ; and
so soon as his footsteps ceased to echo in the corridor
the Queen's mask fell, and clasping her hands over
her face she burst into an agony of tears. What
was the use of it all ? Walpole was clearly wrong.
If the helmsman steers awry, must not the vessel
founder ? Dim banks of clouds all round — within
and without a gloom of darkness — not a ray of comfort.
Rather than endure it with such little hope of
success, would it not be best to take the knife and
with bold hand cut out the festering pain ? Hanover
was true — dear blessed Hanover. George loved not
England, but his heart went out to Hanover. His
temper would be less ruffled there. Would it not be
well to leave inhospitable England to her choice, and
live content in cosy if less splendid Hanover ? 'Twas
rare for Caroline to break down in this fashion ;
and Pamela was taken aback. Ranulph no longer
grinned. He hastily despatched a page in search of

Sir Robert, the physician who alone could prescribe
a remedy.

Meanwhile Mrs. Belfield moved hither and thither
with pursed lips and contracted brow, wondering
what in her own interests she ought to do, while
preparing a potion for the vapours.

Sir Robert was disagreeably surprised by the nervous
condition of his patroness. Had not he and she
accepted the possibility of a split over this vexed Bill?

Better to know our false friends,' he urged.
'Twould be fatal to lower the flag. Think of the
joy of the Dawley coterie ! The Bill in itself was
good ; therefore it was worth a tussle.'

Even if we go out on it ?' Ranulph inquired doubtfully.
* London is ever ready for riot,' he remonstrated.
Beware how you unchain the dogs of war on the
metropolis ! The effigies of the Pope and the Devil
are ever ready to be trotted out, and never fail in
their object when they appear. Are not the walls of
Temple Bar blackened by annual bonfires ? surrounding
houses turned constantly into receptacles
for crowds of men and women bent on mischief?'

You always make too little of your enemies,' the
Queen said, sadly smiling. * A tiny pebble often
stops a wheel. Mon Dieu ! mon Dieu ! Who would
wear a crown ?'

This was melancholy, and Sir Robert felt it to be
so, remembering her Majesty's cloudless joy and
hopefulness only six years since.

Let the Jacobites conspire. What matters it so
long as I am aware what they are doing ?' dogged Sir
Robert said. 'They are not formidable, I tell you ;
for I know their every move.'

Mrs. Belfield reflected that if this was so, 'twould
be wise to smile on Medicated

doubt you are too secure,' remarked the Vice-chamberlain,
' for the situation of the Pretender is
different now to what it was even at the last rising.
When James II. fled, the nation was in fear of
Popish tyranny, knowing him to be narrow, harsh,
and inflexible; that if ever he returned, the crown
would be absolute and the King revengeful. Now
even we Whigs are divided against ourselves, and
therefore weak ; and James's son would take the
sceptre upon any terms — would possibly even abjure
his religion. A sybarite whose sole ambition is an
easy life, he would willingly surrender the royal prerogative,
allow the best jewels of the crown to be
picked out. You know the reason of all their prate
about the soldiery. The army disbanded, one stumbling
block would be removed against another rising.'

At any cost we must hold by the army,' firmly
replied Sir Robert.

And yet 'tis a weapon that may be turned against
yourself. For even the soldiers — poor ignorant
fellows ! — are primed against Excise. They have been
slily taught that the price of tobacco will be raised
their one luxury — and curse the Administration

and Parliament ; murmur treason under the palace
walls ; are almost as ripe for mutiny as the nation
for rebellion.'

It certainly was very grievous, meaning so well, to
have fallen into such a dilemma.

May a poor silly woman speak?' artlessly pleaded
Pamela. ' She knows 'tis rash to pit her folly against
such pearls of wisdom as drop from the lips of Mr.
Medhcote.'

Hear my Lady Scornful !' laughed the young
man, offering a pinch of snuff.

Monster ! I vow I loathe you. I would observe
that in the soil of courts the plant that flourishes is
interest. Am I right, or only very silly ? Since the
wheel of politics is ever on the turn, we live with
our enemies as if they might be friends some day.
Hence it is understood that no quarrel is irreconcilable,
no friendship is to be rendered dangerous by
indiscreet confidence. Sir Robert is sure of his
Commons, uncertain of his Lords. Why not offer
terms ? — lords, I suppose, can be bought, as well as
commoners — and send up a few trusty ones from the
Lower House to make certain of a majority ? My
Lord Monkeyman, for instance, would grace a real
peerage. A coronet on the back of that pocket-mirror
which is so constantly in use would be a vast
improvement.'

Oh, your servant ! What a wee mouse after the
mountain's labour !' laughed Ranulph. 'Your ladyship

is vastly anxious to tie up my silver tongue and
cover with ermine my reluctant shoulders ! I am
over-young to be shelved yet. Ask Sir Robert.'

The hint was certainly not well received. The
young man was clearly incorrigible, and must not be
too much encouraged.

The Queen, in a brown study, answered nothing.
Sir Robert wished impatiently.

'Women never can see beyond a bauble's glitter !'
he observed tartly. ' Coronets are things to be
looked at as far-distant rewards for service. Why
not go myself into the Upper House at once, and
whip together that menagerie ?'

The only use I could have for ermine,' Ranulph
said, with a bow which would have gratified Lord
Chesterfield, * would be to spread it at the beautiful
feet of Lady Scornful.'

'Ah I if but he would!' sighed the bedchamber-woman,
ere she added, with an engaging giggle :
What ! tie to my apron-string a rake ? I know
better than to enclose a common which belongs to
the whole sex. Come, what could the wretch offer
me besides ?'

A bleeding heart, studded with wounds of your
eyes' own making,' laughed Ranulph gaily.

A pretty ornament for a corneille dc manage !
Better a pagoda or bit of right Japan out of your
collection. Faithless libertine ! you never kept your
promise to take me to the auction ; and 3'ou know
how I dote on the antique !'

I will escort your ladyship when it pleases you
said Medlicote, wandering from the subject of
debate.

'Words! words!' archly cried Pamela. 'Yesterday
there was a sweet little Chinese basin which I
thought I must positively have, but it went for a
fortune. Devil take the East India trade, I say !
The clay of one Indies run off with the gold of
t'other. By the way, here is a fan I bought — 'twill
divert Sir Robert,' the young lady went on airily,
smarting under his ' pish.' ' Maybe 'tis meant for
him : 'tis a great burly toad battening on the goods
of the people, with lines engraved beneath :

" Your cellars he'll range, your pantry and grange —
No bars can the monster restrain ;
Wherever he comes, swords, trumpets, and drums,
And slavery march in his train."

Can that apply to you. Sir Rob ?'

The Queen took the fan, and, frowning, examined
it.

You see,' she said, returning to grave matters of
discourse, ' they spare no means of flinging mud at
us. Whatever ridicules merit gives joy to those
who've none. You know best, and I will be guided
by you. But might we not yet withdraw ?'

Walpole paused to think, then answered slowly :

Having stood out so far, the scheme must have a
trial. Foiled by Bolingbroke, how could I ever hold

up my head again ? Were we at this point to reverse
arms, it does not follow that such unreasoning
clamour would be quieted. The only exit with dignity
would be for his r\Iajesty to drop the projector
as well as the project. Then, perhaps, trouble would
subside.'

Tears welled into the eyes of Caroline. Aware of
his lust for power, her friend must indeed be sick at
heart, she thought, under his rosy visage thus to
suggest his own disgrace.

No,' she said, clasping his podgy fingers ; ' the
King and I are of one mind. We have gone too far
together to retreat. If we must turn our backs on
England, we will go, and you with us. Hey, mon
Dieu ! what does it matter ? The Prince of Wales
would lose for ever Vv'hat he pants for night and
morning ; and after his ingratitude to us the retribution
would be just.'

Sir Robert kissed the royal hand, and, after so
signal a display of confidence, looked happier.

Not perceiving that it was a ruse to fix the Queen
to a purpose, Mrs. Belfield resolved that on the first
opportunity she would relate what had passed to my
Lord Forfar. Clearly the House of Guelph was very
shaky indeed. Should hints of hers prove useful to
Gervas's cause, that Quixote was the last man to
forget the counsellor. Her mind was made up now.
The war might be long and intricate, or be concluded
by a coup dc main; but it seemed quite certain which

side in the end would surely win. For practice's
sake, and for fear of accidents, she would lure on the
Vice-Chamberlain in such a fashion as easily to be
quit of him if need were, while serious siege was laid
to the Jacobite. The denouement arrived at. Lord
Belvedere would approve, and be proud of his diplomatic
child. So, when general and aide-de-camp took
leave to study tactics for the campaign, she screamed
over the stairs, ' Remember the auction tomorrow,
monster!' while her Majesty sought the King to
prepare his mind for the struggle.

A SOCIAL GATHERING.'

^^"^^HE turning wheel of Time brought nothing
but success to Bab. The story of how
the champion reprobate attempted by
force to possess himself of the reigning
Diva occupied the town for several days. The
desires were charmed at the failure of the plot ;
for, of course, the cunning slut had prepared the
trick herself to keep up appearances, and was as
disappointed at the interference of too zealous friends
as they would have been themselves. The men
were inclined to be indignant; for 'twas mighty
selfish in one small man to endeavour to appropriate
so sweet a morsel.

Her Grace of Queensberry at first looked grave.
Like Lord Forfar, she believed that even the
Rantipole would never have been so daring without
encouragement ; and that although the actress declined
to go with him the lengths that he desired, it

seemed far from improbable that, should the right
man appear, she might vanish with him into
Arcady.

And yet as time went on, her Grace could not but
change her mind ; for though her following increased
rather than otherwise, Mrs. Pilot succeeded in
holding the balance even with consummate art,
dividing her favours with such unpoetic nicety as to
strangle Romance in the bud.

Fine ladies, looking on, highly approved. Her
conduct was so haughty, and yet so free, that she
really deserved to have been a woman of quality.
The occasional girlish shrinking, such as had almost
led to failure during the first ordeal — an inopportune
attack of which would indeed have caused her to
succumb but for her Grace's timely fillip of ' coward '
had given place to an air of calm assurance that
sat well upon her ripening loveliness.

The lesson of the attempted abduction was not
lost on her. There were Ones of hardness at the
corners of her ruddy lips ; the tragic arch of her
finely pencilled brows had a way of contracting into
a frown, then suddenly smoothing again, which
showed a strong will, united to self-control ; while
the unobtrusive way she had of nipping insolence,
and keeping sparks at arm's-length, was worthy of
the most blue-blooded.

As Barbara, sitting erect, guided her four chafing
bays round Rosamond's Pond with wrists of steel.

grand dames, who surveyed the graceful Jehu
smacking the silken thong, declared that such
aplomb could not be so well assumed by one sprung
from the gutter, however good an actress.

Therefore they comfortably decided that shadowy
Pilot pere must have worn a star and ribbon ; and
that Madam Walcot, for all her intense respectability,
must, at some remote period of existence,
have been no better than she should be. Of course,
we expect the world to put the worst construction
possible upon all they see and hear ; but it certainly
was outrageous that madam's good name should
have been so idly smirched, and Barbara's legitimacy
doubted, merely because the latter could hold her
own among the sparks, and display the manners of
a lady.

An important event for Bab was the death of
Mrs. Oldfield, who, universally regretted, was carried
to her rest in Westminster Abbey. The public
honours paid to the corpse recoiled, so to speak, on
her successor ; for the fact of an actress lying instate
in the Jerusalem Chamber raised the prestige
of the profession, and added to the general esteem
which Bab had won for herself.

We have seen how, comparing her lot with Charlotte's,
she had upbraided herself for discontent ;
and yet that feeling was intensified rather than the
reverse by the passing of time. She was haunted
by a conviction that her professional success was

not deserved ; hence the plaudits and daily flattery
were valueless. It seemed to her that sterling love
and humble mediocrity might perchance be better
worth having than all this fulsome incense. If
she could have felt that she really was an artist it
might have been otherwise. She was so filled with
disgust at times that 'twas all she could do to refrain
from telling her admirers what fools they were.

Whilst dying in mimic agonies, which caused handkerchiefs
to flutter, and which Count Hastang and
the rest swore by the gods were perfect, she was
oppressed by a sense of the unreal. The scene was
never anything but canvas to the divinity ; the
goblet but wood ; the crown but tinsel. She was a
strutting mountebank, and knew it, and was profoundly
humiliated by the knowledge. 'Twas all very well to
have begun by saying that all she wanted was
wealth and consideration. Both were hers now ;
and yet what a feeling of hollowness ! While she
shuddered at the thought of a return to insignificance,
she yearned and wished and longed for something
that was not there, and seemed little likely to
present itself.

Wilks, who after Oldfield's flitting was drawn
closer to the girl whom he had helped to save from
a libertine, would sit and talk for hours about the
art which converts the soul into a lamp, and burns
the frail body as oil. His prate was jargon in her
ears, as had been the Duchess's when she spoke of

the exacting deity who, in exchange for a spray of
laurel, claims a bloody sweat.

At this period of the Diva's career, I must record
with reluctance that if she sometimes liked her
success 'twas only because, as she had declared in
the Richmond toy-shop, she was weary of doyle
stuffs.

By nature extravagant, shrinking under poverty,
with no knowledge of the value of coin, save that it
was pleasant to fling it about, it was satisfactory to
be so magnificent as never to appear by daylight
without harrowing the women with her dress and
equipage.

It was delightful, too, to have crushed her rival —
Madam Gibber. That vindictive person had been
driven out of Drury, and had taken refuge, with
dark threats of future vengeance, at the other
patent house.

And here again the shoe pinched ; for Madam
Gibber was a mean performer, and Bab felt a
crumpled rose-leaf when she thought of her. To
have outshone so poor a rival reflected small credit
on herself. 'Twould have been a worthy victory to
have triumphed in a friendly way over the Oldfield.
That she should see into her own heart so plainly
argued a lack of conceit in one so idolized, which
was a good point. At the bottom of that receptacle
she beheld, in fiery letters, ' Charlatan.'

Turn it this way or that, there was no genuine

VOL. I. 16

love for Art within her, save as a means to an end ;
and she took refuge from a contemplation of the
ugly three-syllabled word in a life of gaiety and dissipation.


And then, that old question of love. It must
always be unpleasant for a woman to know that her
heart is torpid ; that trusty hero-worship and affection,
which gilds clay idols, and is the loveliest part
of the sex, is altogether wanting in her anatomy.
She wonders with a species of dismay whether she
is a freak of nature, or whether 'tis a temporary
trance.

Bab said once that she would rather be a fallen
woman than so cold and precise a thing as Brace-girdle
; and yet she was in no danger of falling.
Placed in the hottest of hotbeds, she might have
been kept a la glace. Theoretically, the wedding-ring
and coach-and-six, concerning which she joked
with Byron, was the prize to which she looked. She
loved nobody, and nobody loved her ; and yet she
was never free from the struggling crowd of beaux,
who, as she knew too well, would have petted the
toy for a year or so, then have turned it over to the
valet.

This it was — constant humiliation to a proud
woman, who deemed herself worthy of better things
• — that carved the hard lines about her ruddy mouth ;
a painful and never absent sense of incompleteness,
and want of something essential even in the moment

of triumph. Had she been the crowned warrior, in
whose car the slave was whispering, ' Remember that
you are mortal,' she would have turned and rent him
in her bitterness, exclaiming, ' How well I know it !'

For some time after the attempted abduction Bab
gave way to such a loathing of the sun, the sky, the
earth, and everyone on it, that Madam Theophilus
would have been charmed could she have known.
Had Madam Walcot at that instant touched the
overheated iron she might have welded it according
to her wish. Bab would have flung her success into
the black ocean of disappointments and have obeyed
her querulous mother. 'Twould not have been for
long, no doubt ; for 'twas not in her nature to obey,
and having once tasted of the fleshpots she would
have returned ravenously to them.

She was furious with Byron for daring to attempt
a scandal, for presuming to suppose that even had
he carried her off, she would have done aught but
buffet his visage and belabour his carcase with a
stick. To think that, however much she liked
luxury and the good things of this life, she would
consent to abandon her good name to so contemptible
a little wretch ! Of course not. ' What
must he have thought of me — what must they all
think of me !' she exclaimed, with a throb of self-abasement
which was severe physical pain. Oh,
these beaux, these beaux ! Like the cinnamon-tree,
their rind only was of value, the wood within worthy

— 2

less. Her Grace of Queensberry was shocked in that
she did not shut her doors at once and for ever
against the naughty Httle rakehell. But she might
have spared solicitude. Bab, with a superb Hp-curl,
permitted his unabashed re-appearance at her toilet.
She would not pay the gaudy midge the compliment
of being afraid of him. She had learnt a lesson of
caution, and for the future would be more circumspect
with others as well as with him.

The vanishing of Charlotte after the dreadful

scene had affected her more than she could have

supposed. The idea of the two uniting and fighting

the world together was abruptly put to flight, for the

stricken creature, with a wail of woe at the evil

influence which she exerted, or supposed she did,

over those she loved, disappeared, and for long was

completely lost. It would have been a satisfaction,

in the midst of idle squandering, to have poured

some of the easily won gold into the lap of the poor

waif; to have protected and cherished the forlorn

one ; to have bestowed the happiness on her of

which she was herself deprived. The responsibility

of having to watch over so shiftless and unprotected

a wanderer might have eased the emptiness that

pained her. But no — even that small opportunity

of doing good was denied to the successful actress.

What then was the use of success ? Oftentimes

she led her following to Southwark, to the Bearpit,

to Cupar's Gardens, and came back dejected.

The pale, elegant young man was nowhere to be
seen. Aware that Charlotte was even less capable
of managing money than herself, without the same
facility of winning it, it occurred to her to make a
round of the prisons. Charlotte, who never could
escape from terror of bailiffs, might have drifted
into one or other of those grim abodes — be perishing
of starvation, perhaps, on the common side — be suffering
torments at the hands of some cruel marshal. To
the amazement of her vassals she dragged them all
one day into the Clink, like a swarm of summer
flies into a cellar ; but what she beheld there made
her so sick — a strange presentiment caused such a
palsy in her knees — that the colour fled from her
face, and she would have fallen but for the saving
arm of a tall gentleman in a shabby blue stout
and powdered wig.

His surprise at seeing her was as great as hers at
seeing him. My Lord Forfar in disguise ! What
could he be doing in that noisome place ? He
recognised the Diva with a troubled yet softened
countenance ; but perceiving the bedizened group
by whom she was accompanied, the harsh look
lowered again, and, muttering, * Vulgar curiosity, not
charity !' he turned on his heel and left her.

The whole party was as surprised as she, and little
Byron, pounce-box to nose, cried to the nearest
turnkey :

Spill my blood ! what doth his lordship here ?'

A lord !' the turnkey answered with respect, for
sure so distinguished a gathering would drop marks
of favour. ' A lord, is it ? More like an angel.
Though he comes hither twice a year or more, we've
never guessed his name.'

Twice a year in this pigger}^ ! Rack me ! he's
distraught !' quoth his tiny lordship.

If so, there's method in his distraction,' returned
the turnkeys with a grin. * He seeketh Scotchmen
who for small debts may languish, and giveth them
their liberty. More — there's dinner always at the
Bear yonder, where they eat their fill and drink a
tribute to their benefactor. I waist not that lords did
such things. I've seen a many at the Fair and in
the Borough. Your honour will pay garnish ? 'Tis
the fashion in our birdcage.'

Here are five guineas — from Madam Pilot, the
great actress,' replied Byron, with a bow. ' 'Tis
she's the angel, not yon blue eccentric !'

The ragged crowd had gathered round with
hollow, hungry eyes during this discourse, and seeing
the gold, attempted a feeble huzza, hoping that
manna might fall to them. On the way home Bab
was oppressed with gloom. Why had she felt so
much for that tatterdemalion crew ? Did not sufficient
misery stalk the open streets to render the
sight familiar ? Charlotte was not there. Thank
God, at least, for that ! So wan did the beauty look
as they rowed down the silent highway that some of

the gabbling gallants took alarm. Pray Heaven
the fairest of the fair had not taken the house-sickness
! What an end for her whose business in life
was to distribute pleasure broadcast ! Quick ! They
must stop at a tavern — fortify themselves and her
with purl ! What if she had the small-pox ? Of
course, everyone took it at some time or other ; but
beauty must be shielded from the common scourge
as long as might be. How wearisome were all
these parrots ! The sense of emptiness lay so heavy
upon Barbara that she would have given much to
drown the flight of chatterers in the swiftly-flowing
stream.

He had dared to accuse her of vulgar curiosity !
What was that to him? Why would he not keep
his unwelcome shadow from her path ? If she chose
to flutter like a mote in the beam, who knew better
than herself that it concerned no one else ? Bab
smarted with anger as she recalled the look with
which he had turned away — a look of contempt for
her and for Lord Byron. The wickedness of Spindle-shanks
was more entertaining than Lord Forfar's
virtue — much more entertaining. Out on such aggressive
virtue, such a widening of phylacteries, the
Pharisee ! And while she railed she grew the more
wroth with herself, for Gervas was no Pharisee. By a
mere accident she had discovered the good deeds which
he concealed — and he impoverished! Curiosity! How
ungenerous ! For the nonce her mission had been one

of charity quite as much as his ; and it never entered
into her mind to accuse him of vulgar curiosity.
'Twas evident beyond any doubt that the two were
predestined to misunderstand one another; which
was a pity, seeing that he was a man, while all
this glittering following of hers was a procession of
marmosets. Thought of him attuned her mind to
seriousness ; and when Walpole came to babble of
hopes and fears, the chances of Excise, and related
in comic vein the interview twixt Gervas and her
Majesty, she was more pained than she cared to
admit. Could not Sir Robert see and respect those
good intentions ? What a blemish in his character
was this lack of respect ! Barbara was quite snappish
with Sir Robert for his jesting. Decidedly her
temper was growing as bad as Pamela's, that she
could snap at her old friend. Why was she so
unhappy ?

Curiosity ! No. Often enough the uncanny
fascination, over which she had no control, took her
to Southwark ; but on this particular occasion it was
not so. The exploration of the Clink had been due
to the purest of motives — as pure as any that ever
moved this grim Sir Galahad. Whilst fiercely
reviling his self-sufficiency within herself, she unconsciously
learned a lesson. 'Twas necessary to
dice, and sup, and play, to hold her own, and feed
the excitement on which she lived ; but, Charlotte
absent, she would find other interests of an unselfish

kind whereon to bestow her superfluity. Walpole,
discoursing of pros and cons, laid much stress upon
the army, and the insidious efforts of his foes to
spread disaffection in its ranks. She knew — aware
of his faults as well as his good points — that much
of the money that should have paid the soldiers was
diverted into the abyss of bribery ; that they were ill-dressed
and starved — a band of beggarly eyesores.
What a pleasure to be a help to him, and at the same
time win for herself the gratitude of the poor fellows !
To resolve was to act. Was it not notorious that
the sentries at the palace gates sold their swords to
buy them meat, and, fearing to confess, started on
the footpad ? Food for powder in time of war, when
not required they fed the hangman.

The very chair-porters gibed at them as, lanthorn-sawed,
they gnawed their nails on duty for want of
better sustenance ; and Bab, from her window, had
oft seen scuffles wherein the red-coats were branded
with * skeleton ' and ' rag carrion,' and had the worst
of it through weakness.

'Twas known that the shirts of the men became
unseen at the first washing ; that shoe-soles were
sometimes left at the very palace door. Without a
word of her design she writ to the contractor,
arranged to disburse a penny upon every shirt, three
halfpence on every pair of shoes, which soon brought
her in a debtor to the tune of twelve hundred pounds.
What cared she ? 'Twould be more than made up

at the next benefit ; or, should the debt roll up
too rapidly, superfluous bracelets might be parted
with.

'Twas a delight to keep the secret of her good
works, and she hugged it to herself, and nursed it
tenderly, enjoying, with a delicious sense of virtue on
her side, the undeserved contumely of the Pharisees.
And probably she would have kept it always from
her worldly friends (so pleasant was it to look on in
furtive moments of solitude) had not Sir Robert,
who chanced to be watching, seen the sentinels
presenting arms to the beauty as she drove into the
Park, which phenomenon impelled him to walk
across and demand the cause of so singular a
proceeding. Whilst a little ashamed on his own
account, he was enchanted.

You little Whig !— you little Whig !' he said with
a merry finger-shake when next they met. ' I vow
Skerrit must be deposed. Though teased out of my
life by State affairs, I should be thankful for having
so many friends. For you are not the only little
Whig. Yesterday a fishwife outside my door lit up
her barrow with as many candles as I have years.
Fifty-seven of them ! Which I repaid — for no ally
is too lowly — with fifty-seven shillings for the compliment.'


Maybe 'twas in recompense for a good action
modestly veiled that Barbara's pet desire was one
day gratified. After a lapse of three years the

gaunt youth reappeared as suddenly as he had
departed ; thinner, paler, with a haggard hunted look
that smote Bab's heart with pain. A hopeless far-off
look in the dreamy eyes which showed that Colley's
curse had had its effect upon the stricken one.
Poor Sir Charles ! There was a seedy air of
gentility about Charlotte's garb, which contrasted
sadly with the woebegone visage that loomed under
a hat tricked out with tarnished lace. She wore a
small wig with a single curl around the base ; a
white lapel coat with a blue collar ; white stockings
the worse for wear, and pumps with holes, while in
her hand she bore an oaken plant, stoutly capped
with iron.

Now, this is fine!' cried Bab with joy. 'You
have learned wisdom, silly thriftless one ! Why no
vest ? The air is none too warm.'

I gave it to my landlady to pay for my bed,*
Charlotte replied.

'Alas I' responded Bab. 'More out at elbows
than ever ! But since you'd the grace to return, 'tis
little matter. I have enough for both.'

Charlotte sighed.

No,' she said. ' I will not harm you by my
presence. I am a pariah — no friends — no relations
alone ! Even the opiate for grief eludes my
grasp. I've borrowed so often and so much, that
friendship's bankrupt. My heart yearned to see
with my eyes if you were well and happy, my

benefactress ! Now I am satisfied, and shall
depart.'

The old delusion,' smiled Barbara. ^ There's
enough here of the opiate, as you call it, for both —
too much. Sir Charles shall be rigged out in a
smart new suit and live with us, regardless of my
reputation. But come, croon me a song as you used
to do. Let harmony attune our spirits.'

'What shall I sing?' asked Charlotte, pleased.

Something by one of the Restoration gentry ;
they understood life.'

Charlotte commenced in a low voice, as if chaunting
to the dear inmates of her puppet hospital:

" When the tigers lambs beget —
When the snow is black as jet —
When the planets cease to move,
Then shall nature cease to love"'

Mr. Cowley was playing spider to some fly,' remarked
sage Barbara, ' when he writ that fudge.'

" Stop the meteor in its flight,
Or the orient rays of light —
'Tis as vain, below, above,
To impede the course of love !" '

Charlotte's voice trembled and faded in a long-drawn
sigh. She was thinking, doubtless, of that
raffish husband of hers who had over-shadowed her
young life. 'Twas not for indulgence in bootless
contemplations of an unpleasant retrospect that Bab
wished to retain her here.

'Charlotte!' briskly cried Mrs. Pilot, 'I vow
you're as lumpish as a millstone. What of yourself?
Have you been acting ? Shake up your wits. How
are Nebuchadnezzar and her Sheba Majesty?'

Charlotte twined her fingers nervously, casting a
timid glance behind, as if in dread of some swart
shadow following.

I played at Bartlemy the two last fairs,' she said ;
but naught went well with us, of course. The first
time my shoes were thin and the rain heavy, and
all but I had on in Limbo. I contracted such a
hoarseness that I was turned off with half a crown.
Besides,' she added in a whisper, ' I saw my father
there, and dared not face him. Next fair I was no more
lucky. For in the midst of the performance I beheld
a bailiff glaring at me, and incontinently fled, lest I
should end my days in some dismal castle of distress.'

Any end to so dreary an existence would, I should
have thought, been welcome,' mused Bab. ' I, in
such a case, would make an end on't. But what of
the puppet motion to which you were so devoted ?'

Ah, poor things !' Charlotte replied, softening with
sadness ineffable. ' Even they were doomed because
of me.'

What ! Hero and Leander ?'

*A pretty pair!' Charlotte continued, with tragic
gloom. 'But too sweet and poetic for the country
audiences. What knew they of Hellespont or Sestos'
height ? Since they spake by my voice, I interpreted

to suit the groundlings. For Hellespont I imagined
our Thames ; Leander, a dyer's son about Puddle-wharf
; Hero, a wench o' Bankside, who, going one
morn to Fish Street, Leander spied landing at Trig's
Stairs, and swore she should be his. Then on came
Cupid, clad as a drawer, for methought the audience
did love drink for all in all.'

Fie, Charlotte !' laughed Bab. ' Is it thus you
degrade the drama ?'

Ah me ! ah me ! May I tell what a life was ours ?
In one town we were like to lie in prison, for but a
week before a lioness had escaped from a caravan,
and attacked the Exeter mail. " Out on the lewd
mountebanks!" the mayor cried; "heathens who
mouth as Alexander and Zenobia, and wear each
other's clothes'' " Ye lie," I said, for I was bound
to defend the company. "The old stale argument
against the players. My actors at least are sexless."
The mayor was crabbed, but I calmed the people
with a religious show. My puppet drummer rode
through the streets with Eve, inviting all to witness
the Creation of the World. 'Twas glorious ! I gave
them Herod's cruelty ; a feast of Dives with Lazarus
in rags, who rose to heaven in a machine guarded
by angels ; and the clouds breaking discovered the
palace of the sun in prospects of gold and silver, to
the admiration of all beholders.'

As grand as Mr. Rich's pantomimes,' said Bab
demurely.

To season admiration and add liveliness,' Charlotte
pursued, roused now to enthusiasm, ' we had
Punch and his wife dancing in the ark a saraband, a
conceit that pleased all mightily'. Then down came
Fate on us, as always. A reverend-looking elder there
was, who commanded " Susanna, or Innocence
Betrayed," and loving Leander and gentle Hero
(how could he do otherwise ?) took us to dwell with
him. He could not approve, he said, of living
players — misguided folks who stood on their heads,
deformed their bodies into strange shapes, tempting
of Providence in a changing of fair forms. He loved
the sweet Queen of Sheba, too, and methought the
ban was raised — this stranger's friendship an earnest
of future peace. He gave me clothes and rings and
watches wherewith to adorn the company.

Aha !' cried Bab ; ' discovered you were Charlotte,
not Sir Charles ?'

Nay, hearken. My better star had not eclipsed
the baleful one, as I presumptuously thought. Alack-tuesday
! The watches were stolen ; he the chief of a
band of housebreakers, who thought to make of mea
loadstone.'

The way of the world,' commented Bab, ' is to
make cat's-paws of the guileless.'

Fleeing without even a hat we escaped, I and
the company, like a tumbler through hoops. Mortally
frighted of the bailiffs, we reached a haven in
Southwark, and lay awhile panting, fed by the charity

of those as poor as I. Creeping by owl's light I
sought out old haunts — the booths — in search of
work ; but terror slew my courage, for passing
through Barbican impudent rag-sellers would clutch
me by the coat, asking what I lacked, till may heart
stood in my mouth. " Buy, buy !" would shout some
skeleton. Thrusting him with this oaken plant into
the kennel, ^'You lack," I'd say, "both manners and
civility, as I the opiate. Avaunt, vermin ! your rags
reek of Newgate and of brandy ! What else do I
lack ? that which I can never purchase or you sell
rest and peace of mind." ' Sir Charles sighed
deeply.

Poor soul in travail!' murmured Barbara. ' Charlotte,
listen. You've suffered overmuch, and your
mind is a prey to delusion. Shake it off, and all will
be well yet. I know that your father is inexorable ;
and I know that your brother, who meant well, is
under his thumb and hath abandoned you. But
never say, while I have breath, that you're without a
friend. Come ! A fig for hunting-dogs and bailiffs.
I will discharge your paltry debts, holding the opiate,
and with me you will find peace.'

Alack — if it might be ! Never !' wailed Charlotte.
I'll take some timely help if you will grant it, and
go my doleful ways. Since I went forth, you see,
you have been prosperous. Had I remained, 'twould
have been otherwise. Were you through me to
suffer half what I've endured, I should be driven in

despair to seek uncalled the presence of my
Maker.'

Bab knew not what to answer.

'Oh, Colley Gibber! fatuous stony-heart!' she
murmured. * Perfumed, powdered, bediamonded as
you are in this world, in another sphere the madness
of this flighty child of yours will bear stern witness !'

What could be done for Charlotte ? With this
wild fancy on her there was no forcing her will. As
well immure within a cage an eaglet.

Charlotte had approached her friend, and with
timid touch was smoothing her abundant locks.
How soft I What beauteous waves !' she whispered
lovingly.

Barbara was anxious to gain time for thought to
puzzle out this problem.

Sir Charles,' she said, with an assumption of
light-heartedness, ' I am the vogue, the arbitress of
Fashion, and is it not the acme of the mode to possess
a male friseitr ? I am to receive company
presently ; you shall be valet, and improvise a novelty
that tomorrow shall be spread over the town. You
used to be cunning in hairdressing, as in so many
arts.'

The madcap thought found favour with erratic
Charlotte, who was soon engrossed in tutoring the
coal-black billows into shape ; and keeping her hands
and attention thus employed, Barbara chid and
argued. The bailiffs appeased, what was there to

VOL. I. 17

prevent the wanderer from resting quietly? She
need not fear meeting her father, for he was quit of
Drury Lane, and had sold his patent; and though
he sometimes visited, would cease to come if he
found his child installed — a matter of profound indifference
to Mrs. Pilot, whose career was assured,
and who was indignant at the old man's conduct.
After Oldfield's death the patentees had severed
partnership, for Colley's fortune was made, and the
opening of a new house in Covent Garden by victorious
Rich (so close to Drury) had been wormwood
to him. As an actor he returned now and again to
the boards for a night or two ; but Charlotte might
go for months to the theatre without chance of
meeting him. As for the absurd Italian fancy of an
evil-eye, there never was such fudge. Where did she
pick it up ? On the contrary, instead of being an
ill-omened burthen. Madam Charke might be of
genuine service to Mrs. Pilot, for really the beaux
were monstrous importunate and troublesome — never
was such a crowd of mosquitoes — and that iron-headed
oaken plant would be of use in the streets
against their empty pates.

The fancy for male attire which had fanned the
anger of the poet laureate, and amused the town,
would be of the greatest use, for the beleaguered
actress would have a staunch protector who was a
man and yet was not, and who on several occasions
had shown male prowess, a steady hand, and uns



flinching courage. But to all Bab's wiles Madam
Charke was deaf. She had come, impelled by a
yearning which she prayed she might not repent ;
would accept, as she said before, the frank offer of a
beneficent protectress to free her from fear of gaol,
and make a fresh start in life. Some day, should
destiny relent, she might be vouchsafed the blessing
of being allowed to repay the boon. Humbler instruments
sometimes have done great work.

From this position there was no moving Sir
Charles ; so, the toilet completed to the satisfaction
of both, Barbara took a silken purse from a escritoire
and reluctantly gave it to her friend.

Here are a hundred guineas,' she said. * No
thanks, for did you not take them they would be
squandered at ombre before the day is out. See
what 'tis to ape the quality ! We lose more than we
can pay without understanding the game, hurry to
auctions without caring to buy, to the opera without
wishing to hear, slight husbands when we have 'em
without a particle of hate, and all because it is the
fashion ! Oh, how I loathe it all ! For two pins
I'd take up the puppet-drum and follow you !'

But Charlotte was not listening. At sight of the
gold she had ambled off on Hope, after 'her usual
style. Past anguish was forgot ; the future was rosy ;
her sunken eyes were bright.

I warrant,' Bab laughed bitterly, that you think
'twill make your fortune. To some poor souls 'tis

17 — 2

never given to learn. Yet why should I rail, for at
bottom I'm quite as hopeless. Easily earned, easily
spent. Come to-day and gone tomorrow. Were I
to take a distemper that destroyed my looks, where
should I be but on your dunghill ? Charlotte !
Charlotte ! why will you desert me ? Never were
two women born more fit for double harness. Hast
never seen guineas ? How you gloat ! Miser !'

Indeed, Charlotte was wonderfully moved by the
silken bag of dross. With quick breath she counted
and recounted the pieces, building such castles in
the air as threatened to fill the heavens.

How shall I thank you ?' she said, her voice
quavering with excitement. * I'll organize a company
of flesh and blood, and take them round the towns,
and some day may ride in my own chariot.'

And hold levees in your booth 'mid rancid oil
and torch-smoke. And what of your company ? A
leading lady, I dare swear, in the northern taste,
with high cheek-bones and jutting brows, like a
balcony over a door ; a herd of characterless
servants out of place, who burn to swill champagne
and go a-wenching in broidered vests, yet cannot
write their names ! And their end ? Your heroes
in plumes kidnapped for the starving army; your
queens turned on the street to perish in the Lock !
I've heard much about the country stage. 'Tis bad
enough in town. Charlotte, better stay with
me!'

Excited Madam Charke was too anxious to start
on the new venture to heed the other's ridicule.
Obvious for the moment of evil-eye, of curse, of
hunger past, the future was a glorious sunrise.
There was a company of clerks who met at the
George, at Hounslow, she well knew — dashing
fellows, she vowed, and prime companions all — who
wanted but practice to rival Wilks ; one, a rider to
an eminent haberdasher, possessed already the bel
air — had threatened upon dismissal to turn highwayman
— but needed only a wardrobe and a few guineas
to shine reputably more bright than Betterton, to
o'er master Barry. Before a week was past the
company should start with a handsome wardrobe ;
and ere a month was gone the patentees should hear
of them.

'Twas sad to watch optimism so misplaced, to
look on Will-o'-the-wisp mocking Hope's lamp.

'Go then, and luck go with you!' Barbara said
sadly. * Perhaps your budding Bettering would
like a play fresh from the mint ? If you'll wait I
have an author coming presently who'll serve your
purpose, doubtless. He hath already tinkered some
dozen tales of blood. Such tales ! Enough to stand
the hair ! When they are too unskilful to end their
heroines agreeably, out comes the dagger or the
bowl ! Well, since you must have your whim, remember
this : when you come back in rags there
will be dinner and always the warmest welcome.'

Mrs. Pilot was compelled to use an effort to
summon back her smiles and rally her wits when,
Charlotte gone, her friends began to gather. Some
of them were unruly even in skilful hands ; of late
the small lord and the Minister's secretary were
snarling over-much.

To play one against t'other was diverting, but the
Diva had no intention of allowing them to measure
swords, and their jarring demanded supervision.

After his base conduct Byron deserved the rack,
and Barbara was not one to spare his bones. As for
Crump, it behoved her — mindful of that severe
lesson — to be wary. He blew so hot and cold that
'twas obvious that he meant nothing but what others
did. Wholesome dread of his patron would probably
curb his rashness ; but situated as she was, it
was necessary to [remember that young blood is
young blood ; and that stalwart young fellows of
mean extraction may be stung to forget manners
and recklessly blast their future.

'Twas evident by his mouth and jaw that his
passions were strong ; and, secretary though he was,
the extent of his education was insufficient for a
bridle.

What if he, of all the slanderers, should mean
honestly ? — as madam had hinted, possibly with
authority. Could she, by dint of wooing, consent to
be Madam Crump ?

No. Bab resolved long ago to bind herself to no

man whom she could not love, and there appeared
but little chance of the mischievous god tying this
pair together.

Jack's rage upon hearing of Lord Byron's attempt
was so deep and fierce that the heart of his lady-love
went out to him. But on her side 'twas gratitude,
not love ; and when she gravely bade him, on pain
of her displeasure, give up feelings of revenge, her
little hand never trembled, though his did, till his
grasp grew so rough and close that, wincing, she
shook it off.

Decidedly she would have none of him as lord and
master, whatever his intentions might be. His hug
of affection was like Bruin's !

Maddened by coquetry, he went so far, more than
once, as to shake his fist and grind his teeth at her.

A pretty prospect ! As Madam Crump would she
have her beauty battered, like the lady of a river-bargeman
? This method of wooing was of the
stormy kind which would have won some women,
since some ladies like ill-usage. Possibly the Sabines
adored their lords for their summary style of courtship.


But not only did he shake his fist. He could at
times be boorish with his tongue, as though a gentleman
could resent a pretty woman's raillery !

Never had he breathed a word of marriage ; his
attentions had been of the vaguest. But supposing
them to be honourable, why did he not speak ?

'Twas odd. Would he have a girl of spirit standstill
like a tame thing, to be shot out of the herd ?
Sure, a brilliant healthy maiden should trust to light
heels, and lead her thirty couples or so of brisk
young fellows helter-skelter over hedges, bogs, and
ditches ere, panting, she permitted capture.

Maybe 'twas the advice of Madam Walcot that
held him back from proposing, for he was curiously
uncertain in his attitude. Sometimes brazen and
assured, as if a serf stood waiting with the keys of
the fortress on a cushion ; at others, timid and
gnawed by indecision, letting ' I dare not ' wait upon
I would'; at others, low-bred and insolent.

Every now and again the spoilt belle reviewed the
phases of Honest Jack, and marvelled.

What could he intend ? Sure, he should know
ere this that one who had rejected the overtures of
dukes and earls, even though but a player, was not
likely to be so emprise de ses beaux yeux as to stoop to
run off with a secretary.

Ladies of quality doubtless preferred sometimes
to stoop, selecting singular lovers ; but then 'twas
the act of stooping that caused for them the fascination.
To a player with the plebeian name of Pilot
such satisfaction was denied. To run off with a low
fellow would make but a well-assorted pair, many
would doubtless think. Hence there would be no
excitement about it — too little scandal to make it
worth the while.

If he meant honestly — and he was evidently very
much in earnest, and meant something — why not
say so, and take his chance ? His emoluments were
good ; there were fine pickings in his employ about
Sir Robert. There was no reason why he should not
marry, and marry Mrs. Pilot, whom his patron
elected to esteem.

There must be something behind, some hidden,
lurking motive, which, woman-like, she longed to
fathom. 'Twould be almost worth while to lead him
on, if only to force his hand ; but 'tis dangerous
playing with fire.

Bab was too straightforward to act scurvily to any
man. Her coquetry was only on the surface.

Perhaps he thought that a woman should be
carried gently forward like a lighted taper, soft and
fair; lest by a hurried motion the flickering flame
should be blown out. Yet that could not be neither;
for once the rough wretch said to her with calm
effrontery, when she had severely nipped him :

A woman of insensibility is one who has been
wrongly attacked. I could win any fair — even you
for instance ; for I know you love me.'

I !' Bab had cried, indignant.

You — by making ridiculous believe to hate.'
Whereat the Diva had been so taken aback that

she only murmured :

Can bears, then, be conceited ?'

But how idiotic it all was ! There was to be no

marrying or giving in marriage. Was it not well to
banish the most turbulent, unruly, and mischievous
of all the passions ? Sleeps-eyes and sighs were
conventional tokens of respect for loveliness. Mrs.
Bab was a bachelor now and in the future, and as
such entertained her friends.

Dear heart ! But what preparations there were
for conquest among the slanderers, despite the
lady's attitude of armed neutrality ! While Charlotte
was performing the duties of an amateur friseur
above, the professional on the ground-floor was well-nigh
driven distracted by the clamour of the beaux.
There was such a smell of curling-irons, so strong a
reek of perfumed hair-powder about the stairs, that
Bab cried :

Open the casement, lest they smother us with
essences.'

The Gibbers, pere et fils, looked in ; but, finding no
seat untenanted, stepped across to White's to gather
the latest news. My Lord Byron en papillotes was
being shaved while his servant aired a new white
stout with a crimson cape ; and Mr. Crump was
trying his appearance in a Jehu's jemmy, which his
patron, laughing, said gave him the aspect of a
coachman.

Wilks, too, was there — not looking so young as he
could wish — attired still in black, faithful to departed
Oldfield. The new play that was to be read concerned
him as much as Barbara ; for was not he still

the leading juvenile hero, though well past sixty
summers ?

Bab's prosperity had enlarged her views of magnificence.
Her benefit was due before many days, and
it behoved her dignity to appear in a brand-new
part — not one that was stale and hackneyed ; and if
she invited her friends to hearken to the beauteous
composition, she must give them meat and sup — not
send them hungry away. Therefore was it that this
day she gave a party.

My Lord Byron was in a captious mood, for Crump
had blossomed forth into a crop of fascinating coat-buttons
as big as crown-pieces ; so he sniffed and
fidgeted — the company complete, sitting in a circle
round Bab's parlour — when a footman informed their
honours that the man who made books was below.

Souse me ! Let the fellow wait,' Byron said —
'twill make him modest — while I amuse your ladyship
with the new lampoon. 'Tis broad and exquisitely
comical.'

'What !' laughed Bab, 'would you hunt away Sir
Robert before dinner ? To-day my nest is the temple
of the Muses, and they've no politics. Show up the
gentleman.'

I can't abide a genius!' grumbled my lord. ' So
saucy ! Will expect to dine at the same table with us
unless, of course, it be a genius at Hockley, or
Cupar's Gardens, where, to be sure, they are well
enough upon the wire — wretches without a shoe to

their foot, who, with not so much earth of their own
as will serve to bury 'em, pretend to be superior and
arraign the conduct of their betters.'

I've little cause to disagree with you !' declared
Sir Robert, smiling. * No offence, King Coll, to our
poet laureate ; he's made of other stuff. I refer to
scribblers without a name, or who hide themselves
behind an alias.'

'Anonymous and unknown scribblers,' asserted
Honest Jack, ' should be caned and dragged through
the horse pond. How dare such mean puts to think
about their betters at all ? They hang about the
portals of the great with backs like willows, in hope
of being allowed to dedicate and earn five guineas.
Should they gain their point by dint of bending at a
chariot door before his honour puts the glass upwell
and good. My lord is a Maecenas ! If not, they
belch forth the vials of the most base scurrility.
Like everything else in this sordid world of ours, 'tis
but a matter of money.'

Nay, nay !' cried Bab. * Don't talk of money, for
the Grub Street gentleman is coming up the stairs.
Ye must listen to the play unprejudiced. Try and be
civil. My lord Impudence, I see you are preparing
the yawn of effrontery which peacocks wear to scarecrows.
Poor fellow ! This man's so indigent that
I shuddered when I saw him first, and promised
that he should dedicate to my own patron, who'll give
him twenty guineas.'

You're monstrous polite as well as liberal,'
laughed Sir Robert.

'Not a word ! You will,' Bab said with an
imperious stamp. ' And whatever the part is like
I'll play it, and don the^Whig colours. Now, are you
satisfied ?'

Then the fortune of the author's made,' returned
the Minister, with his husky laugh, ' considering how
popular we are ! Pray am I to adopt every inky-fingered
scamp in Grub Street whose belly's empty ?'

Hush ! This one deserves success, for he had
the skill to win my abigail's heart by humbly craving
her opinion. She liked his play, forsooth, because
there was little dressing in it to trouble her, and
since then I've had no peace.'

If you are determined,' suggested Theoo, ' let's
move to cards ; why trouble to have it read ?'

What can it matter if there's not a syllable of
sense from first to last ?' added Lord Byron. ' I
like a play that makes me laugh, and who can
laugh at sense ? As for your gloomy tragedies, I
hate 'em; but let me perish if I heed what 'tis
all about, so that Mrs. Pilot's in it.'

Indeed, the high-class drama's moribund !'
sighed sententious Colley. ' Our theatres are no
better than puppet-shows, our actors merry-andrews.
See how the town is drawn by that contemptible
rascal Rich with his minuets of dancing chairs and
poussetting ghosts ! When fools lead the town, how

shall a man live by wit ? To succeed he must be
profane, scurrilous, immodest ; to receive applause,
must deserve sentence at the Old Bailey ! Stick to
the old plays, Bab, and let the new go hang !'

But Bab was resolved at least to go through the form
of a reading, lest Wilks's temper should grow restive
and he should balk her fancy.

My author,' she lightly observed, ' is above a
paltry desire to be brilliant. If he could always
command a dinner and a bed would be glad enough
to discard humour for the glorious state of insipidity
in which you of the polite world indulge yourselves.
I care not a fig what my part is like, provided Mr.
Wilks is satisfied.'

But do what she would, considerate as she might
be to the great man, the bowing author, when at last
admitted, was received with the glare of disdain due
to mere foot-people. With deepest humility that
was painful to witness to froward Barbara, he made
obeisance to him of the star and ribbon, then to the
scarce less awful poet laureate ; and selecting a footstool
in a remote corner, sat himself down to read.
Poor man ! He did look worn. His suit of black
was as faded as that of funeral mutes. His peruke,
which had evidently once adorned a judge of Queen
Anne's time, spread manly over his spare shoulders.
By his side dangled an aged sword, long rusted in its
scabbard ; while the silk stockings on his shrunken
shanks had so oft been darned with a different

material that they were almost completely worsted.
Abashed by the row of exquisite who stared him out
of countenance without deigning to perceive that he
existed, he mumbled something about poverty, to
which Barbara graciously rejoined, with a nod at
Colley, that save in a single instance no one expected
to find a poet in laced clothes ; that a play, like
a bill, was of money value when accepted, and that
all may be won by courage.

The lowliness of this genius mollified Lord Byron ;
and Sir Robert, listening to the poor undigested
stuff, contemplated his favourite with increased
interest. Under the cold and hard and domineering
air that was so much admired, and caused her name
to be coupled by female lips with minx and haughty
slut, what a warm kind heart she had ! No doubt
'twas vain and finish, secure of her dominion over
the public mind, to be ready to act any nonsense. But
then, was she not a woman ? and, according to his
code, was not the sex built up of foibles and minxish-
ness ? As women went he declared to himself that
he was genuinely fond of Barbara Pilot, and that
none should do her wrong if he could stand in the
breach. 'Twas rather a pity she was so extravagant.
Meanwhile Lord Byron, lulled by droning, went to
sleep and snored ; while Mr. Crump devoured the
beauty with his eyes till she, who was accustomed
to torrid glances, was fairly out of countenance.

Wilks, more practical than Bab, snorted at the

author till that timid wight grew pale and
stammered.

'Jackass,' grunted the actor, * break their
knees in striving to gallop up Parnassus and take
fl3dng leaps over Helicon ! There must be alterations,
sir ! important and numerous.'

Of course,' put in Bab. ' The best of plays
require alterations ; and our author will be thankful
for Mr. Wilks's help. The poet alone cannot make
the play. A colourman might as well say he made a
picture, or a weaver a coat ! 'Tis the players who
have the exact measure of the town, and the skill to
lit their taste. Poets must learn from the players.
Mr. Gibber, here, is both ; hence the wreath he wears
so gracefully.'

Colley was delighted, being as much devoured by
vanity as every actor is.

Fie, artful Barbara ! Be careful, Mrs. Barbara,'
he cried. ' Compliments from fine women show
they've no wit for satire !'

I would not say a good-natured thing for all the
world !' cried my Lord Byron, waking.

'So I should suppose, sauce-box !' Bab laughed;
but remember, my lord, that if wit be a sign of ill-nature,
it doth not follow that ill-nature's a sign of
wit.'

I believe she mocks me,' muttered the little
man. ' Pray are we to have no hazard this morning?'


Patience ! Patience 1' returned the hostess.
What an impertinent maggot it is ! With all my
heart, but later. These shallow pates can't live for
five minutes without cards ! The play, sir, is vastly
good, and shall be done. Come to rehearsal tomorrow,
and try to please the players ; for if you
put 'em in a huff, they'll make a looby of you. No
thanks — avaunt !'

And giving the palpitating gentleman a hand to
kiss, the actress hustled him out ere he could express
his gratitude.

The banquet now appeared, and was much admired
; for Bab, who never did things by halves,
had given carte blanche to Goundu, and confided the
dessert to Robinson, the Queen's own confectioner.
The gentlemen, of course, supplied the music, which
played in the street during the entertainment, to the
edification of the gallants at White's Coffee-house
opposite, and of the chairmen in the road. One
old gentleman, who perused a gazette in the bow-window,
was so ravished, or so envious, that he sent
over a black boy to ask if he might join the party,
an impertinence which Barbara resented hotly.

'My Lord Belvedere!' she said, flinging down
the card. ' An actress may claim no privacy ! As
brazen, I'll warrant, as his daughter.'

Lord Belvedere,' echoed Sir Robert, * hath just
returned to England. You might do worse than
know him, for he's a character. Hast seen him,

VOL. I. 18

Colley ? For years he's lived abroad. Beau Grin,
we used to call the finical, tawdry old fellow. Yet
though he looks like a wig-block, he wears a headpiece,
and is a shrewd diplomatist ; while as for his
clothes and manners, he'd teach even thee, Colley,
to add yet another chef-d'ceuvre to thy gallery of
fops.'

If he resemble Mrs. Belfield, I would rather not
know him,' retorted Bab curtly. ' He must be a
bad man to have such a daughter.'

He doth not. Never were two of one blood
more different. Like need not breed Hke. Doth a
serpent give birth to a rope ? Their only point of
meeting is that the hearts of both are stone. He
squandered his inheritance when young, so is obliged
to cling to the service. Yet, like younger members
of the aristocracy, he'll rattle a gilt chariot to pieces
upon trust, then vow that the word pay gives a man
the vapours. He'll wear a hundred beards of ribbon
on his sleeves to encourage trade, and be notorious ;
but never heed the injured showman's clamour. As
for the ladies, his every spare moment's given to
intrigue ; yet the dotard is quite harmless, playing
the libertine only to be modish — just as he boasts of
the largest periwig, and more wire in his skirts
than a dozen Temple beaux.'

The child of such an one,' said Honest Jack,
should be a tailor or a milliner !'

My Lord Belvedere's villa,' Colley observed,

'which hath been too long shut up, is at Bushey,
and in old days I used to go there. 'Twas on him
I founded Lord Dodington. To attend a great
lady in a peruke powdered, as a delicate hint that
his designs were not too serious, was a touch of
genius invented by him which amounts to inspiration.'


Hath he a wife ?' asked Theoo.

Had,' replied his father ; ' but so volatile and
astute a butterfly may not be caught twice.'

I wonder at that. Of what good's a coronet to
a poor man, unless to sell it ?' inquired Honest
Jack. 'A confirmed spendthrift, deprived of his
stipend as Ambassador, he will have to take refuge
in matrimony.'

Odsblews ! How I hate matrimony!' declared
Lord Byron, with conviction. ' May not one admire
a fine woman without wanting to be her
husband ?'

'As you may appreciate Hesperian fruit, I suppose,
without wishing to be the Dragon ?' roared
Sir Robert. ' He who takes a wife doth like the
virtuoso, who hangs a picture in his house for the
benefit of all comers.'

Beware of throwing the gauntlet,' laughed Bab,
or you may put us on our mettle. Wise Antony
made a fine bargain when he exchanged the world
for a woman's wheedling.'

When I see you in Cleopatra, rack me if I could

l8~2

not do the like !' bawled little Byron, on whose
fli£];hty pate bumpers of burnt champagne were not
without effect.

Peace ! eleventh plague of Egypt !' cried Mrs.
Pilot, shaking off his grasp. ' Will no one
protect me from this toad ?'

Destroy me 1' the little Lord continued, with
thickened utterance, and a tipsy attempt at embrace.
If there are not instants when I'd do your bidding,
whatever it was.'

And repent for ever after. Dost think I'd
espouse a frog ?'

The face of Honest Jack was growing white, and
there shone a gleam of menace in his eyes, forced ashe
was to look upon this dallying.

None but monkeys, madam, may hope to entertain
you,' he said viciously.

When you are of equal merit with my monkey,'
returned the careless Diva, 'you shall be equally
favoured. But that sweet creature, I warn you,
doth a thousand pleasant tricks !'

Women are worth nothing but to play the
fool !'

If you don't let 'em plate fool,' the 3'oung
lady laughed, ' you'll provoke 'em to play the devil !
What ! Must we not have our longings, our
vapours, our washes, and our tattle ?'

Your dessert is splendid,' put in Sir Robert, byway
of casting oil on waters that threatened to be

troubled. ' His Majesty would grumble at Robinson
if he were to supply him with such fruit.'

For a party of old friends it might have been
less costly,' Mr. Wilks added, with a head-shake.

You'll never learn prudence, child !'

Why should I ?' returned Barbara superbly.

The world is good to me. On my last benefit, my
Lord Wilderness obliged me with a hundred guineas
for his box ; my Lords Granny and Pigott with fifty
apiece — to say nought of diamonds and gewgaws.'


Beyond hope of reformation 1' Mr. Wilks replied.

Never a thought for the future. Improvident
Barbara Pilot !'

The future ! the future !' echoed the beauty,
with a tinge of bitterness. ' When the scene ceases
to be pleasant, I pray the curtain may ring down.
If ever I visit the new building in St. George's
Fields, I trust Lord Byron will release me.'

You may rot there for me!' rapped out Mr.
Crump, rising, with a fierce oath. * A vain
coquette 1'

Sir Robert looked seriously annoyed.

The surprise occasioned by such remarkable ill-breeding
in one who was usually so self-contained
produced a silence, and threw a coldness over the
festivity, to relieve which the hostess rose and proposed
cards. She felt angry at so egregious a lack
of respect, and yet she was not ill-pleased. 'Tis

flattering to know that a look or word will set men's
blood boiling; and had she not long ago accepted
her position upon the wide debatable land betwixt
two classes ? Wealth, incense, adulation, were hers.
By what right could such as she claim more ?

The morose scowl that hung over the discontented
visage of Honest Jack was an ungainly compliment.
What if he really pined to blurt out his
suit, but was too awkward ? What could be the
reason of his being so strangely tongue-tied ? One
moment on the verge of speech, the next one hanging
back ? It mattered not. He was a very rude
young man, with bad manners ; but she would not
give him the satisfaction of perceiving that she was
hurt, so she called the company to ombre, and bade
Byron sit beside her.

'Angel!' he whispered thickly. *Your loadstone
eyes will draw my attention and make me blunder.'

What signifies that ?' cried the roguish hostess.
'You'll play well enough to lose, which is all we
ladies care for. Don't touch me, sir ! — I shall certainly
go off with Theophilus, if only to escape this
whelp !'

Try me !' said Theoo, with a captivating squint.
I'll not weary of my sweetheart.'

Never a woman went off yet,' observed Wilks
gravely, * player or lady of quality, but lived to repent
it. The fond pair who've only love to feed on
soon gobble their allowance. To leave a state of

respectability to improve the condition is like the
flying-fish that springs to avoid the dolphin, and falls
back into the jaws of the shark.'

A fine ! a fine for a sermon !' screamed the circle
in chorus.

Heavens ! the roof will be down on us !' Barbara
cried above the din. * What will my mother think ?
You'll take a hand, Sir Robert ? No ? You are
going ? Then I shall have to send for Lord Belvedere
to take your place. He's a fop, you say ? Of
what use are such cattle but to fill one's snuff-box,
lose guineas at ombre, and pay coach-hire ?'

Malapert I' Sir Robert said, pinching her downy
cheek. ' You are as flippant as Pamela herself.
Having unbent my mind a while, I must return to
the wheel of worry. Medlicote expects me at his
lodgings on business. Your pertness is misplaced,
Mrs. Minx, since that lovely young gentleman is not
of your following. But don't lose heart ; I'll bring
him to your feet some day, and then your chain of
slaves will be complete. An admirable young gentleman
and useful withal, despite his daubed cheeks.'

He must look hideous !' retorted Barbara.

Certainly, 'tis a pity when one's own vices are insufficient.
The adoption of others' faults hath ruined
ten times more than their natural bias to evil. However,
I'll never despise a fop again ; nor you, when
you know Medlicote.'

It is wonderful to reflect upon the universal worship

of King Hoyle at the time of which we prattle.
There was scarce one with any pretence to fashion
who did not spend many hours daily poring over
knaves and aces.

And the reason is not far to seek. When men
passed half their time and more at the coffee-house
or over the bottle, the women, whose breeding inclined
them less to book-learning than intrigue, were
forced to seek an occupation. Having torn the reputations
of their female friends, how were they to
find amusement ?

As for the stronger sex, they knew of no home-life
such as was the lot of country folk ; and, accustomed
to the broad jest of the tavern and the dialect of
Covent Garden, felt an awkward restraint in the
presence of females, with whom they had so little in
common.

Moreover, the South Sea scheme left seed behind
in high and low alike, which, the speculating mania
past, blossomed into a love of cards, that was further
fanned and fostered by ennui among modish women,
and gaucherie amongst the men.

Mrs. Pilot's party sat gravely round, forgetting
to carp or wrangle, long after candles had been
brought, and might have sat far into the night, had
not a diversion been created by the advent of Madam
Walcot in an aspen state of agitation. Chapel had
not done her good apparently, for she looked scared,
as if she had seen a spectre.

Instead of, as usual, rebuking her child for sinfulness,
she paced the little room — she, whose chief
attribute was calm — muttering between her teeth,
and twisting about her fingers.

Bab, seriously alarmed, dismissed the company,
but could extract nothing from her mother.

Was she unwell ? Would she have some eau de
luce ?'

No !' she groaned. ' She was beyond frivolous
earthly remedies — a grievous sinner, and unfit to
live!'

No doubt you are!' cried Bab pettishly. 'And
so am I, and all of us. If we might not exist after
we have ceased to be worthy, the globe would be
soon unpeopled.' How could a woman of her age
talk such rubbish ?

If you knew all, you'd pity, not upbraid me !'
wailed the poor lady ; and it flashed across Barbara
again that there must be passages in her parent's
early life to which she, her daughter, was a
stranger.

She knelt by madam's side, and took her hand.

Mother,' she said, ' alas 1 there hath never been
sympathy 'twixt you and me. We are alone together
in the world, and yet so far apart. Why
can't you trust your only child ? Then I could be
of help.'

Mrs. Walcot only wrung her hands, and rocked
herself, and groaned.

She was a grievous sinner, and deserved punishment.
What help could her daughter be ? Would
Bab give up her present evil life, that the tv^ain
might repent together ? ' For safety, my child, you
keep too much embroidered company 1'

Bab rose in disappointment.

It was ever thus — misunderstanding and recrimination.
Repent, quotha ! What her mother could
have done in former days she knev^ not. As regarded
herself, there was little to repent of as yet. In a
path beset with brambles she had kept her feet.
The old lady must be insane ! She had better go to
bed. Perchance the universal restorer would calm
troubled nerves, and she would wake up in the
morning charming well again.

But her mother did not sleep. What could have
happened to have disturbed her thus ? She occupied
a small chamber at the top of the house. An hour
after Madam Walcot had retired, Bab ascended
thither, and was astonished at the flood of sobs and
groans that issued from the keyhole.

Returning, much exercised as to the possible cause
for this emotion, Bab sat long pondering. 'Twas
passing strange ! Remorse for something — what ?
Well, well ! if her secretive mother refused by confession
to ease her mind, she must e'en bear the
burthen without a daughter's assistance.

The Diva, reflecting with mixed feelings over the
various events of the day, was about to extinguish

the lights in the silver sconces with the intention of
retiring to rest, when she was startled by a noise
below.

Some one moving ! Who, at this hour ? The
frisetcr, she knew, retired early to his den in some
remote region at the back, his spine broken and
brain reeling, he was wont to declare, with mental
exertion and the arduous labours of the day. Could
it be one of the slanderers, more daring than the
rest, whom she had not kept sufficiently in order ?
The peruke would be soundly cross at having to
answer the bell. A step was certainly blundering
upstairs in the dark.

Insolent !' the girl murmured, tripping forth upon
the landing, for she was no whit afeard. Was
she not perfectly capable of looking after her own
safety ?

The figure loomed into the light. It was the
secretary, with a fish-like expression in his eye.

Mr. Crump had returned — for what ? Evidently
the worse for drink — after his abominable behaviour !
Verily, he was overstepping the bounds, and Sir
Robert should be told upon the morrow.

Mrs. Pilot — Barbara — one word !' hiccupped
Honest Jack, as he staggered in. * I could not sleep
after what I've done, and came back like a beaten
dog for your forgiveness.'

You have it, if you depart at once,' the girl said
haughtily, attempting to sweep by.

One moment — hear me speak. I will not harm
you.'

I am not easily alarmed,' retorted Bab loftily.
Sure, what you have to say is not of so grave an
import but 'twill serve tomorrow ?'

I've tried so hard to speak,' he said, with a
dampness oozing on his skin. * And the words stick
in my throat. I love you, Barbara. Are you so
blind or so proud that you do not see my torment
?'

This was very awkward at so late an hour. She
had rehearsed in various ways the scene of the
secretary's possible proposal, in which she had sometimes
accepted, but generally refused him. Her last
decision was a distinct refusal, couched in kindly
terms. And here he came bleating in the night, the
worse for liquor. How inopportune !

The love you pretend hath little of respect in it,'
sneered Mrs. Pilot. ' Have you a coach ready,
like Lord Byron ?'

I cannot live without you — indeed I cannot !
I've fought against it, but I know it now. At any
price you must be my own Barbara.'

In vino Veritas, indeed !

Fought against it, quotha !' echoed the lady, with
a head-toss. ' Am I plague-struck, or a cripple ? I
vow, to hear these gallants, their ephemeral love's a
prodigious boon ! Well, you may speak out now,
since you have found a tongue ; then be for ever

silent. Old Ambassador Hastang hath offered
royally, while, according to Lord Spindleshanks, I
was to be gemmed from top to toe. Can your
worship tempt me further ? Say, what is it to be ?
Or is your transient affection so precious as to be
equivalent to pelf?'

Mine, only mine!' mumbled the maudlin secretary.


By choosing your hour you would compromise
me, I suppose !' cried the actress, lashing her wrath.
Doubtless there's a knot of cronies at White's
window watching ?'

Honest Jack shuffled from one foot to t'other, as,
leaning against the chimney piece, he passed unsteady
fingers through his hair.

You will not hear me out !' he murmured. ' My
love's no bird of passage. Six years ago I fought
against it ; have battled with it since, in vain. Then
I was not able to marry, since marriage it must be ;
but now I am doing well. That bar's removed. I'm
here to ask you to become my wife. You need not
leave the stage unless you wish it. Now is your
pride satisfied ?'

Was she always to be subject to affront ? Tears
of mortification rose into the girl's eyes, and for a
moment she almost felt tempted — since he meant
honourably — to take him, and so put a period to the
motley of chequered worship and insult which was
growing unbearable.

Only for a moment though, for then reason came
to her relief. The toast of the town had much
difficulty in steadying her voice ere she could
reply :

I am an honest girl, fit to be the wife of any man ;
but I will never give my hand unless my heart go
with it. We will both of us forget. And now, goodnight.'


Mr. Crump, fidgeting with both elbows on the
mantelshelf, displaced the china figures that stood
thereon. Under the central group was a packet, open.

Honest, indeed !' he shouted, the blood flushing
fiercely to his face. ^ To whom is it that you've
sold yourself ? See here ! Bank bills do not grow
on every bush ! Another came before. Therein
lies my fault ! I am too late.'

Bab took the packet in surprise. Ten bank bills
for a hundred pounds each, enclosed in a blank
cover. A thousand pounds ! Who could have been
guilty of such egregious folly ? Byron ? It could
be none else. Oh, that grievous little imp ! What
would be the next outrage ? And she, who thought
she had been so circumspect !

Profoundly ashamed — indeed, somewhat confused,
and with an absurd sensation that felt almost like
guilt — Mrs. Pilot looked up from the accusing
notes, crumpled in her grasp, and was aware of a
new expression, such as she had never seen before,
on the visage of the secretary.

Her thoughts reverted again, however, to the
small tormentor. An earnest of future kindness, no
doubt, this ;f 1,000 ! To show that he was a man of
his word. And to think that Crump of all men
should have found these notes ! They should be
returned on the morrow, and the wretch should
never again be permitted to darken the doors —
never !

How right her Grace had been about Lord Byron !
Fifty guineas or so, openly presented for a box or
seats, was one thing — 'twas always done — a recognised
tribute, a lawful compliment to talent. But a
thousand pounds — hidden, left secretly in her apartment
!

It really was too bad ! Even fenced round with a
quickset of precautions, and a fence of persiflage,
her position was altogether untenable. There was
no dealing with such reprobates.

Crump perceived that he had been hasty, for there
was nothing but astonishment and displeasure depicted
on the maiden's features ; or was she a consummate
actress putting him off the scent ? They
must be Byron's notes ; who else could have left
them ? She should never be Byron's. Jack swore
with grinding teeth to kill him first — aye, and her to
boot.

What a strange expression was this upon his face.
How singular a gammer was it that shone out of the
fish-like orbs.

Galling, pestering gadfly ! So help me Heaven
Bab thought aloud, ' he shall never come here
again !'

You wist not they were there ?' whispered Jack.
None but he of your crew of slaves could have
afforded such munificence without promise of affection
in return. To close the door is well ; but "

Mr. Crump looked broad and stalwart in the dying
light as he gazed down on his companion with a
strange smile about his lips— ' I should keep the
money,' he whispered, ' for a rainy day. Who knows
what may befall ?'

How she had misread this man 1 She saw in his
face that — could it be possible ! — he wished her to
keep the money; angle, perchance, for more — to
share with him !

With a profound sense of repugnance and self-upbraiding,
she felt that from having long dwelt
amongst base people, her mental vision was awry.
It must be her own imagination that was foul.

You need not leave the stage,' he had said.

It suddenly flashed on the maid that he was a
gambler, and would condescend to place the nuptial
ring with an eye to future usefulness. With selfish
motives of greed he had marked her rise ; had steadily
dogged her steps. Now she seemed to see why he
had been hot and cold ; so strangely undecided.
And this was the only one 'mid all the glittering
throng who offered lawful wedlock !

Go !' she said, with heaving bosom, as she pointed
to the door.

'What a pretty fluttering bird!' he whispered,
taking her hand perforce. * A soft, warm, fluttering
bird — my bird ; none else's. I was a brute, but you'll
forgive and forget, will you not? You forget my
words, and I yours. Is it a bargain ?'

The candles flickered in the silver sockets. There
was dead silence within and without, save for a
watchman's tramp as far away he cried, ' One
o'clock; a starlight night !' and a distant pattering,
as of belated restorers.

The /ns^i^r, tired of waiting at the door, must have
crept to bed again. Was her mother asleep ? Should
she call her ? No.

Crump's breath came hot upon her cheek. She
saw herself reflected in his eyes as they peered down
at hers — those pale-blue eyes too far apart. His
strong wrists drew her close.

With a swift effort and a smothered cry she freed
herself.

Sure, I'm as mad as you !' she said. ' Begone !'

You are mistaken,' whispered Crump. ' 'Tis no
pitfall. No one knows I'm here.'

Bab laughed in scorn.

How well you know a woman's mind!' she scoffed.
We heed not an ill thing, you think, because 'tis
evil, provided reputation's safe.'

Crump advanced a step.

VOL. I. ig

If thirsty, why not drink?' he said.

So I will when thirsty,' was her flippant retort ;
then not out of the first glass that offers.'

He made a forward movement. Bab sprang upon
the window-seat and flung the casement wide. The
cold air rushing in bellowed the curtains and extinguished
the lights. Footsteps clanked nearer on
the stones, but distant still.

You will be my wife ?' whispered Honest Jack,
approaching.

'Never!' she replied. * Move again, and I leap
forth. How long, think you, would the world weep
for the Queen of Beauty, broken on yonder flags ?
'Twould be release. Dost think I care for life ? I
hate it.'

Jack recoiled, helpless. As she stood erect with
one foot upon the parapet, he saw in the fine lines
of the neck and swelling breast, and the proud poise
of the shapely head dark against scudding clouds,
that the spoilt Diva was in earnest.

You shall take me yet,' he growled. ' I swear
it!'

Seizing his hat, he looked at Mrs. Pilot with a
lowering scowl as she stood motionless ; then hurried
down the stair and out into the street, banging the
door behind. 'Twas like a thunderclap. How it
echoed and reverberated in the stillness 1

The dark figure of Barbara in its gala dress remained
without movement till the footsteps of the

passing restorers approached and died away. Then
she slowly descended from the window-seat, and
with a frown unclasped the jewels from her arm.

Shall I, I wonder ?' she murmured wearily. ' Ashe
said, who knows what may befall ?'

19 — 2

THE BEAUTY SPEAKS HER MIND.

HEN the new author's effort came to be
rehearsed he had no Httle to bear, for
everyone had something ill-natured to
remark — from the polite section, who
dropped in to consult the Diva about the details of
their costume at the next Drawing-room, down to
the meanest candle-snuffer. The eyebrows of all
indicated the practice of the look contemptuous, and
the miserable man was so severely tried that he
owned to his rusty contingent that 'twere better to
black shoes for a living than attempt to climb
Parnassus' steeps.

Wilks, in the worst of humours, refused to study
his words, for what was the use of learning a fifth
act to which the public would never listen ? Bab,
on the other hand, was of opinion that 'twould
be a triumph, for the noise and crowd was likely to
be so great that none would hear a syllable.

The persons, she begged to observe, who would

attend on her night were not of the tripe and
trotters order, but of the most fashionable class ;
people who would be occupied with the intrigues in
opposite side-boxes rather than in the fable on the
stage ; ladies who showed interest in their lovers by
attending Parliament House galleries, gentlemen
who would condescend to display gallantry by escorting
fair patricians to and from their carriages.

Even Oldfield, in her highest vogue, was never so
run after as Barbara was now. Not only was it
necessary, so soon as her benefit was announced, to
convert the stage itself into an amphitheatre, but
even a portion of the sacred pit was transformed
into a ground-tier of boxes for the behoof of the
priest quality. Presents poured in from all sides —
rings, watches, trinkets, notes, ushered by ill-spelt
epistles glowing with ardent flames.

One morning there arrived at the Lock of Hair a
black boy, sent by my Lord Belvedere with a perfumed
billet, wherein that diplomatist prayed for
the favour of a bowing acquaintance in exchange
for the accompanying etui.

I am an exile,' he writ ; ' a here-and-thereian
to whom much will be forgiven ; but I dare not
show in the Parks with the chance of being withered
by a stare from the universal Queen of Hearts. A
bow and smile est passant are all I ask ; talismans
that will save the humblest of your slaves from
making a nauseous figure.'

That he may boast of a conquest, the despicable
any !' scoffed Mrs. Pilot, as she returned the
gift. * One Silenus in one's train is enough, n'esUce
pas, Monsieur V Ambassador de Hastang ?'

She was relieved to find that Honest Jack, freed
from the trammels of Bacchus, took a sensible view
of his mistake, and seemed resolved to treat the
object of his misplaced affections with respectful
distance. Indeed, to set her mind at rest, he made
a set speech, remarking, with intention, when a
public occasion offered :

A young man, be his merit what it will, must
twine at first Hke ivy round the oak. Some day I
may marry some plump young country pullet and
settle down so soon as my estate can bear it, with
the same view of convenience as one sets up a
coach. 'Tis easy, and keeps one above low company.
A young country partridge with a fortune is what I
must seek.'

To which my Lord Byron retorted with the wry
face that becomes a reference to matrimony :

Pah ! Virtue, I suppose ; sense, no powder and
coarse linen. How I detest your country partridges !'
amid a salvo of circling assent.

With regard to the mysterious packet, Bab's
mind was severely exercised. Spindleshanks denied
most positively, with oaths in strings like onions,
having had anything to do with its appearance.
The suggestion plunged him into reverie during a

whole morning — so unusual a condition of things as
seriously to alarm his valet. But that functionary
breathed again when, waking, he ordered out his
newest suit of clothes, and bade the frisetcr arrange
his locks with extreme nicety. My lord was, of
course, arming for a new victory. For once the
valet was wrong, for his master sallied forth into
St. James's, and waylaid a certain ornate chair
with which the modish world was familiar, and
drawing his spit, bade the bearers stop.

I am denied your door,' he panted, ' for not
having had wit to do that you accused me of. Split
me, if women are not the queerest animals, and I an
impregnable blockhead ! What is it you would have ?
What melting plum may I drop into the mouth of
Madam Dainty ?'

Let my chair pass, my lord !' cried Mrs. Barbara.
'And learn that my ebb of taste is not so low that
I'm to be won and worn by a spider.'

The young man apparently spoke truth when he
said he wist naught of it, deeming the hint to be a
sprat to catch a whale. Who then could have
anonymously conveyed so considerable a sum into
her apartment, and for what object ? There appeared
no clue. There was nothing for it, then, but to acton
Mr. Crump's advice, and keep it. That it should
not be spent by her she was resolved. Some day
the mystery perhaps would disentangle itself, when
the bills could be returned to their owner.

A more fertile source of annoyance than this arose
from another mystery. 'Twas provoking to dwell
with a parent who groaned and rocked herself and
grumbled, refusing to be comforted or to state the
cause of woe. Much as she professed to dislike the
stage and all belonging thereto, Madam Walcot suddenly
resigned chapel, and following her daughter to
Drury, sat sighing in her dressing-bower ; glared at
the slanderers, and made herself so generally repulsive
a gorgon that Bab could have cried with
vexation.

Bab was both capable and willing to be her own
Cerberus. ' I never liked her,' the Duchess observed,
with pursed lips, ' and now that she hath the spleen
she is a grievous thorn.' Yet another cause for
annoyance arose out of the coming benefit. The
new play was called ' The Island of Slaves,' and a
letter appeared in the Daily Gazetteer declaring that
'twas taken from the French, and calling upon all
who loved their country to damn a piece whose title
was so ominous.

This was probably a trick of Madam Theoo's,
whose malevolence was unabashed by former discomfiture.
Certain it was that a cabal was afoot, and
that the opportunity would be seized by Walpole's
enemies to create a hostile demonstration.

At one moment there was a talk of the King's
own majesty being present to grace the occasion ;
but folks did not believe the rumour. For all knew

well that he hated long-winded plays. :Moreover, he
was somewhat afraid of our beauty ; for once when
she was acting in * Jane Shore ' he went to sleep in
his box, with an hundred eyes on him, which displeased
the public favourite. She, approaching,
shrilly cried :

'Oh, thou false lord!' (words set down in her
part) ; whereat he woke with a jump, and said,
rubbing his red eyes :

I'd rather part with the kingdom than live with
so sharp a woman !'

But there was no reason for not creating a disturbance
merely because of dapper George's absence.
Certainly not. Before the performance began there
was a preliminary riot. The candlesticks in the
orchestra were broken by a gang of restorers, and
an order even went forth to smash the harpsichords ;
but the patentees, forewarned, succeeded in ejecting
the mutineers ere the quality arrived.

That there was a bond of friendship between the
star and the now unpopular Minister was well known.
To please him, one of the greatest honours ever
rendered to the stage by royalty was conferred on
Mrs. Pilot. Her Majesty deigned, at the Drawing-room
held on the Prince of Wales's birthday, to sell
tickets for the benefit with her own hands, the
money being received by the officer of the Privy
Purse.

She likewise promised to be present, and a council

was held at Dawley as to the Hne that ought to be
pursued. Bohngbroke and Pulteney were for open
war. Lord Forfar, on the other hand, was indignant.


'What!' he cried, 'make puny war against two
women ? Poor must be the cause that could be
advanced by such means !'

What a pity so useful a man should be such a straw-splutter
! Reluctantly the idea of an organized demonstration
was abandoned ; but the conspirators resolved
none the less that the Queen should be made to
know the danger of supporting ' Bluestring ' through
thick and thin. When Bab, therefore, pushed her
way through the immense crowd that thronged the
wings, attired, as she had promised, in the obnoxious
colours, the Tory side of the house arose in uproar.
Ladies hissed through their fans ; while the footmen's
gallery, faithful to their favourite, led by Lord
Byron's gentleman, endeavoured by shouts and
shuffling to drown the sounds of titillation.

The opposition ladies on the seats around the
stage set up such a buzzing conversation that the
performers were unable to hear their own voices,
and the unhappy author, goaded to distraction, tore
his only periwig.

They've come in full cry like hounds to the carcase,'
he moaned.

To which Colley, who was watching in the wings,
answered :

More like the Tower lion-whelps, who dash
down the bowls of milk brought for their own
breakfasts !'

The Queen looked down upon the turmoil with as
haughty and calm a visage as Bab did upon the
boards, who, folding her plastic arms, stood still,
awaiting silence. The actors glanced at one another,
uncertain what to do. At length Mr. Wilks stood
forward, and taking advantage of a lull, promised
that the piece should be withdrawn, if out of respect
to the presence of royalty it was allowed to be
played once through. In vain Mr. Town arose in his
place and strove to announce that 'twas not the
piece but the garments which offended the lieges.
Even that acknowledged autocrat for once was
deposed from his throne.

The Tory side shouted with one voice, ' Let her
change her dress ! No Excise ! No Excise !' To
which Bab replied by a defiant shaking of the head
which fairly exasperated the rioters. ' Apology !
apology!' they howled.

Slowly smiling, the Diva stood like a statue of contempt,
while the patentees in dumb show endeavoured
to deprecate public wrath, which was likely to exert
itself by a smashing of furniture, and argue with the
haughty beauty.

The slut hath courage,' Mrs. Belfield whispered to
the Queen ; while my Lord Byron was violently
contorted by throes of excessive appreciation.

Apology ! apology!' was the yell from pit and
boxes that fairly shook the roof.

They are in mood for mischief — will tear the
benches up !' expostulated Wilks. ' For the sake
of others, prithee curb thy pride !'

Bab moved down to the lamps, and the outcry was
hushed.

However lovely,' Mr. Town observed, ' these
popular idols must not insult their patrons. The
hencficiaire must humble herself, and her sauciness
shall be condoned.'

You could have heard a pin drop while the vast
audience waited.

Hoighty-toighty,' she said in crystal accents
which reached to the farthest corner. ' Am I, who
set the mode of the centuries, the bards, the
cravat-string, and many another pretty fashion besides,
which for lack of invention ye have adopted, to
be lectured on the colour of my clothes ? I'll have
you all to know that I'll wear what suits my
fancy !'

For a moment there was an awful pause, as the
astonished multitude drew in their breath ; then a
roar of applause, and the house was convulsed with
laughter. The superb insolence of the lady's bearing
was a masterpiece. A British crowd loves pluck
above every other attribute, and to be bearded thus in
the heyday of wrath by a weak girl, while players and
managers were quaking with affright, tickled the

public humour, which was not unmixed with
shame.

Her Grace of Queensberry tapped her fan and
nodded to her friends; whereat the opposition, taking
up the cue, applauded vehemently. Whigs and
Tories were all of one mind for once. For the sake of
the absent Walpole — he knew better than to show
himself in the critical condition of affairs — her Majesty
was enchanted, and spoke so highly of the superb
spirit and presence of mind displayed by the actress,
that the Honourable Pamela's shoulders appeared
to grow more angular, and her smile more acid.

'Tis hard,' she murmured, ' that charms are so
unequally divided. For there is naught that beauty
may not do. Sir Robert was right when he dubbed
her Queen of Minxes !'

But as the Queen was pleased, it behoved a
faithful bedchamber-woman to follow suit. Mrs.
Belfield, therefore, leaned out of the royal box till
she nearly fell into the pit, declaring loudly that 'twas
ravishing. Be that as it might, there could be no
doubt that the maiden's dauntless attitude saved a
situation which was perilous.

Surprised into good temper, the audience settled
down, and without further disturbance permitted
the play to proceed ; and Bab, triumphing in a sense
of power, acted as she had never done before, and
dragged the astonished author to the haven of
unexpected success.

At the final fall of the curtain the actress was sent
for to the royal box to receive thanks and congratulations.
Her Grace of Queensberry's party left early,
for 'twas the Duchess's reception-night, and it
behoved her to be at Burlington Gardens to receive
company after the play. She bustled out with a
great noise. But ere she left she sent a card to
Mrs. Pilot, requesting her presence later.

A real heroine,' she writ, * is worthy to rank with
the highest. You will find the young Prince of
Wales, and many patrons who'll be useful.'

Useful,' Bab laughed — ' as if I had not already
seen them all — to arrange and approve their dresses !
Why, I can tell off on my fingers the suit that each
will wear. So could you, mother, if you were not so
dismally engrossed !'

Madam Walcot, observing the Duchess's card
lying on the dressing-bower toilet, was suddenly
interested.

You will not go ?' she said anxiously. What
could she mean, now ? Was there a bee buzzing
under that decorous cap ?

No,' Bab answered, 'I am not going; and yet,
if I like it, why should I not ? The stage you may
deem naughty ; but sure you've nothing to say against
the reception of the great ? Would you wish me to
be a nun, or one of my Lady Huntingdon's
preachers ?'

Madam Walcot made no answer except a sigh ;

but it was clear that she had been seized with dread
at sight of her Grace's card ; and that she was
received by her daughter's refusal.

Mother and child, the theatre empty, returned unaccompanied
to their lodging — an unusual circumstance
; but 'twas de rigneitr for everyone to attend
the Queensberry functions when opportunity offered,
and Bab was half sorry she had refused.

Supper en iite-d-tete with Madam Walcot was a
grim prospect. Sir Robert would of course be there,
and 'twould be pleasant to feel his warm handshake ;
receive his thanks ; to hear his jolly voice in praise
of her recent conduct.

A ring at the door-bell. Some one to break the
tete-astute. That was a welcome relief. A note
marked ' urgent.' From the Duchess of Queensberry.


My Dear,' ran the pencilled lines, — ' Come at
once. I have a special reason. See that you are
not announced.'

What could this new riddle mean ? The eccentric
Duchess was always doing something unusual. Why
might she not be announced ? Marked * urgent,*
too ! So good a friend was not to be slighted uselessly
; and, besides, she longed to go. Madam
Walcot took alarm.

Oh ! do not go!' she begged. *I know you
care not to oblige me ; but on my knees I beg of

you to stay with me here to-night, only this
once !'

Give a reason then,' replied Bab. ' For a whim
I dare not offend the Duchess.'

The old lady wrung her hands, and seemed much
concerned.

It is inevitable,' she murmured. ' If it must come,
why not to-night ? At least, this weary suspense
will end that's killing me !'

Certainly Madam Walcot was losing her senses,
and must shortly be sent to Bedlam.

Give me a reason,' her daughter said again, * and
I will oblige you. I am not undutiful, but you should
know as well as I that her Grace is easily offended.'

But madam would give no reason ; became incoherent.
Indeed she had completely changed her
mind, she said ; was taken with an unaccountable
feverish desire to go to the party likewise. What
could it all mean ? Bab was mightily amused at the
Method ' being taken with an attack of worldliness.


Thou'lt set thy cap,' she laughed, 'at some old
peer, and be my lady yet !'

She was full of glee, and hummed a merry stave as
she drew from a wardrobe her parent's smartest
gown, and selected her own most splendid jewels.

END OF VOL.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

/

^ 186 STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS

ForTWl.-VlL

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS



Jl Stuiij of Mwnmxs ital) ificrritb.

(1727 TO 1737.)

BY THE

HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD,

AUTHOR OF

LADY GRIZEL,' ' ABIGEL ROWE,' ' IN HER MAJESTY'S KEEPING,'

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

|3ttbUsh£rs in Oriimtrj) to '^cx (^Haj^stj) the (i^txccn.

1885.

[^// Wights Reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. II,

CHAPTER

I. NEUTRAL GROUND

II. A RISE IN THE WORLD -

III. * EXCISE ' - - - -

IV. A thieves' HOLIDAY

V. WORRIES - - - .

VI. ' TILTING AT WINDMILLS '

VII. ' ECLIPSE ' - - - -

VIII. ' SPORT '. . - . .

IX. ' MRS. EELFIELD GROWS MORE PERPLEXED

X. ' PITFALLS ' - - - -

I





ii








in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/barbaraphilpotst02wing

CHAPTER L

NEUTRAL GROUND.

HE Duchess of Queensberry's hurricanes
were unique, and when she opened the
spacious saloons of her town residence,
as mixed an assembly answered the callas
the collection gathered by Noah.

Although the Court never forgave the affair of the
Beggar's Opera,' the Duchess lost favour in so
honourable a way that her ostracism came to be
regarded as a formal matter ; which was fortunate,
since she looked on the country as a field for
martyrs, and speedily grew tired of playing backgammon
with the chaplain.

Her parties, whether earthquakes or hurricanes,
were so splendid that everyone below the rank of
royalty considered themselves aggrieved if omitted

VOL. II. 20

from the list. And so her drawing-rooms became a
neutral ground on which combatants could meet
and parley as under a flag of truce.

Even Mrs. Belfield and Mr. Medlicote, members
of the Household, were carried sometimes from St.
James's to Burlington Gardens, and the following
day, at the Queen's rising, both she and the King
would be fiercely curious to know what had passed ;
who had been present, and what had been said,
putting endless questions till the narrators were
fairly exhausted.

Her Grace, on the principle of diamond cut
diamond, rather enjoyed the polyglot nature of the
entertainments. she cultivated persons of extremely
opposite views. For years she and Swift kept up an
intimate and sparkling correspondence, although in
this world they never met.

The Dawley farmer emerged at her bidding from
his hermitage. The only Tory of eminence whom
she eschewed was Pope. But then, 'twas agreed that
that backbiter was a shade too crabbed for ordinary
mortals ; that he could never find a visitor unless he
hired him with a bottle of right Burgundy, and that
'twas best to leave so cantankerous a snarler to stew
in his own venom.

Good-natured Walpole set the fashion to the
Whigs. It amused him to indulge in playful passages
of arms with Pulteney, Chesterfield and Co. ; to gibe
at Mr. Gay, who, most easy-going of versifiers

assumed pinched airs in the presence of the
Minister.

I am quite happy,' her Grace's tame cat would
say demurely, when slit rated by Sir Robert ; * seek no
acquaintance, and court no favours. For sauce to my
meat enjoy a wholesome hatred of the outer world.'

To which Sir Robert would reply with his great
laugh :

Giddy idler ! But for her Grace's teasing you'd
die of inactivity ! A coach-and-six, with a Blenheim
spaniel for company, is your utmost exercise, varied
by a tiff about bread-and-butter !'

And then Mr. Gay would retort, being as fond asa
wench of the last word :

Sure, parliaments and kingdoms quarrel for no
better cause !'

My Lady Suffolk, stout, deaf, and stupid, could
rouse herself to shake off for an hour the yoke of
royal tyranny. Not that her presence enlivened the
scene, for the post of mistress en litre became
more gruesome daily by reason of the King's quarrels
with his son ; and her dull wits appeared to grow
more blunt.

My Lady Suffolk liked Mr. Gay, smart, fluttering
may-fly, for his powers were not above her own
intellectual level. In his interest she deplored her
lack of influence, for was not his ' Trivia ' vastly
entertaining with its doggrel descriptions of boots,
gutters, spatterdash — details under her nose daily,

20 — 2

which she could see, and smell, and appreciate ?
How cosy it was, too, to squat by his side at supper
and gibe at Walpole, while he helped her to titbits.
She was, in her groping way, afraid of Walpole, suspecting
that, as Caroline's staunch friend, he wished
to oust her from the post of slave, to which she clung
with fawning tenacity.

Sir Robert and Mr. Medlicote agreed on the
subject of her Grace's gatherings. Court-life was so
monstrous dull, the chatter in the King's presence
so insipid and monotonous, that Ranulph often
vowed that but for the gossip picked up at the
Duchess's his faculties would mildew. The scandal
of the coffee-houses was woefully insufficient. In the
Queen's closet 'twas otherwise, for there the talk
was of books, of recondite religious speculation, of
pictures; varied by verbal conflicts with Mrs. Belfield
which kept the air wholesome and breezy.

The Honourable Pamela and he suited each other
exactly, he thought. Her smart talk, seething with
the recriminate zest of a good deal of lemon, made,
he declared, the prettiest refreshing sherbet. He saw
no objection to the extreme sharpness of her tongue.

'The object of a young woman's existence,' he
argued, * was to pique the men, to sharpen their
wits by plaguing ;' and in this art Mrs. Belfield was
proficient.

Despite her want of beauty, there was a distinguished
air of breeding about the Queen's ,

and a facility of retort and repartee
which caused her, although secretly disliked, to
shine in society ; while her excessive worldliness
was a tacit guarantee that, well married, she would
know better than to go wrong, however loose her
behaviour with the sparks might appear to be.

It occurred to MedHcote that some day in the dim
future he might do worse than give his name to
Pamela ; that she would look vastly well at the end
of a table (in private, of course, they would not
meet), and that, no longer reduced to petty scheming
by poverty, she would do credit as a modish wife.

Thus it will be perceived that one, at least, of the
astute damsel's plans seemed likely to succeed,
should she warmly go in for a Beatrice and Benedick
wooing.

Looking among the maids of honour and daughters
of polite houses, Ranulph could see none who would
suit him better, or as well ; for, indeed, the female
quality cared little at this time what was thought of
'em, and worldly prudence took the place of a higher
virtue.

But the Honourable Pamela, whilst pleased by
her progress with Ranulph, had no notion of so
foolishly committing herself. As things were turning
out, it was by no means clear that King George's
Vice-Chamberlain was a good match for a well-born
lady who aspired to enjoy life. There was still no
sign of his aspiring to the necessary coronet ; while

as for his wealth, should the other side triumph in
the end he might be proscribed and shorn of his
gilding. And others as well as Pamela were veering
to the opinion that the wheel would not go round
with a swift turn.

Since his arrival from abroad, she and her parent
had discussed matters, and she had succeeded, by
the gravity of her discourse, in weaning him for a
moment from his tailors. He was an odd mixture,
was my Lord Belvedere. Clever and quick-sighted
when needful, as services abroad had testified, he
chose to assume extreme foppishness, and to
pretend to care only for dress. Her papa had never
been of much use to Mrs. Belfield ; and she was
annoyed to find that, old and battered, he aped the
soles of extreme youth (which was ridiculous, and
therefore unseemly) , and resented a grown - up
daughter. In intervals of cursing his peruke, he
hearkened to what she had to say anent the
Jacobites, and was by no means sure, all things
weighed, that she was wrong.

Step my vitals, sirrah !' he grumbled ; ' don't
you know that a man's wig should, like a woman's
mask, show nothing but the eyes ?'

'Tis right enough, my lord !' impatiently cried
sharp Pamela. ' I see nothing but your nose !'

Odsblews !' returned my lord, in wrath. ' What
care I if my side-face be in eclipse, if my cheeks are
like a trumpeter's ?'

If you're a full moon, 'tis your father's fault
rather than the wig-maker's,' retorted the undutiful
child. ' 'Tis big and thick enough to keep you
warm as you drive down to Dawley.'

To Dawley ! Precipitate woman ! Commit himself
so rashly, the diplomate would not. He had
come home intent on a comfortable place about the
Court ; and, urged by Pamela, was ready to wait
awhile, and watch events.

Walpole, to a cautious spectator, seemed intent
on suicide. In face of gathering thundercloud he
set his teeth, resolved with Excise to perish, and
drag down his friends in his fall.

'Twas obstinate madness, nothing else," asserted
Lord Belvedere.

'Twas reported that when the subject came up
for debate, the people would come down in their
thousands to beard the Minister, and terrify the
members by menace into voting against the Bill.
Besiege the doors of St. Stephen's ! Such a thing
had not been done since Orange William saved us
from the Pope. Must the man not be mad to
despise the public voice, so loudly shouting ?

Events to the diplomatist appeared most ominous.
Sir Robert Walpole, obstinate as a mule, brought
out the Horse and Foot Guards to keep order ; but
would not give up his Bill. Constables, justices of
peace, and magistrates were bidden to curb rioting,
while he coerced the country. And, true to their

word, the mob surged down, and evilly entreated
members, and made a scandal wherein bloodshed
was happily averted, no thanks to him. Yet he
persisted ! The situation was most grave. The
Craftsman poured forth, like a malignant chorus, its
scurrilous reams, which were devoured by the
populace. The battle would be fierce and hot.
The Dawley clique might triumph ; but till they did,
'twould not do to go to Dawley. No. Lord
Belvedere would show himself at her Grace of
Queensberry's hurricane. Something might be
learnt there. Bolingbroke would be present, and
Walpole also. He would pay his court to both, and
feel his way, keeping a cunning balance.

Of course the throng in Burlington Gardens were
full of the scene at the theatre — of the uproar occasioned
by the brazen hussy appearing in the unpopular
colours — of the assurance with which she
had turned the tables by presence of mind and force
of character. That such a scene should have occurred
in the very presence of the Queen was full
of sinister portent.

Bolingbroke was so enchanted that he blazed
forth as in the old days, a sparkling, brilliant
coruscation, and was as courted as if in favour.
Lord Forfar listened with his sad, appreciative smile
to the glittering periods of his friend. The mischievous
Duchess, tapping Sir Robert with her fan —
he found himself quite deserted — whispered :

What think you now of your arch - enemy ?
Confess, doth he not shine ?'

Sir Robert merely shrugged his shoulders, and
took a pinch from her Grace's gala diamond box,
remarking, with imperturbable good-humour :

Shine ? Yea, that doth he — like putrefaction in
the dark !'

Lord Chesterfield was there, cynical and polished,
observing to her Grace through his thin lips that Sir
Robert was as coarse as a bargeman ; to which the
Duchess retorted that my Lord Chesterfield would
hate him more deeply who should say that he was
awkward, or ill-bred, than one who dubbed him
rogue.'

I must confess returned his lordship, ' that I
do not Hke to see gentlemen imitate their servants.
You observe young men of a morning in dirty blue
frocks and boots — in London — with hair greasy and
powdered, and great oaken sticks, who are at
once the support and terror, and the victims of the
lowest tippling-houses. Manners are dying out. I
know of but one exception — my Lord Bolingbroke.'

'Twas a splendid party. Hundreds of wax-lights
illumined the silken walls. The floors were gracefully
picked out with a design of fruit and flowers in
coloured chalks. Glow-worm lamps depended from
the trees in the garden.

My Lord Belvedere — a gorgeous figure, as parrot-heed
as Bolingbroke himself — was elbowing through

the perspiring crowd, and took the earliest opportunity
of narrowly scanning the Minister. He was
strong — no doubt he was strong — stood firmly on
his sturdy limbs. T'other was sparkling — dazzling ;
but there was not the sense of conscious immovable
strength so conspicuous about Sir Robert. Pamela
must be wrong ; so was this buzzing cloud of wiseacres.
She must be in love with the Scotch malcontent
— no doubt of it ; and love, as usual, was
blinding her feminine tact. That his own flesh and
blood should not be more sensible ! He, my Lord
Belvedere, was not in love — not he ; and would act
warily for both.

How few,' he mused, with dissatisfaction, ' know
how to love and how to hate !'

The diplomatist knew love to be a madness, very
often fatal to the beloved one ; he knew that open
hate is a rash violence, fatal usually to the hater.
He nourished nor love nor hate either for Walpole
or for Bolingbroke, for George or James ; but cultivated
an ardent and far-seeing affection — for himself.

Gazing now with experienced ken, he perceived
Walpole to be quiet and resolute. And yet — was it
not possible that a seeming certainty of ultimate
triumph was mere dogged obstinacy ? Like Pamela,
her parent ardently desired to lift a corner of the
veil and peep. Caution became his years and experience.
A middle course must be maintained.
Such a situation of tension as this present one

could not last. Feathers would soon show the
direction of the wind ; and one so keen of sight as
our diplomatist, through the furze-bush of his exaggerated
periwig, would detect the earliest indications.
He therefore lapsed into his most languid
and lackadaisical manner, seeming to find the labour
of standing more than could be borne ; ogled the
ladies through his quizzing - glasses, dropping to
right and left a lively compliment, whilst offering his
case of sweetmeats.

The British climate agrees, I hope, with my
Lord Belvedere ?' remarked Sir Robert. ' Nay,
nay ! No sugar-plums for me ! Spiced ale and a
toast is more in my way. That rose-tinted velvet of
yours on a silver ground should kill some of 'em
with envy. A plain fellow like me, you see, finds
cinnamon-cloth answer every purpose !'

With a blue ribbon meandering upon it, step
me! and a star of brilliant!' returned my lord,
shaking back his ruffles of Venice point with a
graceful wave. ' The ladies are kind enough to
allow me a fertile genius for dress ; but, rat me, 'tis
fatiguing 1 Those coxcombs, the fop-makers, besieged
me this morning for the pattern of my
French dog-ear stout, and gave me no peace till
they had it — strike me speechless !'

Since your return you've devoted yourself to
London gaieties ?'

'Egad, you're right. Sir Robert! My life's an

eternal round of delights from ten, when I get up —
'tis the worst thing in the world for the complexion
to rise sooner — until I go to rest. What with the
Park and the chocolate-house and the play, and a
hand at quadrille or ombre, and an intrigue or two
with some lady of quality '

Fie !' cried her Grace in passing. * You sad
man ! Now that you are back, we poor women must
be careful.'

Can your ladyship find me tolerable ?' asked his
lordship, with a low bow and a grin to show his false
teeth. ' I feel cursedly like a stage-player of a
morning. In the glare of your thousand candles
you are safe and we disarmed — mere blinking owls 1
In the dusk I warrant you I'll be in danger. Why
did Daphne fly from Apollo but because he wore
daylight wreathed about his brows ?'

A murmur of approval greeted his lordship's sally.

Lord Chesterfield was quite comforted, for the
manner of the new comer showed the best breeding.
Lord Belvedere deprecated his daughter's sharp
tongue, aware that wit, while it dazzles, also
scorches, and that to talk genteelly about nothing
is a necessary art to a courtier. Indeed, he had
lectured her, somewhat late in the day, about her
abrupt method and speech.

An offended fool,' he had sagely said, ' or an
affronted page of the backstairs may injure you more
than the praise often geniuses can remedy.'

Whereupon the naughty damsel had perked her
chin and roundly bidden him to leave off doting, and
march into t'other world rather than assume the
pedagogue.

Mr. Gay,' he cried, * step me, but you are a
nauseous rascal ! What a halcyon life is yours to
our humdrum existence ; fed upon orange-water
squeezed by the loveliest hand ; sprinkled with rose-essence
; buried by her Grace to the chin in burgage,
balm and burnet — you luxurious sybarite ! Why is
Fortune so partial in her dispensations ? And how
blessed is she, recognised in the flesh as goddess of
the arts, with her own poet at all hours ready to
tune an inspired lyre — adored by the men, envied by
the women, feminine acme of happiness. What privileges
belong to our dear Duchess ! She makes
uneasy the whole creation ; gathers around her all
that is brilliant and refined and learned, making each
shine out his best. I vow a library always makes
me sad, for there the best authors are as much
squeezed as a porter at the Coronation ; while here,
they bask in crowds in the rays of the noonday sun,
exhaling themselves in praise.'

'Twas vastly pretty — the smallest of small-talk, like
a flinging of light sixpences, which circulate freely.

Seduced by les instances, you forgot that this
elegant gentleman was half a doll, painted, stuffed,
and perfumed, and had one leg in the grave ; so true
is my Lord Chesterfield's axiom that refined people

will no more advance civility to a bear than money
to a bankrupt.

At this moment a footman announced a Mr. Falkland,
and the Duchess, whispering to Sir Robert
that 'twas a young spark but just arrived from the
grand tour, he turned to survey him, lest in the
new-comer he should find another Medlicote.

Oh for a dozen Ranulphs in this hour of need !
for a score of such faithful recruits to assist the
labouring ship !

But this Mr. Falkland was not of the same kidney.
The affectations and effeminacy were all there, but
not the sterling qualities beneath. 'Twas writ in
his vacant visage and retreating brow and chin, as,
unabashed by the general rising of so large a company,
he minced forward.

Your servant. Duchess,' he said. ' I've been
dining at Lackit's with a polite company, and naw
I'm as rumpled as if I'd slept in my clothes. Ah,
my Lord Belvedere ! your most humble. I had the
pleasure of being acquainted with your hardship
when I passed through the Hague.'

These travelled boobies, with their sham dialect,
are insufferable !' murmured Sir Robert. ' As unlicked
whelps they're better. Was not his papa,
think you. Duchess, a musk-cat, his mother an
essence-bottle ?'

Pray be seated !' cried her Grace sharply, as if to
say, ' Young man, since you pretend to be well-bred.

don't keep the company standing.' * Let me introduce
you to Mrs. Belfield, whom you will hand to
supper presently.'

The young lady made a deep curtsey, the youth as
low a reverence, while Ranulph, who had expected
this honour, favoured the interloper with a stare.

Pamela, in her element now, went off at a tangent ;
for here was a third string to her bow, who languished
already in orthodox fashion, and pressed the tips of
her fingers.

What ?' she said. ' Oh yes ! I dote, don't you,
upon assemblies ? My heart bounds at a ball, while
at the opera I expire ! Cards enchant me, and the
music of dice puts me out of my little wits ! And
don't you like hazard ? Dear hazard !'

I do indeed !' drawled the young man. * Death
it not impart a flow of spirits ? I perceive that
your ladyship and I shall become the greatest
friends.'

And the play ? Do you not adore the play ?''
tittered Mrs. Belfield.

Aye ! and the players too !'

What ? Oh, these dreadful men ! Have you
already made the acquaintance of the hussies ?'

Gadso ! Nothing easier of approach to a man of
fashion.'

A lie !' muttered Lord Byron, who gazed on this
caricature of himself with the disconcerted air of a
cat that looks in a mirror. ' Some that I know are

not to be reached with a long pole, and a still longer
settlement !'

I know 'em all,' pursued Mr. Falkland. ^ Introduced
myself with a pinch of bergamot. Next day-sent
a boxful and some verses. To the hour dropped
in at rehearsal to be thanked, and desired that my
name might be used for all the chocolate-house
affords. This opened all their hearts so wide that ina
whiff it cost me fifty fancies in fans, gloves, muffs,
and orange water.'

I wonder what men can find in the baggages !'
sneered the Honourable Pamela. ' There's that
Whig plaster who made such a scene to-night, dear
Lord Chesterfield ! — was not her effrontery prodigious.
Lord Bolingbroke ?'

Step my breath !' interrupted Lord Belvedere,
covertly glaring at his imprudent offspring. ' To
such beauty all is permissible. May I be sunburnt
if she isn't handsome !'

And as good as beautiful,' bluntly remarked Sir
Robert, who, callous as regarded himself, objected
to hearing Mrs. Pilot's name so lightly bandied.

Not of such insolent virtue !' drawled the young
fop, with a meaning smile.

Oh, fie ! I protest I must be scarlet !' tittered
Pamela behind her fan.

Sir Robert frowned, and muttered :
He hath been a year in Italy, to bring back
nothing but a fool !'

The Duchess, looking grave, moved to the door,
and, having given an order, returned to the glittering
group that had gathered round the speakers.

Lord Byron bit his nails in wrath, and grumbled
half aloud :

I doubt she was willing enough that night but
for the untimely rescue. But to sell smiles to such
a beggarly younger-brothers runagate ! Drown me
if I believe it !'

You are wrong,' returned Lord Forfar, who overheard.
' He hath money, doubtless ; and the players
will do anything for money.'

Spindleshanks felt that Gervas must be right, and
cursed himself for the fiftieth time in the matter of
that thousand pounds.

Such jests,' said her Grace severely, ' should be
kept for your velvet sparks at Garraway's. Supper
is served. My Lord Bolingbroke, I reserve you for
myself. If you please, we will lead the way.'

The diversion was well timed. Pamela was in a
mischievous mood, irritated by her parent's signals.
Just as if she did not know how to behave as well ashe
! If she chose to call the Dawley farmer by endearing
names, sure she knew what she was about !
'Twas so seldom he was seen at a gathering, that
it behoved her to be vastly winning.

Lord Byron evidently was hard pressed to control
his temper in the presence of the ladies ; while

VOL. II. 21

young Mr. Falkland was calmly wrapped in the contemplation
of his own image in the pier-glasses.

The aspect of a sumptuously furnished table
turned general attention to a blither channel than
disputes about an actress. The ladies took their
seats — the gentlemen, of course, serving them
standing, and, when glasses and plates were full,
slipping into the places by their sides.

Her Grace, with my Lord Bolingbroke on one
side and Sir Robert on the other, seemed vastly
tickled by the contiguity of the political rivals ; and
the natural foes, entering into the whimsical situation,
made believe to forget the Craftsman and the
fight, which on the morrow would commence with
redoubled vigour.

My Lady Suffolk, somewhat bewildered, had the
tact to engross the master of Dawley, or Sir Blue-string's
usually imperturbable bonhomie might have
pricked his bag of venom.

Mrs. Belfield kept a seat next to her for the dear
Jacobite, thereby disgusting her papa. Mr. Gay
flapped about like the busiest of butterflies, waiting
on all.

Separate those two,' the Minister suggested in
an undertone. * That jade is in a wicked vein — I
see it in her eye — and will lure that foreign cub to
mishap.'

The Duchess, glancing down the table, saw that
he was right, and summoned the delinquent Falkland

to approach nearer. Jealous Medlicote slipped
into his seat, and thus Mrs. Belfield found herself
between her two aspirants.

Foiled in a laudable attempt to sow dissension,
that young lady, turning a cold back on Ranulph,
devoted herself to the cultivation of the Jacobite.
'Twas a fine occasion for pumping him — one that
must not be lost. So, assuming a subdued and
serious manner that befitted the subject, she delivered
herself of a warm panegyric on Lord Forfar's
friend, which surprised the guileless conspirator.

What a gentleman is my Lord Bolingbroke !' she
murmured. ' Good breeding carries a dignity with
it that commands golden opinions ; while the reverse
invites familiarity. Even fallen and disgraced, no
man ever said a pert thing to him ; while to his
coarse neighbour there, in the snuff-stained coat,
who ever said anything civil, except in flattery?'

This from you,' exclaimed Gervas, round-eyed,
who belong to the Court party !'

'Alack!' sighed Pamela meekly, ' we poor women
of quality have been taught nothing to earn bread
withal but the tambour and the harpsichord, and
may not starve. We're as base as the players with
their purchased smiles — pretending sympathy when
our hearts are far away !'

Gervas was grieved ; for indeed 'tis a hard fate fora
sensitive high-born woman to eat the bread of
servitude if rendered so intolerable as she hinted.

21 — 2

Oh, how I detest it all ! And the usurping upstarts
!' she sighed ; then whispered softly : ' He
over the water doth hold no female Court.'

When he comes to his own he will,' replied
Gervas, with equal mystery.

Nay; that will never be !' returned the artful one.
The cry has ever been " To arms ! To arms ! — now
or never !" and then they fall to bickering over their
little dignities, and the precious moment passes.'

Too true !' sighed Gervas. ' 'Tis the curse of
poverty that warps men's souls and bends them
crooked.'

Who knows it better than I ?' murmured Mrs.
Belfield. ' But you should feel pity for a woman's
weakness, which must be denied to man. Oh ! if I
vv^ere a man !' she said, kindling, then sighed again
and lowered her eyes ; while from a distance my
Lord Belvedere glared in vain, grinding in impotent
rage his newest set of teeth.

The heart of Gervas warmed to the poor girl, and
a thought crossed his mind for which he chid himself
till he reflected that in unequal wars all weapons
are permissible.

I feel you are to be trusted,' he said, as she gazed
languishingly at him. ' We bide our time, but are
not so sluggish as you think. The besotted folly of
that man there plays into our hands. Hitherto his
craft hath baulked our every step ; for men can be
weak as well as women, and gold is god of all. If

you speak your mind — and I know you do — you
might be of signal service to us.'

Lord Forfar's voice trembled, and, the words
sticking in his throat, he lapsed into silence. His
better nature revolted against making the suggestion
which was in his mind to a woman whom he
really liked.

But Pamela's quick brain guessed the half-spoken
hint. Had it not occurred to her own mind sometime
since that a nest might possibly be feathered
by disclosing to the other side that which passed
within St. James's ? There she knew that all was
tottering. If she only could be sure that t'other side
was less unstable !

Afraid in her inmost heart of the single-minded
Jacobite, she had felt that 'twould never do herself
to propose a bargain from which his lofty eccentricity"
might revolt. But now she perceived that even he
could stoop, and felt relieved to find him human.

Without another word she reached out a little
hand under the table and touched his with a pressure
that meant volumes. Had Lord Belvedere known
of it he would doubtless, forgetting to be lackadaisical,
have hurled something at her head and
caused a diversion.

Yet, after all, as matters stood, she could lose
naught by such a bargain. Was it not at her will to
choose how much to divulge, how much to hide,
while groping a way in the dark labyrinth ? Moreover,

would she not gain gratitude from him by the
throes of a seeming sacrifice ? Might she not rivet
his chains by a thousand alluring airs of confusion ;
of wishing to speak and yet not daring ; of sacrificing
prudery, modesty, what not, for the good of
the sacred cause which she knew he cherished so
religiously ?

Wh}^, with feminine skill might she not seem in
his eyes a very Joan of Arc ? At present everything
was to be gained, and nothing risked by a secret
compact. Why not, if the side of Hanover finally
won the day, turn round and make a merit of
divulging what Gervas might drop ? How like a
self-sufficient coxcomb of a man it was who was old
enough to have learned wisdom, to glare across the
table emptily, while she, his much more clever child,
was spinning such a web in her trim little head
as his common male brain was incapable of conceiving
!

While the Honourable Pamela and my Lord
Forfar were apparently bilHng and cooing like a pair
of enamoured turtle-doves, her other neighbour, Mr.
Medlicote, found it mighty dull. He sullenly ate
his supper, then drummed with his fingers on the
cloth, reflecting that he had gathered nothing wherewith
to amuse the Queen.

He was glancing towards the door, considering
how, unperceived, to make escape before the party
moved to cards, when it suddenly opened, and two

ladies entered quietly, whose aspect made him start.
He had seen them oft before.

Without moving, the Duchess smiled and pointed
with her fan to a place that chanced to be empty
beside Lord Belvedere. The younger, with winning
grace, swam into the seat ; but the other, shrinking
from the brightly lighted table, apparently much
disturbed, moved into the shade, and sat there
watching.

Pamela happened to look up.

Really,' she remarked, ' her Grace is too eccentric !
'Tis to please Sir Robert, I suppose, that she admits
the Whig mountebank in such familiar fashion to sit
among the quality !'

It was indeed Mrs. Pilot whose unceremonious
entry at so late an hour caused a hubbub of surprise.
We know that, in pursuance of a mysterious
message from her patroness, Barbara, instead of
seeking early rest to cultivate fresh roses, had looked
out her smartest frock, and, accompanied by her
mother, had made for Burlington Gardens.

My Lord Belvedere was in the seventh heaven.
Not a jot did he care now for Pamela's sly tricks !
Had not the reigning beauty twice repulsed him,
thereby inflicting serious wounds upon his vanity —
even refused to nod in public ? And here she was
now by his side, looking distractingly lovely, as with
the bel air she took off her long gloves of chicken
skin, and allowed him to pile up her plate.

This was indeed entrancing. Had he not displayed
his false teeth for her behoof in vain across
St. James's Street from White's bow-window ? He
would deserve slight and oblivion if he failed to improve
so opportune and valuable an occasion.

Seeing her at close quarters for the first time, his
practised eye examined her lineaments. How
admirable was this clearly chiselled profile ! how
refined the small transparent nostril and firm chin,
the graceful curves of the long neck ; how rich the
glow of the full bosom, so lavishly displayed and
cunningly set off by a low square bodice of white silk.

Her head was made up Dutch, with cockades of
ribbon on the sides and diamonds across the front,
powdered thinly to show grey. All down her back
were escaped lace rushes, mounted each with a
jewelled solitaire ; while as for her hoop, 'twas of
that becoming wideness which forbids a vivacious
damsel to turn round in an ordinary sized apartment
without oversetting everything like a whirlwind.


Elle est bien ; meme tres bien!' muttered my
lord. ' Jolie comme un coeur — faut la trotter.'

Milord est trop aimable,' demurely responded
Barbara.

'A Parisian accent — fiends and spectres!' cried
the diplomatist. ' I forgot that angels were not
banned at Babel.'

Nor brought up in a French seminary,' replied

the actress with a laugh that showed such a row of
pearls as out dazzled my lord's best set.

Do you know,' he said, ' that you are quite different
from all the tragedy-queens whom I have ever
known ? Excuse franchise due to unstinted admiration,
and therefore flattering. However skilful their
efforts at concealment, they can never disguise the
odour of the lamps. An aggressive tinge of the
parvenue always lies in the folds of their brocades.
Some, I know, are of good birth. Your actor Wilks,
I am told, is of superior lineage. The civil wars contributed
man' sons and daughters of good but impoverished
houses to the English stage when royalty
came home. Sure yours must have been too loyal
to the Crown ?'

A shade of sadness passed over Bab's cheek, and
she was silent.

She doesn't so much as know who was her
father,' he thought. Then, perceiving that he stood
on treacherous ground, like a man of the world he
changed his tone, and pled his neighbour with
shafts of lightest raillery, in which he was joined
across the table by Mr. Medlicote.

Bab speedily recovered her equanimity, for who
more fit to cope with an army of triflers ? Soon the
laughter in her vicinity rippled loud and free in
jocund waves, inviting general attention.

Was this likely to be pleasing to the Honourable
Pamela? Hardly. Was it not pestilent in a low

theatre wench to appear in highest society with
the aplomb of a genuine patrician ? She dared to
shine — and to outshine Pamela ! This required
putting down, and at once : for, having been
grievously spoilt, like all low hussies, she was becoming
insufferable.

In the public walks one expects to be elbowed by
all sorts of trills ; but at Queensberry House ! Really
King Charles had set an odious precedent in the
matter of Nell Wynne, and the Duchess would erelong
regret her imprudence. And here was my Lord
Belvedere — her own father, whose years, at least,
were respectable — making an exhibition of himself,
and disgracing her by whispering things into the
creature's ear, which doubtless were unfit to be
heard ; aye, and filling her glass and his own with
objectionable frequency. Mrs. Belfield girded up
her loins to put down the creature.

Indeed, the new-comer wore her fine-lady airs as
if to the manner born, and showed no signs of
shyness.

In obedience to her Grace's whispered behest
Sir Robert had merely extended, as she passed, a
podgy hand. My Lord Bolingbroke, rising with
formal dignity, had honoured her with a ceremonious
obeisance, while my Lord Chesterfield drew a delicate
line by the manner of his salutation between the artist
and woman of quality. A reviving buzz of recognition
and pleasure swept over the party, which, conscious

of heat and surfeit, had grown dull. This apparently
mortified young Mr. Falkland, whose daring desire to
seem as much at home in town as an old rake was
frustrated. Who could this new arrival be who was
on familiar terms with all ? Lord Byron, grinning
from ear to ear, was waving jewelled fingers. My
Lord Belvedere had seemingly summoned from their
repose the three Graces to array his old carcase for
conquest, as in a shrill treble he kept repeating :

Slip through my lungs ! A Httle glass ! I protest
you shall ! or step me, I swoon with disappointment
!'

It behoved the would-be rake to rally his scattered
forces, for the lady was absolutely acquainted with
everyone in the room except himself.

'Your Grace's relative?' he drawled. 'I judge
so by her beauty. The likeness is striking. She
doth well to be defended by a dragon.'

Your servant !' shrieked her Grace, whose eyes
danced with fun. ' Gay, out with thy tablets and
indite an ode upon the likeness 'twixt me and my
fair cousin. My cousin, said you? or was it
niece ?'

Sister, it should be,' smirked the infatuated fop.
Two cherries on one stalk never were more
alike.'

Lord ! What a world we live in !' cried the
Duchess, suddenly serious, as, like a soldier grounding
arms, she rapped down her fan upon the table.

Thus isn't that half our modish crew spend their life
in inventing les that t'other half believes ! Mr.
Falkland, you are young enough to learn a lesson
without hanging your head. This sister of mine, as
you suppose, is the Whig player, whose favours you
have been vouchsafed without knowing her even by
sight !'

With that the impulsive Duchess rushed to the
astonished actress, and clasping her in both arms,
kissed her on either cheek.

My dear,' she said, hoarse with unwonted emotion,

pardon my little stratagem ! This lad, to raise his
reputation at the expense of yours, traduced your
character. I knew he could not have seen you at
the theatre, for he hath been in England but two
days, and you have not acted for a week. He will
no doubt crave humble pardon, and be more
careful in the future. An amnesty ! Come — to
cards ! You, by your own confession, Mrs. Bellied,
adore the knaves — on pasteboard.'

In dire confusion at the discovery of his meanness,
Mr. Falkland awkwardly bade farewell, and slunk
away with tingling ears ; while my Lord Forfar,
indignant and disgusted, sang after him a requiem.

How paltry a form of vanity,' he said, ' it is to
try and raise one's self by lowering a woman ! If the
insidious charge be true, 'tis ungenerous ; if false,
infamous !'

Relieved somehow that the charge against Mrs.

Pilot should have been signally refuted, he looked
down into Pamela's face for approbation, and she
could scarce keep her fingers from slapping him.

Oh, these virtuous enthusiasts !' she thought ;
how they deceive themselves by windy platitudes !
There's little of nobility, no doubt, in thieving a
woman's fame ; but is there more in coaxing them
to wrong ? This preacher would make a tool of mea
spy — would sacrifice his grandeur for the cause, if
need were — and if I am skilful I shall win the prize
for which I angle ; and yet he doth not see how base
the temptation is that he is throwing in my way !
Well, 'tis a comfort that those who blow themselves
out with principle, and those who profess none, are
much on the same platform after all!' And with
this consoling conclusion Mrs. Belfield gathered her
skirts about her, preparatory to adjournment to the
card-room.

The hussy had scored a point, which was regrettable
; but 'twas not necessary for a lady of rank to
assist at the player's triumph.

The surprises of the evening, however, were not
over. Before conducting his lady from her place,
Lord Forfar, as the gallant way was, proposed a toast,
and gave ' The accomplished and bewitching Pamela
Belfield.' 'Twas drank as usual, standing ; and then
my Lord Byron gave another, ' The peerless
Barbara Pilot.'

Now Pamela's besetting sin, or one of the many

that strove for mastery, was pride. Her old father's
open flirtation with a player under her very eyes
was distasteful to Mrs. Belfield. She coloured, and
with disdainful gesture cried in a loud voice :

Pol ! His lordship's breeding leaves somewhat
to be desired ! Cannot he do better for a lady of
fashion than name after her a paid Jezebel !'

There was a murmur of consternation, but the
angry damsel heeded it not.

Her own scullion can insult her any day,' she
sneered, ' from the gallery on payment of a shilling !'

Bab started and turned livid. Taken aback by
the cruel charge which an unknown man had
brought against her, she had gratefully accepted in
silence the kindness of the Duchess, feeling thankful
and softened, less lonely than usual. But now again
to be insulted, and by this audacious skirmishes !

A Jezebel,' she said, facing Mrs. Belfield with
full as haughty a mien, ' may well be harnessed
with a desire !'

The Duchess was much put out. The conduct
of her guests was suited to the tavern rather than to
a polite hurricane. A vulgar brawl like that of
grooms in a boozing-ken ! Worse — for the belligerents
were women. Pamela, convulsed with
passion, seized a brimming glass, and would have
flung it full in the blanched face of the beautiful fury
opposite, had not Lord Forfar wrested the missile
from her grasp.

The men stood irresolute, not knowing what todo.
'Twas a mercy the table stood between, or
there would have been a sad rending of bedclothes.
My Lord Belvedere, whose expensive peruke was
awry and his eyes a trifle over-bright with wine and
excitement, endeavoured to bridge the chasm.

Never mind the baggage,' he whispered, clasping
Bab's waist and endeavouring to draw her down.
I'll punish her at homes Sit — you shall ! Swoons,
sweeting ! those ireful lips must be melted into
smiles again !'

The old gentleman, suiting action to words, proceeded
to deliver a salute, crowing the while like
a venerable rooster.

Punish her at home, would he ? Pamela,
trembling and gasping, turned to Lord Forfar.
Prithee take me hence,' she said, choking with resentment,
' till my lord hath finished with his
trollop ! Will some one lend me a chair ? I wist
not that in your Grace's halls I should rub shoulders
with posture-makers !'

With a solemn curtsey the Honourable Pamela
swept over the threshold, across which the Duchess
inwardly swore she should never step again. Trollop
and posture-maker and Jezebel, forsooth ! Which of
the twain was the aggressor ? Insolent minikin, to
dare to teach her, the Duchess of Queensberry,
whom she should invite as guests ! Verily, the pled
had shown more dignity than she who

boasted of her quality ! And her old father, too, was
pretty nearly as bad, for, half intoxicated, he had
pulled the actress on his knee ere she could elude his
grasp.

If I'm overbold, sweeting,' he hiccupped, * your
charms must bear the blame. Love and assurance,
you know, are as inseparable as a lady and her
vizard.'

It added no little to the Duchess's chagrin to
mark the grins of amusement which puckered the
visages of both Bolingbroke and Walpole. The
latter cried ' Bravo !' when his little Whig so promptly
returned tierce for carte ; and now his sides shook
with merriment, for the affected old fop cut a ludicrous
figure in his character of Lothario, and the
Minister awaited, with malicious eagerness, the
swingeing box on the ear which must reward his too
delicate attentions.

Rapidly as the scene progressed, no one had noted
the growing concern of the dame who occupied the
shade. Wringing her hands, with scared eyes as
though she beheld an apparition, Madam Walcot
rose and rushed into the light.

For dear Heaven's love, desist !' she cried. ' I
had a fear of this ! God knows how I've prayed
and wept ! Lord Belvedere — George !' she moaned.
^ Do you not know me ? Sorrow and sore repentance
have seamed the cheek you once thought
fair !'

Lord Belvedere scrutinized the features which,
kneeling on the ground, she raised imploringly to
his, and murmured with astonishment :

Hepsibah !'

Yes — Hepsibah !' echoed the wretched woman.
Then, turning a hasty glance of terror upon the
expectant company, she gathered, as it were, her
courage in her hands, and with a supreme effort
wailed :

Do not touch the child ! Miserable sinner that
I am ! She is your daughter !'

Had the massive chandelier fallen into their centre,
amazement in varied phases could not have been
more clearly depicted upon every visage. In horror
and dread of she dared scarcely figure what, the
confession of her own shame had been wrung by
iron Nemesis from the blue lips of the devotee.

Lord Belvedere, slowly unclasping the writhing
Barbara, seemed for a moment stunned ; while she,
turning from red to white, became stricken by
wonder into stone.

The Duchess was the first to recover composure,
as, tapping her fan upon Sir Robert's sleeve, she
jubilant cried :

I knew she must be a sprig of quality !'

The Minister, with lamentable lack of morals, was
equally charmed. On one side at least his favourite
was of gentle blood.

Nature,' he answered, with exultation, ' hath

VOL. II. 22

formed her for high circles ; Fortune must accomplish
the intent.'

The old fop slowly awoke, and, sobered somewhat,
realized what the scene meant for him. The respectable
Mrs. Walcot, crushed by the words that had
been wrenched from her, lay cowering upon the floor.
With a pang he felt that he must look ridiculous,
and pushed Bab from him with one finger. All eyes
were staring at him, all faces seemed marked by
gibing puckers. Ere a week was out hundreds of
doggerel sheets would flood the town, of which he'd
be the hero — the print shops would teem with jests.

His stony heart was pierced. How he longed to
chastise that sobbing Magdalen who, by a public
scene, held him up to obloquy ! For an old woman
to state that she was once your flame is not flattering
to your own years. Still the jeering array of
eyes stared full on him, wondering what he would
do. It behoved him to back out of so absurd a predicament
with all possible grace and speed. Oh,
how he would have liked to drub that silly old
woman — that Hepsibah of his youth, who ought to
have known better than to be so scared at bugaboo !
What if he were unwittingly embracing his own
daughter ? Odds heartlikins ! She might have
known that 'twas for merest fashion's sake, to stand
well before the town with the popular idol. Why
not have writ a warning note, instead of shivering
and moaning, eating out her stupid old heart in

foolish apprehension, then blurting out her more
than idiotic folly before his friends ?

But Hepsibah always was the veriest ninny ! To
think that after — never mind how many decades — the
crows should fly home to their nest ! My lord sat
pondering so long that the circle, on tiptoe, began
to murmur their conjectures. How difficult to
escape from such a dilemma without loss of dignity !
Lord Belvedere whistled a stave, opened his box
with deliberation, and after taking a pinch, brushed
the dust from his steinkerk, and dropped into his
banish manner.

Split my windpipe !' he drawled. ' 'Tis more
plaguey vexing to me than to your Grace to have
upset your earthquake. We must make the best of
it, or yon gentlemen will quiz me. A nobleman, whatever
he feels, should keep his countenance serene,
since emotion begets wrinkles. Your ladyship never
had cause for fear, for I never cared a fig for you ;
nor, since you belong to me, am Hkely to begin.
But it befits not the daughter of Lord Belvedere to
be a player, however charming. If your Grace's
footman will be so obliging as to call our coach, I
will conduct my daughter home.'

My lord, tucking his hat under his arm, offered
the extreme tips of his white attenuated fingers with
orthodoxly filbert nails to Mrs. Barbara, and led her
slowly forth as if about to step a minuet.

So soon as the door closed on them, her Grace

22 — 2

observed heartily that no one could have emerged
from a quandary with more consummate breeding
after so sad a commencement. 'Twas a vastly
refreshing end.

So the green baize had fallen on the actress,
who was raised out of reach of Crump. How would
the Honourable Pamela feel when presented to her
sister ?

A RISE IN THE WORLD.

!^^g HE Duchess of Queensberry would not
have been a child of Eve had she not
tossed all night, gnawed by curiosity to
know the result of the * scena.' Half a
dozen times she rang up her first maid for a dose
of cordial, till that much-enduring person felt half
inclined to administer laudanum instead. 'Twas
wonderful ! How true had been her instincts ! One
who leans upon a single virtue should always be
mistrusted ; and Madam Walcot's exaggerated
assumption of shocked propriety was, as might
have been expected, only a cloak for a faux pas.
When young, Lord Belvedere must have been a
rake in red-hot earnest, and, oblivious of the effect of
decades, must have goaded her fears even to the
wrenching off, with her own hand, of the mask of
• second nature.

The poor gentlewoman must have suffered anguish

ere she could have brought herself to this. Well,
'twas her own fault if the company stood open-mouthed.
Had she not buckram herself so tight
in pinchbeck modesty no one would have been
astonished ; for when modish belles set so little
store by reputation, 'twas the most natural thing in
the world for a plebeian — if a plebeian she were — to
fall a prey to a lord. The secret of Barbara's distinguished
manners was out now. Democrats may
prate rubbish, but blood will show itself. In dogs
and horses 'tis admitted ; why not then in men and
women ? Part of Mrs. Pilot's success had been
due to the je ne sais quoi that stamps the patrician.
'Tis a volatile essence — intangible, yet there.' When
Bab had declaimed in tragedy everyone had vowed
'twas mighty fine, for the imperious slut, with the
exquisitely cut profile and lofty stature, was satisfying
to the eye in a thousand piquant attitudes of scorn
and triumph. 'Twas a stilted convention which was
accepted as edifying and statuesque, though altogether
out of nature. But when she appeared in
comedy 'twas otherwise. Her Lady Betty Modish,
Lady Townley, Lady Brute, were the genuine article.
'Twas the polished mirror held up to nature, the
real fine lady, just stepped out of the most fashionable
drawing-room.

What Lord Belvedere had said, with perhaps
undue candour, was true. However gifted the ordinarily
circumstanced actress of whatever period,

the cloven foot will out. The Duchess plumed herself
on her discernment. With all his affectation and his
frivolous nonsense, my Lord Belvedere had shown ina
difficult moment that he was worthy of his coronet ;
and Bab was his true daughter. At first sight 'twas
strange that of the twain the one who was legitimate
had been found wanting ; for verily Pamela, betrayed
by evil passion, had behaved like a fish-fag!
Perchance the mysterious Madam Walcot was of
gentle blood. As to Pamela's mamma, 'twas known
that my lord, when Minister at Lisbon years ago,
had made a mesalliance with some adventuress or
other, who happily had died in giving birth to
Pamela.

The Duchess sniffed when reflecting about Mrs.
Belfield, for 'twas too bad to have made a vulgar
scene at a polite hurricane ! Before she belonged to
the Queen's household, had she not lived mostly
with the Duchess ? The villa at Bushey being too
dull for a single girl, had not her Grace obligingly
advised that it should be closed till the end of my
lord's diplomatic mission, while his daughter abode
with her ?

That Lisbon wife must have been very low.
Pamela had shown at least half of the cloven foot,
and the Duchess burned to know what had happened
as to the other half when the sisters met.
So she popped on her morning mask and scarf, and
was carried in the plain chair, which she generally

used for auctions, to the select street off St. James's,
with the little green wicket into the Park, where the
town menage of the Belvederes was established.

What a triumph for Bab, after having been treated
to ' trollop ' and ' Jezebel,' to step into the family
parlour and claim a place in it ! Did Mrs. Belfield
scratch her eyes out ? Did she go into hysterics,
and swear by the household gods that two such discordant
elements could not exist under a single roof?

Had my Lord Belvedere whipped her as she
deserved ? That there was nothing but wind inside
his pericardium everyone was aware who knew him.
For him les convenances — a delicate and highly burnished
worldly punctilio — took the place of heart
and conscience both ; and it must be allowed that
he who surrenders himself to such cool and calculated
guidance makes few errors. Les convenances had told
him at once that his long lost and neglected child
having been handed to him thus dramatically,
'twould never do to reject the unlooked-for present.


Lord Belvedere's daughter must not be a player!'
Her noisy surroundings at the * Lock of Hair ' had
amused him often as surveyed from White's choco-gatehouse
; and punctilio had said to him when he
discovered who she was, that Lord Belvedere's
daughter's chamber must not be a rendezvous for
beaux en deshabille, who were waiting to be, or had
just been, shaved. His first impulse was a correct

one. Boasting of no principles, would he continue
to act rightly, or would the shrill ravings of Mrs.
Belfield affect his subsequent conduct ?

There must have been an awful uproar, either in
the middle of the night or this morning, and her
Grace, peering up at the house, was half disappointed
to find that the windows were still whole, and that
the roof still held its place. Her Grace's discernment
had deserted her. In putting two and two
together, she was wrong. Lord Belvedere's foppishness
was but a crust, thickened, no doubt, by habit.
His diplomatic career had shown that when needful
he could be as cunning as the fox. 'Twas little
probable that any amount of vapours or shrieks on
the part of the Honourable Pamela would turn a
settled resolve.

The footman who opened the door was no less
dignified than usual, as he ushered her Grace into
the morning-room. There was not a single chair or
looking-glass broken. The two sisters sat like lambs
on either side the hearth as calmly as if they had
thus sat during all their lives. Bab was frowning at
the last number of the Craftsman. Pamela, whose
nose was a little red, pricked her needle into her
tambour with an occasional sniff, and a concentrated
viciousness which told unutterable things.

'My dears,' cried her blithe Grace, 'behold the
Garden of Eden ! Where doth the naughty serpent
conceal himself?'

Mrs. Belfield had succeeded in schooling her
exterior to a decent extent, but was too sore as yet
for banter.

If you mean my father, madam,' she replied,
sending the tambour spinning on its wheels across
the floor, ' he is above, with a posse of tailors and
steinkirk-makers. I'll says you are here, and, if not
too much engrossed in selecting a wig for the Park,
he will doubtless attend your Grace.'

With that Mrs. Belfield stalked majestically from
the room, and slammed the door behind her with
such violence that all the cheney danced.

Bravo, Bab !' the Duchess laughed, with a
hearty kiss. ' No poisoned dagger ? No henbane
in your chocolate ? I congratulate your ladyship.'

This is kind,' Bab answered gratefully. ' I feel
so strange — almost happy ; yet awe-stricken and
shocked.'

You will regret the incense of the stage ?'
suggested the Duchess.

Oh no ! I never loved it, save as a means to an
end. How grieved poor Wilks would be to hear me
say so ! When, mindful of Oldfield, he talked ashe
did to her of the exacting goddess, I always felt
guilty, and a charlatan.'

While the heart slumbers,' gently said her
Grace, * so doth the soul.'

'The goddess who claims your heart's blood!'
mused Bab. ' I was often told, before I wist he

was my father, that he never had a heart. Why,
then, should I have ? And if no heart, how can it
give its blood ?'

Better so,' declared the Duchess. * The road to
the Walhalla's strewn with bones and bitterness.
Sorrow sleeps lightly — beware of stirring her !'

I have always so longed for a father,' Bab went
on, relieved at thus unburthening herself.

Desirable, no doubt,' acquiesced the Duchess,
if they love their offspring. Look at the romantic
whale, for instance, that carries its young under its
arm ! I vow I've always thought that the love-affairs
of whales must be vastly touching !'

Perhaps because 'twas a blessing denied to me I
had the longing. Do you know I am bent upon his
loving me ?'

That wig-block ?'

Even so.

More than he ever will the other. And you
pretend to have no heart ?'

I can't tell,' smiled Bab. ' Just think ! A love-child
confided to chance, thrown out without experience
to sink or swim ! To be able to love someone,
and be loved again, would be so delicious, if
only for the novelty. Is it not curious that I am
doomed to possess one parent only ?'

As how, you fantastic paradox ?'

Then Barbara fitted the puzzle together so far as
she had mastered it. Hepsibah, so my lord had

narrated in the coach as they drove home, herself a
motherless waif, had been smitten with him, and he
with her, when both were young. Growing weary
of a prize too easily attained, he had accepted a
mission to Portugal ; and, having married there,
was no little disconcerted by the pursuit of deluded
Ariadne. His wife was a Spanish gipsy, and jealous.
To avert a possible tragedy, he compromised with
Hepsibah for a sum of money ; and was relieved
to hear that, on the homeward voyage, she had
captured one Walcot, the captain of the vessel, who
had been eris on the way out.

To facilitate matters, my lord had taken the child,
whose existence told an inconvenient tale, and had
sent it to France to be forgotten. My lady dying
shortly afterwards, his mind reverted to this babe ;
and he instructed his steward to arrange for the
accumulation of a certain modest sum, which was
eventually to serve as dowry. But Hepsibah,
married and settled, was to interfere no more.

After a lapse of years, the steward wrote to his
master, who was still abroad, to say that Hepsibah
had broken the compact ; that, professing indigence,
she had sought out her daughter, and discovered
herself My lord, incensed, had thereupon replied
that the girl was to choose ; and if she clove to her
mother, the dowry-money was to be paid down, on
the clear understanding that neither would ever
trouble him again.

Fearing that the choice might go against her,
Madam Walcot had so craftily managed that Barbara
never learned so much as who her father was.
'Twas only on leaving school she had learned her
name was Pilot. With the money the Richmond
toy-shop had been bought ; and on my lord's return
his ex-mistress had been in agonies lest, through her
public and prominent position, which the mother
had never contemplated, father and daughter should
meet, and an explanation ensue, to the detriment of
the devotee.

When the imbroglio was further complicated by
his lordship's enrolling himself under the Diva's
banner, she was so horror-stricken that, goaded by
despair, she had herself blurted out the words
which 'twas her interest never should be spoken ;
and had thus brought down on her own head the
avalanche she had so clumsily attempted to evade.

It was evident now why she had striven to the
best of her weak powers to keep her daughter from
the stage. Had she remained in the toy-shop,
'twould have been easy to get her away on some
pretext should his lordship appear at the Wells ; or,
if necessary, she might have moved with bag and
scrip. But Barbara, independent and self-willed,
had taken the bit between her teeth, and was
beyond control long ere my lord's return.

Finding, by a few leading questions, that the disobedience
of his child had been through no fault of

hers (for the careless steward never troubled to go
himself to France, or to explain her father's prohibition),
Lord Belvedere decided to take his
daughter back again ; but on the understanding that
never by word or note was she again to communicate
with mamma. The deceitful old lady was to keep
the toy-shop and the money, and go about her business
; while Bab was to go home with papa, and
make herself agreeable. It is possible that but for
the public explanation, his decision might have been
different.

There were other motives, too. Pamela, he had
discovered soon after arrival in England, was not to
his mind. She was shrewish and not pretty, and
woefully disrespectful. As a philosopher, he might
say to himself that young jades are good for naught
but to put men out of humour ; yet 'twas displeasing
to find his admonitions treated with undisguised
contumely, and raising of sharp shoulders. Had
Bab been ugly and shrewish, he might have behaved
at the hurricane less like a perfect gentleman. It
was flattering to his arnoitr propre to find that the
deserted bone of his bone had made for herself a
position ; that she had wormed her way unaided into
the best society ; had become the darling of the
public ; and, in all ways, did credit to her parentage.
He might disapprove of the position she had carved
as derogatory to the blood of Belvedere ; but 'twas
vastly engaging to be able to pluck the idol from its

pedestal, and saying, ' This is my property,' to put
it in his pocket.

This being the exact position of affairs, he was
by no means loth to place so fair an ornament by
his fireside ; and felt also a malicious pleasure in
punishing, by the same stroke, the too snappish
Pamela.

Now, Pamela was sharp of wits as well as of
tongue and shoulders ; and, after the first cold
shower of displeased surprise, saw clearly that she
could not fight, or remove the thorn from her flesh.
Thanks to his long absence, she had no real hold
over papa any more than Bab had. If he had taken
a hussy to dwell with them, she could have rushed
to the Queen and screamed. But there was nothing
to be done upon the tumbling from the sky of an
unwelcome sister, save to mask her spite and
wait ; which, like a wise damsel, she forthwith proceeded
to do, reserving the tears of abortive rage
for the privacy of her virgin closet.

Thus did it come about that her Grace, instead of
stepping from her chair into pandemonium, had
walked into the Garden of Eden ; and in her delight
she swore with oaths, like the woman of quality that
she was, that the pocket-poet should mend his pen,
and put it all into a play.

We can all endure dreadful things for a second,
which, spread over a lengthened period, become
intolerable. The attitude of the Belfield family

promised well as a beginning, but the three personages
concerned became speedily aware how difficult
it is to keep heroic resolution hot when off the
boil.

Ere many weeks had passed Eden showed signs of
transformation into a howling wilderness, and my
lord discovered that his bachelor home abroad was
less uncomfortable than his English family menage.
By means of the hundred microscopic ingenuities
of feminine artifice, Mrs. Belfield succeeded in filling
the chocolate of sister and parent with henbane, and
in flourishing the poisoned dagger to her heart's
content ; and though Bab had by general consent
been christened angel and adorable seraph, she was
not given to meek endurance. Aristocrats can stab
so genteelly, and with so little mess of gore ! Mrs.
Pilot had had her own way so long, had been so
flattered and worshipped, had grown so accustomed
to see every idle whim gratified before it was half
expressed, that 'twas a terrible effort to sit serenely
still under Mrs. Belfield's arrows.

'Twas nice to be an idle belle d la mode, and to feel
that in a sideway fashion she really belonged to the
quality. But after all the satisfaction was insipid.
Barbara had changed her bed, and had lain in it a
short while only when she became conscious that —
like the other which had not proved satisfactory —
it had its crumpled rose-leaves.

Little by little it dawned on her that the new

position was as hollow as that of Diva had been, and
that there were grave drawbacks attached to it. To
fence with Pamela might be refreshing. As to
winning the affection of Lord Belvedere, she might
as well have made love to Westminster Abbey as
attempt to obtain that which did not and
could not exist. In the genteel household sympathy
of nature to nature was conspicuous by its
absence.

There are things (not many) which a woman of
quality must not do. Lord Belvedere's acknowledged
daughter must not accept bank-bills, and bracelets,
and earrings from the beaux. In this much they must
be kept at arms' length ; and what is the use of
being a real lady of fashion without ample means ?
As a Diva it had never been necessary to know the
value of guineas and bank-bills. Had they not
showered in without the asking ? Bab liked cards and
dice as well as any, and attending auctions and so
forth. A lady of fashion may cheat at ombre and
hazard to the extent of forgetting to pay ; but she
may not plunge a hand into the bank and boldly
pocket the stakes. Now in this Pamela had the
advantage, for she had never possessed money to
spend, except in driblets, and, much as she hated
poverty, had from childhood been accustomed to the
concealing of it, and the scheming of ways and
means. Not so Bab, and the griping of a lean
pocket were like irons harrowing the soul.
VOL. II. 23

Of course she was too proud, even by the winking
of an eyelash, to allow her sister to perceive the
source of disillusion, or permit her to guess that so
soon as the gilt had worn off a little, she regretted
her Bohemian liberty. The happier she was in her
new home, the more would Pamela be vexed ; and
so, with dissatisfaction gnawing her heart, she
carolled up and down the stairs, executing merry
roulades and humming artless ditties. As all the
world expected them to scratch like cats, 'twas
tacitly agreed to balk the malignant by angelic
displays of affection, always on the overflow. They
were to pose as sisters should, with arms gracefully
twined. They were to kiss and call one another by
a thousand endearing epithets ; dress in the same
colours ; go about together as though a sudden
affection had sprouted up like unto Jonah's gourd.
And yet the two ladies loathed one another with
the most sturdy healthy hate, for which there were
endless causes.

'Twas a little awkward, at first, the getting over
that episode wherein ' trollop ' and ' Jezebel ' had been
so freely bandied ; and yet in the polite world do
not folks cultivate the shortest of sight and memory ?
Pamela's love before acquaintances was as lavish as
could be desired; but her hatred, of the two, was
the stronger, and certainly most enduring.

My pen blushes and jibs, almost refusing to write
that the Honourable Pamela Belfield was made to

play second fiddle. She was edged and pushed
into the position of younger sister ! The superb
beauty overshadowed — snuffed out — the haughty
bedchamber-woman on her own territory now — on
her own hearthstone I Oh, crime unpardonable,
never to be forgotten, to be avenged with butchery
and massacre and torment and thumb screws and
pincers on the earliest available opportunity !

Not only on her hearthstone, but even in the
palace. Yes — actually ! To please Sir Robert, who
was full of the romantic bit of gossip, the Queen
deigned to summon Mrs. Pilot, invite her into
the Holy of Holies ; absolutely instructed that unduly
honoured minx to attend twice a week in her
most killing costume to impart her own grace and
refinement to mesdemoiselles the young princesses.

Was everyone to bow down before this brazen
idol ? Mary and Louisa were to be taught the
use of their arms and the management of that
feminine weapon, the fan. 'Twas terrible to have
to hear that hated voice in the royal ante-chamber,
as Mrs. Commander-in-chief shouted to her willing
recruits, * Unfurl ! Ground fans ! Recover ! Flutter
fans !' and so on. And Mary and Louisa enjoyed
the lesson so much that the coming of Mrs. Pilot
was watched for eagerly.

The Queen averred that the bubbling of merriment
was as good as a ray of sunshine. Oh, the
audacious, familiar, overbearing, vulgar trollop ! aye,

23—2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

and Jezebel too ! How gladly would her dear
sister have flung her out of windows after the
manner of that queen, for the dogs to scrunch her
bones !

I protest that I shudder as, at this awesome
moment, I peep into the inside of the outraged
Belfield. Being possessed of bowels for you who
read, I will refrain from divulging what I see within
that Golgotha. When Bab exhorted their Royal
Highnesses not to mumble, or when tickled by a jest
to allow people to see down their august throats, or
to stoop, or make a noise when feeding, Mr. ,
who dubbed himself Aide-de-camp to the
bewitching General, closed his lips and threw back his
shoulders and stood in dancing-master Des Noyer's
most unexceptionable attitude.

He applauded her lightest sally, roared with
laughter over her meanest quirk. Oh, poor Pamela's
inside ! Ranulph Medlicote — just think ! One of
her own tame fishes, and she had but two who were
likely to be landed ; one of the men whom she
elected to twit and snub and otherwise harry and
maltreat, as it behoved skittish maids to behave to
possible future husbands.

Did Jezebel propose to pitch a flaunting tent in
Naboth's vineyard ; did she intend to appropriate
titbits and favourite morsels ? It almost seemed so,
for, in her new 7'6le of quasi-grande-dame, Barbara
dared, assuming a lofty tone, to lecture Gervas himself

— the stand away Lord Forfar, who was so fond
of believing the worst.

She presumed, sometimes almost seriously, sometimes
in an off-hand manner, to take him to task
anent the sacred Cause, gibing at his most cherished
tenets, holding under his nose for admiring imitation
that lump of corruption, Bluestring. 'Twas amusing
to give ear to her light, careless prate, and Lord
Forfar was amused — not shocked and indignant as
Pamela would have had him be.

Lord Belvedere's daughter, made much of by a
usurper's wife and received by rank and fashion, was
one person ; Mrs. Pilot the actress, exposed to
temptations, the butt of rake hells, was another, even
to the single-minded Jacobite — always excepting
when she went too far, which, alas ! she sometimes
did.

Not that Pamela need have been jealous, for
Gervas looked on Mrs. Barbara much as we consider
the tiger-lily. We stand for a moment and
admire its stately proportions and vivid colouring,
and then pass on without a thought of culling the
flower and wearing it as a posy. The charms of
Mrs. Belfield, you will say, were not of a retiring
and modest order. No. But between the two
women there was, in the Scotchman's eyes, a vast
difference. Independent Bab proffered unasked
advice, and took him in hand, dragging him sometimes
a step or two against his will ; for hers was

the stronger nature. Pamela the artful craved
guidance, offered herself as a willing tool for the
bringing about of a desired end ; posed, as it were,
like Iphigenia arrayed for sacrifice. After that unsigned
compact at the Duchess's, the tender finger-squeezing
under the table, she made much of
Gervas, sending him nebulous messages, making
dark assignations for the purpose of divulging something
which invariably turned out to be naught. In
her character of traitor in the Hanoverian camp,
she had little to divulge which was not known allover
the town ; but in such a case sure the will maybe
taken for the deed — the sweet interest of a sympathizing
bosom for information of a specific value.
In spite of all precautions, Pamela had shown
herself more than once to my Lord Forfar in her
sherbet condition — acid and seething ; and he had
been compelled to admit to himself that the tartness
on these occasions was a trifle too pronounced.
But then, was it not ingenuous thus to wear the
heart upon the sleeve ? What man, I must ask you,
would not be flattered by perceiving the influence
for good of his presence over an esteemed object ?
For when his dark eyes turned with reproach on
the skittish maiden, she coloured and simmered
down. Bab, on the contrary, always behaved worse
than before. How many men have been caught ina
cleverly laid net while they thought themselves
improving and instructing ?

Much as she resented her father's admonitions,
Mrs. Belfield was not so silly as to neglect warnings.
She knew her tongue was sharp, and kept it under
control in the presence of Gervas as much as was
possible — that is, when not goaded to madness by
the covert taunts of Barbara. When he entered
the room, her features softened into amiability ; the
steely sparkle of her eye became more mellow,
and she was by no means averse to let him guess
the cause. Under these circumstances, it was
clearly the duty of a well-meaning, if not too clear-sighted,
man to exert for the patient's behoof the
occult power he seemed to possess. When, a little
hand gently laid on his, she twittered in a corner of
the Cause, he almost felt that she was a brand
plucked from the burning by him — that he had converted
her from evil ways ; and, rendered thus unsuspicious,
would hearken with eagerness to petty
tittle-tattle of the backstairs, from which, had he
not been blinded by party, and dust deftly thrown,
his uprightness would have recoiled with horror.
Too guileless conspirator ! His spy and disciple
wound him round her finger ; and, in process of
time, she might probably have led him, while he
deemed himself the leader, to any point she wished.
Not that she desired at this minute to do more than
keep him in tow, waiting on events. Was it not
exasperating, then, that interloping Jezebel should
show sterns of annexation ; should summon the

booty of her own sword and spear to desert his
allegiance, and tie himself to gilded Juggernaut to
be crushed with the press of victims ? :

When imperial Barbara irrupted into the corner
where the two were cooing, and swam away with
Gervas, Pamela was so numbed with helpless fury
that she sat choked and passive, without the feeblest
repartee. What could she do to oust this kill-joy ?
Dagger and bowl, indeed ! No torments invented
even by Spanish monks and bishops in the cause of
holy religion were sufficiently complete and excruciating.


Bab, on her side, was urged by a variety of
motives. In the first place by a sly spirit of mischief.
She knew that 'twould annoy Pamela to
have her communing disturbed ; and, considering
how well the latter succeeded in annoying her, 'twas
a matter of legitimate reprisal. She was not quite
aware of the fact, deceiving herself somewhat
with the idea of a good action when, in sooth, it
was in this a mean one. And yet she was actuated
a little, doubtless, by a desire to wean an honest
man from under the influence of such a woman as
she knew Pamela to be.

From the first he had held a high place in her
esteem, and 'twas piteous to see him innocently led
astray by the arts of her despicable sister. If they
were conspiring in corners — and they certainly must
be conspiring — it was clear that Mrs. Belfield would

be the gainer ; for Mrs. Belfield was not one to
sacrifice a hair of her head for any Cause, however
pure and worthy. And Bab was quite certain that
the patriot was duped — that his Cause was far from
noble — that 'twas Halted, in his eyes, by a delusive
glamour which shone upon it from himself.

It had come upon Bab by degrees that, however
well it might be to escape from the sham and tinsel
of a stage-ife, she must occupy her mind and time
with something ; fill up by her own efforts the
emptiness which still oppressed her. How was she
better to achieve this, considering the bent of her
friendships, than by plunging into the sea of
politics ?

Having reigned as a theatric Diva, why not, under
changed auspices, exert her beauty and talents for
the behoof of the great Whig party ? What a
worthy triumph it would be to detach so respectable
a personage — one on whom the Dawleyites relied —
from allegiance to what she sincerely believed to bea
rotten Party, and convert him to Whiggish !
She knew how base was Bolingbroke — how odious
the persons were who could stoop to invent such lies
as daily poured from the Craftsman. She could
trace with such clearness the good points of
Walpole, that 'twas a constant marvel to see how
one so English in his blunt bull - dog sturdiness
could be so misinterpreted and misread as Sir
Robert was now. No doubt she beheld the Minister

through spectacles of her own colouring ; but every
woman sees every man through spectacles of some
sort, either grey or rosy.

Perchance the reverence which she could not help
feeling for Lord Forfar was due to her own imagination.
On his side, the Jacobite showed little sign of
being influenced, for his spectacles were dun-coloured.
Impulsive and domineering, there was something
within her — the Bohemian element, possibly — which
always clashed with his square-toed ways of thought
and bearing. She could not help it, and it made
her angry with herself when, provoked, she was
impelled to sallies.

The impulse to cut short a droning platitude by
upsetting a tea-table with a pretty show oi gaitcherie,
or by placing a foot upon a chair with a display of
too much stocking, was too strong for control ; and
when the freak was followed, as it invariably was,
by a pained withdrawal on his part into the shell of
propriety, she could have taken his handsome head
and banged it against the wall.

If there was something antagonistic between them
'twas beyond her power of removal. He might
never grow to like her, but he could not prevent
her from respecting him, and admiring him too.
Did it not behove her, then, as an honest and
energetic woman, to protect him by any means from
Pamela, and coax him, if it might be, into the
proper fold ? Of course it did. Thus was it that

she persisted in interrupting tctes-d-tetcs, until the
younger lady almost resolved to snap up Lord Forfar
out of hand, prospects or no prospects, through
sheer acerbity and spite, if only to baffle Jezebel.

The Duchess of Queensberry, to whom the doings
of the household were fully as entertaining as a
comedy, resolved to speak to Bab ; for to her, as an
unblessed spectator, it appeared naughty to employ
weapons bestowed by Nature for the public good on
so mean an object as the appropriation of Pamela's
man. All the world could see that Lord Forfar was
dangling after one or t'other of the young ladies,
and since he seemed to prefer billing in corners with
Mrs. Belfield, 'twas not proper in the other one,
whose train of beaux would reach, if she thought
well, as far as Paul's, to interfere in the quiet
wooing.

Bab, when taken to task, was amazed.

What !' she exclaimed, ' not tease the men ?
Would you rob beauty of its prerogative ? Fiddle-de-dee
! Fancy such as I pretending to a union with
Lord Forfar ! '

Though she made believe thus lightly to waive the
point, it set her thinking ; and her thoughts
wandered away into their least pleasant channel.
How dreadful it would be if Gervas was really wooing
Pamela ! And yet, why should it be dreadful ?
Might she never learn the lesson thoroughly which
she had sternly resolved to teach herself? Quasi

woman of quality she was ; but as regarded future
prospects her position was by no means ameliorated.


More than ever now must she abandon ideas of
marriage ; for the bend sinister would stand in her
way every bit as much as the being a player had
done. How often must she repeat to her stubborn
heart that she was only aping the grande dame ?
Just as before she resolved to marry nobody, so must
it still be. What did it matter ? For the veriest
mess of pottage she had marred her future ; and yet
not so ; for she was quite sure now that she disliked
the stage, and all connected with it. Her position
at present was vastly blank and inane. Well, there
was no way out of it. When beauty waned she
would take a leaf out of her mother's book. Meanwhile,
'twas only fitting to enjoy life as much as circumstances
would permit.

Argue thus as she would, this suggestion of the
quiet wooing was mightily distasteful to Barbara,
and she assured herself with vehemence that 'twas
all talk about conspiracies, not Eros. Why, without
at all desiring to have him herself, 'twas clearly a
duty to prevent so direful a catastrophe. So sterling
a man deserved a better helpmeet than that vain
creature ! Of course 'twould look ill for Bab to
interfere ; but would not the Duchess warn him ?
If only he could witness the daily wrangling and
quarrels, sure he would flee, fingers in ears ! Yet no !

twas better to leave things to work themselves out.
That Gervas could have serious intentions with
regard to Mrs. Belfield, her sister Pilot declined
altogether to believe. And having thus made up her
rind, she dismissed the unpleasing subject.

Perhaps if we were all turned inside out, shown in
private moments as seen by our valets, but few of us
would ever reach the altar. 'Twould be curious, as a
matter of statistics, to ascertain how many couples
have regretted their fate during the second week of
the honeymoon.

When my Lord Belvedere married the gipsy,
Pamela's mamma, he very speedily discovered that
he had caught a tartar ; and was no little relieved
when she flitted to the next stage on the journey.
And very likely the lady was as glad to be quit of
him, for in private the diplomatist was not a genial
companion. He was given to dyspepsia of a morning,
and his temper was not improved by the reflection
that his successes were less brilliant than of yore.
'Tis not delightful, even to the most amiable, to getup
and look in the glass, and behold there wrinkles
and grey hairs and creases about the chin and neck.

When his lordship descended to breakfast in a
white damask cap and splendid gown of brocade, he
was invariably cross. Pamela was always peevish,
too, at that most trying hour ; profoundly indifferent
to feelings.

She was unlucky at cards as well as in other

things, and the subject of dross, save when he won
it, was soundly unpleasant to her parent. One
morning when Bab came down, fresh as a daisy,
shortly after her conversation with the Duchess, she
almost wished that Gervas could be present to
observe his fellow-conspirator.

Guineas !' my lord was querulously complaining.
Step my vitals, but I like your insolence ! You've
been long enough now in the market to have found
a purchaser, but must make an idiot of yourself
upon the losing side. Such drivelling imbecility !
You know that ready money's scarce. Tenants are
such rogues and fop-makers are such thieves ; and
periwigs are so ghastly dear that 'tis as much as I
can do to find us all in gloves and hair-powder. Goon
the highway and take a purse, as Charlotte
Charke did ; you're bold enough !'

If father and child are not to talk of money,'
perked miss, ' I can't see what they've to do together
!'

Death and furies !' roared my lord. * Daughters,
methinks, are built up of pride and paint and
buckram and disobedience ! If I could find a
woman who was not impertinent, I'd marry and
hope for a son to vex you !'

But Lord Forfar was not aware of these amenities.
Dropping in a few hours later at the same moment as
Mr. Medlicote, he found my lord about to saunter
forth into the Park, in all the glory of rejuvenescent

smirks and a new fop-cover, while the sisters were
smiling sweetly.

Oh, bad men, bad men !' shrieked Mrs. Barbara,
flourishing a gazette to display the roundness of her
arm. ' Just to think of what some of you are
capable ! Sister Pam takes in the Craftsman, and I
needs must peep because I ought not, although it
grows so vile that Ketch should have his will with
it. Just hearken !'

And in tragedy tones the ex-Diva read aloud :
" Is this accursed Minister one of those bubbles
of fortune who, because he hath hitherto escaped,
thinks that he will always escape ? Verily, not content
with wounding a free constitution of government,
he resolves that it shall expire under his
administration. If he succeeds in his sacrilegious
designs, he may hope for impunity perhaps for his
grey hairs, and be suffered to languish through the
infirmities of age, but with inward remorse more
pungent than even any suffering that he hath
inflicted on so many multitudes. By entailing servitude
on the race he will inflict indelible infamy on
his memory." Really, my Lord Forfar, you should
blush for him who fathers all this flummery.'

'Tis harmless,' asserted Medlicote composedly ;
for it overreaches itself and defeats its intended
purpose. Decent people grow disgusted. We should
be thankful to my Lord Bolingbroke for showing his
true colours.'

Indeed, I am ashamed,' Gervas admitted, with
some confusion. ' My friend overshot the mark,
,and yet his soul is earnest. 'Tis but excess of
zeal.'

Remember what Richelieu said of zeal !' laughed
Ranulph. * A few more such poisonous vomiting
and we'll carry Excise in spite of you.'

Gervas was looking hopeful to-day, and the heart
of Barbara warmed to him.

Of course we shall carry Excise," she replied
gaily. * And my Lord Forfar will be dragged by
the dirty hands of gaolers through the streets in
chains, as Christopher Layer was twelve years since.
Come now, be wise while there is time, and take
heart of grace to shout with me, " Down with the
Pretender ! Long live King George !" '

If beauty leads our foes, then are we undone indeed
!' laughed Gervas. (Pamela was charmed to
perceive how bright he was, and plucked up her own
spirits accordingly, with a furtive glance at Bab.)
When I'm dragged to Newgate like an Algerine
captive, will your ladyship be sufficiently interested
in my fate to deign to look upon the show ?'

I gape on traitors like an orange wench ?' cried
Mrs. Pilot. * You forget that, like sister Pam, I'm
a fine lady ; too busy with routs, drums, earthquakes,
hurlyburlies, and cards to gaze on any spectacle of
blood excepting a bear-baiting.'

Are your lives thus filled ?' Gervas inquired with

a lengthening countenance, the sight of which made
Barbara redden.

Our lives,' she laughed, * are like the lives of
others — are they not, Pamela ? We play basset or
hazard each night at four assemblies ; then sup till
three, and dance till five, and chatter till six over the
follies of tomorrow. Leave names at twenty doors ;
take a turn in the Mall to cross verbal swords with
the sparks ; send for a pretty fellow out of a chocolate-house,
coquet for half an hour in a mask, and make
the zany treat us without so much as seeing our
faces ; then to the auction to make the gallants buy
fifty costly nothings for which we've no occasion.
That is a fine lady's day — is it not, sister?'

Mrs. Belfield bit her lip, for Bab was trying to
discredit her before the punctilious Jacobite.

Speak for yourself, my dear,' she sneered. ' We
know that your inclination is as wide as a coffeehouse
door, for all the beaux who choose to frisk in
and out of it at will.'

This was a lamentable display of acidity, and
Mrs. Belfield's ire rose in that she had slipped into
the trap.

Lord Forfar's brightness had departed, and he
remarked with sad sententiousness :

Your friends, the three Miss Mostyns, spend
such a day, no doubt. A bad example.'

Not my friends — Barbara's,' Pamela hastened to
state.

VOL. II. 24

Who frequent the politest houses,' interrupted
Bab.

Having no reputations to lose, it matters not
what they do,' snapped Mrs. Belfield.

Wicked !' screamed Barbara, in extremest glee,
since my Lord Forfar elected to be glum. * Of
course we are wicked ; but you men are worse, for
having more courage than we, your sins are more
impudent. The men of the mode ! Do they not
ruffle, hector, fight, drink, blaspheme? While we,
poor cowards, can do nothing more brave than lie,
backbite, and cheat !'

Two more charming sinners ' Mr. Medlicote

began.

Nay,' cried incorrigible Bab ; * no comparisons,
please, betwixt two sisters. Remember the bad
painter who, having limned a cock, drove all the real
poultry from the neighbourhood !'

It was always thus. She monopolized all comers,
and started inopportune subjects. What had Mrs.
Belfield done that this overpowering jade should
have been foisted on her ? 'Twas a consolation
that Gervas was looking upon Mrs. Pilot with ill-concealed
disdain. His unusual cheerfulness on
entering meant something ; or did it not ? 'Twas
certain that now he had relapsed into the most
dismal dumps. A female Machiavel never lets slip a
chance of feeling the ground.

Tell me, Mr. Medlicote,' Pam tittered airily,

when my lord here and his adherents are drawn
Afterwards, what form will your triumph take ?'

None at present,' replied Ranulph, with composure,
' save joy at Sir Robert's victory, as becomes
a faithful henchman.'

A henchman I and you used to pretend to be
ambitious I Oh, how I despise a man,' sneered
pettish Pamela, ' who throughout his life is content
to carry candles and set chairs !'

'Meaning me?' laughed Ranulph. ' I have time
to wait, and am never in a hurry. For the present
my ambition is centred in devotion to a friend, his
gratitude sufficient guerdon. A cloud rests on him,
but it will pass, believe me. If not — well, although
I never could hope to soar to the level of my Lord
Forfar's self-sacrifice, I should not be surprised,
should Sir Robert fall, were I to stick to him.'

Pamela stared at the \'ice-Chamberlain, scarce
daring to believe her ears.

He hath staunch supporters,' observed Gervas,
brightening again. ' But in spite of all we've a good
chance. 'Twill be a hard tussle. In town the mob
heaves for riot ; in the country the squires have the
toast pat, '' Property and Liberty, and no Excise."
'

Without comprehending the Shibboleth,' drily
suggested Ranulph.

Never mind,' retorted Forfar, gleaming forth like
the sun between April showers. ' Believe me or not,

24—2

the job's in as fair a way as a boy to be a rogue
who's bound to an attorney.'

Absolutely a joke from the Scotchman ! Something
most unusual must be on the carpet to account
for so weird a prodigy.

Pamela felt that she must know more, or explode
then and there upon the spot. Rising with wells
languor, she slowly moved to the open
window, and stepping out on the small square of
garden, beyond which was the Park, was rapt in
contemplation of the landscape.

My Lord Forfar,' she screamed presently, * your
taste is ineffable, and you've not commended my new
teapots.'

So direct an invitation from a lady was not to be
refused.

There can be no doubt of our success,' whispered
Gervas, as he sniffed the flowers, * if our supporters
are as staunch as his.'

The female Machiavel was right, then, in guessing
there was somewhat in the wind.

'Tis ill groping in the dark and talking riddles,'
she retorted.

I will speak out, for I can trust you, and you
may prove of greatest service,' hurriedly whispered
Gervas, as she adorned his coat with a blossom.
He will be betrayed in spite of his supporters. At
a signal from me, the soldiers on whom he relies
wall turn on him. He is to be kidnapped.'

*Walpole!' whispered Pamela, scared.

'Twill be done during the riots which our agents
will foment. At a given hour 'tis essential to know
his whereabouts. There's where your help may
prove consummate. A summons as from the Queen —
anything your genius may devise. Once taken, there
will be a panic in the palace, and the royal family
will fly ; for what can they do without him ?'

As James II. did,' mused Pamela; 'and
James III. will be proclaimed.'

In reversed order, history was to repeat itself
Here was news indeed, fully sufficient to account for
jubilation, even in the plummet.

Already Mrs. Belfield beheld herself a duchess,
and saw in glittering perspective a career akin to
that of the great Sarah. How, then, would she
fling back upon his head her father's gibes ; avenge
an hundredfold the stings of Jezebel ! A dynasty
o'erturned, and she the instrument ! Something
within fluttered, and stirred, and swelled — a latent
monstrosity that took the place of heart.

'I am wholly yours — to the last gasp devoted!'
she said, in a tremulous undertone. ' Yours only !
Command.'

Ready money's sadly lacking,' mused Gervas
aloud. * Most grievous, for his bonds are as yet
hardly marketable. A thousand pounds at this
critical moment, to pay the kidnappers, would be
worth a million.'

'Alack! I've none!' replied rueful Pamela. *A
woman of quality hath so many calls.'

Who'd lend a thousand pounds would earn a
thousand thanks,' groaned Gervas. * In sooth, I've
dire need of the poor sum — a paltry thousand
pounds !'

Bab, whilst flirting with Ranulph, wondered what
the two could have to say over the teapots, with
heads so close together ; and, urged by mischief, she
skipped thitherward like unto the frolicsome foal,
accompanied by Mr. Medlicote.

'A thousand pounds!' she echoed to herself,
catching the last words. Trying to borrow of
Pamela I Sure 'twould be as wise to beg of the
shoeblack at the corner ! How wrong was the
Duchess, inveterate match-maker ! Money and not
love ! ' A thousand pounds !' she repeated unconsciously
aloud.

Gervas started, finding himself overheard, and
strove in a blundering way to avert suspicion.

We men are out at elbows sometimes,' he
laughed, ' as well as the carding ladies. King Hoyle
is seldom kind.'

This was a deliberate falsehood, and from the lips
of Gervas, the upright, who never touched a card.
Across Bab's mind there flashed a sudden vision of
the squalid Clink where, searching for Charlotte,
she had come upon the man in the blue stout.
An angel, not a lord,' had said the turnkey. Noble

fellow ! Still the secret benefactor of the hopeless,
rescuer of the despairing !

He had twitted her on that occasion with the
charge of idle curiosity. How fine a revenge was
placed in her hands now ! She, as well as he, could
keep a secret, and revel in the secrecy. He persisted
in believing the very worst of her, then, did
he ? — indulged in impertinent rebukes anent the
friends she chose to select !

If she chose to know the desire Miss Mostyns,
'twas her business. Yes. She would be splendidly
revenged by an anonymous donation of the very
sum he required. The thanks of the poor prisoners
would rise to the footstool, and she, though my
lord in his self-sufficiency knew nothing of it,
would claim a share in the incense. He wanted
money for his noble work, and craved it of Pamela,
A serpent for a fish ; a stone for a loaf. That was
all he could get from her to whom he elected to be
partial.

With an exulting glow to which her breast was
strange, Bab bethought her of the packet of bank-bills
so mysteriously left in her apartment. True to
her resolve — the more firmly kept for Honest Jack's
suggestion — she had retained the bundle intact,
hoping to find an owner. Now that her life was
changed that hope was gone.

What better employment for it than to assist this
man in his holy work without his knowing it ?

What an inward satisfaction would be hers, when
the prim look of displeasure lowered over the Scotchman's
visage, to murmur :

He thinks me a lump of self. Yet 'tis I whom
he should thank ; I, the hard and harsh, the unutterably
worldly and corrupt !'

Mrs. Pilot was so delighted with the whimsical
fancy that she seized her unwilling sister by the
waist and whirled around the room.

Fairies tripping in a magic circle,' suggested
Ranulph.

Not so !' shrieked Bab. ' Next week is Southwark
Fair, and we want practice. I vow I'd die of
spleen if baulked of Southwark Fair. Will ye join
us, my Lord Forfar ? Byron shall go, and the Mos-tens.
I'll gather such a troop as was never seen on
Bankside, and there, as Queen of Revels, will hold
high carnival.'

Still with superior strength she whisked round
panting Pamela ; then, out of breath, flung her aside
and struck a burlesque attitude.

'Yon mildewed knight!' she cried, so loud that
promenaders in the Park turned round, ' shall wear
a Whig cockade, and drink King George's health.
'Tis a bargain that we go to the fair together.
Shall it be so, my lord ? The bigot, you know,
always makes the boldest Atheist 1'

CHAPTER III.

EXCISE.

§^^^^2 HE high spirits of Gervas, and the 
^^ ^^^^ °^ ^^^^' Belfield, if a trifle premature,
^ ^J^^^S ^ were not unjustified, for Ranulph's words
were prophetic. As the spider unrolls a
web from its own bowels, so did sedition grow by
feeding on itself; and the wiser portion of the community
looked grave, for disorder is easy enough to
raise, but when tumult is in full swing no one may
guess the end.

Fond of his bantling as he was. Sir Robert reluctantly
saw that public opinion was too strong for
him in the matter of Excise. Sure of his own singleness
of purpose, he refused as long as possible to
believe that the swarm of anonymous scribblers
would succeed in stinging easy-going old John Bull
to frenzy, forgetting that when once the vulgar have
digested a suspicion, 'tis as hard to work on them
with common-sense as to hew blocks with a razor.

He knew that the free importation of the necessaries
of life would, by rendering them cheaper, reduce the
price of labour. He knew that by reducing the price
of labour, the price of home manufactures would be
decreased, and consequently — from the fact that we
could afford to undersell other countries — that the
demand for our goods in foreign markets would be
increased. No one could be more aware than he of
the short-sighted injustice of opposition to his Bill,
but he was the last statesman to struggle for the
national good at the expense of himself and his.
As things were, the fate of the House of Hanover
had come to be bound up with himself. The Dawley
junta knew that there was no hope for them but in a
general overturn. Their reigning Majesties had
resolved loyally to stand by their Minister, and it
behoved him, for their sakes as well as his own, to
stamp the young life out of the monster which
threatened to devour them all.

But 'twas a bitter pill Sir Robert was called upon
to swallow ! How was he, having gone so far, to
back out gracefully without loss of prestige ? Agitation
was becoming fiercer every hour. The scene at
Drury Lane had showed the direction of a steady
adverse wind, and the friends of Government perceived
that but for the Diva's presence of mind, the
Queen herself might have been publicly insulted, the
match set to the powder-barrel which would have
blown them all into space.

Although the Bill had been finessed through the
first stage, it could never become law. Obedient to
Bohngbroke's paid host, who concealed their insignificance
under incognito, and yet made their way
by dint of numbers, the country became mad-drunk.
Pamphleteers, ' like so many screaming grasshoppers
held by the wings, shrilled every ear with noise."
On all sides the wildest opposition was raised by
those to whom agitation is a business ; and there
was no standing against the flood of petitions which
poured in from all large towns. The unpatriotic
Minister whose degraded brain could invent such a
horror as ' Excise ' was branded by the foulest
epithets, the bitterest invective ; and my Lord
Scarboro', speaking to the King of what passed
without, bluntly said, ' I'll answer for my regiment
against the Pretender, sir, but not against the opponents
of " Excise !" '

Hence it was plain that the hot cinder must be
dropped with as little finger-burning as might be.
Walpole's bull-dog spirit for an instant was disheartened.


The floor's too slippery. I cannot stand on it,'
he said mournfully to the Queen, who replied :

Decide what is right and wise. We know that
all the bustle springs from private enmity. Settle,
and we obey. If wrong or premature we ought
honestly to own it ; for 'tis only to admit that weare
wiser at night than in the morning.'

The calm devotion of the Queen was touching, for
the poor soul was sadly worried. The King's fitful
explosions of humour fell as usual in the first instance
upon her, and 'twas hard to have two crosses to
carry — one placed upon her back by a husband, the
other by a son. For Frederick, Prince of Wales,
who for a while had been quiescent, seized the
moment of tribulation at St. James's to trot forth
and become actively obnoxious. He laboured
under the delusion that his own popularity had
outlived that of his parents ; that if they were
overset he might usurp their shoes — an absurd
idea which was fostered by Bolingbroke whilst
laughing in his sleeve, for no engine might be
despised whereby stones might be flung at the arch
foe.

The coal could not be dropped, but must be laid
down gently, Walpole prudently decided. The
many-headed becomes insolent and unmanageable
when it discovers that it is feared. To put the tail
between the legs and run away would only set the
pursuing curs howling louder than ever, since the
thing Britons despise above all else is cowardice.
The City of London was to present a petition,
among a host of others, praying to be heard against
the Bill ; so extraordinary and unusual a demand —
contrary, indeed, to all rules and orders of the House
that it could not be dropped at once, lest the
merchants, aldermen, vintners, what not, might be

possessed by the unfortunate notion that they only
had to arrive in a stream of coaches to coerce
Parliament to their bidding. Others besides the
City worthies supposed as much, for during the
progress of negotiations the purlieus of Westminster
were a constant scene of turbulence, the lobbies and
adjacent open spaces in almost undisputed possession
of King Mob. Early in the struggle the
01 TToWol had come down to threaten members ; and
finding unstemmed riot with its perquisites more
amusing and profitable than commonplace labour,
formed themselves into camps and dwelt therein
like squatters.

Although loyal to the Minister and calm to the
outer world, their Majesties suffered anguish within
closed doors. Little George snapped alternately at
wife and mistress both by day and night, till both
wished themselves well buried. Like many better
people he deceived himself, imagining that he was
very stout and absolute because the two patient
Griseldas pretended to admire and never contradicted
him ; whereas he was as much led by the
nose as the meekest spouse, and was, with all his
personal bravery, as arrant a political coward as
ever wore a crown, and as much afraid of losing it.
Much as he loved Hanover, and little as the
English or their country delighted him, a surreptitious
packing of trunks and departure in the dead
of night was not a pleasing prospect, and what

Gervas and the Dawley junta had hoped for appeared
likely to come to pass.

Walpole's policy, as we have seen, had always
been of the Caesar or nothing kind. No sooner did
a friend show signs of soaring, than he was instantly
ejected from office. Pulteney seemed like to be
revenged, for the rats were running away from the
labouring vessel ere it should settle down under the
billows. Many who had received benefits chose this
moment to desert their chief. Mutiny and disaffection
showed their heads, and, as Ranulph told the
Queen at her toilet, Bolingbroke's party at St.
James's was more numerous and active than at
Dawley.

Who so charmed at the way things were going as
Mrs. Pamela ? How wise, how prudent she had
been ! The star of Gervas was in the ascendant,
and she was binding him to her side with hoops of
steel. On the question of the City petition —
whether it should or should not be considered in
Parliament — Gervas had spoken, and spoken welland
the Government majority was so small as to be
equivalent to defeat.

Prudent as she deemed herself, she could not conceal
her exultation, posed as a Queen of the lists
delivering the wreath of victory ; whereat Bab's
laughter was so loudly ribald that, stung into incaution,
the woman of the bedchamber made
sundry admissions which quickly reduced Barbara

to gravity. That Mrs. Pamela should flirt with the
interesting Jacobite and gabble in corners about the
Guy Fawkes effigy was one thing, but that she
should seriously conspire with him for the destruction
of the Whigs was quite another, and she all the
while in the Queen's service, fed by the royal hand !

Mrs. Pilot held a low opinion of Mrs. Belfield's
character ; but that she should turn out to be so mean
as this was painful, for after all she was the child of
the same father. Lord Forfar's attitude was fraught
with dignity, and Bab liked him all the better for it :
he was independent and consistent, bent on succouring
the weak ; but that he should elect to pour his
confessions and views and confidences into the lap
of such a double-faced thing as Mrs. Belfield was
deplorable.

Mrs. Pilot was assailed by sharp twinges of
anger in that one so worthy should be so little a
man of the world ; should be so lamentably deficient
in judgment. What should she do under the cir-
cumstances—in her lately assumed role of champion
little Whig ? Denounce her sister to the Queen, to
Walpole ? Not till less desperate measures had
been tried. She would argue with Pamela ; if need
were, implore Lord Belvedere to intervene — to insist
that at least she should resign her post and unfurl
her banner openly. To a generous mind a snake in
the grass is the most despicable of objects. Alack !
Neither lady displayed genius for conspiracy. That

Pamela could not keep her triumph to herself was sad
in so sharp a female.

That Bab should suppose for a moment that
words of hers could have any effect save the opposite
of that intended, 'tis woeful to her chronicler to confess.
Bab spoke her mind with the airs of an elder
sister, and Pam retorted with bile. There was a
terrible rumpus between the ladies, which almost
led to that breaking of furniture that her Grace had
so eagerly anticipated ; and when my lord was
summoned to intervene, he turned the vials of his
wrath in equal measure upon both.

What have women to do with politics ?' he
inquired testily. * Why cannot they confine themselves
to tea-table tittle-tattle, beaux and furbelows ?'

That Bab should have found favour in the eyes of
Majesty was good ; that the First Minister should
display such unwavering partiality was excellent
from a social point of view ; but that she should
occupy her pretty head with Excise was preposterous
and grotesque.

'Twas all over the chocolate-houses that she had
stood in her chair with the top raised t'other day at
the entrance to St. Stephen's, offering a kiss to
members as they passed if they would promise to
vote with Sir Robert. Duchesses, of course, may
do anything ; for their rank is as good a cover as
charity.

Lord Belvedere declined to believe that a daughter

of his, who in some things had shown herself to be
clever, could have been capable of such an act — her
position being anomalous and demanding tact and
caution — but there was no smoke without fire, as all
the world knew, and she must have been guilty of
something foolish. But whatever that might have
been, it could not equal the inconceivable folly of
Pamela. Step his vitals ! her papa would like to
apply his clouded cane to her thin shoulders. Could
she not find a better pretend than that friendless and
penniless Scotch pauper ? Even if t'other side came
in, was not the ingratitude of the House of Stuart
notorious ?

The Pretender would rouse himself, possibly, from
a chronic state of drink to mumble thanks ; but he
would not be lavish of coin, and without coin of what
use are honours ? Sure he and his had painful experience
of that — odswind and thunder ! At all events,
she had no business to coquet with /\pollyon so
openly until 'twas clear that the angels were in flight.

To Pamela her papa's tirade was inflammatory
instead of soothing. To be lectured in this blunt
style before scornful Jezebel, the domineering elder
sister ! It was true about those kisses — so like a
trollop ! Though, as the embraces of actresses are
to be bought for sixpence, 'twas like the impudence
of a hardened hussy to offer her cheap favours as a
bribe ! As to the Scottish pauper, he was not so
friendless as my lord supposed. Only t'other day

VOL. II. 25

he was praying for a thousand pounds to emulate
Bluestring's tactics for the benefit of the Cause, and
lo ! the desired sum in handbills had dropped like
manna from the sky. Who would dare say after
that that the Cause was not a holy one ?

To listen to Pamela prating about holiness
would at any other moment have stirred the latent
humour in Bab's nature ; but her heart tightened,
and a throbbing spasm choked her utterance.

Could this be true — so unwisely divulged ? Under
the impression that Lord Forfar required the sum
he named for his benevolent labours in Southwark,
she had sent him the mysterious packet by a secret
hand. And all the while 'twas sinews of war that he
required to undermine her champion !

Why had she not guessed it — she who was so
fond of advising ? An ignominious feeling of folly
surged up, which was bitter to endure. In the first
moment of distress she almost resolved to take
papa's advice, and leave politics to wiser heads.
But then, if she had unwittingly done Sir Robert
such a wrong, was it not her duty to fight for him
all the harder ?

When next she visited the palace she sought the
advice of Medlicote, told him of Gervas and Pamela,
and in return for the stab thus inflicted upon the
amour propre of that young gentleman, received herself
another wound, which set her reeling.

'Twas Sir Robert himself who had deposited the

bills under the china centrepiece, and now they had
been used against him ! By the light of Ranulph's
hint she saw it all. The bills formed part of the
annual bribe to his Grace of Bolton ; but Walpole,
knowing his protegee's extravagance, and pained by
the brutal speech of his secretary about the debtor's
prison, had impulsively bestowed them upon
Bab ! And with such unusual delicacy ; while she
had supposed it was only another item in the long
list of Byron's insults !

Mrs. Pilot groaned in spirit. Well, what was
done could not be undone, for now her means were
straitened. But she must strain every nerve and
muscle to assist her benefactor in this his moment
of extremity.

In the palace all were dejected enough. The
Princesses Mary and Louisa, depressed by the
general gloom, went through their fan exercise with
apathy. Bubbling merriment ceased to echo in the
ante-chambers. The never-ceasing clatter of the
King's wooden heels upon the parquet as he paced
and fidgeted wrung the Queen's nerves, till, able to
bear no more, she took to her bed and buried her
head in the pillows. And yet ignorance of what
passed without was torture.

From time to time knots of rioters ran down the
street, and bearding the sentries as they turned the
corner, yelled, ' Liberty, and no Excise !' At night
the glare of flames glittered through the glass upon

25 — 2

the walls of the royal chamber, as the mob danced
with obscene chorus round two burning effigies — a
fat man and a fat woman — Sir Robert and her
gracious Majesty.

How would this end ? Opposition, feeling its
strength, was disinclined to be generous. When
was St. John generous ? By a dozen deft manoeuvres
he fanned the seething populace, urging them to
terrorize the Court by their excesses, while Gervas
and Pulteney and Chesterfield thundered in Parliament,
rending the obnoxious measure. Copies of
the Craftsman were found under the Queen's plate,
in her escritoire, even within the harpsichord whereon
she tinkled, striving after oblivion of the present.
Who was the cruel wretch who could be so pitiless ?
Bab knew who it was, but held her peace. So long
as Pamela's darts were no better feathered she
would not betray her sister. Appetite comes with
eating. Undiscovered, unpunished, she would grow
more bold. What would the next move be ? How
soon would it be necessary to unmask her ? It
behoved Bab to watch and wait.

Pamela, though her home was within a stone's
throw, slept now at the palace, for the Queen's
anxiety grew more oppressive hour by hour, and the
mob had begun to amuse itself by wrecking well-appointed
chairs. Her Majesty would have her
Vice-Chamberlain rung for at all hours of the night,
and keep him talking on one side of the door, which

opened just upon her bed, while she conversed on
the other, asking a thousand questions as to what he
thought, feared, hoped ; as to what Sir Robert had
said last ; and Pamela, listening, faithfully reported
the budget.

Walpole seemed to have lost faith in himself —
ominous sign ! — for he sat, so Ranulph told the
Queen, for an hour at a time motionless, hat pulled
over eyes — he who used to be so genial and so
buoyant !

We must sound the retreat,' he had instructed
his henchman to explain, ' and retire in good order
by means of a postponement ; then amuse the public
mind with a royal marriage. The mob love a show.
The fanfares, and trumpet-blowing, and pageantry
will divert the fickle public from the unfortunate
Bill ; we will have the troops out and coerce
the populace, and all will be charming well
again.'

So these were his tactics ? It must be the business
of the Dawley junta to prevent the orderly retreat by
an attack upon the commanding officer. The mob
must be further inflamed by being informed about
the soldiery. The weapon of the people was to be
turned against themselves ? A pretty thing ! Were
Britons to be enslaved ? Who had been right about
the standing army ? So long as Walpole reigned,
Liberty was indeed in peril. His classic lore suggested
to the bedizened pedant the act of Constantine

at Verona as worthy of imitation. The great
Emperor — refinement of severity — took from the
vanquished soldiers' hands their swords, and had
them converted into fetters for the binding of their
limbs in slavery. So should it be with Bluestring's
Bill. His pet scheme, which now he would fain
throw aside, should be fastened like a stone about
his neck — to drown him.

When Barbara drew the attention of Medlicote
to the behaviour of his flame, his vanity was
mortified. Of course there are as good fish to be
found in the sea as ever came out of it, and Mrs.
Belfield at best was not a prize one. Some day,
he had carelessly reflected, it might suit him to
take home the worldling as a useful piece of furniture,
or select another of the same species. There
was no hurry about it. But suddenly to find a
rival preferred put a different face on the matter;
one, too, who was by no means remarkable, orwell
set-off by the adornments of false hair or wired
coat-skirts.

Such a proceeding puts a man upon his mettle, and
Ranulph began seriously to consider what he ought
to do. Pamela would suit him, of that he was quite
certain ; yet she was not worth a violent struggle.
But to think of the penniless Scotch dreamer being
placed in the esteem of any woman before Ranulph
Medlicote, Esq. !

This rankled, and the Vice-Chamberlain had half

a mind to lay serious siege to the bedchamber-woman,
if only to oust the presumptuous Forfar. Or would
it be better at once to resign the prize with a bow
and congratulations ? If he chose to put forth his
strength, Ranulph had no doubt of success ; but was
it really worth while, except for the punishment of
the Jacobite, to put forth strength at all ?

All things considered, Mr. Medlicote resolved for
the present to be cold and reserved ; for women are
shifty things, and the difficulties of the moment were
sufficiently grave to demand undivided attention.
Yes, women, save as ornaments, are unsatisfactory
creations, Ranulph assured himself. Look at this
very Barbara, this sprig of quality, whom folks chose
to consider charming ! She was a strange mixture,
not improved by her new social status. Fancy any
man in his senses marrying such a girl !

Ranulph laughed aloud at the very idea. Not but
what she was decorative, and would look well arrayed
in jewels. But what a cypher must her husband be !
If ever woman needed control she did, too fond as
she clearly was of cards and improper excitement.
What a tawdry set of friends she had gathered round
her since she left the stage ! A crew of desires and
fops and gamblers ! She was cut-out for the luridly
brilliant career of a stage-player. 'Twas a pity to
have taken her into the uncongenial atmosphere of
polite private life at all, for she showed signs of wuthering
Herod. The role of such a woman, he sagely

reflected, is to shine and glitter, to be the central
figure in a brilliant entourage, where public men like
Walpole and himself could find temporary surcease
from humdrum worries. Placed as she now was,
she could not shine, and, despite beauty and talents,
might very probably join the lengthy procession of
ladies who are labelled /^;;w;^^s marquess.

This was Medhcote's deliberate opinion with
regard to Mrs. Pilot, and he was not stupid. It
was also the opinion of many others, who therein
wronged the Diva.

No doubt many women — and many men too — are
unable to appear at their best, except in a peculiar
setting. Barbara knew too well that in all respects
she was unsuited to the present phase of her existence.
It is nonsense to say that a woman can stand alone.
When she attempts to do so she invariably becomes
objectionable — a lusus naUirce, who should be placed
in a glass case as an ugly curiosity.

'Twas not strength of character that Bab required,
for whatever she attempted was attacked with vigour
and determination. And yet from the first she had
pined for a support that was never forthcoming. As
the female parent had proved a broken reed, so had
the male one. In dreaming of an ideal father (so
ideal a mother under her gaze), she had always
seen a man, upright, stalwart, noble-browed ; and
'twas a grievous deception to discover in the newly
found one a pantaloon, who wished the world to

suppose his mind engrossed with hair-powder and
velvet.

'Twas no satisfaction to be told by partial friends
that under paint and periwig there was an intellect.
If there, it was of no use to her. She had never
seen any of its flashes, and having naught to rest
eyes on but the paint and the periwig, may be
excused for disbelieving the partial ones. Hence
she was thrown back upon herself — most dangerous
condition for a flattered woman — without the assistance
which before had served in some sort as ballast.
No more wreaths, and plaudits, and engrossing daily
occupation. No more struggling (in futile fashion,
as she too well knew) to embody the creations of the
poets. No more carping with Gibber, or lectures
from Wilks. Look at it from whatever side she
would, her Hfe was unutterably dreary, and bade fair
soon to be intolerable. There was no blinking the
unwelcome fact that home in the Belfield menage
meant existence in a whited sepulchre with untimely
bones to play with.

As a toy-shop wench she had ardently desired to
be a fine lady. Her desire was gratified. But fine-lady's
meant for her a purse generally empty,
sordid shifts and turns from which her soul recoiled.

All this had vaguely come home to her some time
since, and she had resolved, as we have seen, to
seek refuge in politics. But even here untoward
Fate pursued. Politicians, particularly old ones,

dearly love a kind of Portia Hepatic — a very pretty
and sparkling counsellor, who lays down the law
and disentangles knots in a trice which puzzle a
whole cabinet of wiseacres.

There is something delicious in artless feminine
assurance. When stately Helen appeared at the gate
before Priam and his greybeards, did they not all
agree that for the sweet sake of so lovely a vision
they were prepared to endure to the uttermost ?

Now, much as Bab loved dominion, she could
not bring herself to prattle wisdom to old men while
they sat leering at her. Politics demand an apprenticeship
; for to a neophyte they are made of the
mean and the mesqtcin.

In the House, old men, of gentle birth, reputed
wise, descend to the vulgares of personality and
backbiting ; quibble over contemptible trifles till perspiration
runs down their faces ; abuse each other
under cover of language which they are pleased to
call Parliamentary courtesy, in such fashion as
among ignorant schoolboys would very properly produce
troubling and fisticuffs.

If the stage and its surroundings appeared low to
Bab, the amenities of St. Stephen's were scarcely
more dignified ; and while with startled eyes she
perceived the exceeding smallness of ' great men,'
she wondered where, in its Godlike form, human
nature might be found.

It would not do, she told herself in dismay, to see

so plainly the littleness of this world of ours. We
must needs make the best of it, but the process
grows more difficult as disillusion follows disillusion ;
as one by one our garments are taken from us, and
we stand naked, shivering.

Leering greybeards, who behaved no better than
schoolboys, were altogether distasteful to unsophisticated
Bab. Lord Forfar was impossible — a
natural enemy. Her only sheet-anchor was Walpole.
'Twixt herself and Sir Robert there was a 
feeling — result of years— which came
to her as an only solace. Striving to forget herself
in him, she chattered of affairs, and discussed the
ins and outs of the difficult question of Excise.

The faithful henchman, Medlicote, frequently was
of the party when grave matters were under discussion,
and, studying her loveliness, suggested
one morning that, if she chose, she might become a
genuinely useful ally instead of a pretty talker.
With time and skill the resentment even of a
Pulteney might be disarmed by beauty. An intriguing
political Delilah ! Her face fell, and her pride
tingled. Perhaps Mr. Ranulph would wish her to
make love to Bolingbroke, the bedizened Iscariot?

Here again did the falseness of her position
obtrude itself. Wedded to a man of mark, she might
have bloomed into a political divinity; have queened
it in her salon over a crowd in stars and ribbons ; have
done good work for the Whigs in capacity of highborn

siren. But as an ex-actress, illegitimate child
of Fop Belvedere, sister of Mrs. Belfield — no, the
task was too difficult.

Unable to soar, she must be content with trivial
things. Such small efforts as she was fitted for she
would make in aid of Walpole. Their pigmy proportions
were harrowing to a proud and lofty soul.
Hence was it that out of sheer bitterness of spirit
she took refuge in cards and routs, and the whirl of
modish dissipation.

The occult power of beauty is mighty fine as
exerted over knights in the lists. With the rabble
'tis not precisely the same ; and my Lord Belvedere
had occasion again to rebuke his offspring.

Resolved to sally out one afternoon in the direction
of Westminster with the intention of addressing
certain mob-leaders on the vexed question of the
hour, Mrs. Pilot arrayed herself in a bewitching
costume and ordered her booby-hutch — a neatly
turned-out vehicle, which was Byron's last gift ere
she became a ' sprig.'

But she was no sooner on the ground than the
advanced guard of the malcontents, perceiving
the Whig colours fluttering from horses and postilion,
made a roaring rush and demolished the
pony-chaise, placing its owner in some little
peril. This was disconcerting and offensive.

Cimon and Iphigenia, forsooth!' she muttered,
while gazing on the ruin. ' Like most other legends,

'tis a cheat. The brazen creature, we know, had
nothing on. Had she worn a sacque of the Whig
colours, for instance, much conquest she would
have made of Cimon !'

Alas ! In no sense of the word, as she plainly
told herself, was the erst too victorious Barbara
a trump card now. The slanderers were not at
ease, as in the jolly days when they could hover and
swear and spit unchecked about the staircase of the
Lock of Hair.

Then 'twas understood that she was the one unchallenged
idol on the premises, before whose altar
worshippers might deposit anything, secure of smiles.
Now it was otherwise. The possible advent of perfumed
my lord was discomfiting ; the whisking of
the Honourable Pamela more so. Besides, it becomes
fine-lady's to cultivate fine ladies.

Ranulph was right about Bab's friends. The
female ones were past-mistresses of the college of
scandal and modish wickedness, whose pointed
raillery disconcerted those gentlemen who were
there to adore the one.

The three Miss Mostyns, for example, to whom
prim Gervas took such exception, were fop-scramble
by profession, who laughed at everything
honest as nauseous cant ; who, true to their colours
of bubble, juggle, and chicane, wore vizards as commonly
as gloves ; made up for the night in masks of
oilskin, larded with cat-marrow, hare's gall and

ground hogs' bones ; were too fond of substituting
for the Chinese leaf at the tea-table aniseed, cinnamon,
Barbadoes water, and orange brandy. Not
good friends, these, for a girl in a difficult position !

In quiet moments her reflections being of
a grim order, the troublous days that passed
during the Excise suspense came in guise of a
relief.

Bab saw the possibility of playing mouse to Walpole's
lion, and burned for an early chance of displaying
her usefulness. On both sides champions
were wary, eying each other's motions with drawn
sabres.

Having accurately taken the measure of a dear
sister, and being on the qui vive, she thought it
rather odd when, one day at the palace, the Honourable
Pamela was good enough to be affectionate.

Since she, Pamela, that gushing maiden said,
was compelled by a never-too-much-to-be-regretted
slavery to lodge in the palace, why did not dear
Barbara soften evening solitude by giving little
parties ? 'Twould amuse my lord, their father, who,
odsheartikins, regretted youth and bachelorhood.
Not the Mostyns, nor Byron, nor that nasty old
satyr, Mr. Ambassador Hastang. Naughty Barbara,
to cultivate such comrades ! Something more
serious and decorous, calculated to entertain the
better part of my lord, their parent. Alack-a-day !
she, Pamela, was unfortunate in being attached

to the wrong side. Her friends did not find favour
with papa ; but Barbara's would. Why not — happy
idea — give Httle suppers after the House was up ?
Walpole and that brainless importunate coxcomb
Medhcote were friends of Barbara's and of her
papa. Of course the poor bedchamber drudge would
have no part in the pleasant gatherings, but in the
midst of drudgery 'twould be too delicious for Pam
to reflect upon the happy lot of others.

Barbara, although suspicious and awake, seeing
no harm, innocently and promptly adopted the idea,
marvelling the while what Pamela's motive could be.
The more she revolved the suggestion the more
mystified did she become. That Mrs. Belfield was
the last maiden in the world weakly to succumb to
paltry good-nature she knew. What could be her
object ? 'Twas worth studying.

Meanwhile the wretched Walpole did need
sympathy. Soon 'twould be imperatively needful
to call out the military for his own personal defence.
Going in and out of the House he was hustled,
hissed, hooted, spit upon ; was forced sometimes to
escape through my Lord Halifax's lodgings.

Opposition, warned of his intent, declined to allow
the obnoxious Bill quietly to be dropped. No ! They
vowed so wicked an attack on British liberties ought
to be stigmatized by every possible mark of emphatic
opprobrium — its evil-minded pioneer to be well
pummelled.

There was to be a demonstration in Parliament
and out — the nose of the base Minister was to be
rubbed in the dirt-pie that he had made. He would
be sore harassed, have much to bear.

Bab, seeking in vain for a harmful motive on her
sister's part, adopted her suggestion. The ordeal of
the fateful night well over, he and his tiny knot of
faithful ones were to be entertained at supper by
their ' little Whig.'

My Lord Belvedere, wily as usual, did not disapprove.
He would absent himself. If all went well he
would point to the fact of the entertainment having
taken place at his house; if ill, he would swear he knew
nothing of it, or why not have been there himself?

Bolingbroke had taken his measures craftily.
Though the fate of Excise was practically sealed, there
was more howling at the funeral than at the birth.
Lobbies, Court of Requests, open spaces, coigns of
vantage, were crowded by a yelling rabble in his pay ;
and Walpole, as, with hat unloosed and roquelaure
draped over nose and chin, he slunk into St.
Stephen's, accompanied by Crump, muttered that
so intimidating an element at the very threshold of
the House was more destructive to the independence
of the Commons than any corrupt pecuniary court
influence which he had ever brought to bear.

Westminster Hall resembled Drury, for Whigs
and Tories had gathered their forces there, and the
knights of the shoulder-knot, with sturdy calves and

brawny shoulders, were as threatening and unruly as
they had ever been on the first representation of a
comedy.

My Lord Bolingbroke was severely blamed for
fomenting a scandal within the venerable precincts ;
'twas just like his malice, Members said, to fling
mud into the temple whose doors were closed to
him. Not that the footmen's turbulence would have
proved serious but for after-consequences. True,
they used their silver-tipped staves with good effect,
and set much honest claret running ; but phlebotomy
is useful oftentimes for the purging of humours.
They hustled the members of rival sides, protected
their masters' friends, heartily banged each other's
sconces for several hours; then moved to the two
mug-houses opposite, to spend each man the crown
he had earned in such toasts as he deemed appropriate.


Now one of these mug-houses over against St.
Stephen's bore the sign of the Walpole's Head ; and
to it on the memorable evening that was to see the
final struggle moved a goodly deputation from the
Loyal Society of the Roebuck, whose headquarters,
as all the world knows, is in Cheapside. Even the
roughest and bluntest Britons love fair play, and Mr.
Crump, resolved that the Dawley party should not
have disorder to themselves, sent down to the Roebuck
to complain of browbeating.

The Jacobites, he declared, were bent on destroy-vol.

II. 26

ing the Protestant Succession, and condemning a
devoted metropolis to the use of wooden shoes. His
patron, he averred, had abandoned Excise — there
vas no question of it any more. Having bowed to
popular will, would they, loyal Protestants, see him
gagged and maltreated by a set of malignant
Torquemada ?

The Loyal Society answered the appeal with three
cheers, and sallied out in force for the scene of
action with the emblems and effigies which they
kept always ready — namely, the Pope, the Pretender,
and the Devil, done to the life in straw ; and a
warming-pan and a sucking-bottle to boot, dangling
as standard from a pole.

On their way they made a raid on grocers' shops
for links, and by the time they reached Westminster
presented the formidable aspect of a fiery snake.

My Lord Bolingbroke intended to coerce the
Ministry? Oh, indeed ! Protestants could demonstrate
quite as well as he. In front of the Walpole's
Head they would burn their effigies, and if loyal its
did not provide beer and gin for those who danced
around, England was no longer what she was.

But the Anti-Excise party, perceiving the fiery
line vv^ith its three wagging figure-heads, determined
not to be outdone. Outside the other mug-house on
t'other side o' the road they would burn their figures
the fat man and the fat woman — with quite as
loud huzzahs ; and the swarming mob within the

precincts of the yard, hearing of the rival armies,
poured forth in force to take part in the fun. Bricks
and stones flew like hail, and the sight of many lying
bleeding on the pavement roused the spirit of the
rest to serious warfare.

Mr. Crump, who gazed out of a window, began
to wonder whether he had been right. 'Twas certainly
outrageous that the Dawleyites should have
it their own way. If his patron was compelled to
eat humble pie within-doors, 'twas well that his
party should be victorious without; and Honest
Jack was pleased to perceive that the Loyal Society
were in force, and likely to gain the mastery.

As he looked, the rolling snowball increased and
gathered till he wist not which party was the
stronger ; for, verily, from the slums of Tothillfields
and Waterside there flocked, like vultures to the
carcase, a horde of the ragged and unwashed, who
cared only for mischief and drink and booty.

There was a muster of dissolute Bridewell
prentices, and a gang of weavers from Smithfield,
who for some time had been wanted by the justices
for flinging pernicious fluids at wearers of foreign
silk.

Then there arose as from the earth a posse of discharged
sailors, armed with short bludgeons ; and
soon after — ill news spreads fast — a contingent of
butchers from St. James's Market, who long had
been the natural foes of the valets and footmen of

26 — 2

that quarter. Elements of a very pretty disturbance,
in good sooth ; beholding which, Honest Jack was
filled with satisfaction. For with such a boiling of
the caldron in the open air, Members on both sides
would be cowed, and anxious to adjourn the
sitting.

But, as he looked, satisfaction changed to curses.
Maladroit marplot ! why interfere? Sure it mattered
not how many of such pates were broken, and the
diversion so artfully caused would be most salutary.
But some blundering magistrate must needs meddle
was standing on a horseback reading the Riot
Act. Well done ! over he tumbled, heels in air, and
the human waters covered him. Bungling fool and
idiot, serve him right if he were crushed !

Out came the footmen from either mug-house —
swarm of parti-coloured bees — and the melee became
general, surging in and out, up the intervening street
and back. A nimble Bridewell lad was up the post.
Down toppled Walpole's head.

That was bad ! But the Loyal Society would
avenge the insult. Yes. A spark, a sheet of flame
the Pope, the Pretender, and the Devil were burning
bravely ; but, alack ! so also were the fat man
and woman. The image of her gracious Majesty,
indeed, spluttered with a salvo of crackers, which
called forth a ringing cheer.

Suddenly the wheeling circles wavered and fell
back — for an instant. The space about the twin

fires was bare. Something must be coming down
the narrow street invisible to the spectator at the
window.

Ah ! the long white leggings and tall caps adorned
with the horse of Hanover! An ensign and a
hundred men of the 3rd Regiment of Footpads.
What a pity ! Whatever befell, the odium of calling
out the military would fall on Walpole ; and the
sight of the white cross-belts and gaiters was sure to
exasperate the populace.

The sailors, reckless, storm-beaten fellows, were
the first to rally; then, with loud acclaim and a
shower of missiles, butchers and footmen, forgetting
private feud, made common cause against the
soldiers. Pope, Pretender, Devil, fat man and
woman were forgot, and, only half-consumed, were
trampled under foot, the fires scattered. Bayonets
glittered in the yellow torchlight ; the ensign was
seen to bare his head and gesticulate. Then came a
shower of mud and stones ; soldiers and sailors
closed and locked, swayed to and fro. The first
row of tall hats garnished with the pale horse broke
their line, mingled with the blue-coats, and went
down. The second advanced at a trot. A puff of
smoke — a rattle of musketry ! Good heavens, how
rash ! They had fired on the people !

Mr. Crump rushed down the stairs in a fluster,
and across the open to St. Stephen's.

The street and alleys were cleared. The sailors,

with a low growl like the beating of their own salt
sea, fell, chafing, back.

For God's sake, fire no more !' cried Crump,
panting, as he ran past.

The tall-hats formed in square and stood at ease.
.Three men were lying dead ; a dozen, or more, were
writhing in their blood. The mob looked one at
another, irresolute, but fierce ; and with the sailors,
who had led the fray, withdrew slowly, bearing their
wounded within the barrier which protected the
entrance to the House.

'Twas a grievous misadventure. If only the
rioters had been left to settle their differences all
would have been well. As his secretary ascended
the stair Sir Robert and his party were descending,
and Crump, explaining rapidly what had chanced,
implored his patron to depart some other way. But
Walpole was at bay.

'What!' he cried, with indignation, to his son
Edward and Medlicote, who walked on either side.
There hath been too much of flight. If I run away
they'll think me guilty of this deplorable mistake —
I, who knew nought of it. Forward, gentlemen I
stick close.'

A small negro boy, with glittering eyes and flashing
teeth, sped across the open, and up the stairs,
and, breathless, handed to MedHcote a billet.

Strange !' he muttered, glancing over the
contents. * From Mrs. Pilot ! 'Tis well. Behind

us, child, or though be swept out of existence.'


As Crump feared, the sight of Sir Robert roused
the mob to madness. The soldiery being at a safe
distance, their weltering victims called for vengeance.
With a wild yell of execration they dashed across
the marble lobby and made for the Minister ; but
both friends and political foes formed a cohort
around him, while a body of forty or fifty constables
in red waistcoats, emerging from the House, battled
to form a lane.

Lord Forfar, dropping for once his melancholy
calm, stood forth with Pultene}' and strove to
appease the press. Whatever their plans might
be with regard to Walpole, they had no desire to
see him murdered. Mr. Crump's broad shoulders
stood him in good stead as he and Ranulph, forgetful
of his smart clothes, drew their swords and
moved down in front of their patron.

Some blew out the lamps. What a jostling and
struggling in the dark narrow stairwell ! Would
none warn the soldiery without of the tragedy that
was passing within earshot ?

Keep your feet, gentlemen !' cried Walpole,
above the din, ' for he v/ho falls will never rise again.'

The click of swords, the thud of sticks and staves
formed fit accompaniment to the hard-breathing,
the hissing of oaths and execrations through set
teeth. Some miscreant behind, taking his hint,

strove to trip Sir Robert, who, being bulky, would
have faired ill indeed had not his son and General
Churchill held him erect. Another, seizing his red
roquelaure, strove to strangle him ; but luckily the
strings broke, and the gurgling Minister for the time
was saved.

The scuffle lasted but a moment, for the soldiers,
so soon as they were aware of what passed, advanced
at the double with fixed bayonets, and the avenging
flood, attacked in front and rear, parted like water,
melted and ebbed away.

Edward Walpole, Crump, and Ranulph, supporting
Sir Robert, who, unused to personal violence,
was purple in the face and could scarce stand,
hurried him away, and finding a coach, got
into it.

To St. James's,' Ranulph said. ' Your pay
according to your speed.'

But Sir Robert, as soon as he could speak,
gasped :

Not so ! We are engaged to Bab. My wig's
in ribbons and so's my coat ; I've lost my watch and
my star — happily 'twas a steel and not my diamond
one. The danger's past ; methinks we've earned our
supper.'

While seeming unfortunate, luck favours us,'
responded Ranulph. ' See ! another minute and
I should have missed this note, which appears of
gravest import.'

By light of passing lamps he read aloud :

'' Most urgent. Avoid our street as ye would
jail-fever. Supper in your chambers. — Bab." '

Whatever can she mean, the madcap !' pondered
Sir Robert, as bareskulled he examined his wrecked
periwig. ' " Most urgent " ! Hath the night yet other
surprises in store ? Well, we shall soon know.'
With which sapient conclusion the exhausted
Minister lay back in the coach, feeling his injured
throat and marvelling exceedingly.

Without further mishap the party reached the
palace, and, having determined that their Majesties
must be told nothing till the morrow, or they would
ask a thousand questions and chatter till sunrise,
stole quietly in by the side postern, of which
Ranulph held a key, and which communicated
directly with his apartments.

A-tiptoe, like burglars, they reached the chambers
of the Vice-Chamberlain, at the foot of the Queen's
private stair. Oh, charming audacity ! On entering
they found all the candles alight, and the board
spread with flowers and appetizing delicacies, while
Mrs. Pilot, clad in the sweetest waiting-wench's
garb, tripped hither and thither arranging knives and
platters.

The aspect of the banquet and the comely array
of right claret in cut decanters smoothed the last
wrinkles of Sir Robert's anxiety.

What is this prank of our little Whig's ?' he

cried, rubbing his palms cheerily. ' Mrs. Clive
would die of envy if she saw that chambermaid's
attire. I vow I'm hungry as a bum bailiff !'

Then all hath gone well ?' inquired Bab. * I borrowed
my dress of my own woman, who hath a
tendre for your man, Mr. Medlicote, and procured
us entrance without trouble through yonder private
passage in the postern. There's method in this
masquerading. At every crack of this old woodwork
my heart has been in my mouth for your sake — but,
good lack ! A posse of ragamuffins ! Blood !
Mr. Medlicote, you are hurt ? What hath befallen
?'

Ranulph, in truth, had received a nasty cut in the
dark scrimmage, which, though not dangerous, bled
freely ; and Mr. Crump ground his teeth with envy
when he contemplated the solicitude of Barbara as
with light woman's fingers she staunched and tied
it up.

Oh ! to feel those fingers upon his breast ; to
mark the transient paleness ; the breath quickened
on his account through those parted cherry lips !
How gladly would he have endured a far more
serious wound to be thus tended ! Concerning
him and how he had fared she never asked. His
clothes were in tatters, though his skin was whole.
Oh ! the jocund ripple of those silver bells as,
observing Sir Robert's torn shirt and mounting
periwig, she broke into a shout of irreverent

laughter. But she should be his yet. He had sworn
it. When would the day arrive ?

As she was briefly informed of what had passed,
Bab became thoughtful ; and, having heard, proceeded
in turn to relate her own adventures. Still
waters run deep. Who would have thought that the
lofty and superior Lord Forfar would condescend to
the use of the very dirtiest weapons ? 'Twas
whimsical and entertaining, now that peril was
averted. Though a Jacobite, Gervas was a Protestant,
and therefore had no right to act on the
Jesuit principle. Yet 'twas from his brain, as it
appeared, that had emanated the notable scheme
which she had been permitted by fortune to frustrate.
Her prayer had been heard. The mouse had been
allowed to help the lion. She, Barbara Pilot, had
undone the evil unwittingly wrought with regard to
the ^1,000 ; had repaid the sum in kind. She and
her friend where quits.

Whilst consenting to act upon the suggestion
dropped by Pamela, she continued to wonder over
that young lady's object, and, uneasy, was alert.
Arrangements for the little festival being complete,
she was sitting by the open window watching the
slow lighters, as, letting down the swing-ropes which
supported the street-lamps, they filled them with oil,
ignited a glowworm glimmer, and hauled them back
into their places. What with increasing lawlessness,
and what with the public interest being turned in

the direction of Westminster, street and park were a
desert.

Suspicious already, she was startled to perceive a
group of men in the Park walk, whose numbers
increased by additions of one or two till there was a
goodly handful. Presently they entered the street
by the green wicket, and strolled past the house,
talking in husky whispers. She recognised them.
They were myrmidons of Mr. Figg — bruisers of the
lower sort, whom she had often seen at the Bearpit,
or sparring at May Fair ! What in the name of
Lucifer could their object be, sauntering in the
modish quarter ?

At first she thought 'twas some new freak of my
Lord Byron's (here Crump blushed scarlet, and
lowered his eyes upon his supper), till she reflected
that though that vaurien might carry off a player ora
dancer, he would not dare to lay violent hands
upon a sprig of quality. Bruisers, too ! Something
important must be in the wind ; and it suddenly
flashed across the little Whig that their presence and
the sisterly hint might possibly be connected.
Waiting for an entertainment that might not take
place till the small hours was not amusing. Why
not kill time by a frolic which might perchance
end in a discovery ?

Ringing for her abigail, Mrs. Pilot borrowed a
suit of her garments (' The most becoming of suits,'
suggested Mr. Crump) and the two girls in apron,

coif and cardinal, strolled forth to admire the
evening, guilelessly arm-in-arm. At the first turn
sundry of the broken-nosed fraternity winked and
grinned, displaying great tusks. At the second they
offered a polite ' How do ye ?' with elephantine compliment
anent waists and ankles. At the third, one
took Mrs. Pilot in his paw and inflicted a great
smack upon her Hps (here Mr. Crump choked, and
had to be smitten on his broad back), in return
for which he got another smack — atinghngone upon
the ear (here Mr. Crump grew better).

The ice thus genially broken, the twin serving-maids
— arms akimbo, noses tilted, ankles well
displayed — assailed and routed the enemy, who fled
in confusion.

They ran down the street ?' inquired approving
Crump.

'No, fool!' retorted Barbara; 'twas woman's
warfare, a pointed tongue the rapier. They buffeted
like elephants and tumbled us, but we wormed out
what we wanted in a trice, and we twisted our bodies
out of their bears' paws. They were waiting for no
woman, but a man, they admitted. A revelation !
What manner of man I cared not to inquire — for
there could be but one — the noblest, best of burly
gentlemen, in a snuffy coat and a blue ribbon !'

Tears of joy rose into Bab's eyes, as, stretching
across the table, she clasped Sir Robert's hand.

Motioning to my abigail, we withdrew from the

contest. I sent a hurried message to Mr. Medlicote
by my black boy, while we two came staggering out
presently with a great basket, cursing the whimsies
of the quality. The gladiators of the Bearpit were
for recommencing hostilities ' (here a piece of Mr.
Crump's pie again went the wrong way), * but we
disdainfully informed them that if they had duties,
so had we. If they were men-catchers we were
housewives, and must even drag our Hen to the
wash by the strength of our women's arms.'

Barbara's tale, embellished with piquant mimickry
and byplay, was a tremendous histrionic triumph.
She had missed her vocation, Ranulph swore. No
doubt her Lady Townley and Lady Betty Modish
were beyond compare ; but her Lettuce or Miss
True would be ravishing ! Would she deign to
return to the boards for one week, if only to be the
death of Madam Clive ? The eyes of Crump were so
full of hot meaning that Barbara coloured and
looked down.

Well, one might be living on the coast of
Barbary !' grunted Sir Robert, ' Attempted murder
in the House of Commons, kidnapping in St. James's!
And this is our boasted civilization !'

One thing was evident. The tact and wit of the
ex-Diva had saved the Minister from serious personal
peril. He rose upon his gouty legs, which ached no
little after recent occurrences, and said that he felt
one bounden duty, and that was to drink the health,

with hearty love and thankfulness, of the beauteous
creature whom he was happy and proud to call his
guardian angel.

Here's to my little Whig: God bless her!' he
said, with faltering accents ; and as he looked across
his brimming glass, his eyes and hers were brimming
also.

In sooth 'twas an affecting moment : all felt it
so, as, touching glass-rims and forgetting where they
were, the party shouted aloud the toast of ' Barbara
Pilot !'

The shout ran through the low, wainscoted room,
and passing up the spiral stair reached the astonished
ear of Mrs. Belfield, who was on duty in the chamber
of her Majesty.

Barbara Pilot ! What whiff was this of the
hated presence which assaulted her hearing even in
princely St. James's, in the small hours ? She
must have nodded, and been dreaming ! A nightmare
? Yet, no ! Her nerves and ambition were
on the twitter, her blood too feverish for sleep, as,
lounging in an elbow-chair, still dressed, she wondered
what had chanced at home.

There had been no news. Could the House be
sitting still ? It must be so, or Medlicote would
have intruded on the royal slumbers, knowing the
anxiety of Caroline for news. Perchance they would
sit all night.

What then of the salt prepared for the bird's tail ?

She knew that Bab had fallen into the trap ; had unwittingly
become the snare to catch the Minister.
She had received the thanks of both Forfar and
Pulteney, who had prepared their gin.

Pulteney had been profuse of compliment ; Forfar
had looked into her eyes with the expression that
she wished ; had whispered that James III.
would himself thank her. Where was Walpole
now? If the House sat till the morrow, for the
time he would be saved ; for even amid the rioting
'twould be impossible by day to lay violent hands on
the First Minister.

What then ? Was the building she was erecting
made of cards, to be blown down by the breath of
accident? No, surely; for by general consent the
Excise Bill was abandoned : there was nothing doing
that could keep the House all night.

Where was Sir Robert, then ? Bound hand and
foot, with gag in mouth, and bandage over eyes, ina
coach half-way to Gravesend ? Perhaps already
there, on board the vessel which was to sail with
him across the ocean. No ! That could not befor
though time was slow and laggard to her who
waited in suspense, the ship could not sail before the
morning.

But why had Ranulph not appeared ? Had he
also been taken and shipped off ? What if it were
so ? Would she be grieved ? Why should she
care ? The die being cast for Gervas, Ranulph was

a nuisance, and best away. On the whole she was
rather glad that her beau suitor should have shared
the fate of Walpole.

Through some such dreaming came the faint
echo of 'Barbara Pilot.' What could it imply?
Whence did it come ? Down the chimney ?
Through the keyhole ? From below ? 'Twas no
fancy, for the Queen also heard the sound, and
ringing a handbill, bade the woman who watched in
the ante-chamber to go down and make inquiries.

A sickening dread of she knew not what calamity
tightened the bosom of Mrs. Belfield. She would go
herself and see. With both hands clasped upon
her breast she sped down the winding stair, and
staggering, stopped with cold fingers on the door-handle,
which unconsciously she turned.

What a sight met her view ! A dazzle of mellow
radiance ; a table sumptuously spread ; a party of
gentlemen, mud and blood stained, holding glasses
aloft ; at the end one woman seated, whose flushed
cheek was moist with happy tears.

Standing there, Pamela could have shrieked and
shaken fists at Heaven like a Mgenad, but for the
sparkle of those mocking eyes that scoffed at her.
Barbara knew all — 'twas evident by the insulting
smile which slowly spread over her face, as, rising
and curtseying low, she demurely pointed to a seat
and bade her * sister ' welcome.

Sister ! Hateful word and loathsome woman !

VOL. II. 27

The scheme had somehow miscarried. Walpole,
Httle the worse (except for claret), was there in the
palace ; so was Ranulph and Crump and all the
crew, and — and — Barbara !

The men were safe. How much did they know ?
Perhaps 'twas accident that damped the powder ;
prevented the explosion ! What, then, did Barbara
here, insultingly triumphant in her scorn ? Curbing
twanging nerves with a sharp twitch of the rein,
Mrs. Belfield raised her brows and quietly said :

Pardon my intrusion on an orgy. Her Majesty
above hath been awakened by unseemly uproar. I
will withdraw and tell her of the cause.'

Both Sir Robert and Ranulph looked somewhat
sheepish, as schoolboys might, detected supping in
the dormitory. How stupid to have forgotten that
the Queen's couch was overhead, and that if awake
she must be half delirious with curiosity !

Pamela was prim and cold, a perambulating wet-blanket,
chill enough to quench the ardour of the
most jovial. Therefore Sir Robert, generally too
prone to be gallant, had always treated the 
with an indifference which was
accentuated outrage.

Now he hated her. Somebody must go to the
Queen. Ranulph was accustomed to talk to his
august mistress through a door-chink. Once more
must the faithful henchman sacrifice himself.

In obedience to a look, Mr. Medlicote sighed and

slowly mounted the staircase, rather admiring his
lady-love than otherwise for the fine breeding of her
surprised severity.

'Twas feminine jealousy of another woman that
caused Bab to drop hints of Pamela's connection
with the kidnapping. That she should be so connected
was on the face of it most improbable.

Yet there must be a clear understanding, if ever
he came to propose marriage, that she was not to
coquet with the Pretender. Marriage ! 'Twould bea
folly, and unnecessary follies in such ticklish times
were to be deprecated. She could not really care
for the stiff Jacobite. No. 'Twas Barbara's mischief.
The malicious puss ! As he departed he
heard her say with mock solemnity :

There are roaring lions, my dear, in our street,
seeking whom they may devour. Helpless maidens
are in danger there, so Pve come to sleep with
you !'

27-

A thieves' holiday.

Though the firing of the volley by the
King's Footpads was in itself a regrettable
circumstance, Walpole was
not slow to perceive that capital was to
be made out of it. Excise was dead and buried —
the favourite bantling was strangled in its birth.
The memory thereof had to be forgotten, and the
tables turned upon the foe.

Instructed by his chief, Mr. Ranulph Medlicote
was glib at the coffee-houses anent deep-laid schemes
for assassination as well as kidnapping. Like other
men of figure, so soon as he was dressed he was
in the habit of taking a plain chair and going the
round of the houses, which at noon are always
crowded by the beau nonce, a mart for gossip and
tattle.

The circle can be made in an hour. Bachelors
pay a guinea a week for their * morning chair,'

employing the men at other times as messengers.
Then in fine weather they stroll in the Park till two ;
if wet, move to basset at White's, or to politics at
the British, according to their views and inclinations.
Of course a Tory could not be seen at the
St. James's, any more than a Whig at the Cocoa-tree
; but the Smyrna is a debatable land where
all may meet and chat. So also is Mrs. Rochford's.


At three o'clock comes dinner. The best ordinary
for strangers is in Suffolk Street ; but the usual plan
is to make up a party at the coffee-house, and
adjourn thence to a tavern, unless you choose to goto
the table of some great personage who keeps open
house. There are not so many of these as there used to
be, for the Revolution has impoverished the grandees.
Some, however (on the Roman principle of 'cHents')^
manage to dine free all the year round, having
fourteen great mansions on their list, using each
once a fortnight.

At five or six comes the play, and after that, men
of quality adjourn to Tom's or Will's till midnight,
or play cards in ladies' drawing-rooms.

Ranulph made himself very busy, and so did
Mr. Crump, who was not to be outdone in devotion.


If absolute monarchy is tyranny,' sententiously
remarked that sage to a gaping throng, * absolute
democracy means mob-law, which is tyranny and

anarchy as well.' Adding that there had been
mistakes on both sides, and that it behoved the
children of Britain, like those of Noah, to veil the
shortcomings of their parent.

Walpole, for his part, was convinced that he had
not bribed sufficiently, and resolved in the future to
be more Liberal. The Jacobites for a moment had
been almost united. This was very wrong, and
must never be allowed again to happen. As for
outcry, he shrugged his shoulders at it. Gabble-gabble
! The short-sighted and the narrow-souled
are like narrow-necked bottles — the less there is
within, the more noise the stuff makes in coming
out. He must be content, if necessary, to bide his
time, certain that the world's progress, if slow, is
steady — that the tide moves ever in the direction of
liberty, ebbing now and again, but always towards
freedom and light.

Despite the lectures to which he perforce submitted,
he grew cheerful and serene, observing in
his jocose way, that as coarse mothers have comely
children, so might Anarchy, past and done with, bethe
father of a settled Government. One thing he
had learnt by recent events, and that was that the
Pretender was more dangerous a bugbear than he
had chosen to suppose ; for if James II. was a mole
and a blind bigot, the Chevalier was aware that he
could not reintroduce Popery without hazarding the
Crown. Hence, many Protestants who, for religion's

sake, had deserted the old house, had shown themselves
not unwilling to support it again, provided
the faith was secure.

This grave fact had become patent to Sir Robert
by the manner in which he had found himself thrown
over during the late fiasco. Another thing had
forced itself on the attention of the Minister as he
watched the development of the riot — the exceeding
depravity and drunkenness of the lower orders, and
their growing partiality for gin.

Now, to good honest beer Sir Robert was too
thoroughly English to object. Beer-drinkers are
good-humoured in their cups. The ill-effect of the
love of gin was remarked by all shrewd observers.
It degraded the physique as well as the intelligence.
Men and women withered to skeletons, and in their
hollow eyes there lurked the lambent flame of fierce
and savage vice.

A Member of Parliament, Sir Joseph Jekyll, drew
the attention of Sir Robert to the matter in the first
instance, and suggested that an Act should be passed
prohibiting the sale of what was well named * Blue
Ruin.' Walpole quite agreed with Sir Joseph, but
demurred as to the means to be adopted. When
coercive legislation is commenced, 'tis so difficult to
draw a Hne ; and yet there was no doubt that the
matter required attention.

Are Englishmen turned cowards,' he asked of
his little Whig, ' that during the recent troubles the

use of the knife hath grown so common ? When I
was young fists were good enough ; now London its
sit paralyzed while miscreants set fire to their
houses, every muscle relaxed, every nerve shuddering
in the hour of danger. Sure this should be altered
at any cost or risk.'

'Twas all very well for Bab to tilt her pretty nose
and shake a warning finger. This proposed Act
was necessary ; and he would go with her to Southwark
Fair that she might judge of the truth of his
words.

I am aware,' he said, somewhat dolefully, ' that
we are rickety things of straw, liable to overturn.
Who should know it, if not I ? But we have our
use in the world's economy, and must be content to
struggle on, warding off as many buffets as we
may.'

Don't be miserable,' rejoined the sapient counsellor,
' or I shall cry, and that will spoil my beauty.
A scarecrow is stuffed with straw, you know, and
yet 'tis vastly useful to protect the corn. Of course
we'll go to Southwark; but I won't have that
plotting Scotchman of the party, as arranged. He's
too deep and artful. Make piles of Acts, as a wise
statesman should ; but before passing unnecessary
ones condescend to consider your own immediate
wants, and prop up your rickety steamship.'

The arch maiden was right. Was she not always
right? So had been her sharp-witted Grace of

Queensberry when she warned him long ago not to
despise his enemies. Well, they should plot against
him with impunity no more. Just fancy ! but for
the little Whig he might have been ere this half-way
to Barbadoes !

The big broom was brought out of the loft, and
great was the sweeping in the stable. Dismay and
consternation spread among the mutineers. Chesterfield,
Clinton, Grafton, and ever so many more, were
flung out like so much lumber. Hitherto 'twas only
the aspiring who received hard measure at the hands
of the good-natured Walpole — but now he had
turned a new leaf — the autocrat had become a
tyrant. Even the despicable Grafton was worth a
kick ; the man of whom Swift had said that ' he was
a soberer without one good quality !'

The chagrin of my Lord Bolingbroke at these
smart measures can be imagined. Its depth was
made manifest to the Dawley coterie by the growing
rigidity of his indifference. Again the red shoes
paraded between the furrows, but v/ith an increased
following ; for of course the ejected malcontents
now openly joined his side, and howled behind the
farmer in chorus.

'Walpole hath cut me dead I' announced Gervas,
with a whimsical tinge of surprise, as he dismounted
one morning at the farm-gate. ' Her Grace of
Queensberry hath closed her saloons since a neutral
ground is no longer possible, and maketh a pretext

for her retirement out of the death of her pocket-poet.'


So the toady was defunct — the may-fly. My
Lord Forfar wronged her Grace, for she was
genuinely sorry over the demise of Mr. Gay, who
died at Burlington Gardens, aged forty-six.

The world is a pitiful thing,' she writ to Swift.
Not only doth it perform no promise for the future,
but every day annuls the meagre pleasure of the
past ! After the first heats are over, life is all downhill
; and one would wish for the journey's end if
sure to lie down easy when night overtake us !'

But my Lord Bolingbroke was too bitter to
trouble anent the may-fly. 'Twas terrible to feel the
iron heel of that irrepressible Sir Bluestring, who,
stronger than ever for the check which had cost
such trouble, went blooming down the Mall with the
open declaration that he could seduce any whom he
had a mind to gain, and crush the others like an egg !

Oh, the clumsy, impertinent, spoiled child of
fickle Fortune, who, undermining by fraud his
native land, could call the process governing ! Oh,
the depraved, degraded nobility, who, reduced by
luxury and play to beg unhallowed alms, could
desert their role of bulwark to cringe, wretched
hirelings, and accept at such dirty hands the
wages of iniquity ! Really, 'twas hardly worth while
to rail. Better to cultivate crops, oblivion, and
peace.

If you come to a certain humble farm in Middlesex,'
writ the farmer to Pulteney, ' you will find
that I can live frugally without ill-temper, and yet
I've as little disposition towards frugality as any man
alive ! I have just risen, refreshed, serene ; not
jaded as I used to be in town with bootless frivolous
anxiety !'

What graver solecism can there be,' he snorted
to his disciples, ' than a nobility which deliberately
sells the liberty of the Commons ? In aristocracies
the nobles gain what the Commons lose. In monarchies
the result of helping to enslave the Commons
is that they themselves will be enslaved, the Crown
alone the gainer ! Oh, these nobles — these nobles !
Men who boast the vain honour of cocking hats in
the presence of princes, and yet cringe before the
parasite ! 'Tis poverty that is responsible for all
and every evil. Our aristocracy is impoverished.
Our earls have six starved footmen in gold lace
behind the coach, and no wine in the cellar. Such
fortunes as the South Sea and all its progeny of
bubbles have left them is squandered in intrigue — in
lace, knickknacks, Italian singers, and French
tumblers.'

Although the ejected malcontents were rueful
enough over their own undoing, they could not but
smile at my Lord Bohngbroke, whose trite maxims
and complaining were ladled forth, the white
finger-tips of one hand poised against those of t'other,

with a languid half-torpid air, and a ring of the
completest insincerity. Singular that outwitted
Iscariot should wear his mask so ilL

Passions are the gales of life,' he observed
mournfully to a cow that moved at him. ' I have
done with them — for ever ! My friends,' he added,
turning in his brocaded suit to lean on the no less
elegantly caparisoned Chesterfield, who shared his
rural stroll, Met us not complain when the gales
have ceased to blow a storm. What hurt doth age
give us in subduing that which all our lives we are
trying to subdue ?'

And then the pair of actors, linked arm-in-arm,
sniffing with pretended enjoyment rural scents,
stifled their sighs. Pining for the pavement instead
of the muddy road, they walked home with a simper
of beatitude, which in both cases but half concealed
interest bitterness, the most turbid lees of black and
festering disappointment.

For the present the best thing they could do was to
philosophize and hope for a turn of the wheel.
Hope — for what ? Had not the Dawley junta just
used all the armoury of craft ? and had not every
weapon broken in their grasp ? They had paid the
most scurrilous pens, employed writers who, having
no consciences, fought blushes through the mire
of faction ; unscrupulous vipers who mangled the
overthrown — whose brows were covered with the
brazen frontlet of falsehood. And to what purpose ?

Sir Bluestring bloomed like a great peony. As the
prompter breathed the puppets squeaked ! Verily
little use hoping, for the devil was out of
humour. As usual he deserted his adherents at a
pinch, declining to turn a vagrant attention to his
own in their extremity.

Of all the personages who strove by means of
stilts to keep out of low company, but whose untoward
fate connected them with Southwark Fair,
the one whose annual tribulation appeared most
gruesome was Colley Gibber, Esq. The poet
laureate ! What could a gentleman so grand as he
have to do with such gambadoes ?

In a whisper let it be confessed that this great
man — retired now to opium cum dig. — was once the
possessor of a booth. Was a ' Bartholomew babe of
grace!' Oh no! not one of the common wooden
tents of iniquity ! A superior booth with gilt
boxes and glass lustres filled with wax candles,
wherein he deigned to strut during the fourteen
days of the frolic as Tamerlane, before the King and
the nobility. He did not like to be reminded of it
now — Colley Gibber, Esq., of Berkeley Square — and
yet each year he was compelled to make the pilgrimage
; for though the theatre bored him, his Majesty
loved the rough humours of Bartlemy and Southwark,
where he was jostled by knaves of every
degree from the merry-andrew to the pickpocket.
Of all the fairs, Southwark, which immediately

followed Bartlemy, was the lowest and most popular.
We have remarked, early in this chronicle, upon the
peculiar condition of the Borough — its liberties,
sanctuaries, prisons. If Bartlemy and May were
lawless and dissolute carnivals, how much more so
was the annual festival of Southwark, practically
exempted as it was from judicial control. Colonel de
Veil, terror of metropolitan evildoers, had, as I have
pointed out, no authority on Surrey side. Officers
of the prison-marshals and warders prowled among
the crowd, gathering victims when they durst ; but
the seamen, broommen, Wapping beaux, and black-eyed
beauties of Foul Lane were pretty sure to rush
to the rescue, so the bailiffs did little service.
Gangs of cut purses from Chick Alley hustled the
lieges when opportunity served, who were knocked
down and trampled, while there was a raid on many
watches, kerchiefs, wigs. A basket of mouldy
fruit was thrown among the women who, tumbled
and flustered, found themselves bereft of hoods and
aprons. But this was mere horseplay ; the fool who
carried aught that was worth stealing, deserved his
loss; 'twas local colour which added to the fascination
of the scene. Not but what after-effects were sometimes
serious, for City servant-maids could not be
kept from the jubilee. The hopping booths were
infested by handsome young land-sharks, who in the
turn of a country-dance made love ; and what with
burnt brandy and politeness, many a maiden found

herself undone, initiated into looseness and debauchery,
conniver at burglary and housebreaking.
By every thief the fair of Southwark was looked on
as a benefit performance.

But if the picture had a shady side, it also had a
bright one. Ignorant foreigners may prate of spleen,
yet Englishmen in the mass are, if rough and blunt,
more truly merry and good-humoured, and more forbearing
than any other nation.

'Twas a just appreciation of this that caused the
Prime Minister to shake his head over the new
effects of gin. Had not Mr. Hogarth, the great
moralist, recently preached a sermon on the subject ?
Thieving and drunkenness and pates honestly
cracked with a cudgel were in the day's work. We
can't expect perfection here below.

Pending the Gin Act, which, in spite of Barbara,
he resolved to allow Jekyll to run through Parliament,
he determined to shorten the periods of the
fairs from fourteen to three days each, and sally
forth in person to view the happy results.

As regarded himself, at Bartlemy (which chanced
immediately to follow on the events related), the
result was not quite pleasing ; for he was battered
by a mob who objected to the restrictions, and well-nigh
fared as badly as at Westminster.

Mrs. Pilot was irreverent and unsympathetic,
gibing at his plight.

If you go out to get your clothes torn every day,'

she mocked, ' you'll be as great a fortune to the
fop-makers as my father ! If you strive to play the
fool at Southwark in like fashion I'll none of your
company, for my bones to me are precious.'

What was to be done about Southwark ? The
King, obstinate as usual, declined to renounce his
trip ; the Prince of Wales announced his intention
to attend. 'Twould never do to risk an accident.

How your Worship wastes a noble intellect !'
laughed the young lady, who knew the spot so well.
Do you think that the Borough, which for generations
hath scorned kings and mayors, will dance now
to your small pipe ? Send your Lord Chamberlain,
and Sergeant Trumpeter, and Mr. Crump, the
Master of the Revels, and see if they're not soused
in the dirtiest of all the ditches ! I vow I'd like to
see the condition of Honest Jack, for all his breadth
of beam ! No, no ; Blue Ruin as yet claims no
allegiance on the Surrey side ; so best leave them
unmolested. We drink brandy there and beer, and
are the same old jovial crew of antipodes as our
grandames and grandsires were. I vow they behave
no whit worse than your high-born Shocks. If you
are rational and leave them to their jolly diversions,
you shall go with me. Let 'em have their way, and
come under my wing, for I'm the best of cicerone.
If not, give me a wide berth, and go, tempt fortune
by yourself.'

Sir Robert could not quite decide which line to

take, since his Majesty insisted upon going. He
would be governed by circumstances, and join the
glittering crew led by his little Whig.

This much decided, Mrs. Pilot made up her
party, and appointed herself General-in-chief.

My Lord Forfar was a kill-joy, and must be kept
aloof. They might come on him perhaps, for his
town lodging was at the Bear, over against St.
Saviour's. But after his conduct over the kidnapping
he must consider himself in Coventry.

Pamela might go. She loved a frolic with a spice
of danger in it as much as other fine ladies. Yet, in
absence of her fellow-conspirator, she would certainly
be cross and vapourish. Ranulph, perhaps,
might keep her in good-humour. He, of course,
must go.

Mr. Falkland, the young dandy who had begun so
badly at the Duchess's, was contrite now, and might
go ; so might Lord Belvedere, who was as dazzled
and flattered by the tact of his new daughter as disgusted
with the folly of the other. Since the
denouement of Excise he could scarce endure
the sight of Mrs. Belfield, and would be thankful
to anyone who, without compromising her
parent, would take her off his hands. In spite
of her clumsiness Mr. Medlicote was silly enough
to dangle — an admirable parti in all ways —
and she, arrant idiot, must needs snub him ! It
would not bear thinking of. Why couldn't the

VOL. II. 28

girls change places ? Bab was a credit, Pamela a
disgrace ; cause of worry that brings wrinkles.

Colley should go with them, Bab settled, and
serve as master of the ceremonies till the King
arrived. Crump ? He pleaded for permission
with such wistful earnestness that Barbara consented.


I'm not afraid of your presence,' she observed,
with a roguish smile, * in company.'

And the three Miss Mostyns, with whom Bab was
so very thick ! Of course, they must be of the party,
if only to offend Lord Forfar, should they meet that
Quixote. Delightful comrades, the three Mostyns,
of highest fashion — known in familiar intercourse as
Crimp, Cramp, and Crumpling.

They were a lively trio, whose age might be anything
'twixt twenty and forty, so thick was their
paint, so abundant their false hair. Afraid of naught
else, they were so perturbed by the insipidity of
existence that they were ever on the scamper from
ennui.

Of course, it behoved such modish belles to profess
dislike of anything English just as some
women dislike their husbands because they're so
constantly near 'em. They affected Swiss porters,
French body-servants, Indian pages ; and spent so
much on china, ribbons, fans, laces, washes, jessamine,
gloves, and ratafia, that 'twas a marvel they
were not in the spunging-house.

'Twas not possible to have run the gauntlet of the
town for so many years as they had without sundry
dints to reputation. But they were wont complacently
to say :

Mere flesh-wounds, if kept from the air, are not
mortal, and can be prevented from appearing unsightly
by a covering of silk and flowers.'

Their nights, as I need scarce state, were devoted
to King Hoyle ; and thus was it, many averred, that
they managed to eke out an income which was
mysterious and shadowy.

Such daylight as was not spent in sleep and in repairing
injuries of time, was employed at Newgate
or at Tyburn, ogling the dear interesting creatures in
ribbons and bouquets before they leapt from the
ladder into space.

The severest dint that Cramp ever received — one
that called for a good deal of decoration — was dealt
by the hand of the too notorious highwayman, Armstrong.
She met that sweet malefactor at a ridotto,
found him a pretty fellow, and having languished in
orthodox fashion at his trial — kissing finger-tips
towards the dock — was a little disconcerted to learn
that he had been guilty of several murders.

Now, as need hardly be explained, he who points
a pistol and picks a pocket is a fascinating individual,
but he who fires the pistol and slays his victim
is quite another animal. The whole matter turns
upon blood-letting, which is odd, considering how

2S— 2

much blood is always flowing during these years of
grace.

The Mostyns were a typical trinity. They always
went about together, helping each other in chorus.
There was no length to which they would not go ;
no fatigue in pursuit of pleasure or excitement from
which they would shrink ; and yet they posed for
valetudinarians, drooping under spleen and kindred
humours, which required constant stimulants. Now
Southwark Fair was just the style of entertainment
to suit their jaded appetites ; so they joined Bab's
party with alacrity.

Mr. Falkland had been elected nem. con. a member
of the Beaux Club in Covent Garden — nicknamed
the Lady's Lapdog Club — where on a table flannel
cloths were laid, for dusting upper-leathers, or specks
from scabbards, or splashes from pumps of Spanish
leather, which had to be kept as spot-free as a Dutch
housewife's kettle.

Then there were plates of oranges and lemons fora
Narcissus to polish up his nails withal. And a
great box of the best perfumed powder ; and, by way
of garnish, an armoury of scissors, tooth-picks,
tweezers, patches, essences, pomatum, points, pastes,
washes, and all the implements that pride and folly
can invent to turn men into monkeys.

Ah me ! what a set of coxcombs ! 'Tis strange
that the women should have liked such creatures —
beings who rarely walked, for London pavement

being bad, pedestrians were condemned perforce
to the wearing of thick shoes, which to fops and
beaux were abominations. Of course, however, if
Barbara chose to walk, her following must e'en do
likewise.

Lord Belvedere was quite in his element, in a
splendid suit of stamped velvet, in attendance on so
brilliant a company. Sure three such butterflies as
himself and Byron and Mr. Falkland never were seen
out of Brazil. The youngest of the three affected
languor and a weak spine ; my Lord Spindleshanks
tripped along like a bantam, on his drumsticks ; the
diplomatist, for reasons known to himself, assumed
the candour of boyhood. The three Mostyns
selected each a beau ; and Bab, though she found
herself consigned to the care of Mr. Crump, was
crowned with an aureole of gaiety.

Crimp had secured Lord Belvedere, and required
much skilful guidance over puddles, murmuring that
there was more satisfaction in being made up to by
an eminent personage than by a dozen commonplace
souls ; to which my lord replied that the title of
beau was more precious than that of Right Honourable,
for the latter may be inherited, whereas t'other
must be extorted at the point of the curing-tongs
from an admiring society.

'Twas a lovely day, and, dear heart ! what a busy
spectacle ! The party had scarce crossed London
Bridge ere they were besieged by a howling throng,

who dragged at their skirts and strove to outshone
each other.

See " Jephthah's Rash Vow !" ' bellowed one ; ' an
unequalled droll, trimmed with new jests and comic
grins !'

Ne'er heed him !' screeched another ; * unlike
Noah's ark, only unclean beasts enter his menagerie.
The life and death of Doctor Foster and all his
pains ! Red fire and blue ! His entrails change to
snakes and serpents ! Wonderful !'

Pho !' bawled a third. * The gentry must eat
first to gather strength. A dozen of oysters while five
pretty wenches pipe a madrigal !'

Pah !' roared an old beldame from her stall.
Oysters ! Cruel uncharitable meat ! Why ? Because
they're eaten alive, and there's nothing left for
the poor !*

Oysters here !' simpered Pamela, leaning heavily
on Ranulph ; ' I'd as soon swallow the bung out
of that beer-barrel !'

Well said, my pretty gentlewoman !' applauded a
rival opposite. ' Come hither and regale ! Black
pudding and seasoned sausage. I'll warrant there's
no fuller's earth in my mustard-pan !'

Good people,' laughed Bab, ' a modish lady
would succumb under such sustenance. A daisyful
of ratafia now, and a gingerbread-nut — oh!'

Ere the words were out she was seized by a dozen
eager hands and borne into a booth with a blue

striped tilt, wherein a band of strollers were toasting
one another.

Roast pig, you said, pretty lady ?' cried a serving-man
in a long apron, sharpening a huge knife.
Here 'tis ! So piping hot that it seemeth to cry,
"Come, eat me!" What! No pig ? Then you'll
have no luck this day.'

My Lord Byron was sulky at finding himself
relegated to a hag while his adored was monopolized
by a rival, and, glancing at Colley, he muttered
something 'twixt his teeth about the impertinent
company of a nauseous scribbler, while Cramp
made eyes at him. Nor was Crumpling much
more successful with her partner, for indeed, as
she said, Mr. Falkland took such extravagant care
of the clothing of his body that his understanding
went naked for it.

Sister, your hartshorn, I implore!' simpered
Cramp. ' Realty these common people l'

'Lard!' cried Crimp, 'their noise is barbarous,
worse than an inward. These healthy booth-sluts
are so boisterous they split one's brain !'

Your ladyship,' laughed Bab, with a glance at
Falkland, ' is too accustomed to decayed persons of
quality ; something so delicate that they can't speak
above their breath, while the laborious effort of
walking is no more than a genteel stagger !'

Thou art a masculine creature,' sighed Crumpling
plaintively. ' They set my soul on edge ; do

they not yours, dear Lord Belvedere ? A steel-drop,
my sister, or I perish !'

Can you find anything tolerable in me?' whispered
the smirking diplomatist.

Oh indeed, my lord ! a thousand taking qualities,*
whispered back his fair.

Will your ladyship do me the favour of your little
finger into this booth ? Say, what can you see in
your humblest slave ?'

You are an ornament to your new suit, my lord.
Nay, I never flatter ; but 'tis plaguy hard to tell the
brightest part of a diamond.'

Strike me dumb, but you're obliging !' returned
the delighted beau. * My suit is tolerable, I think ;
the buttons are three inches across, while Falkland's
there, who should know better, are only of
the bigness of nutmegs.'

Thus, in a genteel exchange of conceits and
polished cackling, did the party advance up St.
Margaret's Hill, pausing often on the way. The
Diva and some of her party were speedily recognised
and assailed with verbal crackers. Outside a canvas
theatre a tall fellow was standing, whose arms and
face showed marks of the profession of a blacksmith,
but who was draped in the white robes of classic
Andromache. He plumped a low curtseyed
offering a beer-pot, said in a bass voice like a
trumpet:

Mummers and grimaces, welcome ! Our performance

will commence anon. Come, learn, and
be edified !'

Pamela dear, he takes you for an actress,' cried
mischievous Bab. * We must watch lest you be
marched to Bridewell. Mr. Crump, shall we go
together and see her when she's repeating ?'

We are amateurs, not common players, and act
here for our diversion,' proceeded the blacksmith,
with disdain. * Independent of authors we delineate
from internal resources, with extempore screams
that electrify the lieges.'

The knave hath swallowed a dictionary,' laughed
Colley Cibber. * Give us a taste of th'
powers.'

Never heed him, madam,' interrupted a merry-andrew,
tugging at the skirt of Crumpling. ' Favour
our show. A dance of two drunken men upon a
rope, comical and diverting, with other ingenious
pastimes and recreations ; then a trip by three wild
cats of the wood, while Mr. Fawkes gets ready, the
celebrated conjurer who raises a tree out of the
earth with apples on it in less than a minute's
time !'

Bab vowed she would visit nothing till she had
walked through the fair, so, escaping from the steam
and stench of the various viands in the vicinity, the
party proceeded past the central pillory and cage,
ignoring the wiles of a siren who, perched on the
step of the machine of punishment, offered to draw a

tooth, shave a gentleman, and exhibit the relics of
King Solomon, all for a single groat.

Although tents and wooden edifices straggled over
a large space, the principal seat of pastime was the
open green which stretched behind the frowning
walls of the King's Bench and Marshalsea, and was
known as Snow Fields. Here was such a throng
that 'twas hard to move about.

There was a central avenue, with great booths on
either side, each furnished with immense pictures of
wonders visible within. On the right, Mr. Pinchbeck's
Theatre of the Muses, with its amazing clock
that played many instruments of music with the
melodious notes of many birds like real life, the
tunes specially writ by Mr. Handel. His artificial
world, wherein, so yelled the showman, is imitated
the spangled firmament, the dawn of day, the sun
diffusing his Hight, and his redness at even ! Very
marvellous ! But the effect was somewhat spoilt
on this occasion through the anger of the inmates
of the Marshalsea, against whose wall the booth
was pitched. 'Twas usual for the keepers of shows
to make a collection for the debtors ; but this year
they made a stand, which the prisoners so resented
that showers of stones were flung from within,
whereby several persons were injured.

Hard by Mr. Pinchbeck's, in this the main street of
the wood and canvas town, was young Mr. Fielding's
theatre — a rising hack, some said he was, who had

scribbled a play or two, and tried his hand at a
novel. He had gathered around him a company of
real comedians to go on tour among the fairs with
regular plays, a puppet-motion, and a dash of pugilism,
and was resolved by zeal to merit the success which
he hath since earned as a novelist ; for he sent forth
a youth with hand-bills, stating that there was a commodious
passage for the quality, with illuminated
moons down the main alley at dusk, and people to
conduct them to their places.

Mrs. Pilot was anxious to witness the entertainment,
for there was a certain Madam Pritchard
acting there, who, folks said, was clever. She could
sing a song called * Sweet, if you love me,' to meet
approval ; and might aspire some day to the boards
of a patent house, 'twas said. But cunning Colley
twitched Bab's skirt, and pointed at the bill — ' The
Beggar's Wedding.' Ten to one it was some
garbled version of Mr. Gay's unlucky creation, and
would displease Sir Robert Walpole.

Barbara's behaviour was really very bad — too
shocking in a sprig of quality — though Ranulph
was vastly amused at it, for he perceived that she
was bent on angering Mrs. Belfield and lowering her
pride ; and his own treatment by that nymph was so
unkind that he was not desirous that she should
be punished.

The saucy maid actually claimed acquaintance
with all the strolling mummers, waving her fingers

with as many nods and * How do ye's ' as a
countess at a drawing-room ; and when withheld
from entering Mr. Fielding's, skipped over the
mud across the road, and vowed she must patronize
his rival.

Delicious ! * The Prison-breaker : or. The Adventures
of John Shepherd. A Farce !' What more
fitting than such a tale, under shadow of the King's
Bench, within bowshot of the Chink, in a quarter
which could boast of five jails, twenty whipping
and stocks, where sin and shame and sorrow
have due wages ?

The Mostyns were ravished. Of course they
would see the delightful prison-breaker ; were sorry
'twas but the counterfeit. Ten years exactly since
that angel suffered. Crumpling sighed, with a
languishing look at my lord. Perchance she'd
known poor Jack too well, if not too wisely ?

Why, it was Gibber's booth ! not Colley's, of
course, that magnate having retired, but Theoo's,
who, finding it impossible to get on with his parent,
had again started for himself. ' The part of Mrs.
Winifred by Madam Cibber ; that of John Shepherd
by Madam Charke.'

So Charlotte was here — poor wandering Charlotte !
protected by her brother, as was right. And Madam
Cibber, too, in a hutch of boards ! What sweet
revenge to go and applaud her ! In a trice Bab
dropped the player and became the lady of fashion,

who would condescend to patronize the mountebanks.


Colley was relieved at this moment to perceive the
King coming round a corner, strutting like a little
turkey-cock in front of his following of lords, and
hastened to escape ; while squinting Theoo with an
evil grin, in a tinselled robe and golden leather
buskins, came forward to do the honour of his show,
and place the ladies on the ' hoisting,' above low
liquor and low company.

Lord Belvedere was becoming disconcerted by the
warmth of Crumpling. 'Twould be laughable if she
were setting a faded cap at him.

Get !' he muttered, ' I'm every woman's humble
servant, but nothing more, at my age. An elderly
man should no more bestow himself upon one
woman than his sword upon a bully. Both with
encouragement grew equally insolent.'

Sir Robert was enchanted with Bab's flow of
spirits.

I Hke to see thee gay,' he said. ' Cultivate
humour, and 'twill salve all troubles. Look on mankind
as a menagerie with idiosyncrasies they can't
control. I mind me of a beast I saw once in a cage,
that at a certain spot always turned a somersault,
and then trotted gravely on. Was I angry or argumentative
over that which there was no explaining ?
Not L Its folly flicked my humour, and I was the
better for the laugh.'

Some one was performing the interlude of the
Footpad's Robbery,' a pantomimic dance, and
played the thief so well that Sir Robert strongly
suspected he must oft have done the same in earnest.
He fired the pistol, stripped the victim, searched the
pockets with such natural dexterity as to prove himself
a master of his art ; and was much applauded
by the beer-swilling assembly below, who were excellent
judges of the subject.

Charlotte, clad as the shock-pated housebreaker,
was waiting to come on, and glancing round, perceived
the distinguished party. Forgetful of the
evil-eye, she advanced swiftly to the front of the
platform, and pointing a finger at the Minister,
cried :

A boon, a boon ! Barbara Pilot, intercede for
us!'

It shall be granted, I promise you,' returned Mrs.
Pilot loftily.

That the fairs shall not be shorn of their proportions,'
Charlotte begged. * They are meat and
raiment to us poor folks, who earn our living
hardly.'

And ruin and destruction to the better sort,'
grunted Sir Robert, vexed at finding himself
snared.

The company rose to their feet and faced the
Minister, who looked at Bab with a smile of meaning.


Well, well !' he said ; ' this is the last fair of the
year. For this time be it so. Though I've caught
glimpses of many a gambling-den on the way hither
full of footmen and clerks, who were playing the
Prodigal Son " to a miracle !'

A shout went up which almost shook down the
rafters of the crazy edifice, and caused his Majesty
to marvel, who was sipping Bohea in a house hard
by, built in the shape of a tea-kettle.

Huzza for Sir Robert Walpole ! Huzza !
huzza !'

There was a stampede of light-fingered gentry,
who were for chairing the great man all round the
fair.

'Nay!' he cried, laughing ; Met us flee, or there
won't be a watch or purse amongst us ! Such is
popularity ! If only Bolingbroke were here, I could
have him ducked in a twinkling.'

Barbara was so anxious to speak to Charlotte
that she quite forgot her desire to gloat over her
ancient enemy, and in the confusion which followed
pushed a way to the back of the booth.

Where have you been all these years ?' she cried
reproachfully, kissing her friend's thin face. ' Have
you forgot that welcome and that dinner ? Poor
soul ! I'm sure you've wanted it !'

But Charlotte's eyes were dancing, her wan cheek
was pink with the reflected light of Hope. She
was in one of her moods when all in the future

seems bright and shining. Alas ! 'twas with the
putrid glare of the dunghill !

I act dishonest John ten times a day,' she said,
laughing, * for the guerdon of a guinea. Brother
Theophilus won't have us waste our time. When
on the road we sleep where we may ; when settled,
in the pit, with a Dutch organ, tambourine, and
Turkish jingle to lull our slumber ; wake earth to
sweep the theatre, and throw fresh sawdust in the
boxes ; shake out the dresses ; wind up and dust the
motion-jacks ; teach the dull recruits ; rout the idlers
from the straw, and redeem some from the watch-house.
Then, the hour struck, we beat the gong
and walk the stage to show our dresses ; or dance
with our fellows, and sing a stave, or blow the
trumpet. Now and again we joke with the gathering
crowd to keep them merry and lure them in ;
or, covering our gay habits with a coat, go down
and stand opposite the booth, as if transfixed with
its magnificence.'

'And you are not weary of it all?' inquired
Bab.

Are you of Drury Lane ?' retorted Charlotte,
who wist not of her friend's fortune.

Indeed I know not,' Barbara murmured in
abstraction.

She half envied Madam Charke her wild life, too
full of stir and change for repining and regret.
Would it not, indeed, be less unsatisfying to the

genuine Hadji to throw sawdust in the boxes, and
redeem companions from the warehouse ? There
was use in such an existence. Fine-lady's was no
use on earth ; that was sober truth. The Bohemian
string in the girl's nature had been struck, and
vibrating, produced a shudder.

Fool ! fool !' she muttered. ' Charlotte is crack-brained
; and so am I, methinks ! Let well alone ;
eschew carping discontent !' Nevertheless, when,
parting from her friend, she rejoined the others to
continue the day's sport, there was a shade of
sadness on her face, and she could scarce find spirit
even to cope with Pamela.

Finding that their swains were mawkish companions
after all — so different from Tyburn fruit —
the Mostyns had frisked away ; but Sir Robert
declared merrily that they would not be hard to find,
and he was right.

Penetrating by means of a ladder, and guided by
instinct, they had retired into a gaming-kennel and
were hard at work, forgetting to be lackadaisical,
with rattling dice, elbowing the common herd.

I vow,' cried Crimp, when thus discovered, ' that
there's nothing so engaging as to win the money of
low unpolished animals !'

As the day waned the fun waxed furious, suited to
the locality. Dissolute serving-men, bullies and
bravos, linked arm-in-arm, swept the alleys between
the booths, and catching the maids as in a net,

VOL. II. 29

made them pay forfeit with a kiss, while nimble
fingers cut their pocket-strings. Ballad-singers, with
quires of political songs under one arm, and a stool
under t'other, chose out a cadging lay, but ere they
had chanted a verse were pelted by some of counter-views,
tripped up and floored. The concourse was
so great that 'twas as merry a time for pitchers as
Lent for fishmongers ; and there was a sprinkling of
greenhorns among the fly ones whose innocence
called for toll.

There was a sailor there, such a simple salt that
he must needs take to buffeting a black cow that he
thought to be the fiend ; so doughty a mariner that
he insisted in joining a sham fight against the
French, whereby he smashed the apparatus. And
country squires, too, with mouths as wide as
mussels at the ebb, and pockets gaping ! What a
tempting harvest for seasoned Southwarkers while
they stood or loitered, gazing at players of the backsword,
or doxies running for a smock, or the accomplished
Signor Violante swinging on a rope !

Ten bargemen were advertised to ' eat ten quarts
of hasty pudding, infernal hot;' he who'd done first
to get ten shillings, the last a ducking. There was
to be a dog dressed up in fireworks, and a cat tied
to a mad bull's tail — no end of diversions. And talk
of contrasts — which are as salt to an appetizing
dish ! The temporary town of boards in which we
saunter extends in straggling streets to the end

of Snow Fields, by King's Bench Garden and White
Lyon Bridewell to St. George's Church — from
whose summit, by-the-bye, may be obtained a splendid
bird's-eye view of all that's passing. Above the
tinkling of little bells that mark the progress of the
festival, rises a heavy boom from the square tower.
What doth it portend ? Only two prisoners upon a
hurdle moving to Execution Place — a brief journey of
a stone's-throw only, previous to a long one. Cheek
by jowl with the fair, the gibbet is always busy; the
hangman the only man who may not keep holiday.
His daily harvest hangs for an hour, and then is
quickly plucked, to join that ripened crop in chains
that is visible across the marsh.

But never heed such vermin. What is this crying
and shrieking, and swaying and rushing, as a
wretched female, battered and bloody, with garments
rent in tatters, is pushed by myriad hands towards
the ducking-stool hard by the Clink ? A clyfaker ?
a forster ? Worse. Away with the baggage ! Was
she not detected selling rancid tarts ? and is it
not stipulated in the opening proclamation at every
fair, that no victual may be sold but what is wholesome
for the body ? No need for Marshalsea-men
to interfere. Judge Lynch hath grasped his victim.
While she goes souse into the muddy liquid, turn we
to livelier themes.

Yonder is Mr. Figg forcing his horse against the
tide, drums beating, colours flying, and a lot of

29 — 2

big-chested fellows, with shaven pates adorned with
plaster, distributing his bills. He nods in passing
in glad recognition of Barbara, while Pamela perks
her chin.

Just such a show is his as suits the people's fancy,
and they follow in cheering crowds, for there are to
be three bouts at ' threshing-flail,' some hacking and
hewing by the most skilled professors, and a deft
display of the art of self-defence. A space is cleared
upon the green — the silence for a moment is so
great that you can hear the click of the rackets
in the two prison-yards — then what an appreciative
roar as Figg steps out, his body marked and scored
with wounds from other frays. Good lack ! There's
hacking and hewing in good earnest, till the place
looks like the shambles, and the circling throng are
convulsed with eagerness and frenzy. 'Tis splendid !

Now let's to dinner — and straightway the booths,
where eatables may be procured, are full to overflowing.
The inns, too, are doing a roaring trade ;
the galleries of the Tabard groan under the weight
of the goodly company, while serving-wenches scurry
to and fro with steaming dishes, and peters of
foaming ale. The Bear at the bridge-foot is the
most favoured by the quality, for the view of the river
is superb, alive as it is and teeming with wherries,
skiffs and barges, each with a melodious band.
They can look down, too, into the churchyard where
citizens are picnicking upon the grave-stones ; past

old St. Saviour's — what a variety of stirring scenes
that venerable pile hath witnessed ! — into Montagu
Close, a huddled heap of sordid tenements, where
outcasts, ragged and hollow-eyed, are dying of famine
by inches. What a zest the thought gives to the
lark-pudding — to the fourth bottle of glowing
burgundy ! The parish dignitaries are gathered in
the great reception-room on the ground-floor where
marriage feasts take place, mid hubbub of jape and
jest ; and as his Majesty, with twenty flambeaux at
his heels, takes to his gilt barge at Backstairs, and
the boat turns westward, they toast him loyally.
Swashbucklers and ill-looking ruffians hang about in
groups in hopes of a call to drink, assuming a
modest mien that sits oddly on their truculent visages
for next door the Pie Powder Court is sitting
(further from the bridge it would not dare to sit).
Marshal-men are in force about the entrance, and
the stocks close by and handy for such as can't claim
a rescue.

With nightfall the orgy will rise to such a pitch of
maniacal delirium as will be too much even for
fashionable daughters of Eve. Sir Robert has had
enough of it already. Mr. Falkland can scarce support
the weight of his exquisite attire. The Mostyns
have discovered, by furtive looks at the mirrors in
their fans, that cosmetics do not improve with dust
and hustling. My Lord Belvedere has no desire to
spoil his new suit of rose-coloured velvet ; neither has

Mr. Medlicote an ambition to be stabbed a second
time. So in the gloaming the party take their boat,
and fatigued, silent, listen to the plash of oars, the
glittering waves of greenish light stirred in the placid
waters. Barbara is dreaming of mad Charlotte and
her strange way of life. Crump crouches opposite,
gazing in her eyes. She has scarce vouchsafed
a word to him all day ! Folks must be right who
vow she hath no heart. What matters it ? He
would even take her as she is, with all her faults and
all her loveliness. A wherry passes on the silent
highway, with a man and woman in it, speeding
towards Gravesend. Oh that he and she were that
man and woman, drifting alone together seaward !
At the thought his blood tingles in his veins. To
call her his very own he will dare all some day.
What will he dare, and when ? 'Tis worth any risk.
Could anything be done with my Lord Belvedere ?
He will pay a visit to the diplomatist, and sound him
on the earliest opportunity.

WORRIES.

OST thou think that the luckless Sir
Robert had seen the last of Excise ?
No, not even yet. He was reaping the
crop he had himself sown during years
of contempt for the enemy.

Having recognised the necessity of changing his
tactics, the tumult which arose in consequence was
as great as though he were inaugurating some fresh
outrage. A room may not be swept without the
raising of dust. Though he was compelled to bow
his head, contrary to conviction, before public
opinion, he was not the man to be dictated to by
subordinates in office, or endure traitors in his
camp.

Cobham, Burlington, Parchment, Stair, received
a rough cone. The Dukes of Bolton and Montrose
were ousted from their appointments and military
commands. His Grace of Bolton's impudent conduct

almost succeeded in ruffling Sir Robert's calm.
Had he not drawn £5,000 a year for ever so long
from the secret-service account, which his Duchess,
erst actress Polly, rivalled away in pins ; and, when
came the tug of war, had he not babbled of a conscience
and turned against his leader ? Conscience,
quotha ! He might have found it earlier.

'Twas laughable to consider the Dawley high-road
'twas crowded by discomfited sinecurists on their
way openly to join the enemy. The air of the
Dawley dining-parlour was thick with anathemas, as
they confided Bluestring to the care of Lucifer in
bumpers of St. John's claret.

Barbara, to the growing annoyance of Mrs. Bel-field,
was quite a heroine at court. The story of
that supper-party had reached the Queen's ears,
though she pretended ignorance, and Bab was
accordingly much considered.

Medlicote was waxing weary of Pamela's cruelty.
She really was almost too pronounced in her rudeness,
even for a lord's daughter. Hence he and Sir
Robert and Bab found themselves sitting frequently ina
solemn conclave, in which Mrs. Belfield had no part.

In the first gush of quick resentment the Queen
had been for banishing Pamela ; but Sir Robert good-naturedly
interceded. He made the most of the
scene at St. Stephen's, where he vowed he had been
nearly murdered ; and whispered mysteriously of the
vessel at Gravesend and of Barbadoes ; but since a

man can gain no credit by fighting with a woman, Mrs.
Pamela must be spared. Moreover she was the child
of Belvedere, who in his way had been useful, and
might be again. That he had naught to do with the
kidnapping. Sir Robert felt assured. As for the vixen
and her Jacobite, 'twas enough to know them for
enemies.

Both Bab and Ranulph were against the too
vigorous and too tardy use of the besom. The late
high-handed measures served to swell and re-invigorate
the hostility of Opposition ; and, as Bab
pointed out, there would be a general election ere
many months were gone, before which it behoved
the Whigs to conciliate the masses, who had been so
stirred by Excise. The enemy was aware of this,
and, too eager, made a false step. Pulteney rose
in the House, and, pointing at Walpole, said :

I am persuaded he still entertains the same
opinion of the Excise, and only awaits a proper
opportunity to renew it.'

Sir Robert at once took advantage of the blunder.
A chance of gracefully making public recantation
was just what he wanted, so, rising at once, he declared
hotly that, being the public's faithful servant,
he was not so mad as ever again to engage in anything
that at all looked like an Excise. A frank
statement, most satisfying to the people.

Bolton and Cobham feebly attempted to rouse
sympathy on their behalf, in that they had lost bread

and cheese for conscience' sake. What hath a man's
behaviour in Parliament, bleated Bolton, to do with
the performance of duty in a military capacity ?
But he only got laughed at for his pains, for 'twas
notorious that Bolton had nothing about him of the
soldier except the uniform, and much preferred
hazard at the coffee-house to prancing on the field
of glory.

Was there, indeed, no means of undermining this
too sturdy Bluestring? Opposition were as unfortunate
in the Lords as in the Commons ; invertebrate
on both arenas. Marlborough brought up the subject,
and was brilliantly supported by Chesterfield ;
but to no purpose. Fair means would not do.
Bluestring was stronger than ever, and growing
day by day in popular esteem. The Dawley moles
must take to earth again, and worm with secret
burrowing.

Though subjected by events to hot and cold fits,
Mrs. Belfield, having made up her mind, still resolved
to adhere to the doubtful fortunes of Lord
Forfar. The scheme had been in perfect train, and
but for that disihoYical fine-induce, would have resulted
in triumph. She detested Walpole now for Barbara's
sake as well as for her own, and the wish
being father to the thought, felt convinced that, his
personal influence removed, the Brunswick would
collapse like a pricked bladder.

What she saw daily at court helped her conviction,

for indeed the King grew crosser and more fidgety
day by day ; the Queen more tired and harassed ;
while as for my Lady Suffolk, she did nothing but
groan and cry. Fred was becoming a grievous thorn
in the regal pillow. Thinking much of his own
parts, he was a mere shuttlecock of party, tossed
hither and thither, respected by none ; as a thorn to
his parents only could he be deemed a success.

When George and Frederick met they glared and
did not speak, and the ruffling of respective Bobadils
was exaggerated accordingly, till the conduct in the
street of the two sides resembled that of Ordinis and
Colonies.

Fred had a weaker understanding, and, if possible,
a more obstinate temper than his papa, and
was, moreover, false and deceitful, which his papa
was not. Not but what he had a good deal to bear,
for his father abhorred him, his mother despised
him, his sisters disliked and betrayed him, his servants
and adherents made a fool of him.

To gratify alike his loathing and his avarice,
George held his purse-strings tight. Money was
dribbled out capriciously, the result of which was
that the Prince of Wales's treasury was always
empty, and his creditors importunate. He coquetted
clandestinely with Opposition, hoping to turn their
present discomfiture to future use, they employing
his distress to discredit his family. Indeed, the
conduct of father and son was a by-word of what

was disreputable ; and Pamela was justified in
supposing that if the prop were withdrawn, so contemptibly
weak an edifice must topple.

'Twas a case of mutual propping. If one could
be deprived of t'other, both must fall together.
When she related to willing ears the family episodes
at St. James's, the eyes of Gervas brightened. The
prop should be withdrawn. Before retiring underground
again with the moles, he would go forth on a
forlorn-hope, and break a last lance with Bluestring.
If his own were shivered, why, other means must be
resorted to. So he appeared one day at Dawley,
and seeking out Bolingbroke and Chesterfield, who
were daintily examining the hay through quizzing-glasses,
announced his resolution.

My Lord Chesterfield snuffled (he suffered soundly
from hay-fever — odious complaint, unknown in more
favoured town), and disapproved. Where he, Chesterfield,
had failed, 'twas impudent in this plodding
Jacobite to suppose he might succeed. Not so
Bolingbroke. There is a Providence, he thought,
that watches over enthusiasts as well as drunkards.
This absurd fellow had somewhat the bearing of a
true ascetic knight, sallying forth after the Grail.
Had he not already won his spurs in Parliament, and
gained respect there ? Let him go and try. He, the
banished Bolingbroke, would arm the champion ;
rivet his greaves of steel. Alack ! the worldling had
better have left the knight to arm himself ; but St.

John could never permit a chance to escape of hurling
his venom at Walpole. 'Twas he who professed no
principles, who had intrigued with and betrayed
every party, who was the most virulent denouncer of
the head and front of corruption.

Like a David sallying forth against Goliath, Gervas
was to have his way and smite the giant. The
attack was led off by Pulteney, skilled skirmishes.
Then up rose Lord Forfar in his place, and the House
was hushed ; for he was cold, dignified, and eloquent.
He had never spoken better ; and BoHng-
broke had never been more careful in priming a
disciple. But there was an absence of that convinced
enthusiasm on which the wily farmer had
counted.

'Twas evident that Gervas was glowing with reflected
malignity as, his dark eyes fixed steadily on
the Chief Minister, he drew his portrait. He sketched
a man abandoned by all vestiges of virtue or honour;
of mean fortune and no family, raised by whimsical
events to the post of commander-in-chief — one who
cared for nothing but himself; who, so that he prospered,
heeded not the nation's interest neglected,
her credit lost, her trade insulted, her merchants
plundered ; who became thus possessed of much
ill-gotten wealth, presiding over a puppet Parliament
the seats purchased, the votes bought at the expense
of the public treasure. Then he filled in the
outline. Secure of his packed jury, ready to acquit

him in all adventures, this bloodsucker tarantula
arrived, in natural course, at so insolent a degree of
arrogance as to domineer over men of sense and
figure, who were weak enough to be scrupulous ; and,
having no virtue of his own, ridiculed it in others,
striving to corrupt and strangle it. Supposing this
person to exist — the speaker hoped so dire a monster
never did or could — his audience were further to
suppose a foreign Prince, ignorant and unacquainted
with the interests and inclinations of his people.
Supposing such a Prince solely advised by such a
Minister, supported by such a Parliament, what
hope was there for the devoted nation ? None, butin
speedy repentance. By wriggling, intriguing,
bargaining himself into a position to which he was
not called by general suffrage, this wretch had risen
to power. The Prince might yet be enlightened : the
Minister was beyond redemption ; there was no fit fate
for such a scourge but annihilation, thorough and
complete !

Members twittered like birds before a thunderstorm.
Smiling, Walpole rose, and ignoring the
dark-eyed speaker, proceeded to sketch another
portrait, that of the well-known adversary of whom
the enthusiast was merely a mouthpiece.

Dear me,' he said jocosely, with dumpy hands
plunged into waistcoat-pockets, while his fat cheeks
shook. * Wicked Ministers, domineering Ministers,
insolent Ministers ! Sure, they must flourish in some

far-off land visited by Tulliver ! May I go also on
my travels ? I see a most unfortunate country ruled
by another Minister — a fine gentleman, who, supposing
himself to be the only sane man in a community
of lunatics, dubs all the others Blunderer.
This person suffers from a disappointed and malicious
heart, and, gagged himself, shoots forth black poison
through others' mouths ! Permitted by too great
mercy to live in a land wherein he is unfit to dwell,
he uses every art, weighted as he is by the contempt
of all mankind, to sap the fountain from whence that
mercy flowed. He hath been in many lands, and
everywhere made it his trade to betray the secrets of
every court where he had been before. An unfortunate
country in truth, with such a monster !
Worse than my Lord Forfar's picture is mine, for can
there be imagined a greater disgrace to human
nature than such a scoundrel ?'

When he sat down there was a general murmur
of congratulation ; and Ranulph, in his excitement,
rushed to his friend and clasped him warmly by the
hand ; for though invective may be considered by
some an ornament of debate, it was felt by all who
were not madly blinded that Lord Forfar's strictures
were unjust and coarse. 'Twas so unlike himself to
have thus spoken, that men turned on him a pitying
look, which brought the blood welling to his brow.

Wriggling and intriguing,' forsooth ! It was just
like St. John. Walpole was the acknowledged and

trusted leader of the great Whig party, who, though
he might trip, as all fallible men are prone to do, put
faith in his growing administrative eloquence, financial
finesse, tact in the management of men. There
could be no denying that, his hand on the helm, the
country was at peace with its neighbours, and its
commerce on the increase. Gervas was blamed,
therefore, on all sides for the unwarrantable attack ;
and people said openly that ere next he primed his
pupil, Bolingbroke should look at home. 'Twas a
pity so good a mean as Forfar should be so much
under St. John's influence. A crowded chamber
warmly cheered Walpole's retort, and some who had
been chill rallied round him in the hour of insult.

Pulteney, perceiving the egregious mistake that
had been made, ground his teeth and bit his nails in
silence. Gervas felt ashamed ; for he saw now that
he had been snared by his master into direct untruth
untruth that was patent and discernible. A little
untruth that was not discernible, though to be deprecated,
was admissible, for everything must be
suffered for ' the Cause ;' and yet, when he realized
how strongly the tide of opinion was against him,
there entered the mind of the Jacobite a gammer
that perhaps he was himself deceived, pursuing a
corpse-light into a bog.

His lance had shivered in his grasp, and he felt
the tingling of the shock up to the elbow. In the
ordeal by battle, wherein Heaven sides with the right,

he had been worsted. The forlorn-hope was a
failure. The Cause was a right and holy one — the
aforementioned glimmer, that it might possibly be
otherwise, sent a shudder of horror to the roots of
his hair. Oh yes ! it was a right and holy one— it
must be, or his whole life and career were a mistake ;
and any weapons were to be used to achieve its
triumph. But he was unusually perturbed in mind,
and had lost much of his usual serenity when, riding
to Bushey, he passed through the gates of Lord
Belvedere's villa to report progress to Mrs. Belfield.

The forlorn-hope had been the last struggle of the
session, and wearied legislators had left town
lodgings. The King and Queen were at Hampton
Court ; the Duchess at Richmond ; everybody else in
their cots about the river.

Who so wroth as Pamela as she listened to Gervas,
who, bridle over arm, walked slowly up and down
the grass plot and told his tale ? That odious
woman was upstairs at a window, and, if the news
had reached her yet, must be laughing in her sleeve
at them. Gervas was gloomy and mysterious.
What was passing in his mind ? Was he endeavouring
to stifle a doubt in the successful issue of the
Cause ? That would be too terrible ! For had she
not gone too far for retreat ? That tale about the
kidnapping, and the part she was supposed to have
taken in it, had been spread abroad by Bab. At least
Pam suspected it shrewdly, for modish friends were

VOL. II. 30

cold, and giggled behind their fans, though they said
naught. Was it too late for retreat ? Was it advisable
to retreat if possible ? Angels, they say, prefer those
who have fallen and got up again, to those who have
never stumbled. It would not do to retreat, and,
finding herself wrong after all, to fall between two
stools.

Why would this man enwrap himself in mystery ?
How she longed to box his ears ! Somehow since
she had become his spy, and the two had conspired
deliciously in corners, she had grown less afraid of
the Jacobite, although, for obvious reasons, she still
showed her prettiest side to him. What was the
next move to be ? The Dawley junta were discredited.
If the cause was not to rely on something
less unstable than their help, 'twould be better
to give it up. But at the time of the kidnapping he
had unfolded all sorts of plans — or rather had hinted
of the existence of such — which would alone have
justified so startling desperate an expedient as
bottling and corking a Minister.

As they walked up and down and laid their heads
together, Bab looked from the window, cheek on
hand; and was in no mood for laughing, whether in
her sleeve or out of it. The sprig of quality was
drooping in uncongenial soil. That was what ailed
the maid.

'Twas vain to take herself to task about it, to
endeavour by force of will to subdue unruly nature.

Argue as she might, the feeling of discontent was
growing apace. * Must I ahva3's hanker for that I
may not have ?' she kept repeating in vain. To
seek forbidden fruit is a need in woman's life. The
garden of Eden would be a humdrum bore to more
ladies than our first mother, who without the
serpent's tempting would some day have tasted the
apple. What had been the use of praying for a father,
and building up hopes on the possibility of the prayer
being answered ? It was coming home to her, as
it does in time to most of us, that in nine cases out
of ten 'tis presumptuous impertinence in the human
beetle to dare to crave at all. All-seeing Providence
knows best, and 'tis better to accept things as they
are given. The father whom it would have been so
pleasant to obey, when he became a reality turned
out to be — a snuffbox ! ' He would not give his
powder-puff to save my soul,' his daughter thought.
A clever diplomatist he might be ; but his sterling
qualities were so rolled up and wrapped, that 'twas
impossible for the purposes of weekday existence to
pierce the swaddling.

Crazy Charlotte's idle seed was swelling. Did she
not regret Drury Lane ? The question put thus frankly
demanded a reply. There existence had a meaning;
and how much more lively was the Lock of Hair,
with the tittle-tattle of the beaux in curl-papers,
than this damp villa. We never know when we're
well off, she reflected. Time was when amid daily

30 — 2

and hourly incense she had complained that no one
could love the player save from the temporary point
of view. Well, she was no longer a player, buta
lady of fashion received at court ; and how much
was she thereby benefited ? Nobody loved her now,
any more than then. Nothing could be much more
unpleasant than the menage a trots of which she had
formed a part. Her father liked her because she was
admired. Should she take small-pox in a virulent
form, how gladly would he be quit of her !

Pamela's affection was of the spitfire kind which
may be observed at night upon the tiles. And what did
she get in exchange for what she had relinquished ?
Nothing but vexation of spirit and weariness of soul.
True, she had been privileged to save her hero in a
ticklish strait, but she could not expect to be
always saving Walpole ; nay, even if that were
possible, like all else 'twould grow monotonous.
None, that she was aware, was the better for her
existence. That wretched Pamela pacing up and
down below was a disagreeable sight to look upon.
As Bab lugubriously meditated, she grew hot and
angry ; for 'twas provoking to perceive how the
Jacobite was being hoodwinked. Now, had she, Bab,
been gifted with the affections of such a man as that,
how her nature would have ripened and improved ;
what lovely leaves of good would have been unfolded !
But he was too busy with his Cause for overtaking.
Concerning what could he be always chattering

to that malapert ? Were they plotting another
snare under her nose ? Foolish Pamela ! Did she
think that the rosy god would intervene for her
behoof in the midst of her conspiracies ? That was
not likely, thank goodness ! Why should she be
thankful ? What was Gervas to her ? Flushed and
startled, angry with herself, Bab rose and quitted the
window. There was a sound of hoofs upon the
gravel. Walpole and his secretary were riding up
the drive, perceiving whom, Pamela and her conspirator
dived into a side walk and disappeared
among the bushes.

While Sir Robert chatted with Barbara, Mr.
Crump sought out Lord Belvedere. Though Walpole
had turned Bolingbroke's last weapon against
himself, he was far from easy in his mind. Complications
were arising of which the enemy would
take every advantage. The Minister had no doubt
but that he would gain the best of the conflict ; 3'et
it would be a difficult battle, and the harassed
warrior longed for a brief respite wherein to close
the eyes of vigilance and indulge in forty winks.

Riding to Hampton Court, he had resolved to
stop at Bushey, and converse with his little Whig.
Her suggestions were always sensible ; and, at any
rate, 'twould be a comfort to unburden himself.
Oftentimes in explaining a matter to some one else
it becomes the clearer to ourselves ; and the new
looming trouble that now peeped over the horizon

threatened to be tangled and intricate. Trouble
was a hydra — the Excise-head having been chopped
off, there was yet more work to do ; for another was
coming into existence to gnash at him.

The title of which Sir Robert was most proud
was that of ' Minister of Peace.' He had always
striven to keep England out of foreign squabbles
whilst maintaining her dignity intact, and had so far
been successful. But now a circumstance had occurred
which threatened a European war, and the
Dawley junta would certainly leave no effort untried
to drag their enemy into it.

Augustus, King of Poland, was just dead ; and
the crown being elective, two candidates presented
themselves. One was Stanislaus, protected by the
King of France ; the other, son of the deceased,
was befriended by the Austrian Emperor, and the
Czarina of all the Russia. The nucleus, this, of a
very pretty quarrel, such as should find occupation
for all the armies of Europe. England, from her
isolated position, might well hope to keep out of the
melee. But unhappily his Majesty was bellicose ;
for though Britain was cut off by the silver streak,
beloved Hanover was in the midst of the scrimmage,
and unless protected might be a sufferer.

The point concerning which the Minister discoursed
was whether his influence and that of the
Queen, who blindly followed him, were sufficient to
work upon the King when Herrenhausen was in

question. Englishmen were always jealous of the
King's Hanoverian proclivities, and 'twould be a
grievous missile in the hands of the foe at the
general election if they could point to British
armies careering over Europe for the good of the
petty principality.

Bolingbroke and his party were at this moment
plunged into the direst depths of despair ; but so
soon as they should perceive what was in the wind,
they would be up again, forging new arms to plunge
into the hated midriff.

Barbara, with her hands clasped behind her back,
considered.

My advice,' she said presently, ' is to push your
recent tactics of severity yet a step further. I
deprecated the movement at the time, but you were
right. You have found it needful to punish false
friends by thrusting them forth into the cold. My
Lord Bolingbroke wanted t'other day to ship your
worship across seas. Why not imitate so worthy
an example, and drive him across the water ?'

What ! Ship him to the Indies ?' laughed Walpole.


No. Exile him. Dawley is too near London.'

On what plea ? 'Twas a pity he was ever permitted
to come home ; but, being here, he cannot
well be exiled for scurrilous libels in a paper. The
Craftsman always stops just short of actual
treason.'

So long as he is in England you will have no
rest,' rejoined Bab. ' What if there was a Jacobite
plot afoot ? As things are, 'twould be odd if he
were not the head of it.'

No such luck,' replied Walpole, sighing. ' They
are all in my pay, so I know what passes. They are
distressingly somnolent. The Chevalier himself is
always drunk ; his following replete and sleek, and
overfed — with my money.'

*You eagles are so busy scanning the horizon,'
smiled Barbara, ' that what is passing under your
nasal appendage escapes your vision. Which of
the paid spies warned you of your peril t'other
day?'

Sir Robert still appearing incredulous, Bab explained
that Lord Forfar and Mrs. Belfield were
hatching something ; she was sure of it. Otherwise,
what could they have to talk about so often,
and so secretly ? At this very minute they were
hard at work somewhere in the grounds ; their
behaviour exactly what it had been previous to the
kidnapping.

Oh, you women!' cried Sir Robert, with a roar
of laughter. ' You think no one hath charms but
your individual selves. Sure, Mrs. Belfield sees not
an ugly phiz in her own glass, and hath persuaded
the guileless Scotchman ! They are talking of their
wedding, depend upon it.'

Meanwhile, Mr. Crump had found my Lord

Belvedere as uneasy and preoccupied as everyone
else. His valet had laid out a fresh consignment
from France with such artful labour, that 'twould
have been a pity to touch lest the harmony of
garments should be broken. Ten wigs of a row
appealed for admiration on their blocks. A ' story,'
a *bob,' a 'tie,' a 'queue,' a 'George,' a brand-new
full periwig, chef-dUeiivre of Lauder — stood
temptingly in vain.

My lord was morose, and, forgetful of enamel,
crumpled his visage into puckers. Was it not
horrible, having steered a bark cleverly for no
matter how many decades, to find himself capsized
into the water by the female foolishness of his own
flesh ?

The diplomatist was in a quandary, utterly unable
to see his way. He had kept out of the kidnapping
with infinite tact ; had so arranged his attitude as —
in neither of tvv'o contingencies — to be the loser.

Bab had on a memorable occasion covered herself
with glory, and he had expressed his feelings by
kissing her extremest finger-tips.

Pamela had made a fool of herself; but, when
rated, instead of crying pcccavi, had tilted her nose,
and said something impertinent about mumbling
dotards.

'Twas not conceivable that she, acidulated damsel,
should show such aplomb, such self-sacrificing saiu^-
froid, unless there was something behind. What

could there be behind ? Now that he had had time
to study his dating child, 'twas evident that she did
nothing without a reason, and that she was not
one to come to shipwreck on the rock of sentiment.


The boldness of the kidnapping plot was worthy
of commendation. 'Twas the first link of a chain
the rest of which was for the time concealed.

Lord Belvedere argued, as Pamela herself had
argued, that so audacious a thing would not be attempted
unless other qualities were ready wherewith
to follow up the advantage. What could they
be ? After the failure of the plot, Pamela had retained
so calm a front as to deceive even her astute
parent, who gave her credit for knowing more than
she really did.

Given that there was more behind. Sir Robert's
triumph was perhaps temporary ? Like his daughter,
he thought of the two stools ; but in his case the
agony was more acute, for the other daughter was,
in her way, equally sanguine and serene ; and 'twas
vastly disagreeable to be so uncertain as to which of
his children he should cling to, which disown.

Clearly Pamela must be behind the scenes and
know what was going forward, or she never could
keep up that high-bred air of nonchalance. Besides,
something had happened of a strictly private nature,
which had confirmed this view. Lord Forfar had
called on him, and in the coolest fashion had asked

whether at a future period he might claim his
daughter's hand.

Odsheartikins !' her parent had replied, after the
first surprise, ' you may marry her for me ! She
deems herself wiser than her father, and hath a
natural aversion to a husband of his choosing ;
having learnt enough of the world to be thoroughly
disobedient on occasion.'

Knowing her as now he did, Pamela would never
have authorized a poor Scotch lord to ask such a
question unless she was certain of the future. But
then it had suddenly transpired that he had not been
authorized, that before putting the question to the
lady his old-world punctilio had deemed it needful
to obtain the father's consent.

This put Lord Belvedere in a mighty passion. A
consent had been drawn from him under false
pretences. And yet what could he mean by a ' future
time,' except the not too far distant moment when
the King over the water would have his own again ?
And then had come that fiasco in the House. The
man was a visionary — unpractical, dreamy. Lord
Belvedere had also been looking out of window,
quite as much displeased as Barbara ; and had then
and there resolved to speak plainly to the Scotchman.
It would not do for himself and his daughter
to be compromised by dreamy whimsies. Since he
had chosen to put himself in the position of a suitor,
the Jacobite must lay his cards on the table.

What did he propose ? The dowry which could
be scraped together for Mrs. Belfield would not keep
a husband and a crop of children. What were my
lord's prospects ? That he had wasted his patrimony
was notorious.

The sight of Walpole and Crump riding up the
drive at this juncture had exasperated Lord Belvedere
to the pitch of forgetting his enamel, and turning
pettishly from the French consignment.

Here was Walpole — triumphant, at all events,
now. What would he think upon seeing the man
who, after trying to kidnap, had grossly insulted
him, making himself at home on the lawn of one
whom he called friend ? Despite his ingenuity he
would be looked on as one of the false ones, and be
cast into outer darkness along with Cobham, Bolton,
Grafton — he who had been angling so ingeniously to
get fresh employment abroad, or a snug post at
home.

It was a relief when the two absurd delinquents
had the grace to plunge into the bushes. Verily,
Bab was the really clever one. All things considered,
it would be best to stick to her, and make
much of the powers that were.

He was glad to see Mr. Crump, and have a good
talk over affairs ; for he could cope with Crump,
whereas he always had a dim suspicion that
Walpole's honhoniic concealed distrust.

The King had been complimentary at the first

Drawing-room he had attended on his return, so had
Sir Robert. But there had as yet been no mention
of fresh employment ; and 'twas now some months
since he had left the Hague. Being a man of the world,
he had long learnt the lesson that the servants of
great men are greater men ; that to get well within
the doors of the powerful you must cringe to the
porter, pay your devoirs to the gentleman, and must
smile for half an hour on the footman ere you can
hope for a nod from the master.

Thus was it that his own household, as representative
of majesty abroad, had been managed; and,
so that he could gain an object in view, he had no
objection himself to truckle. So he embraced Mr.
Crump with a salute on both cheeks, and gave his
attention to that worthy.

Honest Jack explained the position of affairs
abroad lucidly ; and my lord, who at first nursed a
leg, and reflected with one eye closed that the calves
of his stockings might be padded with advantage the
thickness of a crown-piece less, was soon entirely
absorbed in the more serious subject.

Here was a new light thrown, and a vivid one !
Might its radiance assist the wight who groped in
the dusky labyrinths of State ?

When Gervas made his fiasco in the House, he
knew nothing of this Polish difficulty — ergo, St. John
knew naught of it, or he would have used it in preparing
the attack. Why, what a caldron was on the

fire ! France, of course, would go all lengths to
support the father of France's queen, Stanislaus.
On the other hand, Austria would invade Silesia ;
Russia would pour an army over Lithuania. What
of Holland, Hanover, the Rhine ?

The diplomatist came to the front, the beau fell
into the background ; and Crump looked upon Lord
Belvedere as he was, unshackled by lace and velvet.
He saw a wrinkled old man in a handsome brocade
dressing-gown and nightcap wig, whose little eyes
were as bright as a ferret's, while his thin lips were
wreathed in caustic smiles. Could he, Crump, get
round this astute old schemer ? Yes ; by playing on
his selfishness. Crump was no fool, neither, despite
his lack of book-learning, save in his unsuccessful
love adventure.

Cardinal Fleury, Chief Minister of France, whilst
pretending as deep-seated a fondness for peace as
Walpole, could not but be carried by the stream.

'Don't trust him!' rapped out the diplomatist.
Double-faced and slippery. What of the King ?
There lies the point.'

No doubt,' acquiesced Honest Jack, ' all Germans
have a natural aversion to the French. As
Hanoverian Elector he will lean to his German
chief, the Emperor, and take sides against Stanislaus.
And yet a war about a King of Poland, at a time
when the elections are coming on, would be mighty
hazardous for us. Hence, there will be no war — in

spite of the efforts of Opposition, to whom no fuel
could be so effectual to fan the flame of discontent —
until the elections are well over. England will allow
the dogs to fight over the bone for a time, and then
come forward as arbitrator. Meanwhile each power,
hoping to win the English King to friendship, will
allow his subjects to exercise their commerce freely.
After receiving favours on all hands, while others
receive blows, the British authorities will be able, in
opulence and prosperity, to give favour to those who've
brought themselves to poverty and distress. This is
Sir Robert's plan, which he unfolded to me as we
rode hitherward.'

Ingenious,' thought the diplomatist appreciatively.
Can I doubt which is the stronger ?'

The Jacobites have made so many false steps of
late,' continued Crump, ' that no one trusts them.
The Court of Vienna has already sent to us to ask
for succour ; also to the United Provinces. No one
should know better than your lordship what will bethe
answer from the States-general. London and
the Hague must act in concert ; and to that end a
sagacious envoy must forthwith and secretly go
thither. Who better fitted than Lord Belvedere to
revisit his old campaigning ground ; and, having
helped to work out a particularly difficult problem,
receive a grateful country's thanks ?'

My lord blinked with ferret-eyes upon the speaker.

Opposition, though foiled for a moment, is strong,'

he observed doubtfully. * Am I to understand that
this visit of yours is an massage ?'

Crump returned his glance and smiled.

The swell of the sea continues after the storm is
over,' he remarked. ' I have much credit with Sir
Robert, or could not speak so plainly. But we do
nothing for nothing in this world.'

So ! 'Twas to be a compact between my lord and
the secretary, who was set to sound him. No
wonder that his loyalty should be thought doubtful,
after Pamela's unwisdom. On the report of the
secretary much might depend.

An appointment to so delicate a mission,' said
the diplomatist, ' is worth much. Past services are
often dumb. How shall I repay this one ?'

By the gift of your daughter,' replied Crump, so
quietly as to take my lord's breath away.

What !' he gasped. ' To whom ?'

*To me.'

Lord Belvedere recovered himself, and said, with
an arch leer :

Get ! You're a liquorish dog, step my vitals,
and would snap high ! There are too many who
gape for favours without chance of a return ; and
yet methinks this one would be dearly paid. Miss
Belfield '

'May go hang herself for me!' roughly retorted
Crump, who chafed under the old beau's sneer.
Give me Barbara, and I am your devoted servant.'

My lord was genuinely staggered. Mr. Crump's
position was, to outward seeming, a good one, and
improving daily. This very conversation showed the
consideration in which he stood with Sir Robert.
That one so far-seeing and adroit as Walpole would
eventually get the better both of the dreamers and
the malicious was now so patent to his lordship that
he wondered how he ever could have doubted it.
'Twas as though scales had fallen from his eyes. To
marry the Honourable Pamela to such a man as
Crump was out of the question — indeed, the damsel
herself would have words to say on that subject — but
he would do well enough for Bab who, if charming,
suffered under a disadvantage. The match would
be most fitting, for was not she the ally of the
Minister, while her proposed husband was his trusted
agent ?

Lord Belvedere cheerfully gave his consent, and
felt a weight taken off his mind. Heads or tails ?
Heads it was — Sir Robert's. A private and convenient
moment must be chosen to trounce the benighted
Belfield and send the Scotchman packing.

Sir Robert and his secretary mounted and rode
onward to Hampton Court ; and Gervas, having
waited till they were well away, got on his horse
and trotted Dawleywards.

Pamela, when she emerged from the bushes, was
radiant. Gervas, skilfully played, had been landed,
and being brought to book by the calculating fair

VOL. II. 31

before she would whisper ' yes,' had, under seal of
strictest secrecy, made a clean breast of hopes and
plans and aspirations. She was right. Of course,
all along she had been right. 'Twas so like the
fatuity of vain dotards to drone and cry out, ' Beware !'
The plot, as in its ramifications she saw it clearly
now, was a splendid one, and bound to be successful
if slowly and cautiously carried out. Gervas was
in constant intercourse with James III. — had
money-bonds of his in his pocket, which she had
seen and fingered. Everything was going as
smoothly as possible, and 'twas for the best that
Walpole and his myrmidons should be lulled into a
seeming security by an evanescent triumph, while
the ground was being delved from under their
feet.

Gervas, with his vampire smile, had said that for
her sake he would be worldly. What a puss it was
to care for such things ! A dukedom, and pelf to
gild the coronet ? Of course, he could not and
would not make stipulations on the subject, but
solemnly promised to work on James's gratitude
while it was warm. When comfortably seated on
the throne, he would no doubt say to those who had
placed him there, ' What do you wish ? Substantial
service deserves reward.'

'Twas the old story. In putting forth his eloquence
to persuade her that all was well, he had persuaded
himself. The vague qualms of which he had been fitfully

conscious were felt no more. He was to strain
each nerve to tightest tension ; she was to do the like,
and in course of time the ripened plot would burst
upon the town, and among other wonders the new
Duke and Duchess would appear and amaze the
lieges. 'Twas a pity, he reflected as he rode along,
that she should lay so much stress upon money
and coronet ; 'twas earthy, and rather spoiled the
picture of ethereal bliss that he was contemplating.
And then he laughed softly and tenderly. Like
all girls, she loved gewgaws ; was unusually careful
and methodical ; would make th best of spouses
for one who confessed himself wanting in the
wisdom of the children of Mammon. He must not
blame her. Had he not explained to himself long
ago that, embittered b}^ circumstance, she would,
under the fostering warmth of his loving care, shake
off the brown-nipped leaves that marred the
plant ?

Lord Forfar was satisfied as he rode Dawleywards ;
and so was Pamela as, emerging from the secluded
v/alk, she was stealing to her chamber to indulge in
golden day-dreams of ambition and success. Oh
fall of fairy palace ! Oh crumbling of heaven-reaching
towers made of cloud ! Lord Belvedere summoned
her into his sanctum among the wigs and fop-covers,
and, with scant respect for her radiant visage, his
speech was brief and unvarnished. The harsh
shrill tones of the Honourable Pamela soon rose

31—2

above his sharp ones, and there was such a clatter
that the Hastening valet fled appalled. Was the fair
disconsolate ? did she sigh, and moan, and plead,
and melt in harrowing protestations ? Not a bit of
it. With arms akimbo, and tongue which in its
blunt knowledge of what it should not know even
astonished her papa, she returned him — pit-a-pat — a
Roland for his Oliver ; and then with throat and lips
convulsed, and brow as black as night, she whisked
like a fury from his presence. Did she seek her room
like a wounded animal stealing to the covert ? No,
She dashed into the chamber of her sister, who,
expecting no evil, was sipping Chinese drink, her
mind bent on foreign war and home politics.
Hoighty-toighty ! The fight was come at last which
both combatants had long foreseen. They had
walked warily round each other ever since that
first night when Bab was taken home ; had executed
feints and sly manoeuvres ; had saluted, and stamped,
and lunged, and recovered, and stood with rapier
poised and courteous simpers. But here was the
tug of war, and Bab, quietly depositing her cup, was
charmed.

And so, you jumping beggarly whining mountebank
!' cried Pamela, out of breath, but sparkling
with ire, ' what have we done that, falling like a
shadow of ill upon a peaceful house, you should
be an abiding curse ? My father and I would have
jogged on well enough, but for your baleful presence.

I have borne more — much more — than a woman of
rank and spirit should. Who are you ? A cozening
forgery, born of some hedge-drab, dropped from Lord
knows where, to sicken us with pinchbeck graces !'

Your servant !' retorted Bab, with a cold scorn
that set Pamela's blood tingling. ' I will study
polite manners from your ladyship.'

Your fostering Mostyns and braggart train of
Mohock debauchees,' pursued Mrs. Belfield, ' have
turned your silly head ! You raddled image ! what
have we done that you should set us by the
ears ?'

What is my crime ?' inquired Bab, with a sweet
smile ; for 'twas vastly pleasant to see how ugly her
sister looked when torn with rage. * Is it my fault
that I should have read you from the first as you
really are ? A living lie — a cold scheming coquette
in every wicked limb ?'

'You mushroom skipjack!' jeered Mrs. Belfield.

Faugh ! What a slimy snake !' retorted her
sister.

I'll— I'll— wash thy face with thy tea !' hissed
quivering Pamela.

You who were not born under a hedge,' scoffed
naughty Bab, 'where, pray, did you learn depravity
? The quality care not what's said of
'em, since there's no need for shame under a mask
of brass.'

Puffed by a dotard's whim, you have forgot your

station. Though bastards are only fit for concubines,
my father in his goodness hath provided you
a spouse. Leave mine alone, then.'

Your spouse — and mine ?' cried Bab, astounded.

You've set my father, mischievous trull, to rob
me of my lord ; but 'twill be vain.'

Your lord — I !' gasped Mrs. Pilot.

Dost think I'm blind ?' sneered Mrs. Belfield ;
I've watched and laughed to see you worm for
him ; barefaced effrontery ! That he of all men
should swallow a bend sinister !'

Bab being apparently struck dumb, Pamela pursued
her advantage as, with nervous laughter, she
picked her fan to shreds.

I protest 'tis diverting. Lord Forfar of all men 1
You were a madwoman to dream that one so proud
would stain his scutcheon ! Patience, poor hussy,
for I love him not. Anon I'll freely hand him over
to your ladyship if you aspire to the post of mistress.'

The colour was ebbing slowly from the face of her
antagonist, as with lips apart she clasped her hands
over her bosom, so Pamela pushed briskly forward
into the country of the foe.

The spider,' she tittered, ' would gobble all the
flies! Why not be bachelor's wife to Medlicote, if
he will have you ? Matrimony and Crump will be
dull to one so rakish.'

Crump !' ejaculated the other, turning from
white to red.

No need for shuffling ! My father hath told me
that you are promised to the uncouth fellow.'

*Gervasl' gasped Bab. 'Lord Forfar hath proposed
— to you '

And is accepted. Gervas indeed ! Insolent
wench ! He hath asked me to be his, and shall be,
despite your malice. He shall know that you've sighed
for him in vain, and then what diversion for him and
me ! But Lard ! we shall be a modish couple, and I
not jealous, for I despise him. To hob and nob with
one so fatuous would make one die of yawning!'

Is it indeed so ?' Bab replied slowly. ' Ill-starred,
unhappy man — worthy of a kinder fate !'

There was a profound contempt and mournful
conviction of certain misfortune as result of a match
with Pamela in Mrs. Pilot's tones, more hard to
bear than bandied epithets.

Stung to the quick, Mrs. Belfield murmured, * You
impudent slut I' and banged out of the chamber.

With which lay the victory ? The Honourable
Pamela had suddenly retreated from the field ; but
Mrs. Pilot was desperately buffeted.

Left alone, she sat her down to think ; but 'twas
long ere whirling thoughts would take coherent
shape.

It was not mere plotting then, as she had supposed.
Gervas, the true and upright, had asked
this wicked woman to tie herself to him — for life I
He loved her, then ? How could he ?

Oh, silly, silly men !' she murmured, * who enter
the torture-chamber of their own free will with open
eyes, and place their bodies on the rack — deliberately
! And yet, sillier women we, who kneel before
these silly men in worship !'

Pamela was to wed Gervas, and was preparing a
well-seasoned tissue of falsehoods to hold her sister
up to ridicule ! What did it matter ? She knew
that he liked her not — but oh ! how humbling to
pride would be that tale ! That the nameless one
had raised her eyes to him and given her heart
where 'twas not wanted ! To a pampered beauty
how humiliating ! And could she deny that it was
true ? No ! There came the sharpest pinch.
It was quite true ! The moth had flitted round the
light and burnt its wings. The kind Duchess had
warned her — but with steady arrogance she had declined
to see. Alack, alack ! She saw it now — too
late. ' You must not stand between them,' her
Grace had said. Had she desired to stand between
? Not knowingly. If he loved that base
girl, let him take her and be happy ! Then
with rising self-contempt she felt he would be
wretched, an that she would be glad of it. How
mean and low 1 ' In my inmost soul I long for his
undoing — much I must love him then !' she pondered.
And that other news, which had been the coup de
grace.

Lord Belvedere, without a word of warning, had

promised her to Crump ! By what right ? What
prodigious impertinence ! Was she, who had been
the accepted goddess, with all London grovelling
at her feet, to be suddenly taken possession of by a
despicable old pantaloon whom, until lately, she had
never seen, and given irresponsibly away to the
premier venu, like a bit of cheese ? Talk of white
slaves, forsooth !

With fierce indignation Bab rose up, determined
to favour her papa with some such passage of arms
as he had recently enjoyed with Pamela. She would
give him a piece of her mind, which should serve for
good and ail. Anything like the presumption of the
men, who think that women were made to walk
chained and gagged in the procession of their
triumph ! But she, Bab, would let him know that
her place was in the chariot, not marching by its
wheels.

And Crump, too ! The man who had insulted
her on the night of her party, who had candidly
admitted having fought against his love. Crump,
whose shilly-shally wavering and inexplicable indecision
had turned her indifference into dislike, and
a settled resolve never to hearken to his pleading.
And now — without being in anywise consulted — to
be quietly handed over to this person — just when
she had made that other dread discovery !

Never — never — never ! Reviewing the past, Barbara
set her teeth ; and, crossing her arms, paced

the room with rapid strides. Ill-conditioned Pamela
had been cruel and rough, but what she said was
true. What right had she, Barbara, to intrude in a
house in the character of kill-joy, and set its inmates
by the ears ? She had no place there, and never
would. She could never be more than the stranger
within the gates — on sufferance. If anyone had an
evil-eye 'twas she, not crazy Charlotte. And yet,
she had never asked to be taken from the stage.
Why will busybodies meddle with our fortunes ?

Lord Belvedere had once meant kindly, doubtless
; but, from his alacrity in closing with the first
bidder, was clearly tired of a whim. Yes ! 'Twas
a whim — no more; for there was no love possible
between the two. And this was the end of the
dream — of the longing to find a father !

How right was the vixen Belfield ! As she swept
across the room, Barbara's long-smouldering resentment
and dissatisfaction with her condition kindled
and shot up into a flame, lurid and scorching, while
a dark frown knitted her straight brows. What had
she done to be so evilly entreated ? For so 3'Oung a
girl to be called upon to fight the world alone was
bad enough ; but to be hampered by two despicable
parents, who persisted in interfering with her
volition, was intolerable. What parents ! The one,
a callous, selfish, superannuated debauchee ; the
other, the worst of hypocrites. And why had she
been cursed by such a nature as was hers, if condemned

to fight alone ? A nature possessed by a
shuddering horror of poverty ; an instinctive dread
of all that's mean and sordid ? And what was she
to do now ? Obey ? Never ! Fight ? Aye ! tooth
and nail — to the death, if need were.

Certainly she would fight ; accept of no husband
at such a father's hands ; admit of no allegiance.
For what benefits was she bound by gratitude to
either parent ? None. Both had left her in neglect
when guiding care was needed. Her mother had
made a lure of her — a means to line a nest withal.
My lord, when he found his child admired, had
deigned to patronize.

A sickening sense of choking rose in spasms to
her throat as, with quivering white lips and hot dry
eyes, Bab looked at her presentment in the mirror.
Alone — utterly alone — beauty and sharp wits her
weapons. The world had been good for a brief
while ; and, as usual, fickle Fortune was weary of
her toy. The weather-vane was turning to the east
balmy zephyrs to nipping wintry blasts.

Barbara Pilot was not made of meek enduring
stuff — to be thankful for a sunday, then bend before
the storm. Certainly not. If the Fates chose to
make a plaything of her, she would scratch and
bite ; they might break her heart, but not her spirit.
Such weapons as were hers should be sharpened for
the fray.

I will go I The kill-joy shall trouble them no

more,' she said aloud, nodding to the angry face
that nodded back at her. ' A mushroom skipjack,
am I ? A spider, devourer of flies ? Perhaps.
Since I must fight, I will, without quarter or
remorse. Beelzebub my only master !'

A devil peeped out of the eyes opposite, and
clinched the compact. Dormant at first, then
worming through the crust, vague discontent and
chafing wrestled to the front, forced themselves into
notice.

Barbara surveyed the bubbling scum that was
rising to the surface of her heart with sullen calm,
and felt relieved. To have hearkened to the complaining
voices which now found vent in articulate
sounds was a satisfaction. Her resolution was taken
—irrevocably taken ; to be acted upon at once, thus
saving vain argument and parley.

With whom should I argue or discuss ?' she
reflected, with increasing acerbity.
Was she not free as air, to do as pleased her
fancy ? Independent quite ? Who more delighted
than the patentees to have her back again ? But at
thought of the stage she sickened. The falseness
of that tinselled life, with its cohorts of evil passions
unleashed ! She had gauged its hollowness and puny
heart-burnings. The exacting goddess Art ! Fiddle-sticks
! The goddess Sham !

Disgusted as she was with everything and everyone
— most of all herself — 'twould be impossible

again to mouth those buckram platitudes. Quite
impossible ! Invincible repugnance stood 'twixt her
and Drury Lane. No ! She was tingling and burning
with a longing desire to fight — to revenge herself
on the stuck-up pinchbeck world which treated her
so ill. Was it not treating her outrageously ill to
dress her for a moment in borrowed trappings,
and then deny her claim to be part and parcel
of itself?

'Twould be needful in the first place to earn a
living. How since 'twas out of the question to reappear
upon the stage ? With whom should she
abide — whom consult ? Walpole, old friend, would
disapprove the plan, and offer untimely counsel —
better to avoid it for the present, at least. Pamela
had gibed about the Miss Mostyns, champion
desires, who also were alone in the world. Why
should not they and she unite ? Yes ; that was it.
She would seek out her mother again for a few
weeks — the hypocrisy of that beldame jumped with
her present humour ; and the move would, besides,
stop any action of her father's. Ladies of highest
quality — even the Duchess of Queensberry herself —
kept card-tables, and none thought the worse of
them. Here was an idea ! Why should not she
and Crimp and Cramp and Crumpling set up a
Faro Bank ? 'Twould fill their pockets, occupy
their time, and revenge them all four upon Society.

After his scene with Mrs. Belfield, Lord Belvedere,

BARBARA Pilot.

who above all things disliked feminine sulks, kept
his apartment, refusing to come to supper. The
two ladies equally deprecated a tete-astute, so the
three members of this happy family took victuals in
solitary grandeur, and Bab was glad to think there
soon would be an end on't.

TILTING AT WINDMILLS.'

RS. PHILPOT's sudden freak, so soon
as it became known, produced curiously
different effects upon different minds.
At first, my Lord Belvedere knew not
what to think when his terrified valet informed him
that the bird was flown. With whom had the wilful
soul gone off? was his first question. Then, his
thoughts reverting to his precious self, he felt
aggrieved. Having arranged her future to suit his
own interests, 'twas annoying that the maid should
kick up her heels in frowardness.

Doth not the ungracious losel know who begat
her ?' he grumbled. * Doth naught become a father
but forgiveness ? No authority, no correction ? Is
she to offend, and I to pardon ? How vapid ! Yet
she was a brilliant creature whom one could not but
admire; and 'twas just like that foolish, stupid,
insolent Pamela to make vet further mischief. What

have I done,' groaned my lord, for the hundredth
time, 'to be clogged with such offspring?'

Wayward and independent by nature and education,
Bab was doubtless annoyed by some blunt
statement of her sister's — some malicious lie. Sure
she would not thus run off because her hand had
been promised by her parent ? 'Twas but a tantrum,
and by-and-by she would return.

This view of the matter did not at all suit Mrs.
Belfield, whose heart beat with exultation when she
realized the enemy's defeat. Return ? Never, if
Pamela could prevent it. The kill-joy had shut the
door upon herself; it must be the business of her
dear sister to secure it with bolts and locks.

Forcing her unwelcome presence one day upon
my lord, she announced demurely that there was
news of the mountebank. She was not, thank
goodness, quite so abandoned as had at first .appeared.
At present, she was not dwelling with any
man, but had gone to abide with her mamma.

The shot went home.

What !' shrieked Lord Belvedere. ' The ungrateful
irreclaimable baggage !'

The one person with whom Barbara had been
solemnly forbidden to hold intercourse was Madam
Walcot. 'Twas no freak, then ; but a deliberate
graceless flying in the face of authority. My lord
was furious.

Une Bohemian aux bouts des ongles /' he muttered.

with a coruscation of expletives ; and, shutting himself
up among his periwigs, pampered his rage, and
nursed his disappointment.

With a show of artless dismay, Mrs. Belfield informed
Mr. Crump, when he galloped to Bushey
to inquire into the truth of the rumour, that 'twas all
her fault — alack, alack ! Who could have guessed
that the girl so loathed Sir Robert's secretary ? Her
innocent and loving sister Pam had told her as a
pleasant surprise that Mr. Crump had formally proposed
in decorous fashion to her father, and been
accepted ; and, instead of weeping tears of joy,
she had rushed about like a fury, vowing that if
she must go to church it should be in a coffin.
Kind Mr. Crump must be indulgent to the poor
misguided spoilt thing, since purses may not be
made out of sows' ears.

Honest Jack turned red, and abruptly went his
way. So 'twas irreducible dislike of his person that
had caused the uproar ? And yet he was not un-comely
or misshapen ; while as for his fortunes,
they were improving. He rode moodily back to
town, more resolved than ever that she should be his
some day.

Barbara Pilot shall be mine — I swear it !' he
cried aloud, lashing his astonished quadruped.
Woe to her if she be over-obstinate ; for moderate
delay increases hunger, but over-fasting palls the
appetite !'

VOL. II. 32

Barbara's friends had cause for uneasiness, for, in
truth, she suddenly appeared to be another woman ;
and none possessed the key to the metamorphosis.
The change, indeed, had been gradual, though unperceived.
The slow growth of the canker that had
been gnawing at her heart, embittering the sweetness
of her nature, caused its stealthy advance to pass
unperceived.

On the top of other disappointments it had burst
on her with appalling and humiliating suddenness
that her proud heart had escaped unawares, had
fluttered to a shrine already occupied, had been
bestowed upon one who would only spurn and fling
it back at her.

Haughty always, and undisciplined, with no staff
whereon to lean, she reeled under the shock. And
promised, too, to Crump — culminating outrage !

The fountain of tears was dried by a feeling of
rebellion against unmerited disaster. If the world
had been kind, so would she have been. But the
world was harsh and cruel and unjust. Out on it !
'Twixt it and her war was to be waged henceforth.


Packing her valuables — jewels, laces — in a bundle,
she turned her back on the dreary Bushey villa, and
fairly took away the breath of her mother by quietly
emerging from a hackney-coach at the door of the
Richmond toy-shop.

Since Bab had become a fine lady Madam Walcot

had returned to her old home, and had purged herself
of the contamination of the theatre by the
warbling of many hymns. But somehow, although
she sat again in the seat of the self-righteous, trade
was not benefited thereby, however much her soul
might be.

The sparks about the Well cared not to gaze on
elderly madam's virtue, came no more to purchase
useless knickknacks, or loll en deshabille in the back-shop.
Dark, bewitching, scornful Barbara was no
longer there to crumple them up with gibe and
repartee, to walk with dainty tread over their forms
as they abjectly prostrated them ; and madam was
secretly annoyed with herself for her folly at that
supper-party.

Hymns fill no stomachs. As we descend the hill,
the fleshpots from fascinating luxuries become
ranged among life's necessaries. 'Tis shocking to
have one's offspring on the stage, no doubt; but
bank-bills and costly gifts are not without a
charm.

'Twas with unfeigned delight, therefore, that
Madam Walcot embraced her child, and Barbara
would possibly have been melted by the genial
welcome, if she had not already tasted of her
mother's hypocrisy, and perceived at once her motive
for the welcome.

Old times were come again, chirped the dame.
The darling girl had thought better of her unkind

32—2

desertion ; the past should be forgot, and ties of
ancient affection be renewed.

But Bab, sore and disgusted, bluntly cut her
mother short.

The past may never come again,' she said curtly.
I am here for a few days if you will have me. If
not, I will be off at once.'

Harsh and undutiful, but no matter. Do not our
parents always love us better than we them ? Madam
Walcot was proud of so fine an occasion for a display
of the Christian virtues.

Pho !' scoffed Barbara, 'we are not undutiful if
we can help it ; if we can't, sure 'tis not our fault.'

This was very bad. If not to stay, why come at
all? for 'twas certain that the visit could not be
approved by my lord, who was a son of Belial.
What were the maiden's plans ? 'Twas to be hoped
she had done with mumming ?

I am going to set up for myself in town, and
enjoy life,' the girl said, with Calm effrontery. * Perchance
the Miss Mostyns will unite with me. We
will set up a Faro Bank, and fleece the quality.'

Madam Walcot sat with sleek hands folded in her
lap in speechless consternation. The wench was
mad. Live with blackness and desires ! What
was the theatre to this ? So young and lovely, and
so wicked ! Her father's child. True daughter of
that son of Belial.

Perceiving the maiden's mood, the dame had the

wit to refrain from preaching, contenting herself
with a sad murmur like the fretting of the sea. ' So
long as you please to stop you will be welcome,' she
sighed. ' Madam Rich and I will pray for you.'

If Bab had ever thought of dwelling permanently
with her mother again, the idea would have been
quickly discarded. The act of tearing the mask from
her own visage had not improved the old lady ;
neither had the necessity of making her own toilsome
way, unassisted by a beautiful decoy.

A poor gentlewoman hath many slights to bear.
The shop not proving so lucrative as of yore, she
strove to increase its allurements by the addition of an
ordinary, at a moderate rate ; but the beaux declined
to accept elder wine as hermitage, or to believe that
a gammon of bacon was a Bayonne ham sent
specially by a grateful young nobleman on his polite
tour. Moreover, as Bab was not long in discovering,
the disappointed lady applied sometimes for consolation
to strong waters, as blighted people will, which
habit growing on her, she was wont to appear at
dinner-time exceedingly disordered, and consequently
incautious.

With wrath Mrs. Pilot beheld one day the
stalwart figure of Honest Jack hanging about the
Green, and presently surprised the tail-end of a
colloquy, wherein Jack was heard to say, ' Keep
watch over her. On my honour I promise to pay
handsomely.' To which the old lady sneered, ' I

know your sham promises too well, and respect your
honour too highly to have it left in pawn.'

What could be the meaning of Jack's attitude ?
Her mother was in his pay, then ? For years he had
hovered, pretending furtive love ; then had come
that audacious night-visit at the Lock of Hair:
then retreat and bootless sighs ; then a demand inform
; and now he was suborning her mother
secretly. Even had her heart still been her own,
how could she give it to a man who was so crooked
and mysterious in his infirmity of purpose ? No.
Whate'er befell, she would not be Madam Crump ;
and since he was trying to work on her through
Madam Walcot, 'twould be well to depart forthwith.

Crimp, Cramp and Crumpling were delighted with
Barbara's proposal. 'Twould be delicious to establish
petits slippers, to gather round the board all that
was gay and glittering, and as sinful as possible, and,
turning night into day, live instead of vegetating.
But there were difficulties which doubtless dear Bab,
whose brains and energies were sufficient for the
whole party, would easily get over.

The Mostyn ladies were fain to let their dear
friend know that they lived above their income, including
what they made at cards. Hence they
possessed no available sum for preliminary outlay ;
and to ensure success there must, at the start, be no
signs of cheese paring. With a harsh laugh the
ex-Diva vowed it mattered not. She had thought

it out, and perceived that unless a house was to be
divided against itself, 'twas clear there must be one mistress.
She would be that mistress, and the Mostyns
should give their countenance and make the evenings
lively. Alone than that she would not exact from them.
A young and beautiful actress of renown could not be
without many followers. Old flames would come forward
and help. Moreover, had she not from time to
time received many gifts of jewellery ? The costly tokens
should go to the hammer. By-and-by, when money
poured into the bank, they could be re-purchased, or
new ones bought. Meanwhile, loveliness must be
sufficient to itself, unadorned by diamonds.

To fevered blood inaction is madness, and Bab
was burning for the battle. When fashion returned to
town for the winter season, yearning for some fresh excitement,
the welcome news spread like wildfire that
a star had risen in their midst again, the brighter for
eclipse, who was to kill the laggard hours more
effectively than in the past. Mrs. Pilot had been
delightful, writhing in agonies upon the boards ; how
much more delicious in a sumptuously appointed
mansion, with the incomparable Gounda for her own
private cook !

Sure she must have found the purse of Fortunatus ;
have dipped into Golconda. A fine house in modish
Golden Square showed a face as bright with new paint
as that of any duchess, its portals open temptingly.
Two mute unsmiling lackeys of vast height, paired like

coach-horses, stood, blind and deaf, within the hall.
Half-a-dozen negroes, bought at the Virginia Coffee
House, were grouped in Oriental costume on the
stairs. The drawing-rooms were hung with crimson
satin, furnished with curtains and shutters so thick as
to keep out noise and daylight. In the Ring of an
afternoon an exalted phaeton swept past other equipages,
and from the triumphal car of Folly there
looked down a woman, exquisitely dressed, with a
black boy by her side wearing a silver collar ; and as
she flicked her team of romans she bowed right and
left with winning smiles and inclinations, and invited
guests to her assembly.

'That's Fortune's pampered child,' folks whispered,
as she swept past in a cloud of dust ; and, in truth,
it seemed so. Past successes were snuffed out by
the radiance of the gorgeous present ; and people
who called at the new house were staggered by
what they saw there.

Apparently the Diva never slept. Though 
were popping all the night, with morning
commenced a procession of mantua-makers,
china-sellers, milliners, fiddlers, monkey vendors.
Gentlemen in undress dropped in for chocolate. If
the Icvec at the Lock of Hair had been a crowded
gathering, now 'twas like the birthday Drawing-room.
And when she was attired, the Diva would go out
a-shopping, in a gilt chair with damask curtains, and
bearers in gold lace — such an equipage that her

Grace of Queensberry said with a sniff, ' My dear,
you travel on a dozen feet, like a caterpillar !'

As might be guessed, the Duchess and other
reputable friends of highest ton disapproved of these
proceedings, and shook their heads and pursed their
lips ; the which perceiving, Mrs. Belfield sighed and
bleated excuses for her sister.

'Tis mere spirit,' she said. ' If a girl hath not
spirit, how cope with men ? For both auction and
play are beset with prowling lions, seeking to gobble
innocence.'

The kind Duchess, who, since Mr. Gay's demise
and the tangled state of politics, appeared less and
less frequently in public, was much exercised anent
the change in her favourite. There was a lurid flash
about the dark eyes, haggard lines about the mouth,
which it pained her friend to see. What could it all
mean ? She dropped in one day to have it out with
Barbara, and was treated with such scant courtesy
that she had much ado to control her imperious
temper.

Your Grace,' the flippant damsel cried, ' kept
card-tables not long since, and was not too proud to
pocket other people's money. Sure I'm right to
follow in such noble footsteps. I love cards — I
adore them — as who doth not ? Would that my
whole life could be one party of quadrille !'

This was saucy, but her Grace would enter a
protest ere she went.

'What I do and what you do are two different
things,' she remarked stiffly. ' You keep the very
worst of titled company, are the prey of frippery-women,
attendants on females of the lowest stamp.
Having no private fortune, you certainly will come
to rue it ; and when you are irretrievably undone,
will whine to us for succour.'

I whine !' echoed Bab fiercely. ' I am prouder
than your Grace, I warrant, for I stay under no
one's roof unwelcome !'

The Duchess rose to withdraw, but as she looked
on Barbara her just resentment softened.

Poor wench !' she murmured. ' How shall we
minister to this mind diseased ? — for sure it must be
disease. You'll be sorry for what you said just
now !'

Sufficient unto the day then !' cried Bab, touching
the bell. ' Summon her Grace's chairmen ; and
bring me some cinnamon water, or surfeit water, or
any water. Quick ! for I'm horribly disordered.
What I said just now? — last night! — last year!
I've the worst of memories, thank God !'

'Twas natural that others besides the Duchess
should turn to the ex-actress a cold shoulder. When,
in the zenith of her stage success, the elite had taken
her up, 'twas always in a patronizing way. During
the brief period of her fine-lady's they patronized
her still, for Sir Robert and the Queen were civil,
and Lord Belvedere took her to his home. But

now affairs were changed. My lord, rumour said,
had been compelled to turn out a cuckoo hussy who
disgraced his nest. She appeared no more at Court,
and, despite these manifest disadvantages, had the
impudence to set up house on the same level with
themselves, flaunting abroad with as much brazen
aplomb as a genuine countess on the Mall !

The Duchess had delivered the verdict of the
quality when she said, ' What you do and what I do
are different things.' Hence, though many ladies
condescended to eat Gounda's masterpieces, and to
appear in the saloons of Golden Square to gather
guineas, they laughed at their hostess behind her
back, and prophesied a speedy downfall.

But these spiteful prophecies showed little sign of
fulfilment, and Mrs. Belfield was beside herself with
rancour. Old Ambassador Hastang and little Lord
Byron, among others, came to the front, and hovered
more assiduously than ever. Hastang or one of the
Mostyns generally dealt, and the bank always won.
The petits soupers drew together all that was gay and
unthinking ; laughter pealed incessantly, and the
sobriquet of ' Fortune's favoured child,' as applied
to Bab, seemed justified.

But as time went on, and her feverish energy
increased rather than diminished, some mischievous
wight invented a new nickname, which was hailed
with acclamation. ' Queen Beelzebub !' Sure
come demon must occupy that delicate form, for

human strength would long since have succumbed
to the continuous strain.

She inaugurated hops for such as had enough of
cards ; instructed Lord Byron to purchase hunters,
and rode to hounds in a habit of green and gold. As
the fair vision scudded through the air, with straight
brows bent and black locks flowing, and the pallid
little lord scampering after, the country people
shrank back alarmed ; for there was something uncanny
about the stern indifference with which she
set her horse at prodigious obstacles, reins swinging
loose, regardless of life and limb.

As for Lord Byron, that threadbare was shrivelled
and wizened into yet tinder compass by scorching
spasms of admiration. In his blear eyes there was a
devilish awful halo now about the shapely head. If
before she was a charmer, now she was sublime — unearthly
— and he was frightened of her ; the which,
in one so reckless and above vulgar prejudice as that
nobleman, was the loftiest form of worship. Whoso
open-handed as Queen Beelzebub ? Easy come
and easy go. If money poured into the bank, it
tumbled quickly out again.

Beggars who hung about the doors were not afraid
of the tall footmen, for those magnificent creatures
knew that if they were to be deaf and blind to the
conduct of their betters, the poor were not to be dismissed
empty-handed.

This was an odd trait in Bab at this juncture.

'Twas as though she saw a like fate for herself in the
dim future, and wished to set an example. She
kept a box for the season at Kendal House, the
polite place for fresco entertainment ; organized
expeditions to Jenny's Whim, a tea-garden for the
lower sort ; and roved, with a Comus following of
noisy dare-devils, among the purlieus about Southwark
and the Bearpit, under shadow of the Marshalsea
and Clink.

It is sad to have to relate that Crimp, Cramp,
and Crumpling, fascinating belles and joyous
comrades, were not above cheating at cards anymore
than other ladies. They did not even act
upon the maxim which teeth of honour among
thieves ; for they picked the pockets of Bab, and
Hastang, and Byron, as well as of others.

But, thanks to their experience, the faro-rooms
were well protected against enemies from without.
There were two nimble-fingered copies to gather
up the money ; two puffs, or decoys, provided with
notes out of the bank ; a clerk to keep watch over
the puffs ; a porter, ex-soldier of the Footpads, to
carry down drunken gentlemen ; a captain to browbeat
such as had the bad taste to be peevish over
ill-luck; and other necessary officers.

This was well ; but the Mostyn ladies made up for
all this vigilance, and avenged the public by dipping
their fair fingers, which were like harpies' claws,
into the pool. Ambassador Hastang grumbled behind

his false teeth ; even Lord Byron, careless
enough himself, cried, * Rack me, they go too far !'
'Twas all very v^^ell to see the flimsy beaux shorn,
for they deserved it — rickety dolls who required a
chair to carry them to their coach, a coach to bear
them to their Dulcinea, and a constable to lodge
both in the round-house — but among the members
of the inner circle it was too bad.

Yet Barbara only laughed in scorn when Hastang
grumbled.

'What matters it?' she said. ' Such as we have
naught to do with past or future. The present is
more than enough ; let the rest take care of itself.'


Poor lady ! The present was more than enough
for her. Honest Jack, who lounged into the Golden
Square saloons as others did, had whispered casually
that Pamela and Gervas were married. What
signified even the present now, if that were indeed
true ? How restrained a hoop is the round of
orgy! Would no one invent a new pleasure, a
pungent dissipation, such as might teach her to
forget ? How flat and dull were quadrille and
faro ! how monotonous the dance ! how weariful
the hunt ! For two pins, Hke Hannah Snell, Barbara
would have donned a uniform, and sought
refuge from herself and her internal pain at the
mouth of the belching cannon.

The house in Golden Square became a curious

menagerie. So long as the novelty of the thing
lasted there was more than a sufficiency of high-class
patronage. Gifts of wine, and even money,
were freely tendered. A certain libertine duke sent
Barbara an old riding-glove upon a plate, with this
inscription pinned on it, ' I send my glove as a keepsake.
Perhaps some day you'll shake the hand that
used to be in it.' Protruding from within were three
bank-bills for a hundred pounds. Another noble
lord writ, with an enclosure, ' Here is somewhat for
your fellows to pay the turnpikes withal when you
please to go into the country.'

The whole diplomatic body flocked to the newly
opened house en masse; and so often did Bab ask
for a protection against arrest for some unfortunate
protege, that Hastang proposed to keep 'em ready
written. Since 'tis as well, or better, to be dead as to
be out of the fashion, everyone with hand on heart
proclaimed his flame ; but Barbara was in no mood
for declarations. By her directions a paper was pinned
on the satin panelled wall, ' informing all friends
who honoured the hostess by calling that a prohibition
was placed, in her house, upon the name of
Love or anything approaching thereunto.' 'Twas
surfeiting ! They seemed to think it was de rigour,
beginning with old Feefofum Hastang, who, being
seventy, walked as if a stake were down his back,
to simulate the upright carriage of youth. No.
Enough — more than enough — of Cupid. Mrs. Phil-pot

was resolved to be sufficient unto herself — as
free and independent as a mite and bit of dust can
ever hope to be.

All sorts of men and women flocked to Golden
Square. The gatherings there were well-nigh as
incongruous as those at the Bearpit, save that all
were in brocade and velvet. Though, to avoid an
unfriendly visit from Colonel de View, admission was
only to be obtained by formal invitation, the
necessary card was easily obtained, and the hostess
standing at the stairhead made the same curtsey to
all comers. Comrades of the sock and buskin presented
themselves, and received no warmer treatment
than the shadiest. The elder Cibber was
growing shaky, and preferred his fireside ; but Theophilus
was often there, and, unchecked, brought his
spouse with him. Barbara had always treated the
venom of Mrs. Cibber with deserved contempt. If
now she chose to come and stake her salary, why
should Bab care ?

This indifference fanned the flame of Madam's
ire. Was she so mean a worm as to command no
notice ? Madam Theoo looked round and saw how
things were going, and was glad ; for the castle was
erected upon sand, and soon must fall. If madam,
by chance, could give it a covert push, who so
pleased as that unsuccessful actress ? Of course,
the curiosity of Mrs. Belfield urged her to visit the
saloons. She and the Mostyns were old acquaintances,

though they had much to say behind each other's
backs. With artless giggles she admired all she
saw, kissed her sister Bab, and lost her notes without
a quiver. In sly asides she rallied her sweet
sister.

If you knew how stale is my Lord Forfar, and
how unprofitable,' she whispered, ^ you would pity
me. But I forgot your partiality. I'll hand him
over soon, unless I die first of the spleen.' Then,
glancing around with meaning, she added, ' Not
but what bachelors' wives seem the most favoured.'

Barbara, too hot to parry the insult, looked unblushingly
in her sister's face. It was true, then.
She must be indeed married, or would not speak
thus. Oh, honest, well-meaning, ingenuous conspirator
to have been caught in such a net ! If —
but why idly bandy ' ifs ' ? The world was black ;
the red wintry sun was blood-stained. With freezing
calm Mrs. Pilot merely answered :

If you are happy, I am glad ;' and turned her
back on Mrs. Belfield.

The latter, at one of these card-assemblies, sat
next to Madam Gibber, and Honest Jack hung over
in attendance. From something carelessly dropped,
it came about that the trio understood one another.

So long as things went on as they did, 'twas
plain that Mr. Crump was no nearer the running
down of his quarry than he had been long ago. For
all he had said about' palled appetites, hope deferred

VOL. II. 33

only made him the more obstinate and resentful.
From the state of recklessness to which she had now
attained, it was quite possible that Mrs. Pilot
might ere long change her note, and cease to gibe
with aggressive iteration about a ring and coach-and-six.
Since the attempted abduction from the
theatre, Barbara had in the main been circumspect ;
specially so in her attitude to my Lord Byron,
holding him at arm's length with steady hand. Now
she went with him whither he would ; the twain
rode out unattended ; spent hours alone together.
Simpleton ! Too blind to see that the situation was
quite changed. Then she was afraid of her admirer.
Now 'twas he who held her in awe. Una was not
more safe than Barbara with this scapegrace Leo.
But Honest Jack was too blundering to perceive
that this was so. Pamela, fine induce, clear-eyed
through abortive malice, read his thoughts and shaped
them for him. Both she and Madam Gibber were
of one mind. 'Twere odd if among them all they
could not trip up the too successful beauty and
launch her over the precipice upon whose verge she
tottered.

Pamela carried home such tales anent the doings
in Golden Square that my Lord Belvedere's choler
grew. He poured forth on Bath post Maranatha,
in a fine diplomatic hand, and despatched it to the
erring one.

She had done her best to ruin him, he vowed,

for by seeking unenviable notoriety she had darkened
with shame the faces of best friends. Their Majesties
must think with blushes of how deceived they had
been ; repent with self-reproach having admitted so
abandoned a slut even on sufferance within the
precincts of St. James's. Sir Robert Walpole,
everyone knew, was very sorry in that his favourite
should fling her fair fame in the kennel. x\nd yet
how truly magnanimous were the really great !
Instead of venting their disappointment upon a
hapless father who had done his best for an irreclaimable
baggage, they soothed his grief with their
countenance. She, Bab, hoped doubtless that her
parent would be undone through her ill-doing. But
it was not so. Appreciated at his proper worth, his
Majesty had deigned again to employ him. He was
to return to his post at the Hague forthwith, and
begged that neither there nor elsewhere in the
future Mrs. Pilot would presume to address
him.

Barbara crumpled the paper and laughed aloud.
Selfish old man ! How plain it was that he had
never cared for her ! Address him ! No, indeed !
If ever she came to trouble, as everyone was so fond
of prophesying, she would point at the last day
to her edifying parents, as excuse for all shortcomings.
He was going abroad again, possibly for
years. Was Pamela going too ? Probably not, since
she was privately married. Good heavens ! what

33—^

could it signify to her who went and who stayed
behind, or who was privately married ? The world
could be no duller than it was. Dull ! drab — colourless
— a sepulchre, whose peeled whitening was never
renewed. The monotony and smallness of all that
the world can give in the way of pleasure frayed
Bab's nerves and soured her temper. The minauderies
and petty whimsies and affectations of the
Mostyns ceased to amuse — they sickened her.
False painted leering counterfeits ! How she
despised them ! and despising, cared too little for
results to hide her thoughts. Those houris were
perturbed by the rudeness of their hostess. 'Twas
delightful to be able to dip fingers in the bank and
lord it every day at auction, forbidding countesses
for a set of ornamental jars or right Nanking teacups
or a rare Persian carpet ; but to be openly accused
of petty pilfering ! How vulgar ! My Lord Byron
coming in by chance to chocolate, found the three
Mostyns garlanded together like outraged Graces,
while Bab sat sullen, with arms crossed, swinging a
slippered foot.

I trust, madam,' Crimp was crying shrilly, * that
we are persons of honour at this table !'

'Oh, insufferable! cheat!' Crumpling wailed
faintly.

All women cheat,' responded Bab ; ' it isn't that.
Yet what doth it matter if I lose to the knaves of my
own sex what I've won from the fools of t'other ?

There'll be an end of it all some day — very soon, I
hope.'

The mask once dropped, 'twas difficult to reassume
it ; and the little lord, consumedly amused, withheld
not his shafts of satire. The Graces sharpened
acidulated tongues, and defended themselves with
half-veiled innuendo. If the Golden Square saloons
were to ape the attributes of the Palace of Truth
they would soon become uninhabitable. A pretty
thing for the polite world to find itself in a whirlpool
of recrimination ! Even Gounda's suppers would lose
their charm if, whilst mumbling the choice viands,
you were liable to be branded as a blacken.

Old Ambassador Hastang began to perceive that
while he was losing caste he gained no favours from
Mrs. Pilot, and that the society that flocked to
faro became shadier day by day, and less decorous.

One morning, in the small hours. Madam Theoo
created a commotion by vowing she had lost a
bracelet, staring the while at Bab, who was sitting
next to her. It was speedily found under the table,
but the hint was not lost upon the company ; and
though no one suspected Bab of stealing, they were
not unaware that many who pressed around the
green cloth with vociferous bets were not so
squeamish.

'Twas becoming that Queen Beelzebub should be
surrounded by din and uproar, rustle of silk and
flare of flambeaux ; yet the vicinity of such a

potentate was hardly pleasant to her neighbours in the
Square. All through the night the knocker was plied
by vigorous hands ; the door was ever on the bang ;
altercation in the street was not unfrequent, accompanied
more oft than not by clash of steel. The
venerable watchmen soon learnt the lesson that
Golden Square was treacherous ground, and trembled
as they piped the hours. Brawlers, hot with wine
and loss of coin, are best left unmolested ; and the
modish quarter was the resort of Shocks.

A tall pale youth who wandered there in rags,
leaned against the railing and gazed wistfully up at
the windows. The thick curtains were not closed
now, for those within recked little of the world's
opinion. A flood of light poured forth over the way;
shadows in splendid liveries flitted to and fro with
trays ; peals of loud laughter floated on the air,
waking the knots of heavy-pated chairmen who
slept in groups upon the pavement awaiting their
powdered loads.

The tall slim youth sighed heavily ; and plunging
thin hands into empty pockets, slowly went his
way.

Always a welcome and a dinner!' he muttered,
shaking his head, as he shuffled off into the dark,
Not so ! In the dazzling palace of Dives, no place
for poor Sir Charles ! Yet Brother Theoo and his
wife go there. I doubt if it be well with Barbara.'

Crazy Charlotte's estimate was but too well

justified. The tracing of this phase of Bab's career
fills me with grief, and I would fain pass quickly
over it. Kindly Mrs. Clive, pained and concerned,
called to expostulate with her quondam comrade,
and met with no less scurvy treatment than the
Duchess. Wilks was away in Ireland, reigning in
Smock Alley, and knew naught of it. Walpole
sorrowed over the doings of his little Whig; but
when urged to exert his influence, shrugged his fat
shoulders.

He hackett judgment who placet a finger 'twixt
bark and tree,' he said. ' She is self-willed. 'Tis a
moral fever, whose cause I know not, and will pass.
Then will be the time for succour.'

This sentiment did not please Honest Jack, who
watched with a grim patience worthy of a better
cause. The Fates were playing into his hands.
No call for ring or parson soon. She would be
glad to be pulled out of the mire at a lower price ;
and then — and then would come his moment of
victory.

After a while the neighbours lost patience and
complained. The Countess of Tattletongue, who
abode next door, lifted up her voice and howled.
What right had a hussy to perch among the elite
and make a Bedlam of the modish quarter ?

The Mostyns, after that quarrel about cheating,
perceived that fellowship with Bab was seriously
injuring their battered reputations. Moreover, the

class who gobbled Gounda's dishes now were not
prolific as milch-cows.

To flirt with bewitching handsome malefactors at
the public gatherings of Kendal House was a different
matter from meeting them hob and nob on your
own ground. To mulct careless noblemen of spare
cash is not at all the same thing as a party of hazard
with professional cheats who bleed you. The
original position was reversed. Madam Gibber
openly stated now in the Covent Garden green-room
that Mrs. Pilot's establishment was a den of
thieves, and the attendant sparks who had burned
their fingers were aware that it was so. At this
rate Colonel de Veil and his constables would be in
soon, and then what an csdandre I It behoved
battered desires to save their shreds of reputation,
and like rats to scuttle while there was yet
time.

Mesdames Grip, Cramp, and Grumbling therefore
chose their opportunity, and brought the long-gathering
series of disagreements to open rupture.
In a glib shrill chorus they gave Mrs. Pilot a bit
of their mind, fluttered virtuous skirts, and told all
whom it concerned to be careful about low friendships.


It was more than a year since the establishment
had been opened, and during all that time expenses
of every kind had been borne by Barbara. When
the Mostyns went cackling away, she began to re-fleet.

Wherein had she hitherto been profited by
flinging the gauntlet in the world's face ? Was it
not the ancient tale of the pipkin and the iron pot ?
If she chose to ruin herself body and soul, what
would Society care ? Who but herself would be the
loser ? And why had she done this thing ? To
revenge herself in some vague way upon a man who
loved her not. The less he cared for her, the less
would he be interested in her ruin. What could it
signify to him ? He would only remark that his
bad opinion of her was fully verified. And besides,
nobody knew or ever would know the cause of her
strange conduct I Pride had kept that secret double
locked within her breast — so carefully concealed
that no skilful autopsy could reveal its presence.

And now I must e'en pause for an instant to
moralize. How many men — how many women —
have done strange, wild, incomprehensible things in
throes of love-yearning (not far removed from madness)
for the sake of those who never wist of it ? If
we are to stand and hear confessions at the last day,
what marvellous revelations will amaze us — faltering
tales of how such a maid dwindled and died,
withered by a love-blast for yonder unconscious
man, who, hearing, stands surprised.

Chafing under the burthen of a life whose prizes
were foolish baubles, Mrs. Pilot had deliberately
thrown them all away ; had discarded her reputable
friends, had plunged into a career which never interested

her. Out of sheer bravado she had gone
deeper and yet deeper, to find that the lower she
sank the heavier grew the unrest with which she
vainly struggled. Even the blackness, seeing that
pigeons grew shy, deserted the saloons.

She was left in solitude, with her own thoughts
for company — not quite in solitude, though. There
were bills in heaps unpaid ; and soon the knocker
throbbed with a new and different rat-tat.

Over ears in debt,' she mused bitterly. ' So was
Julius Caesar, who, when he owed them, was indifferent
to paltry counters !' But whatever may have
happened in that hero's case could be of little consolation
to Barbara. He had been dead and buried
many centuries. Why was she not dead and buried?
She soon had as many duns in her antechamber as a
poet on the fourth day of his new comedy ! Aye,
and clamorous ones too, who declined to be persuaded
or beguiled. The tall footmen, no longer
blind nor deaf, swept the tables of their costly knickknacks
and decamped.

Whither was she to turn in such a quandary ? To
the Duchess ? to Walpole ? to her father ? No ; a
thousand times no. All that was left was independence
; so to that she desperately clung. Having
made her bed she would lie on it, with obstinate
pride for a pillow.

With an air of stoic calm she sat in the empty
drawing-room, revolving possibilities in vain, while

shadows lengthened in the square without, and da'
gave place to twilight.

My Lady Tattletongue, peeping over her Wind,
surveyed the once - decorous square, and retired
satisfied. There are limits to all things terrestrial,
and 'twas evident that the disreputable house next
door would soon close its doors and shutters. The
passing milkmaids, pattering on patterns, paused to
knock off the mire from the iron rings against the
posts, and looked up fearfully. They had marvelled
at the splendour of that mansion ; now dusky-winged
Misfortune hovered almost visibly. Knots of menin
broadcloth stood in groups consulting with lowering
visages, and thumbs pointed from time to time
at the dumb house which was so irresponsive to
their clatter. 'Twas idle to knock, for there seemed
to be none to answer. Yet would they try once
more. Another rat-tat !

Alack ! How they waste their time !' laughed
the solitary inmate. ' How can one bestow that one
hath not to give ? Stay ! what noise was that ?
Insolents ! had they dared to break the doors ?
It must be so ; and yet who would presume sofar?'


Some one was forcing his way into the very room.
Mrs. Pilot rose in anger, but rough words died
upon her lips — 'twas the well-known figure of Crump
which darkened the doorway. Had Sir Robert
heard ? — he always was so generous. Although

she could not ask, yet if he came forward — and after
all he owed his liberty, perhaps his life, to her. No.
For that he had paid a thousand pounds, and they
were quits.

Mr. Crump was come upon his own account, he
explained. 'Twas ill-bred after what had passed ;
well-meant, perhaps, if not quite delicate. Honest
Jack was full of condolence. 'Twas most unfortunate
! He was not rich, and since he could not
pay would not presume to ask the extent of the
lady's liabilities. But under cover of the night, she
might follow the example of the men-servants, and
vanish, taking what was left. For a small sum on
account, he explained to ears that heard him not,
the creditors would unite in signing a letter of license
if it was understood that their prey was gone —
whereby they would undertake to keep quiet, on the
promise that their bills would be met in full at some
later time.

By a curious and most fortunate coincidence,
Honest Jack had recently acquired a little box,
snugly nestling among some trees in rural Kensington,
which was quite at her disposal as a refuge.
An old woman lived there and kept house for him,
who, having passed many years upon this globe,
knew better than to ask idle questions. Marriage,
as my Lord Byron was always saying, is but a
musty affair — the pleasure of poor folks, who cannot
afford variety. She, the beautiful Bab, who had

been unlucky, might trust in a slave whose devoted
attachment had been proved. He would make her
happy ; and, after the scandal had blown over, she
would bloom forth again

Honest Jack looked up, stammered, and sheepishly
twirled his hat between his hands. Barbara, with
flushed cheek and flashing eye and widely-distended
nostril, had drawn herself up to her full height, and
was pointing with imperious finger at the door.
How lovely was she thus — a baleful Maenad, splendid
in quivering wrath ! Her blood-red sacque, with its
ample train of thickest silk, rustled like aspens in a
breeze as she vibrated with indignation. How magnificent
was the turn of the long neck ; the heave of
the palpitating bosom ; the straight sharp line of
lowered brows ; the imperial majesty of the 
head, with its heavy crown of black un-powdered
hair ; the pose of the classic arm !

So glorious a devil is worth the winning and the
wearing!' ejaculated Mr. Crump.

Go !' was all she said, in hoarse, veiled accents :
ere, ringing the bell with violence, forgetting that the
footmen had departed, she swept out of the room.

Superb, most regal Queen Beelzebub ! Honest
Jack was abashed, shaken by a whirl of longings
that scattered prudence to the winds.

Barbara, you are in error !' he cried, striving to

follow. * I did not mean ' but the key turned in

the lock, and he hammered bootlessly. ' Not cowed

yet !' he muttered, biting his nails in vexation. ' At
any price — at any price !' Plunging his hands into
his coat-pockets, he stood straddle-legged reflecting.
'Patience and time!' he murmured; and, with a
crafty look in his glazed eyes. Sir Robert's secretary
left the house, whistling softly through his teeth.

ECLIPSE.

'^^^ Whether 'twas the result of Madam
Gibber's green-room talk, or Mrs. Bel-field's
drawing-room gabble, or of any
curious proceedings on the part of
Honest Jack, I decline to be called upon to state ;
but certain it is that on the very next day the
clamour in Golden Square rose to an inordinate
pitch, and became more than usually annoying to
the denizens of that privileged quarter.

As is the case with all Bohemians, the bump of
business was absent from the phrenological development
of Mrs. Pilot. She knew no more of the
management of money than of the law and its exponents.
What was that sop wherewith she had
been tempted by Mr. Grump, anent a letter of license
and peace ? She had not hearkened, and yet a dim
recollection of some such expedient lingered in her
brain. Peace ? What had she to do with peace ?

Was not ' War ' the watchword of Queen Beelzebub ?
How brief a reign had been hers ! Her subjects
had revolted, leaving her unattended on her brazen
throne. Well, whatever the proposed expedient
was, she would none of it, since it emanated from
Honest Jack. That he should have dared — again !
And 3'et, 'twas her own fault — result of her own
deliberate attitude. As she considered Honest Jack,
her asperity softened. 'Twas a singular wooing, buta
determined and persevering one. A wooing ? A
persecution !

Who may tell what will befall ?' she idly
whispered. * 'Twould be odd if it ever came to pass.
But it never will.'

Fitful, ill-regulated waverer ! How grotesque that
such fantastic visions should flit at such a moment as
this across her mental retina — at a moment when
even the blackness shunned her society ! But on
the other hand, there were some who sought it.
Yonder, over against the railings, was Mr. Heard
the jeweller, usually so obsequious, vv'ho, perceiving
the lady at the casement, dared to shake his fist.
Unmannerly brute ! There must be a reason for
this incivility. Mrs. Pilot beckoned him up, and
reasoned. Who had set this pack of ignoble hounds
yelping at her heels ? For the moment the well was
dry. In any case, sure no lady could pay if every
paltry person to whom she owed a sixpence came
clamouring at once in a body.

Madam replied the blunt jeweller, *if you can't
pay for your transgressions like the rich, you must
suffer for 'em like the poor. Find us good security,
and we'll meet you ; but, to be plain, those who've
been in and out, of late, smell of the house-sickness
and smack of Tyburn-tree. Do not suppose that
lurking here you will be safe ; fors as you know well
enough, we've only to claim the broad seal, and
break lawfully into the house and take you.'

With this Mr. Deard bowed stiffly and retired,
and was seen haranguing an eager circle of tradesmen,
who cried * Shame !' 'Twas serious, then.
Which way to turn — to whom apply ? The stage ?
The Diva had promised herself never again to don

the tinsel trappings ; and yet, in an emergency •

Then she reflected with misgiving that even if she
would 'twould be impossible at present. The season
was half over ; the companies of both patent houses
complete. Perhaps if she gave her word for the
next season the patentees would allow a benefit ?
A tacit surrender, after vowing to fight to the death !
How humiliating ! No one to consult with — not a
single friend.

Barbara was nonplussed by the suddenness of the
disaster. To sally forth now would be to court
insult. She would lie perdue all day, and under
cover of night go down to Drury Lane. Perchance
Wilks was back, or some one who would at least
advise and guide her inexperience.

VOL. II. 34

Heavens, what a day ! Like a bad dream. She
tried to read, and flung the book aside. What were
the woes of mimic heroines to her own state ? iSo
sordid and unromantic a condition was this which
had swooped upon the toast of the town, that she
sat wondering, half concealed by a curtain, as she
watched the storm without. ' If we get the broad
seal we can break in,' the rude jeweller had stated.
Each impatient rat-tat throbbed upon her brain, till,
from sheer nervousness, she could have screamed
aloud. What if they broke in ? 'Twould end it.
And yet, if she could only get to Drury Lane, something
might be arranged. Not a soul to speak to. The
serving-men, down to the scullion, had apparently all
fled. The terrified wenches were cowering in a garret,
as if expecting earthquake. Bab almost felt inclined
to join them, if only to hear a friendly voice. But
would their voices be friendly — not tuned to upbraiding
and offence ? How empty the saloons
looked, where she and the Comus following had vied
with each other in misconduct — setting at defiance
social tenets, effacing landmarks ! Sure there must
be death in the house, so unnaturally still was all
within, while a tempest stormed without. She was
not living Barbara, but a ghost — a disembodied soul
which had been freed, but, unworthy of soaring
heavenward, was condemned to linger and brood like
an unwholesome miasma over corrupt and tainted
waters. Presently she would find her corpse laid

out in some unconsidered corner — or not laid out,
since there was none to minister.

Such fancies were morbid ; and Mrs. Pilot
bestirred herself to find an occupation to cozen the
laggard hours. In the gloaming she must go, never
to return — whither ? 'Twas of Httle consequence,
so that ere the gathering storm burst she could find
a retreat. What should she take ? When once
before she crept out of a house — the damp Bushey
villa — she had packed in a bundle lace and jewels.
There appeared to be none now to take. Opening
drawer after drawer she found them empty, and
smiled to consider the ways of lacqueys. So dumb,
so deaf, so stony ; yet could they see, much plainer
than their wilful mistress, the hurricane's approach.


'Twas with a shocked, bewildered astonishment
that Barbara considered her situation. Sure 'twas
yesterday that these halls were so full you scarce
could move or breathe ! Where were those who
had laughed, and drank, and diced, and danced, d
veste deboutonnee, as the French have it ? Retreated
out of sight, leaving her whom they had called
leader ' high and dry upon the mud. What a surging
uproar ! Would it never cease ? How slow the
march of Time ! 'Twas urgent to escape from the
yelping of these curs, for to pass such another day
would be impossible.

At last ! The sun went down ; the thunders

34—2

on the knocker ceased. Mrs. Pilot, with a last
look at the gay silken panels, stole with guilty
step out of her dwelling ; and, closely muffled ina
plain cardinal, hastened to seek a chair. A
common hackney-chair, redolent of uncleanly straw.
How different an exit this from the usual airing
in a gold sedan, with flambeaux-bearers and running
footmen ! Through miry by-ways it swayed along
towards the hilarious neighbourhood of Covent
Garden ; and, besides the steady tramp of the Irish
bearers, their fare grew conscious of another step
uncertain, shuffling ; or was it fancy ? No. A
mean-looking fellow was running by the side — a linkman,
probably ; possibly a wayfarer moving with her
equipage for protection, since footpads lurk about
these alleys.

Presently he tapped against the front window,
and when she let down the glass, flung a paper on
her lap.

What is this ?' she asked.

A writ for ;f 200 at suit of Deard and Lazarus.
The chairmen would be good enough to change
their route,' he added, * and follow to a certain house
in Skinner Row.'

A prisoner ! Roused by a sense of danger of
which she was too ignorant to gauge the extent, she
called imperiously to the chairmen to go on. ' To
the stage-door of Drury Lane !'

One of the bearers stood irresolute ; the other

took off his wig and scratched his shorn pate with a
whimsical smile.

At your peril,' said the bailiff. * I've orders to
take her straight to Skinner Row. Once there, she
may doubtless find a messenger.'

Well, if your honour says so — needs must when
the devil drives,' grunted one bearer.

Ne'er fret,' said the other soothingly, as he
fitted the pole-ends in the straps again. * Many
a player, I warrant, hath been in limbo, and will
be again ; and none the worse ! With such a winsome
face, sure many a spark will gladly pay for
you.'

Poor Barbara ! She raised the glass with steady
hand, and, choking, resigned herself to Destiny.
To be consoled by a common chairman ! Suppose
that, obedient, they had carried her to Drury Lane.
What then ? The patentees were changed. Old
Colley had long since retired ; Wilks was still in
Ireland, no doubt, since she had heard or seen
naught of him. Was she to rush upon the familiar
boards, and dishevelled, cry to the pit, ' You used to
hang upon my lips — oh, rescue me !'

Low she might have fallen, but not so low as that;
and please God, come what might, she never would.
No. Rather perish first.

The head that lay back on the coarse cushions in
the dark might have been marble, so colourless was
the face. The blood had ebbed out of the shapely

hands, so tightly clenched they were. The dry eyes
glittered. The bosom heaved in stormy spasms,
but no sound issued thence.

Arrived at a shambling alehouse, supported by
heavy beams lest it should fall into the thoroughfare,
in neglected Skinner Row, the top of the chair was
raised by the good-natured Pat, who nodded his
approval with experienced eye.

Game,' he grunted. ' I'll take your message,
missis, for a groat.'

But Barbara took no heed of him. The stately
woman who emerged with steady step was unnaturally
pale, with a composed dignity which enforced
homage.

New to it, poor soul !' the chairman grumbled to
his mate. ' Come on, we'll give her the jaunt for
nothing. Mayhap she'll be soon in collar, and pay
us double for the compliment.'

Bab's spirit was numb under the blow, for she
little by little began to realize for the first time the
vvddth of the vacuum she had fashioned for herself.
Oh, the first symptom of loss of liberty ! the first
trace of the cage ! The first sound of shooting bolts
behind your back, the first scratch of heavy keys,
sends a startled twinge of shuddering horror through
the veins. However bewildered you may be, a
vague apprehension forces itself upon the mind as to
how long the incarceration will endure. Some trip
jauntily into a sponging-house ; 'tis only till tomorrow

; and as morrow follows morrow they sink
gradually into apathy. Some fling their faces on
the dirty table, with its greasy beer-rings, and
sobbing, groan for those without who, breadless, are
left without a shelter. Some accept the inevitable
with a sombre despair that makes no plaint, too
profound is it for utterance. Solitary, deserted
quite, there is none to think of but themselves,
nothing to consider but the boundless blank of individual
misery.

The keeper of the shabby place in Skinner Row
reckoned up the new arrival in a twinkling. Young,
beautiful, well-dressed, refined in manner and appearance.
To such he was always gallant. The
lady would like a private room — of course she would
a lovely room on the first landing just vacated.
Would she like a message carried ? No ? Not till
the morning. Mighty considerate, for all the banks
were closed ; and untimely messages are writing.
Supper ? Your honour's honour will not be offended,
he said, behind his grimy hand ; but we stand at a
plaguy rent. These poor gentlemen below (pointing
to a sodden group in unclean linen) will be still
as mice not to disturb her ladyship, for, indeed, the
building is honest if crazy, and the shuffling of feet
upon a sanded floor wearing to delicate nerves. A
bout of punch to drink her ladyship's health and
speedy deliverance would be mighty welcome, of
course.

Perhaps the lady will deign to ladle it !' a red-nosed
gentleman suggested.

Nay,' interrupted mine host ; ' don't force the
lady to drink whether she will or no. Most of your
ladies drink, but some do not. We wish her welland
all we have is at her service. And yet it must
be confessed, as her ladyship will learn, that the
more you drink the less you lament misfortune.'

Luckily Barbara had her purse in her pocket, or
she might have been submerged at once under the
flow of the whirlpool of degradation by finding herself
in the common-room, where a bevy of drunken
street harridans were already fighting in their cups.
Placing two guineas on the table she bowed to the
company, and seeing a foul staircase grumous with
viscid streaks, ascended to the close and malodorous
first floor, where she was speedily joined by a
female.

The keeper's wife was garrulous, as, eying smart
clothes, she calculated their value by the light of a
long experience. The silk was worth thirty guineas,
she mumbled. At what hour were friends expected ?
Was it a great debt — a real one ? Dear heart I
'Twas a wicked world, and ere now good folks had
been clapped up by an enemy without a debt at all,
and languished till their bill for keep was more than
they could meet, and honest wights defrauded.
Since Walpole's cursed Gin Act came in, trade was
wound dull ! If folks were to turn virtuous what

would become of the bailiffs ? 'Tis irksome to some
to sleep abroad, she gabbled on, but my lady must
strive to think it was an inn — more comfortable than
most — though the bars would show at dawn. Yet
was it not wondrous to think how adaptable is
humankind ? How soon they get used to locks and
bars ! Sure the lace on her ladyship's garments was
worth a plum — right Venice point ; and she should
know, for she'd sold many a yard for ladies.

As with the greedy grasp of an unwashed hand
the beldame fumbled the dress, she glanced in the
new lodger's face, and started. Dismissed with a
gesture of impatience, she creaked down the stairs
whining apologies, and, bursting with importance,
bounced into the presence of the gentlemen as they
sat round the bowl of punch.

Queer birds come to our dovecot !' she chuckled,
sipping unasked out of the ladle. * This last will
linger with us.'

I doubt it, wife,' returned her husband. ' Fowls
of such brilliant plumage are birds of passage.'

Of course you're a wiseacre !' snapped his better
half; 'and yet you can't put a name to her. 'Tis
Mrs. Pilot, the stage-player, as insolent a hussy as
ever turned a nose up at her betters !'

The celebrated Mrs. Pilot ! Sure it could not
be ! The gentlemen were so staggered by the possibility,
that the beldame was able to filch another
ladleful before any thought to stop her. Everyone

had heard of Mrs. Pilot, even if they had never
been privileged to look upon that much-vaunted
divinity. An insolent jade, indeed, by all accounts,
who had come to grief at last, as they all do, and
met with her deserts ! What a lucky capture ! She
was sure to have a well-lined purse, though unable
to pay the heavy debts such as she ran up so blithely.
Very stuck up she was just now, but that would
wear off. And the unsavoury crew began to plume
themselves, considering how they could wheedle
a clean pair of ruffles out of their jaileress, wherewith
to dazzle the enchantress. In a day she'd get
used to the surrounding atmosphere, and care as
little as they about clean linen. A clever wench, by
all accounts, who didn't stick at trifles. Clever
wenches adapt themselves to circumstances, and
behave according to their company. By-and-by this
one would become a jolly boon companion, and lap
her punch with the rest, and troll a merry stave,
kicking dull care to the devil. Here was her health
with three times three, and a little one in for
luck!

To which of this group should belong the new
arrival ? A certain swaggering fellow in a faded
uniform blew out his cheeks and gazed truculently
round with his one bloodshot eye. She should be
his. Femme ! he'd run the man who flouted him
right through the gizzard. And so on, and so forth,
until the punch was finished, when he, as well as

the other rufflers, tumbled on the floor, pillowing his
pate upon the stones, snoring under the settle.

There was but an inch of tallow-dip stuck in the
bottle which the beldame had left above. Barbara,
still wearing the same stony look, surveyed the room
with a strange curl about her lips. She carefully
surveyed the smoky chamber, felt the door, and
finding that the lock had been removed, sat down
upon the bed (for there was no chair), resolved to
watch till morning. Sleep ? How likely for one in
her present state to find oblivion ! She sat staring
at the dim flame of the candle till it flickered and
guttered out with a stench and a long straight rising
line of fetid smoke ; and still sat staring, not knowing
it was dead. There was a singing in her ears ;
scenes swept swiftly over her brain in sickening
panorama. She was too giddy and confused to
think ; did not want to think. All that seemed
certain was that she was caged ; that the battle so
loftily and aimlessly begun had ended in dire defeat;
that she stood in the ante-chamber of a new and
awful life of her own carving, from which there was
no rescue but the grave.

To all intents and purposes she had left the world,
and was no more part or parcel of it. The least unpleasant
point that offered itself for contemplation
was the completeness of eclipse. As befitted a
gleaming comet, she had sparkled for a moment with
blinding radiance and disappeared. Yes. The gates

of the busy world were closed upon her. What
would the next phase be ? The keepers of the
house would of course learn sooner or later the
name of their cage-bird ; but 'twould not be in
their habit to bruit it to the world. Were not others
disappearing every day, to be heard of no more ?
As she had forgotten others, so would she be
forgotten now. She must learn to consider herself
defunct.

Although Barbara knew not the progress of procedure,
she suspected that, caught by one dun, the
rest would swoop in a covey ; and that, so soon as
they were convinced that the victim could never
satisfy their claims, she would be relegated to one or
other of the prisons, and languish there. The common
side !

'Twas with a fierce kind of satisfaction that she
pictured this, enjoying the prospect of the worst.
None of her late friends would ever learn her fate.
The end would be mystery. Perchance in time to
come, when reviewing the history of the stage, someone
would speak musingly over his port and walnuts
of that meteor at whose feet all Drury grovelled ;
who shone and — vanished.

At any rate, let there be what might in store, to
the last she would foster her pride with jealous care.
She would be beholden to none. A nameless waif
to begin with, she would share the fate of nameless
waifs as was fit and right. It was no fault of hers—

she would go scatheless to the other life, there to
bear witness against the guilty.

Her father — oh, her father ! His sin and responsibility
were grievous !

Did I come upon the globe a volunteer ?' she
muttered, with swelling nostrils. * Or unasked was
I pressed into the service ? If called, unwilling,
'twas bitter hard to be so heavily accoutred that I
could not but sink and drown I'

Yes ; there was much satisfaction in reflecting
that if all else faded, pride remained. She would be
prouder now than ever. Not a finger would she
put forth ; not a cry utter for assistance. What she
must bear, she would bear ; when she could bear no
longer, she would die.

This was the unchristian frame of mind in
which Barbara sat throughout the night on the
edge of the sordid couch. If she might not return
buffets, she would gnash her teeth. 'Twas little
wonder that when the sun peeped in he looked
upon a haggard face, with the devil peering from its
eyes.

A grim soul-harrowing vigil ! Through how many
hours of dull wearing pain she sat upon that mattress,
Barbara never knew. Gradually, a small square
opposite glimmered distinctly into shape, with a row
of tell-tale bars that caused on their first aspect a
slight tremor. The dark blanched by imperceptible
degrees into a cold grey— the harsh, raw chill of

dawn. She was conscious of a distant echo as of
shuffling somewhere ;, of a snorting and clearing of
throats ; a rasping of settles over sand ; a crunching
and moving of furniture ; a rustle of wakening life.
Shutters grated on unsoiled hinges ; the hateful bolts
shot in and out (paralyzing blows upon the heart) ;
bells tinkled and jangled ; there was a muffled stir
and whispered colloquy ; then a lull ; then more
shuffling and prate ; then silence. The awful night
was past, and day was come — had been here how
long ? Sure weeks must have flitted thus, or were
they only hours ?

The bones of the watcher were aweary with long
sitting ; her feet and hands were nipped and
perished, and she felt faint. Footsteps creaked
upon the stairs — hovered, approached, paused. The
beldame, doubtless, to bring the captive food. Odd
she should not have come before ! It must be midday
— past ! Having a few guineas left, why should
she be starved ? It could not be the beldame, for
the tread was quick, and fingers groped for a handle,
seeking it. A knock. Not the beldame — who could
it be, then ? Not Crump ? Oh no ! not Crump !
Sure he would not dare — would not be so inhuman
as to run her down after a display of unconcealed
aversion and peremptory command to go ! Another
knock. The door opened slowly, and the blood
rushed in a flood to the girl's face and neck as with
a cry she rose. Standing in the doorway with

drumsticks well apart, and a mocking grin on
his pale features, was her earliest flame — Lord
Byron.

Strike me comical, Bab, but 'tis vastly droll !' he
laughed. ' Flay me in mustard if I ever saw aught
so like a mounting rooster ! Poor child, she's
famished and half frozen ! Hi! Hag Sycorax, stir
thy stumps, and bring the lady food ! Split me if
the bears in the pit are not better furnished !'

In happier times Mrs. Pilot would have scoffed
had she been told how glad she would some day
be to see that dissipated visage. In the suddenness
of the surprise she made a step forward
with arms outstretched, but recollecting herself,
sat down again and covered her face with her
hands.

Men were all alike, and looked on the other sex as
toys ! Unfeeling egoists ! Crump, perceiving her

distress, had dared Now Byron ! With a glow

of rage she felt how hard it was that imprisonment
should not bring protection ! Of late, awed by the
devil in her flashing eye, the little reprobate had
been respectful. Could he be expected to show
deference to a ' mounting rooster ' ?

Oh, Bab — Bab I' railed the little gentleman.
Where are your blackness now — your beloved
rakes and desires — the golden glories of the
Square ?'

With head bowed in shame the hapless woman

sat ; for was it not hard to be gibed at with cranks
and japes when your being was so insufferably-sore
?

Let me perish if there's aught for a small nobleman
to perch upon!' murmured lord ; and sitting beside
Mrs. Pilot on the bed, he gently took her hands and
strove to unveil her face. ' Wauns, Bab ! cheer up !'
he whispered. ' 'Tis plaguy annoying. Some foes of
thine have laid this trap for thee ; but we'll circumvent
'em. What a piece of luck ! Just as I was
popping on my nightcap this morning to take a
snooze, there came a hammering like carpenters
working on a ship bottom ; and with damnation on
the loons who would not let a person of quality go
decently to rest, I flung up the window and asked if
the house was ablaze. A friend of mine had been
arrested at his tailor's suit, they said, and had sent
to me for bail. He must wait till I've had my rest,
I cried ; but they would not let me be, explaining
that they'd brought a chair. So here I came,
growling all the way. And while I was settling the
matter for my friend, a couple of rufflers rose from
beneath the table like phantoms of debauch, and
knitted again a severed quarrel as to which should
possess some beauty. Beauty here in this foul
place ? I asked. And then the beldame, as proud as
if you were her own, explained who was the cage-bird.
I'd sent for my attorney to settle the other
matter, and despatched him straight to Golden

Square on your account. He is below. Shall I
summon him ?'

Barbara was gazing through the opposite bars
with the old dry-eyed stony look. My lord was disappointed
and crestfallen. Was it nothing to give
up your rest, to send your attorney scouring about
the town, to pay fees out of your own pocket ? Bab
was mighty hard to please. There is no pleasing
some women.

After a long silence she observed huskily :
I never sent for you, and never would ; for indeed
I can make no return !'

Lord Byron coloured, and standing straddle-legged
in front of her, assumed an air of highbred
hauteur that sat queerly on his diminutive
figure.

Barbara Pilot,' he said gravely, ' should know
me better after all these years. I could whip off a
successful actress in my coach and be proud on't,
since the mouths of all the rest were watering. But
to take a mean advantage of a battered woman in
her trouble ? No. For old acquaintance' sake I'll
help thee, Bab ; and, unscrew my vitals, thou shalt
go thy ways unharmed ! Wait, while I summon the
attorney !'

He was a real little gentleman, then, despite his

madcap pranks and fashionable wickedness. How

true it is that we may meet folks day by day for

years, yet never know them ! But Bab was beyond

VOL. II. 35

being touched by generosity. All her nature was
tingling as though she had marched at the cart's
tail. In a dreary, far-off way she felt grateful, but
could not speak her thanks. It would take many
days of rest to calm the twitching nerves after last
night's dreadful vigil.

Interrupted now and again by his patron's merriment,
who was vastly tickled by the scene, the
attorney proceeded to explain. Mrs. Pilot did
not shine as a person of business, which might be
pardoned in one who was otherwise so perfect. For
months and months no bills had been paid ; her dishonest
steward had shown false vouchers. There
was, unluckily, no list of debts, no attempt to keep
accounts ; but 'twas clear that the roll was heavy.
The plate was saved, for he, the attorney, had
stopped the butler just as he was making off with it.
The said plate was below ; and 'twould be best to
hide it, since 'twas but a drop in the sea. Deard
and Lazarus, the jewellers, had pressed their claim,
which was curious, for they were wont to be more
lenient. But in Lord Byron's name he had paid
them ; so, as far as they were concerned, the victim
was as free as air. There would be a great dash
later, so soon as the news should get abroad ; and
the lady had better be non est before the tempest
broke. He, the attorney, had made bold to send for
his patron's coach, and it was now awaiting its
freight.



Plans for the future ? Well, what the lawyer would
advise was this : The lady doubtless knew some
foreigner of distinction — some Minister under whose
aegis to claim protection ? To him she must go at
once and seek to be enrolled as a member of his
household, by which means her personal safety
would be secured. This done, the creditors would
come to terms, and sign a letter of license whereby
they would agree to leave the debtor in peace on
payment of some annual sum. But this was a
detail, for none would attempt to break through the
laws of nations by attacking a person who was
actually in the service of a foreign Minister. So
long as she held his sign-manual she would be safe.
All she would have to guard against would be some
stratagem through which the document would be
stolen, and she enticed from his protection.

Lord Byron was enchanted. Pressing claims upto
a thousand pounds or so he would willingly meet
for his old flame. The very man to stand 'twixt her
and limbo was De Hastang, the Dutch Ambassador,
who had dangled and sighed like all the rest, and
who, moreover, was bound to pay a penalty for
having encouraged the faro scheme.

The shuffling feet of Sycorax were on the stair as
she approached with breakfast.

'Out on it!' cried jubilant my lord. ' Pho ! A
dirty cloth and half-fried sausage for the most peerless
of her sex ! How much do you charge for that,

J3 — -

old witch ? Come, Bab, pop on your things !
Hastang shall give us breakfast, for 'tis about his
hour; and won't he be surprised to see us !'

My lord will have his jest !' murmured the
beldame meekly.

Her bills were cunningly arranged to suit the
purses of her customers, and 'twas notorious that
my lord was wealthy. There was a strange mushroom
crop of small demands in a long list,
ornamented by finger-marks. The heir of the
house, a grimy boy, was brought out to claim a
recompense for having cried to break his heart at
thought of the sweet lady's trouble. The gentlemen
were so low and discomfited at the speed of her release
as contrasted with their own fate, that 'twould be
only human to supply a bowl of punch. 'Twould
set them up for the day, and be a pleasant memory,
instead of accustomed ale and a burnt toast. The
harridans in the common - room claimed largesse
(equivalent to garnish in a prison) ; and his lordship's
purse was empty before he could escape the
vultures. The keeper was roundly rating his spouse
for not having made more of so splendid an opportunity,
when a broad-shouldered gentleman broke
roughly in upon the conclave. Odsbodikins ! but
he had best show manners, or there were those in
the house who'd teach them ! How dared he come
fuming, and swearing, and threatening in an honest
Body's dwelling ?

In sooth, Mr. Crump had sufficient cause for his
vexation. What was the use of laying ingenious
gins, if, when triumph seemed assured, he was to be
balked ? How cleverly he had wormed and plotted
to bring the proud beauty to her knees, that, with
the air of a prince in a fairy-tale, he might stretch
forth a hand and raise her up again ! She had been
humbled and reduced to the fitting frame of mind,
and lo ! another had stepped in and carried off the
prize ! Gone off in Byron's coach — whither ?
Byron, of all people ! We must admit that the
intense disgust of Honest Jack was justified. What
should the next move be ? He would call on Madam
Cibber and consult.

SPORT.'

S Mr. Crump's private proceedings appear
somewhat shady, let me hasten to point
out one Httle virtue. When he gave his
word, he generally kept it— when, that
is, 'twas his interest to do so. The foxes do not always
behave like him of the grapes in the story. Some
perform feline feats, and climb trees to reach 'em.
Although a certain damsel had been so rude as to
bounce out of her father's home rather than become
Madam Crump, the gentleman did not despair. He
intended to possess her somehow, and to that end
he wisely resolved to keep on good terms with Lord
Belvedere.

The latter, through no fault of his, had failed in
his part of a bargain ; 'twas magnanimous, therefore,
in Sir Robert's secretary to say a word in high
places for the diplomatist. Not but what Walpole
in his difficulties might, Hkely enough, have again

employed that wily person without any hints from
Honest Jack. But since 'twas agreed that my lord
was to journey to the Hague, it behoved Honest
Jack to adopt such merit as accrued from the appointment,
and make believe that 'twas his doing.

After Bab's flight. Lord Belvedere was wretched
on his own account, not hers ; for he feared her
conduct would discredit him — and 'twas with joy,
therefore, that he received orders to pack his clothes
and periwigs. But what of that grisly skeleton in
his cupboard, who would rattle and shake at untoward
moments ? What of the Honourable Pamela ?
'Twas only decent to invite her company ; yet with
what a heart-leap of relief did her parent hear her
decline ! No, she said ; England was good enough
for her.

Ere he departed, my lord delivered an improving
lecture like that of Polonius in the play. For her
own sake, if not for his, he implored her to cultivate
reticence and foresight. Public opinion, he urged,
blows hot and cold — is as fickle as the breezes.
King and Court are universally detested Jiow ; but
for the machinations of the great Minister would
have been turned into the sea long since. The
Minister was sometimes popular, sometimes much
the reverse ; but he, my lord, was no goose, as his
daughter unhappily was. He knew a thing or two,
and could read the signs of the times. Though
Walpole sometimes did things that drove the people

to madness, he was without a real rival. There was
the situation in a nutshell. Nobody had the smallest
belief or trust in BoHngbroke, Pulteney, and Co.
The Dawley junta was utterly tarnished and tainted
in popular opinion, and so was the intoxicated
windbag their master. Hence he, my lord, begged
and entreated that in this matter she would be
guided by papa. Drop the Jacobite gently, he said,
and bide awhile. It is not too late even yet. Do
nothing rash, and for the present don't commit
yourself.

The Honourable Pamela, as we have on various
occasions seen, had a strong objection to lectures.
A pretty thing for the old dolt to prate so sapiently !
Why, only t'other day he was racked himself with
doubt, uncertain which way to steer ! Perhaps he
would be good enough to mind his own business,
and leave his child to manage her own. Lord
Forfar had proposed, and she had accepted him,
and had every intention of becoming a duchess.
Lord Forfar knew what he was about, and she, like
a dutiful betrothed, intended for the present to be
obedient. If, later on, she found herself deceived,
why — the rest of his life should be made a burthen
by excruciating female arts.

Thus, you will see, Barbara had been hoodwinked.
Pamela and Gervas as yet were not married. Mrs.
Belfield had permitted her sister to think so because
she hoped 'twould give her pain ; Mr. Crump distinctly

told her so, for he suspected a penchant on
her part for the Scotchman, and was resolved to nip
it in the bud.

Pamela was sometimes satisfied about her engagement,
sometimes not. It vexed her Majesty that
her bedchamber woman should deliberately give herself
to one who was an open enemy of the Court.
This in itself was pleasing. She really and truly
believed that her father was mistaken when he
declared Walpole to have no worthy rival.

If he knew all I know,' she reflected, ' anent a certain
plot that is brewing deliciously, he would think
otherwise.' Then she saw in her mind's esse the day
when the bells would ring, and tapestry be hung
over every balcony, and every roof be a sea of heads,
as James rode in state upon a milk-white palfrey,
bowing to right and left, while a duke and duchess
followed close behind with smirks and smiles, as if
to say, ' Yes, good people, here is your rightful
sovereign. 'Tis we who brought him hither.' Not
but what the Honourable Pamela, like the rest of
the world, was attacked now and again by hot and
cold fits. There were moments when she almost
thought that the enthusiast was losing faith in ' the
Cause,' for he moped, and brooded, and sighed, and
shook himself, sitting for hours vacantly heaving
forth dismal groans and inarticulate plaints. Was
he leading himself astray and hoodwinking her ?
Like a douche of cold water came the suspicion,

and the lady was crumpled with dismay ! Yet, after
all, provided the knot remained untied, were there
not a thousand methods of creeping out of the
engagement, should such a proceeding become advisable
at the eleventh hour ? Yet 'tis bad for the
temper to be so harrowed. Oh for a lifting of a
corner of that veil !

Among the maids of honour the Honourable
Pamela was exceedingly disliked. She was so fitful
and so cross, and so plaguily given to vapours, that
there was no satisfying her caprice. The furniture
of her apartments was never right. Red, she complained,
was glaring to the eye. Green reminded of
willows, and tended to sadness. Blue recalled a
dear friend who died ten years ago in a blue bed.
She was often caught making coronets with pins
upon her pincushion, sighing sentimentally — droning
till all were tired of her.

Though his rivals might be unworthy of him, they
succeeded in strewing Sir Robert's couch with burrs.
He was steadfastly resolved that England should
not be drawn into the Polish squabble. Any
question which affected her maritime interests,
crippled her commerce or threatened her prestige,
was to be dealt with vigorously. That was understood.
But in matters in which neither her honour
nor possessions were involved, she was to be held
aloof from the aggressive.

Now, things abroad were going from bad to worse

becoming extremely tangled. The Emperor of

Austria had so warmly espoused the cause of his
candidate for the Polish throne, that he found himself
caught in a war with both France and Spain,
wherein he had considerably the worst of it.

The sympathies of Britons are always with the
weak ; and the aspect of a power that had once been
a staunch ally fighting single-handed against overwhelming
odds appealed to their sense of fair play.
Opposition yelled for war, and branded Walpole
with the epithets of feeble, craven, pusillanimous.

In the maintenance of a pacific and neutral policy
the Minister stood isolated. Was an old friend, the
House of Austria, to be humbled by an old foe, the
House of Bourbon ? Like a w^arhorse, the Dawley
farmer sprang up and neighed for battle. If England
were to be pulled into the scrimmage, what a chance
for the Jacobites ! They were terrible people, those
Jacobites. When the Gin Act was passed whereby
the philanthropist. Sir Joseph Jekyll, with Walpole's
approval and help, endeavoured to lure back the
people to a more wholesome beverage, the Dawley
junta goaded the mob to insurrection. Rivers of
gin were poured forth for the crowd's behoof merely
to annoy Government, and many perished, poisoned
or shot, ere quiet was restored. Now they were
bent, urged by the same magnanimous motive, on
war, and left no stone unturned to upset the
abominable Bluestring ! And at this moment came

the General Elections ! Walpole was in real danger,
for 'twas the old story. He was as indifferent as
ever to the number of enemies he made. Even in
his own county of Norfolk Opposition took the head
of the poll. It seemed as if he was about to be overset
at last, for in his absence even the Queen became
discouraged. The horizon was black on all sides,
and the incorrigible corrupter murmured that * if
growing complications were due to faults of his,
'twas because he had been niggard in his bribes.'

In such self-accusation how he wronged himself!
During the last ten years the secret-service item had
run up to the prodigious sum of one million five
hundred thousand pounds. While the turn of the
elections was doubtful he played the hospitable host;
and guests — lucky people — occasionally found a five-hundreds
pound note nestling comfortably in their
napkins.

Most happily for him, the favour of Mr. MedHcote
was on the increase, and that gentleman stuck to his
colours. The Queen could not do without him. He
sat with her each morning while she breakfasted,
rode by the side of her chaise when she went amounting
; quarrelled and disputed, and made it up against

I were not so old,' she often said, ' I should be
talked of for this creature !'

She did not at all approve of his dangling after
Mrs. Belfield. 'You could do much better,' she
urged.

To which he always replied lightly :

Let be. Despite myself, she fascinates me.
Men are all fools in these matters. If she's to be
my fate, your Majesty cannot prevent it. This
being so, why waste precious breath in futile argument
?'

It sounds strange, no doubt, to speak of an elderly
lady with grown-up sons and daughters going a-
hunting. But his Majesty the King loved the chase,
and the Queen, to keep up her influence over him,
always did what he did. What deigned the King
to hunt? Reynard? No. The noble stag? No.
Concerning the former, he was wont to say that
'twas a low pastime for a man of quality to be
tormenting a poor fox that was generally a better
beast than those who rode after him. Moreover,
the animal was not edible. His Majesty preferred
hunting turkeys (wild ones) ; and, to that end,
stocked Richmond Park with three thousand of those
fowls. And very good sport they gave, too ; for they
were as stupid and perverse as many men and women,
preferring to fly low, closely pursued by dogs, and
only when hard driven took refuge in the trees,
where, with a little musketoon, his Majesty picked
them off.

Out of sight, out of mind. Walpole, in disgust
with everything in general, had retired to sulk at
Houghton, since my Lady Walpole chanced to be
elsewhere. Gin and Excise had gone so badly.

that George was somewhat shaken in his allegiance,
and his temper was therefore bad. The trusty
Ranulph saw with concern that in his absence his
friend was seriously losing ground with the Queen as
well as the King ; and so he laid a snare to lure him
back to Court. He reminded their Majesties that
they had not hunted for some time; that summer
was waning ; that, since the King threatened to run
off to beloved Hanover shortly, the turkeys would
be left forlorn.

Caroline's favourite residence, as we know, was in
Old Richmond Park, 'twixt Richmond town and
Kew, too small a domain for sport. Of the New or
Great Park, Walpole's son was Ranger, though
practically it was occupied by Sir Robert himself asa
residence during pleasure. Hence, when the
turkey mania set in, the King was the guest of the
Minister; and, urged by cunning Ranulph, the
Queen indited an epistle one day to the sullen
hermit, begging permission to hunt. ' If you are
too busy to attend, pray stop at home,' she wrote.
I will promise not to invade the bower of Fair
Rosamond Skerrit.' This was jocose, but cool ; and
Sir Robert saw at once, as Ranulph wished, that his
presence was urgently needed, unless the bundle of
sticks was to fall asunder which he had tied with
such care and skill.

The Dawleyites, as usual, were wrong about him.
His personal ascendency was so great, that the

moment her eyes rested on his fat familiar figure,
the doubts and fears of Caroline melted into air.

Je raine,' she whispered to Ranulph, ' maugre ce
gros corps, ces jambes endless, et ce vilain ventre ! I love
him, but not like Fair Rosamond Skerrit,' she
added, sighing. ' It must be his intellect and not
his figure she adores. Ah, poor human nature !'

Ah, poor human nature, indeed I They were
rickety specimens that Sir Robert entertained at
breakfast under the colonnade of the Old Lodge on
a delicious September morning. This Old, or
Ranger's Lodge was an elegant brick building on
rising ground, commanding a prospect of old oaks
and a sheet of water. From its windows could be
obtained a lovely view of undulating green and
feathery bracken, while the sprightly deer in graceful
herds imparted to the sylvan scene a fascinating
beauty.

The rickety specimens of humanity who sat
sipping Bohea (Sir Robert preferred sack, with a
dash of gentian-root as a fillip) were not so pleasant
to look upon. The martyrdom which the royal
family endured would have pleased the Jacobites if
they'd known of it. The King, the Queen, and the
Princesses all suffered from ill-health, and all pretended
that their constitutions were of iron. Only
yesterday her Majesty was twice blooded for low
fever, and yet the King insisted on her sitting
through a long state concert in full dress, while the

music of Handel and Farinelli buzzed in her ears.
George himself was choking with sore throat, and
shook in every limb as he staggered out of bed this
morning. At breakfast now he is near swooning,
but he said he would hunt, and he will hunt — for,
whatever else he might lack, dapper George was not
wanting in courage — with all the more go and
vigour, in that the hated Prince of Wales has sent
unasked to say that he will join in the royal
pastime.

Walpole was shocked when he saw how ill the
Queen looked. She was certainly not so strong as
she used to be. What if she were to die ? Who
would then govern the impossible irascible King?
He would marry again. Would the second wife
prove as tractable as the first ? With faithful
Caroline for queen, and silly old Suffolk for a
mistress, the Minister had it all his own way. Here,
by-the-bye, was a new trouble rising. Was there to
be no end to 'em ? Ranulph, in priming his friend
and master this morning, and putting him an court
with all that had passed in his absence, hinted that
the King was getting tired of Suffolk.

This was grave, though her Majesty treated it
lightly — much too lightly. The miserable woman
had undergone galley-slavery for twenty years to an
odious temper and capricious tyranny with little
reward beyond abuse and an empty title. She was
too stupid to give trouble. Where could such

another paragon be found ? It was all very well for
Caroline to laugh and say, ' Faut se consoler de touts
des malheurs.' Some women never know when they
are well off, and are never grateful for mercies.
For three hours every evening during twenty years
the souffre doidciLv had relieved her Majesty of the
King's presence. 'Tis ill putting off old gloves still
we know what the new ones are like. Her Majesty
was indifferent now — pray Heaven she might not
repent it !

At the breakfast-party this morning. Sir Robert's
cards were hard to play. Their Majesties' tempers
were not sweetened by a struggle with illness, or
with the prospect of Fred's advent. Sure he had
heard of the indisposition, and was coming to investigate
! The Prince of Wales showed amazing
ingenuity and perseverance in ways of making himself
unpleasant. On this occasion he was as offensive
as ever ; for who must he bring in his suite
but Gervas Lord Forfar, the Court enemy, who
reeked of Dawley — who, since the kidnapping
escapade and that scene in the House, had been cut
dead by the Prime Minister. Even Pamela was
scarce pleased by the apparition ; for she could not
very well bill and coo under the Queen's nose. Perceiving
that he was sad and dumpish, the spirit of
mischief seized that lively damsel ; and, summoning
Medhcote to her side, she forthwith launched into
VOL. II. ^:)6

an outrageous flirtation with the young Vice-chamberlain.


Love you ?' she shrieked. ' Never. I'll never
love a laced coat and a perfumed periwig. We
make spaniels of such chocolate-house beaux as
your worship ; and the worse wee use you, the more
sou fawn. Yet I'm not sure. If I take you for a
husband some day, 'twill be to make you utterly
contemptible.'

Nay,' laughed Ranulph good-naturedly ; * I'm
not in the running with your glum patriot, who holds
you leashed. And yet I've done my best.'

And had your reward,' perked Pamela. ' Have I
not read your odious billets, and suffered you to
gallant my fan and kiss my lapdog ?'

Alas ! I'm driven from the field ! I've danced
with you, sung to you, writ verses on you, sworn I'd
shoot every man who looks on you. I've bribed
your servants, petted your monkey, kissed your black
page, talked jam to the housekeeper, and bespattered
reputations \vith your woman — and all for
what ? To see you give your hand to a Tory !
I ask your Majesties if 'tis not scurvy treatment
?'

Certainly Ranulph was always full of tact.
Badinage is more useful sometimes than the soundest
talk, and this was clearly the moment for it. Sure,
if we persist in hunting, despite the disadvantages of
phlebotomy and sore-throat, 'tis to escape for a time

from our worries. No one was better aware than
their Majesties that the thorns of Fred's character
were sprouting terribly. He wanted money, he
wanted to be married ; he wanted a variety of inconvenient
things, and, primed by the Dawleyites, was
prepared to demand them at the sword-point, instead
of craving them as favours.

That Lord Forfar should have come with him
to-day into the enemy's camp, was proof that the
Heir Apparent allowed himself to be made a tool for
the exasperation of his parents and their Minister.
The Queen bestowed a grateful look on her Vice-chamberlain
as a hint to continue skating.

By-the-way, Mrs. Belfield,' he drawled, 'the young
lady who pretends to be your sister has been up to
her pranks again.'

Pamela twitted him before his successful rival, did
she ? To bestow a gentle slap by reference to an
unwelcome subject would avenge himself and please
her Majesty.

My sister? You know Fve renounced rouge,
and you would make me blush — unkind !' returned
Mrs. Belfield. ' Speak to me not of that abandoned
one ! I fear she'll soon make one of the Keeper of
Newgate's levee.'

Not so,' replied Medlicote. * 'Tis the queerest
tale. My Lord Byron it seems — devoted swain — •
hath opened his purse to her ; but you might as well
pour coin into the ocean. To evade pursuit, she

36—2

flew to that hoary reprobate, le Comte de Hastang,
entreating protection and patronage, which was accorded
with alacrity. It seems that, goaded by
some ungenerous person, a number of her creditors
rushed post-haste to the Dutch Embassy with
threatening gestures, which the Ambassador, for the
honour of his cloth, was of course compelled to
resent. A mob soon gathered, and demanded the
cause of the uproar. If anyone had explained that
'twas only a debtor in sanctuary, the people would
have dispersed ; but a voice out of the crowd
declared that his wife was concealed within, forcibly
abducted by the foreigner, and kept against her will.
You may conceive the result ! The windows were
broken in a twinkling, and the mansion would have
been wrecked ere assistance could arrive, but for the
undaunted and unflinching bravery of that strange
woman. Amid the clatter of falling glass she appeared
on the balcony, frowning down upon the
turmoil, and motioned for silence, as if the crowd
below had been her slaves. " That speaker was a
dastard and a har," she said. *' I am the actress,
Barbara Pilot — no man's wife, or ever like to be.
If we'd see a weak woman who never harmed ye
flung into jail, have your will. Here is the paper
that the Count de Hastang hath writ for me. Take
it, and may my fate be yours !" With that she flung
a document among them, from which they recoiled
as if it had been a round shot. Many knew her by

sight, and wist that her speech was truth. Perceiving
the ebb, she followed up her advantage crying
piteously, *' I have a secret foe. Who 'tis I
know not ; for, indeed, of my own wish I never
injured any soul. He is among ye now, and told
that He. I pray ye search out the reptile !" The
hint was taken ; but the mischief-maker, whoever he
was, had made good his retreat ; and by the time a
company of Guards had galloped to the scene there
were none left but a few idlers.'

As seldom out of debt as out of countenance !'
Pamela observed, bridling.

What happened to the paper ?' asked the
Queen.

The fickle mob turned, as usual, like a weathercock.
Amid general applause the document was
picked out of the mud and presented on the end of a
stick to the lady, who still stood in the balcony.'

Sir Robert looked up, suddenly interested.

'Nay,' he said, 'you are surely mistaken. It
cannot be so ill with her, or she would have sent tome.
Know you aught of it ?'

This to Honest Jack, who had been standing at a
respectful distance awaiting his patron's leisure.

Had it been so, she would have surely sent,' he
answered quietly.

Poor Bab !' mused Walpole. ' Sure her brain is
touched by some hidden canker. But if it goes
really ill, 'tis time to interfere so far as her humour

will allow. Heaven forgive my neglect, but I've
been desperately harassed of late. She's a singular
girl, independent, and a spitfire. No later than tomorrow
I will ride myself and see what may be
done.'

If I might venture to suggest, knowing the lady,'
remarked Honest Jack, with deference, ' perchance
it might be better for me to go in your honour's
name. If it should be a fact that the Dutch Ambassador
hath accepted the corvee and acted like a
true friend, he would surely resent interference.'

Perhaps,' assented Sir Robert. * We must be
delicate ; but it assuredly is strange — most singular
that if in a desperate strait she should not have
applied to me.'

A very singular woman,' echoed Lord Forfar.
As interesting a riddle as any I have known — save
one' (this with a bow to his betrothed). * To me
she's incomprehensible. Time was when I thought
badly of the maiden. Then I knew I was wrong,
and could not but admire such fearlessness — such
activity and energy. Then came this deplorable
backsliding, which, as Sir Robert hints, must be a
phase of madness. She is a sphinx. I would
myself gladly assist her if I might.'

Mrs. Belfield's complexion turned to a green hue
that was unbecoming, as she exchanged glances
with the secretary.

Meanwhile, his Majesty grew restless ; for the sun

was rising in the heavens, and a long string of
carriages and horses were parading on the road
hard by. Fred, too, was coming to open quarrel
with his sisters, who refused their coffee because
he had bidden his own servant to pour it, and they
dreaded some covert insult. Were not he and they
always battling over etiquette ? When they went to
dine with him, did they not frequently find stools
placed for them at the table instead of chairs — a
device to hurt their pride ? Not but what they were
capable of looking after themselves ; for on these
occasions they invariably stood in the anteroom till
the chairs had been replaced.

Despite his throat, his Majesty was going amounting
; so he climbed upon his horse, and everyone
else combed on theirs. The Princesses scampered
with their own following, the Queen trundling behind
in a low chaise, with Ranulph riding by her side.
Sir Robert's infirmities did not permit of firing at
turkeys in trees, so he retired to work with his
secretary until the sport was over. 'Twas strange
about his little Whig. He could not keep his
thoughts from her, with an aggrieved feeling of pique
at her having applied to Hastang, instead of to himself,
for succour. Well, well ! Honest Jack would report
on the morrow as to whether she would like to see
him. 'Twould be a desperate breach of etiquette
to meddle with the Ambassador's affairs. Time was
when he was certain of a welcome from the pretty

lady ; but now, as he must perforce suppose, she
was tired of him. Lately, somehow things went
desperately crooked. It must be that he was
getting old ; and when we get old and boring, all
but the trustiest fall off. 'Tis the common fate of
all. The cloud had passed from the Queen's brow ;
that was a mercy. How good of Ranulph to warn
him ! What of old Suffolk ? The King must be
sounded on this point before he should start for
Hanover. Aye, and on how many other points ?
Verily, he was so difficult to manage, that 'twas like
playing on a harp with strings of thread. One by
one they broke under the touch, however skilfully
played. Would it not be better to fling off the
yoke of shameless slavery, and retire with Skerrit
to a desert island ? But then, how charmed the
Dawleyites would be ! No ; that would never
do.

The Minister, in exceeding low spirits, was buffeting
in a maze more intricate than that of Hampton
Court, or of the Queen's Lodge close by. How
pleasant it would be if the little Whig were to drop
in as in old days and deliver sage opinions ! Alas !
the world moves on too fast for us, leaving us
plodding behind, weighed down with years and care [
Why may we not stay the turning-wheel at given
points, then hurry over others ? At this minute the
little Whig was delivering sage orations to old
Hastang upon Dutch politics, no doubt. Really,

how she could ! He, Sir Robert, was neither so old
nor so ugly as Hastang. Beauty and the Beast !
'Twould be droll if they made a match of it. As
for himself, if Lady Walpole would only die, he
would espouse Skerrit. Then Sir Robert smiled a
transient smile as he thought of marrying Skerrit,
which quickly faded as he conned the papers which,
one by one, were placed by Honest Jack before
him.

On the whole, all things considered, elections had
gone better than could have been hoped. He was
still in power — had escaped, as the vulgar have it,
by the skin of his teeth.

'Fickle people!' he murmured. * You deserve
not an honest servant ! Your interest is my interest;
or rather mine is and shall be yours. Some day
you'll regret the useless harrying suspicion and
empty jargon you've flung at my devoted pate.
The King ! the King ! Let us hope he will kill
many turkeys, and return in a more tractable mood.
He must be coaxed to a better mind ere he starts

for Hanover ; and then, he may stays away

The longer the better ; for, with full powers, the
Queen and I will settle public business as seemeth
good unto us.'

The King was decidedly an exasperating master,
for he was inopportunely burning for the fray, panting
for military laurels ; and yet Walpole stood out
steadfastly for peace, in spite of all that could be

urged in favour of beloved Germany. His Minister
had increased the army, and even established a
camp in Hyde Park to amuse his lord, just as we
give a boy a box of wooden soldiers. There was no
doubt that George cared more for the welfare of
Hanover and Herrenhausen than that of England —
so did Caroline, for that matter — and 'twas difficult
to make them understand that it would not do to
sacrifice the kingdom for the good of the precious
principality. All this would have to be gone into so
soon as the hunt was over. George must be told
roundly that if he would mix himself in foreign
embroiling, the day might come, and speedily, when
he would have to defend his British crown on British
ground. As for Caroline, he was easy ; for Ranulph
had been instructed during turkey intervals to shake
the Jacobite bogey at her. The Pretender was a
stick which kept her in perfect order, and she would
return convinced and help to coerce the King. But
Kinski, Austrian Ambassador, was also careering
after turkeys, and while Ranulph argued with the
Queen was earwigging his Majesty. No one hated
Walpole so much as Kinski, who wrote diatribes to
Vienna about him as violent as anything of Boling-broke's.
His Majesty returned presently much the
worse for the outing, and worried to death by the
Austrian, and stormed up and down the Minister's
study, while Caroline wept over egg-flip. Was it a
wonder if, baulked on all sides, annoyed, provoked,

harassed, Sir Robert should have forgotten all about
the absent little Whig, who had thrown him over for
another ? Was it surprising that Mr. Crump, knowing
what we know of his desires, should have quite
forgotten to remind him ?

MRS. Belied GROWS MORE PERPLEXED.'

HE Royal hunt over, Lord Forfar whispered
something to his betrothed which
flushed her cheek with renewed hope,
and spurred his horse in the familiar
direction of Dawley.

It's coming to a head,' was what he whispered.


Although considerably disappointed in the matter
of the General Elections, Cincinnatus on his farm
was radiant, as, without rising, he waved a welcome
to the new-comer. In the middle of a hatfield he
had just been through all the ins and outs of the
grand scheme that was ripening so nicely, had
weighed the pros and cons, and tinkered up the
holes as Chesterfield and Pulteney touched on the
various points.

We are accustomed to conjure up conspirators in
huge sombreros and great cloaks, armed to the

teeth, whispering in cellars by light of a flickering
torch. How different this scene ! A calm evening
in early autumn ; crows cawing home across a
cloudless sky, whose blue at the edges was deepening
to pink and saffron. A vast field shorn by the
mower, unadorned with trees, so that the group in
the centre could talk with ease without dread of
being overheard.

Upon the top of a haycock, under whose lengthening
shade a group of gentlemen were sprawling, sat
my Lord Bolingbroke, resplendent in salmon satin,
daintily trimmed with pearls ; his hat of white
beaver jauntily cocked. His hair, as usual, was
combed off his face, and caught behind by a great
bow. His vest was of silver tissue with pearl
buttons; his stockings of cream silk. In one jewelled
hand he held a jug of syllabub, in the other a tiny
teacup of fine Chelsea.

Near him lolled my Lord Chesterfield, a laced
kerchief spread upon the grass to support his
diamond snuff-box, and close by Pulteney, who
eagerly conned a note-book.

A picnic party, apparently ; exquisite from White's
suddenly transferred to the country by some malevolent
fay. Not so. When Gervas advanced to greet
the party, having tied his horse to a gate, they were
calmly chatting high treason, arguing in silvery
accents as to what was to be done with the usurper.
The plot that had been so long a-hatching was cei -

vainly coming out of its shell. All the details were
arranged. 'Twas merely a matter of deciding upon
the most propitious moment — or to their sanguine
souls it seemed so — when the bolt should quiver in
the bull's-eye.

What news of the red-faced impostor ?' St. John
inquired carelessly. ' Is it true he is going to
Hanover ?'

Yes,' returned Gervas, throwing himself moodily
upon the grass, and stretching his hand for the
syllabub. ' There's no use in discussing. It must
be postponed again. Sure Fate delights to thwart
us ! As Cromwell said, " We must await the birth
of Time." He's off to Herrenhausen so soon as
Walpole will let him, and won't be back till Christmas.'


There was a long silence. Chesterfield pared his
nails with a gold-handled knife, and Pulteney
whistled. Presently Bolingbroke remarked, shaking
his fist at the sinking orb :

For four months, then, Bluestring will be
King!'

Apparent advantages crumble when we touch
them. Things go so persistently wrong,' Gervas observed
slowly, ' that one is almost tempted to think
that Heaven wars against us 1'

In favour of Bluestring,' laughed Bolingbroke.
Then hath Satan won the upper hand, indeed !
Oh, the people— the lewd, besotted people ! His



very name should set 'em hooting, and yet they
grovel and cringe while he wrings their lifeblood
drop by drop. We've delayed so long that sure we
may afford cheerfully to bide a few months longer.
Hast heard what his Majesty of Spain did t'other
day ? He was in a boat off Cadiz with a son of our
gracious King — whom God bless — when the latter
lost his hat. The mariners were about to rescue it
when the Spanish monarch cried, '' Refrain ! It
drifts towards England, where its master shall go
fetch it !" And straightway he flung his own hat
after the first, and all the courtiers did the like,
amid a salvo of huzzahs !'

Very pretty and loyal and poetic,' grumbled
Gervas, ' but useless and unpractical.'

Hear him I' laughed Bolingbroke. * My Lord
Forfar prides himself on being a man of prudence —
not like the magpie, which cannot see anything
stolen without proclaiming the fact from the housetop.'


All goes well enough, though you are splenetic,'
remarked Chesterfield. ' George's instinct bids him
unite with Austria, who, unaided, must surely be
beaten; yet Bluestring will not let him. So much
the better for us. France and Spain, victorious,
will have leisure four months hence to assist their
ally ; and then, if things fall out as we have a right
to hope, the road will be cleared for a coronation.'


Far from things going wrong,' added Pulteney,
^ it seems to me that Bluestring plays into our
hands. He won't fight when his weight might turn
the scale. He increases the army for no purpose,
and camps the men in the Park ! Thus, the bungler
re-enlists and arms the very men whom before he
starved and allowed to go in rags, and finally, by discharging,
drove upon the footpad ! They are still
ill-fed and worse clothed, and remembering the past,
have little love for either Minister or Government.
By his own act he hath ruined their principles and
made them thieves and cut-throats — mere bravoes
who'll serve the highest bidder. The blunderer can
squander millions in corrupting voters or bribing
nobles, but cannot feed or clothe his array of tatterdemalions,
who at the first brush will turn on him.'

^ Whence shall our money come ?' inquired Gervas
dubiously.

King James's promissory notes are as good as
cash, for gratitude will be worth his while,' returned
Bohngbroke with confidence. * Many of Bluestring's
rabblement are ours already ; for they are not fools,
and can judge that the paper of the King over the
water is worth more than Sir Robert's neglect. To
think we should have an army formed for us, and
armed gratis, too !'

At the thought St. John was so much amused
that he fell backwards with his red heels dancing in
the air.

Fools ! what if we were fools ?' Gervas said, in
deep dejection. ' Although the wicked heart of man
is no larger than a cauliflower, the whole world is
not big enough to satisfy its lust and greed. In the
history of the world, we find honest madmen and
honest fools and skilful knaves mixed up in an
inextricable confusion. Think of the Crusades !
One of the wickedest schemes ever launched against
humanity ! The Popes hankered after the wealth of
the East, and sent madmen and fools to fetch it.
Peter Hermit, both a madman and a fool, was the
fittest tool for so unjust an undertaking. Oh, my
brethren, what are we ?'

Bolingbroke picked himself up, and sat glaring
open-mouthed at the speaker. A traitor in the
camp ! Their necks were not safe. Instinctively
his fingers groped for his diamond-hilted sword ;
but, after a moment's scrutiny, he shrugged his
shoulders.

You are too honest to betray us,' he muttered ;
and yet we must be circumspect. Gervas, you
gave me quite a turn, for you were not wont to
jest.'

My allegiance will never waver,' Gervas said
simply. ' There is but one rightful King, and I will
die for him ; but, among ourselves, I cannot help
seeing that he is unworthy of the great trust committed
to his care, and that though we may be doing
right, we may act like fools and madmen.'

VOL. II. 37

What a pity ! The conspirators looked one at
the other, while the dreamy eyes of Gervas were
following a distant crow. This man was specially
useful because he was an enthusiast ; and mere
contact with such begets in many enthusiasm. If
his strong belief in the Cause were waning, 'twould
be a severe loss. He would work still, and do his
best, no doubt ; but in perfunctory fashion, half-hearted
and lukewarm.

'Twas well for the peace of mind of Pamela that
she was purring over a dish of chocolate, sweetened
with scandal, at Richmond, instead of witnessing
this scene. She would have read in the face of
Bolingbroke that her affianced had lost caste ; in
his crafty eyes she might have traced the intention
of warning the King over the water. The proceeding
would serve to display how white-hot was St.
John's zeal. Alack ! She would have realized possibly
that the dukedom for which she hungered was
wasting into vapour. 'Twas well that scene was
hidden from her gaze, or spleen and hysterics might
have supervened, which would have called for pints
of cordial.

The sombre mood passed off, and Gervas felt that
he had been rash in speaking his thoughts too
openly ; nay, was somewhat dismayed t(5 trace the
form they had taken. 'Twas his turn to laugh (in
rather a ghostly way) ; for Cincinnatus cut a sorry
figure in his silver tissue in the roseate afterglow —

the Chelsea cup held 'twixt finger and thumb, and
undisguised apprehension on his face.

Our fabric depends upon the army,' pondered
Gervas. ' Since the days of the Commonwealth
standing armies have not been popular.'

The people will scarce have heart to break a
lance upon the subject now,' returned Chesterfield.
They know that the House is packed with mercenaries
— a sanctuary for pick-pockets — a hospital
for changelings.'

Yet Bluestring is crafty enough to make capital
out of his own dilemma. He hath formed the camp
to amuse the King ; and will disband the troops as
soon as maybe to please the populace. Without
the army our fabric crumbles.'

Verily ! An icy cataract ! An. Ephialtes !' cried
St. John crossly.

'Tis ever best to look on the worst side,' objected
Lord Forfar. ' What if peace abroad be patched
up before the King's return ?'

'Be it our task to keep the pot a-boiling,' said
Pulteney, with decision. ' The instant of the King's
return must be the chosen moment. Four months,
you say? Just time to prove the temper of our
harness. The case stands thus : We've so many
sergeants in the Park camp who may be counted on,
and each will answer for his men. Is it not so, Gervas ?
You should have the list of officers. At a given signal,
the men will move singly out of camp to a place of

37—2

rendezvous, and march at dawn upon the Tower,
where they will be admitted by the officer on guard.
There they will seize the armoury, and distribute
weapons to the lads of the Mint and waterside, who,
at the same moment, will appear in force. Another
detachment will march on the Exchange. A declaration
will be dispersed to call the people to arms ;
the City gates will be shut ; cannon from the Tower
mounted on Temple Bar. A guard will be set upon
the Bank, whence money will be taken to distribute
as largesse. Other parties will secure the artillery
in the camp, the guns in Privy Garden, the cannon
and ammunition at the Horse Guards. You, Forfar,
with a selected band, will seize the King, and bring
him to the Tower, where Walpole, my Lord
Cadogan who commands the forces, and the principal
Secretaries of State, will find themselves already' .
The waking City will be paralyzed — the Revolution
will be complete ; for in the general surprise his
Majesty King James will appear, and claim his
own.'

The sun blushed red, and hid his face, ashamed
of the folly of these schemers. As Pulteney glibly
chattered, it all seemed plausible enough — neatly
knit and welded ; and yet Gervas could not choke
down a rising feeling of distrust and dim foreboding.
How braid into one knot so many strings ? Given
that on the list which he had handed to Pulteney
there was no traitor, how ensure that on the given

day the chosen officer should be on guard at the
Tower, his Majesty accessible ; also Walpole,
Cadogan, and the rest ? Had they not already tried
to kidnap one of these, and failed in the attempt ?
The Minters, too, and lawless watermen of Southwark
I Sure they would blab and bluster. During
four long months, at least, how could such a secret
be kept bottled ?

The only objects that seemed really tangible to
Lord Forfar's awakening common-sense were a
scaffold and a block looming on Tower Hill. King
James, too. How was he to be smuggled hither,
and produced just in the nick of time ? Why, when
Queen Anne died, only t'other day, was not King
James to be produced and carry all before him,
instead of which he was lying, drunk and helpless,
asleep among his harlots ? In truth, 'tis ill serving
an unworthy lord. As he had just declared, Gervas
was ready and willing to lay down his life for the
sake of his lawful sovereign ; but at the same time
a growing conviction possessed his mind that the
sacrifice would prove abortive. By Bolingbroke's
own showing the debauched soldiery were mere
street ruffians in red coats, devoid of principle.
How trust such men ? No doubt nor George, nor
Frederick was popular. Was James more so ?
Granted that the former were usurpers. A terrible
blow had been dealt at Divine Right when the
sacred head of Charles fell at Whitehall. Well, it

was too late for retreat. The hands of all these
brilliant popinjays were on the plough, so was Lord
Forfar's. 'Twas no use in looking back. If Heaven
willed that the true Cause should prosper, how full
should be the gratitude of them, the selected instruments
!

Gervas made violent efforts to convince himself,
which, as is not unfrequently the case, overshot
the mark. The plot must be a good plot to
be approved by my Lord Bolingbroke. St. John
was too clever and too selfish to make one of such
a forlorn hope. So was Chesterfield. 'Twas growing
dark. St. John leapt gaily from his haycock,
and remarked that it was supper-time. Only a
frugal farmer's meal, he said — beans and bacon
and a barn-door fowl — before which simple fare
the silken-broidered schemers were sitting presently
in a cosy parlour, appropriately frescoed by an
Italian Hmner with spades and prongs and other
bucolic trophies.

Happily ignorant of the springe that was being
prepared for unwary feet, the Court was delightfully
calm in the absence of King George.
The much-enduring Suffolk had gone to the Bath,
and 'twas tacitly understood that her reign was
over.

Caroline busied herself at Richmond Lodge, in
the congenial company of Ranulph and Sir Robert,
in beautifying the grounds, and studying the works

of the freethinkers. She had a fine taste in gardening.
Among the feathery trees of her favourite
retreat were rocks and rills and cascades, chastely
suggestive of the Alps ; a temple dedicated to conjugal
felicity, wherein were busts of their Majesties
flanking Hymen's altar ; while painted on the ceiling
were Venus and the Loves, portraits of the young
princesses. Charming ! Through trim plantations
meandered tiny streams 'twixt hillocks of flowers girt
with emerald turf. Most soothing to a mind attuned
to philosophy ! But the gem of the place was Merlin's
Cave — a grotto fashioned of large stones intermixed
with lumps of spar, wherein stood wooden Merlin
with clockwork in his chest, as true as possible to
nature, surrounded by a wooden court. Here Caroline
would muse for hours, gazing out at the peaceful
shining Thames, discussing points of infidelity
with Ranulph, wiling away the hours in grave or
playful argument.

These absences at Herrenhausen were like a green
oasis, and added years to the life of Caroline. No
more need of cautiously trimming her thoughts for
the behoof of a suspicious autocrat, of playing a part
from dawn to nightfall, of curbing a temper ruffled
by rude words. She and Sir Robert arranged affairs
without clamour or discussion, so both were blessed
with leisure, which he spent at Houghton like a
country gentleman ; while she varied her pursuits
by hanging pictures, or planning a union of the

Hyde Park ponds into one sheet to be called the
Serpentine, Hastening to poetry, enjoying evening
drives.

But, poor lady, she was only gathering transient
strength to cope with heavier trials. In due course
the King returned from Hanover, his temper more
abominable than before. Now nothing English was
endurable. No English cook could dress a dinner ;
no English coachman could drive, or jockey ride ;
no English horses were fit to be ridden ; every
Englishwoman was a fright. At Hanover, on the
other hand, the men were brave and gallant ; the
women angels. As for the queen, she was fat and
greedy. Princess Caroline was wheezy, Emily deaf,
Cumberland blowsy and awkward. Alas for the
days of Suffolk, the buffer, the soujfre douceur ! Both
Walpole and Ranulph saw with apprehension that
the attitude of the King to his wife was not what it
used to be. There must be a hidden reason. What
secret spring was moving him ? It behoved them
gravely to consult. How sensible a woman was the
royal Consort !

I am fifty-three,' she quietly remarked, * and can
no longer hope to govern by coquetry. The King
has discovered that I'm old. I will change my
tactics — appear in future as the wise adviser instead
of the comely woman.' Prudently resolved ; and
yet George's behaviour was so intolerable that for
once in her life his spouse was sufficiently spurred

to speak up and reply in his own manner. * If
you were so happy in Hanover, and are so miserable
here,' she cried, out of patience, * why not
stop away ? If pleasure did not call you hither,
business did not ; for we could do as well without
you, as you could have pleased yourself without
us.'

The King, trembling with rage, banged out of one
door, wMe the Queen, in floods of tears, flounced
out of the other. Things could not go on in this
way. Courtiers crept about on tiptoe. Ranulph
was much concerned. Pamela stole forth on
frivolous pretexts, and upbraided Gervas for his
want of prompt decision. Had he not declared ever
so long ago that something was coming to a head ?
Was he deceiving himself and her ? For love of
him she had turned spy, and plotted and performed
mean tricks. Sure he had not seduced a frail, weak,
well-meaning girl into sin for nothing ? Would he
speak plainly, or kindly blow out her brains, or stick
his sword into her deluded bosom ?

Mrs. Belfield was really in earnest, and fairly
frightened ; for Gervas grew more and more shill
shall, evidently had something dreadful on his mind
was keeping something back ! What if papa had
been right after all, and she jockeyed ? Was ever
maid so tortured and distracted, if not gulled ?
Tears and misgiving did not improve the Honourable
Pamela, for her nose grew red, and emotion

betrayed the thinness of her neck, while her voice
grew more hard and shrill.

Gervas was very unhappy, and could give no
comfort. Something had gone wrong. There was
a hitch, and the plot was again postponed. Yet he
endeavoured to cheer his betrothed. If St. James's
were to be divided against itself, how much better
the chance for James !

'Twas notorious that Caroline was the best friend
of the usurper. If he flung her aside, Walpole
would go too, and the irascible little wretch would
fall of his own accord without a push.

With this shred of consolation Mrs. Belfield was
perforce satisfied. But what was this that her
lover added ? If the worst comes to the worst, we
will leave the country and join the royal exile !
What ! was this to be the futile end of it ? A Roman
garret and starvation ! Pamela's fingers twitched.
She would have loved to scratch the face of this
weak-kneed deceiver ! And yet — oh, agony ! — it
might be fatal to be precipitate. The other string to
her bow must be taken up again. It behoved a
shrewd young lady to hedge.

Mrs. Belfield unaccountably became softer in her
conduct to Mr. Medlicote ; spoke low to him as they
sat on duty in the antechamber ; rallied him with
moonlit raillery till he reflected that pervading
anxiety, while it corroded others, had much improved
his lady-love.

Marriage — ah me !' she sighed one day, with eyes
directed to the ceiHng, ' do we not see enough of it
in this royal household ? Not but what the world
should be obliged to every woman when she
marries.'

How so ?' asked Ranulph.

Because there's nothing so civil as a husband —
to others ! He wastes all his rudeness on his wife,
which begets the highest good breeding to all
besides !'

Ranulph could not but laugh. A queer slip of
quality was Pamela, amusing and whimsical. Perchance,
after all, some day Well, well — there

were other things to think of now.

Caroline repented the too candid speech wrung
from her by worry, and resolved to try and be more
patient. Yet what she had to bear was crushing.
Suffolk away, the King spent his evenings in the
Queen's apartment, pacing up and down, swelling
and gobbling like one of his favourite turkeys, while
the martyr on the rack of ennui employed every
artifice to conceal her yawns.

She would drive over tomorrow to see my Lord
Graham's mansion, she observed, by way of saying
something.

'Always running your nose everywhere!' snorted
the autocrat. ' Pushing into every puppy's kennel to
gape at his chairs and stools ! Why not rush into
the taverns?'

The water rose into the Queen's eyes. She
knotted in silence till she tangled her thread ; then
snuffing the candles extinguished one of them.

Emily !' bawled his Majesty, ' your mother is
awkward idiot enough to have been an Englishwoman
!' and so flounced off to bed.

Oh what a life ! Cushions stuffed with pins, forsooth
!

It was all very well to arrange a new attitude, to
say that, abandoning the rosy chains of feminine
cajolery, you will be like a man friend. Such gross
vulgar ill-breeding from one man to another would
produce blows. Was it ill-health that brought
about the change ? The royal eyes were bloodshot
and inflamed ; the regal cheeks puffy and red. If
she could think so, Caroline would be satisfied, for
there is nothing a woman will not bear if she sees
sufficient cause.

George had not been back a month when he
began to break the ice with regard to another
journey. Prodigious ! The Queen's circle glanced
bewildered one at t'other, with jaws dropped. What
next ? Better to abdicate at once — hand bauble
and sceptre to the itching fingers of eager Frederick!
Sir Robert, man of the world, quick, clever, astute —
who boasted that no murky deep of his muddy
century could escape the experienced scrutiny of his
eagle ken — cleared his throat and spake.

No State prospers so well,' he declared, ' as one

that's governed by a woman ; for behind the scene
she, of course, is governed by a man.'

This was oracular, but mysterious.

And vice versa,' he continued, amid dead silence.
Do ye bite ?'

No one bit, so, clearing his throat once more, the
Minister condescended to explain.

I told your Majesty,' he said, shaking his great
periwig, ' that 'twas ill putting off old gloves till you
knew what the new ones would be like. The old
glove was called Suffolk, the new one's name is
Walden.'

Of course ! It was a new mistress who was at the
bottom of the King's ill-humour ! How foolish not
to have guessed it !

What is she like ?' the Queen asked eagerly.
Handsome, young, spirited, ambitious ?'

Not at all,' laughed Sir Robert reassuringly.

'What more?' the Queen inquired. 'You hesitate.'


The Minister did hesitate, for he had that to propose
which caused even his battered world-worn
face to become more rubicund.

You are prepared to act like a man friend ?' he
hinted, with some embarrassment.

Acres?' asked Caroline, with slightly heightened
colour.

Send and invite her over.'

The Queen winced, while Pamela dropped her

needle. Barbara, the now broken hussy, had been
wont to scoff at her sister's conduct as sordid, calculating,
disreputable. If so, she was in the best of
company ! To retain power Walpole was capable of
anything ; to preserve her sway intact Caroline was
prepared to go great lengths. How great 'twas impossible
to gauge. The upsetting of a dynasty for
the sake of a dukedom might perhaps be contemned
by unpractical dreamers as unduly selfish ; but for a
wife to invite a concubine to take possession ! The
cup extended to her Majesty was thick with acrid
lees.

^ Sa Majeste n'est his jeune, et elk en a hen vu
autres /' hazarded Mr. Medlicote, with an aplomb
that appreciative Pamela could not but admire.

If only Gervas, instead of being so provokingly
shifty, would But never mind Gervas now.

'Come, come!' wheedled the Minister; 'twill
but be long-suffering useful Suffolk o'er again without
her deafness. Sure, at fifty-three 'tis too late to
try new methods ! Tell the King that you desire
nothing but his happiness — that to give him
pleasure '

Caroline's breast heaved. The wife was tussling
with the Queen — the outraged woman with the
politician.

soit! Be it so!' she said, with a harsh laugh.
When your petticoat is mire-smirched, 'tis silly to
shy at a puddle. Tell him ? No ; that were too

much. I could not. There are some things to
which even I cannot stoop as yet. He may have
his new toy for me. But invite the woman over ! —
tell his Majesty myself? I could not; no — I could
not. / will write hint a little note .''

This knotty point decided, the party breathed
again. Sir Robert, however, was still anxious ; for,
whereas the King would often kick while he obliged,
his spouse could look pleasant while resentful.
'Twas a cruel task the Minister had imposed this
time ; and Caroline's smile was seraphic.

PITFALLS.'

E all know how little comfort is to be
gleaned from the fulfilment of our dear
friends' prophecies. The Duchess of
Queensberry had shaken her head,
vowing that so reckless a career as Mrs. Pilot
chose to arrange for herself must lead to speedy
ruin ; and we have seen that our poor Barbara slid
with unpleasing swiftness from the elevated brow of
prosperity down into the shadowy vale. Steep and
slippery is the incline ; seldom may the heights be
combed again. The uncertainty of when the bottom
is really reached adds to the horrors of descent.
She was too much afflicted to be touched by Lord
Byron's kindness, or Count Hastang's helpfulness.
The amount of her debts was found to have piled to
too goodly a figure for one admirer to meet ; there
was nothing for it but to arrange the letter of

license, and procure a lodging which should be
secure from troublesome incursions.

The Ambassador engaged Mrs. Barbara Pilot,
by written agreement, as his housekeeper, by virtue
of which document she might walk the streets unharmed
; but Bab's objection to abide in the house
with him was fully shared by the old gentleman
after the episode of the broken windows. That
outrage seemed to show that some one was at work
more malicious than an ordinary dun. There was
no excuse for it.

The privileges of foreign Ministers are sharply
defined ; and, when Count Hastang formally complained,
he was told by the authorities that they
were very sorry, which, if fine as an apology, did
not repair the damage.

In Cleveland Row, St. James's, a pretty apartment
was secured for the bruised lady, where, since
'twas within verge of the Court, she need be in no
fear of bailiffs. It was furnished with such articles
as could be saved from the wreck in Golden Square ;
her plate and clothes were transported thither ;
Lord Byron sent some china, and three handsome
girandoles ; and, all things considered, she appeared
to be well out of a mighty awkward scrape.

Doubly fenced round and protected, the creditors
had nothing for it, as had been foreseen, but, for a
small consideration, to sign a letter of license, renewable
after twelve months, which they accordingly

VOL. II. 38

did — all save Madam Mappp, the well-known frippery-woman,
whose trade was to supply the ladies of
fashion and of the patent theatres with laces and
perfumed gloves, rouge, hair-powder, and clocked
stockings. She said she'd made an oath never to
sign such a paper, but gave a promise not to push
her claim. * Not that the promise matters,' she
laughed sourly, * since the debtor's beyond my
reach.'

Thus did the battered soul obtain a period of rest,
which she spent in staring out of window at the
bricks of the opposite house ; and which, from its
unbroken monotony, did her little good — for, like
some distant echo from another sphere, fell upon her
ear the plaudits of admiring thousands ; the buzz of
beaux in the crowded green-room ; at the morning
levee; the constant shuffle of feet at the Lock of
Hair ; the serenade of French horns ; the frequently
offered compliment of music in the Parks. Unbroken
brooding induces hysteria, since in this world unpleasant
events preponderate over agreeable ones,
and the gnawing of our own hearts is evil diet.

It may be thought that Barbara was unduly hard
to please, since we cannot have everything. For
lack of some one on whom to lean with affection,
the position of idol and toast had been as bran in
the mouth, and the Bushey villa intolerably dull.
If that was so, how dismal must ostracism have
proved in Cleveland Row, with no company save a

dog, a cat, and a blackbird — nothing to look at buta
wall !

Time was,' she told the cat, quoting from ' Jane
Shore,' * when my approach would make a Httle
holiday, and every face be wreathed in smiles to seeme.'


It was not so now. The knocker remained still,
save when the polite Count sent to know how she
did. Her little maid, last remnant of the grand
establishment, coaxed her mistress to piquet ; but
even that proved sickening — for did it not recall the
brief period of insane uproar — short reign of Queen
Beelzebub — on which now she looked with wonder ?

In scorn, mingled with indignation, she reflected
on the moths who used to flit about the candle, and
eagerly consulted the mirror. She was paler and
thinner than of yore — no longer fresh and blithe ;
but in exchange for mere peaches youth was a
murky thunderous loveliness, which went well with
the plastic severity of the firm chin and jaw. The
eye had acquired a brilliancy and fulness and a
sullen depth like that of some mountain tarn. The
skin had lost its roseate glow, and was now of an
even olive on which the dense black brows were
marked unflinchingly.

*I think I am more beautiful,' she mused, 'than
in the halcyon time, and yet I am deserted. No
hapless prisoner with jail distemper is more avoided.
They have heard, I suppose, of the extent of my

38-2

debts ? Do they think I would stoop to beg of
them ?'

With London at her feet, Bab had been wont to
complain that, though all were prostrate, no one
really loved her. That was true enough ! Despite
her ripened beauty, none came to bask ; for the
beaux, if free and lavish up to a few hundreds, had
no idea of disgorging thousands for a fancy and
instinctively shrank from the sordid mean worries
that come with writs and bailiffs.

The longer and more complete the solitude, the
more Barbara nursed her gloom and hugged her
grievances. Was not her fate too harsh ? Endowed
by Nature with precious gifts of charm and beauty
and sufficient talent, the wicked fairy had, as usual,
been at the christening. Independent haughtiness
is an inconvenient attribute, unless backed by the
substantial. Unaided by parental influence, Bab
had tried to shine, and had succeeded, by means
which carried with them their own disadvantages.
Unhelped by pride of birth and wealth and social
station, she had endeavoured to hold her own with
the elite ; and was aggrieved because, though countenanced
and admitted into the best society, there
was an intangible something which rose like the
great wall of China betwixt her and the true quality.
Sure she was a ridiculous maid thus to cry, as
'twere, for the moon ! And what a silly creature to
kick over the traces in a tantrum, and do that which

could hurt none but herself! But oh, my brethren,
are we not all of us struggling after that which never
may be ours ; banging our wings against bars ;
sighing, longing, hoping ; building castles that will
never be inhabited ; weaving plans that never maybe
realized — till suddenly, when things seem most
promising, the White Pilgrim comes and, with
ghostly laughter at our futile efforts, beckons to well-merited
oblivion ?

A curious world this, in whose every fruit there is
a worm ! In which such small measure of success
as is meted out brings penalties ; where the prosperity,
for which by rooted instinct we strive and
toil, almost invariably does harm to the few who are
privileged to taste of it. Why are we impelled to
seek that which is to do us injury ?

In great things, as in small, 'tis the principle which
bids the innocent moth to gyrate around the lamp.
Perhaps in the next planet, which in the cycle of
progress we may be compelled to visit, we may
struggle for worthy objects and obtain them, achieve
our hearts' desires, meet vvith no disappointments.
Perchance our cheeks will not be always tingling
with slaps. Perhaps the dolls will not be filled with
bran, the luscious apricot will not conceal a wasp,
the cabbage a caterpillar. Perchance we shall not
fall in love with the wrong person, or back the wrong
horses in the race. Because she had unwittingly
bestowed a heart that pined for the sunshine of love

on one who did not want it, 'twas doubtless extremely
foolish of Barbara to run amuck against the
world, to assault an enemy so much stronger than
she.

Possibly, while staring at the wall or talking with
the cat and blackbird, she was aware of her folly ;
but she was not one to strip her back and kneel
humbly for correction, promising to be a good girl
in future. On the contrary, she only grew the
fiercer, and set her teeth more sternly, vowing that
if she had done wrong, she was more sinned against
than sinning.

Had any of her old friends troubled the knocker
just now they would have met with a scurvy reception.
Though she repeated to herself that it was
well to have found them out, that she preferred
being deserted by those who could give nothing but
lip-homage, she was bitterly hurt and outraged down
at the bottom of her being to think that neither
Walpole nor Wilks, nor any of those who had protested
so much, should take the trouble to inquire
whether she were alive or dead.

One day she was aroused from a lethargy that
threatened to become chronic torpor, by the idle
loquacity of her woman. That abigail, despatched
upon an errand, had met Mrs. Belfield, and had
made a humble curtsey ; whereupon the lady, recalling
her face, had asked after her late mistress.


'Late!' the wench had exclaimed; 'sure I hive
still with Mrs. Pilot.'

What ! — in prison ?' the Honourable Pamela had
retorted ; ' for 'tis all over the town that the hussy
is in Bridewell !'

In Bridewell, repeating ! With surging wrath
Barbara guessed that if such a report were current
it must have emanated from her sister's malice.
Yet who had she but herself to thank for such
reports ? Why mope alone in a corner with the
blackbird and the cat and dog ? Was it not shameful,
though grievously worsted, to have accepted defeat
instead of dying with a smile and front turned to the
foe ? She would go forth into the world again — once
again, at least — and, showing herself in public, give
the lie to scandal.

What mattered the sea of debt ? The letter of
license was signed, so was the agreement with the
Ambassador. Her body was safe enough. True.
She had been living on her silks and laces and ornaments,
parted with one by one, and the time was
not far distant when this source of revenue would
cease.

The abigail was babbling still, not knowing what
she did.

And oh !' she cried, ' if your ladyship only knew
of the doings — such doings ! — to inaugurate the
opening of a new pleasure-garden on the grounds of
the late Earl of Ranelagh ! Such canals, and walks,

and trees, and bridges ! and a statue of Mr. Handel
as good as waxwork ! and a dancing-rotunda as big,
they say, as the Pantheon at Rome ! 'Tis a pity your
ladyship cannot attend the masquerade ; 'twould
rouse your spirits, and bring the colour to your
cheeks ! The Queen is to be present, and the
Princesses, and all the rank and fashion.'

Cannot attend !' echoed Barbara, frowning. ' If
I please, I will attend, and as fine as any. Cannot
attend, quotha !'

The abigail was astonished at the sudden change
in her mistress. The cloud that hung over the
mountain tarn was gone ; instead, a sparkling ray
played upon its surface and flooded its brown deeps
with light ; and yet the woman hesitated, trembled,
and turned red.

Alack, madam !' she murmured, *your ladyship's
wardrobe '

Barbara paced to and fro, her fine arms crossed
upon her heaving breast. Pamela ! The wicked
spiteful creature ! Doubtless 'twas thanks to her
that misfortune had gathered, driving like a whirlwind
down a valley, uprooting trees, unroofing
houses. And now, not content with what had really
happened— and bad enough it was — she must spread
reports of hemp-beating ! The punishment reserved
for the lowest of her sex ! Through good or ill
report, the fair fame of the ex-Diva had never been
smirched or sullied.

'And more fool I,' she pondered bitterly. 'Infamy
would mean comfort again, and peace of
mind. Why guard my good name so jealously forsake
of one who cares not ? What good is it to me
or to anyone ? Why not rush into the street, into
the arms of the first comer ? 'Twould be but another
item in the long list of what I've suffered at the
hands of the cruel world !'

Bab passed a hand over her brow. Sure she must
be going mad ! Were she to fall, who so glad as
Pamela ? Pride stepped in to the rescue. In
prosperous days she might have given herself — who
knows ? — perhaps ; but now, through poverty, to
earn a crust to stave off a day's starvation !

Mr. Hogarth, she remembered, had painted but a
year or two ago a tragic picture called ' The Lady's
Last Stake.' Should it be said that when he limned
it, he had in his prophetic eye the actress, Barbara
Pilot ? This report anent the hemp-beating.
Should she qualify herself for Bridewell, and justify
her sister's calumny ? It was too bad, though !
Come what might of it, she would show herself at
this masquerade. 'Twould be fine to watch the confusion
of fair-weather friends ! 'Twould be necessary
to appear in flaunting bravery. Her jewels were
sold long since, but the plate remained — had been
kept till the last as a bulwark against hunger.
Deard and Lazarus had behaved ill at the time of
the crash. 'Twould not do to have further dealings

with them ; but there were other jewellers, who
would lend a set of diamonds on the plate's security
a riviere — anything which should show to the
world that the story of poverty was false.

Abigail was right about the wardrobe. Mrs. Mappp
might be coaxed into supplying new brocade. At all
events, it would do no harm to sound her. The
frippery-woman arrived with promptitude, and was
vastly civil.

Sure, madam, with youth and such beauty one
need not starve !' she said slily, with veiled lids.
His Excellency the Tripoline Ambassador said only

t'other day Nay, your ladyship should not be vexed

on one side belonging to the quality, too. If you
only knew what I know of all the Lady Betty and the
Lady Townley ! But mum's the word. I can keep
my place, I hope ! — aye, and my teeth closed!'

As to the new brocade and ostrich plumes, it
required consideration, since my lady was so stiffened.
With a hint, his Excellency would send
round a cartload of brocades and a dozen ostriches.
Well, well ! No need for black looks — by-and-by,
perhaps. When was that long bill likely to be settled ?
She, Madam Mappp, was poor and hard-working,
and 'twas bitter to be kept out of her money. Perhaps
Mrs. Pilot would consider the matter, and return
an answer to his Excellency the Tripoline Ambassador.
Ah, deary me ! — well, she would think about
the new brocade, and let Mrs. Pilot know.

Business took the frippery-woman next to Covent
Garden, where a new comedy was being rehearsed
that would require sumptuous dresses, and of course
she told of her visit to Mrs. Pilot. Madam Gibber,
who chanced to be in the comedy, was vastly'
interested in the narration, and, curiously enough,
exerted her influence in favour of her fallen rival.
At least it would seem that she was thus generous,
for Mrs. Mappp trotted briskly in the evening to
Cleveland Row with a bundle of patterns, declaring
she had changed her mind, and urged the ex-Diva
to select a splendid fabric of gold and silver tissue,
fresh-woven in Smithfield.

After so long an absence your ladyship should
appear with eclat'' she purred good-humouredly.
Fie ! never heed the cost. When you deign to
settle the account, which I know that you will soon,
a trifle added will make little difference.'

This was kind, and Barbara felt it to be so. Robed
in this tissue, with the borrowed diamonds, she
would appear as splendid as she had ever been.
Pamela, with her straitened means, would perish
of envy. So would the Mostyns, who had been so
brutal. What would Queensberry think ? Would
Walpole, false friend, be ashamed of his long neglect ;
and Silks, after his solemn assurances ? The
masquerade over, Bab would again retire, like
Cinderella, at midnight. But the necessary object
would have been gained. An emphatic and triumphant

denial would have been given to that malignant
story of the hemp-beating.

The opportunity Vv-as a good one ; for popular
excitement Vv^as wrought to highest pitch when the
day of the festival arrived. Though the dancing-rotunda
vas not finished (indeed it was not opened
to the public until 1742), the grounds were glorious
to look upon. The Lady Betty were there in
crowds ; so were Crimp, Cramp and Crumpling (in
faded finery), of whom some one sang:

*Fair maids, who at home in their haste
Had left all clothing else but a train.
Swept the path clean as slowly they paced,
Then— walked round and swept it again.'

The road to Chelsea was crowded with vehicles of
all descriptions — whiskeys, coaches, chairs ; while
humble folk gathered on the grassy banks and other
points of vantage to watch the glittering procession.

There was something whimsical about this last
freak of Barbara's, which, to her growing cynicism,
was diverting. To be clad like a princess in a fairy-tale,
with but a hazy prospect of dinner, was not
unamusing. To triumph over Pamela was worth
many dinners. On her way home she would call on
Count Hastang, and, whilst gratifying him with a
gorgeous apparition, offer heartfelt thanks for his
many kindnesses. She had insisted upon moping so
long alone that the Dutch Sinister had, respecting
her whim with delicate tact, ceased to inquire how

she did. 'Twas ever so long since she had heard of
him. Perhaps he would be here at this very festival.
Lord Byron, too — he would enjoy the surprise.
And Crump — that hot and cold, mysterious suitor —
had also (thank Heaven for that !) respected her
retirement. Was it respect or forgetfulness ? Would
they be glad at her resurrection, or recoil as from a
spectre ?

The bustle — the animated scene — threw the
thoughts of Bab into a less gloomy channel than
usual. She lay back upon the cushions of the plain
chair that had been hired and closed her eyes. Sure
the period of uproar was a dream — waking presently,
the familiar parlour of the Lock of Hair with its
oak panelling would meet her gaze — the call-boy of
Drury would knock with a new part — her mother,
neat and tidy and genteel, would enter the chamber,
ushering in the levee. Her mother ! What a tale it told,
that in her solitude Barbara had never longed to look
on either of her parents ! Even in extremity she had
never contemplated applying to father or mother.
A knock ! — yes, a real one. Opening her eyes, her
heart gave a great throb. The sinister past was no
dream. That knock upon the window now recalled
a horrid evening which preceded a yet more horrid
night. Oh, what a night of dreadful vigil — that
gruesome night of retrospect which closed the period
of uproar ! A man of flesh and blood was bowing
bareheaded at the window, clad in showy raiment.

A footman in a livery. What meant this ? A note for
her upon the public road to Ranelagh ? Doubtless
from the unknown but persevering Tripoline Ambassador.
Mother Mappp must have dared — this very
brocade, perhaps Oh, simpleton! reckless, incorrigible
fool ! Lowering the glass, she was about,
with hot words, to send the lackey packing, when he
tossed a paper in her lap.

Again !

A writ for five hundred guineas,' he said, with
a surly nod. * Your ladyship will excuse the disguise.
On the tails of wary fowls we must put salt.'

For a moment Barbara was stunned. Behind,
men were shouting to her chairmen not to block the
way. The latter, laughing at the evident bewilderment
and consternation of their smartly bedizened
madam, drew aside.

They had just reached the Hercules' Pillars — a
wayside alehouse, frequented by collectors, which, as
all the world knows, occupies Hyde Park Corner.
As the water of a rivulet brawls around a pebble, so
did the crowd fret about the hired chair. Dear
heart ! unless the bearers stood aside and quickly their
vehicle would be poled. The footman with the
sardonic grin gazed calmly on the tumult as, unabashed,
he beckoned forward a knot of men who
hovered in the vicinity.

Bab's wrath was fairly roused. What next ? How
dared the fellow presume to make a scene in this

public place ! He should rue it. If he was not
aware that she was protected, he should not be
allowed to plead his ignorance in bar of punishment.
His Excellency the Dutch Ambassador would be
furious in that for a second time his rights had been
set at naught.

Her person was doubly sacred, for she was a
member of Count de Hastang's household, and a
letter of license for a year had been signed by all her
creditors. Yonder was Colonel de Veil, with a
posse of Bow Street runners scampering hitherward
to clear the obstructed way. To him would she
apply.

The gallant Colonel recognised the beauty, and
bowed low. What could he do for the charming
Mrs. Pilot ? Sheriff's officer ? Plaguy annoying !
The bearers had better transport their burthen into
the parlour of the Hercules' Pillars, for the middle
of a narrow road on a gala-day was not the place
for parleying.

No sooner said than done, since the bailiff was
agreeable. Motioning his followers to close round
the chair, it was turned about, and the river flowed
again ; and tears of mortification rose to Barbara's
eyes, for peering from a coach as it swept by was
Madam Cibber, with eyebrows raised and supercilious
smile.

Sure never had the wayside pot-house received so
splendid a guest as presently was sitting on its lowly

bench. The bailiff was sorry, and if wrong would
humbly apologize. If the lady would pay the five
hundred guineas she might yet be in time for the
fete. At the suit of Mrs. Mappp ! What treachery
was this ? Barbara was fairly discouraged. What
could have been the woman's motive ? Sure there
was more in this than met the eye ! She was the
only creditor who had not signed the license, but she
had promised. Was it a pitfall cunningly arranged
for the behoof of the TripoHne ?

She saw it all. Oh, wicked, cruel, artful trickster !
Not artful, though, for Mrs. Mappp had forgotten the
protection. How lucky for Barbara that she brought
it with her ! Drawing the precious document from
a pocket she held it forth, and haughtily bade the
bailiff at his peril to prevent her from going home.

Your insolence,' she remarked, with fine disdain,
'hath sickened me with fetes; forthwith will I return
to Cleveland Row.'

The bailiff laughed quietly, as with head poised on
one side and one eye closed in admiration, he
surveyed his tinselled prize.

Craftily imagined,' he grunted. ' You're an old
soldier — a wary bird. I've not forgot that your ladyship
dwells within the Verge ; so I don't think we'll
travel to Cleveland Row. Come, no one shall dub
me churlish ! One of the men shall go for Madam
Mappp. If you can arrange with her, I'm willing.'

There was nothing for it but submission, and for

two hours Barbara, controlling her impatience as
she might, witnessed through the cobwebbed panes
the passing of the brilliant pageant. Many an old
friend went by — dead to her long since. There was
Mr. Medlicote in padusoy, riding with — yes, Lord
Byron ! Should she tap on the window and call
him to her succour ? No. Her pride revolted
against claiming a second favour at the hands of
that little gentleman, even though 'twas but to ask
him to inform the Count of her dilemma.

Instinctively she shrank from the window, for a
tall, sad figure was trotting past, whose aspect
brought the blood welling to her face. Lord Forfar !
Gervas ! How ill and worried he looked ! He was
not happy, then, with Pamela ? How could he be,
since he was straight and upright, while she was so
strangely crooked ?

Mrs. Mappp at last. The frippery-woman stood
without blenching as Barbara poured forth a torrent
of reproach for her perfidious conduct. Then,
shrugging her shoulders, she replied sourly :

A body must look after her interests, specially
when dealing with players. Slippery cattle ! marry
come up ! A truce to your prate, madam, and be
civil ! deeds, not words ! Your protection is wastepaper,
for your Count lies stiff and stark, and serve
him right for cheating honest folks !'

Barbara sank cowed upon the bench. Count
Hastang dead ! He had been grievously indisposed,

VOL. II. 39

then, while she, selfishly moping, wist not of his
danger. Kind old disreputable satyr ! A vague
chill sense of fear encompassed Bab, and she shuddered.
The procession moving past the window
seemed an allegory of her life. The chattering,
laughing throng approached with beaming faces,
and heedless of her went by, and showed their
backs, while she remained unnoticed, gazing with
haggard eyes through clouded panes, as they vanished
in clouds of dust.

Of what was the woman droning ? Oh for silence
to clear her throbbing brain, that she might review
the perplexities of her position ! What was it the
dame proposed ? She was right in this much. 'Twas
impossible to linger in the wayside alehouse — and in
this tawdry guise. Already there were curious
plebeian faces with snub noses flattened against the
glass, eyes peeping through the door-chinks, under
the arms of the bailiff's followers, as they stood a
sturdy guard.

Scared by the unexpected blow of the Count's
demise, and dreading something more, Mrs. Pilot
allowed herself to be handed into the chair again.
The respite had been short. Had she not felt that
the lull must be brief and temporary ? Fight against
the world — fool ! fool ! As well try to stay with a
finger the descending avalanche ! What must come,
must. They might bear her where they would — she

cared not whither — if to an open grave, how happy
the release !

'Twas with apathy, then, that she found herself
again in the old room, with the coarse dingy bed,
and the too well-remembered bars across the square
of light. The captains hailed with acclamation an
arrival that was associated in their minds with
steaming bowls of punch. Mrs. Mappp attended her
victim up the creaking staircase ; for gold and silver
tissues are no fitting robes for denizens of spunging-houses,
much to the annoyance of the keepers,
whose eyes brightened at sight of what she chose
to deem her perquisites.

Madam Mappp talked glibly as she undressed poor
Barbara. She must not fret. 'Twas a cunning but
permissible stratagem of war. She would go herself
to Cleveland Row for garments. Her little maid
should bring them in a trice. Her ladyship must
not bear malice, for poor folks must live. Nay ; the
present sojourn should be no longer than the former
one. These diamonds would pawn for a goodly
sum. She would see about the matter for her
patroness, since for the present she was obdurate
about the Tripoline. The little maid along with
clothes should also bring release.

Thus cackling. Mother Mappp departed on her
errand, and Barbara sat silent and unheeding,
without effort to collect her thoughts.

It was evening when the fresh blow fell which by

39—2

sure presentiment Mrs. Pilot knew was coming.
The abigail arrived with more suitable clothes, and
was full of lamentation. The Fates were bent on
crushing her unhappy mistress. Mother Mappp was
a base, bad woman. In some one's pay, no doubt,
or she could not be so wicked.

She, the little maid, obeying the instructions of
her incarcerated lady, had sold the diamond necklace
for what in a hurry it would fetch, and had paid the
five hundred guineas. But, as it seemed, the frip-
very-woman had been playing dark. Her own
account was paid ; but she yet held others, having
bought up several claims which had seemed no better
than bad debts. Hence her hapless mistress was
not free. Had she, the abigail, known of it, she
would have stood out a day or two and have made a
better bargain over the brilliant.

Bab sat on the bed and listened, with twined
fingers, motionless. The Fates indeed were bent on
crushing her.

Sold the diamonds !' she echoed hoarsely. * Sold
them ! Miserable wench ! they were not mine to
sell. Mother Mappp said something about pawning
them — which indeed was wrong. Ah me ! what
matters it, since now I am quite undone ?'

Barbara sat on the bed-edge, petrified ; the little
maid upon the floor, weeping bitterly. Presently
the latter, seeing her mistress so aghast, gave vent
to the long, low moan of a wounded beast in the

bracken, disconcerting thereby the captains below,
who loved hilarity, and who were moodily inclined,
sniffing no smell of punch.

Ah, woe ! Ah, woe !' she wailed ; ' what have I
done ? — what have I done ?'

What hast thou done, indeed ! oh, only friend
that I have left !' responded Barbara grimly ; * what
hast thou done, indeed !'

Evening darkened into night while the helpless
twain sat eying one another. The telltale square,
with its gridiron of bars, no longer offended the
sight, being blurred in the pervading gloom. What
noise was that, and shuffle of feet ? Sure, history
was not about to repeat itself after so short an
interval in every minute particular ? Was the
naughty little reprobate, with pallid, dissipated
visage, again to come to the rescue ?

Barbara caught herself almost hoping so, but chid
the thought while yet half-formed. The weeping
little maid cheered up, and sprang chirping to her
feet.

How silly a wench am I !' she cried, ' to have
forgotten ! I met him, and he asked tenderly after
your ladyship, and I told him all, and he whistled.
He is good, if uncouth and ugly.'

Barbara's brow blackened. She too ! Bought by
the Tripoline ! Was it indeed determined by those
Parcae that she was to be the heroine of Mr.
Hogarth's tragedy ? If they only would announce at

once that it must be, and make an end on't — but what
said the little maid, in her rippling, witless prattle ?

Mr. Theooophilus ! Theoo ! husband of that other
abominable woman ! Theoo ! Much help would hebe,
seeing that he himself was ever out at elbows,
and much dependent on his father.'

And yet — 'twas notorious that, like many another,
he disliked his wife above all women ; and the story
of the blind leading the blind oft hath a different
ending, for, knowing well the ditch, they learn to
keep each other out of it.

Who more experienced than Theoo in treading the
shifty quicksands ? 'Twas with such a welcome as
astonished Honest Pistol that Bab sprang up when
the door opened, extending both her hands eagerly,
yet with no gladness on her face.

I am in sore trouble, and you will help me ?' was
all her greeting, as, waving with queenly gesture
towards the dusky bed, which bore manifold traces
of many occupants, she motioned him to sit.

Theoo chuckled and obeyed. Verily he was familiar
with many a device, and hearkened, whistling low,
his squinting eyes focussed on the tallow dip, wherewith
the chirping and now cheerful abigail lighted
the conference.

There are many hands employed over this broth,'
he said, when Bab had finished. * Whose hands and
for what object you must determine. This much is
plain : you are in a desperate pickle ; for those who

planned the clever scheme about the diamonds will
set the jeweller to prosecute you on a grave charge.
You have no cash, and therefore can't dwell here or
stop his mouth. Better far at once to accept the
prison before the jeweller comes forward. In any
case, your protector dead, you must languish somewhere
until term. If you take my advice, and in
such affairs you can scarce have better — ahem — you
will surrender tomorrow at the King's Bench, in the
matter of Mother Mappp, and get your name enrolled,
while I see about the Rules.'

All this was Greek to Bab ; so Theoo condescended
to explain. Once caged, it signified not how many
were the charges, and 'twas always well that a light
one should stand first. The spunging-house was
invented as a species of Purgatory 'twixt freedom
and permanent duress, which the more experienced
knew to be in many a case worse than the latter evil.
In the spunging-house you were, in sooth, a sponge,
to be wrung and wrung with deft swiftness until
quite dry. In the prison there were many ways of
living like a fighting-cock — of postponing trial, and
dwelling comfortably on your income, which, till
judgment, might not be touched by creditors.

Thus many debtors abode in comfort for years in
the precincts of the King's Bench, by crafty well-tried
devices postponing trial, snapping fingers at claimants
who gnashed their teeth in vain.

Nor did imprisonment mean of necessity a cage

built of four walls. The Rules were purchasable, by
any who could give to the Marshal substantial
security, at the rate of ten guineas for the first hundred
pounds of the debt, and five pounds for every
hundred after.

The Rules of the King's Bench (we have seen
that Southwark was on various accounts a labyrinth
of ' Liberties ') extended over the whole of St.
George's Fields, including Blackman Street and a
portion of the Borough, embracing a circuit of three
miles around the prison ; and within this limit those
who enjoyed the Rules could live according to their
purses. Should it be necessary for a prisoner for
any reason to overstep the limit, it was possible
three times in a term to procure day-rules whereby
the purchaser was free to go where he listed at the
cost of 4s. 2d. for the first day, and 3s. lod. for the
following one.

Now, whereas the hereditary Marshal made up his
average of eight thousand pounds per annum out of
mazy fees and emoluments, out of which he had to
pay a warden and turnkeys, and keep all premises
in repair, it stood to reason that, when made worth
his while, his memory was short anent the number
of day-rules paid for. And so it came about (which
may puzzle people in a later age, if these things
should come to be changed) that many, actresses
and actors especially, were able, although prisoners,
to carry on their professions on the other side of the

river, wandering at will during the daytime, returning
to durance at night.

To one so canny as Theoo, it seemed, indeed,
ridiculous to linger for a minute in a spunging-house
when, on demand, you could be transported
to so comfortable and convenient an abiding-place
for those who are not destitute as the precincts of
his Majesty's jails. And such a choice as there
was, too !

In earlier days,' Theoo concluded, smirking, * you
used to fancy Southwark for mere amusement ; sure
'twill not be so harassing a fate to dwell there in
real earnest ! Each asylum,' he went on, ' has its
advantages and disadvantages, which it behoves a
new candidate for admission to weigh carefully.'

Colley's graceless offspring proceeded to reckon
up details with a mastery which would have profoundly
humiliated his papa.

The Marshalsea you've seen yourself,' he said.
The King's Bench hath a pleasing yard, forty yards
by eighty, containing a parade nicely paved for
promenade ; courts for fives and rackets (not much
use to a lady) ; a chapel in the centre, which, indeed,
is left to the spiders. Ranged under the lofty outer
walls are convenient shops — a trifle dear, no doubt
where butchers, and bakers, and chandlers, and
fishmongers ply their several trades. But for the
thirty feet of wall and chevaux dc frise on top, you
might suppose yourself in a public market, animated

BARBARA PHILPOT.

and made gay by the joyous laughter of the players.
Then there's the Borough Compter in Tooley Street
small, and in bad repair. The White Lion
Bridewell, next St. George's Church. Hum ! Dismal
for the folks that hang look in at your window,
so close is the gibbet on St. Margaret's Hill. The
Clink ! Yes. The Clink is the place for Mrs.
Pilot,' Theoo decided, slapping his thigh with conviction.
' Open and airy towards St. George's Fields.
Delightful views over the Thames towards the Tower.
Hard by the Bearpit, within easy access of the Dog
and Duck and Cooper's Gardens. Certainly the
Clink ! I'll see about it tomorrow.'

Mr. Cibber was so hearty and apparently well-satisfied,
that the guileless abigail clapped her hands
in glee, marvelling why everybody didn't rush to
engage lodgings in such a charming place. Cleveland
Row, albeit under the august shadow of a
palace, had been soundly dull. Bearpit ! Cooper's
Gardens ! Dog and Duck ! Delicious ! Turning to
her mistress, she was amazed to perceive that her
gloom remained enlightened. Barbara knew the
Southwark jails only too well ; had she not visited
them ? Live on your income ! Yes ; but what if you
have none ? The common side — home of carling
care and dire misery, and cold and slow starvation !
Well ! for her the avenue with the grave at the
end of it would not prove a very long one.

Theoo was right in this much. Better to accept

the forbidding inevitable, and clasp it to one's heart
to freeze there, than toy with it at a distance. This
time there were no guineas in her purse — so much
the better. She would place herself in Theoo's
hands, and leave the spunging-house tomorrow.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

C, C. &= Co.

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of alli Noise



W7£7b

v.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/barbaraphilpotst03wing

A Ste&B of iftamters attb iftorate.

(1727 TO 1737.)

BY THE

HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD,

AUTHOR OF

LADY GRIZEL,' ' ABIGEI. ROWE,' ' IN HER MAJESTY'S KEEPING,

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers tit (Drotmtnj to g}«r <£ftajcstu the (Queen.

1885.

[All Rights Reserved']

CHAPTER

I. ' THE TABERNACLE OF SIN '

II. ' partnership' -

III. ' THE PILGRIM CALLS ' -

IV. ' CHECK TO YOUR KNIGHT '
V. 'A NEW life' -

VI. ' JARS ' -

VII. THE PILGRIM CALLS AGAIN

VIII. ' COUNTING THE CHICKENS '

IX. ' THE PLOT RIPENS '

X. * THE QUEEN RETIRES ' -

XI. ' BAB THROWS THE GAUNTLET

XII. ' HONEST JACK'S LAST CARD '

I

3°



Io

l8l
dio






CHAPTER I.

THE TABERNACLE OF SIN.

how many ingenious ways may the

human heart be wounded ! Philosophy,

which bids us seek out and dwell upon

the better side of things, cannot so

plunge her children in wisdom-water but that a

heel will be vulnerable to danger from poisoned

arrows.

The pilgrimage of a weak woman downhill is a
lugubrious line for pen to trace. Yet, since we've
looked on the bewitching Pilot when she fizzed
across the firmament of Drury with fiery tail, 'tis
only right to look upon her now — in guise of profitable
lesson — deprived of tail, a mere expiring firework.
Again must we bend our steps to incongruous
Southwark — not to behold our wayward Barbara in

VOL. III. 40

rustling sacque and sumptuous jewelled earrings,
swimming into the Bearpit, or commanding a beau
contingent among the fair-booths, but crawling over
London Bridge in company with Theoo, who had
deftly arranged the matter of her moving, in a musty
hackney-coach floored with damp hay, past the
pillory and cage, round the miry corner of Foul
Lane, through Deadman's Place to the portals of
the Clink Prison.

She was stonier and prouder now even than when
moping in the solitude of Cleveland Row. The
questionable jests and anecdotes redolent of footlights,
with which well-meaning Theophilus strove to
beguile the tedium of the journey, entered unheeding
ears, as with brows and lips tight set she frowned
on the silver river, on the hoary tower of St.
Saviour's — which had looked upon so much of human
trouble — the reeking ditches, busy inns and cutthroat
winds of the strangest quarter of London.

To her strained fancy the fusty coach was a
tumbril bearing her to execution ; not the swift
release of decollation, or even of a clumsy hanging,
but slow lingering death, wherein the young spirit
would battle for leave to remain in its still healthy
tenement and be crushed out of it by inches.

Bab did not choose to look upon the matter in
Theoo's careless way. She knew that the coach was
a hearse on its way to the churchyard, that once
established here she might never be free again, and

marvelled at the foreshadowing vision which in
happier days had lent a fascination to the spot.

To those among us who have a share in anything
so ironically splendid, is it not with a curiously mixed
feeling that we look on our family vault, at the chamber
which, when our little time of fretting and trial is
gone by, shall close on us — silent oasis in the midst
of turmoil — and keep us till the last great day ?
Doth it not occur to us to think of what will happen
in that darkened room when the last sorrowing relative
(if any make believe to sorrow) shall have
deposited his wreath and gone up the steps into the
air, and the iron gates are closed, and the turf
beaten down over the entrance ? Will all the
ancestors look up out of their niches and nod a
welcome ? Will they say, ' Lucky descendant ! Has
your turn come to escape from the mocking series
of disillusions which make up human life ?' — then
drowsily sink back and sleep again ?

I vow that when the relatives (wreaths deposited
and tears decorously shed) have pulled off their
black gloves and pocketed their handkerchiefs, and
gone gaily off conversing about the last new play or
some hitch in politics — relieved to have got rid of
that unpleasant coffin — 'tis the one under lock and
key that's to be envied ! For we're justified in supposing
a hiatus — a respite — if not eternal rest. A
part of us, at any rate, hath done with the
battle.

40 — 2

For Bab's body there would soon be peace — that
was the one gleam of consolation on which she
chose to dwell while Theoo prattled. And yet how
hard, so young, so strong, so lovely — so capable of
enjoying a world which, if absurd and unsatisfying,
is beautiful ! How hard to have to look beyond and
sigh for worms and corruption !

If guilty now and again of fits of vacillation, of
blenching and wincing under stripes, her bitterest
enemy could not say that Bab was craven. At a
moment of supreme trial she could put on a stony
mask and bear without a quiver, looking straight
into the abyss which was destined to receive her
bones.

Theoo, who was quite of another way of thinking,
if equally careless and reckless, marvelled at the
calm woman by his side, who did not trouble even
to resent his well-intentioned fictions as to the life
she was about to lead. She had insisted on dismissing
the tearful abigail, with a remark that she
could not afford such luxuries. With steady firm
hand she had strangled the blackbird, poisoned the
dog and cat ; made up a bundle of such clothes as
yet remained, remarking with a sad smile to awestricken
Theoo :

This piece of linen is new and fine, and will make
a winding-sheet.'

So strange and self-contained a woman was out of
his experience. As they passed down Deadman's

Place, an opening was visible among the rickety
groups of dwellings leading to a neglected square of
unkempt grass.

1 See how I know this neighbourhood,' she said
quietly. * Yonder's the " Crossbones," where the
poor fallen women lie buried in sacks for want of
coffins, and never a word said over them ! Beyond
is Hangman's Acre, an impassable morass laden with
fever, stretching away as far as Kennington, its only
denizens the malefactors swinging in their chains,
keeping guard over the women's resting-place.'

There was something so uncanny about his companion
talking thus in her loveliness and strength,
that Theoo was relieved when they reached the
prison-gate. It would be necessary to stay for a day
or two within the Clink, till sundry details were arranged.
He explained to her that 'twould be quite
possible to return to the stage and earn a living
whilst dwelling in the Rules ; but this proposal was
met with a decided and stubborn negative. She
would never return to the stage. Why, she declined
to say. How make clear to such an one as Honest
Pistol her Quixotic feminine resolve ? How could
he comprehend the proud sensitive woman's pain —
her rebellious feeling of outrage over the conditions
of her life ?

To certain minds there is witchery in martyrdom.
The fanatic savage who flings himself naked on a foe
armed cap-d-pie must feel something of this. He

must know that in so unequal a struggle he must
perforce be worsted, and fling upon his gods the
responsibility of his defencelessness.

Thus was it with Barbara. She had received a
full share of buffets; though shorn, the wind had not
been tempered, and she resented the coldness of the
blast. She was not to be fitly clothed ? Very well,
then. If she must die of cold she would cast off the
flimsy garment which had been bestowed in order to
freeze more quickly. Hence it will be discerned that
the lash produced no good effect upon Barbara.
The more her back was bruised the harder she set
her teeth, the more steely was the glitter of her eye.
When she passed under the gateway of the Clink,
none so obstinate as she, so upright of bearing and
stiff-necked, none more superbly disdainful.

Twenty guineas in a silken purse comprised the
sum-total of her fortune — a present from Theoo, who
indeed could but ill afford it. Yet by her queenly air
did she instil respect into the circling crowd as she
stood in the prison-yard.

The ' lovely Peggy,' a battered female with no
nose and but one blear eye — terror of new-comers —
sank back abashed, and feebly mumbled for ' garnish.'
Three dirty men in fetters paused in a game to doff
their hats with an involuntary courtesy, which was
shared even by the head turnkey, omnipotent tyrant.

What a tatterdemalion crew ! Dirtier, more
squalid, sure, than formerly. Haggard, slouching,

lanthorn-jawed ; some dwindling from lack of food,
some fevered by strong waters — ragged, unwashed,
eaten by horrible maladies ; some numbed by
blank despair, some jovial with hellish levity.

You could tell at a glance which were the ruffling
bullies, which their persecuted victims — which were
the new-comers who hoped still, which the ones
(preponderating company) from whom all hope had
faded.

The entrance of the beauteous apparition and her
squinting escort produced but a momentary lull, and
then the hurlyburly rose again with renewed din,
and such oaths and talk as turned our Barbara the
paler. Unmasked disease, leering vice, unblushing
crime, rags, dirt, stench.

'Twas with sulky consideration that the turnkey
nodded when Barbara cried out, with an imperious
wave of a fan, ' With these wretches I will not lodge,'
and led the way into an inner yard.

The Palace of Sin was a vast edifice, or rather
series of edifices ; for the original Clink, bounded by
Clink Street, the timber-yards, and Plague burial-grounds,
had burst its bonds and invaded Winchester
House, erst the Bishop's mansion.

It contained at this time upwards of two hundred
rooms, the best of which were let at various prices
from two shillings to a guinea a week, the rest at a
shilling (clear advantage this over the ways of the
spunging-houses) .

When the establishment was full, which was not
unfrequently the case, poor prisoners let their rooms
to such as chose to pay, herding together on the
benches of the taproom or sleeping three in a bed,
to eke out a frugal income. There were two taprooms,
suitable to the wants of two classes, high and
low ; three coffee-rooms ; one wine-room, for the
fastidious and select.

In each chamber was a barrack bed, but no bedding
was provided. Neither in winter was there any
firing, except for those who bought it. Prison allowance
was a twopenny loaf per day, and water gratis.
Humane butchers, however, often sent presents of
meat for the poor prisoners, and each took his turn
to shake a box at the entrance, and beg the passengers
for groats. But in this respect the Clink
was not so favoured as its neighbours on the open
Borough, for 'twas off the common thoroughfare,
with its pitying crowds ; and those who squatted at
its feet were mostly thieves and beggars.

Between the prison and the Thames a host of
crazy stairs in short flights led from the river-ooze
into shambling tenements of the lowest kind, whence
issued often enough at midnight cries of woe and
murder, followed before dawn, perchance, by a
telltale splash and a body floating seaward.

Owing to the site of their eyrie, the female inhabitants
of this nest were known as ' Winchester
birds ' — untimely fowls, whose croaking was as

unseemly as their habits ; a flock over whose
iniquities Colonel de Veil shook his pate and
sighed ; but that worthy keeper of order knew better
than to molest them, seeing that in Southwark his
authority was nil, resting content to bid all watermen
to warn their fares, lest haply they should be undone
by flirting with riverside Delia's.

Pestilence, crime, sanctuary. In three words,
such was the history, such the attributes, of this
nook 'twixt the Borough and the Silent Highway.
Lawlessness reigned inside and out of the Clink and
its vicinity, as well as in Long Southwark and the
Mint. Even within the prison the sexes mingled
unshackled, as suited the fancy of the moment.

There was a strong-room on the ground-floor for
the reception of night charges ; a series of stone cells
for felons, pending the last short trip on a hurdle to
Margaret's Hill or St. Thomas-a- Watering. Hence
there was a constant simmer of quarrelling by day
and night, scratching of faces, showering of broken
glass, unceasing roar of strife.

But there were other amusements besides : penny
theatres, lighted by a glimmer of dips, where the
players were the worst of vagabonds, the audience
ruffians in hiding.

For the moment we have no more to do with such
aristocratic or cosy gaieties as those of the Dog
and Duck or Cooper's Gardens. Turn we our gaze
to the Clink neighbourhood alone, for there in Montagu

Close, under shadow of the prison walls, Barbara
Pilot elected to reside until the Pilgrim should set
her free.

Although London hath for hundreds of years occupied
a unique position as the home of mysteries
and wonders, I doubt if in any secluded corner, even
of Southwark itself, there lurks anything so wonderful,
at this period in which I write, as Montagu Close.

In the first place — owing, some say, to a misdirected
letter having fallen there into the hands of
my Lord Montague, whereby the hellish plot of
Guido Fawkes was brought to light and frustrated —
it possessed privileges transcending even those of
St. George's or the Mint. 'Twas a sanctuary for
the red-handed as well as debtors, and possessed one
obvious advantage over the other sanctuary for murderers
hard by — St. George's Church, next to 
and King's Bench — in that sometimes
even the Southwarkers revolted against some particular
crime, when — obedient to Judge Lynch — they
formed a cordon round the sacred edifice, waited
till the wretch was starved out, then fell upon and
hanged him.

So malignant an accident could not well befall the
refugee in Montagu Close, for a network of narrow
alleys led those who knew the ground in all directions,
affording endless facilities of escape ; while against
common myrmidons of the law, should any such be
foolhardy enough to venture there, was a fine array

ir

of posts and chains and shibboleths and watchwords,
which would render abortive the snares of the most
ingenious.

This close was shaped like a capital L, thus :

A mass of houses, behind which I
is Winchester House and the
Clink Prison.

Montagu Close.
Houses.

Archway.

!

St.
Saviour's
Church.

Low

houses.

Ale "-
house.

Rock

J Alley,

=-— j Houses.

J '- "" ! !

I I !

Long Southwark Street.

London
Bridge.

and consisted of two rows, at right-angles, of two-storied
wooden tenements, standing in the mud
with their backs to the Thames.

One entrance was under a low stone arch (originally
a part of St. Mary's Priory) with a planked loft
above, over which was visible the square grey tower
of St. Saviour's. The other was through a little
postern at corner of Pepper Alley, by London
Bridge, which postern was commanded by a humble
tavern.

At ii p.m. the gates of this Holy of Holies among
privileged Alsatia were closed, and therefore snug,
but not for that reason quiet. Broils, fights, and
drunken shrieks and yells kept the spirits of all alert
and cheerful. The tiny houses were accessible by
means of tiny doors like those of almshouses, with
tumbledown galleries above from which (over the
offal, house-refuse, festering cabbage-stalks ; pigs,
chickens, sitting in puddles) there stretched such a
network of fluttering linen spread on cords as served
in lieu of awning.

Through the postern persons could pass at any
hour of the night on payment of a halfpenny, and
careful surveillance from a window of the tavern ;
not that enemies to peace would be so ill-advised
as to attempt an escalade. And so lodgings in
Montagu Close were somewhat dear, in view of their
singular advantages.

What a multitude of diverse particles might be
dissected by a skilful hand out of the nightly hubbub !
There was a nest of foreign dyers — queer oasis of
honest folk — who worked with guttural cries ; divers
yards where broom-men chopped their stock of heath
and osier.

There was a poor-house (as if the whole neighbourhood
were not a poor-house !) where poverty-stricken
creatures dragged shrunken shanks to die.

On the river-edge stood the great public bakehouses,
where salamanders were busy till daylight

paled the redness of the furnace-glow, turning out
steaming bread in cataracts, the which were viewed
with hungry eyes and whining bleating by empty
wretches who had crept there in search of warmth.
Certain private bakeries had sacrilegiously wormed a
place for themselves within the sacred edifice among
the venerable monuments. Pigs and horses were
housed in the Lady Chapel, whence they contributed
a quota to the din by spectral neighs and unearthly
grunts and squeals.

Here was it, in Montagu Close, that, in the fourth
house, with a window looking out across the shattered
gallery towards Pepper Alley and the Bridge,
Mrs. Barbara Pilot set up her few penates to
await the summons of the Pilgrim.

Theoo, who suffered, perhaps, from a suspicion that
his wife had had a hand in the evil, remonstrated in
vain. On the ground-floor, at least, the rooms were
better furnished, if a trifle more expensive.

Why mince matters ?' she asked, with a new
asperity. ' If I begin on the ground-floor I shall
move upward till I reach the garret. We must
accept the concomitants of poverty. I vow 'tis a
charming house — convenient, too — for is not Glory
Kilburne, the Clink scavenger, my landlord, whose
duty it will be when my time comes to cart me to
the Crossbones in a sack ?'

From this position the obdurate damsel refused to
budge, vowing she liked the outlook, for from the

elevation of the gallery she could catch a glimpse of
the golden Tower-vanes glinting in the sun, beyond
the dark broken outline of the street on London
Bridge ; while down Rock Alley by Cock-stairs she
could see the Winchester birds taking an outing on
the Silent Highway, when they could catch a gullible
apprentice ; mark the lozenge window-panes of the
modish Bear, hard by the waterworks and rapids, in
whose balconies she had dined with Walpole, with
hosts of attendant butterflies in those dream-days
that had departed. But then — ah me ! — by turning
her head a little she could detect the forbidding
shape of the cage and pillory upon Southwark
Rise, by the corner of Foul Lane and the Green
Dragon.

The pillory somehow always made her shudder,
despite her stony mask; for, in sooth, if the mob
chanced to be vicious the pillory was a fearful punishment
— to wit, in the case of Egan the thief-taker, who
perished under the ordeal. In the night, too, sometimes
she would awake and shiver, which vexed
her pride, for she ought by this time to have got the
better of such tremors. 'Twas when St. George's bell
began to toll in the small hours ; for she knew 'twas
the signal for the waking of the miserable culprits
who were to enter on the last sleep after a visit to
St. Thomas-watering.

Then would she, turning, wakeful, on her hard
pallet, argue against such folly. Why shudder for

those whose fate was kinder than her own ? What
a solitude was this in the midst of constant noise !
What long-drawn hideous suffering ! How long
was it to last ? Two phantoms stalked before her
eyes and beckoned — Hunger and Madness. Which
would outstrip the other ?

To what a strait is a human sufferer brought who
comes to look on madness as a benefit ! Like other
fashionable ladies, she had w r asked the corridors of
Bedlam over on Moorfields across the river; had
gazed at the straw-crowned kings and moping
potentates, chained naked to the wall. To think
that she should come to look on them with envy !
Yes, envy instead of pity ; for all her pity now was
centred in herself.

From her place by the open window overlooking
the squalid Close, she could not but hear the sentiments
of those who wrangled below, and hearing
perforce was tainted.

There w r as much truth in what they said. The
laws were so uncompromising, so hard upon the
weak, that they frustrated their intent. 'Twas
absurd that any should fear Death, since he was
so familiar a figure, always standing at the door.
Why, to cut a hop-bind in a hop-garden was a
capital offence ! If people flouted the gibbet with
its heavy daily crop, 'twas the lawgivers who taught
them to do so.

Musing on these things, Bab caught herself wishing

that Walpole, the lawgiver, could see for a while
with her eyes, learn from her experience ; framed
conversations and arguments, guessed what he
would reply, smiled at the fancied sallies of his bonhomie;
then roused herself to a sense of her surroundings
with such a twang of pain as almost bade her
hope it was the Pilgrim's finger-mark. For these
fancied communing were bridges 'twixt Past and
Present that 'twas exquisite agony to tread.

Then, alone, she would unmask. What throes of
tearless anguish — arid, scorching, dry ! What a
tightening of nerves to snapping-point! Oh, the
Past ! Why could it not be walled away ? Was
this regret ? Was she sorry for what she had done ?
Should she, bowing her stiff neck at last, and sinking
in penitence on the bare boards, beg pardon — pray
for tears to wash away this pent-up suffocating
gall?

No, no ! Out on the thought ! She was not
sorry. She was glad. She watched with avidity in
the glass how her cheek grew thinner day by day,
more wan and sunken, with a hectic spot — her eye
more unnaturally bright. She was growing familiar
with gnawing famine.

It would soon be over. Even if she desired to
knit up the strands again, it was too late. What a
comfort ! Too late. The most ominous and mournful
sentence of two words in the British tongue
came in guise of consolation.

Yes ; it was too late. The struggle was nearly
done. To whom apply, even if she wished ? To
Lord Belvedere, who had written an abusive letter,
cutting off further intercourse ? To Walpole ? Had
not Crump, his confidential secretary, distinctly told
her on the very last occasion of their meeting that
he, Crump, had interceded in vain, for Walpole had
vowed he was disgusted with her ? Till the crucial
point of money supervenes, we never know people.
'Twas strange though, for Sir Robert was the soul
of good-nature, was rich, and very far from straitlaced.
Ah ! but he owed his liberty, if not his life,
to her, and gratitude is a buttoned of hearts. Was
Wilks in Ireland still, or was he, too, disgusted ? To
think that Hastang, Byron, and Theoo, a trinity of
reprobates, who professed no virtue, should have
been the only ones to display godlike mercy ! What
a dismal but terribly true satire on human nature is
that legend of the Good Samaritan !

The contemplation of it so titillated Bab's cynical
mood, that she laughed an eldritch laugh — as discordant
and harsh as a devil's cachinnation when he
hath just clinched a bargain for a soul. To Byron
'twould never do again to apply for help ; Theoo had
done far more than could have been expected ;
Hastang was defunct. Her place was to follow the
last with such speed as might be. The deduction
was logical — as clear as day. And yet when that
Past would insist upon obtruding its unwelcome

VOL. in. 41

shadow, the paroxysms were terrible — as hard unflinchingly
to bear as throes of hunger. What a
mercy that no human eye should look on them !

'Twas obvious to the dwellers in the Close that
the tall majestic woman with the colourless face and
tangled masses of uncombed black hair was fading
slowly. She rarely went forth, but sat gazing afterwards,
with hands listless and transparent upon her
tattered lap, as in a trance. At first they dubbed
her overbearing, for her ways were rude ; and when
her expression changed from one of hard indifference,
it was to sharp disdain. Yet was there a distinction
in her manner — a dignity of pain, borne without
murmuring — that carried its weight. She chose to
be left alone. 'Twas the wise rule in Montagu Close
that no one should meddle in other's business.
That she was no better off in this world's goods
than they was patent. If she chose to batten on
pride, who should gainsay the fancy ? It was apparently
not nourishing.

Glory Kilburne was a rough fellow, as it behoved
the man to be who was the Clink's scavenger.
What with the sties and well-stirred ditches, and
the overfull churchyard, which was for ever discharging
its contents into the cellars of the surrounding
hostelries, Glory Kilburne had little time
for the cultivation of polished graces.

The lady had seen better days, and sadly wasted
her opportunities. When she came to live with

him, she was so beautiful that he would coin
blundering excuses to stump up to her room and
look at her. But one of her endowments was a
fiendish temper. She would brook no prying, and
could be very ribald without using oaths or expletives
; and, by occult means, could crumple up
simple Glory, and toss him down the ladder-stair,
despite his muscular development.

There could be no doubt of it that the woman
was starving — absolutely starving — flinging voluntarily
away her beauty and her youth. What a
misguided soul ! There was not a Winchester bird
who was worthy to buckle her shoe — and she was
starving, and owed him rent !

In his murky brain was stored the theory that
advantages were intended for use : that life, if short,
should be as merry as possible. Was it not outrageous,
then, to starve and owe him rent, with the
Crossbones her inevitable resting-place, like the
rest ? She was morbid, and required a fillip.

With the best intentions, never meaning to earn-out
the threat, he stumped up the ladder-stair one
morning, and announced that she must pay her rent
somehow, or go within a week. She nodded, and
said nothing ; but there was something in her eyes
that made Glory vaguely sorry.

'Twas bad to have to spur a beautiful proud
woman of refined manners who looked so plaguy ill.
Perhaps he was wrong to tease her ; and yet, with

41 — 2

his small pittance for much hard and unsavoury
labour, could he be expected to forego his rent ?
Had he been able to look on his lodger after his
departure, he would have been alarmed, and have
despatched to her aid some person of her own sex.
The harrow had passed so sharply over the ladies of
the Close, that, save when drunk or angry, they were
pitiful for trouble. Crouching down in her rags,
frayed relics of departed splendour, against the
cracked and time-stained wall, she slowly laid her
heavy head upon the shelf that served for table in
unutterable helplessness, while, with the mere effort
of movement, her skin grew moist and clammy.

'The Lady's Last Stake' ! oh, Mr. Hogarth — not ina
damask fauteuil in a well-furnished chamber, with
precious clocks, and screens, and knickknacks — but in
the garret, which contains — no scrap of food —
nothing but a single rush-chair, a soiled bundle in
lieu of pillow, and a coarse pallet — the view without
pigs, chickens, cabbage-stalks — the frowning prison-wall
within a stone's-throw. Such are the accessories
for such a picture. Beautiful, hopeless, deserted
Barbara! How fair a jewel in how foul a setting!
What shall we say of those whose artifices have
brought thee down ?

1 The Lady's Last Stake ' ! Bab's dimmed eyes,
seeking her favourite Tower-vanes, had caught the
shimmer of the turbid stream. The rhythm of the
roaring rapids soothed her ear ; and she made up

her mind. It was decided now. She had been a
fool, and blind. Endure, forsooth ! Why endure ?
The ordeal was too slow — too slow ! Her bodily
strength was waning fast, and with it strength of
purpose. Weakened by want, to what might she
be driven ? Oh, God — to what ? There was still a
wide span 'twixt this and the end for which she
longed. A moment would come when, still suffering,
she would be too feeble to hold her own. ' In a
week,' the man said. A week— a century to one
who suffered so — and yet, how near that open grave,
with its sweet smell of fresh-turned earth ! The
man gave her a week ! She wished him no harm,
for he was very poor ; and who should know better
than she the pinch of poverty ? There was naught
to be gained by repining. Would the Pilgrim come
within a week, he who is so dull of hearing, and so
slow of foot — capricious wayward ghost-moth — when
sorrow claims release ? Why endure throughout
the week, knowing that when 'twas done even this
humble squalid roof might shelter her no more ?
What then — the Clink — the dreaded 'common
side,' with its rampant pestilence, and unmasked
crime, and bare-faced wickedness — the lowest depth
in the inner yard, with its sinister nickname ' Hell,'
where those were locked who had no money left, or
prospect of having any ?

Since she had dwelt within the Rules Barbara had
become aware, perforce, of the enormities that

flourished in the prison ; and with a thrill of horror
considered the fate of a beautiful woman, cast sick,
and weak, and dying as into a den of wolves — worse,
far worse — of human beasts of prey degraded from
the godly semblance.

Comfort ! The genuine comfort lay in that tiny
strip of silver shimmer which glittered coaxingly
in the roaring lullaby. While she was strong
enough — ere she was too weak to crawl to its saving
rim — the river !

From the moment when Glory's blundering step
ceased to reverberate, until the silver strip had
turned to gold, Bab remained crouched, her head,
with its sable coronal, reposing upon the shelf, while
whirling visions, fraught with pain, danced on the
darkening wall. Her brain was so crystal-clear that
she could see into her own being as well as beyond
the veil. How foolish to have endured so much,
fighting against the inevitable, since this must be the
end ! Ought she not to have seen it long ago, and
have cut this knot instead of bearing ? By morning
where would she be ? Caught on some reedy bank
with wondering rustics in a circle, musing on the
mystery of her young life's thread untimely severed !

At any rate, 'twould not be her lot to sleep with
the Winchester birds. The Crossbones would not
hold her. The rustics would pity, judging she must
have suffered much ere forced to this, and lay her
gently in some tranquil village churchyard.

Yet, no. In death, as in life, 'twas her doom to bean
outcast, since no holy earth may clasp the suicide.
What mattered that — Crossbones and a sack, or a
pauper's nameless shell ? Now that the die was
cast she hungered and yearned for extinction, marvelling
at the slowness of the hours. What a laggard
was the idling sun ! At last, impatient to be gone,
Barbara stole forth before it was quite dark, and,
lest the women who stood gossiping in the doorways
should detect her purpose, chose the low archway by
St. Saviour's, and wandered aimlessly to kill the
lingering minutes up Deadman's Place, through
Thieves' Lane, past the Crossbones, with its rank
square of herbage (strange that she should be led to
that spot at such a time), into new ground.

1 If I wander in this direction I shall lose myself,'
she thought. ' It might be well to go straight on
towards yonder row of gibbets upon Lambeth
Marsh, on the chance of meeting one of the roving
bands of desperadoes who infest St. George's Fields.
Finding the wanderer penniless, they might be induced
to slay her and solve a difficulty. And yet it
might not be risked. 'Tis those who cling to life
who are found murdered. To pass such another
day as was now just gone would be impossible.
Courage.'

Turning about, Bab quickly retraced her steps,
and threading Foul Lane, emerged into Long
Southwark. Dreading to meet some acquaintance

upon so open a thoroughfare, she then plunged
hastily down Bear Alley. These were the steps —
the nearest to the Bridge — at which, in silken
bravery, she had been wont to land ; close overhead
the jutting balconies and gables of the favourite inn.
Oh, the Past ! The haunting mocking Past !

Swiftly she descended the steps, clinging to the
side-rail, for they were slippery with ooze. The tide
was very low ; judging by the moisture, it rose at the
flood to the sixth step. 'Twould serve with patience.
Creeping under the shadow she sat on the lowest
step, and waited for the rising water. Her tattered
dress was too dingy to court notice. Removing her
apron, she folded it slowly and placed it by her side,
and, with chin supported on her wasted palms, sank
into reverie. The water lapped about her feet, loth,
as it seemed, to rise and destroy so fair a thing.
How still it was ! Now and again a plash, at intervals
a shooting wherry, causing the quick flow to
dance in glimmering sheen ere it swept on steadily.
This evening there was little traffic. That was well.
Even the Bear was unusually quiet.

1 'Tis the off-season,' she reflected.

'Twas so long since she had dwelt in the bustle,
that the passing of seasons was no more to her than
to Selkirk upon his island.

For the last time. How familiar was the livid
landscape which lay bathed in the moonbeams
beyond the low crescent of the arch ! The Tower,

its four golden vanes paled to greenish-silver, rising
above a huddled group of tenements on crutches ;
picturesque Wapping and Rotherhithe looming
through a fretwork of slender masts and cordage ; a
murky channel where the Fleet ditch vomited forth
its foulness. Black Mary's Hole, up a lane where
dwelt Du Val — inaccessible except at ebb — a den of
bad repute. Then, further away, Execution Dock,
with its row of dangling pirates against the sky.
Crime and shameful Death — their track was everywhere,
brand bequeathed by Cain.

Bab quailed, and glanced down fearfully. The
water was lapping round her knees, and very cold.
The roar of the huge revolving wooden w r heels was
deafening. How they creaked and dripped and
laboured, white with foam under the shadow ! What
if they were to catch and whirl her round and round
and crush her limbs ?

So much the better ; the mass that would float
out to sea would be a shapeless one, without form
as well as nameless. Would he ever ponder on her
fate, marvel what had befallen the meteor ?

Gervas !' She repeated his name softly, then
with bitterness. Was he not happy w 7 with his chosen
Pamela ? Was he happy ? Was it possible with
such as she ? He would never know — never, never
know that for love of him a loyal heart was broken.
'The Lady's Last Stake '! She hugged herself to think
she'd chosen worthily, for his sake. If in another

sphere they were to meet, pure she could look into
his face. A sacrifice she might be, but would die
unsullied. Die ! It was not dread of death, but the
coldness of the water that caused the girl to shiver.
A bath in oblivion — a dip into a magic stream, whereon
one side plunges sorrow, on the other emerges
infancy. A joyous transfiguration. What are the
dead but faded foliage that hath swirled down from
the Tree of Life ? By-and-by 'twill bud, and have
its leaves again — fresh, soft and green, for the birth
and death of men resemble the leaves eternally. To
drown with the fresh salt ocean for a sepulchre, sure
that is an enviable fate ; for doth not modest Death
hasten to obliterate that he hath overthrown ? The
preserving of corpses is an outrage, for it raised
phantoms and nightmares. Death is exhaled by dissolution.
How well hath some one said that the soul is
the music, the body but the instrument. The former
exists, though the latter may be broken ; and yet,
without its medium cannot make its presence known.
In the beginning was darkness, stillness, and the
night ; sure we return to nothingness ? The singing,
fleeting water ! Who doth not love the water ?
Since 'tis the basis of all the necessaries of existence
whereby we live, it must be worshipped or abhorred,
according to our earthly state. Is not the ocean the
great grave, brawling sometimes through its mighty
jaws, sometimes humming lullaby — symbol of death
and peace ?

Heigh-ho ! The hovering souls, when they have
passed, where do they linger ? The Talmud saith
that only such shall be immortal as accept the doctrine
of immortality. How many are there who in
their bitterness would rather choose annihilation ?

Burying her face in her hands, Bab groaned aloud.
What did she believe ? Was this cruel ordeal, so
impossible to bear that she must needs fly from it,
but the threshold of worse trials ? Was there indeed
no rest ?

The water lapped and lapped, clasping its victim
tight in chill embrace, sucking, gurgling thirstily.

I come ! I come !' Bab faltered, quivering in
every limb. ' No coward ; yet, how hard ; how hard,
my God, to die !'

The millwheels were mocking with their roar.
Her apron, like a face-cloth for the dead, floated
away upon the tide. Under the oily surface elfin
faces gibbered and grimaced, jutting forth the
tongue. She was standing a-tiptoe on the veriest
verge. Youth, enfeebled though she was, wrestled
for empire with Death.

1 Young and beautiful, why die ?' whispered a
taunting voice, somewhere in the river-bed.

Out — out on ye ! It is too late !'

Not knowing what she did, Barbara, in her frenzy,
sent forth a piercing shriek that rent the air and
reverberated along the banks, then cowered with
chattering teeth.

A window opened above in Nonsuch House, and
the watchman peered into obscurity.

From whence had come that cry of anguish ?
Some capsized ferryman. A black line of rope
descended to the water and drifted with the tide.
No sign of a boat. He was mistaken. Drawing up
the cord, the watchman banged to the jingling casement
and was gone.

Quick, quick now, for there must be but One
witness to the tragedy.

With trembling fingers Barbara had clasped her
throbbing throat and covered her mouth. What — a
coward after all ? Had she not freely made her
choice ? Again she stood erect and raised her emaciated
arms — one motion and 'twould be irrevocable.
The paroxysm was over ; she was strong again.

Stay — what was that above the din of water-wheels?
A refrain that was familiar wafted on the breeze,
echo of a happier day. She stood transfixed, irresolute.
The song grew louder ; a young man passed
under Traitor's Gate, glanced at the row of heads,
then leaned on both elbows and looked over the
parapet.

1 Stop the meteor in its flight,
Or the orient rays of light ;
'Tis as vain, below, above,
To impede the course of love !'

He sang and ceased, for he detected her figure on
the steps.

Forbear!' he cried, with a theatric wave; 'the
Everlasting hath fixed His canon 'gainst self-slaughter!'


Guessing the woman's motive, the intruder
pattered breathless through the gate. There was
yet time— the tall figure willowed riverward, but,
agile as a fawn, the youth dashed forward and caught
her by the skirt.

However woeful,' he panted, ' more terrible than
life's the face of angry God !'

Oh, let me be ! oh, let me be !' she wailed.

The twain were swaying out of shadow into light,
while Barbara strove with teeth and nails to free
herself. At the same moment each recognised the
other.

Sir Charles dropped upon his knees, and covered
Bab's hands with kisses.

PARTNERSHIP.

HE joy of crazy Charlotte was dizzying at
first. Hers were the loving gambols of a
dog that had found a long-lost master.
Why the beautiful, queenly Barbara
should be in rags, and in the act of suicide, concerned
her not at present. Sufficient was it that the
lost was found ; for 'twill be remembered that Mrs.
Charke leaned once against the railings of Golden
Square, and, terrified by the bedevilment within, and
the troop in gilded liveries, shrank away abashed.
But here was her dear benefactress in the flesh
pressed in her arms, enduring her caresses.

To Barbara these kisses, these cooing words of
affection, were passing strange and confusing. She
was not alone, was not unloved. Her condition of
mind underwent revulsion. Ideas had tumbled into
chaos, and refused for awhile to be settled into order.
All she was sure of was that she was not to die :

so, clinging to Sir Charles — whose clothes, indeed,
were little better than her own — the pair moved
hand-in-hand together to the Close.

At the entrance they met Glory Kilburne, who
vouchsafed an approving wink. Who could this boy
be in shabby-genteel attire ? As frail, and gaunt,
and hollow-checked as his companion. Not a lover ;
a brother, possibly. His shoes were down at heel,
his stockings full of holes. The silver tinsel on his
hat was weather-stained and tarnished.

Well, well,' grunted the landlord. ' Let the rent
go hang ! She, poor lonely soul, hath found a friend,
and I am glad on 't.'

Bab sat on the only chair absorbed in wonder at
the strange thing that had befallen, and Charlotte
crouched at her feet and clasped her waist, babbling
like a jocund brook. The moon served in lieu of
candle, and when the sun looked in again, wondering

as much as Bab, Charlotte perceived the pitiful
plight of Mrs. Pilot, and was grievously distressed.

The room was hung with penury. Famine — how
well she knew the look of it ! — stared from her friend's
face. She broke into such a torrent of stormy sobs,
that Barbara perforce was withdrawn from her own
puzzled musings to soothe the crazy creature as of
yore.

'Poor heart! poor heart!' cried Charlotte; 'that
you should come to this ! For me it matters not,
for trouble hath often been my bedfellow ; but

you It is my fault — 'tis I who am to blame —

woe's me ! Am I not banned ? all who are good
to me must come to shipwreck.'

The old delusion.

1 Not so, dear Charlotte,' Barbara murmured.
I was near a great wickedness through loneliness
and want. 'Tis you who plucked me back. You've
saved me twice. See ! you bring a blessing, not a
curse. Your presence gives me the courage that
I lacked. Our positions are reversed — is it not
whimsical ? You are the protector now. On your
shoulders — you great, strong man — I'll lean my
weakness.'

Charlotte looked up with a new hope, and dried
her tears.

This would be fine. She laughed and clapped her
hands like a crowing infant. Sir Charles should bea
Paladin and protect Barbara. A man's mission ;
and was she not a man ? Nay ! Sir Charles was
not so feckless but he could earn a wage ; was handy ;
could turn to anything, from Captain Plume at the
theatre to chaffering fish or sausages.

Her wandering intellect turned on a new tack.
Charlotte uprose, and paced the floor with a swagger
of vast importance. Sir Charles had money in his
purse — see the opiate ! Nine silver shillings earned
this very night. He would run out and purchase
food for Barbara.

No sooner said than done. In sooth, he was

nimble as well as handy. How could it be otherwise,
he laughed with glee ? He had adopted a new profession.
Dear Bab might guess in vain for ever.
No — not the stage. Would Barbara shrink from a
lackey ?

While Mrs. Pilot devoured the food with a
wolfish greediness that told its fearful tale, Charlotte
chattered of herself. She was a waiter now at
Cupar's Gardens, half a mile away. The queerest
turn of fortune !

Madam Door, the proprietress,' she said, ' liked
my appearance as that of a decayed gentleman, and
admonished me to seek a less robust employment,
for her patrons in their cups pay little heed to
manners. To her surprise she found me quick and
willing, and superior to other serving-men, and was
pleased to admit me to her table. On Sundays
Cupar's is crowded, and I trembled lest some among
the company should recognise my face ; but happily
not one among 'em knew me, for they are chiefly
French tailors and German peruke-makers. When
I spoke to them in French Madam Door was like to
have a fit and eat me up with gratitude, for she and
her company were wont to converse by signs ; and
ever since she hath treated me more as a son than asa
servant. 'Tis time to be off,' she concluded
briskly. ' We will live together ? Then am I indeed
joyous ! But mind, no more vagaries by riverside !'
and, with a hearty kiss, the whim-bitten sister of

vol. in. 42

Theophilus ran off to labour, carolling her merry
song.

Left alone, Barbara found it difficult to realize
this change, and what it would mean for her. How
oft had she railed at the vamped-up, threadbare
hearts it was her lot to contemplate, and sigh for one
with whom to commune that was spick and span,
fresh from the hands of Nature.

Charlotte's mind was out of gear — twisted awry
by a husband's wickedness and a father's cruelty.
Colley had charged her with ingratitude, whereas
she was morbidly sensitive to kindness. How often
had the harmless kitten gone frisking forth, to return
draggled, woebegone, rumpled ! She was unstable
and ballastless, subject to delusions. Her lamp of
Hope, when to outward seeming all but blown out,
could lambent flame again. There was a meekness
and gentleness about the stricken creature that
carried its own lesson.

Bab, blind with overwhelming pride, had pretended
to protect her ! The recluse, solitary in her chamber,
reflected upon these things. They were a pair of
wastes — which of the two was feeblest ? What was
the end to be ? Not the tragical and summary conclusion
she had herself foreshadowed — that was a
wandering beacon that had led her into the quagmire.
Long ago it had seemed good that the two should
unite, and, behold, 'twas come to pass ! Were they
to struggle on for years with no object but to maintain

an existence, which to one at least was hateful?
Things ofttimes — nay, generally — turn out so differently
to what we suppose or wish, that there is
nothing for it but to fold our hands and sit awaiting
the denouement.

Each day did Charlotte perform her allotted service,
and bring home her wage — steadied for awhile, as her
way was, by the weight of a new responsibility.
Sometimes she had tales to tell of escapes from the
evil lurkers who patrolled the lonely roads. Not
that she feared them ; for once, in her adventurous
life of strolling or at Bartlemy, she had met a man
who took a fancy to her, and who turned out to be
Burnworth, the too notorious collector. She had
permission to use his name, which was a shibboleth
of strength throughout the widespread fraternity.
He had even gone so far in his liking for the apparent
youth as to give him an address at an owl's-
roost, adjacent to the Tower, lest haply he should
come to need a refuge.

There's no knowing,' he had said ; ' but I promise
that you'll find our set more kind, if rough, than the
laced and powdered folk.'

Thus Charlotte earned a living for the twain,
while Barbara mused and moped. The fragile
tentacles of her being were seared and shrunk.
Perhaps in time she might return to something like
herself. Meanwhile, she, whilom so independent,
clung to Charlotte, with a vague new uneasiness,

42 — 2

and accepted her benefits, moving as one in a dream
a sleep-walker who performs mechanical acts, yet
knows not what she doth.

During Sir Charles's absences she was awake, vet
sleeping ; when he returned, a gleam shone out of
her eyes, and she nestled up to the youth, laying
her head, with its queenly coronal of thick glossy
coils (carefully tended now), on his patched silken
sleeve ; the which perceiving, Glory Kilburne said to
his cronies, over pot and pipe — grunting good-humouredly,
for he was paid his money :

A young man of quality, I warrant, under a
cloud. I knew she was a lady. May brother and
sister both see better days again ; for indeed they
are gentle, if reserved— bred in a superior school, of
which we know little here.'

Talking to Charlotte was in some sort like talking
to herself; and to her she spoke out her mind on
many subjects, while, for economy, they spent their
evenings in the dark. As you might tell your
troubles to a hound, and feel the sympathy of his
wagging tail and soft loving eyes, she opened her
heart to Charlotte as she never could have done to
another living soul. She told of how sickening had
become — to one who, under a thin veneer, was true
and earnest— the hollow unreality of the stage ; of
how she had come to understand that the spring
which moves the dramatic profession is vanity,
which, growing by what it feeds on, becomes all-absorbing

; that, were vanity to be done away by
magic, there could be no actors or actresses ; that,
by being constantly fed, and pampered, and flattered,
it pervades and monopolizes the soul ; that like the
lean kine in the fable, it swallows everything else,
and yet is mean and thin.

1 This is why,' explained the ex-Diva, ' I have
taken a horror of the stage ; for on it are to be
found gathered the most contemptible passions.
Vanity, my dear, is father of Envy, who is parent of
a progeny of vices.'

1 There have been great geniuses upon the stage,'
timidly hazarded Sir Charles.

Genius, wherever placed,' retorted Bab, ' turns
what it touches into gold. True genius is a scarce
commodity. I don't count the few privileged ones ;
only the impertinent, empty-pated, stupid, ignorant,
painted public favourites, of whom there are too
many ; whose airs of superiority and culture are
based on no foundation, and yet whom 'tis the fashion
to applaud as gifted, Heaven-inspired creatures.
I tell thee, Charlotte, that to watch their strutting
self-importance is sickening. They are bladders
full of wind that one's fingers itch to prick.'

1 But these actors and actresses whom you
condemn are your friends,' suggested Charlotte,
disconcerted ; for was she not member of a theatric
family, whose Penates were Thalia and Melpomene ?

I try not to see the imperfections of my friends,'

Barbara replied ; ' and, of course, there is no rule
without exceptions. I was one of them once, and
no exception. I'm not vain now, nor like to be, God
wot ! But to swear that I never shall again would
be a promise that, like a mirror planned too large,
might break itself in making.'

Charlotte looked so shocked, that Bab rapped out
a laugh that weirdly reflected her departed self.
The daughter of King Coll, poet laureate and ex-patentee
of Drury, actor and successful dramatist,
could not hear such heresy without a tremor.
Charlotte had been herself a player all her life,
acting on many a humble stage of booth and
barrack ; but she, poor thing, was one of the exceptions
to Mrs. Pilot's rule. Necessity had been
her task-master. She had laboured not so much for
fame as for a crust to keep body and soul together ;
the which, since the harsh dictum promulgated by
the angel in Eden, ennobles any profession.

I will go farther,' Bab continued, roused for a
moment from apathy, ' and declare my conviction,
born of personal experience, that the practice of the
theatric calling tends to degrade the character ; fortis
founded on the pettiest foibles. His or hers must
be an unusually tough nature that can resist the debasing
impulse. Deny if you can that pampered
vanity begets mean grovelling malice. Go behind
any scene, from the stage of majestic Drury to that
of the lowest penny show in Southwark Fair. Will

you find aught there but rampant envy, malice,
vanity, brazen assurance ? Yes. You will find
charity, which covered many sins ; but 'tis only
money charity, which is more than counteracted by
the uncharitable attributes of envy and malice aforesaid.
With all stage people money is dross ; for 'tis
easy come and easy go with the unthrifty folk. If
they would be less lavish of their gold, and put a
bridle on their mean and petty vices, their hearts
and tongues, they'd have a better chance of Heaven.
It makes my blood boil, I vow ; for 'tis the fashion
to say that the theatre is lowering to public taste.
The stage, to my mind, is injurious to the players,
rather than to the audience.'

Her tongue unloosed, the confidences of the
bruised recluse became by degrees complete. Her
talk was like a monologue spoken to her shadow.
Thus she even came to divulge the secret which
had warped her career. Her disappointment in her
mother — in her father; then the culminating blow
whereby she realized that he who to her was the one
man of men, throwing her aside, could turn away,
and stoop to a woman who was utterly unworthy.

For Barbara's sake, Charlotte became vastly interested
in Gervas, admiring his qualities if angry
at his blindness. She knew him by sight — had met
him in old days — and one evening announced that,
plodding home, she had seen the windows of the
Bear illumined ; my Lord Forfar, Pamela, and

other modish persons enjoying their dishes of tea
upon the balcony. They were very merry, she
narrated ; indeed, the shrill cachinnation of the
Honourable Pamela could be heard up Margaret's
Hill. So near ! And yet what a chasm 'twixt the
fashionable Bear, not thirty yards off, and the
sanctuary of Montagu Close ! How wise it was in
Bab never to stir abroad ! Should Pamela glance
down from the balcony some day on her sister's
tattered robe, Mrs. Pilot would give up the ghost.
Whence you will observe that the iron neck was
still unbent, the haughty head endowed. The sleepwalker
— the automaton — suffered the Present ; dared
not look at the Past, still less towards the Future.

A moment arrived when there was a change in
Charlotte's mood. The quick light step became
heavy and faltering ; and, flinging herself disconsolately
on the floor, she gave vent to one of her
periodical tornadoes of grief.

Bab waited quietly. Another blow must have
fallen. There was more to be borne ; what was it ?

Was ever wretched creature more unlucky ?'
Charlotte wailed. ' Misfortune is never tired of
walking close behind.'

Naught may go smooth with us for long,' Barbara
acquiesced, with a calm that was not akin to
resignation.

A few days since,' Sir Charles explained, the
paroxysm quelled, ' I was setting some Windsor

beans, when the maid came up to me, and hinted
she had a secret to unfold — something to my advantage.
" If you pay your addresses, you may
marry your mistress," she said, " and none will say
you nay. Think of a serving-man become lord of
Cupar's Gardens ! I, for one, would love you for a
master." Marry my mistress ! I laughed at the
idea ; for, indeed, she hath no quality to recommend
her to anything beyond a porter or hackney-coachman.
I hoped 'twas a forgery of the maid's ; but a
strangeness soon sprang up, and to-day I spake the
truth to my mistress — but lo ! she flew into a rage,
and would not believe I was a woman. With a
great outcry she turned me into the street ; and
now, dear friend, I am without a place. What shall
we do for supper ?'

Charlotte's accomplishments, as we know, were
varied ; but, unhappily, the same cause which
brought so many to this dismal quarter rendered it
convenient to her. The improvident creature was
as usual deep in debt, dared not show her worn face
on t'other side the river, not being a prisoner in
enjoyment of the Rules ; for the watchword of
Burnworth might protect her against footpads, but
not against the assaults of bum bailiffs. However,
she was Barbara's providence, and it smote her
affectionate heart to perceive the look of dismal endurance
that settled on the visage of her friend,
once so impetuous and volatile.

'Moons!' she cried, with a ghastly phantom
merriment ; ' 'tis not the moment to be squeamish !
Your ladyship is bitter on the theatric line, yet must
we make shift to live by it. If the patent temples
are closed to us, there are many slaughter-houses of
dramatic poetry open. With trembling limbs and
aching heart, I'll go the rounds by owl-light on
t'other side of the water, and being universally
studied, shall haply find a perch.'

'Twas a hazardous experiment, but under the
pressing circumstances there was nothing else
for it.

Armed with a pair of white stockings and a clean
shirt, Sir Charles went forth across the bridge, and
creeping in the shadow safely reached the Tennis
Court. She was in luck to-night, for a party of
amateurs were to perform the ' Recruiting Officer,'
and Captain Plume had bolstered his courage till he
lay snoring, speechless.

Here was Charlotte's chance, for the Captain w T as
one of her pet parts, and resolving to risk the
possible presence of any of the assailants of liberty,
she announced to the would-be murderers of Farquhar
that she was ready to go on. For the sake of
Bab at home she haggled over terms which for herself
alone she never would have dreamed of. Offered
a crown, she stood out for a guinea more ; but to
prevent a demur on the company's part, she
whispered to the manager that he might give the

twenty-one shillings privately, and publicly pay the
five.

With what triumph did she fling the guinea upon
the chair, and caper round the room ! 'Twas ever
so long since Bab had looked on gold, and a pale
flush rose to her wan cheek. But such strokes of
luck could only be expected rarely. The risks that
Charlotte ran in her excursions were terrible. She
was almost too small fry for the nets of the
Marshal's officers, but every hole and corner betwixt
the Tower and the Strand swarmed with a
special class of desperate men, whose grim necessities
drave them beyond respect for Burnworth's
watchword.

The City after dark was particularly dangerous,
for the best houses eastward stood back from the
street, approached by porte-others, with shops on
each side that were shut at dusk — thus offering a
long bare frontage. Many at this time were closed
altogether, owing to the general ruin that followed
the South Sea Bubble. The myrmidons of Colonel
de Veil were too few to cope with crime ; the watchmen
were old women. Hence each street and alley
east of Temple Bar was haunted by a crew of
ignorant bull-necked ruffians with empty bellies and
no consciences, whose college had been the cockpit,
the prize-ring, the loosing-ken — to whom no sprat
was insignificant. Once or twice Charlotte was nearly
caught, and came back trembling ; and then her

courage waned, and cowering together hand-in-hand,
she and her friend sat silent.

The number of destitute and unemployed persons
at this time was appalling. In half-finished houses or
those condemned as dangerous, the bodies of indigent
wretches, who had sheltered there to die, putrefied
the air. The living harboured with the dead — half-human
animals, who 'twixt stings of want and loss
of self-respect were callous to all human sentiment,
and formed a Pariah caste. The vast districts
spreading from Fleet Ditch along Lowborn by
Wheatstone Park (behind the palatial square of
Lincoln's Inn) ; from St. Giles's, skirting Leicester
Fields, to the sanctuary of Westminster; Hounds-ditch,
Tower Hill, and Rosemary Lane ; on t'other
side the Mint, St. George's, Montagu Close — were all
infested by a class of freebooters, from out of which
rose small oases or islets, occupied by the honest and
the opulent, encircled and separated by the ramifying
arms of a sea of destitution and wickedness
without parallel in other cities.

At this juncture it pleased those in authority to
attempt to enforce the Gin Act, which, never
popular, had speedily dropped into abeyance. A
senseless report was spread that gin was the favourite
tipple of Jacobites, whereas Hanoverian affected
mug or beer houses.

Had this been really so, 'twould have been the
interest of Government to let well alone : for the



gazettes teemed with accounts of sudden deaths in
taverns from excessive gin-drinking.

The report was so outrageously mendacious, and
the proceeding of Government so arbitrary, that all
parties united in resistance of tyranny, mug-house
men as well as others. Caricatures flew broadcast
of ' The Death of Madam Geneva,' inviting all jolly
souls to get gloriously drunk at her funeral.

Now the dangerous classes were always ready for
riot, and dearly loved a chance of forgetting in drink
their many trials. Processions of tatterdemalions
scoured the streets, made bonfires, set alight to the
better kind of dwellings. Leashes of oyster-wives
ran amuck arm-in-arm; Irish chairmen armed themselves
with chair-poles, and flourished them about
like flails.

Truth to tell, since the passing of the Act against
which Barbara had warned Sir Robert, gin had been
sold as much as ever under fictitious names.
Agree,' ' Make Shift,' ' Cuckold's Delight,' < Ladies'
Waters,' ' Gripe-drink,' were to be purchased at any
dram-shop, were vended by hawkers in the street
under the noses of the robin-redbreasts.

An attempt to put down the illicit trade gave rise
to a host of informers, who became the pest of the
country. Some of these were foolish enough in their
zeal to cross London Bridge; and then, as was to be
supposed, they soon found cause to repent their
temerity.

As we have had occasion to observe, the Southwark
worthies preferred other tipple to gin ; but the fact
of its being forbidden was enough to increase the
sale. The Mint, the Liberties of St. George, of
Winchester House, arose in arms, and swept all
before the muddy turbulence of their foul flood.
They rushed under Traitor's Gate, helter-skelter
over the Bridge, carried the fiery cross as far as the
precincts of St. James's.

The soldiery were called out to push back the
inundation, and bar it behind its limits. But the
blood of the lawless being up, they took a little time
to simmer down ; and driven back on Southwark
turned their cudgels on each other, quite in a friendly
way, for the encouragement of surgeons.

That rioters should invade the Mall, occupy
Charing Cross, make havoc in Leicester Fields, was
a pestilent proceeding; but so long as they only
made a hubbub in their own domain, 'twas an
amusing spectacle.

Hence the Bear, the Bull, the Tabard, the Green
Dragon did a roaring trade, for from these modish
vantage-grounds splendid views of the fun might
be obtained, much more diverting than Mr.
Rich's machinery, or the mock heroics of Madam
Pritchard.

This turmoil, as may be guessed, stood grievously
in the way of Charlotte's money-grubbing, for the
numerous gaffs were closed, both players and

audience finding occupation in the street. Sometimes
she wist not which way to turn to earn a fee ;
and to add to her distress, a growing anxiety took
possession of her mind anent the mental condition of
her friend.

Despite the warped state of her own intellect, she
could be smart enough in some things, and could
not but be uneasy over the unnatural calm and
sphinx-like air of Barbara. If Sir Charles announced
ruefully that there would be no supper, Bab
smiled a spectral smile as though the news were
natural and not unwelcome. She followed fluttering,
unstable Charlotte with her eyes about the
garret, seemed pained out of her presence, emitted
sighs of relief on her return after an absence.
From this mental torpor she must be roused, or
she would sink into imbecility. How to arouse
her?

Timidly Madam Charke suggested that running in
couples in their profession the pair should earn their
crust ; but at the suggestion those stern straight
brows would contract painfully.

I will never act again,' she would mutter; ' he
would not like it.'

He ! who ? Was she still harping on that unfortunate
love of hers ? At thought of it, and of the
man who could fling such a pearl away, Madam
Charke waxed petulant. What futile constancy !
What an insidious, odious, perverse monster was

this same god Cupid ! How terribly true were Mr.
Cowley's lines :

'Tis as vain, below, above,
To impede the course of love !'

Cupid was never aweary of bringing together the
wrong people. Charlotte herself had loved that
rascal Charke with all her simple soul, and all he
had given in exchange were beatings — cruellest
ill-usage ! Bab, instead of moping in despair,
should bless her stars, for she was not tied to any
creature. Verily she was as perverse as Cupid himself
; for no doubt she would have taken a drubbing
from the one dear hand, and have enjoyed it !

Certainly Bab's nerves had received a grievous
twist. When the rioters went forth, she, who used
to be so brave, winced and cowered at the noise,
which was considerable ; for, as may be supposed,
the ladies and gentlemen of the Close were not
behindhand, but flew out with table-legs and chair-backs
— any available weapon — and added their quota
to the din.

As we are aware, the postern entrance to the Close
was commanded by a shambling tavern, over whose
lintel as a sign was inscribed this apposite inscription
:

'Drunk for a Penny.

Dead Drunk for Tuppence.

Clean Straw for Nothing.'

The landlord eloquently wrapped his sign in crape
for Madam Gin's demise, which mightily inflamed
the anger of his clients. They tore down the cage
and pillory on Long Southwark Rise, set fire to the
Pye Powder Court hard by, made bonfires of its
wainscoting, singing festive songs in wheeling circle,
like witches at a Sabbat.

How diverting to West-end pleasure-seekers !
In old days how Bab would have rallied her army of
swains, and have arrived in imperial state to applaud
the rioters, and enjoy the junketing ! Alack ! how
changed was she ! As shout rose above shout, and
lurid light flickered through the casement, she only
shrank against the grimy wall, and pined for the
return of Charlotte.

Has it been forgotten that Lord Forfar's lodging,
when in town, was at the Bear ? 'Twas convenient,
for the hostelry was one of the very best ; and yet
there were so many queer personages about, that
none took note of suspicious characters — an important
point to one who dabbled in treason. If the
Chevalier himself had looked out of window Colonel
de Veil would have thought twice ere he advanced
to take him.

A case in point occurred in the matter of Burn-worth,
the noted collector, on whose head was a
reward of no less than five hundred guineas. That
dauntless robber, out of idle bravado, established
himself in broad day on a settle without the Bear,

vol. in. 43

from whence he could see the three prisons of the Marshalsea,
the King's Bench, and the Whyte Lion,
and called for a pot of ale. Though known to every
passer-by, he lounged unmolested. Perceiving the
keeper of the Borough Bridewell passing, he beckoned
him, and bade him drink, holding a pot in one hand,
a cocked pistol in the other, and the two for an hour
sat side by side in social intercourse ; which singular
spectacle so tickled the Southwarkers, that they
gathered in a crowd and gave three huzzahs for the bold
jolly highwayman.

Since my Lord Forfar chose to reside here, was it
not natural that skittish Mrs. Belfield should claim
the hospitality of her betrothed in order to witness
the sport ? Gervas, who was a bit precise and
square-toed, scarcely approved ; but Mr. Crump,
who chanced to be present when the suggestion was
made, took it up for reasons of his own, and made
up a party on his own account. He engaged the
first-floor over the portal, which commanded the
bridge as well as Long Southwark Street ; ordered a
sumptuous repast, and invited such a gathering as
would appreciate the festive occasion.

Mrs. Pamela deigned to preside. Crimp, Cramp,
and Crumpling were livelier than fleas. Young Mr.
Fielding, the new novelist, was there, and his portly
protegee, Madam Pritchard, whose voice was like a
grenadier's ; and Mr. and Mrs. Cibber came, and
many more besides. The ladies of quality laughed

so loud that such its as were about gazed up at the
windows and stood watching, ready to fly at a
moment's notice on the advent of the rioters.

Sir Charles, muffled in a cloak with hat drawn
down, revolving the chance of supper, sauntered
through the postern, down Pepper Alley, into Long
Southwark, and was attracted, as others were, by
the uproarious doings at the hostelry.

The windows were open, wax candles flared on
the well-furnished table, and Charlotte sighed as she
marked the viands. If only she could filch one dish
for Barbara !

Presently a tall man came out alone upon the
balcony, and stood apparently in reverie of an unpleasant
kind, for his lips were set and his teeth
clenched. It was Lord Forfar ; and Charlotte,
drawing close to be under a friendly shadow, looked
up and surveyed him with interest. Some casual
remark at the table had probably vexed my lord.
They chattered so loud within that all they said was
audible. Theophilus was speaking. Oh, if she,
Charlotte, could only get to speak to him ! Her
brother, despite his fear of his parent, had always
been good in secret to his sister, though he dared not
openly encourage her. If he knew what difficulties
and dangers hemmed her about he would help now.

'There never,' he was saying, 'was so pitiable a
fall ! She lives, or did, within a stone's-throw of this
very house ; is probably in abject want. God bless

43—2

i\\\N0U> UD

your kind hearts, ladies ! If ye will subscribe now
of your bounty, we'll sally forth and seek her out.
She'll be surprised to see old friends.'

1 Indeed ! the once celebrated Barbara Pilot ?'
Honest Jack inquired carelessly. * I always feared
she'd come to trouble, for dissipation is the earnest
of remedies.'

You admired her vastly once,' Crimp simpered.
I vow you men are the most deceiving toads !'

I pray you change the subject,' Pamela said
coldly. ' To our sex fallen women are not pleasant.'

Her own sister!' Gervas muttered between his
teeth, with troubled brow.

If she be fallen, the more need for succour,' suggested
Theoo. ' Come — here is my hat — drop in
your guineas, ladies ; then we'll go round with our
offering.'

No, no !' interrupted with haste Sir Robert's
secretary. * I know, by chance, where she abides —
a place not fit for ladies — 'tis reeking with the
sickness.'

The three Miss Mostyns cackled in chorus ; vowed
they were vapourish ; called for cinnamon-water and
pounce-boxes ; swore that they felt symptoms
already of the fell distemper ; declined to be calmed
by aught but by a big bumper of champagne ; and
made such a hubbub, in which Madam Cibber shrilly
joined, that Charlotte, moaning, fled.

4 Alas!' she wailed as she sped over the bridge;

'tis the pretended good who fail in charity !
The surest way to reap results of friendship is to
make a contract with the scapegraces !'

Bearding the danger, she would again go to the
Tennis Court ; and, as she warily stole thither,
indignation burned within her breast. Lord Forfar,
who was reckoned a good man, had not a drop of
pity for weak, suffering, broken woman. He could
be only disgusted and superior ! Mr. Crump, an
old flame, was worse. Why, but for his ill-timed
caution a purse would have been made up — both
Bab and Charlotte would have been freed from want
for many a day !

Charlotte's instinct had always mistrusted the
burly, handsome man with the glassy blue eyes too
far apart. Had she watched patiently, instead of
fleeing away in a whirlwind of distress, she might
have changed her opinion of one man, and have had
it confirmed about the other ; for by-and-by, the street
remaining quiet, Mr. Crump, Mrs. Belfield, and
Madam Cibber gathered in a group on the balcony,
and conversed in low tones.

Is it true,' Pamela asked, * about the jail-fever ?'
To which Sir Robert's secretary answered :
The whole neighbourhood is equally infected.
Be not afraid ; here the river-breezes save us.'

Apropos,' remarked Madam Cibber, ' I'd a visit
to-day from Mother Mappp, who grows uneasy.
Charlotte and that woman have got together again ;

and she fears that the latter, who is always roving,
may look up her old allies. Charlotte's too mad, I
say ; what think you ?'

Crump muttered a curse. How untoward was
this ! 'Twas his plan that the victim should be left
alone till she was willing to surrender at discretion.
Charlotte might make much mischief.

My Lord Forfar, still apparently vexed, now
joined the group, and announced his intention on the
morrow of investigating the case of Mrs. Pilot.

A strange case ;• an inexplicable case,' he mused.
'Though she frustrated our dearest schemes with
regard to Walpole, she compelled my admiration by
her wit and undaunted courage, let alone her loveliness.
I knew nothing of her grievous strait. Where
doth she abide ? I certainly will make a pilgrimage.'

Crump looked confused and glanced appealingly
to the ladies. Pamela came to the rescue with a
light titter.

Best wait to learn if you be welcome,' she observed
archly. ' My betrothed is deeply smitten I
perceive, yet am I not jealous ! Learn, O softhearted,
too easily gulled knight-errant ! — though in
pity for your weakness it hath been concealed from
you — that the fascinating Barbara resides in Montagu
Close, where she occupies a single chamber—
with a man /'

A shade of disappointment crossed Lord Forfar's
countenance. Pamela almost wished she had not

been so artful ; for her betrothed replied with chill
disdain :

If that be true, then am I much concerned.
Since you are so well informed, why have you not
stood 'twixt her and overwhelming temptation ?
Have you forgot, O woman ! that, though fallen
and degraded she may be, Barbara Pilot is your
sister?'

THE PILGRIM CALLS.'

R. CRUMP'S festivity was somewhat of a
failure, for on his selected evening the
rioters failed to rise to the desirable
level of friskiness, in consequence of
which, maybe, the party separated in doleful dumps.
The Mostyns were querulous, for time was going
on, and their good names received daily a plaguy
number of dints; added to which their purses
assumed a consumptive aspect, for not only did dire
necessity compel a manipulating of the cards, but
sometimes a raid scarce dissimulated with crooked
fingers upon heaps of adjacent coin, which for the
nonce belonged to others. 'Tis sadly true that one
link of evil will hang on to another, till the slip
assumes the formidable proportions of a tree.

People now found it advisable to turn the coldest
of shoulders to the Mostyns — to forget to invite them
to assemblies or ridotto — some even openly explained

that they were indecent hags, with harpy claws and
tongues of venom. All this being candidly accepted
and discussed among the trio, they had resolved that
one of them should sacrifice herself for the behoof of
the rest upon the altar of duty, and set a dilapidated
cap at Mr. Crump.

He was brawny, and to some fancies good-looking.
His fortunes were prodigiously improving under the
never-swerving patronage of the Minister of Peace ;
and therefore it behoved prudent maidens to forget
that his father was originally a running footman, and
afterwards a spy, who was so successful in intercepting
treasonable correspondence 'twixt Harwich and
Calais that he was enabled to give his son a sort of
education. What if his eyes were too far apart,
his lips suggestive of unbridled passions ? He was
clearly a coming man, and 'twas impertinent and ill-bred
to ignore a concentrated shower of darts from
three leering amazons. The only time he had been
stirred during the evening was during the talk about
that Pilot hussy. Is it wonderful, then, that the
Mostyns, so genteel clinging in public, went home
and rent each other?

Pamela was little more satisfied than they, for,
goaded by some demon, she had half dropped her
mask under the observant eye of her betrothed, and
the effect of a glimpse of her own gorgon face was
ominous as regarded the future. To a duchess, of
course, it can matter little what the duke thinks of

her. A woman's tongue is always longer than a
man's, and in superior circles men, even when most
exasperated, refrain from banging their wives against
the doorpost. But what if he wasn't going to be a
duke ? There was the rub. He was moody, depressed,
anxious, sad, lugubrious ; more reserved
than heretofore as to hopes and aspirations. Oh !
if he were concealing something which a far-sighted
and prudent lady ought to know; if some day an
unexpected shower were to souse upon her head !
How little comfort would it be then that he as well
as she were drenched ! He was a boorish fellow at
the best. Do what she would, 'twas impossible to
keep the mask on always ; and when it slipped a
little he grew solemn and prim and rude.

On his side Gervas was more deeply moved than
even she suspected, for he saw her now with vision
unobscured, as Bab would have wished him to see
her, and was enveloped in dismay. To have spoken
so hardly of her father's child plunged to the lips
in misfortune, she must be innately base and unwomanly
; not the mere ruffled bird whose feathers
only needed gentle smoothing to render its plumage
glossy.

Lord Forfar tried to coin excuses for his affianced,
but on each new occasion the task became more
difficult and more distasteful ; and a conviction
began to haunt him (which so many only discover
after the return from church) that the goddess he

worshipped was the work of his own imagination.
Having arrived at this dismal conclusion, he was
only held from breaking an engagement that became
each day more irksome by a punctilious and old-fashioned
sense of honour. As to Crump, he was
disgusted with everyone, for his passions were
unaccustomed to be curbed, and his will was
strong. It was exasperating, then, that the fish that
he had played with such skill and patience and dexterity
should persist in evading a fly ; slip through the
meshes of the finest net. Ever so many times the
morsel had almost dropped into his mouth ; then it
had bobbed aside. 'Twas a most provoking game of
bob cherry, this ; and he became so annoyed, so
racked by assuaged desires, that he even contemplated
following the example of little Byron, and
whisking away his victim in a coach. Long ago he
had thought of it, but prudence intervened ; for was
not Barbara united in close bonds of friendship
with his patron, who, though easy-going, would
brook no insolence? But after all this lapse of
time, sure 'twould be safe. By cunning diplomacy
and skilful lying to both, he had kept the two
apart.

Sir Robert knew not of Barbara's extremity
till he received the hint of non-interference with
Hastang ; waited as Elizabeth waited for the Essex
ring, rather marvelling, in intervals of pressing business,
to hear nothing of the little Whig. Barbara,

on the other hand, entrenched in pride, bitterly
resented what she deemed her friend's ingratitude.
All was well so far. Who could calculate on the
sudden turning up of marplot Charlotte ? Who
could guess what whimsy might enter some day into
that shuttlecock head of hers ?

And Mother Mappp, too, was waxing troublesome.
After the signing of a letter of license, the buying
up of claims which were temporarily arranged for, in
order to swell her own debt, was manifestly illegal.
As for the selling of the pawned diamonds, investigation
would easily bring to light the fact that Bab,
bewildered and unbusiness-like, had never authorized
their sale. Mother Mappp, in obeying the bidding of
so important a personage as the Prime Minister's
head man, as interpreted by Madam Cibber, was
under the impression that 'twas a momentary
pressure to determine a wavering fair. This conviction
was strengthened when Bab declined to hear
of the Tripoline adorer. But here had the matter
been dragging on for months. The fair had not behaved
as was intended and supposed ; and Mother
Mappp began to see that she was a caspar, who
would be dropped and allowed to shift for herself incase
of inquiry. So she worried Mr. Crump, uttered
jeremiads in the green-room, grumbled exceedingly,
and made herself obnoxious even to the Honourable
Pamela.

'Twas all mighty awkward, and everybody connected

with the game was equally dissatisfied. And
yet how difficult to determine what it was best to do.
As to giving up the siege, Honest Jack averred that
it was out of the question. By hook or crook the
obstinate hussy should be his own chattel to do with
as he would — that was decided long since, and
sworn to ; and from that resolve Mr. Crump declined
to stir, the more for her continued obstinacy. Yet
how to vanquish such obduracy ! This state of
things could not go on for ever. It wasn't complimentary
that she should stand out so long against
her destined master. But that could be squared in
the future. Who could ever have supposed that a
lovely woman, who so gloried in her beauty, who so
basked in the sensuous enjoyment of the good things
of this life, should accept, apparently without complaint,
such a bed of nettles as had been prepared for
her ! Yet where is the presumptuous idiot who
really pretends to prophesy what a woman will do
under given circumstances ? In the case of females
the axiom always holds good, that nought is certain
but the unforeseen. The affair was in a tangle,
which Mr. Crump did not at present see his way to
unravel. As he strolled home, after the party at the
Bear, he thought it over from all its points of view ;
but the more he thought, the less he saw a way out
of the difficulty.

Meanwhile Barbara sat in the only chair awaiting
the return of Charlotte, growing each moment more

uneasy as the clock of St. Saviour's told the hours,
and the familiar step failed to echo in the Close.
Grey dawn crept in and found her watching, with a
new gleam of terror in her eyes.

What if something had chanced ? Why had she
not, rousing herself, agreed to Charlotte's proposal
that the two should sally forth and act together ?
Pride ? Much good it had done her, and much now
had she to do with it !

Feverishly she rose and looked out into the green-yard.
Given that another misfortune had fallen, or
was about to fall, what would happen to her,
Barbara ? Would she be driven again to that awful
last resource ?

The agony of that night had well-nigh turned her
brain. Why had she not leapt, and so finished with
it all ? Whatever might be concealed behind the
veil could surely not be worse than what she had
since endured ? Sure God should know, since He
made us, when our burthen is too heavy for our
backs ; and knowing, would pity rather than upbraid
?

Dawn paled to daylight, and, unable to bear this
rack, with thin trembling fingers Bab threw over her
head a tattered scarf, and crept out, heedless of consequences.
W 7 hat mattered it now if she were seen
by any who knew her in prosperous times, or if she
were taken ? If any humane wight would seize her
in his arms and fling the light burthen over the

bridge among the creaking wheels, who so thankful
as she ?

She glided along the Close towards St. Saviour's,
where a knot of folks were standing with backs
turned. Glory Kilburne, his bare muscular arms
akimbo, related how he'd but just arrived from
Covent Garden Square, whither he'd been sent upon
an errand ; of how a tall young player fellow had
been slain at the Rose tavern in a brawl. 'Twas
wilful murder if ever it had been done, for Colonel
Burgess pinned him through and through, and the
player fell with the crimson bubbling from his
lips.

1 They prate of our Surrey side,' grumbled a
listener. ' Best look at home, I think !'

A groan startled the group, and Glory, looking
round, beheld his lodger prone upon the flags.

She was dead — or near it ! Quick ! a surgeon.
Snow pale — stone-cold !

'A plague o' my babbling tongue!' grunted Kil-burnt,
genuinely concerned, for he'd come to like
his lodgers. ' How should I know that she was
listening ? 'Twas not her brother of whom I spake,
but of Hildebrand Harden, of the Lane. But folks
when over-wrought always think the descending
hammer's for their pates !'

Tenderly Glory Kilburne and some women carried
their burthen to the garret, sorrowing to mark how
light it was, and laid it gently on the bed.

Poor heart ! poor heart !' sighed Glory, brushing
a tear away with the back of his rough hand.
'Tis a happy release, I warrant !'

A few hours later Sir Charles came running down
the Close with unribboned hair a-flying, and dashing
up the ladder to his home, recoiled upon the
threshold.

The sympathizing women were still gathered
round ; a surgeon on his knees was blooding the
prostrate patient. A slow red stream poured from
an arm that was almost fleshless.

She was not dead, then ?' the women whispered.
Thank God for that ! But one who was brought
so low could ill withstand convulsions. How unfortunate
! Ah ! here was her brother. Why look so
white — as white as the swooning patient ? Courage,
man ! She is not dead, for the blood is flowing.'

Thrusting them all aside, the careworn youth fell
upon the pallet on his face, and surrendered himself
to his despair. The circling women wept, for there's
no more woeful spectacle than agony that finds no
tongue. If Barbara with shut eyes and fallen jaw
lay as one dead, Charlotte was as motionless, save
for a quiver now and then that passed in a spasm
through her frame.

Barbara !' at last she murmured, ' my only
friend, sorrow hath been our handmaid ! Take me
with you if you go, for I will not stay behind, though
who, if not I, should be inured to misery?'

Kilburne with bluff gentleness raised the youth
and placed him on the seat, where he sat and rocked
with incoherent cries as one distraught, and tore his
unribboned locks.

Your sister will rally,' the surgeon said. ' 'Tis a
deep swoon, heavy almost as death ; but it will
pass, and maybe she the better.'

But Charlotte shook her head, refusing comfort.
Presently she related, between exclamations of
grief, that the rioters were out last night on
t'other side, and she stood watching them, when
a posse of red-robins came and netted all, herself
among the rest. That taken before the Justice he
had had pity for her poverty-stricken mien, and
let her go. Too late ! too late ! for Bab was dead
her dearest, only friend — and she deserted and
forlorn !

In the evening, the surgeon looked in again, and
his visage grew more solemn. Barbara had recovered
from the swoon, but wandered in mental
labyrinths, babbling wildly, as one oppressed with
dreams. He laid a kindly touch on the disconsolate
youth, and shook him.

'Listen!' he said gravely; 'forget yourself, and
think of your sister, who will need all your care.
What rugged path she hath walked I know not.
Now she hath brain-fever and delirium. Maybe she
will survive, and maybe not. 'Tis a matter of careful
nursing and nourishment. Her constitution's frail

vol. in. 44

and worn. Will it withstand so rude an attack as
this?'

Charlotte nodded, to show that she plainly understood.
The Golden Gate was ajar for Barbara. ' Is
she to pass and leave me bereaved ? Not yet — not
yet !' wailed the wan youth, whose tears gushed
down his cheeks in rivulets. What was to be done
to provide that which was needed for the patient ?

Have you no friends ?' the doctor asked.

I care not !' exclaimed Sir Charles, slapping his
thigh with sudden determination. * Her pride will
be wounded ; yet her life may come to depend on
that I've not to give. Pray Heaven in its mercy
that I may not be taken on the road !'

Hatless, the youth ran down the Close, through
the postern, scudded over the bridge, and never
stopped till, panting for breath, he had reached the
lodging of Theophilus. Sure 'twas a madman !
The maid who opened the door strove to slam it in
his face ; but he was desperate.

1 'Tis life or death !' he cried, keeping it open with
his foot. * Theophilus ! brother ! It is I ! your
wretched, persecuted Charlotte !'

How fortunate it was — among a host of untoward
circumstances — that Madam Cibber was abroad !
Had she been at home there might have been more
trouble. Theoo squinted up and down, bit his nails
and wavered. He was trying to curry favour at this
moment with his parent by assuming respectability.

What if he were seen in the public street with this
tattered dishevelled scarecrow who was his sister ?
But, indeed, her tale was harrowing, and he was
always fond of Bab. Such earnest pleading as his
sister's might not be withstood. A coach to London
Bridge. At least, the public should not behold the
scarecrow.

******

The ice was broken at last, and Barbara was
saved. The state of proud repression, of soul-numbness,
in which as in a shroud she'd wrapped herself,
was like a straight road that led, if life were spared,
only to one building — the madhouse. She was
pining slowly; her sanity was threatened. The
crisis arrived, and she tottered for a second time on
the verge of another world. For long she lay unconscious,
battling with the Pilgrim — importunate
now — whom she'd summoned before in vain ; 'gainst
whom, when he tardily arrived, she fought and
tussled. For long she hovered on the brink, tenderly
watched and cared for ; and when at last her eyes
looked out with reason on the little room, she shut
them quickly, supposing she saw a vision.

Yet when again she looked, there was the vision
still — a picture in flesh and blood. 'Twas the same
untimely garret, yet so different. There was furniture
about — a host of little comforts. She reposed
on a comfortable bed ; the pallet of gruesome
memory was in a corner, and on it Charlotte, dressed,

44—2

but sleeping. On a table — actually ! — a silver
candlestick ! By a window two men against the
light — one fat, one thin. Was it possible ? — Wilks
and Sir Robert Walpole ?

The latter came clumsily forward on tiptoe in the
scarlet cloak she knew so well, attached by golden
tassels.

The little Whig's awake !' he said, with a
rumbling chuckle and husky clearing of the throat
that seemed to her weakness like a clap of thunder.
c Oh what a naughty little Whig never to have sent
to me ! The haughty naughty damsel !'

And Wilks, the soft-hearted cynic, was standing
smiling over her.

She's turned the corner,' he remarked, with
moisture in his eyes. ' Shaken off the volcano of
gall that, like other evil things of our own making,
was sure to recoil upon her head.'

It was marvellous — like a fairy tale ! The patient
closed her lids and slept again. Again she woke,
and again the scene was changed. A nurse was
gliding about, while faithful Charlotte, clapping
hands, beamed down upon her.

Wilks had spoken truth. The mountain-weight
was somehow gone. Something intangible seemed
to have melted. She felt as the person in the
miracle must have felt when the tearing devil had
departed, and he sat clothed in his right mind. Only
by very very slow degrees did the fact dawn on her.

Wounded pride keeps itself green by catalans of
its own rank shoots ; and though the hurt may he
cicatrized, the hidden ailment rankles still.

At first her weakened mind was fully occupied
with marvelling, and, like an exhausted child, she was
perforce compelled to accept things as they came.

Theophilus, it by-and-by transpired, being warned
by the surgeon of the patient's critical state, had
been alarmed, and had called in Wilks, who was
recently returned from his triumphant Irish campaign,
to divide responsibility. Together they had
sifted matters — a difficult business till Mother Mappp,
haled upon the scene, had been stricken with
remorse, and made confession — not complete and
entire, but as much as she thought would hold herself
free from blame. Not so much even as this, for
her mouth at an early stage was stopped by Theoo,
who did not desire that his wife's peccadilloes should
be aired for the behoof of Wilks.

'Twas evidently a mistake, he lightly concluded.
For obvious reasons the diamond episode must be
hushed up. For the sake of all parties, it must not
come to trial. And that illegal buying up of claims !
Too crafty Mother Mappp ! She might howl and
protest her innocence, but Mr. Theoo was an experienced
bird.

Now Mr. Wilks, who was upright in his dealings,
objected to dabbling in foul waters. He had his
faults, he was aware ; but also, thank Heaven, his

virtues. Long ago he had bidden Bab when in a
pickle to apply to him, and could not conceive why
she had not done so. But girls — specially beauties
are sadly pig-headed : made up of follies which
they invariably and properly regret, usually when
these cannot be remedied.

Happily on this occasion it was not too late. He,
Wilks, would settle the diamond difficulty, and
Mother Mappp would settle the other. The bargain
was perfectly fair, for that lady had earned the cartes


Oh, Mr. Wilks !' she howled, ' is a poor honest
woman to lose her money ?'

1 Better,' replied that caustic personage, ' than trot
under the lash from Paul's to Lowborn Bars.'

Thus was it arranged.

It still remained to settle what was to be done
with Barbara. Upon this subject the Duchess of
Queensberry, when called into council, had words to
say. She had grown tired of quarrelling with the
Court, missed the daily wrangles with the departed
pocket-poet.

If Mrs. Pilot would promise to behave decently
in future, and not fly out, she said, with the lofty
condescension that becomes duchesses, she would
forget the scandals of the past and adopt her.

Sir Robert swore that her Grace was funnier than
any low-comedy man ; and laughed to such an
extent that his cheeks grew purple, and the Duchess

was compelled to beat his fat back to the detriment
of her own fan, lest haply he should choke before
her eyes.

She failed to see the jest, she sniffed. When she
said ' adopt,' she did not mean as a daughter (God
forbid !), but as a companion — a sort of female Gay
always premising that the haughty slut must
promise to be meek and mild.

How long would the compact last ?' Sir Robert
roared. * The two haughtiest women in all England !
There would be caps on the green, and wigs too, in
about half a minute.'

Sir Robert was pleased to be ribald ; yet there was
truth in the objection, her Grace admitted, as she
rubbed her nose. Such a flaunting, stiff-necked
minx was little likely to shine in servitude. Pity !
for she'd make a splendid reader, and her Grace was
in the habit of being read to sleep.

Again the incorrigible Minister nearly fell a prey
to apoplexy ; for the idea of Bab sitting patiently by
the Duchess's bedside in the small hours, and
droning Mr. Fielding's latest effort till her Grace,
in a frilled nightcap, should condescend to doze, was
really too entrancing !

Perhaps others, then, who were so clever, could
suggest something less laughable ?' perked the
Duchess.

Wilks was for a return to the stage — not just at
present ; for indeed the noise of Bab's adventures

had gone round and been the talk of the town for at
least the orthodox nine days ; and 'twould be better
to defer a bow before the public till the escapade
should be forgotten.

Theoo differed from Mr. Wilks. Theoo beau monde
would rush to look on the woman who had gone
through such adventures ; the stage platforms would
be crammed ; the actors would scarce have room to
breathe, let alone move !

Mr. Wilks returned a curt answer. Bab should
return to the theatre, if he might have an opinion,
not as a raree-show, but as an artist.

In any case there must be a period of rest, for her
constitution had been severely tried. A year at
least must pass. The question was, how was she
to kill the intervening time ? how live in some
decorous way compatible with self-respect ?

The conclave looked one at another. It was a
puzzle ; for froward Bab was as difficult to lead
even as the King, which was saying much.

If it's merely a matter of money, that is easily
got over,' declared Sir Robert. ' I blame myself
exceedingly for my negligence ; after what she did
for me, 'twas criminal, and I shall never forgive
myself (though worried out of my life by those
Dawley fiends) for such culpable carelessness. Next
to Skerrit and the Queen, I love her best of anyone
on earth ! I've chosen an odd way of showing it.
Mea culpa ! How can I best display regret ?'

There was one standing behind Sir Robert's seat
whose eyes were the more vigilantly watching that
his tongue was still. His brow to the roots of his
auburn hair was wet with the dew of irresolution.
Must it be done, after all his scheming ? Must he
make the risky dive ? His lips twitched. His glazed
eyes seemed to have sunk into his head. An acute
struggle was waging in his breast ; for all his deft
plans were foiled. His victim, receding from his
grasp, was almost out of arm-reach. Yes, come
what might, it must be done ! Sir Robert's remarks
put a period to his wavering.

Stepping forward, with a tremor in his voice, over
which he tried in vain to obtain mastery, and a
strange paleness blanching his usually ruddy cheek,
he hemmed, and spake with becoming modesty.

If one so lowly might presume to open his lips
in such distinguished company — here her Grace
eyed him through a quizzing-glass, and observed
with approval that even plebeians, when they live
with the great, can cultivate something of the brt air —
if, in fact, Sir Robert's secretary might dare to offer a
suggestion, 'twas only because encouraged by the
favours he had received from a kind patron's condescension.
He was ready, if it was deemed desirable,
to give his hand where his heart had long
been. He would marry Mrs. Pilot, and at the
end of the season of rest she might return, with his
approval, to the boards.

Having spoken, with a well-executed bow the
modest man retired.

The very thing ! All were delighted. The Duchess,
like every matron, was an inveterate matchmaker,
and quite forgot how she had herself warned her
protegee against espousing Crump. But then matters
were changed now. The hussy had chosen to consort
with blackness, even to house with cutthroats
and ruffians ; had made such a mess of a promising
career as to have been goaded into seeking last refuge
in the Thames. All things considered, a match with
Crump would be the very best arrangement. Sir
Robert would doubtless provide the husband with
sufficient income — by means of snug sinecures — to
keep a wife with eclat. Who should know how to
manage this, if not he ? She, the Duchess, would
supply plate and linen.

Her Grace had settled everything so completely to
her satisfaction, that it only occurred as an afterthought
that the bride knew nothing of it. Of course
she must be told. Being such a stiff-necked jade and
queen of minxes, it was on the cards she would
decline the pleasant future which kind friends were
preparing.

Pressure must be applied for her own good. Her
Grace would argue and shake an admonishing fan
while Sir Robert lectured. But when it came to the
Minister's turn to apply the screw, he found it was
not needed. She looked up in his face with a sweet

unearthly smile, which he was at a loss to understand,
and said, with a soft sigh :

If you wish it, it shall be so. But he must take me
from here. I'll be married from this garret-chamber.'

Sir Robert patted her worn cheek. Was ever
such a whimsical bit of goods ? The Duchess had
told her 'twas the only door left open. Sure they
who were so kind as to be interested should know
best. 'Twas too true she had made a mess of it.
Her future was in the hands of her good friends. If
they were satisfied, so would she be. What could it
matter what next befell the sport of Fortune, once
her pampered child ? Tired of aimless struggling,
all she craved was peace.

It was vastly nice. Everybody was pleased but
Wilks, who justly deemed that so sudden a surrender
was unnatural ; everything she did was, to his blundering
male brain, unnatural. Why she had ever
broken out in that singular way he could not comprehend.
Why, with equally startling rapidity, did she
now succumb ? Even the breaking out, if reprehensible,
was less uncanny. He chose a quiet moment
to ask the question.

If you'd rather not be Madam Crump,' he said,
1 I will stand by you.'

She smiled the same sweet smile and pressed his
hand, then slowly said : ' What doth it signify ?
Jack Crump or Glory Kilburne ?'

'Who's Glory Kilburne ?' inquired Wilks.

An honest man, the Clink scavenger — and eke the
sexton''

How ghastly a suggestion ! She was certainly a
curious specimen of womanhood.

One other person objected to the match. With a
face of terror Charlotte fell at Bab's feet, as her wild
way was, and begged and implored her not to do
this fatal thing.

Oh, do not ! Do not !' she sobbed. ' Better
any day the Thames !'

Peace ! How now, Cassandra ?' Barbara explained,
as if repeating a lesson. ' 'Twill throw an
aegis over my sullied past. Do not cry, my dear.
What must be, will be. Never heed your Barbara ;
what of my Charlotte ? She too must be provided
for, the wolf kept from her door. See what comes
of battering one's wings ! I, the wayward and imperious,
have suddenly turned fatalist.'

Although she could wash her hands of her own
future, she was anxious about Charlotte's ; but the
fitful waste was once more obdurate. She was a
cork upon the waters, and must be so to the end.
She was wedded to her male attire and vagabond
way of life. She would earn her own living somehow
in a hand-monmouth manner as heretofore.

Theoo was much exercised over the future of Charlotte.
What a pity she could not, like him, put on at
least a semblance of respectability. 'Tis not difficult
when you try, and it will come on and off like a gar-merit.

Through his own career he had not erred
much on that side. True ; but then a man and a
woman are so different ! Yet, after all, Charlotte
was a man. 'Twas six years since she had finally
abjured petticoats.

1 What next, poor sister ?' he laughed, with indulgence
in his squint. ' Must we indeed find for thee
a male occupation ? Thou hast done well as a waiter
in a public garden. I know of a fine gentleman
about St. James's, who is in need of a friseur. I've
admired thy prowess in the art of hairdressing.
Would such a post suit thee ? That thou art not
French or impudent enough would be a drawback,
we must own ; but thou lightest make shift to
mend it. Thine own table and twenty guineas a
year, and nought to do but dress thy master's
head.'

Yes !' cried Charlotte, with glad alacrity; * the
very thing if he be a Member of Parliament, for
should I not be free to walk the streets without fear
of the foes of liberty ? Barbara, I can dress hair
deftly, can I not ? Wilt thou speak up for me ?
I've often combed those locks.'

Theoo's suggestion had been meant as a joke, and
yet it jumped with Charlotte's present whim, and
the spirit of mischief within her brother was titillated.
'Twould be great fun ! His sister's fancy would
soon pass, and then what merriment at the expense
of the young bachelor who had gravely placed his

head every morning under a girl's hands ! And
what a stab for Colley when he came to know of it !
On that account he, Theoo, must prudently seem to
keep out of the affair ; but 'twould be exceedingly
droll. The gentleman was a Vice-Chamberlain, and
a fop.

Even Bab's sense of humour was touched when
she heard that it was Medlicote. She smiled, and
Charlotte kissed her, for the dear face was lighted
up with a glimmer of pristine roguishness. If only
she were not destined to take Crump ! What must
be, must be. Fate shakes up in his bag our various
destinies, and hands them out pell-mell.

O Fate, Fate ! be kind to Barbara !' was Charlotte's
prayer. ' She hath suffered overmuch. The
night is dark and cold, but the sun cometh with the
morning. Say, O Fate, that she hath been sufficiently
disciplined. Be good to much-suffering
Barbara !'

During her convalescence, which was slow and
laborious, it became patent to all that Barbara was
entirely altered. During the long days she lay back
thinking, thinking ; and by the time she could rise,
and on Charlotte's arm totter across the chamber,
she had passed into a third phase of character — an
advanced stage of mental development — whether for
good or evil remained to be discovered. When the
soul is placed upon the rack and the cords stretched,
the tendons and sinews are either cracked and

crippled irretrievably, or rendered supple and pliant.
The patient emerges from Nature's torture-chamber
metamorphosed, either for better or worse.

Charlotte's troubles had unhinged her intellect,
making her froward and unstable as an infant, but
with an infant's loving faith and trustfulness. Bab's
nature, cast in a more masculine mould, did not
shrink and twist awry. As she lay in the darkened
room gazing up at the discoloured ceiling, her mind
was working though her body was inert. The
abortive efforts, the useless aspirations, the futile
struggles of the past, moved in a solemn procession
of retrospect, and she was grieved by the tawdry
spectacle. 'Tis a happy moment for all of us when
we discover how small we are, cease to suppose that
our fellows must bow before our vast importance,
that the constellations, if they had manners, would
stop their stately march for our convenience.

How full of wisdom is the legend of Canute ! Sure
if a modern Solomon were to be offered special gifts,
the first he should demand would be Humility.

Bab, as she reviewed her stormy life with its disappointments,
its unsatisfying successes, understood
for the first time how little it matters what befalls
how useless are the struggles and the fights ; and
with the conviction came a sense of calm, complete,
entire, refreshing. Though we rail and writhe under
the operation of control, how hideous is the human
animal undisciplined ! We have but to watch the

progress of a male child from boyhood to adolescence
to feel this. A bullying tyrant is a boy — conceited,
cruel, selfish. When we look on him and his
tendencies to ill, however good his breeding, 'tis a
salutary lesson for us ; for even our perfect selves
were like that once, till checked and restrained by a
sharp and steady hand.

By the shock of the crisis and its accompanying
weakness, the girl's stiff neck was bent at last. Bab
saw that wrong, and sorrow, and trouble are part
and parcel of our life, that their mission is one of
chastening; to render us gentle, compassionate,
forgetful of our own desires. She was resolved to
fight no more, to take the world as she found it, and
make the best of it ; and I regret to say that when
he marked the change, her old friend Sir Robert
Walpole was somewhat disappointed. A dish without
pepper is apt to be insipid. A meek woman
may be a crown of glory to her husband, an angel
may be all very well in heaven, but neither is
calculated to prove an amusing companion to
mundane acquaintances. Skerrit, for instance, was
a darling : but she had a serpent's tooth and a most
shrewish temper. Had she cultivated the Christian
virtues, she would soon have palled on her admirer,
and Rosamond would shortly have been expelled
from her bower to make way for a livelier inmate.

Tis sad but true. The Christian virtues are good
for us individually as imperfect and halting beings

who are matriculating for a better sphere ; but to
the vast throng who form the workaday world, they
are monstrous dull and mawkish.

So to Sir Robert his little Whig was not improved
by meek resignation, but needed, in his opinion, a
good shaking. This being admitted, the best dose
for his favourite was clearly matrimony — a husband
who was not too good, nor yet too great a rake.

Everybody being agreed upon this point, Barbara
simply submitted, marvelling a little at the nervousness
of her affianced, at his fits of agitation. He
was a strange man, was Honest Jack Crump !
Would he blow hot and cold to the end ? What
would he be like in the sanctity of the menage ?
There were moments when he was all afire ; others
when he seemed to shrink from his promised wife.
What could be the meaning of it ? Was it that he
regretted an act to which he was goaded by his
passions?

Well, well ; what is to be, must be. In her new
role of acquiescence to everything Bab sighed quietly.
'Twas evident that all along Fate had destined them
for each other, and brooked no more resistance.

The Duchess of Queensberry displayed much
interest, amazing the neighbourhood by her fine
equipage ; never ceasing to complain, however, that
her outraged chairmen slipped on the shabby stones
of the green-yard ; that the rakes in sanctuary had
abandoned, with liberty, combs and soap and water.

vol. in. 45

She rallied the happy man on his fits of indecision.
Daphnis, as a good bridegroom, she declared, stands
behind his Chloe's chair, attentive, with a napkin.
Serve her faithfully to-day, friend, and she'll serve
you for ever after.

It certainly was a strange wedding. As the day
approached Mr. Crump seemed to fling aside the
remnants of uncertainty, and finally, with rather
vulgar boisterousness, to accept his role. If the
capricious beauty chose to be married from her
garret, she should have her way. The Bear for the
nonce should keep open house.

My purse will stand it,' he cried, with a swaggering
jocularity that seemed somewhat forced. ' Save
guineas on my wedding-day ? Never ! Provide a
sumptuous feast, O Boniface, though I go to grass
afterwards with his Majesty the King of Assyria !
Aye ! such a repast as shall not be cooked in the
mere paltry poaching of an egg !'

He hired a gilt chariot, too, though 'twas not
twenty yards to the door of old St. Saviour's. Took
up his abode at the Bear, where tailors and wig-makers
laboured three hours in equipping him for
victory, appearing splendid at last in a milk-white
velvet coat turned up with azure, adorned with
silver frogs. The much-dreaded Southwark beaux
gathered in force, with hats over the left eye, a
tinselled crew of dangerous rufflers. A contingent
from the slaughter-houses provided rough music

with marrow-bones and cleavers ; the gentlemen
and ladies of the Close turned out with saucepans,
shovels, kettles, making a glorious clatter ; and but
for the solemnity of the occasion would have resented
the appearance of the foot-guards, who, when
they heard of the affair, sent down their drummers
as a token of gratitude for favours.

Bab was more touched by this trait of remembrance
of the little she had been able to do for the
poor fellows than any of the attentions showered on
her. How long ago it seemed since she dressed the
soldiery, and was saluted as she passed into the
Mall ! But the past was a closed book now, not to
be reopened.

Sir Robert, in a clean coat and brand-new ribbon
and his diamond star (in spite of proximity of Southwark
runners), gave away the bride, and made a
pretty speech. Charlotte stood behind, observing
with a mournful touch of fun that she was page as
well as bridesmaid, and must learn the duties of
servitude before entering on a new office. As she
passed under the lintel of the Bear upon her
husband's arm, Bab threw around one hasty apprehensive
glance, which watchful Charlotte interpreted
aright, and shook her head.

No ! my Lord Forfar was away, had been absent
several weeks on business ; was staying, it was
thought, at Dawley. What mattered it now where
he was staying, or what doing ? Was not the book

45—2

of the past closed ? Thank Heaven ! he never knew
the secret, and never should. Why should he care
to know ? 'Twas well to remember that. Her big
and burly husband was a fine handsome fellow,
though his eyes might resemble the haddock's ; the
ladies of the Close had audibly declared as much,
who were good judges of such beauty. With
Heaven's help she would be a true and faithful wife
to him through good and evil report. Yes, the book
was closed ; shut and clamped-to for ever.

CHECK TO YOUR KNIGHT.'

HE happy couple departed for Kensington

to enjoy the country air ; but before

they went Bab made a last effort to

shake the resolve of Charlotte. In vain.

She was bitten with the new fancy to turn friseur,

and importuned her brother as to the place.

Mr. Medlicote was vastly nice, and asked a host
of questions. Although not so foppish as Lord
Belvedere, he was as partial as most pretty fellows
to the adornments of dress, and was rendered
plaintive by experience on the subject of domestics.

I never have a footman,' he observed, ' but wears
his own hair, so my friseur must dress their heads
as well as their master's. I allow 'em a crown
a week for gloves and powder, though the impudent
rascals don't deserve as much. Yet if I didn't
they'd steal mine. I don't know what they're
coming to, with their modish pertness ! Not one

but hath a watch and seals, and a snuffbox with the
best orangerie ; while as for their conduct in the
upper gallery, one can't hear the play for their
bawling. 'Tis a mercy they're forbidden swords.'

Mr. Medlicote had dismissed his last valet for
drink ; then had himself coiffc by a man from the
Lock of Hair, who kept him waiting once for five
hours in hopeless deshabille when wanted by the
Queen. This threw him in such a rage that he
resolved to set up a private peruke who should be a
species of factotum ; not wearing livery, or appearing
with the servants.

To this end it was necessary to find a genteel
young person of refined manners — one who could
not read nor write ; for a fellow who can write will
draw petitions, while one who can read can ruin
reputations.

There was an interesting air of distinction about
Charlotte which pleased Ranulph at first sight ; and
the candidate, having solemnly declared that she
knew not an A from a bull's foot, was duly inducted
into office.

And now for Charlotte as well as Barbara
ensued an interval of peace. Servants were liable
to be pressed and sent to sea ; but on the other
hand, by virtue of a statute which was not annulled
till 1770, the footmen of Peers and Members of
Parliament were protected from arrest for debt
during the sitting of the Houses ; all domestics of

persons holding office about the Court during the
entire year.

Thus was Charlotte free to walk the streets at
pleasure without glancing apprehensively over the
shoulder, and at the same time was not submitted to
the ignominy of parti-coloured clothes and shoulder-knot.
She occupied a nook on the ground-floor of
St. James's Palace in the Vice-Chamberlain's apartment,
hard by the side wicket ; and when her work
was done was at liberty to do as she listed. She
was so quiet and reserved that Mr. Medlicote took
quite a fancy to the new-comer, supposing her, as
Glory Kilburne had done, to be a gentleman under a
cloud.

Whilst his head was being arranged by her deft
fingers, he communed with his friseur, who was a
miracle of respectful silence, delivering improving
lectures upon various subjects, especially on the
wickedness of servants.

Don't mix with 'em,' he warned the assiduous
peruke, ' for they're loose varmint, and ungrateful
wretches, who serve you according to your wails ;
then tell your secrets and abuse your failings in
public nine-pin alleys, bishops, cellars, places of
low rendezvous. They are born in idleness, nurtured
in drink and debauchery. Don't mimic a master's
smartness, as most of 'em do, filching his steinkirks
and silk stockings. Be always dressed well and
modestly. Instead of hiding to Monmouth Street to

obtain the discarded embroidery of some Minister of
State, get a genteel tailor to supply a gentleman's
undress, and be always equipped with nicety. I ask
no menial service from you, since I perceive you are
above your class, and expect you to behave accordingly.'


From which discourse it may be gathered that
Charlotte slipped into the good graces of her master.
All was well for the present ; she was not in fear of
recognition. Sir Robert had seen her at Montagu
Close with Bab ; but as 'twould be indecorous in a
Minister to attend a Vice-Chamberlain's levee, there
was little chance of their meeting.

Whilst standing aloof from them, the manners of
the royal domestics were new and amusing to Charlotte.
They minced with bent knees like beaux;
were drilled by a severe house-steward as to the
graceful bearing of a flambeau before a chair, the
polite conduct of a door-knocker, the sensible
delivery of a ' How d' ye ?' In case she should ever
choose to return to the playhouse, she learnt many a
trick for a servant's role : the manner of angling for
wails whilst helping on a coat ; indulging in wild bets
in imitation of their betters — such as, for instance,
which of two frogs could leap the highest ; or which
swim better in a pond, a hedgehog or a guinea-her

new life suited Charlotte on many counts.
Novelty to her Bohemian blood was as a breath of

fresh air, wholesome and reviving. A good deal of
spare time was on her hands, which suited her
roving disposition by permitting her to wander for
hours ; a proclivity in which she freely indulged
herself, strolling sometimes in the quiet eventide
over the rough road to Kensington to look on her
dear patroness, or choosing the scarce less dangerous
route by river-side, eyrie of smugglers and highwaymen.


Strange what a fascination was exerted over the
warped mind of Charlotte by the vagabond life
within these dens ! The lawlessness, the reckless,
devil-may-care bravery and carelessness of life exhibited
by Burnworth and his following jumped with
her humour, though she could never be induced to
enrol herself under the banner.

You would make a splendid collector,' Burn-worth
would say laughingly, ' a rival in masculine
prowess to Hannah Snell, the female soldier.'

But she only shook her head. Though her lot
had been a harsh one, she never was inclined to take
up weapons and run amuck against society as foolish
Barbara had done. She was always welcome in the
low haunts by Execution Dock, for 'twas understood
that she would never betray a friend, and was ever
ready to amuse the company with a scrap from a
stage-play or a dance of puppets.

A motley crew, honest and dishonest mingled, as
in Montagu Close opposite ; watermen, petty chap-men,

beggars, housing in seven tenements which
opened one into t'other, with an exit afterwards by
means of a muddy creek. From garret to cellar
beds were crowded, as many as seventy or eighty
sometimes occupying a single hovel from which all
modesty and decency had fled.

This colony differed little from that hard by St.
Saviour's, for it formed a nucleus of pestilence which
was closed to authority, where such as fell sick were
turned into the lanes to perish ; then to be gathered
by dust-carts and handed over to the surgeons. A
convenient spot for malefactors this, for smugglers
running their cargoes ashore found a hundred willing
hands to help for a small pittance, granting in
return a free passage to such as needed it aboard
one of the Gravesend boys.

For years an illicit trade that may scarce be called
clandestine was carried on by a company of Jews
between Execution Dock and Rotterdam ; and so
bold were the scoundrels through impunity as to
carry their goods in public hackney-coaches, and
even store them within the precincts of the
Fleet !

A hotbed this for thieving and lowest debauchery,
as well as fever — contagion moral as well as physical
into which Colonel de Veil threatened more than
once to turn the soldiery ; but he abstained from
invading the hornets' nest in real earnest : his successor
forty years later was memorializing my Lord

High Chancellor in vain as to a clearance of this
rookery.

But Sir Charles's wayward steps were oftener
turned to Southwark. Despite want and fear and
misery, Charlotte had been in some sort happy
there, for the responsibility of watching over her
numbed patroness had brought a content akin to
happiness ; and when the latter was at point of
death, the humble denizens of the Close had been so
kind as to warm the heart of the outcast.

The Bear assumed in her eyes a special interest.
The wedding-party had assembled in its guest-chamber
— a wedding against which Charlotte had
in vain protested, concerning which she had felt
grim forebodings, which none would share with her.
Alack ! that dear Barbara, for better or for worse,
should now be Madam Crump. Pray Heaven
disaster might be averted ! She often saw my Lord
Forfar there, who appeared now and again — a
gloomy vision — on the balcony, or clattered away by
night at a gallop over Lambeth Marsh, with hat un-looped
and closely-folded roquelaure.

A mysterious individual my Lord Forfar. Severe,
cold, reserved, but not unkindly he appeared to
Charlotte. How whimsical that Bab, the gay, the
bright, the successful, should have squandered the
wealth of her love upon the unresponsive Scot !
The happiest marriages are often made of the least
congruous elements, but this one might never be —

betwixt them stood now a double barrier. Oh, what
a pity ! why did Bab consent to become Madam
Crump ? and yet 'twere not well to wear the willow
for Lord Forfar.

The great secret having been indiscreetly babbled
to her, the Jacobite became vastly interesting to
Charlotte for Bab's sake. Although he wist it nota
tall pale youth was often watching him, weaving
a fanciful fantastic future for him, while he sat
brooding at his casement. He had something on
his mind. This was quite plain to Charlotte as
well as Pamela. What could it be ? He was in
danger perhaps, and knew it. The life of a political
plotter is one long danger.

When Sir Charles, in his simple suit of sober
brown, strolled along the flowery lanes to Kensington,
he entertained Madam Crump with his views
upon the subject of conspiracies, and Bab hearkened
uneasily. The fate of the Jacobite could be naught
to her, for was he not Pamela's ? And yet her heart
tightened at the thought of possible peril. She
could almost hear the axe being sharpened for his
neck. He was living in a fool's paradise, engaged
on a fool's errand. 'Twas sad that the interesting
schemer should so persistently cling to a Cause that
was hopeless. Bab's thoughts lingered more than
they should have done about her sister's swain, and
after a long talk with Charlotte she would upbraid
herself in private, until she sadly reflected that it

mattered not, since Gervas had never guessed the
truth, and never should, please Heaven.

Meanwhile the Dawley junta were anxiously scanning
events, and were by no means agreed as to the
hopelessness of the Cause. On the contrary, St.
John was blithe and hopeful ; for despite the efforts
of the never-sufficiently-to-be-hated Bluestring, the
House of Hanover waxed daily more unpopular.
Gervas groaned aloud and writhed under enforced
inaction ; but Pulteney, rubbing his hands, cried,
1 Patience ! give him rope enough, and the little
tyrant will choke himself with little aid from us.'
Even Sir Robert and his faithful henchman, Medli-
cote, feared as much, though they kept silence.
Indeed, his most staunch friends could not say that
years improved his Majesty. The new regiments
and the camp in Hyde Park (expensive toys) soon
ceased to amuse him, and he grew daily more dissatisfied
with England, and pined for the joys of
Herrenhausen. What was to be done with him ?

It had been understood that his beloved principality
might claim his personal attention for a brief
while once in every three years ; but he unblushingly
set aside the agreement. Having vented his evil
temper on wife, daughters, household, he boldly
stated his intention of a proximate return to Hanover,
although he had but recently returned. And
the Pretender knocking at the door ! It was too
bad. The people openly said that if English air was

so distasteful, he had better stop away for good.
The tale of the new houri was whispered abroad ;
Madam Walmoden, forsooth, and he old enough to
know better ! And a nasty German for a new
Sultana ! Was England, smarting still under the
rapacity of the Kendal and others, never to be freed
from greedy foreigners ? ' If he must have a mistress,
won't an English lass serve his turn V cried a burly
street orator, amid hisses and laughter. Verily, if
the Pretender had been worth a pinch of salt, he
might have stepped in at this minute and ousted
the usurper. But unfortunately there was little to
choose between their rival Majesties.

Gervas, as he mused upon his balcony, saw with
terrible conviction that his Cause would never
prosper. Unhappy the earnest man who could devote
himself to such a political wraith as James III.
A puppet whose feebleness of character was only
equalled by his poverty of spirit. Little wonder if
Lord Forfar looked gloomy ; if lines of care deepened
on his face, if his eye grew haggard, his brow dark.
On his side Sir Robert Walpole was as disturbed ashe.
What was to be done to keep the King in
England ? The Prince of Wales was clamouring —
primed by the Dawleyites — for a wife and an establishment,
and the people endorsed the demand.

The match must be made quickly, then,' quoth
impatient Majesty, ' for so sure as eggs are eggs, I
will spend spring at Herrenhausen ;' and when he

spoke thus sharply Sir Robert knew there was no
moving him.

Accordingly Walpole and his colleagues bestirred
themselves, and it was announced on the 25th of
April that the Princess of Saxe-gotha was landed at
Greenwich. A tall raw-boned crooked woman was
the new-comer, with long arms and immense flat
feet ; not an ornamental acquisition, but, like
Mercuric's wound, she'd serve.

In spite of the King's impatience Walpole shrewdly
resolved to amuse the people with a pageant, and
endeavour to revive moribund loyalty with panoply
and glitter. As a show 'twas mighty fine, and the
dazzled populace crowed with joy. Everyone wore
new clothes ; the tailors made a fortune ; so did
the confectioners. Grafton, St. Albans, Newcastle,
vied with each other in splendour, wearing each a
suit which cost five hundred guineas. His Grace of
Marlborough was in white velvet covered with
point d' Espagne ; my Lord Euston in gold tissue ; the
Duke of Montagu in brocade crusted with precious
stones. Gowns were buttoned with diamonds ;
hoops spread to a prodigious size for the better
display of jewels. The royal feast was on a par in
magnificence : for was there not on the centre of the
table a pyramid of shellfish nine feet high ; temples,
groups of statuary, landscapes, all cunningly fashioned
in blomonges and pastry ; jelly and savoury
cake ; peacocks served in their feathers, and pies

full of living birds ? While as for the display of gold
and silver, did not the City Companies rummage
out their stores and lend their choicest plate ?

It was hard upon Sir Robert that all his trouble
should be of none effect. Prince Frederick made
himself as ingeniously disagreeable as usual ; the
King packed up his valise ; and the people were
disgusted. What a hopeless family !

Though, of course, 'twas an anxious time with
them, the Queen and her Minister breathed more
freely, as they always did when the tyrant's back
was turned. Why do folks pine for sons, who, for
the most part, are plagues and torments ? But for
Fred, Caroline would have been calmly content with
her harpsichord and her books. But there were no
end to the tracasseries devised by the royal heir for
the annoyance of his mother. When almost out of
patience, Sir Robert would hold up a fat finger at
her in warning.

If he spits in your face, wipe it off,' he advised,
in his coarse way ; ' if he sits in your lap, tell him
you hope his seat is easy.'

It is not always pleasant to be taken at one's
word. The Queen had said that at fifty-three she
could afford to surrender claims to coquetry. His
absent Majesty treated her like a man-friend with a
vengeance, inditing reams of praise of his dear
German houri, asking the wife's advice on points
connected with the mistress. Even the least modest

of the French kings showed more respect for their
spouses. The correspondence which hardware
couriers galloped with each day will be truly edifying
to a later age. ' Consulted le gros homme,' George
wrote, when a suspicious ladder was found under
the lady's window ; ' qui a plus d'' 'experience, ma chere
Caroline, que votes dans ces affaires.' Verily, 'tis
amazing to reflect upon. Doubtless Caroline did
consult the Minister on the delicate subject of the
ladder, and dutifully reported his advice. Had she
not condoned too much to be angry now over such
a trifle ? George knew that the tacitly accepted position
of man-friend carried with it certain advantages,
and the new attitude suited him to a nicety. There
were to be no querulous reproaches. Caroline's firm
character and clear hard head were invaluable to the
King. He was not clever; she was. What more faithful
ally can a man have than a wise, clear-headed wife
who accepts ' trifles ' ? Poor woman ! Her pills were
numerous and acrid. The King was so charmed
with Herrenhausen and Walmoden that he refused
to return home, lingering week after week and
month after month. The houri, knowing, perhaps,
what Suffolk had endured, was shy as to coming to
England. People might pelt her ; the Queen would
certainly snub her, in spite of the civil little note.
Herrenhausen and a ladder were more satisfactory
than our prudish humdrum country. It became
patent to Sir Robert and his henchman that, how-vol.
in. 46

ever much he might acknowledge the value of her
opinions, 'twas dangerous for his Majesty to be too
long away from the Queen's influence. The people
and their mouthpieces were growing terribly plain-spoken.
Caricatures and pasquinades were pasted
even on the palace doors, and her Majesty from her
sanctum could hear the jeering remarks of the ribald
populace. Worse mortification than all, when she
went forth in her chair to the little library she had
erected in the Green Park, the voice of pity and
condolence afflicted her ears. The role of deserted
Ariadne is a hard one for a proud lady. When
implored to return in time, at least, for the birthday,
the hoary sinner wrote, ' Vows voyez mes passions, ma
chere Caroline; votes connaissez mes fail esse.' Passions
and weaknesses, forsooth ! His Majesty made
little attempt to curb them ! At last she told him
roundly that if he dallied longer he must make a
final choice between the kingdom and the principality.
He would certainly find, like the unwise
virgins of the legend, the door locked and bolted.

Who more distressed by the grave condition of
affairs than the Honourable Pamela ? Things were
all awry. She was compelled to mumble slices of
the unpleasant pudding made of Dead Sea apples.
How mortifying, when you deem yourself knowing
and profound, to have to confess that a painted old
figurehead of a papa is right, while you are wrong !
She knew that the grand plot depended much on

the maintenance of the standing army, or, at any
rate, of the camp in Hyde Park. Time was rolling
on ; yet nothing was attempted. First the plotters
waited for the King's absence, then for his return,
then for his absence again. Fortune favours not
the shilly-shally, and time seemed no object to the
conspirators. Gervas was so moody and morose
that the ducal coronet was visibly fading from her
sight. Discontented as the people were, why not
strike now? As many another impatient female
has had cause to say, Pamela cried in wrath, ' Oh
that I were a man !' The old wig-block, too, writ
so chirping from the Hague, that each missive was a
stab. There was a lull in military operations abroad.
A general pacification was on the carpet. Diplomatic
antics were performing in which my Lord
Belvedere's buffoonery was to have no little part.
By-and-by he would return crowned with glory.
He would be made an earl, and his child would be
my Lady Pamela ! How annoying, flat, and unprofitable
! What cared she for the petty position
of a poor earl's daughter — she who had
seen within reach the role of a Sarah, Duchess ?
Was it not excruciating to be still plunged in doubt ?
Lord Belvedere would not, perchance, have been so
cock-a-hoop could he have seen the Queen's pale
anxious visage, the pursed lips of the Prime Minister.
But then Gervas looked gloomier than either. Mrs.
Belfield had been very rash in tying herself openly

46 — 2

to my Lord Forfar. Her temper got so much the
better of her at this point that she recklessly showed
herself in a very ugly light indeed, and was rather
vexed than not that he did not cancel the engagement.

The Court was a dismal place for a lively young
woman now. Pamela, torn and distracted, became
so mopish that 'twas as much as she could manage
to be decently civil to Medlicote, though it might
come to be her interest to encourage that persistently
dangling swain.

A dowerless earl's daughter ! Was that to be the
impotent conclusion ? Looking at herself in the
mirror, she could not but be aware that young
women of a spare habit soon grow corkscrew
visaged ; that if not pretty you must be gay and
charming ; that if you are dowerless, cross, and
scraggy, your chances will be slight as an angler.
What if she were never to land any fish at all ?
What if, when King and Queen were dead, she
should still have to go grimacing on from generation
to generation, poor, neglected, despised, ill, blind,
deaf, a butt for saucy maids of honour ?

4 " No more on glass"' she murmured, ' "shall diamond grave
my name,
And rhymes dispel record a lover's flame ;
Nor shall side-boxes watch my glancing eyes,
And as they catch my look in rows arise
With humble bows !" '

So sang the defunct Mr. Gay — prophetically,
perhaps, of the ambitious but bungling Mrs. Belfield.

Pamela was so eaten up by dulness and indecision
so worn by futile attempts to peep under the veil —
that she almost resolved to take to good works.
But then there again cropped up the odious subject
of pelf. When you are poor who cares for your
exiguous good works ? Moreover, she was too young
as yet to sit in the Chapel Royal with the frizzled
frumps in towers of fine lace. 'Twould be an admission
of defeat.

When she had money — which, alack ! was not
often — she went her restless rounds to the Indian
toy-shops — to the auctions, to buy useless china,
cabinets, or rich brocades ; and even then was
wretched, for Gervas was a glum comrade, with no
sympathy for vanities ; and, till she was actually
married, 'twas etiquette for less-favoured beaux —
even though they professed no serious intentions — to
hold aloof.

She was dissatisfied also with regard to her sister.
Though hitherto I have spared my own feelings as
well as yours, by suggesting hints rather than
declaring facts as to the proceedings of an Honourable
Miss, it may be well to make no more bones
about it, but confess, with a great gulp, that Mrs.
Belfield had taken a considerable amount of trouble
to achieve the undoing of Mrs. Pilot.

She and Madam Cibber and Madam Mappp — a
trinity of angels — had put their wicked heads together
to some effect ; and if Sir Charles had not

appeared, like a phantom, upon London Bridge one
night, and cried ' Forbear !' it is likely that feminine
spleen would have been gratified. But now a possibility
reared up its head of the naughty damsel appearing
in the character of Phoenix.

Barbara had passed through a fiery furnace with
an amount of singeing which time would doubtless
put right again. Crump, goaded by curbed desire, and
a little at the last by policy, had plumped forth his
hand, and taken the wounded one on her own terms.

For some reason of his own, he had long shirked
the wedding-ring, but had made up his mind at last,
owing possibly to the revived interest of the Prime
Minister in his little Whig. Sir Robert was partial
to his faithful secretary. For the sake of both wife
and husband, therefore, it was probable he would
push the fortunes of the Cramps. They would grow
rich and influential. It was publicly announced that
Bab was to reap new laurels by-and-by on the boards.
How harrowing to consider that, after so much
scheming, Mrs. Belfield's benevolent intentions should
be foiled !

At this juncture occurred something that roused
the bedchamber-woman from apathetic grumbling to
startled alarm — that awoke both Queen and Minister
from their uneasy dozing. All kinds of rumours and
secret bits of information as to the doings of the
Dawleyites found their way from time to time into
Sir Robert's ear, whereat he only smiled.

Who so great an adept as Walpole at spreading
dissension in a party ?

Have I not kept the Jacobites quarrelling for
years ?' he repeated, in answer to the remonstrances
of anxious Ranulph. ' Let be ! when the incongruous
elements become adhesive, then we will press
our heel on them. At present the fools are innocently
occupied ; not worth considering. Let St.
John sip his syllabub upon his haycocks ; let Pul-tenet
declaim and Chesterfield discourse ! That
idiot Forfar, too — squandering his energy and horseflesh
!'

Sir Robert was certainly incorrigible ; had clean
forgotten that trip to Barbadoes that so nearly was
his lot. What mattered it that mysterious travellers
were constantly riding to the Bear, and clattering
to Dawley — riding post-haste over the marshes ?
The real danger was not from these wind-bags, the
Minister was convinced, but from the infatuated
George himself, who was lingering still in Germany.

Sir Robert had learned from St. John's servants,
who were his pensioners, that the bejewelled conspirators
were constantly discussing something in
the middle of the hatfield, though, thanks to Boling-broke's
cleverly arranged place of rendezvous, 'twas
impossible to eavesdrop. 'Twas vain to crawl along
the hedgerow. Nothing might be heard ; but something
might be gathered from gesture. They
bickered and argued hotly ; shook their heads ; in

heat of discussion laid hands on swords. Was not
Sir Robert right to despise plotters whose opinions
were thus divided ?

My Lord Forfar lay doggedly upon his back,
refusing to reply to Pulteney ; Chesterfield took
snuff, which he never did save in moments of extreme
annoyance. As to Cincinnatus himself, he
got up and walked about, gesticulating wildly,
shaking his long curls and tearing his ruffles in
chagrin, then squatting down white-hot.

Curious eyes, peering through the hedge, could
mark that Lord Forfar's mind was mulishly made up
upon some point, and that the protests of the rest
were vain. At length, with evident reluctance, they
gave way, as warm, eager men always do to stubborn
obstinacy. As the group left the field, and moved
along the lane towards the house, a listener heard
Pulteney say :

Well — if you will have it so, but I protest ;' to
which the others added, with sullen looks at Forfar,
'And I,' 'And I.'

Something was going to take place, then ; it
mattered little what. The King should return ; he
must. He should be implored once more, and then they
might do their worst. Thus spake Sir Robert from
Ranulph's easy seat in the apartment by the Queen's
privy stair ; and Charlotte hearkened from her little
den hard by. Not that she purposely played the
listener. She was sitting there, with hands before

her, considering what her next step in life should be.
Her restless spirit was growing weary of hairdressing,
and she longed to exhibit again the Queen of Sheba,
and Alexander the Great, and pretty Hero and
Leander.

Though tolerably free, regular hours were irksome
to Sir Charles ; and she reflected that since Mr.
Medlicote was so partial to his quiet peruke, he
might be cajoled into advancing a sum for the
starting of a new puppet-motion. 'Twould be delightful
to go roving again in the sweet fields ! Not
to know or care where the head was to be laid ; to
listen to the jocund birds ; pluck the wild flowers ;
chase the butterflies ; mark down the beetles to
their lairs ; laugh at the silly ants and bees — Martha
of the insect world.

Though absent-minded, Charlotte could not but
hear what the two men were saying in the adjoining
room.

An ungovernable spirit,' Ranulph was declaring
with concern, ' is showing itself all over the kingdom.
Licentious, seditious rioting ; tumults and disorders
of all sorts.'

Mere blood-letting to cool fever,' calmly rejoined
Sir Robert. ' We stopped their foolish bawling fora
moment by abandoning Excise. Then it was gin ;
now it is corn ; next it may be paper or feathers.'

"Tis the Dawley junta that's at the bottom of it
all,' emphatically asserted Ranulph. ' You may pretend

that it is mere nightmare. I tell you that only
yesterday, in Smithfield, there was a serious disturbance.'


'Serious fiddlestick!' laughed Walpole. 'Some
Irish weavers were working at a lower rate than
English journeymen.'

1 The mob began by railing at Irishmen, no doubt,'
assented Ranulph. ' In four hours they took to
cursing of Germans — reviled the King, the Queen,
and you, and puzzled for James III.'

Sir Robert looked pensive. If that were so, something
must be done. 'Twould never do to have
shouts for the Pretender in Smithfield. And yet
'twas mere foolishness ; an empty cry bellowed to
annoy the Government.

Though he seemed to make light of the matter,
Walpole thought more of it than he pretended, for
next day the soldiery were called out, and there
was bloodshed. A band of smugglers charged across
London Bridge, and penetrated as far as Lincoln's
Inn ; and officers in command of battalions reported
them as well armed and mounted, and so numerous
withal as to deserve the gravest attention.

A few days later there was an uproar under the
sacred roof of Westminster Hall itself. The courts
were sitting, the counsel pleading, the Hall full of
lawyers and clients, when on a sudden there was a
loud report, a yell for James III., and a simoom of
dust. Judges and lawyers jumped helter-skelter over

one another's backs in panic, losing gowns and periwigs.
Some one shrieked that the Pretender was at
St. James's — that the Royal Family of the House of
Hanover had fled. Seditious handbills flew about
somehow in the air. None could say who was guilty
of the outrage.

Clearly this would never do. That the legal profession
should have been guilty of such an exhibition
of alarm and cowardice at the mere mention of James
III., and the explosion of a few pennyworth of
gunpowder, looked ill for the stability of the Guelph.
Some notice would have to be taken of the affair,
for 'twas an insult to King and Queen and to the
majesty of the law.

Whispers passed from mouth to mouth to the
effect that 'twas no lunatic freak, but a serious
attempt, which had miscarried ; for in Southwark
and about Rotherhithe and Wapping there were
some who openly complained that they had never
seen the signal. There was an uneasy movement, too,
of the troops in Hyde Park which required explanation.


The Queen, in the prolonged absence of the
Sovereign, was genuinely terrified. So perturbed
was she that Sir Robert entreated Mrs. Belfield to
soothe her Majesty while he went below to Mr.
Medlicote's to consider what should be done ; not
that Pamela was in a soothing mood, being exasperated
almost beyond bearing. Was this tomfoolery

the only outcome of all the plotting and riding
and muttering ? Verily the wig-block was in the
right, and she was wrong. Scales had dropped
from her eyes, and she reproached herself with
having pinned her faith upon the fluttering skirt of
a dreamer. Unpractical, vapouring fellow ! The
ducal coronet was but a paper crown — worse, a
foolscap ! The Dawleyites, for all their blustering
and the shrieking of the Craftsman, were men of
straw — Lord Forfar an impudent impostor. But,
thank goodness ! there was yet time for repentance,
since the knot was not tied. Out on the braggart !
he should be sent packing without more demur.

The virulence of Pamela against her betrothed
astonished Caroline. The bedchamber-woman knew
that the man to whom she gave herself was a Jacobite
— why then this tornado of indignation ? Well,
well ! the Queen would be lenient to the repentant
sinner. Even a converted bedchamber - woman
was worth a little civility in such ticklish times. So
her Majesty kissed Mrs. Belfield, and, with words of
comfort, was good enough to forgive the past.

Pamela was not the only one who suspected that
Gervas's finger had been in this pie. 'Twas he who
was always careering on horseback in an unloosed
hat. Twas he who had insisted on doing something,
despite the protests of his colleagues. Sir Robert,
as, forgetful of gout-twinges, he paced Mr. Medli-
cote's apartment, with hands behind his back, agreed

with Ranulph that steps must be taken to stop these
scandals. 'Twould not be fitting to call at Dawley
and demand explanations. Why not make a raid
upon the Bear, and seize Lord Forfar's papers ?

1 Not a good suggestion,' objected Ranulph, ' for
the boys of merry Southwark would look on such a
proceeding as a malignant precedent — forerunner of
a raid upon the Holy Mint or Sacred Montagu Close ;
and yet something must be done, and speedily, to
avoid yet greater complications.'

Seize Lord Forfar's papers ! Charlotte heard
from her modest unconsidered nook, and, shaken
from a day-dream, hearkened.

Xo. The lawless smugglers might ride to Lincoln's
Inn and butcher the soldiery ; but to send the latter
to retaliate in Southwark was quite out of the
question. What! spur the slumbering dragon ? If,
goaded to action, the Mint and the purlieus of the
Borough were to belch forth their enraged hordes
upon the City, who might foretell the consequences ?

Sir Robert declined, on his favourite principle of
Caesar or nothing, to consult the other Ministers.
Whatever was to be done, he and he alone would
have the credit of it. And yet an ingenious solution
of the difficulty was badly wanted. Crump ! Where
was Honest Jack ? Babes and sucklings have been
known to prate wisdom. He was wont to be ingenious
; his fingers might knot the tangle.

Honest Jack was accordingly called in. He was

looking well and handsome, was exceedingly well-dressed
— improved in many ways by matrimony.
And yet a second glance showed marks of dissipation
about the corners of the eyes and mouth which
should not have been visible in one so newly
mated.

Honest Jack looked down, smiled at Sir Robert,
nodded with a show of familiarity to the Vice-chamberlain,
stared at the ceiling with eyes too far
apart.

Yes, if his humble opinion was asked, he should
say that my Lord Forfar was at the bottom of this
baby's effort. Sir Robert would doubtless remember
that on another and less puerile occasion, Sir
Robert had been saved from my lord's wiles by the
dear and much-loved wife of him, Jack Crump.
Lord Forfar's mental resources had no doubt been
completely drained on that occasion, since the latest
effort was so childish. Nevertheless, he, Jack
Crump, was of opinion that more than the explosion
of a pop-gun had been intended ; and that Lord
Forfar was fully cognizant of all the details. Ergo,
it would be vastly well to seize Lord Forfar's
papers.

That leads us no further on the road,' replied
Ranulph impatiently, for he resented the secretary's
familiar ways. ' Take his papers by all means ; but
how?'

I am well known at the Bear,' responded Honest

Jack. (He certainly was less humble than before
his marriage.) ' Did I not there receive my darling
wife ? Depend on't the landlord is no plotter ;
'twould not be worth his while to mix in politics.
I'll take my darling there as if to revisit old haunts,
and 'twill be strange if I cannot penetrate into my
Lord Forfar's chamber.'

Admirable ! Honest Jack was a pearl of price.
He should do as he suggested, and should choose
his time ; but he must be quick about it, or might
arrive too late.

He always did his best in a modest station, did
Honest Jack. There was a little office just vacant
a small matter of Government patronage worth a
few hundred pounds a year — should he prove successful,
and arrive with valuable documents — might
he? ' Oh ! a thousand thanks!' And Honest
Jack bustled off to Kensington to engage his
dear spouse for a sentimental pilgrimage ; while
Charlotte, in her unconsidered nook, sat open-mouthed.


Charlotte had shown, on various occasions, that
save in the direction wherein her brain was warped
she could cope with emergencies. She sat aghast,
round-eyed. Bab was to be used as a cat's-paw for
the betrayal of the man she loved. She must be
put upon her guard. For her sake Lord Forfar
must be demolished. How lucky that the duties
of the peruke were slight, and that she had time

for wandering ! What if Gervas were away ? Oh,
agony !

Sir Charles jumped up and seized his hat, and,
gliding out by the side-postern, pattered to London
Bridge. The Fates were kind. Gervas was sitting
on his balcony, more glum than ever ; angry with
the world ; hating earth and sky ; most indignant of
all against himself on account of the Westminster
fiasco.

Should Charlotte beckon to him ? No. His
brown study was of the deepest. Besides, spies
might be watching who would carry tidings. Charlotte
and Southwark were old allies, fast friends.
She would walk boldly into the Bear as she had
often done, and creep privily up into his chamber.

'Twas some time ere Gervas recognised the youth
who diffidently knocked and entered.

Charlotte Charke !' he said, at last, with a deep
sigh, for the sight of Cibber's daughter recalled old
memories.

*' Charlotte Charke,' the latter echoed gaily, 'better
known in these quarters as " Sir Charles." Your
neighbour not long since, although you wist it
not.'

My neighbour ?' repeated Lord Forfar wearily.

From the side-window in the passage yonder,
you can see ours, just by the tower of St. Saviour's,
in the Close. We dwelt there — ah me ! — for many
trying weeks, grievously in want of bread, while you,

hard by, could eat and drink your fill. But that is
over now. I wanted several times to come to you,
but she would never let me.'

She ! Who ?'

Barbara Pilot — now Barbara Crump, alack !'

'Barbara!' cried Gervas, his interest awakened.
I knew she was somewhere near — dwelling with — a
man !'

I was that man !'

1 You ?' Gervas said, troubled. ' You ? Starving
close by — and she '

Charlotte marvelled at the emotion of Lord
Forfar.

You wist it not,' she said gently, ' or I know you
would have assisted us. Your deeds of kindness to
the poor prisoners are in all mouths.'

1 Not so. I knew of it, and yet was misinformed.'
Then, with sudden horror in his eyes, Lord Forfar
rose and smote the table. ' 'Twas she who said it,
and I chid her. But she could not have known !'

Charlotte's curiosity was stirred in turn, and she
echoed, mimicking :

'She! Who?'

1 Her sister — Pamela,' Gervas murmured with
reluctance.

Then was the ire kindled of Sir Charles.

Oh false ! false ! She knew 'twas I was dwelling
with her sister, and deceived you purposely. She
and Madam Cibber, the envious savage, and Crump

vol. in. 47

alas ! now husband. What will come of it ? — oh,
what will come of it ? Proud, much-suffering Barbara,
I doubt your cup's not full !' and Charlotte,
racked by one of those torrents of despair that
recalled to Gervas a day so long ago in the Richmond
toy-shop, when first he beheld the crazy
creature, flung herself headlong on the floor.

Did she speak truth ? Did Pamela, malice expense,
coin the tale about the man to disgust her
betrothed and prevent her sister's rescue from starvation
? He had chid her at the time as sisterly,
if even the tale were true. What could her object
be? Surely not jealousy? Such men as Gervas
have nothing but contempt for Othello, male or
female. Mere spite ? And this was the woman
whom he was to swear to cherish and to love ? Covering
his face with both hands, Lord Forfar grieved in
silence. Why were his lines cast in such unpleasant
places ? What a series of subjects for regret were
his ! A Cause that had ruined his estate and was
now drifting to sure shipwreck. A wife who — well,
it was not safe to think of her. And then that
Westminster fiasco. As to that last matter, he had
learned a lesson. He had been wrong, most wrong,
in forcing an attempted rise contrary to the opinions
of his colleagues ; for the future he would be less
obstinate. He was sick of it all — even of the Holy
Cause. As he sat pondering in deep dejection, he,
like Barbara, called on the far-off Pilgrim. Though

his heart was no longer with it, he would not desert
the flag. If his colleagues, when the King returned,
should resolve on a final effort, he would fight with
them side by side ; and if Fate had any mercy,
some bullet would find a billet in the disappointed
patriot's breast.

By-and-by his discontent found words, and
wandering snatches of disconnected talk recalled
patiently waiting Charlotte to the object of her visit.
Sitting on the arm of his chair, she briefly related
what by accident she had overheard, while the dark
eyes of Gervas were fixed on hers inquiringly.

1 If Charlotte was in the service of the Hanoverian
Vice-Chamberlain, why should she interest herself
in a suspected traitor ?' he dubiously inquired.

For Bab's sake,' blabbed Sir Charles, and then
could have bitten out his tongue for the imprudent
admission.

Gervas's eyebrows rose higher. If Mrs. Pilot,
when in extremity, had declined to allow an appeal
to be made to him, though he dwelt but a stone's-throw
off, 'twas odd she should authorize an massage
when his neck appeared in peril.

She did not authorize my visit,' stammered
Charlotte, growing confused ; ' indeed, she knows
nothing of it.'

And her husband and she, you say, are coming
here to pry into my escritoire ?'

Have faith and believe me,' pleaded Charlotte.

47—2

'For reasons I cannot give, both she and I are
interested in your fate. Conceal your papers, if
you have any, and beware of Mr. Crump.'

The more Lord Forfar examined it, the less could
he decipher the riddle. Was it a trap ? No.
Smarting under the heavy blow of Pamela's now too
evident wickedness, he passed in review his varying
opinions as to Barbara. Strongly prejudiced against
her, he had been compelled more than once to admit
himself wrong in his conclusions. She was wild and
reckless and giddy, no doubt ; but so at first are many
excellent girls who, like men, have wild oats to sow.
Fearless and true to those she loved — such was the
verdict given by experience. He was too innately a
gentleman to bear malice over the kidnapping attempt.
'Twas like a game of chess in which, by superior withe
had been worsted. Indeed, he had envied Blue-string
for having so staunch an ally. And then, as he
reflected, conscience upbraided him for conduct he
now saw to be Jesuitical. He had stooped to grope
and worm, and remembered tart sayings of blunt
Barbara's on the use of dirty weapons. This was
no trap. He had heard much from time to time —
as all London had — as to the doings of Charlotte
Charke. One of the strangest things about her washer
incorruptible honesty in the face of sore temptation.
Much as old Colley hated his crackbrained
child, he was ever fain to confess that she was
always the cheated, never the cheater. And yet —

what possible motive could these two women have —
but what was to be gained by such bootless marvel ?
Looking into the depths of Charlotte's earnest doglike
eyes, Gervas decided to trust her.

So they are coming to search my escritoire ?' he
said, sadly smiling. ' What next ? Shall I prepare
me for a siege ?'

Better let Crump search and find nothing,' suggested
Charlotte, ' than resist and so give colour to
suggestions of concealment.'

There was worldly wisdom in that.

If you will put faith in me,' Charlotte went on,
with timid hesitation, ' my lodging will be a safe
depository. I will not inquire what 'tis you leave
with me ; so shall we both be satisfied.'

It was rash, and yet it was not. There were
documents which might not be destroyed. Bonds
in King James's name — sundry lists of great importance.
Was it fair to endanger this crazy creature
by so hazardous a deposit ? As she had said, she
of all on earth would be last suspected of political
intrigue. And she need never know the contents of
the packet. If an unsuccessful attempt were made
upon the Bear, why should not another be tried
at Dawley later on — if not by force, by stratagem ?
For many reasons it would be best to permit an
abortive search, and pretend never to have known
of it. It might be useful to be proved innocent.
Lord Forfar made up his mind, and drawing from

a secret place a parcel, handed it without a word
to Sir Charles, who, with a flush of pleasure, concealed
it in an inner pocket. How pleased would
Barbara be when she told her what she had done !
With jaunty step, brimful of importance, humming
an air from the ' Beggar's Opera,' Sir Charles
wended his way westward, as blythe and proud as if
the bearer of Hero and the Queen of Sheba, instead
of a bundle of papers ; while Gervas returned to his
chequered pondering; grieved at one time to the
quick at certain intelligence of Pamela's treachery ;
strangely light-hearted at another to think how he
had wronged Barbara. A singular incomprehensible
woman. Consider her conduct how he would,
the stubborn fact remained that for some reason of
her own she had danced fandangoes with desires
and blackness. That was bad. But the story about
the man was a malicious lie — the worst form of lie,
since 'twas so near the truth. Oh, wicked, venomous
serpent Pamela ! Strange, fascinating, surprising
Barbara ! The more he thought of it all, the less
comprehensible did it appear. ' For Bab's sake
Charlotte had blurted out. Why for Bab's sake ?
Now that she was decorously married, clothed, and
in her right mind again, there could be no harm in
seeing her once more ; in endeavouring to fathom the
mystery. But Crump — snake in the grass ! Could
she really be happy with such a man ? Would he
himself, knowing what he knew, ever taste a



moment of happiness with Mrs. Belfield ? Never,
never! Perhaps Barbara would never learn the
shady proceedings of her husband. How such
learning would shock her blunt but generous nature !
Sure ignorance is oftener bliss, and learning a
snare. How many upright wives are joined to base
husbands, yet never know it ! Do we not hear of
virtuous spouses who never suspect their husbands'
guilt till they behold them in the dock ? Lord
Forfar sent up a fervent prayer for Barbara's happiness,
and sighed. For him there never could be
happiness. Dreaming idler, to crave after the
unattainable on earth ! Though his mind was
troubled and full of harassing cares, the heart of
glum Gervas felt lighter somehow.

1 A NEW LIFE.'

HEN in due course the elastic stride of
Sir Charles brought him to Kensington,
and he unfolded his budget, the beautiful
face of Barbara was a picture of dismay.
How different was the ancient from the present
Barbara ! Which was the mask, and which the real
face? She was well enough in health, though, of
course, so severe an ordeal as that she had undergone
at Southwark must needs leave a lasting imprint.
The scornful, domineering, saucy Mrs. Fine-lady
was dead ; the stormy loveliness of Queen
Beelzebub had faded. The fair creature whose
somewhat thin but finely-proportioned figure was so
piquantly set off by a well-fitting dress of simple
chintz, was sedate and self-contained and demure,
still and reserved, with an interesting tinge of mournfulness.


Sir Robert, who frequently rode hitherward when

business permitted (remorseful, maybe, for unintentional
neglect), was testy thereanent, and chucking
her under the chin, bade his little Whig be merry as
of yore. But that might never be. Doth he who
hath borne the rack ever forget the strain ? The
discipline of the harsh world in which we find ourselves
is doubtless salutary ; but the scars of the
lash may never be effaced. After bending painfully
under the yoke we may rise erect again, as Barbara
had done, and be in some sort our old selves once
more ; but the change is there, to be detected by
those only who know us best. Turbulent and self-sufficient,
Bab had suffered from so overwhelming a
sense of helplessness and degradation as she sat on
the bed in the spunging-house staring through the
bars on vacancy — as she slowly starved in the garret
by St. Saviour's — that she wondered still why her
hair was not white, why she had not laid her down
and died long before the supreme moment when she
stood on the river-steps calling on the Pilgrim.

The ordeal over, people had been kind — kinder
than she deserved, Bab had murmured in a newborn
meekness that sat oddly on her, and she reproached
herself for lack of gratitude. If a pigmy
mortal chooses to run amuck against public opinion,
should he not be smitten ? Aye ; but punishment is
meted out sometimes with too liberal a hand. However,
old friends had rallied round again, and 'twould
be well to forget the episode of blackness except for

the lessons it conveyed of patience and humility.
Since 'twas her fate to marry Crump, she married
him, and registered a vow to be a true and faithful
spouse.

But what was this tale of Charlotte's ? What
fiend had caused Bab to disclose a precious secret even
to Sir Charles ? The degrading secret that should
have been guarded with such jealous care ! Well-meaning
but crazy waste ! Bab knew that she
would cut out her tongue, hew off a hand, rather
than injure her dear patroness ; and yet what terrible
broths are brewed with the best and most loyal
intentions ! She had actually told Lord Forfar that
she, Bab, was specially interested in him !

The blood flushed to the roots of Barbara's hair as
she reflected on it. Her ears tingled in a manner
which showed that the lesson of humility was far
from thoroughly learned. Not but what it was a
becoming pride that stirred her blood ; for was she
not resolved in the future to be respectable, and it
certainly is not respectable to let one man know you
like him when bound in wedlock to another.

What would Lord Forfar think — what conjecture?
She who had always so unaccountably yearned for
his esteem, was pained and shocked ; and wistful
Charlotte flung herself on the floor in her impulsive
way and wept, seeing she had acted wrongly. And
yet, why wrongly ? Barbara would not wish him to
be betrayed, and by her own husband ? He must be

saved somehow, and the crazy girl could think of no
better method than the one pursued. Alack! alack 1
It was the evil-eye. Nothing that Charlotte could
attempt or do could ever prosper. Had she not
said so often ?

Bab was compelled to put aside her own painful
thoughts in order to soothe the distress of Charlotte.
On the whole, perhaps Sir Charles had not acted
wrongly. 'Twere better for the peace of Madam
Crump to forget the existence of her sister's
betrothed as much as might be ; and yet what
signified her peace, if by its sacrifice she could be of
service to him ?

The idea of her own lord enacting Judas opened
a grisly vista which she shrank from investigating.
Charlotte had done quite right ; but, forewarned,
Bab's demeanour in the future must, by circumspection,
give the lie to any feeling of special interest.
For her own sake and her husband's. Then a lump
throbbed into her throat, and a pang tightened her
breast, which showed yet further how badly the
lessons had been learned. What mattered her
behaviour ? Circumspection, indeed ! 'Twas really
laughable, for Gervas was supremely indifferent to
her and her concerns. 'Twas like the building of
earthworks for defence against spiked guns ! When
she had been a reigning toast, a worshipped Diva —
when a mark for the slings of scorn, a complete
failure — had not Gervas been equally indifferent ?

Was not everyone indifferent ? Who cared what
she did, or what befell ? No one, not even herself.
A spasm of the old pain pinched her heart. Nobody
really cared for her who had so pined for affection —
not even Jack, her husband.

'Twas sad but true. Not all at once did the conviction
break upon her, but when it did she marvelled.
Jack's conduct was inexplicable. For years
had he not hung about her skirts, hot and cold by
turns ? Had he not shown himself in various
phases of longing ? had he not made attempts of all
sorts to storm the garrison — cajoling, threatening,
imploring? Had he not held back and hesitated,
and then advanced again, as though pushed on by
irresistible force to something which his judgment
contemned ? What did he mean by it ? If he did
not love her, why pursue ? If he once loved her,
why had the ardour cooled so suddenly ? No doubt
with some ill-regulated natures possession brings
satiety. But the hot iron had grown cold with
amazing swiftness. There must be something
behind.

In vain Bab wondered what. For the first quarter
of the honeymoon Jack had been all warmth ; had
clasped to him his wife with fervid embraces, murmuring
that she was his own now, his very own.
Then, when now and again she glanced at him there
was a peculiar expression in his glassy eyes, that
seemed to say — if such a notion were not preposterous

— that she had done her lord some injury.
She had concealed nothing from him. He knew of
the hurly-burly in Golden Square, of all the escapades.
What could the poison be that was rankling in his
mind ? What offence had she committed ? It was
not she who had forced him into marriage. Contrariwise,
she had been completely passive, a drifting
log, murmuring, ' What must be, must.' Why, then,
that curious expression as of injury ? That he was
not a good man she had known long ago. That he
was profoundly unscrupulous dawned by degrees
on her. That he was rapacious, insolent when not
afraid, mean to parsimony, careless of the methods
whereby his desires were gratified, came upon her
slowly ; and on each fresh discovery she bent her
head and murmured :

It serves me right, for giving myself to one when
my heart belongs to another.'

But she taxed herself in vain as to an injury.
True, when he had urged her to solicit money
favours from Sir Robert, she had proudly declined,
replying curtly that she begged of no man. If her
husband chose to squander his substance at faro, he
must put up with the results. 'Twas not for her to
reproach him after what she had done herself ; but
she would have him to remember that she had
sternly borne the consequences, even to starvation-point,
and, if need were, would do so again. He
was rude sometimes, but that was nothing new ; and

said cruel things which stung Barbara now and then
out of her attitude of resignation, for they were
glozed with an impertinent civility.

Your head and heart are equally bad !' she
remarked, one day at breakfast, to end an unpleasant
discussion. To which he replied, with an ugly
smile, while handing his chocolate-cup to be replenished
:

I never piqued myself upon my head. My heart
being in your possession, you must be answerable
for it.'

You can have no conscience to ask me to do such
things,' she retorted. To which he returned :

If yours and mine were hung on a hedge to dry,
who would think 'em worth stealing ?'

Such quips were not conducive to domestic
harmony, and Bab found it no easy matter to keep
up the part of Patient Griselda. And yet she succeeded
better than folks would have supposed, had
they known all. In old days she would have thrown
things at the head of such a husband, and proclaimed
his misdemeanours on the housetop, for
'twas exasperating to a loyal nature to see how
double faced he was, to mark how soon, and with
what contemptuous carelessness he showed his real
self to her. Her blood boiled to hear his scoffing
remarks about the patron to whom he owed all, and
then to observe his cringing ways if Sir Robert rode
up to the door.

She ought to have known by this time, you will
say, that 'tis one of the peculiarities of this our globe
for the burthen to be too heavy for the shoulders.
There were moments when, with all her studied
self-control, Bab was unable to keep silence, and she
wondered whether, as she bit her lips and clenched
her hands under the table, it would be possible to
go on enduring, or whether, after all, the river must
be her bed.

The Duchess of Queensberry, displeased with
Society in general, had gone back again to the
country, and shone but rarely in town. Countenanced
again by the reigning Minister, Madam
Crump found herself once more surrounded by
persons of quality whose range of vision had for a
period grown dim ; but these were only acquaintances.
Barbara's old friend Wilks died about this
time. Lord Byron, true to his character, eloped
one day to Ireland with Madam Cibber, thereby
causing much relief to Theophilus, considerable
clatter in modest circles, and worry at the theatre ;
for the future Diva Madam Pritchard was still
declaiming in Fielding's booth, and there was a
grievous dearth of heroines.

Urged by reviving curiosity, Lord Forfar was true
to his resolve, and called on Madam Crump. But
though she received him civilly, he obtained such
scant encouragement as further whetted his interest.
For obvious reasons the Honourable Pamela and her

sister kept apart. The Kensington menage was nota
gay one, and Crump, finding his nest extremely
uncomfortable, absented himself more and more.
To Sir Robert, who noticed this with regret, Bab
answered sadly :

Yes ; unmolested separation is the claim that
holds us together. Sure there's no more honourable
couple in town ; for we've two purses, two tables,
and two ways ; and when we do meet 'tis as surprising
a chance as two lawyers meeting in Paradise !'

'Little Whig! little Whig!' Sir Robert cried,
shaking a finger, ' this must be changed ! He must
be plaguy nice to neglect so sweet a spouse. But
I'm too old and seared a sinner to interfere 'twixt
a wife and husband. What's to be done, Bab ?
what's to be done ? Flowers of genius are not
made for household cares. You must go back and
delight us on the stage. Madam Cibber's flitting is
opportune.'

How rash are we so glibly and frequently to vow
that we never will do such a thing again ! Since our
attitude and that of those about is ever changing, he
is the wisest who never vows at all. With what
emphasis had Bab determined that she never would
act again — that the temple of Thalia and Melpomene
was a tinselled magazine piled high with the lower
passions. Then she did not know that a time would
come when it would be an absolute necessity to
occupy her mind. The art that demands your

heart's blood ! Sure she had no heart, for 'twas
lost and tossed away by him to whom she'd given
it. With a certain cynical satisfaction she told herself
that she was armed now against the evil
influences of the stage. She had suffered too much
to be vain or selfish any more, to nourish grudging
hate or envy or spite, or any other of the attributes
that distinguish many actors and actresses. 'Twas
with some surprise that she found her instinctive
reluctance to have vanished. During the long hours
of solitude w T hen, Honest Jack being happily away,
it was necessary to find some occupation, she idly
took up her Congreve, her Otway, and her Rowe,
and smiled to think how badly she had played their
heroines. Musing, she realized that Wilks was
right, and grieved that he should have gone ere
his pupil could admit it. The art that claims your
heart's blood ! Yes ; to think of the mouthing,
strutting, vainglorious, empty-pated minxes who,
trading on a scrap of beauty, pretend to portray
the passions, when they have themselves felt nothing
save an intoxicating conviction of their own importance
! Bab felt very humble when she remembered
her many talks with Wilks, of how positive she had
been ; of what nonsense she had been guilty in her
ignorance ; how she had deserved whipping instead
of plaudits. By the light of her own hard experience
she understood the sorrows of Monimia now, of
Alicia, of Jane Shore, and all the others she had
vol. in. 48

murdered ; and a strong desire took possession of
her soul to appear for a brief while again, to shame
those who had called her divine when she was only
a prating doll ; to show that she could be an artist
a real one ; that the sacred fire was there, though
it had long smouldered, but that, fanned by trouble,
it could burst into a flame, pure and white and
dazzling. Occupied by study, Barbara resumed in
outward appearance much of her old self ; could be
animated, even saucy, when sly Sir Robert combated
her views, swearing that black was white in
order to spur her energies.

You dear old tease !' she said, with a kiss on each
of his fat cheeks. ' You are the best and kindest of
men, though Bolingbroke yearns to hang you ; and
you may tell the patentees, if you like, that I will
appear next season and astonish them ;' which
message being duly conveyed, there was joy and
hope in Drury.

On this subject Honest Jack refrained from quips ;
first, because he knew better than to thwart his
patron ; secondly, because it broke on him ere long
that he had espoused a golden goose, who, with
training, might lay precious eggs. The look of
injury waned from out his eyes, and he even
attempted to be polite ; for, truth to tell, Fortune
had been crusty of late to Mr. Crump. His losings
at cards had been considerable ; he had vainly
squandered much on lotteries ; and was not unfrequently

distressed by the sense of an empty
pocket.

Fleeing from some unpleasant haunting thought,
he had become assiduous in his worship of King
Hoyle, with the usual result.

'Twas urged by some such itching that when
called into conclave in the rooms of Mr. Medlicote,
he had made terms instead of obeying quietly ; and
'tis painful to have to tell that in that hope he had
been baulked ; for, no success, no sinecure. He had,
as proposed, gone to the Bear, and artfully insinuated
himself into Lord Forfar's chamber, to find — nothing !
Nothing, that is, that could be coined into yellow
guineas. This untoward circumstance had much
perplexed him, for Mr. Crump, if deficient in book-lore,
was no ninny, and knowing what he knew of
my Lord Forfar, it was strange that no compromising
document should have rewarded a surreptitious
search. Could anyone have warned him ? Who ?

Crump, by worming here and there, had gained
some inkling of a plot afoot that had absurdly miscarried,
and was convinced that Gervas was at the
bottom of it. Was it not grievous, then, to be unable
to lay a hand upon that noble's privy papers ;
to be flouted by your own wife when you try to use
her as a decoy ? For this was the point which had
stung Bab from apathy. He told her, airily, that he
would take her to the Bear, just as Charlotte had
predicted ; and, being taxed with his intentions, put

48—2

artifice aside, and endeavoured to coerce his spouse.
She would be good enough, he informed her, to obey
his will, or 'twould be the worse for madam.

She was to encourage Lord Forfar — lure him
into confidences, and then faithfully report them to
her lord. To a pretty woman, is not all possible if
she has a mind to it ? And she dared peremptorily
to decline ! Then, when my lord absolutely arrived
of his own accord, his mouth wide open for the bait,
she presumed to disobey instructions, to dismiss him
coldly ; when, only a few weeks before, she had
promised to honour and obey. Oh, queen of minxes !
But Bab's will had, in this first serious tussle, proved
stronger than her husband's, and, grumble as he
would, she had distinctly refused to obey. Therefore
he punished her with such rudeness and neglect
as he dared. Bruises or marks of blows might come
under the cognizance of Sir Robert.

Since he had failed signally in his laudable endeavours
to make of his wife a decoy for the earning
of money from the Government, 'twas well she
should return to the boards, and by other means
help to keep the pot a-boiling. His wife in seclusion,
too, did not flatter him by winning admiration.
How often had he said, when the pit rose at her,
that the much-admired Diva should be his. A
glittering doll in a shop-window cause the noses
of the bystanders to flatten, the eyes of envy to
dilate ; the same doll locked in a box is a poor uninteresting

object. Hence, Mr. Crump was all in
favour of Bab's return to Drury, and urged the
matter with such warmth that, had not sorrow
changed her, she certainly would have promptly
declined.

As it is the task of Fortune to be constantly turning
a wheel, whereon are perched all mortals, it stands to
reason that while some go up, others must be going
down. The affairs of the Honourable Pamela were
not looking rosy. Gervas in a duke's coronet,
endowed by a grateful master with a princely fortune,
could, for reasons not unconnected with policy, be
endured. But Gervas, an impoverished Scotch
peer and a laughing-stock, was out of the question.
Gilded worth and sterling excellence were to Mrs.
Belfield as the new metal recently invented by
Mr. Pinchbeck. Gervas must be sent packing ; of
that there could no longer be the smallest shadow of
a doubt. There is nothing so absurd as an unsuccessful
patriot, or an unsuccessful anything else for
that matter.

My Lord Belvedere exercised his caustic humour
at his child's expense, and she writhed under his
sarcasms.

By-and-by, when I reach England,' writ the fond
parent, ' I shall build me an house such as shall suit
my dignity ; small, but elegant, in a polite quarter,
with no room for Madam Pretender's ladies of
honour or Jacobite spawn.'

Was Pamela one to weep over a betrothed's
delinquencies, to mourn over his shortcomings ?
No, indeed. She put on her new sacque of brocaded
lustring — a ruby ground, with raised floss stripes —
and smiled sweetly on Mr. Medlicote. If she were
to break with the Scotch lord immediately after the
explosion of the popgun, 'twould be too barefaced,
and the world would titter.

No. It behoved an artful damsel to take up the
other bowstring gently, and gradually put down the
first. All things should be done by a bedchamber-woman
decently and in order. As to enduring her
papa's taunts if he were to arrive and find her lover-less,
that was not possible. By good luck she had
kept on the other. At one-and-twenty 'tis as easy —
as far as heart-pain is concerned — to change lovers
as clothes, to such as understand the business.

All things considered, it might become necessary,
after all, to bring Medlicote to the point, even
without a coronet. He was wealthy and influential.

Should papa earn that earldom, 'twould be the
rich Lady Pamela Medlicote. Not so very bad as .a
pis alley, though, of course, not to be compared to
Her Grace the Duchess of Forfar.

Once married to Ranulph, if such were Fate's
decree, she would change her tactics. When guided
only by interest, 'tis so easy to decide what is best.
Already had she not amazed her Royal mistress by
a gush of Gaelic loyalty ? 'Twould be one of the

privileges of Mr. Medlicote's better-half to keep her
husband awake o' nights, read him fearsome curtain-lectures
till, maddened by want of sleep, he would
abandon all that independent rubbish about serving
his friend in the Lower House, and beg a peerage
on his knees in reward for services.

Yes. But first it would be necessary to shake off
Gervas, who was a burr. Quixotic buckram
fellow ! He had some frumpish notion in his head
that a promise given was for aye ; that having
promised to take a damsel, he was bound to cleave
although he hated her. Was ever such modish
folly ? In vain did she make herself as odious to
him as possible — a not uncongenial task. When
Ranulph was not by, she would, in a light manner,
air such sentiments as paled Gervas's cheek, and
darkened his brow.

The rupture, of course, must come from her ; but
the ground must be so skilfully prepared that he
would hail his cone as release. Useless energy,
had she been aware of it ; for did he not already
loathe her ? She spoke of Lord Belvedere's proximate
return as a trial, observing that parents were
ever nuisances.

Those only,' she observed, ' do I call civil, who
make a decent will and go off quickly, without long
sickness to put one to charges.'

She abused Barbara as an abandoned woman,
which, knowing what he knew, so raised the Scotchman's

ire that she felt a qualm, and muttered inwardly,
' What's this ? If he were to take to her,
I'd die of it. Yet, no; he is too prim — and she returning
to the stage, and blown upon. No fear !'
But all the same the rupture must be brought about at
once — by her ; for, ignorant of what the future might
have in store, Barbara must never have a chance of
saying that she had filched her sister's lover.

Accordingly, the acute bedchamber-woman chose a
moment when Ranulph had gone on an errand for
the Queen, and her Majesty was out for an airing, to
summon Gervas to the palace, who found her deep
in the doldrums. What was the matter ? Should
he fetch a leech ?

No,' she replied sepulchrally ; ' since he cannot
minister to a mind that is diseased.' The only
relief possible was to clear a surcharged heart from
its perilous stuff, and that she would do forthwith.


There were no end to the vagaries, to the skilful
fencing arts, of Mrs. Belfield, when 'twas worth her
while to exhibit. With mixed emotions Gervas
looked on the lady whom he had once deemed so
good at bottom. But all other feelings were speedily
merged in astonishment when, raising her voice to a
shrill key, she accused him of deliberately seducing a
weak, frail, loving woman into sin — of having forced
her to play the spy upon the Court of which she
formed a part, of having obliged her to assist in a

nefarious scheme for the kidnapping of the worthiest
of Ministers.

While Gervas stood speechless, Pamela went off
into hysterics ; but remembering that vapours are
not becoming to a thin throat and bosom, she speedily
recovered, and launched forth into a diatribe anent
traitors, seducers, unprincipled lewd men who work
on the soft female breast for the worst purposes.
Being in good wind, 'twas some time ere she was
out of breath ; and then my Lord Forfar, outraged
and distressed, took his haughty leave.

Artful Pamela certainly had the best of the interview.
When the Queen came in, relieved by the
arrival of news that the King was returning home,
she found Mrs. Belfield with eyes turned up and
disordered garb, apparently half-dead from mental
anguish ; and was glad, if puzzled, to hear that my
Lord Forfar had dared invade the palace to claim
his bride, and had been repulsed, routed, and discomfited
by one who had sinned and repented.

As for Gervas, his satisfaction and relief were not
unalloyed. It is never quite pleasant to be jilted.
And there was a grain of truth in the lady's raving.
How could he have been so infatuated as to believe
that future good would condone present evil ? If
Sir Robert had been taken to Barbadoes, what would
his future life have been ? He would have languished
for a space and died, in a climate which meant death
to one of Sir Robert's habit. And what was his

crime ? Unswerving, if unscrupulous, loyalty to his
chosen sovereign. Gervas, who so plumed himself
on uprightness, had shown himself unscrupulous on
behalf of his chosen Cause. For its behoof he had
been quite prepared to sacrifice Pamela as well as
himself, if need were. What cause could prosper
when such weapons were employed ? Wherein was
James superior to George ? Was the good of a
whole people to be immolated to satisfy one grovelling
personage of royal blood ? As Bolingbroke had
foreseen, when his faith receives a vital blow, great
is the fall of the enthusiast, and dangerous to others
is the catastrophe. For a man who cared not for
worldly aggrandisement, and desired only to do well
according to his lights, the thin end of the wedge of
doubt was as cruel as a bursting bombshell. After
the recent fiasco the Dawleyites in secret conclave
had decreed the ejection of Jonah. He was to sit
no more upon the haycock ; no more to browbeat
them into acts of folly. They would toy with him —
amuse him with trifles — but the real plot should be
worked by them alone. Thus all the schemers were
at cross-purposes ; while seeming to conspire against
each other, their efforts tended to results that were
equally desired. Pamela was dying to be rid of
Gervas, Gervas of Pamela. The Dawleyites burned
to be rid of Gervas, Gervas of them. As he had
thought himself bound to Pamela, so did Lord
Forfar consider himself bound to the conspirators.

That he would ever betray them none suspected;
and they were rather pleased than not when his
visits to Dawley became sparse and far between.
He did not wish to hear more about the plot, unless
they desired to impart information. Time lay on
his hands. Like Barbara, he strove to divert his
thoughts from the channel of private worries, and
resumed his works of mercy among the prisoners.

'Tis easy to say we will divert our thoughts, bat
difficult sometimes to do so, specially if they chance
to be disagreeable. While Gervas, in his plain bluecoat,
perambulated the noisome courts of Clink and
Marshalsea, he could not help reflecting about
Madam Crump. Strange enigma that she was,
what would she think of the last turn of luck ? Sir
Charles must certainly be wrong as to her special
interest, for her treatment had been of the coldest.
Sir Charles was mad, and mad people are subject
to hallucination. She must feel a little interest,
though, in the misunderstanding 'twixt him and Mrs.
Belfield, for was not that young woman — free now
again — her sister ? And what a sister ! General.
How blind he had been, to be sure, in so mistaking
both the women. 'Twas Bab, not Pamela, who
needed kindly care and sympathy to keep her
straight. To think that two such girls — their characters
opposed in all ways — should be children of
one sire ! 'Twould be interesting to study Madam
Crump by the light of new experience. A complicated

world. He would call again on Madam
Crump ; yes, certainly he would. But she was
shortly returning to stage-triumphs, and, 'twas probable,
would be too much engrossed to think of
him, or even remember his existence.

Was it so indeed ? When errant Charlotte,
opening another budget of town news, explained
that the match was off 'twixt Mrs. Belfield and the
Jacobite, Bab looked as wan as in the Southwark
days. Laying her head slowly down upon a table,
she clasped her hands around her throat and sobbed
as if her heart were breaking.

Ah me !' mused Charlotte, looking gravely on.
1 Though I've the evil-eye, 'tis not my fault this
time. On bended knees I begged you would not
take him — and you called me mad Cassandra !'

JARS.'

Ones JACK CRUMP was one of those
persons of whom we spake but now, to
whom a quarry seemed desirable so long
as it skipped in front of him over dale
and fell, but which ceased to be of value so soon as
it was run down. And you must not be annoyed
with Honest Jack on account of this trait in his
otherwise delightful character ; or if you are, must be
content to bracket with him the whole army of
British squires who are fox-hunters. Who cares for
poor Reynard when the hounds have got him, except,
maybe, to whip off his hapless brush for presentation
to some fair ? Honest Jack had been led a dance,
had hunted his prey and run it down, and, like many
another, yawned full in the face of the treasure for
which he had yearned.

Except on those occasions when his eyes retired
into his head to look after his muddled brains,

he never openly insulted his wife. He was too
prudent a gentleman to be guilty of such folly, with
Walpole within reach, however much she wearied
him ; for he knew that patience is a pitcher which,
going often to the well, may crack and let out
the Lord knows what, by way of leakage ; but,
nevertheless, he chafed under the long delay ere
she could reappear at Drury and help to fill his
pockets.

When persons of condition, or those who make
believe to be such, marry, they are not to be tied by
the ridiculous customs of common people, or to
travel in the same coach. In company they must
show breeding, i.e., a carelessness that apes politeness
and regard ; at other times go each a distinct
round of visiting, routing, carding, and so forth ;
and when they occasionally meet in private, raise
their joys to the highest by eternal disputes about
money or the lack of it.

Thanks to his growing mania (indulged in to
escape from a hidden skeleton that would rattle) for
the servants' game called whist, Mr. Crump found
the subject of ready cash a vastly unpleasing one,
and was apt to be offensive when his better-half importuned
anent the butcher. How tiresome to be
plagued about household books when you've been
losing heavily at hazard ! And Bab was so deficient
in tact when Mr. Crump appeared of a morning
with throbbing temples — she who, after what had

happened to her, ought to know better. Hang the
butcher and the baker !

1 If you're so out at elbows,' grumbled the gentleman,
whose tongue felt like a parrot's, ' why can't
you get some dross on your own account ? The days
have long gone by when sparks complimented madam
with bank-bills under her cheney !'

Bab flushed with annoyance. To think that her
own husband should wish her to accept presents
from sparks !

That thousand pounds a thousand years ago — of
course you never learned from whence it came !'
sneered Honest Jack ; * and spent it on pagoda —
spendthrift !'

It came from Sir Robert Walpole,' returned Bab
curtly ; ' and I gave it to Lord Forfar.'

To my Lord Forfar !' echoed Crump, with a
gleam of suspicion. ' A thousand recklessly squandered
on a Scotch pauper ! 'Twould be plaguy
useful now.'

1 You'll never learn manners,' retorted Bab, to
whom the subject was distasteful. ' You loll in the
presence of your wife, unaltered, like a drunken
justice !'

In sooth, the ways of the secretary en menage
betrayed his plebeian origin. Could this man, who
was now so vulgarly indifferent, ever have cared for
her ? Were all men as fickle ? Probably, since the
modish husbands and wives among whom our couple

moved behaved much in the same way. ' By keeping
men off,' says Mrs. Peaches to her daughter in
the play, ' we do indeed keep 'em on.'

After all, Barbara had, as she keenly felt, no right
to repine after deliberately promising to love,
honour, and obey one man, when she really loved
another. Her own complete shipwreck had so
shattered all faith in herself that 'twas a relief to let
the judgment of others decide for her ; and yet,
their guiding had turned out as unlucky as her
own.

Well, she was no longer inclined to run amuck —
but rather to try, late in the day, to make the best of
things. In spite of all he might do, she was firmly
resolved to be as true a wife as possible to this man
whom she discovered that she could never esteem.
She would study his comfort, obey in such things as
were proper.

Happily all things mundane have an end. The
idea of meetings in the next world is surely fable ;
for 'twould be soundly unpleasant for many wives
to meet their husbands on t'other side the grave.

I shall behave in my own house as I think fit,'
grunted sullen Jack. ' Your wife ! your wife ! You're
always flinging my wedding in my teeth — idiot that
I was to be cajoled ! I congratulate you, madam,
on a double conquest ; for as your beauty got the
better of my reason, your temper hath got the better
of my love !'

Sir Robert comes here this morning,' observed
Barbara presently.

1 With more bank-bills ? Nay, you need not look
so waspish. He's inclined to be liberal, if you only
ask.'

1 That will I never,' responded madam. ' I sent
for him to come hither about the " Golden Rump."
'Tis an anonymous satire which they want me to
act in. A pretty thing ! It teems with abuse of
King and Government. I have kept the manuscript,
and shall hand it to him.'

Was not this conduct calculated to vex a spouse ?
Hand him the manuscript of a seditious play, and
claim no recompense !

Give it to me,' said Jack. ' You'll never learn
the value of money. When you reopen at the Lane,
I shall keep the purse.'

1 That you will not ; nor will I beg of our benefactor,'
returned curt Barbara.

1 Shall I tell you the plain truth ?' cried Crump, in
ire.

'Twill be so great a pain as to put you in danger
of your life !' scoffed the haughty lady.

Such being the style of endearment which became
usual between this happy pair, 'tis no wonder that
they avoided tetes-d-tete, and that Barbara employed
her hours in the assiduous study of her art. She
had selected Ophelia for her rcntrcc, and dreamily
sat in her powdering cabinet, with the play upon her

vol. in. 49

knee, considering the luckless daughter of Polonius.
'Twixt the real woman and the poet's creation there
were points of resemblance ; and yet Bab found it
difficult to portray Ophelia to her liking.

1 Hearts are tough organs,' she mused. ' If every
girl who was illumed by man were to go mad and
drown herself, the world would long since have been
depopulated.' Her own cause for wishing to drown
herself had been quite different. ' Broken fiddle-sticks
!' ejaculated the Diva, and flung the play into
a corner. Sure few women have passed through
more than she had done ; and yet here she was,
dreadfully well, with a stone in her bosom, hair carefully
powdered, and patches skilfully applied. Presently
her chair would be announced, and she would
rustle into a dozen drawing-rooms, smirking at inane
remarks, asking questions without waiting for replies.
And so on for years and years, till came
release. What a life ! The White Pilgrim had been
very near, but had glided off again — when to return ?
It would not do to think of herself, or of her husband,
or of her household. She had railed at the stage and
its stilted sham emotions ! How wrong ! Should we
not bless anything that permits us to escape out of
ourselves ? She picked up the play again, striving
to concentrate attention. How much to be envied
was Polonius's child ! No sooner did she realize the
falseness of this wicked world than reason fled,
giving place not to hideous soul-racking fantasies of

blood and murder, but to quaint conceits of owls
and beggars' daughters. She retained her love of
nature and of flowers, and sank out of life, on a
warm comfortable afternoon, no doubt, in a rippling
stream, garlanded with blossoms ! Lucky Ophelia!
Then, in spite of her will, the fancy of Barbara
wandered to that awful night when she swayed on
the slippery step and gazed at the cold silvery river
fretting seaward under London Bridge. She clasped
her rigid fingers tight over her eyes to shut out the
vision.

What of the mad scene ? Bab had groaned,
moaned, writhed, starved, been torn with hot pincers,
but had never been within measurable distance of
lunacy. ' To-morrow is St. Valentine's day !' How
should she chaunt it ? The ringing cry with which
Ophelia rushes out must be sharp and true — twang
like an arrow to the bull's-eye. She rose, and letting
down the rolling mass of her whitened hair, practised
the final rush. No ; this was not nature, but the
baldest artifice ; no better than the mouthing of less
experienced days. She must go and study a lunatic
some infatuated wench who had been foolish enough
to break her heart over a man and lose her reason.
There must be many such in Bedlam. Yes ; one of
these days she would go to Bedlam — were not the
corridors of that grim prison-house a fashionable
promenade ? — and see if there was some one there
who could give a lesson in Ophelia.

49—2

Although she succeeded in summoning an interest
in the proposed return to Drury, it was clear to the
few who cared to watch that Barbara was far from
happy ; and Sir Robert felt a twinge in that he had
advised the match.

I admit that matrimony hath not improved Jack,'
he said, in his good-humoured way, folding his hands
over his waistcoat. ' He seems as if he'd something
on his mind that he strove to banish. But we did
it for the best. He's getting on in the world, or
will, if he doth not drink too heavily. Every modish
gentleman cards and wenches ; you must expect that,
my dear. Make the best of life. Depend on't, our
lives are what we make 'em. Make your house
pleasant, and see heaps of company. One so witty,
so young, so beautiful, should have a salon. In the
old days of the Lock of Hair, you were a bachelor,
and a jolly one. Try it again, my pet, on a larger
scale, as becomes a married woman.'

Sir Robert's advice was doubtless good. 'Tis
well to make the best of things. But for his propensity
for gambling, the circumstances of Honest
Jack would by this time have been affluent. He had
succeeded in grubbing up a variety of pickings, army
agencies, lucrative sinecures, which, like the primrose,
bloomed in the shade. His house in Kensington
was a nice one ; he had recently purchased an estate
in Essex, which had swallowed his little capital ; but
there's no drain for ready money like a card-table. A

thousand pounds, as he sagely said, would be plaguy
useful. Cash was scarce, but credit was good.
He was right when he remarked that Bab in money
matters was incorrigible. Despite harrowing experiences,
she knew the value of a guinea no better
now than in the days of the Lock of Hair, when
what she received with one hand was freely scattered
with the other. If the husband could be so lavish
with his coin, why not the wife ? As it was, her
house was miserably dull, notwithstanding its handsome
appointments. In the future she would see
company at home, and thus avoid tetes-a-tete. 'Tis a
terrible thing to become every day aware of some
new trait of meanness, which strikes an honest
nature at first with awe — then stirs it to indignation.
'Bankrupt in honour as in every virtue!' she exclaimed
to herself with repugnance. Infatuated
though he was as a gambler, he was sordid and
avaricious. After a night of misfortune, he would
reel home exceeding drunk, and curse his wife, with
dark hints she could not understand, as the cause of
some threatening disaster.

Why did you ever cross my path ?' he moaned.
I shall be undone through you — I know it — some
day!'

Again, the suggestion that he owed some injury
(close impending, probably) to her. What could he
mean ? Abortive attempts to forget produced ill-luck
at play, which in its turn led to extreme intemperance

; then to scenes of violent recrimination and
illness. Steadfast in her resolve to be as wifely as
she could, she sat in the darkened room listening in
moody silence to his ravings. When well enough to
totter forth, 'twas to the gaming-table ; and so on in
dreary round, till our poor Barbara wondered what
would be the end on't. If he must gamble, clearly
'twould be best at home. Since the stormy nights
in Golden Square she had taken a horror of cards.
But 'twas as impossible to receive company without
opening a card-room, as to give a ball without wax-candles.
She could superintend. Alack ! who knew
better how to do so than herself? And when Honest
Jack grew uproariously drunk, he could be snugly
borne to bed.

Madam Crump's reunions were very comme-infant
— no whiff in Kensington of Golden Square.
Her own manners were so much improved by a
high-bred self-control and stillness of demeanour in
society, that fine ladies of the better stamp forgot
the episode of blackness and desires, and deigned
to patronize her parties. The fact of the menage
being established in Kensington had its advantages.
So insecure and rough a road as that to town could
not be encountered at night by ladies without a considerable
escort. Therefore not a few accepted their
hostess's hospitality until the morning, thereby gaining
a night in country air, reviving to faded roses.

But these new arrangements involved considerable

expense, and Jack, out at elbows himself, save now
and then when he made a lucky coup, was hard to
bleed ; which angered his extravagant wife so much
that she grew sarcastic, declaring, when he evaded
w r weekly payments, that when his hour arrived to cross
the Styx he would bilk old Charon of his penny.

Hence, sometimes the tradesmen were paid, and
sometimes not ; and Barbara foresaw more visits to
the spunging-house in the not far-distant future.
Twas Jack, however, who must go next time, and
not his better-half; there was this one good point,
at least, in being a wife.

All this pointed as clearly as a shadow on a dial
to the fact that she must return to Drury. Dissipation,
as she had found to her cost, is a poor
healer. Hard work would prove a better anodyne.
But hand over her salary to Jack ! No, indeed.
There would be storms, threats, blows. She could
always appeal to Sir Robert in an emergency, or, at
least, threaten in her turn. Thus would she keep
the wolf from the door, and fill the void within her
breast.

Gervas used to visit the theatre in old times.
Perchance he would again — next season. Then
would she prove that the sacred flame was there,
and dazzle him with its brilliancy. This was worth
striving for ; a worthy goal. The veil of honest
engrossing labour should mask the sullied Past.
For his sake, although he knew it not, she would be

great ; and he should confess as much. Art should
light her path — its music stir a new-born soul to life.
She would learn to live, and thus achieve content.

True to her resolve, she produced for the edification
of Sir Robert the ' Golden Rump,' and unwittingly
started a conflagration. Having learned
his lesson that 'tis imprudent to despise one's
enemies, and having found that the use of a besom
is often salutary, he was in no mood to accept unnecessary
insults. The carping of the Dawley
junta must needs be put up with, since no means
showed itself at present of falling upon Bolingbroke.
But the scribblers — the Grub Street geniuses ! No,
indeed. Stocks, pillory, and horse-pond should
reward the buzzing of such impudent flies. Had
not Queensberry and Gay been made to wince ?
That arrogant booth-proprietor, Mr. Fielding, had a
year ago nibbed a venomous pen, and produced a
thing (it couldn't be called a play) in which he, Sir
Robert, was held up to obloquy. Now he had
taken the little Haymarket, and, by help of the
Grand Mogul's Company of Comedians,' intended
to enact a series of pasquinades of an offensive
character. But this ' Golden Rump ' was worst of
all, opening a vista of such serious libel as called
for legislation.

Secretary Crump, among other things, was Master
of the Revels, but his authority was absurdly circumscribed.
On occasion, the Chamberlain was

supposed to have power to interfere if needful ; but
this power was contested, and a dead-letter. A
regular licenser must be established, without whose
flat it would not be possible to play a piece at all.
'Twas just like the dear little Whig to have come
forward, and have shown the manuscript in time.
The ' Golden Rump ' should be strangled before
birth, and such excesses be made impossible in
future.

Uprose Sir Robert in his place, and great was the
outcry of the Dawleyites. If 'twas seditious to act,
'twould be equally so to print ; and then, pamphlets
being gagged, the liberty of the Press would be
destroyed. Fancy a power of prohibition being
lodged in one man ! And he, the tyrant, a serf of
the Court ! Wooden shoes were nothing to this
new danger.

You've no right to put excise on wit,' snarled
Cincinnatus from his haycock. 'To the few who
have it, 'tis often their only property.'

Chesterfield and Pulteney declaimed and harangued
till the walls of St. Stephen's rang with the delinquencies
of Bluestring. But in vain. The ever-victorious
Sir Robert had his way. The Bill was
passed, which ever since hath kept theatric managers
in order, and purged the stage of its grossness — a
Bill which never was designed as a restraint on
liberty, but as a proper prevention of licentiousness
and libel.

The success which attended the measure comforted
Bab somewhat as, in her umbrageous
seclusion, she assiduously studied. For Gervas's
sake ! To her romantic turn of mind the spur was
a delightful one. On each succeeding day she
dissected Ophelia carefully.

Idle now, and purposely turning his attention
away from politics, it was natural that Lord Forfar
should send a message to Kensington by faithful
Charlotte. In other days, he said, he had been
permitted to admire Madam Pilot. Might the
favour be accorded him of attending her parties
now and then ? But a short while ago, mistrusting
herself, Bab would have returned a flat refusal.
Now she felt strong. What had she to do with
love, now or ever ? Yet why this message ? Atone
time, she had almost thought that he liked her,
and lo ! next minute he was the betrothed of hateful
Pamela! Oh, self - deceiver ! No fear of love-passages
from him, wrapt as he was in the absurd
Pretender.

If Cupid dared to show a wing-tip, he could soon be
sent to the right-about. Why should my lord wish
to come to Kensington ? It was owing to Charlotte's
blabbing, doubtless. Had she made other foolish
speeches ? No. Never another hint had passed
her lips after that first mistake. Not but what he
often tried to pump Sir Charles, his curiosity being
tickled. Did the twain often meet, then ? Not very

often now ; but since my lord had resumed his
efforts for the prisoners, he needed help sometimes ;
and who so glad as Charlotte to be useful to one
who was so good to the distressed ?

So he went among the prisoners again ? With
tender sadness Bab remembered the day when the
rough turnkey said he was an angel. And so modest
and secret in his acts of mercy ! He had not passed
under the yoke of suffering ; yet could he feel for
others' sorrow.

She — what did she do for others, result of wholesome
discipline ? Nothing. She could not even
control an unruly tongue, and be submissive to her
husband! Where were her Patience and Humility? As
she examined herself with growing shame, Charlotte,
once started, babbled of Lord Forfar. If dearest
Barbara only knew how single-minded ! He followed
the Pretender's banner merely because he was unfortunate
and weak. The gloomy reserve, which to
many was an insuperable bar to intercourse, was a
protecting crust. Else would the tender nature it
concealed have been devoured long since by the
designing.

1 He is always thinking of others, never of himself,'
proceeded Charlotte. ' He is so good to me —
so good — so good !' and Charlotte looked up with
such intense veneration that Bab clapped her fingers
on her mouth.

'Peace, boy!' she said, with a sad smile, 'or

you'll have me deep in love with him ! Teasing
wench, be still ! or tell me something of his
faults.'

Charlotte sighed and murmured, ' If it might have
been !'

Bab's heart did not flutter ; the hand with which
she caressed Sir Charles was steady. She could
trust herself. Charlotte might tell my lord that he
was welcome ; that the actress in intervals of study
would be honoured by his visits. Yes. Feeling
secure, 'twould be well to commune with Gervas.
'Twould be like a draught of fair spring water. She
would sit at his feet and learn ; striving to imbibe
some of his goodness. It would be delicious, too,
since his curiosity was awake, to show how wrong
he had been in his unjust estimate of herself.
Perhaps when he knew her better she would chide
him, and bid him be more careful of delivering rash
verdicts upon women. Perchance he would ask for
the key of her many changes ; why she deliberately
selected the wrong path, when inwardly she loved
the right ? What answer could be given to that ?
She would fence and slily lead him on into bypaths
and quagmires, concealing the precious secret,
leaving the inquirer baffled. That secret of course
might never be divulged. But he should learn the
difference between her somewhat chastened self and
Pamela, and humbly crave for pardon. Such communing
could bring her naught but good. Of

course, whatever he might say should be safe from
the prying of Crump.

Certainly Lord Forfar would be welcome. If
Honest Jack objected, so much the better. The ill-mannered
oaf had dared tell her t'other day with
complacency that women like the men who bully
'em. He should never bully her into doing things
she disapproved. If Gervas's speeches were not repeated
to him, he would probably disapprove Lord
Forfar's visits. 'Twould be a fine chance of showing
that if he elected to go his ways, so also would she
go hers. Whereby you will understand that the
Humility and Patience that she pleased herself with
contemplating were but sorry scarecrows, and that
Barbara still stood in need of teaching.

Somehow, the more Madam Crump studied Ophelia
the less she could get inside that personage. ' Why
do people weep so over Mrs. Polonius ?' she kept inquiring
of herself. ' A fragile colourless girl devoid
of spirit, unfit for a workaday world. If a chisel
turns its edge before the first obstruction, we fling it
away as worthless and seek another. If a human
intellect succumbs under the first shock, we can
give it pity, and that is all. Why such a pother
over Ophelia's ill-borne woes ?' Since she could only
feel contemptuous about the character, 'twas clear
that Madam Crump was not likely to shine as Mrs.
Polonius. Perhaps you will say that considering
her own trials she had not yet profited much. And

yet, though very far from perfect, she had indeed
profited hugely. I vow I would not desire perfection
for her. Meekness in the abstract is vastly well, but
your real human angel a puling person.

Civilization may preach as it will, but we are
evidently meant to fight here below. Explosions of
gunpowder clear the atmosphere. Efforts at self-preservation,
struggles to save our nasal organs from
being crushed against the wall, send the blood tingling
healthily along the veins. Even when sorely worsted
you can only die. The duello, though some people are
beginning to deprecate the appeal to arms as savage,
hath its good side ; for it keeps honour bright, the
feeling of what we owe to our manhood sensitive.
War may be a terrible thing, but 'tis as good for
nations as occasional phlebotomy for bodily health ;
the one tends to banish humours, the other to increase
our self-reliance, encourage independence.

Barbara had fought tooth and nail, but with a
badly tempered sword, which bent in contact with a
bone, and therefore she had been stricken down. Had
the weapon been good she might have triumphed.
She saw that now ; and whilst slowly and gradually
recovering one by one from wounds and bruises, was
none the less prepared to fight — but with a better
weapon. Here was a case in point.

Patience is an excellent buckler, humility a useful
pad ; for the parrying of assaults, not for returning
blows. There are moments, she was still convinced,

when you must strike back, or the world would be
ruled by bullies. Fancy being content to receive
thump, thump, thump, all through a life of threescore
years and ten, without returning one ! How
monotonous, how unnecessarily painful ! In the
matter of Mrs. Polonius even, Bab had no idea of
being conquered. While despising the milk-and-water
thing, she intended to shine as Ophelia. She
had humbly been overwhelmed with meekness once
for a short time, and could therefore, in some fashion,
portray it. She had never been mad, therefore the
mad scene troubled her. 'Twas a stile to be got
over, a wall to be leaped, a difficult task worth accomplishing.
Quite briskly she tied on a becoming
hat, after an early breakfast, while Jack yet snored
over a debauch ; took coach to Chelsea, a wherry to
Tower Stairs, and threaded her way among jostling
traders in the direction of Moorfields.

After the quiet of Kensington, the noise and
scurry of the City almost took away her breath.
Each member of the seething anthill was bent on
out-witting the other. Gazette-mongers shouted intelligence
from France. What news of such a ship?
yelled an insurer. What price bear currants at
Zante ? There was nought that shrieking brokers
could not sell, from logwood to spiders' brains, hens'
teeth to the blue of plums. Jacobite rue, Whig
herb of grace — both were in the market. There
were bustling notaries, tied each to an inkhorn ;

sneaking usurers. What a perspiring crew of money-longer
! What a trucking and bartering, buying
and selling, borrowing and lending, paying and
receiving ! There were crafty fellows, too, in the
early morning bearing gifts to basket-justices —
things of worth for value to be received. A dozen
of right claret for a reprieve from the whipping-post ;
a hogshead of canary for his worship for leave to open
a coffeehouse ; a box of tea for his lady for assistance
out of a scrape. Yonder a posse bustling into
Change ; a poet in search of a City magnate to
whom to sell a dedication.

Some cannibal man-catchers were sweeping along
Cheapside, and before them fled a scuttling crowd
of the poor, or weak, or unprotected.

The pressing were vastly busy for the behoof of
the plantations. At one corner Bab was well-nigh
overset by a running youth with three stout fellows
after him, crying, ' Stop thief!'

I am no thief,' panted the boy to those who
seized him, ' but an honest lad, who've been chained
in a cellar to be shipped to the Indies.' Whereupon
the fury of the populace was turned on the pursuers,
who were ducked in the nighest water.

Further on there was a young man flying in his
shirt with a red-hot poker in his fist, and two crimps
following. He had been put to bed, as it transpired,
and his clothes removed, for security; but forcing
the door, he had rushed into the taproom of the den,

and grasping a poker which chanced to be in the
fire, had defended himself bravely. These crimps
also fared badly, for a butcher standing by declared
that he'd been in a similar situation but a few months
previously.

Oh, Sir Robert ! Sir Robert !' murmured Bab,
quickening her pace. Right glad was she when she
reached London Wall and beheld the Gate of
Bedlam.

A stately fabric was the ancient hospital for such
unhappy wights as had lost their reason — a lofty
building, similar in design to the Palace of the
Tuileries. 'Twas built after the Great Fire ; was
five hundred feet long by forty ; could boast a
garden with neat walks of freestone ; a grass plot in
the middle for the delectation of such lunatics as
were a little well of their distemper. The splendid
exterior was a mockery of the sadness within,
adorned as it was with high-pitched roofs and
ornate balconies ; to say nothing of the fine gateway,
capped by Cibber's statues. The work of Colley's
father, these, representing the two phases of madness,
melancholy and raving, which folks might
view inside.

The entrance-fee was but a penny, and into these
grievous corridors flocked all the morbid ones for
whom Newgate was not sufficiently exciting.

At the time when Barbara stood there ringing the
bell, two wings had just been completed under

vol. in. 50

provisions of a Mr. Markham's testament, containing
each a pair of handsome galleries, as well as a row
of cells. The stricken creatures did much as they
listed in these low and dreary passages. Such as
were deemed dangerous were chained naked to the
wall, bedded on straw like hounds — whipped like
dogs if noisy. When prisons were as we know
them, 'twould be hard to expect much of asylums.

Cold in winter was severe, for none of the
openings were glazed ; but then the lash is warming
to the blood ; so is straw when we burrow in it.
Bedlam in this year of grace, 1736, differed but little
from the earlier one of which Shakespeare speaks in
1 Lear.' Bonds, irons, chains, manacles, stocks,
darkness, flagellation, were still the remedies adopted
for the recovery of errant reason. The Pilgrim had
mercy on most ; but some, strange to say, recovered.
Such as were voted harmless had leave to wander in
the street and obtain a subsistence by begging, each
one to be easily recognised by a ring soldered on his
arm.

By the admission of visitors, who usually called
here after viewing the lions in the Tower, the
hospital derived an income of £400 a year, and the
practice remained in force until 1770. And a very
lively exhibition too, one that found much favour
with Crimp, Cramp, and Crumpling ; for some
patients being objects of resentment to others were
grievously entreated, running out of reach as far as

their chains would let them — a diverting spectacle,
which was rendered the more merry by the long unfastened
blanket-gown which was their only covering,
and swung gaily in the breeze. The Committee
never came near the place for months. One of the
house-surgeons in this year was mad himself; another
never sober. So long as the keepers were civil to
the visitors no one heeded their doings.

Bab passed along the male corridor — where some
were preaching, some full cry a-hunting, some
shrieking, some weeping — to the iron wicket that
divided the two purgatories of the sexes.

Why enlarge on what she beheld on the male side?
Hath not Mr. Hogarth limned the scene for you as a
climax to his ' Rake's Progress,' with more eloquent
strokes than any of this poor pen ? Bab was not
shocked, and did not shudder, for, like her Majesty,
1 die en avait vu biens chartres /' Pol ! a mere handful
of raving screaming wretches. She was therefor
study, not for idle gaping, like yonder overdressed
hussies who were giggling through the sticks
of their fans.

A keeper was sprawling at the gate, humming a
tune, with an occasional strong epithet and call for
silence. What did the pretty lady want ? To look
at the female ward ? Unusual, that ! Females
generally came to look at the men. Was there any
woman here who had gone mad for love ? Of course
there were — dozens. All madwomen went cracked

50—2

either on the subject of love or of religion. Anyone
who had a passion for flowers ? Yes ; there chanced
to be just such an one, recently drafted from St.
Luke's, where typhus was broken out. They said
she was getting well. Not she. Never was woman
madder. A tiresome dirty wretch, who always kept
scrawling upon everything. Ingenious she was in
collecting chalk and dirt. Unless admitted to the
garden she screamed enough to turn you dizzy ; but
once there, was satisfied, for she wrapt herself about
in leaves and grasses ; but in her cell again was sure
to be up to mischief. Either with chalk or a sharp
stone, she scrawled a name — everywhere, on floor
and wall, and could not be corrected. She'd have to
return to St. Luke's, for he, the keeper, was sick of the
slut, and if she caught the fever so much the better
for all.

Thus chattering, the polite janitor, on receipt of a
groat, conducted the pretty lady along the passage,
down the spiral stair, opened another wicket, and
pointing to a yard, departed ; explaining that the
creature wasn't dangerous, if a dirty plague and
nuisance. Perhaps when the lady had seen enough
she would shut the door after her, and bolt it on the
outside. Rain ? No matter, so far as concerned
the lunatic. A good sousing was cooling to hot wits.
There were lots of people within call in case of
accidents. He, the janitor, was wanted above ; for
some of 'em, being restless, needed a cowing eye.

Left alone, Bab examined the yard minutely in
search of the patient. Callous though you may be
rendered by frequent contemplation of misery, there
is something about a madhouse which will affect the
most inured. Tis awful to realize what human
nature is, deprived of the restraints of fear and
shame ; how thin is the barrier that separates the
most godlike man from the ape.

The visitor, moved more than she was aware of
by the sights in the gallery above, glanced quickly
round the yard — a square enclosure, surrounded on
all sides by buildings. From the windows, or rather
apertures, above, groups of distorted faces gibbered
like goblins ; bare, skinny arms shook menacing
fists and fingers ; growling throats gurgled appalling
epithets, obscene and blasphemous. Where was
the patient ? The lower portion of the walls were
covered with trailing ivy — all save in one corner,
where the long tendrils had been detached, and
were lying in a heap. Under the glossy leaves —
something. A bare leg ! Ophelia was hiding herself
as Eve did in the garden.

Advancing gently, Bab moved the branches — an
emaciated woman, of any age from twenty to fifty ;
her flannel-gown torn in soiled shreds ; her face concealed
by a thick veil of hair, which hung down
below her breast. It is not always well to study
direct from Nature ; for that lady in a scurvy
mood much needs the halo of softening poesy.

Sweet bells once, perhaps ; how terribly jangled
now !

Kneeling down, Barbara parted the tangled
curtains. From the thin, dry lips hissed foul words.
Contracted pupils ; a dry grey skin ; an evil savour ;
fingers whose nails were worn to the quick through
much grubbing in the earth. The woman shrank
yet closer to the wall, rattling the chain that was
padlocked to her waist, and clutched the dishevelled
curtain — not quite close though, for through the
strands a pair of cunning eyes, bright as a raven's,
followed the movements of the stranger. A piteous
sight ; for this woman must have once been comely.
Her form was finely shaped, though wasted ; her
features, under the smearing dirt, were regular, if
thin and ashen.

Bab sat on the ground, and looked attentively at
the patient. What if she were to give a new reading
of Laertes' sister — banish the traditional poppies
and white satin, and show a distraught repulsive
creature such as this ! 'Twould be novel, artistic*
terrifying — a splendid contrast to the earlier picture
of a gentle high-bred maiden. How true would
ring the grief of Laertes at the change — the horror
of Claudius and the Queen !

Is it ever justifiable in art, or is it not, to exhibit
the ugly and repulsive ? Sometimes, in guise of
foil, but briefly and rapidly; for the more perfect the
portrayal, the more repulsive. Are the best results

in art always the beautiful ? Yes, if designed to be
dwelt upon. Doubtless, a thing of horror is not to
be fixed and lingered over. Hence, many pictures
(specially of the Spanish School) representing
martyrdoms and crucifixions, although well painted,
are bad in art. But with the stage it should be
different ; for the impressions which theatrical
artists can give cannot but be fleeting. Horror hasa
fascination of its own by no means to be despised.
Forked lightning is in itself an ugly livid thing ; but
it strikes the imagination because, terrible, it is here
and gone. Beauty, we are told, is Truth ; Truth,
Beauty. Is it ? In a novel, or on the stage
character may, by its truthful strength, eclipse —
outshine mere beauty of form and colour, and come
straight home to us as Truth — may, for the gaining
of an end, be more valuable than loveliness.

The highest results of classic sculpture (loftiest
and purest of all the arts) are still and devoid of
movement ; but then they are intended to be our
constant loved companions — to grow on our physical
and mental retina. Not so with acting or with novels.
In the latter you read on — an impression is given
with more or less vividness according to the artist's
skill. It comes and passes — effective, evanescent,
like the lightning. In novels, certainly, the repulsive
may be employed for a crafty object — like an occasional
discord in music.

But in the case of this proposed new reading of

Ophelia ? Madness is a form of decay ; and all
decay is unsightly, since it points to corruption —
the weak side of godlike man. And yet, accepting
the fact that the best of us is grass of the field —
here to-day, tomorrow in the oven — decay hath its
own sad beauty ; as a lesson is salutary and awe-inspiring.
What are the gorgeous autumnal tints
but premonitions of the sepulchre ? Autumn is
beautiful ; so is serene old age, which waits, having
done with the turmoil of Life. But madness is, in
the very fact of its existence, so fearful and awful
a thing that, sure, it never can be admissible, if it is
truly depicted. What then of Ophelia ? Must her
lunacy be portrayed in a conventional and ridiculous
manner always, as it generally hath been ? or may
the artist strike an intentional discord, and horrify
the audience as well as Laertes and the Queen ?

This was a knotty point ; and Bab, after looking
at the various facets, decided again to run amuck —
this time against convention ; to astonish the beaux
with a bit of genuine nature ; depict, not a
shadowy unreal maid, no more material than the
soughing wind, but a stricken raving being of flesh
and blood, reduced by toppled reason to the condition
of the meanest animal. She sat so still,
absorbed in meditation, that the gibbering voices
above ceased to gurgle. The song of a stray bird
rose somewhere heavenward ; the patient's claws
slowly opened the curtain, and the lunatic peered

through. Restless, never quiet claws, clutching,
scraping, burrowing. All the vitality of the creature
was concentrated in the eyes and claws.

The actress drew from a pocket a pair of tablets
to dot down a note or two. The glittering gilded
stylus attracted the raven eyes ; the claws went
forth with a quick swoop to grasp it. To study the
actions of the maniac the visitor was there, so she
allowed her to do as she listed. Crowing like a
gladsome child, the creature flung back the veil,
stretched an emaciated arm, played with the toy
awhile as if striving to recall its use ; then, suddenly
remembering, began writing with it on the wall.
The rugged stone took but a faint imprint. Again
she wrote — again — again ; and moaned dissatisfied.

What is it ?' Bab whispered, striving to calm her
trouble.

1 He will not come, although I've called him
often,' the maniac mumbled hoarsely ; ' and yet he
must — he must— he must — for the rats are ready —
ready — ready — waiting to eat him up.'

Darting a fierce look of hungry vengeance over
her bared shoulder, the woman turned to the wall,
and began to write again. What was this ? 'Twas
no delusion. The words faintly traced in shaky
characters were — ' Honest Jack!'

Drawing in her breath with a quick gulp, Bab
looked at the woman and the wall. Honest Jack !
Could it be that this ruin was the work of her own

lord? Wrenching the stylus from the maniac's
struggling talons, while she battled, and fought, and
gnashed for it, Bab added another word — * Crump.'
With a shout the woman clapped her hands, and
crowed and rocked in glee.

'Now he'll come, he'll come!' she sang. 'The
rats shall have him. Come, Honest Crump, my
husband !'

Barbara turned deadly white, and the stylus
dropped from her fingers.

Your husband /' she gasped.

As when about to subside under the waves, a
whole career flashes before the eyes, so did Bab read
the mystery that for so long had puzzled her. When
a clue is given we marvel at our short-sightedness.
She saw now in letters of fire the full depth of her
husband's turpitude. Her husband ! Not so. She
was undone, for this maniac was the real wife. 'Twas
plain now why he had shilly-shally for so long,
scheming to win the prize without aid of book or
parson. The look of injury was now explained ; for
in a calmer moment he had regretted his folly, and,
being a coward, hated the woman he had wronged.
The sight of the second wife recalled to his mind a
constant peril. 'Twas the tale of the hanging sword
and wearing thread. This grovelling ruin was the
wife, and she the mistress.

Bab rose and staggered against the wall with a
great cry, like that which had been wrung from heron

the river-bank — sharp and shrill, yet so long and
wailing that 'twas as though the life must go forth in
its full volume. Could the new Ophelia give such a
wail in fleeing from Laertes and the Queen she would
indeed startle the beaux. The lunatics in the windows
chattered and mowed and shivered like birds
in presence of the hawk. The ruin turned from the
wall and clapped her hands again. 'Twas fine !
'Twas brave ! The intruder lay upon her back,
motionless and white. With peals of wild laughter
the maniac gathered up her chain and whirled
around the yard, with flying hair and streaming
garments, crying :

The rats ! the rats !'

The groups in the windows took up the shout,
they knew not why. ' The rats ! the rats !' resounded
on all sides, echoed from wall to wall and back
again, while Bab lay white and motionless, felled by
the new stroke.

Poor suffering Barbara ! O, Fate ! why choose
one quarry and delight to hunt it to the death ?
Was her nature too haughty still for thee ? Too
stiff-necked ? Must she indeed be broken and quite
humbled? — be crushed into the dust?

Their attention called by the disturbance, a crowd
of men ran into the yard. Seizing the gyrating
demon by its chain, the keeper dragged away the
dancing lunatic, while, with exclamations of surprise,
two gentlemen kneeled by the prone figure.

Our Barbara !' cried Charlotte in accents of
despair.

Madam Crump it is indeed!' murmured Lord
Forfar. ' What was she doing here ? The maniac
must have frightened her.'

Gervas considered what 'twas best to do. The
lady was in a dead swoon, was snoring heavily, but
would soon revive. Borne in by careful hands, she
was laid upon a bed ; but hour after hour passed,
and she did not recover.

Kensington was a long way off.

We will take her to the Bear,' Charlotte suggested.


'Twas but a short distance to Tower Stairs ; thence
to Southwark by water but a bowshot. The advice
was good. Folks who beheld the sad convoy said :

'Tis a body going to the surgery at Mr. Guy's
new hospital,' and passed on whistling.

As the shades of evening crept into the chamber
wherein the unconscious figure lay, Gervas became
alarmed. Several times he placed a mirror to the
parted lips, lest Bab should have stolen a march
into another world. Her beauty, now that unmolested
he could mark its delicate loveliness, struck
him afresh as a revelation. The luxuriant crown of
tresses, grey with the powder of yesterday ; the broad
intelligent brow ; the finely-chiselled nostril, which
told its tale of breeding ; the plastic shoulders and
arms ; the blue-veined throat and bosom !

1 Nature hath been lavish to thee,' mused Lord
Forfar ; ' for, if I'm not deceived, thy soul is as fair
as thy face, concealed as it is from man by the
mask of waywardness.'

Night was coming on. A leech must be summoned
; a messenger despatched for Mr. Crump.
Would she never shake off the trance ?

Charlotte was against sending for Crump, whereupon
she was chid by precise Lord Forfar. Sir
Charles must be crazy, indeed. If a wife be smitten
by a shock, who send for first if not her husband ?

It was far into the small hours ere Crump answered
the summons ; for, as usual, having awakened from
the slumber of intemperance, he had avoided his
spouse, and sought new pleasures in the town. He
was half-seas over again when the messenger found
him at the Cocoa Tree ; but was quite sobered
when my Lord Forfar related what had happened.
Received a shock at Bedlam from a madwoman !
His heart leaped into his mouth with fear. That
dangling sword which his own besotted folly had
hung up — was it fallen on his pate ? Bedlam ?
She, as he knew well, was at St. Luke's. Curse her!
why was she not dead ? By some unlucky chance
on which he had not calculated, had the two women
come face to face, who, of all females, should never
have met ? It could scarcely be ; and yet what
other shock might his wife receive from any madwoman
that could induce so dead a swoon ?

As a vista of gruesome possibilities rose before him,
spreading as far as the horizon, Jack bit his nails,
and had much ado to maintain a decent composure.
Remorse and regret brought out a chill damp upon
his skin ; not sorrow either for the first or second
wreck, but for himself in that unbridled passions
should have led him into such a quandary. If
'twas as he feared, how would Bab behave ? Already
her attitude was unseemly in its disrespect ; her
tongue mordant. Would she set up a clatter and
publish her woes to the world ? Hardly, for she
was proud. That was a mercy. But what if,
stung out of her pride by honest indignation, she
should run to her friend Sir Robert ? O fool,
besotted ! Adulterated idiot to play such a trick on
one who was his patron's favourite ! Were there
not a thousand other women whom he might have
ruined with impunity ? Sir Robert, low as were his
morals, would resent a trick on Barbara, which, if
played upon another female, would have been looked
on as mere skilful gallantry. He would be ousted from
his fat sinecures, thrown forth into the cold. With
his own foot he would have kicked down the ladder
while only half-way up its rungs. Thanks to the
accursed cards, he was in debt ; would be a disgraced
pauper. There'd be nothing for it but to turn
Jacobite, and that nowadays was a sorry prospect.
Bab's mouth must be closed. He would take her
home at once and come to terms somehow, within

the chaste walls of the Kensington Paradise. The
leech demurred to the proposal. 'Twas as much asher
life was worth. Lord Forfar looked gloomy and
displeased; Charlotte dismally reproachful. Strange!
What was Charlotte doing here ? what possible bond
could there be 'twixt her and my Lord Forfar ?
'Twas indecent in Lord Forfar to dare to be gloomy
and displeased.

A swift gush of jealousy arose in the undisciplined
mind of Mr. Crump. Was the tale a concocted
one ? Why should Bab and Lord Forfar have come
together at Bedlam, of all places ? Was Charlotte a
go-between ? Careless as she was about money, she
must like a man ere she could present him with a
thousand pounds ! He would charge Bab with an
intrigue ! And yet, if 'twas as he feared, her answer
would be that he had no legal claim on her. What
a silly misjudging zany he had been !

In face of the protests of leech, Charlotte, Gervas,
and mine host of the Bear, it would not do to
move her. ' She is awake at last,' the leech
announced, ' but in great pain ' — this with a sly
smile — and Crump trembled lest she should have
betrayed anything. In ill-concealed agitation he
declared that he must go to his beloved spouse ;
that no hands but his should nurse his treasure ; and
clumsily thanking the Scotchman for his disinterested
kindness, skipped up the stairs, while Charlotte
gazed gravely after him.

A very sudden gush of affection this! Charlotte foreboded
the worst, longed to stand 'twixt his ill-omened
shadow and her dear patroness ; but morn was
breaking, and what would Mr. Medlicote say if his
peruke failed to appear? Servitude was mighty
irksome, Sir Charles reflected with impatience. The
yoke was growing galling ; and yet it protected its
wearer from the bailiffs. She must be off. Would
Lord Forfar watch ? That punctilious person said
that the husband having claimed his own, 'twas not
for him to meddle; and Charlotte went her way,
beset by apprehension and dread of more evil in the
offing.

Barbara was awake and very pale, but composed
and quiet, her lips twitching now and then with
pain. She looked on Jack with such chill displeasure,
while her great eyes burned with scorn, that
his ire kindled, and he resolved to brazen it out.
She heard him to the end of his bluster, then said
quietly :

I know you now. She left St. Luke's because of
the typhus ; call at Bedlam and pay your devoirs to
your wife.'

She knew all, then. This was the contemptuous
mood that he most dreaded. She was capable at
this minute of blabbing her woes to anyone — to
the ostler or chambermaid. Ruin prospective and
complete stared him in the face. Instinctively his
hand sought his sword-hilt.

'Do!' she said with composure. ' You've slain
my mind ; murder now my body. God knows I
yearn for deliverance ! Dead women tell no
tales.'

Rendered frantic by his fears and her cold taunts,
Mr. Crump drew the hanger from its scabbard and
cried :

You wrong me ! Death before dishonour ! 'Tis
myself I mean to kill !'

An insulting farce, then, was to be added to other
outrages. He kill himself? How highly probable !

Wrong and honour from your lips !' she
scoffed. ' Courage may be great where danger
is but small, in order to conceal the cowardice
that is concomitant of guilt. Honest Jack !' she
continued, with a ripple of laughter that faintly
echoed the peal within Bedlam yard. ' Totally
devoid of all principle, all feeling, as of all mercy or
compunction, your epithet of " Honest " is but one
imposition more. Like all the rest, you deemed a
bastard, a painted player, to be fit only for a
mistress. Nay ! stab yourself if it pleases your
humour to end the scene in tragedy ! Yet 'twere
a pity not to summon witnesses ; for so exalted a
hero should make his exit before more than one
spectator !'

Crump ground his teeth and had half a mind to
make a tragedy of it in real earnest, and silence
the mocker. His colour rose, and his blue eyes

VOL. III. 51

sank before that biting, withering contempt. Diplomacy
and parleying might still patch up a truce.
Appearances in the future might be saved, the
chasm bridged, so far as concerned the world. He
sat on the bed, and taking her hand in his, held it,
though she winced.

I Come, come!' he whispered. ' I have done wrong;
but 'twas from excess of love. My life and honour
are in your keeping. What can you win by an exposure,
except the publication of your own misfortune
? What is there to prove that the woman is
my wife ? Her testimony, as one insane, would go
for naught. She shall be more carefully guarded.
For your sake, if not for mine, be prudent.'

Bab withdrew her hand, and sighing, remained
silent for awhile, and Crump rejoiced exceedingly.
Hath not Mr. Addison declared that the
woman who hesitates is lost ? But for a new
circumstance Barbara would not have hesitated.
They say that when a lady hath substantial cause to
hate her husband, the business is half done. Indeed,
Madam Crump did hate the man who ought to have
been her husband, with every fibre of her being.
No softness for herself should have stayed the
thrust, and yet she wavered.

I I told you your danger was but small,' she
slowly said. ' Promise me that never in days to
come shall we ever be alone together from this
moment until death, and my lips are sealed.'

Mr. Crump was another man. The dangling
sword was down, and had not hurt him. He
breathed again, for a heavy incubus was gone from
off his chest. How whimsical is it, he thought, that
while men dislike those whom they have injured,
women have a sneaking kindness, despite of outcry,
for those who've hurt them. The saw is a true one
that prate of a wife, a dog, and a walnut-tree.
Honest Jack quite beamed, and was profuse in
expressions of gratitude. No man would be more
respectful and considerate than he. His drunkenness
and gambling were sprung from terrors, and now
that the cause for fear was past he would reform.
In the old days had he not been respectful ; as sober
as most men of fashion ; as tender, as ardent in his
wooing ? They would commence a new honeymoon,
bill and coo like doves ; be as modish as a
pair of rustics. Seeing what he had risked to
call her his very own, what anxiety and dread, his
proud beauty should be flattered rather than resentful.
Mr. Crump in his relief quite frisked like unto
the innocent lamb, and then squatted down again
upon the bed.

1 I must not teach my sweet one to be vain,' he
laughed, ' for in sooth she hath more than a share
of that commodity.'

Bab listened with wonder and contracted brows,
and stemmed the flood of his delight.

1 Mistake me not,' she observed in curt tones that

51—2

cut like a knife. ' I loathe and abhor and despise
you, and always shall. I would not raise a little
ringer to save you from a cruel death. 'Tis a truce,
and not a peace I offer you. Before the world we
will go on as heretofore, since the poor thing is
hopelessly deranged and never can claim her place.

Not for your sake and not for mine for the sake

of our unborn child.'

THE PILGRIM CALLS AGAIN.

HE effects of the shock that resulted from
the discovery at Bedlam were not to be
shaken off in a day or week or month.
Honest Jack heard the communication
of the lady whom we must still call his wife with
mixed feelings in which satisfaction predominated.
In all his calculations he had never reckoned upon
this — a bond that tied her to him by the closest
bands which can unite a man and woman. She
might be provoked to fling dirt upon herself, but
would never brand her offspring. Smarting from a
wound but just received, she had vented her pique
and eased her injured pride with hard and bitter
words. Words kill no one. He would obligingly
forget them, for in good sooth she had cause for
complaining. Time would heal the wound ; she
would accept the inevitable. The woman should go
back at once to St. Luke's, and be placed in the

most infected quarter. What did they mean by
drafting creatures from one pesthouse to another
without orders ? a nice piece of officious philanthropy.
Next they would be sweeping the prisons.
What a comfort it would be, both for himself and
Barbara, when he should go to her some day and
whisper, ' She is gone !' Both would breathe freely,
and forget the ugly episode.

There was no gainsaying that Bab was a fascinating
wench ; would be a useful helpmeet in the way
of gathering coin and winning favours. At present
he would respect her odd whims, and leave her to
herself, but by-and-by would apply the screw of this
promised infant for his own purposes. So soon as
the wound was closed, he would let her know that
there must be no more minx airs ; that he intended
to claim the duty and obedience of a wife and
mother; that the interests of the trio were to be
identical, and that there must be one master in a
household. In truth, he had behaved wickedly of
late — worse, foolishly. But the cause for apprehension
had vanished. Honest Jack made up his
mind to turn over a new leaf, and saw in perspective
a long and prosperous career.

Ail did not go, however, quite as he desired.
Walpole on hearing of the catastrophe flew to the
Bear, full of condolence. What had chanced ? His
little Whig was not wont to be timorous or frighted
by a bogie. But women are queer cattle. You

never know what they will do next. That is why
we love them so. They are for ever breaking out in
fresh places, performing unexpected antics, perpetrating
delightful follies, showing weakness where
we expected strength, and vice versa.

Bab had been frighted by a maniac ; more than
this could not be wrung from her. And quite
enough, the gossips cackled, considering her situation.
It was a week before she could be moved to
Kensington ; and once there, lay in an elbow-seat by
her boudoir window, or in the garden, with a playbook
neglected on her knee. Although her general
health had been good of late, her constitution
during the last year or so had been severely tried.
'Twas a wonder, said the leech, that she had ever
pulled through at all. His nostrums, he admitted,
could do little good. Time and fresh air accomplish
miracles. Would she like to take the waters at
Islington, or Sadler's Wells ? Both were excellent
revivers. No. Home and quietness were all she
asked for ; and she sat in the elbow-seat day after
day, calm and grave, pondering no doubt with the
awe that besets young wives, alternate hopes and
tremors.

True to his resolve, Jack turned the new leaf;
checked his propensities for drink ; played less recklessly
; favoured his spouse with delicate attentions
from a distance, such as caused Sir Robert to be
waggish. ' A whimsical Darby and Joan,' he roared.

Like the people in the weather-house on the hall
chimney piece, when one was out, t'other was in*
They never spoke to each other, rarely saw each
other.

The Minister, who could not endure the sight of my
Lady Walpole, rallied his little Whig, and preached
on the marital tie. She was too unkind. When
Jack drank and swore and gambled away his substance,
she was brisk and did not seem to care much,
going her ways like the noblest duchess. Now that,
he was reformed and attentive, and bought nosegays
for her, she gazed on him as though he existed not ;
accepted his gifts like an automaton. If Skerrit
were to turn so stony, he, Sir Robert, would fly from
her society. She was imprudent, too. What did
she mean by encouraging that Scot ? Don Quixote
was for ever calling to pay his respects. He, Sir
Robert, knew what was what, and did not believe
that a man and a handsome woman could talk all
day about play books. And such play books ! Mr.
Wycherley and Mr. Congreve writ a host of pretty
comedies which polite ladies listened to in masks.
His own old friend Cibber was little more modest
than the others in his writings. Not that Sir
Robert was a prude — Heaven save the mark ! — but
he dearly loved his little Whig, and liked his
secretary; and could not but perceive that the
dallying of the Jacobite was mighty distasteful to
Jack.

'Would his worship deign to be jealous?' asked
Bab, with a dry laugh. ' Mon Dieu, il ne masquerade
que cela /'

Sir Robert was fain to cease his lecturing. Women
indeed are complicated mechanisms. There's no
comprehending the darlings.

Barbara was amused to think that Jack was
jealous ; and that, while he writhed, he dared not
vent his wrath. The punishment for bigamy is death.
Fancy burly broad-shouldered Jack jumping from the
Tyburn ladder ! Not an unpleasing spectacle for
Barbara, if it were not for the new-forged bond. If
she might never learn Humility, she was improved
in the practice of Patience ; had gained powers of
self-control. The visits of Gervas were the bright
spots in her dark life ; the sound of his low voice
was like a rippling rill, lulling to rest ; his deep eyes
twin wells of truthfulness, to look into which was
like a vision of green in a desert. Bab had longed
to sit at his feet and learn ; and the result of the
process was not disappointing. He was the best
man, she repeated to herself, that she had ever been
privileged to know. For his part, he was never tired
of blaming himself for the unjust suspicions of the
past. Embittered no doubt, and unduly hard, the
actress was ; but what a fund of common-sense at
bottom, with sly humour glinting now and then like
veins of pure metal in a rock. Was Madam
Crump in danger ? No. When you have undergone

such ordeals as she, you learn to curb your
longings.

Situated as she was, Barbara was safe, and Jack
need not have been white-hot and icy-cold with rage
and hatred on the frequent arrivals of the Scotchman.
When from an upper window he watched
with grinding teeth his wife and her friend communing
in the garden — her face illumined as it had
never been for him — he could with pleasure have
plunged a dagger into the breasts of both. This
was quite a different sort of thing from the interviews
which he had suggested, in which Lord Forfar
was to be pumped for Honest Jack's behoof. He
might, or might not, be making valuable disclosures ;
but whatever it was he said, no whiff of it reached
the ears of the watcher. All sorts of expedients
flitted across his brain. He revolved in his mind
as to whether he should pick a quarrel with this
serpent on his hearth — cross swords, and slay him —
or whether he should consult a body-snatcher. There
were hosts of 'em about, who, for a small wage,
were ever ready to chip you off an inconvenient
rascal who knew too much of your concerns — who,
when the deed was done, could make a good bargain
with the surgeons, so that naught should tell a tale.

On the whole, it would be best to leave things as
they were for the present, promising himself later a
full revenge for present heart-aches. Yes. Better
wait till that bond was firmly riveted. Afterwards

he could control the actions of his wife. Then he
would forbid the house to the importunate fellow ;
the beggarly servant of the exiled pauper who was
drinking himself to death at Rome. But was he
still in the service of the exile ? Spies rarely told
of visits to Dawley now ; and yet he sometimes
went, and the junta were always civil. 'Twas
strange about that search among the papers. Not
one compromising scrap ! It was impossible that,
unless warned, he should have destroyed each telltale
item. He must have been warned ; that much
was plain, if all the rest obscure. Should another
search be hazarded ? Before, he had turned the
escritoire inside out with hands somewhat perfunctory
; for, except to please his patron, he cared
little to convict the Jacobite. But now — how gladly
would he ruin him ! What a joy 'twould be to tell
cold, scornful, unsmiling Barbara that, thanks to her
lord, the man she elected to favour had mounted the
fatal steps on Tower Hill ! It would be exquisite !
Again there were tales buzzing hither and thither of
a storm brewing — of some new attempt. Sure my
Lord Forfar would be in it ? The spies must be set
to work — the hounds be unleashed. If any were
rash, Lord Forfar would be one of them, judging
from what had gone before. Jack must see that in
the next wild effort he slipped not through his fingers.
Meanwhile, unconscious of the face convulsed
with vague apprehensions that glared from behind a

blind, Bab exchanged thoughts with her friend, and
the mutual esteem of both grew vigorous. They
discussed the characters of Shakespeare, wrangled
pleasantly over Rosalind and Imogen, spoke little of
politics ; for, as Bab said, with a wan smile, ' We
belong to adverse camps, and are both too stubborn
for conversion.'

As time progressed, it became more and more
doubtful, to the despair of the patentees, and Sir
Robert's concern, whether, after all, she would be
able to resume her labours. The Monimia and
Alicia of the poets take much out of the system,
and the vitality of the actress seemed to wane
rather than increase. She, once so full of energy
and life, became listless — hard to move ; and Jack
was grievously annoyed anent the physical condition
of the golden goose. He would take her away to
Bristol hot wells, or to the Bath — anywhere to
revive her strength, in order that, after the interesting
event, she might be able to don the harness.

Never mind appearances,' he assured the
patentees, with a superb wave, suggestive of marital
authority. ' She shall act. I pass my word for it ;'
and those gentlemen retired reassured. Not but that
qualms invaded his mind. Pray Heaven there would
be no accident ! When all had gone so well till
now, 'twould be soundly unfair. What if that
Scot, who was always in her pocket, were to worm
the secret from her ? Tush ! He, Crump, despite

his breadth of beam, was losing tone, and waxing
nervous like a girl. Reaction, doubtless, after those
undue potations and late hours. Both would go
and take the waters. Happy idea, to be acted on at
once ! But then the promise — which inwardly he
swore to break so soon as the bond was riveted —
that the two were never to be left together! Absurd !
A sick woman's whimsy. One that must needs be
respected, however — at least, for the present. If
only he could oust that Scotchman, he thought he
could be content. And yet, not so ; for now that,
aware he had no legal hold over her, she could
depart when she listed, Jack began to feel quite
enamoured of his wife again. She was so cool and
independent ; did just as fancy suggested, so certain
of not being thwarted by her lord, that, so soon as
typhus did its work, and removed the obstacle, he
was prepared to tie the knot in real earnest, if only
to tame her stubbornness.

And she, as the leaves under whose shade she satin
day-dreams turned to red and yellow and rustled
down, thought much on the same subject. What
was her future to be like ? Was Destiny weary yet,
or not, of pursuing her favourite victim ? Were not
fresh toys to shatter coming into the world each
day — new, bright, comely, unlettered toys that
were more worth breaking than a woman, world-worn
and weary ? Had Jack, as he threatened,
returned the maniac to St. Luke's — hot - bed of

malignant fever ? If he were to come to her some
day, and, announcing that the lunatic was dead,
propose to go to church again, would she accept ?
Knowing what she knew, how could she ? Yes, she
would ; and she marvelled at herself for so deciding,
wondering at the mysteries of maternity. And it
seemed quite possible that, if opportunity offered,
he might act in some such manner, so uncertain in
his moods was Honest Jack. Had not Sir Robert
laughed at the delicate attentions of his secretary,
not knowing that 'twas in fear of his master that he
was thus attentive ? Sir Robert was a weapon
wherewithal he might be whipped at any time. To
wrest this from her grasp, he was capable of a
genuine marriage, supposing the barrier removed.
And she actually would take him ! Could she ever,
in the rolling years, forgive his treachery ? The
leopard may not change his spots. His character
could no more change than his eyes grow closer
together. If he were good to his child, she might
forgive the past ; but really like him — never !

Sir Robert, renewing the intimacy of old days,
frequently rode over to chat with his little Whig,
and pour forth the budget of his troubles ; and it did
her good to mark his stout figure trotting up the drive,
or walking with the bridle over his arm ; for, in listening
to him, she forgot her own sorrows. Of course,
the flying rumours of a new plot hatching reached
her ears, and she implored him to be wary.

I You know,' she said fondly, ' that my health is
far from what it used to be. I've neither strength
nor spirits now to play the chambermaid, and
rescue your worship from the toils. Such danger as
may be apprehended from the Jacobites must arise
from their extreme folly. When men grow desperate
they become fanatics, and oftentimes succeed out of
sheer rashness.'

To which Sir Robert grumblingly replied :
You ought to know, since you are so friendly
with the vermin.'

This annoyed Bab, though she knew he was but
half in earnest. He looked upon Gervas as a poor
feckless creature — a tool in designing hands ; and
deemed it a blemish in her understanding that she
could like Lord Forfar's society.

I I will not hear anything against him !' she cried,
with a little stamp that pleasantly recalled her
former self. • He is sincere and conscientious, as I
wish others were ; and in his heart cares no more
for James, who is conspicuously neither, than you
or 1/

1 Indeed ! gibed Sir Robert ; • perhaps the Westminster
Hall absurdity was not his doing ?'

Maybe,' retorted Bab. * But I know he's sick of
scheming. Last time he came here he was complaining
of his ancient comrades. Talkers and tipplers, he
said they were. People scrambling for crumbs, who
cared not from whose table they were thrown. Does

BARBARA PHILPOT.

that look as if he were still conspiring? No, no.
Keep your eyes on Bolingbroke and Pulteney. 'Tis
from them, not him, believe me, that future menace
comes.'

'Tis you who are deceived,' Walpole asserted,
with characteristic doggedness. ' Is it likely that,
knowing how staunch a little Whig you are, he
would take you into his confidence ? Your husband
says he's active still, and wants to make a fool of
you, as he did of Mrs. Vinegar.'

The which remark vexed Bab exceedingly, for
'twas as painful to have her single-minded hero
accused of trickery as to hear herself compared to
odious Pamela. Thus annoyed, she spoke with a
tinge of acerbity, declaring that one who cared not
for pelf or worldly dignities must needs be a riddle
to the champion of bribery ; and that her husband
ought to be ashamed of himself for making accusations
which 'twould be impossible to prove. The
wish was father to the thought, no doubt, as regarded
the cooled ardour of Gervas. Esteeming
him as she did, 'twas with a shudder that she
thought of a traitor's punishment. The doom of a
highwayman, hanged by the neck in chains and
ribbons, and adorned with posies, was too simple and
too familiar to everyone not to have lost half its
terrors. But the penalty for treason ! 'To be
drawn to the place of execution, hanged till half
dead, and then revived ; then, the bowels being

burnt before the face, the head to be severed, the
body divided into quarters and disposed where the
King thought fit.' Had not Bab often looked with
pity at the tarred heads of Layer and other martyrs
of 1715 on the top of London Bridge, who underwent
that awful sentence ? That of Layer fell off
its spike while she was living in the Close, and lay in
the road, a blackened ball, for several days, till someone
thought fit to put it back again. Gervas might
claim his peerage, and possibly escape the more
shocking details ; but what would her feelings be
if ever his head were to grace Temple Bar or
Traitor's Gate at Southwark ? Though political
controversy was by tacit agreement tabooed between
them, Bab hailed with joy the pregnant remarks that
dropped from Lord Forfar ; such remarks, suggested
by doubt and dejection and disgust, as used to fill
her sister with dismay.

But Sir Robert soon had other things to discuss,
more grave than Jacobite misdemeanours. The
King had been so long coming, and had so frequently
put off the journey, that Queen and Minister were
harassed and worn to the bone. There had been
a general pacification abroad, which deprived his
Majesty of an excuse for remaining on the Continent.
He is going mad, reluctantly acknowledged
Caroline ; for sure never did monarch so deliberately
hack his own throat. The people now openly said,
Let him stay away ; for the Regency, at least, is

vol. in. 52

decent, which his Majesty never is.' Walpole
wrote that he and the Queen were agreed, since his
Majesty would not deign to occupy himself with the
subject, to put down the standing army, to disband
the expensive soldiery, break up the Hyde Park
camp. The answer came : ' Wait till my return.'
Wait ! As if all were not weary of waiting. The
Hyde Park camp was becoming a scandal, for the
soldiers had nothing to do, and, as the Dawleyites
had been sharp enough to foresee, they were — despite
red coats, and Hanover horses on caps, and pipeclayed
leggings — but a lawless horde of marauders.
Complaints were pouring in from all sides of the conduct
of the military footpads, who were a terror to
respectable households, and had turned the recreation-ground
of the people into a species of minor Alsatia.
Would Sir Robert be good enough to smoke this
wasp's nest, purge this den of robbers ? No one
more anxious so to do than the Minister, who had
constructed a monster that threatened to eat him up.
But in face of the King's express command he
knew not how to act. Difficult enough to manage
at home, out of the range of personal influence he
was becoming hopelessly intractable. It was with
an intense feeling of relief, therefore, that he received
at length the mandate to send the yachts to
Holland. The Queen shared his feelings, though
she knew that the advent of her lord and master
implied a return from liberty and personal ease to

constraint and slavery. She was too well aware that
instead of receiving homage she would have to pay
it, that instead of people striving to please her, she
would have to try and please the tyrant without success.
And yet she desired his coming. A courier
arrived with the welcome news that the King had
turned his back on Herrenhausen ; another stated
that he had embarked at Helvoetsluys. Everybody
examined the weathercocks, talked of tides and
winds and moons, and, as the hours passed, grew
gloomy. The Dawleyites could scarce believe their
senses. Even Gervas was startled. Could it be
that Fate, tired of the procrastination of the Jacobites,
was taking the matter in hand upon her own
account ?

A terrible storm arose and swept the Channel
for four days, during which there were no tidings
of his Majesty. A hundred messages a day
passed 'twixt St. James's and the Admiralty ; wagers
were freely laid ; the faces of weather-beaten admirals
grew longer, for they believed that the King
had perished. As might have been expected, the
Prince of Wales did not neglect his opportunity.
While the people were full of surprise and consternation,
the Queen in agonies of alternate hope and
fear, he gave a grand dinner-party, a gala feast to
which my Lord Mayor and Aldermen were bidden ;
to which they dared not refuse to go, lest haply he
who was the Prince should in reality be their

52—2

sovereign. ' Was this more of Bolingbroke's diabolical
advice ?' groaned Walpole. ' Was Frederick
bent on dragging down the throne which was his
birthright ?' Sir Robert needed all the sympathy
that could be bestowed on him, and both Mr. and
Mrs. Crump perceived that the situation was indeed
a grave one. The elements and the Heir-apparent
were doing King James's work. If George was
really at the bottom among the fishes, the conduct
of Frederick was so grossly indecent that there
would be a general outcry against him.

1 Poor Queen !' ejaculated the Minister, a prey to
direst dumps ; ' she stands 'twixt the Scylla and
Charybdis of falling into the hands of an unnatural
son, or of receiving a husband whom she hath as much
cause to dislike ; and her health failing, too ! What
will become of this divided family and this divided
country ? 'Tis too melancholic a prospect for conjecture
to be allowed to paint it !'

Caroline saw the situation in all its blackness, and
leaned for support upon her faithful Ranulph. She
was rigidly resolved to betray no disquiet, entering
the public drawing-room as usual, and making polite
speeches to curtseying duchesses, who admired her
iron courage. But once in her own apartments,
'twas as much as she could do not to break down.
Her lips trembled over cribbage and quadrille ; and
the Honourable Pamela, who slept in the adjoining
chamber, was aware of sobbing in the night.

Sometimes the royal bed seemed turned into a red-hot
gridiron ; and, donning a dressing-gown, the
Queen would call over the stairs to her Vice-chamberlain,
and pace the chamber till morning.

Mrs. Belfield of course bore her share in the
suspense of these trying days. What if the elements
were warring for the Jacobite cause ? An exasperating
world ! 'Twas a mercy, in any case, to be free
of that puling Scottish nincompoop, for, even were
James to come prancing in, my Lord Forfar would
be no gainer. And yet, what anguish must needs
o'erflow a certain virgin bosom if she were compelled
some day to gaze on a certain triumphal cavalcade
wherein a Stuart was bobbing to right and left, with
no smirking duchess behind ! Sifting events, she
could give herself no blame. That was some little
comfort. She could not be expected to foresee a
storm in the Channel. How much have the winds
and waves to answer for in British history, from
the luckless foundering of the White Ship with
English hopes aboard till now ! But for the wind
would not Elizabeth have roosted in some tree
like Charles, instead of grinning and ogling at
Tilbury ? Though she might not blame herself, the
Honourable Pamela felt injured. But, in imitation
of her mistress Caroline, she resolved to be a sensible
woman, and conceal emotions.

It was too late now to think of coquetting with
Dawley. If the family must go she must go also,

and make the best of a bad job. She shivered to
think of what might happen, remembered about
Henrietta Maria, and what she suffered in her
garret. If the Queen had suffered, what must her
ladies have endured ? Come what might, she would
not perish in a garret. The very next morning at
breakfast she would pump Medlicote as to his
financial arrangements. That he was rich was
notorious. He could not be such a dolt as not to
have invested something in foreign securities, seeing
how unstable was the regime to which he had bound
himself. Perhaps there was yet time to take
further advantageous precautions. If things were
to come right after all, he would not make so bad a
husband, for the Queen treated him like a younger
brother ; could not get on without her Ranulph, or
bear him out of sight. Sure things would right
themselves, for hath it not been long established that
the wicked flourish in this world, and we must admit
for the Honourable Pamela that she laid no claim
to holiness.

The suspense became intolerable. Blithe Fred
flew to his mamma with news that guns had been
heard booming through the storm ; signals of distress
from the fleet that accompanied his Majesty. Wiseacres
swore that in such a tempest, lasting four days
and nights, 'twas impossible a ship could live.

'What will you do if Fred is King?' asked
Caroline of her youngest daughter.

Run out of the house an grand galop, promptly
replied that maiden.

The Queen smiled drearily, for such would be the
inspiration of her own instinct.

One evening as the gloomy circle sat at play,
there was a stir in the anteroom, a messenger in
dirty boots flew in, and gushing Pamela, perceiving
that all was right, fell, wildly shrieking, into his arms,
as by incontrollable impulse.

The King had never stirred from Helvoetsluys,
and, being a bad sailor, was not certain when he
would. How much unnecessary wear and tear of
heart-strings and idle misgivings ! Pamela flung herself
in hysterics at the Queen's feet, refusing to be
picked up by anyone but Ranulph, and whispering
in his ear, as she clung to him, that she never
could command her feelings— never, never — laughing
and crying by turns — excusing herself as a poor,
silly, artless thing to the company, whose chaste
breast was fluttering with joy in that the dear King
was safe. Whether he had been washed overboard,
and rescued by an angel from heaven or a Newfoundland
dog, she declared herself too flustered to
comprehend. Sufficient that he was safe — O joy !
O rapture ! — but she certainly could never forget
her anxiety — never — never — never !

The Queen turned white, and muttered that she
knew he had not embarked — a blunt falsehood that
did her credit — and revenged herself on Fred by

instantly despatching to him the messenger. As for
Pamela's little comedy, she took no heed of it, but
turned on Ranulph a look of sly reproach in that he
should be hoodwinked by such clumsy artifice. He
laughed, for he was not taken in. He knew Pamela
for what she was, but thought none the less that she
would do well at the head of a table to preside now
and then with eclat over county magnates, and be no
unfitting worldly spouse to a wealthy dabbler in
politics.

Pamela's comedy was so pretty that 'twould well
bear repetition. Tidings came that the King was in
the act of starting. Then arose another storm, to
which the first was child's play. A sloop reached
land with the awful intelligence that in the tempest
the royal yacht had tacked about and vanished into
darkness. This time it had really foundered, everybody
was convinced. Four men-of-war, dismasted,
scrambled into different harbours.

This news was kept back as long as possible, while
the Queen sat persistently at cribbage ; but at length
Sir Robert went to her with heavy heart, and said
that hope was over. The verdict coming from his
lips, Caroline endeavoured no longer to constrain
herself, but gave full loose to tears, while courtiers
whispered in the corridors and stole off a-tiptoe to
bow in the saloons of Frederick.

The hubbub and excitement was general, and wise
men of all opinions shook their periwigs. The situation

was grave, had never been graver since James II.
fled away by night.

Where was the Pretender now ? Riding posthaste
across the Continent ? Concealed already
perhaps at Dawley, dressing to strut forth and show
himself!

'Twas a notable fact that though all classes shared
in the excitement, nobody cared for George. 'Twas
dread of internal commotions that lengthened men's
visages. When such an one inquired, ' How goes
the wind for the King ?' the reply was always the
same, ' Against him, like the nation.'

Caroline, glancing from a window, beheld an
ominous vision ; no less a sight than that of a
splendidly attired man, with red morocco shoes and
diamond buckles, staring up with a smirk as he
sucked his clouded cane.

My Lord Bolingbroke ! He dared to emerge from
his retreat and grin in the Queen's face as she took
the air at her casement. Things must be bad, indeed,
for the House of Hanover ere he presumed on such
a piece of insolence. Even from amongst the
military footpads who were by way of protecting the
throne came savours of sedition. One of there had
openly proposed the toast, ' Here is damnation to
our master,' without being instantly struck down.

Bluestring had need of all his belief in himself,
Pamela of such resignation as she could counterfeit,
to bear up during the long-drawn perplexity.

The storm abated, but the little turkey-cock did
not strut up the stair. Another messenger ! His
Majesty had been grievously sick, but was returned
to Helvoetsluys to wait for finer weather.

The Queen owned that never in her life had she
sat upon such coals. But as she did not wish to be
favoured with Pamela's performances, she retired to
her sanctum and penned a dutiful epistle. Quickly
came the reply :

Maugre tout ce qui j'ai softer, ma chere Caroline,
en extant malade a un point que je ne croyais pas que
le corps humain pourrait souffrir, je vous jure que je
m'exposerois encore et encore pour avoir le plaisir
entendre les marques de votre tendresse que cette
situation m'a procure.'

Was this the outburst of a young sailor to his
love ?

Quel galimatias /' laughed Caroline, handing the
effusion to Sir Robert. ' Don't think I'm an old
fool and vain of my charms at this time of day, that
I show you this !'

For all that she frowned at her trusty ally when
he answered, chuckling :

Methinks it was intended for the Walmoden !'

Now 'twas Fred's turn to show anxiety, and for
the courtiers to run back to St. James's as quick as
possible. Cincinnatus left the beloved Mall, and
returning to his haycock, poured forth his bile upon
his colleagues. * If the winds and waves have been

playing tricks with us,' he explained amid unanimous
approval, ' yet have we been enabled to perceive
that the country is ready for a change. Was there
a soul, except those tied by interest, who were
pleased at the wretch's safety ? No ! Did not all
agree that 'twould have been better if he had
perished, and the common sailors spared who were
swept from the decks into the billows ? The army
is ripe for revolt. Thousands of lukewarm Hanoverian
would be too glad of the chance of turning.
Nay ! even the abominable Bluestring himself
would be pleased to bend his gouty knees if such a
thing might be allowed, for than his position naught
can be more ghastly.' My Lord Bolingbroke exaggerated,
as picturesque orators will ; but, in sooth,
Sir Robert's path grew more rugged every hour.
Ranulph Medlicote was loyalty itself, but it was not
quite gratifying to an old and faithful servant to see
a young man who, if he had parts, was foppish, so
constantly preferred to himself; while as for the
King's return, it implied pins in his seat as well as
the Queen's. For was not the tyrant certain to
begin his jeremiad again ; to praise everything
German at the expense of everything English ? Did
he not look on his servants as pieces of furniture,
grumbling at the price he had to pay for them as he
might at a joiner's bill ?

When it became generally known that his Majesty
had absolutely arrived at Lowestoft, a council of war

was held at Dawley — a secret Vehmgericht from
which Gervas was absent — to decide on a plan of
operations. No further time must be lost. It
must be now or never ; for the first effort of Blue-string's
personal influence would be anent the
military footpads, and, as we have already seen, the
keystone of the Dawley arch was the camp established
in the Park.

So soon as he beheld in the flesh the rubicund
gills and goggling fishy eyes of his master, Walpole
was himself again. He cantered cheerily to Kensington
to brighten the little Whig, for though she had
been a great comfort during the suspense, hearkening
intently to all he had to say, buttressing his courage,
whispering sage words, fanning the ashes of his
hopes, he was concerned to see how faded she was
looking.

To cheer her he spoke of the Dawley Vehm-
jericho, of which his spies had duly kept him informed,
and mentioned that my Lord Forfar was
conspicuously absent, a fact which made Honest
Jack look chapfallen, for he was sorry to know that
it was true. She was near her time, and spent
many hours wrapped in warm cloaks under the
favourite tree from which the leaves had fallen.
Vainly did Jack's solicitude point out the folly of the
proceeding. Could she not read his motive ?

1 Let me alone,' she curtly answered, with a grim
smile ; and he was fain to slink away, since he

dared not provoke the slumbering devil in her
eye.

The Minister purred and chatted, and seeing how
tired Bab looked, pressed her hand and departed,
taking Jack with him to attend to some urgent
business. They had barely reached the Hercules
Pillars, and were discoursing there of the camp,
whose huts from this point were trimly exposed to
view in long lines forming a square, from whose
centre floated aloft the Royal Standard, when a
groom came clattering after. Madam Crump wished
to see Sir Robert Walpole at once and alone : 'twas
urgent. He had brought a fresh hack, since not a
moment might be lost. Walpole stared ; Honest
jack turned green. Could she, at the last moment,
have made up her mind to blab ? It took all the
secretary's facial discipline to maintain the impassible
aspect of meekness which was habitual in his
master's presence.

1 Alone ! What can she require ?' Sir Robert marvelled.
' Is it another Golden Rump ?' then added
with a slap on his companion's shoulder, and a loud
laugh: 'Nay! cheer up ! 'Tis no elopement, although
it looks suspicious. Don't tell Skerrit, you dog, or I
shall never hear the last of it. Wait for me at
Medlicote's. Alone ? At once ? The scribblers
must be at it again. What can the hussy want ?'

Racked with anxiety, Jack obeyed, and wistfully
watched the Minister as he galloped out of sight.

Could she have told Gervas ; and was she acting on
his counsel ? Judging others by himself, he supposed
that the hatred was mutual between himself and my
Lord Forfar. What a pity that he was out of this
last effort ! What a pity ! Jack would have gladly
given half his worldly possessions, half of the years
that yet remained to him of youth, to have the
Scotchman in his power.

Sir Robert was surprised to perceive a hectic
flush on the wan face of Barbara, a trembling agitation
that shook her frame, as, pointing with a thin
hand, she bade him sit.

You are in grievous peril,' she panted, with short
breath. ' A chasm yawns for you. Thank God that
he hath naught to do with it ! Thank God at least
for that !'

She wiped the moisture from her lips, and lay
back gasping.

Be calm, my Barbara,' whispered Sir Robert,
with an affectionate pressure of the fingers that he
held. ' Be calm, child, or we shall have you flitting.
What is this ? You have been sleeping in the chill
air and dreaming.'

Not so,' murmured Barbara, rallying her strength.
'Tis said that our sins come back to roost. So do
our good acts, or how could we consent to live ?
You had not been gone more than a few moments
when I was alarmed by a rustle in the bushes, and
was about to call for help, for 'tis lonely here, when

I was aware of a glint of cross-belts and the white
horse. A guardsman ! I never feared the guards,
poor ill-used fellows ! though some have a bad
name.'

You love a red coat, like all the sex,' Sir Robert
laughed ; ' and they love you. Do you remember
how surprised I was when the sentries presented
arms to you ?'

Aye ! and so do they remember, poor grateful
souls!' Bab muttered. * Alack ! dear friend, you've
much to answer for ! 'Twas one of the very men
whom I had benefited. Emerging from the evergreens
he motioned silence, and advanced with
uncouth salutations.

1 " Gentle mistress," he said softly, " methinks
you're on the wing. Would you do a good action,
ere you go ? You who had bowels for the soldiers,
when none else pitied them."

1 " Speak on !" I said, seeing that he hesitated.

" Tis this way," he replied, groping for his words.
" Me and my mates have been tampered with, that's
what it is. Though 'tis but small matter to such as
I, who wears the crown, I don't like pirate's knavery.
A straight shot and I'm your man ; but gags and
blindfolding is disgusting to a Briton. I've often
seen you two together, and so I thought I'd just let
you know of it ; for I can't speak myself without
peaching on my fellows. Give me your word of
honour that none of the guards shall suffer, and I'll

pitch you the whole yarn." And then, Sir Robert,
he told me this, and I thanked Heaven that before I
go I may stop this dreadful crime.'

As by gasps, pausing awhile in her extreme agitation,
Bab told the soldier's story, Sir Robert's jaw
dropped, and he stared aghast at the apparent
proximity of the peril. Here was a coil, indeed !
Was the egg near hatching ? No time must be lost
in addling it.

The conspirators, the soldier informed Madam
Crump, had spared no trouble in inveigling unprincipled
persons in the army to forswear allegiance
to George. Men of resolution were wanted, and
had been found, who would not shrink from the
seizing of great men. Here was a state of things,
suddenly disclosed, to which the Barbadoes affair
was nothing. A cloud was descending upon England
of rapine, plunder, murder — suspension of civil rights
a carnival of bloodshed !

Stooping reverently over the sick woman, Sir
Robert kissed her brow.

My girl, how strangely doth Heaven order events,
and choose its instruments ! Once you saved me
from captivity — perhaps death. Now you've saved
a kingdom. Some day we'll ferret out this soldier,
and make a man of him. Cheer thee, for my sake,
Bab ; for in sooth I love thee, lass !'

Tears were coursing down the face of the bluff
Minister, and he kissed his favourite again and



rode away. Barbara smiled and sighed. When
you are aweary of the world, and feel a log, 'tis
reviving to discover that you've not lost your'use-
fulness.

vol. in.

5J

COUNTING THE CHICKENS.'

^S"pj£jiHAT anything untoward should happen
to Honest Jack will doubtless cause
distress to his many admirers. Our
excellent young friend entered on a
period of worry. The guardsman's narrative disclosed
a state of things which required the immediate
attention of Ministers ; and Mr. Crump
found himself journeying from St. James's to the
Park, from thence to the Tower and back again, a
dozen times a day. ' One might as well be a
running footman,' he declared, in discontent ; but
did not relax his energies for all that. The security
of number one was closely involved in that of the
powers that were, and 'twas evident that this time
they were seriously threatened.

Every evil contains a grain of good if we can only
find it (we are told so, at all events) ; and Honest Jack
realized with complacency that all the hubbub and

scurrying of messengers was due to the counsel of his
wife. As the gravity of the situation became more
apparent, so also did the debt of gratitude increase
which was due from King and Government to that
young lady. Hence, on the whole, he was rather inclined
to magnify the peril, in order to claim in the
future a substantial reward ; and hugged himself with
beatitude in the possession of so auriferous a fowl.

As he bustled about, sometimes a-horseback,
sometimes in a hired chair, he turned over in his
mind the nature of the reward that should be
claimed. All things considered, he did not see why
Madam Crump should not blossom into an important
personage. A theatrical salary was all very
well in its way, but there might be larger fish to be
caught. A sum of money, or a comfortable place
with plentiful emoluments, would be acceptable to
himself. Certainly the latter, since ready cash was
not just at present the strong point of Government.
The system of bribery had drained the coffers. To
his wife a post at Court. Admirable idea ! What
a vista of possibilities did it not disclose ! She
wanted ballast, did Barbara ; was clever enough to
push her own fortunes and her husband's to the
highest of pinnacles if properly guided. Why,
Abigail Hill began from as small beginnings as
Madam Crump ; and did she not rule St. James's ?

The King, since his return, had fallen back under
the influence of the Queen. In old days, her

53—2

Majesty was partial to Mrs. Pilot. Sobered, no
longer skittish as of yore, Barbara would, little by
little, obtain influence over Caroline. In the not
far-distant future, the King would be governed by
the Queen ; the Queen by the new favourite, who,
being a dear friend of the Prime Minister's, could
work with him in double harness for the common
advantage of all.

The more he turned over and scrutinized the
idea, the more perfect did it seem ; and Mr. Crump
decided finally that Madam Crump must not be an
actress, but a full-blown lady of quality. A fortune
perhaps a peerage. Or no — why not Parliamentary
honours ?

Mr. Crump surveyed in his mind's eye the map of
England with a view to deciding which constituency
he should honour. Some day he might aspire to
the blue ribbon — even attain to the lofty and influential
position of Sir Robert Walpole himself!
Why not ? If somewhat ignorant, he was far from
stupid. A fairy palace delighted his vision, crocus-heed,
prismatic. But what about that malignant
female at St. Luke's ? Was she dead yet ? Had
she caught the fever ? 'Twould be politic to make
of the golden goose an honest woman and a real
wife. Vexatious maniac, to linger importunately ina
world which she could not enjoy, and which did
not want her ! Not that it mattered much, for a
secure bond would soon be riveted, and the cold,

haughty lady at Kensington be reduced to fitting
vassalage.

Difficulties arise in the least-expected quarters,
which make of no effect, sometimes, the best-laid
plans. Again the Dawleyites had reason to pause,
wondering whether their work was to be done for
them. His Majesty, besides being desperately seasick,
caught on his homeward voyage a chill, which
developed into a great cold, with inflammation. He
was very ill, and Caroline broke down under the
strain of anxieties so various and prolonged. Again
the courtiers ran to Norfolk House, and cringed to
the rising sun. The Princesses openly expressed
their horror at their brother's conduct during the
crisis. The royal family was distracted by internal
broils. The King lay apparently a-dying ; the
Queen wept, cursing the hour of Fred's birth ; his
sisters hoped he would drop down of an apoplexy.
There seemed little need of any plot on the part of
Bolingbroke or Pulteney. The pretty plan of
Honest Jack seemed like to fall to pieces. Would
the King die, or would he live ? While busily
engaged in scanning events within the circle of St.
James's, a blow fell on the fairy palace that his
imagination was erecting from another quarter,
which laid it level with the ground.

Perhaps in consequence of sudden agitation,
perhaps from causes due to a constitution strained,
Barbara found herself at the same moment a

mother and bereaved. Her babe, on whose existence
so many brilliant complications hung, was born
dead, and she lay delirious for days. When she
came to herself, Charlotte sat watching in the dimly-lighted
room, and she almost imagined that they
were in Montagu Close again ; that all which had
since happened was a dream. Yet she soon perceived
that it was not so. Sir Charles, instead of
the well-remembered tawdry coat frayed at the
seams, wore a neat cloth suit of studied simplicity.
There were no discoloured cracks on wall or ceiling.
'Twas a bright chamber, cosily curtained and
carpeted. The scene in Bedlam had been sober
fact ; no freak of distempered fancy. Sir Robert,
in spite of his many causes for solicitude, came
frequently to inquire after the invalid — so did my
Lord Forfar; and when the two met upon the
threshold, they touched the hat, and clicked the
heels, as the way was, but exchanged no greeting.
Gervas looked on the pursy Minister as the incarnation
of wickedness ; the deliberate tempter of weak
mortals to their ruin. Sir Robert could not be expected
to forget his injuries. With his cynical convictions
anent the baseness of humanity, he was
little likely to understand the ram avis who contemned
modish vices, and despised those who pursued
them, and who could yet be on his own side
so curiously unscrupulous.

Oh, consider the lacerated feelings of Honest

Jack at this mischievous stroke of fortune ! When
informed of the unexpected blighting of his little
plan, he sat for a while speechless and livid — numb
and bereft of motion. No amount of blaspheming,
no rapping out of ingenious expletives, could rise to
the level of this dismal catastrophe. Where was
the bond now ? What would happen next ? He
dared not show himself to his spouse, dreading to
hear from her cold lips some gruesome verdict.
Had she not said, in decided cutting tones that bore
truth in their icy accents, that for one reason only
she was content to hold her tongue ?

At one moment, Mr. Crump congratulated himself
on her continued silence ; at another, felt rashly
impelled to rush into the darkened chamber and
learn his fate. When nobody was by, he crept upto
the door, and listened ; peered through the keyhole
on the sphinx-woman in the bed, striving to
read her intentions in her attitude. Was she
brooding over vengeance, tardy but thorough ? or
was she indifferent ? Would she succumb ? follow
her babe across the murky frontier ? He almost
hoped she would ; for even the loss of the golden
goose would be better than betrayal. At such a
moment, too ! Peradventure if she died without
divulging, the grieving Minister would, for the sake
of the departed, transfer the load of gratitude to
the sorrowing widower ? As half a loaf is notoriously
to be preferred to no bread at all, so would exiguous

patronage be better than none. Worse than none —
detection and disgrace !

'Twas bitter to gaze upon that sphinx-woman —
or as much of her as could be descried through the
small aperture — lying there as day followed day.
What could she be thinking of — what revolving?
Her continued silence frightened Honest Jack.
What a soul-disturbing condition of affairs it was !
The King's illness and the threatened action of the
enemy required that Mr. Crump should be at his
post by the side of the Minister. More than once
he determined to throw up his duties and stay at
home, for was it not too awful to have, as it were, a
red-hot brand upon his floor, which might burn his
house and goods ere he returned at night ? Might
she not be settling something diabolical, such as
should sweep away at a puff all his worldly prospects
? Whether the malignant lunatic succumbed
or not was of small importance now, for the bond
being broken instead of riveted, she would certainly
refuse his hand, if, in genuine earnestness, he were
to offer it. Yet, undeniably clever in some things,
while amazingly the reverse in others, sure she must
be amenable to reason. She would see the advantage
of dwelling in the fairy palace if its prisms were
invitingly shaken, so as to display the fascinating
colours of their facets. What could she gain by
exposure now ? Did he not remember how, in days
of poverty, she had disliked her cotton gowns and

pined for the pleasures of wealth ? Because you
have been bruised and buffeted, is that a reason for
being averse to sugar-plums ? On the contrary,
when the romance of life is shown to be a sham, its
ambitions and aspirations delusion, may we not be
expected to cling with closer tenacity to its tangible
and material comforts ? Jack felt that he would
give much to know Bab's views as to her bereavement.
Would she look on it as a relief or fresh
misfortune ? He itched to step upstairs and ask her
started sometimes on the errand, but shrank back
ere he reached the door, for was not that tongue of
hers as sharp and pointed as a rapier ? The bond
being shattered, what, when she did speak, might
she say or threaten ? He almost persuaded himself
that she would surely be reasonable, accept things
as they were, although the child had perished ; but
then, had she not shown herself on various occasions
egregiously and horribly careless of consequences,
so long as the whim of the moment was
gratified ? Had she not tilted at windmills, knowing
in her heart of hearts that she must be unhorsed at
last ? The motive for silence being gone, might she
not find a fiendish pleasure in immolating herself,
provided that Jack were involved in the catastrophe ?
And then a new and horrid gleam struck the unhappy
man like a lightning-flash. All those months
of communing under the trees ; those frequent visits
which brought brightness to her face. He was sure

that she liked that abominable Scotchman, suspected
strongly that his liking for her was warmer than it
should be, or why so radiant a countenance ? Of
course the abominable Scot must be enamoured of
Madam Crump. Had not he, Crump, frequently run
after other men's wives, and found a piquant pleasure
in the pastime which was not to be found in the pursuit
of the unwedded ? What was there now to
prevent her from going off with the Scotchman ?
'Twas some such intention, no doubt, which kept
her so unnaturally quiet. She was revolving ways
and means ; would denounce him, Jack, out of
sheer spite, and whisk away in a twinkling. In his
dilemma Mr. Crump felt half inclined to suggest a
compromise. He would give his consent to an
elopement if she would hold her peace about the
past. Alas for Honest Jack, that so sorry a remnant
of his palace should remain to him ! A wide gulf
between this and the scheme for power at Court,
which a few days ago he considered as almost
realized.

Like many another schemer, Jack gave his wife
credit for his own attributes of fertility and nimbleness.
As she reclined on her couch, she was simply
oppressed with a feeling that the act of breathing
was unnecessary labour. What was there to live
for, hope, desire ? Nothing. 'Twas best for the
young life to have withered. Are not all babes
snatched away thus to be sincerely envied, in that

they evade a pilgrimage which is satisfying to so
few ? How comes it, pondered the stricken mother,
that some souls are privileged only to peep at the
world, as it were ; to be withdrawn and passed onto
another sphere before their white robe is dabbled
with slime — temptation, pain, disillusion, disappointment
? Lucky souls ! Why are we not all as lucky ?
Are they to be judged eventually by a different
standard from ourselves, or is it a reward for having
done well in a former life ? If all children who pass
thus are to move with so little trouble to the next
stage, how hard does it appear to be upon us who bear
the brunt and burden of the day ! In Ceylon they
believe so much in omens that many babes are
deliberately slain, to save them from predestined
misery.

This particular babe of Barbara's was, in her
opinion, particularly to be envied ; for might it not
have developed, in growing up, its father's qualities ?
Then would it have been a bane to itself as well as
others. What must Eve's feelings have been when
Cain slew Abel ? At the thought, Bab shuddered
and was thankful. The bereavement was a matter
for rejoicing ; of that the young mother was convinced,
though she was the more alone. When you
have suffered much 'tis natural to wish for a loved
object to escape from similar suffering. Hence when
the nurse told her that her child was dead, Bab only
sighed softly without tears. Twas the hired nurse

who wept ; for 'tis a sad spectacle to see one who is
young with the attributes of youth crushed out.
'Twas a fine chance for a display of patience, in
which wayward Barbara was becoming quite an
adept. For forty years or more, probably, since her
constitution was a good one, she would have to drag
her chain. What a prospect ! How to occupy the
tedious interval?

An unnatural, unearthly being am I,' she mused,
only half human now — a sexless, heartless creature
I who so pined for love !'

Charlotte, who spent as much time as she could
spare at Kensington, exerted her affectionate instincts
to dispel the unhealthy listlessness of the
dear invalid, and after a while in some sort succeeded.
She recited scraps of plays, crooned ditties
in an undertone, which she had picked up in her
wanderings, and which by their quaintness arrested
the attention, and brought now and then a smile to
the worn face ; procured some puppets, and performed
the touching entertainment of ' Hero and
Leander ' upon the coverlet, varied with the merry
conceits of Punch and Nebuchadnezzar. When
utterly desolate, the wagging of a dog's tail brings a
certain consolation as the expression of a humble
sympathy ; and Barbara, only half-listening to Charlotte's
jargon, and watching the ungainly movements
of the dolls, felt the hazy interest of a sick child, and
looked forward daily to her coming.

Sir Charles was full of the strange adventures of a
stroller's life, and Bab, when she was gone, would
ponder over Charlotte, while reviewing her singular
career. For the present the invalid was not strong
enough to consider important matters, and Honest
Jack gave himself unnecessary scourging. She
eagerly inquired of Sir Robert, on the first occasion
of his admittance to the sick chamber, what was
transpiring out of doors, and sank back relieved to
hear that his Majesty was better, and that measures
were being adopted to thwart the plots of the enemy.
The Minister displayed a paternal interest in the
patient, observing with gentle tact that he could
never pay the debt which he owed to his little
Whig ; that she doubtless felt a gap in her being
which her friends must try to fill ; that she must
always remember how useful she had been, and
would surely be again.

Their Majesties, who were aware of the source
whence invaluable information had been obtained,
were full of sorrow for her trouble, anxious to assure
her in person of a benignant interest. Indeed, the
Queen had sent through him a special mandate to
appear again at St. James's so soon as her health
permitted. Of course Honest Jack, who ventured
into the chamber with his patron, was enchanted,
until he beheld the invalid sadly shaking her head.
Whilst fully grateful to their Majesties, she humbly
begged permission to decline. She was firmly resolved

to return to her duties with the opening
season, and felt sure that their Majesties would
understand that a true artist needed all her time to
devote to the study of her art.

'Tis the only thing that can take me out of myself,'
she said, with a cold glance at Jack, who
winced. ' I blush to think how unfairly earned were
my early laurels. My remaining years of life shall
be devoted to the service of the public'

Sir Robert approved. Whilst ready and anxious
to push his pet's fortune in whichever direction she
might desire, he appreciated her independence as a
rare and noteworthy'curiosity, like a two-headed cow
or a black tulip ; and was pleased to nod and pat her
shoulder when, as frequently became the case, he
found her deep over her play books. Lord Forfar
for some reason did not come so frequently as before,
and on the whole she was not sorry. 'Twas a satisfaction
to know that he was no longer involved in the
Jacobite tomfoolery. Sir Robert's remonstrances on
the subject of his frequent visits, if due to consideration
respecting himself, had been wise, and she as wanting
as usual in mundane circumspection. Safe as she
might feel herself to be, it was no doubt better
to avoid playing with fire. Self-examination in the
quiet of the sick-chamber told her this. Moreover,
she was about to gather up lapsed threads, and
must give exclusive attention to her centre at
Drury Lane.

After what had happened at Bedlam she had
taken a horror of Ophelia, and had now chosen
Alicia for her new debut, an arduous and long-winded
part which would engross all her time and energies
for the present, if the actress was to make the
predetermined hit and electrify the expectant
critics. Jack began to congratulate himself upon
the clearing up of the weather. More than ever
must she be humoured now. If she preferred hardwork
behind the lights to dallying in the royal
ante-chamber, she must even have her way. From
this point of view 'twas well to let matters drift,
with humble oblations and prayers to the perverse
and constrained three ; the which offerings were
apparently accepted in good part, for in the course
of diurnal journeys he was delivered of another
project.

What a zany was he not to have thought of it
before ! Beyond his own admission, wrung from
him by surprise when they twain were alone
together, what was there to prove that the maniac
was his real wife ? Why not brazen it out and
explain bluntly to the disdainful one that 'twas allan
error ? Well-timed generosity would shut the
mouths of the people at St. Luke's as to who had
placed the woman there. And yet this last was buta
will-o'-the-wisp that he was following ; for
'twould never do to face csclandre. All scandal of
inquiry was to be deprecated ; not but what it

might be advantageous to sow cunning doubts in the
lady's mind, such as should undermine inconvenient
resolutions. That Gervas's visits should have
lessened in frequency was a sign of good augury.
Better after all to let things be, and wait on the tide
of events.

THE PLOT RIPENS.

was a condition of Charlotte's mental
obliquity that when once beloved Hero
and Leander, or Nebuchadnezzar, or the
Queen of Sheba, were in hand, she
wept over their griefs, toyed with their joys, to the
exclusion of all else. Hence she did not, as otherwise
she might have done, favour the invalid with
details of her intercourse with the Jacobite. Weare
all ready to admit the desirability of chattering
about other persons' affairs, and shall of course
applaud the resolution of the actress to engross her
mind with her own business to the exclusion of unwholesome
yearnings. We shall rejoice possibly in
that, having suffered as she had suffered, she was
spared the extra anxiety that would have accrued
from following Lord Forfar's movements.

Cincinnatus roamed about his little farm like
a caged animal, growling and uttering outcries ; and
vol. in. 54

Mr. Pulteney followed in his shadow, chapfallen.
Boreas and Hygeia had certainly entered into an
alliance for the purpose of flouting the patriots.
Though the waves had lashed and roared, his Majesty's
yacht had ridden safely into harbour ; and now the
great cold, which for some days had exercised the
medicine-men, was gone, and George was charming
well. The army was on the point of being disbanded.
It must be now or never. The last chance was
passing which, if allowed to slip, might never return.
Unless the foes of Bluestring were content, abandoning
opposition, to bow and lick his shoe, they must
make a last supreme effort to upset him and bring in
the ' King over the water.'

There had been so many delays, such an ominous

series of postponements, that some disgusted

patriots had deserted the colours and made friends

with the Mammon of unrighteousness. Leaders

could have but little faith in themselves, they argued,

who shilly-shally and put off and were so glib in the

matter of excuses. The whole fabric would dissolve

into thin air unless something decisive were done at

once. Pulteney explained to my Lord Bolingbroke

that he had been to the Cock and Bottle in the

Strand, under cover of twilight, and had there held

discourse with sundry persons connected with the

usurper's forces ; but he regretted to perceive how

they had cooled — how little they really cared for

King James — how ready they were to ape their

leaders in the exercise of procrastination. They all
asked after my Lord Forfar. What were his views
and opinions ? , Did he think that this was the
moment for the blow ? 'Twas he who had sounded
the men in camp, had inoculated them with his own
enthusiasm; had, in fact, organized this portion of the
plan. He was universally respected ; they looked to
him more than to St. John or to Pulteney, who,
having remained in the background, were mere
shadows in their eyes. It was he who was to have
taken the command and led the onslaught. If he did
not come forward now, 'twas plain there would be a
difficulty. Bolingbroke meditated and took snuff.
The enthusiasm of Gervas was gone, and had given
place to cavilling, dissection, doubt. Although
there was no fear of his turning traitor, his conduct
of late had been most deplorable. Mr. Pulteney was
of opinion that if Lord Forfar held back, the soldiers
would decline to move. In that case what could be
done ? The cards had certainly been played extremely
ill. Instead of first ascertaining whether
they could do without him, the junta had loftily
allowed Gervas to backslide instead of keeping him
to his alliance.

A trusty messenger was despatched to the Bear to
invite Gervas to Dawley. My Lord Bolingbroke
exerted all those charms of polished manner and
courtly grace which were so much appreciated by my
Lord Chesterfield, and finally placing his bejewelled

54—2

hands on the Scotchman's shoulders, put the question
plainly. Lord Forfar was silent for so long
that Pulteney shuffled uneasily, and Bolingbroke
reddened with annoyance. Somebody must have
tampered with the ex-enthusiast. Had Bluestring's
arts succeeded in winning the incorruptible one ? A
woman was at the bottom of it, of course. Tidings
of the pilgrimages to Kensington had reached their
ears. How many complications and failures are
due to the wiles of Delilah ? St. John was about to
lose his temper and burst forth into upbraiding when
Forfar spoke.

1 There is but one King,' he said simply, ' and
I will lay down my life for him if need be, as I have
already laid down my fortune. His Majesty, whom
God bless, knows that I am faithful to the Stuartss
till death, as my fathers were ; and yet I fear the
sacrifice will be as vain as theirs !'

Why,' cried St. John, - is not the usurper universally
detested ? Any change should be for the better.
The family of Hanover's a by word.'

I fear me that God is not with us,' quietly replied
Gervas.

Bolingbroke paced the room, humming through
his teeth, and, wheeling, scrutinized the Scotchman.


" Plain and straightforward " must be the motto
he said sternly. ' When we deemed it prudent to
hold back — and events showed that we were right —

you insisted on action, with the result we wot of.
Now that we resolve to strike, you preach delay.
With or without you the sword shall be drawn.
His Majesty suspects that you purposely thwart our
efforts.'

'Then is his Majesty unjust !' exclaimed Gervas,
with troubled countenance. ' Have I not said he
may claim my life ?'

In his name do we accept it,' cried Bolingbroke,
• for the fateful hour hath struck.'

Lord Forfar bowed his head with a deep sigh.
His judgment whispered that action now meant a
forlorn hope. Well, a true and gallant soldier steps
into the breach — shoulder to shoulder with his
comrades — without demur. It should never be said
that he shrank in the hour of danger. Many
a forlorn hope hath ended in triumph.

The trio retired to the centre of the field, as usual,
and debated over the position. Now that 'twas
settled, the eye of Gervas brightened with animation.
No half-hearted help should come from him. So
much time having been lost, it would be necessary
to review the lists.

My Lord Forfar had better see the officers, suggested
Pulteney, and report. The family of the
usurper was in town ; so were Bluestring and my
Lord Cadogan, Commander of the Forces. No
moment would be more auspicious than the present
one. Would Lord Forfar produce his lists ?

They were in a safe place, the latter explained,
easily accessible. The scheme was cut and dried.
'Twould be well to go through it with a view to
remedying errors. 'Twas simple enough, and,
barring accidents, promising. Had Guise's attempt
on Calais failed, the world would have hooted him
as a madman. It succeeded, by reason of its simplicity
as well as of its audacity. The day for
execution of the project was to be settled by the
roster of the Tower-guard, the turn of a disaffected
officer being awaited. Eight sergeants in the Park
camp could be relied upon ; three in the first regiment
of Foot-guards, three in the second, two in the
third. My Lord Forfar was to control these sergeants,
each of whom could count on twenty-five
privates, making a total of two hundred. These
men were to move singly out of camp, and on reaching
the rendezvous were to receive arms, brought for
the purpose from a depot by Waterside.

1 1 have a trusty lieutenant,' Gervas explained, ' who
is a friend of Burnworth's, and will engage him to
conceal the arms for us at Execution Dock. The
officer within must be precisely at nine at the
Tower Gate, and perceiving the coming of soldiers,
must give orders to admit them as a recruit to the
Tower-guard. The Exchange and the Bank will be
occupied by this contingent, who will be responsible
for my Lord Cadogan. A second detachment (of
Horse-guards, who are known to be our friends)

will, on the first alarm of the City having revolted,
march to Newgate on pretence of suppressing the
riot, open the gates and let out the prisoners, who
will create a diversion and confusion. A captain
will be in Southwark at the hour of nine, and light a
bonfire as signal, which will bring out the boys of
the Mint. A detachment will ferry across river in
lighters, and make for St. James's Park, which will
be already occupied by another captain. This one
will have marched down to the Parade next the
Horse Guards, have seized the cannon and ammunition,
and have secured the Park for a place of
general rendezvous. A fourth captain will, at the
hour of nine, have raised the Westminster mob in
Tothill Fields, have marched to Sir Robert Walpole's,
and have brought him to St. James's Park. An
officer will head the watermen belonging to the
Thames, who will proceed to Greenwich and seize
the magazine of powder.'

Very well,' nodded Bolingbroke, shaking back
his costly ruffles, and removing a speck from his
coat. ' What of the usurper ?'

The St. James's guard is but a small one, and
easily overpowered,' Gervas replied, with a smile.
I, with my own party, will look after the palace,
under pretence of securing the sacred person of his
Majesty against the rioters ; while a captain will do
the same for Norfolk House, and seize the Prince of
Wales.'

So far, the amiable intentions of the schemers
were as precise as possible. It would be necessary
to ascertain exactly the feelings of the various
captains ; to fire their cooling zeal. As for the men,
they would give little trouble, for it had been understood
that their names were enrolled on a list now
in possession of King James, who had given each a
guarantee that in case of misfortune their families
would be taken care of.

Gervas rode back to London in a brown study.
He could scarce realize that the scheme, so carefully
weighed and considered for years, so tenderly nursed
and pruned, was really to become history ! His convictions
as to its feasibility had undergone a change,
and yet as he crossed off the heads just now, it had
seemed plausible and promising.

The people, if they were made to understand that
all the points of vantage had changed hands, would
quietly acquiesce in a new regime, glad that the
Gulfs were ousted. But would the change be
indeed for the public benefit ? Was James better
than George as monarch, Bolingbroke better as a
minister than Bluestring? Inwardly he doubted
whether there was much to choose between the
parties, but repeated to himself, in parrot-fashion,
that right was right ; that the legitimate claimant
should have his own ; that Providence must be
responsible for the rest. 'Twas in the power of man
at least, he thought so — to give the King the

crown that should by inheritance be his, but 'twas
not in the power of man to mould his character.
Gervas had striven hard to close his ears against the
stories that persisted in coming across seas about
the unworthiness of James and his ignoble life. If
they were true — and there was little doubt they were
could God be on the side of such a creature ? But
what boots such meditating ? Doth it not behove
blind man to follow the dictates of his conscience,
and leave the rest to Heaven ? There could be no
denying that — as a matter of birthright — James ought
to be upon the throne instead of George. He
had already solemnly promised, though himself a
Papist, to respect the national faith. And yet — and
yet — were not both of the twain unworthy ?

Lord Forfar spurred his horse into a canter ; for,
when he tried to see, he found himself plunging
deep into a hopeless maze of hair-splitting. Having
given his word, he would not draw back. As for
himself, what did it matter ? He was alone in the
world. Whether he lived or died signified nothing
to anyone. The landlord of the Bear would possibly
miss him ; nobody else. Pamela ? With a feeling
of cold, followed by an after-glow, he thanked
Heaven for that escape. And then, at the thought
of her, he laughed. The scene she had made about
the frail weak woman was vastly droll. To think
she should ever have taken him in ! Verily, he was
not strong from the point of view of judgment.

Was he equally deceived in Barbara ? He had
been, but was so no more. Not that it mattered ;
for if Bluestring were undone through him, she
would never see him again. At the thought his
heart grew heavy, for those afternoons at Kensington
had been very pleasant. Was he, who had given up
so much, to hesitate over another sacrifice ? 'Twould
be hard to see Bab no more ; but the inevitable
must be accepted. Business now must occupy his
mind to the exclusion of all else. That list of
officers and men ! He must find Charlotte, and
open the precious packet. He would stroll across
the Park at dusk, and knock at the postern-door.


When we calmly consider of it, 'tis wonderful
that such surprises as the one under notice are ever
wafted to success, since there are so many timid,
intemperate, incautious people in the world. 'Tis
amazing that there is not always some one who
repents, and enacts marplot, On this occasion, one
individual repented ; or, weighing probabilities, considered
there was more to be gained by betrayal
than by trustworthiness. The man in question was
of no higher rank than a sergeant, and therefore
knew only the bare outline of the plot ; but his
narrative, as we have seen, was sufficient to startle
the intended victims.

My Lord Cadogan and Sir Robert laid their
heads together. The King stormed and blustered.

The Queen was appalled. Mr. Medlicote laughed,
and was joined in his merriment by Mrs. Belfield.
Mr. Crump was fully occupied. All agreed on one
point — namely, that the plotters must be allowed to
bring their scheme to the verge of completion, so
that the snake might be killed instead of scotched.
Nets must be laid which should catch the entire
shoal, that mischief, from the side of the Pretender,
might be for ever averted. The time was come
when the Jacobites must be crushed. But to manage
this cleverly required skill and tact. To do it satisfactorily
needed something more tangible than such
blundering confessions as could be wrung from a
few soldiers. The Dawley junta, who were at the
bottom of the trouble, were crafty. How to connect
them by overwhelming proof with the confessions of
the soldiery — there was the rub. My Lord Cadogan
and the others met in solemn conclave in the apartments
of the Vice-Chamberlain ; and the latter ran
up the backstairs at intervals to report progress to
the Queen, who, on her side, waxed impatient at
the small results of the conference.

Ranulph was extremely dissatisfied with the way
things were going. He was genuinely attached to
the Queen — sincerely admired Walpole ; but could
not at this juncture approve the policy of either.
There was much excuse for both ; for were they not
both worried to fiddle-strings by the impossible
temper of the King? Young though he was, it began to

come home to Ranulph that ingratitude is the only
plant which thrives in courts ; that what he had
told Sir Robert in their first interview was strictly
true — namely, that the golden key he held was a
badge of menial servitude. He was rich and wellborn,
with his life before him ; and yet he dwelt in a
mean lodging under the backstairs, and could not
call an hour his own. And what did he gain in
return ? Worry, and annoyance, and fatigue. For
two pins he would throw it all up, and settle down
as a virtuoso and country gentleman. And yet this
was mere passing peevishness. Sir Robert was not
ungrateful for the good offices which he daily
rendered him. He who aspires to win laurels as a
Parliament-man and courtier must learn to wait.
If only the King were not so disagreeable ! Caroline's
health was breaking down under the constant
strain of managing her unruly husband. She looked
pale and tired ; her eyes were dull ; her steps heavy ;
for some time past she had been growing unnaturally
stout. What if she succumbed ? Then Heaven
help his cross-grained Majesty ! He had better be
off with all despatch to Herrenhausen, never to
return. What would happen to Walpole in such a
case ? What to himself?

'Twas curious that, considering his age, the
Minister should so cling to power, resigning the
cultured ease he had so well earned for what even
young Ranulph gauged as mirage. He was wont,

when desponding, to declare that, having been
teased by the thorns, and glutted with the fruits of
power, ease and safety would soon outweigh all
other considerations ; and yet he trotted on his
gouty legs, and bent his stiff old back and grinned
when George was rude, putting away the fact that
when we die the grass grows quickly over us, admitting
all the while that no one is missed after a
week, however superior his station.

The atmosphere of St. James's was so close and
stifling as to be at some moments insupportable.
The Queen, tormented as she was, and rapidly failing
in health, suspected the sincerity of her best friends,
making them as wretched as herself. She, usually
so large-minded, was peevish and captious. Was
not the daily behaviour of husband and son enough
for a poor woman to endure, without this vague new
trouble, threatened by the Jacobites ? 'Tis dreadful
to sit upon a powder-barrel, awaiting the moment of
explosion.

Sir Robert stood convicted of failure in his
favourite policy. My Lord Cadogan might sweep
the horizon with his gimlet-eye ; the Minister might
open his purse of secret-service money, and break
the windows with guineas, as Bolingbroke was wont
to grumble ; 'twas impossible to touch the bottom
of the hellish plot, which hourly threatened earthquake.
Barbara's guardsman had been cross-questioned,
threatened, cajoled — so had several

others ; but they could not tell more than they
knew. 'Twas obvious that to cackle about the
camp, asking suspicious questions, would only alarm
the traitors, and give them warning to escape.
Walpole was obstinately resolved to fill his net, and
crush once and for aye the Pretender's prospects.
Till this was done, the foundations of the new
dynasty were unstable, though few of the foreign
powers favoured the Chevalier. So long as important
personages were liable to be kidnapped in their
homes, what chance was there of security or peace
for a day or hour ? The ring-leaders of so serious
an attempt must be caught and punished. Certainly.
But Ranulph was tired of remarking that, while
they chattered and consulted, precious time was
passing, and counsellors progressed no further.

Ranulph's forebodings were but too well justified.
Just when her large intellect and clear understanding
would have been of greatest value to the King's
counsellors the assistance of Caroline was withdrawn.
Exhausted nature collapsed. She was
taken ill whilst passing a morning at the library in
St. James's Park, so ill as to be compelled to keep
her room. His Majesty urged fortitude. That she
should be accused of want of courage ! Signs of
fever showed themselves, accompanied by excruciating
pain.

The King, alarmed, lay on the Queen's bed all
night in his brocaded gown instead of retiring to his

own side. The Vice-Chamberlain passed the hours
in the anteroom conversing in whispers with the
women. Mrs. Belfield was grave and demure. She
had shuffled her cards, and cut and dealt them,
arranging the suits in hand with care, and what was
the result of her pains ? When she made certain of
a trick she lost it. 'Twas provoking in the highest
degree. The unexpected was always happening.
There was nothing for it but to drift, fearing the
worst, hoping for the best ; waiting grimly upon
Destiny.

The Honourable Pamela was vastly sorry for herself.
That Jezebel at Kensington was much too
prosperous. True, she had been ill, and lost her
infant. That much was gratifying. But she had
risen from the ashes of penury like a phoenix. The
infatuated Walpole was for ever quoting her words.
How nauseous ! My Lord Belvedere, when he returned
to England shortly, would take her up again.
It was a mercy that she was tied to Crump. Whate'er
befell, the sisters could never be expected to
dwell together. This was a grain of comfort.

When reflecting on the unstable condition of the
House of Hanover, Mrs. Belfield had always supposed
that at the worst she would have to live at
Herrenhausen, instead of Richmond or St. James's.
But if aught should happen to the Queen — and she
grew worse hour by hour — even this alternative
would vanish.

As it was, the difficulty of getting stubborn ends
to meet was extreme ; and yet she had lodgings free,
and enjoyed a slender stipend. Must she indeed
look forward to abiding with Lord Belvedere, who
never liked her ; who, objecting to failure, would
flout and fleer at her, make her life a burthen ? Not
but what her tongue was a doughty weapon of
defence, which 'twould be pleasing to flesh in the
wrinkled carcase of a parent. If anything happened
to the Queen !

To make matters in the palace worse, the Prince
of Wales became importunate and inconvenient in
his affection. He threatened to call upon his ailing
mother, whereupon his papa flew in a passion. The
Vice-Chamberlain was bidden to state that the
Queen was not fit to see him act his whining, cringing
tricks ; while as for the King, he was in no
humour to bear his impertinence.

Family quarrels aired in public at so critical a
moment would have a deplorable effect. Ranulph
used all his influence to induce her Majesty to grant
her son an interview ; and Pamela, to please him,
argued in a similar strain.

He thinks I am done for,' the Queen observed,
tossing painfully upon her pillow, ' and would give
himself the joy of knowing I was dead five minutes
sooner than in St. James's Square.'

Certainly, the fresh complication which was showing
itself was like a fresh nail in a coffin. It would

not do for her Majesty to talk of dying. The indisposition
would wear itself away. Were they not all
in direful distress only t'other day about the King ?
First he was drowning ; then he was laid up with a
great cold ; but now he was quite well, crouching by
the fire — moody and subdued, no doubt — but strong
as ever. Her Majesty must make an effort. She
said nothing in reply. Sick persons give way to forebodings,
deeming themselves worse than they are.

Each time that Medlicote stole up the backstairs,
and crept a-tiptoe into the anteroom to peep in at
the open door, her eyes followed his movements
with inquiry, and when he shook his head she sighed
fretfully, and tossed. Had nothing been discovered
relative to the plot ? Where were the vaunted spies
on whose dearly purchased zeal Sir Robert had
relied ?

Mental anxiety is a bad nurse. To keep intelligence
from the patient was worse than speaking the
truth. How gladly would those about her have
raised her spirits by scraps of news ; but alack, there
was naught to tell.

Thus did the days drag after one another with
lagging footfall. The afternoon conferences in
Ranulph's room were as barren as ever. The counsellors
were at a deadlock. Sir Robert must be
losing his senses, Caroline complained. What was
this nonsense about waiting to net the shoal ? She
sent down peremptory messages from out of the

VOL. III.



sick-chamber by Mrs. Belfield, that if they droned
and dallied thus the plot would be ripe and they
undone for ever. 'Twas all very well for my Lord
Cadogan to have an eye on proceedings at the
Tower. What if there were ramifications of which
the soldier-conspirators knew nothing ? Might not
the Dawleyites be imprisoned on suspicion ? Even
if naught came of it, 'twould be a trouncing for the
past.

Walpole was averse to so high-handed a proceeding,
for there is good capital to be made of martyrdom,
and in the shaky condition of affairs it behoved
him to beware of slipping.

Now it befell that on a certain evening Mr. Crump
emerged from St. James's at the conclusion of a conference,
and made across the Mall, skirting the
gardens of his Grace of Marlborough, with his gold-bespattered
bavaria drawn well up to his nose, for
the air was sharp. The secretary was sallying forth
on one of the numerous errands of which he was
getting so tired, for nothing came of them, when his
quick step was suddenly arrested, and he recoiled
into a friendly corner.

Indeed, 'twas an extraordinary spectacle of which
he was an involuntary witness. A tall gentleman,
whom he recognised at once, in spite of roquelaure
and unloosed hat, was standing at the postern-door
which communicated with the Vice-Chamberlain's
apartment.

What could my Lord Forfar want at this hour
with Mr. Medlicote — or at any hour ? They were
not friends ; and if they had been he would have
entered the central gate, not have crept to the
unused postern. Unused, save sometimes by the
servants, Mr. Crump believed.

His suspicion sharpened by hatred, Honest Jack
lingered in the shadow. Oh ! if the Scot could be
connected somehow with the affair, what joy ! To
track him down, what pleasure ! To see his head
chopped off, what exquisite delight ! Presently a
bar was drawn, and the pale face of Sir Charles
peered forth into the gloaming. A little cry of unexpected
recognition, and a few hurried words.
Lord Forfar entered, and the door closed on
him.

What could this mean ? Constantly as he was
in the habit of seeing Charlotte in attendance on
his wife, he had never cared to inquire where she
dwelt.

The phases of her career had been so numerous
and kaleidoscopic as long since to have stifled surprise
at aught she might choose to do. Jack could
feel nothing but contempt for so feckless a creature.
Had she not been a showman, an actor, a waiter,
a street hawker — what not ? disgracing her parent
always. That she had turned friseur some one had
mentioned — Bab possibly ; but what could she be
about in St. James's Palace ? Apparently at home,

55—2

too, and receiving lords as visitors. Jacobite
lords !

This was so remarkable as to require investigation.
Did Medlicote know Charlotte Charke ?

Turning about, Mr. Crump re-entered the palace
from the front, resolved to question the Vice-chamberlain.


Ranulph was surveying a new suit of broidered
satin, just arrived from France, wherewith he was
about to try and amuse her Majesty, when Jack
knocked for admittance.

Come in !' he cried testily, for indeed he was sick
at heart.

Fresh symptoms in her disorder were developing
themselves. She would ask a hundred questions
presently, then subside into tears, while the King
growled. Verily his place was growing as oppressive
as that of Suffolk had been ; for is it not trying to
be reproached for what you cannot help, to be compelled
to listen to grief which 'tis not in your power
to assuage ?

Sir Robert's secretary ? What did he want ?
Had he left something behind just now ?

Honest Jack plumped down into a seat with so
little ceremony as to vex Mr. Medlicote. A very
presuming man who required snubbing. How that
actress could ever have married such a fellow — impudent
rascal ! What right had such as he to come
plumping into seats uninvited, and making idle

inquiries when everyone was devoured with
anxiety ? Ranulph examined himself in a hand-mirror,
and coldly said as much ; but presently
dropped it on the floor, where it shivered into fragments,
and turned to gaze upon his visitor. What
was this ? A woman in man's clothes a member of
his household ? Impossible ! Of course he had
often heard of Charlotte Charke and her vagaries,
but had never seen her to his knowledge.

The Vice-Chamberlain flushed with annoyance ashe
wondered if the charge were true, for if it were he
would be the laughing-stock of the town ! A woman
in male attire about his person and he not smoke
her ! The youth who bore the nickname of Sir
Charles was modest and well-behaved ; natty and
dexterous with his fingers. If 'twas indeed Colley's
wild daughter who had been guilty of such a freak
much would be accounted for, since 'twas unusual to
find a serving-man so retiring and decent.

Ranulph was still in the throes of stupefaction when
his amazement was yet further increased. My Lord
Forfar visiting his peruke in disguise ! That my
Lord Forfar was an eccentric individual, who was in
the habit of doing strange things and keeping queer
company, he was aware — but visit at St. James's the
female in man's garb — his serving-man or serving-woman
! Ranulph was so staggered that he scarce
knew which it was. What could there be in common
between Sir Charles and the reserved and haughty

Jacobite ? Sure Mr. Crump was over-sanguine in
expecting that the interview could have aught to do
with the all-engrossing difficulty. When absorbed
we are apt to connect everything with the knotty
point in hand ; and yet-^-what could the tie betwixt
the ill-assorted couple ?

Mr. Medlicote's jewelled fingers were stretched towards
the silver gong upon the table that Sir Charles
might be summoned ; but Jack checked the movement.
Caution and stratagem. Were not these the
watchwords of Sir Robert's campaign ? The Scotch
lord was still on the premises. An eclaircissement
now would mean a crossing of swords and no
information gained. Charlotte — for it was Charlotte ;
Mr. Medlicote might take the secretary's word for it
her morning duties over, would trudge, as was her
custom, on the morrow to visit Madam Crump.
The coast would be clear. The lodging of the sham
serving-man might be comfortably ransacked, and if
naught were found, they would be no worse off than
at present. There was wisdom in this view ; though
'twas hard to curb impatience when so much was at
stake, and minutes, possibly, so precious. Before
taking his leave, with the sly smile which Ranulph
instinctively disliked, Mr. Crump had a word to
add. If the projected exploration was crowned with
success, the Vice-Chamberlain would not forget that

the discovery was due to

Oh yes !' Ranulph interrupted tartly, anxious to

be rid of his visitor. ' 'Tis dirty work, prying into
a woman's boxes. If you take the blame of the job,
you are welcome to all the credit.'

Honest Jack was well disciplined in the cultivation
of meekness when his interest pointed towards
virtue. He nodded, therefore, without taking
umbrage ; and seeking again the friendly shadow,
was rewarded by a sight of the Jacobite emerging
from the postern. Without glancing behind, Gervas
moved hurriedly along, across the Mall in the
direction of Westminster. He was going home to
the Bear. The postern-door closed gently, a key
turned in the lock, the bar was replaced. Charlotte
was going to bed, unconscious of spying eyes.
Between such a couple, intercourse at such an hour
must be criminal. The morals of the strait-laced
lord were beyond reproach. Beaming with exultation,
Jack leered at the moon as he galloped to
Kensington, oblivious of highwaymen or footpads, and
shook his fist at the calm luminary. Footpads and
highwaymen, forsooth ! Would not the devil, his
chosen master, protect him from such paltry perils ?
Bab was awake, and heard her husband's tread
without unusual sensations. Ah ! if she had only
known — careless as regarded herself, would she not
have sprung up like a lioness ; have seized him by
the throat despite his thews and sinews ? Was
there no presentiment hovering in mid-air to whisper
of impending sorrow — to say that the man she

loved was in grievous danger at the hands of
the man she hated ? No. Charlotte in her cot
slept the unruffled sleep of the secure. Barbara in
her cosy chamber pondered over the theatric woes
of mimic Alicia, on the threshold of a real tragedy.

Medlicote comforted her Majesty with a few
mysterious but hopeful words. Although the diurnal
council had ended much after its ordinary fashion,
something had transpired since from which hope
might be culled. Her Majesty must excuse her
devoted servant from entering on details, he said ;
but really there was something behind which, when
she knew all about it, would induce her to shake off
languor. Surely she felt better this evening ? The
Vice-Chamberlain was vivacious and chatty, informing
the young Princesses that tomorrow he would have a
tale for them at which all would laugh, himself
included, though the joke was at his own expense.

Caroline's spirits rose, and she looked really
better. Perhaps she was over-nervous, too despondent.
Even this black cloud might pass. Medlicote
swore that it could and would, and engaged the
King at cribbage. Crump's story was a queer one,
he reflected while he played. The investigation of
his own domestic's boxes, man or woman, was, ashe
had scornfully declared, a dirty job, and he would
himself most assuredly have nothing to do with
it. Therefore when a jubilant Crump arrived
on the morrow, burning to turn over the small

possessions of Sir Charles, Ranulph left him to his
labours, summoning his chairmen that he might
enjoy an airing on the Mall.

A comfortable apartment Ranulph's was, for
all his flippant complaints anent a gilded cage.
Pictures covered the walls. Snuff-boxes and odds
and ends littered the tables. Insignificant little
tokens from the Queen. A fan. A bunch of
shoulder-ribbons, which the secretary remembered to
have seen worn by one of the Princesses.

He was indeed well with the great, Jack thought
with envy. Why should not he, Jack, be equally
favoured by-and-by ? In the watches of the night,
while Bab considered Alicia, he was working like a
spider in a web, contriving, planning. His wife was
quiescent, but hard and cold as ever. Full of
whimsies, wayward, capricious. At any minute she
might turn on him, snap her fingers in his face, now
that the bond was broken. Were she and the objectionable
Scot weary of each other, or merely too
much occupied, each for the moment, to resume
familiar intercourse? That she liked the Scot he
had read too frequently in her face. Wayward in
many things, she was steadfast in friendships as in
dislikes. She certainly had been terribly unwavering
in dislike for the man she had married. Putting
two and two together, Jack had guessed at once that
Charlotte had become the unsuspected depositary of
the documents for which he had searched at the

Bear in vain. If by the devil's help he succeeded in
capturing something deliciously compromising, what
should he do ? Would it be most advantageous to
surrender the sheep to the shambles, or to use his
safety as a whip for the governing of Barbara ?
'Twould be monstrous vexing to forego a sweet
revenge, but would it not be charming to bring stiffened
Bab into subjection ? It might become
possible to denounce the rest, but leave the Scotchman
scatheless ; to keep papers securely hidden, to
be held in terror em, whereby Gervas might be betrayed
at any time.

Would the new chain be of sufficient strength for
the intended purpose ? If he were to inform his
wife that by raising a finger it was in his power to
hand over her cherished friend to the awful punishment
of a traitor — how would she act ? There never
was any knowing how she would take things. So
astute a gentleman as Mr. Crump must not fall anymore
into the predicament of the wench with the
basket of eggs. First he must see whether his suspicions
were justified, and steer his bark accordingly.

A narrow passage, contrived in the thickness of
the wall and masked by a curtain, led from Mr.
Medlicote's sitting-parlour to a tiny eyrie, fit only
for a bird, wherein his peruke roosted. A truckle-bed
and an old trunk filled the floor, leaving scarce
room to turn. My Lord Forfar would not seek such
a spot, except on important business. The trunk

was closed by a worn hasp which yielded to pressure.
What an omnium gathered! Sure the travelling-box
of Autolycus was not more varied. Silk stockings,
curling-tongs, Sir Charles's ragged suit which
he had worn in Montagu Close. Scraps of tawdry
finery, and dolls half dressed. Plunging both hands
into the medley he tossed the heap upon the boards,
and sitting on the mattress commenced to investigate
at leisure. A bundle of papers peeped from a
coat-pocket. The seal had been broken, and the
packet tied up with a hair-ribbon.

Honest Jack could not smother a shout of exulting
glee, as, rising in sudden triumph, he smote his pate
against the ceiling. Aha ! the abortive search by
river-side ! Here was the pretty treasure for which
his hands had groped. The heads of the plot, as
dimly shadowed by the soldier — complete in every
detail — a letter from the Duke of Wharton, writ
from Rome, the imprudent scapegrace. ' An default
de la force'' he said, ' il faut employer la ruse: Quite
so. Honest Jack was of the same opinion. Some
papers in cypher; they would keep. ' Mem. An
officer will go to Richmond, and at given hour take
Fat Pretty Man and bear him safe to Southwark.'
Walpole, no doubt. A delectable scheme ! execrable
traitors ! ' Manufactory ; workmen.' The last word
stood for soldiers, as might be read without a
cypher. ' 'Twill be very agreeable to all concerned
particularly to Mr. Atkins.' Of course it would,

since, as the secret-service people had discovered,
the name of Mr. Atkins stood for the Pretender.
There were names mentioned in some of the documents
of great honour and loyalty to the House of
Hanover. But Mr. Crump knew better than to be
astonied. Absolutely, receipts for moneys expended
in the Cause — ' I acknowledge to have received from
Lord Forfar the sum of three thousand pounds,
which sum I will repay with an interest for it' —
signed in full ' James R.'

No wonder that the impoverished Scot sought a
safe refuge for such valuable and compromising
papers. Mr. Crump quite tingled with satisfaction
as he appropriated the bundle, regretting only that
'twas not entire. Why and when had the seal been
broken ? There were no lists of officers or men.
'Twas for them, maybe, that my lord called furtively
last night. There was no time to lose, then. There
was enough here to send many heads a-rolling,
without touching my Lord Forfar, who should beheld
as a hostage for Barbara's good behaviour.

Mr. Crump was about to restore order to the
omnium gathered, when he was conscious of the
creaking of a door, the grating of a key. The
postern-door ! He hurriedly rose, and stumbling
over the pallet retired to the sitting-parlour; but
not so quickly as to escape the terror-stricken view
of Charlotte in the entry. The man whose innate
villainy she had cause to know so well — ferreting



in her retreat ! Trembling like an aspen she flew to
her box. What a ravishing of cherished treasures !
The pocket of the tawdry coat was empty, and she
uttered a low wail, as, covering her face with quivering
fingers, she sank upon the floor :

Am I destined always to bring evil in my wake ?
leprous wretch that I am ! The evil-eye — the evil-eye
— evil for her and then for him. Oh, why was I
ever born ?'

'the queen retires.'

iT was not given to her Majesty to witness
the passing of the whirlwind which
threatened the ruin of her house. Her
malady took a sudden turn for the
worse, and it was plain to all that she was sinking.
Ranby, surgeon to the household, made the discovery
too late that she suffered from a complaint of
long-standing, which had been carefully concealed
from all. Other medical men were summoned in
haste, and they declared at once that she was in the
utmost danger ; that mortification was setting in ;
that her remaining tenure of existence might be
counted by hours.

Then came that most solemn moment for those
who are in health — the parting on the mystic shore
from the comrade of a life who is about to start on
the great voyage which all must make some day.

Servants, hastily summoned, trooped in to look their
last on her whom they had served so long.

Ranulph stood at the bed-foot, and gazed at his
mistress through his tears. He was genuinely sorry
to lose Caroline ; for no one could hold intercourse
with the Queen without esteeming her. The sturdiness
of her character and the largeness of her
intellect commanded respect. Not carried away by
sentiment, she could calmly weigh pros and cons,
and adopt the most advantageous. To a later age,
the bluntness of her sayings and the quiet way in
which she accepted outrageous facts may appear
strange ; but she was cast in the mould of her time,
and fitted it. Beyond reproach herself in morals,
she could look with indulgence on the peccadilloes
of others, and make excuse for human weaknesses.

It is characteristic that she was the only woman,
with the exception of Bab and the Richmond Fair
Rosamond, who liked Sir Robert Walpole. Other
women were afraid of his coarseness, alarmed by
his utter want of scruple in the choice of means
whereby ends might be attained. Herself of the
earth earthy, Caroline could appreciate his worldly
wisdom, not troubling her mind with bootless
splitting of straws.

Never was a pair of rulers so exactly suited to
each other. Sir Robert could talk to her Majesty
as if she were a clever man. Her memory hath
received assaults, as the memories of all great people

always have, and ever will. She hath been accused
of a lack of those motherly qualities which are the
brightest jewels in a woman's diadem ; than which
nothing could be less just.

Their Majesties shared a profound dislike for their
eldest-born, which was warranted by his behaviour.
For her other children the Queen displayed ample
affection. She loved William as much as she hated
Frederick, and was much exercised on her deathbed
anent the future of her younger daughters.

In bidding farewell to her husband, she took a
ruby ring from off her finger, which she had received
on the day of coronation, and placed it upon
his.

Naked I came to you, and naked I go from you,'
she said. * I had everything I ever possessed from
you, and to you whatever I have I return.'

Poor lady ! She had received a large allowance
of tmcassevies, and bullying, and annoyance from the
most Christian King, which she did not return.
Save on very rare occasions, when, goaded beyond
endurance, her tongue got the better of discretion,
she systematically practised the maxim of displaying
the other cheek. It would have been more than
human to have refrained from planting pins into
the much-enduring Suffolk. We have seen how
quietly she accepted the existence of the Walmoden,
and indited impartial criticisms on that houri. She
knew her George to the ends of the nails, as the

French have it ; and, having taken him for better
and for worse, was too wise to be surprised at the exceeding
preponderance of the latter. Seeing as she
could with clear vision into his innermost recesses,
she was anxious that, so soon as the grave had
closed on her, he should seek another wife.

As he knelt by her bed, she said so in plain terms,
upon which his sobs began to rise, and his tears to
fall with double vehemence. Whilst in the midst of
this passion, and sobbing between every word, with
much ado he got out this answer :

1 Non. J'aurai des mattresses.'

To which the Queen made no other reply than :

1 Ah, mon Dieu ! Cela n'empeche pas P

Could the epitome of the lives and characters of
both have been recorded by more incisive strokes ?
in fewer, more laconic sentences ?

In his way he loved her, and she knew it ; and,
true to her tenets, was content to accept what he
could give. Such virile women as she never pule
over ' ifs ' and ' might-have-beens.'

Having settled her family affairs, she was exhausted,
and felt that she could sleep. The King
said many kind things, kissed her face and hands
as he knelt on the parquet ; but even now, when she
asked for her watch, which hung by the chimney, in
order that he might take her seal, the natural sharpness
of his temper broke out, which showed how
addicted he was to snapping without being angry —

vol. in. 56

how capable of using those the worst whom he liked
best.

Amid sobs and tears, he harshly raised his voice,
and cried :

Ah, my God ! Let it alone. The Queen has
such strange fancies. Who should meddle with
your seal ? 'Tis as safe there as in my pocket.'

The watchers respected the parting of these life-travellers,
and sat over a fire in the anteroom discussing
the future. Mrs. Belfield was much exercised ;
and, supremely anxious about herself and her
prospects, showed in her best light. ' She hath a
heart,' Ranulph mused, with some astonishment.
This gravity of demeanour and anxious sadness for
the departing voyager was vastly pretty in one who
was par excellence a fluttering butterfly.

To some minds there is a piquant charm about
good qualities concealed, which force themselves
into notice only on great emergencies. 'Tis like
finding an odorous violet lurking under a leaf. We
rather like the leaf, and touch it to feel its rugose
texture ; and are pleasantly surprised to come upon
the blossom.

Pamela in society behaved in a delectably mundane
manner, roguishly snapping fingers at male creatures,
swearing she could do without 'em. But in the
presence of Death and sore impending calamity
(which would bring sharp inconvenience on herself),
these fascinating little arts and graces faded.

Pamela looked worn and harassed, and was
subdued. Her eyes were hollow, and her cheeks
pale. There is pathetic beauty in the havoc due to
sympathy and unselfish grief.

Ranulph wist not that Mrs. Belfield's haggardness
was due only to sorrow for her own critical plight.

She hath a heart,' he said inwardly, with
wonder ; ' and would look like this if one she loved
was going.'

Now, the views of Mr. Medlicote on the subject
of matrimony coincided with those which mark the
comedies of his period. Stay-at-home Darby and
Joan are uninteresting people. What is the world
for, unless it may be enjoyed ? and how can two
people be always ready to enjoy the same object ?
As to his future line of conduct, he was undecided.
To be a Parliament-man and trusted ally of a
Queen and a Prime Minister was mighty fine, but
had its drawbacks. Since the Queen must die, he
would give up the place at Court, which was a
genteel slavery, and amuse himself. Was he not
affluent ? He would see company, buy pictures,
dance, sing, play.

Mr. Medlicote cared nothing for George any more
than did the rest of his subjects. The newly
modelled Court, therefore, would be unbearable to
the adherents of Caroline. Fancy sacrificing youth
and liberty to a Walmoden ! No. A courtier must
be all things to all men. When you leave the Court

56—2

you are nobody's servant, and can thus become
anybody's friend.

It would be necessary to come to some decision
now with regard to the fascinating Belfield, for with
the Queen's demise she would decamp — abroad,
possibly. What should he decide on this important
subject ? To be, or not to be ? If he was to set upas
a virtuoso and dilettante, and open a fine house,
it would be essential to place at the head of a
modish household a modish wife ; and, for the sake
of future peace of mind, 'twould be needful to hit
upon a worldling who would not want to bill and
coo, or display foolish affection or jealousy.

As the King and Queen had dwelt together, so
must Mr. Medlicote live with his future spouse.
Now, the real question which urgently put itself
forward for decision was, Could he do better than
take unto himself the Honourable Pamela ? 'Tis a
trite but true axiom that in a wife you don't want
beauty. On the contrary, considering the roaring
lions that prowl, 'tis safer to go in search of that
commodity after other people's spouses. Mrs. Bel-field,
underneath the giggling, was wondrously astute
for her years ; was much too clever and cool-headed
ever to go astray and make a fool of her liege lord.
No worry need be apprehended on that score.

Sitting now over the fire, conversing in low tones,
it struck Mr. Medlicote that he might do worse than
pop the question at once, while the lady was in a

serious mood. Would she accept him ? She had
often laughed at his flame, when he pretended
ardour, but that might be because she had seen he
was not quite in earnest ; but he was in earnest
now — not full of love, or any fudge of that sort, but
determined on a yea or nay for good and all. She
had been hoighty-toighty, perking her chin and
turning up her nose at the pretensions of a mere
commoner. But circumstances alter cases. Since
the differences which had arisen 'twixt her and the
gloomy Scotchman, she had been less unkind, if
saucy and scornful still, as becomes a free maiden.
Of course a union with the modish and punctilious
Jacobite never could have answered. Like oil and
vinegar in a bottle would that pair have been.
What she ever could have seen in him was to
Medlicote past conjecturing ; but do not women
delight in doing things simply because unsuitable
?

Now, in the presence of the Enemy of those who
are happy, the friend of those who are afflicted, she
seemed stricken with a softening pensiveness, and
drew very near to the Vice-Chamberlain that her
whispers might not be heard. Their heads were
close together.

What was his opinion ? she asked, posing her chin
on a hand and peering anxiously into his eyes.
Would his Majesty marry again ? Would Wal-modern
come over and reign ? What would happen

within St. James's? What was that which had
transpired concerning the conspiracy? Would the
wretches be caught, the danger averted ? or must
they all go forth into the cold ? If he knew aught,
why not communicate it to a loyal bedchamber-woman,
whose secrecy and discretion might be
trusted ?

Yes ; he did know something, whispered the Vice-chamberlain,
with such captivating mystery that
Pamela itched to slap him. What it was he would
not tell, but he would take the opportunity of congratulating
a charming lady on a narrow escape
from an imprudent union. No fear of going out
into the cold, unless he, the speaker, was much
mistaken.

Enigmatical and provoking ! Did he refer to
Gervas ?

Tis cruel,' she murmured, whimpering, ' to twit
a frail woman for her weakness. I hate the creature !
Sure a girl may feel her way ere ultimately resigning
liberty ? We must be content to don chains some-day,'
bleated the fair. ' Sure you may tell me all,
since my Lord Forfar used me so infamously.'

There was an interesting quaver in her voice,
which seemed to say that this was the moment.
Glancing over his shoulder at the half-opened door,
through which the sobs of the King were distinctly
audible, he drew his stool a little nearer, and took a
hand which she did not withdraw. 'Twas spectral

to hear his Majesty's lamentations breaking the
stillness.

'What will happen V whispered Medlicote. ' This.
The King will, for a time at least, be under the sway
of Walmoden. The Court will be no place for us.
Female vows were made to be broken. Could not
Mrs. Beheld be persuaded to break that one about
espousing a peer, and make a fellow happy who had
long been a humble slave ?'

1 Sure a humble slave may change his mind,' retorted
arch Pamela ; ' and a staunch supporter of
Government claim a reward for services ! If the
Court was no longer a place for him, why not crave
the ermine, and claim the boon he desired ? With
the death of the Queen, Sir Robert's hold upon the
King would slacken — would it not ? He would retire
from office and need the assistance of his henchman
no longer in the Lower House. Not that she would
make a bargain. Not she ! But a wooer should
prove that his words are not idle wind.'

Ranulph raised the slender, aristocratic hand of
Mrs. Beheld to his lips with satisfaction, and implanted
a gallant salute, but dropped it with a qualm
of remorse. Another wail from the inner room !
Was this a moment for wooing ?

There was a slow and heavy footstep on the stair.
Sir Robert Walpole entered, with flaccid cheeks and
perturbed visage, looking a decade older.

The King, hearing his well-known voice, loomed

on the threshold, and Sir Robert, with some difficulty
from increasing bulk and gout, knelt down to kiss
his hand.

How is the Queen ?' he asked.

The King replied: 'Come, my good Sir Robert,
and see for yourself.'

The interview was short, for having done with the
world, Caroline could have little to say to her worldly
councillor.

My good Sir Robert,' she gasped, in a weak
voice, 'you find me in an indifferent situation. I
recommend the King, my children, and the kingdom
to your care.'

This was all.

What think you ?' whispered Ranulph, when the
Minister came again into the outer chamber.

She is as much dead as if in her coffin,' sighed
the Minister. ' It is all over with us. If I ever heard
a corpse speak, 'twas in that room just now.'

They were all thinking of themselves about that
deathbed. Cormorants and vultures from the establishment
of Frederick came hovering to inquire if
the Queen were better.

Hoping she is worse,' groaned his Majesty. ' They
are watching for her last breath, poor soul, in order
to have the merit to their master of bringing the
first tidings of her death.'

In intervals of consciousness, fewer and more
sparse, the Queen was uneasy, begging that those

ravens might be turned out of the house who would
tear her to pieces alive. Nor was she wrong in her
surmise as to the Prince of Wales ; for in Pall Mall
the dutiful son was waiting with impatience, openly
saying to those who were about him, with equal
prudence and humanity :

Sure we shall have soon good news, for she can't
hold out much longer.'

The King was trying as usual, pattering up and
down the floor, asking questions, talking fast and
loud, then breaking into heart-rending cries ; teasing
the patient to eat and drink, and this in defiance of
the doctors, who had prescribed absolute quiet as
the only anodyne.

The Archbishop of Canterbury bustled in uninvited
to pray for the soul of the sceptic ; and the
King fumed and fretted, for he never liked his Grace.

Pamela meditated concerning her marriage, and
on the whole was not displeased with the orange-blossoms
that sprouted 'mid the rue. Anyway,
she was independent now of her parent, and when
he was ironical, could speak out her mind to
him. Ranulph had taken her by storm, and she
rather liked it, for naught is so dull as your modest
lover. She would be wealthy ; and it was essential
to be rich after the cheeseparings of years, since all
modish couples vie and squabble as to which shall
squander most.

She would see that Ranulph made a figure in the

world. Statue toes and sham Rembrandt are all
very well, and the country endurable enough for a
few minutes at a time ; but Pamela had no idea of
queening it over squires and parsons.

When she had asked him, a few mornings ago,
whether he really had no ambition to leave footprints
on the world's face, he had carelessly replied :

■ I have just enough ambition ; not too much.
Too bountiful an allowance leads sometimes to
heroic deeds ; oftener to stupendous crimes.'

What rubbish ! Once married to Ranulph she
would teach him that he must not hope for dilettante
idleness. She would prepare such curtain discourses
as should make his life a burthen.

While Mrs. Pamela thus planned her future, Sir
Robert was, as usual, pouring forth his difficulties
into the ears of trusty Medicated

defy the ablest person in this kingdom,' he
grumbled, ' to see what will next ensue. What are
we to do about these Jacobites ? Will they hold
their unholy hands in face of a national bereavement ?
Under whose management will the King fall ? Just
now he was civil, which was of good augury. In what
a seething broth of confusion are we now floundering
!'

Ranulph, himself tolerably content, bestirred himself
to cheer his friend, and the eyes of Mrs. Belfield
looked approval. On the whole, she would prefer
the fall of Walpole, since 'tis the graceful act of retiring

Ministers to confer favours, whilst claiming no
further serfdom. Pamela's husband must not be a
slave, and must pick up all that could be gleaned.

Things will come right yet,' asserted Ranulph, ina
whisper. ' His Majesty will cry for a fortnight,
and forget her in a month. The Princess Emily is
of an age to be of use, and, following her mother's
lead, will exert a salutary influence. To you will fall
the credit and the power. Your sway will be more
absolute than ever ; for the King is less penetrating
than the Queen, and the young Princess poor inexperience.'


'Ah!' Sir Robert sighed again, refusing consolation,
for he knew better ; ' I never could pin the
King to a subject he dislikes. He skates away in
spite of me. As for your bread-and-butter misses,
they are worse than useless. Fanciful, stuck-up,
bursting with importance and conceit. Capricious,
too. No. I'll bring over Walmoden and strike a
bargain with her. I was always for the wife against
the mistress ; but in this new situation I should bea
dolt if I didn't prefer the mistress to the girls.'

Thus, while the soul of the well-tried ally yet
lingered did they settle their individual plans, revolving
what changes and modifications might best suit
their several interests, so soon as the body should be
cold. Sir Robert, old and stricken in years, was as
ready as most Ministers to sacrifice the good of his
country to an itching for continuance in office.

She would certainly be gone ere morning, calculated
Pamela, as she masked a yawn behind her fan.
Deathbeds are vastly tiresome — long-drawn-out and
weariful. A turn of cribbage would while the time
away, and yet perhaps 'twould be scarce decent.
The small hours are chill and draughty. It might
be well, all things considered, to leave the gentlemen
undisturbed to drone together. If Ranulph had the
smallest savoir faire he would take the opportunity and
broach the important question of reward for services.
No time like the present. How irritating was the conduct
of the King as, groaning, he fumed in and out,
and up and down. He looked like an apparition,
in his trailing robe and immense white night-cap.
Who wanted to hear his eulogium and long-winded
lectures over her whom he had so tormented ?

She was a pattern woman — one of a thousand, he
kept mumbling to children, physicians, servants —
anyone whose ear was open as he fussed about the
antechamber. The best wife, the best mother, the
best companion, the best friend ! She was the
wisest, most useful creature ! No two people in all the
world had ever passed so many hours together, and
yet he had never tired of her company one minute.
She had the happy knack of disappointing people
in the most charming manner, he declared, and
sending them away empty but satisfied. Where to
look for such another paragon ? Ah me, and well-a-day
! And then the red visage subsided into its

pocket-handkerchief, and was convulsed with moans
and misery.

Caroline certainly displayed amazing firmness and
dignity in her exceeding pain. Few are those who
shine brightest when most tried. She never uttered a
complaint during the dreary night, was complaisant
to the last to the incarnation of self who hovered
like a bat.

1 Quest-ce que voies regardez ?' stormed the tyrant,
standing by the bed. ' Vos yeux ressemblent a ceux
cTun veau qxCon vient cTegorger /'

Tender and brutal by turns as he had always
been, George kept up his character to the end. At
length, wearied by emotions, his Majesty fell asleep
on the floor at the feet of the Queen's bed, and the
Princess Emily in a great elbow-chair beside the
window. Ranulph and Pamela sat watching like
twin owls on either side of the hearth, nodding,
starting, blowing of noses to dispel invading slumber.
A sinister sound which nurses know too well echoed
through the chamber. The Queen began to rattle
in the throat. Mrs. Belfield, whose presence of
mind was ever ready, sprang from her seat and gave
the alarm. All in the room and in the ante-chamber
started up in their various strange musings.

Open the window !' Caroline gurgled faintly.

The Princess Emily, falling on her knees, began to
read some prayers. The Pilgrim was there, tangible,
almost visible — his breath the breath of the cold

morning as he stood and unveiled his face. Presently
the Princess Caroline held a mirror to the blue lips,
and simply said, ' 'Tis over V

Then there was a pause of a few seconds, broken
only by the loud ticking of the watch upon the
nail, and then a breezy sigh ; and all were conscious
of that strange sensation of relief that comes over
watchers when they know that the traveller has
started.

'Twas the old old story, as old as the world, and
ever new. ' Le roi est mort ; vive le rot /' What is
done, is done, and can't be undone. A contemplation
of empty clay, so awesome in the something
wanting— of the lamp extinguished which had
burned so brightly — is conducive to vapours ; so the
King stalked to bed, and so did mesdemoiselles the
Princesses.

A plant had been pulled up with a mighty pother.
For a day or two the earth would look ragged and
unseemly. But Nature is decorous in the rapidity of
her arrangements, and vegetation quick of growth.
Fronds, cramped till now, would spread to cover the
scar. The day after tomorrow you may look in
vain to discover a trace of the change.

As Pamela laid a smiling cheek upon a virgin
pillow, she reflected that there's nothing so becoming
as mourning.

The nurses and the surgeons claimed their rights,
and Sir Robert and Ranulph Medlicote, Esq., retired

to the apartment below to make preparations.
For them there might be no sleep. There was
much to see to, much to think of. Her Majesty,
sighed the Minister, was to be congratulated on one
point, whatever might be the vision of wonder that
had been disclosed to her wandering spirit ; for the
wicked of this world had ceased to trouble her
for ever. As for Sir Robert's prospects, they were
undeniably the blacker for her flitting ; his political
future dark.

1 BAB THROWS THE GAUNTLET.

possible.

HE tolling of the bell of Paul's astonished
the inhabitants of the vast hive which it
commands, for the grave illness of the
Queen had been concealed as much as
Folks closed their shops and chatted of
events, but with no show of sorrow ; for was not
Caroline the wife of George, the mother of Frederick?
Cincinnatus gave the messenger a crown who
galloped with the news to Dawley. Anything which
was likely to annoy the never-sumciently-to-be-
loathed one was welcome.

Bolingbroke was enchanted, and donned his gayest
suit in honour of the event, waving airy fingers
at breakfast to Pulteney opposite as they pledged
each other in the daintiest Bohea. The latter
was not quite so jubilant as his coadjutor, for had he
not reason to know how artful was Bluestring, how
full of ingenious resource. When surrounded by

skilfully prepared conflagrations from which there
seemed no escape, did not his corpulent person skip
out of the flames no more injured than a salamander?
The great event would be useful in one way. There
would be a general endearing of wheels, of which it
behoved clever plotters to take advantage. King
and Ministers would be off their guard, would fall an
easy prey. While engrossed with details of pomp
and funeral they would not heed the movements of
the enemy. Previous to the obsequies would not
the whole swarm be gathered together, and might
it not be well so to reorganize the plan as to catch
them in the same trap ? Better leave well alone.

Gervas had sent to say that he had reviewed the
lists of captains and of men, had found many
wavering, but had argued them into a proper frame
of mind again; required but a couple of days or so to
fill the inevitable gaps due to so many postponements.
All was most promising, he wrote.

'The vacillating idiot!' was St. John's sneering commentary
as he tossed down the billet. His Majesty
from over the water should know who 'twas that
buckram up the weak-kneed donkey, and kept him
to the sticking-place.

Newsboys with gazettes stuck in their husbands
sped to the suburban villages blowing of their horns.

'Mercy! what a hillaballoo!' cried the housewives,
stopping in their labour to watch them scurrying.
Was Thames afire, or the Tower burnt ? Was the

VOL. III. 57

enemy at Chatham ; or why so unusual a disturbance
?'

The lad, panting and out of breath, who knocked
at the smug garden-gate of Mr. Crump, found the
household in commotion. Honest Jack had not
been home for two days past, having pencilled a
message to his wife that events were passing in
town which urgently needed his presence. Not
that his absence, as he knew, could be a cause for
aught but relief unto his spouse. What would his
feelings have been could he have ridden home and
beheld the tempest that was raging there ? The
sphinx-woman was risen out of torpor ; the redit
brand which he knew he had left smouldering upon
his hearth was performing the office that he dreaded.
Bab with feeble step was pacing up and down in
grievous agitation, with incoherent muttering,
wringing her hands. She had sent messages to Sir
Robert — to St. James's, to Richmond — then despatched
others to stop them ; then sent them forth
again. Domestics concluded that the reason of their
mistress was disordered. She urgently required the
presence of Sir Robert without the knowledge of her
husband. How was this to be accomplished ?
Should she go herself? She was still weak, and on
what plea could she intrude at St. James's when she
knew that her Majesty was ill ? And yet, this was
no moment for paltry etiquette. At all hazards she
must speak with Sir Robert, for she had done an

awful thing ; had furnished the first clue for the
betrayal of conspirators without knowing that Gervas
was of the number.

Charlotte had sat in a maze all night, among the
scattered contents of her box, unable to sort the
strings within her distempered brain. Gervas had
been good to her ; had trusted her. He was in
peril. Bab would be smitten by the same blow that
struck him. A catastrophe was at hand which
threatened the ruin of both. And this through
her, the owner of the evil-eye, the infectious leper !
What was she to do ; how save Gervas for
Barbara ? 'Twas for Barbara's sake, knowing what
she knew, that she had warned the Jacobite, had
induced him to trust her with his papers ; and by a
fatality they had fallen into the very hands from
which she would have rescued them. The Queen's
indisposition so engrossed everyone in the palace,
that the occupation of the friseur was gone. None
heeded his head, or came clamouring for powder.
Mr. Medlicote was so much upset as to forget for
once his personal appearance ; he remained in the
ante-chamber all day, appearing from time to time in
the drawing-room, answering courtiers' questions,
reporting progress, dolefully describing symptoms.
For the time being his female valet had passed out of
his mind. During the anxious hours no one so much
as changed their linen, or sat down to a regular
meal.

57—*

Charlotte, unhinged, confused, wandered aimlessly
in her master's apartment, listening to the
hurry of feet, looking out on the occupants of the
chairs and coaches who drew up their equipages at
the corner of his Grace of Marlborough's to make
inquiries. If Ranulph had come down she might, in
her extremity, have confessed all, flinging herself at
his feet, imploring assistance for the loved ones.
But he did not come, and she was left to the chaos
of her warped intellect.

Thus the early morning passed away, till, unable
longer to endure the unwonted hush, the muffled
movement, she seized her hat and sped to Kensington.


Barbara hearkened to her recital with eyes
enlarged by terror, and tossing down the playbooks,
struck her palms together. Doomed patriot ! Was
this the cause of his absence, of the infrequency of
his visits ? In spite of his better judgment he had
been lured back into the toils, to be used as a tool
by the crafty Bolingbroke ! Himself so simple and
straightforward, what an easy prey to such a wily
fox!

And she had thought that it was over, that he had
become convinced of the unworthiness of James !
Had she realized that he was still one of the band,
would she, could she, have acted differently ?

What a position to be placed in ! for, situated as
they were, one or other of the two friends whom she

cared most for in the world must fall a sacrifice.
Kind, bluff, blunt Sir Robert, or honest, dear
Gervas. Yes, dear Gervas ; for with the imminence
of his peril came the conviction of how dear.
And she had deemed herself so secure, so strong !
Herself — always herself ! Of what consequence was
she to him — to anyone ? The single tie that bound
her to earth was snapped, thank Heaven ! Yes, she
was strong, for, regardless of self, she could devote
herself to him.

In repeating the soldier's narrative she had done
her duty, averting thereby a great crime.

Gervas must be saved, though how ? Much mercy
was to be expected at the hands of Honest Jack !
How offensive was the thought of that arch-scoundrel
!

Sir Robert, who was fond of her, who had confessed
to a heavy debt of gratitude, must be told all.
She would bare her breast to him, and claim his
sympathy and help. She would say, ' Twice hath
it been given to me to save your life : grant me his in
return.'

How could he reject the appeal ? He would not.
But no time was to be lost, or further complications
might arise, and it would be too late.

Thus was it that she despatched messengers, and
summoned them back again, till, making up her
mind at last, she bade Charlotte go, and privily lay
wait for the Minister.

Obedient, and comforted in that she could be of
service, Charlotte blithely embraced her friend, and
trudged along the well-known rugged road, singing a
merry stave. Entering by the accustomed postern
she found the royal domestics in a dismal pickle, for
the Pilgrim was there, and they did not like his
presence.

There was no speaking with Sir Robert. What
could Sir Charles want worrying at such a grievous
time ? There was nothing for it but to wait.

The bell of Paul's was lugubriously tolling, the
newsboys were rushing with fluttering gazettes in
the pale dawn ere Sir Robert, jaded with watching
and anxiety, emerged from St. James's and walked
slowly down the Mall.

Madam Crump desired to speak with him — at
once — without her husband's knowledge? Sir
Robert scanned with wonderment the cloud-flecks
on the opal sky. Bless the little Whig ! Had she
obtained fresh clues ? Was ever such a useful
woman ? But why without her husband's knowledge
? It was urgent, was it — very urgent ? Though
like to drop he would go at once, then, if Sir Charles
would fetch a coach.

Sure no artist, not even Mr. Hogarth's self, e'er
limned so whimsical a picture of perplexity as was
presented by Sir Robert while he listened to the
disclosures of his favourite. That no goodness unalloyed
exists on our terrestrial domain he had long

been positive ; but he was so amazed at Barbara's
tale that he sat mischance, unable to express his
feelings save by a prolonged whistle.

What next ? Trusting to luck and the bars and
bolts of St. Luke's, the demure and well-behaved
secretary had deliberately committed bigamy, with
his patron as a witness, in obedience to over-mastering
passions. That a man might be driven to great
lengths to obtain possession of the little Whig was
not extraordinary ; but this was going too far. And
she, poor heart ! With what torments of anguish
and rage must she have been racked when the truth
became apparent that she had been so tricked ! No
wonder she faded and drooped. No wonder that
her babe had perished. That, at least, was a mercy.
Poor Bab ! poor Barbara Pilot ! — for Barbara
Crump she happily was not. As for Honest Jack —
Honest Jack, indeed ! — the designing, perfidious
scamp should have cause to repent his temerity in
sackcloth and ashes for all the remainder of his
life.

But Barbara was not satisfied. What cared she
for vengeance ? Trembling with agitation, she
kneeled by the sofa whereon the wearied Minister
had thrown himself, and twined her arms about him.
He would stand between Gervas and the open grave
which he had dug with his own hands ? For her
sake, would he not ? If Lord Forfar's head were to
roll on the scaffold through act of hers, she would

lie down and die. She had suffered enough — more
than enough — oh, had she not ? Why did not Sir
Robert speak — dear, good, kind Sir Robert — knowing
that each second of delay in reassuring her was
a stab in her quivering breast ?

Walpole was exceedingly perturbed as he looked
down into her wistful eyes. What was there in
the man that could have earned so much love from
such a woman ?

My pet, he is not worthy of you,' he said, with
growing trouble. ' Think of the enormity of his
offence !'

Worthy or not, give him to me !' was all that
Barbara would answer.

How unreasoning are women at the best, hurried
into enormities and follies by the warmness of their
little hearts, instead of being guided by their pretty
heads ! How could Sir Robert save this traitor ?
How could a sensible young lady expect him to
rescue from the doom that he deserved, and was
risking with eyes open, his most inveterate enemy ?
For he was more formidable, fitful though his
activity might be — streaked with dreaminess and indecision
— than brilliant spiteful Bolingbroke. The
latter had inflicted many a wound with a pen dipped
in gall ; but what were these to the prowess of one
who had almost succeeded in despatching a certain
pursy gentleman to Barbadoes, and was now doing
his utmost to enact a hellish drama of far more vast

proportions? A tragedy which involved the lives
and liberties of all the Royal Family — no less !

Barbara must endeavour to display her usual
sense. The saving of the Scottish lord was out of
the question. Tower Hill clamoured for his blood ;
Traitor's Gate for his head. But she should be
avenged for the wrong she had endured. Amply,
swiftly avenged. And her future should be his
grateful care. Extravagant spendthrift that she
was. Money should not be lacking.

Money ! What to her was money now ?

Urge me no more for my Lord Forfar,' he concluded.
' I could not save him if I would. If, as
you say, the documents have in mercy been intercepted,
we will e'en draw in the net, and with God's
help will take them all'

With a moan of despair Barbara sank upon the
ground, but raised herself swiftly to her feet and
became her stony self again upon hearing the ring
of a horse's hoofs, and perceiving a hated figure.
Sir Robert saw it too, through the open casement,
and was more puzzled and embarrassed than before ;
for it suddenly occurred to him that if Jack had
succeeded in capturing documents which might
prove invaluable, how was Bab to be avenged ?
'Twould be an ill-reward for the safety of a dynasty
to plunge the doer of so signal a service into outer
darkness ! 'Twas soundly awkward ; and after a
solemn promise, too ; and all he owed to Bab !

Sir Robert was so vexed by the turn things were
taking, and his own helplessness, that the wrath was
real which he poured forth upon his secretary when
that worthy hastily entered. Mr. Crump turned
white and shrank under his wife's scorn, and the
hot words of his patron. It was all out, then ! His
patron saw him in his true colours at last, and would
never trust him more. Confused by the suddenness
of the attack he lost his presence of mind, standing
with bent crest and shuffling feet like a culprit who
acknowledges his guilt. All was not lost, however.
How lucky had been that trouvaille ! Barbara had
blabbed, had thrown down the gauntlet of open
warfare. Well, if they might not be friends, they
would be foes. She must thank herself for the
result. Since she was not to be a golden goose to
him, he would be glad to be relieved of the incubus.
But first the tables should be turned on her — scorn
should be matched with scorn. He could snap his
fingers in her face, for the service he had expected
from the auriferous fowl was now in his own power
to perform.

So soon as his patron ceased, he raised his
head with a sinister look in his fishy eyes, and a
proud curl about his lips, which disconcerted the
Minister.

You have heard, sir,' he said, with a gentleness
that set Barbara's blood lashing, ' of Bethgellart ?
'Tis a Welsh legend that oft repeats itself in real

life — a nursery tale of a faithful hound that was
slain by his lord, in a fit of choler, for having done to
death the heir whom in reality he had rescued from
a wolf. My case is somewhat akin to that of the
story.'

'The word of such a wretch should go for
naught !' scoffed Barbara, ' for there is not a commandment
but he hath broken it !'

That I have wronged, grievously wronged, this
lady, I do admit,' continued Jack, not heeding the
interruption. ' But for an accident she never would
have known, or the world either — the censorious intolerant
world! But no more of that. Her indignation
now is due not to the wrong, of which I in
my great love was guilty — did she not condone it by
long silence ? — but to fear for the safety of her paramour.
My zeal is my own undoing ; for had I
returned yesterday, I might, had I so willed it, have
gagged her and prevented this. I am in your hands,
Sir Robert Walpole — my benefactor whom I used to
dare call friend. Whatever your verdict may be, I
will bow to it without murmur, for 'tis fit I should
be punished. I will leave your presence, but before
I depart permit me to hand you this. I came on it
but thirty hours ago ; since then have been verifying
facts, sifting details, filling breaks. The documents
speak for themselves — with trumpet-tongues — of
treason. Such fractures as there were my poor zeal
hath mended. Here is the scheme complete ; here

many receipts signed with the Pretender's own sign-manual
in favour of the Lord Forfar. A promising
scheme which would have been crowned, doubtless,
with success, had you not the knowledge that will
frustrate it.'

Mr. Crump had played his hand well, and knew it,
as, standing deferentially behind Sir Robert, he
glared with malignant triumph at her he had so
injured. The brow of the Minister became corrugated
with many wrinkles, as at last he drew a long
breath and put the papers down. It was clear —
appallingly clear. What an escape ! Invaluable
documents indeed, which must be acted on forthwith.
'Twas plaguy embarrassing, after the indignant
tirades of a few minutes since, to have to
stammer thanks.

Barbara, erect, with pinched lips and eyelids opened
wide, and finger-nails driven into the palms, required
all her courage and her pride to maintain a stately
carriage. The dastardly wretch had triumphed
before her face. The life-blood of Gervas was
dripping drop by drop under her gaze, and she, as ina
trance, was unable to stanch its flow. But Jack
had yet another card, and played it. The death-warrant
should be signed while she looked on ; and
then the pangs of jealousy he had endured, while
spying the pair as they sat under the trees, would
be assuaged — the outraged husband would be satisfied.
War to the death, was it to be? Aha ! have

at her, then ! Who had thrown down the gauntlet
?

The chain, as you will perceive, sir,' quietly explained
the secretary, 'lacks but one link. There is
no list in yonder packet of officers or men who were
to help in carrying out the plot, and yet such must
exist. Those lists must be in the arch-traitor's
hands, and if we take him unawares we find them.
Vouchsafe me an order upon my Lord Cadogan,
and keep this lady safe, and I'll guarantee to come
on him ere nightfall. Then, my task done, I will
surrender myself, and submit me to my punishment.'


Plague on the ardour of his zeal ! there was too
much on't. For Barbara's sake, the proud reserve
of whose bearing smote him to the core, the good-natured
Minister would have been content with less,
though constrained to be lavish with applause. But
what the man said was true ; his suggestion was
practical. Had not he, Sir Robert, always maintained
that 'twas essential to snare the shoal, big fish as
well as sprats — make such an example of the conspirators
as should annihilate the cause of the
Pretender ? If Gervas could be taken red-handed
with the lists in his pockets — though these tell-tale
receipts here would provide his individual quietus —
the dynasty of Hanover might live in peace for
aye.

Dubiously, and with shame, he glanced appealingly

at his little Whig. To see her struggling with hopelessness
was terrible, for she was as white as her
Majesty within the palace. What stubborn fortitude
to stand so still and straight with a dagger turning
in her heart ! And now to have to act on the
secretary's idea — for, in sooth, maddened by love,
she was capable of desperate deeds to ward off the
impending blade ; to have to say that, for a while,
she must be a prisoner — the staunch little Whig, to
whom he owed so much ! Duty must be done,
however painful. 'Twas most terrible ! But how
now ? What change was this ?

The blood had rushed to her temples, to the
roots of her dark hair, in a hot flood ; and then had
ebbed again, leaving her pallor the more ashen.

Jack saw, and was startled ; but she did not
move — nor lips nor fingers quivered.

With a steady, unflinching flash and distended
nostrils, she returned his suspicious scrutiny. She
heard, as a long way off, through the singing in her
ears, the stammered apologies of her old friend,
bowed with chill courtesy to his excuses.

With a calm that was complete, she marked the
writing on the tablets — the scarce legible pencil-tracery
which she knew right well was a request to
my Lord Cadogan to supply soldiers. For what ?
For the shooting down like a dog, if need were, of
the man she loved. They were about to set the
Grenadiers on him, like bloodhounds on a fugitive

slave. She neither moved, nor blenched, nor
betrayed emotion, though pulses throbbed like
hammers. Why ? She had seen another thing buta
few seconds since, and had sent up a thanksgiving
to God — Charlotte, the ever-faithful, had
passed on horseback out of the garden-gate, and
had galloped off to London.

HONEST JACK'S LAST CARD.'

LL was not lost yet. Charlotte, her wits
quickened by affection and canine instinct,
no sooner beheld the inopportune
arrival of Honest Jack, than, concealing
herself in the bushes, she waited till he had passed,
and then stole to the stable. There was no doubt
about it ; their mistress was distraught, cried the
grooms. Such a scurrying and hurrying, and dashing
out and back again ; and now another nag
required !

Charlotte was peremptory, however ; for had not
Barbara specially impressed upon Sir Charles that
Sir Robert must not meet her husband ? She
dreaded the influence of the latter, then ? And
now he was here, as usual, to make mischief.

It was for the best that Charlotte had made first
for Kensington. It now behoved her with wings
upon her heels to find Gervas, and inform him of

the filching. Pray Heaven there was still time !
'Twas not yet noon ; and, if haste were made, he
would probably be still at the Bear.

'Twas well that Sir Charles was a good horseman.
From Kensington to London is a long stretch,
and the road bad for travel. As the slight rider
spurred between the hedgerows, she laughed loud
and long in the crisp exhilarating air, recalling an
earlier day when she attacked her father as a highwayman.
Stand and deliver ! She saw him, kneeling
quaking in the mire, drawing diamond rings off
chalk-stoned fingers, while begging and whining for
life — the cruel parent who had been so obdurate !
He had never forgiven — never would forgive. 'Twas
years since she had looked on that mass of vain
affectation ; for he was now so fine a gentleman as
to boast a retinue of servants to screen him from
low company.

In the mobile swiftness of alternating mood that
characterized the waste, tears gushed forth from
Charlotte's eyes in the midst of wholesomeness ; but
she dashed them aside, and set her teeth. Was not
that to be done which would need all her steadiness
? Unless Gervas were lodged in some place
of safety, Bab would no longer love poor Madam
Charke.

1 Speed on, good nag ; for precious lives — despair
or happiness — depend upon thy fleetness. Forward
like the wind !'

vol. in. 58

In spite of whip and spur, the mare slackened her
pace — showed signs of manifest distress. She had
cast a shoe. Was Fate resolved upon the Jacobite's
undoing ? The road along the Park was thick with
pointed flints. Ha ! yonder, by Hercules' Pillars,
was a forge.

Quick, quick, my master — use despatch ! A
guinea for thy quickness ! Wake up, thou
drone ['

'Heyday!' grumbled the blacksmith. 'A collector,
I warrant, with the myrmidons of Colonel de Veil
upon his track. In broad daylight, too ! Rash
but jolly gentlemen ; how great was their temerity !
This spark a boy ! — Rest awhile,' he whispered,
winking an eye ; for collectors were good customers.
Thy nag can be concealed at back, and will be all
the better for a rest. For thyself a mug of ale;
and hey for the road at nightfall !'

Quick, man ! What dost think am I ?' cried
frantic Charlotte. ' A mole — a slug ! 'Tis a case of
life or death, I say. I'll bring thee another guinea.
Use despatch !'

Well, well ! Fostering hot - tempered sparks,
these gentry of the highway ! But they pay handsomely.'


Quivering with impatience, Sir Charles glanced
from time to time out of the window lest Crump
should be pursuing. He would soon discover the
flight, and guess its purport. Would this slow

fellow never have ceased fumbling ? Make haste !
Golden moments had been lost ; but no sign as
yet of Crump. Could he have taken the other
road ?

Tossing the guinea down — how lucky to have had
one ! — Charlotte sped off again down Piccadilly,
through Leicester Fields, along the road that led by
the Old Bourne.

A cold, bright day. Its, well-wrapped in Whitney
broadcloth, were conversing of the Queen. Around
the oyster-tubs, which stood in rows along Fleet
Ditch, small knots were gathered ; and the wenches
plied their knives as one upon a settle, with horn-spectacles
on nose, read scraps from the gazette.
City beaux elbowed for a place within ear-shot,
regardless of the barber's greasy apron, the
chandler's tallow basket, the vicinity of baker or
sweep. Even the shoe blacks left their accustomed
corners to join the attentive throng, and jostled
stout housewives in wooden clogs, with hoods and
oiled umbrellas.

Sad pity 'twas not the King or Prince of Wales,'
a butcher openly avowed ; ' for the woman, 'twas
said, was the best of the party, though that was not
saying much.'

Charlotte clattered forward, leaving lamentation
in her wake, as disconcerted appleton scuttled
within the posts to avoid the reckless rider. i Is
the devil at thy tail, or the Pretender ?' they yelled.

58-2

The Pretender ! nearer than they thought, might
be.

Galloping on, the horseman never slackened rein
till the houses on the bridge were visible — like a row
of uneven teeth.

Thank Heaven, Gervas was not gone — was standing
in riding-boots on the steps of the hostelry !
Five minutes more, and he would have been off;
and, returning, have fallen into a snare. With
darkening brow, he led the way to his chamber.
Why such fiery haste ? 'Twas like one speeding fora
surgeon.

'No time to be lost!' panted Charlotte, out of
breath. ' Your papers have been filched by Crump —
are now in the hands of Walpole.'

Lord Forfar sank into a chair, revolving this
startling news. Truly the hand of Heaven was
against King James ! Nothing prospered that his
adherents did for him. Filched by Crump ! In the
hands of Walpole ! It was finished then — they were
undone — there was nothing left but flight.

How much was known ? — all ! The suddenness of
the collapse of the long-cherished plan rendered the
Jacobite sick and dizzy. He sat still, with eyes
fixed upon the floor, marvelling. The edifice which
had taken so much labour and skill to build, was
sent crashing with a finger-touch.

Waste not a moment,' urged Charlotte. ' Though
I came with speed, I was delayed by accident. The

watermen hereabout will do anything to oblige Sir
Charles. We will drop down to Gravesend, and
take refuge in some vessel.'

Crashed, fallen, an inextricable heap of disaster !
What of the other conspirators ? In those papers
concealed at Charlotte's were letters addressed to
Bolingbroke ; nothing, that Gervas remembered, to
implicate Pulteney. But both must receive notice.
It should never be said that he made good his own
escape, leaving comrades in peril. Would Charlotte
ride to Dawley ? No. Her horse could not go
another step. Besides, my Lord Bolingbroke was
naught to her, whose mission was to watch over
Lord Forfar. Strange. Her mission ? By whose
command ? To whom could it signify ?

Haste ! haste !' implored Charlotte. ' If not for
your own sake, for hers — sweet Barbara — who but a
few hours ago was well-nigh distracted at your
danger. Blind ! Could not you guess she loved
you, that 'twas for hopeless love of you she grew
mad, and went to ruin ?'

Gervas was thunderstruck. The riddle was solved
that had appeared inexplicable. For love of him !
What a long scroll of amazement was unrolled by
Charlotte's words ! Barbara loved him ! Beautiful
enchanting Barbara ! His head was in a whirl. It
took a rough shake from his companion to bring him
back to earth. She loved him, cared whether he
lived or perished. What might not the future have

in store behind the thunderous clouds ? He would
flee — for her sake he would flee ; but those others
must be warned. In case of things going wrong a
signal had been arranged. No need to rave and
rail, Sir Charles. The landlord will send a messenger,
bearer of this signet. Bolingbroke will understand.
A few papers to burn, and then away.

While he made hurried preparations Charlotte
kept vigilant watch, standing concealed by a curtain
at a corner of the balcony. Heaven was merciful.
No sign of Crump ; and yet, long ere this, thanks to
that accursed misfortune which checked her career,
he must have made the discovery. The horse must
have been missed from the stable. Had Bab been
able to delay him ? Perhaps tears and prayers had
prevailed upon Sir Robert, and yet that was little
probable. This heap of burnt ashes on the hearth
would tell no tale. A hurried word or two to the
landlord, and Gervas was ready. Charlotte uttered
an exclamation. What was that yonder — glinting
between the houses upon London Bridge ? Scarlet
coats, white crossness. Sure even Crump's malice
would shrink at marching the Grenadiers into the
sanctuary ? Why ! Montagu Close — the Mint — the
festering purlieus about the prisons would rise as
one man in defence of privilege ! And yet 'twas even
so. He must be mad ; for not one of that brave
handful would return to tell the story. They were
steadily tramping to their death. For all that,

Gervas must not be found. He must take a wherry
and shoot the rapid under the arch by the water-wheels,
and make for Execution Dock. There
he could live safe till such time as caution might
dictate. Quick ! Past the one-eyed tavern into
the alley which led into the Close. There were a
dozen wherries lying at the stairs. Ha ! Glory
Kilburne, what a fortunate rencontre ! Sure he
remembered Sir Charles, brother of the lady who lay
a-dying, and was married from his garret ?

Peering anxiously, Charlotte recognised none of
the watermen she knew ; but Glory knew them all
which might be trusted, unheedful of their necks ?
Their guerdon would be ample.

The two companions leaped into a boat ; the
rowers pushed out into the stream. Ah ! 'twas a
ruse of crafty Crump's — a trap ! A low whistle.
The soldiers halted on the bridge. Another boat
that had lain concealed by abutting steps and houses,
manned by eight oarsmen, followed into the open
and gave chase.

The stratagem was a clever one, worthy of Honest
Jack. He knew that if his prey had been warned
and was yet at the Bear, he would take to the
water at sight of the uniform. With his eight
rowers he could overtake a wherry. And yet 'twas
doubtful, as the event proved ; for the smaller boat
was light, the larger heavy with soldiers. Jack
himself was in it, for his broad shoulders stood out

against the light as he rose and gesticulated in
excitement.

Urged by promises, his rowers pulled with a will,
while their oars bent like osiers.

1 Well done, my men !' screamed Jack. ' You're
gaining fast. Soldiers, ready ! A volley from the
bridge should send that nutshell to the bottom.'

But Gervas, alert now, saw his only chance. Ina
moment he would be between two fires. To catch
the force of the stream Crump's boat kept well into
the open towards the other shore.

Double back,' whispered Lord Forfar. ' We can
reach the Cock steps before they overtake us, and
be lost in the purlieus of the Clink. Steady it is !
Now!'

Crump beat the powder from his hair in mortification,
as he marked the manoeuvre, and but for an
outstretched hand would have pitched into the
water. The enemy had met mine with countermine.
'Twas a moment ere his crew could stem
the current, while the other had the advantage of
the lee-gauge, and speedily reached the steps, where
Glory and the inhabitants of the Close were
gathered in a ferment. As a red rag to a bull was
the sight of the scarlet coat. Even the women had
streamed out with tongs and stools, a band of outraged
amazons, while one, bellowing above the rest,
prated of hearths and homes. Children had been
utilized, being fleet of foot, to carry the tidings to the

Mint. What ! Were the sanctuaries that had been
established, some of them, as early as the second
Henry to be set at naught by a handful of rag-carriers
? A pretty precedent ! A parcel of red-coated,
empty-stomached scaramouch ! The
doughty boys of Southwark must have lost caste
indeed to be so flouted. A growl as of an angry sea
resounded along Thames Bank. As if by magic a
tatterdemalion rabblement emerged from den and
ally, waving swart fists, while hoarse menace
thundered from a hundred sinewy throats. A posse
of seamen, too, from Petty Burgundy and a band of
Bermondsey smugglers, stirred by the unwonted
scarlet on the bridge, appeared upon the scene. In
the Mint the word went forth that the signal had
been given, the order issued, ' To the Tower !'

At sight of the Hearts of Oak (turbulent and
unruly always when on shore), of the sable flood
descending St. Margaret's Hill, the captain in command
of the Grenadiers saw that he was lost ; but
his orders were explicit, and he held his ground, till,
swept by the rushing tide, he and his men were
hurled over the parapet to be stranded far to seaward.
'Twas a brief but dreadful conflict, in which
men fought with teeth and hands, with bloodshot
eyes and veins like whipcord, breathing hard.
Flung into the rapid flood, the men must drown in
their accoutrements.

Frenzied, rabid with the thought that his enemy

was slipping from him, Crump gave the order toland.
Had he not marked upon Sir Robert's face
pity and concern for that scornful statue-woman ?
Now that the secret was out, she would get round
him and win the life of his foe. Never ! He had
promised, dead or alive, to produce the arch-conspirator
— to hound him to the scaffold.

Get ye in,' cried Glory Kilburne, ' to my house ;
there ye'll be safe while we choke this riff-raff.'

In truth, 'twas the least sane of acts on the part
of Mr. Crump, but from its very rashness it produced
its effect upon the rabble.

A thousand guineas for that man ! Let him not
escape !' shrieked Jack, beside himself, as, diving
under a dozen arms, and parting the swaying mob,
he pursued the Jacobite half-way up the Close,
slipping on the flags.

The two came together and wrestled. Jack was
strong, and younger than Gervas. Though he might
not escape himself, he would do to death his enemy.
Come what would, Barbara should not have
him.

Gervas's breath came thick — he was half strangled.
Jack gnashed his teeth with fury. Though strongest,
he stood in a whirlpool that threatened to bear him
down. Quick as thought, Charlotte plucked a pistol
that a smith was brandishing, and watching her
chance, fired.

The grip about Lord Forfar's waist relaxed — the

body of Honest Jack slid among the decaying offal
on the steps, where, limp, unnerved, inert, it lay,
head downwards.

On the threshold of Glory Kilburne's humble
dwelling, where that wrong had been done to her
dear Barbara, Charlotte despatched the soul of
Honest Jack to answer for its many sins.

***** *

The inconvenient zeal of Sir Robert's secretary in
bearding the Southwark boys was much blamed at
Court, though, thanks to him, impending Incubus
had melted into air. His body, mangled and
trodden into shapelessness, was tossed into the
Thames, and swirling round, was caught by its skirt
upon the water-wheel, whence it was in due time dislodged
by the hand of the common scavenger.

There was a panic — a sauve qui peat — a scuttling of
persons with tender consciences, whose departure
for France or Holland caused marvel, so little were
some of them suspected of leanings towards the
Chevalier. Everyone breathed freely as if wakening
from nightmare ; for the adage, if a threadbare, is
a true one, that prates of enduring the ills we
wot of.

On receiving the signet my Lord Bolingbroke disappeared.
The farm of Cincinnatus was open, a
roosting-place for owls, a home for dogs and cats. No
one knew whither he had flown, or by what means,
until by-and-by it transpired that a single horseman

had ridden across lone Lambeth Marsh to the Dog
and Duck in George's Fields, where, curiously, he
had got into a chair in a riding-suit, and drawing
down the blinds, had been carried into Southwark.
Being stopped by sundry lawless blades, the chairmen
said that 'twas a smallpox patient on his road
to Mr. Guy's new hospital, and so they were allowed
to pass.

When next heard of his lordship was in Paris,
more splendid than ever in his attire ; which was
only what might have been expected, for was not
Paris the Temple of La Mode, and my lord her
assiduous votary ?

My Lord Forfar also vanished, and the Bear
knew him no more. Charlotte, however, exceedingly
tattered and mud-stained, arrived at Kensington
on the day of the royal funeral, with radiant
countenance, and whispered that the fugitive was
safe.

From the moment when Glory Kilburne arrived
with a cart bearing the battered remains of him who
had been called her husband, Barbara retired into
seclusion, a grave unsmiling woman. With weak
human hands she had battled and buffeted, to be
worsted in every encounter. There was something
awful, therefore, in the sudden interposition of a
higher Will, of the issuing of a mandate without overt
act of hers, ' Thou hast suffered enough — Peace !'

The funeral of the Queen over, Sir Robert drove

to the familiar house to commune with his little
Whig. Though he had lost a friend, his heart was
light. The tragic fate of the secretary relieved him
from a peck of difficulties.

1 I kissed the hand of his Majesty,' he related,
who was most affable. All will go well. Chesterfield
is perishing from spite, and so is Pulteney ;
while as for St. John, I'll bet my best periwig he
hath the jaundice ! All the world knows by this time
that Sophia von Walmoden will be received at Dover
in a month with salvoes of artillery, and will be created
Countess of Yarmouth. She and I, who have concluded
a private treaty, offensive and defensive, will
be fast friends, and steer the ship together. By
the way, do you know that your dear good sister is
to be married shortly ? Ranulph, who is not given
to being straitlaced, disapproves of the Walmoden,
and with a new wife and a peerage will commence a
new existence. He'll be miserable, but may not be
persuaded. " Nature finds us so well matched," he
says, " that she will not let us live asunder."
Obstinate mules must gang their gait.'

Walpole paused, for Barbara's thoughts were faraway.


1 What of yourself, my pet ?' he inquired presently.
1 Thinking of him, while I cackle over my heap of
nonsense. You will keep to your engagement, and
return to Drury Lane ?'

Bab shook her head.

Not now. Next year, perhaps. It matters not,'
she answered drearily.

Occupation of the mind,' returned wise Sir
Robert, 'is what you need to restore your moral
tone. The horizon's clear. Come ! admit I'm not
so black as St. John paints me !' laughed the
Minister, with his gruff guffaw, as he patted his
favourite's cheek. ' When their talons are pared I
can forgive my enemies, which is more than he can
do. Let bygones be bygones, as Chartres said, when
dying, of his numerous iniquities. Your Scotchman
may come back whensoever he listeth. There, what
do you say to that ? For your sake he shall be unmolested
; but you must engage to muzzle him.
I'm too old and gouty to journey to the Indies.
Why not go and fetch him ? A trip abroad would
do you good, instead of moping here.'

His little Whig smiled sadly. She, the unquiet,
needed rest, not movement ; was in the state of
bruised prostration which bids the world-worn to
seek the quiet of the cloister.

The care of poor Sir Charles would occupy her
mind and time, she said; for the scurry of that
tussle by Thames-side had deranged the weak intellect
yet further. That she had been privileged to doa
transcendent service to her dear patroness she was
aware, and her heart was flooded with joy ; for, as
it seemed, the curse of Colley was raised, the ban of
the evil-eye removed.

This being so, she consented without protest to
dwell henceforth with Barbara, and sat crooning
away the sunlit hours with quaint scraps of song and
artless ditties. Lest she should hurry off again, a
brand-new puppet-motion had been obtained for her,
and a choice collection of stuffs for the re-furbishing
of their Majesties of Sheba and Assyria, and dear
Hero and sweet Leander.

What fudge was this ?' gibed irreverent Sir Robert.
Was Barbara Pilot — beauteous Queen of Hearts
to end her days in the coif and apron of a nurse ?
A pretty conclusion for a tragic muse ! Unless she
promised to think better of it he, Sir Robert, would
connive with my Lord Byron, who by this time
must be tired of Madam Theoo, and whisk her off
in a coach. — But I need not fash myself,' he concluded,
chuckling. ' You'll change your mind of
your own accord, claiming the prerogative of woman.'

He was right in his surmise, though Bab never
deserted Charlotte. A letter arrived one day from
France, which, without a word spoken, she placed
in the hands of the Minister.

Did I not tell thee that the sky was clear ?' cried
he, with a hearty kiss. ' Take my advice, child, and
the good that the gods send thee ; though, sure,
'twill be a miracle for a Whig to be happy with a
Jacobite !'

And so it came about that lights were twice lighted
upon Hymen's altar.

For different reasons both Ranulph and Gervas
resolved to turn their backs on politics.

Pamela — despite the gaudy brightness of the
brand-new coronet for which her soul had hankered
found a crumpled rose-leaf in her bed ; for was not
hated Bab to become my Lady Forfar ?

The slut is welcome to my worn-out old shoes !'
she said, tossing her chin ; while Ranulph laughed.
In six months they'll regret their bargain.'

One was a quiet marriage, with no witnesses save
Sir Robert Walpole, Sir Charles, and honest Glory
Kilburne. The other pair were tied in splendid
style, assisted by half the peerage. Concerning one
pair the world had little to say ; concerning the
-other they gabbled for a fortnight.

Pamela and Ranulph were privileged to join
equipages, fortunes, titles, and expense ; while Bab
and her partner were united as well in these as in
virtue and sorrow and affection.

THE END.

BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

C. C. &-• Co.

3 0112 056547299



mm

ml

■Hi!
